{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1947__curtiss___message_of_aquaria.pdf","mytitle":"Message Of Aquaria","mylang":"de"}
The
MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
THE SIGNIFICANCE AND MISSION OF
THE AQUARIAN AGE
By
HARRIETTE AUGUSTA CURTISS
and
F. HOMER CURTISS, B. S., M. D.
Founders of The Order of Chthtian Mystics
and The Universal Religious Foundation, Inc.
Authors of
The Voice of Isis," "Coming World Changes," "The Truth about
Evolution and the Bible," "Rea of the Living Dead,' "The
Key to the Universe," "The Key of Destiny," "Letters From
the Teacher," vols. i and ii, "Gems of Mysticism," "The
Temple of Silence," "The Soundless Sound," "The
Divine Mother," etc.
Seventh Edition
Washington
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
1947
DISTRISUTED IV
WILLING PUBLISHING COMPANY
p. o. lox SI
SAN GAIRIEL CAUIONIA
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
TUE VOICE OF isis
THE MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
THE INNER RADIANCE
RFqzs OF THE LIVING DFAw
COMING WoluD CHANGES
THE KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
THE KEY OF DESTINY
LETTERS FROM THE TEACHER, Vois. i, ii
THE TRUTH ABOUT EvoumoN AND THE BIBLE
TEE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
WHY ARE WE H?
FOR YOUNG SOULS
GF2Æ5 OF MYSTICISM
THE TEMPLE OF SILENCE
THE Diviwz MoTHER
THE SouNDLEss Sornm
THE MYSTIC LIFE
THE LOVE OF RABIACCA
PRAYERS
Fouipouj HE&I.Ta
VITAMINS
THE PATTERN Ln
PERSONAL SURVIVAL
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC
BOOK CO.
Washington, D. C.
Copyright, 1921
F. HOMER Curriss, M. D.
All rights reserved
For a list of The Ciwsiss Books ice advertising pages
LONDON AGINT!
L. N. FOWLER & Co.
29 Ludgate lidi.
LONDON, E. C. 4.
PRINTED IN TIlE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
PREFACE vii
I THE MYSTIC LIFE 11
II THE SIGN AQUARIUS 23
III ARE THESE THE LAST DAYS?. . 35
IV COMETS AND EcrPsES 47
V THE LAW OF GROWTH 60
VI THE BIRTH OF THE NEW AGE 73
VII JACOB AND ESAU 84
VIII MASTERY AND THE MASTERS OF WISDOM 97
IX MOTHER EARTH 112
X THE FOUR Wnns 128
XI THE THREE JOHNS 138
XII CHILDREN OF THE HOUSEHOLD . 147
XIII -CHILDREN OF THE HOUSEHOLD (CON-
CLuDED) 160
XIV MAN, KNOW THYSELF 173
XV ORDERLY SEQUENCE 184
XVI THE Spni. OF LiFE 196
XVII Lns WAVES 207
XVIII THE MESSAGE OF THE SPHINX . 224
XIX THE SECOND WOE 235
XX THE DAY OF JUDGMENT 245
XXI THE LAW OF SAcRIFIcE 254
XXII THE SHEEP AND THE GOATS. . 266
V
vi Table of Contents
CHAPTER PAGE
XXIII THE MYSTIC OAK 280
XXIV THE DIAMOND HEART 294
XXV THE DIAMOND HEART (coNcLUDED) 304
XXVI FAITH AND Woixs 314
XXVII CROSSING JORDAN 325
XXVIII CROSSING JORDAN (cONcumD) . 336
XXIX TAKING JERICHO 348
XXX THE VAIN SHOW 362
XXXI Lua 375
XXXII Lucip (cONcLUDED) 386
XXXIII MARs 400
XXXIV MARs (coNcr.UDED) 408
XXXV THE SPIRITUAL BIRTH . . ... . 416
XXXVI THE TRUE PRIESTHOOD 425
XXXVII A NEW TESTAMENT 437
XXXVIII THE MIGHTY ANGEL 450
XXXIX THE SouL's GuF.lwoN 460
XL THE Sour's GuERDON (CONcLUDED) 469
APPENDIX 479
PREFACE
"But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father
will send in my name shall teach you all things, and bring all things
to your remembrance,, whatsoever I have said unto you."St. John,
xiv, 26.
Truth is eternal and everlasting. That which was, is, and
forever shall be; manifest variously as it may. One of the
mightiest of truths is the mystical meaning of that which is
inculcated in the universal teachings as to the Divine Mother.
In every Age, in many languages and religions, under
many names and symbols, does the loving Mother speak
to Her children. In ancient Egypt as Isisthe feminine
aspect of the Godhead, the Productive Principle, the Bringer
Forth, both in Nature and in manShe bade Her children
gather together and prepare for the manifestation of Her
child as Horus. In that Age the Divine Mother was depicted
as gathering together and restoring to oneness, but burying
(making esoteric) the severed members of the body of Osiris
the Egyptian term for the great Creative Aspect of the
Godhead which manifests to the Cosmos as the Cosmic
Cause, to our universe as the Sun and to humanity as God,
the Father of allor that united body of Universal Truth
given to all manldnd, the Grand Plan of Manifestation and
Redemption. This body has indeed been broken in many
pieces by mankind throughout the ages, and only the under-
standing Love of the Divine Mother can gather the pieces
together and reveal them as one, the eternal living Body of
Truth.
In Jerusalem the Son of the Divine Mother for the Pis-
cean Age, in bidding farewell to all His faithful followers,
tells them that the Divine Mother shall remain with them
"even unto the end" (of the dispensation) as the Holy Ghost,
vii
viii Preface
the Comforter, to teach them all things and bring all things
to their remembrance; for the esoteric Truth has always
remained with the Faithful, aitho hidden under exoteric
creeds and dogmas. But the Age has now dawned when
that which was hidden shall be revealed and this buried
Body must be uncovered and restored to life and manifest
exoterically in the hearts and lives of mankind. This is but
another call for the ingathering of all who love the Father-
Mother-God, that there be but one universal sheepfold and
one Shepherd.
As the new Aquarian Age, so long foretold, dawns for
humanity, the outbreathing of the Holy Ghost, the Com-
forter, again speaks, and in no uncertain tones, to all child-
ren who recognize Her, and proclaims to them: "Behold, it
is I. Be not afraid !" At the ushering in of this Aquarian
Age She comes under the name of Aquaria. And, true to
the promise of Jesus, She brings to our remembrance all
that He has told us concerning the New Dispensation when
there "Shall appear the sign of the Son of Man (the sign
Aquarius) in heaven."
Lest any there be of Her children who fail to recognize
Her as the Divine Mother or who fail to see the signs and
wonders brought forth by the outpouring of Her Divine
Love, as the gates of the New Age swing open, these lessons
which have been given through those who know whence
they comeare sent forth to all Her children for their corn-
fort and instruction and to announce the re-appearance and
prepare for the recognition and welcome of Her Son.
May the followers of Universal Truth in every land and
clime gather together at Her knee, feel the warmth of Her
Mother-love and the protection of Her arms around them
and listen receptively and understandingly to Her moment-
ous words, knowing that they be no new words, nor only
cunningly contrived conceptions of the mind of man, but age-
old Universal Truths reiterated again and again in every
Age, in language suited to the time and the people to whom
Preface ix
they are given, and now again brought to the remembrance
of all who through Love can recognize their truth and who
are ready to respond to Her call.
Thus. does The Message of Aquaria naturally follow The
Voice of isis.
TUE AUTHoRS.
San Francisco, Cal.
September 15th, 1921
MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
CHAPTER I
THE MYSTIC LIFE1
"Your life is hid with Christ in God. . . where there is neither
Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian,
bond nor free: but Christ is all, and in alL"Colossionr, jil, 3, 11.
0, Thou Divine Reality! Thou who fihlest all heavens and all
earths! Thou only art God. Thou only art One in all blessedness,
glory and honor, forevermore."TeacMngs of Size Order.
After the days of horror through which the peoples of the
Earth have been and still are passing there is already aris-
ing from out the stricken nations, and also from those others
who have sickened at the sight, an insistent cry for new
ideals of life. The old conceptions have been weighed in
the balance and found lamentably wanting, hence the eyes of
millions are looking for something new, perhaps for signs
and wonders, that will give them some vital ideal, some new
conception of life to guide them during the new dispensation
now dawning. The mere repetition of the old orthodox
conceptions can no longer satisfy. A hell after death can no
longer appall after their mortal eyes have seen a hell on
Earth. No mere promise of a negative heaven of supine
and insipid bliss can inspire or comfort after the deeds of
heroism and self-sacrifice they have beheld in the days of
carnage. The cry already goes up for "a new heaven and
a new earth" in which righteousness shall dwell, omitting all
reference to hell.
One aspect of the Divine Law is that there can be no
longing for the ideal born in the human heart that is not a
reflection of a Divine Reality which the Soul dimly senses
lAbstract of an address made by Dr. and Mrs. P. Homer Curtis. at the
Annual Convention of The Order of Christian }tj'stics, July 9, 1917.
11
12 The Message of Aquaria
as a truth. Hence there cannot be a Soul-cry or a sincere
demand for righteousness, peace and harmony that will not
bring its own fulfillment in due season. Perhaps this uni-
versal demand which the horrors of recent years have cre-
ated is the next step in the spiritual unfoldment of the Race.
Therefore, those who know where to seek for the answer
must be up and doing, ready to spread the glad message of
cheer and comfort that is found in a realization of the
Mystic Life.
But to convince others we must first prove by experience
and expression in our own lives that living the Mystic Life is
a practical possibility. For the majority think that mysticism
and practicability are like the opposite ends of a magnet,
while in reality they form the central point where both blend.
We must prove to the world that the Mystic Life does
bring to the heart and into the life of every devoted follower
a new heaven in which dwelleth righteousness, the righteous-
ness of inspiring ideals, noble deeds, great sacrifices and love
for Earth's children, giving him the ability to share this
righteousness with others, thus creating new Earth condi-
tions for all who enter into this new realization. In past
ages mankind sought retirement from the world in an effort
to create the new heaven within himself, but the modern
mystic realizes that to be practical he must seek his heaven
in the very midst of the turmoil of life wherever the Great
Law has placed him and bring it forth, not only within him-
self, but within his environment so others may benefit by it.
This is the ideal manifestation of the Mystic Life.
All manifestation comes from the unseen. Everywhere
we see the inner molding the outer. The plan in the mind
of the architect determines the size and form of the building.
Our ideas, as they seek expression, determine our words and
acts. The ambitions of a selfish monarch plunge the world
into war, while the ideals of freedom, right and justice in-
spire millions unselfishly to sacrifice their lives to counteract
the results of that selfish ambition. So must the ideals of
The Mystic Life 13
the Mystic Life be spread until they inspire millions to
manifest peace, love, brotherhood, co-operation and harmony
within themselves ere those qualities can manifet among
nations; for as our enlightenment increases so does our re-
sponsibility for local and world conditions.
The causes (realities) are always mystic and unseen.
The objective form is but the manifested aspect of the cause.
That which is manifested in the outer world is but the outer
husk, the vehicle through which some inner form of the
One Life is seeking expression in this world of matter. One
of the most fundamental and obvious characteristics of the
manifested universe is its sentience. Everywhere, from the
amoeba to the solar system, we see both the evidence and the
results of a directing consciousness which organizes, con-
trols and directs the activities of the various manifestations
toward specific ends. In fact, the physical form limits the
expression; for every form of life is far greater than it is
able to manifest through its physical vehicle. The cause
back of the acorn is far greater than the acorn or even the
tree into which the life-force, in its desire for expression,
forces the acorn to expand. The seed contains the potential
tree, but its source is hid in mystery. In fact, all life is a
manifestation of the Divine Life or Cosmic Christ-force
seeldug expression that it may complete the cycle of its out-
going and return to its Source. It is this inner pressure
for an ever greater and more perfect expression that is the
cause back of evolution.
As we see the Mystic Life expressing itself in Nature,
according to the Law of Growth, so is it with man. The
Mystic Life is the life of causes; the Inner or Real Life,
the life of the Soul; that life whose will to express results
in the best outer manifestation the Soul has learned, through
experience in matter, to produce, each incarnation being a
step toward the goal of perfect expression. Our Mystic
Life is the life of our Higher Self, the Real Man, the life
we live in the higher realms, our life in our Father's home.
14 The Message of Aquaria
Hence the discouragement, loneliness, even disgust for the
outer life we are living which sweeps over us at times; for
we realize how far short we fall from living our real life and
manifesting our Real Self. It is the source of all our life,
even the physical life; for if we do not renew our life by
returning to bathe in its Source every few hours through
deep sleep, our physical body becomes exhausted and dies,
no matter how much food, water, Sun and air it may receive.
If we need to leave the outer world behind and cease to
react to its stimuli and seek the Inner Life for the sake of
bodily health, how much more should we seek it, through
meditation and devotion, for our moral and spiritual health!
We have an outer shell of a life in the world as our
casual asqualutances know us and as history might record
of us. Then we have a more inner life, such as our family
and dose friends know, and finally we have the real Inner
or Mystic Life of the Soul, known only to the Father, but
which it is our duty to recognize and correlate with or truly
live on Earth, even as it is done in heaven.
This is the life of the Soul which is striving to guide and
train us to follow its direction until all our outer activities
are but an undistorted expression of that Real Self. With
the majority this Inner, Mystic Life has not yet been recog-
nized, nor has it found a direct channel for expression.
Hence their Soul-life is but an overshadowing influence
which tries as best it can to inspire and guide the outer per-
sonality toward harmonious and constructive ends.
At this stage of spiritual unfoldment the majority dwell
in the outer senses, in the vibrations of and reactions to the
outer world. The urge for satisfactionwhich can ulti-
mately be quenched only through union with the Higher Self
the majority endeavor to satisfy through sensation, excite-
ment and the struggle for the attainment of outer things.
They make the acquisition of money their standard and aim
in life; money and ever more money, even when they have
sufficient for the normal needs of life. They desire more
The Mystic Life 15
comforts, even luxuries, when they already have ample for
a simple, happy life. They spend their spare time in a rush
for pleasure, seeking through sensation to drown the
persistent craving for peace, love and harmony. Peace,
however, is not the result of certain outer circumstances,
but is an inner state of consciousness. The tranquillity they
seek can be found only within; by quieting the outer vibra-
tions of the body and mind and responding to "the peace that
passeth understanding," which is theirs for the seeking.
All this struggle and striving, however, is but the result
of the inner Mystic Life pushing outward for fuller ex-
pression, so that in the earlier stages of the unfolding inner
Consciousness the rushing from one outer condition to an-
other or from one teacher to another is but the natural result
when the personality fails to listen to the inner guidance.
And it is this blind responding to the stimuli of outer condi-
tions which is the cause of most suffering; for without a
recognition of the Inner Guidance man cannot know or fol-
low the Law of Harmony, except as he learns it laboriously
and painfully through experience. Therefore, those who
will not listen must be left to learn through experience.
Since the inner urge of the Mystic Life keeps us striving
for its expression in one way or another, this chapter is an
effort to explain to those who are ready to listen just
what they are more or less blindly striving for and how
they can attain it; for both the end and the means to its
attainment should be known if we are to work effectively
and efficiently.
The majority are like a butterfly that fell into a pond. It
struggled tremendously to get out of the abnormal condi-
tions in which it found itself, and it made excellent progress,
but being ignorant of the direction of its goal, it was swim-
ming away from the shore! Just so the majority of man-
kind are ignorant both of their Source and the goal they
are destined to attain, hence all their misdirected striving
but exhausts them and takes them farther from the desired
16 The Message of Aquaria
attainment or discourages them until they often say, "I
cannot believe in anyone or anything." Ignorance of the
Higher Sdf and of our final destiny is, therefore, one of
the greatest obstacles to spiritual unfoldment. But this
should not be true of those who have been attracted to the
teachings of this Order by more than passing curiosity;
those who sincerely desire to attain peace, harmony and
true satisfaction. For, as we have said elsewhere: "The
only true satisfaction is the response we feel to the force
poured out through some form of union with the Divine.
The only real satisfaction is experienced in the thrill of
oneness that comes when a Ray from the Divine within us
finds expression in manifestation on any plane, physical,
mental or spiritual, from the thrill that results from an un-
selfish deed, a kind word or a generous forgiveness, to the
ecstasy of conscious union with the Higher Self in the
highest Initiation."2
Some scientists attempt to define life merely as a series
of reactions to various stimuli (causes). This is true to a
limited extent, and to that same extent it is as true mentally,
morally and spiritually as it is physically. But the great
point to remember is that it lies with us to determine which
stimuli we will react to, the outer or the inner. If the finger
touches a glowing coal it is quicidy snatched away. If
something threatens the eye the lids are instantly dosed.
These reactions to stimuli from without are carried out by
the subconscious mind long before we have time to think
about what has taken place. The reaction is not mental, but
instinctive. We feel hunger and cold and we naturally
seek food and shelter. Here a mental reaction is involved
in seeking to satisfy these stimuli for the welfare of the
body. We hear a statement with which we do not agree
and our uncontrolled mind reacts with an argument, a dis-
pute or perhaps a blow. A criticism that slights our pride,
dignity or self-esteem may cause our uncontrolled emotions
2 The Kr, to the Uiuvevse. Curtiss. 108.
The Mystic Life 17
to react in anger. Yet we may listen to so-called spiritual
teachings at variance both with common sense and also with
those teachings which we have accepted and made our own,
and aitho the Inner Self sends out strong impressions that
such teachings are not true, we may fail to listen or re-
spond to the Inner Self and unthinldngly say, "Are they
not beautiful ?" especially if they be given by some impres-
sive personality.
In such cases we are reacting almost as blindly as does
the body from the hot coal or the danger to the eye. But
we have an Inner or Higher Self to whose stimuli we
should learn to react just as readily as we now react to the
outer. And the Aspirant who desires to unfold his Real or
spiritual nature more rapidly than those who drift through
incarnation after incarnation with the slow tide of an evolu-
tion gained only through suffering, must rise above the ani-
mal plan of instinct by the power of the currents of the
Mystic Life. For there are currents of power which the
mystic can call to his aidNature's finer forceswhich are
just as real and just as vital as are the invisible currents of
air, the currents of magnetism, electricity, etc., in the outer
life. He must begin consciously to control his mental and
spiritual reactions, so that the Real Self shall enable him to
respond with calmness, patience, love and wisdom instead of
allowing the response to be determined by the little vani-
ties and prejudices of the personality. If the society leader
and business man restrain and control their reactions and
expressionsat least outwardly, even when not conquered
withinfrom a motive of social or business expediency,
how much more should the Aspirant for spiritual advance
control not only his outer, but his inner reactions
As the effort is seriously made to let the Mystic Life man-
if est and control our reactions we find that it requires more
than an intellectual recognition of its desirabilty. We
cannot accomplish it through the strength of the personality
alone. We must seek and rely upon the power of the
18 The Message of Aquaria
Christ within. Many, many weary Souls see the illusions
of the outer life, the vanities, the temptations, the shams,
the camouflageall the long list of instinctive reactions
and crave the real, satisfying Inner Life of tranquillity, con-
tent and peace in activity, but they have not the strength to
resist and overcome the habits of reaction formed before
their awakening to the Mystic Life.
Many desire initiation into the mysteries, but no Soul
ever passes the Great Initiation in his outer consciousness
until he has first found the Mysteries within himself; until
he has learned to withdraw his consciousness from reacting
to the outer happenings of life and learned to live in close
and intimate contact with the Mystic Life in that inner
chamber of the Soul where the Christ stands with out-
stretched arms before the altar of the Most Highfrom
which flow the hidden streams of all lifecrying, "Come
unto me and rest in peace." Here in this inner shrine must
we seek for the power of the Christ that shall enable us to
manifest the Mystic Life. "When thou prayest, enter into
thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door (i. e., shut
out all vibrations of the outer life) pray to thy Father
which is in secret (the Higher Self); and thy Father which
seeth in secret (our inner motives) shall reward thee open-
ly." That is to say, He will enable us to manifest our inner
ideals openly in our outer life. And this is the only reward
the true mystic should expect and the greatest boon that
could be given him.
Manifesting the Mystic Life in our outer conditions means
a spiritual growth, and all growth and expression involves
change. The physical body changes with the growth of the
cells within. Just so the outer life must change as new
spiritual ideals (cells) are built into our spiritual life. But
if the tender sprout clings to the old husk which it has out-
grown, or endeavors to carry the husk along with it, the
sprout suffers and its growth is hampered or perhaps dis-
torted. Just so do we suffer when we cling to or continue
The Mystic Life 19
to depend upon old ideas, outer conditions, physical things
or personalities when the great tide of the Mystic Life is
sweeping us on into new conditions, into new fields of ex-
pression where new lessons and opportunities for useful-
ness await us.
The more we resist the inner current of the Mystic Life
the more we suffer, until the Great Law is forced to tear
from our bleeding hands the things which retard our un-
foldment and which we should have gladly let go long
before. Therefore, if we would live the Mystic Life we
must not cling to tradition, to precedent, to old forms and
dogmas, to old habits of life or thought, not even to old
family or friendly ties if they hinder the unfoldment of our
Inner Life. For while we must ever do our duty and strive
to live in peace and harmony with those Souls with whom
we find ourselves associated, yet often there comes a time
when our association brings to them inharmony and, more-
over, calls down abuse and misunderstanding on us and
our chosen religion or ideals. Hence, it is but helping to
push them farther away and delay their following of the
still small voice which is continually calling to us all, "Come
unto me," if we remain on intimate terms with such per-
Sons and refuse to follow our urge to make a change. For
the Mystic Life is ever an advance in understanding and
expression, and it must have room to grow unhampered by
things and conditions which our Soul has outgrown.
One mistake, however, which many make who start out
to live the Mystic Life is in thinldng that they must carry
nothing of their old life with them. They feel that the
whole past life must be disowned and cast into the fires of
sacrifice. This is a wrong conception, for often what seems
at first sight to be but faults and failings only need read-
justing to become strong factors in the new life. If we try
to leave behind all joy, laughter and companionableness or
all association with friends, we are leaving out of jife one
of its greatest blessings and giving to the new life only the
20 The Message of Aquaria
dregs of the old without the wine. If we have led a gay,
thoughtless life, we must not kill out the joy, but prove our
sincerity and the reality of the new step by finding a greater
and more satisfying joy and pleasure in helping to make
glad this saddened world. And so with many other quali-
ties which now hold us back because misapplied or mis-
directed. Also in establishing our new life we must realize
that we have outgrown many things, just as in moving
into a new house we find many things in the old house-
hold that are not worth moving, yet which have served a
useful purpose in the old life. We wisely decide to leave
them behind, yet we do not condemn them, crude and im-
perfect as they may have been. Let this be the attitude of
mind with which we prepare to step over the threshold of
our old life in the world and enter the new manifestation
of the Mystic Life. Leave behind that which is outgrown,
but give thanks for the service it gave, for the lessons it
taught.
When we are through with the sorrows of war, the cata-
clysmic changes of the Earth's surface and the disasters
which may be expected to descend upon humanity, we will
begin to realize that there is another and deeper world of
consciousness whose changes, aitho marked and definite,
are nevertheless of quite a different character. And it is
this inner world into which our consciousness has been
born which is destined to manifest in the New Era of the
world as it never did before, throwing all the happenings of
the outer world into their proper perspective. Hence, we
may expect that ere long, as men mark time, there will
sweep over the consciousness of all who are awakened,
waiting, eager and ready to receive it, an outpouring of the
graciousness of the love of God toward man. This may
not be noticeable at once in the outer world, for there will
still be many inharmonious conditions to face, but it will
occur, not only in the inner lives of individuals, but also in
the inner mystical lives of the nations.
The Mystic Life 21
Therefore, all of us who have begun to feel the new life
surging through us and desire earnestly to break through
the hampering bonds of misconception that separate us
from our brother-man, must awaken and pray without ceas-
ing that we all may light within our hearts the Lamp of
Truth and Wisdom and be ready to go forth and shed our
Light within our own environment. This Order, with its
all-indusive cosmic philosophy, its devotional exercises and
its personal help for each student, is especially prepared to
gather in from the highways and byways all who will listen
to the call and feed their hungry hearts with the Bread of
Life and quench their thirst with the Waters of Life of
which those who eat and drink shall hunger and thirst no
more.
The secret of the Mystic Life is a realization that the
Christ fills us whether His power is recognized and utilized
or not; that sleeping or waking, in meditation or when en-
gaged in the daily tasks, His Divine Presence is always
with us, dose to our heart's consciousness, like a loving corn-
panion to whom we can turn at any time and whose love
is always the greatest reality in life. This is what is meant
by being "hid with Christ in God," i.e., the Christ has
become flesh in us, even as it did in Jesus. This does not
mean that we will never again make a mistake, think a
wrong thought or lose our temper, but it does mean that
when these things occur our reaction will be at once to fly
to our loving Christ for strength to overcome and transmute
such feelings and by His love and counsel grow stronger
for the experience, just as we love more deeply one whom
we have wronged or hurt yet who has forgiven us.
How important it is then to learn the path to the little
door of the inner shrine within which the Christ dwdlleth;
to understand its power and learn whence it cometh and
whither it is bearing us. For in this sacred shrine of the
Mystic Life we find the great Hierophant who gives us
the "Lost Word." who shall touch our foreheads that the
22 The Message of Aquaria
Eye of the spirit may open. His touch it is upon our hearts
that makes us feet the great waves of love and compassion
which encompass the world, yet which have their ebb and
flow within our own hearts. It is here that we drink of the
chalice of the Holy Grail, and here it is that the Christ
turns the Water of Life into the Wine of the Spirit.
Let us strive then each one of us to live dose to the real-
ities. Learn how to open the little Door of the Heart.
Watch for the Light that streams from it, even tho opened
but a crack. Let our thoughts recur constantly to the Mys-
tic Life until they wear deep channels through which it
can flow to us, as we kneel in meditation before the Heart
of Divine Love. Rest assured that we will never find that
little door barred or locked, but ever waiting to open to our
knock And when we have entered, there we will find the
Christ, the lover and comforter of our Souls, ready to wipe
away all tears and flit our hearts, be they ever so sad, with
comfort, love and joy; for His love is not of this world,
neither can the world take it from us nor bar our way to
its shrine.
Determine, therefore, that each day our Souls shall enter
that sacred crypt and kneel before the altar and be bathed
in the stream of the Mystic Life, as our body is during
sleep. Then some day, when we least expect it, we will see
the shrine illumined by the Divine Presence and He will
place His mark upon our foreheads and give us the true
Initiation into the Mysteries which the manifestation of the
Mystic Life has prepared us to enter.
CHAPTER II
THE SIGN AQUARIUS
"And then shall appear the sign of the son of man in heaven: and
then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn.... And he shall send
his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather to.
gether his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the
other."St. Matthew, xxiv, 30, 31.
As we enter into the great Aquarian Cyde,1 in spite of
the confusion and unrest which the adjusting and dosing
of the old cycle (Piscean) and its overlapping on the next
brings to all nations, we cannot help feeling the mighty
stirring of a new and greater day which all dasses of man-
kind are sensing more or less dearly and seeking to under-
stand and define. We say in a general way that this is the
Aquarian Age, but having said it, few besides special stu-
dents are much further enlightened. We therefore wish
to point out in this Message of Aquaria the significance of
some of the more important phases of the sign Aquarius
and the age.
As we have said elsewhere: "As the earth, in its yearly
journey around the Sun, passes through a sign of the
zodiac each month, so does our solar system, during its
great journey around the Central Sun of this universe
(Alcyone), pass through each sign of the zodiac; but in
this greater cycle, instead of a month, our solar system re-
quires approximately 2160 years to traverse each sign."2
"This period is called a Day or an Age. Thus we have had
the Taurian Age when the vernal equinox of the Sun ap-
peared in the sign Taurus, at the dose of which occurred
'See The Voice of Izis, Curtss, Chapter 11
211,id, 39.
23
24 The Message of Aquaria
the exodus of the Hebrews from Egypt and during which
the Bull or Calf was the object of worship and was repre-
sented with the golden disk of the Sun between its horns;
the Arian Age, during which the Rain was worshiped as
the symbol of the Sun-god; the Piscean Age, whose symbol
of the Fish was the symbol of its Great Teacher, Jesus,
the disciples of whom were all represented as fishermen
and called 'fishers of men.' And our solar system has re-
cently entered the sign Aquarius or 'the Sign of the Son of
Man in heaven,' referred to in the New Testament as the
time of the New Dispensation or Age."2
In the Bible the sign of Aquarius is called the Sign of the
Son of Man, and in astrology the Water Bearer, and is rep-
resented by a man emptying a water pot. The sign Aqua-
rius is the eleventh sign of the zodiac, and kabalistically its
numerical value is also eleven. As is explained fully under
that number,4 eleven symbolizes the first step in a new
cycle; a new condition or undertaking. And as the Aqua-
nan Age dawns our Earth and its humanity is preparing
to take a new step, to enter into new cosmic fields, gain
new experiences and outline the great discoveries to be
brought forth in the generations yet to come.
Aquarius is an airy (emotional) sign and marks the
middle of the winter season (Jan. 20 to Feb. 19). As the
winter season is the middle of the darkest period of the
year, yet is also the prdude to the springtime, so will this
first step into the New Age mark the middle of the darkest
period for humanity and the prelude to the joy and beauty
of the new cycle which it ushers in. In itself the cycle of
the Aquanian Age will be marked by its four seasons, just
as is the cycle of the year.
Aquarius is now one of the fixed signs and occupies the
upper right hand or dominating point of the fixed cross,
3 The Ke of Desti,iy. Curtiss, 36.
4 Ibid. Charter L
The Sign Aquarius 25
composed of the four signs, Aquarius, Leo, Taurus and
Scorpio, which in earlier ages formed the cardinal cross.'
From an occult and mystical standpoint this fixed cross is of
the greatest importance, and is called the Foundation of
the Universe, the Four Corners of Earth, the Four Winds
and the Four Breaths. In fact, not only are the signs at
the ends of this cross looked upon by astrologers, occultists
and mystics as of great importance, but we find many allu-
sions to them in the Bible. For instance, the "wheels" of
Ezekiel are none other than these signs in motion. He
describes them as coming out of a cloud as follows: "Also
out of the midst thereof came the likeness of four living
creatures. And this was their appearance; they had the
likeness of a man. (z') - . . As for the likeness of their
faces, they four had the face of a man, and the face of a
lion (u) . . . . the face of an ox ($) . . . . the face of
an eagle Tfl.6 Yet they were all blended into and
expressed through the likeness of a man, hence Aquarius,
the Man, must synthesize these forces. The same figures
are also described by St. John in Revelation.T
Again, when Ezekiel describes his vision of the valley of
dry bones which he was to endow with life, he exclaims:
"Come from the four winds, 0 breath, and breathe upon
these slain, that they may live."8 The four wi9 or
Divine Breath are the four aspects of the Divine Life
Spirit manifesting through these four signs, and when they
are focused upon humanity, even tho humanity spiritually
be but a valley of dry bones, the dry bones shall arise
and become a mighty army for the Lord. There are many
other similar allusions in the Bible, but all go to show that
there is some important significance attached to the figures
on this fixed cross and some mystical potency to be attained
through understanding and correlating with these four
'See Th' Key to IA. Uwsverse Curtas. 143. footnote.
6Esekiel 1, 5-10. 'Ezekiel xxxvii. 9.
T Qap jv 7. 'S chaotei X. hereuL
26 The Message of Aquaria
signs, which will give us a firm foundation on which to erect
the temple of our spiritual life.
The sign Aquarius is "the sign of the son of Man in
heaven," hence we find the Man dominating the cross. This
is not the lower, personal man, but the Man who can domi-
nate, indraw, and transmute all the lower potencies; the
Man who must master the dual sign Scorpio, which in its
lower aspect is the scorpion, "an adder in the path, that
biteth the horse's heels, so that his rider shall fall back-
ward," i.e., the lower aspects of the scorpion (sex) blunt
man's understanding and make him fall backward or make
man, instead of being a rider who controls and directs his
horse (thought), fall backward into the mire and wallow
under the horse's feet.
The Aquarian Man, however, must lift up this force until
it becomes the Eagle which brings forth its young upon the
mountain top and soars into the very eye of the Sun. He
must also conquer his heart (the Lion) and tame it, turn-
ing it from a raging beast that devours all into a docile and
obedient servant. In other words, he must have the strength
of a Samson to open its jaws, render it banniess and find in
its carcass the honey of wisdom.1° He must conquer the
Bull or ox (Taurus), that great and powerful force of
the animal nature which, if permitted to follow its own in-
stincts, bellows, tears up the earth in a cloud of dust and
with its eyes dosed blindly charges, even to its own destruc-
tion, anything it fears or cannot understand. Yet, when
this animal force is mastered and harnessed by man, it be-
comes powerful and patient to labor and bring forth; in
fact, its tremendous force must be turned into channels
through which it can be directed to express as the untiring
labor and painstaking toil, without which the Neophyte
cannot overcome and attain. Thus, through victory over
the lower aspects of these animal signs man must attain to
the pinnacle of his development. Because this highest at-
10 Jw4oe,. xiv. 8.
The Sign Aquarius 27
tainment is necessary to become the Man, Aquarius is often
represented by an Angel instead of a man, the Angel Gabriel,
who is associated with the Disciple John; for the four Gos-
pels, in their mystic symbology, are but another representa-
tion of the fixed cross and the zodiacal signs which mark its
four corners."
Astrologers tell us that Aquarius is an intellectual sign,
the Captain of the Host. They say that it is ruled by Saturn,
and are apt to enumerate all its negative qualities, just as in
the Dark Ages man was described by his negative qualities
as inherently evil, a worm of the dust, etc., instead of as a
son of God, made in His image.
Like all the signs, Aquarius is divided into three decans
of ten degrees each, the first one being ruled by Saturn, the
second by Mercury and the third by Venus. But thus far
humanity has never been able to manifest more than the
lower aspects of the first decan. In other words, this sign
has largely been but a prophecy of that which it would bring
into manifestation when the New or Aquarian Age dawned.
In previous cycles humanity was not sufficiently developed
to respond to and express its forces. And even now few
persons born under this sign are able to manifest its higher
aspects, for the solar system in this cycle has only just
entered the Aquarian Age, hence its vibrations are not reg-
istered in full, either upon the substance of the globe or in
its humanity. In rare instances where a native of this sign
approximates a balanced manifestation of the sign, he has
brought the advancement over from incarnations in other
great cycles or from other planets which have passed
through this important era and manifested its forces. From
the above it is easy to understand why this has been such a
mysterious sign and why humanity has never comprehended
more than the outer significance of its first decan.
Uranus is conceded to be the esoteric ruler of Aquarius,
but in truth it is a Ruler of Rulers and, according to The
U The Kr, So She Umoerse. Curtiu. 146-7.
28 The Message of Aquaria
Secret Doctrine, belongs to another system. From an occult
standpoint it is the mysterious forces consciously sent forth
from Uranus which determine the changes in the cycles of
ruling of the planets of our system. For instance, in the
individual life one may be ruled for a long period by the
denser and more material aspects of the planets, but after a
certain spiritual growth is attained (Initiation) and because
of it, it is decreed that he shall pass into a more ethereal
zone, where the higher mental, psychic and spiritual aspects
of the planets will then be the strongest influences felt. This
is one reason why it is so difficult correctly to interpret the
horoscope of an advanced student. Both with the planet
and with the individual, it is Uranus who decides when
these changes or advanced steps shall be taken, but until this
stage of spiritual growth is attained Uranus has very little
effect, because the individual cannot respond to the high
rate of vibration of its forces. Uranus is said to bring
about sudden changes because it is not strongly aspected
until the student is about ready for such steps.
Since we are now standing on the threshold of this New
Age and its doors are swinging outward, it is time that we
understood something of its positive qualities and what the
Earth and mankind may expect to meet and gain from it
during the next two thousand years. During this period
the human race must penetrate deeply into the mysteries of
Aquarius, which are the mysteries of Man. For man has
now grown up, become a Man. Hence, to study Aquarius
we must study man. We must now take up in earnest that
which our lips have so glibly repeated: "Man, know thy-
self." And step by step we must prove and demonstrate to
the world the knowledge thus gained.
Just as Saturn, during all the ages, has been garnering
the golden grain out of individual hearts, and teaching them
through experience the unwisdom of disobeying the divine
Law of Harmony, so in the first decan of Aquarius does
Saturn take his place upon the throne of this world and, as
The Sign Aquarius 29
the Water of Life is poured forth by the Son of Man,
gather in his harvest from both the planet and from man-
kind. He it is who sees that the tares are burned in the
fire unquenchableunquenchable because necessary and in-
evitable, hence must not be quenched as long as tares infest
the wheat. But he also sees to it that the wheat is care-
fully gathered into the granary of the King. Jesus has
said of these conditions: "Woe unto the world because of
offenses! for it must needs be that offenses come; but woe
to that man by whom the offense cometh !" or by whom the
seed was planted which bore the crop of tares. The first
woe which we are told is past,'2 was the planting of the
tares among the wheat. Their growth and the suffering
incident to the experiences which their growth among the
wheat brought about during the past centuries was the second
woe, while the third woe is the karmic reaping the world
has been undergoing at the close of the old cycle.'2
Ever since the childhood of the race man has been dis-
obedient to his Divine Guidance; has been ambitious, selfish
and self-indulgent, cruel and bloodthirsty, yet, in spite of
this, civilization has steadily advanced in a cyclic and spiral
fashion. This has been accomplished through the Great
Law constantly working with man in its sevenfold manner,'4
always trying to inspire him with higher ideals, always
utilizing for his learning, through the Law as Karma, the
suffering he brings upon himself. This Law is enunciated
in the Bible in the words: "Whatsoever a man sow,, that
shall he also reap One jot or one tittle shall in no
'wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled.... . Inasmuch
as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my
brethren, ye have done it unto me." Through this law,
which is Divine Justice, man is taught through actual expe-
rience that he cannot love God and hate his brother; that
he cannot truly worship God while he oppresses even the
I2RSVeIaHOII. ix, 12. Also cbapteri xix and xx herein.
l3See The Philosophy of War. Curtiss.
14 See The Voice of lit,. Curtiss. 192.
30 The Message of Aquaria
least of the ignorant little ones who are his brethren in
Christ, without in some life, either now or in the future,
himself suffering from injustice, hatred and oppression,
until Saturn has gathered all the crop of unbrotherliness his
heart has brought forth.
The BThle tells us that when we see this Sign of the Son
of Man in the heavens we may expect the endnot of the
world, but of the old dispensation, the reign of the sign
Piscesand as this sign is now beginning to dominate or
reign in the heavens we naturally expect a new outpouring
of the vital Water of Life to rain down upon humanity,
which will be just as real as was the rain of meteors from
their "radient" in the constellation Aquarius. Just as the
fanner waters his crops and the water exercises its life-
giving power to bring forth whatsoever seeds are in the
ground, so Aquarius, the cosmic Water Bearer, pours forth
the divine Water of Life upon the world, not for the pur-
pose of bringing forth judgment and sorrow, woe and dis-
aster, but like the rain which falls alike upon the just and
the unjust, to fructify whatever seeds have been planted.
And as it has been man who has planted the tares among
the wheat, during the first decan of this sign, Saturn, the
great Reaper and Adjuster, must gather in the harvest and
separate the tares from the wheat. Then, during the second
decan, under the rulership of Mercury, the Messenger of
mankind must be fructified, while during the third decan,
under the rulership of Venus, the spark of divinity in
each heart will be quickened through direct contact with
Divine Love and man will then bring forth the true broth-
erhood and rule his kingdom with the golden scepter of
Love.
The Planetary Deities (The Elohim) who rule the signs
and their decans are not separate Gods, as would seem at
first sight from St. Paul's words: "As there be gods many,
The Sign Aquarius 31
and lords many," ' but are the seven aspects of the One
God, just as man to be a real Man (Aquarian) must mani-
fest all his seven attributes; for this is the Image of God
into which he is growing. "To us there is but one God,
the Father, of whom are all things, and we in him."15
For instance, the same man might have to deal with a busi-
ness issue where the cold scrutiny and stern Justice of Sat-.
urn would be required, the power to know and separate
good from evil. In another instance he might have to mani-
fest the wisdom and power to rule of Jupiter; in another
the great intellectual acumen of Mercury; in another the
persiflage and light laughter of the Moon; in another the
enlightening power of the Sun; in another the comforting
mother-love of Venus, and in another the stern warrior
spirit of Mars, who fearlessly fights all evils and protects
the weak, yet through all these manifestations it would be
the one man expressing his various attributes.
Since the affinity between man and the planet has always
been recognized, as this stage of the Earth's evolution is
reached we may expect many Souls to incarnate under these
new and specially prepared conditions, who will come as
real Aquarians, ready to respond to and express, not vaguely
but definitely, the higher mental, psychic and spiritual forces
of the planets which rule the three decans of this sign. As
time goes on we will therefore find slowly taking the place
of the humanity of today, a humanity which will be ruled
by the forces from the higher and more ethereal globes of
each planetary chain.'
In the Aquarian Age man should reach a point where he
no longer acts like a mere child, swept hither and thither by
the currents and eddies of the Great Law; for, in this Age
the majority of mankind will reach a point of intellectual
and spiritual development which today is reached only by
a few; where they recognize their responsibility for the
conditions from which mankind is suffering and for the
151 Co,j,thjasss, vui 5-6.
l6See The Voice ol his. Curtiss. Oiapter xv.
32 The Message of Åquaria
condition of the planet, and the lower ldngdoms as well.
They will grow into the realization that each man is his
brother's keeper and that all, from the least to the greatest,
are brothers; that no real happiness can come to any living
Soul if it has to be attained at the expense, misery and
despair of his brothers. This lesson is now being learned
as the result of the world's experience, but will be fully
grasped only as the Aquarian Age enters into the second
decan, in which man responds to the finer forces of Mer-
cury, instead of to its denser forces as at present. Mercury
is called a vacillating planet, and those who have it strongly
ruling in their horoscopes are apt to be loquacious, to exag-
gerate, and may even be called liars, for they can soar into
the higher realms of thought and relate experiences or con-
ceptions which, to the average plodder, seem but lies.
Being essentially the planet of reasoning and thought,
Mercury is called the Messenger of the Gods, as it is
through thought that the will of God is made known to
man. It is vacillating only as thought is vacillating until
we have learned to control and direct it. Hence, as man
enters the second decan of Aquarius and comes under the
finer forces of Mercury, he will have a wonderful intel-
lectual awakening, amounting almost to illumination. In
fact, he will begin to open his Third Eye and blend intui-
tion with understanding. And to this will be added, during
the third decan, the Divine Love and Spiritual Will of
Venus. For just as each zodiacal sign has its three decans,
so the great Aquarian Age will have its three lesser cycles
during its great cycle of approximately 2160 years.
Today we see the Spirit again moving upon the face of
the troubled waters of humanity. The brooding of this
Spirit brings forth the gj of Man or something that has
been born from man, a child or offspring; a new conscious-
ness which is awakened and brought forth amid the birth-
pangs of anguish which humanity has suffered during the
past cycle and is still suffering so cruelly today as the New
The Sign Aquarius 33
Age is being born. When this new consciousness or Son is
so completely brought forth and manifested that it emanates
from man and is lifted up to the heavens; that is, when
humanity has accomplished this new birth and the cry of it
reaches the heavens, "Then shall appear the sign of the Son
of Man in heaven." This Son is the essence of the sign
Aquarius, no longer merely overshadowing, but now
brought forth in humanity; the manifestation of the Water
of Life which shall make all things new.
Do not confuse the Son of Man with the Son of God, for
the Son of Man is the higher spiritual realization which is
born of man's inner experience; a new-found understand-
ing, joy and at-one-ment. The Christ is born in Capricorn,
but as He grows and His influence in humanity spreads, the
Son of Man is brought forth in His image in Aquarius and
reigns, first as an essence in heaven, then in its embodiment
in man on Earth. But His reign on Earth will be only when
men and women in sufficient numbers and with sufficient
love, devotion, realization and spiritual power, have united
to form a nucleus of those whose spiritual consciousness
can sway the thought of humanity, and through gradual
accretion in numbers, leaven the rest of the Race.
And after the reaping, when the golden grains have been
gathered by the Four Winds from all the fields of Earth
those who have come "out of great tribulation," and
whose garments have been made white "in the blood of
the Laznb"then the mighty downpouring of the Water
of Life will just as surely bring to fruition the seeds of
man's divine nature as it already has the lower: those
spiritual seeds of which St. Paul spoke: "Sown in corrup-
tion; it is raised in incorruption: it is sown in dishonor; it
is raised in glory: it is sown in weakness; it is raised in
power: it is sown in a natural body; it is raised in a spir-
itual body." For the world this new spiritual body will be
the Aquarian Age, and for each individual first a new con-
ception of love, light, power and life; the actual unfolding
34 The Message of Aquaria
of the Christ-consciousness and a manifestation of its power
in the life.
But first there must come the realization that because Sat-.
urn must reap the tares we have sown, he is not to be
thought of as evil, but as one of the Sons of God who, in
divine love and compassion, dears the ground that we
may bring forth the Christ-seed and reap our spiritual har-
vest. And just as Saturn is an aspect of God, so also is
Mercury, he who takes our every aspiration godward, our
every effort toward victory and our every realization, to
the very throne of God, until through the intercession of
this winged Messenger, Venus or Divine Love enters and
builds her nest in our heart and brings forth her young.
As we thus become real Aquarians, we will at last realize
that because we have loved much, much has been forgiven.
Note: The Birth of Aquariaii Age"On Feb. 12th. 1912. Uranus returned
to its ruling sign Aquarius for first time in 84 years, and the Sun by precession
also entered it. The Moon also entered the sign with the Sun." Aztroiogical
Builetsa. 1912.
CHAPTER III
ARE THESE THE LAST DAYS?
"And ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars: see that ye be not
troubled: for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet.
For nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom:
and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers
places. All these are the beginning of sorrows."St. Matthew,
xxiv, 6-8.
'We must not accept a general principle from logic only, but must
prove its application to each fact; for it is in facts that we must seek
general principles, and these must always accord with facts."Historj
of AnInWIS, Aristotle, 1,6.
"Coming events cast their shadows before" is an age-old
saying which, like all such sayings or "wise saws" that have
survived the ages, has an oult basis in fact. In this case
the saying is based upon the fact that all events take place
first in the higher realms and later descend into physical
manifestation, as the great naturalist, Agassiz, recognized
when he stated that "All things had their origin in spirit
evolution having originally begun from above and proceed..
ing downward, instead of the reverse."1
In the Realms of the Eternal there is neither past nor
future, all is one everlasting now. Hence, at the moment of
creation a composite picture of the event and its working out
through its positive and constructive, also its negative and
destructive, aspects is instantaneously photographed upon
what is called the Akashic Records or more commonly the
Screen of Time. While the necessity for the manifesta-
tion of the event on Earth is a destiny that must necessarily
be fulfilled, it is not fate; for by its power of free-will choice
humanity determines in which way the destiny shall be ful-
filled, either positively and constructively, in peace and har-
mony through correlating with the Law, or negatively in
1 PriwdJfrs of Zoazogy, 154.
35
36 The Message of Aquaria
sorrow and suffering through opposition to the Law be-
cause of the refusal to follow the principles of its spiritual
teachings.
The Seers who reach up in consciousness to the plane of
eternal verities (in the fourth dimension) usually see first
only the negative phase of the event that is to be, for that is
the densest and closest to the Earth, and thus fail to pene-
trate to the positive expression which is in a higher state of
vibration. They thus see the event as a moving picture of
which both the past events leading up to it and .also the ulti-
mate working out or fulfilhnent are cognized by the inner
spiritual consciousness. But since the majority of Seers
see only one side of the picture, according to their affinitiza-
tion to any one phase, they report the ultimate fulfillment of
either the positive or negative aspect of the event, which
would seem to them absolutely predestined. In the case of
one affinitized only to the lower negative aspect or one with
a pessimistic attitude of mind, he would probably enlarge
upon the many failures, sorrows and evils which must be
overcome ere the complete fulfillment was possible. An-
other, aflinitized to the higher positive aspect would report
only the glory of the ends to be attained and entirely over-
look the necessary conditions which humanity must prepare
if the positive aspect is to receive expression. Thus each
would give but half truths.
Therefore, in considering prophecies we must always
make allowance for this natural human tendency in their
transmitters. For instance, the destiny of the present sub-
race is that the Earth and its humanity must be purified
and take an advanced step, both in consciousness and in
physical affairs, to prepare conditions necessary for the com-
ing of the more spiritual sixth sub-race. Naturally, its past
creations of selfishness, greed, impurity, injustice and Un-
brotherliness must be faced and redeemed ere it can enter
into the new cycle. This redemption could have been ac-
complished by the majority of the sub-race sending out
Are These The Last Days? 37
great streams of love, harmony, tolerance and brotherhood
to manifest in the actions of individuals and nations in such
power that they would neutralize and transmute the accumu-
lated evil. Then there would have been no world war. But
since this was not done, in spite of the many teachers sent to
arouse the people to the necessity of higher ideals, the ad-
justment had to be precipitated physically in the negative
and destructive aspect of physical warfare.
Most comments on the prophecies of the Bible are based
upon a literal interpretation of the symbols given. Aitho
there is generally an actual historical incident, place or per-
sonage upon which the symbol is based, and while the proph-
ecy will also have some form of physical fulfillment, the vital
point to understand is the spiritual meaning of the symbol
rather than the physical, i. e., the spiritual event which is to
manifest either positively and constructively or negatively
and destructively. For only as we learn the lesson intended
by the symbol can we profit by the experience. Merely to
hear that certain events are to transpire either fills us with
fear or elates us with joy, and we quite forget that all de-
pends upon our reaction to the lesson intended.
Modern interpretations are usually calculated from some
such period as the Babylonian captivity. From the known
astronomical observations of seven great eclipses left by
the Egyptian astronomer Ptolemy, the date of Nebuchad-
nezzar's accession has been accurately calculated as having
taken place in 604-3 B.C. This is commonly believed to
mark the times when "Jerusalem shall be trodden down of
the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles be ulfllled2
Computing the "seven times," which Daniel says must
elapse, as seven cycles of 360 years each we have a total of
7x360=2520 years, and this added to 603 B.C. (2520 minus
603 equals 1917) gives us 1917 as the year when the rule
2 St. Lake. xxi, 24. It should be borne in mind that the tenn. 'Gcn-
tiles" refers, not merely to the non-Hebrew peoples but to all who do not
follow the Divine Law, symbolized by Moses, while the 'chosen people" are
all who do follow that law, no matter what their race or form ot rehelon.
38 The Message of Aquaria
of the Gentiles shall end and a new dispensation begin.
And 1917 saw Jerusalem freed from the rule of the Gen-
tiles (Turks) and under the rule of the Christian King of
England.
Dr. Grattan Guinness, who is looked upon by many as an
orthodox authority on biblical calculations, makes his reck-
oning from the beginning of "the abomination that maketh
desolate," which he considers began with the Turkish
occupation of Jerusalem, and which he is quoted as
placing at 622 A.D., aitho the Encyclopedia Britannica
gives the date of the entry into Jerusalem by the Caliph
Omar as 637 A.D. By a similarly obscure method of his
own he calculates the "thousand three hundred and five and
thirty days" 3or lunar years, according to the lunar
measurements used in the Hebrewof Daniel as equaling
1295 solar years, and from this concludes that the "time
of abomination" ended in 1917 (1295 plus 622 equals 1917).
But no matter how historically inaccurate the dates assumed
above may be, the occult addition of the number given by
Daniel gives 12 (1+3+3+5=12) or the number of a
complete solar cycle, showing that the end of a cycle is
clearly indicated, even tho the orthodox method of calcu-
lating the exact date is unreliable.
"According to Mr. Norris, the period of 1917-1918 is the
termination of three great prophetic periods. It is the ter-
mination of the 1260-1260-75 lunar years from 602-1 B.C.,
when Judah became tributary to Babylon; secondly, it is the
termination of the 2520 solar years from 604-3 B.C., when
Nebuchadnezzar saw the vision of the great image, and
thirdly, the termination of the 1335 lunar years from 622
A.D., the commencement of Mohamnmedanism... . Again,
adding the 70 years Captivity period to the year 1847-48, the
date of the second downfall of the temporal power of the
Papacy, we read the downfall of all evil (altho we still have
evil with us). Further, if we add the 40 years of probation
$DaisieL xii. IL
Are These The Last Days? 39
experienced by the children of Israel, to 1877 A.D., the year
of the defeat and dismemberment of Turkey through the
Russo-Turkish War, we reach 1917, the final destruction of
all desolation of abomination... . If we take the end of a
cycle of fifty years, we come to what Pastor Russell speaks
of as a Jubilee of Jubilees, Earth's Great Jubilee, or Times
of Restitution (Acts, iii, 21). . . . Reckoning from the
beginning of the 70 years desolation under Babylon (Jer.
xxv, 11), the Great Cycle ends with the year 1875. Six
cycles of seven years each from 1875 brings the date up
to 1917, the commencement of the seventh cycle. . . . Pas-
tor Russell and his many followers are daily expecting the
great world change. This the prophecies of the Bible show
(so he claims) is coming in 1917. They think that at any
moment Christ may appear, and then the thousand years'
millennium will start."4
An anonymous author writing in 1895 and using the
Grand Gallery of the Great Pyramid to symbolize the
Christian dispensation says: "The termination of the
Grand Gallery, 1910 inches, gives the third of December,
1910, as the end of the present era. . . . The total length,
including the height of the great step at the end, is 1917.7
inches, which would bring us to the 12th of November, 1917.
The top of the great step is much worn. Probably it orig-
inally indicated Tuesday, the 4th of December, 1917, as the
theoretical date of the end." Thus do many modern
prophets, having been duly impressed with the idea of the
near ending of certain cycles, laboriously seek to pin the
events down to certain specific dates, even tho they are
forced to distort history to make their theories figure out as
they think they should. But as a rule the methods by which
such calculations are made will not bear mathematical and
astronomical investigation, even tho the cycle may end at
approximately the date given.
4 Noted Prophecies, Zalinsky, 151.2-3.4-5-6.
5 Ibid. 156.
40 The Message of Aquaria
But how are we, who require some scientific basis for our
belief, to regard these various calculations, even tho we
prefer to consider the symbolic rather than the historical
interpretation of the symbols? Since all creation as mani-
fested in Nature and in the history of nations follows a
parallel course, these prophecies point unmistaicably to the
close of some great period; not the "end of the world," as
many think, but the end of a dispensation, the end of a great
cycle, in this case the end of a sub-race. One peculiarity of
racial manifestation is that every sub-race foreshadows in a
manner that which will be more fully and completely ex-
pressed and manifested by the succeeding Great Race of the
same number.
For instance, the coming sixth sub-race into whose begin-
nings humanity is now entering will not usher in the millen-
nium refcried to in the biblical prophecies, but will fore-
shadow and prepare for it, sow the seed, as it were. That is,
there will be such a tremendous uplift and advance over pre-
vious conditions as they existed before the World War
spiritually, mentally and physicallythat to many it will
seem to be the dawn of the millennium. It will in truth be
but.the dawn of the seed-time of that which can be fully
manifested only at the dose of the Sixth Great Race; for the
true millennium can come only during the period of the
Seventh Great Race, or the great Sabbath Day of rest of this
World Period, aitho there will be a minor millennium in the
seventh sub-race.
As to when we may expect the millennium to be ushered
in, since we demand facts rather than theories, let us refer to
the well-known astronomical calculations of the Eastern
Sages. It is known that the Assyrians preserved astronom-
ical records covering a period of 270,000 years which have
been confirmed by our modern astronomers as far back as
48,000 years before the Greek era. The far more ancient
I See The Vows of isis. Cuitlu. 238.
Are These The Last Days? 41
Hindu calculations are based upon the following table of
cycles or yugas, 1,000 Maha Yugas (4,320,000 ycars) mak-
ing one Kalpa or Day of Brahm. Each of these Maim
Yugas is composed of four cycles as follows:
The Krita Yuga, or Golden Age 1,728,000 years
The Treta Yuga, or Silver Age 1,296,000 years
The Dvapara Yuga, or Bronze Age 864,0(X) years
The KoJI Yuga, or Iron Age 432,000 years
We are now living in the early part of the Kali or Iron Age
of this Maim Kalpa, concerning which the Vishnu Purana
prophesies: "Property alone will confer rank; wealth will
be the only source of devotion; passion will be the only bond
of union between sexes; falsehood will be the only means of
success in litigation. . . dishonesty will be the universal
means of subsistence, weakness the cause of dependence;
menace and presumption will be substituted for learning;
liberality will be devotion; a man if rich will be reputed
pure; mutual assent will be marriage; fine clothes will be
dignity.... He who is the strongest will reign."
The figures given above are not the calculations of biblical
students, who have had no training in the philosophy of
world cydes, who have only theories, mere estimates which
they think plausible. Neither are they the result of revela-
tion or psychic information. They are the mathematical re-
sults of astronomical calculations capable of verification in
any age, and therefore irrefutable. They have been proven
correct to within 1 degree in 4,883 years! According to
these calculations, the Koli Yuga or Iron Agein which
there are, of course, innumerable lesser cycles and subcycles
began with the reputed death of Krishna. Astronomically
this was when Mars, Mercury, Saturn and Jupiter were in
conjunction in the 6th degree of Aquarius. This conjunction
occurred between February 17 and 18, 3102 B.G, at a time
when the four great stars which form the points of the
7Th. Secret Doctvij,e Blavatslcy, ii. 73.
S Vol. L 404.
42 The Message of Aquaria
Heavenly Cross were in balance, Aldebaran, the Eye of the
Bull, and Antares, the Heart of the Scorpion, being exactly
at the equinoctial points, while Regulus, the Heart of the
Lion, and Fornwlhaut, the Southern Fish, were near the
soistitial points. We are therefore only in the beginning of
this Iron Age of 432,000 years, the first 5,000 years of which
ended in January, 1898 (5000-3102 equals 1898). We
therefore have 427,000 years left before the dose of this
Iron Age! Hence no one need worry about "the end of the
world" coming at all soon! For the sixth and seventh sub-
races of our present Fifth or Aryan Race, and then the en-
tire Sixth and Seventh Great Races, with their seven sub-
races, each with its many family races, each composed of
many nations, must all have their evolution before the dose
of this Kalpa.
To gain some conception of such vast periods let us con-
sider the cycle of our present Fifth Great Race, the Aryan.
This began about 1,000,000 years ago, before the complete
sinking of the ancient continent of Atlantis, at the beginning
of the Glacial or Ice Age. The Secret Doctrine tells us
that the first sub-race saw the doom of the Giants of those
days, also the flood, while the fourth saw the disappearance,
11,000 years ago, of the last islands left by the sinldng of
Atlantis. Each sub-race endures for approximately 210,000
years, its seven family divisions extending over some 30,000
years each, and the many national divisions from 3,000 to
4,000 years. We are now just entering upon the beginning
of the 210,000-year period of the sixth sub-race, ahho the
period will be considerably shortened owing to the shorten-
ing of all periods as a great cycle draws to a close. Then
will follow the even shorter cyde of the seventh sub-race.
Then the Sixth Great Race will have to have its evolution of
nearly 1,000,000 years before the Seventh Great Race, when
the great Kalki Avatar or the Christ will descend to reign
9VoL ii.. 452.
Are These The Last Days? 43
upon Earth "forever and ever," that is, until the end of this
great Day Period or Round.
Nevertheless we are at the end of a sub-race cycle when
its old accounts must be balanced, a minor Iron Age prepara-
tory to the minor Golden Age of this sub-race cycle, for each
race, sub-race and family race has its Iron and other ages.
The "end of the world" will therefore not come suddenly,
nor as long as there are forces and materials in the Earth
which are undeveloped and unutilized for the benefit of all.
Only when the very earth itself and the forces now existing
within it have been raised up to a higher expression can we
have a new heaven and a new Earth in which these advanced
materials and forces will be incorporated as fundamental
essences, just as our advances in one life are built into our
bodies in the next incarnation, and as our faculties are ex-
panded as we enter the astral world.
Man must become the "Lord of Creation," the ruler of the
Earth and all its forces. But this will not be attained through
a miracle. We must first conceive the idea of what is
intended, then gradually bring it into manifestation. For
instance, we must learn true efficiency, not that all things
may work together for success merely in war or business,
but for the best good of all humanity. All waste must be
eliminated and all resources utilized for the good of all.
Great strides are now being made in guarding the health
and conserving the man-power of the nations, also in reduc-
ing infant mortality. But greater strides must be made in
protecting humanity from the burden of the defective and
unfit. They are the less evolved Souls who will strive to
incarnate for a time in the advanced conditions now being
ushered in, aitho they are not far enough advanced to cor-
relate with those conditions and take their places as co-
workers, and hence would have to be taken care of by the
more advanced, as they are today. In the New Age those
who are sufficiently advanced to correlate with the new con-
44 The Message of Aquaria
ditions must be permitted to advance in this new cycle with-
out the handicap of carrying the less evolved, or the rapid
advance necessitated by the new era and the wisdom needed
for their proper care could never be attained, the Race being
already nearly 5,000 years behind the development it should
have reached.
The less evolved will have their opportunity later on in the
minor cycles of a succeeding sub-race, at which time human-
ity will have advanced to a point where it can wisely and
understandingly care for and help on their evolution far
more efficiently and quicidy than now, while still struggling
for advance itself. The compensation the undeveloped will
receive for waiting certain cycles, as the animals are now
waiting for entrance into the human kingdomno animals
having been admitted into the human kingdom after the
beginning of the fifth sub-race of the Third Ra&°will
be the tremendously increased and far easier advance to be
made then than now. Therefore the great importance of
arousing all who will listen to a recognition of the necessity
of taking advantage of the great opportunities now offered
for rapid progress and setting out in earnest on the Path or
striving to live the Mystic Life. For this is truly "the end of
the world" (cycle) for those who utterly refuse to respond
to the higher ideals that are now being set forth for human-
ity's standard and attainment. All such will live out the
natural life of this incarnation and will have every oppor-
tunity given them to contact, if they will, the truths of the
higher life, i. e., to hear lectures, read books and meet with
those whose lives are manifesting the higher ideals. But if
they refuse to listen or pay attention, after the dose of this
present life-period they will remain out of incarnation until
the end of this racial cycle. They will then incarnate only
when the great mass of humanity which has continued to
10 TA. Voice of Isis. Curtiss. 54-5.
Are These The Las: Days? 45
advance has progressed to the point where it can carry such
laggards; where their ignorance, indifference, ridicule and
even active opposition can no longer retard the progress of
those who are striving to live up to their highest ideals. In
short, when such backward ones next incarnate they will find
themselves in a hopeless minority and will have to be classed
among the laggards and unfit.
Therefore it is most important that each earnest student
sow the seed wherever the soil seems propitiousnot forcing
it upon othersand leave the harvest to the Great Law. Let
no one say he lacks opportunity. The seed can be sown in
whatever environment we find ourselves if we carefully pre-
pare the soil.
Just as disease is rapidly being abolished by the intelligent
application of our resources, vibratory, physical, mental,
psychic and spiritual, so must poverty be gradually abolished,
not by the conflscati.n of the wealth of others, but by abol-
ishing the power and prestige now given to the possession
of wealth, increasing the intelligence and efficiency of the
masses, and utilizing the resources of Nature more fully and
under a just and efficient governmental control for the bene-
fit of the people as a whole.
The fetus of the New Humanity is already stirring in the
Womb of Time, and, like the human mother, humanity must
learn to eliminate its waste materials and poisons and give
the fetus proper nourishment or the life of both the child
and mother will be endangered, as in cases of edampsia.
This is the work of the present transitory conditions, and it
is a waste of time and energy, hence will delay the fulfillment,
to speculate on the details of that which is to come only after
many hundreds of thousands of years in the future. The
entire thought and aim of today should be to meet present
day conditions as they confront us, but meet them with an
intelligent conception of the advanced conditions in humanity
46 The Message of Åquaria
and its organization toward which the present day events
are tending and which may be attained the more quiddy by
taking wise advantage of the opportunities now offered.
CHAPTER IV
COMETS AND ECLIPSES
"Comets, importing change of times and states,
Brandish your crystal tresses in the sky;
And with them scourge the bad revolting stars."
King Henry, VI, Shakespeare, Act I, scene 1
"When beggars die, there are no comets seen;
The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes."
Julius Cæsar, Shakespeare, Act II, scene 2.
"The heavens declare the glory of God: and the firmament shew-
eth his handiwork."Psalms, xix, 1.
Cosmic and sidereal changes directly affect the Earth and
therefore its inhabitants. For instance, it is well known that
the so-called "sun spots" markedly alter the magnetic condi-
tions and hence affect the magnetic and atmospheric currents
of the Earth with such regularity that important changes in
the weather can be predicted a month or more in advance
within a few days after the sun spot appears. This is be-
cause the Sun, altho but the physical reflection of the Spirit-
ual Sun, is nevertheless the heart of our system. And like
the heart of man it has its rhythmic beat, its systole and di-
astole. But instead of its pulsations requiring less than half
a minute to complete the round of circulation, as in the case
of the blood of man, the Sun requires a period of eleven
years to complete the circulation of its life-blood to the
planets and return.1 And as the sun spots are one of the
phenomena attending the dilation (diastole) of this great
cosmic heart, when the life-forces are being indrawn, astron-
omers are quite correct in stating that this phenomenon will
recur with special intensity every eleven years.
Throughout the ages comets have been universally recog-
iFor d.tails bCC The Key of Desticy, Curtsa, 8.
47
48 The Message of Aquaria
nized by occultists as celestial messengers ("His angels"),
which bring great forces to the systems and planets whose
orbits they intercept. The major ones which contact the
Earth's atmosphere are followed by great mental, moral,
social and political changes. The major comets are remark-
able for approaching nearer the Sun at perihelion than does
the orbit of any other known body, passing through the Sun's
corona with a velocity of more than one hundred miles per
second without suffering any retardation. During this pass-
age they gather the message of the Regent of the Sun, to-
gether with its radiant energy and actual physical materials
composing it. The visit of a comet to the Sun is followed
shortly thereafter by a shower of meteors (so-called "shoot-
ing stars") from a focal point in some particular region or
constellation which is called its "radient" or the radiant cen-
ter and source of the meteors. As the meteors enter the
atmosphere of the Earth they bring not only new magnetic,
ethereal and spiritual forces, but actual physical inateriols
from their distant sources in the heavens.
The advent of former notable comets was followed by
showers of meteors from Andromeda, Perseus, Leo and
Lyra. But it is of the greatest importance to an under-
standing of this new Aquarian Age to remember that the
advent of the great Halley's comet in 1910which really
ushered in the Aquarian Age (1910= 11, the number of
Aquarius) and which left in the Earth's atmosphere the
physical materials of its entire tail, some millions of miles
in lengthwas followed by a great shower of meteors com-
ing for the first time from Aquarius as their radient or
source! Therefore physical science corroborates the occult
teachings that at the beginning of this New Age the Earth
has received not only new forces, but has received actual
material substances from the constellation Aquarius. It is
any wonder then that, with the advent of the forces and
materials from Aquarius, its ruler Saturn, the Reaper, should
begin to reap the crop of tares sown by man during the cycle
Comets and Eclipses 49
(Piscean) now dosing and dear the field for that which is
to be brought forth in the New Age?
Among celestial phenomena the appearance of comets has
always been heralded as a harbinger of strife, war, pestilence
and troublous times. The first great comet commonly men-
tioned in history was seen in western Asia in 604 B.C.,
when Nebuchadnezzar was on his way to the conquest of
Palestine. The Jews of that day regarded it as a portent of
the speedy downfall of their kingdom. In the year 66 A.D.,
according to Josephus, "a star shaped like a sword" hung
over Jerusalem for a whole year before the beginning of the
great war which ended in the destruction of the city by
Titus and the great annihilation of the Jewish state in A.D.
70. Sixty-eight years later another comet appeared, at the
time of the rebellion led by Bar Chochebas which resulted in
the slaughter of half a million Jews by the Roman armies
and the complete dispersion of Israel among the nations.
Since that time rulers and military leaders have always given
attention to the appearance of comets. "Th' illustrious
stranger passing, terror sheds on gazing nations." For in-
stance, the comet of 1811 confirmed Napoleon in his plan
for the invasion of Russia, altho his misinterpretation of its
significance proved most disastrous to him.
In reality comets are messengers which literally bring
powers, forces, intelligences and physical materials from the
far distant regions they have traversed. Most of them have
regular orbits and appear regularly at longer or shorter in-
tervals, the one discovered by the astronomer, Wolf, at
Heidelberg, having an orbit whose cycle is said to require
the enormous period of 60,000 years for its completion.
Halley's great comet, which has a period of approximately
76 years and which recently visited us in 1910, brought not
only new mental, psychic and spiritual forces to this planet,
but the actual physical materials of its enormous tail, all of
which were bound to modify not only the minds of men
as has been so markedly evident in the upset mental condi-
50 The Message of Åquaria
tions of the nationsbut also their astral and physical bodies,
as well as the Earth itself, just as the clouds of volcanic dust
which were sent high into the upper atmosphere from a
recent volcanic eruption in Alaska encircled the Earth and
affected its climate for many months. Many of the former
visits of this comet were followed by war and marked
changes among the nations, its visit in 1066 being followed
by the invasion of England by the Normans; that of 1456
by the Turkish invasion of Europe, its huge scimitar-shaped
tail exciting the greatest consternation throughout Europe.
Great changes in humanity inevitably foijow the appear-
ance of such visitors not because the comets bring war as
such, but because they bring new physical and spiritual
forces, ideas, materials and intelligences destined to usher in
a New Era, either minor or major. The required advance
usually necessitates the destruction of many old conditions,
ideas, forms of government, social conditions and religions,
just as every new cycle of spring necessitates the destruction
of the old forms of the last season's vegetation. Hence the
appearance of comets should be regarded as the dawn of a
new springtime for humanity, a new cycle and in some cases
a New Era in the evolution of mankind and the planet. They
therefore bring good tidings, in spite of the changes neces-
sary for the new manifestation.
AItho there are two eclipse seasons of the Sun and one
of the Moon of about a month's duration in each year,
eclipses are nevertheless important in marking the duration
of cycles, some major and many minor. The cycle of
eclipses occurring every 18 years is called a Sw-os2 and
is especially important because in each Saros the eclipses are
repeated in nearly the same consecutive order, and are of a
similar character, i. c., either total, annular or partial.
2"Later (especially the last four centuries B.C.) angular measurements
were made (by the Babylonians) in 'cubit-degrees and inches' (Kugler). These
observations resulted in the discovery of the eighteen- ear period, which thc
Greeks called Saroo'."O,jgias of Civilization. Prof. fames H. Breasted.
Comets and Eclipses 51
We are taught that as the Moon is eclipsed by the shadow
of the Earth when the Earth passes between it and the Sun,
the Earth while thus hiding its lesser luminary is gathering
up and absorbing more occult, mystical and wonderful p0-
tencies and preparing for a new expression. And so must it
be with each individual and with this Order. Since The
Order of Christian Mystics is a true cosmic Order, ever
since its conception it has noticeably followed the trend and
laws of cosmic events. It has passed through many periods
of partial eclipse when darkness seemed to settle over it,
yet like the planet, during those periods of semi-darkness
it was gathering greater powers and more wonderful poten-
des that it might manifest more powerfully in the new day,
just as the individual learns his greatest Soul-lessons and
has his most vital experiences while passing through periods
of darkness or eclipse.
And as in the cosmic system, each atom (personality) that
is drawn into the onward sweep of this Order has its place
and its special end to attain. Again like the Cosmos, the
Order is governed by a mighty and immutable law which
predestines each Soul who correlates with its force to
reach the perfection of Sons, yet gives to each the widest
latitude of free-will, as to the manner and the length of time
required, to work out his destiny; for all are destined ulti-
mately to reach such perfection. Because of his free-will
he can refuse to work in the little personal ways that mark
the beginning of all great endeavors and wander like an
embryonic Sun which, through countless eons, is apparently
lost in space, or again like others, he can be drawn into the
influence of some system whose day of manifestation is
progressing, and there apparently be swallowed up as an
independent entity, obeying the law of that system and add-
ing his force to it. Yet altho he senses the untrammeled
scope of the work in which he is destined to participate, and
the importance of the fulfillment of the end, he often forgets
52 The Message of Aquaria
his own individual responsibility and is inclined to leave
such matters to the leaders of the organization, society or
church with which he is concerned, and thus greatly delays
the time of his perfection.
The vision of the glory to be attained is ultimately sensed
by every advancing Soul. Even tho it looms but dimly
before the mental vision it thrills every fiber of his being,
much as an autumnal landscape, veiled by a faint violet
haze through which the Sun shines with a softened glow
idealizing land and sea, fills the heart of the beholder with
an ecstasy of longing. Yet the same objects viewed in the
full glare of the mid-summer Sun stand out as naked physi.
cal objects to be met and conquered through effort; grain
to be garnered; fruit to be sprayed that it may be saved
from the ravages of insects; everywhere the need of honest
toil to reap the harvest; or seen in early spring will sug-
gest only hope and possibility; a spur to the needed toil
and effort. Hence none should waste time in dreaming of
the end, but should do each task as it is presented with the
realization that thus the end will be attained as surely as
the harvest follows spring and summer.
The eclipse of the Moon on July 14th, 1916, marked the
close of a secret major cycle of long duration, and from an
occult standpoint was one of the most important for many
centuries; for it marked an absolute change from one era
to another. In other words, the Earth's position in ida.
tion not only to the Sun, but to its great journey through
space along with its companion planets was uniquely dif-
ferent from any similar position which it had ever occupied
before. That eclipse marked an entire climatic, mental,
psychic and spiritual change for the Earth and its inhabi-
tants; the beginning of the fulfillment approaches. The
baptism of blood in the World War had reached its first
stage of completion and had entered upon that which was
indicated by the excess of green color that was visible as
the eclipse progressed. When the eclipse was watched
Comets and Eclipses 53
closely the red in its darker, angrier and more disastrous
form was seen to be followed by the green, which symbolizes
the lower mind, the dominance of the intellectual or lower
manas by means of which physical supply is obtained. But
after the war that, too, will pass away, just as it was seen to
pass over the Moon; for the reign of intellect over the
world, as used by so-called "big business" selfishly to con-
trol the supply of the necessities of God's children, is about
to be eclipsed. This did not come immediately after the
war nor will it come even quickly, but it is destined to pass
away; to be swept from the planet by devastations of war
and anarchy, as well as the physical devastations that will
prevail over all the globe. As we have said, the first step,
or as the Bible puts it, "the first woe," is accomplished and
the second seal has been opened.
At 6:30 P.M., on March 2nd, 1918, another most occultly
momentous astronomical event occurred, one which marked
the close of the long cycle of the cosmic reign of Saturn
in the Greater Zodiac and the beginning of the reign of
Jupiter,* which is to last throughout the entire sixth and
seventh sub-races or until the Sixth Great Race is ushered
in. For aitho this present Aquarian Age is said to be ruled
by Uranus, since Uranus is a Ruler of Rulers, it will rule
largely through its influence on Jupiter, giving to the in-
fluence of that planet greater power and potency, just as the
powers of Saturn were made more potent during the past
Piscean Age. At the above mentioned hour there was a
great rejoicing and jubilee in all the realms of the worlds of
this system, from the glad dancing of the fairies and ele-
mentals up to the sacred joy of even the Arch Angels; for
at that hour the Mystery Planet so long hidden behind the
Moon showed, for the first time since the forces of its laya
centers were transferred to this planetary chain," a
glimpse of its bright rim beyond that of the Moon and shed
The beginnizig of the cycle of the sixth sub-race.
$ See The Voice of 1w. Curtiss. 204.
54 The Message of Aquaria
its glorious light directly upon all the kingdoms, as our entire
system entered the new configuration in space.
When we speak of a Greater and a lesser zodiac it must
be understood that we are using the terms Greater and lesser
in the same sense that the physical human body is a lesser
expression of the greater Divine Self, the Immortal I.
And being the microcosm of the macrocosm man manifests
through cycles of zodiacal influences corresponding to those
through which the planets pass. We speak of the Path of
Evolution through which the personality passes and the
greater Path of Manifestation through which the immortal
Soul is evolving, yet each includes the building in of the
forces and lessons from the zodiac.
The Earth passes through the twelve signs of the zodiac
in one year, while "Our whole planetary system moves in
retrograde direction through the twelve signs of the Zodiac,
which like a gigantic ring encircles our Cosmos with numer-
ous other solar-systems. All these solar-systems revolve
around one Central Sun, which is supposed to be in the con-
stellation Pleiades (Alcyone)."4 To make a mental pic-
ture of this is somewhat difficult unless we compare it with
man, comparing the lesser zodiac, whose constellations we
can see and study with the telescope, with man's physical
body and the Greater Zodiac which we cannot see with the
physical eyes to the Soul or the true I, the movement being
retrograde because the Soul is going back to God as it
revolves around the central Spiritual Sun.
The eclipse of 71 per cent of the light of the Sun on the
evening of June 8th, 1918, which threw a line of shadow
fifty miles wide diagonally across this country from Aber-
deen, Washington, to Ormond, Florida, was also of great
significance to this country, as those will recognize who
have eyes to see and hearts to understand.
The total eclipse of the Moon on the night of April 21st,
1921, marked another important step in the manifestation
4Aflrology. Its Tecknics cpu Elkics. C. Aq. Libra. 17.
Comets and Eclipses 55
of the Mystery Planet and an important stage in the life ex-
pression of The Order of Chrzgtian Mystics. The sum of
the numbers forming that date (4-21-1921) equals 20, which
number is called "The Dispenser of Wisdom."5 And it
was during that eclipse that "the Lord of Life and Love and
Wisdom," the Real or Divine Self of the Order or the great
Spiritual Being for whose special manifestation the Order
was put forth, actually descended to take up His abode in
the aura of the Order and become "the Dispenser of Wis-
dom" for it, while those who form the true atoms of the
body of the Order must become the points of radiation of
His force and consciousness and responsible for the Order's
influence in the world.
We are therefore standing before the Mighty Portals,
waiting for the curtain of time to rise upon the New Age.
Its rise will be gradual, first illuminating our feet (under-
standing), then our hands (power to accomplish), our
hearts (power to bring forth) and finally will bring illumina-
tion to our heads (power to rule). Let us, therefore, pre-
pare ourselves for that which is approaching so swiftly.
But opposed to every seemingly evil omen, portents of
good also appear. The new star called Nova Aquilae,
which was recently discovered on the verge of the Milky
Way between Altair and Eta Serpent, thus falling in the
sign of Capricorn, is one of the most important phenomena
that has appeared for many centuries. As referred to by
one authority: "The famous star which appeared in An-
dromeda about the time of the Nativity, and which later
was seen by Albumazar, the Arabian astronomer in 945
A.D., again in 1264, and towards the end of the sixteenth
century by Kepler, is one of those stars which have an orbit
of great eccentricity with the major axis towards the solar
system, so that they appear 'end on' when entering the field
of vision, make a brief incursion, during which they appear
to grow in luminosity, and then recede again and are lost
5 See The Key of DC5HÙJ Cnrtu, 278.
56 The Message of Aquaria
to view for a period of many years.... It thus falls in
the Sign Capricorn, and this sign is affected during the
years 1921-2 by a malefic conjunction of Mars and Mer-
cury in the world horoscope.... Falling as it does in
the Sign Capricorn, astrologically associated with political
and governmental affairs more than any other sign of the
zodiac on account of its correspondence with the tenth divi-
sion of the heavens, this 'star' holds for us portents of singu-
lar interest... . Perhaps new stars have another signifi-
canoe than that which belongs to comets. It may herald the
appearance or birth of a new and great political leader or
the rise of a new world power in the domain of politics.
That it falls in the solar decan of the sign Capricorn is at
least significant of such a probability."
Since Capricorn is the most mysterious and esoteric
sign of all the zodiacT its chief significance to us as
Mystics is that Capricorn is presided over by the great Spir-
itual Beings called the Kumaras, whose special function it
is to bring forth for the race the Avatars or those "Superior
Gods" who manifest themselves to men. The Kumaras
are also concerned in the destruction of lower forms of life
and manifestation that higher forms may take their places,
also the lower passions and appetites of men, thus helping
man to evolve to his higher destiny through the exercise
of the power of Kriyaslzakti, the power of Spiritual Creative
Thought which enables one to produce external, tangible
phenomena by its own inherent energy. This means that
while man is still dwelling here on Earth in separated sexes
his higher creations will ultimately be brought forth not
through sex, but through this mysterious creative power of
Spiritual Thought. And Capricorn is the sign where these
mighty Beings, of whom St. Michael was one, preside. It
is for this reason that all Avatars or Saviors of mankind
are born or rather appear in Capricorn, or as it is commonly
Sepbarial in the "British Journal of Atroiogy." Ju1. 1918.
I See The Key to the Uaivev,e. Curtiu. 178-9.
Comets and Eclipses 57
expressed, are "laid in a manger," Capricorn being the sign
of the manger. It is also the sign of the goat, an animal
that is very strongly sexed, thus plainly showing that the
power of creating through thought and will must proceed
from the same spiritual source as the lower sexual crea-
tions, but pure and undefiled and manifesting through other
centers. That is to say, the sexual conditions will be sup-
plemented, not superseded, by Kriyashakti. An Avatar, as
we know, is not born sexually of mortal woman, yet is truly
"born of a virgin"the sign Virgo being on the horizon as
Capricorn risesand "laid in a manger" where the animals
come for their food.'
What is the significance of these great cosmic events for
us as Christian Mystics and students of occult philosophy?
The cosmic life-blood permeates not only the planet, but
the very substance of our bodies, the physical as well as the
finer. For the last few years the very air we breathe has
been so charged with new forces and substances that it has
been more difficult than formerly for advanced and super-
sensitive persons to breathe, especially during periods of low
barometer which would naturally intensify the physical
effect. It is the influx of these new currents of life-force
and finer substances which is eliminating the accumulated
effluvia from the mind and aura and body of humanity like
a purging draught, that it may be deansed and ready to
enter into the New Era and correlate with the new forces
now being poured out upon mankind and the planet. Natu-
rally the more sensitive persons who have some diseased or
even weak spot in their bodies, or who have something in
their minds and auras which requires elimination, find this
period of purgation a trying and confusing time. Yet they
should remember that the power of the Christ within them
is greater than all that can oppose their advance if they will
but correlate with and utilize it.
Also, altho the nervous ether of the planet is impregnated
S For explanation are Tho Vows of 1w, Curtlia. 137.
58 The Message of Aquaria
with man's vileness and is bringing back to him for redeinp-
tion that which he has created and sent forth, nevertheless
it is also filled with a new influx of the vibrant life-force of
the Cosmos, the very Christ-power. Therefore we should
recognize the meaning of the transitory conditions under
which we are living and refuse to respond to or correlate
with anything but the constructive life-forces in them. If
our bodies are strong and healthy and do not suffer we
may find other effects of these new forces springing up;
new expressions of temper to subdue, irritation to conquer,
selfishness to rise above and temptations of the flesh to
overcome. In short, everything in the Earth's atmosphere
and aura is intensified, both the good and the eviL Hence
we must make a still greater effort than we have made in
the past to "stand on the Lord's (Law) side."
In these days of confusion, when the last of the old cycle
is overlapping the newlike the period of convalescence
after a disease has run its course ere the new cells can be
built in and perfect health restoredthe great end which
these changes in conditions and affairs are striving to bring
about is one of purification and balance and a harmonizing
with the higher spiritual note that has been sounded in the
cosmic scale. Unless we strive to correlate with this aim
and bring about these changes voluntarily within ourselves
and our environment we are placing ourselves as impedi-
ments in the circulation of the blood of the Cosmos. Hence,
like all impediments in a swiftly flowing current, we must
either be stranded and left behind or be swept along to be
buffeted and suffer until we are purified and have become
one with the stream or one with the Law. And since man
has free-will he can make himself either something that
must be purged from the life-stream of humanity or he can
become a white warrior corpuscle or leucocyte, which aids
in the destruction and elimination of impurities and in the
building up of the new tissues in the body of mankind.
This is a vital subject for us as practical Mystics to
Comets and Eclipses 59
understand and take advantage of, a practical result toward
which we should strive; for it shows us why conditions in
the world are so unbalanced and also toward what ends they
are tending. It further shows why our personal conditions
are more or less unbalanced and inharmonious. And just
as when our blood is polluted we should not wait for the
purifying process to force out the impurities through pain-
ful boils, etc., but should purge ourselves within and with-
out and wash out the impurities with great draughts of
sparkling water, so during this period in evolution we should
drink in copious draughts of the divine Waters of Life, the
force of the Great Mother-love, which shall purify our
minds and hearts from selfishness, jealousy, resentment and
antagonism, and also purge from our mental and astral
bodies all impure desires which attract to us similar condi-
tions and forces from the mental and astral worlds.
Having experienced the first stagethe Awakeningcrc
we consciously started out on the Path, through following
the above suggestions we can pass the second of the stages
of the Mystic Lifethe Purgationand prepare ourselves
for the three final stagesIllumination, Crucifixion, Union
in which we shall become conscious channels and agents
of the cosmic life-forces in their work for the regeneration
of humanity and the planet itself, thus making the "last
days" of the old dispensation a vital preparation for the new.
CHAPTER V
THE LAW OF GROWTH
"Seek out the way.... Seek it by study of the laws of being, the
laws of nature the laws of the supernatural; and seek it by nialdj
the profound obeisance of the soul to the dim star that burns within.
Light on the Path, Collins.
To understand the causes underlying the many questions
which are pressing upon all thinkers for solution today, we
must recognize the motive power back of the evolution of
both our individual lives and the Race, as well as the planet
upon which we dwell. All manifested creation is produced
as a result of vibratory differentiation of Eternal Motion
and its resultant Force. Spirit and matter are but conven-
ient terms used to express degrees of retardation of Abso-
lute Motion, which in turn is the expression of Divine
Will Without Motion and its resulting Force the universe
would be a dead, cold, solid and immovable cinder upon
which no life could exist. The power of the Sun and wind,
the waves of the sea, the waterfall, of steam and electricity
are but various expressions of Divine Will going forth
into manifestation. As long as there is motion, which is
vibration or life, we cannot get away from God, for it is in
this God that "we live and move and have our being."
One reason why Saturn is spoken of as the Regent of the
Earth is that the force sent out by that cosmic center of
force is stability and inertia. It is, therefore, ruler in so
far as, without stability, Motion would have nothing on
which to act. Saturn is also called the Adversary, because
his force of inertia is forever opposed to Motion. And it
is that impassive shore against which the sea of humanity
is forever beating in restless activity until an equilibrium
60
The Law of Growth 61
between the two is attained. Perfect balance or equilibrium
is the "rest that remaineth for the people of God." Still-
ness and apathy as well as strife and inharmony result in
death, but equilibrated Motion is eternal life.
As the child grows in body, mind and Soul in response to
this Law, which expresses in every atom of its being as
growth, expansion and unfoldment, so it is with the planet
upon which we dwell. Today mankind is awakening to a
realization that we are living in a new and transitional age
in which changes are taking place so rapidly that we must
become more thoroughly acquainted with new aspects of
many of the forces of the universe with which we once
thought ourselves familiar, but which daily surprise us with
new expressions. Yet this is only the same surprise we feel
when we meet one whom we had known as a child only a
few years ago, but who now must be treated as a man.
The explanation is that the Race and the planet have grown
up to their young manhood and have entered in earnest upon
their real life expression.
Just as the variation or special form of the Eternal Mo-
tion which produces our individual lives also determines our
vibratory place, decides the possibilities of our attainments
and marks out the path of our evolutionary destiny, so with
the Earth. It, too, is traveling its appointed Path, unfold-
ing and manifesting the various stages of its evolutionary
cycle and taking its true place in the universe in obedience
to the same law. It is the same Force whether pushing a
planet or solar system onward to the fulfillment of its
destiny or acting within the heart of a tiny seed causing it to
expand and burst asunder its confining husk or shell and
gradually unfold into the type of plant its destiny has
ordained.
The reason we are not astonished and awed by the won-
derful transformation of the acorn into the oak is that we
have grown familiar with the miracle. But because we
know that the invisible nattern of the oak lies embedded
62 The Message of Aquaria
within the acorn awaiting only for its unfoldment and em-
bodiment in matter to manifest the tree, it is none the less
a mirade. So familiar are we with this phenomenon that
we forget that according to the same law the ideal or po-
tentiality within the seed of a world or a humanity or an
individual Soul must likewise pass through all its various
phases of unfoldment and ultimatdy manifest the ideal
which the Divine Will has implanted within it. The process
followed is the same as that of the planet, i. e., assimilating
the elements needed by each individual from the environ-
ment in which it finds itself, and building those elements
into the pattern provided by its destiny.
Once we awaken to the method by which the ideal mani-
fests through the Law of Growth we will realize that we
have not discovered a new force in Nature or harnessed a
new energy as we advance, but that whenever a force is
contacted it indicates that the seed is taking a new step in
its growth, for the completion of which it must utilize a
higher aspect or expression of the One Life. The man who
thinks he has discovered a new force has merely unfolded
within himself a new phase of consciousness by which he
recognizes and vibrates to a similar force within Nature and
himself. And like the seed, at every unfoldment of the
God-consciousness within him he enters a new field of force
in Nature to which his physical body and his consciousness
have responded crc it was possible for him to take the step.
For instance, until recently aeroplanes, the wireless ap-
paratus, radium and so on were impossible, not because the
laws of aviation and radiant energy did not exist, but be-
cause man's consciousness had not reached a point where
it could contact, recognize and understand those laws. He
had not unfolded into that realm of consciousness. Simi-
larly at present he is not able to understand how to utilize
the dynaspheric force and thus draw power for his aero-
planes and other engines directly from the air without the
use of fuel, or how to use it to heal his disease and satisfy
The Law of Growth 63
all his needs, by correlating it with the powers which he will
some day awaken within himself, just as Nature manifests
all her marvels by utilizing the forces already within her.
But this, too, will be grasped and understood in a compara-
tively short time.
The coming New Age into which science is now entering
has been called by some the Magnetic Age, and already, by
charging them with magnetism, Dr. Ross has been able to
preserve without ice for over three years fruits, vegetables
and meats which remained as full of life-force and as fresh
as the day they were prepared. The Magnetic Age will as
far surpass the achievements of the present Electrical Age as
the latter has surpassed the Age of Steam. But the Mag-
netic Age, in its turn, will be superseded by the still more
wonderful Dynaspheric Age. Man and Nature must un-
f old together in manifesting the Divine Will.
If the Earth were merely an inert mass thrown off from
the Sun or other planet and projected only by its initial
velocity it would have slowed down and ceased the manifes-
tation of its forces long ere this. But the fact that it is con-
stantly unfolding new expressions of force and manifesting
new powersthe effect of more rapid vibrationsshows that
it is not an inert mass blindly following so-called mechanical
laws, but is a living entity gradually unfolding its inner
ideal according to the Law of Growth, just as the inner
ideal present within the acorn unfolds into the oak, for
the most powerful microscope can find no trace of a pattern
in the acorn. The difference is similar to that between a
projectile fired from a cannon, which continually and rapidly
decreases in velocity, and an express train that picks up
speed as the result of the increased application of power
at the will of the engineer, that it may conform to the
schedule or destiny set for it. The present age is truly called
a "speed" age, because the Earth is picking up speed and
events are rushing toward us and flying past like the scenery
viewed from a speeding train.
64 The Message of Aquaria
Once understand that the Source of Power is within and
is gradually unfolding our possibilities according to the Law
of Growth and we can begin to work consciously with the
Law. We will not strive to conquer Nature's forces only
from without, but will realize that really to knowand mas-
ter a force we must unfold the consciousness of it within
ourselves; for we cannot conceive of a thing of which the
consciousness has not been unfolded within us, any more
than an undeveloped mind can understand a complicated
scientific instrument or process, even tho it is presented
to it and carefully explained.
To grow we must drink in the Divine as the seed drinks
in its nourishment from the elements, realizing that the
Divine Consciousness contains all the forces, all the ideas,
inventions, etc., necessary for the advancement of the Race
in all ages, and that these will be unfolded as fast as man is
ready to correlate with them. Those most attuned to each
phase or idea will grasp and respond to it first. One who is
accustomed to vibrate to the mechanical expression of a
force or idea would be the first to bring it forth as an ad-
vanced mechanism, while a scientist, musician or painter
would express the same idea or force, each in his own field.
Only thus can we work in unison with the Great Law to
bring about the manifestation of the ideal or Real Self
within us and the real Sabbath for the Race;
While we remain unenlightened we are the victims of
great currents of force, swept this way and that by the
swirling currents of adverse and inharmonious forces which
man's opposition to Divine Will and his perversion of
Divine Love have brought forth. In fact, unenlightened
man today is quite as helpless in the desire and mental
worlds as was primitive man in the physical world during
the early ages of the Race when the confficts of the elements
were of such a devastating and awe-inspiring character.
For today man is meeting in the astral and mental worlds
The Law of Growth 65
the same problems which he faced in the physical world in
the early days.
There is a kind of faith which man must attaina living
faith in the certainty of the working of the Great Law
which will carry him through every experience and make
him the ruler of his destiny. This faith is the result of an
inward correlation with the mystic forces of the universe,
an inward realization that he is one with those forces;
that his whole life is but a manifestation of them. Hence,
nothing in the universe is apart from him, nor is he apart
from them.
Manifested God (Good) is the Divine Outpouring from
the Absolute, eternally going forth into creative activity and
returning to its Source, according to cyclic law. Hence the
result of the mandate, "Let there be light !" was not the
creation of a new world so much as it was the result of the
activity of Divine Love reaching out into and through all
chaotic conditions that the living Light might penetrate
into and transmute and evolve the materials thrown off un-
perfected and unredeemed from a previous world system,
yet containing the seed of a future world,1 materials which
were waiting in the darkness for the Light of their new
day to dawn. In the same way the seed lies in the dark-
ness of the earth, where it is subjected to the disintegrating
forces necessary for its transmutation, and there awaits
the quickening ray which shall start its evolution. God
did not say, "Let us make a new earth for man to dwell in
and rule," but the cyclic motion of the ever outgoing Divine
Will and Love sent forth a quickening Ray into the world-
seed dropped by a previous world system, which seed
contained all the various substances and forces which the
previous humanity, in all its various phases, was unable
perfectly to correlate with, for the faculties and powers
necessary to master such conditions were not yet evolved in
man as a whole.
1 S The Vowe of Izi,, Curtiu. 325.
66 The Message of Aquaria
This is the secret of the forces back of present day condi-
tions. We look around us and note man's marvelous ad-
vance in science and invention, how he conquers the air,
harnesses the oceans and subdues the mountains and we are
inclined to say, "Behold how wise and powerful is man."
But all this advance is merely the natural result of the cyclic
push given to all evolution by the outgoing Cyde of Mani-
festation through the great Law of Growth, the cyclic urge
to a higher and more perfect manifestation of Divine Will.
In other words, man cannot make practical his new discov-
eries until the evolution of the planet has produced the neces-
sary conditions and the discoverer has evolved the analogous
forces within himself. Hence the motive power back of all
growth and evolution is the One Life, which proceeds from
Divine Will to bring forth through Divine Love, ever un-
folding within us and in all creations higher and higher
stages toward ultimate perfection.
When man awakens to this truth and understands that
he has not evolved unaided all the advance which today is so
rapidly unfolding, he will begin to have faith that the power
of the One Life, as a Ray of the Divine, is working within
him to unfold and bring to perfection the seeds of his Di-
vinity. Only his refusal to open his heart to the stream
of quickening life-force and his refusal to work with it can
keep him back from the mastery of his powers; for it is
only through his Will to correlate with the One Life that
he can keep pace with the possibilities in himself and the
planet and become a conscious co-worker with God.
At present man too often seeks to use the powers of God
for his own sdfish ends without regard to the ideals toward
which all evolution is advancing. One phase of teaching
says, "Kill out desire," and another holds up desire as the
motive power by which alone man can advance, ebiming
that whatever man desires he should have. Others limit
desire to one set of emotions and functions which they elect
to call evil, and much family discord, sorrow, suffering and
The Law of Growth 67
even sin result. Thus the average student is confused and
knows not which way to turn. The truth is that human
desire is but a negative manifestation of Divine Will and
has its seat or focus in the astral world. Since we should
never cultivate the negative aspect of anything, instead of
allowing ourselves negatively to be ruled by desire, we
should carefully discriminate between the objects of our
desire and then positively will that which we have chosen
as best for us.
The astral world contains all the unfulfilled desires of
humanity, as well as those Souls who have passed away
from the physical life, but who are still seeldng to gratify
their desires on Earth. All these forces of desire float out
aimlessly over humanity like clouds of exhaust steam, ever
seeldng expression through man and sweeping him first this
way and then that, expending their energy with no construc-
tive object in view. An erroneous idea of certain modern
teachings is that man, undeveloped as he is today, is
omnipotent and that by the mere exercise of his Will, the
control of his breath and life-forces, he can attain oneness
with the Divine Will or enter Cosmic Consciousness. But
the esoteric teaching is that only by correlating with the
currents of the One Life through meditation and heart devo-
tion can the life-forces of man's body become attuned to
their parent Source and allow the One Life to flow through
him in perfect harmony. In other words, it is not by merely
willing to breathe in a certain way that the higher con-
sciousness is induced, but through proper meditation and
correlation, the breath will automatically follow the rhythm
of the One Life and thus unite us to the ideal upon which
we are meditating. But woe to him who thinks to master
any force, even those manifesting in his own body, for him-
self alone or without working in harmony with Divine Will
and Love!
The Race is now passing through a transitional state in
which one sub-race (fifth) is overlapping the next (sixth);
68 The Message of Aquaria
a night between two day periods. For just as we find no
hard and fast lines of demarcation between the forces of
Nature, so with Races. Day and night and the seasons of
the year overlap and blend the one into the other; the colors
of the rainbow merge into each other and the last note of the
musical octave becomes the first note of a new octave. So
in the greater cycles of Races and sub-races there is a long
period in which the forces especially operative in the fifth
sub-race must either find their perfection, fulfill their high-
est good and be garnered into the storehouse of the Race or
be swept away and disintegrated into their original elements,
to come forth again when the new humanity is far enough
evolved and unfolded to grasp and deal with that which it
failed to perfect in the past.
Nothing is lost, either in the personal life or in the life of
the Race or the planet In each incarnation we either master
the conditions we meet and learn their lessonsin which
case the experience gained is stored up as vibratory power
in the Higher Selfor the present forms of those problems
which have proved too hard for us are disintegrated (an-
other manifestation of force) and await the Soul at its next
incarnation, when the same tendencies and problems must
be faced and the victory gained.
The same law operates with every Race and sub-race and
with the planet itself, for every planet is a reincarnation of
a previous planet, every Race of a previous Race and every
sub-race a reincarnation of a sub-race of a previous Great
Racë The storms and cataclysms which occur at the end
of each sub-race and Race are the result of the forces of
disintegration, and correspond to the changes of disintegra-
tion which take place in man's physical body at the end of its
life-cycle and later on in astral and mental bodies.
Both the planet and the Race have been passing through
a minor night-period or pralaya. All that has been given to
man to understand, use and rule, that he may become a con-
scious co-worker with God for the good of allbut which
The Law of Growth 69
his selfishness, unbrotherliness and inhumanity and his re.
fusal to work with the Divine Will has perverted and abused
must now be gathered up in a mighty harvest, the tares
and the wheat together. In fact, this period of overlapping
may be likened to the Mill of the Gods in which the harvest
is tested and all but the golden grain is driven out. As The
Voice of the Silence says: "The worthless husks it drives
from out the golden grain, the refuse from the flour." But
the husks and refuse will, after their disintegration, form
the materials and forces which fertilize the crop of new
conditions in which the humanity of the new day-period
must now sow its seed.
Every Soul who has awakened to a realization of the law
of the One Life has within him the key which will not only
unlock all doors, but which will solve all mysteries and show
him how safely to ride the storms of this period of transition
is God's ambassador on Earth; for he understands that the
conditions he fearlessly faces, the Great Law will give him
the strength to conquer.
How then can we "help nature and work on with her,"
correlate with the mighty stream of Divine Will and Love
that is rejuvenating the planet and the Race and preparing
them for a new and greater period of manifestation? Di-
vine Will is the active, centrifugal, masculine aspect, as
Divine Love is the passive, centripetal or feminine aspect
of the manifesting Godhead expressing according to the
Law of Growth, while desire, which holds sway in the lower
realms, may be likened to the exhaust steam of an engine.
But just as the efficient engineer utilizes the exhaust steam
in a secondary cylinder to add to the power of the whole,
so when desire is conquered, controlled and directed by the
purified Will it becomes an auxiliary cylinder to the engine
which is bearing us toward the goal of our destiny.
Out of a negative desire to be kind and loving we must
evolve a Will to be so; out of a desire to know and under-
stand we must Will to; out of a desire to work in harmony
70 The Message of Aquaria
with the Law of Growth we must Will to work with it. As
Eliphas Levi truly says: "To will well, to will long, to will
always, but never to lust after anything, such is the secret
of power... . The Magus thinks and wills; he loves noth-
ing with desire; he rejects nothing in rage."2 The Secret
Doctrine tells us: "The Higher Mind directs the Will; the
lower turns it into selfish Desire."3
Divine Will and Divine Love, united in expression through
the Law of Growth, bring into action the force of the Divine
One Life, the Christ-force, the motive power of the uni-
verse, the power back of all evolution. Once we correlate
with it by willing to let the Christ-force manifest in us as a
definite determination to conquer and we will have entered
that great stream of Divine Creative Force; will have at-
tached our individual car to the express train that is carry-
ing humanity and the planet on to their destination. If we
go through life with desire instead of Will for motive power,
spiritually we are drifting aimlessly with the tide. And
there is no more hopeless person than one who merely desires
to be good, desires to be liberal, to be happy, to be thought
well of, etc., yet who makes no definite effort of Will to attain
his ideal. Since the dynaspheric force is the servant of the
purified and trained Will, no one can hope to utilize it, either
in himself or in the world, who is still controlled by desire.
Many come into touch with these Teachings because of
a desire to gain all that is possible without serious effort on
their part; because they desire to advance without the effort
to correlate with the positive force of Will, perhaps think-
ing that the desired development will soak into them like a
shower of rain on a thirsty field and with no special effort
on their part to understand and utilize the higher forces.
Their Wills are dormant and the motive power of their
lives is but the exhaust steam of desire. They are like the
dogs which by the very onward rush of an automobile are
2 Trg,*we,,Aental Magic, pp. 237. 238.
3 Tue Secret Doctv,j,e. Blavatski. ill. 559.
The Law of Growth 71
imjelled to run along beside it for a time, imagining that
they can keep pace with it. Naturally such persons run here
and there with no fixed purpose and no Will to attain. And
they are often astonished to see others who have Will be-
hind them push past them and press on toward their goal.
These Teachings are the result of positive Willing to en-
lighten and inspire humanity, not merely on the part of those
agents who started out to accomplish this task through a
special avenue of force, but on the part of those Great
Teachers who through Will have taken their places at the
head of the great stream of evolution which ordains that
humanity shall have avenues through which the Law of
Growth may be taught it, with as little personal bias as pos-
sible, and with Will and Love co-equal. Therefore, the
great whirlwind of Divine Will which sweeps over mankind
at the dose of certain cycles has gathered together an atom
(personality) here and an atom there, as many as were
willing to be lifted up out of their old conceptions and be
swept out into the great stream of unselfish service for
humanity, with nothing to hold them together but Divine
Love. With these there may be gathered some who are but
like chaff, who have no momentum, no WilL But those
soon drop out, for they are blown hither and thither by
every passing breeze in the lower levels of desire. But
when the time of hill-climbing comes they will fall away
long before the attainment of that which the Will of the
Teacher has ordained, and will drop back contentedly into
their old habits of thought and life, to be picked up and
swirled around by the next current of force that passes by.
To correlate with the One Life and become conscious
workers with the Divine we must transmute desire into Will
and be dominated by the Will to Grow. Awaken then to
the necessity of Willing and taking definite steps to correlate
with the Christ-consciousness of the One Life, knowing that
all life is an expression of Eternal Motion.
72 The Message of Aquaria
Better is he who with an open mind Wills to do and
makes a mistake, than he who stands still or drifts along
on the exhaust steam of desire. For if he is earnestly press-
ing forward, the imperfect or mistaken attainment of today
will be left behind without a sigh tomorrow, for the ad-
vance he has made will give him a fuller understanding
and a greater appreciation of what is best for his spiritual
unfoldment and he will see his goal draw closer and closer
as he draws closer and closer to the perfect manifestation
of Divine Will and Love.
Make life forceful, with Will standing back of everything
we do or think. But at the same time draw close and let
the Mother-love pervade and bring forth the Christ in us,
50 that all who meet us will recognize that while we are
positive and forceful we are also loving.
CHAPTER VI
THE BIRTH OF THE NEW AGE
"And then shall they see the Son of man coming in the clouds, with
great power and glory. And then shall he send his angels, and shall
gather together his elect from the four winds, from the uttermost
part of the earth, to the uttermost part of heaven."St. Mark,
xlii, 26-27.
In the early ages, ere the masculine and feminine prin-
ciples were separated into independent men and women, ere
the dawn of the days, symbolically recorded in the first chap-
ters of Genesis, and while the two principles were expressing
in the one organism, there was a period in human evolu-
tion corresponding to the transitional period through which
humanity is passing today. But conditions were so different
then that we of separate and corporeal organism can scarcely
realize or even imagine how beings of an incorporeal and
ethereal substancehalf astral and half physicalcould
think, act and function. For it must be remembered that
the humanity of that time had not yet reached the lowest
arc of its cycle of descent into matter.
As we have explained in The Voice of Isis,' "These
misty forms became more and more dense by the gradual
absorption of a new element, earth, until 'The Second Race
being also sexless, evolved out of itself, at its
beginning, the Third, Androgyne Race by an analogous, but
already more complicated process' Only toward
the middle of the Third Race (Lemurian) did solid bones
develop, the sexes separate, the body become 'dothed with
coats of skin' and take on human form as we know it
today."
iPage 231.
73
74 The Message of Aquaria
The dense materialization began about the middle of the
Third Race and was completed by the middle of the Fourth
(Atlantean) Race, by which time, owing to the density of
the physical conditions in which they must ultimately mani-
fest, the separation of the sexes was completed. The sepa-
ration was inevitable, for it was necessary that both
expressionsactive and passive, positive and negative
manifest fully and completely and learn independently, yet
together, the lessons of this lowest and densest phase of the
Cycle of Manifestation. This could not be accomplished
all at once, for physical conditions were then so crude,
dense and hard that only by the complete dominance of the
positive and masculine element could the organism survive,
and this permitted little free expression of the feminine ele-
ment.
It must be borne in mind, however, that when speaking
of the masculine and feminine elements expressing through
one organism we must not picture man and woman as known
today. Neither must we construct an anatomical anomaly
in which the two sets of physical organs are equally devel-
oped, for we are contemplating that which, while it had
been projected into the physical plane, had not as yet taken
on physical expression. It was expressing in ethereal and
astral matter and was tending toward the density of the
physical embodiment, but the masculine and feminine func-
tions had not then focalized themselves into bodily organs.
They only existed in potentiality or at most in rudimentary
form.
It was then that the masculine and feminine Principles
thus projected into Earth conditions began to manifest. The
masculine functions are the result of the outpouring and
embodiment of the masculine Principle of Will, intellect,
courage and the power to fructify and express in form.
The feminine functions are the result of the outpouring
and embodiment of the feminine Princinle of Love. corn-
The Birth of the New Age 75
passion, intuition and the desire to bring forth in form.
The masculine Principle, being an expression of the divine
Father-aspect of the Godhead, manifests as a great, over-
whelming and self-sacrificing desire to project and fructify,
even at the expense of itself, while the feminine Principle,
being an expression of the divine Mother-aspect of the God-
head, manifests as an overwhelming desire, yearning and
eagerness to bring forth, cherish and preserve, even at the
expense of its own substance. The chief manifestation of
the masculine Principle is creativeness. The chief mani-
festation of the feminine Principle is motherhood, both
expressed in perfect purity.
If this short summary of the creative Principles in mani-
festation is understood and borne in mind many of the
difficulties arising from the contradictory teachings of others
as to sex will be avoided or solved.
Altho the feminine Principle is focused in and expressed
largely through the female sex, it does not do so exclu-
sively, for there are many men who express more of the
motherhood, the yearning, loving desire to bring forth and
cherish something more ethereal and spiritual than has
as yet manifested in their physical expression of life, than
do some women. For there are many women who are not
true to their birthright, who are not seeking to bring forth
and cherish their higher spiritual realizations in their lives.
Conversely, many women express more of the masculine
qualities than do some men.
Both men and women today are waking up to a realization
of the possibility of manifesting greater and more perfect
expressions of themselves; the possibility of bringing forth
their higher ideals to manifest in their outer lives. And
just as the unquenchable desire of the feminine Principle of
Love and compassion to bring forth in freedom and perfec-
tion resulted in the separation of the sexes in those early
days, so today the same unquenchable longing must result
76 The Message of Aquaria
in a more definite separation, independence and freedom
for woman. But now, instead of being directed downward
into matter, this great urge of the mother-force is projected
upward to bring forth higher ideals for the Race.
The separation of the sexes is recorded in the Bible in the
allegory of Eve being created from a rib taken from Adam's
side during his sleep. This marks a real "fall of man,"
or the "descent into matter," but it was not a fall or dc---
scent due to sin. It was brought about by the same great
Principle of Divine Love and Wisdom, the Voice of the
Deity sent forth, the Word that was spoken and sent
through all the spheres. The projection is always creative,
but only through the loving mother-force n the creation
be brought forth. This "fall" was not a "sin," nor due to the
use of the sex functions, for man was distinctly told to "Be
fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth." The sin
was that man, after being given the power to create at will,
in learning to use his new-found function, used it largely to
gratify the desires of the animal body in which he was mani-
festing upon Earth instead of using it only under the guid-
ance of the Divine. And, alas, in sin and sorrow were the
fruits of the Tree of Life plucked and eaten, hence the re-
sulting curses from which manldnd has suffered since are
of his own creating.
It is said that it was woman who tempted man, but this
does not mean that woman was seducing man, selfishly de-
sirous that he should participate in sinful pleasures. It
means that woman tempted man in the sense that the Great
Mother-force, the love and yearning to bring forth, was
then for the first time focused in separate forms. Before
that period all the love and desire to bring forth was hid--
den within the androgynous being, hence was indefinite,
like the spiritual longings we feel but scarce understand.
They seem vague and far away, yet we all recognize them
as efforts of the One Reality, the Higher Self, to express
and bring forth in us. And it will be just as great a test or
The Birth of the New Age 77
temptation to us, when in the fullness of time we find our
spiritual body a definite reality to our waking consciousness,
and our power to "make dreams come true" also a reality
to our senses, to decide whether we will use our spiritualized
creative power to bring forth "in His image" or whether we
will again go astray and again debase our god-like power to
minister to the selfish desires of the personality.
A rib is an important part of the dense physical frame-
work of man's body, and this very expression tells us in one
graphic word that woman is not a separate being newly
created and subordinate to man, but is a natural differentia-
tion of the one Spiritual Being which expresses through the
two co-equal sexes, an integral part of the very framework
of his being; for without the ribs, man's form would be im-
possible. It is much as tho the moisture of the air, as it is
condensed into a cloud, might separate into two parts, yet
each part be an expression of the one center of force.
The deep sleep which fell upon Adam, or the advanced
humanity of that early ethereal Race, was the sleep of a Race
night-period or pralaya during which all activity ceases or
rests in a deep sleep, to come forth at the dawning of the new
day-period in a more perfect manifestation. It is, of course,
understood that the Adam of the allegory was not one man
or Eve one woman. The literal meaning of Adam is "red
earth," hence Adam stands for the first earthly Race of the
Red Ray, red coming first because it is the lowest, most
material vibration of the solar spectrum, the previous
Races being too super-physical to be dassed as earthly.
But with the first glimpse of the mysterious Orange Planet
back of the Moon2 the Orange Ray has begun to mingle
with the Red Ray and have its influence as the forces of the
New Age overlap those of the former.
On the descending arc which enters dense physical con-
ditions, as the feminine attributes were separated from the
3Scc Page 53 herein.
78 The Message of Aquaria
masculine, it might be said that woman was born from "man."
But today humanity, as a whole, has passed the lowest and
densest point and is on the upward arc into more ethereal
and spiritual conditions, has, indeed, already reached the
point on a level with and correponding to the point on the
descending arc at which the sexes separated. Hence, accord-
ing to the laws of cycles and correspondence, there must be
conditions which correspond to those of the former cycle,
but in a higher form. Therefore we may now expect a more
spiritual separation or birth of the sexes preparatory to a
subsequent unification when the conditions of Earth are so
changed that mankind, as a whole, manifests in ethereal
conditions instead of physical. Thus, once more will woman
be born from man, but now upon the mental plane.
Adam, or the Real or Divine Self, will once more give up a
"rib" or a part of the framework of his mental body and out
of it will be fashioned once more a help-meet for him. In
other words, during the past ages of the world it has been
man who has built up the mental conceptions and ideals which
have influenced, moved and controlled the business and so-
cial fabric of society, while woman has had her place in the
intellectual and spiritual background, hidden within the
body of man, so to speak, altho always an important up--
holder of the structure of the man-made society. But in
this coming Woman's Age, which is now dawning, she will
take her place as a co-equal part of the framework of human
society, no longer merely a rib in a man's world, but having
ribs and a complete independent structure of her own,
which shall henceforth work as a co-equal with man in
bringing forth the new conditions of humanity.
It is not good for man to be alone, for he has proved
his inability, while working alone and dominating, to use
the feminine Principle, either within himself or in the Race,
for the best good of all mankind. Today there is once more
sent out from the Lodge of Masters the thought received
by them from the Elohimthe assembled gods of all worlds
The Birth of the New Age 79
and systems"It is not good for man to be alone." Once
more there is a fresh and greater outpouring upon human-
ity of the Mother-force from the jar of the Water Bearer
(Aquarius), who falls on his knees to pour out the Water
which shall enlarge and deepen the channel of its inanifes-
tation in manidud as does a freshet in the springtime.
The feminine aspect of creation is sweeping the Earth.
Even in the most materialistic quarters we find women wak-
ing up to the thought that they have something more to do
in the affairs of the world than heretofore. This in reality
is the result of a current of force deliberately sent forth
into the world from on high, and only as it is able really
to manifest and not only the women of the land wake
up to their great possibilities, but also the womanhood of the
Race or the feminine qualities in both men and women
the love, intuition, sympathy and compassion that can bring
forth, even in mancan humanity as a whole receive its
New Birth.
There is hovering over the Race a desire to bring forth
something greater; new conditions of physical and spiritual
life; new conceptions of brotherhood; new realizations of
the oneness of all flesh. No longer do men ask, "Am I my
brother's keeper?" They are beginning to find out that all
mankind are brothers and are each other's keepers; for that
which hurts one hurts all; that which benefits one benefits
all, as was clearly shown in the recent World War. The old
false conception was but the separating of the mother-love
from the masculine-intellect; from the conception that each
man must be a law unto himself and create for himself ma-
terial wealth and comforts and strive selfishly to enjoy them
alone.
All this is being conceived and born of the new great out-
pouring of the Divine Mother-force. Even those women
who are seeking political changes and political recognition,
altho sometimes in misguided ways, are nevertheless obey-
80 The Message of Aquaria
ing the feminine life-wave of the period. But to those who
can hear and understand there comes a higher message,
the message of the Great Mother, namely, that there must
soon be born the coming manifestation of the Christ, the
Avatar. Like all Christs, He must be born, not of one
woman through the gate of physical birthfor humanity
has passed beyond the point where this is necessarybut
He must be born from the outpourings of feminine force
from both man and woman, thus setting the example and
becoming the pattern for the type of birth which will ulti-
mately be reached by humanity as a whole. That is, it can
only be through the deep abiding love, sympathy, under-
standing and intuition, together with the will, faith and
eagerness to prepare a place in the heart and give of the
life and of the devotion of the heart and mind, that such a
divine outpouring can be focused and made to manifest
in an embodiment on Earth.
This preparation must not be to save ourselves or from
any selfish desire that we may be recognized and placed in
high position where we can exult over or dominate our
fellowmen, but must be made because of an overwhelming
and unselfish desire that new Light, comfort and spiritual
help may be given humanity; that new conditions may mani-
fest; that a force of Divine Love great enough to uplift
poor, suffering humanity may manifest on Earth. This is
the expression of the real mother-love of the Woman's Age,
and while woman must be its focus and bear the greater
part in the preparation, yet man must also share in this great
work and lend his positive qualities to help establish it upon
Earth; for only of such combined qualities can a mighty
matrix or Divine Womb of pure spiritual love-force be
created into which the Divine One can descend and mate-
rialize upon Earth, even as He has already descended and
manifested in the higher realms and in the hearts of His
faithful followers.
This means far more than the mere bringing into the
The Birth of the New Age 81
Earth's atmosphere of a Great Teacher, for many a Great
Teacher has come before and given his message, only to be
stoned or crucified and his message either misinterpreted or
ignored. All the outpourings of Divine Love and Wisdom
which the Great Teachers of previous ages have sent to this
dark star have been greatly limited and modified by the
dense material conditions which then obtained. But it can-
not be too strongly emphasized that the Earth and her in-
habitants are passing out of her most dense conditions of
limitation; are dying to the old and being swept and gar-
nished; in fact, are today passing through the terrible throes
of the birth of a new cyde of manifestation. Hence, every
earnest heart who longs for better conditions of any and
every kind has a great work to do, namely, to see to it that
the united forces of man's and woman's virgin love-nature
be so expressed and given forth that the coming Divine
One shall be indeed born of woman, the Divine Motherhood
of the Race, which also indudes the love-nature of man.
In the text which heads this chapter this Great Teacher
or Avatar is called the Son of Man who is born of a virgin
(meaning pure), or of the feminine aspect of humanity,
and hence will be able to manifest the Christ-power in the
proportion that man has been able to conceive of and pre-
pare for it, and will therefore become the flower and fruit
of humanity. Each Avatar comes as a new outpouring of
the universal, Cosmic Christ-force and in Him is expressed
all of the highest conceptions of the race thought, together
with a foreshadowing of that to which it can attain. And,
like Mary of old, the women of today are crying, "How
can I bring forth this New Age, 'seeing I know not a man?"
that is, without man's co-operation. But the answer is the
same today as of old: "The Holy Ghost shall come upon
thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee;
therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee
shall be called the Son of God."
82 The Message of Aquaria
Hence, an Avatar is always the Son, or more correctly the
Sun, of man. He comes not in physical clouds, but in the
mists of glory which can be penetrated only by the eye of
spiritual discernment, i. e., His teachings will be so far above
the full comprehension of the masses of the immediate time
that the humanity of all the following cycle will find new
truths hidden in the letter of His words, while even the sur-
face and obvious meaning will be comforting, helpful and
inspiring to the masses.
This Great Teacher will not come to any one school of
philosophy, sect, society, order or church, but to manldnd;
for He must be born of the combined Mother-love and Will
of humanity Hence, only those who give of their love, will.
devotion and intuition will know Him when He comes; for
they will be aflinitized to the divine force which He mani-
fests and will know Him as a mother knows her child.
It is not a matter of the Race, society or church to which
we belong, for if we have manifested this mother-force and
are pouring it forth we are one of His own. But there will
be, indeed there is now taking place, a selection, a gathering
together from the Four Winds, not according to the organ-
ization to which we belong, but according to how much of
the true mother-force, i. e., how much real love and devo-
tion, we are giving to make this divine birth possible.
He shall shine from the East even 'into the West, like
the rising Sun. By the East is meant not a geographical
point, but a point in the racial heart of humanity, the point
of conception or the birthplace of the Buddhic or Christ-
consciousness. By the West is meant the place of reaping,
the complete understanding of all that the cycle was to bring
forth. "Every eye shall behold Him," but only the eye of
Spirit shall recognize Him. We are especially warned
against those who proclaim themselves to be the coming
Teacher or who permit others so to proclaim them. "Take
heed that no man deceive you. For many shall come in my
name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many
The Birth of the New Age 83
For there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, and
shall shew great signs and wonders. . . . bdieve it not."
Remember an Avatar i not a mortal born of physical woman,
but a phenomenal manifestation of a Divine Being.
To those who are ready, even if but a few; to those whose
hearts are open, who can conceive even vaguely of this great
truth, comes this message: According to your heart's desire,
so shall it be. We speak to you as to the mothers of the
Ra. Be ye men or women, it is to the mother-force that
we appeal. Awaken, ye mothers of Israel! Let it not be
said as of old that the voice of Rachel is heard in the land
mourning for her children and cannot be comforted, for
they are not. Determine that the children of your love and
eager desire shall be brought forth and they will be. The
birth pangs both you and the Earth are now suffering. But
if you understand and know that the time is at hand for
the birth of the New Age and its Great Teacher, you will
hold fast and patiently bear your sorrows and tribulations,
knowing you are bearing them for the world. This is not
a time to weep, not even to mourn. It is a time to focus all
your attention on the great truth that humanity shall bring
forth a Child and shall call His name Emanuel, "God with
us." And He shall dwell with us forever more. Amen.
CHAPTER VII
JACOB AND ESAU
"And the Lord said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two
manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; .. . behold,
there were twins in her womb. And the first caine out red, all over
like an hairy garment; and they called his name Esau. And after
that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esau's heel; and
his name was called Jacob."Genesic, xxv, 23-26.
As we enter into this Aquarian Age we hear, as with a
trumpet blast, the angelic hosts proclaim- "The days of
judgment are upon you, 0 Earth; the days when the mills
of the gods which for ages have ground out the meal of life
so slowly yet surely, begin to revolve with greater speed,
and the chaff and dust fly in more stuffing clouds. The grain
is ripe. The grinding has begun. Already the angds who
are the reapers are gathering the meal into the storehouse of
the ages."
It is being proclaimed on every hand that the New Age
is upon us; that the New Race is being born, the New
Humanity; that the New Day has dawned, the New Dis-
pensation. Much of this is the echo of a divine truth pro-
claimed from on high, written in the stars. But much of it,
like echoes ringing from an overhanging rock, but repeats
the last word uttered and gives us no connected sentences
and conveys no consecutive thought.
All the great events in the life of the planet, the Race
and the individual are brought about by the turning of the
mighty Wheel of Time, each revolution marking a new day
or New Age, which is as definite as the day of twelve hours
brought about by the turning of the Earth upon its axis,
g4
Jacob and Esau 85
or as definite as the summer that follows the winter. Hence,
if we would know more than an echoed word of what this
new turn of the Great Wheel may bring us, we must consider
the ushering in of past ages. The baker who would know
how to bake his loaf today must consider the loaf of yester-
day and put into the new loaf the same measure of meal
and of shortening and of leaven. But today he may have
new and more advanced ways of baking it. Instead of a
rude oven of clay he may have a fully equipped electric
oven; instead of kneading it with his hands, he may have an
efficiently designed machine which kneads the dough and
fashions the loaves.
So is it with the New Age. It is well to heed the past,
yet not to live in it and say that that which has been is all
that ever can be, but intelligently reason from underlying
principles which are the same yesterday, today and forever,
altho they find ever greater facilities for more perfect ex-
pression as evolution advances. The Tree of Life grows
from age to age and puts forth fresh branches and leaves
and fruit perhaps undreamed of when it was but a sapling;
nevertheless, it grows always from the everlasting Root, and
but expresses that which was present aitho unmanifested
within the seed. And ever is it the same fundamental pro-
cess of Nature which puts forth its new expressions.
Among the wonderful symbolic allegories of the Bible
that presentation of the Wisdom Religion most familiar to
the Western Worldwe find in the story of Jacob an accu-
rate description of the beginning of a New Age. Jacob
the meaning of whose name is "the supplanter"passes
through the various steps of Initiation which lead him from
his early mistakes up to final Mastery.
Jacob was one of twins. Esau, his elder brother, is rep-
resented as a mighty hunter, and is described as red and
hairy. He symbolizes the personal or animal self, while
Jacob, born afterward and holding to his brother's heel, is
the Real Self which is to be embodied in the flesh. but which
86 The Message of Aquaria
does not come into full contact with the lower animal man
until the personality reaches a certain stage of unfoldment,
hence, may be said to hold to his heelthe point of contact
with the Earthwhile in the cosmic cycle Jacob represents
the Aquarian Age. Despite Esau being the first-born, it is
Jacob who obtains his birthright, as the Higher Self must
ever do, aitho it is obtained by what at first might be called
trickery; for the Higher Self is destined to take the leading
place, inherit the birthright and dominate the lower self.
And altho Jacob again supplanted his brother in obtaining
the blessing intended for Esau, which concluded with the
words everlastingly true when applied to the Higher Self:
"Cursed be everyone that curseth thee; and blessed be he
that blesseth thee," nevertheless Esau received an appro-
priate blessing, namely, "Thy dwelling shall be the fatness
of the earth," i.e., the lower self is blessed with physical
health and the ability to supply his animal needs in abun-
dance, and is happy and contented only as he serves his
brother, the Higher Self. Hence, only as the Higher Self
takes precedence, can the lower self obtain the blessing, yet
because of this the animal self often rebels and resists and
seeks to pull down and slay the Higher Self.
We next find Jacob taking stones from the wayside to
make a pillow on which to rest his head for the night while
on the Great Journey. Here he had the wonderful dream
of the ladder set up on Earth yet reaching into heaven, with
angels ascending and descending. "And, behold, the Lord
stood above it." Thus is the Real Self awakened and its
mission foreshadowed. And especially will the comforting
assurance, "I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places
whither thou goest," awaken an answering thrill in the heart
of each one who really seeks to let the Real Self manifest.
For this promise is given to Jacob not as one man, but to
the one whom he symbolizes, the Man Who Conquers and
becomes one with his Father-in-heaven. i.e.. the Aquarian
Jacob and Esau 87
Man. But like all visions, Jacob's vision simply pointed out
that which could be accomplished.
After this we find Jacob recognizing in Rachel his divine
counterpart or complement and feminine aspectlove and
intuition. But after serving for her seven yearsa cycle of
perfectionhe finds that he has gained only Leah, not the
real inner, Soul-love or the Voice of Intuition speaking to
him independently from within or Soul illumination, but a
substitute or the voice of authority, the dictum of others in-
stead of the divine knowing of one who has made the corre-
lation within. This often happens. How ardently many
sincere students serve through a long cycle of perfection
only to find that they are wedded to Lcah, and even bring
forth children by her, that is, many advanced students have
gained a certain intellectual understanding of the Wisdom
Religion, yet dogmatically insist upon the interpretation of
all Truth exactly as former students have expressed it.
Such students accept nothing that has not already been said
in some occult book which they consider authoritative. And
because they refuse to listen to the Voice of Intuition, which
would give them a more direct meaning or personal applica-
tion, the voice of Rachel cannot speak and so they find they
must still serve another perfect cycle ere the real inner Voice
can speak.
We also find Jacob giving of his flocks and herds to Esau.
These herds, as we have explained elsewhere,1 represent
our thoughts, desires and feelings which we must watch over
and guard. Yet, when Jacob, the Higher Self, sends them
to Esau the personality, they represent great wealth, the
gifts of the Higher Self. Moreover, they are sent to Esau
across- the river Jordan, that invisible river of force2
which separates the outer physical life from the inner and
invisible life. Jacob also says, "With my staff I crossed over
Jordan," i.e., the staff is the power of the One Life which
iSee The Vows of Isr, Curtiss, 315.
2 see Realms of the Livuig Dead. Curtiss. 27.
88 The Message of Aquaria
enables the Higher Self to pass over Jordan and not only
incarnate in the flesh, but ever to pass back and forth to
guide, train and enrich the lower personality until Mastery
is reached and the two become one as Israel. Thus must
the Higher Self ever help and bless the lower, for only as
this mission is fulfilled is Jacob met by the Angel, with whom
he wrestles until he obtains the blessing. All alone in the
darkness of the night he wrestled until break of day and re-
fused to let the Angel go until he blessed him, even tho his
hip was put out of joint. This symbolizes the final Initia-
tion; for the Angel told him: "Thy name shall no more be
called Jacob (supplanter), but Israel (power of God), for
as a prince hast thou power with God, and with men, and
hast prevailed."
As Israelmeaning soldier, champion or Power of God
Jacob summons to his deathbed his twelve sons who are
to succeed him. He blesses them and prophetically assigns
to each his place and work in the age then dawning. Sym-
bolically the twelve sons of Jacob, the twelve disciples of
Jesus and the twelve months in the cycle of the year refer
to the twelve signs of the zodiac, which rule the several
months, sons and disciples.3 At the beginning of each
Age these twelve sons become the sons of "the man who
has prevailed" and are blessed by him and sent forth. Jesus
also called his twelve together and blessed them and gave
to each his work. When we attain this point in our indi-
vidual ongoing, we are no longer ruled by the signs, but are
able to bless them and direct and guide their forces toward
the fulfillment of the Divine Law.
Thus the true Aquarian becomes a worker with the Law.
Hence, the perfected man who, like Jacob, has "prevailed
with God," is one who has attained to the great understand-
ing of what the forces of the universe are evolving; who
can see all life as a mighty ladder up which the Angel in
man is ascending rung by rung, step by step, back to his
S See The Key of Desiju,. Curtis.. Chapter. v and i.
Jacob and Esau 89
divine estate, and down which the divine helpers descend to
man with their blessings and their power. In the course of
its spiritual unfoldment every Soulwhile sincerely trust-
ing to or resting upon the stones of traditional truth taught
in his religion, yet realizing their hardness and incomplete-
nesswill surely receive the vision of the Ladder of God or
the positive realization of the actuality of the angels and
their power to ascend and descend. He can thus see that
all things must ultimately help bring to birth the Divine
Seed hidden within, no matter how dark or vile the inter-
vening stages of unfoldment may seem to be or how great
the suffering the birth pangs cause.
The twelve tribes of Israel are, therefore, the twelve
aspects of the "Power of God" which are sent forth to ac-
complish their ultimate work in evolution in each Age; the
Power which draws upward all things that are down and
assists all things that are in the heavens to descend into
manifestations on Earth in glory. The physical manifesta-
tion and embodiment of this Power is the physical Sun, but
its human embodiment is the awakened Soul who can grasp
the end from the beginning and consciously work on with
that end in view.3
At the beginning of this new Aquarian Age this great
Power is once more calling together its twelve sons that
they may be blessed and be assigned their work. As it is
written, "And then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man
in heaven. . . . And he shall send his angels (mes-
sengers) with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall
gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end
of heaven to the other."4 This gathering is now taldng
place and, as we have explained elsewhere5 the four
winds are the creative cosmic currents of force focused in
and emanating from the four signs at the corners of the
fixed cross of the zodiac.
4 Se. Matthew, xxiv, 30.1.
5 Chapter X herein; al,o The Key So the Uaivevze, Curtiu. 143.6.
90 The Message of Aquaria
The first of the four is Aquarius the Man, the source
from which comes the outpouring of the Water of Life or
the great Mother-force contained in the ewer carried by the
Water-bearer, symbolizing the Womb of Time, of Nature
and of man. For into this ewer-man throughout the ages
has been pouring the true Mother-force developed in him
as a result of his experience, suffering and efforts toward
overcoming; that force which alone can make of man Super-
man and make the Earth truly bring forth her increase as
foreordained in the Grand Plan.
From the opposite end of the cross the force generated
by Leo the Lion is both great strength and abiding love,
while from the point crowned by Scorpio the Eagle, comes
the force of sex regenerated and lifted up. While the power
of the scorpion is that which "biteth the horse's heels, so
that his rider shall fall backward," yet when the fullness of
the Aquarian Age shall dawn it shall be lifted up to become
the poise and the power of the Eagle to soar undaunted into
the higher realms, into the very eye of the Sun. At the other
end of the cross stands Taurus the Ox with the mighty
strength to labor and endure, unfaltering patience and end-
less perseverance.
These four fixed signs therefore represent what the Sign
of the Son of Man in heaven must accomplish during its Age
or cycle of over two thousand years. It is quite likely that
crc this Age has progressed far we will find the influence
of these signs expressing their higher aspects instead of their
more material, and finding expression through various lead-
ers or "men who have prevailed with God." For the New
Age could not be ushered in or manifest in all its phases if
all twelve sons or tribes were not represented, for it is
through them, together with the influence of their corre-
sponding zodiacal signs on the children born under those
signs, that those forces must find expression in humanity.
Today, each of the twelve tribes has heard the command
of the Great Law: Go forth and gather out of thy tribe the
Children of the Lord (those who have fulfilled the Law).
Jacob and Esau 91
who have not bowed the knee to Baal and who have not
received the mark of the Beast in their foreheads nor in their
bands! Not only are all the nations of the world standing
today before the judgment seat of the ages, but each nation,
nay ,each individual, must consciously or unconsciously re-
spond to the force that is today drawing them to the center
of all Being. And in that drawing each is passing through
a mighty testing. The seal placed by the angel on the fore-
heads of the chosen ones is the Light of Understanding
which shines from the eyes of everyone who has found his
or her true place and tribe.
We are told there were twelve thousand sealed out of every
tribe. This, of course, being but symbolic, means those who
have gathered sufficient experiences from all twelve signs of
the zodiac to enable them to recognize their tribe and the
banner of its leader.6 This also shows unmistakably that
no one tribe has an advantage over another. Yet this fact
must not be taken for a right to remain unattached to any
tribe and to say: "Since there is good in all, I can go from
one to another without giving allegiance to any particular
one." For only those who uphold the banner of their tribe
and march forward into the New Age with their leader, are
sealed and counted among the chosen ones, i. e., those who,
having recognized their tribe and given their allegiance to its
banner are sealed or chosen as conscious and intelligent in-
struments to leaven the great mass of humanity. Some day
the banner of our tribe will be presented to each of us, and
we will recognize it with a thrill of joy as we would our
country's flag. We do not have to go into distant lands. We
do not have to go into strange conditions. We have only to
prepare our hearts and minds and be ready to respond when
the banner is seen.
Remember, that while there are many other banners, and
they all stand round about the Sun, the banner which this
Order holds up before you is the banner of the Lion of the
Tribe of Judah, which calls to all whose hearts and minds
6 TI.. Key of Destiny, Curtis,. 46.
92 The Message of Aquaria
and lives respond to the call of the Heart Doctrine as pre-
sented by its Leader, the Teacher of the Order. If you
recognize the call, give it your heart's allegiance and your
support. Make it a vital factor in your life, that you may be
sealed by the Great Ones as one of the Workers for human-
ity in this great New Age under the banner of Judah.
The countries of Europe, each under its own banner, have
been passing through their baptism of blood and their puri-
fication by fire,' and will so continue until their lessons are
learned; for only thus can their sins be washed away and
their chaff and evil weeds consumed. Each country or
nation on Earth is the vehicle for the expression of the
forces of a certain Star which is its Genius, and from that
Star emanate the vibrations which give the country or nation
its peculiar characteristics. And as certain Stars disappear
from our system their nations also disappear. And when
new Stars appear or their forces reach us, new nations arise
which express their forces. Even the banner or flag of a
country is chosen because those who fashion it are impressed
to use the colors and symbols which in some measure express
the vibrations from its Star of Destiny. America must also
lift high her banner and take her place in the purifying fire,
crc her mystical twelve thousand can be chosen and sealed,
since only those who go forth at the call and endure to the
end receive the blessing. For out of this terrible baptism
there shall arise a purified humanity.
As we have said elsewhere: (A banner or national flag
not only symbolically embodies the highest ideals of the
people over whom it flies, but it also symbolizes the highest
attainment and ultimate perfection of that people. The flag
of the United States of America symbolizes and foreshadows
the greatest possibilities of any flag ever designed. Altho
there are many flags having the same colors, yet in none are
they combined in a like manner. The colors of a flag are
like the letters spelling a word or the notes of music forming
TWrittrn in Mardi. 1917.
Jacob and Esau 93
a melody. Therefore the flag of each nation proclaims that
nation's word and sounds its key-note, hence rallies to it the
elemental powers and forces belonging to its colors and
symbols.
"In our flag the red symbolizes the life-force, the martial
force, its clear bright shade representing all the higher pos-
sibilities of the courage, energy and power of Mars, the
masculine forces of the solar system and in humanity, as
well as the intensity of love that will fight for a principle.
"Also the red of Mars is alternated at equal intervals with
the white of purity, sanity, righteousness, justice and broth-
erhood. This proclaims to the world that we will fight if
we have to, not because we seek to spill our brother's blood,
or for aggrandizement, but for righteousness, justice, free-
dom and liberty, for these must be maintained by the force
of Mars if necessary, else our flag is unbalanced and the
principles for which it stands are betrayed. But we should
continually strive to let the white so blend with the red that
they shall ultimately manifest as the pure rose-pink of
love. It also indicates that war is not the governing spirit,
but is blended and balanced in equal proportion with the
desire for peace honorably won and maintained by the higher
aspects of Mars.
"Blue is the color of the Great Mother-force, the power
which brings forth and which cherishes all that is beautiful
and lovable, as well as those things which the force of Mars
energizes. In other words, it represents the force of Venus
or Divine Mother-love.
"No other flag has the arrangement of these two colors
as found in our flag. Others have the blue, but not in one
great mass like a sea of color on which the five-pointed stars
are arranged side by side in harmonious color.
"And because the white and the red are co-equal, our vic-
tories must be won as much by the powers of the white as
those of the red. If there were a large field of white it would
tend to symbolize peace at any price, but since it is equally
94 The Message of Aquaria
balanced by the red, it symbolizes peace, but peace attained
and maintained if necessary by a righteous warfare.
"Since the five-pointed star symbolizes man,' the white
stars, i. e., the purified men and women, set in their field
of blue, symbolize the gathering together of all humanity
into the lap of the Great Mother. They stand for the united
brotherhood which holds out its arms to all manldnd to
come and become one of US. And if they come in love and
harmony and are willing to rest in the lap of their adopted
mother, each in his proper place and ready to obey her
decrees, laws and requirements, they are welcome. But if
they cannot take their places thus on the field of blue, the
flag has no other place for them.
"In its emblem this country thus proclaims to the world
that it has conceived and set before its children the high
ideal and glorious opportunity of becoming the leader in
liberty and freedom in that it offers freely a home for all
God's children, a country in which to found the New
Humanity. The responsibility is great. Will we as a
nation live up to it?
"Each one of us should be glad that we have a flag with
such a wonderful meaning, and each should study its higher,
esoteric symbology; for it enables each one to say, I belong
toanewcountiyandanewpeople. Iwilidoalllcanto
make this country and this people all that our flag symbol-
izes. I will do my duty in all ways to keep the flag waving
over this country, and also over the whole world in the sense
of upholding the highest ideals of freedom, justice, right-
eousness and thood.'
There are many other nations which are bearing high their
banners and passing through their testings. Therefore, we
should not give too great heed when we hear it stated that
America has been hosen to be the seat of the new sub-race,
or that any special location in the United States has been
chosen for its center. All nations and countries are in the
'Sec The Key to Me Uaiverze, Curtis,. 181.
From The Philoopky of War, Curtis,, 59-62.
Jacob and Esau 95
melting pot, and the one whose people come forth most fitted
will be the one chosen, aitho America has a natural advan-
tage as the new continent and the youngest people and is
being peopled by many reincarnated Atlanteans who took
part in a similar period at the beginning of their sixth sub-
race.
Neither should we be supercilious if some person or society
should say to us that the Great Teacher is coming to their
particular society, and make it the head of the new civiliza-
tion. Instead say: "Welcome, brother. All shall find their
Leader and their exact place in the New Civilization, be it
head or heart, hands or feet, according as they show their
fitness during these years of testing. We recognize that
each division of the great Army of the Lord must march,
as did the Children of Israel, under its own banner, and that
it requires all the twelve banners to lead the hosts through
the fiery trials, battles and victories of the wilderness on
into the Promised Land. Hence each must march in the
company or tribe at whose head his banner flies, and greet
as comrades those who march under all the other banners."
The New Age will have twelve leaders and twelve seats,
all in their true place around the Sun. Only when each of
the twelve has lifted up its banner and has reflected the rays
of Divine Truth so brightly that all who belong under that
banner will gather together and learn from the Leader of
their tribe the golden precepts of understanding of the great
Ladder of Life (evolution); only when each has taken the
very stones in his path, i. e., the hard hearts, the misunder-
standings and cruelties of life, and out of them has built a
cairn of sacred memory, consecrated to the God of Gods,
so that the twelve cairns shall complete the circle; only as
each learns that co-operation and brotherhood mean each
Soul worshiping with his whole heart and giving of his life
and substance in his own place and under his own banner,
all singing together a paean of praise and adoration to the
one Central Sun, can the Great Teacher descend outwardly
among men.
96 The Message of Aquaria
This is an allegorical picture of the conditions which must
prevail ere the Great One comes to make His dwelling openly
among men, aitho He will appear to and give forth His
teachings through His chosen disciples (the twelve Leaders)
long before manldnd as a whole is ready to receive Him.
Then will He gather His own out of all the tribes, not to
make of them a new sect, but to help each one the more per-
fectly to be true to the inner, divine truth as it has been
revealed to him under the banner of his tribe. And out of
all will be gathered those who can stand around His throne,
even as the twelve signs of the zodiac stand around the Sun,
each receiving the one pure Light and Teaching direct from
the One Source, yet each pouring it out for the world in
terms and phraseology which will appeal to and be under-
stood by the minds attuned to that tribe or Ray of Truth:
for if all men were intended to think alike there would be no
need of the twelve tribes or of the twelve signs of the zodiac
into which the Sun pours his rays that they may be broken
up and express his Light and Life and Love (warmth) in
diverse manners. "As above, so below." As we find it
expressed in the physical universe, so will we find it in the
spiritual fulfillment; for one Law rules the world, and the
entire universe is an exoression of that one Law.
CHAPTER VIII
MASTERY AND THE MASTERS OF
WISDOM'
uThe Masters of Wisdom are Great Souls, who, through repeated
experiences and determined efforts through many Earth lives, have oh-
taiiied Mastery, firstly, over the passions, appetites and desires of the
personal self; and, secondly, over the forces of their bodies and over
the life-currents of the Cosmos. Hence they have become one with
the Fount of all Wisdom..... Jesus was such a Master, in fact, was
and u a Master of Masters."Letters from the Teacher, Curtiss, 63.
The words Mastery and "the Master" hold for each Soul
who is ardently striving to make definite progress upon the
Path of Attainment such a mighty potency and power that
it is important that a fuller understanding of just what is
meant and implied should be given, that through ignorance
none shall stumble and fall or take steps which they must
later retrace in sorrow and suffering.
Mastery is not a sudden attainment, nor a gift bestowed
upon certain especially favored ones. Neither are the Mas-
ters of Wisdom afar off, hopelessly separated from the
mass of humanity and only to be contacted after long and
wearisome search, bitter struggle and failure, alone and
without guidance or help. Nor are they Beings who calmly
watch our trials and temptations from afar, unmoved by
our struggles and untouched by our tears or cries for help
and our efforts to find a solution to the perplexing and trying
problems of every-day life. They are our big, grown-up
or Elder Brothers and Sisters; for there are many feminine
Souls who have reached Mastery. But because of the dense
and inharmonious conditions on Earth during the past ages
'Abatract of an address made by Dr. and Mn. P homer Curtu, at the
Annual Convention of The Order of Christian Mystics, July 9, 1917.
97
98 The Message of Aquaria
the Great White Lodge of Masters decreed that until the
Aquarian Age was well established, only masculine Masters
would be sent to work in Earth conditions; for the mascu-
line Souls are positive or active on Earth where the feminine
are negative or passive. The feminine Souls are positive in
the higher worlds, hence accomplish their work best from
the higher realms.
Mastery is attained in accordance with the Law of Growth
which we see manifesting in all the kingdoms below us. It
is attained as a result of overcoming every obstacle as it is
presented, neither denying nor shirking a condition, but
resolutely facing it, learning its lesson and conquering it,
thus leading to the unfolding and manifesting of the per-
fected being, the ideal pattern of which has been sent down
by the Higher Self to be manifested in this world of matter
that the will of the Fatherthe attainment of perfection in
manifestationmay be done on Earth in a dense physical
body, even as it is already done in heaven or the Soul-realm
from which we have descended to complete this lowest arc
of our cycle of expression ere we can return to our Father's
home in a spiritual body.
Many have asked, who are the Masters, and where are
they? Why do they not appear to us and speak to us and
teach us here in America? Others have said, We do not
wish to meet a Master in the flesh, for the racial appearance
and habits of his personality might be a great disappointment,
and if he had not mastered all the traits and conditions which
we considered necessary we might be completely disillu-
sioned. We prefer to contemplate our ideal and commune
only with the Higher Self or at least with the disembodied
consciousness of the physical Masters.
There is indeed a Lodge of Masters, organized as we have
described elsewhere,2 with many members of its lower orders
still mortals, living in their physical bodies and still subject
to the laws of the physical plane, also to many of its limita-
2 The Voic, of Ins. Curtiss. 187.
Mastery and the Masters of Wisdom 99
tions. These physical Masters are of various degrees of
attainment. They are of many groups and have many schools
in various parts of the world, often in mountain retreats
difficult of access. They have mastered many wonderful
secrets of Nature and the universe; have developed great
psychological and magical powers; have attained great learn-
ing and wisdom. They could teach us many wonderful
things, help us to unfold mental and psychic powers, but
they could not confer upon us any power which had not
already begun its development within us, nor could they
develop it before we had reached a suitable stage of unfold-
ment
They might know of us psychicly and might help and
encourage us if we were sufficiently developed to commune
with them, but to know them in the flesh we would have
to find out just where their monastery or retreat was located,
have some kind of an introduction to them, etc. And being
still mortals and having attained their degree of mastery
through certain schools of thought, religion and philosophy,
they still retain a certain imprint of those schools and natur-
ally think that the methods by which they reached their
attainment are the best for those to pursue who seek their
aid.
"Every class of Adepts has its own bond of spiritual
communion which knits them together.... The only
possible and effectual way of entering into such brother-
hood. . . is by bringing one's self within the influence
of the Spiritual Light which radiates from one's own
Logos. I may further point out here... that such
communion is only possible between persons whose souls
derive their life and sustenance from the same divine Ray,
and that, as seven distinct Rays radiate from the 'Central
Spiritual Sun,' all Adepts and Dhyan Chohans are divisible
into seven classes, each of which is guided, controlled, and
overshadowed by one of the seven forms or manifestations
of the Divine Wisdom."
* The Secret Doctynie. Blavatskv. i. 62S.
100 The Message of Aquaria
There are, therefore, far higher orders of Masters than
those mortals now on Earth who have entered the lower
degrees, wonderful as their attainments may be. There are
Masters so high, so pure, so spiritual and divine that they
no longer dwell on Earth. And it is the Masters of this
invisible Lodge, not in the astral but in the higher spiritual
realms, who have put forth The Order of Christian Mystics,
and from whom its Teachings come. This Order is put for-
ward from an entirely new standpoint. Its students are not
asked to go to some far distant land or to seek entrance to
some ancient monastery where they may be told that to do
without all comforts, conveniences and sanitary arrange-
ments and to live on coarse and frugal fare, will free their
minds from attachment to physical things. For the Western
type of mind to try to adapt itself to such a radical change
of habits and environment, instead of bringing quiet, ease
and freedom of mind, it would require years of training of
body and mind to accustom itself and become indifferent to
the discomforts and rigid discipline of such a life.
If the mind of the average American aspirant is to be
trained for spiritual things, to become quiet, free from dis-
turbances and able to develop its higher faculties and com-
mune with the highest, this can be more quicidy and success-
fully accomplished if he is given a quiet, comfortable and
orderly home life in which the comforts to which he has
been accustomed are neither luxuries nor temptations; they
are taken as a matter of course and are not given a second
thought, whereas their absence would cause great diversion
of mind. In such a home life he would be subject not to the
dictates of Abbot, Priest or Master; nor to the rigid dis.
cipline of a monastery, but to the discipline of "living the
life" of aspiration and devotion in the midst of the world's
affairs, being "in the world, but not of it" and subject only
to the dictates of his own divine Higher Self.
The two systems of development differ because of a
difference in racial thought and habits of life. In the East
from childhood students have been accustomed to give obedi-
Mastery and the Masters of Wisdom 101
ence to some one in authority over them, but in America the
whole attitude of mind is one of freedom and independence.
Therefore the Masters back of this Order set before its
students not rigid outer observances, discipline and physical
requirements, but give them an understanding of the basic
principles and laws of manifested life and let each student
discipline himself as may be necessary to live in accord with
those principles and laws, under the guidance of his Higher
Self, each one progressing according to the effort he makes
toward self mastery.
The principle of Mastery or overcoming is as inevitable in
its working and results as the Law of Growth. Following
the Law of Growth, which is the assimilation of the food
(or experience) in the conditions surrounding it, the seed
overcomes and masters every obstade in its path until it at
last unfolds into the perfect flower whose ideal pattern was
implanted in the seed. Man's physical body, under the guid-
ance of his animal soul, also demonstrates to a wonderful
degree this same Law of Mastery, for in spite of the many
handicaps of environment, social and dimatic conditions,
etc., which modify the growth and expression, his body
will approximate the fullness of its ideal physical pattern.
It will keep on growing until it reaches a certain size, height
and weight, that is, until it has filled out its astral pattern;
for no man by taking thought can add one cubit to his
stature.
Because man is endowed with free-will, in his mental,
moral and spiritual growth he can refuse to make the effort
necessary to overcome obstacles in his environment, hence
can retard for a long time the ultimate attainment of Mastery.
But some day, be the time ages long, and after many, many
incarnations or here and now, each of us must definitely
determine to become the master of his destiny, even tho that
determination is the result of the suffering brought about
by our refusal to recognize the goal in any other way.
All the years and perhaps incarnations that we have been
102 The Message of Aquaria
playing with life and neglecting our opportunities those
Great Souls whom we call the Masters of Wisdom and Com-
passion have been watching over us and have been aware
of our truancy. And even when in our ignorance or perver-
sity we have turned from them, scorned all inner help and
even denied their existence, they have exerted an influence
on our lives. But they cannot compel us to follow their
guidance, neither can they interfere with our reaping the
results of the causes we set up, for they too must work with
the Law.
The ancient axiom "when the pupil is ready the Teacher
appears" does not mean that the moment we feel a desire to
advance, partly to satisfy curiosity or self-satisfaction and
partly for genuine growth and desire for service, a mys-
terious vision or manifestation of one of the Great Ones
will be vouchsafed to us or that some astral guide will appear
and tell us to do this or that thing and henceforth lead us
like puppets along a smooth path up the Mount of Attain-
ment. Nevertheless the axiom is absolutely true; for the
Master who can best help us, because we bdong to his Ray
and naturally respond to his currents of thought and spir-
itual force, will send us some form of help.
Here it may be noted that many students, especially those
who have recently come out of orthodox conceptions, re-
sent the idea that there can be any Master save Jesus. As
we have explained elsewhere4 Jesus is a Master of Masters,
the "first fruits of them that slept" or those who are not
yet awakened to the mystic Inner Life of the Christ within
and begun to strive for its attainment. The Christ-life which
animates and is the life of all creation fills and finds complete
manifestation through Him. But there are Masters of lesser
degree on every step of the Path, just as there is no break
in evolution between the lower ldngdoms.
Man, who is created to be the Lord of Creation, embodies
all the lower kingdoms within his body, so that we might
a L.tsev: froui glut T,actser, Curtlia, 63 and Gti'it of Myjticiz Curtiu.
chanter 5.
Mastery and the Masters of Wisdom 103
well say that the mineral, the vegetable and the animal es-
sence has become one with man, and because they are incor-
porated in him he has the power to master them. And as
each kingdom has its Ruler or Master, when man has attained
mastery over himself he may be called a Master of Masters
of the lower kingdoms. For each portion of any of the
lower kingdoms that a man masters within himself gives him,
thenceforth, power over all that portion of the kingdom and
it will obey him. For instance, if one has a wolfish trait
within him, when he masters it he will find that he has
gained a power over all wolves. No matter how much of the
Christ-power we are able to express, if there is any animal
trait still unconquered within us this condition will be sensed
by animals of the kingdom to which it belongs and they will
not obey us. Thus it is that the physically embodied Masters
can dwell in forest or jungle and be on friendly terms with
the fiercest wild animals, even poisonous serpents, for such
Masters have conquered the forces of those kingdoms and
are recognized as Lords of those kingdoms.
Just so Jesus, having become one with the Divine Father
and been incorporated into Him, stands at the apex of the
Christ manifestations, hence can rule or master the expres-
sions of the Christ in all forms below Him. And just as
there are grades in man's mastery over the lower kingdoms
some who have mastered the earth and can make it produce
abundantly; some who have mastered the air and can use
and navigate it; some who have mastered the water and
turned it to man's use, and some who have mastered fire
in its subtler expressions, such as electricity, etc.,so there
must be many degrees of expressions of the Christ, each
Master who attains to the mastery of any one manifesta-
tion turning it to the use and upliftment of all, and especially
to those who need that particular phase of help.
The help which a Master gives, however, may seem to
be quite a natural and commonplace happening, far from the
phenomenal or miraculous. For instance, perhaps we will
104 The Message of Aquaria
meet some person whose words will be used as the channel
to give us just the mental and spiritual idea which at that
time is needed to take us the next step onward. Or we may
hear a lecture in which the word spoken touches and awakens
within us the mystic chord whose vibrations open to us that
inner chamber of the heart where we find that which we
were seeldng. Or perhaps we may find our help in a book
which has been called to our attention and there find our
answer, or we may be drawn into some society, order or other
expression of thought which is helpful and enlightening for
that stage of our growth. But whatever way it comes, if we
but follow the leading and recognize in it the workings of the
Law of Growth, we will have taken at least one step toward
the final attainment of Mastery.
Mastery means firstly mastering the little things in our
daily lives, our wrong ways of thinking, our wrong ways of
speaking, acting and living. We are thus led to master our
little inharmonies, our temper, jealousy, pretense and foolish
chatter. And everything we master carries us one step
onward until finally we find ourselves standing close to the
Masters, because we are attaining to their stature and do-.
ing their work. The master of a trade or craft, while he
may be cognizant of and supervise the first awkward efforts
of an apprentice, does not work beside him. But when the
apprentice has mastered the main features of his trade and
is ready for the intricacies which only the master of the craft
can teach him he will then come under the master's personal
supervision. So is it with our spiritual apprenticeship.
For the Law of Mastery is the same above as it is below.
The Great Souls whom we call the Masters of Wisdom
have reached their high estate of spiritual development by
taking one step at a time, mastering one thing after the other.
But remember that we have the same power of Mastery
latent within us awaiting development and use, namely, the
power of the Christ, and we have the same forces to work
with and also to contend against. But it is easier for us
Mastery and the Masters of Wisdom 105
in these days to tread the Path to Mastery than it was for
them, firstly, because they have gone on ahead. Everyone
traveling this Path has helped to make it just that much
easier for those who come after, just as every auto which
passes over a rough road wears it down and helps to make it
smoother and easier. Those who have attained Mastery
have left a trail of glory behind which those who follow can
see as plainly as the children of Israel could see the pillar
of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night.
Secondly, in these days there are many more phases of spir-
itual teaching given out by those whom the Masters inspire to
become their servants and helpers and the guides and leaders
of their fdllowmen. And the ratio of such help is increasing
continually. For example, every student who grasps these
Teachings and incorporates them in his life becomes a helper
to others ignorant of or less familiar with them than himself.
Every such a one is thus utilized by the Masters to spread
their Teachings. While the many differing phases of teach-
ing may seem confusing to the beginner, yet the diversity
helps greatly to develop his intuition; teaches him to think, to
weigh, ponder and discriminate and to follow his guidance
from within. Moreover it must be remembered that each
one who is sincerely giving out teachings to help mankind
is expressing them according to his type of mind and stage
of spiritual unfoldment. And since all men belong to the
seven basic types symbolized by "the seven churches which
are in Asia," each expression of truth will help the many
who belong to the same type or who are approaching a
similar stage of unfoldment.
Since the Masters have reached the heights of their at-
tainment by facing and conquering the little things of life as
they caine, we must not imagine that to reach perfection we
are to discard or neglect our daily duties, disturb our family
life, upset our home and make others uncomfortable, thus
creating a gulf between us and our friends and family, often
embittering them and turning them against all higher and
106 The Message of Aquaria
advanced teachings. Neither are we to make ourselves
peculiar or become recluses and refuse to play our part in
our environment. Such ideas are the remnants of the mis-
conceptions and wrong teachings of the Dark Ages both in
Europe and the Far East.
The thing to be remembered is that Mastery is to be at-
tained right in the environment where the Great Law has
placed us. For until we can master those conditions or the
Great Law takes us elsewhere or removes them from us,
we are not ready for others. We may turn away, seek some
other life and endeavor to escape them, but only to find the
same problems confronting us in another form. But we
should also remember that each thing we master we are
through with and hence are free to go on to other lessons.
And if the old problems do appear under different aspects
to test us, we have gained the power to recognize and master
them.
Aitho we must face and conquer conditions for ourselves,
since no one can do this for us, still we are never left to
struggle on alone, are never without help and helpers; for
the force of those who have mastered similar conditions
forms a reservoir of power upon which we can draw to con-
quer these particular conditions, if we will but correlate with
it, even tho many of the modern problems are peculiar to
this age. But to correlate with and utilize this force we
must keep our consciousness open to it continually. This is
one reason for the injunction to "pray without ceasing,"
praying not for material things, but for self-knowledge, for
love, courage, persistence and determination to conquer.
Every such a prayer will be answered, for the Masters can
pour into our hearts the Divine Love which alone can fill us
with the ardor of achievement and the ability to bring it forth
in our lives as the fruits of love. The Masters cannot and will
not give us money or power or glory, but if through love we
follow close in their footsteps we will gain the power to
Mastery and the Masters of Wisdom 107
create and attain all things as they are needed to accomplish
the manifestation of the ideals we are following.
But we never can do or attain the big things until we
have grown big enough to know how to use them for the
best. And whether we will use them thus is the great test
they bring to us. While we are children we must learn to
master the lessons of children, for they are fundamental and
must be learned ere we are ready or able to take the more
advanoed steps. Some of these earlier steps are so simple
and commonplace that they are often overlooked or are not
recognized as having an important place in the life of the
occultist; for the real Path of Attainment is so different
from that which our enthusiasm often pictures it. In the
round of plain daily living the great ideals which aroused
our enthusiasm often seem to evaporate and we find only
the tasks of daily life and all seems stale, commonplace and
profitless.
One of the first of the early steps to be gained is the
simple quality of courage, not only the dumb courage to
suffer, endure and plod on, but the courage of the Christ-
man as illustrated in the life of Jesus. Not only the physical
courage required to ride in triumph into the city where He
knew His enemies awaited Him; the courage to cleanse the
temple of the money changers; not merely the courage to
enter the Garden and face His accusers, His trial and the
cross, but the courage required for a great Spiritual Being
to leave the higher realms and manifest in the dense limita-
tions of a human body of flesh and live in a commonplace
environment and among people from whom He could not
expect comprehension, to say nothing of sympathy, apprecia-
tion and understanding; where He would have to endure
their indifference and their rebukes for talking with the
elders in the temple, eating with publicans and sinners, etc.;
the courage to be thought simple because He was not making
great claims for Himself.
This is the courage of living and working and radiating the
108 The Message of Aquaria
joy and peace and love of the Inner Life even tho misunder-
stood and unappreciated; the courage to be about His
Father's business in spite of all the doubts which His near-
est and dearest heaped upon Him. In the daily life this often
becomes the courage not to Do but to Keep Silent; to refuse
to answer back or quarrel, to trust to the Divine Law to
straighten out all misunderstandings, smooth out all inbar-.
monies and solve all problems, provided we listen and follow
the Inner Urge of the divine ideal that is seeking to manifest
through us.
Picture the Christ-man during His earlier unfoldment as
being unable as yet to manifest the divine ideal. Then say to
yourself, that is my position. The Christ in me is hampered
in its expression by a body that is still imperfect; through a
personality that has faults and failings, habits of thought
and expression that need to be corrected, uplifted and trans-
muted. But the Christ within gives me the power to pick
up all these burdens and push steadily and calmly on and
Jet the Christ-light shine out through me in spite of all. It
gives me the courage to endure in spite of the spiritual grow-
ing pains; to say I'll trust and manifest and overcome; to
stand alone with my Christ and watch the Law work out my
problems.
Another seemingly simple quality which the occult stu-
dent should develop is attention; the attention which reports
to his consciousness not merely each outer happening, but
reveals its inner significance. Not the cold outer attention
of the scientist who seeks to understand a flower or bug by
dissecting its outer form, but the attention that gathers the
meaning and life-message of the flower or insect; that re-
sponds to its consciousness and thus is able to correlate with,
understand and interpret Nature. This is the kind of atten-
tion that gets behind and beyond the outer and into the
heart of things.
We should study our loved ones, friends and all humanity,
with this kind of attention and our knowledge of the hearts
Mastery and the Masters of Wisdom 109
and motives of manldnd will grow; for we see in things and
in people those qualities to which we are afilnitized, either
the beautiful or the sordid. Therefore we should learn to
send our consciousness through the outer into the heart
of things and find out our points of contact and oneness with
all. Then we will be quick to recognize the true from the
false, the inner from the outer, and help it into expression.
Ability to see the inner heart of things leads to the de-
velopment of another important quality which should be
cultivated, that of simplicity and truth in all things. The
pretense, sham, hypocrisy, the boasting, exaggeration and
great claims of those in the world around us are easily seen
to be untrue, a false expression of the Real Self, a vanity of
the personality. Seeing this we should strive to make our
whole lives manifest exactly what we are, without striving
to shine except as our innate qualities silently shine forth.
If conditions are not what we desire we will not pretend
that they are ideal and that we are perfectlÿ satisfied with
them, for if we do so the Great Law will take us at our
word and allow us to remain in them; for since we daim they
are satisfactory there is no need for better. Let us be true
with ourselves and about ourselves, striving ever to higher
ideals and better conditions through gaining the best out
of those we have and thus outgrowing them.
Among the ancient Egyptians simplicity and truth were
the marks of breeding and refinement just as they are in
the world today. With them nothing was so despised as
pretense, the jackdaw masquerading in peacock's feathers
and thinking that it deceived the world! In the great simpli-
city of their temple service the differences in rank among the
priesthood and temple attendants were largely indicated by
the texture of their robes. The robes of the more humble
servitors were of coarse weave, while the difference in rank
among the priesthood sometimes could be told only by count-
ing the number of threads to the inch, each one depending on
110 The Message of Aquaria
the quality of his garment to proclaim his position, for no
boasting or claims could conceal it. Just so must the Soul
wear coarse garments of flesh until it has learned the lessons
from them and has been able to manifest the joy and beauty
of the Inner Life in spite of them; for it is by manifesting
that joy and beauty that the garments (bodies) are purified
and made finer of texture.
In their carvings, hieroglyphs and paintings the Egyptians
are represented with bare feet. This was not because they
never wore any coverings or protection for their feet, but to
symbolize that to advance spiritually the understanding
(feet) must be uncovered and unhampered by outer and
limiting forms. Their feet are represented as flat and placed
in a straight line, one exactly in front of the other, in a
posture no one would or could readily use in walking. This
was to indicate that if we are to tread the Path to Mastery
we must be straightforward and true, progressing in a
straight line one step after another, each step taken firmly
and flatfootedly so that our position cannot be shaken. The
straight lines and angular figures used in portraying the
human form were used, not because the Egyptians did not
appreciate the curves of the body or because their sense of
beauty was poorly developedfor their portrait statues show
a highly developed sense of artbut the straight lines were
used so that no suggestions of sex appeal would detract from
the symbology of the drawing.
The above are only a few of the many simple steps that
must be taken, but they are enough to show that it is not by
great deeds, by the attainment of psychic powers, nor by
passing frightful tests in the astral that Mastery is won,
but by following the Law of Growth, conquering each event
and extracting out of it its spiritual force and building it
into spiritual growth just as the plant extracts the particles
of food from all the forces of its environment and builds
them into sprout, twig, leaf and bud and finally into the
full-blown flower.
Mastery and the Masters of Wisdom 111
We will find the Path to Mastery fully outlined in the
symbolic story of the life of Jesus. Therefore, those who
"take up the cross of the Christ" and follow understandingly
in His footsteps are treading the Path to Mastery.
CHAPTER IX
MOTHER EARTH
"Cursed is the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it.
In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread."Gene.ns, III,
17-19.
"The Root of Life was in every Drop of the Ocean of Immortality,
and the Ocean was Radiant Light;, which was Fire and Heat;, and
Motion..... Light is Cold Flame1 and Flame is Fire1 and Fire pro-
duces Heat, which yields Waterthe Water of Life in the Great
Mother."The Stanzas of Dzyan, III, 6-9.
As the great Wheel of Time turns in its ever-recurring
cycles, closer and closer do we come to that inner sphere
of Nature which might be compared to her laboratory;
for there Nature is worldng out, through the transmuta-
tion of the atoms of the globe, the mighty secrets hidden
in her bosom since the beginning. Here and there among
the children of men there are a few who have sensed the
fact that man is indeed the microcosm of the macrocosm
or a little universe within himself, and that there is but
One Life and One Law manifesting in both man and the
universe. Hence they know that man is one with the
mighty forces which today are sweeping the world and
bringing all flesh to judgment.
Many are sensing their oneness with the mighty strug-
gle of the elements which has recently manifested visibly
among men as the great World War. Such also feel that
the very Earth itself is preparing within her hidden depths
for the baptism of cleansing which is even now taking
place in all lands. Even tho they cannot explain the exact
workings, they feel the mighty cosmic forces moving upon
112
Mother Earth 113
the waters of life, and they almost hold their breath in expec-
tation of that which is to come, while like little children they
still hold fast to their Father's hand, knowing that thus they
will be safe whate'er betides.
Just as man's body is composed of many elements and
myriads of atoms, electrons, mentoids, etc., so is the
Earth made up. Just as man has seven principles and
four bodies 2physical, astral, mental and spiritualso
our Mother Earth has her seven distinct layers of differ-
ing qualities and essences and her four bodies or ldng-.
doms in which the elements and their constituents are
manifesting. These kingdoms we will call the body of
Fire, which vitalizes all things; the body of Air, which
feeds every atom of the planet; the body of Water, which
refreshes and quickens, and the body of Earth, which
supports. Each of these kingdoms is a distinct body,
made up of living infinitesimal sensate lives, centers of
radiant energy, yet all are interbiended with and inter-
dependent upon each other; all working in perfect har-
mony.
The seven principles of the Earth are like seven layers,
each expressing a quality or essence of its own, which is
imparted to all that comes under its influence, and these,
like the four kingdoms, are overlapping and interpene-
trating, making a harmonious whole. It is the influence
of these qualities or essences of the Earth Entity which
brings about the various changes in the vegetation, the
types of living creatures and the racial differences in man.
Each of these seven layers or zones, as we will designate
them, is ruled by one of the seven Divine Hierarchies.
And each zone is marked upon the crust of the Earth as
one might outline a country on a map. Hence the dif-
ference between the people of one districtalso 'the flora
and fauna of their countryand those of another, not
1 Sec The Ke to the Ijrnverse. Cwtizs. 255.
114 The Message of Aquaria
only in appearance, but in bodily constitution and modes
of thought, is not one merely of education or manner of
life, but a fundamental elemental difference brought about
by imbibing and in-building the elemental forces belong-
ing to the zone of the Earth in which they were born
and brought up.
We have given elsewhere2 the facts as to how each
Hierarchy rules in succession, while the others become
subservient during such rule. But when the change takes
place from the rule of one Hierarchy to that of another, it
is felt, especially throughout its own kingdom, in all the
atoms and elementals composing it. Hence, there must
necessarily be a great rearrangement and readjustment of
all the atoms of the Earth, since every atom contains the
potencies of each kingdom. Naturally, then, this plan-
etary readjustment reacts upon and is felt throughout the
Races of mankind, as well as by the lower forms of life.
In his unconscious effort to adjust himself to this change
in the essences of his environment, man, with his usual
blindness to all things occult, turns to a purely phys-
ical explanation for the causes of the changes and up-
heavals; even goes to war with his brother-man.
At all such cosmic and planetary periods there is a
great change in man's ways of thinking. Nations and
whole Races are swept with new ideas, ambitions and
aims in a comparatively brief time, almost like wild-fire
sweeping a dry prairie. Such periods are easily traced in
history by their dominant ideas, as for instance the Cru-
sades, the Renaissance, the beginning of physical science,
the rapid spread of prohibition and of universal suffrage,
etc. The causes of these changes in man, in his outer
life, and in his spiritual, mental, astral and physical bodies,
can be traced to the changes in the four elemental king-
doms of the Earth of which he is a part and to which he
must react, those of today being the result of the out-
2 Sce The Voice of Isis. Curtiss. 186.
Mother Earth 115
pouring of the Water of Life at the beginning of the
present Aquarian Age.
As we enter into the Aquarian Age the change from the
rule of one Hierarchy to another is most marked, because
both humanity and the Earth itself are becoming more
sensitive and more responsive to inner conditions. In
each sub-cycle, however, the element of that cycle has a
predominating influence, subservient only to the Hier-
archy of the Great Age of which it is a part. For instance,
air, which is the element of Aquarius, has now begun to
rule, but it will be subservient and more or less dominated
by the water Hierarchy until it has passed beyond the
overlapping period of the Piscean Age.
During its cycleapproximately 2160 years, not count-
ing the centuries of overlappingthere will be planted
in the planet and in man the seed of that which will be
fully perfected when, at the end of the seventh sub-race
of the Fifth, the Sixth Great Race begins its reign. Aquar-
ius being an airy sign, the atoms of the Earth's surface
must be readjusted so that the air can influence and rule
it. This means that there must be a great stirring up and
etherealization of all its atoms into a higher and finer
state. Each element must enter, in greater quantity and
purer quality, into everything that the Hosts of Air shall
rule. To this end the zone or layer belonging to this
element must come closer to the surface and the little
elementals called Sylphs come into closer rapport with
man, both to learn from him and also to help him and
teach him the mystical lore of their kingdom. This will
be increasingly evidenced as we enter more completely
into the Aquarian period, for as yet we have entered only
into its shadow or overlapping.
The coming changes will affect all man's bodies. His
spiritual conceptions will be higher, broader; his men-
tality will be uplifted, more expanded and more capable
of expressing the outgoing Breath of the Spirit or air in
its highest mystical- aspect, and he will be able to grasp
116 The Message of Aquaria
more subtle ideas and express them more fully. His
astral powers will have a great and wonderful unfold-
ment, and his ability to use and live in the air in many
now undreamed of ways in addition to aviation, will be
derived and brought down from those Realms where the
ideals and perfected inventions await his ability to reach
up and grasp them. Even his physical body will become
less dense and more buoyant, sensitive and beautiful.
During the Aquarian Age man will advance enor-
mously in his conception of brotherhood and true human-
itarianism. In fact, it is in this period that the Great
Teacher must come to pour out the Water of Life on
humanity and to impart to it higher ideals and concep-
tions of life and to teach how to bring them forth. Also,
being a feminine cyde, woman must begin to take her
true place. But just as Jesus set for the Piscean Age the
ideals which only the comparatively few have been able
truly to manifest since, so must we not look for the full
glory of the Aquarian Age until we have had many a
hard struggle in subsequent incarnations.
Science tells us that the center of the Earth is probably
fiery and molten. This is a shrewd deduction, which,
to a certain extent, is in harmony with the esoteric or
secret teachings. We should note here that these teach-
ings are secret in the same sense that the repeatedly
proved problems of higher mathematics and much other
scientific knowledge are secret to a schoolboy, namely, not
because they are hidden from the child, but because he
is incapable either of grasping or wisely using the infor-
mation they convey. It would not only be useless to
explain them, but were he confronted with and compelled
to solve such problems ere he could lisp his multiplication
table his brain would be stultified. Such teachings are a
part of the statistics of the Great White Lodge, which
has kept records, not only of the Races of man, but of the
cosmic events and planetary changes, since the inanifesta-
tion of this system and the creation of this planet. These
Mother Earth 117
records are kept on a basis similar to that by which the
Geological Society keeps a record of the physical changes
through which the Earth passes, as shown in its rock
strata, erosions, etc. The great difference is that the
Lodge of Masters has always had representatives who
have personally lived in and studied and recorded all the
conditions of past Ages, even as They do today. It is
from such records, therefore, that we learn that Fire, the
element least understood and least controlled by man,
lies deepest in the Earth's crust; also that as each new
Race and sub-race is born and a new Hierarchy rules,
the element of that Hierarchy comes closer to the surface
and manifests more definitely to man.
While the scientists have drawn the reasonable deduc-
tionfrom the estimated pressure and the steady increase
of temperature which has been observed as far as man
has penetrated into the Earth's crustthat ere the center
of the Earth is reached all solids must be not merely
molten, but volatile or gaseous, they are still far from
the true solution. To be sure, as far as we have descended
toward the center of the globe, the temperature does
increase, and the esoteric teachings tell us that the core
of the Earth is Fire, but something far more than fire in
the sense in which the scientists of today understand the
term. They would probably call it force or radiant
energy, aitho in reality it is Spiritual Fire or Divine
Energy. It is that Divine Life which gives to the Earth
as a living, breathing entity its life-force; for without
this core of radiant Spiritual Fire the Earth would be a
dead planet Man also has within him the same Spiritual
Fire manifesting as radiant life energy.
In referring to the Earth as a living entity, do not get
the idea that it is a form shut up in this sphere of energy
at the center of the Earth, or that the varying forces of
the planet are confined to particular zones, any more than
it could be said that the Soul of man was shut up in his
heart, and that the bones. nerves, muscles, blood, breath,
118 The Message of Aquaria
etc., were marked off and confined to separate areas in
the body. No part of the body is without these, aitho
each has its special zone of manifestation. Just so it is
with the Earth. For while the zones are marked off
distinctly, still the forces and essences of each are con-
stantly changing and interbiending. The life-force is
penetrating every atom, piercing through dense matter
and bringing forth both within and upon the planet.
Each of the four elements which constitute the four
kingdoms or bodies of the Earth is a servant of the Divine
One Life. Each clement is composed of myriads of ele-
mental livesthe elementalswhich are the ingredients
that are continually being transformed and transmuted
as they are built into the ever-changing forms of Nature.
When we speak of the Nature elementals we must not
think that each flower or blade of grass or grain has a
separate elemental spirit informing or connected with it,
but that all flowers, grains, etc., of one variety are each
of them under the guidance of a living sentient being,
who directs their activities of growth, form, color, per-
fume, etc., toward perfection that they may accomplish
their part in the evolution of the planet and of man.
For there is no form of growth that has not its special
and necessary part to play, either in the preparation of
the soil for more advanced vegetation, to feed man or the
animals, to furnish him healing forces or some other defi.
nite work to accomplish. Even the humble sagebrush,
which covers the most barren and desolate regions of the
Western States, is doing a valuable and constructive work
in adding humus where no other plants will grow and in
preparing the soil to produce more useful crops. And
even the sagebrush itself contains many medicinal prop-
cities useful to man. Other vegetation in arid regions,
such as cactus, yucca, mesquite, etc., has its particular
work in helping to redeem the soil and preparing better
conditions. also other helos for man.
Mother Earth 119
All this is not accidental, but is a part of the Divine
Plan, brought into manifestation through the guidance of
the hierarchies of elementals working under the Divine
Law, each lower order receiving its guidance from the
one just above. These Nature elementals are to plant
life what a group soul is to a species of animals and the
individual Soul to mansimply higher grades of intel-
ligence all working under the hierarchies of their own
Rays to perfect everything in that Ray so that it may
blend with the others into the one White Light of Divine
Manifestation.
In a similar way the particles of the food we eat, which
are made up of infinitesimal living forces, are taken into
our stomachs and transformed into bone, muscle, brain,
energy, etc. It is the activity of this process of trans-
mutation that produces heat, both in the body of man
and in the body of the planet. "Light is Cold Flame, and
Flame is Fire, and Fire produces Heat" when it meets
resistance, the Stanzas of Dzyan tell us. Hence, it is the
resistance which the dense matter of the Earth's crust
offers to the passage of the central Spiritual Fire that pro-
duces the heat discovered by those who have penetrated
deeply into the Earth, only as yet man has pierced but the
outer layers of the Earth's crust.
As one Race draws to a dose and a new Race begins
its reincarnated life-cycle, it is necessary that new con-
ditions obtain in the Earth; that new forces be liberated,
new energies brought to man's attention, and this is cor-
respondingly true, aitho in a lesqer degree, as each sub-
race is ushered in. For at least the advanced ones of
the Race or sub-race, those whose work for humanity
consists in preparing for the New Age as teachers, in-
ventors, scientists, poets, artists, reformers, etc., must
reincarnate under conditions in which they can not only
live, but can utilize the new-found energies and prepare
for the great influx of the New Race or sub-race. It is,
therefore. the fore-runners, leaders and teachers of the
120 The Message of Aquaria
New Age who incarnate first that they may educate the
mothers of the new humanity. Throughout the past
cycle of the Piscean Age, the Great Mother-principle
(Rachel) has been "weeping for her (spiritual) children,
and would not be comforted, for they were not" (incar.
nated). But the coming leaders and teachers will prepare
conditions of peace, harmony, love and purity in which
the more spiritual and sensitive Souls can incarnate. For
without these great teachers and helpers it would be
almost impossible for the masses of mankind to reach the
development required to usher in the New Age.
If man fails to face these problems and consciously recog-
nize and utilize the finer energies of the Earth to bring
about the necessary adjustments, then in some other way
the Great Law will work out the problems without or
even in spite of him. For Mother Nature attends to her
needs and readjusts her forces and atoms in many ways,
often through great wars, storms, floods, upheavals and
catadysms of various kinds. But, however it occurs, the
outer surface, which the human race up to the present has
tilled, polluted and well-nigh exhausted, must be broken
up so that the new energies of the deeper layers may be
utilized. The small amount of life-force which the constant
interchange of the Spiritual Fire, sweeping through the
outer crust leaves behind is largely used up or perverted so
that the soil constantly requires artificial fertilization. At a
certain depth there is a hard crust which in ordinary cul-
tivation is seldom disturbed or broken up because no
plow goes deep enough, and the necessity of artificial
fertilization must the sooner be resorted to. Artificial
fertilization is but an expedient by which life-force is
gathered from another source and added to the ex-
hausted soil, much as a sick man must add to his vitality
by taking tonics, etc.
As with man, so with the Earth. As we have said, in
speaking of the dynaspheric force, the Earth normally
$ See un. 62. 70.
Mother Earth 121
develops everything from within herself. Life-force suf-
ficient for all its wants is stored up in its hidden depths.
The sick man must break through the crusts of old
habits of life and thought and correlate with the deeper
currents of the One Life and let them flow through him
unimpeded if he would conquer disease, and for the planet
the old used-up crust must be broken up, sloughed off or
in some way disturbed so that the One Life manifesting
in the deeper layers may come to the surface. Below this
layer of crust or "hard-pan" as it is called, the roots of
grains, vegetables and many fruit-trees cannot penetrate,
hence will not flourish without the life-force being sup-
plied in an artificial way.
Today the surface of the Earth is not only depleted,
but it is saturated with the blood shed in all the wars of
mankind throughout the ages; all the 'vibrations of in-
harmony, selfishness and enmity; and all the effluvia and
off-scouring of man's impurity. This pollution has gone
on until the whole crust of the Earth is impregnated with
disease and death, even where modern man has never
trod, so that the planet as a whole is nauseated with it.
Hence the soil is today unfit to bring forth the higher
types of food that will be required by the coming more
sensitive Souls who will constitute the new sub-race. The
fore-runners of this sub-race must, therefore, begin to
teach manldnd how to overcome all these adverse con-
ditions; for in eating the vegetables and fruits grown on
Earth at present man is imbibing the effluvia he cast off
in the past, and also the results of his wrong thinking, which
have polluted the Earth. The small amount of life-force
the foods now contain and the prevalence of disease both
in the plants and in man is, of course, a part of the Karma
man must reap, for it is a part of the curse of the ground
which he must redeem.
When the foundations of the Earth were laid, prepa-
122 The Message of Aquaria
ration was made for the sustenance of all the seven Great
Races and their seven sub-races, nations and tribes, in-
duding the greater needs of its later and more sensitive
Races and sub-races. Underneath the seemingly impen-
etrable outer layers of the crust are stored up, waiting
for the advanced Races, all the demerits of nutrition and
life-force which those Races will require to nourish their
finer bodies and enable them to live under the new con-
ditions in which they will find themselves; for the Spir-
itual Fire, in traversing the various zones and layers,
leaves behind in each the proper potencies belonging to
that proper zone. One of the effects of the World War
is the breaking up of the crust, by shot, shell and mine
explosion, so that the air elementals of the deeper zones
and layers so long imprisoned are being set free, while
those of the surface air are able to penetrate more deeply
and mingle with the soil and thus help to purify it and
prepare for the next step.
St. Paul tells us that 'We know that the whole crea-
tion groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now."
All the entities of all grades of consciousness in Mother
Earth are laboring together mightily to complete the
purification, evolution and perfection of the globe, and
must so work until the spirit of the Cosmic Christ is born
in mankind as a whole and man takes his place as the Lord
of Creation or the husbandman of the Lord God on Earth.
Already man is learning a new lesson, for the great fer-
tility of the land devastated by the war is attracting the
attention of scientists. No longer do they claim that the
increased fertility is due merely to the saturation of the
soil with blood, aitho that is a factor; the effect of the
upheaval is also being considered. But another phase of
this problem is already causing alarm. From the blood-
stained fields of battle myriads of insect pests, plant
diseases and blights have recently arisensuch as the
mysterious chestnut blight that swept the world some
Mother Earth 123
few years agoentailing great labor to combat and doing
much to counteract the increased fertility of the soil.
The occult student will quickly recognize that these pests
are simply materialized expressions of the perverted life-
force and the inharmonious and destructive thought-forces,
which have been accumulating in the astral and are now pre..
cipitated upon Earth.
Man must learn to draw upon the inexhaustible re
sources of Mother Earth and to remember that the cre-
ative forces poured out upon her in the beginning still
vibrate through all the kingdoms of Nature and will go
on and on vibrating and creating and re-creating as long
as the planet endures. When man awakens to these
mighty truths he will no longer believe that it is the blood
shed on the battlefields that really enriches the Earth; for
this is but the life-force which has passed through the
human organism and is filled with the waste products of
man's body, and its emanations are impressed with the
misuse of his forces. Man himself has continually to re.
new and purify the life stream in his body if he would
retain his health. The land is therefore enriched less by
the blood poured out upon it than by the release of the
life-forces stored up in the deeper layers or zones of
Mother Earth.
As he awakens to these forces, man will also find an
explanation and cure for the ever-increasing menace of
the insect plagues and plant diseases, which has had such
a sudden and enormous increase in all parts of the world
since the war. These have ravaged the world's crops
until the agricultural authorities have issued warnings
that man will have to fight a battle royal with these per-
verted forms of life if he would enjoy the increase of his
labors. There is, therefore, a reasonable basis of truth
in the predictions of many astrologers that the World
War will be followed by a great famine over all the Earth,
even the increased crops that are raised being devastated by
both storms and oest.
124 The Message of Aquaria
But as long as man remains ignorant of the resources
hidden in the depths of the Earth he must continue to
suffer from the curse: "Cursed is the ground for thy
sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy
life." As most of the pests are the manifestation arid
embodiment of "man's inhumanity to man," together
with his wasted and perverted creative powers which have
been accumulating in the astral, they will naturally be
at enmity with man their creator until he learns how to
utilize the forces of the One Life, both in himself and in
the planet, to protect himself from and transmute these
enemies of mankind.
But if he is to understand wisely how to prepare the
Earth to raise improved foods, not only for the millions
who have made great sacrifices that peace, justice and
righteousness may prevail for all manldnd, but also to
prepare for the more advanced Souls of the new sub-race
who will require purer, more nutritious, more concen-
trated and more life-giving forms of food, he must learn
that it is necessary to break up the soil to a depth never
before attempted. He has already made a start in this
direction by planting his orchards with the use of dyna-
mite and he finds that they not only make a three years'
growth in two, but are better able to resist both insects
and disease. This must be done not merely to allow the
roots to strike deeper and to draw the water to them by
capillary attraction through the loosened soil, but to per-
mit the readjusting of the elemental lives within the crust
of the Earth that the new order of vegetation may be
ushered in and that he may intelligently hasten the day
when "the desert shall bloom as the rose." For only
when the quality and life-giving properties of the vege-
tables, fruits and nuts have been thus increased, purified,
refined and perfected can a strictly vegetarian diet satisfy
the needs of all classes of mankind. Such perfected foods
will not only be disease-resisting, but they will be disease-
preventing when eaten by man.
Mother Earth 125
Another lesson that man in southern climates must
learn is that the soil requires cycles of rest and recupera-
tion, even tho the climate makes it possible to grow crops
almost continuously, through irrigation and other meth-
ods of forcing. The enforced rest entailed by winter
in northern climates allows the life-forces to collect and
concentrate for expression during a short summer season.
The life-force manifests in fruits as flavor, aroma and satis-
faction of taste and in flowers as perfume, pungency, etc.
Flowers growing in mountainous regions, where the alti-
tude is great and the seasons short, are usually far more
vivid and brilliant in their coloring than those grown in
low altitudes and where the seasons are long. Also it is
well known that aitho southern fruits may be larger, they
are usually coarser in fiber, and aitho they are most attrac-
tive in appearance they lack the flavor and satisfying quali-
ties to be found in northern fruits, just as the northern
flowers make up in perfume for their smaller size, less showy
appearance and the shortness of their season.
In the beginning of the Ra all these things were
taught to infant humanity by the super-human and god-
like Beings who came to this planet for the purpose of
instilling into the minds of man the essence of wisdom
and instructing him in all the arts and sciences. It is
this stored-up fund of knowledge and wisdom upon which
manldnd has been drawing during the succeeding ages,
as the evolutionary changes demanded it and the more
advanced minds were able to correlate with it. Scientists
might say that man, by the development and use of his
mighty intellect, had discovered new forces and new
ways of using forces previously unknown, but the occult-
ist knows that all those things were provided for man's
use during the first six "days of creation" and manifested
during the first six sub-races of the Third Great Race
(Lemurian). For it was only then that the Earth was
materialized into solid form. Then during the seventh
126 The Message of Aquaria
sub-race of the Lemurians there was a long Golden Age
or period of rest, while the planet was being further
cooled off, materialized, solidified and beautified for man's
occupancy.
We are told that God created every plant of the field be-
fore it zczs in the Earth, and every herb of the field before
it grew.4 Thus even before the Earth was materialized, every
condition, force and material needed for the evolution of the
Earth itself and for the evolution and spiritual unfoldment
of all the Races and sub-races of man was prepared for in
advance. We are also allegorically told that out of the dust
of the Earth God made man, as well as every tree and herb
and living creature. This, of course, does not mean that
God gathered up a handful of dust and fashioned man out
of it, but it does mean that the Divine Ideation, through the
creative power of the Cosmic Consciousness and the mani-
festing power of the One Life, first conceived the idea
and then projected it into objective manifestationthrough
the outbreathing of the Great Breathfirst of the Earth
and all things pertaining to it, and finally of man himself,
all fashioned out of the same fundamental and undiffer-
entiated Cosmic Substance, and then clothed in a body of
flesh composed of earthly substances. All these manifesta-
tions of the Divine were vivified by the same Divine Life-
force which we call the Christ-force, because it is the "only
begotten son" or the only outgoing current of Divine Life-
force sent down into the manifested Cosmos to be its life
and aid in evolving godward. This divine Christ-force
must therefore be present in every molecule of the Earth and
in everything brought forth from or upon the Earth. We
therefore know that the life-force is stored up in the various
layers and zones of the Earth waiting to bring forth in each
day-period and sub-race the forces and products needed for
that day or sub-race.
4 Ge,..zis. ii. 5
Mother Earth 127
As we have been passing through the dark night-period
which always separates one racial day-period from another
the period during which the scavengers are at work gather-
ing up the debris of the last day and cleansing the Earth for
the newwe look forward with faith to the New Day now
dawning, instead of bewailing the passing of the old and be-
ing appalled by the outlook. We should turn our minds to-
ward finding the "open sesame" that will swing wide the
doors of God's storehouses where He has laid up for this
particular time all that humanity needs.
Therefore, if man would be the child of the New Age
he must begin at once to get acquainted with the mystic
potendes of Mother Earth and to correlate with the ele-
mental lives which do her bidding and which she uses to
bring about her miracles. Let man ask seriously what she
holds for him. Let him step out of the rut of the common-
place and experiment and he will find out the truth of that
which is told us in The Voice of the Silence: "Help Nature
and work on with her; and Nature will regard thee as one
of her creators and make obeisance. And she will open wide
before thee the portals of her secret chambers." (i.e., zones.)
CHAPTER X
THE FOUR WINDS
"Fohat takes five strides, and builds a winged 'wheel at each corner
of the square for the Four Holy Ones .. . and their Armies."
Stanzas of Dyson, v, Sloka S.
"There is Occult philosophy in the Roman Catholic doctrine which
traces the various public calamities, such as epidemics of disease and
wars and so on, to the invisible 'Messengers' from the North and West.
'The glory of God comes from the way of the East,' says Ezekiel;
while Jeremiah, Isaiah, and the Psalmist assure their readers that all
the evil under the Sun comes from the North and West."The Secret
Doctrine, Blavatsky, i, 147-8.
"Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy son of man, and say to the wind,
Thus saith the Lord God. Come from the four winds, 0 breath, and
breathe upon these slam, that they may hve."Ezekiel, xxxvii, 9.
Four is the number of the Earth-plane. It signifies the
completion of Earth conditions, the foundation stone upon
which all that manifests on Earth must be created. Its sym..
bol is the square, the base of the pyramid. In the evolution
of man four indicates the Fourth Race of the Fourth Day-
period, when the four lower aspects of Nature and of man
had reached their perfection and were made the material
basis upon which the higher aspects must manifest. Ap-
plied to man four represents the understanding, the founda-
tion which completes the merely human, and when illumined
by the Light of Spirit, makes Divinity attainable.
Four is used in many ways in the Bible and in all other
sacred scriptures as well as in occult literature. The Holy
City must be laid four square, the mystical "white stone" is
square, and there are four cardinal points, North, South,
East and West, presided over by four great Angels or Re-
gents, symbolized by the four sacred animals of Ezekiel,
Daniel and the Apocalypse, namely the Bull, the Lion, the
12S
The Four Winds 129
Eagle and the Man. In the Orient these Regents are called
the Four Great Kings or Maharajas and are related to the
Four Lords of Karma or the four great Powers which make
square, balance or adjust the workings of the Great Law
that love, justice, peace and harmony may ultimately pre-
vail. The powers and forces thus symbolized are not mere
abstractions, but are the intelligent, entitized forces so often
referred to in the writings of the Christian Fathers as the
"Messengers," "Angelic Virtues," "Spirits" or "Angels."1
In the temples of Egypt a great curtain was drawn over
five pillars separating the Holy Place from the congregation.
This symbolized the veil which hangs between our five senses
and the Divine Mysteries. The curtain was of four colors,
blue (spiritual aspiration), purple (understanding of the
astral), scarlet (purification of earthly conditions) and gold
(truth combined out of all), again representing the four
cardinal points, the four elements and the Four Winds.
Also the Children of Israel after their sojourn in Egypt
were instructed to make a tabernacle which went with them
during the Exodus. It was to have a veil made of blue,
purple and scarlet, to be hung upon four pillars of shittim
wood overlaid with gold, upon four sockets of silvers The
whole setting in both cases symbolized that it is through the
four Powers ruling the Four Winds that our five senses be-
come cognizant of the hidden mysteries of life. In other
words, through the forces which are manifested by these
high Rulers of the Four Winds does man grow in the under-
standing of the mysteries of Nature, and by relating him-
self to Nature, of the mysteries of his own being.
Primitive man learned that during the season of the East
WindSpringhe must till the ground and plant the seed;
during the season of the South WindSummerthe crops
spring up and grow; during the West WindAutumnthe
crops mature and the harvest is gathered, and during the
I See Tht Keÿ to tk. (Jan,erse, Curtlis, Chapter xxiv.
2 Esodwj. xxvi. 31.2
130 The Message of åquaria
season of the North WindWinterall the life-forces are
indrawn and must lie in the tomb of winter. Also "the way
of a ship in the midst of the sea," spoken of by Solomon as
one of the four great mysteries, had to be learned by a
study of the winds. Even today, be his ships ever so mar-
velous, man must still reckon with the winds and tides. We
find a recognition of the importance and the sacredness of
the four elements, the four cardinal points, and the Four
Winds in every religion and in all ages, and applying the
occult axiom, "As above, so below," by studying the physical
manifestations of the Four Winds we can understand and
correlate with the Powers of which they are expressions.
As we have said elsewhere: "The four beasts also sym-
bolize the four corners of the earth and the four winds of
heaven. The wind, like the breath of the physical body, is a
manifestation of the Spirit, which comes we know not whence
and goeth we know not whither. Jeremiah, Isaiah and the
Psalms assure us that from the North and West come all dis-
ease, catastrophes, and afflictions, while from the East and
South come all benefits." Symbolically this means that when
we turn from the Spiritual Sun we have long dark nights of
cold, and are breathing in the effluvia of the Earth whence
come disease and death. Equally so when for us we let the
Spiritual Sun set in the West. While if we mentally face
the mystic East and greet the rising of the Spiritual Sun or
bask in its full radiance in the South continually, we can
breathe in all spiritual blessings.
While this is symbolically true, yet by a careful analysis
of each Wind we will find that none are evil, but that all
f our are presided over by beneficent Powers and their mani-
festations are for the ultimate good of mankind.
Enoch tells us: "I also beheld the four winds which bear
up the earth, and the firmament of heaven.... . I then
surveyed the receptacles of all the winds, perceiving that
they contributed to adorn the whole creation, and preserve
The Four Winds 131
the foundation of the earth. The first wind is
called the eastern, because it is the first. The second is
called the South, because the Most High there descends,
and frequently there descends he who is blessed forever.
The western wind has the name of diminution, because there
all the luminaries of heaven are diminished, and descend.
The fourth wind, which is named the North, is divided into
three part8
The East Wind is.the wind of the morning, the wind that
brings the freshness of the new day. Ezekiel says that the
glory of God "comes from the way of the East." Just as the
East Wind brings renewed life to the Earth, so does the
mystic East Wind bring renewed life and power to the
Soul. As the first breath of day comes from the East so
should the first waking breath correlate with the power of
the East Wind by repeating some sacred text, such as the
Morning Prayer of this Order.4 There is a mystic potency
in the first thoughts held and the first words uttered, for
they strike the keynote for the day. Therefore concentrate
upon some uplifting text, prayer or thought and let it abide
with you in the undercurrents of your consciousness during
the day.
The South Wind is the wind which brings growth, un-
foldment and perfection to the Earth and causes the Soul
to put forth in a greater fullness in the everyday life the
strength and beauty garnered and assimibited during the
wintertime. The South Wind brings the summertime of
the Soul when all things seem to go well, aitho even during
this period the husbandman of the Soul-life, like the hus-
bandman of the soil, must watch for and guard against
the little insects that prey upon his crops; must protect
them from drought and storms and prune off all abnormal
growths that they may reach perfection. While the South
Wind is balmy and pleasant it does not carry the mariner
$ The Book of Eisock xl, xxviii, lxxvi.
45cc Aimendix.
132 The Message of Aquaria
on his way as rapidly as the fiercer winds from the North
and West, yet its force must be utilized to advance the prog-
ress of the ship toward its port.
The West Wind is said to be disastrous, but only as
it brings to the individual life its fulfillment and to the
Earth its harvest It brings the rest and refreshment of
eventide, both to the life and to the Earth, the period when
both enjoy the fruits of their labors. Hence we may expect
our compensation and the complete understanding of the
lessons of life to be brought to us by the wind from the
West. The West Wind brings sadness only if the harvest
we have sown be tares instead of wheat. But even so, only
as we courageously reap the harvest can we learn to sow
more wisely. It is in the West that we may look for the dose
of the present turbulent conditions and for a peaceful gar-
nering of the fruits which ripen as the result of the lessons
which humanity has learned.
We are told that at the second coming of the Christ His
light shall shine from the East even unto the West. This
is but one of the many prophecies indicating that it is in the
West that the great gathering of the elect will take place
to make ready for the coming of the great World Teacher
so soon to appear. For it is "in the cool of the day" or as
the Sun sets in the West that we must meet the Lord in the
garden or the place where the fruitage of experience is
garnered. Here we may sit at His feet after the strife
and tunnoji of the day and learn the great lessons which
shall prepare us for the new day of the Sixth Great Race,
for the sixth and seventh sub-races are the eventide or dos-
ing period of the Fifth Great Race
The North Wind brings the chilling blasts which strip the
leaves from the trees, scatter the seeds far and wide and
usher in the winter season. The sky is leaden, frowning,
ominous. The wind comes in vicious gusts that chill and
shrivel all living things, or it howls and shrieks in a terrify-
The Four Winds 133
ing gale which wrecks the ship that is not staunch and true
and well captained, and that sweeps before it everything that
is not well rooted or established on a firm foundation. It
spreads a protecting sheet of ice over the streams and lakes
that the life within them may be protected. It brings the
whirling, blinding snow which spreads its mantle of white
over the Earth and the children of its bosom that they may
be protected and find that rest and peace in which the
forces of life may be indrawn into Mother Earth and the
experiences of the summer digested, that they may be pre-
pared to manifest anew under new conditions. So must
it be in our lives, for the North Wind is none other than
King Desire whose fierce breath chills and shrivels and
brings disaster. He has his seat in the sign Scorpio, the
Adversary whose sting poisons the whole man, yet when
conquered and lifted up becomes the Eagle, the Bird of
Life and Freedom, which can gaze unflinchingly into the eye
of the Sun.
Desire as a principlethe negative aspect of Divine Will,
an expression of the desire of the Divine for manifesta-
tionin one sense is the fundamental cause of all manifesta-
tion. But when this principle becomes personalized in the
individual as human desire it reaches both upward and
downward, governed and controlled by free will. As long
as there is any experience or sensation on Earth which
attracts us our desire is turned outward, downward, earth-
ward, and we must experience that desire crc we are satis-
fled, unless we transmute it by a higher desire or by our
will. As long as our desires turn earthwarddesires for
possession of things, of place, of approval or applause; for
the gratification of sensation and self-indulgence, etc.
their satisfaction always leaves the sting of the Scorpion.
Only when we realize that our Father-in-heaven will supply
all things needed for our best good on Earth and we no
longer waste our thought-power desiring physical things,
can our desires fly upward like the Eagle into the higher
134 The Message of Aquaria
realms and become one with the will of our Father and so
do His will on Earth, even as it is done in heaven. "Thought
arises before desire. The thought acts on the brain, the brain
on the organ, and then (animal) desire awakens.... The
student must guard his thoughts." Understanding this we
will realize the significance of the promise: "Seek ye first
the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these
things shall be added unto you.... For your heavenly
Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things." With
this understanding King Desire becomes not our tempter, but
a most beneficent helper on the Path of Self-Mastery.
The North Wind blows in many ways in our lives as
individuals, for each and every one must meet this great
King and conquer the power of his icy breath. For the
effect of the North Wind (desire) is cold and shriveling to
the Soul, and like a blast of wind forced into a furnace, it
transforms the steady, quiet flame of Love into a raging,
consuming passion. The North Wind comes to us to test
the strength of our roots, to see if we are rooted in truth,
to wipe out old conditions and prepare for the new. The
North Wind will also play its part in bringing to the Earth
the disasters which will mark the beginning of the cataclys.
mic changes which are to come and which are even now tak.-
ing place. But as these apparent disasters come, both in
our individual lives and to the Earth, realize that they are
but the great North Wind sweeping away that which is
holding us back from entering upon the new conditions.
They do not come by chance, but are guided by the Divine
Love of wise and beneficent Powers for the best good of
ourselves, humanity and the planet as a whole.
It is the force generated by the mystical North Wind
that shall roll away the stone from the sepulcher of our
lives. And as we find the stone rolled away many of us
may start back appalled to find only empty gravedothes
where we thought to find the Christ. How many of us
I The Secret Dccgri,e. Birntski. I ii, 573.
The Four Winds 135
have had something we valued above all else, that which
seemed to be our Lord of Life, taken from us and we have
laid it in a tomb and have sealed it with a great stone! Often
this stone is fashioned from our hearts grown hard and
bitter because our Lord of Life has been taken from us and
we know not where they have laid him.
There are many, many such, many who are carrying
through life the memory of such a death and burial; many
whose hearts close the mouth of a sepulcher in which their
hopes and dearest wishes lie buried. This may be the
physical loss of a loved one who seemed necessary to lean
on but who may have been removed only to teach the Soul
to lean upon its own inner touch with divinity. Or it may
be some disappointed hope or some affliction of the body
which they have sealed up in the tomb of the mind, where
they often go to weep and lament or to curse the fate
that has willed it so. Then comes the great North Wind
and sweeps them off their feet, tears from their lives all
those things to which they have clung so long. By its force
the stone they thought so firm is torn from its foundations
and rolled away and they find in their sepulcher no Lord of
Love, no cherished idol, but only the graveclothes of that
which has passed away long since. Moreover, if they come
to this sepulcher at dawn after the bitter North Wind has
blown all the night long, they will find an angel waiting for
them saying, "He is not here, for he is risen. Why seek
ye the living among the dead?"
What is the meaning of this symbol? It is this, there is
no thing that is called out by our true, unselfish love that can
rest in the grave. Its essence must rise and become a
part of our True Self, for we cannot lose anything that is
true and pure. Do not hover over the graves in life, for
nothing can remain in the grave but the mere outward
covering which we ourselves have woven about the thing
we loved. There are no sepulchers which require the harden-
ing of our hearts to seal up, no dark and dismal caverns
136 The Message of Aquaria
where our loved ones rest. No thing that has awakened in
our heart one living spark of Divine Love and has then ap-
parently been taken from us is dead. Nor can it rest in the
grave, for it is risen, risen into the great and mighty oneness
of Divine Love, which includes the little things of life as
well as the great.
When the bitter North Wind blows and our lives seem
to be going to pieces, when petty cares, like the dust and
debris cast up by the wind, are flying about us on every
hand, perhaps blinding us; when the Sun of Righteousness
and the Moon of Intuition are darkened and the Star of
Initiation seems to have withdrawn its light, look up, for
behold our redemption is nigh. When we have looked up we
will realize the lesson and go fearlessly into the tomb and
see for ourselves that our Lord of Love has risen, for the
stone of misunderstanding and hardness of heart has been
rolled away by the King of the North Wind.
True love is divine, immortal, hence can never die. No
force of love that we have ever experienced can ever be lost,
for as we rise we shall find the full essence of all the love
we have poured forth manifesting to us in a higher expres-
sion. For as the Eagle in us flies upward it will find all that
we thought dead and buried waiting for us in the heart of
the Sun. Often they are taken from us that our desires
may be drawn upward and become the will for a higher
expression.
Thus we find that each of the Four Winds has its times
and seasons and each its work to accomplish in the develop-
ment and perfection of the Soul-life. Let us enjoy the
pleasant winds while they blow, but also let us trim our sails
to take advantage of the North Wind when its season comes.
Let us take comfort in the knowledge that tho the North
Wind is fierce and cold it will sweep us most rapidly on our
journey, will call out all our powers and seamanship and will
take from us only those things which retard our progress.
The Four Winds 137
Thus do the Regents of the Four Winds, with their hosts
or armies of living powers, bring to the Earth and to man-
kind their particular forces without which evolution could
not be completed. - From this we learn the great lesson
of unity in diversity; that each Soul must work out its own
salvation in its own way, just as the winds accomplish their
own work even tho apparently adverse. As well might the
South Wind condemn the North Wind or the East Wind
the West as for students to condemn those who accomplisk
their work in life in different ways.
Meditation upon this chapter should awaken in the stu-
dent a larger idea of the necessity of making use of every
wind that blows. Be it from the North or South, the East
or West, let us utilize its power and make it our servant. In
other words, let us learn the lessons from every event and
circumstance in our life and environment that we may make
our life one with the Great Law.
CHAPTER XI
THE THREE JOHNS
"And in those days there came John the Baptist... . and Herod
sent and beheaded John m prison. Now there was leaning on
Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. And he
sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John: who bare
record of the word of God and of all the things that he saw."
St. Matthew, iii, 1; xiv, 10. St John. xiii, 23. Rwelation, i, 1-2.
In previous chapters we have learned that the sign
Aquarius in its mystical significance symbolizes Man: not un-
developed or animal man, but the spiritually awakened in-
tellectual man symbolized in the Bible under the name John.
But we find that there were three JohnsJohn the Baptist,
John the Beloved and John the Revelotor. These three
Johns have the same symbology as the three decanates of
Aquarius, all synthesized in Jesus, the perfect Man. Con-
sidering the three Johns together we therefore have a com-
posite picture of man as he unfolds and manifests his three
decanates or the three stages of unfoldment into his highest
attainment as the real Man.
The three Johns also represent the three offices which
the Aquarian Man must hold or manifest in the course of
his spiritual unfoldment, i. e., Prophet, Priest and King, or
Man claiming the three-fold powers of his Sonship. For it
is only the manifestation of the Son in man that can truly
make him either Prophet, Priest or King. The mere pre-
dicting of coming events, through the use of clairvoyance,
prevoyance or other psychic faculties, does not constitute a
Prophet; for a Prophet is "one who speaks for God" or
interprets the will of the Divine to man, and prediction plays
'Is
The Three Johns 139
but a small part in his life and work. The mere graduating
from a theological school and being ordained cannot make a
man a true Priest, unless in addition he has unfolded the
Christ within his heart and his intellect has been so illumined
that he can stand before the altar and sacrifice his lower
nature to the Divine. In many instances the wearing of an
earthly crown is but a parody on true kingship; for the
crown which marks the real King is the radiance of his
purified aura and the emanations of his illumined intellect
which enable him to rule with justice. Such a crown each
of the three Johns wears, yet the crown of each differs
from that of the others according to the kingdom over which
he rules.
In the Bible there are also three great elevations or Mounts
which correspond to that which is meant by the three Johns.
The first, which agrees with John the Baptist, is Mt. Sinai
in the wilderness; the mountain from which the Law is given
amidst lightnings and thunders so that the people are over-
awed. From this wonderful Mount comes their Law, their
instruction and their call to repentance. The second Mount
corresponds to John the Beloved. This is the Mount of
Divine Love from which Jesus gave the message of blessed-
ness: "Blessed are the peacemakers," etc. The sermon is
very mild. If we heard it today we would be inclined to say
it was negative. But the other side of this Mount is Calvary,
the Mount of Crucifixion; Divine Love gives out its message
from a height so great that it is always misunderstood and
the giver crucified. The third is the Mount of Transfigura-
tion. Here stands Moses the Law-giver or the first John, and
Fiiis, the blessed John, both coming with the third John who
has lost his identity in Jesus; for the Revelator does not
speak his own words, hut those given him from on high.
And as the world passes through the sign Aquarius there
must be a blending of these three phases.
The first decanate of Aquarius, which is ruled by Saturn,
140 The Message of Aquaria
is symbolized by John the Baptist; the man clothed in the
skins of wild animals and wandering in the wilderness. Yet
this is not primitive man, but man crowned with high intel-
lectual attainments. Because his awakened intellect has
recognized the superior power of the Christ-consciousness,
the one who is "mightier than I, the latchet of whose shoes
I am not worthy to stoop and unloose," he becomes a Prophet
crying: "Prepare ye the way of the Lord (Law), make
his paths straight." The number eleven, the number of the
sign Aquarius, signifies the beginning of a new and higher
cycle; and the kabalistic value of the name John is nine,
the number of Soul Initiation. Hence we see that as the
first decanate of this sign begins to manifest, man will have
an intellectual awakening which will initiate him into a new
and higher world, a consciousness which transcends the
outer, the visible and the merely intellectual, and shall usher
him into the world of spiritual realization. And as there
are three decanates, we may expect intellectual man to pass
through three distinct phases, all of them but steps in the
unfoldment of the fifth principle (Monas) in man, that
which gives him supremacy. Manas is commonly divided
into Higher Manas and lower ,nanas; Higher when joined
to the Soul (Buddhi) principle and called Buddhi-,nanas,
and lower when joined to desire (Kanza) and called Kama-
nianas. But it also has a third and distinct expression
wherein it is neither the one nor the other, but vacillates be-
tween the two. The two lower must be mastered and
transcended crc man can become the true Aquarian.
The first stage in this mastery through which all must
pass is the John the Baptist stage. This is the stage when,
after man's intellect has awakened to the fact that there is
something greater to be attained, he is still wandering in the
wilderness of the outer life seeking to prepare the way,
through a study of the philosophy and laws of the higher
life, for the coming of the greater consciousness, the Christ-
The Three Johns 141
consciousness, in his heart. At this point he is exceedingly
solicitous that others should awaken to the higher concep-
tions which have so enthused him, hence he is continually
crying, "Repent ye," and striving to have everyone who will
listen follow him. He lays great stress upon outer condi-
tions and observances. He is dothed in skins, i. e., the sim-
plest form of attire, and his physical body and its care and
subjugation occupy a very prominent place in his life. He
lays great stress upon the simplicity of his raiment and upon
what he eats, drinks, etc. This is well, for at this stage the
mastery of pride of appearance and the control of appetite
are important steps.
But he is confronted on every hand by many and diverse
paths or teachings, all seemingly pointing to the goal, yet
leading in different directions. And since the seeker during
this stage is still depending upon his intellect to guide him
he feels that he must investigate all movements and teach-
ings in an effort to find the true inner Path which shall lead
him to the Christ. At this stage it is right that he should
do so, and without being thought vacillating and insincere.
Jesus plainly showed what attitude of mind we should hold
toward this stage of development when He replied to His
disciples as they tried to rouse His condemnation for one
who was so unsettled: "What went ye out into the wilder-
ness to see? A reed shaken with the wind?" i. e., a vacillat-
ing or weak-minded person. Then He continued: "But
what went ye out for to see? A prophet? yea, I say unto
you, more than a prophet."
We should take this to heart, and when we see sincere
persons running here and there seeking intellectually to make
a straight Path through the many devious teachings, we
should not think of them as reeds shaken by every wind of
doctrine that springs up. For their very activity in pro-
claiming and seeking the Christ is a prophecy and fore-
runner of that which they shall attain; that other John, the
142 The Message of Aquaria
beloved of the Christ, into which they will evolve. For
some day they will step into the Jordan, see the Dove de-
scend and hear the Voice prodaiming that the Christ, the
only begotten Son, has been found. The Law is: "Ask, and
it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and
it shall be opened unto you; for everyone that asketh re-
ceiveth; and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knock-
eth it shall be opened?' This seeking attitude of mind is
the turning point, the turning from the old, the outer, to the
new, the inner. For there must be the intellectual conception
before there can be the perception. This stage corresponds
with the first decanate of Aquarius and is ruled by Saturn,
who must test and judge and make stable all things, so that
the rulership of Mercury can begin.
When this step in the unfoldment has been taken and
John the Baptist has recognized and baptized the Christ, his
intellectual supremacy and dominion must wane while the
Christ-consciousness waxes, as it is said: "He must in-
crease, but I must decrease." Then the seeker enters into
the second stage, symbolized by John the Beloved. In this
stage he has not only found and recognized the Christ, but
sits at meat with Him and rests on His bosom. At this stage
he is little concerned with either raiment or food, for his
Master, on whose bosom he rests, came both eating meat
and drinking wine. No longer does he exhort the multi-
tudes to repent, but rests quietly in the great love of the
Christ and waits patiently for his work for humanity to be
given him, yet he helps the world greatly by his love and
example. No longer does he eagerly run to and fro after
the latest popular teacher or to investigate the latest psychic
phenomena; for he has found his spiritual home, where he
finds the Christ and sits at meat with His disciples. This
phrase "sits at meat" may puzzle some, especially used as it
is here in connection with the spiritual home which each
Soul will some day find. But it is correct so to use it. for
The Three Johns 143
the Christ here spoken of is the universal cosmic Sun (life)
Principle which is the spiritual life of and must feed each
and every Soul. It refers to that mystical food of which
Jesus spake when He said: "I have meat to cat that ye
know not of." This "spiritual meat,"1 this feeding in the
heart or real assimilation of spiritual truth can only be fully
accomplished when the pupil sits down at the table which is
spread by the teachings which satisfy most completely his
intellect and feed most satisfyingly his heart hunger and thus
promote his spiritual growth, even as well assimilated phys.
ical food will promote the harmonious growth of both body
and mind in proportion to its nourishing power and the pleas-
ure and contentment its eating brings.
As with physical food, so with spiritual. Not only must
the food be wholesome in itself, but it must be prepared and
presented in a way that will appeal to the taste and satisfy
the appetite. Similarly the spiritual food for each must be
presented in the various ways that will appeal to each. The
old adage, "God sent food, but the devil sent cooks," has its
application here. For while all spiritual food comes from
on high, yet unenlightened man, in his own limited intel-
lectual conceptions, often distorts or disguises the truth until
it is like badly cooked food, acceptable only to an undevel-
oped, unsensitive or perverted palate. Hence, intellectual
development, study and discrimination are necessary before
one is fitted to prepare spiritual food. For, as in the miracle
of the loaves and fishes, it is always the Christ who blesses
and breaks the bread and gives it to His disciples, who in
turn transmit it to the multitude.
Therefore each should seek until he finds a table spread
whose spiritual food is appetizing to him, nourishing and
easily assimilated by him. And once having found it he can
rest on the bosom of the Christ and give all his allegiance,
love and devotion to the avenue through which he is fed, as
II Corintkiavs x. 3.
144 The Message of Aquaria
he gladly pours forth all the worldly help which the Great
Law enables him to give. Such an avenue of teaching is
his Soul's resting place, a spiritual home in very truth. And
its welfare and growth, enabling it to extend its food to
the many other hungry hearts, is his dearest wish; some-
thing to be held ever in mind, to be prayed for, to be worked
for and to be sacrificed for.
Thus is it found with those who at this stage are brought
by the Great Law into touch with The Order of Christian
Mystics, after having searched in the wilderness among all
other teachings. Those who truly belong to it, whose enlight-
ened intellect and quickened heart have enabled them really
to grasp its Teachings and to correlate with the great cur-
rents of force back of them, are contented to rest in it, for
in it they have found and recognized a manifestation of the
Christ and know it to be their spiritual home, hence feel no
inclination to seek elsewhere. But there are many others
who come to these Teachings, as they do to many others,
seeldng for just the expression of spiritual truth and the
currents of force to which their stage of unfoldment will
enable them to respond. These may stay with us a shorter
or longer time and then find their home elsewhere. Many,
on the other band, after going forth again into the intel-
lectual wilderness, return and find rest and satisfaction. But
all are welcomed as honored guests, and such as do not
become "Children of the Household" are cheered on their
way when they depart with a blessing and a hearty "God-
speed" and a sincere hope that they may soon find the Christ
manifesting in some other spiritual home so that they may
rest on His bosom and go no more out.
The second John does not make a great stir in the world.
He is not a great teacher or preacher. He does not go out
and cry unto the people so that they flock to him in great
numbers out of curiosity, either as to his peculiar manner of
life and dress or as to his teachings. He simply rests on
the bosom of the Christ and solves the uroblems of life
The Three Johns 145
through the mystic power of the Christ which he finds in
his heart. He blesses the world silently and hence is often
misunderstood and persecuted; for the world cannot under-
stand or accept him. Yet his own heart is always cheered
because he is resting in the absolute knowledge that he has
found the Christ and has imbibed the force of the heart
while resting on His bosom. This is the end, we might say,
of the second John; the end of the second decanate of
Aquarius, which is ruled by Mercury, the great intellectual
planet, yet the one which is so variable and so little under-
stood by the world.
But there comes a day in the life of every true disciple
when, after the dominance of the intellect has given way to
the illumination of the intuition, through the power of the
Christ with whom he has dwelt in so intimate a relationship,
he feels impelled to call upon the intellect winch has now
been illumined by the Divine Light, and use it to reveal to
man that which is to be. He has heard the Voice cry from
out the Silence: "It is not well; thou hast reaped, now thou
must sow." This is the third and last John, the Revelator.
The last decanate of Aquarius is ruled by Venus or the
power of 1)ivine Love. Through his realization of Divine
Love John has gained another crown. He has learned to
love the world of humanity and labor for it. Through the
persecutions he has passed he has penetrated into the very
heart of life and has seen the possibilities and needs of man-
kind. Having entered into the oneness and drawn down the
glory of the Shekina he is crowned with glory unspeakable.
The intellectual brilliancy of the first John and the heart
warmth of the second are swallowed up in the spiritual radi-
ance of the third John in which all are melted, blended
together and sublimed. But this cannot be expressed in
words; it must be realized. For to John the Revelator all
worlds are one, and as he lives therein he becomes the Reve-
lator of the Divine to man. He has not only entered into the
Spirit on the Lord's day, but he has heard the Voice and has
146 The Message of Aquaria
turned and glimpsed the glory of the Ancient of Days. He
has heard the thunders of the Seven Churches and has held
in his right hand the powers of the Christ. The Mount upon
which he stands is the Mount of Transfiguration. He is still
man, but he has become more than a man, a true Aquarian.
CHAPTER XII
CHILDREN OF THE HOUSEHOLD
aAsk, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall Ihid; knock,
and it shall be opened unto you.".St. Matthew, vii, 7.
"Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but
fellow-citizens with the saints, and of the household of God."-
Ephesians, ii, 19.
PRAYER FOR DEMONSTRATION
I am a child of the Living God.
I have within me the all-creating power of the Christ.
It radiates from me and blesses all I contact.
It is my Health, my Strength, my Courage.
My Patience, my Peace, my Poise.
My Power, my Wisdom, my Understanding.
My Joy, my Inspiration, and my Abundant Supply.
Unto this great Power I entrust all my problems,
Knowing they will be solved in Love and Justice.
(Here mention all financial and physical problems pertaining to
your outer life, environment and worldly affairs' with which you desire
guidance and help, that they may work out ia the way that shall be
best for you. Meditate a moment on each until visualized, then con-
elude with the following words):
0 Lord Christ! I have laid upon Thine altar all my wants and
desires. I know Thy love, Thy wisdom, Thy power and Thy gra-
ciousness. In Thee I peacefully rest, knowing that all is well. Not
my will but Thine be done.
How familiar to our cars are the numerous texts pertain-
ing to the efficacy of prayer! Yet many, many Souls in
these dark days seem to be losing much if not all faith in
prayer as an actual and compelling power. Many, as they
look around the world today, realize that we are living in
the last days of the old dispensation, hence are tempted to
ask with Jesus, "Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh,
shall he find faith on the earth?"2
To some this chapter may seem too simple and obvious,
iFor spiritual unfoldment use the Prayer for Light For healing, harmony,
comfort, etc.. use the Ifealisg Prayer, for protection the Prosectssg Iavocatiow.
etc. See Appendix.
2 St. Lake xviii, 8.
147
148 The Message of Aquaria
especially to those who have grown tired of the faith that
looks for positive answer to prayer and who have turned
their backs upon what seems to them but a mere ceremony
belonging to the old garment of religious thought they have
thrown aside as impractical. Nevertheless, we ask all to
have patience, for even those who have turned away because
they did not understand the Law, yet who feel within them
the cry of the Soul for some definite comfort from on high;
whose hands still reach out gropingly in the intellectual con-
fusion and spiritual darkness of this age for some strong,
powerful hand to which they may hold fast, need just the
understanding and help which this chapter endeavors to
bring.
On the other hand, many earnest and devoted students
have a faith of a sort, yet do not know how to ask aright.
And since this Prayer for Demonstration has been given us
in answer to the above need, the following analysis and in-
struction as to its use is now given out to all.
"I am a child of the living God?'
This is not a mere assertion without any foundation in
sober fact, neither is it a mere aflirmation of something we
would like to see manifested in reality, yet which we have to
question and qualify in our minds as we say it. It is a plain
statement of fact. All humanity are children of the living
God in the wider sense, but as used in this prayer the thought
to be held is that the Children of God who really enjoy the
advantages of childship are those who definitely recognize
their relationship to the Father. We realize that the Father
we address is not the incomprehensible Absolute, so sepa-
rated from His children and so lacldng in sympathy with
the frailties of humanity as to be approachable only in fear
and trembling. We understand that the Living God has sent
forth not only His "only begotten Son," but has also en-
shrined in each human heart a direct Ray of Himself, which
we call our personal Father-in-Heaven, our Higher Self, our
Real Self. Similarly, the physical Sun embodies a vital por-
tion of itself in every seed without which the seed could not
Children of the Household 149
germinate and unfold, no matter how much earth, air and
water were supplied. In this sense every plant that grows
is a child of the Sun.
We realize that our Divine Self is a part of the Living
God as a drop is a part of the ocean or as a ray of sunshine
is a part of the Sun, containing all its potencies. This Divine
Being, because truly our Father, knows and understands even
our personal and physical needs, and because a Ray from
the Living God, can flash our petition to the very Fount of
all Outpouring, even as pushing an electric button can bring
back from the central power station a force which shall
perform our most trivial household tasks. Also, since this
Ray of God caine to Earth to complete the Cycle of Mani-
festation of the Divine within, it cannot accomplish its
mission until we, its earthly embodiment, have been so puri-
fied and developed as to manifest its perfection.
Those who grasp this idea as a vital realization of the
immanence of the God within, step out from the mass of
mankind and enter the spiritual Household. They recognize
that the Lord God or the Law of God is the vital force of
that Divine Love which brought forth the manifested uni-
verse in consecutive order, from the Absolute to man, with-
out a missing link, and which implanted within us that
manifestation of the Divine which pushes us on and on into
ever greater stages of unfoldment and expression of the
Divine in us.
While exoterically there is a crude manifestation of child-
ship in all, esoterically the true Children of the Household
are those who choose to dwell in the Household and submit
themselves to its laws, because they have taken the trouble
to study them instead of merely following a set form of
words (prayers) which have little meaning, but which they
must accept and believe or be cast out.
crj have within me the all-creating power of the Christ.
It radiates from me and blesses all I contact."
Once we have recognized our relationship to the Divine
and our nosition in the Household, we will understand its
150 The Message of Aquaria
intimate and necessary provisions for our personal com-
fort and spiritual maintenance. Then we gain the ability to
manifest that power which is the only begotten of the Father-
Mother, the Christ-power. It flows through our veins and
manifests as a vital factor in our lives, as the knowledge of
his family blood courses through the veins of an aristocrat.
Yet only through practice in expressing its characteristics in
the daily life can we prove our childship. Altho it is the
heritage of every child of God, in the majority it lies dor-
mant because no attempt is made to develop and express it.
If we are consciously striving to let it shine through us, i. e.,
dwelling in its Light and meditating on it in our hearts, it
cannot help radiating from us and blessing all we contact.
"Itis my health."
By claiming our cbildship we become obligated to strive
for the expression of the ideals of the Household, one of
which is health. If, however, we put health first and demand
it of our Father before all else, we may receive it to the
exclusion of the gifts of the Spirit. On the other band, if
through our spiritual advance our bodies become more sen-
sitive to small imperfections and inharmonies which would
not affect one who was less advanced, hence make us react
more easily to inharmony of body or mind, we must recog-
nize that the keynote of the Household is harmony and that
this is brought about and maintained by the adjustment of all
inharmonics, through the all-creating power of the Christ.
While the observance of the well-known laws of bodily health
is an important factor in maintaining this harmony, the Chil-
dren of the Household should have some instruction as to
the inhannonies that arise even when all the physical laws
have been obeyed to the letter. Hence this chapter.
Bodily Health. Bodily health is but the ultimate expres-
sion of a harmony manifesting in the inner bodies and ex-
pressing on the physical plane, according to the degree of its
attainment, even tho the unfoldment of the higher spiritual
faculties is but slight.
Children of the Household 151
Since it is an anatomical fact that the cells of our body
are continually dividing and multiplying, each new born cell
bearing the imprint or characteristic vibration of our state
of mind at the time of its birth, perfect health can be greatly
facilitated and ultimately attained by our deliberate recog-
nition of this fact and a conscious impressing of a mental
picture of the perfection of the Christ upon each new cell
as it is born. To accomplish this, each morning on waking,
give thanks for the watchful care of the Divine Mother who
has been helping us to imprint the image of perfection upon
each new cell during the night. Also the last thing before
dropping asleep ask that the great stream of Divine Life
(the Christ-force) may flow unimpeded and uninterrupted
through the body and bring each cdl to the perfection of its
manifestation.
If atoms and cells which cannot vibrate to the new key-
note which we have sounded in our life have to be thrown
off through cataclysms of illness, do not try to hold on to
the old atoms. Let them go, but hold strongly the idea of
building into their place finer and more perfect atoms and
cells, which will respond to our new keynote. Hold the
thought, however, that this change and rebuilding shall be
gradual so that great raasses of atoms and cells will not be
eliminated at one time, but gradually, thus making cata-
clysms of illness unnecessary. But if illness does come,
always regard it as a deansing and rebuilding process, and
take every means and form of treatment that will help Na-
ture make the readjustment quickly and thoroughly.
Mental Health. This is the result of right thinldng.
Therefore we must learn so to order our thoughts that they
shall be constructive and helpful. We must also study the
laws of so that we may work in harmony with them
and not waste our mental forces in vain imaginings or frit-
ter them away in worry, etc. We aid the manifestation of
our mental health (harmony) by learning to think sanely on
3 See aiter xiv.
152 The Message of Aquaria
all spiritual as well as physical questions; not to be fasci-
nated or carried away by half-truths or by teachings whose
logical basis is indefinite or not clear, but to turn each ques-
tion over and look at it from all sides. We must train our
mind to work in harmony with our ideals and principles of
life, and it will then radiate harmony and health.
It is often ignorantly said that all ills of the body are
caused by the mind. This, of course, is obviously untrue,
for all physical injuries, external poisonings, psychic dis-
orders and disorders resulting from improper diet are not
caused by the mind; they come from without. But all the
sensations of illness are experienced through the reaction of
the mind to the inharmonious cause of the sensations.
Psychic Health. In some schools of thought it is taught
that to develop the higher spiritual and psychic powers one
must be separated from all contact with humanity. The rea-
son they give is that the higher development can be attained
only when the body has become so depleted, anemic and neg-
ative that it is almost defenseless against the magnetism,
psychic influences and miasmic thought-forces of the com-
mon herd. To such an extreme do some carry this idea that
we find them wearing gloves when obliged to associate with
their fellows, lest by touching one of their lesser developed
brothers or sisters they might be contaminated by a lower
animal magnetism! Since this is not the teaching of The
Order of Christian Mystics we wish to go into the matter
somewhat fully, that we may make clear our fundamental
teachings on this subject.
The physical body, when dense and heavy, and ere the
development of the higher faculties is begun, is indeed a
protection against those astral influences which envelop the
Earth as with a mantle of fog and which contain many
kinds of semi-material forms of life which perpetually seek
to contact mortals, since their great desire is to manifest in
the material world.
As we advance spiritually we naturally etherealize and
Children of the Household 153
sensitize our bodies; for altho to mortal eyes no difference
can be observed, yet as we allow the inner spiritual body
to unfold within us it must penetrate to the outermost
atom of the physical body. Hence the physical body gradu.
ally becomes no longer a thick, dense shell, which of itself
is an automatic protection from both physical diseases and
astral influences. But instead of teaching that at this stage
we must withdraw from all human contact and immure our-
selves in forest, jungle, convent or monastery, this Order
teaches that as the body grows more and more sensitive and
less and less a natural barrier to finer forces of all kinds, the
sensitive must dwell apart not in body, but in mind and in
Jilt response and reaction to undesirable influences. He
must build up within him a vital thought-form and ideal of
the spiritual Household in which he dwells, and of the
mighty protective power of the indwelling and radiating
Christ principle. The Bible tells us truly that this Christ-
force is a consuming fire, but the disciple can dwell in this
fiery furnace, as did the three prophets, Meshach, Shadrach
and Abednego, when the Christ walks with him.
Primitive man gathered clay and from it made a crude
form of pottery. It was coarse, thick and heavy, and if it
was to contain water or resist the forces of the elements,
he made it still thicker. More developed man also gathered
clay and made pottery, but he found out how to make it
thin and transparent and beautiful. To strengthen and pro-
tect it he covered it with a glaze and subjected it to an
intense heat, which made it more enduring and more imper-
vious to water and the elements than the much thicker, crude
pottery. It is a somewhat similar protecting glaze which the
buddhic fire of the Christ-force, burning steadily within,
forms around the bodies of the Children of the Household,
the Ring Pass Not, which enables their bodies to become as
delicate and transparent as a piece of the finest Sevres por-
celain, yet more enduring, protective and impervious than
the more dense bodies of the undeveloped. Only to such
154 The Message of Aquaria
does the promise apply: "There shall no evil befall thee,
neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling (body)
Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the
young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet.
Because he bath set his love upon me therefore will I deliver
him."
The realization of our spiritual oneness, the attainment
of mental balance and the manifestation of the Christ-force
will give us power in the astral body or body of sensation
which stands as the middle point upon which our health is
focalized; for above it is the spiritual perception and mental
realization, while below it is the physical body and the activi-
ties of the outer life. The astral body expresses health or
ill health according as it responds to the combined influences
from above and below. Most diseases focalize in our sen.
salions. We may suffer a serious bodily mishap, but if there
were no sensation we would make little of it. We may re-
ceive a great mental shock, but if it brings little suffering
(sensation), we soon recover. We may be spiritually blind,
but if it brings us no suffering we are scarcely aware of it.
If the sensitive Children of the Household would have
perfect health, they must begin to radiate the buddhic Fire
of Divine Love; to let the Christ-force dominate the body
of sensation; must begin to sense this Divine Fire as a great
current of Life thrilling them with a great vibration of Love,
coming in through the heart and radiating to the centers of
the astral body and flowing up into the mind and Spirit and
down into the physical body.
But in striving to cultivate this Love, care must be taken
that the sensations of mere physical attraction or magnetism
shall not be cultivated under the false name of love. The
Love we refer to is a realization of impersonal and all-
embracing Divine Love, the purest, most godlike and holy
vibration to which the Soul of man can respond. It com-
pares with pure, human love only in its great longing for one-
4Psajmz. xcL 10.14.
Children of the Household 155
ness with its Source. To give rein to physical attraction
under the mistaken idea that it may awaken the higher Love
is a most dangerous and pernicious teaching, much more
likely to give rise to lust, a fire of the nether world which
attracts to the astral body terrible diseases from the astral
world.5
Whenever contact with astral conditions brings an astral
chill5 or a feeling as tho a cold wind were blowing over
one, if it is allowed to continue its manifestation, some form
of illness is apt to follow. This often takes the form of
disturbances around the heart or solar plexus, such as pal-
pitation, suffocation, nausea, or abdominal pain, or excessive
eructations of gas, due to a poisoning of the astral body. On
such occasions we should not try to personalize the force
and think that some enemy or inhannonious person is send-
ing us an evil force which upsets us, for usually this is not
the case. We have simply allowed ourselves to respond to
a low astral force of some kind. To dispel it we should use
The Protecting Invocation6 and concentrate on the thought
of the Fire of Divine Love blazing steadily within us, warm-
ing, vitalizing and protecting us. In using The Protecting
Invocation, the pupil must be fully aware that he is touch-
ing a tremendous dynamic force. Hence only as we recog-
nize that the Ring of Fire is the very heart of creative sub-
stance which can create, preserve or destroy with equal force,
is it safe to use it. Remembering this, we must maintain
the reverent attitude of mind that is willing to take the con-
sequences, i. e., that we hold a Love so holy that it will create
in us a closer, more intimate and sensitive oneness with
Divine Fire; that it will preserve in us this sensitiveness and
destroy or take from us all that in us may impede our growth
in godliness. Therefore, we must repeat this prayer rever-
ently, knowing that carelessness may be disastrous. Never
repeat it unthinkingly or carelessly.
The astral body is the sensitive plate which records our cx-
5Se Realms af the Lial,g Dead, Curtiu, 89-229.
S Sec Appendix.
156 The Message of Aqzi'aria
periences, and if it has responded to many sensations it has
become so sensitized that it can easily respond to new impres-
sions, not only from the outer world, but also from the
astral and mental worlds as well. Those who are not striving
to master sensation and gain poise and balance, often live
more in the world of sensation than in the physical world.
To such, sensation is life, and so they give way to it. But
only when they have gained the victory over sensation and
taught the mind to control it by controlling its reactions to
sensation, only then can they expect to manifest perfect
health.
Life and evolution depend upon sensation for their expres-
sion, and sensation results in experience. Hence age is
marked by acquisition of experience, not by the mere lapse
of time. The Soul that has responded to the most sensa-
tions has experienced most. But we truly experience only
the things we really feel. Thousands of things around us
pass us by and make no impression, hence they bring up no
experience. The plate upon which their vibrations fell was
not sensitive or responsive to them. That which makes a
Soul young in spiritual unfoldment is that the personality
is not sensitized enough for higher events and finer forces
to make much impression upon it, hence aitho not lacldng
experiences it is lacking in experience.
This matter of response and reaction to sensation is a vital
problem to advanced students who desire to become Chil-
dren of the Household. Many suffer in this life because in
past ages they gained terrible experiences through suffering,
often not because they suffered repeatedly, but because they
hugged suffering to them and thus had terrible experiences
along that one line. They also grew old in self-condemna-
tion, for they deliberately reacted to condemnation and
minute and agonizing self-analysis. They made their sen-
sitive plate so thin that even today the least hint of condem-
nation awakens a memory picture of the long days and weeks
and years of vigil and prayer and self-condemnation.
Children of the Household 157
Such Souls are old only in one direction, hence have a
great field of other experiences awaiting them, and should
not waste time living over and responding anew to the suf-
fering of the past. Others are old along another line, because
they have experienced so many disagreeable things, known
so many disappointments and disillusions. While they were
born with a new brain and a new astral and physical body
in this life, ready for new experiences, yet they have built
into it the astral permanent atom which bears the impress
of the past sensations, the response to which makes them
Iacldng in enthusiasm over anything. It is hard for them to
respond to that which is most beautiful and admirable,
either in Nature or in their fellowmen. This is not because
they do not see and recognize the beauty, but because their
one-sided development of sensation has made them feel so
old in the ways of the world that they are world-weary,
hence find it difficult to respond to new beauties or new ideas.
For them this life is but another day's weary journey, for
their vague, haunting memory of the intermediate states of
glory in the higher worlds frequently renewed in deep sleep,
contrasts so hopelessly with their experiences in Earth life.
Thus it is difficult for those with a strong development along
one line to grasp what others are experiencing. Yet it is
through the experiencing of sensations that we develop spir-
itually, just as a definite organ of sight (the eye) was devel-
oped as a result of the sensations suffered because of its
absence.
But health results from the mastery of sensation, whether
from the outer or the inner worlds, whether in this life or in
the past. Giving way to emotions or sensations in the astral,
even during sleep, tends to tear the physical body to pieces,
gives the face a drawn, depleted look and leaves a mental
depression. Hence the necessity for the mastery of our
emotions. While all diseases and disasters of physical life
which result from self-condemnation and misery. as well as
158 The Message of Aquaria
psychic ills, have their scat in the astral body, we must also
remember that the realization of all the beauties, the joys
and enthusiasms of life, as well as the memories of the glo-
rious experiences in the higher worlds, also impinge upon the
body of sensation. Hence these should be dwelt upon instead
of the mistakes, disappointments and sufferings. This real-
ization does not admit discouragement, nor allow the Soul
to sink into the despondency that results from response to
the other dass of sensations.
True health requires the ability to abide in outer condi-
tions and still maintain our equilibrium, neither sinking into
despondency nor going into ecstasies of joy, but maintaining
our poise so that we understand the why and the how and
react accordingly. Since we have at hand all our beautiful
memories of glory, joy and beauty, the more we respond
to their sensations the greater our ability to sense other joys
and beauties in life, instead of using our memories and
sensations to inffict greater suffering upon ourselves.
If conditions are inharmonious and irritating and we use
the power of mind and will to repress response, we are
merely putting pressure on a sore spot. We should do all
in our power to adjust and make conditions harmonious and
then turn our minds to the contemplation of the beauties and
ideals of life and allow ourselves to react to them. We must
use our sensitiveness to respond to the sensations desired,
and then express them. Refuse to vibrate to lower forces,
but focus on the higher. Live among the angels who do
not worry about anything on Earth, yet gather its forces,
experiences and lessons.
If we are sensitive to pain, inharmony, misunderstanding,
irritation and unhappiness, we are just as sensitive to joy,
harmony, peace and happiness. Which shall we choose to
respond to and express?
Spiritual Health. Realizing our oneness with the power
of the Christ, the moment we let its buddhic Light manifest
Children of the Household 159
and radiate from us our spiritual health is assured; for that
is determined by the degree of our at-one-ment with our
Source of Being.
CHAPTER XIII
CHILDREN OF THE HOUSEHOLD
(CONCLUDED)
"If the 'Doctrine of the Hearf is too high-winged for thee1 if thou
needest help thyself and fearest to offer help to others-4hen, thou of
timid heart, be warned in time; remain content with the 'Eye Doc-
trine' of the Law. Hope still. For if the 'Secret Path' is unattain-
able this 'day' (life), it is within thy reach 'tomorrow.' "The Voice
of the Silence, Blavatsky, 34.
"Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all
that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us."-
Ephesians, in, 20.
Continuing our analysis of the Prayer for Demonstration,
we come to the statement
It is sny .strength.
All earnest students seek to work most effectively for the
Master; to accomplish; to attain; and it is a law of life
that strength is gained through exercise, for "function makes
structure." A growing child must have its increasing strength
directed into safe channels, else that strength will be exerted
in mischievous or even destructive activities. Hence one of
the vital problems of child-training is to see that safe and
helpful channels are provided for the constructive use of
the increasing powers, so that all shall work toward the joy
of a well rounded life, instead of becoming sources of trouble.
Most of us are still in the state of spiritual childhood. But
we are growing daily and are finding that the promise of
old is being fulfilled in us, "As thy days, so shall thy strength
be." Hence we, like the child, must look to some guiding and
directing power to teach us the proper use of our growing
strength, as the child looks to its parents.
Let us look for this guidance, not to any outer source, but
160
Children of the Household 161
realize that the Christ which is our strength is 'also the wise
directing Consciousness which can teach us how to use it.
So many who feel this growing strength, and sense the
mighty dynamo of force that is supplying it, think they must
use it to accomplish great things all at once. Yet they seem
held down by daily tasks that are more or less distasteful.
What does this mean? Must we use all our new found
strength merely to accomplish physical or mental tasks?
This is the phase of the growing child during which it is
gaining moral strength to perform its tasks cheerfully and
well, even when it wants to go out and play. We must
accomplish our tasks, but when we realize that the Christ
is the source of our strength, enough will be supplied, not
only for the tasks, but to enable us to learn our lessons out
of them. And, like the development of the child's strength
through directed activities, each task accomplished advances
us just that much onward toward the end in view. We must
realize, however, that it is not only strength to accomplish
that comes from the Christ, but strength of character, which
only a faithful accomplishment of little things can build.
And if the Christ is our strength he is our strength to grow,
as well as to accomplish. He can also furnish us the strength
to accomplish the task now and learn the lesson at once,
leaving us free to go on. When a severe storm sweeps over
a field of growing grain and the stalks are prostrated by its
force, after it has passed some will quickly rise to their f or-
mer upright position because they have the strength not only
to grow but to resist and react resiliently. Others lacking
this resiliency remain prostrate on the ground, aitho crc the
storm struck them they appeared as strong and vigorous
as any. Just so it is with us, we all may be laid low by
storms at times, but only those who have the resilient
strength of trust and faith can properly readjust themselves
to conditions and bear fruit, a little more perfect perhaps
because of the experience.
The Christ within is ever saying, "Onward! Upward!"
162 The Message of Aquaria
yet how often, even when we have prayed for greater useful-
ness and have faithfully performed all the preliminary tasks,
we cry "I cannot !" We hear the cry of the Great Captain
of our Souls saying, "Go on," yet, because we cannot see
just how to proceed and are not given a map of the country
we are told to traverse, nor see the means by which we are
to reach our destination, we still desire to cling to the hand
of some earthly helper. The result is sure. We will never
be given another similar task until we have proved our trust
and faith and confidence in the strength of the Christ; for if
He is our strength that strength will never fail us.
It is my Courage.
We can scarcely separate strength from courage. Yet,
even courage has its seemingly negative, as well as that posi-
tive expression which enables us to step out into the waters
of the Red Sea all alone in the darkness of the night, depend-
ing only upon that which we have attested and proved as
Truth, namely, that the Christ is both our strength and our
courage.
The daily routine is often quite different from the Path
our first enthusiasm pictured. When it comes down to plain
everyday living, the big things, the great ideals, seem to be
lost to sight as our eyes are fixed upon the details of the
daily round. All seems stale and profitless and we are apt
to say that life needs neither inspiration nor courage, only
dogged, plodding endurance. Yet the courage of the Christ,
as exemplified in the life of Jesus, was not only the courage
that led to the cross; that enabled Him to bear alone the
bitter agony of the garden; to stand alone when all His
followers and disciples forsook Him, and to forgive His das-
tardly betrayal, but also the courage which enabled a Divine
Being to leave His heavenly home and put on the limitations
of the flesh and live among conditions of sordid materialism,
even to be rebuked by His mother for the presuming to
enter the temole and be about His father's business. This is
Children of the Household 163
the kind of courage His life points out; the courage of work-
ing and living His own life even when misunderstood and
unappreciated, except for His ability to accomplish with His
hands.
The courage of the Christ is also the courage to stand in
the presence of the Masters. Picture the Christ-man here,
not as being great and glorious and filled with Divine Power,
but with His feet in the mire of Earth, hidden from the sight
of men, unable to demonstrate His mission, without oppor-
tunity to prove His courage. Then say to yourself, "At
that stage He was like me. The Christ in me is tied to
Earth, to this unmastered physical body; this mass of habits
and desires; these faults and failings; this impatience; these
faulty ways of thinking, yet I know the power of the Christ
is there developing and ready to manifest as opportunity
offers. I know how great within me this Divine Light
shines; how it makes me pick up the little burdens of the
day and go on and on in spite of all that seems trying to hold
me back. Therefore I will rely on that strength and courage
and Keep Silent and wait j)atiently on it, knowing that it
will bring me into the fulfillment I have visioned and lived
for." This is the courage that goes with the strength to
grow; the courage to endure while the growing-pains are
severe and hard to bear; that rebounds resiliently after
every storm; the courage to say: "I will manifest and over-
come. I will not look back nor count up my failures. I
will not lean on anyone. In the strength of the Christ I
will stand alone and be myself, I and the Christ within."
It is my Patience.
This is the patience that endures and is not easily upset.
It is not impatience if we use energy and speed in getting
things accomplished. But it is impatience if we are ill at
ease and fretful at our own lack of accomplishment and
rapid advance. Remember that spiritual advance is a
growth which requires time. Patience must begin with our
164 The Message of Aquaria
being at ease with ourselves. "Rest in the Lord (Law),
and wait patiently for him: fret not thyself because of him
who prospereth in his way."1 Know well that the thing
that is best will be brought to pass. If we fret, worry or
are impatient we consume the forces within which should
be directed toward bringing it to pass. We thus shrivel and
contract the centers in our bodies which should be vibrating
to the radiant energy of the Christ-light. Hence, while the
dynamo is there and in perfect working order, yet the
switchboard is out of order and we cannot receive the
power.
Often, however, we feel a sort of impatience, hard to
overcome, because of the effort of the Higher Self to make
us realize that we have left something pertaining to our
daily tasks undone. Therefore, when we feel impatient
with no apparent cause, we should stop and ask ourselves,
what have we left undone? What duty have we neglected?
What have we forgotten that should have received attention
and which our Higher Self is urging us to do? If it is not
apparent, ask in the Silence and soon the forgotten task will
be remembered. Then at once we should stop what we are
doing and attend to the neglected task. If we have spoken
an unkind word we must have the courage to go at once and
apologize. If it was an unjust act, we must have the cour-
age to right it at once. For every such thing left unfinished
puts its pressure upon us and acts as an irritant on our finer
bodies and causes corresponding irritation.
Patience means that we are resting in harmony and at
ease with the Higher Self. We are so at ease that we can
listen to its promptings. We do not fight either the condi-
tions or the forces which seem to be sent against us, yet
we are ever alert to better the conditions in every way pos-
sible. And since we remain at ease we can see how the
conditions can be improved and mastered. Employed thus
lPsg5p. xxxvii. 7.
Children of the Household 165
we forget to complain to the Father about the little trials of
the daily life. In short, true patience is not inertia nor a
stolid pulling up with things because it is too much trouble
to find ways of bettering them, but is the expression of our
degree of at-one-ment with the Higher Self.
It is my Peace.
Peace includes so much. We cannot have true peace
while there is anything within or without that urges us on to
fight. But even here we need not lose our poise. We must
have peace within ourselves. True peace is a part or piece
of what? It is a piece of the Divine Poise, the "peace which
passeth all understanding." If we have it we must rest in
it, and we cannot grow weary if we are resting in a part of
Go
The great lesson to learn is to rest in this consciousness.
If difficult conditions arise we should say to ourselves that
now is the time to be quiet and trust that the Christ is send-
ing through us streams of living power and peace, even
tho we cannot manifest them all at once, and especially while
the world is in travail and giving birth to a new social and
spiritual consciousness and a new sub-race.
The "peace which passeth all understanding" is not af-
fected by outer conditions. God rests in perfect peace while
all creation groans and travails in birth; while man strives
with man in bitter war. This is not because of any lack of
sympathy or loving kindness toward either Nature or man,
but because of the Divine Wisdom that knows all things
must be worked out according to the Law of Manifesta-
tion, working in its seven-fold manner, if the wonderful
peace which is perfect harmony with God's Grand Plan is
to overcome and transmute all the elements of inharmony
and unrest.
We cannot have peace within until we have vanquished
2 See TAo Voice of Is,.. Curti3.. 192.
166 The Message of Aquaria
every thought that is out of harmony with the Christ which
is our peace. We cannot have peace on Earth until we have
vanquished every force among nations which stands in the
way of the manifestation of God's harmonious Plan for all
His children, as announced by the angelic hosts so long ago
but never yet realized.
We will have peace on Earth only when we have Good
Will among men of all nations. Good Will means much
more than a truce because we are tired of fighting. It
means a definite recognition of the all-including power of the
Christ in the world and in each heart. It also includes an
awakened and strongly developed Will that all shall do His
bidding, and a never-ceasing effort to make straight the
paths for the manifestation of the Christ. In short, we
cannot have true peace until we have a Good Will directed
toward all men. Just as the individual must have a strong
Will that Good shall manifest, so must the nations Will
strongly that the Good or the peace of God shall mani-
fest on Earth. Then, no matter what we have to endure,
we can hold the ideal and rest in the consciousness of peace,
even while we strive for it. We will not weep nor lament
over the necessary adjustment of old conditions in our lives
or in the world, even tho they may seem terrible. Neither
will we hold back and refuse to play our part in them. We
will do our best to settle our problems bravely and justly,
then rest in the consciousness of peace, knowing well that
in due season the birth of new conditions will be accom-
plished in our lives and in the life of humanity.
It is my Poise.
As we have already mentioned poise as an element of
peace, let us here consider it in the sense of good temper,
for one who has poise will have good temper. We use the
words tempo, temporary and temporal with the meaning
of but a passing phase. Also let us look at temper, not as
an evil force in itself, but something that should be used
Children of the Household 167
to temper and prepare the Soul for higher states. We tem-
per steel for a bridge or for a fine cutting tool, and the Lord
tempers the wind to the shorn lamb. But the steel does not
find the process a pleasant one nor does the lamb find only
warm sunshine in the spring weather. At first it has to
snuggle up to its mother, but later it finds itself tempered
and made strong. The wind does not stop blowing because
the lamb has been shorn, but the life-force in the lamb
adjusts or tempers itself to the new conditions and finds itself
strengthened.
To have a good temper does not mean that we are to allow
ourselves to be imposed upon or that we will have no
temptations or aggravations, but that the North Wind3 in
conditions of life will continue to buffet us until our fiber is
improved and strengthened, just as the lamb suffers until it
learns that it can keep warm by varying its activities, or as
steel has its flaws pounded out by the hammering it receives.
The Great Law brings us analogous poundings to make us
sensitive and strong and to show us how to use our new-
found qualities of strength, courage, patience, peace and
poise, to conquer.
Without being tempered we could not meet and endure
the strain of the rapidly advancing vibrations and conditions
of life, any more than cast iron could stand the strain of
increased traffic if built upon a bridge. Through poise we
must gain the ability to stand the tempering processes of
Earth conditions, understand the why and so make the cor-
relation more quicldy with the desired end. If we find the
little irritations which we ordinarily call temper are running
away with us we are like a workman who, instead of let-
ting the trip-hammer drop on the iron he is tempering, lets
it fall on and injure his foot (power of understanding) or
his hand (power to accomplish).
3See PaRc 132.
168 The Message of Aquaria
It u tny Power.
Our power is the power of the Christ-life which is the
power back of all evolution; the power that makes the seed
to sprout, the mind of the child to unfold, the awakened
Soul to delve into ever deeper and truer conceptions of life.
In short, it is the power that will and must bring all things
into manifestation in exact accord with the pattern sent out
by the Divine Mind. Hence nothing can stop the working
of this power, aitho its ultimate achievement of perfect
manifestation may be temporarily diverted and delayed.
Since "God saw everything that he had made, and, be-
hold, it was very good," the divine constructive power of the
Christ-life must bring all those seeds of good sown by
the Father into fullness of perfect manifestation. For the
Father has sown only good seeds in His field of manifesta-
tion. But man, whom the Father made His husbandman,
has slept. And while he slept his enemy.his own lower
nature, which tends to act selfishly and destructively when
the higher nature sleepc came and sowed tares in the field
of his life. So when the good seed sprang up, behold, tares
were present also. Nevertheless, while the uprooting and
burning of these tares will delay the harvest, ultimately the
power of the Christ-life will garner in the perfect grain.
In the meantime we must remember that it was the same
power of the Christ-life, diverted into wrong channels, that
made the tares grow with the wheat and that through the
experience of mastering them man should gain greater men-
tal, moral and spiritual power. Also remember that it is
the power of this same Christ-life that enables us to endure
all the results of the tares and gives us the wisdom and
courage to recognize and the strength to gather and burn
them and thus utilize the residue of their activity (ashes)
to fertilize the ground and bring forth better crops in the
next cycle.
Children of the Household 169
It is my Wisdom.
Wisdom is the essence of experience, love and under-
standing. We will never attain wisdom until we begin to
love deeply, experience intensely and understand both. We
love deeply only after experience. We understand fully
only after we love and experience. But the instant we
understand, how our burdens fall away and our problems
work out! For we are always confused, blinded and irri-
tated until we do understand.
Wisdom is a god-like quality and he who attains it ad-
vances toward godhood. Therefore seek wisdom. How?
Not merely by accumulating information from books, but
also by cultivating the god-like qualities within, recognizing
that the Christ within is the central point from which all our
forces emanate. Every nerve in our bodies receives power,
not merely from the food we eat, but from centers in the
astral body, the body of sensation, the bridge between the
spiritual and the physical. Without it we would be without
sensation and hence without experience. The higher spiritual
body is the Christ-child, which must be born within us and
must have its correlation with the physical. It sends down
a ray of itself into us, and over this bridge of Light it is
capable of revealing to us out of our experience, love and
understanding, that which we call wisdom.
Make a picture of the Father-in-heaven endowed with the
power and glory of all the worlds and possessed of the in-
finite wisdom of the ages. Then think of Him as planting
the seeds of that wisdom within us, and by the power of the
Christ-light which comes direct to us in a pathway of glory
from the Father, bringing those seeds to fruition in our lives.
And as we strive to return to the Father up this Path of
Glory we will be bathed in the power to attain wisdom,
which is more than experience, love and understanding.
This wisdom then must be gathered out of every little thing
through understanding. In this sense the Christ-light within
170 The Message of Aquaria
becomes our wisdom in proportion as we understand that
which the Light reveals.
It is my Understanding.
Understanding means that we must store up every experi-
ence, be it psychic or of the outer life, and like Mary ponder
these things in our hearts until we comprehend that which
the experience was meant to teach. We should not run to
this, that and the other one and ask for explanations, nor
even to those who are qualified to teach us, until we have
prayerfully sought for the light of understanding within our-
sdves, else we may get many contradictory solutions. In
every experience the Soul passes through there is some deep
personal question involved, something which we alone can
know, either some deep hidden fault to correct or some deep
Soul-mystery to unravel. This we must learn to understand,
for only through understanding can we learn the lessons
which the experiences held for us.
It is my Joy.
Out of understanding springs joy, the deep abiding joy
which knows that every doud has a silver lining and every
dark night is glad morning. The mark which the angel
places in the foreheads of the 144,000,hIwho are the Saints
to be gathered out of all the tribes, is the look of one who
has gained true Understanding of the Divine, Divine Wis-
dom, hence thas a full Understanding of life. The eyes
hold in their depths the profound happiness of one who has
rested on the bosom of the Christ and can never more be
afraid. This is the mark placed by the angel in the fore-
head of those who are sealed. This is the Joy which the
world can neither give nor take away.
it is my Inspiration.
Jesus left with those who are His sincere followers "the
Spirit of Truth" which shall abide with us always and which
4See The Key of Dezhuy. Curtiss. 228. 245.
Children of the Household 171
shall bring all things to our remembrance whatsoever we
had been told. Inspiration is a recognition of this Spirit of
Truth and the inspiring or breathing in of all that it holds
for us. One who has thus attained Wisdom, Understand-
ing and Joy can live in the Breath of the Spirit and at any
time draw in or be inspired by the Truth.
It is my Abundant Supply.
Realize just what we mean by supply. If we limit it to
food and clothing and ability to pay our debts, and admit
that those things are all we need to enable us to unfold and
express our Real Self, then they are all we can expect to
attain by our utmost efforts. To gain mere selfish desires
is to grow in selfishness, hence we will not get answers to
such prayers except as the Father sees that we need to learn
the bitter lessons which their attainment will teach. Yet,
abiding firmly in the faith that our Father will give us that
which we have asked if and when it is best, we do not harass
Him, like a petulant child, by asking again and again. We
have planted the seed-thought of that which we desire, and
if it be good seed, we must allow it time for growth and
fruition. Therefore, we must simply water it with love and
firm faith in the Wisdom and kindness of the Father to give
it if it be best, and let the sunlight of our spiritual realiza-
tion shine upon it, and not keep pulling up the seed each
day to see if it is growing.
The abundant supply is not merely of physical things
and conditions, but of the things we need so much more,
love, peace, poise, unselfishness, understanding, wisdom,
etc. When we have an abundance of the Light of the Christ
within we have no need to ask for the rest, for all those
things shall be added unto us as needed. We must make in
our hearts a Temple for the Living God, with an anteroom
into which all the forces of the universe can come and bring
their gifts, for all are ministers to us for the Christ. If we
let the angels, the elementals and the Winds of Heaven lay
172 The Message of Aquaria
their gifts at our feet as we minister to the Christ in our
Temple, then we will have no wants unsupplied, for all is
made subservient to the Divine. And we must be careful
not to put a limit upon the power of the Christ by saying
that such and such a thing is impossible; for whatever is
needful for the manifestation of a beautiful, happy and
normal life is ours, when we have entered into our heritage
as "heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ."
CHAPTER XIV
MAN, KNOW THYSELF
"Saith the Great Law: In order to become the knower of ALL
SELF, thou hast first of SELF to be the knower.' To reach the
knowledge of that SELF, thou hast to give up Self to Non-Self,
Being to non-being."The Voice of the Silence, Blavatsky, L
"Ignorance is the cause of imperfection. Men do not know them-
selves and, therefore, they do not understand the things of their inner
world. Each man has the essence of God, and all the wisdom and
power of the world (germinally) in himself."Paracelsus, Hartinan..
Every student of mysticism is familiar with the axiom
that man is a microcosm of the macrocosm, and has grown
familiar with the idea, at least in a superficial way, that in
some mysterious manner man is an epitome of the universe.
Let us try to comprehend this idea and make of it a greater
reality, a more vital help toward the unfoldment of our inner
life; for a fundamental object of mysticism is to find back
of everything the reality which gives it life. This is as true
of a trite axiom or an idea as of anything in the manifested
universe.
We look upon the physical universe and admire the
beauty and diversity of its manifestations. We enthuse
over its outer wonders; its trees and flowers; its rocks and
streams; its wondrous store of wealth hidden beneath the
surface; its rivers, mountains and its oceans. Truly a mar-
velous world! Then we look deeper and find in the sea a
vast universe inhabited by an infinite variety of lives. The
microscope reveals a still more minute, but no less wonder-
ful world of life in every drop of water. The telescope
overawes the intellect and thrills the Soul with the mighty
revelation of shining stars, flaming comets, glowing suns
173
174 The Message of Aquaria
millions of times larger than our own,1 and vast cosmic sys-
tems too great for comprehension, while chemistry and
physics tell us that the electrons within an atom of sub-
stance are relatively as far from each other as the planets in
our solar system, yet all, both great and small, are moving
in majestic harmony.
And behind and within all these outer manifestations we
find an infinite number of tribes of living, conscious forces
having the earth, the air, the water and the fire for their
habitat, as well as the great hierarchies of Angelic Beings
in the still more ethereal worlds. Each and all of these
forms of life and consciousness follow their own appointed
way, have their own evolution and fulfill their destined role.
No wonder the unenlightened exdaim, "Do you mean to
tell us that man is such a universe? that he is a microcosm
in exact similitude to this macrocosm?"
As we enter the first gate upon the Path of Attainment
we must stop and consider the mandate which is carved
over its portal, "Man, know thyself." What a vast know-
ing this must be! First, to know man in the aggregate and
then to know thyself in particular. In the study of man we
are wont to consider him under at least three divisions
and say that he is a Spirit manifesting through a mind and
a body. Or we may consider him under seven divisions,
four lower pertaining to his bodies and three higher pertain-
ing to his Soul,2 an overshadowing triangle whose apex
reaches up and puts him in touch with the vastness of the
great universal One Life. But even such a division is little
more than as if we were to divide the universe into its four
constituent elements of earth, air, fire and water, and its
three higher ethers, and ignore the component parts and the
lOne star (Bdelgeiue) of the many thousands in but one cousteflation
(Orioii), according to Prof. A. A. Michelson is 27000,000 times larger than
our sun, indeed, far larger than the orbit of our Earth and nearly equaling
the orbit of Mars
ZScc The ICes to the Ujuverse. Curtiu. Chapter xxviii.
Man, Know Thyself 175
forces and intdligences which manifest through them; for
within each division there are innumerable minor ones. But
altho the subject is endlessly complex we can begin with the
physical body, as it is the lowest and most easily understood
division.
How shall we go about knowing it? A study of its
anatomical parts reveals to us a most complicated mecha.
nism, yet of wondrous delicacy and marvelous adaptability
to the requirements of life. It is a mechanism, therefore,
which must have all the careful and intelligent treatment
that we would give to the most sensitive and valuable scien-
tific instrument. A study of its functional activities will
acquaint us with the fundamental laws and principles of
physiology, which must be observed in a common-sense way
if we are to keep it in a clean and healthful condition as a
fit temple for the indwelling of its divine occupant, the Real
Self. Not only must we observe the well-known laws of
hygiene, diet and sanitation, but we must realize that all its
activities are the result of the countless currents of the
One Life sweeping through it, the Life which builds up the
bodies through which we are manifesting in each of the
worlds.
Realize that life here in the physical world is not some-
thing separate from Life in the higher realms, but is simply
a continuation of that Life downward into a denser medium
of expression. We also find that the body is not a mere
mechanism, but a living and highly intelligent animal with
the functions, desires, appetites and habits of any animal.
Hence it needs training and control, just as does any other
high-bred animal, if it is to become a willing, obedient and
efficient servant of its lord and master. Hence, through the
directing power of thought we should strive to make the
body express our highest ideals; become an embodiment of
the Real Self. Yet, if after complying with all the laws of
physical health the body still seems to lack, we should
176 The Message of ðquaria
strive to hold vitally to the thought that we are standing
in the glowing stream of the One Life, reaching out and
gathering up and assimilating the forces of the River of
Life, as a rose gathers from the soil and Sun the nourish-
ment that goes to make up its life abundant, and feel this
Divine Life gently permeating and vitalizing us and fulfilling
all our needs.
After considering the needs of the body we must recog-
nize those of the mental expression of the indwelling Real
Self. We must learn to discriminate and recognize those
thoughts and desires which well up into our minds from
the subconscious mind or the mind of the animal self whose
seat is in the solar plexus, and realize that they are not our
thoughts and desires, but those of the animal body asking
us to recognize and gratify them.
Many students, not understanding its nature and func-
tions, concentrate on the solar plexus in an effort to attain
spiritual enlightenment. This being the center of the ani-
mal consciousness, concentration upon it quickens the forces
of the animal nature, and if at the same time the student is
trying to master that nature the conflict is apt to bring about
an unbalanced condition. It is much like speaking kindly
to a dog to get him to perform his best tricks and then
beating him for performing. It is the forces from the
physical Sun, together with astral currents, which center
in the solar plexus, and not the forces from the Spiritual
Sun. And since the function of the physical Sun is to bring
forth the physical life in Nature, concentration upon its
center in the body naturally stimulates our physical forces,
not our spiritual.
The focus of the Spiritual Sun is in the heart. Hence, if
we desire to stimulate our spiritual growth we should not
concentrate upon the solar plexus, but upon the heart; not,
however, upon the physical heart, but upon the development
and expression of the heart qualities.
We must recognize the currents of thought which come
Man, Know Thyself 177
from the rational mind,the intellect of the personality,
which operates through the cortex of the brain as the sub-
conscious does through the ganglia of the solar plexus, both
containing similar tn-polar nerve cellsas it seeks for the
comfort and aggrandizement of the personal self. This
aspect of the mind also needs training and control, for it
often fails to understand, hence doubts, worries and be-
comes discouraged. Hence, just as the subconscious mind
must be taught to submit its desires to our decision, so must
the rational mind be taught to submit to and rely confi-
dently upon the guidance of the higher, superconscious or
spiritual mind of the Soul, which guidance is always given
in answer to aspirations and sincere prayer for guidance.
If the mind grows discouraged at the seeming lack of con-
ditions for peace, harmony and spiritual advance, point out
to it the analogy in Nature. Where does the rose get its
nourishment and the materials for its growth and develop-
ment? All the materials needed to put forth leaf and bud,
blossom and perfume? Out of the commonplace materials
of its environment; yet not out of the materials themselves,
but out of the Divine Life-force that is back of all. How
does it perform this miracle of transmutation? By keeping
confident and poised and allowing the One Life to flow
through it in perfect harmony to manifest its destiny.
Therefore, in times of doubt and depression we should say to
ourselves: "I will keep so calm and poised, so cheerful and
confident and in such close touch with the stream of the
divine Christ-force within me that I shall draw all things to
me that are needed for my growth and development, for
strengthening my roots and perfecting my blossoming. But
to do so I must open my heart to the Sun of Righteousness
and allow the Christ-force to manifest through me in
thought, word and deed that I may express my inner or Real
Self and thus fulfill my destiny."
Remember that one of the fundamental laws of mind is
that, Every thought tends to express itself in action unless
178 The Message of Aquaria
counteracted or neutralized by an opposite thought of greater
power. Therefore we must refuse to think the kind of
thoughts we do not wish expressed through us. But never
fight them; for to do so we are concentrating upon them and
giving them greater power. Instead of resisting or fighting
them, even to pray over them, we must simply turn our
minds away from them by concentrating on and filling our
minds with the opposite kind of a thought, one which we do
wish to have expressed through us. Another fundamental
law is that, Every thought we admit into our minds and con-
template, we give a power over us. We do not have to admit
into our minds, contemplate and go over and over every
thought that may arise in or be presented to our conscious-
ness. We can turn away from and refuse to dwell upon
those thoughts which do not measure up to the ideals of our
lives. Therefore, remember that we do not have to admit
or contemplate evil thoughts unless we choose to do so.
Learn these rules by heart.
The currents, thoughts and forces from the astral world
must also be recognized. If we find that we are becoming
more sensitive to the thoughts of others and are responding
to psychic conditions, here also we must learn to discriminate
and respond only to those forces which are harmonious and
constructive. We must protect ourselves from undesirable
forces by realizing that the power of the indwelling Christ-
force is the great Protector and the great Adjuster of condi-
tions, both in the inner life and in the outer. With the
consciousness of this protection, as our higher faculties begin
to unfold, we can use them to expand our consciousness,
deepen our understanding and advance our spiritual unfold-
ment; for we will realize that whether the finer forces of
which we are now conscious come from the thoughts of
others, or from our disembodied friends; from the planets
under which we were born or from the kingdoms of the
elementals, they must all be ruled and made to contribute
toward our ongoing, instead of being allowed to find uncon-
Man, Know Thyself 179
trolled expression through and rule us. We must also learn
to recognize and discriminate between the sources from
which we are receiving these influences.
The rational mind should always look up to and receive
its inspiration, not from our disembodied friends or from
the thoughts of others, but from the superconscious or spirit-
ual mind of the Real Self. Then, by means of the higher
illumination thus received, it should guide the activities of
the personality and also reach down and train and control the
subconscious mind. The spiritual mind is always the court
of last appeal, for stored up in it is the experience or les-
sons learned from all past incarnations, and this experience
it seeks to impress upon the rational mind of the personality,
if we will only listen, respond and give it expression.
Conscience is the steady pressure of the consciousness of
the spiritual mind which all feel to a greater or lesser degree.
It is the consciousness of the Real Self reflected upon the
rational mind for the purpose of illuminating and guiding the
personality. In the earlier stages of spiritual unfoldment it
manifests simply as a strong impression of right or wrong,
to do or not to do, without giving explanations, reasons or
arguments. But as the Aspirant becomes conscious of his
Real Self and seeks to become one with and express it, grad-
ually that Divine Self is able to speak to him direct and
guide, admonish, encourage or rebuke in a definite way.
All these phases of the Self and the forces which beat upon
it should be read about and studied, but they cannot be
,na.ctered by the intellect alone or by the unaided powers of
the personality. Only as the Knower, the Thinker, the Real
Self is recognized and given supreme direction of our lives
can they be really known in the mystical sense, i.e., as a per-
sonal realization and comprehension. This Knower, this
Thinker, this Self, this I Am, stands in the center of our
individual universe, just as the Sun is in the center of the
physical universe, and is the ruler over it; the source of its
life, light and power. In fact, it is the Maker of our
180 The Message of Aquaria
heaven and our earth, the Evolver of our personal self, and
is also its Redeemer.
And because this Real Self is the Ambassador of the
Christ and is of the same essence as the Cosmic Christ which
vitalizes all divisions of the vast universe, through acquaint-
ance, realization and correlation with this Self we can enter
into an understanding of those cosmic centers of life, force
and consciousness which have their miniature centers and
points of contact within our bodies. The man who has thus
found himself, through realization and correlation with this
inner Self, has found the Christ enthroned in the midst of
his universe, and by identifying his consciousness with that
indwelling Christ-consciousness he can enter into the con-
sciousness of all things in the vaster universe, hence can
learn to know himself as those forces manifest in his per-
sonal universe or microcosm.
In Nature we find the mighty Christ Principle expressing
hannoniously according to the great Law of Manifesta-
tion, vitalizing and bringing into manifestation the ideals in
the Divine Mind. And as we learn to identify ourselves
with the Christ inus we aid it in bringing forth in us the
divine ideals until we reach the point where we are able to
realize and know that we are Sons of God. "For as many as
are led by the Spirit of God, they are the Sons of God."3
After the Christ has been born in the heart of man, has
been laid among the animals in the manger of his physical
existence; wrapped in swaddling bands of mind-stuff, sub-
consciously manifesting in the astral, and awakened and
manifesting in his spiritual nature, then may the Jesus man,
the Divine Physician, the Healer, be said to have come to
Earth in our lives. For only as the personal man is taught
to follow the Jesus-life can the Christ manifest consciously
in him.
Like the story of Jesus. we must pass through all phases
of that life. We must be the carpenter's son, constructively
$ Ro,nan. viii. 14.
Man, Know Thyself 181
doing his duty in the lowly station of life in which he finds
himself, striving to build his temple by compass and square;
yet through the power of the Christ, whose swaddling bands
of consciousness he is day by day unwrapping, he must learn
that all events that come to him are but the carpenter's
tools with which he must carve out his temple and aom-
push the works of his Father. He must remain in the
obscurity of Egypt for a season while the Herod (King De-
sire) who rules the personality seeks to slay Him who is
ultimately to become the ruler of the life. He must heal the
sick, cleanse the lepers and feed the multitude within his own
body with spiritual food. He must strive; he must suffer;
he must be misunderstood and condemned, yet never must
he forget his real mission. He must hang upon the cross of
material conditions until, in the very depths of his being, in
the agony of the higher consciousness that has been born
within himthat consciousness which strives to uncover and
reveal the Christ Child to a world that cannot understand
he cries out "I thirst."
In one aspect this is the thirst of the despairing per-
sonality for the old life in the world and its seeming satis-
faction, its happiness and security. But in another and
higher sense it is the cry of the awakened man for more
wisdom; how best to do the works of his Father; how best to
lift up the Christ-light that all men shall be drawn into the
radiance of that Light. He realizes the mighty power of the
Christhood within him and thirsts for the ability to manifest
it without crucifying it. But he finds the task too great and
lays down the burden crying: "It is finished
Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit." Only when
the awakened personality realizes that it cannot achieve,
through its own intellectual powers, the destiny that has been
glimpsed, and places all the ardor and enthusiasm of his
desire to accomplish into the handssymbol of power to ac-
complishof the Father, the Real Self, and ceases to strug-
gle, is the crucifixion over.
182 The Message of Aquaria
This is the most important step in the Soul's unfoldment.
We may think that when we reach great heights of mastery,
when we can rule the elementals, use our psychic faculties,
levitate the body, etc., we have taken wonderful steps. But
the most important step that can be taken by man is that
symbolized by the crucifixion, namely, when the personal
man has learned, through great suffering, that no matter how
unselfish or devoted; no matter how great the work he is
doing, he cannot make the final attainment in his own
strength. He must be willing to be crucified, not rejoicing
in the crucifixion as a sign of his superiority over others, but
recognizing that it is only a crucifixion of the lower man
that the glory of the Christ within might shine forth the
better. In fact, the Christ could accomplish His work more
perfectly without the distraction which the suffering of the
personality brings upon Him, if the personality could learn
and respond without the crucifixion.
0 this crucifixion through which humanity insists on
passing! How the Great Physician, the Healer of Souls,
struggles with the personality and hangs upon the cross of
agony! What is it all for? It is to awaken in intellectual
man an abiding sense of the indwelling Divinity and its
power to overcome all things, once the opposition of the per-
sonality has ceased. He must realize that he is something
more than man; that there is something his cultured mind
cannot grasp, which must come as a revelation from the
heart; that he must call upon the Christ within; must yield
up the sense of his sufficiency and superiority; for his god,
the intellect, has forsaken him, cry he never so loud.
As we found at the beginning of this chapter, man being
a universe in himself, every part and division of his nature
has its own inhabitants. In his intellectual world4 he is not
tempted from without, but from within. He is not sent down
in the lower worlds to be set upon by powers of evil, demons,
elementals, creatures of which he has no consciousness and
4 For temptation. front the astral world aee Realms of Slut Livswg Dead.
Curtis.. 70.
Man, Know Thyself 183
consequently no power to conquer. Everything that comes
thus to tempt him is an inhabitant of his own mental world;
for through the creative power of his thought-force he has
peopled his world with all kinds of creations which seek ex-
pression through him, and he has thus opened the door to all
the corresponding forces in the surrounding worlds. His
tempters are creatures of his own fashioning, living upon
the tender leaves his Tree of Life has put forth, just as the
infinitesimal lives that the microscope reveals feed upon the
leaves of a tree and, if allowed to go on unchecked, destroy
it. He has permitted his lower self to lead in procession all
the forces and inhabitants of his world because it has put
forth a great intellectual branch which reaches up into the
mental world, while the Real Self, the Divine Being within,
remains imprisoned within that world, realizing its own god-
hood, yet unable to induce the personality to manifest it.
But just as our physical bodies and our astral and mental
worlds have their inhabitants, so does the spiritual world of
each individual have its inhabitants. The Real Self in the
spiritual world has many angelic beings and forces attached
to him because they inhabit his world, altho most of us are
quite unaware of it. Yet, if we will open the door to them
as we do to the inhabitants of our lower worlds they will
just as surely minister to us and manifest through us, not
destructively, bringing about inharmony and suffering, but
constructively, bringing about harmony and joy.
Therefore, as we learn to know ourselves and our crea-
tions in all our worlds we will end the crucifixion by saying
of our personal reliance on outer conditions and forces, "It
is finished . . . into the hands of my Divine Self I commit
my Spirit." Then we will begin to open our consciousness
to the angelic forces from the spiritual world and will know
oursdves as Sons of God in the process of unfoldment and
manifestation and learn to manifest the Real Self as whole-
heartedly and completely as we have hitherto manifested the
lower self or personality.
CHAPTER XV
ORDERLY SEQUENCE
"For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace.... Let all
things be done decently and in order."I Corinthians, xiv, 33-40.
"There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and
another glory of the stars; for one star differeth from another star
in glory?'i Corinshians, xv, 41.
Law and order rule the universe.
This globe, and all that is upon and within it, as well as
the Cosmos of which it is a part, has been manifested as
the result of definite law. The planets move around the Sun
in orderly procession, each in its own orbit, each drawing its
life-force from the central Sun, yet utilizing that force to
unfold its own particular possibilities according to the law
of its being. On Earth every plant, tree, animal, or other
form of life, draws its life-force from the Sun, yet manifests
it according to the law of its individual expression, each
being a necessary part of the whole.
There is but the One Life, manifesting according to the
One Law, yet there are infinite varieties of expression. If
individual man would unfold his life as successfully and
hannoniously as he sees life unfolded in the Cosmos and in
Nature around him, he, too, must follow the same Law and
walk the same Path; he, too, must draw to himself the One
Life and build it into his individual life expression accord-
ing to definite law and order. But this must be of his own
volition, for to man alone of all creation was given free-will.
Certain references have been made in these Teachings to a
Great Work to be accomplished for humanity and to the
opportunity each one has of taking part in that Great Work.
1X4
Orderly Sequence 185
But crc this opportunity can be grasped and its promise ful-
filled, each one who desires to participate must have a cer-
tain understanding of the Law crc he is prepared to take
his place in the activities which are now at hand. Each one
who is in earnest in his endeavors, unselfish in his desires
and is a faithful follower of the Teachingsand we trust
that this includes alleach is striving to accomplish the
Great Work in his own body, in his life, and in his environ-
ment. If this Great Work is to be accomplished intelli-
gently, either individually or collectively, it is necessary to
call attention to one very important and definite law, i.e., the
Law as Orderly Sequence.1
Order is said to be heaven's first law. And it is equally
important in the unfoldment of those who seek to make
heaven manifest here on Earth, in their consciousness, in
their lives and in their environment Even the modern busi-
ness world recognizes this law and bases all the new methods
of efficiency upon it. The man or woman who builds his
or her life upon law and order lays the foundation for
success, not alone in the material life, but in the higher life
as well.
There is a distinction, however, between plan, order and
routine. Plan has to do with the whole scheme of life and
includes a more or less clear outline of the end to be at-
tained and the methods by which it is to be achieved. Those
who have no plan in life, no objective to be attained, no
goal toward which all their activities are working, are merely
drifting, subject to every breeze that blows and driven hither
and thither by every current of force that may impinge upon
them. How can such persons expect to attain any definite
accomplishment? To be efficient in life's day at school a
philosophy should be sought which is so all-inclusive that it
explains where we caine from, why we are here, what the
destiny is to which we are expected to reach, and what our
1 5cc The Voice of Ins. Cwtu. 193-4.
186 The Message of Åquaria
individual place is in the whole mighty scheme of the uni-
verse, and how we are to attain it.
Order has to do with the harmonious relations between
things, ideas, actions, etc. The old adage, "A place for
everything and everything in its place," has an occult basis;
for such an arrangement between physical things not only
tends toward orderly arrangement of ideas in the mental
world, but it also arranges orderly and non-interfering lines
of force in the astral and psychic realms. The orderly ar-
rangement of a desk, a room, or a home, for example, is
constructive and helps to create a calm, peaceful and poised
atmosphere or aura, while a disorderly room, household or
office is destructive, for it tends to create confusion and
crossed lines of force, hence tends toward irritation, inhar-
mony and disintegration. This idea, however, should not be
carried to such extremes as to exclude all else. For instance,
in the olden days the parlor or best room in the house was
kept dosed and the family excluded from its every day use,
lest its orderly arrangement should be in the least disturbed.
In fact, many persons are even today so restricted in their
own homes by the housekeeper's exaggeration of order that
the home is made unattractive by it. A reasonable insist-
ence upon order, however, is a more important factor in the
mystical and spiritual life than is generally Imown or appre-
cated.
Routine has to do with the orderly carrying out of a se-
quence of events necessary to the working out of a plan.
The plan should include a certain time set aside for study,
for recreation and for meditation and spiritual realization, as
well as for the activities of the material life. And this rou-
tine, once carefully laid out, should be followed religiously,
but with such reasonable latitude that the routine does not
become the master instead of the servant; that the follower
does not become pedantic, intolerant or fanatical, instead of
becoming a well-balanced, poised and adaptable Soul. But
he who seeks to attain the highest by following one impulse
Orderly Sequence 187
today and another tomorrow, unbalanced by discretion and
wisdom; who does one thing today because it appeals to his
mood and neglects all other parts of the plan and all other
duties, cannot expect to advance in a well-balanced manner.
He, who, because he is sensitive and psychic, becomes er-
ratic, who dips first into one teaching and then into another
in a superficial way, may have a speaking acquaintance with
many words of many syllables, yet he lacks that plan, that
order, that routine persistence, which is essential to mas-
tery, whether in the things of the world or the things of the
Spirit He who begins the day with a realization that many
things should have prompt attention, and then allows himself
to be diverted from the orderly sequence of his duties by
becoming so engrossed in the task of the moment that he
forgets all others or pushes them back to some more con-
venient tomorrow, cannot succeed. For tomorrow never
comes. When it comes it is today, with its own demands,
its own activities, and there is no time in which to go back
and pick up wasted moments or perform forgotten tasks.
Picture for a moment a Cosmos built in such a way. Sup-
pose God had said, "Let there be light," and then had for-
gotten what He had decreed! Suppose that as the Light
penetrated into the darkness of Chaos He overlooked the
details of the plans He had started into manifestation! Sup-
pose He had said, "Today we will make a great light and a
lesser light and tomorrow we will create man in our image,"
and then had forgotten man! Or suppose man had been
fashioned before the Earth was ready to receive him!
Think you the work of creation would have been accom-
plished in six days? Yet those who are striving to attain the
higher life are apt to despise the exactitude of business
methods and look down upon those who methodically per-
form each allotted task as it is presented in the routine of
the plan and according to definite rules.
The self-discipline of a definite plan, developed in a cer-
tam order and according to a general routine, makes for
188 The Message of Aquaria
well-balanced and harmonious progress in the spiritual life
as in the physical. Yet man must be the master and dictator
of his own life, never a slave to his self-appointed and need-
ful rules; for over all these rules is a higher law whose man-
dates must be observed, i.e., the guidance of his Real Self.
His daily life should be arranged in such an orderly fashion
that he can easily set it aside temporarily at the call of the
Real Self, without upsetting it. This he could not do if his
life was in confusion. To listen to the Voice of Intuition
and to be ever responsive to inspiration is essential to spir-.
itual progress, even if it temporarily interrupts the routine.
But there is much to be accomplished between the periods of
inspiration, if the new ideas thus received are to be worked
out and made to manifest effectively in the life. Inspiration
will be more dependable if there be a regular time set apart
for its recognition and reception. By following this method
the inspiration becomes so frequent as ultimately to be a
continuous conscious guidance in all things, both great and
small.
Many think they have nothing to do while waiting for
their inspiration; that they can work only when they are
given a special outpouring of power. And because of this
attitude of mind many a Soul who has been chosen as an
important instrument in a Great Work has ended his days
in inaction, failure and disappointment. Instead of begin-
ning humbly and proceeding methodically, according to some
plan of accomplishment, he has waited year after year for
some great manifestation of divine glory and power that
would miraculously accomplish the work his inspiration had
revealed to him; that would fill him and make the world
recognize him in his greatness. Yet all the time he neglected
to take the routine steps necessary crc the plan could be
materialized in Earth conditions. Such are not the prac-
tical mystics these Teachings hope to develop. They are
merely dreamers and visionaries, those who help to bring
mysticism and the ideals of the higher life into disrepute as
Orderly Sequence 189
impractical and inefficient, simply because they fail to take
the practical steps necessary to correlate the ideal with its
realization.
Many hear the divine call within, "Come ye out and be ye
separate.... Take my yoke upon you.... Feed my
lambs." And they answer, "Yea, Lord, here am I." And
in that day they go forth so full of ardor and enthusiasm
that they feel impelled to proclaim to everyone their won-
derful experience and the fact that they have been chosen as
an instrument in the hands of the Great Law. But they find
the hungry lambs indifferent to food that is merely prom-
ised; they find the world not ready to bow down before them
and acknowledge them to be the great leader or teacher
they were told they might become. Thus they spend their
day of enthusiasm and use up the power given them for
accomplishment, not in methodically making a practical be-
ginning, but in dissipating and wasting it in telling the world
what they are going to do or be at some future time. Then
when their evening comes they are in despair and loudly
lament the ignorance and stupidity of mankind or bemoan
the unbrotherllness of other teachers who fail to recognize
them as a chosen disciple who has been sent forth with a
badge of honor upon his breast, or perhaps they weep bit-
terly over the cruelty of a world which demands deeds
rather than words, results instead of promises. They desire
to sow and immediately reap without the trouble and routine
work of preparing the soil, cultivating, weeding and tending
the growing crop.
A similar temptation is experienced by every Neophyte,
whether chosen for a great work or not; for the first great
work for every Soul is to learn to work in harmony with the
Law. Until this is learned, no greater work can be entrusted
to it. Similar failure can be avoided only by having plan,
order and routine for the inspiration to illmnine, expand
and accomplish through. "There is no royal road to knowl-
edge," nor to spiritual attainment. It requires the same
190 The Message of Aquaria
painstaking preparation and training of body and mind as
any other important work in life.
The Bible tdls us that the six days of creation were each
divided into two periods, morning and evening. And only
on the fourth day were the Sun and Moon created, the
greater to rule the day and the lesser to rule the night.
What does this allegory signify in the life of the Neophyte?
It means that he will pass through three periods of morning-.
evening, corresponding to the first three days of creation and
to the three days in the tomb, before his Sun and Moon are
created, during which he must methodically gather fresh
the promised manna on which to feed; periods during which
he will experience the glory of the mornings, when all is
bright and smiling, when he hears the Voice saying: "See
the blessings in store for humanity! Come, take, eat, and
give unto the hungry," and he is all enthusiasm. Then will
come the evenings, when he finds the world indifferent, tired
or asleep: when his enthusiasm has evaporated, his powers
seem exhausted and his comrades turn their backs upon
and slight him. During these three days he works almost
blindly, for his Sun and Moon are not yet created, and he
cannot see what definite work he is to do.
But if through these three periods of vagueness and semi-
light he has followed his guidance faithfully and has
gathered his manna fresh from heaven each morning and
evening no matter how dark and cold or how weary he
might be, and has performed each little task methodically
as it was presented, without wasting time in dreaming about
the great attainment pictured in his vision, he will have
built for himself a finn foundation, which, like all founda-
tions, must be laid stone on stone deep down in the darkness
of Earth conditions, below the surface, where it does not
receive the recognition or applause of men.
But on - the fourth day two Lights will be created, the
Spiritual Sun to rule his days and the same Sun reflected
in him through intuition to rule his nights. This means that
Orderly Sequence 191
when his mornings of enthusiasm come he will find that the
Great Lightthe Sun of his Soulhas arisen to illumine
his consciousness and enable him to see clearly the plan of
his work. It will also reveal to the world the foundation he
has already laid. From these periods of illumination there
will be reflected through his intuition the comfort, assurance
and strength necessary to carry him safely through the night,
until he is ready to rest in the midst of his works on the
seventh day and pronounce them good. It will also reveal
the fact that the night is the time to rest, gather the forces
of the Earth and assimilate the experiences of the day, that
he may be prepared for the activities of the new day, resting
meanwhile in trust and confidence in the workings of the
Great Law, until finally he re-enters his Eden and there
meets the Lord God (Law of his Good) walking in the cool
of the day, the entire Law making its home in his spiritual-
ized body (the Garden of Eden).
During its early days this Order has quietly laid its foun-
dation in the darkness and obscurity of Earth conditions.
Then its two Lights were created and set in its heaven, the
greater to rule its days, i.e., the positive knowledge that the
life-stream of the Christ (the Sun of Righteousness) fills
all its world with Light, life and power, which shall germi-
nate all the seeds sown in the twilight of the earlier periods;
the lesser to rule its nightsthe periods of human dis-
couragementwith the intuitive knowledge that the Sun of
Righteousness still shines, even tho only its reflected Light
can be seen. Therefore, during the night-periods the Order
is able to rest in the assurance that the words of the old
familiar hymn,
"Sun of my Soul, my Savior dear,
It is not night if Thou be near,"
are mystically true. For the Sun of God is also the Sun
of the Order, just as it is the Sun of each individual Soul.
Hence it must rise again in the glory, power and fullness of
a new day of greater opportunity after every night period.
192 The Message of Aquaria
As each new day dawns for the Order it must "be fruitful
and bring forth abundantly." Each new day will be almost
like a new incarnation. And as in the reincarnation of a
Soul, there must be the karmic fulfillmentto each student
individually, as well as to the Order as a wholeof exactly
that which each has sown in the past, both for himself and
for the Order. Therefore, all who put the welfare and
work of the Order first, who make sacrifices for it and
gire it their faith, love, devotion and service, will participate
in its new developments, and will find comfort, joy and
inspiration in the activities of each new day. The Law as
Karma and the Law as Growth is working in this day of
the Order just as it does in the new Earth life of an indi-
vidual. In the earlier days there was only the plan, later the
astral pattern, and then the beginnings of a materialization
comparable to a fetus. But today, as a result of the throes
and travail of birth through which it has passed, its physical
body has been born. It is not perfect or powerful as yet, for
it is but the body of a babe, but it is rapidly growing in
stature and in favor with God and man, and is capable of
being developed into the giant which it ultimately must
become.
But as the body of the Order is composed of many cells
(individuals), to make it perfectly fitted to accomplish its
real mission each individual must begin with himself, outline
his plan of life and his relation to the Order, and then
begin to work toward its fulfillment with order and system.
In overcoming the tendencies toward disorder, inharmony
and lack of perseverance, each has free-will either to yield
to the destructive forces and be overcome by them or to
overcome them by utilizing the very power which makes
them effective. There is no great Being who says that we
shall or shall not. But if we wish to conquer, if we wish
to draw close, if we wish to let the divine principle of Law
and Order work through and manifest perfection in us, then
we must begin to correlate with the Law. Begin with
Orderly Sequence 193
an outline of the end to be attained. Then take up the
things of the outer life, even those which seem to have no
connection with spiritual attainments, and establish order
and system in our lives, remembering that to allow time for
spiritual studies and for meditation is as important a duty
as to allow time for meals, work or recreation.
The same system should also be applied to finances. As
definite a portion should be assigned and consecrated to the
support and spread of the spiritual Teachings as for any
other expense. When Moses enjoined upon the Children
of Israel that they should dedicate a tenth of all they pos-
sessed to the support of their priests, he was but incul-
cating a deep occult principle which would react to their
own prosperity, materially as well as spiritually, and become
an important factor in making them a great nation. Let
each Soul who reads this book sincerely ask in the sanctuary
of his own heart and in the presence of his Real Divine
Self, if the enlightenment of the world and the betterment
of humanity cannot be more efficiently brought about
through the co-operation of all who accept the principles
these Teachings set forth, rather than by many scaftered
units trying to work independently. And if the answer be
in the affirmative let him act accordingly. We must begin
just as the Light was manifested. When we say we will do
a thing we must do it. When we make a carefully considered
plan, we must carry it out. When we make a promise, even
to ourselves, we must keep it. When we begin a thing, we
must finish it and be done with it, just as business efficiency
demands that the office desk be cleared before leaving it.
Let each day be a day of creation. But remember that we
cannot create and bring things into manifestation unless we
attend minutely to every duty as it is presented and fulfill it.
The habit of putting off and forgetting is so disorderly,
confusing and inharmonious that instead of drawing to us
the divine constructive forces of the Law. we set un within
194 The Message of Aquaria
ourselves and in our environment forces which produce
storms of opposition, which make us feel impatient, irritable
and as tho we would fly to pieces. Why? Beuse the
Great Law we have invoked and promised to obey is trying
to work in its orderly fashion and force us to attend to the
necessary details in their regular order and rhythm.
Humanity is a Cosmos in the process of formation. Like
tbe planets in the heavens each individual has his own orbit,
and this is commensurate with the work he is to accomplish
and the forces he is to utilize. The forces within this orbit
manifest as his natural tendencies, abilities, disposition, etc.
As each Soul evolves along his own path around the Spirit-
ual Sun lie finds that his orbit touches, parallels or perhaps
intersects the orbits of many others. In following the law of
his being he must consider the various aspects he makes with
those he contacts. He must recognize that it is not intended
that he force himself to sustain the same relations toward
all, except those of law and order. With some he finds
himsdf in the so.called malign aspects of opposition, square,
semi-square or sesquiquadrate, while with others he is in the
benign aspects of trine, sextile, conjunction or parallel. But
the Law of Cosmic Order decrees that while all draw their
forces from the central Sun and must work together in
hannony, each must keep to his own orbit and follow his
own plan, without allowing himself to be deviated from it,
and without striving to deflect others from their orbits or
force upon them his personal plan of life.
Each must sound his own keynote and send out his highest
and best forces and make use of whatever influences he re-
ceives from each one he contacts, be they benign or malign,
recognizing that all are parts of the Divine Plan, even if not
manifesting perfectly or harmoniously, just as the lower in-
fluence of Mars brings war and bloodshed and that of Saturn
testing, and disaster to all that cannot pass the test, yet
both are Sacred Planets and have their divine work to do.
Remember that Law and Order are the foundation of the
Orderly Sequence 195
universe; that this Law must work out in little things as in
great; that only he who is faithful in the little things is
made ruler over the great. And if we are to be faithful and
true and loving we must begin to manifest these qualities in
our hearts, in our lives and in the performance of our duties,
accomplishing each one, be it ever so distasteful, in the
name of the Christ and for the sake of the Christ. Then no
duty will be too irksome, no task too sordid, no routine too
exacting to be performed cheerfully "for His sake."
CHAPTER XVI
THE SPIRAL OF LIFE
"Fohat traces spiral lines to unite the Sixth 13 the Sevenththe
Crown. An Army of the Sons of Light stands at each angle; the
Lipika in the Middle WheeL"Stonzas of Dzyan, v, 4.
"Unless one is wdl acquainted with the philosophical metaphysics
of a beginningless and endless series of Cosmic Rebirths, and becomes
well impressed with the immutable law of Nature with its Eternal
Motion, cydic and spiraltherefore progressive even in its seeming
retrogressionit is difficult to comprehend."The Secret Doctrine,
Blavatsky, ii, 84.
The course of human events, like the entire solar system,
is ever sweeping onward and upward in a great spiral of
evolution, never standing still and never repeating itself.
While we are apt to think that life is ever the same and
that the same events happen over and over again, and while
this seems true in a certain sense, yet if we study the life
of an individual or group of individuals we will find that
all are moving onward in a great curving spiral.
Life means eternal progress. We never return to the
same position or to the same conditions; some elements are
changed. While we often seem to return, we have simply
rounded another curve of our Spiral of Life and have come
to a point directly over our former position and should be
able to look back over our career and learn its lessons. An
understanding of this law of life will prevent many heart-
aches and much sadness, for with this understanding we see
that even the process of growing old, which is so often
feared, is also progress, and the meetings and partings which
seem so important are but transient and seeming. Friends
meet and part and seem separated, yet if they are centered
196
The Spiral of Life 197
at heart they are anchored in the very center of gravity or
the point around which the spiral of both their lives is eter-
nally sweeping, hence are never really separated except in
outer form. And even in the outer life they will meet again
and again most unexpectedly each time the life-cycle sweeps
around the spiral.
In each mighty sweep of the Spiral of Life we should
leave behind us all the sorrows and sufferings which we
brought upon ourselves because we would not learn the
needed lessons without them, and carry with us only the re-
sulting experience, all that is true and vital out of the past
experiences. Often we part from a friend in sorrow or
anger yet later meet again in joy and love; for the anger,
being but a gust of the passions of Earth, has long since died
out and the thread of love, being the life-thread which holds
us all together, reunites us. The sorrows and sufferings
were but the results of the burning karmic fires, hence as the
pure gold of Truth is freed from all impurities and dross,
that which is left as a result of the burning is but ashes.
And if we were to remain eternally in one spot and continue
to do the same thing over and over the ashes would accumu-
late mountain high in that spot and extinguish all the joy
and fire of life. This does not mean that we are not to
remain in one home or city or employment year after year,
but that we are not to remain at a standstill mentally and
spiritually; that we are not to remain in one spot in con-
sciousness, but must ever strive upward and onward.
Each nation, as well as each individual life, has its own
spiral of evolution. Hence, when we gather a number of
persons together in an Order such as this, where they are
all inspired by the same ideals and objects to be attained, we
must take into consideration, not only the sweep of the in-
dividual lives and the special course of the Order, but also
the sweep of the life-cyde of the nation and of humanity
as a whole; for each of these spirals is turning on its own
axis and at the same time traveling onward through space.
198 The Message of Aquaria
We might picture this great sweep of life as a broad rib-
bon made up of the seven colors of the rainbow, each color
with its own vibration and its own individual expression of
life, yet all wound round and round the fiery core of a
mighty spiral. If we looked dosely at this broad ribbon
with its various colors moving majestically onward and up-
ward as a whole, we could see that it was made up of many
whirling evolving units, and units within units, even as the
hour is within the day, the minute in the hour and the second
in the minute, yet all having their individual part in the
same onward flight of time. In the same way the various
units of evolving individual lives are sweeping along in their
personal orbits and at the same time are a part of the great
spiral of the Order which in turn has its place in the evolu-
tion of humanity. And as we find in this Order many stu-
dents who belong to different nationalities, their life-spiral
must in a measure parallel the spiral of the nation of their
birth. But if this Order be the heart center of their indi-
vidual life-spiral they will always swing around this as
their real spiritual center. Thus will this spiritual center
do much to unite many nationalities into one Spiral of Love.
The individual lives are like the stars in the heavens, each
turning upon its own axis, yet all being swept around and
onward with the great sweep of the evolving Cosmos.
This is true of all manifestations of life, and especially is
it noticeable in the life of this Order and the individuals
who compose it; for the Order has reached a point where
its Teachings are taking a more decided place in the world's
affairs; where it is taking a new turn on the upward arc
of its spiral. It is now at what might be called a cross-roads.
Not a cross-roads in the sense that it turns from its course
and goes at cross purposes or deviates from its former
teachings or ideals, but a cross-roads in the sense that its
onward and upward sweep crosses over the lower levels
of its former path and hence must gather up the karmic
seeds left behind at the previous turn and carry them with it.
The Spiral of Life 199
It is much like a cyclone that sweeps up into its heart at
each turn all that is not utterly destroyed, with the great
difference that in the case of the force of the Order the
seeds of experience, truth, beauty and strength are gathered
up not to be destroyçd, but to be saved and carried forward
into the new day and age.
At every turn of the great cyclic Wheel of Life the Great
Ones send out their messengers; mortals selected from those
who have taken certain steps in unfoldment, who have re-
ceived special training and gained certain qualities from the
fiery experiences of the last sweep of their spiral. "The
'Army' at each angle is the Host of Angelic Beings (Dhyan
Chohans), appointed to guide and watch over each respective
region, from the beginning to the end of a Manvantara."
These Great Ones say to their messengers: "Go forth into
all the world carrying with you neither purse nor scrip.
Teach, comfort help and gather in all who answer your
call, even those at a great distance." The words "purse and
scrip," have generally been misinterpreted and associated
with the thought of a beggar who has no money and who
depends entirely upon the Lord to supply his wants. This is
a very materialistic and limited interpretation, for in its
symbolic meaning to travel without purse means to go forth
with nothing to tie one or hold one in bondage to money,
while "no scrip" means that there are no contracts, papers
or binding conditions of business which demand our atten-
tion and hamper our activities.
When in St. Luke we are told to "carry neither purse, nor
scrip, nor shoes: and salute no man by the way,"2 by wear-
ing "no shoes," the meaning is that the disciple is to have
his understanding uncovered and unhampered by precon-
ceived opinions; by saluting no man it means to be so settled
in his own mind as to what his ideals are and so deter-
mined to fulfill them that no controversy can turn him
1 The Secret Doctri,,,, Blavatsky. 1. 144. 2 St. Lets x. 4.
200 The Message of Aquaria
aside; for as long as he is not finnly grounded in his faith,
and as long as he has any duty or business that binds him
he is not free to go forth as a messenger of the Lord. In
other words, going back to our first simile, such messengers
are glowing coals heated by the flaming core of the spiral
which, while free and independent, have not lost their fiery
hearts or been burned to the dead ash which must fall back
to Earth and wait until the experiences of a new life-wave
have again started their hearts to glowing.
These messengers must go forth because many of the
units composing its true Inner Flame have reached a point
in their cyclic sweep where they must touch the inner Heart
of the Order. By those composing its true Inner Flame
we do not mean merely those who are gathered at the earthly
Center, for many have been drawn close and have made the
personal touch and felt the warmth and power of the Heart
Center and then the cyclic sweep of their lives has carried
them out and far away. And so must it ever be. But those
whose consciousness has correlated with the Heart of the
Flame around which the spiral of the Order is revolving,
and have found it to be the same center around which their
aspirations and spiritual life is centered, will find themselves
evolving ever dose to the Heart of the Order, no matter
how far away they may live in the flesh, and some day will
find themselves united, even as a living cell, in the very
Heart of the Flame. And it is necessary that many other
lives in many different parts of the world shall also be given
an opportunity to draw closer and feel the magnetic forces
and the spiritual attraction of the Flame of Love which is
the true center and core of the Order.
All members of the Order are sweeping onward in their
personal orbits while at the same time they are a part of
the evolution of the Order. Some, in their individual evolu-
tion, follow closely the changing conditions of the Order,
while others are apparently going off in other directions.
Yet this is only apparently so, for they are still a part of
The Spiral of Life 201
the great sweeping spiral of the Order. For example, a fly
confined in a car of a swiftly moving express train might
be crawling or flying in the car in the direction opposite to
that in which the train was moving, yet it would all the time
be carried onward by the train.
So is it with many individuals connected with the Order.
Therefore, they should not be discouraged if they cannot
remain in as close touch with the Order as they would
like. Neither should they be upset by the many changes
that may come into their lives, nor at the many changes
that have come to the Order and that will come in the
future. They are simply turning in the orbit of their own
personal evolution, their own individual wheel of life, which
apparently turns in a different direction from that of the
Order. But if they are living not merely in the outer life
b't are striving to live consciously in the Inner Life of
their Real or Divine Self, and if the personal touch they
have made with the Order and its Teachings has lighted
the spark of the Inner or Soul-life within them or has blown
its embers into a glowing Flame of Love that brings an
illumination into their lives, then that Flame, being one with
the Universal Flame of the One Life, has united itself with
the greater and wide.r evolution of all life. Hence, they
have touched and correlated with the Inner Center around
which the Order is sweeping and can never be separated
from it in their hearts. Their heart's love will go with its
Founders wherever they are directed to carry the message,
and that devotion and ardor will be continually sending them
streams of love, strength and inspiration; for all such have
identified themselves to some extent with all humanity and
desire that everyone shall hear the glad tidings and have the
same opportunity for help which they have had. Hence, like
the fly in the train, while they may have to walk in their per-
sonal orbit of life seemingly in an opposite direction, the
Real Self of them is all the time rushing onward and up-
ward. one in heart and Soul with the work of the Order.
202 The Message of Aquaria
There are many factors to be considered in connection
with this idea of the Spiral of Evolution. First of all, when
things go a little differently from the way our limited out-
look leads us to expect, we are apt to cry out and say:
"Why are there so many changes in my life? Why do I
seem to be left behind and alone? How am I to know that
this thing that I have held so close to my heart, these
Teachings that have so far answered my heart-cry for
Light and explained my problems, how shall I know that
they are the thing for me when the Order seems to be
sweeping on and leaving me still turning round and round in
my own little orbit ?"
The answer is easily found. Are we realizing in our
inmost Soul the vital fact that this Order is a manifestation
of cosmic law and cosmic force? That it is a universal
and world-wide movement? Have we not only consecthed
our lives to the higher ideals, but have we realized the part
this Order plays in our lives and is destined to play in the
world's evolution? Have we realized its importance, its
immensity, its inexhaustible power to conquer all difficulties
and surmount all obstacles the world may place in its path
and steadfastly press on to its ultimate destiny in the greater
spiral of human evolution when its appointed time arrives?
If we have realized only a little of all these ideas we will
know that its onward sweep includes all manldnd and hence
no little orbit of one condition, one little wheel of life, one
little city or country can encompass it and hold it fast. If
we understand this we will say: "Go on! Go on! If my
feet seem tied, then give me the strength, 0 Divine Law, to
do my duty in my own little orbit until I am ready for the
next step, yet let me travel onward one in heart and mind
with the Order, giving my love, my strength, my under-
standing and support to the Great Work it is destined to
accomplish."
There is another question that has been voiced in the
hearts of many students, a question which has often puzzled
The Spiral of Life 203
them, namely, "How shall I know who the Teacher is and
when the Teacher is spealdng? How shall I know when to
believe the lessons and the personal letters I receiver' The
answer is that whether we know or not makes little differ-
ence. Life itself is really our Teacher. As we learn our
lessons of life which the Great Law places before us; as we
become aware of and respond to the Great Love that is over-
shadowing and striving to guide us, so will we know the
truth and prove the words of the Teachings, whether they be
words of truth and wisdom or not, no matter who speaks
them.
We are not required to believe that they come from a
Master of Wisdom. Our own heart's conviction must tell
us that; for no claims are made. Neither do we have to
believe that they are the result of inspiration and direct
teaching from the higher worlds. The substance of life and
help in the message itself must decide that. Neither are we
given the name of a particular Master as authority, for
truth is its own authority. For every Great Soul who has
reached Mastery has mastered personality first of all and
does not proclaim a name that can become a stumbling-block
to undeveloped students; for either such a name tends to
arouse their spiritual pride, because they are in personal
touch with Master So-and-So, or by the indiscriminate use
of the name they drag it in the mire of criticism and ridicule
and involve themselves in controversies which divert their
minds from meditation, peace, harmony and spiritual things.
The Masters have also conquered the desire for personal
recognition, admiration or even gratitude. Their only desire
is "to do the will of Him who sent me," and to do it silently
and impersonally through the agency of truly humble dis-
ciples who are willing to work impersonally. The names
of the Masters may be revealed to us within when we have
correlated our hearts with them and so identified our lives
with their Teachings as to warrant it. If, however, we find
greater satisfaction in these Teachings than in the many
204 The Message of Aquaria
others presented to us; if they sink deep into the hidden
chambers of our hearts and bring Light, comfort, peace,
joy and wisdom, what matters it whence they come? All
Light, love, wisdom and comfort is of God, and the channel
through which they come is of little importance. "Verily,
by their fruits shall ye know them." If the Teachings help
us over the hard places in life and explain its many perplex-
ing problems, then accept and follow them, asking not for
authority That which is said and the vital help it gives is
the important thing, not who said it.
Again some have asked, "How are we to judge the Teach-
ings? How are we to know that they are not merely the
personal opinions of the Founders and have no cosmic truth
or force back of them ?" The answer is that they must be
judged simply by the vital life of the ideas expressed, not
by the imperfect personalities of the servants through whom
they are presented, any more than we would judge physical
food by the appearance of the waiter who presented it. We
must ask ourselves, Have the Teachings rung true? How
have they affected the lives of those who have endeavored
to follow them? How have they helped to change the
thoughts and influence the teachings of the world? Leave
all personality out of it. The question is, Have we proved
the truth of the Teachings, either in our own lives or in the
lives of others? Has our own heart responded to them and
given us the inner assurance and confirmation of their truth?
That should be sufficient.
St. Paul left a monument of truth to point the way when
he said: "Quench not the Spirit. Despise not prophesyings.
Prove all things; hold fast that which is ood.8 In other
words, we are to hold fast that which endures in spite of
human mistakes and the imperfections of those who are
striving to do the will of Him who sent them, even tho they
are not perfected. Again he told us to "Try the spirits
whether they are of God: because many false prophets are
SI TIie:zaknuiui. v. 19-2L
The Spiral of Life 205
gone out into the world." By this he did not mean to con-
fine his injunction to the challenging and testing of the dis-
embodied so-called dead, but induded a far wider and deeper
meaning. He meant that in everything with which we are
confronted in life we must seek for the Spirit of Truth back
of it. Try the spirit animating it and see whether it be of
Good. And this is what we ask each student of this Order
and its Teachings to do: try out its Spirit
Every Order, Movement or Society has its body, mind,
Soul and Spirit. The body of these Teachings is that which
gives them formthe printed page, the written letter, the
spoken word. The mind of the Teachings is the concrete
thought back of them, which to help us must awaken a
similar conception in our own minds. The Soul of the
Teachings is that force within them which gives them life,
which holds them together, which makes them harmonize
with and express the Great Law of Manifestation which is
back of all evolution. But they also have a Spirit, that Divine
Spark from the Central Flame of Life, the fiery core around
which they evolve, the animating Principle of all Life.
Therefore to try the Spirit of a movement and its Teach-
ings means that we are to consider each idea presented, and
then if it receives the inner confirmation of our own Souls,
put it into practice in our lives. If it be of God it will
bless our lives and help on our spiritual evolution. If it be
not of God it will soon come to naught; for the Spirit is
Divine Life and without the Spirit of Truth there can be no
enduring life, only a short period of apparent life which is
but a galvanized activity simulating life, hence will soon dis-
appear. If we would know the source of the Teachings,
follow the Spirit up into the higher realms to its Source.
To know that we are one at heart with the great stream
of Divine Life-force that constitutes the Spiral of this
Order and to be thankful and grateful that greater light and
understanding, more consummate wisdom, more Divine Love
and Life is being poured out upon us and all humanity who
206 The Message of Aquaria
will accept itthis is the thought that all earnest student5
of the Order should hold. Then will they be swept onward
and upward with the great sweep of the Spiral of the Order,
no matter how variousiy the little spirals of their individual
evolution may twist and swirl.
CHAPTER XVII
LIFE WAVES
"All thy waves and thy biflows are gone over me. Yet the Lord
will command his loving kindness in the daytime, and in the night his
song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of my life."
Psalms, xlii, 7-&
"Old things are passed away; behold, all things are become new."
II Corinthians, v, 17.
In the previous chapter we considered life in its spiral
manifestation; in this we will try to apply a phase of the law
of spiral manifestation to life as we see it manifesting in our
environment today. Conceive of a number of spirals of
various sizes interblending and embracing the universe. It
is evident that but a limited part of each spiral can be visible
or even manifested at any one given spot or at a given time,
yet at that spot there would appear many lines in the form of
waves. A study of the higher non-Euclidean geometry
reveals the fact that there is no such thing in Nature as a
straight line, all lines being parts of greater or lesser
curves, hence all lines of force are curved or waved as they
manifest in their positive and negative aspects.
Since man is a microcosm or miniature universe, we natu-
rally find the forces of his bodiesphysical, astral, mental
and spiritualfollowing the same law of wave-motion, and
an understanding and utilization of this law is an important
step toward the attaimnent of self-mastery. If we find
ourselves one day riding on the upward curve or crest of a
wave of life-force and cry: 'All is well! There is no such
thing as sickness, suffering, sin or poverty; all are but
figments of the imagination, and have no existence!" with
what a shock do we find ourselves on the morrow plunged
207
208 The Message of Aquaria
into disillusion and discouragement by the downward
sweep of the negative wave! just as the mariner at sea is
plunged into the trough of the waves where he is cut off
from the sight of other ships and seems to be alone and
deserted and on an empty sea.
But if we realize that all Nature's forces work toward
ultimate progression, and that the negative wave is of as
much importance as the crest, we will endeavor to rule our
lives accordingly. For just as we could not sustain our
physical life if we breathed ever outward and never inward,
so all the forces of Nature must have their rhythmic wave-
motion of indrawing as well as outgoing if they are to
gather the power, force and momentum for the cycle of ex-
pression, just as the ocean wave must indraw or descend
into the trough if it is to gather the momentum necessary
to rise again into manifestation at the crest. Yet we must
ever strive for poise and control; for if we allow the waves
to rise too high and become too tempestuous they must sink
to a corresponding depth.
Even the physical breath follows a spiral path and is not
a straight in and out motion, as many suppose. We can see
and appreciate the rhythm of the physical breath, but the
rhythm of the innumerable finer forces passing in and out
of our bodies from various sources is not so easily observed.
The breath, however, being the main vehicle of the life-
stream, is the controlling factor. Hence, when the breath
of life leaves the body the finer forces which co-ordinate
with the breath to make it the Breath of Life are withdrawn,
and it and all the other forces are left to work at random,
individually and unco-ordinated, and thus accomplish the
work of dissolution and disintegration; a manifestation of
the lowest or negative sweep of the life-wave in the physical
body.
We can make our lives flow smoothly, harmoniously and
rhythmically only as we understand and work with this law
of rhythmic wave-motion. An unbalanced person lives on a
Life Waves 209
tempestuous sea where the waves beat and toss the bark of
life and weaken it and hasten it to its end. This might
be compared to a tidal wave so great that it lifts the Soul out
of the body and then sinks so low as to leave the physical
body like an abandoned drifting wreck on the shore of time.
Yet Jesus, the Christ-man, was symbolized as walking on
the tempestuous sea, the waves of which obeyed his man.
date, "Peace be still." Hence, since we are told that He
was an example for us in all things, we, too, can follow in
His footsteps and speak the word of peace that the tempes-
tuous sea of life shall obey us.
When we find that we no longer maintain the highest crest
of a wave of happiness, inspiration and achievement, in
stead of struggling against its descent or permitting our-
selves to grow irritated, discouraged or hopeless, let us make
an effort to remain calm and say to ourselves: "This is but
the outgoing of some tide in my life. It is running out that
it may return to the bosom of the boundless sea and gather
greater force and momentum to sweep me higher up the
Mount of Attainment at its next incoming cycle. Now is
the time to examine myself and make ready for the new in-
coming wave." If it be the ebb of a wave of life-force---
for we have health waves as well as othersmuch depres-
sion and suffering can be avoided by realizing that often
periods of ill health are but the spent forces of certain life-
waves which are retiring to gather power for a higher mani-
festation in a new cycle of life, even death being but a more
complete retirement of the life-wave preparatory to a new
incarnation.
During such periods hold in mind the picture of the ocean
beach as the tide goes out. How clean and smooth and pure
it is! The debris is washed out to sea and the beach is
cleared and made ready for the new inrush from the mighty
deep, bringing new and unknown forces and materials from
unknown shores. Think, therefore, of the body as having
210 The Message of Aquaria
been swept dean and made ready for a new wave of
health. Treat corresponding ebb tides in the mental, psychic
and spiritual life in a similar manner.
But, as often happens on the seashore, if the last inrush-
ing tide has been tossed higher than usual by some storm
it may have washed up debris and wreckage far beyond the
reach of the ordinary tides. Hence, if we are to have a
clear beach, we must gather up and burn all the wreckage
of the storm. So in our lives. If we permit storms of
anger or grief or even of excitement to rush over us while
the life-wave is at its height, as we sink into the negative or
outgoing tide, we will find much wreckage to dispose of.
Under such conditions, instead of viewing our lives as tho
buried in debris, sadly bemoaning our fate and saying, "My
life is ruined," "I am consumed with a hopeless grief," "My
life can never be joyous again," and so forth, we should
use the time of the outgoing wave to gather up the debris.
Then we should call down the living fire of the Christ-love
and ask that all these things, which seem but wasted oppor-
tunities or wrecked and blasted hopes, shall be consumed
and utterly transformed that the essence of good, i.e., the
lesson, that was in each may be built into our character, and
all that was not for our good shall be washed away with the
next outgoing tide, leaving our lives like the beach, clean,
smooth and shining that they may reflect in all its glory the
Spiritual Sun as it arises for a new day.
This planet on which we live also has many cycles or
wave-motions. All the forces of the universe are passing
around and through it in rhythmic waves. This can easily
be verified by the study of an engineer's map of the magnetic
variations of the Earth. Aitho such a map is a study of but
one of the cosmic forces manifesting on Earth, it will show
that not only do the currents of magnetic force follow the
laws of wave-motion, but are also manifestly a part of an
immense spiral, the variations changing constantly as the
Life Waves 211
Earth passes from one condition to another, yet always in
wave form.
In humanity this wave-motion is most marked as we
pass from one Age to another, as from the Piscean into the
new day of the Aquarian Age. The swirling and upset
conditions resulting from the World War are but currents
in the undertow of the ebb tide or negative swing of the
life-forces of a great cyde of humanity sweeping out the
debris of the past cycle that the incoming wave may be un-
obstructed and again the tremendous momentum necessary
to swing mankind and the planet higher in the scale of evo-
lution and spiritual expression than ever before.
As humanity experiences the ebb tide after the high and
stormy wave of war, which in its long and incessant beating
on the shore of life has strewn its wreckage far up on
the beach, there is work for all to do, especially all advanced
students and thinkers who realize the significance of the
events through which mankind is passing. We must gather
up the wreckage and make proper disposition of it that all
its lessons may be learned, its good preserved and its mis-
takes corrected, that the incoming of the next tidal wave
may but intensify the good and wash away all that is evil.
This is already being sensed by thoughtful students; for
already we see many bulwarks of the past being swept away
old modes of life, old ideas, old forms of government, of
social order and of religionand the wonderful promise of
the New Day is beginning to dawn.
Can we not conceive that back of the terrible destruction
we so deplore on Earth during the close of the Piscean cycle
there is gathering a mighty force which will be poured out
upon mankind in the wonderful New Era which is to fol-
low? The wave of destruction was but a manifestation of
the ebbing tide of the old cycle sweeping away many of the
old mediaeval conceptions and making possible new and
greater memorials which shall be raised to our God, ex-
pressed in forms better suited to our new and higher con-
212 The Message of Aquaria
ceptions of the tender Love and absolute Justice of the
Father-Mother God than were possible while mankind was
floundering in the deep trough of the cycle of the Dark Ages.
Many of the most cherished treasures of religious art
whose destruction is so deeply regretted expressed much of
the old religious misconception of the grand and eternal Plan
of Salvation; many perpetuated the literal, materialistic and
narrow views hdd in the days when God was worshiped
as an anthropomorphic Being; when salvation was regarded
as the result of the literal pouring out of the human blood
of an innocent victim as a propitiation for the sins which
man was and still is creating; the days when man was taught
the doctrine of "original sin," that he was vile and impure
and condemned from birth; that he was a miserable sinner
instead of a Son and heir of God and "joint-heir with
Christ," having all the attributes and powers of God latent
within him only awaiting unfoldment and expression.
In fact, even the continual repetition of "Lord have mercy
upon us miserable sinners" in the service of thousands of
churches throughout the Christian world for ages has peo-
pled the mental and astral worlds with powerful thought-
forms which, as they manifest through their creators, could
not do otherwise than tend to make them the miserable
beings they had claimed to be.
In those days man was taught to believe in God as a
Being who could become jealous and give way to unreason-
ing anger; also in a hell of literal and unquenchable fire of
brimstone, and in a mysterious worm which forever gnawed
at the vitals of the damned. Man was taught that the
punishment must last forever and ever, be the sorrow and
repentance ever so sincere, and that this everlasting punish-
ment was administered even to those who merdy refused
to believe in such doctrinal precepts. Even ignorance of
the law was said to be no excuse, nor did it mitigate in
any way the unthinkable punishment, so that the millions
upon millions of human beings who had lived and passed
Life Waves 213
away before such teachings were formulated, as well as the
many millions who were living happily under other forms
of religion, were all condemned to eternal damnation!
With such monstrous doctrines taught in the name of the
God of Love is it any wonder that man grew cruel, blood-
thirsty and pitiless to his brother man? for no nation can
ever rise higher than its conception of God..
Today manldnd is beginning to understand that civiliza-
tion is measured by its conception of God and the working
out of its highest ideals. But in those days it was quite
conceivable that to punish our fellow man here on Earth
for a brief period that he might repent and be "saved" was
far less horrible than that he should be punished forever
and ever in a burning hell. Hence this teaching was con-
sidered the best way to bring man to a realization of the
enormity of his sins, or more correctly to an understanding
of the inharmony resulting from his own wrong way of
thinldng and acting, just as many parents even today think
that the best way to correct and secure obedience of their
children is to punish them. But we see that that false idea
was the outgrowth of mistaken religious interpretation and
teaching, just as parents are learning that corporeal punish-
ment is not the best way to train children and secure their
confidence and love.
Therefore, as the New Age dawns we are awakening to
a higher conception of God; not as a stern parent, but of
God as Divine Love; that "God is Love ;" that "God so
loved the world that He gave his only begotten Son, that
whosoever believeth in him (the Christ) should not perish,
but have everlasting life." And just as the former teaching
tended to develop fearthe fear of a possible hell fireand
selfishnessthe necessity of saving our own Soul first of all
from a possible wrathas we awaken to the new world-
thought it tends to foster our love and trust in a tender,
compassionate and ever-present Father-Mother God who
knows that all children must be trained and wisely taught to
214 The Message of Aquaria
understand the results of their disobedience and to assume
their personal responsibility for it, yet who ever waits in
love and compassion to forgive and show the children how
to meet the results of their disobedience once they have
learned their lessons from it.
Shall not the inrushing wave of new spiritual realization
and religious conception lift us above talldng and thinking
of ourselves as miserable sinners? stop representing in
literature and art a cruel, angry God and a mutilated
Savior? The new realization must depict God as Divine
Love, the sustaining power of the universe, whose beloved
Son is the spiritual outshining of that Lovethe Sun of
Righteousness sent to Earth, not to be cruelly murdered,
but like the physical Sunthe physical manifestation of its
prototype, the Spiritual Sunto shine into the hearts of all
God's children, and in this way pour out or sacrifice His
lifegive His spiritual life-forcethat the seed of the
Divine in man may sprout and come forth into manifes-
tation in the daily life.
This does not involve the cruel death of a mortal, how-
ever godlike and divine, but is a glorious and a joyous
sacrifice of the Greater that the lesser may have life and
manifest in perfection. For the Sun does not die, altho it
sacrifices its life-force--periodically sheds its symbolic
"blood"that all Nature may rise with it in a new and
glorious springtime, or period of manifestation. Neither
does the Son of God, the Christos, die, but sits down at the
right hand of the Father, from whence He shall come again
in His glory at each new springtime or Era in human evolu-
tion, bringing all His holy angels with Him, i.e., bringing
to humanity His holy Messengers (angels) who will unfold
the true meaning of the symbology of these misunderstood
truths. "For God, who commanded the Light to shine
out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the
Light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face
Life Waves 215
of Jesus Christ." "For I delight in the law of God after
the inward man."
We are therefore not inherently vile, nor are we essen-
tially miserable sinners, but are joyous children of God who,
when properly taught, delight to do His will; "joint heirs
with Christ" to the Divine Love, which is the manifestation
of God in and to us. We are the negative expression or
wave of God, the positive wave touching Earth that human-
ity, made in His image, might rise higher and higher until
the great wave of humanity reaches its crest and breaks
upon the shore of eternity, one with the Father.
The beloved Son (Sun of God) descended and became
embodied in flesh and dwelt among us that those whose eyes
were opened might behold his glory, "the glory as of the only
begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth And
of his fullness have we all received." Plain language this I
And we wonder at the darkness of the minds of men who
could make literal the blood sacrifice of the personified out-
pouring of Divine Lovepoured out into the hearts of His
ignorant, willful and misguided childrenand believe that
such a crime would be an acceptable sacrifice to the heart of
Divine Love, especially as it has proved so inadequate to
save the world from sin! The Redeemer of man and the
universe is indeed the mystical Christ-force which is shed
abroad like the physical Sun that none perish but all have
eternal life; that Force whose spiritual pressure for expres-
sion enables even the lowest trough of the sea of humanity
to gain the power and momentum to rise to its highest ex-
pression. For without this Christ-force that is inherent in
every Soul, nothing can be accomplished. This is the Way,
the Truth and the Life; no man cometh unto the Father but
by and through this cosmic Christ-force.
Ever since those Dark Ages the great body of humanity,
as powerful in its God-given strength as Samson, has, like
Samson, been bound as with willow withes; so bound men-
tally and spiritually that it has been forced to accept the
216 The Message of Aquaria
literal interpretation of the Scriptures as determined by a
small group of men during the darkest period of man's in-
tellectual conceptions. The Christian Churcha mighty
force if it were spiritually awake and its inner mysteries
fully understood and taught, indeed, a chosen vehicle for
the Christ-force has grown comfortably and lazily fat, fed
upon the authority and interpretations of bygone ages.
It has become much easier to follow in the footsteps and
accept the precepts of modern commentators and textbooks
than to strive to enter into the spiritual understanding and
realization of the sainted early Church Fathers who under-
stood the symbolic and esoteric nature of the Gospels and
who breathed into the symbols and ritual of the Church the
mysticism of their illumined consciousness resulting from
personal communion with the Spirit of Truth or the Christ-
consciousness. In the symbols, sacraments and ritual and
teachings of the early Church there can be found all the
instruction needed to satisfy every inquiring mind and all
the spiritual food needed to feed humanity if it is mystically
understood and spiritually interpreted and taught. Yet,
alas, it is a common thing to find ordained ministers who
dare not give to their flocks the golden grains of spiritual
truth concerning the Mysteries which the Christ-light has
revealed to them, lest they lose their positions, and others
who have left the ministry because they were not pennitted
to give voice to the revelations of Truth given by the Light
Within; for unless they feed their flocks with the outer
husk of accepted exoteric doctrines and stereotyped inter-
pretations, they are made to feel that the sacred calling of
the ministry to "feed my sheep" holds no place for them,
no latitude being allowed for advances in interpretation in
harmony with the advances in world knowledge or for the
illumination of the Spirit.
St. Augustine, one of the greatest of the early Church
Fathers, tells us plainly that: "What is now called the
Christian religion has existed among the ancients, and was
Life Waves 217
not absent from the beginning of the human race until Christ
came in the flesh, from which time true religion, which ex-
isted already, began to be called Christian." Yet the ancient
and universal symbols are now either covered with dust of
accumulated traditions and explanations, settled and fixed
as their ultimate and only meaning during the most benighted
period of human development, or they are put aside as being
too precious to permit of expert inspection, interpretation
and valuation; and one who dares to question further is told
that "such things belong to the mysteries of God and are not
meant to be inquired into !"
Can we wonder, then, why so many churches are sparsely
filled? Why sensationalism and outside and secular attrac-
tions of all kindseven concerts and moving picturesare
resorted to that crowds may be attracted and the Church
appear seemingly to be accomplishing its mission? Yet just
as there has never been a timeeven in the darkest ages of
ignorancewhen the spiritual understanding of some great
Soul has not shone forth as a star of brilliant light and
glory, so today God has not left His children comfortless, in
darkness and without a prophetmeaning "one who speaks
for God," or reveals the esoteric wisdom. Those who watch
through the night have seen the heavens open and have seen
the Angels reveal the glory of the hidden Mysteries of God
to mankind, altho few there be who follow them.
But we are told that "There is nothing hid that shall not
be revealed.. .. Because it is given unto you to know
the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven." The symbols
and their true interpretation may be likened to the ancient
Temple of the Sphinx buried in the drifting sands of the
desert with only the image on its roof visible to man.
AItho even the image is not understood, we are told that
the same winds (breath of God) that buried it beneath the
sandreally that it might be preserved for man when he
was able to understand its mystical messageshall, in due
lRetractions. St. Augustine, I. 13
218 The Message of Aquaria
time blow away the sand, that its wonderful mystic lessons
may once more be revealed to mankind.
As the New Age gradually dawns and the incoming tide
of the New Cycle rises, and as the New Humanity awakens
in its illumined consciousness and the strong man stretches,
like Samson awakening from his sleep, the withes of tradi-
tion with which man's religious conceptions have been bound
will be broken "as a thread of tow is broken when it touch-
eth the fire." Indeed, they are already breaking rapidly, one
after the other, as the Fire of the Lord descends to "thor-
oughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the gar-
ner." Even tho the ignorance of priestcraft has put out
Samson's eyes, yet today the "little child" is leading him
between the pillars of the churchly temple, and when he has
lifted up his voice to God and stretched forth his hands
three times, need we be surprised if the whole man-made
structure of misconception and misinterpretation crumbles
and leaves standing only the original, true and beautiful
foundations? that the incoming wave of the true priest-
hoodprophet, priest and kingshall have room unmolested
to erect its altar to the Living God!
But we must not overlook the fact that religion is the
God-given vital heart organ of humanity, through which the
spiritual life-blood is meant to flow that the whole body of
mankind may be full of life. Religion is therefore abso-
lutely necessary to the spiritual health and welfare and prog-
ress of mankind. This is amply proved by history, for when
a people or nation loses "faith in the gods" or spiritual ideals,
in the reality of the invisible worlds and of spiritual Beings,
Teachers, etc., and no longer makes religion a part of its
consciousness and daily life, such a people soon degenerates
and passes away; witness the fall of Babylon, Egypt,
Greece, Rome, etc. Therefore, religion must never be
destroyed, but corrected or healed, when infected with mate-
rialism. And its healing must come from a conscious real-
ization by the brain (the thinldng portion of humanity)
Life Waves 219
that "the blood of Christ" does indeed cleanse us from all
sin or redeems all our mistakes; from a realizatiõn that it is
the duty of all the cells (persons) in the body of humanity
to give their force to build into the heart of mankind living
vital cells, to make straight the paths through which the
spiritual life-force (the Christ-force) or mystical "blood"
can flow.
Yet those who still remain under the shadow of the old
cycle scarcely realize that they are bound and are slaves in the
hands of the Philistines. Therefore, they deplore the pass-
ing of the old and, like the child who builds its tiny house
upon the beach when the tide is out, they are enthused with
the beauty of that which is and are in despair when the
inrushing tide of a New Era threatens to sweep away their
old creations.
The Piscean cycle, which is now passing, was an intel-
lectual cycle, and during the two thousand-odd years of
its sway, mankind has been perfecting the lowest aspect
(feet) of his understanding. Intellect and reason have
been the ruling factors, and because of this it has been a
cycle of materialism; for intellect demands only that which
it can see, handle and classify. But it has been a very im-
portant cycle in the unfoldment and progression of this
planet and of man's relation to it. Therefore, do not get
the idea that because the physical universe represents the
lowest and most dense vibration of manifested Spirit and
the lowest arc of the life-wave, and materialism represents
the lowest and most dense phase of intellectual develop-
ment, that the intellectual and material attainments of man
are of little importance. The cycle of materialism was in-
deed the negative expression of a great racial life-wave, but
one that was necessary to gain the momentum that shall
make the wave of the New Age reach its destined height in
the attainment of spiritual development and realization.
The phase of mind which the Piscean cycle has developed
is the rational mind of the intellectual man. or what in the
220 The Message of Aquaria
Eastern teachings is called Lower Manas, but the coining
Aquarian Cycle must develop the superconscious mind or
Buddhi Manas. The subconscious mind, or man's con-
sciousness of the elemental forces operating through him
in common with the lower kingdoms, was developed in long
previous Ages, when the relation between animal man and
the material universe was established. The rational mind
occupies the middle region, the lowest sweep of its vibra-
tory waves almost touching, yet seldom making full con-
scious contact with the subconscious mind, and its highest
crest of attainment reaching up to but seldom maldng com-
plete contact with the superconscious mind of the Higher
Self. Yet some day this rational mind when stimulated
by a different wave of force coming from the heart, will
touch the lowest waves of the spiritual mind, then in its
lowest sweep it will touch the highest waves from the sub-
conscious mind. Then will man be able to fulfill the edict,
"Man, know thyself." It is only the Christ-consciousness
manifesting through the heart, and crucified by the rational
mind or nailed to the cross of materiality, that can descend
into the lower regions (subconscious) and preach to the
Souls imprisoned there or subjugate and control the forces
of the lower mind and through the consciousness thus il-
lumined, make man, in very truth, Lord of Creation and
the image of God the Father.
Just as man's body, during the short period of gestation
of the fetus, passes through all the phases of evolution
vegetable, animal and humanso in man's mind can be
found all grades of elemental consciousness, whose essence
has been left behind as man passed through the lower ele-
mental forms. It also contains the consciousness of the
four elemental kingdoms, earth, air, fire and water. But
the rational mind has no link with that great store of lower
consciousness until, through having learned the desirability
of correlating his consciousness with that of the spiritual
or superconscious mind, man learns to build up a bridge of
Life Waves 221
spiritual conceptions over which the higher consciousness
can flow to enlighten him.
Only when the Spiritual Sun has shot down a Ray of
itself into the darkness of that vast field of lower conscious-
ness and the door of man's understanding is opened by his
correlation with the spiritual mind can a full consciousness
of all the kingdoms of Nature be possible. This will be one
of the attainments the New Age will make possible for man.
But with it will come the mighty and inevitable test as to
what he will do with his new-found powers. Will he use
them as a means of helping on the unification of man and
Nature and aiding the uplift of the lower kingdoms, or will
he use them for his own selfish aggrandizement and power?
As the inrushing tide of the New Day sweeps over human-
ity there must be those who are duly qualified and prepared
to help their less evolved brethren to learn the wonderful
lessons of the New Age. Many have come in His name,
claiming to be prophets of the New Day, yet each emphasiz..
ing but one phase of the Great Law so that much confusion
results and hungry hearts cannot hear the gospel "in their
own tongue," so that instead of a baptism of pentecostal
fire, it is more like a severe storm of lightning and thunder.
The Great Masters of Wisdom have stored up the entire
philosophy of the Wisdom Religion so greatly needed in the
coming age, ready to be given to mankind. But it cannot be
given like rain on a rock, lest it fail in its mission. It must
be given out through agents who have learned the lessons
of the past Age in the cultivation of the rational mind, and
who have illumined it with the rays of the Spiritual Sun
and hence are ready to reach up understandingly into the
Divine Mind and consciously carry their illumination down
to the lowest point of the wave. For if we are to have a
reconstructed religion, which shall meet the needs of the
New Age, it must be all-inclusive; must be both philosoph-
ical and devotional, rational and insoirational.
222 The Message of Aquaria
To place such a system fittingly before the world a new
order of ideas in education, specialization and efficiency
must be grasped. As long as men are content to be tied
with the old withes of prejudice and continue to hold to the
mediaeval idea of beggary for spiritual teachers; that such
teachers mist be freaks or beggars, gladly living on the pit-
tances the more worldly throw into their laps, just so long
must the world expect to go hungry for spiritual food or
be fed by the unsatisfying scraps found here and there as
today; be puzzled by the many contradictory partial state-
ments of Truth rife today, or be led astray by every teacher
who can produce phenomena sufficiently startling.
As to the support of spiritual teachings there should be
but one question, Is the spiritual food I am receiving worth
having? Does it help me in the daily living of my life in
the world? Does it satisfy my reason as well as my heart
hunger? If so, then it will help others in a similar way,
hence, is worthy of the best support I can give it. How,
then, can I best help to make it possible for such teachings
to be spread broadcast to mankind? For until spiritual
teachers can be properly supported and be left free from
either the necessity of spending the best part of their time
earning a living or the great mental anxiety, or even the
time and effort given to so-called "demonstrating supply,"
the world need not expect fully equipped spiritual teachers.
Those fitted to give the world such specialized help must be
enabled to devote all their time and attention to such work.
As to spiritual teachers "demonstrating supply," a phrase
so glibly used in such cases, there is no doubt but that the
Great Law could amply support all who devoted their lives
to its promulgation and expounding. It could even feed,
clothe and support in idleness all the children of men if it
so desired, but that is not the order of life. The plan has
always been, "If any would not work, neither should he eat."
And since man's higher development requires spiritual food
as truly as his physical development requires physical food,
Life Waves 223
and since those capable of obtaining and preparing such food
have to exercise the highest of talents and spend many hours
of concentrated application to present such food, one of the
important lessons that humanity needs to learn in the New
Age is that humanity itself must supply ample support to
those capable of giving them the best, else humanity must
be satisfied with that which can be supplied at odd moments.
If this ideal is held by each student, then the inrushing
new wave of spiritual revelation, will find channels, flumes
and conduits already prepared, by means of which its foam-
ing crest, filled with dynamic spiritual power, will not merely
break on the narrow shores of advanced humanity, but will
be carried far inland to water and refresh the thirsty multi-
tudes and cause their latent seeds of Christhood to put forth,
sprout and grow and bring forth fruit unto the salvation of
mankind. The harvest is at hand, but the laborers are few.
CHAPTER XVIII
THE MESSAGE OF THE SPHINX
The whole essence of truth cannot be transmitted from mouth to
ear. Nor can any pen describe it, not even that of the Recording
Angel, unless man finds the answer in the sanctuary of his own heart,
in the innermost depths of his divine intuition. It is the great Sev-
enth Mystery of Creation, the first and the last... It can be repre-
sented only in its apparent objective form, like the eternal riddle of
the Sphinx.TJie Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, ii, 543.
As it has been, so is it; and so shall it be forever more.
Far back in the beginning of recorded history the same
world-old truths that this present Aquarian Age must ex-
press were symbolized in imperishable stone. This New
Age was alluded to later by Jesus as "the Sign of the Son
of Man in heaven." The Age when a new manifestation of
the "Lord of Light" should again "declare the things which
are hidden" was symbolized and foretold in the majestic
image of the Sphinx. This image was carved during an
age when our solar system was passing through the same
zodiacal conditions it is now facing, aitho at that time on a
lower arc of the Spiral of Evolution. Age after age has
rolled by. Race after race has come and gazed and gone,
ever seeking to answer the mysterious questions expressed
in that mighty recumbent figure. Yet the great riddle of the
Sphinx is still mutely propounded: "Man, whence? Why?
Whither? What is the meaning of evolution? What the
promise of the Great Day to come? What wait I for?"
The true Sphinx is double-sexed and has wings, either
folded or raised, aitho in some cases and for special reasons
the sexes are separated. In such case the two images,
male and female, usually face each other with a growing
224
The Message of the Sphinx 225
tree between them, the male being bearded and the female
having wings. They thus point out the eternal truth that it
is only through the combined power of the twothe mother-
love fructified by the wisdom of the fatherthat the Tree
of Life can bring forth its fruit or that humanity can learn
to spread its wings and lift up the Scorpion into the Bird
of Life.
But the characteristic Sphinx is double-sexed just as is
Aquarius, in which the Man falls on his knees in his ardent
desire to pour out the Water of Life (feminine) to quicken
the seeds of future powers and faculties in man. As the
Egyptian Ritual describes it: "Praise be to thee, 0 Ra (the
Sun-god) Thou art the two bodies of the Double
Sphinx god."
Altho at present buried so deeply in the sand that little
more than its head and fore paws are visible, the Great
Sphinx of Giza at one time stood upon a high hill and formed
the roof of a sacred temple. Even today, between its paws,
a shrine has been found dedicated to the Sun-god Harma-
chis (Horns), the "Great Light of the World." But ere the
Aquarian Age has entered upon its second decanate, the
sand that now so nearly buries it will be removed and many
wonders and facts confirming the truths destined to be
brought to light in this New Age will be found, as pre-
dicted by Madame Blavatsky in The Secret Doctrine1 many
years ago.
What then is the fundamental idea symbolized by that
mighty image? What but the dawn of the new Age of
Light, the great Aquarian Age, when the Sign of the Son of
Man shall reign in heaven; when the ancient priesthood shall
be gathered from the Four Winds again to receive the an-
cient wisdom of the Spiritual Sun direct from its Infinite
Source and give it forth that its rays of Divine Truth may
again illumine the minds and warm the hearts of mankind.
The very name of the Sphinx identifies it as a Bearer of
liJoL ii!. 9S.
226 The Message of Aquaria
Light, for in the Egyptian tongue its name is Hu or Hu-
piter, meaning the Hu-father, or Father of light, being iden-
tical with the Greek Hu, or Ju-piter, the Father of the Gods.
As the Ritual says, "Hu-iti. Thou art the Lord of Light.
and dedarest the things which are bidden."
In this mighty figure we see symbolized the Foundation
Stone of the Universe, the cosmic cross, composed of the
four signs of the zodiac of which Aquarius the Man is the
head and ruler, i.e., its bind quarters are those of the Ox
(Taurus); its fore quarters those of the Lion (Leo); its
head and breasts those of a human being (Aquarius); its
wings those of the Eagle, and its tail that of the Scorpion.2
That this figure was meant to prophesy an Age when these
four zodiacal signs should occupy the place they do in the
heavens today and point to the true man, the Aquarian, as
the one who could read the riddle of the Sphinx, is indi-
cated in the many little comprehended legends of the Sphinx
in which it is represented as devouring men, and in many
examples of Egyptian and Greek art, in which the Sphinx
is seen either seizing, standing upon or tearing man to
pieces. For so must these eternal truths seize man and
through the ages tear from him his lower propensities that
the true Man may come forth. The reply of Edipus to the
riddle of the Sphinx, "What animal is it that walks on four
legs in the morning, on two at noon and on three in the
evening?" shows that only man can solve the riddle; for his
reply was that man crawls upon all fours in his childhood,
walks upright during maturity and with a cane in old age.
Thus ever does the riddle of the Sphinx have man for its
solution.
In the Egyptian Sphinx the wings are folded, for the
learned priests knew well the length of time that must elapse
crc humanity as a whole could open the dense elytra which
encased its wings, unfold the wings and rise into the higher
realms of consciousness. Similarly in another favorite
2 See Page. 26. 90.
The Message of the Sphinx 227
Egyptian symbol, the scarab, the folded wing-cases indicate
the dense covering that has been placed over all that is sym-
bolized by the uplifting and transmuting of the Scorpion
into.the Eagle. They also signified that manldnd must pass
through its beetle stage, during which, while possessing
wings with which to soar, he is still slowly crawling upon
the Earth and bringing forth through the lower aspect of his
creative powers, verily a scorpion biting the heel of the
Rider.
This stupendous symbol of the Sphinx was carved out of
a single rock 189 feet long, at a time so remote that in an
inscription of the Fourth Dynasty (4700 B.C.), it is men-
tioned as a monument that was only "found by chance" dur-
ing that reign, and whose origin was even then lost in the
night of time, aitho it is usually assigned to Cheops by
exoteric scholars. It rises out of the pyramid fidd and faces
due East, gazing steadfastly through the ages out over the
Nile valley toward the Source of Light.
In those long past ages The Order of Christian Mystics3
had its birth. It was then that the mighty mystic teachings
were given to the Race and the meaning of the symbol f ore-
told to those Souls who were entrusted with its manifesta-
tion in that Age; for it was then as now an expression of
the Great Work for the enlightenment of humanity founded
on . definite lines by those Divine Masters whose work
throughout the ages is to unfold to man the sacredness of
all that this mighty image of the Sphinx symbolizes.
And the seed of those teachings then sown in mystery and
secrecy has been watered and nurtured through the ages until
they are now beginning to blossom forth in the sunlight for
all who are attracted to them. For in every Age at least some
few have incarnated who in those early days had been
taught these Mysteries and vowed themselves to their pro-
mulgation. Even during the darkest days of ignorance and
persecution the Light of these Great Truths has been cher-
See The Key of Destuiy Curtu. 202-S.
228 The Message of Aquaria
ished by the few, for the Masters of Wisdom have never
lost their touch with mankind nor been without their ffiu-
mined disciples on Earth. The Order of Christian Mystics is
again put forth in this present Age as one more link in the
golden chain of truth which connects mankind with the
Divine Teachers.
And today, as this great Aquarian Age begins its cyde,
those same Souls must once more gather together their rein-
carnated students and followers that that which was symbol-
ized in stone may be manifested in the world today in living
flesh, this time erected in the hearts and lives of men. But
in that far off time, seeing the end from the beginning and
knowing the impossibility of preserving unmixed with error
and misconception the mighty esoteric truths for which this
Order stands, they were preserved for those who knew, for
those who could understand, in the majestic figure of the
Sphinx. Therefore, each one who is today strongly drawn
in heart and mind to the Teachings of The Order of Chris-
tian Mystics was no doubt a follower of these mystical truths
in those ancient days, when the Celestial Teachers descended
and gave directions how this sacred Order and its principles
should forever be preserved intact until the day of their com-
plete manifestation. -
As the new Aquarian Age dawns, the Great Teachers real-
ize only too well that it is not sufficiently helpful to force
mankind to delve into the musty records of the past for its
spiritual food, for in those past ages of general ignorance
and intellectual darkness many vital truths had to be hidden
or at least veiled from the ignorant which today, at the
dawn of the day of fulfillment, must be revealed. For Their
teachings form a living philosophy which will always be
expressed in every age in a way to meet the needs of each
age. They are eternally old yet, like the Sun which remains
the same, yet rises anew for each new day, they are forever
new. For they contain the Wisdom of Life, symbolized by
the Tree of Life which grows by the River of Life and bears
its fruit each month for the healin of the nations.
The Message of the Sphinx 229
Hence it is fitting, as the Great Day draws near when
the many scattered ones are to be assembled, that there
should be at least a few gathered together whose hearts and
minds are attuned in perfect harmony, united in love and
illumined by understanding, and once more have the Riddle
of the Sphinx in its spiritual aspect elucidated for the bet-
terment of manldnd.4
Just as that stony figure, with its imperishable message to
humanity, has stood upon the border of the desert, endur-
ing the fierce heat, the storms and the forces of the ages
without disintegration, so has this Order endured through-
out the ages and its message been given to man in each suc-
ceeding cycle, under various names suited to the times.
Again and again have the terrific sand storms of worldly
criticism and opposition beat upon it until it seemed almost
extinct and its message distorted and lost to sight. Yet as
its day dawns in each cycle the winds of heaven blow away
the accumulated sand and those who belong to its tribe are
gathered under its banner and are once more thrilled and
enlightened and fed by its mystic message, presenting the
world-old truths in language suited to the age. For no
movement that is under the active present-day inspiration
of the Great Ones will attempt to present the great truths
of life in the obscure jargon which may have been neces-
sary in the Dark Ages of physical persecution and possible
physical death. For Their object now is not to obscure truth,
but to reveal it in such a way as to help present-day
humanity.
And just as none can look into the eyes of that great stone
image, with their human gaze piercing the desert depths,
without feeling a thrill of awakened inner sight, so today
none who were once its followers can look into the Eye of
the Order (the center of its symbol) without feeling a thrill
as its rays pierce the darkness of their understanding and
bring to them the Light of their ancient wisdom.
4 See Reelmi of the Livi,g Dead, Curtis.. 283.
5 See TI'. Vow. .f liii. Curtis.. Chapter xxxiv.
230 The Message of Aquaria
As we stand upon the threshold of this New Age, the
cruel blasts of sand and the hot scorching winds of the
desert may sweep over us. Yet we wait, resting like the
Sphinx in powerful strength. The patient endurance of the
Sphinx is needed to win the crown. Many hearts have cried
out in the agony of their waiting, "How long, 0 Lord? How
long?" Many litle ones have groped their blind way through
the things of the outer life, seeking Truth. To. all these we
bring the message of the Sphinx. The storms of ignorance,
sectarianism and priestcraft have piled the sands of miscon-
ception up around the Mystery of Truth until it seems to
stand today with but its head above the sands. And yet
its countenance is filled with unutterable longing, love and
patience.
Like the Sphinx, deep in our hearts we know that the
incarnation has never dawned when we have not stood in
the midst of life; when our hearts have not beat in response
to the roll call of the living, even tho we have forgotten
whence we came and whither we are going. We, too, have
stood on Egypt's sands; have given up our life for -this
Great Cause. We, too, have been born again and again;
have struggled and hoped and despaired and laid down our
lives with trust in the Great Law. Yet always, as life de-
parted, the vision of the Reality has been held before us.
We know that incarnation after incarnation the misinter-
pretation of divine symbols and scriptures has erected dense,
heavy slabs of misconception around our mind and heart,
so that forgetfulnessthe price of Earth existencehas
covered over or blotted out the memory of the past. Yet,
as in the carvings of the Sphinx, there has been impressed
upon our Soul-consciousness a dim understanding of the
mystery concealed within our heart, in which we will find
the answer to the riddle of our life and the work we must
perform. Many put their hands to the plow, yet look back
and are fixed to the spot until a new incarnation. But there
are a few who never can go back, because the look in their
eyes is compounded of the imperishable qualities of the
The Message of the Sphinx 231
four signs composing the Sphinx, to Know; to Dare; to Do
and to Keep Silent.
Let us for a moment disregard the passage of time and
on more see ourselves assembled in that ancient Egyptian
crypt beneath the Sphinx. Let us once more hear the thun-
derous tones of the Celestial Teacher as He comes again to
tell us that the task then outlined is now almost accom-
plished; that the thing then symbolized in stone is almost
ready to be expressed by a statue of living flesh and blood;
in a united body of faithful followers of the Law, which
shall fulfill in its every detail that which was foreshadowed
then in stone. Let us examine this mighty symbol and see
the message it holds for us.
The flanks of the Ox give us the power to Do. Is not this
Order resting upon those flanks, its power to Do? Has it
not toiled and labored through the ages? Has it not been
bowed with burdens to the Earth, the burdens of the hearts
of its children? Has it not crouched on the edge of the
desert of life, buffeted by storms, ignored by the multitude,
almost buried in the sands of outer conditions, as it bore
the burdens of the many who look to it for help? Yet
through it all never has it forgotten that even tho a very
Ox indeed, it is nevertheless yoked with the Divine Christ,
whose command ever is, "Take my yoke upon you, and
learn of me; and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For
my yoke is easy and my burden is light."
Its fore quarters give us the power to Love and to Dare.
Are they not those of the Lion? Has it not had the courage
to use its fore quarters to seek out Wisdom and teax the
acquired knowledge of the ages to shreds that i might feed
on its inner meaning? Has not the Lion aspect of the Order
manifested itself? Has not the great and powerful Love
the support and balance that has made this Order endure,
that is symbolized by the higher aspects of the Lion been
resting in powerful strength? Has not this Love emanated
232 The Message of Aquaria
from the very heart of the Order since its beginning, as the
perfume emanates from the Rose?
Has not the eternal stillness in which the Eagle soars
given it the power to Keep Silent? Humanity has for ages
looked with wonder upon that which is symbolized by the
wings, i. e., the transmutation of the Scorpion into the Eagle.
Too long in past ages has the Order kept its wings dosely
folded, veiling the mysteries of the creative life-force. Too
long has it struggled to teach mankind obscurely how to
unfold its wings, how to spread and rely upon them to soar
into the higher realms with the power and freedom of the
Eagle, far above the sting of the Scorpion. But today its
wings are lifted up from its shoulders. Are not its mighty
talons conquering the force of the Scorpion, heeding not its
sting, and crying aloud for the breath of the New Age to
bear it into the higher realms? Again and again have the
cutting sand-storms beaten down these wings until they
seemed almost broken, yet today we see them lifted with
the power of the Aquarian, the Man Who Conquers.
The world has brought accusation after accusation and
sting after sting, saying: "How dare this Order unveil the
Mystery of the Ages and show mankind how to open its
wings through the power of sex uplifted, teaching that it
must be pure and holy and used as a manifestation of the
Christ-life !" Yet these storms have rolled from it, as the
feathers of the Eagle shed the raindrops as it ffies fear-
lessly through the passing storms, and have left it unscathed.
Is it any wonder then that today we see the question of sex
being lifted up throughout the world as the ideas concern-
ing its innate purity and holiness gradually spread and per-
meate all classes of thought and all advanced teachings?
Its human head gives us the power of the Aquarian to
Know. See how the normal human livable aspect of the
Teachings it promulgates are always presented to the world.
See how the breasts of the Mother are always filled with
nourishment for her children, always giving, giving, giving
The Message of the Sphinx 233
of her spiritual food to all And look you! Upon her
brow sits the kingly cap, the Ureus, which vandal hands
have tried to tear from her, the crown of Man triumphant.
It crowns only the Man Who Conquers, the Knower, the
Aquarian, who is (a) Lord of the beast, (b) Tamer of the
Lion, (c) Ruler of the Ox, (d) Transmuter and Uplifter
of the Scorpion.
Thus is the Sphinx a symbol of this Order. And aitho
the desert of the outer life and its materialistic conceptions
and consciousness seems barren and forbidding, and the
scorching sands still whirl about it in fitful gusts at times,
as we are passing through the reconstruction period of the
ages, let us nevertheless realize how many ages we have
waited for this day of freedom and upliftment, and not grow
weary.
Try to understand the symbol of the Order.T Meditate
upon it and realize the greatness of the work, the greatness
of our privilege. For the time is at hand when it will be
necessary for us to know and understand what is symbol-
ized and what is meant by this Great Work. And it will
not be many years, as Earth counts time, ere we will realize
why we are connected with the great Celestial Hierarchy
that is manifesting through this Order of Christian Mystics.
Therefore, help spread its Teachings, so that they will no
longer be merely symbolized by an image of stone, but shall
be a living, vital factor in the upliftment of the race. We
must Know, we must experience, we must Dare and we
must Labor that the Silence of the ages may be broken and
the Truth be revealed to the children of men.
Do not be impatient if the world does not respond at
once; if it runs after other gods or congregates where the
drums beat loudest. Do not blame it if at first it is afraid
of the heights to which the wings of the Sphinx can bear it.
Although the stones that complete the upper part of the palM have been
pried off, the forehead still shows part of the (Jreaz, the king's sign of Divine
Wisdomthe Serpent (Wisdoni)coming from out the head.
?See TA. Voice of Isis. Curtiss. Chapter xxxiv.
234 The Message of Aquaria
It takes time to learn spiritual aviation just as it does its
physical counterpart. Wait patiently. Rest in peace, rely-
ing upon the imperishable foundation, the Temple of Truth
that supports the Sphinx; for it is carved out of the solid
"Rock of Ages."
Let us learn from our symbol the attitude of mind that
shall give us endurance. Like the Sphinx, we will patiently
bide our time. Let not despair or even impatience appear in
the steady look of our eyes, no servility in our attitude, no
droop to our uplifted wings. Rest in the infinite knowl-
edge and calm confidence that tho nations rise and fall
the Great Law moves ever on toward its fulfillment. Trust
in the power of our symbol, for it has the brain that Knows,
and within it is beating as one heart the hearts of all its
children. In its nostrils is the breath of the Life Ever-
lasting.
CHAPTER XIX
THE SECOND WOE
"One woe is past; and, behold, there come two woes more here..
after."Revelatioii, ix, 12.
"And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and
they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from one
end of heaven to the other."St. Mafthew, xxiv, 31.
"As for these things which ye behold, the days wiU come, in which
there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown
down."S& Luke, xxi, 86.
By all who listen with the inner ear of understanding
there can be heard today "a great sound of a trumpet." It
is sounding from the Four Winds in thunderous waves of
heart-searching melody unheard as yet amid the strife of
Earth. Yet the Elect, or every ear attuned to the overtones
of life, can discern beneath the great unrest of the peoples
of all lands the rhythmic beat of angel's wings; can feel as
never man has felt before the urge to gather together, to
stand shoulder to shoulder, sinking all differences of opinion,
creed and politics in a united effort to prepare for the second
woe, the second phase of the great war drama which doses
this cycle, the first phase of which was the World War
which has been fought out on the physical plane. "One
woe is past; behold, there come two woes more hereafter."
The second woe will just as surely come as did the first;
in fact it is now upon us. And if we are to learn wisdom
from the bitter experiences of the past years it behooves us
to preach continually the "doctrine of preparedness" for that
which is sure to follow. This second woe will be the test-
ing, cleansing and proving of the ideals and teachings of the
religious and moral world and their natural consequences in
the industrial, political and social fabric of the nations. We
235
236 The Message of Aquaria
may say that the war drama must be again fought out, but
now in the mental world with thoughts, arguments and ideals
for weapons, unless we should so far forget the principles
of liberty of thought and freedom of religious expression
upon which this country was founded, as to permit physical
conflict.
Just as the World War involved all the nations of the
world, so that even those who called themselves neutrals
nevertheless had to suffer from it, so this mental phase of
the drama of the ages will involve every phase or
presentation of religious thought or expression in all lands.
And because our social fabric, our laws, politics and govern-
ment are all supposedly built upon the religious conceptions
of the people, the testing, scouring and purifying proc-
ess must embrace every institution of man's building. Just
as the physical war reached down into and altered the foun-
dations of the society of nations, so shall the coming mental
war reach down to and alter the very foundations on which
our liberty of thought and our freedom of religious expres-
sion are based.
The religious conceptions, beliefs and thoughts of all
humanity have built up a mighty temple composed of many,
many "goodly stones." Each nation has builded its part of
this temple, hence no division of mankind can entirely escape
from the responsibility and the consequences which it entails;
for it was this Temple of Humanity to which Jesus alluded
when he said: "Not one stone shall be left upon another
that shall not be thrown down."
"And the sixth Angel sounded, and I heard a voice from
the four horns of the golden altar which is before God, say-
ing to the sixth angel which had the trumpet, Loose the
four angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates."1
The trumpet sounded by the Sixth Angel announced the
dose of the fifth sub-race and the beginning of. the sixth,
over which he is to preside, as this sub-race is to foreshadow
that which will be fully manifested in the Sixth Great Race.
1 Revelatioi,. ix. 13-14.
The Second Woe 237
The meaning of the word Euphrates is "generation; to
increase; the creative power," and the four angels which
have been bound by man's misunderstanding and misuse of
generation and his creative powers are the forces symbolized
by the four beasts, the Ox, the Lion, the Eagle (Scorpion)
and the Man. Until the present time only the very lowest
aspect of generation has been recognized by humanity, but
as the Sixth Angelthe Angel of the Sixth Great Race,
sounding his call to our sixth sub-racesounds his trumpet
the Ox (labor) must learn to toil not merely for wages, but
to bring forth perfect and helpful things for the good of all.
The Lion must give us the courage to face our creations and
through purified love redeem them. From the experiences
of the Scorpion, whose sting has poisoned the springs of life,
we must bring about the regeneration of sex that it may
rise up like the Eagle. And the Man (Aquarius) must give
us the wisdom of self-knowledge. With these forces we
must lay the foundation upon which we are to erect our
spiritual temple.
The river Euphrates is referred to in many places in the
Bible as a bringer forth, a fruitful river, symbolizing the
creative powers of man, and it was upon the bank of this
river that the Tower of Babel (confusion) was built. It was
confusion because only one aspect was recognized, hence the
Tower of Babel symbolizes the limited perverted aspect of
the true Temple of the Sun which must ultimately be built
upon the banks of this great river. This points to the fact
that in the coming New Age the spiritual or angelic aspects
of the Divine Creative Force shall be released from the
stream of pollution (the trail of the serpent) in which they
have been bound for so many ages. Hence, one of the out-
comes of the coming struggle must be a greater purity of
thought in regard to all man's creative functions.
The name "Babel" also means "The Gate of the Lord"
(Law) and the city was founded by Nimrod, the "mighty
hunter before the Lord," or that force of evolution which
founds or brint!s forth new manifestations of the Law. The
238 The Message of Aquaria
confusion of languages and the scattering of the people over
all the Earth symbolized the development of personal and
intellectual conceptions of the Law which were not in har-
mony with those given humanity by its Divine Teachers
upon which to build its civilization. And only as humanity
returns once more to a common understanding of the uni-
versal spiritual principles of the Wisdom Religion can the
confusion of thought and teaching be transformed into har-
mony and humanity be enabled to build a Spiritual Temple
which shall reach into heaven. The confusion also symbol-
ized the many individual aspects of concept and creation
which the great River of Life brings to man crc he can build
his individual Temple.
The angels referred to in the text represent the messen-
gers of the Lord (Law) whose trumpet call is finding re-
sponse in the hearts of the Elect; those who have elected to
follow the Divine Guidance. The Elect are those who are
being gathered together from the Four Winds to form the
advance guard of the coming Great Teacher, the Avatar.
But the four angels loosed by the Sixth Angel at the com-
mand of the Voice2 are those who shall bring about the
cleansing of humanity's temple; who shall bring forth into
the clear searching light of truth every hidden idol, be it
enshrined in ever so sacred a niche, worshiped with ever
so sacred a ceremony or guarded and upheld by ever so
plausible priestly sophistries. In fact, everything that de-
mands man's worship and his spiritual or even his mental
allegiance, must now stand forth naked in the searchlight
of truth which the coming Great Angel (Avatar) is turning
upon men's minds and hearts. For verily we are living in
the days in which it is decreed that: "There is nothing
covered, that shall not be revealed; neither hid, that shall not
be known."
The Voice which gave the command to release the four
angels came "from the four horns of the golden altar which
is before God." Horns symbolize powersthe perfect hal-
2 Ibid.. ix. 14.15
The Second Woe 239
ance of love, faith, trust and patiencelience the horns of
the altar would mean the powers which are conferred upon
one who lays hold of the horns of the altar, the super-
human powers which would be available to a true Priest of
the Most High who, as an Initiate, was a true Prophet,
Priest and King unto God. The Voice was the voice of all
that should be held most sacred and holy, protesting against
the materialization and desecration of the Holy of Holies
by many of those who stand before the world as priests, but
are not.
Besides the personal meaning of this allegory there is also
a universal application as pertaining to humanity. The altar
of any temple is that portion in or upon which the worship
is focused; that place where the incense of prayer, devotion
and aspiration continually ascends; where the true Priest
offers daily sacrifices, i. e., the sacrifice of his human person-
ality, of a pure heart and of a life devoted to enlightening,
guiding and helping his people toward a personal realization
of and correlation with the Divine. In the great Temple of
Eiumanity man has erected for himself an altar or that upon
which his devotion and worship of the Divine is focused,
namely, religion. Before this altar today, however, we sel-
dom find the Initiate Priest, the Super-man, fully conscious
of his oneness with Divinity and endued with Wisdom and
an understanding of the "Mysteries of the Kingdom of God,"
hence, able to direct and use the powers which come from
the horns of the altar.
Owing to this lack of wisdom, understanding and power,
the four angels of humanity's temple have been imprisoned
in the Euphrates, but must now be released from the bond-
age of misconception and materialization under which they
have been held for centuries; the bondage created by man's
misconception of religion. They have been called forth by
the Voice crying from out the altar, appealing to the Sixth
Angel and his childrenthe more enlightened humanity
of the sixth sub-race--demanding freedom from the autoc-
240 The Message of Aquaria
racy of the church, and for liberty of worship. They have
been commanded to go forth and purify the Temple of
Humanity of its accumulated evils.
One interpretation of these four angels in this cyde may
be called Service, Enthusiasm, Righteousness and Unity.
The false manifestations into which they have been perverted
by man are (1) the power of unselfish service to manldnd
which, through selfishness and ignorance, has degenerated
into priestcraft; (2) ardor for the spread of spiritual Light
and Truth, which has degenerated into hypocrisy; (3) the
desire that rightness, or harmony with Divine Law,
should guide mankind, now turned into intolerance and
the persecution of those whose conceptions of right differ,
and (4) that sense of oneness or the gathering of all into
universal truth, which has been turned into separation
of sectarianism. All these aspects of the four angels,
which have been perverted by man, i.e., either over-
whelmed by the waves of sex temptation or stranded in the
midst of the river on the rock of sex misconceptions, must
now be let loose and have their sway over him until he
recognizes his mistakes; recognizes them for what they are;
until he repents and purges his religion from them and re-
deems them from their bondage and enables them to mani-
fest their true nature.
Thus does the Lord often use as his messengers or angels
the very evils he is correcting; for only as man is permitted
to eat of the bitter bread of his own kneading or suffer from
the perverted aspect of the four angels which he has en-
shrined upon the altar of his temple, will he recognize their
falsity, drive them out and bring back the true. Man has
enthroned them and man only can dethrone them.
"And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared
for an hour, and a day, and a month, and a year, for to
slay a third part of men. And the number of the army of
the horsemen were two hundred thousand ousan The
lIbjj.. iz. 15-16.
The Second Woe 241
ciphers in the number of the "two hundred thousand thou-
sand horsemen," which are called forth by the angels, sym-
bolize an almost unlimited number, while the figure two
shows that this army will be composed of both sexes, men and
women. That this war will be a mental war, or conflict of
ideas, is dearly shown, since horses always symbolize intel-
lectual conceptions or powers, also "their power is in their
mouth." "Them who sat thereon" symbolize all the awak-
ened thinkers, both men and women, who must be the ones to
bring this woe to an end by purging the minds of men of their
misconceptions "by the fire which issued out of their mouths,"
altho this is done in love, yet with great power and courage,
symbolized by their having "the heads of lions," or Leo, the
sign of the heart.
The second woe will have four distinct periods, during
which the foundation of the New Age will be laid, for we
are told that the four angels will prevail "f or an hour, and
a day, and a month, and a year." Although we are also
told that "of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not
the angels of heaven," still, we can gain an approximate
idea if we remember that the first woe was allotted "five
months," or five short periods for its duration. These pe-
riods are not literal, but symbolic, and we note that the first
period of the World War lasted nearly five years, with a con-
siderable overlapping, before all the fighting ceased and peace
reignOEL
With this working out in mind we can apply the same
standard to the second woe, but in doing so we must re--
member one great factor, which must always be taken into
consideration, namely, that man has free-will within certain
wide limits. While he has a fixed destinyhis ultimate
spiritual perfectionwhich is not fate, until "he becomes as
one of us," the gods, yet he is free to choose both how soon
and in what manner he will work out that destiny. He can
resist the Divine Guidance, break the Law, suffer and greatly
retard his advance along the Path of Attainment, or he can
242 The Message of Aquaria
follow the Guidance, work with the Law and in peace and
harmony greatly accelerate his spiritual unfoldment.
The exercise of his free-will affects not only individual
man, but also communities, nations, Races and the entire evo-
lution of the planet. Therefore, every event that is fore-
shadowed or prophesied, no matter how definitely, is subject
to this variable factor of man's free-will. Its hour of mani-
festation depends upon how man reacts to it. Does he learn
his lesson quickly or must he suffer a long time ere he is
ready to repent (turn around)?
From the present outlook (1921) of world conditions we
may calculate that the first period of readjustment, "an
hour," will see the readjustment of capital and labor, which
is quite likely to come to a tremendous crisis soon, but
which should be as quickly settled, altho doubtless leav-
ing many tangled ends to be unraveled later. The second
phase, "a day," may well be the struggle for the political
and social readjustments now taking place. Naturally, it
will take many times as long as the first phase for its work-
ing out. The third phase, "a month," will embrace the
great upheaval, and the consequent strife and struggle which
is unavoidable in the overturning and readjustment of reli-
gious conceptions, teachings and thoughts on spiritual sub-
jects. It must also bring about a readjustment of political,
social, industrial, educational and financial organizations and
methods, looking toward greater co-operation, freedom of
exchange and uniform administration of justice between
organizations, classes and nations.
All these three phases may be experienced within the space
of four or five years, while the fourth phase, "a year," we
may expect to last from twelve to fifteen years. This period
must necessarily be somewhat extensive since time must be
given within it for the trying out of all the new conceptions
presented as a solution of the world conflict; for testing
all the new standards of thought and conduct; the weeding
out of the false from the true, of soohistries from true and
The Second Woe 243
comprehensive philosophies, and the beginning of the estab-
lishment of the practical manifestation of real brotherhood
among men and nations. All this will not be accomplished
except through much intolerance, conflict, tribulation and
bitter woe.
While at the present writing (1921), all these four
aspects are seething together as in a cauldron, yet each
should reach its focal point and settlement within the ap-
proximate time and in the same order as mentioned in the
prophecy. It is this struggle of the forces of adjustment
that is causing the great unrest in the minds of mankind,
much like the swirling currents of a great river which
through some cataclysmic change has had its old channel
dammed up and must seek a new bed. Yet one mind after
another will find its new outlet and will settle down just as
some of the waters find their way past the obstade and flow
peacefully on while others still seethe and boil until the new
channel is entirely formed.
"All these are the beginnings of sorrows. Then shall they
deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you: and ye shall
be hated of all nations for my name's sake."4 Those who
are delivered up to be afflicted and to "be hated of all na-
tions for my name's sake" are all those who recognize the
Light of the Christ within; who stand for the absolute lib-
erty of each heart to interpret the Divine as it is revealed to
him and who also stand for freedom from persecution
whether religious, social, political or industrialbecause of
their beliefs. It embraces all who are working sincerely for
the enlightenment, the uplift, the independence, the self-
reliance, the purification and the inspiration of mankind
through his recognition of the Divinity within himself; who
are therefore working for the overthrow of autocracy or
compulsion of any kind in thought and religion. Jesus, in
describing this Second Woe, said: "And then shall many be
offended, and shall betray one another, and shall hate one
4 St. M.ttken,. xxiv. 8-9.
244 The Message of Aquaria
another. And many false prophets shall arise and shall de-
ceive many. And because iniquity shall abound, the love of
many shall wax cold. But he that shall endure unto the end,
the same shall be saved."5
There will be a tendency to go to extremes, to pull down
all established institutions just because they were established
under the old regime. As is always the case before equilib-
rium is attained, the pendulum of popular opinion will
tend to swing to the opposite extreme. Ignorance and blind
obedience through compulsion, when driven to desperation
by lack of sympathy and understanding, ever tends to end
its sufferings by plunging into an orgy of so-called "liberty"
which, uncontrolled, quickly becomes license to express its
selfishness, greed and animal lusts in horrors of injustice,
tyranny, cruelty and bloodshed quite as frightful as those
against which it revolted. Many ignorant ones seek to
rectify their wrongs, yet only make their ignorance more
dense, by seeking to eliminate the educated and enlightened
in an endeavor to attain their goal. Such an ideal persist-
ently maintained makes humanity stand aghast. Does it
mean that civilization has failed? and that all the results of
culture, refinement, invention and progress the twentieth
century has attained are to be wiped off the face of the Earth
and man be reduced to a state of savagery and the reign of
brute force? No, it does not. It is but the confusion due
to the overlapping of great cydes of evolution, and the length
of this period depends upon how mankind reacts to it.
While the last phase of the Second Woe seems to follow
after the others, in truth, it is but a part of them, for we
have but to look around us today to see and hear of many
false prophets who work wonders for a time and deceive
many. This phase exists with the other phases, yet will last
far longer.
5Sf IfgtIkew. EXIT IO-13
CHAPTER XX
THE DAY OF JUDGMENT
"Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there;
believe it not. For there shall rise false Christs, and false prophets,
and shall show great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were
possible, they shall deceive the very elect. Behold, I have told you
before. Wherefore if they shall say unto you, Behold, he is in the
desert; go not forth; Behold, he is in the secret chambers; believe it
not."St. Matthew, xxiv, 23-26.
The conditions mentioned in the previous chapter are but
the natural working out of the Law of Manifestation. If
during the long cycle of the fifth sub-race now dosing it has
created ths conditions which generate the horrors which we
see in its closing days, then those creations must have their
manifestation on Earth that man may be brought face to
face with his creations and see them in their awful hideous-
ness; that he may realize what results may be expected
when wrong ideals and wrong thinking find expression in
action. These are among the things that were covered, but
which must be revealed to those who covered them up, for
only so can they be recognized and redeemed. To cover up
and refuse to face conditions; to smugly cry "There is
no evil. All is good !" while evil is rampant around and
within us for the very reason that we refuse to recognize
and uproot it, is to court disaster sooner or later. This is
amply proved in the case of those who preached that doctrine
in national affairs before the World War, as all such have
found out to the sorrow and undoing, not only of themselves,
but of their nations.
What is the cure? There is just one cure, truth, honesty,
justice and righteousness; only truth can set us free. While
245
246 The Message of Aquaria
God never created anything evil, yet man, with his free-will,
in choosing to disobey, did create all the terrible evils in the
world today, and the wild beasts of his passion are prowling
through the jungle of life ready to devour any lamb that is
tied by the cord of sophistry or authority and with eyes fast
shut is blandly bleating, "All is good." In the future let us
build our temple upon the Rock of Truth, which does not
camouflage life or refuse to see the mud in the gutter be-
cause the sky is blue and the Sun is shining.
Following the revolt against autocracy in government we
must expect a similar revolt against autocracy in religion.
No longer can the old mcdiaeval interpretations of religion
impose their autocratic creeds and dogmas on men's minds
through fear, the fear of hell-fire; for today millions of men
have been through fires worse than any ever pictured of
hell and worse gases than brimstone. As one young veteran
said: "If there is any hell worse than we've been through,
show it to us and we'll dean it up!" Neither can the church
any longer appeal to the selfishness in man to submit to its
decrees to save his own Soul, for he has already given his
life for humanityfor an idealand has realized that the
Soul is immortal and needs no "saving" in the theological
sense. Therefore, just as governments are being readjusted
on a more democratic basis, so must religion be reorganized
if it is to survive the coming tests and searching inspections
of the awakened thought of the New Day.
Already there are a number of churches, movements and
sects which, seeing the vision of the coming Great Teacher
and the inevitable reconstruction of religion, yet, either not
having adjusted their minds to an understanding of true
freedom or being incapable of expanding their consciousness
to take in the broader conception of the absolute guidance
of each Soul from the God-consciousness within, they are
even now sending out literature which calls upon all who
desire to work for the coming New Era to accept unques-
tioningly their interpretation of the prophecies and join their
The Day of Judgment 247
society or church, offering to all who do so that they shall
be numbered among the Elect and threatening with dire con-
sequences all who refuse to see as they see. It scarcely needs
to be pointed out that all such efforts are but new attempts
to coerce through fear or through promise of special re-
wards, in other words, the old autocracy in religion in a new
dress.
The doctrine of hell fire and "lost" Souls has now been
tried, tested and rejected, and if such seed is again sown
in this New Era it must inevitably bring forth the same
crop of selfishness, spiritual pride, intolerance, persecution
and unbrotherliness that the world has been reaping and
wiping out today. It is as tho a farmer, whose field has
brought forth a large crop of tares among the wheat, should
plow and plant the same seeds merely because they had a
new label and then expect better results.
The text which heads this lesson warns us that just such
conditions must be expected at this period. But how em-
phatic yet terse is the warning: "Behold, I have told you
before I" Many, however, instead of feeling comforted
and helped by this warning are puzzled to know just how
to take it, and like so many warnings, permit it to generate
only alarm and suspicion, so they fear to look anywhere for
help. Like frightened children they cry out: "How shall
we know?" Yet the language is so simple that if we stop
seeking for some learned earthly teacher to give his opinion
and ask from within for guidance, we cannot fail to know.
Firstly, if we hear any person, church, or society saying,
"Lo, here only, in my person, in my church, or in my society
you will find the coming Christ," believe it not! Evidently
it was preordained that He shall not be announced in that
way, else we would not be warned so specifically against it.
There can be no exclusive claim on His appearance. "For as
the lightning cometh out of the east, and shineth even unto
the west: so shall also the coming of the Son of man be."
It is to be universal among all who do His works, feel His
248 The Message of Aquaria
tender love and manifest His humility in service, rather than
in making great claims about being His Elect. Of those
whose love, wisdom, service and understanding of true
spiritual freedom, opens a path of Light direct to Him
through which He can pour into their hearts and lives His
own Divine Love, we are told: "He calleth his own sheep
by name. . . . and the sheep follow him, and He .saith:
I am the good shepherd and know my sheep and am known
of mine."
Secondly, to know Him when He comes we must over-
come the natural tendency to follow after signs and won-
ders; for even the Elect, if overcredulous, may be deceived.
Hence, discretion, an understanding of the Law and wise
judgment are necessary factors. The tares have been al-
lowed to grow with the wheat until the harvest, which now
has come, and now we must carefully separate one from
the other. But we must judge lovingly, yet wisely, for, "As
ye judge, so shall ye be judged," i.e., with what amount of
enlightened judgment we display will we be judged. In
these last days of the old dispensationfor these are the
days of judgment, the end of an era, not the Day of Judg-
ment or end of the worldevery person and every form of
religious thought will be brought to judgment, not by God,
but by own works and by mankind. And every tree
form of thought and teachingthat brings not forth good
fruit shall be cut down, and "By their fruits ye shall know
them."
If taken literally, the parable of the barren fig tree1 is a
stumbling block to many, for they cannot reconcile the
thought of the gentle and loving Jesus cursing anything,
much less a fig tree because, forsooth, He was hungry for
figs and found none, especially as the parable tells us that
"the time for figs was not yet." Yet if this symbolic incident
is properly interpreted it becomes quite reasonable. The
fig tree is used to symbolize a class of persons who, because
1St. Mark. xi. 13. 20.
The Day of Judgment 249
of religious training and association, are expected to be
veiy fruitful, yet when the Lord of Life comes seeking
their fruitstheir workshe finds nothing but leaves. And
if a cultivated tree has an abundance of leaves it is only
natural to expect fruit, or at least find buds, if the time for
the ripened fruit is not yet.
Another version of this same parable is found in St. Luke.'
There we are told that a certain manthe Divine Self
had a fig tree, and for three years he had come seeking fruit
and had found none. Then he ordered it cut down, but
the caretakerthe personal selfasked that he be given one
more chance, one more season in which to further cultivate
it, or a total of four seasonsthe number of the physical
planein which to establish it before being cut off from
recognition and contact with the master of the vineyard.
Similarly in these days of testing, many may be found
covered with beautiful leaves of outward pretension and lip-
service, which attract the attention of the superficial, yet have
no fruit for the spiritually hungry. The four years of culti-
vation mean four periods or incarnations, in which every
opportunity has been given to understand and learn how to
bring forth fruit. If, however, in spite of all this, they do
not bring forth fruit, in the succeeding incarnation they will
find that even their outer pretense fails them or is withered
or dried up; for we are told that it was the next "thy" or
incarnation, that the disciplesthe spiritually advanced who
had known us in the pastwho passed that way, saw that
the leaves were withered and the tree dried up.
And thus will it be with all who neglect or abuse their
opportunities. No loving Lord of Life will curse them, but
the Karma of their own indolence and pretentious show of
leaves which formerly deceived the multitude will be their
undoing. In other words, in the succeeding incarnation
they will find themselves born into an environment in which
despite their great hunger for spiritual food and spiritual
2 St. Luke. ziiL 6-9.
250 The Message of Aquaria
attainments, they will be cut off from their realization, per-
haps so poor that they cannot buy helpful books, or living
far from anyone who can speak their spiritual language and
with their spiritual faculties blunted, etc.
Almost every form of religious teaching formulates many
good ideas and lays down many helpful precepts, and by
these, rather than by their fruits, have they been judged in
the past. Now, however, conditions have changed. The
harvest is now at hand and we see the tares choking the
wheat and we judge each field only by the good wheat it
has brought forth, not by the good intentions planted. How
do the teachings manifest in the lives of their followers?
What is their effect on the moral and social structure of
mankind? What amount of evil, selfishness, sin, sorrow,
suffering and inefficiency have they eradicated from the com-
munity? These are the tests now to be applied.
The New Age, being the Sign of the Son of Man in
Heaven, is pouring out upon mankind a real and highly
spiritualized forcethe Water of Lifewhich must germi-
nate in the world the seeds of spiritual thought. The past
age was called the Intellectual Age, during which humanity
markedly developed its intellectual faculties, in many in-
stances to the depletion of its heart qualities, and much
misery and many vile weeds have sprung up in consequence.
Today the thinking world stands aghast at the result and is
earnestly seeking a remedy, while the ignorant conclude that
intellectual development is responsible, hence are apt to ad-
vocate the stamping out, in blood if necessary, of all that
man has gained during the Intdlectual Era.
The intellect may be likened to the stalk and leaves of the
growing wheat, which must be strongly developed if it is to
bring into manifestation at its apex the nutritious grains of
spiritual realization and expression. Hence, if we refuse to
cultivate the intellect in this cycle or summer period we will
have to pass through a long cycle of bleak and wintry
conditions ere we can bring forth a new crop of nourishing
The Day of Judgment 251
grain. We must therefore cultivate the intellect as the
farmer cultivates his wheat, i. e., not to bring forth a great
show of wonderful stalks and leaves to sway in the breeze
and attract attention, yet only to make straw and chaff at the
harvest, but with the one end in view, to bring forth as much
grain (spiritual manifestation) as possible, to do which there
must be healthy straw. The intellect is not truly developed,
no matter how full it may be of the ideas of others, until it
has been trained to respond to and express the consciousness
of the Divine Indweller, the Rtal Self. The wheels of
progress move rdentlessly on and all who try to stop them,
either by refusing to accept the new advanced ideas and
spiritual conceptions, or by trying to blot out all education,
refinement and scientific advance are sooner or later but
crushed themselves.
We must face conditions as we find them and recognize
that the Water of Life now being poured out upon us will
and must bring forth the seeds of the New Age, and that
those who choose canfor there is no compulsioncorrect
conditions by refusing longer to accept the old conceptions,
and by planting new seeds of higher and more spiritual
ideals. In this New Age man can and must learn to see his
mistakes and correct them. He can, if he will, learn the
highest use of mind and realize that only as intellect is
made the servant of the Higher Self can it reach its ultimate
perfection.
Thirdly, we must remember that if we hear, "Behold, he
is in the desert," i. e., if wt hear that to find the Christ
we must get away from our duties in life, reject all the
advances of scien, refuse to train and develop the intellect
and ignore all the higher intellectual pursuits or make them
subservient to manual labor, or if we refuse all creature
comforts and go back to savagery, or what is almost the same
thing, live away from contact with mankind, where we
endeavor to seek our own salvation without fear of con-
252 The Message of Aquaria
tamination from the less evolved, all this we are distinctly
told: "Believe it not !"
Or if we are told: "Behold, he is in the secret chambers,"
i. e., that only by entering the secret section of certain
societies or lodges or by following certain secret formulas
we can find the Christ, "Believe it not I" Nor are we to be
misled by those who say that in the secret place of the heart
alone can we find Him; for there are many today preaching
that the Christ will come only in the hearts of His true
followers. He must, indeed, come in the hearts of a large
number ere a place can be prepared for His bodily manifes-
tation on Earth, but when such conditions are prepared He
"Shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into
heaven." This time He will not come unto His own and find
them so unprepared that they will receive Him noL His own
will be gathered out of every land, every tongue and every
form of religious teachings, and they will know Him and
prepare for His coming.
Jesus tells us that He is Alpha and Omega, the beginning
and the end. Hence, at the beginning of the Piscean Age
He answered in advance every question that might arise
in the minds of men as to His coming again at the end of
the Age and the beginning of the Aquarian Age. We will,
therefore, have little excuse for not knowing Him when He
comes.
He also promised to send us the Holy Ghost, the Corn-
forter,3 to remain with us even unto the end, and to bring
all things to our remembrance whatsoever He had told us.
That promise has been fulfilled, for the Comforter is the
force of the Great Mother, the Water of Life, which is being
poured forth so abundantly for the New Age for a deeper
understanding of truths so familiar to the ear that they have
in a great measure ceased to mean much to the heart. But
the Comforter is here, and as this Order repeats the words
pertaining to His coming and strives to awaken in us a
1ee The Z)ivÍue Mother. Curtis,. Chapter i'.
The Day of Judgment 253
memory of their significance, it is the Comforter, the Holy
Ghost who is with us all even to the end, who speaks from
the printed page, and the Water of Life that will bring them
to fruition in our hearts. It is the descent of the Holy
Ghost in a far more tangible and definite way than ever
before, for during these terrible days of the Second Woe
the comfort and tender Love of the Divine Mother are more
sadly needed, and have been more definitely felt, than in
any previous era. And it is only this cherishing Love that
can bring to our remembrance the many promises of the
preparations made for these awful days. And if we ask
humbly and sincerely it will surely bring the real meaning
of all His words to our remembrance.
CHAPTER XXI
THE LAW OF SACRIFICE
"Present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God,
which is your reasonable service."Romans, xii, 1.
All religious teachings are based upon the Law of Sacri-
fice. And since all religions spring from the same source,
i. a., are given to humanity by the Spiritual Teachers of the
Race, the Law of Sacrifice must be a principle of divine
manifestation. It is the law of the descent of Spirit into
matter. Form involves limitation, and all limitation involves
sacrifice. As the Creative Ray is sent forth into manifesta-
tion from the Divine, something of its divinity, purity and
power is of necessity sacrificed by the limitations of every
successive form through which it expresses, from the ideal
thought-forms in the Universal Mind down through their
manifestations in ethereal substance, until they reach their
densest expression in physical matter. Each step of the
descent is a sacrifice of a higher state and consciousness that
a lower form may manifest. God sends forth his Son that
all forms may have their life or expression. "I am come
that they may have life, and that they may have it more
abundantly." The Heavenly Man sacrifices Himself that
the daytime of the universe may be brought forth.
In Nature we see an illustration of this phase of sacrifice
when the Sun pours forth or sacrifices its Light, heat and
life-force that the day-period of the yearthe summer time
may manifest, evolve and bring to fruitage all the myriad
forms or expressions of the One Life. This is the sacrifice
of the descent, of involution, the conscious sacrifice of the
greater that the lesser may evolve.
254
The Law of Sacrifice 255
The sacrifice of the ascent, or evolution, must follow the
same law, but in reverse order and, until the higher stages
are reached, without a full comprehension of the workings
of the Law. Thus, we find the rocks crumbling under the
influence of the elements, frost, erosion, etc., and being
washed down the mountains to form the rich alluvial soil
of the plains. The mineral thus sacrifices its form of the
One Life to a greater; is killed and eaten that a higher form
of lifethe vegetablemay evolve. The vegetable sacri-
fices its form, is killed and eaten and its life-forces absorbed
that a still higher and less limiting form of lifethe animal
may evolve. The animal, in turn, gives up its form of
life that man may express the One Life in still greater full-
ness and perfection. In each case all that is eaten loses its
form and all its particles and forces are extracted and raised
to a higher rate of vibration and built into the higher form,
each element being absorbed by those parts of the body or
those tissues which need it. The waste and the broken down
tissues eliminated by the higher forms of life pass into the
air, water and soil, and from them are again absorbed by the
lower forms of life and start out on a new cycle of evolution,
carrying with them the impress of the higher vibrations
received while inthe higher form.
In a similar way the waste thrown off from the previous
chain of globes (the Moon-chain) 1 composed the chaotic
materials from which our present Earthchain was formed.
And we in turn are today throwing off materials which will
be used to fashion the future globe-chain on which we must
redeem those materials; for nothing which has ever belonged
to man but must be redeemed by him. The lower personal
man also ultimately sacrifices his life that the Divine Man
within may be enabled to rise above the limitations of the
flesh and manifest the perfection of man's oneness with his
Father-in-heaven, thus completing the three-fold cycle of
unfoldment; expressionsacrificeat-one-ment; of out-
breathing, manifestation and in-breathing.
lFo particulars see Tht Voice of ins. Curtise. xiii and xv.
256 The Message of Aquaria
Until evolution had developed man, all seemed auto-
matically to follow the Law of Evolution, but as the forces
are focused in man he must learn to guide and rule them;
for the Lord God literally brings to man, as the allegory of
Adam so plainly shows, all things to be named. Note well
the wording, "Out of the ground the Lord God formed
every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air, and
brought them to Adam to see what he would call them.
* * * Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed,
which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree
* * * to you it shall be for meat. And to every beast
of the Earth and to every fowl of the air, and to everything
that creepeth upon the Earth, wherein there is life, I have
given every green herb for meat. And God saw everything
that He had made, and behold, it was very good." Hence,
man contains in his physical body the materials and life-
forces from all the lower kingdoms. Also, during its intra-
uterine life the human fetus passes through the characteristic
forms of the lower kingdoms and embodies the sum total
of all those life-forces. Hence, in his body, man has fulfilled
the allegory of Genesis in one aspect; for in this form he
has all the kingdoms brought to him to be named.
This is a most significant fact, for a name in occult par-
lance means a word which exactly describes the meaning and
function of the thing named, hence the significance of the
text, "I know my own sheep by name." The Bible to a very
great degree uses names in this way. The names given to
biblical characters, such as Noah for instance, "furnish in
the very names the records of the causes and effects which
led to the event."2 The biblical deluge and all stories of the
deluge in other records are connected with a name of the
same significance as Noah. Therefore, to interpret, through
the Science of Logography, the story of the naming of the
animals, means that man must take all the materials and
animal forces to be found in his body, recognize and under-
2Tk Secret Doctruie, Blavatiky. VoL u. 350.
The Law of Sacrifice 257
stand them, and gather up their true essence of life and
build it into his higher Soul-life. Herein lies one of the
greatest mysteries of life, for not only is man given dominion
over all these ldngdoms, but he assumes his dominion only
as he "names," i. e., recognizes, controls and gives them their
true place in the Garden or uplifts them in his own organism.
Hence the Hermetic axiom, "Man, know thyself," is carved
over the entrance of every gate along the Path of Life.
We who are studying life and the healing of the body
from the more advanced standpoint know well that whatso-
ever we call or name anything that we find in our body, so
is it. If we say we are hopelessly ill or are a worm of the
dust, or destined to be poor or desolate, so are we; for we
have misnamed the substances that God has brought to us
for our harmonious manifestation, and we must experience
the results of our misnaming. Therefore, we must have the
same things brought to us life after life and literally built
into our bodies, until we awaken to our duty and realize
that they have been brought to us by the Lord God (Law of
our Good) to be named as they really are.
In ancient times when a place of worship was to be
established, a more or less conscious recognition of the Law
of Sacrifice was made, for the first stone to be laid was
the Stone of Sacrifice. Around this at some distance walls
were erected and later a temple was built over it, and around
the temple a center of civilization gathered. The laying of a
corner-stone is a modification of this same idea. This law is
also illustrated in the ceremonies of Initiation into the
Mysteries, during which the Neophyte must sacrifice the
lower, personal man; must allow it to be dead and buried,
crc the resurrection into the higher spiritual consciousness
can take place. Among .the ancient Druids a priest cast
himself, with arms outstretched in the form of a cross,
upon the Stone of Sacrifice as a propitiation for the sins of
the multitude, a symbol of the sacrifice of the lower, personal
258 The Message of Aquaria
man to the Divine Man. Also, when the Sibyl or High
Priestess of the Temple was to be consulted, she stretched
herself upon the Stone of Sacrifice in the presence of the
priests in the same posture, as a symbol that she had com-
pletely sacrificed her own personality and given herself up as
an oracle of the God who spoke through her.
These remonies, like all others when the inner, symbolic
meaning is lost, became materialized and degraded into the
sacrifice of human victims upon an altar of stone. This is
held against the Druids to this day as a proof of their bar-
barism, aitho at one time they were the most learned, refined
and cultured of all the people of Europe. And well may
we expect, in ages to come, that scientists who unearth
statues of a crucified Jesus will accuse modern Christians of
being savages who believed in a literal blood sacrifice.
The Stone of Sacrifice must be symbolically formed and
voluntarily laid by the Neophyte in the Holy of Holies of
his life, and must be able to withstand the fires built upon
it. The stones which go into its makingthe imperfections
and hard faults of the personalitymust be ground to pow-
der to form the cement from which it is made. Every
stone of stumbling in the personality, every hard, unyield-
ing, selfish trait in the lower man must be placed beneath
the millstones of the Law and ground to dust, and then,
by the power of Divine Love, transmuted into the Stone of
Sacrifice.
Some, alas, find that the Law of Sacrifice grinds too fine.
Their stones have been carved into talismans to cherish or
into idols to be worshiped, and they cannot give them up.
They cannot stand still and allow the Law to grind from
them all that holds them back. Is it any wonder, then,
that the foundation of the spiritual life requires a Stone of
Sacrifice? Every grain composing it represents a living
sacrifice, something of the lower self given up, sacrificed,
overcome, that its essence may be transmuted into spiritual
growth. This was symbolized among the ancients by the
The Law of Sacrifice 259
sacrifice of animals antI the fruits of the Earth. Therefore,
we must plant our feet firmly upon the Stone of Sacrifice
and realize that through every sacrifice the Divine Life-
force is released from seffish and personal, perhaps per-
verted, manifestations, and is poured out that our un-
derstanding may be illumined and our growth promoted.
One of the treasures of the ocean is coral, which by its
formation illustrates the Law of Sacrifice. The coral reefs
are built up literally by the life sacrifice of the po1yps which
compose them. Each generation lays down its life and
deposits its limestone skeleton as a foundation upon which
the next generation can build. To the countless millions of
tiny creatures in each generation the sacrifice of their lives
might seem of little moment, useless; yet without them the
protecting reefs and the beautiful atolls and islands of the
sea could never rise.
Comparing humanity to the ocean, coral aptly illustrates
the Law of Sacrifice in humanity. The apparently useless
sacrifice of countless millions of human lives, while seem-
ingly for no reason, for no purpose, has nevertheless laid
the foundation upon which humanity is slowly rising above
the waves of adversity into a more perfect manifestation.
It is not alone the Sacrifice of those who have willingly
given up their lives in war, or for the advancement of
science, or that they may be teachers and leaders, but also
the unknown lives that are laid down in ignorance, ceaseless
toil, poverty and despair; the great mass of common people
who seem born but to toil, suffer, sacrifice and pass away
leaving no trace, no memory. Yet, woe to the individual or
the social, political or industrial system which demands such
sacrifices; for such are stones of stumbling which the Great
Law will grind to powder. Not one shackled or industrial
slave who has given up his life to minister to the selfishness,
greed or self-indulgence of his master but is noted by the
Great Law and marked for suitable compensation in some
future incarnation. Since not one snarrow falleth to the
260 The Message of Aquaria
ground without the Father's notice, so not one of those
obscure sacrifices is valueless or forgotten.
If we could look down upon humanity from the spiritual
heights, as we look upon the coral in the ocean's depths, we
would see that the sacrifice of all those obscure, unknown
lives has built up in humanity a great structure, has brought
about conditions upon which a new humanitythe reincar-
nation of those who thus sacrificedcan take up a more
advanced evolutiom because of the lessons learned through
sacrifice, just as the islands built up by the coral polyps
support a new and luxuriant form of vegetation. Even the
coral polyps evolve and change the character of their forma-
tion as the reefs rise to the surface. The sacrifice of man-
kind has thus built up a great and beautiful island in the sea
of humanity, a fit foundation upon which the New Jerusa-
1cm, with its Temple of the Living Christ, shall be built.
Those who today are ready and desirous of taking up
the work of erecting this great Temple of helping humanity,
or providing a home or Center in which the coming Avatar
may manifest, and where humanity may find shelter, instruc-
tion and love, must remember that it is not they alone who
can make this possible. Think of those who have suffered
martyrdom, who have been ridiculed, reviled, persecuted
and crucified for their efforts to express truth as revealed
to them; for their efforts to bring enlightenment to hu-
manity! Think of the millions and millions of humble
toilers who have laid down their lives without the vision,
without hope! These have formed stratum after stratum of
the Coral Rock of Truth, truly a foundation of sacrifice.
It matters little whether the sacrifice be of physical life, as
in former ages, or today in the mental world, the sacrifice is
but on a higher step of evolution. Each life of sacrifice has
left behind its grain of truth to make up the foundation
upon which we are today erecting the Temple of Humanity.
To us is given the great privilege of becoming active factors
in the work of erecting the walls of the Temple upon the
The Law of Sacrifice 261
foundation which has now risen above the waves. We need
no longer labor in the depths, but can now lay stone upon
stone above the surface in the Light with the knowledge that
each is being laid according to the Grand Plan.
This is equally true in the life of every individuaL For
each Soul must erect the Temple of the living Christ in his
or her own heart and life. But he must first lay its founda-
tions beneath the surface, within the turbulent depths of
his lower nature, and through sacrifice gain the wisdom to
lift it step by step into the glorious light of the Spiritual
Sun, his immortal oneness with the Divine.
The ocean's depths contain many jewels. Each has its
meaning and symbology and represents a force at work
both in Nature and in humanity. While coral stands for
self-sacrifice and devotion, the pearl stands for accumulated
wisdom. Hence, it is not enough merely to sacrifice. We
must sacrifice wisely. We must gather our pearls of wisdom
and with them beautify the structure which we are erecting.
The pearl is primarily but a grain of sand around which is
gathered layer after layer of material poured out by the
oyster, which is giving its life-force to transmute the grain
of sand into the pearl. So wisdom overlays the common
experiences of life until they are transmuted into pearls of
great price. Let each Soul take the little grains of experi-
ence in his or her nature, learn the lessons from them and
build round them layer after layer of love and devotion,
until they become pearls of wisdom.
Coral can be made into a useful talisman, provided we
let our consciousness correlate with its forces; for each
jewel contains a living force which has entered into its f or-
ination, and which it can impart to man if he but correlate
with it. But no talisman should be used as a fetish. Coral
should awaken in our minds and hearts a sense of oneness
with all who have gone before; with all who toil and sacri-
fice. It should make us realize that even tho we may be
but the humblest of human creatures. still we have our lives
262 The Message of Aquaria
to live, our places to fill, our records to make and our grains
of truth to leave behind. Even tho the waves beat fiercely
upon us, take courage, for it is in the most turbulent seas
that the coral takes upon itself the greatest perfection of
form and beauty of color. Coral should also awaken in us
a sense of our responsibility, the responsibility for the right
use of the wonderful opportunities to help humanity offered
us today, be we ever so humble. It is not that we are to
think of ourselves as greater, higher, better than those who
toiled beneath the waves, who blindly sacrificed that we
might emerge into the Light of Divine Wisdom, but that
we may realize that because we are in the Light, because
we can see the Grand Plan, we are responsible for building
more intelligently and more perfectly.
Many today are still Iooldng at truth as a lamp of ancient
design, shielding a great light held aloft by some ancient
Patriarch. Such a conception was a true and fitting one
during the period when the foundations of the mighty
Temple of Truth were forming beneath the waves; when
the Light of Truth could manifest only as a lamp fed by
the oil of midnight conclave and secret vigil, and carefully
guarded from the cold blasts of ignorance and the storms
of prejudice, criticism and persecution. But as the founda-
tions rise above the sea, many such persons are seeing their
old conceptions overturned and sacrificed by the advance of
the present day, until in sadness those who are still looking
backward into the past for their authority for Truth, find
their hands empty and their hearts hungry; and they cry
out bitterly at the death of their old ideas. But if they
open their eyes they will find that it is not the Light of
Truth that has been taken from them; only a past incarnation
of half Truths which have had their day and laid down
their lives as a sacrifice that upon them may be builded the
structure of a greater conception.
Today we see, instead of an oil-fed lamp, the Sun of a
New Age flooding the world with a new and mystical Light.
The Law of Sacrifice 263
Instead of an ancient Patriarch or Initiate holding high his
individual lamp, we see that God Himself now lets the glory
of His countenance shine for all who will to behold it.
In fact, the outpouring of the Light of Truth to man has
kept pace with the development of artificial light: in the
first place a rush light above a secret shrine, then a candle
in the home, then oil lamps, gas, carbon electric lights, mazda
lamps and the enclosed electric arc. And so will it ever
continue until there shall be no more darkness in the minds
of men, "for the Lord God giveth them Light." For that
which transpires in the development or evolution of man is
always paralleled and symbolized by inventions and advances
in the outer conditions of the world and humanity.
The foundation of the Great Temple is laid in the heart's
blood of humanity. It is red like coral, symbolizing love and
sacrifice. It is white like coral, symbolizing purity and
truth and it is also red like coral, symbolizing the blood of
the heart poured out in sacrifice. It is remarkable that the
bright, vivid red coral, at one time so greatly prized, has
now become practically exhausted, being found only upon
certain parts of the African coast, while the coral of corn-
merce is now the beautiful pink coral. Red raised in vibra-
tion to pink is the lower red lightened by the white of the
One Life and transmuted into the pink, which symbolizes
purified love.
But coral is not a mere symbol. It contains an actual,
living force. The same force which gives the coral polyp
the instinct to build a structure that is beautiful is the same
force that has sustained the masses of humanity through
their ages of sacrifice; the same force which has sustained
the pupils of this Order in the sacrifices which have advanced
the work of this Order to the position it occupies in the
world today. For with few exceptions, its Teachings are
now sent to nearly every country and people in the world.
And, as its foundations emerge from the waters of adversity,
the same force will sustain it in the sacrifices which are
264 The Message of Aquaria
necessary to enable its walls to rise and to establish upon
the Earth-plane a Center commensurate with the greatness
of its mission.
As the time approaches when, according to cyclic law, such
a Center must be establisheda quiet lagoon wherein love
and peace reignthe cry goes forth more powerfully for
an awakening to the great opportunities now before us of
putting into concrete form the ideals presented by the Teach-
ings of the Order. To accomplish this there must be estab-
lished a place of refuge and retreat where, out of every
Center now established upon Earth, there may be gathered
these Souls who have proved faithful, loving and devoted,
whether of this Order or not, that they may come into per-
sonal touch with the Elder Brothers of humanitythe coral
reef which holds back the waves of evil that would engulf
the Raceand be trained to become the teachers of mankind,
and form a nucleus for the coming sub-race, each in his ap-
pointed place.
Nothing worth having can be obtained without sacrifice.
If this be true of the lesser things of life, how much more
true is it of the greater, and especially of the spiritual
Teachings now being given to humanity through this Order!
But the more love and wisdom with which the sacrifice
is made the greater will be its accomplishments. These
Teachings come freely to those who are ready for them,
but their real inner force cannot enter in, be digested and
bring forth in their lives the fruits of the Spirit until they
have sacrificed something for thembe it their time, thought,
love, wealth, whatever they have to givethat there may be
erected in humanity the great Temple of Truth into which
the heart-hungry, the discouraged and those who lack an
understanding of the Law, may be drawn and fed with
spiritual food. The success of the movement rests not
alone upon those who are giving their lives that the Teach-
ings may reach humanity, but with every loving heart who
receives them. Only by co-operation and sacrifice of each
The Law of Sacrifice 265
and all can these great truths rise higher and higher, until
they become a great barrier reef round about a still lagoon
or Center where, no matter how much the sea of humanity
may be lashed to fury, there will always be a safe and peace-
ful anchorage for all storm-tossed mariners on the ocean
of experience, and into which all the weary hearts of
humanity may come for refuge, and where the Great Ones
may teach them face to face.
Just to the degree that we lend our aid to build up this
great reef of truth to protect humanity, just to that extent
will we find our own lives encircled and protected by the
power of the Spirit, and will find within our hearts and lives
the great Center of love and peace, the Christ-consciousness,
where our wildest waves of emotion shall find peace, and
our stormy thoughts shall respond to the decree of the
Master: "Peace; be still."
What shall be your part in this great work?
CHAPTER XXII
THE SHEEP AND THE GOATS
'When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy
angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: and
before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them
one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats:
and he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left"
St. Matthew, xxv, 31-3.
From time immemorial the sheep and the goats have been
the symbol of good and evil, just as in occultism the terms
right hand and left hand have indicated white and black
magic. Yet we find man created with two hands, and were
we to say that since the left hand is a sign of evil we will
cut it off, such a mutilation would deter rather than help us
onward in our evolution. Instead we must recognize that
man is created to be the master over both good and evil
until he becomes "as one of us" knowing both, as the Elohim
said in the beginning. For he must conquer not only the
dangers of self-aggrandizement, self-deception and spiritual
pride 'which lurk in that which is called good, but he must
also extract or turn to useful and constructive ends the
power and force which manifests in that which is called
evil, so that by the blending of both forces he can rule
his life, even as by the use of his two hands he accomplishes
his work in the physical world.
In the larger cosmic sense good and evil are but the
opposite poles of a mighty magnet, the magnetism of which
is the outpouring of the creative Life or Christ Principle,
the Son of the Godhead. In this sense what is called dark-
ness and evil is but the absence of Light and Life. There
is also the passive resistance which the dense vibrations of
266
The Sheep and the Goats 267
matter offer to the quickening vibrations of Spirit. For the
personal aspects of evilas being not merely this negative
absence of Light and Good, but a positive creation of
inharmony ,nade by nzan through the misuse of the God-
given materials and the perversion of the God-given forces
of the universeis not the sense in which the word evil
is used in this chapter. We are using the word here only
in its cosmic sense of the opposite pole of Good.
The two ends of a magnet are charged with what appear
to be two antagonistic forces, or forces worldng in diametri-.
cally opposite ways. At one end they attract, at the other
they repel, yet all the time each end is attracting and polariz-
ing the forces from its opposite until in the middle we
find the peace and calm of perfect balance and equilibrium.
So with good and evil, the sheep and the goats. Since
the days when the assembled Elohim pronounced the fiat,
"Let there be light," and sent down this mighty Magnet of
Dualitypositive and negative, active and passive, good and
evil, right and left, sheep and goatsman and woman have
struggled with their destiny, each apparently along opposite
lines. Yet, to the careful thinker there is so great an inter-
blending of the two that one of the greatest problems of the
age is to untangle them. Therefore, let us try to decipher
the meaning of the allegory quoted at the head of this
lesson.
Since we are taught that the book of Nature holds for
us the solution of all our problems, let us go to her as to
a mother and learn of her. We find that the sheep was
domesticated before the dawn of history, and since the
earliest days sheep, flocks and herds have represented
wealth and good living. The sheep has supplied man with
clothing, its wool being among the earliest fibers to be woven
into cloth. It has also fed him by giving up its life for
him; for because of its gentleness and docility the sheep
was probably the first animal killed for food by primitive
man. In this it exemplified the great drama of sacrifice,
268 The Message of Aquaria
1. e., the laying down of its lower form of life that a higher
form (man) might manifest, just as animal man or the
lower personality gives up its life that the Divine Man may
manifest through him. The goat, too, has served man gen-
erously from the earliest ages, for the remains of the Asiatic
goat have been found in the Pliocene fossil beds of India.
The Angora and Kashmir goats produce the finest quality
of hair, as well as highly prized milk. In fact, in the Vale
of Kashmir, the weaving of rugs and cloth from the wool
of these goats forms the principal industry, at one time there
being over 16,000 looms at work in a comparatively small
area. But the goat, while feeding and clothing man, does
not ordinarily lay down its life for him, altho of late goat
meat is being used extensively in the South. This is an
important point of difference between the use of the sheep
and the goats. In reality both belong to the same family,
in fact, are but the two ends of one magnet as it were, and
like all magnets, blend into each other in the middle, where
the good points of each are separated from the evil and
balanced.
The Encyclopedia Britannica thus describes the goat:
"Aitho the more typical goats are markedly distinct from
sheep, there is, both as regards wild and domesticated forms,
an almost complete gradation from goats to sheep, so that
it is exceedingly difficult to define either group." Again,
while we are apt to think that the Bible utterly condemns
the goat, nevertheless in the Proverbs of Solomon the Wise
we find the goat catalogued among the four animals that are
excellent, the four being the lion, the greyhound, the goat
and "the king who has no rising up" or who knows how to
govern. Also in the Hermetic philosophy we find the goat
among the three animals used in its sacred symbology, the
goat representing fire, while the bull stands for earth or
salt, and the dog for mecury or fluid (air and water).
On the great Day of Expiation the Elders of Israel pre-
sented two goats to the High Priest, one to be slain for the
The Sheep and the Goats 269
sacrifice and the other to be driven into the wilderness, the
name Azazel being given to the latter. This ceremony of
the scape-goat was followed by many ancient peoples, but in
Israel the custom was as follows: Two goats were led into
the Inner Temple and presented to the High Priest on the
north side of the altar, one being placed on his right and
the other on his left. An urn was then set down between
them and two lots were cast into it, made either of wood,
silver or gold. On one lot was engraved "For the Lord," on
the other "For Azazel." After the urn had been well
shaken the Priest put both hands in at the same time and
drew forth a lot in each; the one in his right hand decided
the fate of the goat on his right, while that in his left hand
decided the fate of the one on his left. After the drawing
the Priest fastened a long piece of narrow scarlet ribbon
to the horns of Azazel as a sign that it was to become the
scape-goat.
After the sacrifice of the goat set aside for the Lord the
scape-goat was brought to the High Priest, who then placed
his hands upon its head and confessed his sins and those
of the people. The goat was then driven out into the wilder-
ness, and if possible was left near the brink of a precipice,
carrying the sins of the people, the sins being symbolized by
the scarlet ribbon. It is to this symbology that the text
refers: "Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as
white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall
be as wool."1 For the goat dedicated to the Lord was
washed pure and white before the sacrifice.
Under the name of Baphomet the goat is used as a symbol
of black magic and the vil yet a deeper understanding
of the figure as it is pictured2 reveals a high symbolism and
indicates that even that which is evil is ultimately used to
bring about some measure of good, aitho that end might have
and should have been attained without the manifestation of
the evil. For on the forehead of this image, which is a
1 Isaiah, 18. 2Ths Xe of Destsay Curtlu. 256. 208.
270 The Message of Aquaria
composite embodying the figure of a goat, we see the pentacle
with its point up, the unqualified and universal sign of Light
and humanity. His two arms are in the position of occul-
tism: with his right hand he points up, in this case sym-
bolizing man's ability to soar into the heavens and draw
from on high the power to complete the development of
his God-powers (his destiny), while with his left hand he
points down, symbolizing his power to reach down and help
his fellow men and the kingdoms below him (his work); for
man must ultimately learn that to make his work most
effective, esoteric truth or Soul wisdom from on high must
be the foundation of all his efforts to uplift humanity. This
position of the hands is called that of Justice and Mercy.
Between the horns of the figure burns the torch of Intelli-
gence, the magical Light of which shall bring about equi-
librium; or the Soul exalted above and illuminating matter
even while manifesting within it; the Flame of Divine Love,
which shows man the Path to Mastery. The head and face
of this monster, which have earned for him the name of
the devil, in reality express but the horror of sin and the
realization of man that he alone is responsible for whatever
results from his misuse of the forces of Nature.
Over the navel is the globe, showing that through that
center he is in touch with the lower worlds, while the gen-
erative organs are replaced by the Caduceus, the symbol of
transmutation and eternal life, also of the two opposite poles
of the magnet becoming balanced and blended and passing
up the central staff. His breasts symbolize that humanity
is fed spiritually from the breasts of the Great Mother.
Over his right shoulder is a light crescent Moon, symbolizing
the overshadowing power of Intuition given for his guidance,
while beneath his left hand is a dark crescent Moon, sym-
bolizing the astral powers of the Moon used in black
magic.3
3 Thin is a different interpretation from that given 1 The Key of DezSiu,y,
because considered from a different aSpect. yet both are equal, true.
The Sheep and the Goats 271
The Moon is a dead planet and yet a living body, for
while the planet itself is dead, yet like a decaying corpse
its partides are full of active destructive life-forces. Hence;
during the dark of the Moon it is the force of these corpse-
like emanations which lends its aid to all black magical prac.
tices. Necromancy and sorcery seek to utilize these forces,
much as they seek to call up the forms of the dead, to do
their bidding. But when the Moon is full-orbed it not
only reflects the light of the Sun to the Earth, but back of
the Moon as well as back of the Sun are situated two of the
three Sacred Orbs or Secret Planets, known to the Masters
from all time, yet absolutely unknown as yet to modern
science.
When the Moon is full a ray of the light from its Sacred
Orb is blended with a ray from the Sacred Orb back of
the Sun and a force called the "Sushumna Ray" is trans-
mitted to the Earth. From this blended light are many and
wonderful occult properties accredited to the full-orbed
Moon. It has been called the "Mystery of Mysteries," and
by the Egyptians was identified both with Isis and Osiris.
In The Book of the Dead Osiris was said to inhabit the
Moon and is represented as saying: "I will issue by day
(the full of the Moon) to do that I have to do amongst
the living." The Egyptians held a festival at the time of
full Moon to celebrate the ingress of Osiris (the God of
Life) into the Moon, which they called the symbol of the
renewal of life to the Earth, and reincarnation to the Soul
of man. Yet the Moon in Egypt was also made the ruler
over magic and enchantments, and during its dark period, as
was fully understood by all the ancient teachers, it sends
forth an unholy emanation. The concealed or secret side of
the Moon was called the infernal regions and named "Teaou,
the path of the night Sun." In very truth the concealed side
of the Moon is that which has been called the eighth sphere
of our Earth-chain, and when during the sixth and seventh
sub-races of the Seventh Great Race the now visible Moon
272 The Message of Aquaria
disappears from our sight, this dark repository of Earth's
left-overs will begin its preparation for a new spiral of
evolution. Hence, today light and darkness are struggling
within its womb. Those of us who can understand this
mystery can do much to help on evolution by correlating
with this mystic Light and letting the separation of the
evil in the seething melting-pot of time fulfill its work. As
a whole, therefore, Baphomet symbolizes black magic only
when interpreted negatively; in other words, only as man
perverts the very . powers given him by which to climb
to the gods.
The celestial sign of the zodiac (Capricorn) symbolized
by the goat, is the most mystical of all the signs, and aitho
much has been written of its meanings and potencies, still
little is really explained as to its esoteric significance, and
even now only hints as to its deeper meanings can be
given out. In the Hindu zodiac this sign is known as
Makara and is referred to the crocodile. In reality its
meaning is the same as the goat, which is usually pictured
as a half aquatic monster. This sign was formerly the
eighth sign of the zodiac, instead of being the tenth as at
present,4 but it always had the same mystical meaning and
was always represented by a monster that was half terrene
and half aquatic, with a dual nature representing the dual
forces of fire and water and, like Baphomet, symbolizing
both the microcosm and the macrocosm or man and the
universe.
It is, therefore, not at all remarkable that this most mys-
tical and little understood sign and its symbols should be
relegated to black magic; for what man does not understand
he fears, and what he fears he endows with sinister motives
and evil powers, then tries to propitiate through fear instead
of understanding through love. This is and ever has been
the true origin of devil worship. Even the most revered and
adored of Christian symbols, the crucifix, if turned upside
4 See The Vows .1 I,fs. Curtis.. 347-8.
The Sheep and the Goats 273
down becomes a black magic symbol, and is so used in certain
cults. The dread Baphomet, or the "Goat of Mendes" as
he is sometimes called, in his true meaning, therefore, rep-
resents Man in his highest attainment of power, becoming,
to the extent that he rules over the beast within himself, the
Aspirant to Godhood.
This symbol also indicates man's oneness with the whole
created universe, and further points out that it is only
through correlation with the One Life, through the ruling
of the positive and negative phkses of the creative force or
lifting up of the two serpents upon the Rod of Power, that
the Christ can be born in man and bring forth in him as
it has already done in the universe.
During the reign of this mystical Sign of the Goat (Capri-
corn, December 21 to January 20), the birthday of the
Christ is celebrated. This again indicates the transmutation
of gold from dross or the separation of the sheep from the
goats, for out of the very Throne of Satan (Saturn, which
rules the first decanate of Capricorn) the Christ-child is
brought into the world. Since Jesus is represented as being
born in this Sign of the Tester we need not wonder that He
says: "Think not that I am come to send peace on earth:
I caine not to send peace, but a sword?'5
From the above we can gain some understanding of the
great mystery set forth in the fe'Oir cryptic sentences of the
passage quoted as applied to the birth of the Christ in man.
"When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the
holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of
his glory," the glory of victory, of perfect equilibrium. His
throne of glory is the point of blending, where all the
opposing manifestations of forces are gathered up, indrawn
and the full experience of both extremes is balanced and
registered. At this point man, as the Lord of Creation,
must blend himself with the universe. "His holy angels"
are the divine spiritual forces and Helpers with which man
5 St. Matikew. z. 34.
274 The Message of Aquaria
has correlated and whose help has enabled him to garner
the golden grains of wisdom from all his experiences in the
fields of the outer life, where the tares and the wheat have
been allowed to grow side by side until this time of harvest.
"Before him shall be gathered all nations," 1. e., all the
manifestations of the great evolutionary force expressing
as good and evil, and the Christ-man standing at the point
of balance shall separate the conflicting elements one from
another. All that is good; all that has yielded its positive
qualities toward strengthening and perfecting humanity;
all that has been transmuted into pure gold and given of its
innate riches for the betterment of the world; all that has
been put to its highest use; in short, all that has been
separated from its dross and purified, he will put on his
right hand that it may lend its positive creative force to
the reconstruction, first of his life, then of society and all
mankind; that it may point man to his highest ideal and
help to unfold his God-powers. All that remains; the
dross, the weak, negative and hampering qualities that have
for so long prevented or hindered the Christ from manifest-
ing in the life, he will put on his left hand which he points
down as a sign of his dominion over all negative aspects,
instead of permitting them to have dominion over him.
He will then say to these left-overs, this dross out of
which he has extracted the gold of experience, these husks
out of which he has garnered their kernel of Truth: "Depart
from me ye workers of iniquity. I have no longer need of
you. I know you have served your purpose, hence I will
see that you also have an opportunity to pass through the
fire of transmutation; the everlasting fire prepared from
the beginning, not for anything that is goodfor all that
has been separated and I have gathered it in my right hand;
I have gathered it out of the burning and have forged with
it my Staff of Life, my Rod of Powerbut for the devil
(the man-created thought-forms of evil) and his angels
(the thought-forms created by the superstitious practices
The Sheep and the Goats 275
and the perversions of force and orgies which prolong the
devil's life and give him power to become the Great Adver-
sary),s unto all those forces and conditions I say: Depart
from me into the everlasting fire of purification, the fire that
remains unquenchable as long as man creates fuel to feed its
flames, yet which is the only element that can overcome the
resistance and transmute that which we call evil into good."
This fire is raging even in the physical world today. Its
full fury was let loose on the battlefields of Europe. Yet
in its very midst and from out the heart of its lurid flames
the Christ-man is being born for the world; the Christ who
shall sit on His throne of glory and separate the sheep from
the goats, the good from the evil. For both are a part of
the great Magnet of Life and each must lend its true force
and substance to blend with the other that a perfect balance
and equilibrium may be prepared as a Throne of Glory
against His coming.
Not only in the world is this Throne of Glory being set
up, but in every heart which is preparing Him room. All
must prepare for His coming by separating the sheep from
the goats, and while standing still in the center balance the
two forces, calling their sheep by name and also recognizing
the work the goats can accomplish. Therefore, in our per-
sonal lives we must recognize that the goats are but the
"other sheep," for "Other sheep I have, which are not of
this fold; them also I must bring, and they shall hear my
voice; and there shall be one fold, and one
The everlasting Fire is the manifestation of the Divine
Law: that which is forever changing the outer fonn of
expression that the 'vital life may be released and take on
new and more glorious expressions. Could we have con-
sciously watched the formation of this globe when it was
but a mass of fire mist which writhed and swirled in space,
or later on when as a denser but molten mass it seethed and
See The Key of De$iey, Curtlu 174.
T St. Joke. z. 16.
276 The Message of Aquaria
bubbled and belched forth disaster, would we not say, What
an awful hell God has made for man to dwell in! Yet those
stages were a necessary preparation for the world of life
and beauty we see all around us today.
Man in his evolution must follow the same law. First,
separateness; each man apparently a separate atom striving
to find his own place, drawn by the irresistible attraction
of something he scarce knows what, all scurrying round and
round. Then come burning and harrowing disasters in the
conditions of the outer life which make it a veritable
melting-pot, all engulfed in an apparently molten-mass of
sickening sorrow and death. Yet out of it there shall finally
arise a new and beautiful humanity; each man and woman,
like each flower, tree, bird and animal, perfect in its own
way, yet all working harmoniously together to make life for
all a perfect whole. Then there will be no jealous effort to
compel a 'violet to become an oak or a sunflower a rose, but
all will lend of their God-given powers toward a mighty
manifestation of the Christ who has come in His glory to sit
on His throne and rule forever.
The beautiful picture given us in the twenty-third Psalm
is not mere poetic imagery, but a deep mystical truth
expressed in the most beautiful symbology: "The Lord is
my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down
in green pastures; he leadeth me beside the still waters." The
divine Law of Love is indeed a Shepherd of Souls. And
once a Soul has heard its voice and has followed, that is,
has become one with the Law, he finds this loving guidance
a deep and abiding reality, hence that Soul wants nothing
but to follow on wheresoever the Voice leads.
He maketh His followers to lie down in the green pastures
of abundant Earth conditions, where the supply is no longer
scanty and hard to obtain. For once having learned that
the Law of Love is the fullness of plenty, we find the
pastures green, yet we are contented to lie down at His com-
mand, no longer running to and fro bleating plaintively for
The Sheep and the Goats 277
food or for worldly things, but resting quietly on the Law.
Then doth it lead us beside the waters of life that are no
longer turbulent; that no longer gush forth from the eyes
as tears, for the eyes now see dearly the glory of the Shep-
herd who leadeth us. Then no longer is the Great Mother-
force or the mystical Water of Life by which we evolve
godward wasted in emotional storms, for in following the
loving Shepherd, so still do we find all the earthly desires
and emotions that in a moment, by turning our attention
inward with a loving thought of our oneness with the Great
Law, we seem to be lying down like contented sheep in
deep, green grass beside a still mountain lake, and upon
the surface of our tranquil mind the reflection of our
Shepherd's face is imaged, even as are the douds upon
the bosom of the lake.
Another application of the allegory of the sheep and the
goats is to the two types we find among the followers of
the Christ-life. The sheep are those gentle and docile Souls
who follow unthinkingly in flocks wherever they are led;
who must have a Shepherd and a sheep-fold wherein they
are carefully protected from the wolves; who follow their
Shepherd lovingly, yet who will follow just as blindly one
who would lead them to the verge of a precipice, or one
who would fly and leave the sheep to their fate when the
wolves appear.
The other dass, represented by the goats, think for them-
selves. They wander forth from the sheep-fold of church,
creed, dogma and organization, courageously and indepen-
dently seeldng sustenance from the sparse herbage which
they find on the rocky mountain side as they dimb. They
are always ready to face whatever comes, for they are well
armed with two strong hornssymbol of powerupon
their heads and are quite able to keep the wolves at bay.
Both these types are followers of the Great Law, hence
somehow, sometime, instead of either one fearing or
despising the other, they must find that they both belong
278 The Message of Aquaria
to the one family and each has the same Shepherd. There-
f ore, they must find the point of balance where each can
partake of the virtues of the other and eliminate their
weaknesses.
The idea is not that some people are to be considered
as sheep and are elected to stand at the right hand of God,
while others are to be looked upon as goats which are to be
cast out into the wilderness or into the burning, but that
each one must reach that at-one-merit with the Great Law
where we not only recognize that we have within us both
the qualities symbolized, but must wisely separate the one
from the other and yet use the good from each. And since
with our right hand we accomplish on Earth, the right hand
needs as hdpers and servants to express its forces only the
sheep; those faculties and forces which will follow faithfully
and docilely wherever they are bidden by the Shepherd;
which will lie down at his command, even in the midst of
Earth's greenest pastures; which will tranquilly rest beside
the still waters in that quiet yet exalted state of meditation
which feeds the Soul abundantly, even as the green pastures
feed the sheep.
But after we have learned to make the differentiation we
must not forget that we need the help of the goats as well;
for we must use the power of our left hand to dominate
the inner forces. These cannot so easily be led and made to
lie down tranquilly. In fact, we must go forth and seek
them, even in the defts of the rocks where herbage is scarce.
We must often climb high mountains of intellectuality and
material conditions and call the goats to us. And only as we
seek them with the love of the Christ will they trust and obey
us for they naturally tend to wander at will and despise
the seduction of soft places. Hence, we need these forces
to dominate Earth conditions if we are to accomplish our
work in the world in the face of its hard, rocky conditions
and the sparseness of its spiritual herbage.
The Sheep and the Goats 279
We must, therefore, resolutely face the conditions sur-
rounding us and do our full duty in the world and to the
world, correlating with our fellows against the aggression of
the human wolves who would fatten on the flock. This we
must do by displaying the valiant courage of our convictions,
the tenacity of our purpose and the warmth and radiance
of the Spirit derived from our inner nourishment. For all
&his we need the force of the goats or all those qualities and
mystical ideals which make for strength and endurance and
which give us the ability to climb over all obstacles, even
tho we can see no dearly marked sheep trail to follow,
so that in spite of yawning chasms and the treacherous
footing, we can find our way to the very top of the Mount
of Attainment. Hence, only he whò can stand at the point
of balance and use both these forces can sit on the Throne of
His Glory.
CHAPTER XXIII
THE MYSTIC OAK
"And there came an angel of the Lord, and sat under an oak which
was in Ophrah."Judges, vi, 11.
"Let them praise his name in the dance.... Praise him with tim-
brel and dance?'Psalm.r, cxlix, 3. ci, 4.
The dance in some form was connected with the religion
and worship of every ancient nation, from the dances per-
formed by King David before the Ark of the Lord,' down
through the serpent- circle- and sun-dances of various tribes
to the May-pole dance which survives today, even tho its
original significance has been almost obliterated by the mists
of time. The dance as sacred ceremony was performed
by those who were set apart and trained for that service and
who lived either in the temples or closely connected with
them. "The Hebrew Kadeshim, or Galli, lived 'by the house
of the Lord, where the women wove hangings for the grove,'2
and were identical, as to the duties of their
office, with the Nautch-girls of the later Hindu pagodas."3
Rhythmic motion is the second syllable of the creative
Word. The first syllable, Light, sets in motion all the par-
tides contained in the Chaos, whose evolution begins with the
words, "Let there be Light," and each particle vibrates with
a certain rhythm which is the producer of form, while the
last syllable is color. Hence, without Light, motion, color
and form, there is no creation in the objective world. The
knowledge of this law formed the basis of all sacred dances,
for they consisted largely of postures and rhythmic move-
ments of the entire body involving every muscle, emphasized
by the color of the costumes and lights, rather than merely
111 SomveI, vi, 16. 211 Xngs, xxiii, 7. 1 The Secvet Doctriise; B!av3tzky,
VoL ii, 482.
280
The Mystic Oak 281
the continuous movement of the feet, as in modern social
dances. The basic idea was that since Light creates motion,
color and form, conversely proper rhythmic motion, color
and form would produce Light, spiritual illumination and
ecstasy, according to the psychological axiom that going
through the motions which express an emotion will tend to
induce the emotion again. For example, stand before a mir-
ror and make the facial muscles go through the expressions
of some emotion, such as joy or sorrow, and a corresponding
state will temporarily be induced. Indeed, it is often helpful
when in a depressed mood to stand before a mirror and
make the features wrinkle into the expression of laughter
and a more cheerful frame of mind will speedily be induced.
Even today a branch (asana) of the Hindu Yoga system
seeks illumination and liberation for the Sprit through the
assuming of certain postures which, when combined with
color, music and also the breath in directing the life-cur-
rents of the body, tend to bring about, not real spiritual
illumination, but certain psychic states, varying from trance
to ecstasy or, on the other hand, to catalepsy or frenzy. We
find similar methods still employed today for the same pur-
pose in the Sun- snake- and other dances of the American
Indians, also among the Whirling Dervishes of Arabia and
the Shakers of America.
At an early date, however, sacred dances became corrupted
by the misuse of the forces generated, and became identified
almost exclusively with phallic worship, and hence were
eliminated from the more solemn and sacred forms of wor-
ship. Consequently dancing took on an undeserved odium,
which did not properly belong to the dance itself; for har-
monious, rhythmic motion, performed both to induce and to
express the feelings of joy and ecstasy arising from religious
experience, should have its place in religious ceremonials. It
is well, however, for sensitive persons not to dance with
those who are not in harmony with their ideals, for the
change in vibrations contacted in dancing first with one per-
282 The Message of Aquaria
son and then another, when they are not in mental and spir-
itual harmony with the same ideals, is very disturbing to the
vibrations of one's aura and very depleting to the nervous
system. Had religious worship retained the graceful and
joyous forms of expression in their purity, religion would
never have descended to the narrow, cold, austere and un-
lovely forms of expression through which it passed during
the days of the Puritans, when all expressions of beauty,
pleasure and joy were looked upon as sins and punished.
The chief sacred dances were performed in a circle and in
honor of the nation's Sun or Fire-god, and were intended to
symbolize both the circling of the planets around the
sun and the descent of the Divine Light, or the creative
potencies of the Christ-forceby whatever name it was
calledinto the Earth that darkness, winter, death and the
inertia of matter might give place to growth, expression and
evolution, as the result of the quickening power of the Spirit.
The ceremony from which the modern May-pole dance de-
scended was originally performed around a bonfire. It was
instituted by the ancient Druids before the British Isles were
separated from the mainland.
The very meaning of the word Druid, le., "the very know-
ing, the wise," shows that they were not the ignorant idol-
aters which uninformed and superficial modern writers
have supposed, and their original teachings were far from
being the superstitious practices into which they later degen-
erated.' For the coming of the English invaders (Angles,
Saxons, etc.) took away the simplicity of the people and
degraded their ceremonials by literal interpretations of the
symbols, until there came a time when human victims were
sacrificed upon their altars. The ancient rite in which the
priest cast himsdf upon the Stone of Sacrifice symbolized
the sacrifice of the lower nature of man to the spiritual, the
4 'The mystery veiling the origin and the religion of the Druids is as
great as that of their supposed fanes to the modern Symbologist. but not to
the initiated Occultists. Their priests were the descendants of the last At-
Ianteans." The Secret Doctysise. Blavataky. ii. 799.
The Mys:ic Oak 283
human to the Divine. Thus the sacrifice of the personality
to the Higher Self became degraded, just as later the mystic
crucifixion of the personality that the Christ might rise,
gradually became materialized into the literal death and
human sacrifice of Jesus.
Caesar, returning from his conquest of Gaul, reported that
the Druids constituted the learned and priestly class and
were the chief expounders of the law. They taught the im-
mortality of the Soul, believed in reincarnation and had for
their favorite studies astrology, geography, physical science
and theology, long before written works were known to the
common people. In fact, the earlier Druid priests were
Initiates from the Lodge of Masters who, in the degenerate
days of Atlantis, taught all the people who would listen the
true religion, and before the final sinking of the continent,
led all their followers out of the country into Europe, over
the peninsula which at that time made the Mediterranean
an inland sea. Later they sent out missionaries to the
younger and more childlike peoples in Gaul, Ireland, Wales
and elsewhere, to establish the one true Wisdom Religion.
Among them were the legendary semi-divine Kings from
whom many Irishmen believe in their hearts they have dc-
cended.
"History shows the populations of Central Gaul revolting
against the Roman yoke.... Bibractis . . . perished.
Bibractis, the mother of sciences, the soul of the earlier na-
tions (in Europe, a town equally famous for its sacred col-
lege of Druids, its civilization, its schools, in which 40,000
students were taught philosophy, literature, grammar, juris-
prudence, medicine, astrology, occult sciences, architecture,
etc. Rival of Thebes, of Memphis, of Athens and of Rome.
Such was the last city in Gaul wherein died for
Europe the secrets of the Initiations of the Great Mysteries.
. . - Pliny devotes many a chapter to the wisdom of the
leaders of the Cells. The Semotheesthe Druids of the
Gaulsexpounded the physical as well as the spiritual
284 The Message of Aquaria
sciences. They taught the secrets of the universe, the har-
monious progress of the heavenly bodies, the formation of
the earth, and above all, the immortality of the SouL"5 "In
religious literature they are almost exclusively represented as
magicians and diviners opposing the Christian missionaries,
tho we find two of them acting as tutors to the daughters
of Laegaire, the high-king, at the coming of St. Patrick.
The word drui is always used to render the Latin nsagus,
and in one passage St. Columba speaks of Christ as his
Druid." Dru also means an oak.
The great fundamental truths as to the inter-relations of
God, Nature and man, instead of being indicated by symbols
and by printed explanations as today, were in those days
illustrated by symbolic customs and ceremonials in which
large numbers of people in every village took part, thus im-
pressing the meaning of the symbol more forcefully upon the
minds of the people.
In the days when the dance was performed around the
bonfires, the Fire Signal, which symbolized the consent of
the Deity to another cycle of life and evolution on Earth,
was not given until the constellation of the Pleiades in the
neck of the Bullthe sign Taurus, the Thunder-god of Eng-
landwas exactly overhead in the night sky. "The Druids,
then, understood the meaning of the Sun in Taurus, when, all
other fires being extinguished on the first of November, their
sacred and inextinguishable fires alone remained to illumine
the horizon."T This is evidence that it was the Spiritual and
not the physical Sun that was worshiped, for the Pleiades
contain the central star, Alcyone, around which our universe
cirdes. But as this required exact astronomical calculation
and varied from year to year, later on the first day of May
was fixed as exoterically approximating correct season.
The ceremony was conducted by seven priests, represent-
ing the powers of the seven Sacred Planets and the seven
5 I1IJ.. Vol. ill, 199, 312. S Eiscydopeds Britai,sic.., Vol. viii. 598.
TT Secvet Ductñ,i.. Blavatiky. ii. 802.
The Mystic Oak 285
Plelades, while the dance itself was performed by twelve
maidens, symbolizing the circling of the twelve signs of the
zodiac and the twelve months of the year around the Sun.
In the later symbolism the dance was performed around the
Sacred Oak and still later, if an oak were not available, the
masculine principle of Fire or the Sun was symbolized by the
upright May-pole, while the feminine principle was indicated
by the circle drawn on the ground, the two having the same
significance, forming a creative symbol, like the dot within
the circle or the Lingam and the Yoni, all of which later
became degraded into objects of phallic worship.
The fact that the Druids looked upon the oak as a sacred
tree again proves their knowledge of occult lore, for the oak
is the highest type among trees or has reached mastery in
that kingdom. And like all types which reach mastery in
their respective kingdomsgold among metals, the diamond
among earths, the rose among flowers, etc.,the oak sends
out a force of perfection, strength and mastery. Because
of these emanations it was used in the May-dance of the
Druids and was also planted in groves around their centers
of worship and their dwelling places. Therefore, just as
the Christian ceremonies of Easter bring to our minds the
great cosmic fact of the resurrection of the Sun from the
southern hemisphere, or the renewal or resurrection of the
life-force (the Christ-force) of Nature from the tomb of
winter, as well as the personal significance of the resurrec-
tion of the Christ in each heart, so the bonfires and May-.
poles, with their attendant dances and ceremonials, had the
same double significance and symbolized the same grand
truths to the early inhabitants of Ireland, Britain and Gaul,
i.e., that the masculine Principle of Fire had again descended
to fructify Mother Earth that she might bring forth her
increase in the new cycle of manifestation.
One of the ceremonies of the ancient May festival was
the planting of an oak by the Druid priests in the center of
the plot set aside for the dance. This tree was planted with
286 The Message of Aquaria
certain magical rites which invoked or which, through the en-
lightened will of the priests, so concentrated the life-forces
of the elements that the spot became a focus for the Earth-
currents to such an extent that the oaks thus consecrated
lived and flourished for centuries. Even today many of the
trees thus planted survive where not devastated by the hand
of man.8 Among the Hawaiians of today a tree-planting
ceremony closely resembling the ancient druidic rite is still
occasionally performed by the older Kukunu or priests,
by means of which exceptionally long life and great fruitful-
ness is imparted to the trees.
The reason for the results is easily understood by the
occultist, for it is well known that the elementals and Nature-
sprites obey the will of one who knows how to invoke them
through the use of the symbols, sounds and colors to which
they must respond. "The Elementals, the Nature-Forces,
are the acting, tho invisible, or rather imperceptible, sec-
ondary causes, and in themselves the effects of primary
causes behind the veil of all terrestrial phenomena." The
primary cause in the above instances lay in the trained will
of the initiated priests. But woe to him who dares to invoke
Nature's forces for selfish purposes, for they obey blindly
the inner desire of the heart and can disintegrate and destroy
as well as create.
It is common for the hearts of ancient oaks to turn dark
and decay while the tree grows on. This leaves a hollow
interior, blackened as tho burned with fire. Hence, the oak
is said to have a "Heart of fire," and the blackened cavity is
cited to prove it.
All true symbology and ceremonial is but the outward pic-
hire of a Divine Reality, an inner Truth, which is of vital
importance to the unfoldment of the Soul. This Order of
8The Newland Oak in Gloiicrstershire called "the Great Oak.' is said to
date from the second century. Its girth is now 4734 ft. at a point S ft. from
the ground. The Cawthorpe Oak (38$ ft.) near Wetherby in Yorkshire. ii
said to date heck to early Saxon times or earlier.
STAS Secret Doct,ssr, Blavatsky. i. 170.
The Mystic Oak 287
Christian Mystics is also likened to a sacred oak and its suc-
cessor the May-pole, in that it is another effort of the mis-
sionaries of the same Great Lodge to call down the Divine
Fire of the Christ into the hearts of humanity. Recognize,
therefore, its significance and make it a living Oak with a
true "heart of fire," not a blackened and empty hollow. And
as we circle round it through the twelve months of the year
as the followers of the Sun of Righteousness, let us call
down the forces of the Planetary Deities and the lesser in-
fluences of the zodiacal signs, that this Mystic Oak, or Spir-
itual May-pole of the Order, may be the vehicle for the
downpouring of the creative Christ-force which shall warm
and fructify the germs of spiritual life within the hearts of
all mankind; that it may be firmly rooted and that as it
grows its branches shall spread far and wide and furnish
shelter and grateful shade for many weary hearts and nest-
ing places for the birds of the air, i. e., helpful, unselfish
thoughts for the betterment of mankind.
Let the twelve streamers attached to this Mystic May-pole
remind us of the twelve monthly lessons sent out from the
"heart of fire" of this Spiritual Oak. Think of them as
streamers transmitting to us the spiritual forces of the twelve
zodiacal signs, and recognize that the power of the Planetary
Deity ruling each month can be transmitted to us in and
through each lesson if we will correlate with it.
Realize that just as the forces of the Central Sun go out
to all the planets and intertwine as the planets weave their
courses through the heavenly spaces, so must there be estab-
lished on Earth a universal Center of Spiritual Light which
shall be the Universal Oak from which there shall go forth
the twelve expressions of the Spiritual Sun to illumine the
minds and warm the hearts and vivify the lives of all man-
kind, each a distinct streamer, yet interblending and working
in harmony with all. Therefore, let each student who is sin-
cerely striving to follow the spiritual Light seek out and
take hold of one of these streamers from the Universal Oak
288 The Message of Aquaria
or Center of Spiritual Light and realize that it is a live wire
connecting him with a great dynamic force, whose power
comes from the spiritual Flame of Divine Love and Wisdom.
To make this symbology practical we will find that by con-
centrating upon the thought that the Heart Center of this
Order is in direct touch with the Spiritual Sun, in very truth,
all who touch one of its streamers will find the radiance of
that Sun illuminating their Path and its wannth and spiritual
life-force filling their veins and rippling through their bodies.
Then shall all gladly join hands and joyously dance, so inter-
twining their forces that the world will see the change in
their lives and will recognize that they have united them-
selves with something that is vital and life-giving. In other
words, that they have found the Angel (messenger) of the
Lord sitting beneath this Mystic Oak, and that He has placed
His mark upon their foreheads, the mark being the shining
forth of the Christ-light.
Among the May-day festivities there were feats of
strength and endurance. The pole was greased, and he who
was strong and persevering and able to climb to the top, be-
came the village hero of the year. So is it today with this
Mystic May-pole planted in humanity. Let him who can
climb to the very top, the center whence all the streamers
radiate, lift up his hands unto the heavens and invoke the
glory of the Spiritual Sun to shed its benison on all who are
not far enough evolved or not strong enough to climb the
slippery Path to the top.
As an Order its students have ?ll been climbing, but there
have been many slips. Many have started up the pole or
Path and have found it difficult to maintain their hold. But,
thanks be to the Great Law, they have held on, for they have
said: "In the might and strength and power of the Christ I
will reach the top." There are others who are climbing fit-
fully, going up a little way today and slipping back tomor-
row; picking themselves up and essaying it again. Of such
materials are heroes made. By the power of the Divine
The Mystic Oak 289
manifesting through the human, we can all become heroes of
the Mystic May-pole, once we have found our Sacred Oak;
once we have grasped its streamers; once we have joined the
circle of the consecrated dancers; once we have called upon
the powers of heaven to aid us. Then we can stand around
the Oak and with clasped hands and blending hearts ask that
the Fire of the Christ, the Divine Flame and the Sun of
Righteousness, shall descend like tongues of flame in a fiery
baptism upon this Oak and fill its heart with Divine Fire.
And verily, according to the creative forces we bring to it,
according to the support we accord it, shall the miracle be
accomplished; but to grow and put forth it must have its
human as well as angelic support in Earth conditions.
It is said that many miracles were performed under the
sacred oaks. It was taught that at noon and at midnight the
consecrated oaks sent forth mysterious powers, especially
during the full Moon, and that everyone on whom their
shadows fell was healed, comforted or relieved of his dis-
tress. Also the devotee who prayed beneath the oaks had
his spiritual sight opened and saw beautiful visions of the
life eternal.
The days of miracles and magic are not over. In fact,
there is no magic, only manifestations of Nature's laws. That
which the initiated Druids, through a knowledge of the inner
workings of the Great Law, could accomplish in the ancient
days; that which the childlike Hawaiians, by believing in and
following implicitly their Divine Instructors,10 can accom-
plish today with physical trees destined for food, that shall
we also do, but in the spiritual realm. Every day at noon a
Healing Service is held by its priests under the Mystic Oak
of the Order,'1 during which many miracles have been per-
formed, many sick healed, much bitter sorrow comforted
10 A Hawaiian legend e1ate, that their Divine Instructor, were white
men who came front the East in a ship and who will return to them again;
another evidence that *11 nations originally received their spiritual teaching.
from the same source, the great Lodge of Masters through their messengers.
11 See The Temple of S.leisce, Curtis,. Chapter iv. fcc details.
290 The Message of Aquaria
and much distress relieved, in every land where the shadow
of this Mystic Oak has fallen, for it is an Oak planted by
the River of Life under whose grateful shade all who will
may rest. Yet, in our lighter moments it can also stand just
as surely as our May-pole and inspire us with joy and glad-
ness, thus maldng life colorful and happy, for May is the
month dedicated to the Divine Mother, who ever provides
cheer and gladness for her children, just as she provides the
many-hued flowers which grow around the oak.
Those who have found this Order to be the May-pole of
their choice and have danced and prayed and poured out
their offerings around it, who have believed and trusted and
loved, how much more shall their fulfillment be from their
spiritual planting! How much more shall their spiritual
eyes be opened! For, like the physical oaks, this Mystic
Oak, under whose branches we are praying, shall endure
throughout the ages and bring forth twelve manners of fruit,
yielding its fruit each month.
Let us then lift up our hearts in dancing and thanksgiving
and Join our voices in praise, for the days of miracles are
not past. For we see before us the fruits of a tiny acorn
planted in darkness and discouragement, watered with tears
and tended as a tiny sapling through the years of hardship
and suffering, yet today, amidst all the adverse conditions,
it is putting forth firm, strong roots, upward reaching limbs
and outspreading branches which reach into every country
and nation and people.
Is there one among us who is fearful or faint-hearted? Is
there one who thinks that the arm of the Lord is shortened;
that He is not able to save His own? Behold, before us this
miracle! Is there one among us who cries out: "Life is too
difficult. There is nothing but toil and poverty and misery,
I am crushed !" Let him behold the miracle of this Mystic
Oak! For out of poverty, out of ignorance, out of darkness
and obscurity has this young Oak come forth, forcing its
way up through the crevices of the hard rocks of Earth con-
The Mystic Oak 291
ditions, far up on the mountain side. And in spite of all
opposition it is still growing sturdily, because it draws its
Light from the Spiritual Sun, and its roots are planted and
nourished in the bosom of the Divine Mother.
In the sacred groves of the Druids each tree was said to
have its dryad or spirit, which transmitted the mystic pow-
ers of the oak to the priests. This dryad was an ethereal
elemental, half Nature-sprite and half a thought-form created
by the worship of the devotees, yet able to interpret to the
priests the counsels of the gods. This belief is not the mere
superstition into which it has degenerated, for most old leg-
ends which today read like pure fairy-tales are expressions
of an underlying Divine Truth. Today that which was fore-
shadowed in the ancient ceremonies is fulfilled in our midst.
For this Mystic Oak of the Order also has its Dryad. Today
it is not a mere elemental, sprite and thought-form, but a
living Soul, a living embodiment through which the Masters
of Wisdom and the powers of the zodiac can transmit to us
their words of encouragement, guidance and wisdom.
Let each of us begin then today to invoke the forces of the
Spiritual Sun, not only in our own lives, but in the Heart of
the Mystic Oak, that its priests may have the power to per-
form their magical rites; that its Dryad may be freed from
all hampering conditions and be able to bring to us more
perfectly the wisdom of the ages. Let us gather dose then
around our Mystic Oak and protect it by our love, devotion
and support from all untoward conditions and forces, that
its life and fruitfulness may be prolonged throughout the
ages!
Let each one ask his own heart, each one of us, why he has
joined himself to the band of devotees gathered round this
Mystic Oak. Has he come merely as a critical spectator?
Has he come merely for a passing May-dance, merely to be
entertained? Or has he come that he might grasp fast hold
of one of its streamers of force and become an active worker
in spreading the dance of joy and peace and love of the
292 The Message of Aquaria
resurrection day in the hearts of those who surround him?
because he recognizes that in his life the resurrection from
the old habits, thoughts and ideals has really taken place
and he wishes to join hands with those who understand and
worship round the Mystic Oak, that the coming cycle of his
life may be filled to greater measure with the perfume of
new blossoms unfolded, kind words spoken, loving deeds
performed, and with the satisfaction that comes from bring-
ing forth in his life the mystic "fruits of the Spirit?"
If it is this mystic bond of love and unity which holds us
close and fills us, can we not understand that as we send the
return current of our forces into this Center, into this Mystic
Oak, that we are helping the whole world to share our joy
and ultimately join us in the sacred dance? Let the world
see live, glowing hearts, willing sacrifices and unselfish lives,
and it will soon seek the source of our power. Some of us
have tried to give it up. Some have said: "It is too much
to ask. I cannot give up the old thoughts, the old point of
view, the old life. It is too advanced. I cannot go so far as
actually to live it." And yet the streamer of living force
from this Mystic Oak which has entered and twined itself
around their hearts draws them back to the Order once more.
Believe, therefore, that if the divine powers brought to
Earth through the Mystic Oak can help us to lift up the
Light of the Christ in our lives, the promise shall be
fulfilled: "And I, if I be lifted up from the earth will
draw all men unto me."
There is but one question for us to ask. Answer that
truthfully and we will know where we stand and what our
next step must be. We must ask ourselves, "Am I a sincere
follower of the Christ? Am I letting that mystic Light
abide in me?" If not, then pray for a greater realization
of the fullness of the love and power of the Mystic Christ.
For this Power is life and love and immortality. And it
must work out in us when invoked as it has worked out in
The Mystic Oak 293
the universe since the invocation, "Let there be light," was
pronounced.
If we have identified ourselves with this special aspect of
the creative power of the Spiritual Sun, each effort we make,
each step we take is creative and is not taken for ourselves
alone. Each thought and act is creative for the good of all.
Our very life becomes creative and each thing that comes to
us will be filled with the Christ-force and will go forth into
humanity with a germ of redemption in it.
Not only can we invoke these divine powers to focus and
manifest in our own lives, but we can invoke them to focus
and manifest through the Mystic Oak of this Order that all
manicind may benefit. Just as the Druids focused in their
saplings the life-forces of the Sun and Earth, so can we
call down the spiritual life-forces that the Mystic Oak may
have the power and substance on all planes necessary to
accomplish its great mission. We can call down the power
of the Sun and it shall obey us. We can invoke the spiritual
forces of the universe to become our servants. But not
merely to enrich our personal life, not to give power and
aggrandizement to the personal self, but for the help of all.
For to be a true Magician or Druid, we must unselfishly
use our Rod of Power to perform mirades for the good
of all.
CHAPTER XXIV
THE DIAMOND HEART
"Fire is the most perfect and unadulterated reflection in Heaven as
on Earth, of the One F1ame It is Life and Death, the origin and
end of every material thing. It is Divine Substance."The Secret
Doctrine, Blavatsky, i, 146.
"0 hidden mystery of the Flame! Thou art the very eye of the
Eternal One Thou reignest in the heights of Heaven: thou dwdlest
deep in the heart of Earth. Thy warmth and light and mystic pow-
en make of the orb of day an open door into the eternal bosom of
the Father who, through the purifying Flame of Divine Love hath
brought forth all flames; for all are parts of the Eternal Life, Love
and Perfection."
"Thou, 0 Flame, art one with Divine Love, which floweth like a
River of Life into the depths of the heart of Nature and bringeth
forth after the fashion of the Divine Imagining! Thou piercest deep
into the mystic depths of each human heart and bringest forth as bub-
bles upon the surface, every hidden thing. 0 purifier of our inmost
hearts! 0 searcher of our thoughts! We Thy servants and disciples
bow before Thee, 0 Divine Power sent forth from the Ever-living
One !"Invocation to the Flame by the Teacher of She Order of
Christian Mystics.
Nearly all ancient names for God include in their mean-
ing the idea of fire. Hence, a universal belief in the sacred-
ness of fire, and its connection with the manifestation of a
mysterious power greater and more incomprehensible than
all other manifestations in Nature, is older than recorded
history. It is common to all religions, from the dumb adora-
tion of primitive man, awed and mystified by its power, down
through the ages in every clime and in every form of wor-
ship. The Christian religion is no exception; in fact, so full
of references to fire and the Flame are the Christian scrip-
tures that well might they be classed by a foreign investi-
gator with the religion of the Parsees and other Fire Wor-
shipers. But it must not be concluded that, either in the
294
The Diamond Heart 295
Christian religion or any other form of so-called "fire-
worship," the physical fire itself is worshiped any more than
the cross can be said to be worshiped by Christians. And
a symbol so universal to all manldnd must have a vital spir-
itual significance. It is the recognition of fire as the most
awe-inspiring manifestation of Deity, or, spealdng meta-
phorically, fire and Flame are an outer garment of the
Divine.
We are told that "Our God is a consuming fire,"1 and of
the Ancient of Days it is said: "His Throne was like the
fiery flame, and his wheels as burning fire. A fiery stream
issued and came forth from before him."2 Job, in speaking
of the Great Initiator, says: "Out of his mouth go burning
lamps and sparks of fire leap out His breath
kindleth coals, and a flame goeth out of his mouth."2 "The
light of Israel shall be for a fire and his Holy One for a
flame."4 David tells us that "The Voice of the Lord divid-
eth the flames of fire."5 Jesus said: "I am come to send
fire on earth and of Him John the Baptist said: "He
shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with
Hundreds of other references to fire and the Flame make it
very plain that the inspired writers of both the Old and
New Testaments were fully aware that the Mystery of the
Flame is the Mystery of God and of all creation.
Just as the Light and heat of the Sun bring to Nature
God's divine power as a manifestation of Cosmic Light and
Life, so hidden in the symbol of the Flame is the secret of
man's spiritual quickening; his spiritual growth and unfold-
ment; his testings and purifying burnings, which are so
necessary until his heart has become like a diamond, pure
and limpid, yet firm and unswerving, a Sun in miniature.
But only through contact with the fiery Flame of Divine
Love can man transmute the particles of earth which com-
pose his physical body into a matrix in which the pure Spir-
1 He?,.. xii. 29. 2 9 S Jobs xli. 19. 21. 4 Zeal.!., x, 17. Ps.J,
xxix. 7. S Lake. xii. 49. TM.Jf iii. 11.
296 The Message of Aquaria
itual Flame can be focused and all else excluded, so that like
the ingredients from which the diamond is slowly formed
when mysteriously incased in its matrix, the earthly desires
and selfish thoughts may be consumed in the glowing Flame
of Divine Love until the heart becomes a jewel of great
price, pure and colorless, holding in its depths the pure
White Light, yet shedding forth every colored ray of mani-
festation.
Humanity is now entering into a wonderful new era where
it is being subjected to tremendous pressure and great heat,e
for humanity as a whole must have its Diamond Heart
perfected. We are now passing through definite stages of
this testing of the ages and we are hearing with no uncer-
tain ear the herald angel proclaim: "Behold, we count them
happy which endure.... He that endureth unto the end,
the same shall be saved." Also "Blessed are they that have
not seen, yet have believed." Throughout all the ages this
Diamond Heart has been slowly forming in the matrix of
the world, at first only a few tiny crystals, in the earth yet
not of it, buried deep in the rocksthe hard, oppressive
forces of ages of materialism and worldly conditionsand
covered over with sand and gravelthe sordid cares, the
misunderstandings and the ridicule and persecutions of men.
In previous chapters we have dwelt much upon the power
of the Living Flame, as it has swept and is still sweeping
through all earthly and human conditions. We have seen it
in its lowest and most destructive form on the field of battle
where the flower of the world's manhood has been mowed
down like grass, where women have been violated, children
enslaved and homes made desolate or utterly destroyed. Yet
all this has been but the retort seven times heated to melt
the matrix in the stony heart of humanity out of which must
come its jewel. The time is approaching when this matrix
must open and reveal its many diamonds, for the rock of
'Diamonds are formed by the coalescing of niany tiny crystals in a matriz
under the influence of tremendous pressure and the Ireat beat of yokanic action.
The Diamond Heart 297
Earth conditions and materialism has been exposed to the
elements and has begun to disintegrate because it has felt
the great heat of Divine Love from the Sun of Righteous-
ness as He draws dose to Earth to gather His jewels.
We have also seen this Divine Flame manifesting in great
power in all Nature, bursting the seeds, pushing up the
tender sprouts through the resisting soil and bringing about
the new springtime which covers even the devastated battle-
fields with the verdure of the new season. Just so will the
Flame of the Spiritual Sun cover and make beautiful the
stricken hearts of humanity with the verdure of new hope,
courage and the power to push on through all obstacles and
face the new era with trust and confidence in the power of
the Divine to manifest in all conditions; for the Diamond
Heart of the world is now rapidly being freed from its
dense bard matrix of materialism.
This same Divine Flame is today in action in a greater
and fuller measure than in many ages, searching out the in-
most secrets of our hearts and lives,'0 burning in the very
depths of our being, purifying, eliminating flaws, testing
and proving each crystal, preparing the children of men to
receive the announcement: "Behold, the Bridegroom coin-
eth; go ye out to meet him." Thy Bridegroom, whose
breath of Flame is upon thy cheek; whose encircling arms
surround thee; whose life-giving power is sweeping through
thee, consuming-renewing, destroying-upbuilding, that out
of the union of Divine and human love "that holy thing
which shall be born of thee" shall be the Child of the New
Age, the Diamond Heart of Humanity. Only truth and
pure love can endure the burning and bring forth: all else
will fall away and disintegrate like the artificial, man-made
Io ii?S, at the diamond mines of Kimberley South Africa. it was discov-
ered that if the hard earth forming the matrix of the Æ....4 was exposed to
the air and the Suia rays it would crumble and fall apart; a far more perfect
and natural method of freeing the diamonds than the former method of tweak-
ing open the matrix with a mallet.
101 Sa,uu.sl. ii. 6. 7.
298 The Message of Aquaria
diamond, which crumbles and turns to black carbon dust
when subjected to over-much heat.
Aitho the artificial diamond yields the same chemical
elements as the true diamond when analyzed, yet the true
diamond is found to contain a mysterious something, a fire,
a life-principle or soul impossible to impart to the artificial
diamond, and it is this fire or soul, which science is unable
to discover, yet whose presence it recognizes, which charac-
terizes the true diamond. Even the smallest particle of the
diamond adds its quota to the world's work and accomplishes
that which no other substance can, such as its use in engrav-
ing, cutting glass, wire drawing, rock drills, accurate turn-
ing points in instruments of precision, watches, etc. Just
so will every heart that responds in spirit and in truth to the
burning of the Flame of Divine Love as the Sun of Right-
eousness draws close to Earth, find its own work to do; for
there is work for every tiniest crystal of true diamond.
The Diamond Heart of the World has been slowly gath-
ering its crystalline atoms (individuals) and perfecting
them from the very foundation of humanity, but in this
culminating cosmic era they are being drawn closer and closer
together and consolidated into facets. Just as the one White
Light contains and is the source of all colors,'1 so all mankind
with their differing conceptions of truth are all God's chil-
dren. And out of each colored reflection of the Lighteach
church, movement or conception of truthif it be sincere
and constructive and really seeking to know and do God's
will on Earth, even as it is done in heaven, will He make a
pathway direct to the serene heights of Christ-consciousness
that all may hear His message in their own tongue or way
of thinking and receive from Him direct. And when each
U Diamond matrix is found In 'varying conditions In river gravels em-
bedded in a conglomerate called cascaTh. (white); in terraces in a similar con-
glonierate (yellow); in surface deposits of red clay in a conglomerate known
as giirgulko; in blat earth occurring in pipes or funnels extending to unknown
depths but connected with volcanic eruptions; also in meteorites. They there-
fore occur in matrices of red, yellow and blue, the three primary colors from
which all ether colors are formed.
The Diamond Heart 299
pathway has been tested and proved able to stand the burn-
ing of the Flame it will be found to be a polished facet in
the Diamond Heart of the World.
The crystals that shall compose this great Diamond are
being gathered out of every people, kindred, tongue and.
country, both the civilized and the so-called uncivilized, for
all are God's children. No church, society or order dare
claim that unto it alone will the Bridegroom come or out of
its limited ranks alone shall be gathered the atoms to coin-
pose the crystal facets; for it must be a universal ingather-
ing of all pure, true crystals wherever found, without re-
gard to race, color, creed, stage of civilization or intellectual
advancement. Indeed, while there are many especially pre-
pared avenues through which the Spiritual Sun is shining
and many especially prepared matrices in which tiny separate
diamonds are maturing and being polished, nevertheless,
every Soul that is aspiring and crying out for the Light in
ever so obscure and humble a way, shall feel the quickening
power of that Sun, and the rocks of Earth conditions, ma-
terialistic thoughts and intellectual limitations that have shut
them in and separated them from one another shall crumble
in its warmth, so that out of the most narrow and sectarian
limitations all the crystals that truly reflect the Light shall
be gathered to make up His jewels. But only those who have
been perfected in their own limiting individual matrix and
have been released from it can be gathered together to form
the Diamond Heart of the World.
The time has now come when there must be such an in-
gathering into one great Brotherhood of Truth, each facet
retaining its individuality and shedding forth its color, and all
colors flashing and blending each with the others, yet all
recognizing each other and working together to manifest
perfectly the Light to every type of mind and condition of
mankind. Already His angelsliterally meaning Messen-
gers of God and including human, as well as celestial mes-
sengersare giving forth His message in every nation.
300 The Message of Aquaria
They are also recognizing each other as co-workers and
fellow servants in the vineyard of the Great Master, Jesus.
These Messengers are humble human beings who have re-
ceived their illumination and message direct from the com-
ing Lord of Life and who have been consecrated to their
individual missions by having His hands (powers to ac-
complish) laid upon their heads, yet all need to know the
spiritual principles and the scientific aspect of the laws of
manifestation which it is the special mission of this Order
to furnish them that they may do their own portion of the
Great Work more intelligently and efficiently and work in
harmony with their fellow Messengers. For there are cer-
tam fundamental cosmic principles which all must follow.
All constructive teaching, like the diamond, is the result of
the action of definite lines of force and consciousness which
in their outward seeming may appear different, yet which
are nevertheless from the same source, just as the sapphire,
amethyst, ruby, topaz and Oriental emerald are all jewels
composed of corundum (oxid of aluminum) variously col-
ored, and follow the same law as to their formation. Just
so spiritual teachings may differ in their presentation or
coloring, due to the tint given by the race thought, training
or bias of the mind through which they are given out, yet
if they are true they can be traced back to the same funda-
mental principles as a common source.
In many churches and temples such enlightened ones are
giving forth the Message through inspired sermons, giving
to their flocks the truth in the way best suited to their
understanding. In many societies and movements inspired
Messengers are setting forth in language best suited to the
comprehension of their followers the news of His coming
and the necessity of preparing themselves and the world
for it. In the Orient, in Australia, in South Africa, as well
as in America, we have already recognized those Messen-
gers who have been "called of God," who have been conse-
crated and sealed with the unmistakable seal of His per-
The Diamond Heart 301
sonal touch that they may carry His message to the people
of their own land, wherever there are childlike hearts
those who are teachable, eager to learn and not so bound by
too great intellectual and preconceived ideas that they can-
not receive His simple message. But during this time of
formation let no one be deceived, for the forces of natural
selection will put each particle in its rightful place.
There are many precepts laid down for those of us who,
because we have felt the Christ-light quickening our hearts,
ardently desire to be a part of this Diamond Heart. First
we must cultivate discrimination. "Learn to discern the real
from the false, the ever-fleeting from the everlasting.
The mind needs breadth and depth and points to draw it
to the Diamond Soul.... Seek, 0 Beginner, to blend
thy mind and Soul." Therefore we must realize our great
responsibility to weigh and by the light of Soul-wisdom dis-
criminate between true and false teachings before giving
them our support; for while the one giving out false teach-
ings is held responsible, yet if each Soul used the God-given
power of discrimination and read the signs along the Path
and obeyed the plainly marked rules of the road, as well as
asked for inner guidance, false teachings could do little
baun.
One of the most strongly emphasized of these rules is not
to be carried away by great personal claims, for humility is
the first and one of the most essential of all characteristics
for a teacher of the Great Law. We are told "SeIf-gratu-
lation, 0 Disciple, is like unto a lofty tower, up which a
haughty fool has climbed" and yet only too often such a
seif-gratulating teacher is followed and encouraged by the
world until the lofty tower of self-praise has grown to
alarming heights. Hence when the Divine Fire of the Lord
(Law) flashes forth and the thunder of divine adjustment
rolls, the tower falls and engulfs all who have gathered at
its base, gazing up in admiration.
lIThe Voice of the SlZ,,ce. Iflayatiki. 25.6.
302 The Message of Aquaria
The Diamond Heart must be formed either in a matrix of
living rock (Rock of Ages) or in the sand and gravel which
because of their hardness and geometrical formation have
only polished and perfected it. Hence all who would be
a part of that Heart must look deep into their own hearts
and by the wisdom thus gained be enabled to look deep into
the heart of all things.
Here in America many have long recognized that The
Order of Christian Mystics is such a Messenger. Its mission
is to prepare for His coming by presenting the principles
and philosophy of divine manifestation. These have been
sent forth from the beginning of its ministry in 1908, when
its commission was given direct from on high. And
His hands have ever upheld its agents through all the trials,
testings, persecutions, burnings and purifications through
which the Order has passed. And His everlasting arms
have been outstretched to bless and comfort all who have
responded to the special call given through this Order.
Hence, in spite of the natural human weaknesses of its
messengers, they have never doubted the success of the
message nor hesitated to obey in the face of the greatest
opposition and discouragement, for they have ever remained
humble and teachable. The Great Ones can give to their
messengers everything except an humble, loving heart, a
teachable mind and a determination that nothing can daunt;
these are qualities the messengers themselves must furnish.
And they have been amply rewarded by the knowledge that
through their efforts many, many beautiful crystals have
been freed from their confining matrices and many facets
of the Diamond Heart have been polishe&
But the messengers of the Order have received a new
and more impressive and urgent message, which they must
now transmit to you. They are bidden to proclaim to you
the near approach of His advent on Earth among His true
U See cbapter, xxiii and xl berein. also The Voice of Iiii Curtiu, Cbap.
tee x.
The Diamond Hear: 303
and devoted followers in all lands. To prepare for-this He
bids all draw dose in faith, devotion and love to their fellow
men and to their chosen messengers, and help to spread the
Teachings wherever a mind and heart is found open to
them.
It is not that this Order is the only facet of the Diamond
Heart, but it is the facet to which many hearts respond;
the facet which sends forth the Light in the way that is most
illuminating to their minds and most satisfying to their
hearts. Therefore, all such will wish to help to bring this
same Light, comfort and satisfaction to those who are
spiritually hungry and are groping for the dear Light.
Their love and devotion and help will make this Order a
true, perfect and unsullied jewel, universal and beautiful,
because made up of many, many particles in all lands, all
true in themselves to the Christ within, yet all drawn together
to the very heart of the Flamewhich is the manifestation of
the Christ in the Orderbecause their hearts respond to the
outpouring of His Divine Love and because they have con-
secrated themselves to His work through this avenue of
Light.
(To be concluded.'
CHAPTER XXV
THE DIAMOND HEART
(Concluded.)
"Light is cold Flame, and Flame is Fire, and Fire produces Heat,
which yields Waterthe Water of Life in the Great Mother."TIte
Stanzas of Dzyws, Stanza iii, Sloka ix.
While the Order of Christian Mystics is destined to be
drawn into the Diamond Heart of the World, yet it must
develop a Diamond Heart of its own within the matrix of
the outer conditions in which its Diamond must be perfected.
A diamond grows because of the living Flame that focuses
upon and flows through it, yet it could never crystallize into
an individualized spark of that Flame unless the mother
(matrix) held it close within her heart and covered and
encased it within her living tissues. Its great brilliancy is
caused by the fact that owing to its form the light or flame
is reflected back into the stone instead of passing through it
as in most gems. The diamond, while belonging to the
cubic system, generally assumes the form of the octahedron
(eight-sided), but it may take other forms embracing from
twelve to forty-eight faces (rhombic-dodecahedron, hexalds-
octahedron) and combinations of these geometrical figures.
It is the Light playing on the angles formed by these vari-
ously formed facets which produces the wonderful play of
colors.
While the diamond is not born in a hard rock matrix,
as are most other gems, nevertheless it is literally born of
the Flame. The Earth Mother has prepared the conditions,
has gathered the materials and held them dose, so that
when the great eruptive volcanic flames sweep up from the
very foundation of the globe these materials are transmuted
304
The Diamond Heart 305
into the transparent globules which go to make up the
diamond,1 a process similar to that which goes on in the
mother's womb while the child is taking form. Yet were the
materials not there, had the Earth Mother not gathered
together and held close in her bosom the special materials
that were the essence of the diamond, the cataclysmic erup-
tion of the Flame would have swept through her and left
behind only volcanic ash and debris, as it does in so many
instances
Thus is the Diamond Heart of each Soul and of this
Order born. Laboriously we gather to us the lessons of life
and hold them dose in the matrix of our hearts, shidded
from the outer world, and when the fiery blasts of upheaval,
sorrow or disruption come, we recognize in them but the
quickening breath of our Father and 1! our Diamond Heart
is born (our Christ-child). Hence, always can it be said
of each one who has passed through this experience, "That
holy thing which is born of thee, shall be called the Son of
God," for God quickeneth His Son in our hearts by the
power of the Holy Ghost, i.e., the Flame of Divine Love,
just as the volcanic flame brings to birth the diamond in
Nature. The diamond, which represents mastery in the
kingdom of chemical earths, has many remarkable qualities
little known to the modern world; nor will they ever be
known as long as the diamond is only valued at a commercial
rating. Yet its intrinsic value was and is known by the
initiated Adepts and was guessed at by the ancient peoples.
Were we versed in the symbology of Nature and had more
than a superficial knowledge of geometry its very formation
could reveal much to us. To quote: "This indicates that
the apparently simple crystal may really consist of eight in-
dividuals meeting at the center (i. C., a group Soul) or, what
1 A rcat diamond is formed by the coalescing of many tiuy crystals.
But it is pure and flawless only when the coalescence le so perfect that the
strongest magnifying glass cannot detect the thghtrst trace ot separation be-
tween the individual crystals.
306 The Message of Aquaria
comes to the same thing, of two individuals interpenetrating
and projecting through each other,"2 corresponding to the
blending of the individual Soul with the Over Soul, or man
and woman merging the separate personalities into oneness in
the Higher Self. A pure diamond will radiate in a dark
room if it has been subjected to sunlight or radium. Also, it
reflects the aura of the wearer if the aura be pure enough to
give forth light, and it is said that through it a Master can
read the inner life of the wearer. Also, by its color flashes
and its shadows events to come can be foretold. If under-
stood and correlated with, it will warn of danger and prove a
faithful mentor, for evil thoughts and impure desires will
dim its luster. By the ancient Greeks it was called the
"invincible," and is credited with the power of averting
insanity, and of rendering poison hanniess. In the Middle
Ages it was known as the "pietra della reconciliazione," as
the peace maker between husband and wife. All these and
many more qualities surely inhere in that which it symbol-
izes, if not in the stone itself, yet every gem has its special
qualities and radio-activity which influence the wearer in
accordance with his degree of sensitiveness.
From the above it will be seen that we cannot form and
manifest the Diamond Heart of the Orderwhich is its
point of contact with the Divine Flame manifesting through
all true spiritual inspirationand the Order cannot take its
place in the Diamond Heart of the World unless a proper
matrix is formed of living Souls, each one in his or her own
place, each one gathering and transmitting to the Heart
Center the various ingredients necessary for its formation,
and each one standing dose and firm as a part of a protective
matrix, yet like the matrix, open to the inflow of all the inner
and higher forces.
It is through its rocks that the Earth breathes and sends
forth her magnetic forces to sustain all life upon the planet.'
2 Eucyclopedia fl,ita,ij,ica. Vol. ,iii. 158.
$ See Tue Vowe of Sm. Curtiu. 311.
The Diamond Hear: 307
And by the melting and fusion of her rocks through volcanic
eruptions (the breath of the Flame) the vital life is dis-
tributed to the planet; for only through the action of fire
was the Earth herself given her separate birth. This is one
reason why every city built upon a rock foundation is more
apt to grow great and endure than one built upon sand or
soil. Altho sand is disintegrated rock, and soil is a later
process in the preparation of the planet for man's habitation,
they do not transmit the forces as do the rocks.
This law is the esoteric basis for the biblical parable of the
man who built his house upon the rock and he who built
upon the sand. This is also one of the occult reasons why
New York is the greatest city in the world today, for it is
built upon solid rock. Hence, while the lower end may be
inundated in the coming catadysms, the city as a whole will
not be destroyed, for it has a great work to do in the world
for the coming New Age and a duty to accomplish to the
many alien peoples within its gates; and because it is founded
on rock it must become the exponent or foundation of
American principles to all the children of other Races who
contact this country through its doors.
There is work for each sincere student to do, if we are
to have this Order so securely founded upon the Rock of
Ages that it may become a nudeus of the New Age. We
must determinedly gather the strength and the forces from
the lessons of patience, tolerance, brotherhood, cheerfulness,
faith and perseverance which we have learned in the environ-
ment (matrix) where the Great Law has placed us because
of our past activities, that we may build those forces either
into the matrix which supports and helps to bring forth
the Diamond Heart of the Order, or perhaps into the very
Diamond itself; for without the matrix the Diamond cannot
be produced. Let us build these forces firmly into our own
lives that we may also automatically become necessary par-
tides that must be drawn into the Living Flame to become
a part of the Diamond Heart, firstly of the Order and then
308 The Message of Aquaria
of the World. For not one particle of diamond substance
can be wasted.
It is well, however, for none of us to waste time in trying
to impress on the world the fact that we as individuals may
be a part of the Diamond itself, for only those particles
which have endured the force of the Flame for ages are so
prepared that they can be thus used, while all particles can
be used for the matrix. Let us be content to be built in
wherever the Great Law needs the materials which we can
furnish. For suppose a wonderful child is to be born, would
the mother refuse to carry the child and give it her life-
forces and protection lest she be of less importance than
the child when born? Only as the Order forms such a
matrix and holds up the hands of the messengers through
whom the Flame of Inspiration is flowing can it form a
glowing facet in the Diamond Heart of the World. The
hands symbolize the power of the Order to accomplish,
hence to hold up the hands of the Order means to form a
matrix which shall make it possible for the Order to carry
on and broaden the work and spread the Teachings more
widely throughout the world.
It will be remembered that when the Children of Israel,
while in the wilderness, questioned: "Is the Lord among
us or not?" they at once had to fight Amalek, who symbo-
lized doubt. Amalek and his tribe originally inhabited the
shores of the Dead Sea, where earlier they were met and
defeated by Abram. But when Moses (the Law) led the
Children of Israel out of Egypt these same Amaleldtes were
encountered all the way from the boundaries of Egypt even
to the Promised Land. Both Saul and David defeated, yet
did not annihilate them. So does the Aspirant encounter
doubt from the moment he turns away from following selfish
desire (Pharaoh) and begins to follow the Divine Law
(Moses) until he reaches the Promised Land, continually
gaining victories yet never quite annihilating doubt.
The Diamond Heart 309
The moment the Israelites began to question and doubt
their leader, Ainalek came upon them and the Great Law said
to them: "Go out, fight with Amalek: tomorrow I will
stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God (power of
the Law) in mine hand * * * And it came to pass,
when Moses held up his hand, that Israel prevailed; and
when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed." When
Moses became weary and could no longer hold up his hands,
his faithful helpers put a stone under him that he might
sit or rest on the Rock of Truth. And Aaron and Hur stood
one on either side and held up his hands until the going
down of the Sun, so that Israel prevailed over their doubts
and lack of faith in the power of the Divine Law to lead
them out of the Wilderness into the Promised Land and to
give them the power to conquer all obstacles on the way.
How often, like Moses, after assuaging the thirst of its
followers by cleaving the Rock of Spiritual Understanding
that its waters might flow forth, the hands of the Order
grow heavy and weary because of the doubts and fears and
lack of faith in the hearts of those whom it has led out of
Egypt! Often the hands grow weary and droop because
the physical means is lacking to support the hands and carry
on the work as it should be done; to publish the books, to
answer the personal letters promptly, to translate the Teach-
ings into other Ianguages for which there is such a crying
need, and to accomplish the many other things which the
students recognize as important and complain about when
not done. Hence, like the Children of Israel, some of the
students begin to ask: "Is the Lord among us or not?"
Even a printer's error or a slight grammatical mistake in
the transmission and expression of the message is sufficient
to call out the forces of Amalek in the minds of a few. If
at such times, when Amalek seems to prevail, the dose,
devoted and understanding ones would step forward and
place a stone or form a matrix of the Rock of Faith under
4Erodiic. iviL 9-11.
310 The Message of Aquaria
the Order and, standing like Aaron and Hur on either side,
hold up the hands of the Order, Israel (the followers) would
continue to prevail.
The hands of the Order being its power to accomplish,
the right hand symbolizes the exoteric work to be accom-
plished in the world by transmitting the lessons, spreading
the Teachings, publishing the books, lecturing, forming
study-classes, etc. The left hand is the esoteric or personal
work accomplished by the private correspondence and teach-
ings of the true and devoted followers, helping them with
their personal problems, answering their letters, transmitting
the healing love and the personal advice of the Teacher to
them, etc. All this requires so much patience, time and
strength, that the left hand often becomes utterly weary and
needs to be upheld by understanding and love; for it is the
students of the Order, standing as Israel or "the chosen
people"those who have chosen to follow the Law Giver
who must stand dose and light Amalelc for the good of all,
for his army is legion.
Who is the enemy? All those forces in the world that
influence the minds of meneven the consciousness of those
who have found their Soul-home in this Orderand per-
suade them that all this talk of a new and better era for
manldnd and of the near approach of the Great Teacher to
Earth is but imagination or a fantastic dream; that even the
personal experience and spiritual realization they have
had in their hearts and lives are but the hallucinations of
the neurasthenic! These are easily recognized as the same
forces of Arnalek that manifested at the beginning of the
former eras. "And as it was in the days of Noe, so shall
it be also in the days of the Son of Man. * * * Like-
wise also as it was in the days of Lot. * * * Even thus
shall it be in the day when the Son of Man is revealed."
The time is drawing near when the Lord of Life shall
again appear on Earth. Those who have waited and
5S1. Like. xvii. 26.30.
The Diamond Heart 311
watched; those whose hearts have gone forth in love and
longing in many incarnations, such have now the opportunity
to do something definite to prepare for His coming. If
they cannot hold the burning force of the Divine Flame
close and still in their own hearts, they at least can gather
round and stand firm on the Rock of Spiritual Under-
standing, hold up the hands which contain the Rod of the
Law and help to form a loving matrix which, like the womb
of the Divine Mother, shall shield from all inimical influ-
ences and nourish the Christ-child within with all the life-
essences necessary to bring it to birth.
Only those who have lain in the dark matrix of Earth
conditions and have felt the burning of the Flame of His
Love through many long years, growing warmer and clearer
of insight; whose hearts have been transmuted into a gem-
like substance embodying within it in crystalline clearness
the same fiery Flame of Divine Love, the same depths of
limpid stillness which mirror undistorted the higher ideals
from the realms above, only such can understand the hearts
of others and know how to help them wisely. Only those
who have become more responsive to the burning of the
Love poured out, whose hearts have thrilled with the same
ideals and who desire to help on His workto feed His
lambsby uniting the diamond spark in their own hearts to
the Diamond Heart of the Order and of the World, can
furnish the qualities which will enable the Order to flash
forth the many colors or aspects of Truthwhich in the
heart of humanity symbolize the diversity in unity of all
heartswith which the Order feeds, comforts and satisfies
all whose hearts are drawn to it.
There is, therefore, work for all to do. No particle of the
Diamond, even the chips and the dust which result from its
cutting and polishing, are useless or wasted. Each can play
an important part when wisely used. Let the Great Law,
then, cut deep. Let the polishing storms and trials of life
sweep over us strongly and fiercely if they must for our
312 The Message of Aquaria
polishing; for we fear not as long as the burning Love of
the Master's heart throbs close to ours. Let us unite our
efforts first to respond to the Divine Flame within, then to
stand firm and uphold the bands of the Order, that the
Teachings may be spread abroad and lived out; for only as
the Order, through its messengers, holds up the hands
(powers) given it to accomplish for the Master and human-
ity can the Children of Israel (the diamond globules) prevail
over the opposing forces of Amalek.
Beloved of the Flame I do you love your Lord who alone
can fulfill the Law of your destiny? Do you realize and
reckon with the mightiness of His power? Believe you
in the absolutely unconquerable force of His oncoming?
Like true diamonds are you ready to bear the burning of
His love until the dust and gravelthe earthiness of your
personalityhave been transmuted into a tiny crystal of
diamond, ready and able to coalesce with others of like sub-
stance to form a facet in the Diamond Heart of Humanity?
All through the ages the little crystals have been drawing
their life from the Divine Flame of the Sun of Righteousness
and have dung together for sympathy and protection, but
now the Diamond Heart is gathering them together to con-
solidate them into one Jewel of Truth, yet with many facets,
through which the one Divine White Light can flash forth
its many brilliant color rays so that every type of mind may
be reached from the one great Source of all Light; for all
colors draw their light from the one Flame in the heart
of the jewel. It is such a great flawless, flaming Jewel of
Universal Truth that all, through love, devotion and service,
should help this Order to become, so that "when He cometh
to make up His jewels" He will find it ready and fit to be
the central Jewel of His Crown.
Upon the threshold of the New Age we stand with bated
breath and trembling feet, with eager eyes strained toward
the mystic East to catch the first glimmerings of the coming
dawn, scarce knowing whether the Earth will open and
The Diamond Heart 313
swallow us or whether an Angel shall suddenly throw wide
the doors of the Temple of Light and reveal our Lord coming
forth "in power and great glory." Yet, once we understand
the Law of Manifestations, we will work unceasingly to
prepare the way and make straight His paths in our own
lives and in the world, while we confidently await the Coming
with quiet faith and serene joy.
CHAPTER XXVI
FAITH AND WORKS
"Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do nien gather grapes of
thorns, or ligs of thistles ?"St. Malihew, vii, 16.
"What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he has faith,
and have not works? Can faith save him?... Even so faith, it
it bath not works, is dead, being alone."James, ii 14-17.
The word faith has been variously interpreted as being
belief, or mere credulity, even superstition; as confidence in
a person or thing; and more commonly to designate a par-
ticular rdigion, such as the Christian faith, the Buddhistic
faith, etc. We, however, prefer to use St. Paul's definition:
"Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence
of things not seen."1
Faith and works are like the two ends of a magnet; faith
the unseen, negative or attracting end; works the seen,
positive or manifested end. The substance of a thing is its
soul; that which makes it alive or essentially distinguishes it.
Theref ore, we "hope" not for the temporal outer manifesta-
tion of things, but to find the reality back of them, back of
all manifested life. And by faith we pierce the enshrouding
outer seeming and with our inner senses gain evidence of that
which, aitho not seen, really exists, just as the psychologist
seeks for the motive back of every act. The motive may be
unseen, yet it is potent to produce the result noted.
A thing hoped for, if that hope is to be more than a
hope, if it is to be manifested, must be worked for and must
find a channel. That which is unseen can be evidenced out-
wardly only by the works which it brings forth in the realm
of the seen. For instance, a young tree is planted in the dark,
1 Hebrewi, xi, 1.
314
Faith and Works 315
cold earth. We see only a sapling with bare twigs, yet we
are told it is a fig tree and that it is alive. We have faith
that the unseen forces of life within the earth, air, water and
fire (Sun), will so fill those bare and leafless branches
that in the fullness of time they shall bring forth fruit. Yet
we know that it requires something more than faith in those
unseen forces if the tree is to bear perfect fruit; for the
forces of Nature unaided by man will produce only wild
fruit; small, imperfect, bitter and with little nourishment.
Therefore, if the unseen works of God are to come into
evidence in perfection, man must provide adequate channels
for the expression of his faith or all that is hoped for cannot
be evidenced. He must add to his faith, works; must dig
around the tree, must prepare the soil, must fertilize it, must
protect it from rodents, from insects, from blights, etc. So
with the manifesting of our Tree of Life within. Only as
we perform the works necessary can the forces of its life
make our faith manifest in perfection. Only so can our
Tree bring forth in our lives the things hoped for. Yet,
since we have compared faith to the Soul or Real Substance,
we must not merely hope some day to realize the inner life
or substance of that which we believe, but we must
realize that since the Soul of man is the Substance
or Real Self and the outer personality but a manifestation
in Earth conditions, if we are to prove to ourselves that our
faith is really a living factor and true, we must definitely
seek to correlate with its substance, the Soul or Real Self.
For if we plant a sapling as a fig tree and it is not, no
matter how many people tell us it is a fig tree, it cannot
become one, nor can all our faith or the powers of heaven
force it to bring forth figs. Therefore, we must go deeper
than merely to believe all that we are told. We must use
our God-given intuition to know the true nature of that
which is offered to us as a fig tree. This will be the
realization of a living faith, i. e., faith in the power of the
Divine Self within us to discriminate and recognize the
316 The Message of Aquaria
essential nature or Soul or "the substance of things hoped
for" in all things.
Conversely, if we see a tree bringing forth certain fruit
we know that it is that particular kind of a tree and no other,
no matter what other name the nurseryman may attach to
it or how it has been misrepresented by those who have an
interest in so doing. In other words, we judge the tree by
its works or fruits, for the fruits are the acme of the tree's
expression and prove the tree, even tho some of its leaves
may be imperfect or may wilt and fall. The same is true
of ourselves. Our fruits or our works are the best expres-
sion of the unseen Self we have been able to manifest, even
tho they are far from that which we hoped for. Not what
we think, not what we intend, but what we do, what we
accomplish, what we express, is the manifested us; for the
world can know us only by our fruits, our works. And
conversely, the works of a man, society, movement or Order
represent that man, society, movement or Order, no matter
what anyone may say about them and no matter how many
imperfections or limitations they may have. "Do men gather
grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles ?" "Then he shall reward
every man according to his works. * * * To every man
according to his deeds?'2
As we have continually pointed out, every law that we
see manifesting in Nature we may expect to see manifesting
in man; for man is a part of the grand chorus singing the
great Psalm of Life which has been sung by all creation
since the morning stars sang together to greet the dawn of
our present day of manifestation. But because man is the
highest "evidence of things not seen" which evolution has
unfolded and manifested on Earth, it is possible for him to
sing his part in the paean of divine manifestation more per-
fectly, for he can sing understandingly and by note that
which Nature sings only instinctively by ear.
Man may be likened to the musical staff on which a sym-
2 St. M.tthew xv!. 27. Ro..an, ii. 6.
Faith and Works 317
phony is written. His five senses may be compared to the
five lines of the staff, while the four spaces between the
lines may be likened to the four elements: fire, air, water,
earth. These elements are continually playing their unseen
part in the melody, yet man must learn to use his five senses
to listen to, understand and interpret the notes that fall in
the spaces as well as those that fall upon the lines. Above
the five lines (senses) is the infinite ether of space, which is
forever impinging upon man's senses, but of which he is
usually aware only as vague yearnings, because it transcends
his physical senses. Below the staff there are also many
notes written in the deep emotions of longings unspeakable,
of experiences garnered, of suffering and pain. But if man
endeavors to interpret the Symphony of Life through faith,
through aspiration, he may reach up to notes of infinite
harmony, joy and ecstasy and join in the angelic chorus
forever singing around the great white throne. But he must
also learn that the notes below the staff are necessary to
complete the melody. Therefore, to express the melody
aught man must learn to listen to all the notes and sound
them clear, true and understandingly. But, alas, many hear
only the notes that fall upon the lines (senses) and all the
other notes rÓnain unheard. To them the Psalm of Life
seems imperfect or even discordant, yet all the notes can
be heard by faith and expressed in the life through works.
While we are all singing the same grand symphony, yet
each has his or her own part. And each has implanted within
exactly the ability needed to fit him to perfect and express
his part. The Great Law never expects us to gather grapes
from thorns, nor figs from thistles. And just as surely must
each one bring forth the fruit of his own perfected life.
If we try to imitate another we fail to bring forth our own
fruit. And when the Lord of Life passes by, seeldng figs
and finding none, He will command that the barren fig tree
be cut down, not as a punishment or a curse, but because
as the varable illustratesof a manifest law. that unless each
318 The Message of Aquaria
individual gathers the forces of life and puts forth all pos-
sible effort to utilize his powers to grow and bring forth the
fruit that is the natural result of his stage of evolution, he
is not only failing himself, but is encumbering the ground,
i. e., is so misapplying the forces of the great evolutionary
urge within him that all mankind is held back.
The parable of the barren fig ee3 is frequently mis-
understood. It was not cursed in the way which the faulty
interpretation seems to imply, for we are told "the time of
figs was not yet" and it would surely be most unjust to
curse a tree because it did not bear fruit out of season.
The true interpretation is revealed in the thirteenth verse of
the passage,' where we are told that the tree had plenty of
leaves and yet there was no sign of fruit. When a fig tree
is full of leaves there should in the natural course of events
be figs forming, or at least blossoms, even if the full time
for ripe figs vas not at hand; for the buds must come first,
then the leaves, the blossoms and later the fruit, one of
the functions of the leaves being to protect the ripening
fruit. Hence, the symbology of the parable is that each Soul
who is planted in the vineyard of the Lord and is enriched
and tended for three seasons, or three periods during which
the body, mind and Spirit have been given special attention
or special opportunities for unfoldment and advance, and
yet fails to advance, when the Lord of Life comes to that
Soul seeking figs and finds none, because that Soul has used
all its forces in making a great show that will attract the
attention or the admiration of the worldmere leaves, be
they never so beautifulthe Great Law as Karma will surely
entail upon that Soul what may seem to be a curse, namely,
that it shall not be able to bear fruit and meet the require-
ments of the Lord of Life when it desires to do so. That is,
in the next incarnation such a one will greatly desire
$ St. Luke. xlii. 6.9. See aI.o Pages 248-9 berein.
4 SI. Mark. ii. 13.
Faith and Works 319
spiritual development, but will find himself so environed that
it will be almost impossible to attain it or manifest it.
Moreover, whenever or wherever the life-forces are not
used to create and bring forth, the three-fold Law of Life
(creationpreservationdisintegration) naturally removes
the thing that cannot or will not use the forces to bring
forth. It must die out, for disintegration is just as surely a
part of the Law of Life as creation and preservation. A
study of all Nature will confirm this, and also the wonderful
interactions of the three-fold life stream. In southern
climates, where life is luxuriant and riotous, we see many
buzzards hovering in the air, keeping watch for every animal
that may die that its carcass may be consumed lest it spread
disease and death. Hence, a little thought will show how
these three threads of life are interwoven, for that which
removes the dead and decaying carcass preserves the pure
life atmosphere, and from. the carcass new creative life
springs forth; while in more northerly climates the carcass
can more safely be left to enrich the soil and thus create new
life and preserve the equilibrium.
"Inquire of the earth, the air, and the water, of the
secrets they hold for you." The earth corresponds to the
physical senses which take cognizance of only those things
which impinge upon them; the air represents the aspirations
of the heart which reach up in longing to the throne of
God; the water is the symbol to us of Love, ever changing
and unstable on Earth, yet in its divine aspect ever constant
and unfathomable as the ocean; the fire is the Flame of the
Spirit in our hearts, that which warms our hearts and without
which the melody of life will ever be fiat and lifeless.
The world is today passing through an era in which greater
power is given unto Satan, under the opprobrious and igno-
minions title of the devil. This is an era, therefore, in which
evil has great power for a short time, because it is working
out its own extinction. Satan. who in reality is Saturn-
320 The Message of Aquaria
one of the Sons of Light manifesting as stern justice 5must
and does lead and marshal these powers of darkness and
guides them to their owir destruction. Yet he leads them
in love, for it requires a Divine Love for one of the Sons of
God to aoeept a task involving so much misunderstanding,
ignominy and contumely as the guidance of evil to its own
destruction; for love is God and is the consuming buddhic
fire for all that is not in harmony with it. The tree of evil
planted by man in the soil of Earth has reached its harvest
time, and only as it bears its characteristic fruit and the mass
of mankind who do not follow their intuitions eat of it, n
they prove that its fruit brings suffering and death instead
of joy and life. The whole world must taste of this harvest
in a measure, for everyone has had something to do with
the planting and nourishing of its baneful growth. Even if
one has merely stood by and permitted evils to go on un-
checked he must in a measure suffer, just as one must who
sees the harvest of his neighbor ravished by insects, yet
does nothing to check their spread until they overrun his
own field.
Saturn is the Great Tester. It is his part in the Divine
Plan to further the redemption of man by helping him to
eat of the fruits of his own sowing and experience the bitter
results that he may be ready the sooner to turn from them
and learn to seek the fruits of the Tree of Life, knowing
only too well that man will use his God-given free-will to
eat first of the forbidden fruit, and will only turn to the
Tree of Life when he needs healing and saving from himself.
Hence, at the end of every Great Race and sub-race, all that
has been planted, both of weeds and golden grain (the
tares and the wheat), which has grown together until the
dose of the season (cycle), must be made ready for the
sickles of the Angels who are the reapers; for only by their
fruits (works) can we surely know them.
Saturn is, therefore, not the devil. The devil' is the
$ Job, i, 6. /iloo ChaNer XXXII beicin.
SSec Tb. KeJ of Dut,a3,, Curti,s, 174.
Faith and Works 321
synthesis of the evil created by man which Saturn is helping
man to reap; and his testing is in absolute justice. "The
Sons of God came to present theinsdves before the Lord,
and Satan (Saturn) was among them."1 The Sons of God
are the Planetary Deities or the seven expressions of the
one white Light, each with his own work to do toward the
evolution of man and the Cosmos. Only this understanding
of Them can keep the words quoted from dashing with the
oft-repeated statement that Jesus was the only begotten Son
of God. While the Planetary Deities are the seven-fold
expression of the one Godhead, just as love, justice, etc.,
may be expressions of one man, the Christ as manifested by
Jesus is the "only begotten Son" of this one Godhead,
"begotten not made, being of one substance with the Father
by whom all things are made."
If we consider the planetary Rulers as manifestations of
the one God, working His will, and gathered before the
Lord, i. e., manifesting each in his appointed time and man-
ner before the Lord or in accordance with the Great Law,
we will understand why they were Sons of God and why
Saturn was one of them. Today we are reaping under
Saturn the harvest of all that man has sown during the long
period of Saturn's reign, because his cyde is now ended and
we are passing out of his influence and coming under the
reign of the occult planet, Uranus.
Saturn comes, therefore,just as he caine in the story of
Jobfrom "going to and fro on the earth," and each Soul
who has professed the name of Christ and called himself
a follower of Christ, must be specially tested. No one can
say that he is one with the Divine Law as long as, like Job,
he is hedged about on every side and blessed in the works
of his hand.8 Therefore, ere he has completed his redemp-
tion and is ready for the great Sun Initiationsymbolized
by the story of Jobbe must pass through the testings of
i. 6.
$J.b. i. 10. 12.
322 The Message of Aquaria
Saturn; "For behold, all that he hath is in thy (Saturn's)
power." This testing comes in love and in perfect justice.
It is the Fire of Divine Love which, while it consumes all
that is evil, nevertheless quickens every seed of good. It is
justice because each one is tested according to the work he
was expected to accomplish.
Man does the same thing in his physical works. He tests
every so-called inanimate thing needed to accomplish a work.
If he builds a bridge, every span is tested to bear a strain far
greater than any it will probably be subjected to; every beam,
every rivet, has its severe test, according to the work it is
expected to do. We do not test a knife that is made to cut
bread for the hungry in the same way that we test a bridge
span destined to carry much traffic over the river that sepa-
rates us from the Promised Land, yet each will and must
pass through the fire and be fitted for its own work. If we
conceive of all these materials as sentient lives, with little
understanding of what structure they are to be a part, and
hence unable to grasp the reasons why they should thus be
tested and be subjected to almost unbearable strains, we will
see that they differ but little from man, except in degree.
Perhaps we will then cease to murmur and blame God or
Saturn for our seemingly unjust treatment, for "Blessed is
the man whom thou chastenest, 0 Lord, and teachest him
out of thy law."
When the passing conditions of the world today are over
and the nations, the leaders, the churches, societies, religions,
orders and individuals have passed through the great testings
of Saturn, that which remains will be pure gold, the grains
of Truth gathered for the planting of the New Era. All
that was good and wholesome will have been stored up to
feed the new race, and those trees which have borne good
fruit, no matter if during the testing heat and drouth some
of their leaves have faded, will take their places as food-
producers for the new humanity, just as the famous horti-
culturist, Luther Burbank, has gathered from every country
Faith and Works 323
in the world thousands of wild trees and plants and is culti-
'irating and testing them and endeavoring to bring them to
such perfection that they shall add to the food supply of
future generations. If we have helped and fed the spiritually
hungry and the food has nourished their Souls, then our tree
will stand. If, on the other hand, we have wasted our time
shaldng from other trees their ripening fruit and trampling
it in the mire, and have brought forth little of our own, and
that little is acrid and unnourishing, even tho we conscien-
tiously believed the fruit we destroyed was not as good as
it might have been, we must confront the new day hungry
and lacking.
The fruit that this Order is bearing season after season
has been bitterly attacked on several occasions, yet the tree
still stands and flourishes and brings forth increasing crops
each year. But as Saturn's cycle closes and the gates of
the new day are opening and we have an opportunity to
establish the Order in a permanent way, all the force of op-
position to Light and Freedom is stirred up afresh. There-
fore, let no one be dismayed if he finds it again and again
attacked by those who stand for autocracy in religious
thought and against the spiritual freedom and- liberty of
conscience and the individual guidance from within which
this Order advocates. It will be but another testing of
Saturn. But it need have but little effect if every one who
has eaten and been nourished by its fruits will give of his
love, gratitude and devotion to protect it. We ask all who
wish to help thus to repeat the Protecting Invocation,' morn-
ing, noon and night and put around the Order, its Founders
and its students a rampart of Divine Love, realizing that
since Divine Love is also Divine Fire, no human mind need
decide whether the tree be good or evil, for the Fire will
consume all that is evil, quicken all that is good and cause
it to put forth more abundantly, and also protect it from
the 'vicious insects that would destroy it.
Sce 4lHuJir.
324 The Message of Aquaria
This Divine Fire is the spiritual force which alone can
purify and redeem the world in these troublous times. The
use of the Protecting Invocation is therefore constructive in
the highest sense. We do not have to fight evil or think of
the personalities through whom evil is manifesting, or of
those who are inhannonioas, who persecute us or even of our
so-called enemies, if we have any. All we have to do is to
use this Invocation and see ourselves and the Order sur-
rounded by Living Flame, and rest assured that it will con-
sume all the evil it contacts and at the same time will stimu-
late and bring forth all the germs of good that exist, even in
the hearts of evil doers, also in ourselves. Only when the
days of testing are overSaturn's reign.can there be peace
on Earth, goodwill toward men, under the influence of the
mystical planet, Uranus.
The planetary configuration which some time since alarmed
so many, namely, the position of Uranus on one side of the
Sun and all the other planets on the other side pulling
against it, announced not a physical cataclysm, as some
fearedaltho many minor disasters have resultedbut the
terrific and united opposition of all that pertains to the old
order of things, the old cycle under Saturn, to the manifes-
tation of the deeper occult, spiritual and mystical forces
and teachings of the new day, all of which are ruled by
Uranus and which at this time are already finding themselves
entangled in the last testings of Saturn. In other words,
all teachings, societies, ordersespecially all pertaining to
the occult or spiritualmust stand or fall according to their
fruits, for the mighty whirlwind, of earthly opposition to all
things belonging to the new day is already shaking the
branches of the various trees. And only those whose roots
are sunk deep in the soil of spiritual realities, in faith in the
power of things not seen and anchored round the Rock of
Truth can stand the testing.
CHAPTER XXVII
CROSSING JORDAN
"Now after the death of Moses the servant of the Lord it came to
pass, that the Lord spake unto Joshua the son of Nun, Moses' minis-
ter, saying, Moses my servant is dead; now therefore arise, go over
this Jordan, thou, and all this people, unto the land which I do give
to them, even to the children of Israel . . . within three days ye shall
pass over this Jordan."Josliva, i, 1-2-iL
The crossing of the river Jordan is one of the most
important and final events in the great allegory1 of the
wandering of the children of Israel crc they reached the
Promised Land. And in these days of physical and psychical
unrest it is well to explain more fully than we have already
done elsewhere2 the spiritual meaning of its universal sym-
bology and its application to the personal experiences of
those chosen people who are about to enter the Promised
Land of the higher spiritual consciousness.
The wandering in the wilderness for forty years sym-
bolizes that period in the life of each awakened Soul when
it is being taught by the Great Law to cull the lessons out
of its wanderings in the wilderness of outer conditions by
following the guidance of the pillar of cloud by day and
the pillar of fire by night as it is led to the brink of Jordan
where it must take its next great step.
It will be remembered that Moses, who represents the
Law Giver who led the Children of Israel out of Egypt,
1 "The book of Joshua baa aseribed to one man conquests wkkk are not con.
frmed by kistovy.... From a careful consideration of all the evidence,
both internal and external, biblical ucholars are now almost unanimous that the
more finished picture of the Iaraehtiah invasion and settlement cannot be
accej'ted as Iuutoncal for the agc.'Ewcyciopedia Byitajusaca, vol. xv, Article
on Joshua.
2 See Realms of lbs Living Dead, Curtias. ii.
S See Tb.. Key to Its. Uasv.re, Curtis., 151.
321
326 The Message of Aquaria
was not permitted to cross over Jordan and enter the
Promised Land; for we are told that after having been
shown the fair land of promise from the top of Mt. Pisgah
(meaning prayer and a boundary), his bones were laid
in the wilderness. The symbology of this incident is that
we are led out of the bondage of the land of ignorance and
spiritual darkness (Egypt), where we were slaves to King
Desire, by recognizing and following the word of the Lord
(Law) given us through the Law Giver. In other words,
at that stage of our unfoldment it is necessary for us to
follow the written or spoken word, the letter of the Law
interpreted and laid down for us by someone in authority,
whom we can see, know and follow, who like Moses con-
stantly chides, directs and teaches us; who permits us to
go three days without water, the love-aspect of the Law,
(i. e., expounds the Law intellectually but fails to give the
refreshing water of love and sympathy), but when this is
demanded insistently he strikes the Rock of Truth and the
love gushes forth to refresh us. Such a leader may feed
us with bread from heaven (manna), teach us to conquer
the enemies we meet in our journey, i. e., the temptations we
encounter in life and the evils of our own creation; instill
faith and courage when we murmur from fatigue or lack
of faith; he may even punish us with fire or bring a plague
upon us when we seem ungrateful or careless, yet he leads
us ever on until we reach the Jordan.
But when we have learned the lessons of the wilderness
and no longer rebel or murmur, and through prayer and
aspiration have climbed the height which separates the Law
given from without from the Law intuitively perceived by
us, or the Law graven on tables of stone from the Law
graven in our hearts, we must look to Joshua, the Christ-
man within, as our Law Giver.
Another interpretation is that even tho we go through life
thoughtlessly, we are nevertheless guided broadly or in a
general way by the great Divine Law, a Law of Life leading
Crossing Jordan 327
us step by step in development through our wanderings in
the wilderness, bringing us manna from heaven when we
hunger, and when we thirst striking the rock of bard con-
ditions until the Water of Life (Divine Love) flows forth
to us. It also brings to us all our bitter karmic chidings
when we go astray or murmur, and guides us ultimately
within the borders of the Promised Land.
When we reach the Jordan the former phase of our
unfoldment must be left behind and like Moses must be
buried in the valley of Moab, the resting place given us ere
we cross the Jordan, so that "no man knoweth his sepulchre
unto this thy." This indicates that the burial of Moses was
not a physical fact nor a historical incident; for the Law
Giver must always exist, ready to lead unending companies
of God's chosen ones out of Egypt and through the wilder-
ness. Yet, as we cross Jorthn, we must leave him behind,
recognizing all that he has done for us in the earlier stages
of our great pilgrimage and giving him our loving remem-
bran and gratitude. In occult studies a lack of gratitude
for each help along the Path is one of the greatest hindrances
the student can develop; for the Masters teach that every
help along the journey, every word spoken or law inter-
preted for the advancing Soul, is like a jewel of great price:
hence, to accept it and refuse gratitude and love in return
creates a Karma for the unfolding Soul similar to that cre-
ated by undeveloped persons through robbery.
Moses is buried in the sense that life is so pressing that as
we advance spiritually Earth conditions seem to cover over
and bury out of sight many things which were most helpful
and which in our earlier stages of growth we thought would
be forever essential. Our spiritual life follows the same
law as Nature, and we find the analogy in the burial of the
plants, herbs and flowers, which were so beautiful and
helpful during the summer yet which, when winter comes,
can no longer manifest to us, yet are ready to spring up full
of life and vigor at the next season; ready again to make
328 The Message of Aquaria
the summer months glad and happy for the many other
children who will need just the help they can bring. So
when we have reached the end of our wanderings in certain
fields of consciousness and are ready to follow our Divine
Leader we do not condemn any of the helps we have received
by the way; for heartfelt gratitude must be given the Law
Giver who was so patient with us when we were but children
in spiritual things, and often rebellious and disobedient. Just
as the Lord made the flowers and sends the sunshine and
the rain, so did He send Moses, and so will He send Joshua
in due season.
We are told that "Moses was an hundred and twenty years
old when he died: his eye was not dim, nor his natural force
abated." The figures 120 show plainly that ere we bury
our Law Giver he must have taught us the wisdom of a
completed expression of the Divine Law, as symbolized by
a complete multiple of 12, 10x12= 120. When the followers
of the Law have reached the point in their development
where they can be taught directly through intuition (tuition
from within) and inspiration (inbreathing of the Spirit),
they have reached the symbolic Jordan, but to cross this
mysterious river they must have a new leader. For even
tho Moses was divinely appointed for his work, when that
work was accomplished another divinely appointed one is
ready to take us the next step onward. "When the pupil
is ready the Teacher appears."
The name Joshua comes from the Hebrew Jehoshua, later
Jeshua, from which root the name Jesus is also derived,
Joshua meaning "salvation with us," or "Jehovah saves,"
while Jesus means "God with us." The word Nun means
"a fish" and symbolizes the Mysteries, a "son of Nun" mean-
ing one initiated into the "Mysteries of the Kingdom of
God"; hence "Joshua, the son of Nun."
As we already know, Jesus was the Avatar for the Piscean
or Age of Fishes, and a fish was the symbol used to identify
His followers, hence Ioshua. who leads all God's chosen
Crossing Jordan 329
onesnot merely the Hebrewsand Jesus, who completes
their salvation, esoterically and symbolically considered are
the two fishes of the sign Pisces, the Alpha and the Omega
aspects of the same Christ-power personified. The Lord
sent Joshua to open the way through the waters of Jordan
and lead His chosen ones into the Promised Land where
Jesus could perfect their evolution and complete their cyde
of salvation until, like Him, they could walk on the sea of
life and no longer merely swim in it like fishes.
The river Jordan, while sometimes used to symbolize the
River of Death,4 like all true symbols, has many meanings.
But in connection with the narrative we are considering, it
refers to the beginning of a definite period in the spiritual
life of the Aspirant. When the Soul has awakened and has
earnestly determined to find the way to the Promised Land,
each Soul finds some avenue of Truth which leads it out
of Egypt. This avenue of Truth, if it be a true Law Giver,
is to that Soul its Moses. Yet we find it hard always to
follow and accept the Law as laid down for us by our
chosen leader. We cavil and rebel and lose our way in the
'vast stretches of the intellectual wilderness and have to
retrace many steps. We are sometimes turned aside from
following the one God to worship false gods. We even set
up for ourselves a golden calf, and after giving up our most
precious jewels of thought to be melted and molded into
this false god, we bow down and worship it. For every
false god is made up of man's most precious jewçls and
valuable possessions, i. e., his jewels of thought, aspiration
and desire, which are melted up and used to form a god
which will express that which he conceives to be God. It
has, therefore, been said that the idea of God expressed by
each person can be only as great as the individual's con-
sciousness can grasp and as high as his imagination can
soar. Yet there must be times when we are left to stand
4 See ReaMs of She Livusg Dead. Curtiaa. 27.
330 The Message of Aquaria
alone; when our Law Giver must ascend Mt. Sinai and be
hidden from our sight amidst the lightnings and thick douds
while he receives the Law upon the two tablets of stone5 and
brings them down to us. This is a period of testing as to
whether we will continue to follow the Law or will be led
astray by false gods of our own fashioning.
But there finally comes a time in our spiritual life when
we have learned the lessons out of all our weary wanderings;
when even our Law Giver seems incapable of leading us
further, and we cry out for personal knowledge gained
through personal experience. No longer are we content to
drink of the stream that flows from the rock our leader has
struck. We pray that the stream of Living Waters gush
forth at our own command. We realize that we have
reached the end of the wilderness, yet between us and the
Promised Land there flows a swift, deep, turbulent, muddy
and treacherous river. For just as the River of Death marks
a definite boundary between our mortal life and the life
beyond, so does the mystical River Jordan mark a definite
boundary between the life of a seeker, which we have led
as wanderers in the wildernessto which life we must die
as we cross the Jordanand the new life into which we are
born when we cross the mystical river and begin the life of
a Neophyte.
At this step our astral senses begin to unfold and we are
confronted with strange happenings and experiences which
we do not understand, and which often frighten us. And
because these new faculties are beginning to unfold we are
subjected to the trials and temptations of that world of
insidious desire and delusion. The swift eddies of the
astral forces toss us this way and that, often undermining
our footing and carrying us beyond our depth, just as would
happen were we to attempt to wade the physical river Jordan
at the season of its flood.
As we have said before, one aspect of this mystic river is
ISee 'Two Tabics of Stc,ic' In The Vows of Isis. Curtia.. 331.
Crossing Jordan 331
the great stream of astral force which surrounds mankind
as the amniotic waters surround the unborn fetus, and
through which we must pass ere we can reach our spiritual
birth. There are many psychic practices which enable the
seeker to launch out upon this river, but if we are to cross,
not by battling with its treacherous currents, but "dry shod,"
we require a divinely appointed leader, a Joshua to roll back
its waters and allow us to pass in safety. We have crossed
over this river many times crc this, but never through its
waters; for we cross it during sleep and at the death of
the physical body, but always unconsciously, aitho we may
bring back a confused memory of its swirling and bewilder-
ing forces. Just as the restless and unstable mass of human-
ity is called the sea of humanity, so is this stream of tur-
bulent astral force called a river. But because in its waters
the pure River of Life flowing to humanity from the higher
worlds is mingled with the mud and slime and debris from
all the lower worlds, it is fittingly symbolized by the River
Jordan in Canaan, for its physical features correspond most
marvelously with those of this river of astral force.
The River Jordan is the only river in Palestine, and is
one of the most remarkable in the world. "It has never
been navigable, no important town has ever been built upon
its banks, and it runs into an inland sea, which has no port
and is destitute of aquatic life.... On the whole, it
is an unpleasant, foul stream, running between poisonous
banks, and as such it seems to have been regarded by the
Jews and other Syrians." It rises from two springs in
the valley between Lebanon and Hermon, gushing forth
from a deep hollow. For twelve miles it flows through the
valley and then enters a dark defile for six or seven miles,
after which it spreads out into a marsh ten miles long which
terminates in a lake. From the lake it flows on for another
twelve miles and empties into the Sea of Galilee, where its
muddy course through the dear waters of the sea can be
-.E.cyclohedia RriSrnniic.. xv. 509.
332 The Message of Aquaria
distinctly traced. Issuing from the Sea of Galilee, it flows
on with ever increasing force until it finally falls into the
Dead Sea. Its entire length is but 120 miles in a straight
linethe same figures as are given for the age of Moses-
aitho if all its many twists and turns are followed it measures
240 miles.
The river of astral forces also rises from two springs;
first, from the dear, pure Waters of Life that flow down
from the higher worlds and, second, from the offscourings
and debris of the lower worlds. It gushes forth from that
which is called "the outer darkness," quite comparable to
the "deep hollow" from which the Jordan rises. It flows for
a complete period or Cycle of Manifestation (12) through
a quiet valley between the two worlds. It is in this portion
of its course that we cross it during sleep or on certain
psychic stepping stones, for here it is shallow, quiet and
restful and has many fords. Here many little children from
both sides meet and play together. Children often talk of
and to little playmates unseen by the grown-ups, yet from
the words and actions of such children it is plain that an
actual playmate is present and very real to their senses and
consciousness. When this phase of its course is ended, the
river enters a dark defile between the physical and astral
worlds where it flows through a six-mile period of struggle
in which the Christ-force (6) is striving to express, on to the
seventh or period of rest (7). Here it receives the name of
the River of Death. Here its waters are dark and deep and
mysterious. Those Souls who cross at this point have dosed
their eyes in death and are either ferried over by the symbolic
Charon or are borne on the wings of angels.
The river then has another period of perfecting, (10) in
which it is spread out and almost lost in a vast marsh. It is
in this viscid and polluting quagmire that the astral monsters
have their abode. All who essay to cross at this point get
lost in the treacherous bogs and slimy pools, and are often
Crossing Jordan 333
not only befouled by its impurities, but are engulfed in the
putrid mud which swarms with every evil form of astral
life. It is from this region also that the black magician
draws his powers and the necromancer evokes his shades,
through the horrible practices in which blood is used. But
even here many beautiful yet baleful flowers grow to tempt
the untrained or unwary venturer into the unseen, yet around
each is the serpent of seduction coiled. Hence, he who would
cross at this point must have an enlightened and experienced
guide, and must beware lest he be overcome by its miasmic
emanations or be stupefied by the perfume of its swamp-like
flowers or be seduced by its monsters of lust and evil.
When the marsh has completed its work of disintegration
and transmutation or runs its 10 miles, it terminates in a
beautiful lake of dear, pellucid waters. Upon the banks of
this beautiful lake, in contemplation we often walk in dreams
and hold sweet converse with our friends and our Divine
Helpers from the other shore. It is often this converse
which we remember vaguely as spiritual instruction given
us in dreams, but the substance of which is built into our
consciousness, even tho not remembered dearly on waking,
yet which works out in our lives as intuitional guidance, so
that finally we are ready for our next stop.
Again this stream completes a cycle of 12 crc it empties
into the Sea of Galilee. This is the sea of consciousness
which we touch in deep meditation when we enter a certain
phase of the Silence, corresponding to the limpid, smooth
and bowl-like physical sea surrounded by lofty mountains.
The Sea of Galilee is almost free from storms and buffeting
winds and mirrors the mountains on its calm, silent surface,
while the flow of the river across the center is quite dis-
tinguishable. Upon the shore of the astral Galilee is the
astral counterpart of the Temple of Silence?
Like the physical Jordan, this astral stream ultimately
7 See The Teiis$r of Sileuce. Curuu.
334 The Message of Aquaria
empties into the Dead Sea of humanity, far below sea level
(the Dead Sea is 1300 feet below) where the density of its
salt causes extremely rapid evaporation, thus lifting its
essence up in the form of vapor until it is lost in the higher
realms. This sea is a fitting symbol of the great sea of
humanity which, aitho dead to the consciousness of the
spiritual world, is ever releasing its higher essence to ascend
into the realms of spirit, purified by its salt tears of suffering
and repentance. It must be remembered that the phases
of the river here mentioned are not sharp divisions, but are
used as mystical symbols of states of consciousness.
When we have reached this mysterious river in the course
of our search for the Promised Land, the only way in which
we can cross it "dry shod" and in full consciousness is by
following our Christ-leader, Joshua, yet walking alone and
through our own personal efforts. There is now no Charon
to ferry us and no angel band to waft us across in uncon-
sciousness. We die to the old conditions and have a con-
scious realization of the continuity of life. Here on the
margin of this river we bury our Moses, reverently giving
him the full loving gratitude for the help he has given us-on
our journey.
We remain on the bank of this river for a period of three
days, as did the Children of Israel, a period of preparation,
which may last for a long time, as reckoned by months and
years; a period which corresponds to the three days in the
tomb. We could not recognize a manifestation of the Christ-
man in Moses, the Law Giver, and we must wait until we do
recognize him in Joshua, the servant of Moses, and in whom
Moses may be said to have arisen. We forget that the Christ
has proclaimed that 'Whosoever will be chief among you,
let him be your servant." Joshua was surely the servant of
Moses, working humbly for him, and through him perform-
ing miracles. Yet, like "the servant in the house," we heed
him not, nor are we at once ready to let him take the lead
Crossing Jordan 335
in our lives; not until Moses is dead and buried for some
time.
Joshua was in the camp all the time, living in their very
midst, yet the Children of Israel neither listened to nor took
any special notice of him, aitho he was the only one who
accompanied Moses up Mt. Sinai when the Lord gave him
the two tables of the Law. During their wanderings they
had followed Moses exdusively, just as each of us, while
still wandering in the wilderness, followed the Law as given
to us through our accepted channel. Even tho the Christ
is already in our midst and living in dose daily contact with
and speaking to us daily long crc we reach the banks of
Jordan, we either do not recognize Him or we fear to listen
or depart from the Law of Moses. But when the three days
of preparation are completed, Joshua orders the officers to
go through the camp and proclaim through all our faculties,
like a voice from heaven, which we must obey"When ye
see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God, and the
priests, the Levites bearing it, then ye shall remove from
your place, and go after it." And when we hear the Divine
Voice thus unmistakably summoning us we must obey.
(To be continued.
CHAPTER XXVIII
CROSSING JORDAN
(Conduded.)
"And Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourselves: for tomor-
row the Lord will do wonders among you.... And it came to pass
. . that the waters which came down from above stood and rose up
upon an heap .. . and those that caine down toward the sea of the
plain, even the salt sea, failed, and were cut off: and the people passed
over right against Jericho."Jo.thua. iii, 5-16.
The Law of Creation demands that we either confirm
and perfect or else redeem all our creations. One aspect of
this Law requires us to fulfill and prove our words or retract
them in humiliation. Therefore, the practical mystic will be
careful in the use of words and especially about making
definite promises, agreements and vows, unless he has care-
fully considered them, is ready to be called strictly to account
and is quite sure he is able and ready to fulfill them. It is
far better to say that we will do the best we can concerning
a certain matter than to give a definite promise, for once our
word is given, we must either fulfill it or take the conse-
quences.
In accordance with this Law the course of events was so
arranged that through the fulfilling of his words, Joshua
would give to the Children of Israel a positive proof of his
divine authority. Since this is a spiritual principle, it en-
dures throughout the ages, hence, can be applied today to
the words of leaders and teachers, as well as to our own
words, and its fulfillment will never fail to convince the
thinking mind that a teacher who can thus prove the words
and teachings is indeed a Joshua chosen of the Lord, i.e.,
chosen and confirmed by the Divine Law.
336
Crossing Jordan 337
First of all, the Children of Israel had to be tested as to
their readiness to obey Joshua. This test was a simple one:
they were told to remain in their tents quietly waiting until
they saw the Ark of the Covenant borne by the priests into
the Jordan, then they were to arise and follow after it.
Jesus gave similar directions to His disciples after His
resurrection, telling them that they were to remain quietly
in one place in Jerusalem until He came. While we must
be willing to take our steps alone, we are never left to decide
through our own unaided reasoning where to look for truth.
But we must obey and remain in our tents, i.e., our own in-
tellectual, altho temporary shelter, and follow the directions
of the Leader who appeals to our intiuition, remaining quietly
in one place "until he come" or until we see the Ark of the
Covenant enter Jordan.
As long as we wonder and worry over and fear to trust
our new-found Leader, or seek for some bridge or boat to
carry us over this river which seems to bar our further
progress, or as long as we waste time and effort in vain
prayer and supplication for some miracle to be vouchsafed
to us; that we be given illumination or some great psychic
experience to convince us beyond all doubt that the Living
God is indeed with us, we are still camping on the bank of
the Jordan. We have already buried our Moses in the
wilderness, and we feel very much alone and forsaken. But
as soon as we truly sanctify ourselves we will recognize and
follow those priests who prove they are divinely appointed
by their ability to take the Ark of the Covenant and carry
it into the midst of the swirling muddy waters and cause
them to divide, even tho the river has overflowed its banks,
as we are told the Jordan does at every harvest-time.
This period in our unfoldment is truly a harvest-time of
the Soul. The waters which come down from above, i.e.,
the spiritual outpouring of love and understanding from
withinwill rise up in a mighty wall upon our right hand, a
wall which will shut us safely in the fold with a realization
338 The Message of Aquaria
that we have found our spiritual home, while "those that
came down toward the sea of the plain, even the salt sea,
failed, and are cut off," and we are commanded to pass over
against Jericho.
The Ark of the Covenant represents the Presence of the
Lord God; the holy mysteries of our faith; that which em-
bodies to us the purest and highest interpretation of God's
truth; that which brings to us the most comfort and help
and the greatest realization and assurance of God's presence
with us. When we reach this point in our unfoldment, the
point where the letter of the written word can no longer lead
us, because we are standing on the brink of Jordan and the
experiences symbolized by its mixed waters (astral and
spiritual forces) are laying our feet (understanding), we
are to wait patiently in our tents until we see that the priests
who represent our faith have actually been able to carry the
sacred Ark into the midst of the stream and set it down on
solid ground, thus proving their ability to divide the waters.
At this point in our unfoldment we may have been told that
we must prove our faith in the leaders of our chosen repre-
sentation of truth by stepping alone into the swirling waters
of Jordan, i.e., by letting the astral experiences that are
pressing upon us at this step mingle with the spiritual teach-
ings we have learned to love and trust and with the spiritual
experiences that we are having. This, indeed, at first sight,
might seem to be the supreme test of our faith. But this
we are not asked to do. The crossing must be prepared for
us by the priests. The great Divine Love never asks us to
do anything that is so unreasonable, for to go on into the
astral world (truly symbolized by a swift, turbulent and
muddy river), unprepared or without a competent guide,
is quite as dangerous as it would be to start to wade
across the Jordan at full flood. When the mixed sensations
from the astral realms begin to mingle in our consciousness
and impinge upon our minds they are just as difficult to un-
Crossing Jordan 339
derstand and as appalling as would be the problem of cross-
ing the turbulent Jordan dry shod.
Since we are not asked to enter the water alone, to cross
Jordan dry shod means that we must face these new experi..
ences and problems and in a measure meet them, relying en-
tirely upon the Christ-man within, and learn to understand
and cull from each its lessons without allowing our under-
standing (feet) to become saturated with the astral waters.
And if we obey the command and rest quietly in our tents,
one will come to prepare the way who will prove his leader-
ship by his ability to explain to us all our odd and mixed ex-
periences and point out their significance. He will not tell us,
as so many ministers do, that our experiences are of the devil
or are neurasthenic vagaries, wandering imagination, subcon-
scious suggestion or else are among the mysteries of God
which are not to be inquired into. He will prove by his
ability to carry the Ark of the Covenant into the midst of
the waters that he is a safe and reliable guide.
Here we must learn to discriminate for ourselves and not
continually run to some Moses for explanation, for he, being
but the Law Giver, can expound only the written law, and
necessarily, it being impersonal and all-inclusive, the written
law may not satisfy and comfort us in our new and per-
sonal experiences, hence, Moses may not be able to satisfy
us. At his command the Red Seasymbol of the sea of
humanity, red with passion, anger and warcan be divided
and a path made for us through its waters; but even here
Pharaoh and his hosts follow after, altho the Divine Law
causes the waters to engulf and drown them. But Jordan
is not the great sea of humanity: it is something much more
personal, as described in the previous chapter. Therefore,
we need a more intimate aiid personal guide for its crossing,
one whose namemystically, a name always signifies that
which a thing really issprings from the same root as
Jesus, the Savior and Redeemer. But we must remain
340 The Message of Aquaria
quietly in our tents until this Leader justifies his credentials
and proves his power and authority.
During this period Joshua, or the Christ in us which we
are now learning to trust and obey, sends out two spies to
view the land over across Jordan, for we must be cautious
and use common sense or "Prove all things; hold fast that
which is good." These two spies are our aspiration, which
we send out to pierce the mists which hide from us the dis-
tant land of our inheritance, and our reason, which we com-
mand to bring to us some reasonable evidence that that
which we are seeking is the truth. These two always return
laden with the fruits of the new land, even if perchance they
may have had to escape at night from the many misleading
and terrifying illusions with which the inhabitants of the
land have assailed them. These inhabitants, however, we are
destined to drive out crc we possess the land. Therefore,
we must not allow any unfavorable features of the spies'
report to discourage us; for when we enter the land we will
be given the necessaly courage and strength with which to
face and conquer the inhabitants. We are never given the
strength with which to face a danger before it comes, hence
the fear with which we often anticipate that which is com-
ing, but we are given strength and courage to wait quietly
in our tents until the word comes to move forward, hence,
the occult truth hack of the old adage, "Never cross a stream
before you reach it."
Altho our path may seem to lie straight ahead, yet this
river Jordan bars our ongoing, and we have had so many
warnings as to the dangers of its snags and whirlpools that
we dare not venture in. At this point in our unfoldment we
are not to run wildly from teacher to teacher, or to various
medimns, asking for messages, guidance, etc., growing more
and more confused at the seeming contradiction of the
teachings; nor should we become discouraged as one after
the other fails us and proves to be but a priest of BaaI, re-
paying our blind faith and devotion with selfishness, deceit
Crossing Jordan 341
and impure or false living. We are to do just what Joshua
required of the Children of Israel, namely, remain quietly
in our tents until we see the Ark of the Covenant carried
into the midst of the turbulent waters. Then, and then only,
are we to follow after it.
When we see the priests lift up the Ark and see the waters
divide before it so that the pure Waters of Ufethe in-
spiration, teaching and guidance given us by our divine
Higher Selfmake a wall upon our right hand and the mud-
laden waters of misleading experiences, flatteries and temp-
tations from the lower astral, together with those that come
down toward the seaeven the salt sea of the bitter tears
shed over sorrows, hurts and disillusions, the sea into which
all deceiving astral waters emptyflow away on our left
hand, then we must rise up and follow the Ark. For the
priests have proved their obedience to the guidance of Joshua
and also their ability to accomplish, hence have proved that
they can be trusted.
Then will the Christ in our hearts speak as did Joshua,
saying: "Sanctify yoursdves: for tomorrow the Lord will
do wonders among you." How many of us have heard this
command, yet have grown tired of waiting for the morrow,
which seems never to come because we have neglected to
sanctify ourselves. The meaning of sanctify is "to make
sacred," hence no mere outward ceremony or profession can
sanctify us. Only after a night of vigil, which must be spent
alone in the Holy of Holies of our own hearts, can this take
place. And to accomplish this we must cast out of our tent
(mind) all that is unholy, meeting our Christ in purity of
heart and mind and receiving from Him the sanctifying grace
or Oil of Consecration. It is only when we have thus purl.
lied our minds and consecrated our lives to the Christ that
we can enter the treacherous waters of the astral world with
any hope of crossing over dry shod.
As true today as from the beginning is the assurance of
Joshua. "Hereby shall ye know that the Living God is
342 The Message of Aquaria
among you, and that he will without fail drive out from be-
f ore you the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Hivites,
and the Perizzites, and the Girgashites, and the Amorites,
and the Jebusites. Behold, the Ark of the Covenant of the
Lord of all the earth passeth over before you into Jordan."
The mention of all these seven heathen nations which
are to be driven out of our Promised Land, refers not to the
historical peoples whose homes and lands were apparently to
be taken from them and confiscated without compensation
a most unjust, cruel and bloodthirsty proceeding, if taken
literallybut to the heathen usurpers of our own lives;
those things which are possessing our Land of Promise and
which must either be driven out or made our servants that
we may retain for our further growth all that is good in
them, but make them subservient to the rule of our Joshua.
Twelve men were selected by Joshua, one from each
tribe, each to take a stone out of the bed of Jordan with
which to erect a memorial. This refers to the complete
consecration of all our faculties (tribes) with which we
must find and take out of the bed of Jordanout of the very
spot where the Ark restedthe twelve stones for our memo-
riaL This means that every Soul who has passed through
the experiences symbolized by following the Ark into Jordan
must gather out of those experiences a strength of character
which can be built into the foundation of his spiritual life
as stones. For only as each of our faculties and powersa
man symbolizing a positive aspect and a tribe a faculty
takes up a stone from the midst of this divided river and all
are built into character as a firm memorial which nothing
can shake, can we bear evidence to those who come after that
we have really passed over Jordan dry shod and have not
been carried away or overwhelmed in its floods.
Every true psychic or spiritual experience which we have
understood and been able to retain quickens all our facul-
ties, builds character and helps us lay the foundations for
our New Jerusalem. The New Jerusalem must have its
Crossing Jordan 343
counterpart on Earth in the life of each perfected individual,
built on its twelve foundation stones, crc it can come down
from God out of heaven for all humanity.
The gathering of these twelve stones while consisting of
spiritual experiences will, nevertheless, make its mark in the
foundation of our character. They will not consist of great
physical or psychic events, which all our friends and neigh-
bors can see and appreciate, for we pass over Jordan in
spiritual consciousness. Hence, it is useless to try to tell
anyone of it who has not had a similar experience, and much
talking of it wastes its force. The only way we can truly
testify to having passed over is by the presence of the Stones
of Truth we have brought with us from the midst of the
river and used to build a cairn or a sacred testimonial in our
character, which shall be so solid and firm and fundamental,
that it is like the everlasting rocks on which the Earth's crust
is laid.
For no matter how much philosophy we have grasped; no
matter if we have sat at the feet of a Master and been taught
from his lips; no matter if our psychic faculties are devel-
oped and we can speak with the tongues of men and angels,
unless our lives show evidence of a greater poise, common-
sense, patience and consideration for others, and unless we
have that "charity," or that love which is more than love, as
it is generally understood, we have not gathered our twelve
stones from Jordan and built our memoriaL For charity is
that unselfish and clear-seeing love which discerns dearly the
shortcomings and weaknesses of others, yet makes allowance
for them, because it is so dear-seeing that a knowledge of
the ultimate overcoming of all evil is the guerdon which this
love brings to all who manifest it.
It is in the little everyday affairs of life that we must
prove that our house is built upon the rock. Long before
the winds blow and the rains descend and the floods beat
upon our house we will know, and most of our acquaintances
will know. if we have not built uoon our twelve stones.
344 The Message of Aquaria
For, if we have not, at every little disturbance we go to
pieces or grow discouraged; cannot bear disapproval; must
be flattered and admired; in short, demand and suffer
acutely if we do not receive great consideration from others.
But having gathered our twelve stones and built our memo-
rial upon them, we are ready to give all the glory of the
achievement to the Lord, whose power enabled us to cross
over dry shod. Then, when our children or our friends ask,
What mean these stones? we can answer that they are a tes-
timonial that we have passed over Jordan dry shod, for the
Lord dried up the waters from before us "That all the people
of the earth may know that the hand of the Lord is mighty."
Another important point is that "The priests that bare the
ark of the covenant of the Lord stood firm on dry ground,
in the midst of Jordan, and all the Israelites passed over on
dry ground, until all the people were passed clean over Jor-
dan." This does not mean that those who have been chosen
as priests to carry the Ark, i.e., those who preserve for us
and reveal the sacred mysteries, will, therefore, be miracu-
lously shielded from all harm and find their lives free from
excitement and filled with nothing but quiet experiences,
peace, harmony and joy. Not so. They must bear the Ark
boldly into the very midst of jordan, thus proving their
courage, faith and ability. And there they must stand, not
only until all their own immediate following (tribe) have
crossed over, but until "all the people have passed clean over
Jordan." This means that all chosen leaders of men who
have sincerely taken up the Ark of the Covenant must stand
firm in the midst of Jordan as a help, comfort and example
to all the people who, seeing their stand, will follow them, no
matter how they may be compassed about by the restless
waters seeking to resume their old channel, no matter how
they may be taunted, even by some of their own followers,
who may say: "We have passed over, yet you who presume
to be our leaders, still remain in the midst of the water."
The three-days' waiting on the banks of Jordan agree
Crossing Jordan 345
in their symbology with the three days spent by Jonah in
the belly of the great fish and with the three days spent by
Jesus in the tomb. These refer to three periods, during
which certain changes must be accomplished within our-
selves. During these three days Joshua had commanded the
Children of Israel to prepare victuals for the journey. If
taken literally, this command was absurd, for if God could
feed them with manna daily during their forty years of wan-
dering in the wilderness and was about to show them a most
remarkable proof of His power, surely He could sustain
them during the few moments required to cross the divided
Jordan! For this stream averages not more than a quarter
of a mile in width, two miles being its greatest width for a
short distance, and has more than fifty fords between the
Sea of Gallilee and the Dead Sea, all of which can be crossed
by caravans today in less than an hour, in spite of the fact
that they must battle with its swift current. Therefore, we
must condude that the three days given in which to prepare
victuals for the journey were three periods or phases of un-
foldment, in each of which certain spiritual food was to be
prepared.
In other words, while we wait beside Jordan for the Ark
to enter, we must prepare our spiritual sustenance. Firstly,
the Bread of Obedience. For, not until we have gathered
the Grain of Trust and Confidence and it has been ground
to flour in the mills of testing experiences and we have
kneaded it assiduously with the Water of Patience and the
Leaven of Love, can we prepare that Bread to eat which the
world knows not of. Secondly, we must produce the Wine
of Joy, which can only be prepared when the Soul has gath-
ered the ripened grapes which grow on that Vine to which
Jesus alluded when he said: "I am the vine and ye are the
branches." Hence, the grapes are brought forth on the
branches by the same divine Christ-sap that feeds the vine.
These grapes must be gathered and pressed out in the wine-
press of the bitter experiences of life. "I have trodden the
346 The Message of Aquaria
winepress alone; and of the people there was none with me."
Thus cries out each Soul in bitterness during that period,
yet the Wine of Joy and Life must be pressed out in just
such a winepress. Thirdly, we must prepare the oil. Oil
(or fat) is not only a necessary constituent of our dietary,
without which the bread and wine will not completely flour-
ish, but it is also that which is used in the consecration of a
priest. Hence, at this step we must prepare within our-
selves that rich sustaining realization and intimate knowing
of the Christ which will enable us to assimilate, ie., incorpo-
rate into our spiritual life, all that is meant by the Bread and
the Wine, together with that Joy of Life which will give the
sustaining quality to our spiritual food, so that even in the
midst of the swirling waters of Jordan we can "feed on him
in our hearts with praise and thanksgiving."
We must also let this Oil of Consecration be poured out
upon our heads until it runs down and anoints our feet (un-
derstanding) that we may be wholly consecrated. In short,
at this step we must permit the Godhead, the Three-in-one,
to take possession of us, firstly, as a realization of what the
triune God really means, and secondly, why God must al-
ways manifest as a in all His works, and thirdly, as
a growth manifesting in our lives.
For manifestation must follow realization. Only that
which we can impress upon the personality and make it
manifest, is of vital importance to us now.
This Trinity, variously expressed as Father, Son and Holy
Ghost; Father, Mother, Son, and in other religions in vari-
ous terms, always means the same thing and should convey
the idea of the actuality and the completeness of the God-
head. There must be the power of the Progenitor; that
which plants the seed containing the germ of that which is
to be. There must be the Mother-force; that power of the
Holy Ghost which broods over, nourishes and in the fullness
of time brings forth and cherishes the offspring. Then there
1 See Ths Xe S. Ms Ui,ivevss. Curti.,. 102.
Crossing Jordan 347
must be the power of the Christ-force; that vivifying power
back of all life; that growing, pushing, evolving and per-
fecting force; that which is called the Divine Urge, and
which we call the Christ-force, because it is ever with us,
even unto the end, unfolding, expanding and perfecting us;
that force which draws all things back into the bosom of
the Father through unfolding, perfecting and completing
their cycle of life expression. God must manifest in all
these aspects, else it would not be God. Therefore, we must
prepare the three kinds of food for the nourishment of our
spiritual body ere we can cross Jordan: the \Vine which
circulates within us as the sap of the One Life and inspires
us; the Bread which feeds and sustains and the Oil which
consecrates and blends all and produces the spiritual develop-
ment needed ere we can cross Jordan dry shod and enter the
Promised Land.
All this cannot be accomplished at once, but requires three
periods. Yet it must at least have been begun crc we can
enter Jordan and expect to take up the twelve stones from
the snot on which the Ark rested and build our memorial.
CHAPTER XXIX
TAKING JERICHO
1And ye shall compass the city, all ye men of war, and go round
about the city once. Thus shalt thou do six days. And seven priests
shall bear before the ark seven trumpets of rams' horns: and the sev-
enth day ye shall compass the city seven times, and the priests shall
blow with the trumpets.... And Joshua saved Rahab the harlot
alive, and her father's household, and all that she had; and she dwell-
eth us Israel even unto this day."Joshiw, vi, 3-25.
Jericho is a historical city, situated five miles north of
the Dead Sea. At one time it was quite extensive and was
considered the most fruitful spot on Earth, being described
by historians as "a tropical oasis, set down in a temperate
zone." It has been partially devastated a number of times,
but never entirely destroyed, nor is there any historical evi-
dence to corroborate the extraordinary and spectacular siege
described in the biblical narrative. The story of its capture
by Joshua we must, therefore, take as purely symbolical.
Today Jericho consists of but a small hamlet in the midst of
an important fruit-growing center. This is further evidence
that it was never "utterly destroyed and its place left deso-
late." The biblical story of that enterprise is so full of
unnecessary and wanton cruelty and also so full of mystical
metaphor and marvelous spiritual truths that its symbolical
and mystical intent is beyond question; for only divine in-
spiration could tell so bloody a tale in so simple a way that
every incident, almost every word, held a wealth of spiritual
teaching.
We may well ask why, in the symbology of spiritual
ideals, bloodshed and cruelty should be used? The answer
is that the spiritual ideals to be expressed were given to the
141
Taking Jericho 349
Prophet, but were expressed, as such ideals always are, in
the metaphor of the race thought, and as at that time the
Hebrew civilization was crude and crud, the only way to ex-
press the overcoming and conquering was through fighting
and killing. Similar metaphor would be necessary even
today to express similar ideas, altho perhaps not so crudely
expressed and using modern terms and illustrations.
It must be remembered that all true inspiration is not
given in words. The overshadowing consciousness illumines
(inspires) the mind of the Seer so that a realization of
Divine Truth or the ideal is grasped. This realization must
then be given out or uttered by the inspired one in the best
language he can command to express or at least symbolize
the essence of the realization attained. This explains the
difference between inspiration and astral dictation, even from
advanced teachers in the invisible realms. Inspiration is by
no means a word for word recording of information given
by some Divine Being or by some spiritual Teacher or
Master; for were it so, instead of being inspired we would
become mere puppets, automata or automatic writers, with
no need to think for ourselves and without responsibilty for
what we wrote.
In the Divine Mind there is stored up the ideals of all that
is to be manifested, as well as all the truth that has been
grasped and expressed by man since the beginning. To the
degree that he can raise his consciousness to correlate with
the Divine Mind or Reservoir of Wisdom, the Seer can draw
upon it and grasp those phases of truth which the great
Custodians of Truth deem it wise to have revealed by him
at that time; for an impenetrable veil is drawn over all else.
Therefore, it depends upon the intellectual and philosophic,
as well as the spiritual and psychic, training of the Seer how
those truths are expressed, even after further explanation
by his Spiritual Teacher. This accounts for the differences
in the way various trained Seers express truths in regard to
the same subject.
350 The Message of Aquaria
This is the method, together with theopneusty and the-
ophany, by which the books of the Bible, and all other great
Scriptures, were revealed and later compiled. These are
also the methods by which the Teachings of The Order of
Christian Mystics are received. They are then expressed in
the best terms the Agents can use, interpreted, explained and
corroborated by examples from science and Nature. The
interpretations are further corroborated by quotations from
various Scriptures and other recognized and authoritative
sources or expressions of the same truths.
This explains, as nothing else can, much of the blood
curdling metaphor of the Old Testament, as well as many
symbolic teachings of the New Testament, couched in what
seems today to be gross and repellent language.
Jericho was chosen to symbolize that city which each and
every Soul must conquer when he has built into his life
the strength of the twelve stones taken from the Jordan and
has stood in their midst; that sacred spot concerning which
the Captain of the Lord's hosts said to Joshua: "Put off
thy shoes from off thy feet; for the place whereon thou
standest is holy ground." Only as we take from off our
understanding (feet) all hampering coverings (shoes) can
we see the vision of this mighty Angel, our Higher Self,
standing in the center of our circle of life.
The meaning of the name Gilgal is "a circle," hence the
twelve stones which Joshua had taken from Jordan and
pitched in Gilgal were arranged in a circle, as the Druid
stones were later arranged, i.e., the circle of the zodiac. At
once we see that the mystical meaning of these stones, which
must be gathered one by one from the midst of Jordan, and
whose forces must be built into the character of each Soul
who passes over that river dry shod, is the balancing and
conquering of the forces which come from the twelve signs
of the zodiac. Symbolically, each perfected Soul is repre-
sented as a Sun Initiate, standing in the midst of a circle
where all the forces are focused, not being ruled by, but nil-
Taking Jericho 351
ing his stars. We read that "when Joshua was by Jericho,"
or when he had taken his place as a Sun Initiate, "he lifted
up his eyes and looked, and, behold, there stood a man. -.
with his sword drawn in his hand," the sword of the Spirit
of Truth. When challenged by Joshua, he answered: "As
captain of the host of the Lord am I now come." In other
words, when he had attained this step, Joshua both recog-
nized and gave obedience to his Higher or Divine Self, who
henceforth dwelt within the personality, and he became one
with his Father-in-heaven.
The Captain of the Host, or the Higher or Divine Self,
merely overshadows and strives to inspire and guide the per-
sonality of human self until, through the initiation and real-
ization of the personal self, the Divine Self is invited to
enter into His earthly templethe bodywhen it has been
properly purified and prepared, and dwell therein. Then
will He come, as He did to Joshua, with His sword drawn
the sword of Truth, whose two edges cut both waysto
drive out the polluting forces which have been dwelling in
the personalityselfish or impure thoughts and desires, per-
versity, inharmony and sicknessand also to cut clean and
true the line between good and evil, that there may no longer
be excuse for ignorance. When this attaimnent is reached,
Joshua can then proceed to take Jericho, not merely in
his strength as a man, but as a mystical Son of God, a
Sun Initiate. Even tho he had already led the Children of
Israelall his faculties and creationsdry-shod over
Jordan, and bad gathered the forces from all the zodiacal
signs, yet only when he stood in the center and had been
baptized by the Holy Ghost and become a Sun Initiate could
he complete the task of taking Jericho.
One meaning of Jericho is "a fruitful place." By some it
is called "the Moon God City" and the "City of Palm
Trees." Most varieties of palm trees, while beautiful and
stately, bear no edible fruit and give but little shade, hence
they symbolize pride, well-being and contentment with physi-
352 The Message of Aquaria
cal conditions and with little spiritual food. But the funda-
mental meaning of Jericho is the City of Desire, a place of
pleasure and the fruitfulness of our thoughts, acts and de-
sires for physical well-being, in which we dwell contentedly
until our Joshua demolishes the wall which shuts us away
from the larger life.
Jericho is also the home of the Moon, the symbol of in-
tuition. The Moon goddess represents that aspect of the
Divine Knower corresponding to one aspect of the Great
Mother, the fruitful Bringerforth of all things, both good
and evil. For as the Moon shines only by the light it re-
ceives from the Sun, so the Great Mother brings forth only
that which is implanted by the Father or, as Karma, that
which is implanted by man. Therefore, in man as in
Nature, Jericho would symbolize the manifestation of that
stream of creative force which brings forth, through thought
and act as well as sex, that which man either ignorantly or
foolishly has sown.
It is because man has the power both to modify his crea-
tions through thought and literally to create thought-forms
that he is a creator rather than merely a procreator, like the
animals, which can bring forth only after their ldnd or the
pattern set for them. Hence, to take Jericho is to master
this force, purify it with Divine Fire and make it subservi-
ent to the will of the Higher Self, destroying all but "the
silver and the gold, and the vessels of brass and of iron," i.e.,
all those phases of desire and pleasure save those that are
true and pure, and those which, altho as common as iron and
brass, are needful as vessels of service, all of which we must
consecrate and place "in the treasury of the house of the
Lord."
The esoteric teachings tell us that the Moon is the mother
of the Earth and not a satellite cast off from the Earth, and
that it was while man was evolving on the Moon-chain of
globes' that he set up the Kanna which necessitated many
iSee The Vow. .1 Iii,. Curtlu. 204.
Taking Jericho 353
of the experiences of the separated sexes, aitho the separa-
tion of the sexes was a necessary experience destined in the
course of man's manifestation on Earth. The seeds of that
Karma were planted in the then embryonic planet which was
destined to become the Earth. It was because of these kar-
mic seeds that a planet, producing man in separated sexes,
was evolved, that upon it this problem could be given ex-
pression and be worked out and the wisdom of the experi-
ance gained. Hence, this Earth is the only planet where the
problem of separated sexes exists, yet which, by the solution
and victory of all that is implied in that problem, will be-
come the Sun of a new system. For through the proper
solution of this great problem we will change the condition,
first of ourselves, then of all humanity and finally of the
planet itself. Through the many experiences this question
has brought us and the suffering it has entailed, when we
learn all its lessons we will have become as gods, knowing
the good as well as the evil. The deeply mystical teaching,
symbolized in the story of Jericho, would, of itself, stamp
the Bible as a most marvelous book of occult wisdom, one
in which so few words and symbols indicate and indude so
much.
Only when, like Joshua, we have taken off our shoes or
bared our understanding and have recognized the Captain of
the Hosts of the Lord and have bowed before Him, become
one with Him and have been endowed with His power, as
Jesus was endowed with power at His baptism, willing to
follow whithersoever He leadeth, are we ready to take Jeri-
cho. Only as we recognize our Divine Leader standing in
the midst of our zodiac and have become one with Him, real-
izing that He has brought us out of the wilderness and
across Jordan dry shod, and we have proved our willingness
to follow His commands, can we really capture Jericho and
ultimately possess the Promised Land. But once we have
had this experience we can depend upon our Leader to show
us how to take the city.
354 The Message of Aquaria
Since the great lesson of this planet is that of the inas-
tery of sex, the control of the sex force and magnetism and
the use rather than abuse of all the forces of this wonder-
fully fruitful city in the valley of the Jordan is the great
task before us. For all its fertility must be utilized and its
fruits consecrated to the feeding of the Children of Israel;
all its poisonous waters made sweet; its streets cleansed
from impurity and depravity, so that sickness and disease
and death may no longer result from the miasma that arises
from the decaying fruit thrown out and let to rot upon the
ground. The Neophyte must begin then with this first city
in the Promised Land. But his task will be fully completed
only when he reaches the New Jerusalem, where the Tree
of Life brings forth its twelve manner of fruits for the
healing of the nations, also for the healing of all the sorrows
and the wounds we have received in the many battles fought
while gaining the victory over Jericho and conquering the
Promised Land.
Therefore, let it be plainly understood that the taldng of
Jericho means conquering, subjugating and puuing to proper
use all the creative forces and functions of the body and
mind, whether they manifest through sex, thought, word or
deed.
We must indeed capture this City of Desire and rule it.
But because in the course of our evolution we have sown
seeds of bitter weeds in this fruitful city, as we come into
our spiritual majority and begin our Soul's work in earnest
we must recognize our weeds, pull them up and begin to
make the Earth a better place to live in; an advanced theater
of action; a stepping-stone to ever higher fields of evolution.
And one of the first steps is capturing from the King of this
World. King Desire, the city which we have only too long
permitted him to surround with a wall, that the debauchery
he calls pleasure may be hidden from the world's gaze.
Let us consider how the Christ-man captures the City of
Desire. There are many misguided teachings on this sub-
Taking Jericho 355
ject, and students confronting this important task are often
told that once they have stepped into the stream (Jordan)
and taken the vows or adopted the resolutions necessary to
lead the truly mystic life of a Neophyte, they must avoid
Jericho altogether, must even deny its existence; must not
at all interfere with the rule of its king, even tho he bids
fair to subjugate the entire world; must utterly ignore all
its fruits and pleasures, calling them only temptations and
seductions. But Joshua, even while still in the wilderness,
sends out two men, as scouts, to investigate Jericho. These
two we have said symbolize two of our positive faculties,
which we will call aspiration and reason, or intuition and
judgment. While he is passing through that which is sym-
bolized by the Jordan, the Neophyte must send forth his
newly unfolding intuition and judgment into the City of De-
sire that he may understand it. In other words, he must face
himself and take cognizance of all the forces he finds within,
find out how to conquer them and see if much of the wonder-
ful fruitfulness of the city cannot serve in the house of the
Lord as vessels of gold and silver and of brass and iron.
This, however, does not mean that we should indulge in
the debaucheries of Jericho; for while some maintain that we
can never know and understand the temptations of the flesh
until we have experienced them, until we have eaten of
their fruits and have proven that they bring only suffer-
ing and death, such teaching is but sophistry. For we sow
the seed of suffering and death and fulfill the prophecy:
"In the day ye cat thereof ye shall surely die," just as in-
evitably if we cat merely for experience as if we eat to
gratify the flesh. Hence, by such an act we are kept out of
Eden, lest we eat of the Tree of Life and live forever in our
unregenerate state.
When the scouts caine to the city they found its inhabi-
tants very antagonistic to the approaching hosts of Israel.
And just so do intuition and judgment find little to encour-
3Scc Page 340.
356 The Message of Aquaria
age them when they begin to explore the City of Desire, for
the desires of the flesh ever seek to capture and kill the mes-
sengers of the Spirit. But the scouts at last find a dwelling-
place upon the wall and are given lodging by Rahab, a
woman who was a harlot. Surely a most astonishing place
for the messengers of the Lord to dwell! Yet she took them
into her home and hid them and thus saved their lives. Who
can this harlot be? She is Love dressed in the habiliments
of King Desire.
When the City of fruitfulness, provided for her children
by the Divine Mother, becomes the vassal of King Desire,
Love establishes her dwelling upon the wall; for altho she
has fallen from her high estate and has forgotten that she is
the destined Bride of the Christ, she still waits and watches
upon the wall, ready to help and cheer all who come to
her sick of living on the husks or needing her touch to start
them on their long journey back to their Father's home.
Even tho she has played the harlot with many lovers; yet
she will ultimately return unto the Lord.8 And even tho
"Their mother bath played the harlot: she that conceived
them bath done shamefully,"4 yet since their mother is
Love, when we take the city she must be saved. And even
tho when clothed in mere animal desire, she seduces all who
come seeking only pleasure and animal gratification, yet in
reality she is divine, for God is her Father and her Mother
is the great Bringerforth of all Good.
All whose intuition and judgment can penetrate her dis-
guise in their search for truth and who are willing to accept
it and do not seek to contaminate it with preconceived opin-
ions, find her an immortal goddess, often turning the seem-
ing pleasures of lust into gall and wormwood and bringing
forth from such illicit union only the cankering worm that
dieth not. Let all who send out their scouts guard well
against her wiles lest, in the livery of desire, she lull them
3Jey,,,,jj7. iii. 1.
4Ho:ea. ii. 5.
Taking Jericho 357
to sleep with her seductiveness and ensnare both intuition
and reason in the nets of mere animal indulgence.
She is represented as having her house upon the wall,
firstly, because her real dwelling-place is above the mere
animal pleasures of the City, even tho she descends to them
from time to time at the command of King Desire; and sec-
ondly, because those who are bringing forth merely through
the pleasures of the senses, when they find true Love, even
tho it be not yet purified and ideal, have scaled the wall of
the City of Desire or have risen above the limits of sensual
pleasures an have reached a point where they can at least
glimpse the Promised Land that lies beyond. Yet, because
her real name is Love and Love is immortal, if the scouts are
wise, fearless and strong of will and do not yield to flattery
and seduction, she will hide them from the enemies who
would take their lives. Even today we find a remnant of
this Divine immortal Love in the heart of many a harlot who
wears the livery of King Desire and is forced to do his
bidding.
It is a fact well known in esoteric teachings that as long
as a true love for anything outside of self is in the heart of
the personality the Higher Self will not be fully separated
from the personality, even if that love be but a vibration of
affection for an animal or a flower. For love is a cord, no
matter how fragile, by which communion with the Divine
can be set up and over which the Higher Self can pour its
force into the personality to redeem it.
We are told that Rahab let the scouts down from the wall
at night by a cord, and that she made a covenant with them
that as a reward she and her mother and father and all her
household should be saved when the Israelites took the city.
Thus are intuition and reason often saved by Love and,
in return, Love and her household are recognized and saved
by the scarlet thread. Many there be who play the harlot,
but those who are truly of the household of Love wear the
scarlet thread made up of many twisted strands of loving
358 The Message of Aquaria
thoughts and kind deeds, dyed scarlet with the force of un-
selfishness and self-sacrifice. That which is generally called
scarlet in the Bible is today called royal purple, the color
supposed to be worn only by kings and queens. Hence, the
scarlet thread symbolizes the livery of the King of Kings,
the royal garment of sincerity and truth.
Rahab may not have the entire robe of the Divine King,
only a scarlet thread or cord, but enough of an insignia to
proclaim that true love is of the King's household. We are
told Rahab "Dwelleth in Israel even unto this day." Hence,
wherever we find the scarlet thread we must recognize and
save Rabab and all her household, for her scarlet thread
proclaims that her true household is the household of the
King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and that her father is the
Father-in-heaven, and her mother is Divine Love. But to
thus save her we must take her out of the City of Desire
and see that she dwells thereafter in Israel.
How plainly is indicated the way we are to capture the
City of Desire! For six days, the six periods or cycles
of the creative week, must we quietly and yet steadfastly
follow the priests who carry the Ark of the Covenant
around the city, making one complete, round each day. All
this time we must follow silently; for "Joshua had corn.
manded the people, saying, Ye shall not shout, nor make any
noise with your voice, neither shall any word proceed out of
your mouth, until the day I bid you shout; then shall ye
shout."5 This applies as truly to the followers of the Christ
in these days. How often do we hear some, when they have
scarcely compassed the city for the first cyclein which they
recognize the tawdriness of the pleasures of the world and
feel quite superior because they fancy they have grown
away from such things--shout loudly of the foolishness and
wickedness of it all, making such noise with their voices in
what they think is an effort to bring the inhabitants of the
city to a realization that all they hold most dear and can see
S .Tiuhiia. vi. 10.
Taking Jericho 359
no harm in it is utterly wrong, and madly calling to them to
leave their pursuits, even their duties, to break away from
their families and all they love and join the procession out-
side the City.
Again, in the second day or cycle, many do much shouting
and proclaiming to the citizens of the City concerning their
own superiority and godliness and boasting of the greater
city that Joshua shall build upon the ruins of the one they
are about to destroy. On later days, when they see that
their individual shoutings do not cause the walls to fall,
many loudly criticize the priests who bear the Ark as to
how they bear it, how they walk, how they blow the trumpets
and so forth, quite sure that had they themselves been chosen
to bear the Ark they could have made a much more im-
pressive appearance.
Also often the notes of the ram's horns displease many
who are nevertheless determinedly following Joshua around
the Qty A ram's horn symbolizes both power and intel-
lectual leadership, hence the seven priests who bear seven
trumpets of rains' horns correspond to "the seven churches
which were in Asia," spoken of in Revelation, namely, seven,
or more correctly speaking, a perfect number of spiritual
leaders, each marching before the Ark of the Covenant,
each blowing continually on his own horn, or giving out the
message of the Mysteries of the Kingdom of Godsymbol-
ized by the Arkeach in his own way and to the best of his
ability.
If we remember that only as the hosts march silently in
their own places can the mystic potency of the blasts of the
horns make the walls of the City totter, we will understand
that as a host we have not yet compassed the City even once,
for we have not yet learned to listen to, let alone obey, the
first command of Joshua to keep silent. Many who have
been called and chosen to march in the lead, instead of keep-
ing silent until Joshua bids them shout, are now talking and
boasting loudly of all the inner teachings and promises given
360 The Message of Aquaria
them by Joshua conditionally as a guerdon if they prove
worthy. They are thus distracting the attention of the peo-
ple from Joshua, and because of such orations the hearers
stand still instead of marching steadily and quietly around
the City. The moment even a few stand still they break the
rhythm which many marching feet create, hence, instead of
helping to make the walls of Jericho weaken, they stimulate
the curiosity of the inhabitants who come forth from the
City to listen to and argue with them, and often accuse such
leaders of being but one of themselves.
While many as individuals have obeyed and have jour-
neyed safely through Jericho and onward over the rugged
hills until they may almost be in sight of the heavenly city,
the New Jerusalem, yet we look around the world sadly and
are dismayed to see the Gay White Way of Jericho still in
full blast, and see how apparently futile are the efforts of
the hosts of the Lord to demolish its walls. Yet all we can
do as individuals is to go on obeying the command of
Joshua, marching each in his place and keeping silent until
we are told to shout.
We may not personally like the priests who blow on the
horns, and we may feel that were we in their places we
could do much better, or we may have a rain's horn of our
own we seek to blow and may believe that we can cheer the
marching hosts if we blow upon it, but only when all obey
the chosen Joshua and follow the lead of the armed men
those who have put on the whole armor of Godand the
great mass of followers rearward follow on, all keeping
silent until Joshua bids them shout, will Jericho be taken.
When the seventh day comes, the Sabbath day of the
Lord, i.e., when the perfect number of God's chosen priests
are commanded all to blow together the one note, only then
shall the people shout the shout of Victory! And the one
note shall be the Grand Amen. For while the seven priests
are marching and leading the people through the six periods
of unrest and struggle, each blows his horn in his own key
Taking Jericho 361
or gives his teachings in his own language, thus helping those
who are naturally affinitized to his keynote. But if he has
been the true priest and has given of his best he will in time
reach the seventh period and will then be able to sound his
note so true and hannoniousiy that it will vibrate to the
chord of universal harmony. And when each of the seven
strikes that chord all will be attuned and bring about the vic-
tory. For all differences will have vanished. Each will
realize that all the others have been blowing but a part of the
one chord, and only when this perfect harmony and at-one-
ment aniong those who are priests has been attained, will the
walls of Jericho fall. This does not mean any loss of per-
sonality for the priests. Each will still sound his own note,
but will sound it in such perfect accord with the others, that
they will blend into the one note of Victory.
So must we as individuals gather together all our higher
faculties and march at least once around Jericho every time
its temptations and allurements are presented to us, but
silently, without talk and without fighting, merely marching
valiantly and allowing the vibrations of the trumpets to ac-
complish the work; for the time of utter destruction of the
wall has not yet come. Thus shall we ultimately conquer.
Also the priests in us, the radio-activity of our seven sa-
cred centers and our higher ideals and aspirations which lead
us Godward, must sound in our lives their notes of victory
over the City of Desire if it is to be captured and made a
useful servant of the Christ. For, individually, we each
must conquer our personal City of Desire and preserve all
its good vessels ere we can march in the great procession of
the Hosts of the Lord, who shall conouer it for the world.
CHAPTER XXX
THE VAIN SHOW
"Surely every man walketh in a vain shew: surely they are dis-
quieted in vain: he heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall
gather them."Psalm.r, xxxix, 6.
'Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities, all is
vanity.... Behold all is vanity and vexation of spirit."Ecclesi-
asks, i, 2-14.
"Beloved, now are we the Sons of God, and it doth not yet appear
what we shall be: but we know that when he shall appear, we shall
be like him; for we shall see him as he is."! John, iii, 2.
"As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be sat-
isfied, when I awake, with thy llkeness."Psalms, xvii, 15.
The above texts seemingly contain two conflicting ideas,
and yet we find in them a true picture of life and evolution;
for each Soul evolves through the periods of time and
through the experiences expressed by both ideas.
Let us consider the word "vanity," and analyze its mean-
ing from a deeper and more indusive point of view than the
superficial one generally accepted. Vanity is not merely
shallow pride, frivolity, ambitious display, something ephem-
eral, something that belongs to the surface of life, that does
not go deep or touch on the realities of life, but vanity in
reality is everything that is in vain, that hinders instead of
hastens on the true purpose of life. It is everything that
helps to make the black shadow of personality throw its
darkened length between the Soul's eye and the divine
likeness of God to which we must ultimately awaken; for to
unfold that likeness in the flesh is the aim of evolution.
From this standpoint, how many things of this life over
which we are disquieting ourselves are in vain! Indeed, we
have but to look with the eye of the Soul at our daily lives
to realize that we are walldng largely in a vain show. We
362
The Vain Show 363
strive to make an ambitious display of outer things, heaping
up riches that we may enhance the show. Yet, in the very
struggle to attain them, we are losing much that makes life
worth living, and are forgetting why we are passing through
this expression of life in a physical embodiment in a physical
world.
We are not told that riches in themselves are the vain
thing, for, like the physical body and its functions, wealth is
necessary and holds great lessons for humanity. And only
when it ceases to lend its glamour to the vain show of
selfishness and ostentation, and we learn to see in it a gift of
God, a talent which we must not bury in a napkin, but use
for humanity, to help all of God's children, yea, and the
Cosmos itself, to unfold the true likeness of God, only then
will it cease to be a vanity.
"He heapeth up riches and knoweth not who shall gather
them." We should realize that in the very striving thus to
heap up worldly possessions against "a rainy thy," old age
and death, we are planting in our consciousness and in the
Race the seeds of death and are fulfilling the scriptural
statement that "by man came death into the world." We
assure ourselves that wealth is a good thing, and that if we
should pass away, as pass we all must, someone will get the
benefit and all will be well, quite forgetting that all wealth,
be it money, possessions, position or power, or any other
thing in this vain show for which we toil and disquiet our-
selves to attain, is impregnated with the seed-thought by
which it was attained. Hence, it will go on and on perpetu..
ating that thought in a vain show and enslaving the Race
more and more. Yet, since all these things, in our present
stage of evolution, are things which, like the Tree in the
midst of the Garden, are "pleasant to the eyes, and to be
desired to make one wise," and since we believe in the tin-
ceasing care and all-powerful love of the divine Christ that
would not that any perish, we must also believe that these
gifts of God were not given to us to tempt us; that we were
364 The Message of Aquaria
not sent into this far country of physical embodiment, and
surrounded by temptations which seem almost too great to
be resisted, as a punishment, but rather that we were sent
here as Ambassadors of Divine Grace' with all the faculties
and equipment necessary to perform a mission for our
King, namely, to use all the resources of this far country,
not only to unfold in it the likeness of our heavenly Father,
but also to uplift the very substances of the planet itself and
awaken in them their divine patterns, and to use all the riches
thereof to the several ends for which they were destined.
When we realize this great mission we will no longer
heap up riches for self and know not who shall gather them,
but we will gladly receive all the Father gives us and use it
for the awakening to a new and better day of manifestation
or dispensation. Then we will know who shall gather all
the treasures of Earth, all the gifts of the Father, i. e., the
Angels, who are the Reapers; for they will gather them as
golden grain and sow them abroad in the soul of Earth con-
ditions where they shall bring forth for all humanity an
hundred fold in blessings to the Race.
The more fully we digest and express this thought. ie.,
that every form of wealth is a power or talent entrusted to
us, not only to help us "do our bit," but also to help in the
Great Work of uplifting the world, and prove our ability
thus to use it, the more will be entrusted to us thus to use.
But if we strive to hoard up for our own vanity that which
the Great Law brings to us to usefor, remember, "all is
vanity and vexation of spirit"the less we will have in the
end, altho for a season we may have much, but with it in-
creasing vexation of spirit. And this law will be increasingly
manifest more and more on Earth, in this new cycle.
Indeed, we have seen today2 many of the hoards of wealth
which have been heaped up in selfishness and vain show,
even now in the very beginning of the end of the old dis-
iGrace. "the inspiration of love which prompts us to practice according to
what we know. out of a religious affection and complianc&'Atutus.
ZWritten in 1917.
The Vain Show 365
pensation, being either swept away by the exigencies of war
or being at least temporarily taken over and administered
by governmental commissions. And this will continue in one
way or another until a means is found by which the stored up
wealth, in spite of man's vain desire, is used to bring about
better conditions for humanity and the whole world. And
ere the end of this great upheaval and readjustment of con-
ditions there will be brought about, among many other
changes, a much fairer distribution of wealth and a much
more equable sharing of the products of labor.
Again, the law that like creates like is eternally operative.
If we heap up wealth or even disquiet ourselves to sicimp
and save and devote the best years of our lives to putting
away a socalled "nest egg" for our old age, verily out of
that egg will come only that which was put into it, namely,
vanity. Instead of relying absolutely and confidently in per-
fect faith and trust upon the Great Law, we have lived in
the vain hope that we shall have at least provided for our-
selves no matter what happens. Therefore, that is all we
will have to rely upon and all we have a right to expect in
time of need.
The very stimulus to such hoarding is the thought that we
both fear and expect some dire thing to happen. Also, since
our mind is all the time fixed upon oncoming old age and
incapacity to take care of ourselves, we are planting a seed-
thought which is sure to grow and bear fruit, so that when
old age comes, we will either be unable to take care of our-
selves or will have to exist on the pittance we have saved up
for that time. For in the saving and skimping we have
smothered out much of the beauty and expression of love
and enjoyment in life, hence have estranged our friends.
We have so feared poverty that this fear has been built into
our flesh in deep lines of care and anxiety, etc.
If we have not laid up a store of love, sympathy and com-
panionship for our fellowmen we should not be surprised in
our old age to find that none of these things manifest to us.
366 The Message of Aquaria
For if in our selfish "saving up" we have ignored the rights
or needs of others, others will be apt to ignore us and our
needs at a time when we will need their sympathy most, or
they will expect to be paid for everything they do for us.
On the other hand, we should recognize that all that is
given us, is a sacred trust to be used wisely, hence we should
not, as is so often done, turn over all our possessions to our
children or to some one who we think will use it as we
desire, saying, "The Lord will provide for me in my declin-
ing days." For the very fact of such unwisdom calls for a
lesson, even to the most loving Soul, hence we may find
ingratitude where we expected love, and find at most a
forced doling out of the necessities of life and a grinding
surveillance most difficult to bear. We must learn to use
wisely all that is entrusted to us, and as we prove our wisdom
in so using it, more will be entrusted to us to administer. The
fairy tale of the magic purse which, like the widow's cruse of
oil, was always replenished no matter how much was drawn
from it, illustrates a vital truth.
Even the money we may accumulate may be swept away,
for the bank may fail, the stock go down, the property burn
up, the land be inundated or lost through some flaw in the
title, etc. "Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth,
where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break
through and steal." On the other hand, if we see in wealth
only a means to an end, only a book out of which we may
learn great Soul-lessons, and use it as it comes, not foolishly
or in self-indulgence or for vanity or in vain, but with love
and wisdom for the better unfoldment of God's likeness in
ourselves and in the world, then the supply is not limited to
what we can hoard, but it is exhaustless. We have tapped
the well-spring of an inexhaustible supply. We are working
with the Law, becoming channels through which it can
express for greater good. And as soon as this phase of the
Lawthe right use of wealthhas been fulfilled and the
lesson learned by the Race, there will no longer be any use
The Vain Show 367
for money, and hence we will pass on to other lessons to be
learned through other channels.
Some day each Soul will awaken to its true mission on
Earth, and when the awakening comes it will find in itself
the likeness of God. Then, as it begins to strive to unfold
this likeness, it will impress the likeness so strongly upon
the thought forces of the Race that more and more Souls
will rapidly awaken, until the morning of a New Era dawns
for all humanity, and the Soul of humanity finds itself and
manifests the true likeness of Divinity.
What are we to understand when we say, "I shall be
satisfied when I awake in thy likeness?" Alas, that the
orthodox teachings have for centuries conveyed the idea
that this awakening could only come after the sleep called
death! If this were all then it has been proved false, for
it has been scientifically provedas was taught by the mys-
tics of all agesthat after the change called death we awaken
in the likeness of the personality we developed or unfolded
while on Earth and not in the likeness of the Divine SeIf.
We may see a little more dearly the vanity of it all and
suffer because we have walked so many years in a vain show,
and may gain vivid conceptions of life which shall be
impressed upon us so strongly that they will manifest in our
next life as the results of our repentance, but the mere
passing from one phase of life to a still more vivid phase,
not of death but of life, will not unfold in us a new likeness.
We must awaken here and now and then strive with all our
powers truly to unfold the Divine Likeness, to whose
presence within us we have awakened.
The Divine Likeness! How shall we manifest it? We
go on perfecting our physical bodies, seeldng to unfold a
god-like stature and mighty intellectual and psychic powers.
But even after this is accomplished, how dare we say of even
this perfected body, "This is God's likeness. This is my
highest ideal of God the Unknowable, the Omnipotent, from
$ See Realms of Ike Livusg j)sJ
368 The Message of Aquaria
everlasting to everlasting the I am ?" For if we leave out our
spiritual unfoldment, realization and manifestation we must
answer with the Preacherthat great Power back of all evo-
lution, that which is forever preaching and teaching the
human heart through experience and intuitive perception
of the Divinethat all is vanity. For no matter how per-
fectly we have developed our body, our intellect or even our
psychic powers, if we have failed to unfold and manifest our
spiritual nature we have lived in vain.
Our first step in this unfoldment is a realization of the
disquieting and unsatisfying result of this living in a vain
show. Then we must strive for a deep realization of the
power of the likeness of God that is striving to manifest
within us. This is not a mere picture of the Almighty seen
as though through a telescope reversed or as the sunlight is
reflected on the waves of the sea. It is far more than this.
It is an essential likeness in that the attributes of Divinitý
are striving for expression through us. It is the struggle
for manifestation of the image projected from the conscious-
ness of God when we were sent forth on our cycle of
evolution, destined to unfold the perfect pattern and fill a
certain place in the Grand Plan, a place which, if left
unfilled, would leave the Plan imperfect, a place which no
other Soul in the universe can perfectly fill. It would be as
tho a great artist had painted a masterpiece, with every
figure, line and shading perfect save one which was left
false, imperfect or out of proportion, or like a grand sym-
phony in which one bar was discordant.
The image of God is not an outward resemblance, but a
shining forth of the perfect ideal which we were intended to
express. A tree grows in the image of God as it manifests
the ideal of the tree God intended it to express; when it is
as perfect as that kind of a tree can be. God's image includes
a perfected universe with everything in it perfect after its
kind, hence all reflecting and outpicturing God or made in
God's image.
The Vain Show 369
To manifest this likeness we must put away the vanities
of life. And all things are in vain which do not contribute,
first to the unfolding within our hearts and then to the
manifesting in our lives, of the attributes of Divinity, the
likeness which we each individually are destined to unfold,
knowing well that the moment we manifest the perfected
likeness the Great Law will place us in our true position
in the cosmic picture.
We are wont to call men and women vain when they are
overwhelmingly in love with themselves. We are wont to
confine the term vanity to an admiration of personal qualities
or physical possessions. We say she is vain of her looks, he
is vain of his intellect, she is vain of her unfolding psychic
powers, he is vain of his struggle to overcome his defects
or both are disquieting themselves because the world fails
to appreciate them at their own valuation or because others
seem to attain spiritually who do not make half the struggle,
but just go on growing as the flower grows; trusting and
loving and living and doing for others instead of disquieting
themselves with outer practices, such as fastings, refusal to
eat certain foods, breathing exercises, and various yoga
practices, etc., but this is not its full meaning.
We can give no technical directions here how to "behold
thy face in righteousness," the face being the manifestation
of the likeness that is expressed to the world. But we are
assured that the likeness of God is within usthe image
He intended us to manifestand that if we meditate upon
and dwell in the consciousness of the Divine that is within
us, the image we are destined to unfold will gradually open
in our lives like the petals of a rose and radiate the perfumq
of His presence. It makes no difference what we have been
in the past. Today we are the synthesized embodiment of
all that we have even been. Even our mistakes and failures
and the suffering they have entailed and the struggle to
overcome them have all had their part to play in our unfold-
merit, hence are registered in the composite picture we are
370 The Message of Aquaria
today and mark the degree to which the likeness has been
unfolded.
That likeness has unfolded just to the extent that we
do or do not walk in the vain show of the outer life or of
mere psychic attainments without corresponding spirituality.
Many in previous lives have held high positions in society,
yet in this incarnation find themselves in obscurity and often
poverty, while they still feel stirring within them all the
tendencies and ambitions and desire for recognition as of
old. They spend much time disquieting themselves and
bemoaning a sad "fate" that has given them the almost
irresistible desire for worldly grandeur and adulation, yet
which has placed them in such humble positions that their
desires cannot be gratified. All this is but the mathematical
and inevitable result of the vain show in the past. We are
placed in our present positions in life, not by an arbitrary
f ate nor by a jealous or revengeful Deity, as so frequently
allegorically pictured in the Bible, but by the degree of our
own unfoldment, by the causes we ourselves set up; because
we allowed the vain show of the past to hide from us the
likeness of God, the Image within, to the realization of
which our present positions perchance may awaken us.
Yet poverty and obscurity have their vain show also if their
lessons are not learned, just as surely as have pomp and
greatness in the world's eye. Only the awakened Soul can
refuse to walk in the vain show of personality and seek to
unfold the Divine Image of His likeness.
There are many today, alas, who because they find that
they have developed a very sensitive nature, are disquieting
themselves a great deal, either because their sensitiveness is
not recognized by others, or because life presents to them so
many commonplace problems. One may be very sensitive to
sound yet may be compelled to live amid the grinding noises
of street traffic or the blare of jazz music from neighboring
phonographs. Others may be sensitive to color and yet be
compelled to wear clothing that is not the exact shade they
The Vain Show 371
love, etc. All such conditions, however, must be met and
overcome.
If, through our higher development, we have made our
nerves more sensitive than others, we must remember that
with this increased sensitiveness there should also have come
greater power to conquer, greater poise and a closer touch
with and understanding of our great supply. Hence, we
should refuse to disquiet ourselves over such vain things,
for we know that when we bravely learn our lessons and
determine to do the best we can to unfold the Divine Image
within us, our heavenly Father will bring to us better condi-
tions, for which we will then be ready. But we must do
our best to change undesirable conditions, not sit down
under them in a negative spirit and wait for a supernatural
deliverance.
In the late summer in some localities we see the hillsides
and meadows covered with the bloom of the wild carrot, a
common weed, yet a beautiful plant. Its white, lacy flowers
beautify the waste places and rejoice the eye, yet to the
farmer it is but a noxious weed. For before he can properly
till the soil he must eradicate its long, tough roots, so hard
and woody, so tenacious, and which so deplete the soil of
its nutriment, yet which are so devoid of nourishment in
themselves, many kinds being even poisonous. But this
same wild carrot, after a few generations of cultivation, cor-
responding to a number of incarnations, can be completely
changed and its true image expressed. What is the result
of this cultivation? No more beautiful flowers. No more
attractive, spreading stalks nodding in the breeze. No more
tough, gnarled root, but instead a large and succulent root,
something that is of value instead of a nuisance, something
that affords both food and medicine for man and beast.
And within this common vegetable there are even greater
possibilities. For carrots, as their color indicates to the
occultist, contain substances which penetrate into the inner-
most tissues of man's body, helping to supply the vital
372 The Message of Aquaria
force which knits together his finer bodies and nourishing
those faculties which shall help him to unfold the image of
God more perfectly, such as will, persistence and tenacity
of purpose. Everything we eat or drink not only nourishes
our physical body, but also our finer bodies by imparting to
them the finer essences which the food has developed and
made its own during its period of cultivation or its long
cycle of unfolding its true image of God, and contributing
its forces to the manifestation of a more perfect universe.
It is the same plant, but what a difference in its manifes-
tation I
Yet, even in its uncultivated state, as the carrot grows
in the wild places it not only helps to loosen the soil and
add to its humus, but it also beautifies the landscape. For
every blossom is a flower when in its right place, but a
weed when in its wrong place. Thus is it often with the
undeveloped Soul. It has its part to play in the world; to
bloom in gladness and freedom in its own place, where it
will be a beautiful flower, but if it tries to manifest where
it does not belong it is but a weed. But when it has grown
in its proper place and developed a succulent nourishing
root, it must begin to feed the world and bring to it the
help needed to unfold the image of God. Therefore, even
the wild blossoms covering an uncultivated field are not a
vain show, but are calling to man to do his part as faithfully
as they do theirs.
The history of the wild carrot is the history of the Self.
In the course of evolution there are three lines of unfold-
ment, each evolving toward its own perfection. Yet each
of these threads of destiny must be interbiended like a cord
made up of three strands. The cord is strong and durable
in proportion to the smooth and even blending of the
strands. Even so must the Self evolve and blend its three
strands or avenues of manifestation, i. e., the physical body,
the mind (including the psychic and mental bodies), and
Spirit. And according to the individual trend or, let us
The Vain Show 373
say, the individual variation in the likeness of God breathed
into each Self as it was sent forth into this far country of
Earth life, do we unfold more rapidly and easily one or the
other of the three threads.
Many attain great perfection of bodily development,
strength and beauty, or great development of intellect and
power of mind. Such are placed in positions in life in
which their physical and mental perfections find recognition
and emphasis. But without a corresponding spiritual un-
foldment, like the wild carrot, they flaunt their blossoms to
the wind. They attract attention, are admired and become
great in the world's estimation. But the roots of their lives
are gnarled, tough, woody and devoid of spiritual nourish-
ment.
Then come many lives of pruning and cultivation. Life
after life the beautiful flowers of outer attainments that
have attracted and pleased the eye of the superficial ob-
serverfor the wild carrot is without perfume and has an
acrid odor which causes it to be rejected by those who give
it more than superficial attentionall these flowers have
to be cut away so that the life-force which formerly ex-
pended itself in outer show is forced to manifest beneath
the surface, making the carrot grow and develop under
ground. The result is, for the Self as well as for the
carrot, that its root becomes succulent, wholesome and
nutritious. We are then developing our inner possibilities
and will, therefore, be able to feed humanity.
Some may ask, Has then this common garden vegetable
the likeness of God within it? We answer that it has its
aspect of that likeness, and it has taken its second step
toward its unfoldment. Its third step will be attained
when there has beeii developed within it the substances
which nourish man's finer bodies in as great abundance, and
to as great a degree, as its present nourishing qualities excel
those of the wild root. In like manner must the Self develop
374 The Message of Aquaria
its higher and finer possibilities. To awaken, then, in His
likeness, we must correlate body, mind and Spirit; for to
manifest the Image of the triune God the three must
become one.
We know not what we shall be, but we shall be satisfied
when we awake in His likeness. We can only go on doing
the duty that lies nearest, unfolding those buds of our nature
which the Great Gardener has not pruned away, be they
above ground as leaves, stems or blossoms in the world's
eye, or underground and in obscurity as inner and spiritual
qualities which shall make our roots succulent and nourish-
ing to mankind. Only as we take up each task in earnest,
weaving the threads of our three-fold life into a strong cord
that shall bind us to the Master-soul can He, our Lord,
appear. But to hasten this great day we can each of us
here and now say in sincerity and truth, "As for me, I will
behold thy face in righteousness. I will no longer walk
in a vain show. For the vanity of vanities is everything that
hides from my consciousness the likeness of God that is
within me and that is striving for expression."
Each one of us is today in the place which the Great Gar-
dener sees is the best for our development and where the
qualities in which we are lacking are undergoing cultivation.
The three FatesClotho, Lachesis and Atroposare each
spinning a thread of destiny or guiding the evolution of
our three-fold lives. Let us rest patiently then in the assur-
ance that even tho the threads are seemingly tangled and
the weaving of our spiritual Seamless Robe sometimes seems
wearisome, yet over and above all is the divine Law of
Love which is ever unfolding within us the likeness of God
which we are destined to express in its three-fold perfection.
CHMmi XXXI
LUCIFER
"How art thou fallen from heaven, 0 Lucifer, son of the morning!
how art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the nations."
Isaiah, xiv, 12.
"It is a favorite popular delusion that the scientific inquirer is under
a sort of moral obligation to abstain from going beyond that generali-
zation of observed facts which is absurdly called a 'Baconian' induc-
tion. But anyone who is practically acquainted with scientific work is
aware that those who refuse to go beyond (demonstrated) fact, rarely
get as far as fact; and anyone who has studied the history of science
knows that almost every step therein has been made by the 'Anticipa-
tion of Nature'; that is, by the invention of hypotheses which, though
verifiable, often had very little foundation to start with."Collected
Essays, Huxley, i, 62.
In these wondrous times, when every day brings to light
new conceptions of universal laws, and the discoveries of
science border so closely on the miraculous that in some
cases the supposedly ridiculous claims of the early philos..
ophers, occulists and alchemists are being reproduced in
our scientific laboratories and are openly taught as scien-
tific verities; when science herself is finding it necessary to
change her text-books every few years; when the minds of
men are constantly expanding to embrace a wider and more
comprehensive conception of the universe, there is an ever-
increasing number who refuse to accept former religious
teachings unless they arc given not merely dogma and creed,
but a rational and scientific explanation of the basis of their
claims. Such persons feel instinctively that while the Bible
may be a truly inspired book, whose teachings can be cor-
roborated by their agreement, in most fundamental points,
with the teachings of the other and older scriptures of the
world, yet that the dogmatic exposition of its truths, fastened
37S
376 The Message of Aquaria
like a mill-stone around the neck of Christendom during the
Dark Ages by minds of limited outlook and understanding,
has undoubtedly hampered, if not prevented, the develop-
ment of freedom of thought, and hence has delayed any
great and wide-spread advance in our conceptions of spir-
itual truth.
The old explanations, not fitting in with the new dis-
coveries of science, have little place in this age of enlighten-
ment and great advance, hence among thoughtful minds
there is a growing tendency either to discredit or to be
apathetic toward all religious teachings, and to look upon the
Bible as a mere collection of myths pertaining to past and
primitive ages. Especially is this true of the old dogma
which makes Lucifer, Satan, and the devil a trinity of evil
which usually triumphs over the Trinity of Good. The
interpretation of the Christian church alone stands sponsor
for this dogma, for a careful study of the Bible fails to
corroborate it convincingly. Indeed, in eveiy place where
either Lucifer, Satan or the devil is mentioned a little
thought can separate them and give to each his proper place,
yet all three have their part to play in the unfolding, purify-
ing, illuminating and expressing of the one Divine Con-
sciousness of the Real Man. In this chapter we will
endeavor to correct some misconceptions by presenting the
cosmic principles upon which this important subject is based,
and to point out some of the truths concealed in its wonder-
ful symbology.
As students of a Cosmic Philosophy we should not be
confused by the old church dogma, but should dearly dis-
tinguish between Lucifer, Satan and the devil. Lucifer is
called Son or Star of the Morning, the Shining One, also
the Day Star. Indeed, many years ago in the earlier editions
of the Bible the passage which now reads, "Until the day
dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts" was more
correctly translated, "Until the day dawn, and the Divine
111 Peter. 1. 19.
Lucifer 377
Lucifer rise in your hearts." And this is the translation
used. today in the Greek church. Lucifer is, therefore,
regarded as a Divine Being, an Arch Angel, a Son of God.
Satan, or Saturn, is referred to by Job as one of the
Sons of God (Arch Angels) who, because of his office, be-
comes the Tester, the Adversary, the Accuser and the
Initiator. This office is one which requires great devotion,
for it means the conscious and willing taking upon himself
(a great Planetary Angel) all the ignominy, hatred and
censure of the world's misconception. Think what it would
mean to such a Being to stand as the devil, Satan, etc! Yet,
as Tester his office is a most important one, for "Whom the
Lord (Law) loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every Son
whom he receiveth."2 Furthermore, we have human fathers
who correct us and we give them reverence; and shall we
not much rather be in subjection to a Divine Father?8
David recognizes this office of Tester when, in speaking
of his enemy, he says: "Set thou a wicked man over him;
and let Satan stand at his right hand,"4 1. e., to test him.
It was Saturn who tempted (tested) Jesus when in the
wilderness, the reply of Jesus being: "Get thee hence,
Satan," for Jesus had met the test and conquered. Also,
when Peter was influenced to tempt Jesus to put forth His
power that He might avoid the persecution, trial and cruci-
fixion, Jesus again recognized the Tester and replied: "Get
thee behind me, Satan." In fact, in nearly all texts where
Satan is represented as tempting, the word should be trans-
lated "testing."
That the devil was not looked upon as an individual ex-
pression of evil is quite plain, for in most places the devil is
represented as the manifestation of many evil forces or op-
positions to Good or God. This is especially noticeable in the
several instances in which Jesus cast out devils. In fact, the
2 Hebrews. xii, 6.
8 See Saturn in The Key of Destiisy, Curtisa.
4 Psoima. cix. 6.
378 The Message of Aquaria
devil is generally spoken of in the plural, aitho like all forces,
it is supposed to have an entitized ruling intelligence or prince,
in this case Beelzebub (meaning "Lord of Flies, or Insects").
According to the esoteric teachings we find the seven
Sacred Planets with their Rulers marshaled by the Divine
Spirit, the Rulers being individualized divine manifestations
or aspects of the One God. We can readily understand this
if we remember that every one of us has many aspects or
expressions. For instance, in the bosom of his family a man
expresses love, affection, tenderness, etc.; in business he
expresses the impersonal business code; in recreation he
seems but an overgrown boy, while on other occasions he
may have to express stern and impersonal justice, without
regard to his personal feelings, yet all the time he is the
same man, but expressing or showing the world different
aspects. In a similar, altho to a far more entitized degree,
the Rulers of the seven Sacred Planets are aspects of the
One God. The Church calls them "the seven Spirits of the
Presence," and Thomas Aquinas says that "God never works
but through them." They are also called the Hosts of
Heaven, and, by the Ancients, the Kabiri. "The Kabiri
were always the seven planets as known in antiquity, who,
together with their Father, the Sunreferred to elsewhere
as their 'elder brother'composed a powerful ogdoad."5
As we have pointed out more fully elsewhere, every
active power, principle and attribute of the Earththe
latest born of the planetsas well as of man, is derived
from or through one of these Kabiri or Regents. "Each
gets its specific quality from its Primary (the Planetary
Spirit); therefore, every man is a septenate (or a combina-
tion of principles, each having its origin in a quality of that
special Dhyani). * * * Light comes through Venus,
who receives a triple supply, and gives one-third of it to
the Earth. Therefore the two are called Twinsisters.T
The Seevet Doctrtræ B1avatky. ui, 316.
IT!,, K, to the Uwverze. Curtiss, 221.
Lucifer 379
Not only is this the teaching of occultism, but astronomers
confirm the fact that the Earth gets one-third of its light
from Venus, aitho just how they do not know, nor do they
know the occult significance of this fact.
"Every world has its parent Star and sister Planet. This
Earth is the adopted child and younger brother of Venus,
but its inhabitants are of their own kind. * * * The
Regent loved his adopted child so well that he incarnated as
Ushanas and gave it perfect laws, which were disregarded
and rejected in later agT "Thus the Kabiri are said to
have appeared as the benefactors of men, and as such they
lived for ages in the memory of nations."
Each of these forces is presided over and manipulated
by the Regent of the planet whence it comes. In other words,
God has given these great angelic Beings charge of the
evolution of their youngest brother and its inhabitants, each
bringing to him a definite gift over which he must watch
and for whose use by mankind he is responsible. Indeed,
it is upon this great cosmic truthso well taught in all
ancient religions in symbol and allegory, yet so overlooked
by modern schoolsthat the many fairy-tales are founded,
in which a child is visited at its birth by its Fairy-Godmother,
who gives it a magical gift, the use of which will bring good
or ill according to its use, and a magical call which the
Fairy will always obey. Thus, when mankind disregarded
the law given it by Lucifer-Ushanas, the allegory tells us
that Ushanas "performed a Yoga rite, imbibing the smoke
of their chaff with his head downward: for 1,000 years."8
In other words, he had to partake of the results of mankind's
misuse of the Light of Mind he had conferred upon it,
because man had allowed the mind, which should be above
(higher Manas) or always in touch with the Divine, to be
turned downward (lower Manas) and there become entirely
enmeshed in matter and be dominated by it (Ka,na Mamis).
7 Tb.. SeCTeS Docfriwe, Blavatsky, ii, 32-3-6.
sIbji. ii. 36.
380 The Message of Aquaria
While "Man derives his Spiritual Soul (Buðdhi) from
the essence of the Sons of Wisdom, who are the Divine
Beings (or Angels) ruling and presiding over the planet
Mercury," and while his Ray of Divine Life, Light and
Immortality (Atina) comes from the Sun or its substitute,
the higher and lower aspects of Mind (Manas) are derived
from the essence of the Hierarchy ruling Venus.
Venus is called the morning and evening star, and the
Hierarchy of Venus rules the higher and lower Manas. The
color of Venus is indigo, while those of higher and lower
Manas respectively are indigo and green. Indigo is ob-
tained principally from the genus Indigofera, a group of
plants of the highest occult properties, well known in India
and much used in white magic. "Eastern symbologists,
from the earliest ages, have connected the spiritual and the
animal minds of man, the one with dark blue (Newton's
indigo), or true blue, free from green, and the other with
pure green."1° The higher or spiritual mind continually
aspires to the Divine and is represented by the blue vault of
heaven, while the lower mind tends toward and is repre-
sented by the Earth, where green in all its endless variety of
tints prevails and forms a beautiful setting for flowers of
every hue. Just so man's mind must be cultivated and
developed to form a background or setting for every thought,
if we are to get the full understanding of truth. And, like
the green of the grass and the trees, a cultivated mind, or
one which has been trained to think constructively, enhances
every color and shade of thought. Therefore, the lower
mind when put to its highest development, like the beautiful
green of Nature, makes a perfect blending of Earth and
heaven or of the lower mind and the spiritual mind. And
since the Divine Mind holds for us many mystic truths, and
only waits to shower them upon us, so the color indigo holds
many occult and mystical potencies. Indeed, by the ancients
Ibid, iii, 458.
10 The Secret Doctrine, Blavataky. iii. 462.
Lucifer 381
this color was held to be sacred, and the names India, Indus,
Indra (the God of the firmament) are derived from the
same root.
One name for the Regent of Venus is Anacl, but he is
represented by two great complementary Arch Angels, Luci-
fer (masculine) and Uriel (feminine), which in essence are
one. Of these, only the masculine or Luciferian aspect has
manifested on Earth as yet. For the feminine Ray, under
the rulership of Uriel, is so far in advance of the Earth's
present evolution that it has not as yet been manifested
through mortal teachers. At one time an inspirational mes-
sage was received from Uriel by The Order of Christian
Mystics in which, among many other things, she said: "If
I could find but one spot on Earth where I could touch but
the toe of my foot (i. e., awaken but a slight understanding),
the impress of that touch would remain forever and the
understanding of what Uriel could bring to the children of
men would grow and grow in the hearts of manldnd. And
all the pollution of man could never hide it, for pollution
would melt away like snow on a summer day. Nor could the
salt waters of tears and sorrow wash it out. I whisper
dreams of an ideal, heavenly love, but they alas! are mis-
understood, and only too often are degraded and overlaid
with lust and passion. Therefore, when I try to speak to
mortals the Planetary Gods place their mighty hands on my
lips; and alas! language is inadequate, and man has not yet
evolved to the point where he can properly interpret my
vibrations. A realization of this divinely-human and
humanly-divine love is the bridge of swords which crosses
the abyss of perverted human love, and the feet (under-
standing) of those who would cross it must be wounded and
their heart's blood must flow until the purified hearts of a
majority of manldnd can see and grasp a ray of this divine
love. * * * Try to learn the lesson now, 0 mortals!
Learn it now if ye can, and save all the sorrow and pain,
382 The Message of Aquaria
the anguish and bitter regrets through which you are now
slowly being taught it."
"But do not try to learn it alone. There must always be
another to join hands. This great force of love and wisdom
(higher Manas), which comes from the planet Venus must
ever come as a dual ray because this Earth is the planet of
duality, hence it can only reach mankind through the 'twain
who shall be made one,' not one in bodily structure, but one
in mind and spirit Love without wisdom works evil, and
wisdom without love works coldness and selfishness, but
together they become the 'golden apples,' or perfect sphere
of life. To manifest this the force between the two must
be exchanged in a way now unknown to man, to be under-
stood only as the present crude exchange is purified and
consecrated until the Angel of Life can say 'Come up higher.'
When the Earth children misinterpret my whisperings my
veil falls to my feet and I am obliged to return to the gods
with bowed head and in disgrace. Then they push me to
the rear, aitho they know well that some day I will be
crowned Queen of them all. And in that day the humanity
of this dark star will receive my message and rise eagerly
to the heights."
Intellect alone is cold and selfish, being devoid of the
warmth of its love-aspect (Uriel). Therefore, most highly
intellectual people who are ruled by Venus, i. e., born in the
signs Taurus or Libra or having Venus powerfully placed
in their horoscopes, find it difficult to understand or corre-
late with the true love nature, for aitho they are strongly
sexed its expression tends largely toward mere animal
passion. Therefore, if such persons are at all advanced
and are earnestly seeking the higher life, they are very apt
to denounce all use of the sex forces, call them evil and
strenuously try to kill them out And since this is impossible
as long as the sex forces have not yet been brought to their
very highest manifestation and truly consecrated or made
holy to the Lord (Divine Law of Life), the result is fre-
Lucifer 383
quently either suppression of those forces, or else the
sex force that should be and is called forth as a creator
by Divine Love, is perverted; hence creates instead abnormal
self-love, and greatly clouds the ability to judge, so that all
things seem to be but caterers to and builders up of this
self-love. And we find persons claiming, and even truly
believing, that they are superhuman beings because they
have apparently killed out or put from them the principal
lesson given to the humanity of this planet by Venus, and
have turned their barks upon Divine Love and Wisdom and
in their own judgment have improved on the Divine Law of
Manifestation.
Lucifer is one of the Cherubim of Venus, while Uriel is
one of the Seraphim. "The Seraphim loved most, while the
Cherubim knew most," hence they combine as Love and
Wisdom. The Cherubim aid and guide the evolution of
mankind through love, while the Seraphim guide through
knowledge. And because of this intimate tie between the
currents of mind and love from Venus, every sin and every
misuse of mind, as well as every perversion of or refusal to
express love on Earth, is said to be felt on Venus, and vice
versa. In fact, one of the greatest reasons why Uriel has
not been able to manifest on Earth (as Muriel) is because
the mind of man is still so stained with thoughts of impurity
in regard to love that the near approach of her auric vibra-
tions only stimulates the average mind to lust. Only when
Lucifer has been able so to purify the mind of man through
knowledge of the law that it can bear the vibrations of love
without perversion can he accomplish his true mission, but he
cannot fully accomplish it without the help of his comple-
mentary manifestation, Uriel.
While Saturn is the first of the Kabiri to go forth at
the command: "Let there be Light," that a boundary to
liThe letters U and M have similar symbology, but the U p4marliy represaitS
Divine Love or mother love poured forth, while the U represents the esoteric or
hidden side of Love or that mystery of the Love of the Divine Mother which is
incomprehensible to humanity in its present state of evolutiso.
384 The Message of Aquaria
the system may be set and inertia and stability given to its
substance, it was Lucifer, Star of the Morning or the Light
Bearer, who "fell" or descended to give mankind the light
of mind. In other words, it may be said that Saturn estab-
lished the boundary and gave stability to the dwelling, and
Lucifer put in the lights when the "builders" had made it
sufficiently ready. Hence, Venus is often referred to as
Venus-Lucifer.
Altho "Venus is the most Occult, powerful, and mysteri-
ous of all the planets; the one whose influence upon and
relation to the Earth is most prominent" its influence is the
least known and understood, both because of the mystery
of Lucifer and Uriel and because, from a purely astro-
nomical point of view, Venus is the most difficult of all the
planets of this system to study; for aitho it comes very
close to the Earth, yet at those times when it does so it
hides behind the Earth. In fact, Venus comes so close to
the Earth that for many generations astronomers thought
that she was but a satellite of the Earth. But in occult lore
Venus is known to be the sister of the Earth, and is said
to have "adopted the progeny of the Moon," referring to
the fact that the humanity of this globe passed an earlier
phase of its evolution on the Moon-chain.'2
A transit of Venus can be seen astronomically only when
the Earth and Venus pass a node of their orbits at the same
time. The Earth passes the line of nodes about the 7th of
June and the 7th of December, while Venus passes a node
near enough to these dates to be seen against the Sun only
four times in 243 years, the next such transit being June
8th, 2004. This will be a period of great enlightenment on
this mysterious subject, and will bring a great advance to
the mind of man.
The light that came from Venus when the animal man was
evolved to a point where he was ready to begin the evolution
of mind, was the Luciferian Ray, which completed the
12 See Tb. Vow. 4 Izis. Curtlu. Chapter xv.
Lucifer 385
manifestation of the Trinity in man, that which make him
more than an animal; for this three-fold Ray constitutes his
Higher Self or Immortal SoulAlma (from the Sun),
Buddhi (from Mercury) and Manas (from Venus).
Being dual, the light of mind can reach both upward and
downward, but when it entered into man it became so
enmeshed in the sensations of the physical world and the
desires of the animal soul that it forgot its Divine origin
and its spiritual complement (love), and thus developed as
mere intdlect, ignoring its two co-workers, love and spiritual
life. The Luciferian influence, therefore, made man proud
and arrogant, filling him with ambition, self-aggrandize-.
ment and all that selfishness and pride of intellect which
reached such an extraordinary development in the Atlan-
teans, and which was largely responsible for the degradation
of woman (love) and the relegating of her to the position
of slave, or mere puppet of man.
(To be conduded.'
CHAPTER XXXII
LUCIFER
CONCLUDED
"I beheld Satan as lightning fall from hcaven."St. Luke, x, 18.
Among the nations composing the earlier sub-races of the
Atlanteans, woman held a high and exalted place, not only in
the family life but in the nation, similar to the place she held
in later ages among the early Egyptians, namely, the priest-
ess of the home. But as the Light of Mind reached its
extraordinary development in the later sub-races it gradually
became concentrated upon the development of mere intel-
lectuality and will power, with the resulting subjugation to
it of the gentler and more feminine qualities of the heart.
This kept pace with the great development of psychic powers
which made the Atlanteans the greatest magicians the world
has ever known, and finally divided the Race into two main
schools of teachings, the majority, who more or less
degraded their powers for selfish ends, and the minority,
who followed their Divine Instructors and strove to counter-
act the evil effects of the other school.
In the course of these two great developmentsselfish
intellectualism and psychismthe tender, softening influence
of love and the purifying and uplifting influence of spiritual
aspiration, together with the proper use of the life-forces,
were more and more ignored by the majority, until finally
woman was relegated by them to the background and even
degraded merely to minister to the lusts of the intellectually
and psychidy over-developed man, while the creative powers
were horribly perverted, even to the extent of compelling
female captives and slaves to cohabit with huge, ape-like
3X6
Lucifer 387
animals (now extinct) to breed super-intelligent, semi-
human animals to perform all the manual labor and menial
tasks of their masters, just as today a jack is bred to a mare
to produce a sterile, hybrid work-animal, the mule.
This perverted sex-force, together with their practices
of black magic and their evil thought forces were responsible
for the bringing forth of swarms of destructive insect life
inimical to man; for man, being a creator through thought,
word and deed, is responsible for all the perverted forms
of life which prey upon or work against him. Hence, the
bacteria, protozoa, insects and all such lower forms of life,
which should be beneficial to man and live and work with
him in symbiosis, among the Atlanteans were perverted into
manifesting as pathogenic bacteria, death-dealing parasites,
plant blights, disease carrying rodents, poisonous reptiles
and other plagues which so overwhelmed and devastated
the flora and fauna of Atlantis that only a submersion
beneath the cleansing salt waters1 of the ocean could stop
the scourges and purify the very soil of the continent. In
fact, the majority of the later sub-races of the Atlanteans
perverted the forces of mind and their psychic and creative
powers to such an extent that the terrible vibrations of
inharmony and evil thus engendered upset the normal cur-
rents of magnetic force which sustain the equilibrium of the
Earth's crust and thus caused the ultimate collapse and sub-
sidence of the entire continent of Atlantis.
It was, therefore, the perversion of the Luciferian Ray,
ignoring and working without its complementary ray (Uriel)
mind separated from lovewhich resisted the spiritualiz-
ing influence of Michael (Sun) who, through spirituam illu-
mination, would have united Lucifer with his Divine Spouse
(Uriel). Hence, Lucifer taught mankind to fight against
the influence of Michael and his human followers, and thus
transferred one aspect of the so-called "war in heaven" to
Earth. Therefore, well might the prophet Isaiah exclaim:
iSec The Voice of Isis, Curtsz. 33&
388 The Message of Aquaria
"How art thou fallen from heaven, 0 Lucifer, son of the
morning! how art thou cut down to the ground, which
didst weaken the nations ?"
When these conditions had reached the climax of iniquity,
to Saturn, "one of the Sons of God," was given the thanidess
task of ending the evil and bringing man back to his high
estate of spiritual consciousness through the testing and
suffering resulting from his own creations, even to the
extinction of the majority of the Race which had failed so
lamentably to follow its higher and divine guidance. This
illustrates how far the use of free-will, granted man (within
certain wide limits) in the beginning, can carry him away
from his spiritual destiny. Man is not compelled to do
right, aitho all the Higher Powers and his own Higher Self
do all they can, short of compulsion, to influence him toward
a harmonious and constructive life; yet he can choose to do
evil if he wishes, but if he so chooses he must suffer the
consequences of broken law.
But through repeated and unspeakable sufferings through-
out the ages, those of the Luciferian Ray will ultimately
learn the lesson and, as we enter the coming sixth sub-race,
will no longer fight against the messengers of Love (Uriel),
Soul (Mercury) and Life (Sun), but will turn all the
powers of their purified intellect and their indomitable will
toward co-operating with them in presenting the three-fold
expression of the Divine Law to mankind, and thus strive
to teach humanity how to use its intellectual and magnetic
powers to redeem both its bodily inharmonies (diseases),
and to redeem the Karma of its past mistakes; thus helping
to place its feet one step higher on the upward Path of
Attainment.
Today many of the same Souls who failed so lamentably
in old Atlantis who are of the Luciferian Ray, as well as
those who strove to counteract their pernicious teachings,
are incarnating in America. Hence, we may expect to see
an important phase of the old struggle between good and
Lucifer 389
evil or between the teachers of spiritual Light and Truth and
those opposed, or those teachers of mere intellectual or
magnetic forces, worked out in this country in the near
future.
The devil is a generic term for all opposition to God's
perfect law; is the D-evil or deification of evil. It has been
created and given power through the ages by man's own
choice.2 For man, being made in the image of the Divine,
has conferred upon him the power of choice and the gift
of free-will. God could have made him a perfect automaton
which would always have acted exactly right. He could
have appointed some great Arch-Angel to pull the strings
and man would mechanically have obeyed. But He did not.
He gave man liberty either to follow the three-fold Ray of
Light, Love and Life and have it work constructively in all
his affairs, comforting him, illuminating, guiding and vital-
izing all his efforts, or to separate the Light as expressed
through Mind and place it on the throne, worship it as God
and use it for selfish ends. In the latter case, man must
learn through bitter suffering that mind is only one-third of
his true illumination, and that through mind alone he can
never pass the tests of the Angel of the Flaming Sword
(Saturn) and enter the Eden of the higher consciousness.
It is Saturn who sets a limit to man's evilafter a certain
point has been reachedby precipitating upon him the accu-
mulated results of his own creations. In some cases this is
more than the physical body can bear, and man is thus
compelled to cease his life of eviL Many in their ignorance
have called this great Tester the devil, forgetting that were
man in his present stage of evolution to find the Tree of
Life and be able to prolong his physical existence he would
indeed be cursed, not by the devil, but by the continual accu-
mulation of his own evil creations, thus maldng for himself
a veritable hell. Therefore, until man has reached a far
higher stage of purification and advancement than at present,
2 Sec The Key of Deauiy. Cuztas. aiapter XXV.
390 The Message of Aquaria
death is a great blessing, for it stops his further creation of
evil, affords him a chance to rest and look back over his past
life and see the results of his activities and learn therefrom
the needed lessons. Aitho he may for a time continue his
evil ways in the astral world, even that must cease sooner
or later and bring home to him its results.
We find this same law of testing and the disintegration of
that which has ended its usefulness expressed in Nature.
The power of the Sun, descending as heat, light and mag-
netism, is poured out upon and absorbed by the Earth, test-
ing and proving it. Every seed in the dark Earth will be
quickened by the Sun's force and be aided toward a con-
structive expression, but everything that cannot manifest
constructively, will be decomposed; every dead and useless
thing will putrefy and permit the manifestation of lower
and destructive forms of life (molds, bacteria, etc.), while
those contaminated by man's evil emanations will be brought
to festering disintegration. Yet the Sun's force is not sent
to Earth to bring forth evil, but to transmute evil into good;
for without the testing and disintegration of that which can
no longer work with the constructive aspect of the Law the
evil conditions or forms would not be broken up and allow
their forces to be turned around to fructify the good seed,
manuring it and giving to it the life-force that was mani-
festing negatively as evil, thus making the good seed better
fitted to feed mankind.
Some day man will learn that Saturn is one of the "Sons
of God," one of the "Dragons of Wisdom," and that only
through his testings and provings can the Light of Mind
become the Light of Wisdom. Then man will realize that
the Flaming Sword is Divine Love, which must separate
the good from the evil. Then, too, will man be able to enter
the New Jerusalem and find the Tree of Life and eat of
the fruits thereof.
At the dawn of each new era the three-fold Ray of Divine
Lucifer 391
light is sent forthfor Mind, Soul and Spiriteven as
the rays of the physical Sun proclaim each new physical day,
the Mind- and Love-light from Venus, the Soul-light from
Mercury and the life and Spiritual Light from the Sun.
And as the world is now entering upon the new Aquarian
Age we may expect to see all that is symbolized in the
wonderful allegory of Lucifer manifested on Earth, modi-
fied of course by the limited stage of development reached
by the Race. We will see the Mind of man illumined by a
new comprehension of old truths, the Soul of man wanned
and quickened by a greater outpouring of the Soul of the
Universe and the Spirit of man awakened to a deeper and
fuller realization and manifestation of Life, conclusively
demonstrating that Life is not mere animal existence nor
mere mental activity, but the eating and drinking and exist-
ing upon the mystic blood of the Cosmic Christ (the Divine
Life-force) without which there is no real life in us.
Each of these Rays must ultimately establish a School of
light, composed of the many who belong to the planetary
Hierarchy from which each Ray emanates. This will be
accomplished through the efforts of illumined comple-
mentary Souls who are sufficiently developed to express, to
a greater or lesser degree according to their development,
the mission of the Ray. As the Solar Light is the most
fundamental and embraces all that will later be differentiated
into its separate rays, and as it is the first to manifest in each
era, it is only natural to find that at the beginning of this
new cycle the Solar Ray is as yet the only one manifesting
through Agents who are consciously in touch with their
Hierarchy and who are embodying its teachings in a definite
School of Light, The Order of Christian Mystics, aitho
others are evolving toward such conscious touch and reali-
zation of their mission.
As the Law of Duality rules all expressions in the physical
world, each of these Rays can be perfectly expressed only
392 The Message of Aquaria
through man and woman working together in perfect har-
mony under the influence of the same Ray, altho a Ray may
be temporarily, incompletely and less perfectly expressed
through only one sex. Yet if one personality alone under-
takes to express it without the balancing force of its com-
plementary mate, no matter how sincere or how divinely
illumined that personality may be, the expression is bound
to be one-sided, and to make up for the lack of natural and
normal balance there will be a tendency to pervert the fun-
damental Law of Manifestation, the Law of Polarity.
At the present time, the Solar School, as represented by
The Order of Chrulian Mystics, is giving forth the funda-
mental principles of the Cosmic Philosophy which each
School will later elaborate and emphasize, just as the one
white Light is differentiated into its prismatic colors and
yet unites all in perfect harmony.
The Solar School will emphasize and explain the principles
of the one Divine Source of all, manifesting through a great
Cosmic Scheme or Divine Plan in which each manifested
life-expression has its place and its part to play. It will,
therefore, present a cosmic outline, an all-inclusive philos-
ophy, which will recognize and accord its true place to every
expression of Truth. In fact, it is now preparing all who
are ready, and is working toward the founding of a Uni-
versal Center of Spiritual Light and Truth where an ideal
community can be established in which each differentiated
School will have its place and co-operate with all the others
to manifest the Light and Truth to all types and conditions
of men. But first it must find the Souls and prove them
ready to enter and dwell hannoniously in such a Center.
For only as Love and Wisdom illuminate their understand-
ing, and the broad cosmic principles are clearly grasped by
one here and there can they be prepared. And only when a
number have proved themselves both worthy and ready can
they be gathered into one place to organize a Center and
Lucifer 393
work together toward a common end. In other words,
instead of attempting to found a Center and then striving
to find persons to fill itas is so often attemptedthe right
persons must first be found, tested and proved, and then
gradually be gathered together and grow into a Center. Only
thus can such a Center be established on a sound, construc-
tive and enduring basis. The Solar School is, therefore, like
the tap-root of a tree which gathers together and harmonizes
all the varied elements and atoms that are to make up the
various differentiated expressions of the tree.
The Solar School will emphasize the all-pervading Spirit
of all Truth and will try to bring to mankind a greater
realization of the Great Mother aspect of the Godhead; the
nourishing Divine Love which brings forth and suckles all
things; that spiritualizing and all-enfolding Love, "the Spirit
of Truth which shall bring all things to your remembrance"
and which shall be with us even unto the end of this day
of manifestation. It is this Divine Mother-love which ever
hovers with protecting wings over this Earth, where the
great Bird of Life has made her nest and where she is calling
to her and comforting under her warm feathers all the chil-
dren of men whose spiritual natures, like nestlings, are being
hatched in joy and immortality through the stress of the
conditions resulting from the ignorance and sin of the past.
Since Venus is a dual planet and holds for mankind the
perfected idea of divine union in its spiritual essence, the
perfect pattern of that which is to be, much as the pattern
of the ideal oak may be said to be in the acorn, it is from
that planet that the seed of perfect duality in union is pro..
jected or planted in the Earth. Hence, the most fundamental
and characteristic teaching of the Luciferian School will
necessarily be the Law of Polarity or the duality or sex of
the Soul, and that the Soul's perfect expression can be
obtained only through complementary mates united in pure
love and working together. Only as this doctrine is recog-
394 The Message of Aquaria
nized and made the essential groundwork of the Luciferian
teachings should the assertions of anyone who claims to be
of the Luciferian School be recognized or accepted. For
the teachings of the separate Schools will not violate the
fundamental cosmic principles which have been set forth
for all by the Solar School, principles which have stood the
test of the ages as being fundamental and which have been
reaffirmed by each successive great Light Bearer to manldnd.
Indeed, since Venus is the manifestor of both Love and
Wisdom, as Uriel has so beautifully told us, when it becomes
possible for her to plant even a part of her footprint (under-
standing) on Earth, a wonderful comprehension of the true
spiritual significance and the sanctity of marriage will pre-
vail, not only as the bulwark of the family and national life,
but equally the foundation of philosophical conception of life
and spiritual unfoldment.
The Luciferian School will also teach how to direct and
utilize the magnetic currents of the life-force when they
have been properly balanced. For the magnetic currents
are the result of the polarization of the two opposite cosmic
creative currents, the positive and negative. In this present
field of expression, our Earth, the Soul is manifesting in
separated sexes to learn the great lessons of the separated
manifestations of polarity through pure love and wisdom.
And to attempt to use the positive magnetic current or
kundalini without having it properly balanced by the rightful
harmonizer or the helpmate for that work, invariably
awakens the negative aspect of the current in the person
treated and tends to connect the operator with and precipi-
tate upon his headbe such a one ever so sincere and eager
to help suffering humanityall the stored up negative and
destructive power generated by the perverted use of the
creative forces by man and woman as a result of the wrong
teaching, wrong thinking and wrong use of these forces
throughout the ages. Verily, the Lord of Life spoke truly
Lucifer 395
when he said: "It is not good that the man should be
alone."
The electro-magnetic force of the kundalini is unknow-
ingly being used today in hypnotism and allied practices to
implant seed-thoughts in the mind or aura of the subject
treated. It is also brought into action in the "laying on of
hands" whenever the will or the desire of the operator is
added to the flow of the psycho-physical magnetic current;
for the dividing line between the electro-magnetic and the
psycho-physical currents is so fine that it is only by a clear
understanding and the exercise of a strongly developed and
spiritualized will that the operator can so guard his thoughts
and desires as to send forth the magnetic current untainted.
Even his desire that a certain healing or other result should
take place as he thinks it should is sufficient to bring into
play the kundalini and make the procedure hypnotic in its
effect. In fact, it is very difficult to use the magnetic current
without awakening the kundalini, which is both magnetic and
electric, and which tends to stimulate all the centers, accord-
ing to their development. And as the sex centers are the
most developed in mankind today, the use of the kundalini
naturally tends to stimulate them. Therefore, to play with
these forces which caused the downfall of Atlantis, or for
students who are untrained, inexperienced in psychic mat-
ters, and undisciplined in mind and body, to try to apply
them is to play with a fire which can corrupt and destroy as
readily as make alive.
Since all but a very few of mankind are still subject to the
law of the physical plane, the Law of Polarity, no one should
allow another to hypnotize him, and, as a rule, no one not
spiritually illumined, consecrated and specially trained should
practice the "laying on of hands" on one of the opposite sex,
for sooner or later it is apt to stimulate the sex centers. And
average people are not greatly to be blamed if such a result
occurs, for they have had no training in controlling and
transmuting the vibrations set up by the concentrated mag-
396 The Message of Aquaria
netism of the opposite sex. Therefore, such forces should
not be used without a full understanding of the dangers
involved.
While many good and useful fruits of mind and of the
kundalini discovered by the Atlanteans are preserved in the
higher realms, they cannot be properly understood or rightly
used until man has again reached the same stage of mental
development, but this time with the spiritual growth added
which will enable him to re-enter the Garden of Eden and
bring forth its fruits for the whole of humanity. Then the
Tree of Life will grow on both sides of the River of Life
and will bring forth its fruits each month for the healing of
the nations.
The Luciferian School will also emphasize the power of
mind, the development of will, the creative power of thought
and all the problems of mental science, as well as the force
of spiritual aspiration, in bringing about harmony in the
student's own body and in those who may apply for healing.
It will also teach that mere intellect without love is sterile
and one-sided; also that mind is not all, but must be used to
reach up into higher realms and become united with the
spiritual consciousness of the Higher Self and receive the
baptism of the Spirit. "Intellect by itself alone will make
a Black Magician. For intellect alone is accompanied with
pride and selfishness: it is the intellect plus the spiritual that
raises man. For spirituality prevents pride and vanity."3
The exaltation of intellect and the effort to subserve the
spiritual forces within to bring temporal domination and
gratification of the lower senses, passions and desires was
the "Original Sin" of the early Races, not the use of the
creative powers themselves. This is clearly shown by the
fact that the creative powers were given to man by his
Maker and he was told to use them, to "Be fruitful and
multiply and replenish the earth" long before he misused
$ The Secret DOCS,IJ,S. Blavatiky. in. 539.
Lucifer 397
these powers and was cast out of the Garden. Man was
first turned out of his Garden individually and as a Race out
of his temporal home (Atlantis), not by God, but his own
misuse of his opportunities, foroes and materials which
brought death, with all its attendant ills and miseries, first
into his own body and then into the body politic. But even
in those terrible days there were in Atlantis many who did
not bring death upon themselves, because they used their
forces according to the Law of Good (Lord God). These
later evolved into the class of spiritual Masters who are
called "Sons of Light." "The Lemurians, and also the
early Atlanteans, were divided into two distinct classes
the 'Sons of Night' and darkness and the 'Sons of the
Sun' or the Light.' "4 These Sons of Light have never died,
but remain in the higher realms, yet are able to appear in the
flesh whenever humanity needs such a manifestation.
Only when man has learned that mind is but a gift of God
to be used for His glory; that the Holy Ghost can be be-
stowed upon him only by a power outside of and above
mind, through spiritual development and initiation into a
higher state of consciousness, can he return to his Garden.
Only when we learn that mind is merely the servant of the
Real Self or the superintendent of our Garden unto whom
is given the wise direction of all its forces, yet who must be
responsible to the Lord of Life, who is the real Indweller,
can the Flaming Sword be turned into the Rod of Power at
whose knock the gates of Eden shall fly open and admit us
to our heritage.
The Mercurian School will emphasize the necessity for
personal union with the Divine (Soul), the Fatherhood of
God and therefore the essential Brotherhood of Man. This
School will proclaim an era of peace and harmony among
nations and the necessityas man's greatest needof bar-
monious co-operation for the good of all. Its emphasis will
be on the principle that because the Soul has its roots in
4IbiL ii. 816.
398 The Message of Aquaria
the Divine, the Soul of the Universe flows like a mystical
River of Life from the Throne of God outward through
every manifested form of life in all the worlds.
These three types of Teachers or Agents, symbolized in the
various allegories of the Three Wise Men from the East
the source of Lighthave each their characteristic mission,
and representative exponents of each must ultimately arise
and recognize each of the others and work together in per.-
fect harmony. Just as the planets Venus and Mercury,
each receiving their light from the Sun, yet sounding their
own creative notes and playing their own peculiar part in
the mighty scheme of evolution, unite to bring about the
predestined salvation of the physical Earth, so will the
chosen Agents of these Rays recognize the part each must
play, and together lay their giftsgold, frankincense and
myrrhat the feet of the Cosmic Christ now preparing an
individualized manifestation on Earth; the spiritual gold of
Light and Truth from the Solar Ray; franldncense, the
aspiration and the guidance resulting from a personal real-
ization of the Divine, emphasized by the Mercurian Ray;
and myrrh, the bitter yet cleansing and healing experience of
pride and self-sufficiency overcome, of the oneness and equal-
ity of man and woman, the necessity of Love (feminine) to
guide, and Wisdom (masculine) to illumine and bring about
the perfect Soul-marriage of hnm2nity, which is the work
of the Luciferian Ray.
Yet there is no one so humble and seemingly insignificant
who cannot help to gather up and express the forces which
these three Rays are now pouring out so lavishly for mani-
festation on Earth. If anyone feels the urge to thus be
about his Father's business, let him know and realize that all
the powers of the three-fold Ray will help him and work
through him to the extent he makes it possible, both for his
own perfection and unfoldment and to make him a more
helpful focus of harmony and enlightenment in his environ-
ment.
Lucifer 399
None who find interest in this chapter can say that they
are too ignorant, too weak or too selfish to do their humble
part, for the Great Law has placed them in just the posi-
tions where they have the ability to do their work. Seek
out, then, the avenue of illumination and helpfulness which
most appeals to your heart's desire and seek to make of
yourself an understanding and willing worker for the Great
Ones in Their efforts to enlighten, uplift and benefit all.
Use the Prayer for Light daily and hourly and ask for
Divine Guidance in all things.
400
CHAPTER XXXIII
MARS
aThe Globe, propelled onward by the Spirit of the Earth and his
six Assistants, gets all its vital forces, life and powers through the
medium of the seven planetary Dhyanis from the Spirit of the Sun.
They are his messengers of Light and Life."The Secret Doctrine,
Blavatslcy, ii, 31
"Innocence nnot be virtue nor simplicity merit. Man is only that
which he has conqjiered."Prophecy of the Zodiac.
In beginning the study of the planet Mars, or in fact any
other planet, it must be understood that it is not the physical
planet known to astronomers and physical science, but the
Spiritual Ruler, whose abode or seat or whose force is f o-
cused in the planet, to which we refer.
As we have explained elsewhere,' the seven sacred planets
of this system are each the abode of one of "the seven
Spirits of God" which are before his throne. This is made
very plain in the Revelation of St. John, where, in his open-
ing address, he says: "Grace be unto you, and peace, from
him which is, and which was, and which is to come; and
from the seven Spirits which are before his throne."2 Why
should "Him which is, and which was, and which is to
come," i.e., the Lord of Life, include the seven, Spirits if
they were not an essential part of the manifestation of the
One God? We therefore allude to the seven Spirits or
Planetary Deities in the universally accepted terminology of
the ancients as the Administrators of God's decrees, as the
Projectors of God's attributes or the Manifestors of the
Divine Plan; the same Elohim who said: "Let us make man
'1'. Key to 5k. UwAsnve. Curtlu, 219.
21,4.
Mars 401
in our image, after our likeness," i.e., embodying all the
planetary forces of this system.
The ancient Syrians and Chaldeans defined the Planetary
or World Rulers thus: (1) the Earth, the lowest sublu-
minary, is watched over by Angels of the first or lower or-
der; (2) Mercury is ruled by Archangels; (3) Venus by
Principalities; (4) the Sun, the domain of the highest and
mightiest gods of our system, by the Solar Gods; (5) Mars
by Virtues; (6) Jupiter or Bel by Dominions; (7) Saturn by
Thrones.8 "The ancients had, in their Kyriel of Gods, seven
chief Mystery-Gods, whose leader was, exoterically, the visi-
ble Sun."4 They are also called "The seven eyes of the
Lord" by the early Christian writers.
These seven great Spirits also rule the seven-fold powers
of Nature, the forces of the universe evolving Nature
through seven tones, called the seven creative notes of the
cosmic scale, and through the seven color rays, etc.
"Through Hippolytus, an early Church Father, we learn
what Marcusa Pythagorean rather than a Christian Gnos-
tic, and a Kabalist most certainlyhad received in myste-
rious revelation. The seven heavens (Angels of
the Planets) sounded each one vowel, which, all combined
together, formed a single doxology, 'the sound whereof being
carried down (from these seven heavens) to earth, becomes
the creator and parent of all things that be on earth.' "5
Thus the ancients never considered the planets in any other
light than as the abodes of Deities, aithomodern thought to
the contrarythey were fully aware of seven physical globes
connected with the cosmogony of our solar system.
Among the ancient Egyptians Mars was recognized under
the name of Artes, and was worshiped not as god, but as
an attribute of the One God, namely, as the dispenser of
primitive or initial powers for the purpose of human pro-
5 The Secvet Doctn,e, Blavatsicy. i. 469.
4lbid, ii, 25.
5 Ibid. ii. 594.
402 The Message of Aquaria
creation. And in almost every ancient religion these powers
are attributed to Mars under various names.
The color of Mars is said to be red, not only because the
planet appears red as seen from the Earth or because of
any peculiar red formations upon the planet, or because
connected with bloodshed, but because the chief function of
Mars is the focusing of the life-force into individualized
expression through generation. Incidentally, Mars is called
the God of War, but far more generally the Lord of Birth
and Death, also of Girneration and Destruction. The esoteric
force deified in Mars is the primal Principle of Life being
differentiated into its opposite poles for the purpose of pro-
creation. This is always associated with both water and
blood, but with water only in the sense that water is the
"blood" of the Earth or the carrier of the universal life-
force to Nature. And as the blood carries the individualized
physical life-force, so the color red in the spectrum carries
the vital life-principle to all the other color rays. And as the
color rays manifest in a circle or spiral, rather than one
above the other, so in each ascending cycle the red grows
lighter and brighter until it becomes the beautiful rose pink
of spiritual life-force or Divine Love.
While water is the "blood" of Nature, blood in man and
animals is water plus fire. The lower forms of life having
little or no red bloodfish, reptiles, etc.,have little of the
life-fire, hence are called "cold blooded," as they do not
maintain a continuous body temperature, but take on the
temperature of their surroundings. Hence, Mars rules blood
and water in the sense that it is through the guiding Hier-
archies and forces of that planet that the fleshly bodies of
human Souls inhabiting the Earth are produced and also
reproduced and maintained in health and vigor.
Therefore, while Mars is the God of War in one sense
and is properly associated with the shedding of blood, yet
the shedding of blood referred to is primarily that which is
shed in connection with the functions of generation. The
Mars 403
real "warfare" of Mars is not inciting the nations of man-
kind to war but the overcoming of the natural resistance of
the Soul to the descent into physical generation and all that
it entails crc generation is lifted up into regeneration and
the experiences garnered into wisdom and power.
Mars is represented as having been born without a
mother, one way of expressing the important esoteric truth
that it is only the potential forces of generation that come
to us from Mars, or we might say generation in potentiality
ere the sexes were separated, and actually expressed on
Earth in separated sexes. While from Venus is sent to the
Earth the potential seed-thought of a perfect and purified
union of the sexes and the guiding force to bring it into
actuality. On the other hand, the same idea is conveyed by
Ovid when he states that Mars was born of his mother, Juno,
without a father.
In the zodiac Mars is given the place of strength in the
first decanate of the sign Aries (the Rain), in which the Sun
is exalted. He is also given the place of death in Scorpio,
in which sign the task is given to the Soul to purify, control
and uplift all the functions of generation. This is repre-
sented in the myth in which Scorpio slays Orion. Now, in
mythology Orion was an intrepid hunter of enormous size,
the same personage as Minotaur and Nimrod, and symbolizes
the lower and uncontrolled aspect of sex. Mars is called
Ramah in Egypt, where the skin of a ram (Aries the Ram)
covered the Holy of Holies in the temples, a symbol con-
tinued by the Hebrews after leaving Egypt by covering their
Ark of the Covenant with a ram's skin. From these few
references the functions of Mars are plainly indicated.
The planetary Ruler of Mars is closely connected with
Venus. From Mars comes the force and the strength and
the courage by which man can learn the hard lessons and
endure the suffering of sex, and from Venus comes the lov-
ing tender care and guidance and the promise of ultimate
victory, and both planets are so closely associated with the
404 The Message of Aquaria
Earth and its inhabitants that, in one sense, they may be
called the Spiritual Parents of the Earth. In an ancient
myth the Mother of the Sun, under the name of Semele,
was made to ascend her throne and preside as a balancer
and harmonizer between the planets Mars and Venus, where
she was henceforth worshiped under the name of the
"Queen of the World." And it is from this very ancient
idea, because it embodies a vital truth, that most of the Vir-
gin Mothers found in all religions are taken, whether called
Divine Mother or Queen of Heaven; whether Isis in Egypt,
Sakti in India, Setnele in Rome, or Mary in Jerusalem.
The meaning is quite plain, for Mars and Venus are the
sources of the forces which are finally manifested as the
separated sexes in humanity, and will ultimately bring about
the perfect balance of the two when in its fullness the prom-
ise shall be fulfilled, "Have ye not read, that he which made
them at the beginning, made them male and female. Where-
fore they are no more twain, but one flesh." These planets
are the guardians of the great test of sex. And only as
Love, the Divine Mother, is permitted to dwell as balancer
and harmonizer between the two opposite expressions can
the great lesson yield all its powers and fruits.
That mysterious personage known in the Bible as Mel-
chisedec was in reality an avataric manifestation of the
planetary Ruler of Mars to the early Races, aitho then recog-
nized as the Prince of Peace (Salem), instead of the God
of War. And in very truth, if we are to receive the mystical
bread and wine from Melchisedec, that exalted ."Priest of
the most high God," then, like Abram,7 we must arm our 318
trained servants born in our house, i.e., the forces of the
zodiac (3+1+8= 12), which we have mastered and brought
forth in our personality, and use them to conquer our ene-
miesthe lower appetites and passions which have pos-
sessed our landand "bring back all the goods" or rescue
S& Matthew, xix. 4-6.
T Gejsew. xiv. 14.
Mars 405
the misdirected good and its "women" or its power to bring
forth. And when this has been accomplished we must not
be puffed up over our victory, but must await the coming
of our High Priest in the valley of humility ere we can re-
ceive the body and blood of the Cosmic Christ shed for us
from the beginning, even as the later Avatar, Jesus,"a
Priest forever after the Order of Melchisedec"offers the
same mystic bread and wine that Meichisedec offered Abram
to those disciples who meet Him in the mystical "upper
chamber," saying: "Take, eat; this is my body.... This
is my blood of the New Testament. . . . Drink ye all of it."
For it is through the outpouring of the mystical "blood" of
Mars that man reached the great test of generation, and only
as we eat and drink "with love and thanksgiving," or corre-
late with and assimilate it can we pass its test and be blessed
as conquerors.
It will thus be seen that among the early Races, when
mankind was childlike and was taught face to face by the
great Masters of Wisdomeven by the Planetary Deities
themselvesthe relation that Mars bore to this Earth was
well known, as the Bible narratives so plainly indicate. For
each of the seven Sacred Planets gives to the Earth, the lat-
est born of this system, a special vibration or force to help
on the evolution of both the planet and its humanity. Thus,
Jupiter sends us the force of judicial deliberation which
gradually evolves us toward omnipotence; Saturn is the
Tester, the Initiator; Mars the giver of strength, courage
and fortitude; Mercury gives that dear intuitive reasoning
whose complete development gives omniscience; Venus gives
Love and the ability to endure, also understanding, while
the Sun gives spiritual illumination, also the blessings of
healing.
Among the Romans Mars was regarded as the most im-
portant Deity after Jupiter. That Mars was not considered
merely as the God of War, even among that warlike nation,
is shown in many ways, for the month of March, when the
406 The Message of Aquaria
forces of generation are gathering in the Earth preparatory
to bringing forth anew in Spring, was held sacred to and
named after Mars, especially the Ides of March. Also, spe-
cial ceremonies were performed to Mars during the months
from 1(arch to October, while the Earth is generating and
producing her increase. Until the reign of Augustus, there
were only two temples at Rome dedicated to Mars, one on
the Campus Martius or Field of Mars, the exercising and
reviewing place of the army, the other outside the Porta
Carpena, the gate through which the army marched on its
campaigns to the South. But in the heart of the city there
was a sacrarium of Mars in the regia, originally the king's
house, where the sacred spears and shields of Mars were
kept. Should war be declared, during a sacred ceremony
these spears were taken out and shaken and the protection
and help of Mars invoked with the cry, Mars vigila (Mars,
wake up!).
If by any chance these spears were shaken without
human hands, it was looked upon as a dire omen and
called for expiation, for in the .cacrarium the god Mars
was supposed to dwell in a spiritual sense. From March to
October the sacred spears and shields were carried through
the city in a procession on three separate occasions, preceded
by dancing priests, flower girls, etc., but in October, when
generation and bringing forth had ceased in Nature, there
was a solemn ceremony at which they were purified and
blessed and put away for the winter, thus showing that Mars
was primarily connected with generation and reproduction.
both in Nature and in man, and only later and secondarily
with war.
This conception of Mars has survived and is so
commonly known even today that in a recent newspaper
article it was stated that because of the conjunction of Mars
and Venus on January 5th, and Mars passing through Pisces
and coming into conjunction with the new Moon on January
S San Franciaco Chronicle, Ma 1, 1921.
Mars 407
23, 1921, "mean but one thing. They constitute what is
known as a 'fruitful zodiac.' Within the next six years the
birth of a single child will be an exception to the rule
we are to prepare for the arrival of a harvest of twins and
triplets." 'While we cannot endorse this in its fullness, yet
this is a most remarkable prediction to be found in a news-
paper, for at the beginning of every Age there are hosts of
Souls whose work and Karma connect them with the new
Age and who should incarnate at that time, yet who have
had to wait, perhaps hundreds of years, for the proper op-
portunity to incarnate under conditions in which they can
accomplish their mission. Hence, many may incarnate as
twins.
It is quite natural that at the present point in man's evolu-
tion his mind should turn to a study of the planet Mars.
This is not only because it is the planet next outside the
Earth, being the fourth in distance from the Sun, nor be-
cause at opposition it is brighter than a first magnitude star
and by its position the most favorably situated of all the
planets for observation from the Earth, but because of its
dose mystical relationship and association with the Earth
at this particular time. For Mars is looked upon as the
spiritual Father of the Earth, and as a father it has mani-
fested its creative power on Earth, while the Mother-force
of Venus has not yet been able to find adequate expression.
This is one reason why, in many religions, we find more
reference to the aspect of God as a Father than as a Mother.
But as we have now entered the sign Aquarius, or the
Woman's Age, the Father may be said to be growing old
(Mars is now drawing to the dose of its last Round, while
Venus is only coming into the fullness of her last Round)
and must withdraw from active work, and that which he has
impregnated and implanted in the Earth and its humanity
must be brought forth by the great Mother-force of Venus.
(To be conduded
CHAPTER XXXIV
MARS
(Conduded)
"Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that have
I given unto you.... From the wilderness and this Lebanon even
unto the great river, the river Euphrates.... There shall not any
man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life.... I will
be with thee: I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. Be strong and of
a good courage: for unto this people shalt thou divide for an inherit-
ance the land, which I sware unto their fathers to give tham. Only
be thou strong and very courageous that thou mayest observe to do
according to all the law."Joshua, 1, 3-7.
One of the many evidences that the Bible is truly an in-
spired book and, like all other sacred scriptures, written alle-
gorically that its full meaning might be revealed only to those
who so ardently desire truth that they seek for it behind the
veil, is the fact that the important esoteric teaching as to
the relation of Mars and Venus to the Earth, in their aspects
as Progenitors and Guardians, is symbolized in the story of
the Ark of the Covenant, as well as in the story of Noah
and his Ark, in which he is represented as preserving the
Races of mankind to repeople the Earth after the deluge.
That the force of Mars has always been primarily con-
nected with generation and reproduction, and only seconda-
rily with war, is further evidenced by the fact that among
the ancients we find the Spirit of Mars represented as gath-
ering the germs of all living things necessary to repeople
the Earth into an Ark, the Argha of the Mysteries. Among
the Egyptians it was called the cisfa snystica, or Ark of Mys-
tery. It was also used as a sacred chalice in the worship of
Astarte the Syrian Venus, and in other forms of worship in
which the container of the feminine reproductive power is
40S
Mars 409
symbolized. In general, the Ark represented both Venus and
the Womb of Nature, in which the germs of all manifesta-
tion were pictured as floating upon the waters of the Great
Abyss during the interval between two periods of manifesta..
tion, until fructified by the Spirit of Mars. The nave (from
the Latin naz'is, ship or ark) in Christian churches has the
same symbology, for it contains the altar on which are fo-
cused all the mystic potencies of the religion necessary for
the purification and regeneration of its followers.
This was also symbolized by the Ark of the Covenant,
which again was the container of the forces of generation,
represented by Aaron's blossoming Rod, symbolizing the
rejuvenation of Nature; the two Tables of the Law, the
masculine and feminine expressions of the Law; and the
omer of Manna, the sustaining power of the One Life. This
meaning of the Ark of the Covenant is indicated by its con-
struction. It was built of shittim wood (acacia), which f o-
cused the astral forces, and was covered with pure gold,
symbol of the Spirit. Around the top was a golden rim or
crown, and upon this crown were the cherubim, facing each
other with their wings spread in such a manner as to form a
perfect Yoni, the symbol of the feminine reproductive power.
The cherubim represent Mars and Venus, and the "Cove-
nant with man" is that while humanity is learning the great
lessons of the separated sexes these two expressions of Di-
vinity, i.e., the strength and courage of Mars and the love
and understanding of Venus, will ever watch and guard
mankind, and that which is brought forth from their puri-
fied use of the creative forces shall be blessed of God. This
interpretation of the Ark is further emphasized by the fact
that the four mystic letters of Jehovah's nameIHVH or
Yod-Hi Vau-Héare carved upon it, Yod meaning the
,nentbrum virile; Hi, the womb; Vau, a hook or nail, and the
second Hi an opening; the whole forming the perfect bi-
sexual emblem, the male and female symbol.1
iT!., Secret Doct,i,w. Blavataky. ii. 482.
410 The Message of Aquaria
The Argha or Ark was, therefore, a general and univer-
sal symbol and was worshiped as the sanctum sanctoruns
or the center in which the forces of Mars and Venus are
focused upon Earth. Remember that the force which comes
from each planet is but a particular or specialized aspect of
the One God. And knowing that humanity must pass
through the experience of the separated sexes if it was to
"become as one of us, knowing good and evil," God provided
and focused upon the Earth just the forces needed to carry
us through this experience, if we will but utilize them aright.
Yet, alas, the force of Mars is degraded and regarded merely
as the instigator of war; is made a malign planet, catering
to man's lowest passions and appetites. Saturn, the divine
Tester and Guardian, who would not that any perish, who
stands ever near to say to man: "Stand and prove all things
and hold fast to that which is good lest ye be lost in the
abyss of ignorance," is called the enemy, the tempter and the
devil, while Venus, the giver of Divine Love, the tender
Watcher in the Night who ever whispers hope amid the
deepest degradation and sorrow, is often worshiped with
lascivious rites and called the "mother of harlots!" So low
have our conceptions of these individualized manifestations
of the Divine fallen through materialistic and perverted in-
terpretation! and because the Church is apt to look upon all
recognition of these great Star Angels as idolatry instead of
manifested aspects of the One God!
Having ieognized and fully realized that the seven Sacred
Planets, or more correctly speaking the Angels, Spirits or
Rulers of those planets, are each but differentiated and
individualized expressions of the seven-fold Godhead, the
Elohim, we are ready to study, understand and appreciate
something of their mysteries, potencies and powers. In a
similar way if our spiritual eyes were opened to see our finer
bodies we would see that each characteristic or each expres-
sion of force makes a definite light or color, or if evil a dark
Mars 411
streak, in our aura, yet all the colors are but expressions of
the one individual. Similarly the universe may be regarded
as the aura of God, and every star and planet as manifesting
a special trait or aspect of God, yet all necessary for His
perfect expression in matter.
During the present chaotic conditions upon Earth an tm-
derstanding of the force of Mars is greatly needed, for it
brings strength, courage and fortitude; and also the disinte-
gration of that which is evil to such an extent that if this
force were concentrated upon the Earth before it was ready
to respond to its vibration, the Earth would be volatilized in
an instant. This force is called malign and evil by some, just
as an untutored savage might call electricity an evil force and
seek to propitiate it. Yet, when man is ready consciously to
correlate with and regulate this force, he can use it to per-
form all manner of labor, for it belongs to a lower octave
of the dynaspheric force. The dynaspheric force comes
from all the planets, but only when man has learned to corre-
late with the forces of Mars and Venus, and has so advanced
that he can add to these the radiant energy of his purified
will can he consciously and safely direct and utilize this
force aright.
If it were possible to shut off all the other planetary
forces and focus the Martian force it could be used to bore a
tunnel dear through the Earth. We are told that the Mas-
ters have constructed wonderful tunnels under continents
and oceans through the help of the elementals, but the ele-
mentals and forces so used were not of Earth but of Mars.
Engineers say that they could tunnel through the Earth
even now if they could remove the debris as the greater
depths were reached, but with the use of the Martian force
there would be no debris to be taken out, for the sides of the
tunnel would be compressed and fused and whatever re-
sisted would be volatilized, and the tunnel, when completed,
would endure as long as the planet itself. By the use of this
412 The Message of Aquaria
force all the great Centers on Earth can be connected when
the time comes.
The force of Mars is such a tremendous force of attrac-
tion (desire), that if Mars stood alone in the heavens with-
out the influence of the other planets, the power of attraction
would be so great that all the planets would be drawn to it
as a center. But the other planetary forces intervene and
balance it. Saturn repels, Venus modulates, Neptune coun-
teracts, Uranus intensifies, Jupiter holds in balance and so
on, even to the most distant star. If it were not for these
counterbalancing forces we would find ourselves on Mars
quicker than we could think, for the purified Desire Princi-
pie so powerfully manifested on that planet would draw us
to it.
It is through correlation with the Martio-Venus force that
communication must some day be established between the
Earth and Mars. For ages Mars has been trying to com-
municate with the Earth other than psychidy and subjec-
tively, but the Earth has not as yet manifested sufficient sta-
bilized harmony for it to respond. In other words, the Earth
is not dearly sounding her own true key-note. If she were
sounding her note perfectly and harmoniously, she would so
truly take her place in the Music of the Spheres that it
would be easy to catch the note of any other planet, just as
when a person is singing in perfect tune in a chorus he has
no difficulty in correlating with the rest, but if out of tune
or rhythm he may think all the rest are wrong and find it
impossible to harmonize with them. Hence, when Mars
sends us his forces, they are only partially received and util-
ized, and are largely dissipated. If we could concentrate
upon and sound the note of Mars so clearly that it would cut
through the other vibrations, we would have a direct chan-
nel of communication.
Humanity is again passing over the point in the spiral of
evolution which was symbolized by Noah and his Ark. "The
earth also was corruut before God. and the earth was filled
Mars 413
with violence... And God said unto Noah, The end of
all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with
violence through them; and behold, I will destroy them with
the earth."2 That "the end of all flesh is come" is not to be
taken literally is shown by the fact that the Lord directed
Noah to build an Ark to preserve the seeds of the future
Great Race (Fifth). In its symbolic meaning an Ark of
Safety must once more be built in humanity through cor-
relation with the force of Mars and the consequent purifica-
tion of the blood of the Race, through which the salvation of
both man and the Earth must come. And since these are
the forces given man with which to multiply and repeople
the Earth, when perverted they people the Earth with evil,
vileness and disease, as is the condition so prevalent today,
nearly all chronic diseasestuberculosis, cancers, tumors,
arthritis deformans, as well as neuroses, hysteria, neurasthe-
nia, etc.,are now considered by certain advanced scientists1
as developing only in the presence of a blood-taint created
by the pel-versions of the creative forces and either com-
monly inherited or widely acquired in this life. Even tho
nearly one third of the cases acquire their taint in this life
quite innocently and unknowingly, nevertheless, they are kar-
mically connected with it from former incarnations. And
since it is through the blood that certain higher forces contact
the body, if the blood is tainted with the toxines of perverted
sex forces, it is impossible to contact certain spiritually crea-
tive forces from the higher realms.
The deluge took place toward the dose of the Atlantean
period, while that which is symbolized by the building of the
Ark, i.e., the separation of those who listened to and fol-
lowed the Divine Law from among those who clung to the
common practices of black magic, required the sixth and
seventh sub-races to accomplish, during which time there
2 Ce,iesis. vI, 11.14.
I According to the Abram,' Electronic Method winch measures the radio.activitj
of tb insiDes from a drop of blood, and destroys them by destructive vibration.
414 The Message of Aquaria
were many minor catadysms, but ere the final one, all who
followed the Divine Teachers were led in safety to colonies
in Egypt, Babylonia and even in Central Asia. In other
words, it required most of the sixth and seventh sub-races
for Noah to preach his teachings, educate, prepare and call
forth his faithful "children," aitho the biblical account makes
it seem but a short time.
The command has once more been given to man to build
an Ark which can float on the turbulent sea of humanity
and which shall contain the potencies of the purified creative
forces given to mankind from Mars to uplift the Race, to
re-create our bodies and regenerate the planet. Those who
are ready to listen are metaphorically standing on the verge
of Jordan, as indicated in our text, waiting for their Joshua
to bid them cross over and enter the Promised Land. To
them comes the promise, "Verily every place that the sole
of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given unto you."
This means all things in the cosmogony of life with which
we can correlate, all these has the Lord of Life already given
us to possess. We have but to enter in and partake of them,
from the lessons and blessings found in the wilderness of life
through which we are now passing, from Lebanonthe
astral worldand from the powers contained in the great
river Euphrates, or the generative force from Mars.
But man cannot live and accomplish these things for him---
self alone; for no individual can rise high enough to utilize
these forces to fulfill the destiny of the Race in any large
measure until a large proportion of advanced Souls have
reached this point of correlating with Mars. Therefore, all
who earnestly desire to help on the fulfillment of man's
destiny must first purify themselves and then work together
for the purification of the whole of manldnd.
Many students say that they do not wish to unite with
others in any group or movement, preferring to develop
themselves and silently send out their best thoughts for the
good of all, yet a uniting of forces and influence by those of
Mars 415
advanced thought and development is necessary if the needed
ideas are to be widely promulgated among mankind. Even
those who have reached the highest stage of Mastery possi-
ble on Earth have to remain in the higher realms and work
for its purification and man's emancipation, and must suffer
with both until man has reached a point of co-operation
in the Great Work of regeneration. While those who have
made even considerable progress in self-mastery must incar-
nate again and again as helpers and teachers of the Race
until they, too, are ready to unite and work in co-operation
with all others for the purification, enlightenment and regen-
eration of the Race.
CHAPTER XXXV
THE SPIRITUAL BIRTH
"Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again....
That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of
the Spirit is Spirit... The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou
hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and
whither it goeth: so is everyone that is born of the Spirit."St. John,
iii, 6-8.
"Seeing that ye have put off the old man with Ins deeds; and have
put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image
of him that created him."Colossians, iii, 9, 10.
In all presentations of religion much is said of a re-birth,
a change of heart, a renewed life and so forth, yet little is
taught exoterically as to the process or the laws of its attain-
ment. Such a vital change is not a chance occurrence or
merdy a vague mystical dream, the result of strong emo-
tion, crowd hysteria or even of religious contemplation alone.
It comes as the result of definite growth, the working out of
a definite law of Nature and in accord with the cydic law of
the individual.
Neither can the above text be classed as a mere allusion
to the law of reincarnation, altho it does show a familiarity
with that law in those days. The reference in the text to the
wind blowing where it listeth is intended to give some con-
ception of how the spiritual birth takes place; for the wind,
also the breath in man, is a manifestation of the Spirit. No
one has seen the wind, yet its velocity is measured, its effects
upon the physical plane scientifically studied and its power
harnessed to work for man.
So is it with the Spirit. While it is all-pervading and
omnipresent and can be cognized only by the eye of the
Spirit, yet its action in the human body is regulated by defi-
nite laws and can be studied. When man knows these laws
416
The Spiritual Birth 417
of the Spirit then, as with Jesus, both the wind and the sea
will obey him and he can harness them to accomplish in his
life.
According to the axiom, "As below, so above," to under-
stand the spiritual birth let us consider the laws of physical
birth. During the period of gestation the unborn child is at-
tached to the mother by the placenta from which it is sus-
pended in the amniotic waters by the umbilical cord. This
cord is three-fold in its structure, being made up of two
arteries and a vein twisted together like the strands of a
rope. Through this cord the growing infant receives life,
nourishment, magnetism and love from the mother, and all
the forces of the universe necessary to bring forth on the
physical plane. It is much like the stalk of a plant which
transmits the forces and substances from the soiL The
characteristic trend of thought of the father, his physical
peculiarities and traits, as well as those of the mother, also
the karmic influences generated by the Soul in its former
incarnations, form the three-fold stalk on which the child
must grow, hence all three factors modify the growing body
and constitute its physical heredity. Heredity, however, has
to do with the body and the personality and not with the
Soul, for during this period of preparing a body of flesh or
"coat of skin," the Soul is but overshadowing and super-
intending the process.
Only after the body is born does the Soul gradually begin
to gain direct influence over it, but it can never fully mani-
fest until a new and spiritual vehicle is built up within the
physical or until the seed-pattern of the Real Self which lies
dormant in the soil of the flesh for many incarnations begins
to develop and ultimately comes to birth; for until the vital
Sap of Life can flow unimpeded through the stalk the flower
cannot bloom nor the tree bear fruit.
Since the body is literally born of the flesh it naturally
must come under and be obedient to the law of the flesh, the
law of the physical plane. In fact, that law is implanted in
418 The Message of Aquaria
every cell and atom of the body, for nothing can manifest
on Earth except under the law. Jesus said: "Think not
that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am
come not to destroy, but to fulfill. For verily I say unto you,
Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no
wise pass from the law, until all be fulfilled." This refers to
the natural and universal law of physical manifestation, the
Law of Polarity or duality, and not as has generally been
supposed to the Mosaic law or to guidance through inspira-
tion (prophets).
If it referred to those laws alone it was a false statement,
for from both the Mosaic and the Christian law many, many
things have "passed away" and have been relegated to the
limbo of mistaken ideas or wrong conceptions of truth be-
fore the law as a whole has been fulfilled; yet, on the whole,
or in its essence, it must be fulfilled. But, in spite of this,
there are many sincere persons who believe that because of
higher laws, man can evolve above or in disregard to the
laws of this life. He can live under higher laws, it is true,
but they are laws which help him to become one with and
fulfill the physical laws, so that he is scarcely conscious of
them, just as we live unconscious of the law against murder
and theft when we have no desire to violate it: we are one
with it.
Man can live above the laws of the physical plane only
when the "heaven and earth" of this physical manifestation
have passed away and he finds himself no longer in a physical
world, but in a higher world whose laws are different. As
well might a child say that it would not obey the laws of the
ldndergarten and grammar school because, some day, it ex-
pected to go to high school and college. Yet in college he
will find the same fundamental laws of attention, obedience
and diligence required. Instead of transcending and living
above those laws and becoming a super-scholar, such a child
would merely bring trouble upon itself and make a record
for disobedience and failure to learn its lessons. hence. could
The Spiritual Birth 419
never pass the examinations for or enter the higher schools.
And if even Jesus dothed His immortal Spirit in a garment
of flesh and became subject to the law of the flesh, not to
destroy it but to fulfill it in its highest, purest, holiest and
most perfect way, when those who aspire to be His follow-
ers try to do the same they will the quicker prepare them-
selves in the only way possible for the New Birth.
The main object of each earthly embodiment of the im-
mortal Soul is to take another step in preparing for the
manifestation of its Divine Sonship, with all the potencies,
powers and capacities which it inherits from its Divine
Parentsits spiritual heredityand to manifest them in
harmony with the laws of the physical world. The Spiritual
Birth is the most important conscious step toward this great
completion of manifestation.
Just as the physical child is attached to the mother by
the umbilical cord, so are we attached to the Divine Mother.
The whole universe is the product of three mighty streams
of force which pass through all realms and are connected
with all things in all worlds like a mighty life-line or umbili-
cal cord carrying Life, Love and Light (understanding).
This is a twisted cord proceeding from the Divine Mother
which sustains all things that are not yet brought forth in the
fullness of their perfection.
This cord carries the force of the Divine Trinity. From
the Father comes Life, the Will to Be, the Universal One
Life from which all manifestations of life proceed, yet
which is sterile and unproductive unless joined with the
force of the Mother. From the Mother comes Love, immor-
tal Divine Love, the power which cherishes, sustains and
brings forth. From the Son comes the Light, the Sun-force
or the Christ-force, the offspring of the Father-Mother or
Life and Love manifested in the objective universe. Like-
wise, there is a cord, invisible yet real, which connects each
Soul with its Spiritual Parents, and over this cord there is a
force continually poured into man that ever seeks to bring
420 The Message of Aquaria
him to the point of Spiritual Birth where he can stand forth
truly as a Son of God.
How then shall we attain to this Spiritual Birth? Must
we ask as did Nicodemus, "How can a man be born when
he is old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's
womb and be born?" Even if we are old, in the sense of
being world-weary and no longer satisfied with the pleasures
and diversions of life, we must still have our Spiritual Birth
from the womb of the Divine Mother. But first we must
learn to love our Mother and realize that we have not been
left like forsaken children, lonely, sad and weeping in the
darkness of Earth conditions with no Comforter,' but that
we have a loving Spiritual Mother, the great Universal
Mother or the Love-aspect of the Godhead, who is always
watching over us and waiting for our period of gestation to
give us Spiritual Birth.
But we have first to grow tired or indifferent to the
pleasures of Earth life, tired of reacting exclusively to the
vibrations from the outer world, and long for a higher life
and begin to respond to it. Then we practically die to the
pleasures of Earth or to our response to them; that is, all
that Earth has heretofore given us either fails to bring hap-
piness or to satisfy the inner craving of our spiritual hun-
ger, and may even be but gall and wormwood to us. Then,
when we seem hopeless and forsaken, some day we will
suddenly be given a vision, or perhaps but a glimpse of our
Real Self, and there will awaken within usin our hearts,
not our headssuch a comprehension of Divine Wisdom,
such a great wave of Divine Love and such a Light of Un-
derstanding that we will realize the true nature of our Real
Divine Self, a vision which should be an inspiration for the
rest of our life.
But this does not mean that we have already become one
with that Divine Self and that the personality has reached
perfection, as is so often imagined. It means only that for
1 See The Dvizse Mother. Curtis.. Ciapter IV.
The Spiritual Birth 421
an instant the Spiritual Eye has opened and we have suc-
ceeded in attaining a definite realization of the perfect pat-
tern which we must fill in; have had a conception of that
which is to be attained. This realization we should strive to
hold in mind continually and ponder it in our hearts, for to
talk of it to others dissipates its force. By ascending in con-
sciousness we should then endeavor to identify our outer
life with our new realization, striving to do all things so as
to meet the approval of the Divine Self, thus aiding it to
react upon the atoms of our flesh and manifest through
them.
Once the Spiritual Birth has taken place in the heart
(Mary) it must be recognized and fathered by the mind
(Joseph). Our consciousness must grasp a new idea or
concept of our Divine Source and the essential nature of
our Higher or Real Spiritual Self. Once this new idea is
recognized by the mind, according to the laws of mind there
is a modification of the mind in conformity with the idea.
And if the idea is held continually or is recurred to fre-
quently and positively, it grows and grows and reacts upon
the body with greater and greater power until finally the
body is modified in conformity with the new idea, just as
was the mind. This is true of the birth of every new con-
ception in proportion to the power we give to it.
But the Spiritual Birth means far more. It means the
birth within us of a Spiritual Body, the true pattern of the
real Spiritual Self, with all its consciousness and powers,
which then begins to grow within the physical body with its
flesh as soil, until it finally permeates the flesh and modifies,
spiritualizes, redeems and immortalizes it. Therefore, we
need not seek this New Birth any more than the human
fetus strives for birth. We do not have to pray and ask and
struggle; in fact, our struggling but delays it. Our arguing,
our introspection, our complaints, our mental anguish, all
are like boulders in the stream, damming it up and holding
422 The Message of Aquaria
it back. All we have to do is to rest under the heart of the
Divine Mother and let her nourish us.
This does not mean that we are to blind ourselves to the
faults and mistakes of humanity or refuse to recognize and
correct our own faults, for every fault or inharmony creates
an opposition to the flow of the forces, produces a kink in
the cord, as it were. We must, therefore, seriously face
ourselves and cease our opposition to the manifestation of
the Divine in us; must learn what our Real Self is and what
influences come from It and what from the lower personal
self. Think of the two great streams from the Father-
Mother uniting in us and bringing forth the Son or the
Divine Light.
Then through aspiration and the realization of our heritage
and meditation upon our divine Higher Self, and an effort
to live as a spiritual being instead of as a child of the flesh,
we raise our consciousness into the spiritual world where
we are open to the impress of the pattern of our Real Self.
It is still the same perfect pattern of the Divine Self with
which we began our pilgrimage through the lower worlds,
but until now, owing to the density of matter and the limita-
tions of the flesh, we have almost lost touch with it, hence
it is not easy now to reach up to its realization.
After this first period of ecstatic realization of and union
with the Divine Self, the ecstasy of Divine Conception, we
will seeni to drop back into the old conditions of life and
pass a period of spiritual darkness, comparable to the period
of gestation, a cyde of nine periods of longer or shorter
duration, according to how we react to them and the tests
they bring. Yet all the time we must remember and realize
that we are sustained and nourished and warmed by the
great Divine Mother through the three-fold cord of Life,
Love and Light, and that we can draw upon Her for all that
we need.
During the periods of darkness of our spiritual gestation,
instead of becoming discouraged at the darkness and feeling
The Spiritual Birth 423
that we might as well give up, realize that all we have to do
is to cease struggling and absorb the forces from the Divine
Mother, for it is through Her that we are fed and sus-
tained and all our wants supplied, even tho, like the physical
fetus, we seem to be blindly floating in the amniotic waters
of the great ocean of life, shut up in the darkness of the
womb of the Divine Mother. She feels our every move, re-
sponds to our every thought and emotion and in the fullness
of time will bring us to our Spiritual Birth; for the same
stream of force that swept us into this dark Cave of Initia-
tion must bring us forth in the fullness of time.
A good exericse to aid in absorbing the forces of the
Divine Mother is to stand facing the Eastso the magnetic
currents will flow through us more easilyand holding the
left hand over the head, palm up, with the hand in a cup
shape, and the right hand over the solar plexus, repeat the
following mantrain: "Oh Divine Mother! Illumine me with
Divine Wisdom, vivify me with Divine Life and purify me
with Divine Love, that in all I think and say and do I may be
more and more Thy child." We should then hold the position
until we feel in our hand the tingle of the forces we have
invoked. Do the same with the left band and repeat twice
more with each hand alternately (three times with each
hand). We may also repeat our wonderful mantram, "The
Prayer for Light,"2 day after day, and hold its ideal dearly
in mind. And then as we give it more and more power each
day it will react upon our bodies. Some who have done this,
find themselves also repeating the prayers in dreams, espe-
cially the Protecting Invocation, when the dream seems
threatening.
Let us determine to struggle no longer; to cease opposi-
tion, to cease complaining and rest in the peace of realiza-
tion. Rest in the knowledge that because the Life and Love
and Light are universal, and that there is no part of the uni-.
verse where they are not, there cannot be a cell or atom of
See AppeIiLr.
424 The Message of Aquaria
our bodies or a faculty of our minds where they are not,
hence the Great Life-line unites us with all that is.
Let us also remember that if we are still unborn, spirit-
ually, for that very reason the Divine Mother carries us
under her heart and pours out her Love more abundantly and
travails in pain with us until the Christ (the Light) be born
and manifested in us.
Without the manifestation of Divine Life, Divine Love
and Divine Light through us the whole universe is imperfect
to that extent. Each Soul is needed and each is beloved
of the Divine Father-Mother. Therefore, rest in the Lord
(Law), and wait patiently on Him. For this is the Law
of our Being, and it cannot pass away until it is fulfilled
in our flesh, for in our flesh we must ultimately see and real-
ize God.3
$ Job. xix. 26.
CHAPTER XXXVI
THE TRUE PRIESTHOOD
"For the Priest's lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek
the law at his mouth: for he is the messenger of the Lord of hosts."
Maksclii, ii, 7.
"Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way
before me: and the Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to Ins
temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in: be-
hold, he shall come, saith the Lord of hosts."Malachi, iii, 1.
"For this Melchisedec king of Salem, priest of the most high God.
Without father, without mother, without descent, having neither
beginning of days1 nor end of life: but made like unto the Son of
God; abideth a priest continually."Hebrews, ,ii, 1-3.
The term priest in its various aspects means an elder
(presbyter), prince (kohen), hierophant (hiereus), and
prophet. All these meanings go back to the early days of
the Race when humanity was taught face to face by the
Elder Brothers, the Divine Beings who are the spiritual
parents of mankind. As humanity grew in intellectual at-
tainment these Divine Teachers withdrew and left in Their
stead the more advanced Souls among men who had been
selected, gathered together and trained in the secret sciences
until they had passed life's great initiation and become one
in consciousness with their Divine Progenitors.
Such initiated priests needed no credentials, no apostojic
succession, no robes or outward show of authority, for they
carried within them the memory of the touch of the hand
of the Great Initiator and were able to manifest and demon-
strate the power of their priestly office and their right to
serve forever before the altar of the Most High. Having
been set apart and trained in the laws of the spiritual realms
42
426 The Message of Aquaria
and the science of consciousiy communicating (theopneusty)
with the spiritual Progenitors of the Race, the gods, they
were able to point out how the physical manifestations of
the Great Law must be observed to produce harmony on
Eart
True superiority is always recognized and sought, both
for advice and leadership, hence as the High Priests inter-
preted the Divine Law, they naturally became the governors
or kings of the people, while the less advanced priests per-
formed various other functions. This is the basis of truth
in the doctrine of the divine right of kings, but it is true only
when the king is also a prophet and priest before the Lord.
In Egypt the Pharaoh was also a High Priest of the Tem-
ple. In many more modern nationsRussia, Japan, etc.,
the ruler is also the acknowledged head of the Church, his
coronation as king being followed by his consecration as
priest.
Since religion is the foundation on which all civilization
is built, if this foundation is laid according to mere human
judgmenteven the bestthe whole structure is doomed,
sooner or later, to totter and fall. The fact that evolution
and progress have steadily advanced, in spite of the many
false notes of man-made interpretation of Divine Wisdom,
shows that the original foundation was laid by the gods
themselves, who came to Earth for that purpose. True
reform does not mean tearing up the foundations of religion
or society, but merely substituting the Divine Teachings
wherever the human has been found wanting. The rule
of the true priest-king is a true kingship in the highest sense,
because he is accomplishing the best good of the people in
seeing that the divine laws are carried out. Such a rule is
always beneficent, since the rules of conduct he lays down
are the reflection on Earth of the laws of harmony operating
in the higher realms.
The commands for the establishment of the priesthood, as
The True Priesthood 427
outlined in the Hebrew scriptures, show by their beautiful
symbology what a divinely ordained priesthood should be.
It is there plainly indicated that the priesthood must be set
apart and consecrated by the Most High, for aitho the
priestly' office, functions and dress are described most nh-
nutely, there is no earthly ceremony given for the consecra-
tion of the priesthood. The account simply says "the Lord
filled their hands," symbolizing the divine touch which gave
them the power to perform the magical rites pertaining to
their office.
When the High Priest desired to consult the Lord he
donned the sacred vestment called the Ephodwithout which
it was said no magical ceremony could be performed, either
black or whiteentered the Holy of Holies, faced the Ark
of the Covenant, and propounded the questions of the people.
This vestment bore a breastplate containing the twelve sacred
stones upon which were carved the names of the twelve tribes
of Israel (the twelve signs of the zodiac), showing the foun-
dation of magical power to be based upon the spiritual forces
emanating from the signs of the zodiac.1 Attached to the
Ephod was the mysterious Urim and Thummim, of which
the Bible speaks so much, yet gives no satisfactory descrip-
tion or explanation. It is said to signify "light and perfec-
tion or doctrine and judgment," but in reality it symbolizes
the mystic power of gathering the positive and negative
potencies of the zodiac and through the power of the will
making them accomplish that which the priest directsa
power attained only by one who has passed life's great initia-
tion and reached Mastery.
Such an initiated priesthood was founded by Meichisedec,
-and only when a priesthood "after the order of Melchisedec"
has been re-established and humanity again gladly follows
the Divine Lawnot as children, but because they recognize
its authoritycan the problems of mankind be truly solved
and the conditions under which humanity is suffering today
iSec The Key of Deztsny Curti,s. Chapter i.
428 The Message of Aquaria
be finally readjusted. For these conditions are the result of
following the human rather than the divinely appointed
priesthood. Especially in this day do we find religious
teachers telling their most advanced followers, who come to
them for an explanation of the mysteries their Souls have
experienced, that such things must not be questioned or
studied, showing plainly that, even tho they are priests, they
are not in touch with the Divine, and hence cannot explain
the deeper spiritual mysteries. They are not true priests of
the Lord, else they could put on the Ephodthe robe of
spiritual at-one-meatand inquire of the Lord direct and
receive the answer to any question or problem.
The true or White Magicians are symbolized by Meichi-
sedec, who was "made, not after the law of a carnal com-
mandment, but after the power of an endless life," (i. e., an
Avatar), and whose superiority and power was so great that
Abram recognized him as a divinely manifested Being and
gladly paid tithes unto him.
Perhaps there is no more mysterious personage mentioned
in the Bible than this great priest-king, Melchisedec. We
are told so little concerning him, yet what we are told implies
so much, that he has been a mystery to all students. Bible
scholars tell us that Melchisedec's father was Eraclas, Her-
cules or Hellos, the god of the Sun, while his mother was
Asteria, Astaroth or Selene, the goddess of the Moon. This
parentage makes him identical with Shem, the eldest son of
Noah, while the esoteric teachings identify both Noah and
Melchisedec with the Planetary Ruler of Mars. Noah is
but another aspect of Jehovah, while the ark or the crescent
Moon symbolizes the divine Mother-principle, their son al-
ways being the Christ-child. This explains why Jesus was
ordained "a priest forever after the order of Melchisedec,"
for He had the same parentage, "Without father, without
mother, without descent, having neither beginning of days,
nor end of life," i.e., the power of the Most High (the
Father-principle) and Mary or Mare, the Great Deep or
The True Priesthood 429
Divine Love (the Mother-principle). Among the Egyptians
the crescent or ark is placed beneath the feet of the Divine
Mother after the Christ-child has been brought forth, a
symbol which the Christian Church has appropriated from
the Egyptians without change and presented to its followers
as the Virgin Mary.
In the allegory, Melchisedec is said to have founded
Salem, which after its capture by the Jebusites was called
Jebu-Salem, and after they were driven out by David, be-
came Jerusalem, the Holy City. Applied to the personality,
the Holy City is man's divine heritage, his originally pure,
spiritual body, ere disobedience to the Law had defiled it,
which is founded and ruled over by the Divine Self until the
Jebusites, or man's lower principles, enter and gradually
take possession. This allegory refers to the ancient days
when the early sub-races gradually fell away from their
Divine Guidance and followed after the human rulers, man's
developing reason and intellect. Only when David, the King
of Love, conquers the Jebusites, can reason and intellect be
illumined by the light of the Christ. Then will the New
Jerusalem come down out of heaven, in which "they need no
candle, neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth
them light."
Jerusalem, the city in which the human priesthood (priests
and Levites) had their temple, altho a real city upon the
physical plane, was and still is used allegorically to sym-
bolize the various stages of the unregenerate human body.
It was notorious for the stench that arose from the burning
flesh of the animals daily sacrificed, from the stables in
which they were kept and the various bloody offerings made
for the sins of the people. Just so the sacrifices which the
personality offers its godsworldly position, greed, main-
mon, animal desire, etc.,are like the bloody offerings made
by the priests and Levites, i.e., able to accomplish nothing
but the pollution of the air of the city (the breath of the
Spirit) and the degradation of its inhabitants. But just as
430 The Message of Aquaria
the lower aspect of Jerusalem had its concrete expression on
the physical plane, so must its higher aspectthe regener-
ated spiritualized human body (Nirmanakaya), wherein the
Prince of Peace reigns a priest forever after the order of
Meichisedec" and offers his sacrifice before the Lordfind
concrete expression on the physical plane. In other words,
there must ultimately be established upon the Earth a great
City or Center of Civilization which will just as perfectly
typify the regenerate state of mankind as Jerusalem does
the unregenerate. It shall come down out of heaven or come
through the inspired and illumined minds of those seers and
seeresses who can reach up in consciousness into the heaven
realms or states of spiritual consciousness. And it shall
manifest on Earth when man is able to manifest the Divine
more perfectly through the human.
When the true priesthood serves before the altar there will
be no literal sacrifices of rams and bulls, but only a pouring
out of that which they symbolized. The blood of the ram
signifies the stream of spiritual life-force poured out upon
mankind through the sign Aries. The sacrifice will be ac-
complished when through the lessons learned by correlating
with the higher aspects of Aries the intellect gladly sacrifices
its ruling power upon the altar of love and obedience to
Divine Law. In other words, man will bring the first fruits
of his mental flocks to the Christ. The blood of bulls sym-
bolizes the life-essence of the sign Taurus, or the patient
bringing forth on the physical plane through toil, labor and
sacrifice, of the highest that physical life can express, and
laying this also upon the altar of the Christ. In the New
Jerusalem, where the great priest Melchisedec shall reign as
prophet, priest and king, daily sacrifices shall be offered for
all the people, but instead of the stench of literal sacrifices
there shall arise the "sweet smelling savor unto the Lord,"
so long prophesied. For it could never be fulfilled by the
offering of the literal life-blood of animal victims.
Melchisedec, being "without father, without mother, with-
The True Priesthood 431
out descent," would be debarred from the priesthood, accord-
ing to the requirements of the priests and Levites, just as
was Jesus, because of his non-mortal parentage. The priests
and Levites were the humanly ordained priesthood which
arose as a result of man's refusal to follow the higher law
as delivered by the divinely inspired priesthood. The human
priesthood may claim "apostolic succession," or even "direct
continuance," but as long as their only claim to the priest-
hood is a certain amount of intellectual training or the pos-
session of a diploma from earthly teachers, instead of the
power to see behind the veil and consciously commune with
the Divine Instructors of the Race, they can never become
true priests before the Lord. And as long as mankind looks
to such an earthly priesthood for Divine Guidancewhich
can be imparted only by the spiritual counterpart of the
Ephod and the Urim and Thummimit is no wonder that
humanity goes heart-hungry and receives stones when it asks
bread. For only as the High Priest can don the Ephod and
through the power of the Urim and Thummim stand before
the Ark and receive his guidance direct from the Lord, can
he truly minister to the spiritual needs of the people.
An earthly priesthood grows more and more materialistic
as it gets farther and farther from the direct guidance of
the Divine and further from manifesting the divine stand-
ards of love, tolerance and brotherhood. Under such cir-
cumstances it is wise that church and state be separated, for
such an earthly ordained priesthood has no more ability to
rule wisely than have civil rulers.
Meichisedec was King of Righteousness (Sedek), and also
King of Peace (Salem). This further connects him with
Jesus, who is called Prince of Peace. In other words, Mel-
chisedec is a term used to symbolize a special outpouring
or embodiment of the Christ-principlean Avatarto the
early Fifth Great (Aryan) Race, which was founded by the
symbolic Abraham. Jesus was a later manifestation, or
Avatar, of the same Christ-principle to the fifth sub-race of
432 The Message of Aquaria
the Fifth Great Race. An Avatar is not a mortal, but a
great spiritual Being, who voluntarily descends into Earth
conditions to help humanity. He must be without earthly
parentage, for He is a direct manifestation of the Divine
to man. He suddenly appears at the proper cyclic moment
to re-establish the divine priesthood and bring mankind back
to the true principles of the spiritual life. Hence, Melchise-
dcc symbolized an Avatar who came to the early Aryan
Race to found or again give out, as had been done in At-
lantis, the one great Wisdom Religion for the new cyde,
from the seeds of which have sprung all the great religions
now known to man.
An Avatar appears in a body which seems to be mortal,
but is not so in reality, for the atoms composing it are spir-
itualized and immortal, hence have naught to do with death
or decay. The matter comprising it is so sensitive that,
through the power of will, it can be made to manifest on any
plane of consciousness. Hence, when such a Being desires
to appear among men, by a single act of will the rate of
vibration of His spiritualized body is slowed down to the
rate of the physical plane and it becomes objective, appar-
ently a mortal body of a very fine type. In fact, it corre-
sponds to the spiritual (Nimanakaya) body to which St.
Paul refers: "There is a natural body, and there is a spir-
itual body The first was made a living
soul; the last. . . . was made a quickening spirit
The first man is of the earth, earthy: the second man is the
Lord from heaven. . . . as we have borne the image of
the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly
Behold, I shew you a mystery."2
Such a body would transcend the limitations of any one
Race and embody the perfection of all Races, hence could not
arouse race-prejudice by being assigned to any one people.
2! Co,ii,jkimiuz zv. 44-S-7-9.
The True Priesthood 433
Such an appearance is not manifested through a body born
of woman, but like Melchisedec, is without parents, as such
appearances have always been throughout the ages.
The world is today awaiting the advent of such another
Divine Teacher or true Prophet, a personalized embodiment
of the great Christos-principle of the universe, the all-per-
vading, vivifying power which underlies all manifestations
of the One Life. He comes again, as of old, as the Sun of
Righteousness to re-establish the Divine Priesthood and re-
store the principles of the ancient Wisdom Religion to the
sixth sub-race now just beginning.
As this great spiritual Being approaches the Earth-plane
each heart who can respond to the vibrations of His mes-
sage will come more or less consciously into touch with Him,
no matter what organization or movement he may be work-.
ing in. And according as the rational mind of such a one has
been trained in the laws of such manifestations and the true
philosophy of the mysteries, will his interpretation be dear
or imperfect. There are today many hearts who are re--
sponding more or less consciously to this force of Divine
Love now being focused upon the Earth-plane in greater
measure than ever before.
Just as at certain seasons of the year there is a great out-
pouring of theological students who have graduated from
the seminaries, so in the Divine World there are certain cyclic
periods when Divine Love and Wisdom is poured out in
greater abundance or when it may be said that many priests
are initiated or receive the spiritual illumination which marks
them as true priests. Hence, in every organization and so-
ciety promulgating the true Divine Wisdom there will arise
some advanced Soul who is capable of being directly over-
shadowed by a ray of spiritual consciousness from the com-
ing Avatar and thus become to that society or organization
a direct representative of the Avatar. These advanced Souls
are called Avesha, or partial Avatars, for, while they are
not the Avatarin that they are mortal and have a physical
434 The Message of Aquaria
personality to contend withthey are overshadowed at cer-
tain periods by His divine consciousness. "Necessarily the
messages of the various Avesha Avatars will differ in details,
for the ability of such a channel to give out the teaching
depends upon such factors as the line of endeavor he is in-
terested in, his race-thought, his mental and spiritual capac-
ity, his habits of life, his knowledge of the laws and philoso-
phy of the higher life and the intellectual training his mind
through which all the teachings must passhas received.
In this way the members of every society and movement
shall have the divine truths spoken in their own language
wherein they were born, i.e., couched in the terminology,
symbols and characteristic methods of expression peculiar to
their own avenue of truth."3
Keeping this law in mind we see that an Avatar does not
come to any one society, order, movement or sect, but to
humanity. And His teachings will be so divine and perfect,
yet so simple, unprejudiced and unbiased by the character-
istics of any cult that they will be equally applicable to all
and will appeal to all spiritually-minded people, no matter
what their Race, creed or special trend of thought.
The memory of the past is beginning to dawn upon man-
kind today, but how few listen to the cry of the ages!
Not one earnest seeker but has heard the echo of something
sacred, which may seem to just elude his grasp. This life-
period is one more opportunity to remember; not only to
remember but to set definitely to work. Once more will
there come upon the Earth in our midst the same great
Priest-King and Initiator, the Priest of the Most High
whom we last knew as Jesus. Pray God that He may find
us all waiting; that not one upon whose head He has placed
His hands in consecration may be missing.
Remember that our dreams of Divine Love are true; that
life is more than it seems; that the day of little things shall
3 Fur fuither details see The Voice of Isu. Curtis.. Chapter X.
The True Priesthood 435
grow into the day of the great things. Today pay attention
to the little things. The Avatar must come, but how perfect
shall be His work depends upon how many can grasp the
Great Plan, how many are ready to sink personality in that
perfect obedience which the Law of love, justice, peace and
righteousness demands.
There can be no compulsory obedience. Each life must
gladly follow the discipline necessary for the accomplish-
ment, not of its own ideas of life and service, but the perfect
establishment of the true Priesthood of the Most High, the
establishment upon Earth of a reflection of the Hierarchies
of Heaven.
The cry of the Great One is now going forth to all who
can hear: "Come unto me, my little lambs. The fold is
waiting and the heart of the Shepherd yearning. What is
this fold? It is the great Priesthood of the Most High, the
body of His chosen servants gathered from out the flower
of the Races that have passed, and consecrated to the uplif t-
ment of humanity, sworn by the most sacred vows to under-
stand, to love, and to give."
"Not one word can retutn unto me void. Not one thought
through all the eternities is lost. Think then of the thoughts
that have been shed around you as you journeyed through
the wilderness of lives and lives! Think of the words that
have been spoken through the mouths of the chosen prophets
in your ears, life after life, age after age! Will ye still be
deaf and dumb to love? To be sheep of the fold means
to know your Shepherd, to follow gladly, to hear His voice
and obey.. Not to obey because it seems to you reasonable
and profitable and according to your worldly judgment, but
to obey because you know and love the Voice that speaks;
because you have learned through the ages that are past that
this is the Shepherd who leadeth you beside the still waters
of life; who feedeth you with the green and tender grass;
who sheltereth you in the fold of His loving anus."
436 The Message of Aquaria
"This is why you follow and why you obey. This is the
great test of the ages. How often have you gone astray
seeking for strange gods in new pastures! How long has
your return and recognition been awaited! And now the
clock of time has struck the hour. Behold the thy-star rises
high in the heavens. Soon, soon, must He come on Earth
clothed in the garment of flesh. Will He find you still wait-
ing for His blessings? Or will He find you indifferent, fol-
lowing after your own reason, doubtful of His voice? Un-
less the sheep know the voice of the Shepherd they will be
blind and will never recognize His face. Unless they learn
to love, to recognize and thus obey unquestioningly the divine
message they will never be ready to take their places in the
Great Temple where the True Priesthood must work out the
great scheme of salvation, the reflection upon Earth of the
Hierarchies of Heaven."
CHAPTER XXXVII
A NEW TESTAMENT
"Forasmuch as ye are manifestly declared to be the epistle of Christ
ministered by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the liv.
ing God: not in tables of stone, but in fleshy tables of the heart....
Who also hath made us able ministers of the new testament; not of
the letter, but of the .spirit; for the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth
life."II Corinthians, iii, 3-6. -
Principles and universal laws are eternal and invariable;
their interpretations are transient and yariable. Creeds and
dogmasman's efforts to interpret and explain to the
masses the mysteries of Divine Manifestationappear in
every age, serve their purpose, pass away and are forgotten.
But the principles and the symbols which express them re-
main.
Whenever a great body of mankind reaches a point
where it has either outgrown the symbolic language used
to interpret an inspired revelation given to a past generation,
or when previous interpretations of the eternal verities have
become encrusted with so much that is misconceived and
false, or have become so materialized and literal that they
no longer reveal the truths they were meant to teach, there
is given to the world a new outpouring of truth, inspired by
the same Divine Source of all truth, a New Testament for
a new dispensation. And invariably those giving forth the
New Testament are regarded by those of the old dispensation
as heretics and disturbers of the people's minds.
As the old Mosaic dispensation drew to its close, Jesus,
the great Avatar for the new dispensation, is represented as
gathering His disciples together into an upper chamber and
giving them what He designated as a New Testament, i. e.,
437
438 The Message of Aquaria
a new and fuller interpretation of the mystery of the Divine
Sacrifice than was taught in the orthodox and conventional
way in the synagogues. The Mosaic law gave to humanity
ten commandments, revealed to Moses amid thunderings and
lightnings, enumerating the things man should not do, the
negative "Thou shalt not" being the keynote of the
admonitions. Jesus gave to the world but two command-
ments, which He said contained all the law and the prophets.
"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and
with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy
strength. ... Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself."
No longer were the things man must not do enumerated,
but the positive things he should do. For if we love with
all our hearts both God and our neighbor, we cannot kill,
commit adultery, steal, bear false witness, etc. The new
commandments concerned those things which we should do
to be happy and live at peace with the world. This was the
keynote of the New Testament given by Jesus. But because
Jesus departed from the old negative teaching of the com-
mandments He was regarded as the greatest heretic of His
day; was called a teacher of heresies and sedition, a stirrer
up of the people and a dangerous man. And so has it ever
been with those who present new ideas and new expressions
of old truths, whether in medicine, science, art or religion.
Truth is like a great King's Highway, built by the Angels
or Messengers in the beginning, by the following of which
man might return to his Father's home. This spiritual High-
way extends throughout the world and has branches in every
land. But as it is traveled by millions upon millions, age
after age, it becomes worn and full of ruts. Those who think
they know and those who are timid, when they find there are
steep hills to dimb, gorges to pass through and rivers to ford,
put up sectarian sign-boards warning their followers to
beware certain dangers, or telling them to conduct their
journey in a particular manner and with certain observances.
In many places the oldest of these signs have fallen down
A New Testament 439
or grown so dim that they cannot be deciphered. Other
pilgrims, often knowing even less about the way, have tried
to repair these signs and in relettering them have changed
their wording and caused confusion. Later on these signs
have been mistaken for original directions by no means to
be overlooked. Still others have built detours which they
think will either shorten the journey, make it more pleasant,
or will avoid what seem to be dangers ahead. These also,
in time, have been considered by later pilgrims as part of
the original Highway. But when the road has become so
narrow, so rough and so confused by sectarian detours and
mental ruts that travel is sadly impeded, the King sends
forth his servants to repair, reconstruct, straighten and widen
the road. Each such repairing and resurfacing of the High-
way we call a New Testament, or a restatement of the Way,
the Truth and the Life.
The new interpretation which Jesus presented to His
disciples was that, instead of the slaughter of animals and
the literal shedding of their blood being used to symbolize
the Mystery of Sacrifice, the New Testament should bring
a deeper understanding of the world-old truth which the
slaughter of animals expressed in but a crude and material-
ized manner. He did not tear from them entirely the old
beliefs in which they had dwelt so long, but He interpreted
in a higher way the ideals which the materialized symbols
indicated. He did not alter the eternal truths which the
symbols sought to express, but He widened and deepened
His disciples' comprehension of them and led them into a
fuller understanding of the Mystery.
Following the same law, this Order does not seek to tear
down and destroy the old beliefs of its students, but to
expand and illumine them so that they shall have a deeper,
broader and more comprehensive understanding of the Mys-
teries back of the symbols, and hence of the many miscon-
ceptions current in regard to them. In other words, its
Teachings add to instead of take from. They are broaden-
440 The Message of Aquaria
ing and deepening; inclusive of others instead of exclusive;
constructive instead of destructive.
In the days of Jesus, as today, the Mysteries could be
grasped only by the few; only those who could enter the
"upper chamber" of intuition and inspiration where alone
the Mysteries can be revealed; only those whose expansion
of consciousness enabled them to grasp higher ideals, greater
truths; only those who were ready to leave all and fol-
low Him, i.e., who were ready to leave all the literal, revolt-
ing and unsatisfying teachings and follow the new and
higher interpretation which was to carry them one step be-
yond the old Mosaic idea as then presented by the slaughter
of animals. And yet the slaughter of animals was a true
symbol, and to the crude and materialistic understanding of
the Race by whom it was practiced, was not wholly evil.
It probably awakened in many minds a true understanding
of what was symbolized, i.e., the sacrifice of the anlinal
traits and appetites that the higher spiritual man might
manifest. So in every age certain customs and practices
are not wholly to be condemned if they are the best the peo-
ple of the age can conceive of as a round of the Ladder of
Life on which they can rest their feet (understanding) for
a moment as they climb. The rule is that we should live up
to the highest that our minds can conceive of and be true
to our inner convictions, but condemn not other less devel-
oped Souls who cannot see or understand as clearly as we.
So is it today. These Teachings will appeal only to those
who are ready to turn from another literal blood sacrifice
this time not of animals but of a man, a literal interpreta-
tion which the New Testament of Jesus was never meant to
teachand grasp a still higher realization of the meaning of
the Mystery of Sacrifice.
The New Testament which Jesus gave was that while "It
is the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul" and
"Without shedding of blood is no remission," nevertheless
"It is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should
A New Testament 441
take away sins."1 What is the meaning of this paradox?
What is the sacrifice and what is the blood that must atone?
The sacrifice is indeed that of man, not Jesus, but the lower
man, the animal self, the personality, to the will of the
Divine. The blood that is shed is indeed that of man, yet
not the literal physical blood, but the spiritual life-force.
The physical blood is the carrier of the physical life-force
and is, therefore, used to symbolize the spiritual life-force
or the Christ-force or the blood of the Christ within man.
This was symbolized in the old days by the blood of ani-
mals and in Jesus' time by the wine of the Eucharist. When
Jesus said of the wine: "This is my blood of the new
testament, which is shed for many for the remission of
sins,"2 He obviously referred not to His physical blood,
which was not shed, but to the great sacrifice of the Christ-
force in man coming down into or being shed in the dark-
ness of his outer life; the pouring out of the spiritual life-
force (blood) to redeem that which was "lost" or lacked
spiritual life-force.
To symbolize this great Mystery of Sacrifice anew, Jesus
took bread and wine instead of the body and blood of ani-
mals, and with these symbols summed up His whole life
and teaching, namely, that it is not in vain that a man lay
down his life for another, whether it be his friend and his
country or the sacrificing of the life of the lower man to
the higher.
The whole Gospel story is focused in this idea. But as
the centuries passed we find that the finite tendency to mis.
interpret, limit and materialize even the grandest symbols
has again materialized the new symbols of the eternal sacri-
fice and redemption given by Jesus into the literal sacrifice of
His physical body and the shedding of His physical blood.
He is also continually represented as "a man of sorrow
and acquainted with grief." Alas, how few can differen-
1 Hebrews, x. 4.
2 Matthew. xxvi. 28.
442 The Message of Aquaria
tiate between the godlike acquaintance with and understand-
ing of both sorrow and grief which enabled Him to sym-
pathize with and help mankind under all conditions; to
differentiate between the part these experiences must play
in man's evolution and the mere stolid helplessness of a
human victim to the vicissitudes of earthly existence! In
holding this mental picture for ages the Church has lost
sight of the glory, of the love, the strength, the courage and
the uplifting joy of One who willingly endured the sordid
conditions of Earth life that He might leave foot-prints to
show all who would follow that those things could not touch
or appall the soul.
Instead of being regarded as a symbol of the descent of
the Christ into matter and the pouring forth of the Christ-
force, the crucifixion has been so materialized and literally
interpreted that it has been used as an excuse for negative
submission to suffering and sorrow, so that in time, self-
torture was looked upon as meritorious and a doleful coun-
tenance was a mark of sanctity. Yet, because back of the
misinterpretation of the symbols there was a divine truth,
man realized within himself that there was something there
which he could not grasp. As he grew spiritually and ex-
panded intellectually, there were many who looked at the
materialized idea and revolted at the thought of allowing an-
other to suffer for their sins, especially as they were told
that the propitiation was made centuries before they were
born! And being unable to accept the literal interpretation
they turned away from all religion and were lost either in a
slough of indifference or in a mental labyrinth of speculation
which brought neither peace nor satisfaction. The New
Testament given out through The Order of Christian Mystics
is an effort to show to all the truth back of the allegory, that
they may again sit down at the Master's table and satisfy
their spiritual hunger.
In the mystic silence of the "upper chamber ;" in the higher
understanding of the everlasting truth of the Mystery of
A New Testament 443
Sacrifice' the true disciples again today as of old are bidden
by their Lord to sit at meat with Him. And to His disciples
of today He has given the task of preparing an "upper
chamber," and of extending His invitation to whomsoever
will come. Here they may recognize that it is this same
Jesus who has come again. He whom they have seen taken
out of their sight amidst the clouds of higher criticism, the
doubts of a disappointed Christendom and the cynicisms of
the world; whose body they have seen broken by the doc-
trinal warfare over the literal teachings which have divided
His followers into many sects; whose life-force (blood) has
been wasted in dolorous practices of asceticism by those who
refused to accept it in spirit and in truth and allow it to make
them more virile, valiant and joyous conquerors; this same
Jesus has come again "in like manner" as they saw Him go.
He now comes "with power and great glory," and with the
Light of spiritual understanding for His faithful ones.
They saw Him sadly depart from His houses of worship
when emphasis was given to dogma rather than to spiritual
understanding; when the world began to worship the sym-
bol as a finite happening; when the minds of men were dis-
turbed because the investigations of higher criticism threw
doubt upon the literal actuality of the symbol as an event
in physical history; when His followers sought Him histor-
ically only to find an empty tomb with its grave-clothes,
and cried out in bitter disappointment: "They have taken
away my Lord and we know not where they have laid him."
Let them now listen to the answer of the Angel: "He is
not here: for he is risen..... Why seek ye the living
among the dead ?"
Never yet has the multitude answered that question, yet
the answer is the New Testament given to this Order to pro-
claim to this generation. We are not to look back to and
worship a crucified, dead and buried Jesus, but a risen and
ever-present Lord of Light, Life and Love! Not a literal
$ See aiaiger ul herein.
444 The Message of Aquaria
event, past and gone ages ago, but a living Presence, who
calls us to sup with Him now in the "upper chamber !"
When the world was young and thoughtless, it was per-
haps wise to hide the deeper Mysteries from the masses,
who could not comprehend and might profane them, yet the
truth has always been known to the Elect. Even today in
some branches of the Church, a part of the sacrament of the
Eucharist is withheld from the congregation. The wafer
(body) alone is given to the people while the wine (blood)
is drunk by the priests. The hungry but unthinking and un-
inquisitive populace is fed with the dry wafer and taught to
bow in adoration before a dead and crucified Jesus, lest a
personal realization of a riren and living Christ cause them
to throw off the bonds of priestly subjection. But the risen
Lord now gives to the world a New Testament so that all
who are hungry for spiritual food, who are tired of suffer-
ing, who are sick of bloodshed, may know the glorious
truth of His living Presence. As long as a literal blood sac-
rifice of one man or many is believed in as a propitiation for
sin, man will never wake up to the belief that war can be
abolished. For if the physical blood of one man could wipe
away the sins of the world, why might not the blood of mil-
lions, shed for high ideals on the battle fields, wipe away
the sins of the nations? But this it has not and never can
accomplish; far from it.
As ambassadors of the risen and ever-living Christ we
cry out to the world that the Bread (body of teachings)
that is given you is Bread indeed! It is filled with the Wine
of living truth. The Great One has come to Earth, not on
a cross, but full of Divine Life, in a body which is ani-
mated by the spiritual life-blood. To the open eye of Spirit
He stands among you. Behold His power to accomplish
(hands), then nailed upon the cross of matter by the igno-
rance of the multitude, but now held out in power and
blessing! Behold His understanding (feet), then rendered
helpless by the cruel nails of misunderstanding, but now
A New Testament 445
"How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that
bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that publisheth
salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth."4 Behold
His side from whose wound flowed both water and blood!
From it the softening and nourishing water of mother-love,
mingled with the blood of spiritual life-force, still flows
forth in a never-ceasing stream until the redemption of man
and the planet is accomplished!
Indeed, it is to bring to your consciousness a realization
of the presence, power and accessibility of this stream of
water and blood or Divine Love and Spiritual Life-force
that is the reason for this New Testament of today. Each
disciple who bathes in this stream bears witness that the
Lord Jesus has not and will not leave the world comfort-
less, especially in these days of darkness and grief, but will
always come again and again to each loving heart and to
every age, and through those who can meet Him in the
"upper chamber," bring to them a New Testament of love,
inspiration and life.
Again His voice echoes throughout the world: "Behold,
I bring you a New Testament I" What is the New Testa-
ment for this generation? We proclaim that it is no
longer animal bodies and dotted blood, no longer bread
broken and wine poured out, body crucified and blood shed,
but body and blood united in the living form of the coming
Great One. Behold "the Man," the Prophet, Priest and
King! the Redeemer! the Savior!
Another and perhaps more personal application of the
New Testament, given out today by this same Jesus through
independent inspiration, is that the disciples may be com-
pared to the mind; for the intellectual faculties have to
break up the bread of truth and give it forth to the hungry
multitude, while the wine or blood may be likened to that
inner spiritual life-force without which, no matter how fine
4Isaiah. Iii. 7.
446 The Message of Aquaria
the intellect may break the mental bread, it remains mere
husks, unable to satisfy the hunger of mankind.
This phase of the symbology is also exemplified by man
and wife. The true man corresponds to the nourishing
Bread or the outer body, which fecds the world with the
intellectual presentation of truth. Yet, unless the Bread
has been kneaded with the feminine force or the spiritual
Water which has been turned into Wine by the Christ at
the marriage feast, it cannot satisfy the spiritual hunger of
the world. Again, the true man is the body which stands
before the world and proclaims the teachings of the Christ,
but unless that body is filled with rich, pure blood, it is but
an anemic shadow of a real man. Verily it is not good
for man to be alone any more than it is good for him to
feed on dry husks. Nor is woman her true self when she
stands alone, for then she becomes but as water poured out
upon a rock or blood shed in vain. And, alas, how often
women uselessly sacrifice themselves without accomplishing
their aim! It is, therefore, fitting that this Movement
which heralds the New Testament for the New Dispensa-
tion should have as its Agents both a man and a woman,
body and blood.
The blood is shed in vain if the Christ has not performed
the first mirade at the wedding feast. Throughout Chris-
tendom during the whole of the long dark night of the old
dispensation, aitho both the body and the blood have been
symbolically partaken of in the bread and the wine in true
remembrance of Him until He come again, and the adora-
tion for the crucified Jesus has been religiously performed,
the world has never yet found perfect satisfaction. Some
have said that the Blood has cleansed them from sin, and
others have said that the Bread has fed them, but there
has always been a separation. The Christ has always been
crucified, the body broken and the blood spilled. If we are
to enter upon the work of this New Day and spread this
New Testament in earnest we must change this old
A New Testament 447
idea; must teach mankind to gain a realization of the living
Christ as an actual reality, a power and force in their hearts
and minds and lives. Then every eye that has pierced him
shall behold him, i.e., everyone who has emphasized the
sorrows, suffering and death of Jesus has pierced His body
and shed His blood. Had more attention been given to the
glorious promise of His resurrection and second coming
we would not need a New Testament to enable us to recog-
nize the risen Lord, worship at His feet and see in Him not
a crucified, but a living Christ.
As the risen Lord comes close to Earth He must first
come to His own, i.e., to those who now recognize, know
and love Him. To them He will manifest and become the
living spiritual force or blood animating their lives. These
will slowly be gathered together one by one into the "upper
chamber," not because they belong to any church, society
or movement, but because in their hearts they have spirit-
ually touched the robe of the Christ and have felt His virtue
flow into them, and through them into their environment.
And this virtue, which is the life blood of the Christ, has
filled their body (intellect) and illumined it so that they no
longer simply believe, because now they know and cannot
be deceived. It is these who will be gathered into an "upper
chamber" of the spiritual Jerusalem, the city of spiritual
realization which cometh down from heaven, yet "cometh
not with observation," but as an inward experience.
We must obey the command: "Tarry ye in the city of
Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high."
For if we simply have intermittent spells of spiritual up-
liftment when we realize that we are treading the golden
streets of this New Jerusalem, we may not be there when
He comes. But He has told us to tarry there or dwell con-
tinually in that city of the Soul, that upper chamber of the
Christ consciousness.
This does not mean that we are to neglect our duties in
the outer life, but it does mean that we are to realize that
448 The Message of Aquaria
while the body or outer form of our lifewhich includes
our intellectual activities and conceptions of truthis per-
fonning its work in the world, the blood of spiritual life-
force must flow in a steady stream through its veins direct
from the River of Life which flows around the throne
where dwells the Christ.
Only when enough of those who have washed their
robes (bodies) in the blood of the Lamb and made them
white have been gathered together into the upper chamber
can the Great Teacher and Lord appear to them on Earth
in a body apparently of flesh and blood. And herein lies a
great mystery, for He can manifest physically only in
an "upper chamber," made up of the living sacrifice of the
emanations of His true disciples, those who have given up
their lives not for His service but to His service, all ani-
mated by the spiritual aspiration and ardent devotion of
their hearts which have been poured out for Him in un-
selfish service for mankind, and all joined together with one
heart and one mind in the Christ Consciousness.
- The inner mystical meaning of the crucifixion is that,
just as the Christ manifested in the man Jesus and gave
His spiritual blood to redeem the world, so at His second
coming His followers must follow the same example and
allow the Christ to animate them to the extent that they can
pour out their spiritual life-blood for Him that He may
gather spiritualized physical atoms in which to appear. For
only in a sanctuary or "upper chamber" thus built up and
among those "endued with power from on high" can He
be made visible to mortal eye.
The "upper chamber" is a symbolic term, meaning a
place of worship sacredly set apart and consecrated to the
Divine, in which the worshiper rises in consciousness into
the higher spiritual realms to meet his Lord. In the indi-
vidual the upper chamber would be that state of conscious-
ness called the Silence, or the state in which he realizes his
oneness with the Divine; in short, both for the disciples and
A New Testament 449
the individual it might be called "the Temple of Silence,"
or the Sanctuary.
This New Testament brings to every heart a blessed privi-
lege and a sacred duty. The crucifixion is over, the resur-
rection completed and He has come "in like manner as ye
saw him go," to appear first to Mary, and then to His inner
disciples, and then to the world. Who is Mary? the Moth-
er-love or the developed heart which brings forth the
Christ Who are His inner disciples? All who have made
a sacred shrine, an "upper chamber," in their hearts where
He can enter; those who are "endued with power from on
high"; those who feed daily upon Him in their hearts, not
in self-mortification and sorrow, but "with joy and thanks-
giving."
This New Testament must bring about an absolutely new
way of teaching the world, hence this Order proclaims,
even now in the wilderness of the world's darkest hour just
before the dawn, as did John the Baptist of old: "Repent
ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. . . . . Prepare
ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight."
Each one who reads this message and whose heart re-
sponds to these Teachings is given the privilege of entering
the "upper chamber" and drinldng in the outpouring of this
New Testament. It is then their blessed privilege and sa-
cred duty to be a forerunner; one of the heralds of the
New Day; an exemplar of the New Testament that the
body is no longer pierced, broken and dead that the blood
may be poured forth, but that the true blood, the spiritual
life-force, which is indeed the life of the world, is to be
found in the radiations of the Divine Life from the Coming
One; that He has come to Earth in a sacred and immacu-
late form combining the physical elements of both flesh and
blood, overshadowed by the Consciousness and filled with
the Divine Life of the Father-Mother-God. Conquering
and to conquer He rides forth. Will you be of His train?
5Sec The Temj'k of Sileræe, Curtiss.
CH&rml XXXVIII
THE MIGHTY ANGEL
"And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed
with a cloud: and a rainbow was upon his head, and his face was as
it were the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire."Revelation, x, 1.
"Our time is just as ripe for a true Messiah as when the Star of
Bethlehem appeared, and a new dispensation is just as needed and just
as possible as when the Baptist heralded the advent of the greatest of
all "presentiliers" . . . In a word, the world is sick and needs again
a great physician for its soul just as it does for its body (one-third
of our youth being unfit to fight).'The Message of the Zeitgeiit,
Dr. G. Stanley HalL
"This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so
come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven."Acts, I, 11.
In recent years the world has been in the throes of a
crisis such as it has never yet faced to the same degree,
for it is travailing in the birth pangs of the sixth sub-race.
These disturbed world conditions, however, are but the re-
sult of the overlapping of the two cycles and the reaping of
the inevitable results of their conflict. Then will come the
planting of the seed for the new cycle and the gradual
growth of the new, and we trust better, crop to be gathered
in its ripened perfection at the ushering in of the next great
racial cycle.
During this coming cycle the conditions will at least be
outlined or the seeds sown which will blossom and mature
in perfection in the Sixth Great Race. "This process of
preparation for the Sixth Great Race must last throughout
the whole sixth and seventh sub-races" of this our present
Fifth (Aryan) Great Race. But as the sixth sub-race lays
down or outlines those advances destined to be completely
'The Secret Doctylue, Blavatsicy, ii, 465.
450
The Mighty Angel 451
worked out in the Sixth Great Race, we today find men's
minds turned to new ideas, discoveries of new mechanical
devices, new interest in man's inner forces, communication
between the incarnate and discarnate, etc. In short, there is
scarcely a realm of Nature that man today is not beginning
to inquire into; not a force he is not studying to utilize or a
condition he is not dreaming of improving. All these things
are but the signs of the coming Great Age. But only as
man conquers his own nature, utilizes the hidden forces
within himself and correlates with the Divine Law of Being,
will the promise be fulfilled. And as the seventh sub-race
will outpicture the Seventh Great Race we will find in it
a prophecy of the ultimate rest and fulfillment promised to
the children of God.
Hence, this is a critical period, for in this coming era the
transition must be made from the old ideals and conditions
which predominated in the materialistic cyde of the Fifth
Great Race to those which will predominate in the Sixth
Great Race in ages to come, and such marked transitions
are always periods of great unrest, strife and inharmony
between the contending ideals which are seeking manifesta-
tion, the old and the new. The new ideals must ultimately
prevail, however, and be accepted by the majority of man-
kind and be put into actual practice, yet the opposition will
not be fully overcome until those who are wedded to the old
have either accepted the new or have passed on into the
higher life, where they may have an opportunity both to
rest and also to consider again the truth of the new ideas.
While the Law of Cycles rules all manifestations, it must
never be forgotten that man is a free agent and hence, with-
in certain limits, can either retard or accelerate the mani-
festations of the various cycles. It is well known to occult-
ists that humanity is at least five thousand years behind the
point in evolution it should have reached during the past
cyde, due to its refusal to work in harmony with the Divine
Law. Hence, it is not blind fate or the natural forces of
452 The Message of Aquaria
evolution that can make up the deficiency and prepare condi-
tions for the bringing forth of the Christ-consciousness
broadcast in humanity; it will be accomplished only when
through the free-will choice of man a niijority consciously
choose and diligently strive to cultivate the Christ-conscious-
ness in their hearts and begin to manifest it in their lives.
It is, therefore, well at this time to look deeply into the
philosophy of the manifestation of life and try to realize
our responsibility and learn how the use of our free-will
can either advance or retard the manifestation of the Christ.
Each of the seven Great Races through which humanity
finds expression in one great cosmic Day Period or Round
is governed by a mighty Celestial Being called its Progeni-
tor who is one of the seven Angels of the Presence "sent
forth into all the earth," the Regents of the seven Sacred
Planets of our system, while each of the seven sub-races
of each Great Race also has the special guidance of its own
Divine Ruler or AngeL2
In the Fourth Great Race the physical foundations of
mankind were laid. In the Fifth Great Race, especially in
its fifth sub-race, man reached the most objective expression
of number 5, the greatest development of material advance
through his wonderful inventions, physical appliances, etc.
So in the sixth sub-race must he manifest the forces of
number 6, the Christ-force, preparatory to its perfect mani-
festation in the Sixth Great Race. In the fifth sub-race
nanas, or mind, reached a high state of development, for
all during the Fifth Great Race thinking man was develop-
ing and perfecting that which had been begun and then
perverted in the Fourth Race, especially in its fifth sub-race.
Hence, as we are now just entering the cycle of the sixth
sub-race of the Fifth, there will be a constantly growing
tendency for mind to rise to greater heights and to correlate
with the spiritual consciousness (Buddhi-,nana) of the
Divine Self. This will continue with increasing power all
2 Sce The Voice of 1,1,,, Curtiu. 186.
The Mighty Angel 453
through the sixth and seventh sub-races and will become
the dominant factor in shaping the evolution of the Sixth
Great Race in the ages yet to come. Altho 6 is the number
of the unrest of the Christ-force back of evolution, we
must now out of the unrest begin to reap for the Race the
spiritual fruit, or the Christ-man, with his mind illumined
by the Christ-consciousness. This can be completed, how-
ever, only in the Sixth Great Race.
The Fifth and Sixth Angels mentioned in the ninth chap-
ter of Revelation are the rulers of their respective sub-.
races, the Fifth coming to dose the cycle of the fifth sub-
race and the Sixth to prepare for the coming sixth sub-race.
But "another Mighty Angel," mentioned in our text, refers
to the great Divine Teacher whom all the world is now
expecting after the Sixth Angel has sounded his trumpet.
And it is comforting to those who follow the Christian
teachings to find both how and when the Great One will
appear dearly set forth in their own scriptures, namely,
after the first and second woes are past, for the third woe
will not be completed until the close of the sub-race, many
ages hence.
While we are told that: "It is not for you to know
the times or the seasons," still, according to our general
calculations, the four phases of the second woe3 should end
approximately about 1940, for we know that we are now
entering upon this second woe, and that each of its four
phases must yield to mankind its great lesson. The fields
of Earth must be purified, the chaff gathered together and
burned; the minds of men must be plowed and harrowed
by the bitter experiences of the woes through which human-
ity is passing that they may be prepared for the sowing of
the new seed, ere the great One can come and gather his
elect from the four winds.
Then there must be a period of overlapping while the
seed takes root, springs up and begins to bear fruit. This
See Qianter xx herein.
454 The Message of Aquaria
will be a time of turmoil and testing, for the old is being
swept away and the new has not yet manifested. Only
those who, by their love and wisdom, their devotion and pa-
tience, prove their ability to receive from the Master the
seed of the new ideals and sow it, even during the dark
and discouraging conditions of this transitional period, will
be proved worthy to be His chosen disciples when He
comes; for in this age are the words especially true, "By
their fruits ye shall know them. Not everyone that
saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of
heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in
heaven."
While a definite understanding of the period in which the
Great One shall appear may relieve the minds of some who
have feared the end of the world was at hand, it may also
tend to discourage others who are keyed up to great effort
to be especially "good" for a time that they may be selected
as His special followers within a short period. Yet, consid-
ering all the preparation necessary and the work to be ac-
complished in humanity, the time is all too short. For the
first it will be a test of faith, for the second a test of en-
durance. "Blessed is the man that endureth temptation:
for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life,
which the Lord hath promised to them that love him." It
is far easier to endure pain and harrowing experiences or
patiently to plod through daily duties for a time when
buoyed up by the hope of a quick reward, than it is to go
on working, striving and conquering through an indefinite
period. The latter is the greater test, for it can be con-
tinued only when patience and trust have been built into
the character.
The "cloud" in which the Mighty Angel is clothed as he
descends to Earth, refers not only to the cloud of radiant
"glory of his Father with the holy angels," but also to the
appearance of physical embodiment, which will seem so
physical as to cloud or obscure His divinity, except to those
The Mighty Angel 455
whose intuition and love are so developed as to correlate
with His consciousness, and thus penetrate the cloud and
know Him as He is.
The manner of the manifestation is dearly set forth by
the angel who spoke at the time of His ascension, namely,
«Tkis .sanze Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven,
shall so come in like manner as you have seen him go into
heaven." While they were talking with Him about His
kingdom, suddenly He "disappeared from their sight," and
"in like manner" shall He reappear. This plainly shows that
an Avatar is not a mortal who enters the world through
the gate of birth, but is a Celestial Being, who descends
into manifestation only under certain conditions, as we have
fully explained elsewhere.4
Because of the many misconceptions that have grown up
around the story of Jesus' life, and the many cruel misun-
derstandings that have been fastened like millstones around
the neck of humanity in His name, and because of the many
crimes of inhumanity of man to man that have been ex-
cused through the literal interpretation and arbitrary en-
forcement of man-made creeds erected on medieval con-
ceptions of natural laws, science and religion; because of all
these misapplications of His teachings, that Great Teacher
must come at the close of His cycle to straighten out all
the crooked mental paths and to bring comfort to all His
true followers who, in spite of all these drawbacks, have
met Him in the inner sanctuary of the heart and who,
therefore, know Him face to face and heart to heart.
Just as Jesus appeared to His disciples (and to His dis-
ciples and their followers only) thirteen times5 after His
resurrection, by lowering the vibratory rate of His spiritual
body until it became visible to their physical senses, and
just as He again raised its vibrations until it disappeared
from the physical plane when His message was given, so
4 The Voice of his, Curths, Cbapter x.
5 Sec The Key of Destiiy, Cuxtiss, 140.
456 The Message of Aquaria
will He appear at His second coming, according to the
promise, "So shall (He) come in like manner."
"In like manner" also means that these phenomenal ap-
pearances will take place only in the presence of His dis-
ciples, those who have not been deceived and who are
"gathered together into one place," and who are looking
steadfastly toward heaven. In other words, He will appear
only to those who can meet together in such love, hannony,
purity and unselfishness as to make conditions in which He
can manifest. Just as lightning strikes only at points where
the Earth-forces draw it, so will the Spiritual Light manifest
only where conditions on Earth are such as to attract it.
But since the second coming is for the world, and not for
any one order, society or sect, such groups of disciples will
be formed all over the world in all countries, wherever the
aspirations of human hearts have opened to His love and
human consciousness has responded to His message, the
message of the feminine aspect of the Godhead; the power
to bring forth the Christ-consciousness and its fruit in the
daily life.
It matters not under what name the various groups
recognize Him, whether as "the Western Buddha" expected
by the Thibetans and certain Buddhist sects of other coun-
tries or under the Western term of the Christ used in Chris-
tian countries. It will be the same Celestial Being we
know as Jesus who will manifest to all, first to one group
and then to another in all parts of the world until all man-
kind have had the message of the New Age prodaimed to
them. To avoid the mistake of believing every cry of, "Lo,
here is Christ, Lo there," we have only to determine whether
or not the daimint be a mortal born of woman; if so, he is
not the Avatar, for thej Avatar is not a mortal.
The rainbow about His head symbolizes the light of His
complete and perfect spiritualized aura in which, like a
rainbow, all the seven colors or forces of the seven planet-
ary Hierarchies are perfectly blended. His face is said to
The Mighty Angel 457
be like the Sun because of the white Light of Absolute
Truth and the warmth of Divine Love which His presence
radiates and which shall quicken the seeds of the teachings
for the New Age. "His feet as pillars of fire" indicates that
His contact with the Earth plane will illumine the under-
standing and also consume the false ideas of mankind as
with fire.
As this Mighty Angel or Avatar draws closer to the
Earth, the Light of Truth penetrates more and more dearly
through the douds of misconception and misunderstanding,
and many, many minds awaken and determine to see and
understand the Truth for themselves, for they can no
longer accept as Truth that which another says they must
believe. In other words, the little mind-seeds of advanced
Cosmic Truth which have lain so long hidden in the dark-
ness of ignorance and spiritual blindness and covered up
with the demands of trade, the seductions of the senses and
the allurements of selfish ease, all over the world are begin-
ning to feel the stir of spiritual life at this new springtime
of humanity.
Soon the hard shells of the seeds will burst asunder and
the tiny sprouts of cosmic Truths for humanity's guidance
and salvation will force themselves up into the Light. And
these shoots are destined to grow, multiply and produce a
mighty crop of advanced ideals which will demand new
world conditions. For as the Light of Truth shines into the
minds of men they begin to think for themselves, to see
more clearly, to reason, compare and draw conclusions.
Already they refuse any longer to be led like children or
driven like cattle by those who lay claim to divine authority.
Especially is this true after all the suffering that humanity
has experienced during the first woe now past, during which
manldnd has been brought face to face with his own crea-
tions and their results.
The woes of the closing cycle are symbolized in all oc-
cult teachings by the glyph of the serpent swallowing or
458 The Message of Aquaria
biting its tail, for it is the evil creations of manthe ser-
pent in its lowest aspectthat have slimed the fair ideals
of mankind, and until the serpent's power thus to degrade
and debase is recognized by the race and is lifted up by a
majority and made to swallow its tail or dose the old cyde-
a process preparatory to growing a new skinit cannot be
turned into the Rod of Power for the new sixth sub-race to
take up and, like Aaron, make it swallow all the crawling
vipers of the Egyptians. These woes are also symbolized
by the scorpion stinging itsdf to death with its own tail.
The same idea is suggested in the ninth chapter of Revela-
tion, where we read of the forces which dose the old cycle
"For their power is in their mouth, and in their tails: for
their tails were like unto serpents, and had heads (stings)
and with them they do hurt"
How shall we know Him and He know us? To know
others we must be able to enter into their thoughts, share
their aspirations and ideals and work side by side with
them. Just so shall we know Him and He know us. Those
who are already dwelling in the Christ-consciousness are
feeling His deep love and compassion for humanity. His im-
personal desire is to help all who will listen, without recog-
nition or praise for Himself. All such are even now being
"caught up to meet Him in the air" or in thought. And all
who are doing His works, helping to prepare the world
for His coming, verily all such shall find Him very near,
ready to give loving counsel and reach out His powerful
hand and make His presence manifest when sorrow, dis-
couragement and fear sweep over their Souls and they cry
out like frightened children for light and comfort.
We will know Him in the only way that real knowing
can ever manifest, by personal and intimate experience and
realization. Merely to have a mental conception of such a
Divine Teacher will avail us little, for we must know Him
face to face and heart to heart, hence these years of prepa-
Tue Mighty Angel 459
ration are given. He is now very dose to earthly manifesta-
tion and can be both seen and felt and personally com-
muned with by all who are truly His disciples. Let us pray
that none of us shall hear the fateful words when He
comes: "Depart from me I never knew you."
Let us then gather together in one thought and remain
looking steadfastly toward heaven or living in the con-
sciousness of the higher life and endeavoring to do His
works here on Earth "until He comes."
CHMTii XXXIX
THE SOUL'S GUERDON
aBehold, the Lord bath proclaimed unto the end of the world, Say
ye to the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy salvation cometh; behold, his
reward is with him, and his work before him."Isoiah, lxii, 11.
"Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one; and every man
shall receive his own reward according to his own labour."I Corns-
thians, iii, &
A guerdon is defined as a reward, a recompense and a
requital, but it is nevertheless much more than all these.
It is a reward given, not by any power outside oneself, but
a reward which comes as a result of one's own definite
effort, struggle and attainment. It is something that rewards
the Soul because the Soul has to a greater or lesser degree
fulfilled a certain stage in the manifestation of its destiny.
Hence, as each Soul has been sent to this Earth with a
definite lesson to learn and a personal work to perform in
each incarnation in the environment in which it is placed,
each will receive the guerdon of its own efforts as a result
of its own travail or birth pangs. And its work is found
in just those opportunities for constructive expression which
the Great Law brings to it, just as the Soul enters Earth-
life in a body and in an environment which are the result
or Karma of its own efforts in former lives.
While the Soul in the heaven world is perfect and pure
and one with God, yet to complete its mission of individuali-
zation it must come down to Earth and learn to do God's
will under Earth conditions, even as it does that will in
heaven; for only by the help of the countless incarnate
Souls can God's willthe work of perfecting every mani-
460
The Soul's Guerdon 461
fested thingbe carried to completion. Therefore, as Jesus
told us, we come down from heaven, not to do our own will,
even if that will be the perfection of ourselves, but to do the
will of Him that sent us.' And His will is that we should
be ambassadors of God, to unfold our credentialsour God-
given powersand manifest them in this new field of
earthly manifestation.
We can definitely accomplish His will only as we are born
into the consciousness of it, i.e., into the realization that in
the last analysis we and our Father are one, and His work
is our work. The method of embodying this consciousness
is analogous to that manifesting through the physical Sun.
For instance, the Sun is in the heavens and we can see its
glory, rejoice in its warmth and its vivifying powers, yet
it is not the Sun itself that descends to bless us, but its
countless emanated rays, which are sent to Earth each with
its own particular work to accomplish toward the manifesta-
tion of the Divine Plan; light rays, heat rays, chemical rays,
actinic rays, magnetic rays, etc. Also all the color rays have
each their potency, power and part to play. Only as man
advances in knowledge of Nature's laws does he learn to
take advantage of more hidden rays or rates of vibration,
such as X-rays, N-rays, ultra violet rays, etc., altho these
were always present and did their work silently in Nature.
But only as man advanced in understanding of Nature's
liner forces could he utilize them for a definite end.
There are still more wonderful secrets which Nature holds
for man, waiting until he is ready to use them wisely. Yet,
if man does nothing to take advantage of these rays, does
not prepare the soil, plant selected seed, water, cultivate,
weed and protect it, the Sun, with all its magic potencies,
cannot do more than bring forth the cruder and less evolved
forms of vegetation or bake the Earth into desolate sterility
or into stagnant morasses. Similarly, if man persistently
lives in a cold, damp cave or cellar, and shuts out every ray
Jok*. vi. 38.
462 The Message of Åquaria
of sunlight, he will be benefited but little by the Sun's shin-
ing, aitho the Sun will still be shedding its benign radiance
upon the Earth as freely as ever. "Hdp Nature and work
on with her, and Nature will regard thee as one of her
creators and make obeisance. And she will open wide before
thee the portals of her secret chambers, lay bare before thy
gaze the treasures hidden in the very depths of her pure,
virgin bosom."2
So it is with the rays of Spiritual Light from the Sun
of Righteousness. Each Soul comes to Earth as the out-
shining of God's graciousness; comes to unfold its latent
possibilities according to the Grand Plan, to bless the Earth
and to aid in bringing all things upon it to their perfect
manifestation. In other words, we are individualized Rays
of God, shining forth as the Light of His vast countenance.
Therefore, let us not be swallowed up in the darkness of
ignorance, lest we fail to accomplish that for which we were
sent forth.
Each one holds within himself or herself the mighty
powers and potencies of God, each with its own mission to
perform in the personal life and in the world, yet only as
all are combined, each giving its peculiar gift, to make the
pure white Light, can the destined end be attained, either
personally or for humanity or for the planet. The great
Divine Law of God has, therefore, predestined every son
of man, every movement that is put forth for the betterment
of conditions for humanity; in fact, everything that takes
place, to work toward and contribute its quota to the per-
fection of the whole. Nevertheless, this predestination is not
fate; for the crowning gift of God to man is free-will.
While man is predestined ultimately to attain perfection
of expression and then return to God whence he came, even
as each ray of the Sun is destined to be released from its
objective embodiment and be drawn into the Sun and to be
sent forth again and again until it has accomplished its
2 The Voice of the Sile,,ce Blavatskj-. Fragment L
The Soul's Guerdon 463
mission, so is the Soul sent forth. Yet man differs from a
ray of the Sun in the important particular that he is given
individual self-consciousness and free-will; freedom to do or
not to do the Divine Will, or, to speak more correctly, to
take his own time about it and to use his own methods,
aitho ultimately he must return to his Father, bringing his
sheaves of accomplishment with him.
And he receives as his guerdon just that which he has
chosen to accomplish. If he has chosen unwisely his guerdon
will be a lesson to him, for ultimately he must learn to
choose wisely. Ignorance of the law does not excuse one for
its breaking, for guidance from within is freely given to
teach the Soul, if the Soul will seek for and follow it; but
it must choose. It may be like a boy who refuses to go to
school: the school is there and his parents may urge him
to go, but if he ignores it or refuses to attend, his guerdon
in life must be ignorance and lack of mental training and all
that results therefrom.
That which we call destiny is, therefore, the ultimate per-
fection of all things. Hence, no one need worry about losing
or saving his SouL The Soul is immortal and cannot be lost,
hence needs no saving, except saving from the suffering that
it will experience by maldng mistakes, setting up causes
which are not in harmony with the Divine Law and which,
therefore, must result in inharmony and suffering to the
Soul. Each Souland by the Soul we mean the Higher
Self, the three higher principles of man (the higher or
spiritual mind, the Ray of pure Spirit and Buddhi or the
spiritual body which unites man and Spirit)takes its
destiny into its own hands when it descends to Earth. And
it is told: "Behold, your reward is with you, and your work
is before you! Ultimate perfection is yours, and you must
come back to your Father's home, bringing with you the
sheaves of experience garnered in the lower worlds. But
unto your own Soul will be the guerdon according as you
travail, i.e., as you bring to birth the will of the Father,
464 The Message of Aquaria
the highest and best that is in you." In one sense the
guerdon is the wisdom and love, the poise and power and
other godlike qualities we have brought into expression.
Hence, the guerdon is ours according as we live and bring
forth and manifest our part in the Divine Plan. During
our struggle, very often through the bitter experiences of
want and misery, we are forced to take cognizance of many
of the hidden blessings which are prepared for us against
the time of our need, which we might never perceive if all
went well with us continually. Many of the great discoveries
have been the result of pressing necessity, therefore the
saying, "Man's extremity is God's opportunity."
God Almighty is the power hidden within each Soul and
within each manifestation in the universe; for there is no
personal God in the orthodox sense of a great anthropo-
morphic Being, entirely separate from us. Personality is a
part of the manifested creation, hence is not even immortal.
Since God is not a created entity, He can have no person-
ality; hence, there can be no such thing as a personal God
in the orthodox sense, altho the individualized Ray of God
which constitutes our Real Self is a personalized aspect of
God ever present with us and ever conscious of our every
thought. God created the manifested universe and all things
contained therein, and, as a personality is a product of
creation, God could not be merely one small product of His
own creation. The only personality of God is manifested
in His works. Therefore, our personality should also be
expresssed in our works; our ability to manifest God in the
flesh and to make the flesh the expression of the Real Sdf.
God is the mighty outbreathing of Divinity; the Great
Urge, the Great Force, the Mighty Good, the Divine Love
which is everywhere pushing forth into greater and greater
expression. Each Soul grows more and more godlike as it
unfolds the God-powers within it. Thus, man does not grow
spiritually by worshiping in abject servility some Supreme
Being. Nor is it some far-off God who bestows upon him
The Soul's Guerdon 465
perfection in response to many prayers and supplications,
altho we can hasten our growth, and consequently our power
to manifest, by correlating with and aspiring to oneness with
the Divine through prayer. We grow spiritually by realizing
that we are Rays of God, embodying all His powers and
potencies, either active or latent, which are sent forth to
accomplish His will on earth, and by striving to bring into
manifestation those powers and potencies, just as man
strives to put forth all his powershis will, his thought,
his patience, faith, judgment, etc.when he wishes to ac-
complish any chosen work in physical affairs. Ultimately
we grow so close in manifestation to our Father-ray which
sent us forth, that we consciously need the hand of our
Initiator or Spiritual Parent to help us take the final step
from mortality to immortality.
Spiritual development is, therefore, the unfoldment from
within, firstly, of the realization of all this and, secondly, a
persistent effort to manifest it in our lives. For altho most
of us have vague haunting memories of our Father's home
of glory, and of the great and eager desire which led us to
offer ourselves as volunteers to come into this world of
spiritual darkness to uplift, conquer and subdue it and
make it a fitting kingdom for "our Lord and his Christ," we
fail to apply these memories to our daily lives.
We often awake from deep sleep feeling that we have
had experiences of unspeakable glory, and for days we may
feel something we cannot express hovering over and in-
spiring us, yet, unless we understand that this is the result
of our momentary union with the Divine in heaven, and of
our being filled with the glory of the Sun of Righteousness
that we may radiate it in our lives, we will not be able to
make the most of it. Such glimpses are given to all from
time to time, whether fully recognized or not; else we could
scarce endure our exile on this dark star. And always, as
we return to Earth for a new incarnation, we bring this
haunting memory of our spiritual home with us. it is said
466 The Message of Aquaria
that at the moment of death a vision of this divine truth
is revealed to us, and this explains why on many faces of
the dead, even when they pass out in great suffering, there
is a look of peace and joy. We can often see this same light
in the eyes of babes, and the old adage, "A babe which
smiles in its sleep is listening to the whispers of the angels,"
in reality contains more fact than poetic fancy.
To one who will seek for them within instead of without,
there are many proofs that the seeds of Divine Love,
almighty power, supreme consciousness and goodness (God-
ness) are to be found within each heart; that they are ours
now to recognize, nourish and bring forth into manifesta-
tion; for we are here to manifest God in the flesh. There-
fore, each Soul will receive its guerdon according to how it
is able to bring to birth the forces and powers of the God-
head inherent within it; for within each there is the
possibility of ultimate perfection.
Ultimate perfection means the perfect expression of the
One in the many and the many in the One. Even as we see
in Nature many manifestations of the One-_mountains,
plains, rivers, trees, flowers, vegetation, rocks, minerals, etc.
each evolving toward its own perfection according to the
perfect pattern it is destined to express, yet all together
making one perfect Earthso do we see many manifesta-
tions of the One in the various races of mankind, yet all
together making up humanity as a whole. So does it take
the gifts of the Spirit, expressed in the hearts of each of
God's children, all brought to their highest perfection, to
manifest the one God. Hence, all should ask within for
enlightenment and guidance, and strive to find out just what
God intends them to manifest; what part in the Divine Plan
they are to play, and then strive to unfold the godlike powers
which are implanted within them to enable them to accom-
plish their mission.
We can never be successful or perfect if we seek to copy
another or to do the work which is the task of some other
The Soul's Guerdon 467
Soul; for to do so we must neglect to be ourselves and to
perform our own task, and at best can become but an
imperfect copy or a freak of nature, thus retarding the
expression of our own Real Selves. Nevertheless, we have
free-will and can try this method if we so desire; for God
never forces us to do right, aitho He could do so if He so
desired. But in supreme wisdom He permits us to try all
experiences if we so wish, waiting in powerful and undis-
turbed patience for us to awaken and turn our faces back to
Him for guidance and for the power to carry out our
mission as His representatives.
Therefore, let us try every day to realize our place and
work in the world and our powers to manifest as a Child
of God in that place in which we find ourselves. Let us say
to ourselves daily and frequently: "I am not only a Child
ofGod,butaveryRayofGodhimself,apartofGod. And
the part of me that is God is the power of God that I am able
to bring into expression. All the rest of me must gradually
become the servant of this God-part, to do its will, even as I
do the will of Him that sent me. I am accomplishing little
of my mission until I have recognized this and begun to
use my God-given powers." The power of God is like a
steady stream of electricity from a great dynamo. It is
impotent or latent until the power is turned into some avenue
of accomplishment. Once this is realized, it is as simple as
turning a button to have either light or heat in our homes.
But we must consciously turn the button. If we do not, we
cannot blame the power-house for our Jack of results.
Again, we are like wireless stations. We can communi-
cate with all the worlds if we are properly attuned. And to
become attuned we must reach out and touch God; not God
outside of us, but the manifested power of God within us;
our power to be true, to love, to accomplish, to radiate peace,
harmony and purity; our power to be well and strong, to be
magnetic, to be happy; our power to be a positive, vital
factor for good in the world.
468 The Message of Aquaria
There is no way of attaining these powers except by
expressing them from within. No amount of outer observ-
ancesceremonies, dress, diet, posture, etc.will suffice.
"Believe thou not that sitting in dark forests, in proud seclu-
sion and apart from men; believe thou not that life on roots
and plants, that thirst assuaged with snow from the Great
Rangebelieve thou not, 0 Devotee, that this will lead thee
to the goal of final liberation."3 The guerdon must be in all
the birth of a new consciousness, a new understanding, new
power, new love, new joy, new helpfulness. And it must be
brought forth in spirit and in truth. When a child is brought
forth it is a tangible thing, to be fed and nourished, cher-
ished, taught, trained and given every help to promote its
growth and perfect expression. So must be the power of
God which we are destined to bring forth.
(To be concluded.)
* The Voice of the Sile,æe. Blavatsky. IL
CHAPTER XL
THE SOUL'S GUERDON
(Concluded)
"The first man is of the earth, earthy; the second man is the Lord
from heaven.... And as we have borne the image of the earthy
we shall also bear the image of the heavenly."I Corinthians, xv,
47.9.
"Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man sow-
eth, that shall he also reap."Galatians, vi, 7.
Many sincere students are wondering just what they may
expect as a guerdon for the personal self. Must they
supinely accept poverty, incompetency, illness and misery,
and say, "It matters not what my personality is, for my Real
Self is divine and is master of all worldly conditions"? As
the result of such an attitude we see many earnest workers
either neglecting to develop and perfect the personality, or
even cultivating eccentricities which often make their per-
sonalities very unattractive.
On the other hand, some claim that the personality is
everything, is all that the world can see, hence they feel that
they must conform to the opinion of the world and use their
power of will to suppress all that does not meet with the
world's approval. They say: "If I would help humanity I
must impress it by making great claims. I must strive to
appear as Super-man or I cannot expect a following." Thus
do many who are seeldng to do the Father's will strive to
build up a great personality that will attract the admiration
of the world. They feel that the work they would do is
truly the Father's work, yet since they have not learned to
separate the eternal from the transitory, the Real Self from
its outer vesture or instrument (personality), or the inmate
469
470 The Message of Aquaria
from the house in which it dwells, they truly believe that
only as their personality attracts can they become effective
and useful spiritual teachers of men. And many there be
who follow after such personalities, the greater the claims
put forth the greater the crowd, and the greater the adulation
of the crowd the greater the inflation of the personality.
But since every claim that is made must be faced and
proved, many who express either of the above extremes find
their laudable intentions either miscarry or they are taken
out of incarnation long before their work is accomplished,
as the long list of failures, premature deaths or sudden col-
lapses of teachers and spiritual movements only too sadly
proves. And such failures often do as much hann to the
followers of their teachings, in the way of disillusionment,
discouragement and lack of faith in all similar teachings, as
the good those who put forth the teachings had hoped to
accomplish. And the Karma of everyone whose faith has
been thus destroyed must be connected with and borne by or
be the guerdon of the one whose misconception permitted
the personality to strive to do that which only the Real or
Divine Self could accomplish.
The fact that the more we try to perfect the personality
for its own sake and become Super-man, the more our per-
sonal traits grow, the more egotism takes possession of us
and the less humble, loving and helpful we become, is evi-
dence that we are not following the Law; for God manifest-
ing in us as God-likeness is always impersonal. When we
think more òf others and take more pleasure in helping them
and trying to bring out the, best in them, the result is a sweet-
ening and perfecting of our personality; for we are thus
dwelling in the Light of God and that Light must shine
through and illumine the mask of our personality. "Verily,
by their fruits shall ye know them."
All personal claims are of the Earth earthly. We dare not
expect the first or personal man, made from "the dust of the
earth." to do the work of "the Lord from heaven." the Inner
The Soul's Guerdon 471
or Divine Man. God manifests His works silently yet per.-
sistently, forever overcoming the opposition of earthiness by
the radio-activity of the inner spiritual life-force which is
ever bringing forth perfection out of imperfection. So will
every true child of God accomplish His will on Earth in pro--
portion as he lets the inner Divine Self silently yet persist-
ently manifest through him.
As in man, so in Nature. The tree, the flower, the grass,
all have a personality or outer vehicle of expression, yet only
as the universal Life-essence permeates them and the sap
flows uninterruptedly through them do they become beauti-
ful and perfect. Let this mystic Life-force be cut off by any
mishap and the tree, the flower, the grass soon grows sear
and yellow, soon fades and dies; becomes first unattractive
and then but cumbersome trash which must be consumed
or done away with.
We are told that God is Spirit, and that we must worship
Him in spirit and in truth. This does not mean, as some
suppose, that God is merely that personalized Ray of the
Divine which is individualized in us and which can be wor-
shiped only in the silence of our hearts, and therefore that
we need no outward observances, no temples, no ceremonies,
no prayers, no studies, etc. It means that the all-pervading
Spiritual Essence, the same Spirit or Divine Life which is
both Be-ness and Being and which manifests in us, also mani-
fests in all God's manifested universe. In fact, just as all
worlds and systems are brought into being through the out-
working and manifesting of this Spirit of all Truth, so our
personalities must become so perfected as to out-picture this
same Spirit, the all-creative, living, spiritual radio-activity
within, and correlate with that same Spirit of all Truth in its
expressions without, thus developing and perfecting the per-
sonality as an instrument and servant, yet not worshiping
or exalting it as of supreme importance. A good and faith-
ful servant in the house will be much appreciated and ad-
mired by the guests, yet if that servant attempts to usurp
472 The Message of Aquaria
the place of the master of the house he will be despised,
pitied and avoided because he is out of place. All work
is equally honorable and every personality is honored if in
its own place it tries to accomplish its own work, and reflect
the just honor due to the Real Self, who is "the Master
whom thou hast not seen yet whom thou feelest."
To worship God in Spirit and in Truth we must recognize
this two-fold relation and give this Spirit our understanding
worship. We worship the thing which we dwell on con-
tinually in thought; for thought is a dynamic generator of
power and that to which we turn our thought lives in and
Jja power over us. If, therefore, we continually turn our
thoughts from the concerns and ambitions and desires of
the personality toward those of the Spirit, the former have
less power over us and the Spirit lives to a greater degree
in us and gains greater power over us. And it is this Spirit
which will bring to each Soul as its guerdon the birth of the
God-consciousness within.
In proportion as we turn the dynamic power of thought
upon it, it will gradually manifest in our outer lives, even
in the outward appearance of the personality. It will bring
to birth new powers, new strength, new health, new beauty,
new love, new joy of life, new ability to help our fdlow
men. This will be the guerdon of the personality; for the
personal self, having been created as an instrument through
which the Divine Self could manifest on Earth, must be per-
fected, yet its greatness must be built into it from within
with Spiritual Essence drawn from the Spirit of all Truth
as expressed by the Divine Self. It cannot be built up with
physical atoms of the Earth, earthy, in an effort to exalt
the personality; for all true development must come from
within outward. And as all earthly things are transitory and
shortly pass away, nothing built up of earthly atoms, thoughts
and forces can endure. Only that which comes from the
Divine. Immortal Self within can endure.
The Soul's Guerdon 473
Therefore, we may confidently expect, as the guerdon of
our personality, when made subservient to the Divine, such
guidance from within as will illumine our minds and give
us the understanding that every condition that confronts us
comes to help perfect us. We will then see that adverse
conditions caine to us because we are not worshiping in the
Spirit of Truth; that they are sent not to punish, but to lead
us hack to the true worship.
To remind ourselves of this God-consciousness within and
to aid us in focusing the creative power of our thought upon
it, we should avail ourselves of every aid to this end, such as
ceremonies, prayers, mantra, set times for devotion and
worship, the occurrence of sunrise, noon and sunset or any
other factor that will help to keep before our mind's eye the
ideal to be attained. Hen, the importance this Order
places upon definite times of meditation, definite prayers for
morning, noon and night, before meals, before sleeping, etc.
At the present period in human evolution we are facing
the dawning of a New Day. Like eager children we are
waiting for the curtain to roll up and a new act in the won-
derful drama of man's unfoldment to begin. We know that
this act is but the continuation of the Great Drama with
which we are familiar, but we are ignorant as to the details
of its further unfoldment. We know that it is destined to
turn out well, yet we see the characters so harassed and the
action so complicated and seemingly disastrous that we scarce
dare hope for a pleasant ending, much less that it will result
in some great good for the world.
We who have recognized ourselves as Children of the
Household are called together by our Great Teacher in a
very definite way. We are told to look back over the way
we have come and to realize that the first act in the present-
day presentation of the drama of this Order is finished. In
this act we have seen the Order, through many and various
scenes, grow from an obscure and insignificant beginning
474 The Message of Aquaria
into a mighty Ocean of Spiritual Light, Love and Truth,
which washes the shores of every land.
Yet we know that the drama has only begun, and as the
curtain rolls up for the second act a thrill of expectation fills
the air, and a mighty cry goes up, even as it did from the
Children of Israel when they stood on the border of the
Promised Land and viewed it from afar. The cry is: "0
Lord, through Thy prophets and messengers Thou hast led
us out of the land of Egypt (spiritual darkness and sense
pleasures) and we will follow Thee and Thy law until we
enter into the Land of Promise to possess it. We know that
our pillar of cloud by day and our pillar of fire by night is
none other than the mighty Law of God and that Thy mes-
sengers are its servants, even as Moses and Joshua were
the servants of that Law. We know that when we grow
faint and weary with the journey or when we thirst for the
living waters, they will strike the rock of hard physical
conditions and the water of Divine Love shall gush forth to
refresh us. We know that when we are hungry for spiritual
truth and ask for bread we will not be given a stone, but will
be fed with the bread and fishes given by Thy Son and
broken for the multitude by His disciples. We know that
every day each Soul that asks shall be fed by the sustaining
power of the heavenly manna falling for us even in the most
dreary wilderness of our lives, and not only feeding us, but
comforting, sustaining and healing us. We know that when
we seem alone in the darkness a pillar of fire shall lead us on.
And when in the day we grow forgetful or are distracted by
the pressure of physical affairs a pillar of cloud shall appear
that we may turn our thoughts to Thee." Let us then press
on with cheerful courage, never fearing, never doubting,
knowing full well that ultimately the waters of adversity and
opposition will divide and that some day we shall find our-
selves in the Promised Land.
This Order must, as a whole, bring forth its own guerdon.
For this Order, as well as every other spiritual work or
The Soul's Guerdon 475
movement, has a Soul, and that Soul must bring to birth its
guerdon. Every effort toward the enlightenment and uplift
of humanity must come back home and lay its sheaves of ac-
complishment at the feet of the Lord God that they may be
taken to the threshing floor and every golden grain be stored
up to feed the hungry, while the chaff is winnowed and con-
sumed in the Fire of the Lord.
This Order caine into manifestation because of the world's
great need; the need of a simple yet heart-satisfying presen-
tation of the world-old principles and laws of Divine Life.
To accomplish its work two "children in spiritual things" an-
swered the call. They answered because they had dreamed
the memory-dreams of their glorious heritage in the Father's
home and their hearts' desire was that all might know of,
realize and share in that heritage which is for all. They
answered: "Here are we, Lord, use us. We are weak and
poor and small in personality, yet we fear not and can obey,
and with Thy help we will do the best we can." And the
reply caine from the great storehouse of all wisdom: "The
Teachings must be all, and we will supply them. Only be
true and faithful and persistent. Keep the personality in the
background. Lean altogether upon the Truth and the Truth
shall set you free." These children have made many mis-
takes, yet they have never faltered, and the Order has gone
steadily on growing and ever growing. And it will ever
continue to grow, because the Teachings are living spiritual
truths which transcend and shall ultimately swallow up the
personalities of their interpreters.
This Order also has its personality or expression "of the
earth, earthy," and yet it is ruled by its "Lord from heaven."
And since its personality is made up of all the atoms or per-
sonalities of all its students, only as its students strive to
purify, control and perfect their personalities and allow the
Spirit of Truth which pervades its Teachings to sink deep
into their consciousnessthus touching in consciousness the
hem of the Robe of the Christ with which it is clothedwill
476 The Message of Aquaria
they feel its virtue go out to them and manifest in their lives.
Then, be they sick or weak or ignorant or poor, the mighty
river of Divine Love which is poured forth to sweep this
Order onward throughout the world on its mission of Light,
Love and Comfort, will manifest in their own hearts and
lives.
And as we all together strive to let the "Lord from
heaven" rule in our lives and in the Order, we will find that
the Order's personality or outward expression will more and
more out-picture its Soul, the Spirit of Truth, and it will
more and more have added to it the power the more per-
fectly to accomplish its mission in the world, and thus receive
its Soul's guerdon.
We speak of the Divinity within, but in our present state
of evolution that Divinity is scarcely more than the radiance
of the emanations which the Divine Indweller left enmeshed
in us when we were forced to leave the Garden when the
mind usurped the authority of the spiritual will. But even
this radiance is a very real Flame of spiritual force and
through it we can always "ascend into the hill of the Lord"
and reach the Indweller. Therefore, we must dwell in the
thought of its radiant shining until it grows more and more
intense; for through the misuse of mind we have driven it
out, arid by the proper use of mind must we bring it back.
Yet we have never been left comfortless. Always the power
of the Holy Ghost has overshadowed us. And in our dark.
est hours the Flame of Divine Love has dwelt with us as a
pillar of fire that has guided us through the wilderness of
life, and the Lord God has spoken to us out of the fiery
cloud.
Because of the very brilliancy of this shining man sees
reflected on the darkness of his life his creations of sin and
disobedience. Therefore, only as he seeks to embody and
follow the guidance of the Divine Light which shines within
can he learn how to re-enter his lost heritage.
The Soul's Guerdon 477
Unless we often dwell in thought on the glorious possibili-
ties which the Light unfolds we cannot prepare ourselves to
manifest the Divine Indweller. To actually attain this higher
consciousness, and not have merely an intellectual conception
of it, we must open the door of our minds to the Divine
Light, cleanse the sanctuary of our hearts, purify our bodies
and invite our Lord of Life, the Divine Indweller, to enter in
and take possession of that which is his own. There we must
allow him to reign supreme as the Vice Regent of God and
give willing and glad obedience to him, for only then can we
say with Jesus: "I and my Father are one." Until then
we can only listen to the voice which says: "Behold, I
stand at the door and knock: if any man hear my voice, and
open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him,
and he with me."1
To apply this conception to the practical development of
our spiritual consciousness let each sincere student repeat the
following mantrani night and morning and as often as pos-
sible during the day, meditating upon it and visualizing it
and endeavoring to realize its significance until it becomes a
reality in his life.
Invocation to the Divine Indweller
Come, 0 Lord of Life and Love and Beauty!
Thou who art myself and yet art God!
And dwell in this body of flesh,
Radiating all the beauty of holiness and perfection.
That the flesh may out-picture all that Thou art within!
Even so, come, 0 Lord. Amen.
1R.velasioj,. ilL 20.
APPENDIX
Prayers of The Order of Christian Mystics.
PRAYER FOR LIGHT
0 Christ! Light Thou within my heart
The Flame of Divine Love and Wisdom,
That I may dwell forever in the radiance of Thy countenance
And rest in the Light of Thy smile!
MORNING PRAYER
I have within me the power of the Christ!
I can conquer all that comes to inc today!
I am strong enough to bear every trial
And accept every joy
And to say
Thy will be done!
HEALING PRAYER
O thou loving and helpful Master Jesus!
Thou who gayest to Thy disciples power to heal the sick!
We, recognizing Thee, and realizing Thy divine Presence
with us,
Ask Thee to lay Thy hands (powers) upon us in healing Love
Cleanse US from all OUR sins, and by the divine power of
Omnipotent Life,
Drive out the atoms of mnharmony and disease, and
Fill our bodies full to overflowing with Life and Love and
Purity.
PRAYER OF PROTECTION
O Christ! Surround and fill me and Thy Order with the
Flame of Divine Love and Wisdom,
That it may purify, illumine and guide us in all things.
May its Spiritual Fire form a rampart of Living Flame around
me and Thy Order,
To protect us from all harm.
May it radiate to every heart, consuming all evil and intensi-
fying all good.
In the name of the Living Christ! Amen.
4Th
Appendix 479
PRAYER OF DEM0NsrasnoN
I am a child of the Living God!
I have within mc the all-creating power of the Christ!
It radiates from me and blesses all I contact.
It is my Health, my Strength, my Courage,
My Patience, my Peace, my Poise,
My Power, my Wisdom, my Understanding,
My Joy, my Inspiration, and my Abundant Supply.
Unto this great Power I entrust all my problems,
Knowing they will be solved in Love and Justice.
(Mention all problems connected with your worldly affairs, vis-
ualize each and conclude with the following words)
0 Lord Christ! I have laid upon Thy altar all my wants and
desires.
I know Thy Love, Thy Wisdom, Thy Power and Thy Gra-
ciousness.
In Thee I peacefully rest, knowing that all is well.
Not my will but Thine be done. Amen.
PRAm TO THE DIVINE INDwELLER
Come, 0 Lord of Life and Love and Beauty!
Thou who art myself and yet art God!
And dwell in this body of flesh,
Radiating all the beauty of holiness and perfection,
That the flesh may out-picture all that Thou art within!
Even so, come, 0 Lord. Amen.
Pa&irua TO TEE DIvINE MotHER
0 Divine Mother!
Illumine me with Divine Wisdom,
Vivify me with Divine Life and
Purify me with Divine Love,
That in alllthink and say and do
I may be more and more Thy child. Amen.
GRAce BEFoRE Mw.s
I am a creator.
By the power of my spiritualized Will
I consciously gather all the forces from this food,
And use them to create health, strength and harmony
In all my bodies (physical, astral and mental).
And we thank the Father for this manifestation of His bounte-
ous supply. May we use it to His glory.
PRAm or DEVOTION
We, Thy chosen servants, to whom Thou hast given the great
privilege of becoming co-workers with the Masters of
Wisdom, ask that we may have Wisdom and Power and
Courage and Humility to carry us through the work of
this day.
480 Appendix
We open our hearts that the Divine Love of the Master may
1111 us; that all irritation, inharmony and slothfulness
may be transmuted into Love that shall draw us closer
in unity to all our fellow workers both seen and unseen;
that we may grow absolutely one with the force of Wis-
dom and Compassion that is sent forth to accomplish the
great work for humanity.
Give us all things necessary, that there may be no hampering
conditions.
Lead us through this day, m the name of the Divine, Everliving
Christ, that the will of the Father may be done in us and
through us forevermore. Amen.
PRAYER ron WoRu) HARMONY
Glory and honor and worship be unto Thee, 0 Lord Christ,
Thou who art the Life and Light of all mankind.
Thou art the King of Glory to whom all the peoples of the
Earth should give joyful allegiance and service.
Inspire mankind -with a realization of true Brotherhood.
Teach us the wisdom of peace, harmony and co-operation.
Breathe intp our hearts the understanding that only as we see
ourselves as parts of the one body of humanity can peace,
harmony, success and plenty descend upon us.
Help us to conquer all mamfestations of inharmony and evil
in ourselves and in the world.
May all persons and classes and nations cease their conflicts,
and unselfishly strive for peace and good-will
Bless us all with the radiance of Thy Divine Love and
Wisdom that we may ever worship Thee m the beauty of holi-
ness.
IntheNameoftheLivingChristweaskit. Amen.
PRAYER YOR THE CHRIST Powza
0 Lord Christ! Thou who hast planted within me
The Immortal Power of Spiritual Love and Life,
Help me so to correlate with Thy divine overshadowing Pres-
ence,
That all hampering conditions shall be swallowed up
In the Light of the Living Christ Power. Amen.
EVENING PRAYER
As the physical Sun disappears from our sight
May the Spiritual Sun arise in our hearts, illumine our minds
And shed its radiant blessing upon all we contact.
A
Aaron. rod of, 409 458.
Abram, servants of, 404.
Acacia, 409.
Acorn, 13, 61-3.
4cts, quoted. 450.
Aeroplanes. 62.
Age, Aquarian. 23-4-7, 84, 224, 250;
began. 48; man who conquers, 86,
90; Arian, 24; Birth of New, 73;
Bronze. 41-2; dynaapheric, 63;
Golden 41-2, 126; Great, coming,
451 ce, 42; intellectual, 250;
Iron. 41-a length of. 32, 115;
Magnetic 63; of Soul, 157; Pu-
evan, 23, 219; Silver, 41; Tan-
nan, 23; transitional, 61-7, 73,
211; Woman's, 78, 88.
Ages, Dark, 106, 229.
Air, changing, 57; hosts of, 115.
Akasba, records of. 35.
Alcyone, 23, 54, 284.
Aidebaran. 42.
Amalek, 308.
Anail. 381.
Angel, the Mighty, 450-3-7.
Angels, helpers, 273; in Euphrates,
239, 240; messengers, 47, 240,
299; planetary, 378-9, 380, 400-
10, 452; seven, Body, 452; Sixth,
236-7-8, 453.
Animals: in man, 103.
Antares, 42.
Aquaria, Message of, &
Aquarian, offices of, 138.
Aquarius, sir sign, 115; decans of,
27; meteors from, 30, 48; native
of, 27; number of. 140; ruled
by Saturn, 27. 139, 142; the Sign,
23-4; Uranus in, 27; Water
Bearer, 30.
Aries. Mars rules, 403; Ram of,
430.
Ark, David and the, 280; descrip-
lion. 409; Noah's, 412-13; of
Covenant, 337-8, 341-4, 403-8; of
Mysteries, 408-10; symbol of.
Art, ãestruction of ancient, 212.
Asana, 281.
Aspects, with others, 194.
Astarte, 408.
Astral, body, 154; forces, 67; sen-
sations, 156-7, 330-1' waters, 339,
Mlanteans, colonies of, 414; incar-
nating, 387; schools of, 386.
INDEX
Atlantis, disappeared, 42, 387, 395.
Atma, from Sun, 380.
Atoms, spiritualized, 448.
Atonement, blood, 440-1.
Attention, 108.
Autocracy, 246.
Avatar, announced, 238, 300-2; Ave.
sha, 433; body of an, 432, 448
born in Capricorn, 56; born of
Virgin, 81; coming, 82, -248, 434-
6' Jesus an. 328. 405, 431-4-7;
E!alki, 42; Melchesidec an, 404-5,
428; messenger of, 435; not born,
433, 455; not mortal, 456; prep.
aration for, 80; will appear, 310,
434. 455,
Avesba, 433,
Azszel, 269,
B
Babel, 237,
Babylon captivity In, 38; fall of,
218.
Baphoiuet, 269,
Bar Chocbebas, 49.
Beasts, four, 25, 128 130, 226, 233;
Eagle, 90, 232; 'Lion, 90, 231;
Man, 90; Ox, 90, 231, 268,
Betelgeuse, 174.
Bible, allegorical, 37; inspired, 376,
408,
Bibractis, 283.
Birth, spiritual, 416, 420-1-3.
Blights, cause of, 123.
Blind, man born, 416.
Blood, atonement and, 440; drink
my, 405' in soil, 122-3; of bulls,
430, 44d; of Christ, 214-9, 447;
of Cosmos, 47, 57-8; of Lamb,
448; of Ram. 430; sacrifice, 429;
symbol used, 349, 350, 402, 430,
440-6.
Body, a protection, 152-3; astral,
154; rat my, 405, 444; Nirman.
akaya, 430-2; of an Avatar, 448;
of man, 113; of Osuris, 7; spir-
itual, 33 77, 169, 421, 430-2-6.
Bread, inte'lect breaks, 445; symbol
of, 444-6.
Breadth, of Earth, 306; of Spirit,
416; path of, 208.
Buddha, Western, 456,
Buddhi, irons Mercury, 380; manas.
Bull. 26, 268; blood of. 430. 440;
symbolizes, 430; thunder-god, 284.
481
482 The Message
Butterfly, 15.
C
Caduceus, 270.
Cancer, 413.
Capricorn. Christ born in, 33, 273;
goat, 272-3; manger. 56; mysteri-
ous. 56; stars in, 55-6.
Carpenter1 symbol of, 180.
Carrot, wild, 371.
Cataclysms, from North. 130;
racial. 68.
Causes, unseen, 13.
Cave, of Initiation. 423.
Cells, renewing1 151.
Center, of civilization, 264,
Clier. upper. 440-2-3-7-8.
Change. Uranus and, 28; we must,
19. 197.
Cheops, 227.
Cherubim, 383. 409.
Child, of God, 148.
Chill, astral, 155.
Chohans, Dyhan, 99, 199.
Christ, a living, 443-4-5-6-7; birth
of, 273; born in heart, 180; in
humanity, 122; child. 169, 305,
429; consciousness. 161, 180, 220,
450-8; false, 83; force, 70 126,
150, 346, 452; presence oI, 21;
risen, 444.
Clouds, Jesus in, 82, 454.
Colors, blue, 93. 1 9; gold, 129;
indigo, 380; purple, 129; red, 93,
402; scarlet, 129, .69; white, 94.
Colos.nasss, quoted, 11, 416.
Comets, 47-8; changes follow, 50;
Halley's, 48-9.
Comforter. vii, 252, 420.
Coming, second, 448.
Commandments, of Jesus, 438.
Conception, Divine, 422.
Condemnation, self, 156.
Conditions, face, 106; transitional,
61-7, 73, 211, 450.
Conscience, 179.
Cooperation, necessity of, 414.
Coral, 259, 261-3.
Cord, three-fold, 422; umbIlical,
417-9.
I Coriwlkiant, quoted, 31, 143, 184.
432, 460-9.
II Covinitiiaa.r. quoted, 207, 437.
Cosmos, humanity a, 194.
Courage, needed, 107, 162; of Jesus,
Creation, days of, 190; good, 168,
256; groans, 122; of evil, 267;
256
plants, 126; out of ground,
Creative, powers, not evil, 396-7;
perverted, 124, 387.
Creeds, change, 437.
Cross, fixed, 24; heavenly, 42;
take up, 111.
288,
of Aquaria
Crucifixion, 181, 220, 442; mystical,
448.
Cycles, sad Uranus, 28; end of, 44;
law of, 451; new, 218; of Sun,
47; shortened, 42.
D
Dance, May-pole, 285-6; of David
280 religious, 280; Sun, 282-5.
Daniel, quoted, 38, 295.
David, symbolizes, 429.
Days, at Jordan, 334 345; us tomb,
190; six, 358; the Last, 35.
Deities, planetary, 30, 321, 400-1-5.
Demonstration, Prayer for, 147;
Appendix.
Desire, and will, 66-7, 133; city of,
352-4-5-6; King, 133, 308, 326,
354; negative, 69. 70; thought
arouses, 134.
Destiny, of humanity, 36, 463.
Destruction, of art, 212.
Development, spiritual, 465-7.
Devil, 274, 377, 389.
Diamond, formation of, 296-8, 302-
4; Heart, 294-7.8, 304-6-7; mas-
tery, 285, 305.
Disciples, chosen, 454.
Disease, astral, 155.8; cause of
387, 413; conquering, 45; not au
mental, 152.
Dispensation, end of, 40.
Divise MOtkeT, The, quoted, 420.
Dominions, 401.
Druids, Christ a, 284; InitIates,
283; meaning of, 282; sacrifice
of, 257.
Dryad. 291.
Dynamo, God as a, 467.
Dynasty, fourth Egyptian, 227.
E
Eagle, 26, 90.
Earth, entity, 113-7; molten, 116-9,
275; Mother, 112; not from Sun,
63; origin, 255, 352; parents of,
404-7; polluted, 121; zones, 113.
7, 122-6.
East, face the, 423; lightning front,
247; symbol of, 82, 130.
Easter, 285,
Ecclesiastes, quoted, 362.
Eclipses, 47; effect of, 51; of moon,
50-24; of Order, 51; of Sun,
50-4; seasons, 50.
Eden, Garden of, 191, 389, 397.
Edipus, 226.
EgypÇ symbolizes, 326, 474.
Egyptians dress of, 109.
Elect, 235-8, 444,
Electrons, 113.
Elemnentals, 113-8-9, 122, 174, 286.
Eleven, 140.
Elobim, 30, 78-9, 400-10.
Elytra, 226.
Embodiment, object of,
Divine. 442.
419; of
Eisock. quoted, 130.1.
Enthusiasm, wasted. 189.
Epkasiaiis, quoted, 147, 160.
Ephod, 427-8, 431.
Esau, 85.
Eucharist, 441-4.
Euphrates, 237-9, 414.
Evil positive, 267; not needed. 269.
Evolution, 225.
Ewer, 90.
Erodss, quoted, 129. 309.
Eye, spiritual, 421; that pierced,
447.
E.re*id, quoted, 25. 128.
F
Faith. a living. 65; and Works,
314; in God, 218.
Fall. of Babylon, 218; of man, 76,
384.
lrates, the three, 374.
Fear, 213.
Feet. nailed, 444; symbol of, 110,
339. 457.
Fertilization, 120.
Fetus, 220, 417.
Fig tree, 248, 315-7-8.
Fight, thoughts, 178.
Fire, Buddhic, 153-9- everlasting,
274-5; in Bible, 194-5; signal,
284; spiritual, 117-9, 122, 154,
225, 324.
Flag, meaning of, 92.
Flavor. 125.
Foodher required, 121-4; spir.
Force, astral, 67; Christ, 70; dynas.
pheric, 62, 70, 120. 410.
Forests. sitting in, 468.
Form, limits, 254; sacrifice of. 255.
Fornialhant, 42.
Four, mysteries, 130; number. 128,
249.
Free-will, 242, 451, 463-7.
G
CoJoJia,s, quoted, 469.
Galilee, Sea of, 331.2-3,
Generation, from Mars, 402-3.
Genesis, quoted, 84, 112, 126. 256,
404.
Gentiles, meaning of, 37; times of,
37.
Gestation, 417 422.
Ghost, Holy, 152. 346.
Gifts, of Wise Men, 398.
Gilgal, 350.
Goat, Baphomet, 269; Capricorn,
272; scape, 269; symbol, 57,
266-7, 277.
God, is Love, 213; jealous, 212;
manifested, 65- no personality,
464; Son of, 31, 148, 180-3, 191;
the One. 400.1.5, 466.
Gods, faith in, 218.
Good. all is 245; and cvii, 266-7;
creations. 168. 256.
Index 483
Grace, 364.
Growth, in Mastery, 101; law of,
Gueidon, Order's, 474; Soul's, 460.
4-6-9, 473.
Guidance, within, 160.
Guinness. Dr., quoted, 38.
H
Hall, Dr. C. Stanley, quoted, 450.
Hands, nailed, 444; symbolize, 266,
270. 310; upheld. 309.
Harlot. Rahab, 356-7.
Healing, miracles, 289.
Health, mental, 151; psychic, 152;
physical, 150, 157-8; spiritual,
Heart Doctrine, 160; door of, 22;
Sun in, 176.
Hebrew,. quoted, 295, 314, 377,
425. 441.
Hell, cannot appall. 11, 247; rican
up, 246.
Help, of Masters, 103.
Heredity, 417-9.
Herod, 181.
Hierarchies, Mended, 456; rule,
113-4-9.
Highway. KIng's, 438,
Home, spiritual, 144.
Honey, 26.
Horns, 359.
Horoscope, 28.
Horsemen, 240.
Horses, 241.
Horns. 238.
Haste, quoted, 356.
Household, Children of, 147, 160,
473; ideal of, 153.
Husk, outgrown, 18.
Huxley, quoted. 375.
Hymn, to Elements, 112,
Hypnotism, 395.
I
Ideal, built up, 153; manifests,
623; sent down, 98, 126.
Ideas, how expressed, 64; new,
451; sweep nations, 114.
Ideation, Divine, 126.
Illumination, 145, 191, 281.
image, of God, 368. 371.
Impatience, cause of, 164.
Incarnation, object of, 419, 460;
Souls await, 119, 407,
Appendix.
Indigo, 380.
Indweller 476; Prayer to 477,
Initiate, un, 350-1.
initiation, 18. 328; cave of. 432.
Insects, cause of, 122, 194, 387.
Inspiration, 170, 188, 328, 349;
present, 229, 445.
Intellect. Cultivate, 251; not enough,
179, 396; of John, 145; temptations
of, 182.
484 The Message of Aquaria
Involution, 254.
Isaiah, quoted, 295, 375, 445, 460.
Isis, Mother, vii, 404.
Israel. banners of, 95; dispersion of,
49; Jacob and, 88; tribes of, 91.
Jacob, and Esau, 84; curse of, 86;
dream of. 86- Israel, 88; ladder
of, 89; sons 0?, 88.
James, quoted, 314.
Jeremiah, quoted, 356.
Jericho, fall of, 361; symbol of.
350-1; taking, 348. 354.
Jerusalem, capture of, 38, 49; re-
main in 447; Symbolizes, 429;
the New. 342.
Jesus, an Avatar, 328. 405, 431-4-
6-7; events in life of. 180; in
like manner, 443 454-6.
Jewels, composed o 300.
Job, quoted, 295, 318, 322.
John, Baptist, 138-9, 145; Beloved,
138. 142; number of 140; Rev-
elator, 138. 145; the Iliree, 138-9.
Jordan, characteristics of, 331-2;
Crossing, 325-7, 331.6-8.
Joseph. symbolizes, 421.
Joshua, 328.
Joskaa, quoted, 325. 336, 343, 358,
408.
Joy, not killed, 20 178.
Judgment, Day of, 245.
Judges, quoted, 26, 280.
Jupiter, 31; force of, 405; reign of,
226.
K
Kabiri, 378.
Karma, 29, 460, 470; Lords of, 129.
Kashmir, Vale of. 268.
Key of Destiny, quoted, 24, 48, 55,
170, 269, 275, 321, 377, 389,
427, 455.
Key to the Universe, 16, 24-7, 57,
94, 113. 129, 174, 346, 378,
400.
King, Desire, 133, 181; real, 139
Kingdoms, lower in man, 102-3.
Kings, Divine right of, 426.
II Kings, quoted, 280.
Know, how to, 203.
Krishna, death of, 41.
Kryashakti, 56-7.
Kubunas, 286.
Kumaras. 56.
Kundalini, 394-5.
L
I.amp. of Patriarch, 262.
Land, Promised, 326.
Mosaic, 418.
Lemurians, 126,
Leo, sign 90.
Lessons, learn ours 137.
Letters from the Teacher, quoted,
97. 109.
Levi, Eliphas, quoted, 70.
Life, currents of, 17; Divine, 126,
205, 347; force as flavor 125;
force wasted, 443; forms ol, 255;
motive power of, 70; Mystic, 11;
of scientists, 16; renewed in
sleep, 14; Spiral of, 196; stages
of. 59; the One, 66-7, 184; Tree
of, 85, 183, 228; Water of, 30,
225, 250-1, 466; Waves, 207;
Wheel of. 199.
Light, from Venus, 378; Prayer for,
423, Appendix; Sons of, 397;
spiritual, 462; Sun and Moon,
190; to shine, 215.
Lightning, spiritual, 456.
Lion, 90; heads of, 241; of Judali,
Lodge, Great White, 100; stathtics
of. 116.
Logography, 256,
Love, Divine, centripetal, 69; holy,
Lucifer, 375-6, 381-6.
M
Magnetism, not love, 154; use of,
394-6.
Makara, 272.
Malacha, quoted, 425.
Man, Aquarian, 232; fall of, 76;
Know Thyself, 173; offices of,
138; seven-fold, 174; Sign of the
Son of, 24, 32-3, 81, 90, 224, 250;
super, 239, 470.
Manna, 140, 220, 379, 452; from
Venus. 380-2.
Manifestation, cycles of, 66, 74;
from unseen, 12; Law of, 205;
Principle. 254.
Manna, 190, 326, 409, 474.
Mamage, necessary, 394.
Mars, 400-8; as Artes, 401; erie-
monies of, 406; color of, 93, 402;
communication with, 412; effect
of, 31. 405; force used, 412;
fourth planet, 407; generation,
401-3-5; God of War, 402-3.5- in
Aries, 403; in Scorpio, 403; ket.
chisedec from, 428; without Mother,
403.
Mary, 404- symbolizes, 421-8, 449.
Masters, classes of; 99, 103-5; con-
tacting the, 264; feminine, 97-8;
help of, 103-4-6; in all ages, 117;
in Egypt, 228; Jesus, 102-3;
Lodge of, 93, 100; names of, 203;
recognizing, 203; taught man
arts, 125, 425.
Mastery, and the Masters, 97; at-
tained by, 98. 1014; easier now,
105; first stage of, 140; oak sym-
bolizes, 285; of sensation, 157.
May-pole, 285-7; mystic. 290.
Meat, apleitual, 143.
Melchisedec, 404.5, 427-8; Avatar,
404-5. 428, 431; from Mars, 428;
King of Salem, 429, 431; witbaut
parents, 430.
Men, Three Wise, 393.
Mentoids, 113.
Mercury, Buddhi from. 380; in
Aquarius, 27, 30-2.
Messenger., of the Lodge, 199 200,
240, 299, 300; Order a, 302:
Messiah, needed, 450.
Meteors, radiant of, 30.
Mind, Divine, 221, 254, 349; from
Venus, 380; laws of, 177-8, 472;
rational, 179. 219, 452; aubcon-
scions, 176, 220; superconacious,
177-9, 220; three aspects of, 140,
177, 379.
Moon, chain, 255, 352; conunction
of, 406; crescent, 270, 429; dead,
271; disappear, 272; effect, 31
271; goddess, 428; Jericho anJ
the, 352; mother of Earth, 352;
planet back of the, 53-5, 77, 271.
Moses, age of, 328; burial, 327;
lawgiver, 308 329.
Mother, the Livine, vii, 252, 404,
420; color of, 93-4; message of,
80; Prayer to, 423; glimpses, 465.
Motion, and emotion, 281; effect of,
61; eternal, 60, 71; rhythmic,
280.
Mount, Attainment, 279; Calvary,
139; Crucifixion, 139; Sinai, 139,
330; the Three, 139; Transfigura-
tion, 139, 146.
Mule, 387.
Muriel, 383.
Mysteries, of God, 328.
Mysticism, object of, 173.
N
Names, significance of, 256.
Nature, notes, 401; solves problems,
267; work with, 127.
Nave, 409.
Nebuchadnessar, accession of, 37;
comet of. 49. New York 307.
Nicodenius, 420,
Nimrod, 237.
Nine, number, 140.
Noah, 256, 412-3.
Now, ever present, 35.
Nucleus, form a, 33.
0
Oak, dryad of, 291; healing, 289;
Mystic, 230-7-9; sacred, 285.
Oil, necessary, 346; of consecration,
346.
Order, body of, 192; a messenger,
302; drama of. 474; founded,
302, 475; founders of, 201, 475;
in Egypt, 227' law of, 185-6;
motto of. 231-TI; personality of,
Index 485
475; Solar School, 391-2-3; sym
bol of, 233.
Orion, 403.
Osiri., and Moon, 271; body broken,
vu.
P
Patience, 163.
Pattern, ideal, 98.
Patrick, St., 284.
Peace, an inner state, 15, 165;
Prince of, 404.
Perfection, ultimate, 466,
Perfume, 125
Persecution, 243.
Personality, a creation, 464; is
everything, 469; of Order, 471.
II Peter, quoted. 376.
Pharaoh, 308 a priest, 426.
Pisces, end 0f, 30.
Planet, Mystery, 53-5, 271; orange,
77; reincarnated, 68.
Planets, conjunctions of, 41, 406;
Regents of, 452; Sacred, 378, 405.
10.
Pleiades, 285.
Plexus, solar, 176.
Poise, 166.
Polarity, Law of, 393-5. 418.
Pottery, 153.
Power. 168.
Pralaya, 68. 77.
Prayer, 18 for Demonstration,
147; for t.ight, 423; of Protec-
tion, 155, 323; to Divine Mother,
423; to Indweller, 477; unceas-
ing, 106.
Prayers, of the Order. see Appendix.
Priest. 138; Initiate 239, 425;
Jesus a, 428; ,bl..1,...+c a,
404-5, 428, 430-1.
Priesthood, a new, 433; of Mel.
cbesidec, 427-8, 430.1; the True,
425, 435.
Principalities, 401.
Principle, desire, 133; eternal, 437;
fIfth, 140; masculine and femi.
nine, 74-5.
Prophes1ings. despise not, 204.
Prophecies, Noted, quoted, 39.
Prophet, 138; false, 204, 248; in
furnace. 153.
Pious, quoted, 47. 154. 164, 207,
280, 295, 362, 377.
Purse, symbolizes, 199.
Pyramid, grand gallery of, 39.
R
Race, Fifth (Aryan), 42, 115;
Fourth, 452; Genius of each, 92;
Progenitor of, 452; Seventh. 40;
Sixth. 40-2, 450; Third, androg.
ynoua animala entered, 44;
Rachel, 87, 120,
Rahab, 357-8.
486 The Message
Rain, Aries, 403; blood of, 430.
Ray, Sushuinna, 271; three-fold,
385-8-9. 391-8, 463.
Reactions, control, 156' instinctive,
16; mental 17' on boily, 421.
Realms of tLe Living Dead, quoted,
87, 154, 182, 229, 325-9.
Rebirth, 416.
Records, astronomical, 40-1; hindu,
41.
Redeemer, our, 180, 215, 339.
Rejulus, 42.
Reincarnation, of planet and Race,
68.
Religion, Christian began, 217;
necessary, 218, 426; Test of. 250;
Wisdom, 221, 238.
Resurrection, 285.
Revelation, dangerous, 470.
Revelation, quoted, 29, 235-6, 240,
400, 450.
Rib symbolizes, 76-7-8.
Riches, not evil 363.
Rider, falls back 26.
Righteousness, Sun of, 214, 462.
Ring. Pass Not, 153-5.
River, Jordan, 325.7, 330; of
Death, 329, 330-2.
Rock. of spiritual understanding,
309, 311, 326, 330.
Rod, of Aaron, 409, 458.
Rodents, 387.
Romans. quoted, 180, 254, 316.
Rulers, Planetary, 400-1.
Russell, Pastor, quoted, 39.
S
Sacrarium, of Mars, 406.
Sacrifice, cycle of, 255-8; Law of,
254, 441; Mystery of, 438, 441;
of animals, 429, 439; of form,
255; of personality, 258, 282,
429; of Sun, 254; Stone of, 257,
282.
Sagebrush, 118.
St. Augustine, 216.
St. John, quoted, 275, 416, 421.
St. Luke, quoted, 37, 147, 199, 235,
248-9, 295, 310, 318, 386.
St. Mark, quoted, 248. 320.
St. Mmttkew, quoted, 23, 35, 89,
147, 235, 243-5, 266, 273, 295,
314, 316, 404, 441.
Sakti, 404.
Salem, King of. 429, 431.
Samson, 215-8.
I Samuel, quoted, 297.
II Samud, quoted, 283.
Saran, 50.
Satan, 376,
Satisfaction, attained, 16.
Saturn, as Satan, 376; force of
384. 405; not evil, 34, 320-1; old
cycle of, 324; qualities of, 60-1;
Reaper, 29, 30, 48, 321; Regent
of Aquaria
Eath,
Tester, 320, 377, 389, 390, 405;
throne of, 273.
Savior, not murdered, 214.
Sea, Dead, 334; Galilee, 331.3; Red,
339.
Secret Doctrine, The, quoted, 41.2,
70, 99, 112, 128, 134, 196-9, 224.
5, 256, 280-2-3-4-6, 294 304, 378.
9, 380, 396-7, 400-1, 456.
Seers, 36, 349, 350.
Selene, 428.
Self, the Real, 180; ,isiou of, 420,
Sensation, reactions to, 126,
Sensitiveness, 370.
Sepulcher, 135.
Sequence, Orderly, 184.
Seraphim, 383, 409.
Sex, from Venus, 403 410; killing
out, 383; perverte 387, 410;
problem, 354; separation of, 353.
Scarab, 227,
Scarlet, 269.
School, Luciferlan, 3934.6; 11cr.
curian, 397; Solar 391-2-3.
Scorpio, 26, 90, 2i2; slays Orion,
403.
Scrip, symbolizes, 199.
Sheep, and Goats, 266.7, 277; other,
Sheph'erd, 276; call of the, 435.
Shoes, symbolize, 199.
Show, Vain, 362.
Sibyl, 258.
Signs, cardinal, 25; fixed, 24; in
heaven, 24, 32.3, 81 90, 224, 250.
Similes, beach and tide, 209; but.
terfly, 15; fly in train, 201; high.
way, 438; purse, 199; shoes,
199; staff, 316; wheat, 250.
Simplicity, needed, 109.
Sin, original, 396; remission of,
441.
Sinners, repetition of, 212; we are
not, 215, 257,
Six, number, 452-3,
Sleep, experiences in, 465.
Soul, a;e of, 153; from Mercury,
380; is perfect, 460; mission of,
367, 460; overshadows, 417, 476.
Souls, no lost, 247, 463; seek in-
carnation, 119, 407.
Sphere, eighth, 271.
Sphinx, meaning of, 226; message
of, 224; riddle of, 224; temple of,
217, 225.
Spies, the two, 340, 355.6,
Spiral, of Life 196.
Spirit, of the òrder, 205.
Spirits, the seven, 400, 410; try the,
204-5.
Staff, musical, 3164.
Star, five-pointed, 94; Genius of
Race, 92' in Andrcineda, 55;
Nova Aqulllae, 55; Parent, 379.
Stimuli, responding to 15-6.
Stone, from sepuicLer, 134; the
twelve. 342.
Storms, readjust. 68, 120.
Sub-race, Avatar to, 432; fifth, 245;
fore-shadows Great, 40; sixth,
40-2, 67-8, 450.
Succession, apostolic, 429, 431.
Suffering, cause of, 15, 156.
Sun, Betelgcusc, 174; Central, 23,
54, 95-9, 287-8; effect of, 31;
of rghteousness, 214, 462; sac.
rilice of, 254; spiritual, 176, 191;
spots, 47.
Supply, 170; demonstrating, 222.
Sylphs, 115.
Symbol, of Order, 233; reversed,
T
Taurus, blood of, 430; sign, 90;
Sun in, 284.
Teacher, appears, 102; Divine, 228,
230, 453; bow to recognize, 458.
Teachings, how to judge, 204; sup.
port of, 222.
Temper, 167.
Temple, of humanity, 260.
TempLe of Sileace, quoted, 333, 448.
Testament, the New, blood of, 405
New. 437; of Jesus, 438-9; o
Order, 442-3-5-9,
Theophany, 350.
Theopneusty, 350, 426,
Thirst, 8, 181.
Thought, and desire, 134; forces
perverted, 124; impresses cells,
151, 421, 472; liberty of, 236,
243; tends to express, 177.
Thousands, the, 144, 170.
Tide, the, 209, 211, 221.
Tithes, 193.
Tree, fig, 248, 315-7-8; of Life, 85,
183, 228.
Tribes, banners of, 91; Judab, 91;
the, 12, 88, 342.
Trinity, 346, 419.
Tunnels, 411.
Twelve, stones from Jordan, 342;
tribes, 88.
U
Understanding, 170.
Uranus, in Aquarius, 27, 53; posi-
tion of. 324.
Urge, Cyclic, 66; Divine, 347; the
inner, 15.
Urid, 381-7.
Index 487
Urun, and Tliummin, 427, 431.
Ushanas, 379.
V
Vanity, 362-9.
Veil, over altar, 129.
Venus, builds nest, 34; force of,
405; in Aquarius, 27, 30-1-2-
light from, 378, 384; mind from,
380-2; Regent of, 381 401;
Syrian, 408; transit of, 384.
Virgo, rising, 57.
Visions, at death, in sleep, 465-6.
Voice, the Inner 18ß, 238.
Voice of his, the, quoted, 23, 31,
40-4, 53-7, 65, 73, 87, 98, 114,
165, 185, 229, 255. 272, 301-6,
329, 352, 384 434, 452-5.
Voice of the .ikiwe, The, quoted,
160, 173, 301, 396, 409, 462-8.
w
War, the World, effects of, 122,
211; mental, 241; prevented,
36-7; second woe, 235.
Water, Bearer, 79; drink, 59; of
Life, 30 225, 237, 250-1.
Waves, Life, 207; in planet, 210;
magnetic, 210; negative and pos-
itive, 208.
Wealth, boarding. 365; not evil,
363-4.
Wilderness, 141, 325.
Will, and desire, 67, 133; centrifu-
gal, 69; Divine, 62.4; good, 166.
'Whirlwind, 71.
Wind. Bloweth, 416; East, 129,
131; North, 130-2-4; South, 129,
131; West, 129, 132
Winds, the Four, 25, 128; gather-
ing from, 89.
Wine, symbolizes, 444.
Wisdom, 169; Religion, 221,
Woe, first, 29, 53; periods of, 241;
second, 235; ends, 453.
Woman place of, 386.
WomanLood. of Race, 79.
Works, Faith and, 314; rewarded,
316.
World, mental, 183; spiritnal, 183
Y
Yod, 409.
Yen; 409.
Yugas, 41.
z
Zodiac, greater. 23. 53.4.
The Universal Religious Fellowship
presenting the philosophy of
Cosmic Soul Science
A non-sectarian spiritual movement for the promulgation
of a Cosmic and all-inclusive spiritual philosophy which
gives a satisfactory and scientific explanation of every
phase and condition of life both here and hereafter.
Christian in ethics, yet non-sectarian and universal.
Monthly lessons and personal correspondence on all vital
problems sent on the free-will offering basis.
If the teachings presented in this volume have interested
and helped you, send for a descriptive pamphlet of our
correspondence course.
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M.D.
Washington, I). C.
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
These books present the philosophy 0f Christian Psychology and
Mysticism in plain, comprehensible terms and applied to the daily
life. Not mere theory and metaphysical ipeculation, but a definite
and comprehensible philosophy of life and Soul-growth, tested
through years of experience, which includes a rational explanation
of all forms of mysticism and Biblical Occultism, as well as the
vital and complex problems of modern life and ali after-death con-
ditions.
There are perhaps no hooks on the market to-day which so ful-
fill the needs of the awakened Soul who is seeking to know and
understand how to apply the universal laws of the spiritual life
under present and cominÇ world conditions. While philosophical
and comprehensive in their scope, they also answer the heart-cry
for love, light and life.
Just the books to place in the bands of a friend who is out-
growing former limitations of thought and old conceptions. Chris.
tian in their ethics, yet non-sectarian, cosmic and nniver.
Send for Descriptive Catalog.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
Washington, D. C.
"The Curtiss Books" Dispel the Mists From Mysticism
The VOICE OF ISIS
A TEXT BOOK OF THE SPIRITUAL LIFE
A Veritable Compendium of Christian Psychology, Spiritual
Phflosophy and Esoteric Biblical Interpretation -
Not cold, intellectual essays, but vibrant with sympathy, understand-
lag and comfort for those facing life's trials and problems, exphinhig
the reasons therefor and how to master them. Radiant with practical
help. Takes fear out of the Bib1e
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Life's Duties and How to Recognize and Accomplish ThemThe
Cycle of Fulfillment. The European War Foreshadowed and Causes
Given Two Years Before It BeganDegrees and Orders, and the
Celestial HierarchiesThe Wisdom ReligionConcerning the Doctrine
of Hell Fire, Takes Fear Out of the BibleThe Eleventh Command-
mentNarcotics. Alcohol and PsychismA Study of KarmaThe
SelfThe Doctrine of Avatara. A Clear Explanation of the Laws
Under Which the Christ May Be Expected to Manifest on Earth in
This Age, exposes the mistake of the many claimantsA Study of
ReincarnationThe Seven Powers of ManA Brief Outline of Eve- -
lution, both Man and NatureThe Sevenfold LawThe Formation
of World ChainsPurity, and the problem of sexThe Origin of Man,
a clear explanation which reconciles Fundamentalists and Liberals
The Symbol of the SerpentPurification vs. DeificationThe Memory
of Past Lives, explains why so many think they have been great per-
sonages in the pastThe Cycle of NecessityThe Path of Attainment
Earth's Finer ForcesThe Descent of the LightThe Two Tables of
Stone, or Woman's True Place and Mission in LifeThe Healing
Prayer, and how to use itHow to Enter the SilenceNature's Mystic
Alphabet. A Study of the Relation of Sound, Number, Color and
FormThe Word Made FleshIllumination--The Symbol of the Salt
Thou Shalt Not lUll, Covering the Whole Problem of Meat Eating
The Prayer of ConsecrationThe Meaning of the Symbol of the
Order.
uThe CurUss Books" Help You to Help Yourself
The VOICE OF ISIS
APPRECIATIONS
"Here we have a wise book."Portland Oregonùjn.
"Is the most valuable, yes, the most practical of any that has come
under the observation of the reviewer."Joliet News.
"A marvel of erudition. Practical instruction accompanies well reasoned
theory at every turn."Tke Occult Review, London.
"Reveals with wonderful simplicity, directness and convincing force,
Christianity as perceived by the light of the Secret Wisdoxn."Azogh
Magazine, New York.
"it is indeed an epoch-snaking volume and almost every subject of
importance is treated . . . and elucidated beautifully. Verily those who
accept the authors' interpretations. . . will be students of Universal
Religion."Kalpcka Magazine, India.
"High ideals are given upon sex and generation, and the book is
permeated with a large tolerance and loving service towards advancing
humanity."The Master Mind, Los Angeles.
"It is the practical problems of life.. . that constitute its use and
commend it to every earnest student."The Public, Chicago.
"Altogether, this is a book rich in thought and suggestion."Tke
dmerican Theosophist.
"It contains truth of the highest spiritual order which the student of
Truth may readily lay hold upon."Unity, Ranc'g City.
"Not only has the book very favorably impressed me through its
common sense way of treating subjects on which occultists sometimes
go wild, but I have almost invariably heard the same expression of
opinion from others who have read it."Editor The 0. E. Lzbrary Critic,
Washington.
"Undoubtedly the best that has appeared for some time . . . written
In a style both simple and scholarly."Newport Plain Talk.
"The greatest book since The Secret Doctrine."J. B.
"The Ilrst and only book that gives sue a feeling of complete satis..
faction as I read?'Mrs. S. S. B.
"I keep it dose and read it as some do their Blbles"Mys. C. W.
"For me, your book is the most inclusive, popular, comprehensive,
sane and balanced, and saturated with that wonderful and helpful
essence of understanding, sympathy and love, which makes your book
a living friend. Your spiritual psychology is unique! It has opened my
eyes.".P. R. German edition, $3.00
Fifteenth Edition, Elaborate Index. Price. $2.50
"The Curtiss Books" Solve the Riddle of Deathand After
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DOES THE PERSONALITY SURVIVE DEATh?
Is communication possible? Is there a safe and legitimate method?
This book gives a clear, scientific, satisfying and comforting explanation
of all after-death conditions, induding a clear explanation of the
problems unsolved by "Raymond"; "Letters from a Living Dead
4jq,,e'; "Patience Worth," etc. A rational, scientific, all-inclusive philos-
ophy, not a mere mediumistic report.
Wastes no time with elaborate proofs of life after death. Written
for those who already know it to be a fact and desire authoritative
instruction as to the details. Explains all methods of communication
with the invisible.
Four added chapters on Protecting PowersIndependent Commu-
nications, examplesThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a Message from
Quentin RooseveltThe AnnunciationA Message from LincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarian AgeA Message from SaturnThe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe CurtainAviator
returns.
You will nd all your questions answered in this volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
Scientific proofsRivers of Life and Deaththe Seven Realms
Realm of Reflectionthe Astral Doublethe After-Death Sleepthe
Awakening of the Aged; After BattleAstral HelpersIndians as
GuidesEarth-bound Spiritsthe Law of Thought and DesireDiseases
Due to Reflex Psychic ConditionsClothing, Houses, Amusements
the Method of MaterializationSouls Seeking IncarnationCondi..
tions Around the Prospective Motherthe Hall of LatheWhy We
Forget the Higher Realms at BirthLaw of Manifestationfire Outer
»arkness"Weeping and Wailing and Gnashing of Teeth"Masses
of Color, Perfumes, SoundsHow the Flowers Are ColoredThought..
forms and Inventionsthe Pattern MuseumAeroplane Models and
Other Inventions to ComeObsessmg EntitiesPsychic Cause of
DrunkennessExamples and the CureCrimes of "Irresistible Impulse"
Lustful TemptationsControl of Sex DesiresDual and Multiple
PersonalitiesLoving Friends and HelpersSt. Paul's Injunction to
"Try the Spirits"So-called "Lost Souls"the Dweller on the Threshold
Sad Fate of the SuicideElementalsthe Fairies, Nature Sprites
Their Messages and PropheciesHow Gold is FormedPsychic Realms
Diagrams of the Astral WorldDeath of the Astral BodySpirits
who "Progress to Higher Spheres"the "Hall of Learning" and the
Great Schoolsthe Great White LodgeWork of Mme. Blavatsky
ContinuesIndependent Methods of CommunionTelepathy, Clairvoy-
ance, Clairaudience, Clairsentience, Intuition, Inspiration, Theophany,
AveshaDifference Between Independent and Subjective Methods
"Spirit Control"Subjective vs. Ecstatic TranceMaterialization-
Trumpet Speakingthe Ouija Board, Examples of Its Deceptions and
The Curtiss Books" Explain All Psychic Experiences
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
The Seven Realms
Dangers--Sir Oliver Lodge's Warning as to Automatic WritingThe
Telepathic Method, Bible ExainplesSt. Paul's Directions to All Chris-
tiansthe Astral Chill vs. the Spiritual Fire, Chili or ThrillProtecting
PowersNegative vs. Positive StatesEnoch and the Doctrine of
TranslationAkashic Recordsfour added chapters of Independent
CommunicationsThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a Message from
Quentin RooseveltThe Annunciatk.nA Message from LincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarian AgeA Message from Saturnthe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe Curtain.
You will find your questions answered in this volume.
APPRECIATIONS
"We can very warmly recommend this volumeBy far the most
advanced book on the subjectKnickerbocker Press, Albany, N. Y.
'It is the Christian hereafter that is described with the rb,'mflcation
of the Astral World on a scientific basij."New York T)mes.
'Distinctively allied with the Bible - . . really of essential value."
Springfield Republican.
'One of the most valuable passages of the book, and a really notable
contribution to the subject, is on the treatment of drunkards and the
nature of alcohoL"Toronto Sunday World.
"We heartily recommend the chapter on The Desire Realm.
There is much other useful advice and knowledge given, such as
regards suicides and the dangers of (subjective) mediuinsbip. The
chapters on elementals and fairies are eatremely interesting, and alto.
gather our friends the Curtisses have given us a very valuable contribu.
tion for occult study."Editor of Azoth Magazine.
"A great deal of exceedingly useful advice is given to people regard-
big their relation to their friends who have passed over. It is partic-
ularly desirable that in these times of death and sorrow people should
be familiar with conditions of life on the other side of the veil
Toronto Sunday World
"A saner treatise on the After-Death life would be difficult to
find... . The Authors are perhaps world-famous for their teachings,
and this work should enhance their already great reputation....
Over .300 pages of sound knowledge and advice.... The space at
one's disposal cannot possibly do justice to a work of this caliber
and those who would delve deeper into this subject should not fail
to read this boolr." The Occult Rcvww (London).
Can You Afford to Remain Ignorant on This Vitally
Important Subject?
Seventh Edlijon. With New Appendix on Narcotics andDynamic Prayen
S2.50
"ThaT Curtiss Books" Explain the Second Coming
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
Not a aeauel to The Voice of Iris, but rather a response to the
urgent call for further and more advanced instruction concerning the
great unrest in world conditions, and their solution.
Also contains a reasonable and scientific explanation of how and
when and to whom the Son of Man will appear at the Second Coming.
The only satisfactory exposition of this subject.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Mystic Lifein nature, so in manhow to react to stimuli from
the inner world as we now react to the outer.Tke Sign Aquarius.
doctrine of cycles and agesthe Sign of the Son of Man in heaven.
Are These the Last Dayscycles of Races and sub-racesmeaning of
"the end of the world."Comets and Eclipseshow cosmic changes
affect the Earththe Sun-spot cycle and its effectHalley's comet
ushered in Aquai'ian AgeThe Law of Growthhow the ideal inani-
fests through the Law of Growththe dynaspheric force.Birth of
the New Agethe Water Bearerembodiment of the ChristHis
teachings.Jacob and Eraumeaning of the trickeryof Jacob's twelve
sonssymbology of the Stars and Stripesis America the seat of
the new race?Mastery and the Mastersmeaning of mastery and
how attainedfeminine Mastersthe Great White LodgeMother
Earthher alchemyher seven layersorigin of insect pests and plant
blightseffect of blood shed on battlefields--The Four Windsuse of
4 in the Biblecoming cataclysms--The Three JohnsJohn the Bap-
tist, John the Beloved, John the Revelator.Children of the House-
holdthe Prayer for Demonstrationprotection from astral forces.
astral chillastral diseaseschild trainingattaining material supply.
Man, Know Thyselfdivisions of manlaws of mindconcentration
cn the solar plexustraining the subeonscious mindthe superconscious
symbol of the carpenterof Herodthe cruczfixion.Orderly Sequence
effect of order and disorder.The Spiral of Lifereason for changes
in lifeuse of the Masters' namesLife Waveslaw of wave-motion
rhythm of the bseathtidal wavesstorms of emotionmagnetic
variations of the Earth.Message of the Sphinxmeaning of the
scaraborigin of the Order of Christian Mysticscrypt beneath the
Sphinx.The Second Woelength of the four periods of the woe
false prophets--The Day of Judgmentsigns of His coming.Law of
Sacrificesacrifice of the Sun in Naturevalue of talismansvalue
of sacrifice.The Sheep and the Goatstheir symbologythe "other
sheep."The Mystic Oak_origin and function of the dancerhythmic
motion in religious servicessymbology of Circle and Sun dances
origin of bonfires and the MavpoleÐryads and Naiads.The Din-
snond fleart.formation of a diamondforces obtained from a na-
mond.The Trite Priesthoodmeaning of priest, bierophant, prophet-
Mekhisedec and Jesusbow an Avatar manifestsHis near advent
partial Avatars or Avesbas--A New TestamentJesus' new testament
"The Curtlu ooki" Give a New Outlook on Life
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
symbology of "the upper cbamber"of bloodof the bread and wine.
Crossing Jordanwandering in the wildernessdividing the waters.
crossing dry-shodTaking Jerichosymbology of the ram's horns.
why the walls fellThe Vain ShowLuciferdistinction between Lud-
fey, Satan and the devilUniversal Center of the Solar Schooltbe
Ludfenan SchooLFaith and WorksSun Initiation.Mars---why
Mars is redrelation of Mars and Venuswhy the Bible is allegorical.
The Spiritual Birthplace of the spiritual birththe spiritual or
Nirmanya bodyThe Mighty Angd"this same Jesus shall so come
In like manner"His method of appearanceconditions necessaryhow
to recognize HimThe Soul's Guerdonlesson of each Earth-life-
object of incarnationvalue of ceremonies, observances, diet, etcthe
Lord from heaven.
APPRECIATIONS
"An admirably conceived and well produced volume, which sbou%I do
much to increase still further the wide circle of students to whom the
Christo-Theosophy of The Order of Christian Mystics makes so strong
an appeaL"The Occult Review, London.
"Have only got about one-fourth though with 'The Message of
Aquaria,' but the book is so good that I want to put one in each of our
public libraries."R. H. W.
"The book makes interesting reading.... These two authors are ap-
parently authoritie&"San Francisco Journal.
"These books are not claptrap utterances of shallow minds; they are
deep and sincere."Oakland Tribune.
"Quite apart from their great message to the world, the amount of
actual knowledge they contain and the extraordinary high standard of
literary finish, together with perfect simplicity of language and style,
make this side of these works (the Curtiss books) without a jarring
note"A. A. B,, London.
"What a tremendous work you have accomplished! How immensely
important! Your works must certainly become more widely known all
over the world! The highest spirituality breathes though every sen-
tence. I am amazed at the immense spiritual value I have discovered
and am daily discovering in them. They are Soul-uplifting to an In-
credible degree! How blessed you are to receive these splendors from
the Infinite Consciousness direct! You are two Souls specially favored
by Heaven! With the greatest esteem and admiration, your friend."-,
aro,i Albert Van der Naillen, author of In the Sanctuary, etc.
Complete Index. Sixth Edition. Price. $2J0
"The Curtiss Books" Explain the Mysteries of Life
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
«mis work is not only the most comprehensive and authoritative
book on the significance and spiritual interpretation of numbers and
symbols, but its 40 chapters contain more new, reliable and spiritually
helpful information on numbers, letters, the Tarot cards, the circle,
triangle, square, pentacle, Seal of Solomon, the Commandments, indud-
ing the esoteric interpretation of many Bible and classic myths hereto-
fore little understood, also Masonic symbols, the Trinity, the Elohini1
angels, mythology, evolution, cycles, initiations, etc., than many sep-
arate books on those subjects."Baltimore American.
Not a dry mathematical treatise, nor mere speculative theories.
Illustrations and confirmations from nature at every turn.
Shows "That all personal experiences are expressions of the one
Great Law manifesting according to mathematical principles, demon-
strating that the unfoldment of the godlike possibilities inherent in each
Soul follows, step by step, the same order of events that is followed
in the Cosmos."
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Origin of Numerical Systemsthe Symbol of the Circle, Ser-
pent, Kirk and Churchthe Druids and HyperboreansRound Towers
of IrelandIndians' Use of Feathersthe Circle as the Egg and the
CatOrigin of the Decimal SystemOrigin of the Druid Bonilres
and MaypoleWhy 1 Comes Firstthe Letter AlephThe Juggler
Origin of Constantine's Symbolthe Magic Wand and CrozierSoul-
marriageKey to the Universal Law of Sexthe Letter Beththe
High PriestessJakin and BoasSolar CrossVeil of Isisthe 3 Great
Star StreamsOrigin of the Triangle and the TrinityDiagram of
Law of Marriage and DivorceTripod of Pythian PriestessNoah and
His SonsProphets in the Fiery FurnacePower of the Spoken Word
"Army of the Voice"The Letter GimelThe EmpressOrigin of
the Square, and Cross, Swastikathe 4 Beaststhe 4 Windsthe 4
Gospelsthe 4 Rivers of Eden-40 Years in the Wilderness-40 Days'
Fastthe 4 Castes of Mankind-4 Stages of Civilization-4 Forms of
Government, the last of which we are now enteringthe Letter flaleth
The EmperorDifference between Sabbath and SundayRole of
SaturnS Pointed StarBeJchaTTar's VisionClairvoyance Not a 6th
SenseSymbol of the Crocodilethe S Tahsmans of the SikbsAnfi-
gonus' Vision of the PentacleEffect of a Reversed Symbolthe Letter
HeThe PopeOffering Up Isaac-6 Days of Creation-6 Days of
LaborNumber 6 and the Elementalsthe Letter VanThe Mystery
of Creationthe 7 ElohimMusic of the SpheresColors of the Musi-
cal ScaleApollo's Lyrethe Pipes of Panthe number of Gestation.
the 7-fold Earth Chainthe 7 Races and Sub-races--the 7-fold Con-
struction of Manthe 7 Cycles of Lifethe 7-fold Basis of Masonry
Mme. Blavatsky and Number 7the 7 Churches in AsiaNumber 7 in
Revelationthe 7-Pointed StarSeal of SolomonLegend of the Mina-
tourof Phaetonthe 7 Principles of Man clearly expoundedthe 7
"The Curtiss Books" Renew Faith through Knowledge
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
Plelades and the 7 RishisMyth of Orionof Niobethe Letter Zeus
The Chariotthe Number of Evolutionthe Octavethe 8th Sphere
the Dweller on the ThresholdValley of the Shadow of Deaththe
Letter HellsJusticethe Number of InitiationApollonius of Tyana
MeditationGenii of the HoursHigher InitiationsPlato and Num-
ber 9the 9th Hourthe 9 Musesthe Mystery of Number 9
Symbology of a Ropethe 144,000the Letter TethThe Hermit.
the Number 10the Number of Completionthe Decadthe Sun
Abram and SaraiZodiac Formerly had Only 10 SignsDiagram of
the Group-SoulMeaning of the 10 Lepersthe Letter YodThe
Wheel of Lifethe Joy of CompletionKey-note of CreationGeo..
logic ErasNumber of Completed Earth, Man and Super-man.
APPRECIATIONS
"In this book all the lore of centuries that has gathered about the
number from I through 10 is set forth with a perfect wealth of
detaiL . . This book is easily the most complete and satisfactory
bringing together of information that is scattered in hundreds of vol-
umes not readily accessible."The Boston Post.
"It is the most fascinating book I ever read."Dc Casseres, New
York Sun.
"It certainly makes out a good brief for the significance of num-
bers, and one well supported by mathematics and music. .. . It con..
tains much besides the ingenious showing of the curious correspondence
of numbers."Springftrld Republican.
"An elaborate spiritual interpretation of numbers and symbols which
supplements Middle Age deliverances In this field with illustrations
from modern science, and comes near to relegating Pythagoras to the
shelf as a back number. . . . The treatise presents an amount of well
collected information which no student of numbers and their form
symbols can afford to neglect. .. . The general aim is both ethical and
religious."Boston Herald.
"it is deep and profound. As one goes into this message of phi-
losopliy cisc becomes vitally interested, and even awed."Portland
Oregonian.
"The person who has only an amused contempt for this sort of
thing will yet find a gripping interest in contemplating what it has
produced."The San Francisco Chronicle.
"Goes deeply into the philosophy of numbers and should be of
interest to all students of symbolism and Freemasonry. . . . Not a
mathematical dissertation, but replete with occult information."
Masonic New Age Magazine.
"Easily the most complete and satisfactory bringing together of
all the lore of centuries that has gathered about numbers
set forth with a perfect wealth of detail"Boston Post.
Profusely illustrated with ten full-page plates, portrait of Mrs.
Curtiss, many diagrams, tables, etc.
Complete index. Eighth and Revised Edition. Price $3.00
"The Curtiss Books" Have Remodeled Men's Lives
The KEY OF DESTINY
A Sequel to The Key to the Universe
This volume presents three revelations of supreme importance, con-
cerning the origin of the Zodiac, the Labors of Hercules, and the
relation of the Sun Myth to the Christian religion.
Why is the ZodiaC divided into 12 signs and not some other number?
Why should there be only four elements, earth, air, fire, water? Why
should each have three manifestations in the Zodiac?
All the myths and allegories involving 12, such as Jacob and his 12
sons, also the 12 Disciples of Jesus, and the 12 months of the year,
etc., are all based upon the 12-fold division of the Zodiac. But
nowhere in print have we found any philosophical and scientific rea-
son why the division into 12 was chosen, save in this volume. Truly
a momentous discovery.
Why should the peculiar animals used be applied to the Zodiac when
the forms of the constellations they embrace in no way resemble or
even suggest such animals? The reason is found only in this volume.
Vitally necessary for all students of astrology.
Nowhere in all literature can the interpretation of the 12 Labors
of Hercules be found. In this volume the authors not only give the
Interpretation, but connect each labor with its proper zodiacal sign.
This one feature might well form a valuable book in itself.
The universal Sun Myth has been the basis of the life-narrative
of every Sun God or spiritual Light Bearer sent to humanity. This
volume shows that this is more than a myth and why it is a spiritual
reality. These chapters are a direct challenge to the so-called "higher
critics" of the Bible and a complete refutation of their chief claims
against the Bible story. Of great importance to all students of com-
parative religion, to ministers and to Bible students generally.
These are only a few of the many revelations of this truly wonderful
volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Number 11, a New Beginning, the cycle of the advanced Disciple.
the Legend of Parsifalthe 11 year Astronomical Cyclethe 11 year
Sun Spot CycleGems and the ZodiacUse of a person's Name-
NumberReincarnation and Transmutationthe Permanent Atom
Physical ImmortalityAttitude for lleabngCause of Cancerthe He-
brew Lettersthe 144,000the 11th letter, Kaphdiagrams of the
Cycle of Manifestation.
Number 12, the Manifested UniverseGeometrical Law why the
Zodiac is 12 foldDiagram of Zodiacthe Aquarian AgeWhy were
the disciples called "Fishers of Men"?Origin of the 12 Tribes-
12 Stones from Jordanthe 12 Disdples-12 Knights of King Arthur
the Last Supperthe 12 Baskets of BreadJesus at 12 yearsWhen
is Incarnation Complete?Incarnation in Various SignsMystery of
the Gobi Desert-12 Hebrew Simple Letters-12 Body SaltsJesus, the
Piscean Avatar.
The Curtis Books" Satisfy Both Head and Heart
The KEY OF DESTINY
The 12 Labors of HerculesRelation of Hercules and JacobKlfl-
lug the Nemean LionKilling the HydraCapturing the Keryneian
DoeCapturing the Erymanthian BoarCleaning the Augean Stables
Killing the Man-eating Birds of StymphalosCapturing the Cretan
BullCapturing the Man-eating Mares of DiomedesSeizing the
Girdle of HippolyteCapturing the Oxen of Gezyoneusthe Three-
beaded Hell HoundObtaining the Golden Apples of HesperidesChange
from 10 signs to 12Wrestling with AntaiosMysteries of Eleusis.
Number 13Why Considered Unlucky-13 at a dinnerIts Real
SignificanceThe Savior GodMystical Meaning of the BibleHigher
Critics refutedthe Life of JesusNumber of Judas-30 pieces of
SilverMeaning of Playing Cards-13 Apparitions of Jesus.
Number 14Phantoms of the MindHawaiian Sacre. SharkLevia-
thanJonahUse of Perfumes.
Number 15Blood of the Lambthe Devil, flow CreatedOrigin
of DiseasesRace KarmaPower of ThoughtDweller on the Threshold
flour of Initiationthe Order of the 15Why EstablishedCon-
tacting the Mastersthe Holy GrailMessage of the Sphinx.
Number 16VictoryNature SpiritsEncbantments.
Number 17Disposing Intelligencethe Celestial Hierarchies-144,000
Value of HoroscopesDiagram of the Hierarchies.
Number 18The Second InitiationBlack Magiciansthe $ Sign
Symbol of the Swan or PelicanNumber 666 and the Beast.
Number 19Number of the SunTwice-bornSun Eclipse every 19
yearsthe Hyperborean Land-Druid CollegesSun Initiationthe
Philosopher's StoneCenter in the Spleenthe SwastikaEquilibrium
of the Sexes.
Number 20Celestial InitiatorPower of the ChristReason for
Spiritual Development in Deformed BodirsDesaiption of the Pineal
Gland and the Pituitary Bodythe Feminine Ray.
Number 21Incarnations of the Higher SelfMme. Blavatsky's last
IncarnationSpiritual Majoritythe Crocodile.
Number 22The New JerusalemSquaring the CircleLaw of Co-
operationAquarian AgeProphecies of DmastersEstabhsbmg New
Conditionsthe Woman's AgeTaking Vows.
APPRECIATIONS
wrliey have collected a positive wealth of material about the sym-
bolism of numbers. .. . You will find here a posshve treasury of in-
formation about how to climb to the ultimate attainment."The Boston
Post.
Ten full-page plates, prtraIt of Dr. Curtiss, many diagrams, etc.
Fifth Edition- Complete Index. Price $2Jo
uThe Curtiss Books" solve evolutionary problems
THE TRUTH ABOUT EVOLUTION
and the BIBLE
A new and illuminating concept of evolution.
Revolutionary yet inspiring views of the whole Garden of Eden
story. A new interpretation of the factors claimed by both sides of the
controversy and a rational basis for the reconciliation of religion and
science; of the Fundamentalists and the Liberais.
Profound, yet dear and simply expressed. Scientiflcafly accurate, yet
not tiresomely statistical or unduly technical. Vibrant with deep spirit-
ual understanding and penetrating insight into ultimate r'li'ie' the
fundamentals of both causation and manifestaijon.
Expands the mental horizon. Satisfies the head, yet thrills the heart.
A grasp of this book will enable one to in,inf,.in his stand in any
company. Answers all questions.
Covers all phases, both biblical and scientific.
Chapters on Science, what it has proved as to the evolution of forms.
Materialism. Not a sound philosophy. Accept its facts, but not its
conclusions. Manifestation. Necessity of a pattern and how material-
ized. Examples. Creation. The first Adam created, the second Jormed.
Not the descendants of apes and why. Evolution not a mechanical
process. Spiritual radio-activity. Adam and Eve. Not parents of all.
Bow and why the separation of the sexes took place. Woman's place
and duty. Sex appeal. Garden of Eden. In all religions. No such
place even found. Meaning. Trees in the Garden. Meaning of their
fruit Why banished? The Serpent Power. Why used as a symbol?
Sex not impure. The Kundalins-force, effect on spinal cord and brain.
Unity in Duality. The Twain one Flesh. True marriage made in heaven.
Object of marriage. Trial and companionate marriages. Supplementary
chapters on God, The Image of God, and Emmanud.
APPRECLI TIONS
"A new conception of evolution." New York Times.
"A new interpretation of the factors claimed by both sides In the
controversy over evolution and the Bible." Detroit Free Press.
"The findings of science are well stated" Richmond Times-Dispatch.
"A new and ealightening contribution.... Contains a profound dis-
cussion of the conflict between science and religion and offers an in-
teresting explanation." Spokane Chronicle.
"The writers unquestionably deplore the drift toward aaim,,1cm, and
they wish to reinforce the drift to spirituality." Boston Transcript.
"Written in a way to hold the interest" Oakland Tribune.
"The place of woman as the complement of man is demonstrated?
Columbus Dispatch.
"The story of Eden and the modern social problems involved are dis-
cussed at length and with much interesting comment" Buffalo Courier-
Express.
"Written in simple, dear language the book gives a striking impres-
sion of the process of evolution .. - in which man shares on all planes
It is a source of light, a revelation to be welcomed by all such as long
and thirst for an understanding of the unity of all life and to whom
The Curtins hooks" Illumine biblical allegories
the Bible so far had remained obscure." Editor, Coude a Coude, Paris.
"The Curtisses in this volume have cast upon this subject a search..
light of profound spiritual perception, bringing light to many things
heretofore hidden. The book is splendidly written, a rich mine of infor-
mation, and we advise each one of our readers to obtain this valuable
and much-needed treasure volume." Editor, The Aquarian Age.
"Written with simple clarity and directness and reveals the profound
thought as well as the constructive religion of the co-authors." But-
1etz, National League of American Pen Women.
"The old knowledge is tramfigured by the new and inspired concep-
tion. Instead of the letter which killeth, we are given food for the
growth of the soul. Editor, Psychic Science, London.
"You may take your Bible literally or otherwise, but you are bound
to find The Truth About Evolution and the Bible a stimulating and
thought-provoking book.... The sort of book that can be picked
up and 'dipped into' anywhereintensely readable from the first page tij
the last." Editor, Occult Digest.
"The latest work from the inspiring pen of these two highly special..
fred students of the Scriptures, and the psychology of the Spirit, witl
all its symbolism brought down to earth, and presented in language
both simple and impressive.... This book is commended to all who
are interested in things of the Spirit and who are striving to widen and
deepen their understanding of symbology." Editor, Xnowzng People.
"We are always glad to see a new book by the Curtisses appear at
our desk. We stop work at once and read it, for the several books
issued by these gifted authors thus far have always been not only
helpful but of unusual merit.... We have enjoyed it. We have
profited by it. The clean, wholesome, sane, logical philosophy em-
bodied cannot fail to impress constructively. We affirm that it is dis-
tinctly good stuff." Editor, Mercury.
"The study of the Bible in the light of the above views ought to en-
courage every thinking Christian to a more rational and scientific view
of religion and must satisfy both his intellect and his heart.... We
look to this book therefore as of profound use and interest to all truly
religious." Editor, The Kalpaka, India.
"An addition to the well-known 'Curtiss Books' is sure of a welcome
from many readers.... Much of the symbolism of the Bibleand
particularly of the creation story in Genesisis explained in an ilium!.
nating style.... The chapters dealing with the sex problem and the
true meaning of marriage . . . will no doubt prove helpful to many
people who are groping for truth amid all the conflicting theories
preached today .. . will inspire and uplift all who are able to appre-
hend it." The Occult Review, London.
"It is always a pleasure to receive a new book for review from Dr.
and Mrs. F. Homer Curtiss, for the reason that their writings are al.
ways direct and to the point, andwhat is of the greatest usefulness in
this rather inchoate fieldsimple and very readable.... The particu-
lar value of this volume .. . is the consistent and intelligent reference
to scientific authorities and modern points of view.... Dr. and Mrs.
Curtiss greatly excel in the symbolical or allegorical school of Bible
interpretation." Marc Edmund Jones, Editor, The Sabian Philosophy
Comprehensive index for students. Second Edition. Price. $2J0
"The Curtisa Books" explain the problems of daily life
LETTERS from the TEACHER
APPRECIATIONS
"Among the many occult volumes before the publie, aiming to assist
students who desire earnestly to master lower appetites and devote
themselves seriously and successfully to the culture of true spirituality,
I know of none more useful and admirable than the work now be-
fore me."W. I. Colville.
"Many Biblical and other problems are handled dearly and con-
vincingly in a manner that shows the instructor to be one sure of
the position taken, desirous of imparting helpful knowledge to alt
earnest inquirers, at the same time leaving all students in full mental
liberty.Mystsc Light Library Bulletin.
"Another interesting contribution to the department of occult
science."Portland Oregonian.
"The letters of advice, of which this book is nearly full, bear every
mark of culture, of sincerity, and of a lofty thought.!'San Francisco
Argonaut.
"The book is pervaded with the spirit of loving service. Every
question receives a clear and careful answer which must have satisfle4
the inquirer."American Theosophist.
"There is no subject in the book that is not treated in a manner
so interesting that it is hard to lay it down, but when the chapter on
The Sex Problem is reached there is found some strong food for a
strong man with a strong mind. The tone of the whole subject is
Purity. It is the sort of a book the student wants for reference."-
jdwurds Paul Jones.
"Its warnings against the dangers of psychism, and its frank an&
rational discussion of the sex question. . . are to be commended."
Editor 0. E. S. Critic.
"The beautiful truths expressed in beautiful diction cannot help
but appeal to the soul which is seeking the higher things of life."
Unity.
"I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for the comfort
that has come to me through your Letters from the Teacher. I felt
the moment the book came into my hands like one who had come
home at lastto a wonderful home for which one had been long and
earnestly seeking and praying and longmg. . . . When one comes into
the realization of one's dearest dreams, knowledge is instantaneous.
there is no doubt."M. C.
"I find your books the most helpful I have ever read. They are so
liveable and meet the wants of life. Words are so inadequate to ex-
press my gratitude"Mrs. E. H. C.
Vol. II, New letters covering other subjects, including special chap-
4ers on Sex, Marriage and Divorce, Financial Problems, the Christ
and the coming World Teacher. etc.
TMThe Curtiss BOOkS" Solve Sex Problems iformafly
LETTERS from the TEACHER
These letters from the Teacher of The Order of Christian Mystics,
in answer to questions coming from earnest and intelligent students
all over the world, touch just the practical questions that arise in
the daily lives of all who are striving to live the higher life.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Volume I
Spiritual Growth and Dc-
velopinent.
The Masters of Wisdom
and Their Work
Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
Prayer and Its Results.
The Astral Plane.
Psychic Phenomena.
Dreams and Visions.
Health and Disease.
The Sex Problem.
Miscellaneous
Each volume contains en-
tirely different letters covering
different phases of the subject
mentioned in the other volume.
Volume L Sixth Edition Price $1.50.
Volume II. Second Edition Price $1.5t1
Volume II
Health and Disease.
Psychic Conditions.
The Law of Karma.
Coming World Changes.
Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
After Death Conditions.
Prayer and Its Results.
Health and Disease.
Financial Problems.
Reincarnation.
The Sex Problem.
Marriage and Divorce.
Discouragement.
Jesus and The Christ.
Miscellaneous.
"The Curtiss Books" replace war with peace
THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
"This book serves a most important need because it teaches us those
fundamental principles which men seem to have forgotten today. Their
practice would assuredly make the long-envisioned Brotherhood of Man
a reality. We congratulate you on your splendid work in the darimess
of the present hour." Director, Biosophical Institute.
"A book that seeks to reveal the cosmic forces behind war. In gen-
eral a mystical conception of the subject." Detroit News.
"An alive interest; it points out the internal causes of war and the
deep reasons in man's want of humane, positive, peace-building quali-
tiessolidarity and mutual understanding, good will and co-operation."
Editor, Mondi Lingo, Mexico City.
"Written in a philosophic vein, but in terms readily understood by
the reading public, this book presents a call to the individual to align
himself with the forces of right and justice and thereby hasten the
coming of the Brotherhood of Man throughout the world." Mont-
gomery Advertiser.
"Philosophy indeed. Worth reading many times. None equal, in
my estimation, this splendid volume." Alan Leo, Editor, Modern
Astrology.
"It is written with a desire to enlighten humanity on fundamentals
and to prevent human suffering. It gives practical suggestions as to
what can be done now to stop the present conflict." Winston-Salem
Journal.
Points out that this "is not merely a war for the destruction of...
all the basic ideals of the democracies. It is not even a war to impose
non-benevolent despotism upon free peoples. It is something far
more fundamental and important." Dunedin (New Zealand) Evening
Star.
"The Curtisses seek to make known the law that will counteract the
basic causes, and bring the war to a quick termination. Positive and
effective action is necessary if anxiety and suffering are to be elimi-
nated." Editor, Christian Spiritualist Quarterly.
"I should like to tell you how much the Teachings have cheered and
encouraged me these dark days. They are most helpful these times,
especially The Philosophy of War." Miss M. H., Brighton, England.
"The Halifax (Yorkshire) Library has purchased your Philosophy
of War. That is six of your books in that Library." Mr. E. B., Elland,
England.
Order your copy now. Price $1.50 postpaid.
"The Curtiss Books" reveal the causes of war
THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
A NEW AND ENLARGED EDITION of a book that will help you
to understand all wars, their causes and the cure.
This is not a dry, academic discussion of the theories or even the
horrors of war, but a penetrating and illuminating revelation of the
hidden forces which are at work behind the scenes of all wars.
It will give you the same understanding and comfort it gave the
thousands of readers of the former editions.
Itis written with a passionate desire to enlighten humanity on funda-
mentals and to prevent human suffering. It also gives practical sug-
gestions as to what we each can do now to help stop the present conflict.
APPRECIATIONS
"Dr. F. Homer Curtiss of Washington, who will be remembered as
a visitor to this country during the last International Congress,...
rightly points out that this war (with Hitler) is not a war of conquest
or even a war of peoples, but a strife for spiritual freedom and mental
liberty. He suggests that the right attitude is not to hate, but to pity
and to pray for those who have been deceived and misled by false gods,
and he believes right thinking will lead to right action." Editor, Two
Worlds, Manchester, England.
"Penetrating. . . illuminating... Gives a dearer understanding
and a hope for comfort after the turmoil." Westchester Press.
"The present volume, which gives prophecies already fulfilled as well
as what is ahead for mankind, expounds cosmic and eternal principles
upon which alone true and permanent peace can be founded." Occult
Digest.
"Dr. F. Homer .Curtiss is a thinker and a philosopher.... I re-
member the predictions he made which have come to pass.... He
gives you another angle of Why War, which dovetails in very well
with the Talmud Unmasked, another phase of the same thing. Curtiss
gives you the ingredients that go to snake war possible; and he also
gives you the preventive medicine.... This is a book for the prayer-
ful thinker who wants to be a co-worker with divinity:' Editor
Beacon Light.
"A book with the impassioned intent of enlightening humanity as to
the insidious forces behind the scenes of the present war." Houstoii
Post.
"The Curtiss Books" Are Exhaustless Wells of Fascinating Material
A companion volume to THE VOICE OP ISIS and THE MESSAGÆ
OP AQUARIA.
THE INNER RADIANCE
Forty splendid chapters covering almost every phase of the mystic
life, occultism and spiritual philosophy, from the sto market col-
lapse and the depression, and the remedy, to the zodiac, the elexnentals,
divine fire, redemption, King Arthur and his knights, King Desire, and
the Christ Star.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Inner Radiance: that mysterious power which pushes all things
on to perfection. The God Man: God in the process of manifestation
in man. As in the Days of Noah: planets returning to similar rela-
tions and producing similar conditions today. How to master them.
Spiritual Co-operation: a law of the umverse. Man and the Zodiac:
how the 12 signs are represented in man. The Lord from Heaven:
Low the spiritual man descends into the human. The Soul Language:
the inner language of spiritual consciousness. Trwirmigration: the
doctrine, the atoms. Not reincarnation. Cosmic Causes of World
Conditions and the Remedy: Cosmic and Karmic factors, Dr. Curtiss'
lecture before the Chamber of Commerce. The Mystic Rose: why a
symbol of Divine Love. The Great and the Small: all things are rela-
tive. The Lords of Karma: the events of hfe neither fate nor pun-
ishment, but opportunities. Redemption: the esoteric doctrine. Why
necessary. Reliance: of the outer upon the inner. The Great Work:
the mystery of spiritual alchemy. King Desire: his meaning and
mastery. The Mystery of the Elements: the conscious forces back of
Nature. Hymn to the Elements. Man and the Elementals: role of the
Gnomes Undines Sylphs and Salanianders. The Realm of Be-ness:
the mystery of Being from non-being. Saturn and Cyclic Law: role
of Saturn as tester and Initiator. God, Mon and the Planet: their re-
lation. The Book of Remembrance. The Third Eye: functions of
the pmeal gland. The Mount of Attainment: the end of the Path.
The Round Table: symbology of King Arthur and his knights. Di-
vine Fire: fire of life, of mind. Cosmic fire. The Glory of the Lord:
how recognized and contacted. Lessons by the Way: the ancient con-
tmnents. Lesson of the sage-brush. Natures symbology. The King of
Glory: where and how he reigns. The Christ Star: the shepherds
and the Wise Men. The five points. Preparation: for the Second
Coming.
Third Edition with full index. Price $230.
Order all of "The Curtiss Books" direct from
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
USTRuIUTED RY
WILLING PUBLISHING COMPANY
p.o.ozsl
SAN GAnIEL CAIJEOSHIA
"The Cnrtiu Books" Are Life-long Friends
APPRECIATIONS
"The maority of the forty chapters which comprise this work con-
cern the revolutionary changes through which humanity is now pass-
ing, and their spirtually erudite contents should do muck to allay fears
which tend to flood the mind through lacic of knowledge.... Of
whatever they treat.., the authors are nothing if not supremely
hdpful. As Christian mystics who work strenuously for the dissemina-
tion of greater spiritual knowledge among all races and creeds, Dr. and
Mrs. Curtiss write with wide knowledge and experience, and their view-
points and suggestions should prove both interesting and encouraging to
those who view with apprehension the religious, social and pohtical
upheavals which would appear to some to be the visible signs of an
angry Deity's vengeance.Occi&lt Review, London.
"I have enjoyed all of your books so much that someho' any other
literature has lost its value for me. I am quite satisfied to read and
enjoy it, as it is so constructive, loving and rue.'Mrs. S. H. W.,
Indianapolis.
"This is the 18th volume of 'The Curtiss Books' and measures up to
the best teaching put out by the well known authors.... The forty
chapters include several chapters dealing with present-day conditions in
the world.... The book helps one to better understand from the
spiritual standpoint, the revolutionary changes through which humanity
is now passing."Tke Aquarian Age.
"There is no need for ignorance in the world today.... The Inner
Radiance brings into one's consciousness the Why? of all questions,
and their answers! It is food which if earnestly partaken of by the
student will result in good digestion."Mrs. if. E. W., Washington.
"This is the latest of the numerous publications of Dr. and Mrs.
Curtiss . . . the purpose of which is to make religion a practical and
vital aid in the conduct of life. Its membership ranges over some 70
foreign countries and is united only by specific hours of devotion and
intercession."Springfield Union and Republican.
Permit me to add my tribute of praise to the great volume you no
doubt have received from the production of The Inner Radiance. It
is a fit companion to the other 'Curtiss Books,' and I believe shows
a deeper spiritual insight than possibly its predecessors..,. I will
not rest until I can successfully correlate with the true Inner Radiance.
Mr. H. S., Toronto.
"It is a continuation of the inspiring and practical teachings to be
found in the long series of volumes issued by the authors; which com-
bine a firm adherence and interpretation of our Bible truths with a
deep and extensive knowledge of the esoteric teachings of ancient and
modern limes. it is couched in plain, inteffigible language, and its aim
is to be of service to all who are on the upwar Path, and areinneeci
of counsel and encouragement in the difficult and crucial period through
which we are passing..,. Many most abstruse subjects are discussed
with utmost simplicity and frankncss."The Rally, London.
The Nineteenth Volume of "The Curtiss Books"
FOUR-FOLD HEALTH
This is not a large elaborate volume filled with dry statistics and
long-winded discussions and theories about health, but a vitally inter-
eating and practical summary of our teachings on the importance of
health of body, mind and spirit, and how to retain or regain it.
It contains the essence of my many years of medical experience,
together with our highest mystical teachings as to the health of the
inner as well as the outer man. It therefore deals with the effect
upon your health of the thoughts, emotions and psychic influences to
which you respond, as well as the physical factors.
It contains the essence of the most advanced metaphysical teaching
on bathing, breathing, exercise, thought-control, and physical, mental,
psychic, prayer, faith and spiritual healing. All boiled down into
twelve chapters packed with definite laws, rules and directions. All
expressed in simple, non-technical language.
Contains the exact routine to eliminate most .hronic disorders, as
well as explicit instructions as to just what to do in acute attacks. This
may save the life of your child, yourself or your family.
Each chapter gives the essence of whole, expensive courses on
subject. Just what you have long been waiting for. Study carefully
the table of contents and see if you can afford to be without it.
Price $1.50 postpaid.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction. The body an instrument What is health? Uses of
pain, of prayer. Natural immunity to all diseases, how attained.
Restoration to health.
Chapter I. Mechanical Factors us Health. Structural defects. Spinal
adjustments, bathing, etc.
Chapter IL Breathing. Science of breath. Occult uses of breath, etc.
Chapter IlL Constipation. Reasons for. Mechanism of. Cure of.
Chapter N. Acute Disorders. Appendicitis cured in a few hours.
Chapter V. Food in GeneraL Compatible combinations etc.
Chapter VI. Compatibility of Foods. Rules for combinations.
Chapter VII. Cooking. Best methods. Raw foods.
Chapter VIIL Various Suggestions. Insomnia. Alcohol. Tobacco.
Vaccination. Serums.
Chapter IX. Mental Influences. Origin of thought Mental health.
Chapter X. Emotions. Effect of joy, happiness, prayer, aspiration.
Chapter XI. Spiritual Influences. Invisible helpers. Healing Prayer.
Chapter XII. Menus and Statistics. How to choose, properly cam'
bine, cook and serve foods.
Price $1.50 postpaid.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
APPRECIATIONS
"This book, as the name implies, contains Health Hints for the
purification of the body, mind and emotions, and is one of the best books
we have ever seen on the maintenance of health from all standpoints.
It has invaluable chapters on Breathing, baths of various kinds, a
very comprehensive chapter on Constipation and its cure; helps in
acute diseases, and some valuable advice in regard -to foods, with
suggested menus of correct diet. The author is an M. D. as well as
a nationally known teacher and lecturer along spiritual lines, and he
therefore includes most interesting chapters on the mental, emotional
and spiritual influences which play so vital a part in the health of the
individuaL The book is one of She most interesting and comprehensive
of the hundreds we have seen on the subject of health. It is well
indexed, and will be an asset in any family because of its many valuable
suggestions." Editor, The Aquarian Age.
"This is the nineteenth vohune of the famous Curtiss Books, which
have afforded such an inexhaustible store of Ancient Wisdom and
Mystic Truth for the past thirty years. The present volume. . . gives
forth the results of his many years medical experience as applied to
the inner, as well as the outer man. Valuable suggestions and direc-
tions are given on Breathing, Food and Exercises, both physical and
spirituaL The last chapter is devoted to Spiritual Influences, and the
various methods of Healing, concluding with an earnest desire that
the following of the teachings given may be a source of purification,
understanding health, harmony and happiness to the reader." Editor,
The Rally, London.
"As an inspiration as well as an instruction to all physical sufferers,
it would be difficult to find advice and hope so evenly balanced with
sound authority, as is found in the recent book Health Hints by Dr. F.
Homer Curtiss. The chapter on Constipation defines, in the opinion of
this writer, the plain, simple and fundamental cause underlying the
common diseases to which the flesh is heir. So important . . . do we
deem this chapter that we quote it in its entirety, with the untinctijrod
recommendation of the whole book as being She best document on the
subject health yet to appear for lay readers. No sufferer or nonsufferei
can read this book in vain." Starr Daily. Author of Love Can Open
Prison Doors, etc.
From New Zealand: "I have received my copy of Health Hints and
I find it invaluable. Am already greatly improved by following its
practical directions. It is a book that should be in every home."
Mrs. I. W.
"The Curtiss Books" Set the Pattern for Life
THE PATTERN LIFE
The Symbolic Life of Christ
By F. Hoaeza Cuariss, B.S., M.D.
Founder of The Universal Religious Fellowship, Inc., and Co-author
of "The Curtiss Books"
The most astonishing yet revealing interpretation of the Gospel story.
Gives it a new spiritual yet logical and scientific appeaL
The result of Dr. Curtiss' 20 years of painstaking and scholarly research
In the fields of comparative religion, philosophy, psychology and sym..
bolisin.
The results are astomshmg if not sensational in the religious field. Not
dry scholastic agrument, but applied to the daily experiences of our lives.
Gives the only satisfactory explanation of the many inaccuracies and
flat contradictions in the Gospels.
Accepts the historical facts recently discovered, but definitely refutes
the materialistic conclusions of the "higher critics" and mythologists.
A great reconciler of conflicting opinions and thj
OUTLINE OF CONTENTS
Introduction. The Universal Solar Myth. The basis of all world
religions.
The Annunciations. To Elizabeth and Zacharias. To Mary and
Joseph. Why made by Gabrid?
The Immaculate Conception. Why disputed for ages? Was Joseph the
real father of Jesus?
The Birth of the Christ. Actual date unknown. Why Dec. 25th was
chosen. Its meaning in our daily lives.
The Wise Men and the Star. How could a star stand still over a certain
spot and then turn South? What it really was. Who were the Wise Men?
The Shepherds and the Sheep. Why the revelation was made to bumble
shepherds and not to the high priests.
The Manger and the Swaddling Clothes. Why was Christ born In a
stable? Meaning of swaddling clothes.
Gifts of the Wise Men. Symbology of gold, frankincense and myrrh,
their meaning.
Herod and the Wise Men. Gives the key to many otherwise unex-
plained experiences in our lives.
The Flight and Massacre. Were any children actually slain? How
many? Why denied by St. Luke?
Twelve Years of Age. Where was Jesus during His early years? Why
12 is an important age.
The Baptism. John. Why did Jesus need to be baptized by John?
Its meaning.
The Baptism. The Christ. Why did Jesus wait until He was 30 before
bantism?
The Baptism. The Jordan. The physical features of the Jordan.
Their significance.
The Temptation. The Fast. Why did Jesus need to fast 40 days? Its
significance.
The Temptation. The Tempter. Why did Jesus submit to temptation
by the devil when He knew who it was?
The Marriage in Cams. How and why was the water turned into wine?
Its symbology and application.
The Betrayal. Why did Jesus permit Judas to betray Him when He
knew of the intention long in advance?
The Crucifixion. Why was this tragedy permitted? Why between
thieves? Its significance.
Three Days in the Tomb. What took place during that interval? Its
meamng.
The Rexuirection. How could Jesus survive, appear and disappear
through closed doors at will?
The Ascension. How was Jesus' body changed so that 'flesh and
blood" could inherit the kingdom of heaven?
Elaborate Appendix. Star map of the heavens. The actual astronomi..
cal events of the Sun Cycle. Various birth dates. Why Dec. 25th was
chosen. Inaccuracies and flat contradictions explained.
Will cause as many happily changed lives as any other of "The Curtis,
Books."
Illustrated with a hitherto unpublished picture of the Master Jesus.
APPRECIATIONS
From Hollywood, Calif. "The Pattern Life has been more than I ex-
pected. it is a detailed account of the Path with illuminated sign posts
marking the way. The lucid explanations do away with the confusion,
the degrading feelings and doubts that have been with me so long. It is
like having a light turned on in a dark room where you have been
groping to find something you must have" From Washington, D. C.
"If peace and'liarmony are to be established In the world, people interested
In higher things must set the example. The new book, The Pattern Life,
Is a real contribution toward reconciling the various conflicting interpreta-
tions and seeming inconsistencies In the Gospel, that have caused such
bitter controversies and discord among Christians down through the
years."
From Aurora, Ill. "The Pattern Life Is wonderful! Never before any-
thing like it! There are three of us studying it and we get untold good
from discussing it. Thank you for sharing your great vision with us."
From San Ansehno, Calif. "My daughter and I are feasting on The
Pattern Life. We pray that it may have a wide circulation. So broad in
understanding and ability to express dearly I" From Boston, Mass.
"Please send another copy of The Pattern Life. It certainly is a master-
piece! I treasure every chapter. It gives light to so many blind alleys.
Dad is reading it a second time." From Glendale, Calif. "It is likely to
rank with The Voice ofIris as a text-book of the Wisdom Religion. Even
the Preface is Inspiring and instructive."
From St. Louis, Mo. "It is with complete sincerity that I try to express
my thanks for your wonderful book, The Pattern Life. Have read it the
second time with more appreciation and understanding than at first."
From Spokane, Wash. "I want to express my gratitude for being privi-
leged to read such a deeply inspiring book. It is indeed a scholarly work.
This is the best yet" From Scottsdale, Aris. "The Pattern Life is an
intense work of knowledge and inspiration. To be able to write such a
book seems a marvel to me. It will be an inspiration throughout my life."
"The Pattern Life well describes itself as the story of the life of Jesus
regarded not only as the spiritual history of one Great Teacher, but as an
allegory of the life of perfected man: The Pattern Life which all humanity
must ultimately follow: the universal experience which each Soul passes
through as the Christ-consciousness is born within and unfolds
Every incident symbolizes a step on the Path of Attainment of Christ-
hood . . . Therefore the story of Jesus is the story of the spiritual evolu-
tion, unfoldment and manifestation of the Christ in the flesh." The New
Age Interpreter.
"Dr. Curtiss points out that . . . man must have a superphysical arche-
type or pattern, and this pattern we find manifested in the life of Jesus
never has it been so well outlined and documented as in The Pattern
Life.. . Dr. Curtiss proves that we find the same list of events in the
life story of nearly every Lightbnnger presented by former religions down
through the ages." Lemurian Ambassador.
"It may well serve as an introduction to the new thought-life of the
last 70 years for those who have become sated with what they know as
orthodoxy . . . Dr. Curtiss will lead them through the mazes of ec-
desiastical distortion by which Christian teaching has ceased to be a life
to be lived, till it has become a puzzle of creeds and dogmas . . . the
names of the chapters are like a peal of church bells calling to worship
The reader will gain a considerable knowledge of comparative re-
ligion who makes a study of this book." The Canadian Theosophist.
"It expounds the gospel story in terms of the stages of the common
spiritual evolution of all honest aspirants in whom the Christ within is
brought to birth and baptism, experiences the temptation of power, and
the crucifixion which brings the animal nature finally into submission to
the Spirit, leading to the fulfillment of the Resurrection and Ascension.
There is much in this volume to interest those seeking ifiumination along
this path of thought and practice." Eirenicon Magazine, England.
"More than particular histories of the life of Jesus, the gospels must be
considered as spiritual histories of all manifestations of the Divine in the
world, and individually in man .. . The different evangelical symbols
from the Annunciation to the Ascension, are studied by the Author and
interpreted from the twofold viewpoint of their cosmical and mystical
meanings." Editor, Mondi Linguo, Mexico.
"Dr. F. Homer Curtiss, whom I have known and whose work I have
regarded very highly for lo these many years, has presented our circulating
library with his latest and twenty-third book, The Pattern Life, and it
presents this fact of the Christ story in a straight and interesting form
I applaud the exposition in its own terms. . . it is being read, and
I think it will make friends for the work and the other books . . . I
hope you will pyamine it. To it always I give the heartiest and most
sincere good wishes." Editor, Fortnightly Field Notes.
"More than ever before men are shaking themselves free from authority
and dogma, seeking to discover for themselves the essential truths of re-
ligion. Dr. Curtiss sheds new light on the life and teachings of Christ.
His interpretations are of great value to the aspiring student of universal
truth" The Biosophicat Review.
From Vanadium, N. M. "The long-looked-for book, The Pattern Life.
has overshadowed everything else. It is wonderful! It contains just
what the world needs to know and which other authors have been afraid
to say." From Sá Francisco, Calif. "This revelation of Divine Truth
will live forever! The old crust of dogmas should be cracked wide open
to let into our minds and hearts the life-giving waters of Truth to deaiise
and strengthen each pilgrim on the Path to Victory over all adverse
conditions."
From Mill Valley. Calif. "Mrs. L. sat down to look it over one evening
and read until 3 A.M.! . . . One Sunday she invited an ex-Catbolic priest,
a reformed embezzler and a friend to hear her read it aloud. She read
from 10 ar. until 3 P.M.! The ex-Catholic said: 'I was never so inspired
with understanding in my life' The ax-embezzler said: 'I fed like a new
man.' The friend said: 'I was never so thrilled by the Gospel story.'"
A "must have" book of great enlightenment, inspiration and reference
for the library of every clergyman and other advanced biblical student.
No other collection of authentic biblical facts and history like it anywhere.
Amply documented and indexed for students. $2.50, postpaid.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
5130 Connecticut Ave. Washington 8, D. C.
THE GEM SERIES OF BOOKLETS
Ideal gifts at any season, in handy pocket size.
GEMS OF MYSTICISM
inspiring passages selected from the writings of Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss.
Gives simply an insight into Mysticism in a helpful way.
"One might wade thru the religious philosophizings of every people
and pla and not receive the inspiration one gets out of a ten-minute
perusal of this little book."Baltimore American.
6th edition. Price now 50 cents
THE TEMPLE OF SILENCE
The most inspiring treatise on Meditation and entering the Silence.
Practical working directions given.
4th edition. Art Paper 75 cents
THE DIVINE MOTHER
The Divine Motherthe Bringer-forththe Midnight PrayerThe
Waters of Lifethe Comforter.
4th edition. Art Paper 75 cents
DYNAMIC PRAYERS
A long felt want filled. A collection of truly inspired prayers for all
occasions and for every need and mood. Truly bring results.
Fabrikoid binding. 50 cents
THE MYSTIC LIFE
An introduction to mysticism and a dear exposition of its meaning,
its scope, and its importance in daily life. World's problems solved.
Fabrikoid binding. 50 cents
The Gem Series of BookletsContinued
THE SOUNDLESS SOUND
A Prose Poem of Devotion and Meditation
"Whatever one's creed, every soul can eat and drink of a book full of
loving helpfulness, that comes as unpretentious as a song-sparrow, as
quiet as a bidden spring, as soft as an odor-laden zephyr, with song,
refreshment, and delight."George Wharton James, Editor "Out West."
5th edition. 75 cents
THE LOVE OF RAI3IACCA
A Tragedy in Five Acts
A thrilling tale of a pre-historic race, recovered psychically by the
authors.
Pabrihoid binding. 50 cent:
FOR YOUNG SOULS
Explains the mysteries of life, truth, and health in simple language.
For those young souls, young in years or not who are as yet unacquainted
with some of the deeper philosophical explanations and great principles
and conditions of life here and hereafterrand how to apply them.
50 cents
VITAMINS
Their Origin, Importance, and Specific Uses
Most practical supplement to Dr. Curtiss' "Fourfold Health." Non-
technical language. A great aid to all who are suffering from mental,
nervous, or bodily disorders.
50 cents
WHY ARE WE HERE?
And Other Essays on Cosmic Soul Science.
Simple Language
Many problems satisfyingly answered.
If you are confused by present chaotic conditions, you will find com-
fort and understanding in this book. An optimistic presentation.
Price $1SO
PERSONAL SURVIVAL
With Physical Proofs
Last book written by Dr. F. Homer Curtiss.
A sequel to the well-known book, "Realms of the Living Dead."
Profusely Illustrated. Actual photographs of the departedalso finger-
prints in wax, and several other actual evidences induding a test message
from Houdini.
Letters from Hell and from Heaven, and many other most interesting
and convincing features.
Indexed. Price flJO
