{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1947__case___the_tarot.pdf","mytitle":"The Tarot","mylang":"de"}
.;,or
. ,.
toRPPPPPP '.
THE... · THE ·
~AROT .
TAROT
100000000 .
1
'
CASE '; A Key to tne Wisdom of the Ages
' I
t by
PAUL FOSTER CASE
$J50
THE TAROT
A Key to the Wisdom of the Ages
by PAUL FOSTER CASE
The finest explanation which has yet
appeared on the occult meaning of num-
bers, construction of the Tarot-attribu-
tion of the 22 Major Trumps to the
Hebrew alphabet. With chapters on
Methods of Study and Tarot Divination.
The author presents in clear and
understandable language the Tarot tra-
dition and technique for the modern
thinker. Students of Tarot and the Oc-
cult will find in these pages the necessary
information to understand, and how to
apply, the principles of Tarot and the
correspondences of symbol, tone, color,
and number, to the art of daily living.
The Tarot has long been regarded as
one of the finest explanatory records of
the supreme mysteries. Eliphas Levi,
one of the greatest modern masters of
occult science wrote: "The Tarot epito-
mizes all sciences, while its infinite
combinations can solve all problems ...
and undoubtedly one of the finest things
which antiquity has bequeathed to us."
Albert Pike, in his Morals and Dogma
of the Scottish Rite, page 777, states: "He
who desires to attain to the understand-
ing of the Grand Word and the posses-
(Continued on back flap)
'
THE TAROT
·----
,,
,
/
KEYOr'1"HE.C0.5l"105AND
NUMB'E.R5
re:
'i"7
THE
TAROT
A Key to the Wisdom of the Ages
byPAULFOSTER
CASE
t
MACOY PUBLISHING COMPANY
NEW YORK
Copyright, 1947, by
PAUL FOSTER CASE
All rights reserved. No part of this book may
be produeed in any form without permission
in writing from the publisher, exeept by a
reviewer who may quote brief passages in a re-
view to be printed in a magazine or newspaper.
Printed in the United States of America
CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION • • • • • •
The Hebrew Wisdom
2. OCCULT MEANING OF NUMBERS
3. CONSTRUCTION OF THE TAROT .
Attribution of the Major Trumps
Alphabet
4. KEY O: THE FOOL • • • •
5. KEY 1 : THE MAGICIAN · .
6. KEY 2 : THE HIGH PRIESTESS
7. KEY 3: THE EMPRESS
8. KEY 4: THE EMPEROR
9. KEY 5 : THE HIBROPHANT
10. KEY 6: THE LOVERS
11. KEY 7 : THE CHARIOT
12. KEY 8: STRENGTH
13. KEY 9: THE HERMIT
14. KEY 10: THE WHEEL OF FORTUNE
15. KEY 11: JUSTICE . • • •
16. KEY 12 : THE HANGED MAN
17. KEY 13: DEATH
18. KEY 14: TEMPERANCE
19. KEY 15: THE DEVIL
20. KEY 16: THE TOWER
21. KEY 17: THE STAR
22. KEY 18: THE MOON
23. KEY 19: THE SUN
24. KEY 20: JUDGEMENT
25. KEY 21: THE WORLD
26. METHODS OF STUDY
27. TAROT DIVINATION •
PAGE
1
6
16
to the Hebrew
29
39
49
57
· 65
75
85
93
103
111
119
125
131
139
147
155
161
167
175
181
189
195
200
204
ILLUSTRATIONS
PAGE
Key of the Cosmos and Numbers • . • . • • • • Frontispiece
The Cube of Space • • • • • • • • • • 68
The Tree of Life • •
Tarot Oah'ds:
The Fool.
The Magician • . •
The High Priestess •
The Empress .
The Emperor . • • · .
The Hierophant •
The Lovers.
The Ch~riot
Strength . •
The Hermit
The Wheel of Fortune .
Justice • . . . · . ·
The Hanged Man
Death
Temperance
The Devil • •
The Tower
The Star
The Moon
The Sun.
.. . .. ..
Judgement ••••
' ..
The World •.
. • • • 215
. .
. .
28
38
48
58
64
74
84
92
102
110
118
124
• 130
138
• 146
154
•• 160
• 166
174
180
• • 188
. . 194
THE TAROT
THE TAROT
A Key to the Wisdom of the Ages
I
INTRODUCTION
THE TAROT
is a pictorial text-book of Ageless Wisdom.
From its pages has been drawn inspiration for some of
the most important works on occult science published
during the last seventy-five years. Its influence on the
minds of a few enlightened thinkers may be traced
throughout the history of the modern revival of interest
in esoteric science and philosophy.
This revival began in 1854 with the publication of
Eliphas Levi's Dogma and Ritual of Transcendental
Magic, first of a series of occult writings in which he
names the Tarot as his most important source of infor-
mation. Eliphas Levi's teaching influenced the work of
H. P. Blavatsky and Dr. Anna Kingsford. It has been
developed and extended in the circles of French occultism
in which "Papus" (Dr. Gerard Encausse) was for
long a leading spirit. For English readers it is inter-
preted in the books of S. L. MacGregor Mathers, Dr.
W. Wynn Westcott, Dr. Arthur Edward Waite and
others. The works of New Thought writers, especially
the essays of Judge Thomas Troward, echo it again and
again; and, though Levi himself was a nominal Roman
Catholic, his doctrine is utilized by Scottish Rite Masonry
in the United States, inasmuch as General Albert Pike's
Morals and Dogma of the Scottish Rite repeats verbatim
page after page from the French occultist's Dogma and
Ritual. 1
1
-----
- . - --·-
...
---
2 The Tarot
Levi's opinion of the Tarot was very high. He said:
"As an erudite Kabalistic book, all combinations of
which reveal the harmonies preexisting between signs,
letters and numbers, the practical value of the Tarot is
truly and above all marvelous. A prisoner devoid of
books, had he only a Tarot of which he knew how to make
use, could in a few years acquire a universal science, and
converse with an unequalled doctrine and inexhaustible
eloquence.''
The aim of this analysis is to show you how to use the
Tarot. A full treatment would require many volumes;
but I hope to realize -the promise of my title by giving a
concise explanation of the general plan of the Tarot, and
a brief outline of its meaning. It should be understood,
however, that the student must fill in this outline with the
results of his own observation and meditation.
Before entering upon a description of the construction
and symbolism of this book of occult science, it may be
well to say a word as to its history. In the main, I am in
agreement with Arthur Edward Waite, who discusses
the various theories as to its origin in his Key to the
Tarot, published in London by Wm. Rider and Sons.
Dr. Waite concludes that the Tarot has no exoteric his-
tory before the fourteenth century. The oldest examples
of Tarot designs now preserved in European museums
were probably made about 1390. According to an occult
tradition, in which I am inclined to place confidence, the
actual date of its invention was about the year 1200 A.D. \/
The inventors, this tradition avers, were a group of
adepts who met at stated intervals in the city of Fez, in
Morocco. After the destruction of Alexandria, Fez be-
came the literary and scientific capital of the world.
Thither, from all parts of the globe, came wise men of all
nations, speaking all tongues. Their conferences were
made difficult by differences in language and philosophi-
cal terminology. So they hit upon the device of embody-
ing the most important of their doctrines in a book of
Introduction 3
pictures, whose combinations should depend on the oc-
cult harmonies of numbers.
Perhaps it was a Chinese adept who suggested the idea,
for the Chinese have a proverb, "One picture is worth
ten thousand words,'' and Chinese writing is made up of
conventionalized pictures. These pictures express ideas
instead of words, so that Chinese, Japanese and Koreans,
although they speak more than seven different languages,
communicate easily with one another, if only they can
read and write.
As a skeleton for their invention the wise men chose
the relatively simple system of numbers and letters af-
forded by the Qabalah, or Secret Wisdom of Israel. This
esoteric doctrine, apparently Jewish, was really a devel-
opment of ideas fundamentally identical with the wisdom
taught in the secret schools of China, Tibet and India.
Some account of it, theref ore, must precede our study of
the Tarot itself.
The Hebrew Wisdom
The master-key to the Hebrew wisdom is the "name"
translated "Lord" in the Authorized Version of the
Bible, and "Jehovah" in the revised versions. It is not
really a name at all, but rather a verbal, numerical and
geometrical formula. In Roman letters corresponding to
Hebrew it is spelled IHVH.
This is a noun form derived from a Hebrew verb mean-
ing "to be." Correctly translated, it means "That which
was, That which is, That which shall be." THAT, not
HE. Thus, it is a perfect verbal symbol for the One Re-
ality-for that Something which has always subsisted
behind all forms in the eternity of the past, for that
Something which really is behind all the appearances and
misunderstandings of the present, for that Something
which will be the foundation for all the changing forms
of life-expression in the eternity to come.
---
4 The Tarot
Never has Ageless Wisdom attempted to define this
One Reality. Its inner nature defies analysis, cannot be
put within the limits of any formal statement, because
the One Reality is infinite. Yet, in every age the report
of the wise has been that in the One Something inheres
the power to know. We say, therefore, that IHVH is a
verbal symbol for the Conscious Energy that brings all
things and creatures into existence.
The Qabalah classifies all possible operations of this
One Energy into four planes, or ''worlds.'' Each plane
or world is represented by a letter of IHVH, as follows:
The .Archetypal World. This is the world of pure
ideas. In the archetypal plane are the root-notions in-
herent in the innermost nature of the universal Conscious
Energy. From these ideas are derived all actual forms
of manifestation. For example, the pure idea of a chair
is the idea of sitting. In that idea, as in all others, is
embodied a volition-the will-to-sit. This will-to-sit is
the single root-notion behind all possible chair-forms that
ever have been, are now, or ever shall be. Thus the ar-
chetypal world is seen to be the plane of will-ideas. To
it Ageless Wisdom assigns the element fire, representing
universal radiant energy. In IHVH this world and this
element are represented by the letter ''I.''
The Creative World. Here the ideas of the archetypal
world are specialiied as particular patterns. "Sitting"
becomes the mental pattern for some special kind of
chair. The Cosmic Energy acting on this plane contains
the patterns of all chairs that have been made or thought
of in the past, of all existing in the present-but not those
as yet unthought of. So with all other patterns of par-
ticular forms. To this world Ageless Wisdom assigns
the element water, symbolizing the fluid plasticity of the
cosmic mind-stuff. The creative world is represented in
IHVH by the first '' H.''
The Formative World. Here the archetypal ideas,
specialized in creative patterns, are brought forth into
Introduction 5
actual expression. It is the plane of processes, the world
of forces behind the veil of physical things. The forma-
tive world is that which is now explored by physicists
and chemists. It is the world of vibratory activities, and
also the astral plane of occultism. Here take place the
various kinds of action whereby the Cosmic Energy ac-
tualizes its patterns. Ageless Wisdom assigns to this
world the element air, representing the life-energy which
wise men everywhere have associated with breath. The
formative world is represented by "V" in IHVH.
The Material World. This is the plane of the actual
forms which affect our physical senses. Here the proc-
ess of bringing down the idea of, sitting, through an
operation based on the pattern of a particular chair, is
:finally completed as the chair itself. This plane corre-
sponds to the element earth, representing the solidity
and tangibility of physical objects. It corresponds to the
second '' H'' in IHVH.
In every one of the four worlds, the Qabalah conceives
the operation of ten aspects of the universal Conscious
Energy. This idea that all possible aspects of the One
Reality may be reduced to a tenfold classification is found
in every version of the Ageless Wisdom. Thence arises
the esoteric teaching conce;rning the meaning of num-
bers. This is a subject almost limitless in its ramifica-
tions, but what is needed for Tarot study will be found in
the next chapter.
- - ---------- -
II
OCCULT MEANING OF NUMBERS
IN Tms OHAPTEB we shall consider the occult significance
of the numbers from Zero to Ten, with particular refer-
ence to the esoteric meanings of the so-called ''Arabic''
numerals. As a matter of fact, these numerals were
invented by Hindu priests, from whom they were bor-
rowed (and slightly altered) by the Arab mathemati-
cians who introduced them into Europe. The key to the
meaning of the numerals is the diagram which appears
as the frontispiece of this book.
Readers of these pages, who are £amiliar with occult
symbolism, will perceive that the basis of the construc-
tion of this diagram is the six-pointed star, known as
- the "Shield of David" and "The Star of the Macro-
cosm.'' Years ago, one of the Theosophical Masters
declared that the system of six circles, tangent to a cen-
tral seventh, is a key to the construction of the cosmos.
At that time, the Master's meaning was not grasped by
the student to whom the statement was made.
I hope the inclusion of this diagram in the front of
the book may stimulate some. of my readers to further
research. Want of space forbids my developing the vari-
ous details. I shall therefore content myself by saying
that this one diagram is a key to the geometrical con-
struction of the Great Pyramid, to a very close approxi-
mation to the squaring of the circle, to the true occult
meaning of the apron worn by Free Masons, to the cor-
rect construction of the Qabalistic diagram known as
the Tree of Life (which has been called "a key to all
things"), and to the proportions of the mysterious Vault
in which the body of the founder of the Rosicrucian Or-
G
Occult Meaning of Numbers 7
der is said to have been discovered. These are but a small
selection of the mysteries to which this one diagram
affords a clue. I shall confine myself to its numerical
significance.
In Arabic notation all numbers are represented by ten
symbols, beginning with O and ending with 9. They are
thus derived from the diagram:
o......
An ellipse, representing the Cosmic Egg, whence
come all things. Zero is a symbol of the absence of qual-
ity, quantity, or mass. Thus it denotes absolute freedom
from every limitation whatever. It is a sign of the in-
finite and eternal Conscious Energy, itself No-Thing,
though manifested in everything. It is That which was,
is, and shall be forever; but it is nothing we can name.
Boundless, infinitely potential, living light, it is the root-
less root of all things, of all activities, of all modes of
consciousness. In it are included all imaginable and un-
imaginable possibilities, but it transcends them all. The
Qabalists call it: (a) No-Thing; (b) The Boundless; (c)
Limitless Light. Pure Conscious Energy, abov.
e and be-
yond thought, to us it is Superconsciousness.
The descending arc of the ellipse, on the reader's
left, .represents Involution, the "winding-up" process
whereby Limitless Light manifests itself in name and
form. At B the lowest point of involution is reached in
the mineral kingdom.
From B back to A on the right side of the ellipse the
ascending arc represents Evolution, the "unwinding"
process. From B to F is the arc of evolution in the inor-
ganic world. F to H is the arc of organic development up
through plants to animals. H to D is the arc of organic
development from the lowest animal to the highest type
of human consciousness at point D. Only a few human
beings have reached this point, but the race is nearer to
it now than ever before. The arc from D to A is that of
8 The Tarot
conscious expression beyond human levels, the evolution
of conscious one-ness with the Divine.
Thus the two sides of the ellipse suggest the esoteric
doctrine of Involution or descent, and a corresponding
Evolution, or ascent. The ascending arc corresponds to
the occult doctrine : '' First the stone, then the plant, then
the animal, then the man, and at last the god."
1. In the diagram, the number 1 is the vertical line
from A to B, connecting the extreme height with the ex-
treme depth. Among the many occult meanings of this
number are:
Beginning, initiative, originality, unity, singleness, iso-
lation, and the like. In the Qabalah it is called the Crown,
to show that 1 represents the determining, ruling, di-
rective and volitional aspect of consciousness. The Crown
is known also as the Primal Will. The same Hebrew
philosophy calls this number the Hidden Intelligence, to
show that this primary mode of consciousn ess is con-
cealed behind all veils of name and form. This is the con-
sciousness of the true Self or I AM-the Onlooker, seeing
creation through countless eyes, manifesting itself
through innumerable personalities. Ageless Wisdom
teaches that all things are manifestations or projections
in time and space of the powers of the I AM. In short,
the I AM, or number 1, is the essence, substance, energy
and consciousness expressed in all forms. Everything in
the universe is the self-expression of the I AM. This is
the first principle, the primary existence, the First
Mover. In and through human personality it manifests
as the waking Self-consciousness.
2. On the diagram this number begins at C, follows
the upper circle through D to the center of the diagram,
thence through the lower circle to E, and is completed
by the horizontal line from E to F. The meanings of the
number include:
Occult Meaning of Numbers 9
Duplication, reflection, receptivity, dependence, alter-
nation, antagonism, and the like. Qabalists call it Wis-
dom, the reflection of the perfect self-consciousness of
the I AM. Wisdom is the mirror wherein the I AM sees
itself. The number 2 is also named Illuminating Intelli-
gence. It is that which illuminates the personal mind. It
is the aspect of universal consciousness which man.ifests
through human personality as grasp of the inner princi-
ples of the nature of the one Conscious Energy. In He-
brew occultism, 2 is also the particular number of the
Life-force in all creatures.
3. The upper half of this :figure is the same as the
upper half of 2, from C through D to the center of the
diagram. Its lower half begins at the center of the dia "'
gram, and follows the lower circle through F and B
around to E. Among the meanings of 3 are:
Multiplication, development, growth, unfoldment,
therefore expression. 3 signifies the actual outworking
of the principles reflected from 1 by 2. In Qabalah, 3 is
Understanding, looking forward into the :fieldof manifes-
tation, in contrast to Wisdom (2), which looks back to
the self-knowledge of the I AM (1). Understanding is ,
the concrete application of abstract Wisdom. Hence 3 is
called the Sanctifying Intelligence, to convey the idea
that through growth or expression comes the perfected
manifestation of the potencies latent in the Limitless
Light. On the form side, perfect realization (sanctifica-
tion) requires perfected organism: in consciousness, it is
perfected faculty and function.
4. This :figure starts with the vertical line of the :figure
1 (A to B on the diagram), and adds two ·other lines-
A to G, and G to H. Thus drawn, 4 shows in its upper
portion a triangle, symbol of the number 3, and in its
lower portion a T-square, a geometrical symbol of 4 it-
self. Triangle and T-square are among the most impor-
-----------
-
10 The Tarot
tant instruments of the draftsman. They have occult
reference to the esoteric side of geometry. They suggest
planning, surveying, topography and the like. From
these considerations are derived the following meanings
of 4:
Order, measurement, classification, recording, tabula-
tion, and so on. Because of these meanings Qabalists
make 4 the number of memory. Because the Life-power's
perfect memory of its own potencies and of the needs of
even the least of its centers of expression cannot be sup-
posed to fail, the idea of Beneficence ("good-giving-
ness ") is also assigned to 4. This beneficence is not
wasteful prodigality. All the gifts of the Life-power are
measured out. Every center of expression receives ex-
actly what is coming to it, always. Therefore the number
4 is called the Measuring Intelligence.
5. On the diagram, the first line of this figure is the
horizontal, C to D. The second is vertical, C to I. The
third includes five-sixths of the lower circle, from I
through F and B to E. Meanings of 5 include:
Mediation (because 5 is the middle number between 1,
Beginning, and 9, Completion), adaptation, means,
agency, activity, process, and the like. 5 is the dynamic
Law proceeding from abstract Order (4).
To primitive minds, the working of Law seems to be
the operation of many forces, mostly hostile to man.
Hence 5 is the number of versatility, and one of its names
in Qabalah is Fear. Ignorant persons endeavor to pro-
pitiate the p.ower they fear. Their sacrifices are the be-
ginning of religious ritual. Hence 5 is the number of
religion.
A better, though incomplete, knowledge of Law sees it
as a relentless, harsh, mechanical expression of mathe;
matical principles, taking no account of human needs
and aspirations. This is the interpretation of the mate-
rialist, who sees the Law as a mighty power. Hebrew
Occult Meaning of Numbers 11
sages take account of this also, and say that 5 is the num-
ber of Strength and Severity, as well as of Fear.
Finally, to seers and sages, Law appears as the mani-
festation of perfect Justice, whereby man, whose nu-
meral symbol is also 5, may so adapt natural conditions
that he may realize progressive liberation from every
kind of bondage.
5, then, is the number of versatility, because it shows
the changing aspects of the One Law, inspiring fear in
the ignorant, perceived by the materialist as relentless
strength, and understood by the wise as undeviating jus-
tice. This One Law is the root of all operations of the
Life-power, and is therefore called Radical Intelligence.
The root-consciousness expressed through human per-
sonality is this One Law of meditation or adaptation.
Man can change conditions. This is the secret of his
power to realize freedom.
6. On the diagram, this is a continuous line from D to
A, down through the ellipse (on the Involution curve) to
B, then around the lower circle to B. Its symmetry sug-
gests the philosophical conception of Beauty. This is the
direct outcome of ideas expressed by the preceding
numerals.
A free Life-power (0), knowing itself perfectly (1),
grasping all possibilities of what it is in itself (2), under-
standing just how those possibilities may be worked out
into expression (3), never forgetting itself, or any detail
of the perfect order of its self-manifestation (4), and
developing that order through the agency of a perfectly
just law or method (5), must inevitably be working to-
ward a perfectly symmetrical, balanced, and therefore
beautiful, result. This idea is implicit in the following
meanings of 6:
Balance, equilibration, symmetry, beauty; harmony of
opposites, reciprocity; complementary activities, polar-
12 The Tarot
ity, love. It is named Intelligence of Mediating Influence,
or Intelligence of the Separated Emanations.
7. On the diagram, this is composed of two lines-
the first horizontal, from C to D, the second diagonal,
from D to E.
To exhaust the meanings of 7 would take as many
pages as an encyclopaedia. It is the great Biblical number,
many books in both the Old and the New Testaments
being written on a plan of sevens-seven chapters, seven
subdivisions, and so on. On this point, see the literary
introductions in Moulton's Modern Readers' Bible. The
more important occult meanings of 7 are:
Rest, safety, security, victory. To the ancients 7 rep-
resented temporary cessation, not final perfection, as
some have thought. In Hebrew, the word for "seven"
and that for "oath" are closely related, since the security
and safety of a sworn compact were represented in He- ·
brew thought by 7.
This number stands for the logical consequence of the
ideas symbolized by the numbers preceding it in the
series. A perfect Life-power, working in the way out-
lined in the explanation of 6, cannot be supposed to fail.
Omnipotence must ultimately, no matter what present
appearances may be, arrive at a triumphantly successful
conclusion to all its undertakings. The Great Work is
as yet unfinished. The Cosmic Experiment has not come
to completion; but when we consider the nature of the
Source of that experiment, the nature of the Worker in
that work, reason assures us that it must succeed, down
to the minutest detail. The Hebrew name for 7 is Occult
Intelligence.
8, on the diagram, is a figure composed of the upper
and lower circles within the ellipse. In writing it, we
begin at A, describe a descending '' S'' to B, and return
on an ascending inverted "S" to A. Thus the form of
Occult Meaning of Numbers 13
the figure suggests vibration by the shape of the lines,
and alternation by the two kinds of motion used in de-
scribing it. It is also the only figure except Owhich may
be written over and over again without lifting pen from
paper. Thus in mathematics the figure 8, written hori-
zontally, is the sign of infinity. Among its occult mean-
ings are:
Rhythm, alternate cycles of involution and evolution,
vibration, flux and reflux, and the like. It represents also
the fact that opposite forms of expression (that is, all
pairs of opposites) are effects of a single Cause. (See,
on this point, Isaiah 45, verses 5 to 7).
This number 8 is the digit value of the name IHVH
(Jehovah), 888 is the numeration of the name Jesus in
Greek, and 8 is not only the "Dominical Number," or
"Number of the Lord," in Christian numeral symbolism,
but is also the particular number of the god called Thoth
by Egyptians, Nebo by Assyrians, Hermes by Greeks,
and Mercury by Romans. Thus 8 is pre-eminently the
number of magic and of Hermetic Science. Its Hebrew
name is Splendor, and the aspect of consciousness to
which it corresponds is called Perfect Intelligence. The
Hebrew adjective translated "perfect" is ShLM. A
noun spelt with the same letters means "peace, security,
health, wealth, satisfaction," and thus refers to the per-
fect realization of the success represented by the num-
ber 7.
9, on the diagram, begins at D, follows the upper circle
down to the center of the diagram, continues back to D,
then along the line of the ellipse, on the right side of the
diagram, to E. As last of the numeral symbols, 9 repre-
sents the following ideas :
Completion, attainment, fulfilment, the goal of en-
deavor, the end of a cycle of activity. Yet, because 8
indicates Rhythm as part of the creative process, comple-
tion is not absolute cessation. The end of one cycle is the
14 The Tarot
beginning of another. This fact is the basis of all prac-
tical occultism. Nobody ever comes to the end of his
tether. Nobody ever reaches a point where nothing more
remains to be hoped for, where nothing remains to be
.accomplished. Every End is the seed of a fresh Begin-
ning. In Qabalah, therefore, 9 is called Basis or Founda-
tion, and corresponds to the mode of consciousness
named Pure or Clear Intelligence, because the comple-
tion of any process is the pure, clear, unadulterated ex-
pression of the intention or idea which initiated that
process~
10 combines the ellipse of superconsciousness (0) with
the vertical line of self-consciousness (1). It is the num-
ber of perfection and dominion. Read from right to left,
from units to tens (as all composite figures should be
read symbolically), it suggests the outpouring of the lim-
itless Life-power through the initiative, specialization
and concentration of the I AM. Qabalists call the number
10 the Kingdom. The mode of consciousness assigned to
it is the Resplendent Intelligence-brilliant, glowing, full
of life and power. In one esoteric text this mode of in-
telligence is said to have its seat in Understanding, and
Understanding is the number 3, or Sanctifying Intelli-
gence. What is meant is, that in order to have the re-
splendent, glowing consciousness of mastery, one must
have also, as a basis, the sanctifying, perfecting, organ-
izing power of Understanding. Our citizenship in the
Kingdom-of-Heaven-on-Earth is determined by the de-
gree of our understanding.
Such is the outline of the ten primary numbers, accord-
ing to Ageless Wisdom, as handed down to us through
the Sages of Israel. It affords a basic clue to the mean-
ing of Tarot.
For instance, the whole book, or pack of cards, contains
78 pages. Interpreting the number 78 from the foregoing,
we see that it represents the expression of the Splendor
Occult Meaning of Numbers 15
of the Perfect Intelligence (8) through the Victory of
Occult Intelligence (7). Precisely, this is the great pur- ""
p'ose of Tarot.
In the practical work of the Builders of the Adytum,
the esoteric meanings of the numeral symbols have been
expanded into a series of eleven statements, or affirma-
tions. These are entitled The Pattern on the Trestle-
board, because, while they are at all times true of the
real Self at the heart of every human personality, they
are not intended to be taken as vainglorious claims to
personal attainment. They will aid the reader to r:emem-
ber the main attributions of the numbers O to 10. More
than this, they have, during the last twenty-five years,
proved their value as seed-ideas which, planted in the
mind by thoughtful and purposeful repetition, bear rich
fruit in mental and spiritual unfoldment.
THE PATTERN ON THE TRESTLEBOARD
This is truth about the Self:
0. All the power that ever was or will be is here now.
1. I am a center of expression for the Primal Will-to-Good
which eternally creates and sustains the universe.
2. Through me its unfailing Wisdom takes form in thought
and word.
3. Filled with Understanding of its perfect law, I am guided,
moment by moment, along the path of liberation.
4. From the exhaustless riches of its Limitless Substance, I
draw all things needful, both spiritual and material.
5. I recognize the manifestation of the undeviating Justice in
all the circumstances of my life.
6. In all things, great and small, I see the Beauty of the
divine expression.
7. Living from that Will, supported by its unfailing Wisdom
and Understanding, mine is the Victorious Life.
8. I look forward with confidence to the perfect realization of
the Eternal Splendor of the Limitless Light.
9. In thought and word and deed, I rest my life, from day to v
day, upon the sure Foundation of Eternal Being .
10. The Kingdom of Spirit is embodied in my flesh.
III
CONSTRUCTION OF THE TAROT
THE TaROTis a book, disguised as a pack of cards. Fifty-
six of its seventy-eight pages are called minor trumps.
These are divided into four suits, distinguished by em-
blems like those on Spanish or Mexican playing-cards.
The names of the suits are: Scepters or Wands; Cups;
Swords; Coins or Pentacles. In the seventeenth century,
French card-makers altered these, the original suit-
emblems, to the Clubs, Hearts, Spades and Diamonds
familiar to everybody.
Basically, the suits represent the four worlds, or
planes, mentioned in Chapter I. The wands (clubs) cor-
respond to the archetypal world, to the element fire, and
to I in IHVH. The cups (hearts) correspond to the crea-
tive world, to the element water, and to the first H in
IHVH. The swords (spades) correspond to the formative
world, to the .element air, and to the V in IHVH. The
coins or pentacles (diamonds) correspond to the material
world, to the element earth, and to the second H in
IHVH.
In each suit are ten minor trumps, numbered consecu-
tively from Ace to Ten. Thus the meaning of any num-
bered card in the minor trumps may be determined by
combining the meanings of its number with the charac-
teristics of the world represented by its suit. All the
Twos, for example, suggest duplication, alternation and
the like, and every one of them has some relation to the
idea of Wisdom. So with the other numbered cards.
Besides the numbered cards, every suit of minor
trumps contains four courtcards, instead of the three
found in modern packs of playing-cards. They are:
16
Construction of the Tarot 17
KING, symbol of Spirit, the essential Self in man ;
QUEEN,symbol of Soul, the inner "pattern" part of a particu-
lar human personality;
KNIGHT, symbol of that particular focus of energies, and of the
personal sense of selfhood, which constitutes the Ego seated
in the heart of a particular human personality;
PAGE, symbol of body, the personal vehicle of a particular hu-
man being.
The King of Wands is the idea of Spirit, the Queen of
Wands the idea of Soul, the Knight of Wands the idea of
personal energies, and the idea of what may be called
"Egoity," the Page of Wands the idea of body. Simi-
larly the courtcards of Cups symbolize the patterns of
Spirit, Soul, personal energies and body; those of Swords
stand for the processes requisite to the manifestation of
Spirit, Soul, personal energies and body; those of Coins
or Pentacles represent the actualized manifestation of
Spirit, Soul, personal energies and body in a particular
human being.
The more important part of the Tarot, with which this
book is mainly concerned, consists of twenty-two cards,
called major trumps. These are pictures, numbered con-
secutively from Zero to Twenty-one. Every major trump
has a special title, which affords an important clue to its
meaning. In addition, every major trump corresponds to r
&
one of the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet.
This alphabet differs from others in that every letter
has a name. These twenty-two letter-names are Hebrew
nouns, and every one of them designates some familiar
natural object. They follow one another in logical se-
quence, bringing to the mind's eye a series of pictures.
These pictures call up in every human mind, irrespective
of race, certain basic associations of ideas. Hence, in
studying any major trump of the Tarot, we begin with
the mental image called up by the name of the Hebrew
letter to which it corresponds.
In addition to the clues afforded by the numbers and
18 The Tarot
titles of the major trumps, or Keys, and by the associa-
tions of ideas suggested by the letter-names, we find
others derived from certain traditional occult interpreta-
tions of the Hebrew letters. These are given in an ancient
volume of Qabalistic wisdom. The name ,of this book is
the Sepher Yetzirah, or Book of Formation. From it are
taken all occult attributions of the Hebrew alphabet given
herein, with the exception of the attributions of the sun,
moon and planets to the seven letters technically known
as ''doubles,'' because each of them has a hard and a
soft pronunciation.
In all ancient copies of The Book of Formation, the
planetary attributions to the double letters are purposely
mixed, in order to mislead uninitiated readers into whose
hands the book might fall. The correct attributions were
reserved for mouth-to-ear instruction. When the first
edition of this book was published in)J~!,these attribu-
tions had never appeared in print outside the writings of
the present author, except in one article published in
The Occult Review for March, 1910, and in certain other
publications more or less directly inspired by the author
of that article. He received his knowledge from an occult
society, under seals of secrecy which he violated by his
publications of the true correspondence. He has been
followed by other members of the same society, who offer
the excuse that bad management in the society itself
threatened the loss of its knowledge. Whether this be a
valid excuse for breaking a solemn obligation, the reader
must judge for himself; but it is only fair to add that the
society in question rests under grave suspicion of having
acted with considerably less than good faith in imposing
obligations to keep secret knowledge which was by no
means its exclusive possession, and to custody of which
it had, to say the least, a most dubious title. The present
writer worked out the attribution of the planets to the
double letters from hints given in The Book of Forma-
tion, and from the Tarot itself, in the year 1907. His
Construction of the Tarot 19
knowledge of the attributions was theref ore in the nature
of a recovery, and he violates no obligation in making it
public.
Instead of tabulating all the letters and their meanings
together, this book will give a separate explanation of
every letter in connection with the major trump to which
it corresponds. The various meanings and attributions
should be read, digested and elaborated by every student
who seeks to arrive at the deeper significance of Tarot.
In the first edition of my book, entitled Introduction to
the Study of The Tarot, the descriptions of the symbol-
ism were based on the Tarot known as the '' Rider pack,''
drawn by Miss Pamela Coleman Smith under the super-
vision of Dr. Arthur Edward Waite. Dr. Waite had
access to many occult manuscripts relating to Tarot. In
some of his later writings he endeavored to throw dust in
the eyes of the uninitiated by pretending to believe that
the attribution of the cards to the letters exposed by the
revelations before-mentioned was not the true arrange-
ment. Yet his own rectifications of the symbolism and
numbering of ear lier exoteric versions of this picture-
book of Ageless Wisdom are sufficient evidence that he
understood and accepted the validity of this attribution.
For example, in accordance with an old esoteric tradi-
tion, he transposed the numbering of the cards named
Strength and Justice. Exoteric editions of Tarot, current
in Italy and France subsequent to the eighteenth century,
gave the number 11 to Strength, and 8 to Justice. In the
Rider pack these numbers were reversed, as they are in
Tarot packs belonging to certain occult schools.
The reason for this is that whatever card is numbered
8 represents the zodiacal sign Leo, and the picture entitled
Strength shows a woman taming a red lion. Similarly,
whatever card is number 11 corresponds to the sign
Libra, and the picture entitled Justice shows a woman,
carrying the scales (Libra). Furthermore, a great many
details in the twenty-two major trumps of the Rider
20 The Tarot
pack depend for their meaning on this same attribution
of the major trumps to the Hebrew letters. These were
pointed out in the :first edition of Introduction to the
Study of the Tarot.
In the present work, the twenty-two illustrations are
reproductions of the Tarot Keys used by the Builders of
the Adytum. They were drawn by Jessie Burns Parke,
of Boston, under the supervision of the present writer.
This was felt to be necessary for two reasons: 1. the ob-
scuration of certain details in the symbolism, so that
captious critics might find reason for doubting the inter-
pretations; 2. the altera tion of other Keys, so as to make
them expressions of Dr. Waite's personal ideas, rather
than correct statements of their original meaning.
The twelve flaming fruit on the tree behind the male
:figurein Key 6, the Lovers, is an example of the obscura-
tion just mentioned. In the Rider pack it is by no means
clear that every one of these is a triple flame. Another
such detail is the substitution, in Key 14, of iris flowers
for the rainbow which, in our version, as in the esoteric
versions as yet unpublished, is placed over the head of
the angel. To be sure, one who is sufficiently familiar
with mythology might see a relation between the flowers
and the rainbow goddess Iris; but there can be no ques-
tion as to the meaning of the bow itself.
Keys 4, 13 and 19 of the Rider pack afford examples of
marked departure from the traditional Tarot symbolism.
This will be evident to anybody who has opportunity to
compare the Rider Keys with the crude exoteric designs
reproduced in Papus' book The Tarot of the Bohemians,
or with those published in the same book after designs
made by Oswald Wirth.
Miss Parke, unfortunately, adhered rather too ciosely
to the tricks of style used by Miss Smith when the latter
drew the Rider pack. In spite of this, she succeeded ad-
mirably in executing a set of Tarot Keys which are ex-
plicit in the details of their symbolism. There are no
Construction of the Tarot 21
"blinds" in this version, and every symbol is intended
to mean just what it is said to signify in the explanations
given in the following chapters.
The attribution of the major trumps to the Hebrew
alphabet is the crux in Tarot study. Eliphas Levi knew
it, but could not give it, because he received it from a
secret order. He did, however, announce the fact that the
major trumps correspond to the Hebrew letters, and then
proceeded to give an attribution so patently absurd that
one wonders how it ever gained credence.
The absurdity consists in putting the picture numbered
Zero between those numbered Twenty and Twenty-one.
Yet even this affords a clue to the correct arrangement.
Eliphas Levi evidently chose this position for the Zero
Key because the latter was thereby assigned to the only
Hebrew letter (besides the one to which it rightly be-
longs) which is a symbol of Spirit.
The letter Shin, next to the last in the Hebrew alpha-
bet, has the value 300, and 300 is the numeration of the
Hebrew words RVCh ALHIM, Ruach Elohim. The Eng-
lish of these words is Life-Breath of the gods, or Spirit
of God. Hence Qabalists call Shin the "Holy Letter,"
because its number is the number of the name of the Di-
vine Spirit. By assigning the Zero Key to this letter,
Levi apprized .his readers that the Tarot Fool is a symbol
of the Holy Spirit.
There is, however, another letter in the alphabet which
is also a symbol of Spirit, or Life-Breath, and this is
Aleph, the first of the series. By attributing the Zero
trump to Aleph we put it in its correct place, and -then
the other Tarot Keys are brought at once into correct
relation to the letters whose occult meanings they sym-
bolize.
It is, of course, obvious that in a series of numbered
pictures including Zero and ending with Twenty-one, the
logical place for Zero is at the beginning of the series.
Zero is the mathematical symbol for the No-Thing which
22 The Tarot
we are obliged to think of as subsisting before the mani-
festation of the relative Unity or Beginning represented
by 1.
Again, there is a graceful allegory in the introduction
to the Zohar, that classic of Qabalism, which tells how
all the letters, beginning with Tav, and working back-
ward through the alphabet, came before the Lord to pre-
fer their claims to being accepted as the means whereby
He would begin His creation. One by one they were re-
jected, until the letter Beth was chosen, because, being
the initial letter of the Hebrew word signifying "Bless-
ing,'' it was truly representative of the beneficent char-
acter of the whole creation. This same letter Beth is the
first letter in the Hebrew text of Genesis.
Beth having been accepted, after the rejection of all
the letters following it in the alphabetical series, there
remained the letter Aleph. So the Lord promised Aleph
that, as a reward for modesty, it should be forever the
:firstof all the letters, and the special symbol of the Divine
Spirit.
Here we have additional reason for the attribution of
the Key numbered 1, that is, The Magician, to the letter
which has 2 for its numeral value. The subsisting Spirit,
self-sustained before the beginning of manifestation, is
No-Thing or Zero. So also is the sound of the letter Aleph
an unaspirated -breath, or simple out-breathing. The let-
ter Beth, on the contrary, is a true consonant, and, even
in English, is the initial of the verb "begin." Aleph and
Zero both symbolize the formless Spirit. Beth and One
both stand for the :first step in the series of creative
activities.
Dr. Waite, Manly P. Hall, and some others have ob-
jected that this arrangement makes the numbers of the
Keys and the numbers of the letters conflict. The answer
to this is that the numbers printed on the Keys have one
purpose, while those assigned to the letters have another.
The values of the Hebrew letters are used to determine
Construction of the Tarot 23
the numerations of words. The numbers printed on the
Tarot Keys determine the order of the pictures in the
series. What is more, the letter-values of the Hebrew
alphabet are not serial. From Aleph to Teth they are
the digits from 1 to 9; from Yod to Tzaddi they are
reckoned by tens, from 10 to 90, and from Qoph to Tav by
hundreds, from 100 to 400.
Thus the same objection, were it at all valid, would
apply to Levi's attribution, which assigned Key 1 to
Aleph, Key 2 to Beth, and so on. This seems plausible,
on the surface, because the series of Keys from 1 to 9
then corresponds by number to the digit values of the
letters from Aleph to Teth. Key 10, were this arrange-
ment correct, would correspond also to Yod, which has
10 for its value. But Key 11 will then be assigned to a
letter numbered 20, Key 13 to a letter numbered 40, and
so on. Then, at the end of the series, Key Ois assigned
by Levi to a letter numbered 300, while Key 21 is at-
tributed to a letter numbered 400.
Finally, if we use the arrangement given hereafter, the
symbols on the pictures do agree, without question, to the
occult meanings of the letters to which they are assigned.
Those meanings do not have to be read into the pictures.
Each symbol may be tested ·by comparison with the re-
searches of the best authorities, from the most ancient
writers down to the present. These are universal signs,
and their fundamental significance is the same the world
over, in all periods of history, in all forms of religion,
in all varieties of philosophy. They are, in fact, drawn
from that stock of images, common to all men every-
where, stored in what Dr. Carl Jung calls the "collective
unconscious.''
These pictorial images are those we weave into dreams.
They are the symbols of poets, dramatists and novelists,
as well as the substance of the visions of seers and
prophets. Thinking in pictures is the fundamental ac-
24 The Tarot
tivity of the human mind. We see before we say. Words
are but labels for man's visual imagery.
Thus the letters of the Hebrew alphabet, because they
are nouns, are actually twenty-two labels for mental pic-
tures. From the same stock of pictures, by association,
are drawn the-occult attributions of the letters, and the
symbols of the Tarot Keys. To make this clear, and to
establish the correctness of this long-hidden attribution
of the major trumps to the letters, is one of the main
purposes of this book.
This attribution is as follows:
0. The Fool, Aleph.
1. The Magician, Beth.
2. The High Priestess, Gimel.
3. The Empress , Daleth.
4. The Emperor, Heh.
5. The Hierophant, Vav.
6. The Lovers, Zain.
7. The Chariot, Cheth.
8. Strength, Teth.
9. The Hermit, Yod.
10. The Wheel of For tune,
Kaph.
11. Justice, Lamed.
12. The Hanged Man, Mero.
13. Death, Nun.
14. Temperance, Samekh.
15. The Devil, Ayin.
16. The Tower, Peh.
17. The Star, Tzaddi.
18. The Moon, Qoph.
19. The Sun, Resh.
20. The Judgment, Shin.
21. The World, Tav.
In connection with the following explanation s, you will find
it useful to arrange the major trumps on a table, in the follow-
ing order:
0
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
In this arrangement, the Zero Key is placed above the others
to indicate that it precedes the whole series, and is not really
included in the sequence of numbers. The pictures in the top
row refer to powers or potencies ; those in the middle row are
symbols of laws or agencies; those in the bottom row represent
condition s or effects. Thus Key 1 is the power which works
Construction of the Tarot 25
through the agency symbolized by Key 8 to modify the conditions
or effects typified by Key 15. Again, Key 2 stands for the po-
tency or principle which operates through the agency symbolized
by Key 9 to modify the condition represented by Key 16. And
so on, through the series.
Careful study of this tableau will reveal certain harmonies of
number which are helpful in getting at the deeper meaning of
the Keys. For example, the middle card in any horizontal row
is the arithmetical mean term between three pairs of Keys on
either side of it. That is, Key 4, in the top row, is the arithmeti-
cal mean between Keys 1 and 7, 2 and 6, and 3 and 5. Similarly,
Key 11, in the middle row, is the mean between Keys 8 and 14,
9 and 13, 10 and 12. On the bottom row, Key 18 is the arith-
metical mean between Keys 15 and 21, 16 and 20, and 17 and 19.
In like manner, every Key in the middle row is the
arithmetical mean between the Key above it in the tab-
leau, a:n,dthe Key below. Thus 8 is the mean between 1
and 15, 9 the mean between 2 and 16, and so on.
In this tableau, therefore, Key 11 stands as the mean
between ten pairs of Keys. These are, 1 and 21, 2 and 20,
3 and 19, 4 and 18, 5 and 17, 6 and 16, 7 and 15, 8 and 14,
9 and 13, and 10 and 12. The members of these ten pairs
stand in diametrically opposed positions in the tableau,
and Key 11 is at the center of the whole scheme, where it
is obviously a symbol of the agency which effects balance,
or equilibration, among all the forces symbolized by the
other Keys.
Careful inspection of the twenty-two Keys, laid out in
this tableau, will reveal many other interesting and en-
lightening correspondences. It will ·also make clear the
principle of antithesis utilized in designing the ·Keys.
This principle may be observed also by comparing the
letter-names of the Hebrew alphabet. It is applied con-
sistently throughout the series, and conforms to funda-
mental laws of human thought.
For instance, in the top row of Keys, a male :figure, the
Magician, stands outdoors, in a garden. In Key 2, the
central :figureis a virgin priestess, sitting inside a temple.
26 The Tarot
Key 3, by contrast to the virgin High Priestess, is a
pregnant woman, sitting in a garden. Key 4 is her con-
sort, clad in armor, sitting on a height, with the river
that waters his wife's garden far below. Key 5 contrasts
the power of the church, designated in the exoteric title
as the Pope, with the power of the State symbolized by
the Emperor. Key 6 is, in contrast to Key 5, an outdoor
scene, suggesting the untutored innocence of Adam and
Eve in the garden . Key 7 has in the background a city,
and all the rest of the symbolism is made up of details
having to do with a rel atively advanced stage of civiliza-
tion. Bear this principle of antithesis in mind. As ap-
plied to Tarot, it means that any Tarot Key is in direct
contrast to the one which immediately precedes it in the
series.
To what, then, is Key O a contrast 1 To what else but
Key 21, the last card 1 For the very word Tarot is an
artificial word, made up of the letters of the Latin noun,
Rota, written round a circle, as, indeed, you may see by
inspecting Key 10. Start at the bottom of the wheel, with
R, and go round the wheel, clockwise, and the four letters
spell ROTA. Begin at the top, and follow round the
wheel in the same direction, and the four letters spell
TARO. Go on from O to your starting-point, and you
come to T again, and so spell out TAROT.
The Tarot, then, is a symbolic wheel of human life.
We might, indeed, arrange these twenty-two pictures in
a circle, with the Keys equally spaced, like figures on a
clockface. Then, when we had gone round the circle from
0 to 21, we should, in completing the circuit, arrive at 0
again. This is an important clue to some of the deeper
meanings of Tarot. Ponder it well, and from within you
will come more light than we could shed in page after
page of explanation.
THE FOOL
THI: FOOL
IV
KEY O: THE FOOL (ALEPH)
Aleph is the Hebrew equivalent for English A. Its nu-
meral value is 1. In Roman characters used for trans-
literating Hebrew words throughout this book, its name
is ALP, meaning Bull or Ox.
This is believed by many to establish the time of the
invention of the alphabet as being during the astronomi-
cal period called the Taurean Age, when the bull was the
god-symbol dominant in the leading religions of the
world. Apis in Egypt, Mithra among the Persians, Di-
onysos among the Greeks, all had the bull or ox as a
symbol.
Since oxen pulled the plow and threshed the grain in
primitive husbandry, besides pulling the carts which car-
ried the farmer's produce to market, they became the
symbols for the motive power in agriculture. Agriculture
is the basic form of civilization, thus the ox represents
the power at work in all forms of human adaptation and
modification of natural conditions. Oxen, again, are sym-
bols of wealth, as our own English adjective, pecuniary,
derived from the Latin pecus: cattle, clearly shows. Fi-
nally, oxen and bulls, the world over, represent creative
energy, life-power, the vital principle of plants, animals
and men, which comes to us in physical form as the light
and heat of the sun.
The Hebrew name for this vital principle is Ruach
(RVCh). Its literal, basic meaning is "Breath." It is
equivalent to English Spirit, Latin Spiritus, Greek
Pneuma, and Sanskrit Prana. All these words mean air
or breath. They all designate the all-pervading cosmic
energy which animates every living creature. This
29
30 The Tarot
Ruach is specifically attributed to the letter Aleph in the
Qabalistic Book of Formation.
Fiery or Scintillating Intelligence is the mode of con-
sciousness assigned to Aleph. Breath keeps a fire alight
in our bodies. In both Old and New Testaments we are
told: '' The Lord our God is a consuming fire.'' To de-
fine the primal mode of the Life-power-the first aspect
of the cosmic vital principle-is impossible. Yet wise
men have ever agreed that it is like fire, and the most
recent discoveries of modern physics demonstrate the
fact that the "something" whereof all things are made
is a radiant, fiery energy. Occultism adds the thought
that this energy is the working power of pure conscious-
ness, which plays upon that energy, is inseparable from
it, and directs all its manifestations from within. This
idea of inherent directing consciousness, combined with
current scientific explanations of the electro-magnetic
constitution of matter, gives precisely the conception
which Qabalists convey by the term Scintillating Intelli-
gence.
In the color-scale used by some Wes tern schools of
occult science, the element Air and the Fiery Life-
Breath are represented by a clear, pale shade of yellow.
Since the discovery of the planet Uran us, the higher oc-
tave o;fMercury, this planet has been attributed to Aleph ,
and is represented by the pale yellow tint just mentioned .
Its tone vibration is E-natural. The planetary name
Uranus, it should be noted, is the English adaptation of
a Greek word meaning "sky."
Furthermore, those who believe, with the present
writer, that all language, and, in consequence, all accepted
scientific nomenclature, is an evolutionary process having
its origin in the Universal Mind, may reach the conclu-
sion that the noun uranium, derived from Uranus, is by
no means a chance designation for the chemical element
whence are derived the thought-designed and man-made
elements, neptunium and plutonium, those terrible '' sky-
Key 0: The Fool (Aleph) 31
powers" which appear, at present, to threaten the exter-
mination of humanity in a frenzy of insane suicide. Yet
these same powers might, if rightly applied, so change
our globe that it would become a veritable Paradise.
Ageless Wisdom, in spite of all appearances to the
contrary, holds fast to the conviction that the Directing
Intelligence will so work itself out in human thought
that new, constructive uses for the "sky-power," going
far beyond what most of us can now imagine, will bring
to fulfilment the ancient promise of a new heaven and a
new earth, peopled by regenerated humanity.
The Zero Key elaborates the occult meanings of Aleph.
Its number identifies it with the No-Thing whence all
things proceed. The Qabalists called this Limitless
Light. In connection with Aleph, we find this Light repre-
sented as the active principle of existence, prior to actual
manifestation. The picture of the Fool, the ref ore, does
not show this principle as it really is, because the Abso-
lute transcends finite comprehension. Yet the symbols
show it as it has revealed itself, in a measure, to the wise.
The Fool is pictured as a youth, because we are obliged
to think of the Absolute in terms of our own experience.
To our minds the Life-Breath presents itself in human
form; but behind this personal seeming sages discern
something higher, typified in the picture by the white
sun. This higher something is an impersonal power,
manifesting as the limitless energy radiated to the plan-
ets of world-systems without number, streaming to them i/
from their respective suns.
In manifestation, this energy is temporarily limited by
living organisms. Of these, the primary class is the vege-
table kingdom, represented by the green wreath which
binds the Fool's fair hair. The hair itself is yellow,
symbolizing the radiant energy of the Life-Breath. The
higher class of organisms is the animal kingdom, evolved
from the vegetable world, and represented here by the
red feather rising from the wreath. This feather is also
32 The Tarot
a symbol of aspiration an4 of truth. The colors of wreath
and feather, green and red, are complementary, as are
the kingdoms they symbolize.
The cosmic Life-Breath is forever young, forever in
the morning of its power, forever on the verge of the
abyss of manifestation. It is neither male nor female,
hence this gay young traveler's figure might be either a
lad, or a girl disguised, like Rosalind. Actually it is the
Heavenly Androgyne.
Always it faces unknown possibilities of self-expres-
sion, transcending any height it may have reached at a
given time. On this account the sun behind the traveler
is at an angle of ;forty-fl~.!'
degrees in the eastern heaven,
as Swedenborg says the celestial sun remains forever in
the spiritual world.· The spiritual sun never reaches the
zenith, for from the zenith it would have to descend, and
the idea here intended is that infinite energy never can
reach a point in manifestation whence it must begin to
decrease in power. On this account, too, the Fool faces
North-West, toward a direction which, for Masonic and
other occult reasons, has for millenniums been symbolic
of the unknown, and of the state just prior to the initia-
- tion of a creative process.
The traveler's eager gaze is fixed rapturously on a dis-
tant height, beyond and above him. He is That which
was, and is, and shall be-the deathless, fadeless life-
principle, subsisting eternally behind all modes of
existence.
His inner robe is dazzling white, representing the light
of perfect wisdom. Dimly traced, in the folds at the neck
of this white garment are the Hebrew characters of the
Divine Name, IHVH, Jehovah. This name, according to
Qabalists, is represented by the three parts of the Hebrew
character for the letter Aleph.
The white undergarment is almost wholly concealed by
the black coat of ignorance, lined with the red of passion;
fire, and material force. This outer garment is em-
Key 0: The Fool (Aleph) 33
broidered with what seems to be a floral decoration, but
the unit of design, repeated ten times, is a yellow wheel,
containing eight red spokes. Around this wheel are seven
green trefoils.
The yellow color of the wheel represents air or breath.
The eight red spokes combine the number 8, symbol of
rhythm, with the color red, and refer to the rhythmic
action ' of the :fiery activity which sets the Life-Breath
into whirling, wheeling motion. The seven trefoils are
green, color of organic life in the vegetable kingdom, and
particular color of the planet Venus in color-symbolism.
Each trefoil represents one of the '' Seven Spirits of
God," and one of the seven great "rays" of the uni-
versal creative energy. They are trefoils because every
one of these seven force-rays has a triple expression:
(a) integrating, (b) equilibrating, (c) disintegrating.
There are ten repetitions of this unit of design, to refer
to the ancient doctrine that all manifestation is in ten
aspects or .phases-'' ten ineffable numerations, ten and
not nine, ten and not eleven," as The Book of Formation
says. In one of these wheels, near the bottom of the
Fool's coat, is placed the Hebrew character for the letter
Shin. This ·refers to the connection between the letters
Aleph and Shin, which are both alphabetical symbols of
the fiery Life-Breath, or Holy Spirit.
In addition to these ten wheels, there is on the right
breast of the Fool a yellow circle enclosing a triple flame
of red. This represents the state of the Life-Breath prior
to manifestation, when the universal enepgy (yellow
disk), although it has the triple potency of expression
(the triple flame) within itself, has not yet organized
that potency into the rhythmic, whirling motion which is
the basis of all modes of expression.
On the Fool's right shoulder is a golden eight-pointed
star. Close to ,it is a silver lunar crescent. These are the
Sun and Moon, or gold and silver, of the alchemists.
They refer also to Surya, the hot, electric, solar current
34 The Tarot
of Prana described in books on Yoga, and to Rayi, the
cool, magnetic, lunar current of the same Prana. Fun-
damentally, these are two modes of the One Life-Breath.
Their activity is both universal and personal. In human-
ity they are active in the nerve currents of the physical
body.
The black wand over the Fool's right shoulder is a
measuring tool. It supports a wallet, having a flap sewn
with ten stitches. The lock of this flap is in the form of
an eye. On the wallet, below the flap, is a picture of an
eagle.
The wand is a symbol of will, of which attention, the
wand itself, is the essence, and to which memory, the
wallet, is closely linked. The wallet contains the summed-
up experience of previous manifestations, because, at the
beginning of every new cycle of self-expression, the Life-
power carries with it the essence of all its experiences
in former cycles.
The lock of this wallet is in the form of an eye, which
sta,nds for the All-seeing Eye of Freemasonry, and for
the Eye of Horus, in Egyptian symbolism. It suggests,
also, that through the development of a higher type of
vision we may gain access to the treasure of stored-up
experience in the universal memory. The ten stitches on
the flap have the same meaning as the ten wheels on the
Fool's coat, and refer to the ten types of vision, or higher
perception, developed by occult practice.
The eagle on the wallet refers to the zodiacal sign
Scorpio. Thus it intimates that the wand and wallet' to-
gether may be understood to be phallic emblems, ref er-
ring to the natural process whereby the accumulate d
experience of the Life- power is passed on from cycle to
cycle, through an endless chain of living organisms. In
. occultism, moreover, the awakening of the higher vision
symbolized by the eye on the flap of the wallet is brought
about by practices which re-direct and sublimate the
bodily forces related astrologically to the sign Scorpio .
Key 0: The Fool (Aleph) 85
The rose in the Fool's left hand is white, to indicate
freedom from the lower forms of desire and passion, and
also to show that it refers to the spiritual prototype of
desire. It is a cultivated flower, showing (as do other
details of the Fool's vesture and equipment) that he has
come from a previous scene of cultural activity, from a
plain somewhere behind him on his journey. For, as
corresponding to Aleph, the Fool symbolizes cultural
activities.
At the waist, the robe is encircled by a girdle having
twelve circular ornaments, of which seven are visible. It
refers to the twelve signs of the zodiac, through which
are expressed the powers of the seven heavenly bod-
ies known to the ancients . Thus the girdle typifies
Time, and since the belt must be removed in order
to take off the black coat, here is a plain intimation
that to rid ourselves of ignorance and passion we must
overcome the illusion of Time, which is, as Kant long ago
proved, purely a creation of the human intellect. A prac-
tical occultist learns to replace Time by Eternity, and
practices daily to accustom himself to leading the time-
less life.
The citrine or olive of the Fool's hose (the tint varies
in various versions of Tarot) refers to the element of
earth, and to the tenth numeration, or aspect of the Life-
power, which Qabalists call the Kingdom. His yellow
shoes refer to the element of air, which is the vehicle of
the Life -power.
The icy peaks in the distance show that the cold, ab-
stract principles of mathematics are above and behind all _
the warm, colorful, vital activities of cosmic manif esta-
tion.
· The little white dog is a descendant of wolves and
jackals. Thus he is a human adaptation, whereby some-
thing given in a wild and dangerous state by the un-
modified processes of nature has been changed into a
friend, helper and companion of man. He also indicates
36 The Tarot
the truth that all subhuman forms of the Life-power are
elevated and improved by the advance of human con-
- ~,sciousness. Finally, for symbolic reasons going back to
ancient Egypt, he is a symbol of intellect, subordinate
to superconsciousness.
The Fool, then, symbolizes what Dr. Waite, in his Key
to the Tarot, calls "the state of the first emanation." He
is the primary aspect of universal consciousness, which
we term superconsciousness. He is the cosmic Life-
Breath, about to descend into the abyss of manifestation.
Because he symbolizes the state of the _;Life-powerjust
prior to the beginning of a cycle of self-expression, he
also represents inexperience. For until the Life-power
actually enters into the particular activities of such a
cycle, it can have no real experience of those activities.
It is because of this inexperience that the subtle wise
men who invented Tarot called this Key '' The Fool.''
Another reason was that they were familiar with the
philosophic truth that superconsciousness is above rea-
son, imagination, thought, feeling, and all other states of
self-consciousness. Tke Mystical Theology of Dionysius
therefore says of God: "He has neither imagination nor
reason, nor does He know anything as it is, nor does
anything know Him as He is.''
Apply these words to a man, and you call him a fool.
Furthermore, the attempt to limit Divine Consciousness
to personality, making God a big man, is mentally to
create a foolish divinity. Finally, the title of the Zero
Key refers to that ''foolishness of God which is wiser
/ than men.'' This means that although superconscious-
ness has no actual experience of those facts and events
which are the warp and woof of human knowledge, its
inherent awareness of the principles of its own nature far
transcends the limits of human wisdom.
THE MAGICIAN
1 THE -
MAGICIAN)
V
KEY 1: THE MAGICIAN (BETH)
Beth (B, value 2) means "house." The first thing about
a house is its location, determined by survey, an applica-
tion of geometry. In its building, architecture, geometry,
adaptation of materials, and many other practical appli-
cations of science are involved. Time was when the whole
art of building was called a "mystery," and was under
the direction of the priests of Thoth-Nebo-Hermes-Mer-
cury. House-building is part of Hermetic science, and
survivals of this idea are preserved in the rituals of
Freemasonry.
Mercury is the astrological attribution to Beth. It
represents both the planet and the "god." Understand
by "god" an aspect of universal consciousness, personi-
fied. The "gods" are the Elohim of the Hebrew scrip-
ture~, wherein it is written of man, "I said, Ye are
gods.''
To Mercury or Hermes (Hiram) the Egyptians at-
tributed their forty-two books of science, embracing
astronomy, astrology, arithmetic, geometry, medicine,
grammar, logic, rhetoric, music, magic, and so on. Mer-
cury or Hermes was the great magician and transformer,
bearing the caduceus, or wand of miracles, which sur-
vives to this day as a symbol of the healing art. He was,
nevertheless, only the messenger of a divinity higher
than himself-merely the transmitter, not the originator,
the channel rather than the source.
Astrologically, the Mercury vibration represents in-
tellect. In the color-scale used throughout these lessons
it is ye!!Qw,color assigned to Spirit and air, but a deeper
39
40 The Tarot
tint than that assigned to Uranus. The musical tone is
the same, E-natural.
Beth is one of the seven double letters, so called be-
cause they have in Hebrew both a hard and a soft pro-
nunciation. To every double letter is assigned a pair of
opposites. To Beth and Mercury, because the letter and
planet designate an aspect of consciousness which de-
stroys as easily as it creates, the pair assigned is Li,f e
and Death.
Intelligence of Transparency is the mode of conscious-
ness. "Transparency" means "letting light shine
through." Here we have the same idea of transmission
that is suggested by Hermes as the transmitter of the
messages of the higher divinity. Clearly the mode of
consciousness called transparent must be one which af-
fords a free channel of communication, which permits
the free passage downward and outward of the super-
conscious Light which is above and within.
Above is the direction assigned to Beth, because the
mode of consciousness corresponding to the letter is the
superior term of human personal consciousness. As
Hermes was herald of the gods, directing the soul (ac-
cording to Egyptian mythology) through the mysteries
of the underworld, or night side of nature, so is this su-
perior phase of human personal consciousness the initia-
tor, and the conductor of human personality through the
mazes of life. It is the number ONE consciousness, the
Ego-consciousness, the '' I am I,'' which is sometimes
called "objective mind"; but, because it is first of all
consciousness of the indwelling presence of the super-
conscious Self, we prefer to term it self-consciousness. It
is the Onlooker, the director, the superior personal mode
of universal Conscious Energy. It is your everyday wak-
ing consciousness.
The Magician is the correct title of Key 1, used in all
versions of Tarot belonging to occult fraternities, though
it is sometimes debased into Juggler in exoteric packs.
Key 1: The Magwian (Beth) 41
Magic is simply the ancient name for science, particularly
for Hermetic science.
The true magic presides over house-building because it
shows us how to erect actual houses so as to take advan-
tage of occult properties of the earth-currents of mag-
netic vibration. The higher phases of magic, moreover,
have to do with the building of the "house" of person- V
ality, with the rearing of the Temple of Spirit, the ''house
not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.''
The Magic of Light presides over life and death be-
cause it has to do with laws and principles whereby
self-conscious states of mind initiate and determine sub-
conscious reactions. These reactions make for life or for
death, according to the patterns which self-consciousness
formulates and passes down to the subconscious plane.
Every true magician knows that all his practice has a
mathematical, geometrical basis. By the aid of occult
geometry he has traced nature to her concealed recesses.
He uses geometrical formulae and diagrams in his prac-
tical work.
Finally, though he knows himself to be above nature,
he understands that his operations succeed to the degree
that his thought, word and action transmit faithfully the
powers of the plane above him. The greatest magicians v
·know themselves to be no more than channels for the
Life-power, clear window-panes through which the light
of wisdom within the house of personality streams forth
into the objective world.
The arbor of roses over the Magician's head corre-
sponds to the letter-name, Beth, because an arbor is the
simplest type of shelter. Red roses, symbols of Venus,
represent the desire-nature. Here they suggest that the
power which the Magician draws from above is modified
or qualified by desire. This is true of all self-conscious
activity. Every moment of our waking consciousness is
motivated and conditioned by some type of desire.
The horizontal figure 8 over the Magician's head is the
42 The Tarot
ancient occult number ascribed to Hermes. (See expla-
nation of the number 8 in Chapter 2.) This horizontal 8
is also a symbol of the Holy Spirit. It means dominion
on the horizontal plane, that is. dominion in material
affairs, because one of the oldest symbols of matter is
the horizontal line.
In contrast to the Fool's yellow locks, the black hair of
the Magician signifies ignorance. Yet this ignorance is
limited by knowledge, for a white crown encircles the
Magus' brow. It passes round his forehead at the loca-
tion of the brain areas particularly active in self-con-
scious mentation.
His uplifted right hand suggests power drawn from
above. The wand it holds aloft is a double-ended phallic
symbol. It is phallic, because the nerve-force used to main-
tain the reproductive functions may be purified and subli-
mated by certain magical procedures. The purification
is suggested by the whiteness of the wand. Its two points, ·
exactly alike in form, remind us of the Hermetic axiom,
"That which is below is as that which is above, and that
which is above is as that which is below, for the perform-
ance of the miracles of the One Thing.'' They also indi-
cate subtly that the lower manifestations of the force
here symbolized are not destroyed nor atrophied in the
process of purification and sublimation. Finally, the two
points . refer to the duality of all magical operations,
which are of two great classes-those leading to the
higher expression of life, and those resulting in death.
The Magician's down-pointing left hand symbolizes
direction of power to a plane below. It makes the gesture
of concentration. The pointing finger is that attributed
to the planet Jupiter. From this finger, palmists judge
the degree of a client's powers of leadership and direc-
tion. It is the executive and determinative finger. The
gesture plainly conveys the notion that concentration is
the secret of the direction and control of forces below
the plane of self-conscious awareness.
Key 1: The Magician (Beth) 43
Of the double gesture made by the Magician's hands
Dr. Waite says: '' This dual sign is known in very high
grades of the Instituted Mysteries. It shows the descent
of grace, virtue and light, drawn from things above and
derived to things below. The suggestion throughout is
therefore the possession and communication of the
Powers and Gifts of the Spirit."
The Magician's white inner robe has the same signifi-
cance as the white garment of the Fool. The serpent
girdle signifies wisdom (serpent) and eternity (biting
his tail). Dr. Waite says, "Here it indicates more espe-
cially the eternity of attainment in the spirit." The
serpent is colored blue-green, because it is also a symbol
of the serpent-force which is utilized in all magical prac-
tice. This force is related to the sign Scorpio, which, in
our color-scale, is associated with blue-green.
The .Magician's red outer garment represents desire,
passion and activity. Its color is that of the planet Mars,
which astrology associates with action and initiative.
This red robe has no binding girdle. It may be slipped on
or off, at the Magician's pleasure. This means that self-
consciousness may enter into action, or abstain from it,
according to circumstances. Thus this bit of symbolism
is connected with the power of choice, or of selection,
characteristic of self-consciousness.
The table before the Magician represents the ":field of
attention'' in modern psychology. The word ''table'' has
also affinities in language with the word "measurement,"
inasmuch as to classify and arrange is to tabulate. Note
that the corners of the table had to be squared, and that
the cylindrical legs, which have capitals like Ionic col-
umns, required the use of compasses, and, by their capi-
tals, suggest the "orders" of architecture.
"On the table in front of the Magician," writes Dr.
Waite, "are the implements of the four Tarot suits,
signifying the elements of natural life, which lie like
counters before the adept, and he adapts them as he
44 The Tarot
wills.'' As elements of natural life they refer to fire
(wand), water (cup), air (sword) and earth (coin or
pentacle). They symbolize also the four worlds, and cor-
respond to the letters of IHVH.
The Magician's problem is to arrange them in proper
order. In ceremonial magic, these implements are the
staff, the cup of libations and divination, the magic
sword, and the pentacle or talisman. On the pentacle
are written or engraved words, numbers, geometrical
figures, and sigils. These are determined by the nature
of the magical operation to be effected by the powers
they represent. In this instance, the sigil on the pentacle
is the pentalpha, the five-pointed star, or Pentagram. Of
this sign Eliphas Levi says :
"The Pentagram expresses the mind's domination
over the elements, and it is by this sign that we bind the
demons of the air, the spirits of fire, the spectres of
water, and the ghosts of earth. It is the star of the Magi,
the burning star of the Gnostic schools, the sign of intel-
lectual omnipotence and autocracy. It is the symbol of
- the -Word made Flesh ... The sign of the Pentagram is
called also the sign of the Microcosm. Its complete com-
prehension is the key of the two worlds-it is absolute
natural philosophy and natural science."
From the foregoing quotation you may come to under-
stand the nature of the work to which the Magician in
Tarot is directing his powers. Be careful not to take the
first sentence of the quotation too literally. There is a
meaning behind the surface meaning. Find it yourself.
In practical, every-day life, the implements of the Ma-
gician are the four life-essentials: light (wand), water
(cup), air (sword) and food (pentacle). The combina-
tion of these life-essentials in proper order and propor-
tions is the task of every practical occultist.
Finally, the four implements correspond to four
ancient esoteric admonitions, which sum up the whole
practical application of occult law. These admonitions
Key 1: The Magician (Beth) 45
are: (1) TO WILL (wand); (2) TO KNOW (cup); (3)
TO DARE (sword); (4) TO BE SILENT (pentacle).
The last, in some respects, is the most important. '' Oc-
cult" means "hidden," and one of the first duties of a
practical occultist is the practice of silence.
The Magician's garden is the antithesis to the barren
height whereon stands the Fool. The garden is fertile
and productive. It is itself a symbol of the subconscious
plane of mental activity. From this teeming soil come
forth the productions which give shape and form to the
ideas of the Magician. He is shown as a gardener, like
Adam, of whom an old legend says that he was put into
the Garden of Eden to grow roses.
Like Adam, self-consciousness is the namer of objects.
Like Adam, personal self-consciousness is formed by the
power of the "Lord," who is That which was, is and shall
be. Like Adam, the personal self-consciousness is formed
of the "dust of the ground," because self-consciousness
is an aggregate of myriads of tiny sense-impressions
(dust) originating in that cosmic operation of the Life-
power which makes the environment of personality, and
is the true ground or basis of all self-conscious experi-
ence.
"Beneath," writes Dr. Waite, "are roses and lilies,
the ftos campi and lilium convallium, changed into gar-
den flowers, to show the culture of aspiration.'' Red
roses typify Venus and the desire-nature. White lilies "
represent abstract thought, untinged by desire. The roses
are developed from the five-petalled wild rose, and thus
they symbolize the number 5, which has for its geometri-
cal correspondence the Pentagram. As symbols of desire,
they represent that phase of subconscious response to
self-conscious direction which has to do with art, inven-
tion, and the adaptation of the principles of abstract
truth to practical ends. Because all desires are related
to sensation, there are five roses, corresponding to the
conventional five senses. 9
46 The Tarot
Lilies have six petals, and in cross-section their flowers
show the Hexagram, or six-pointed star, which is the
symbol of the Macrocosm. Pure science concerns itself
with the study of the powers of the Macrocosm, and with
the laws of those powers. Because these laws and forces
operate in the four worlds or planes mentioned in Chap -
ter 1, the number of lilies shown in the picture is four .
Thus all meanings of the letter Beth, the number 1,
and the symbols of the Magician refer to powers of the
self-conscious phase of personal mental activity . These
powers are directed primarily to the control of forces
and things below the self-conscious level. The energy
utilized comes from above, from superconsciousness. It
is fixed and modified by acts of attention. Concentration
is the great secret of the magical art. True concentration
is perfect transparency, in which personality becomes a
free, unobstructed channel for the passage downward
and outward of the superconscious radiant energy.
Herein is the secret of true volition, and Eliphas Levi
.tells us, '' All magic is in the will.''
THE HIGH PRIESTESS
..
-
2 HIGH f'Rlf:STl:~S
VI
KEY 2: THE HIGH PRIESTESS (GIMEL).
Gimel, third letter of the Hebrew alphabet, is a double
letter. Its name means "camel." Because camels are
used for transportation, for carrying goods from one
place to another, the letter-name suggests travel, com-
munication, commerce, and like ideas. Because mer-
chants and pilgrims use camels in making journeys
together, Gimel suggests association, combination, co-
existence, partnership, and the like. Because a camel has
means for carrying extra supplies of water, it symbolizes
moisture. Finally, the camel is the "ship of the desert,"
and its humps look something like a crescent.
Gimel is represented in English by the letter '' G,''
which has also a hard and a soft pronunication. Hard
as in "girl." Soft as in "geranium." The numeral
value of Gimel in Hebrew arithmetic, and in reckoning
the numeration of Hebrew words, is 3.
The Moon is the celestial body assigned to Gimel.
First, because the Moon is a satellite, accompanying the
earth. Second, because the Moon waxes and wanes, just
as a caravan is first seen as a tiny dust-cloud on the rim
of the desert, then grows larger and larger until it stops
awhile at some oasis city, and then grows smaller and
smaller as it journeys thence, on its way to its next desti-
nation. Third, because the lunar crescent resembles the
shape of a camel's humps, also because, as the camel is
the "ship of the desert," so is the Moon the "ship of the
skies.'' Finally, the astrological nature of the Moon is
cold and moist. The Moon is the astrological symbol of
personality, and of the memories carried from one in-
carnation to another by the subconscious mind. In our
49
50 The Tarot
color-scale, the tint assigned to the Moon is blue, corre-
sponding to the musical tone G-sharp, or A-flat.
As a double letter, Gimel designates the pair of op-
posites, Peace and Strife. For, as in the world peace and
war are mainly dictated by the conditions of commerce ,
communication and transportation, so, in human per-
sonality, adjus tment or maladjustment are largely deter-
mined by the response of subconsciousness to the things
and people with whom we are brought into communica-
tion.
Uniting Int elligence is the mode of consciousness
attributed to Gimel. As transportation (camel and
caravan) brings distant places nearer together, and es-
tablishes communication between them, so does subcon-
sciousness, which is the connecting medium betweeen
human personalities, unite us to one another-regardless
of distance. Subconsciousness is the agency of telepathic
communication .
Below is the direction attributed to Gimel. That which
is below is secondary, subordinate, dependent, under
control, subjec t to command, obedient. All these ideas
are clearly rela ted to the idea of ''camel,'' as an obedient
beast of burden. They relate in consciousness to the sub-
ordinate element of personal consciousness, at all times
amenable to control by suggestions which originate in
the mental activities symbolized in Tarot by the Magi-
cian, who represents self-consciousness.
The title, High Pri estess, means literally "chief
feminine elder ," or primary receptive aspect of the
Life-power . In Hindu philosophy this is Prakriti, the
.precosmic root -substance which is the substratum be-
neath all the objective planes of existence. Thus the
woman in Key 2 is in one sense identical with the First
Mother, or Fir st Matter, of the alchemists, who often
call this Prima Mat eria their Virgin Diana.
Diana is the goddess of the crescent Moon. She is also
the Great Hecate of Greek occult philosophy. Hecate,
Key 2: The High Priestess (Gimel) 51
often confused in ancient mythology with Luna, was sup-
posed to have all secret powers of nature at her command.
In fact, the High Priestess corresponds to all the virgin
goddesses of the ancient world-to Artemis, guardian
and helper .of childbirth, to Maia, mother of Hermes, to
Bona Dea, who "out of modesty never left her bower, or
let herself be seen of men,'' and to Kybele, whose sanc-
tuaries were caves. Dr. Waite says "she is the spiritual
Bride and Mother, the daughter of the stars ... the
Queen of the borrowed light, but this is the light of all."
Thus she also represents Eve, before her union with
Adam .
Her number, 2, has been explained heretofore. As a
symbol of duplication, reflection, copying, transcription,
reproduction, and so on, it relates definitely to _
memory,
the basic function of subconsciousness. The number 2
also suggests the ideas of duplicity, deception, untruth,
illusion, error and delusion. This is correct, because sub-
consciousness repeats and elaborates the mistaken re-
sults of faulty, superficial self-conscious observation.
Being at all times uncritically amenable to suggestion,
and at the same time the channel of telepathic communi-
cation, subconsciousness is the source of most of the
foolish notions which cause our maladjustments. Some-
thing of this lies behind the Biblical allegory that Eve
was the means of Adam's temptation and fall.
In contrast to the Magician, who stands upright in a
garden, the High Priestess is seated within the precincts
of a temple. The walls of the building are blue, and so
are the vestments of this virgin pri estess. Blue, the color
assigned to the Moon, and to the element water, repre-
sents the primary root-substance, the cosmic mind-stuff,
which is the element particularly attributed to the Cre-
ative World. The High Priestess herself is a symbol of
this root-substance.
The two pillars between which she sits are those of
Solomon and of Hermes. Opposit e in color, but alike in
52 The Tarot
form, they represent affirmation (white pillar, bearing
the letter Yod, initial of the word Jachin) and negation
(black pillar, bearing the letter Beth, initial of the word
:.,Boaz). For strength (Boaz) is rooted in resistance or
inertia, which is the negation of the activity which is the
establishing principle (Jachin) of all things. The High
Priestess sits between the pillars, because she is the
equilibrating power between the "Yes" and the "No,"
the initiative and the resistance, the light and the dark-
ness.
Alike in form, close to each other, opposite in color,
the pillars represent three laws of the association·of ideas
and of memory. We associate things similar, things near
together in· space or time, things sharply contrasted.
The bases of the pillars are cubes. Thus they repeat
the symbolism of the High Priestess' seat, which is a
cubic stone. This will be explained in a subsequent para-
graph. The capitals of the pillars, borrowed from Egyp-
tian architecture, are in the form of lotus buds. They
are buds, not opened flowers. In this detail they di:ffer
from the capitals in the Rider version of the High Priest-
ess, but follow the design of the as yet unpublished
esoteric Tarot. The reason the capitals are buds is that
the High Priestess, as a symbol of virginity, is, in some
measure, a type of latent, or undeveloped, powers. In
the state of subconsciousness here symbolized, the forces
of subconsciousness have not come to full bloom.
The veil between the pillars hints that the High Priest-
ess is virgo intacta. It is a phallic symbol of virginity,
but is embroidered with palms (male) and pomegranates
(female), as if to suggest the union of positive and neg-
ative forces. Subconsciousness is only potentially repro-
ductive, in the aspect represented by Key 2. It is, so to
. say, covered by a veil. Only when this veil is rent or
' penetrated by concentrated impulses originating at the
self-conscious level may the creative activities of subcon-
sciousness be released and actualized. Compare the ar-
Key 2: The High Priestess (Gimel) 53
rangement of the palms and pomegranates on the veil
with the diagram of the Tree of Life at the end of the
book, and you will see that the position of the High
Priestess corresponds to the path of Gimel, descending
from Kether, the Crown, at the top of the diagram, to
Tiphareth, Beauty, at the center. Note also that the num-
ber of Tiphareth, 6, corresponds to the six sides of the
cube whereon the High Priestess sits.
The High Priestess wears a silver crown, reminding
us that silver is the metal of the Moon. This crown shows
the crescents of the waxing and waning Moon, with her
full orb between. It is the horned diadem of the Egyp- ·
tian Isis, another of the feminine deities personifying
the root-matter of all things.
She sits on a cubic stone, a symbol of salt, which crys-
tallizes in perfect cubes, and a reminder of the saltness
of that mystical sea which is associated with the Virgin
Mary. Since the time of Pythagoras, moreover, it has
been taught openly that the cube is the regular solid re-
presenting "earth" or actual, material manifestation.
Thus the High Priestess sits on a cube because the
basis of all subconscious mental activity is what has ac-
tually occurred, what actually exists. This underlying
Reality is what is designated in Hebrew by the name
IHVH (Jehovah), and to this word the :figures required
to define the proportions of a cube have special reference.
Every cube has 6 sides, 8 points or corners, and 12
edges or boundary lines. The numbers required to ex-
press a cube's peculiar limitations being 6, 8 and 12, their
sum is 26, and this is the sum of the values of the Hebrew
letters Yod-Heh-Vav-Heh, or IHVH. What actually ex~
ists, what really is, what materialists and idealists alike
misunderstand and misinterpret, is the real presence of
That which was, is and shall be. This real presence is the
basis of all subconscious activity.
The High Priestess wears a blue-white robe, suggest-
ing coldness and IQ.Oisture, which are the astrological
54 . The Tarot
properties of the Moon, and the characteristics of the
element of water. The folds of this robe show a shim-
mering radiance, like that of moonlight on water, and,
below the white pillar, this garment seems to fl.owout of
the picture, like a stream . It symbolizes the "stream of
consciousness'' familiar to students of psychology. In
Tarot, the robe of the High Priestess is the source of the
river and of the pools which appear in several subsequent
· major trumps.
The scroll in the woman's lap is that of memory . In
some versions of this Key it is a book, half-open. This is
the record of past events, of all mental and physical
states, indelibly impressed in subconsciousness. Subcon-
sciousness is both universal and personal. Thus the
memory record includes the past events of race-history,
the past events of the history of the planet, and the past
events of this whole cycle of cosmic manifestation. Hence
the scroll is inscribed with the word "TORA," which is
the phonetic equivalent of the Hebrew ''Torah,'' or
"Law." Yet this word is also related to the Latin ROTA,
from which, as explained in Chapter 3, the very name
TAROT is derived. Natural law is the cosmic subcon-
scious record of every event in the innumerable cycles
and sub-cycles of the Life -power's self-expression.
In the Rider pack, there is a yellow crescent at the feet
of the High Pr iestess . This is good lunar symbolism, but
it confuses the symbolic issues . This will be better un-
derstood after you have read the explanation of the Em-
press, in the next chapter.
The solar cross of equal arms on the High Priestess'
breast shows the union of positive (upright) and negative
(horizontal), male and female, active and passive, origi-
nating and duplicating elements. It also foreshadows the
completion of the entire cycle represented by the twenty-
two Tarot Keys, because this cross of equal arms is the
orginal form of the Hebrew letter Tav, the :finalletter of
Key 2: The High Priestess (Gimel) 55
the Hebrew alphabet. Again, this same cross stands for
Hecate, who, among other things, was patroness of all
cross-roads, according to Greek mythology. Finally, the
arms of the cross are related to the number 4, or square
of 2, as are the square sides of the cube.
VII
KEY 3: THE EMPRESS (DALETH)
Daleth (D, value 4) originally signified the leaf of a door
-that which admits or bars; but it also symbolizes that
through which something passes. On this atlcount some
writers say Daleth represents the womb, as the door of
life.
The door itself, then, suggests defense, protection,
preservation, safe-keeping, conservation, and related
ideas. This is a clue to the mode of consciousness rep-
resented by Daleth. We shall :find that this mode of
consciousness has to do with personal safety, with self-
preservation, with defense against trouble and disease,
and with the storage, conservation and development of
all that is useful to us.
The idea of passage suggested by the doorway brings
to mind both ingress and egress, motion into and motion
out from. It also suggests transmission, diffusion, dis-
semination, separation (as when one thinks of a door as
the means of leaving a house), and so division, apportion-
ment, partition, administration. All these ideas are
definitely connected with the mode of consciousness rep-
resented by Daleth.
Observe, also, how the principle of antithesis already
mentioned applies to the sequence of Hebrew letters, as
well as to the Tarot Keys. Aleph is a soft, onen breath-
ing, barely vocalized, and the letter-name is associated
with the nomadic life of herdsmen, following their cattle
wherever pasturage is good. By contrast, Beth, the
house, implies a certain definiteness and fixity of loca-
tion, and the sound of '' B'' is a sharply vocalized conso-
nant, expelling the breath through the pursed lips. Gimel,
57
58 The Tarot
the third letter of the alpabet, is guttural in its hard
pronunciation, and dental in its soft utterance. The
camel, moreover, is in contrast to Beth, the house, be-
cause of the ideas of commerce, travel and communica-
tion with distant places. Now, when we consider Daleth,
the door, we are brought back to the house again, so that
the letter has in it somewhat of the root-significance of
Beth. Yet it also partakes in a measure of ideas sug-
gested by Gimel, since both departure and return are
suggested by a doorway.
Venus is the planetary attribution to Daleth. She cor-
responds to the cow-headed Egyptian goddess Hathor
(whose name, in some old Latin manuscripts, is occa-
sionally spelle d ATOR). Venus presides over child-birth,
is a mother-goddess, and patroness of love, beauty and
art. Astrologe rs say Venus rules the sense of touch, and
has much influence on the disposition, especially on the
desire-nature. In our color-scale, Venus is green, corre-
sponding to the tone F-sharp or G-flat.
Wisdom arndFolly are assigned by Qabalists to Daleth .
The mode of consciousness assigned to Daleth is subcon-
sciousness, and subconscious response to self-conscious
interpretation and suggestion determines whether our
ideas (mental offspring) are wise or foolish. The occult
meanings of Daleth indicate clearly that this letter corre-
sponds to subconsciousness. The latter has no power of
inductive reasoning, but its power of deduction is prac-
tically perfect.
Now, the very word "deduction" means "leading away
from,'' and deductive reasoning is separative, because it
splits up an original premise into an indefinite number
of particular consequences or applications. Whether the
conclusions so reached shall be wise or foolish depends
entirely on the soundne ss of the initial premise. The
latter is formulated by self-conscious observation and
inductive reasoning. If the premise be accurate and pro-
found, the subconscious subdivisions and elaborations of
Key 3: The Empress (Daleth) 59
the initial seed-thought will be on the side of wisdom. If
the premise be inexact and superficial, the subconscious
developments will be on the side of folly.
East, the direction assigned to Daleth, is the doorway
through which the sun enters the world at the beginning
of a day. It is the place of the birth of light. Similarly,
subconsciousness is the womb of those ideas which en-
lighten the world. In Hebrew, the noun for East is AVR
(pronounced "our"), and the word for Light has the
same spelling, and practically the same pronunciation.
Luminous Intelligence, the Qabalistic name for the
phase of consciousness represented by Daleth, requires
little explanation. Subconsciousness enlightens us by its
deductions from our observations and from our inductive
reasoning. These deductions are not only illuminating,
but they also make for our safety, self-preservation, and
general welfare. Again, they enable us to share in the
administration of our environment, assure us of our just
portion of all good things, and enable us to find a way
out of the limitations and bondage which imprison the
unenlightened in cages built by their own ignorance and -
misunderstanding.
Key 3's title, The Empress, means literally, "She who
sets in order." She is the feminine ruling power. She is
also the consort of the Emperor, whose picture adorns
Key 4 of the Tarot series. Her name contrasts with High
Priestess, which indicates the cold virginity of a clois-
tered devotee of the gods. In like manner, mythology
contrasts the warm mother-goddess, Venus, with Diana,
virgin-goddess of the Moon.
The scene harks back to some of the symbolism of Key
1, for it is a rich, fertile garden. In the background are
cypress trees, sacred to Venus. Ripening wheat in the
foreground is sacred to Isis-Hathor, as well as to Ceres,
another mother-goddess. For this picture, primarily rep-
resenting Venus or Hathor, corresponds also to other .
representations of Mother Nature.
60 Pke Tarot
The stream and pool in the background represent the
stream of consciousness. Their source is the flowingrobe
of the High Priestess. The symbol of water falling into
a pool is also a subtle intimation of the union of male
and female modes of cosmic energy. For the stream is
modified and directed by the Magician, and the pool rep-
resents the accumulation of influences descending from
the self-conscious level. This stream waters the garden,
and makes it fertile.
The Empress is a matronly figure, about to become a
mother. Her yellow hair is bound by a green wreath of
myrtle. Like the hair of the Fool, hers symbolizes radi-
ant energy, and her wreath has the same general mean-
ing as that around the head of the Fool. Myrtle,
moreover, is a plant sacred to Venus.
The idea here conveyedis that the growth and organiza-
tion of the plant-world is the work of cosmic energy
·---operating at subconscious levels. Thus people who know
how to reach the subconsciousness in plants can do al-
most anything with them. Luther Burbank's work was
an outstanding example. What is more, growing plants
respond to curses and to blessings, and those who succeed
best in growing flowers are lovers of the plants they care
for.
Like the woman in the Apocalypse (Revelation 12:1),
the Empress wears a crown of twelve stars, and has a
crescent moon under her feet. The stars are six-pointed,
or hexagrams, to show that she has dominion over the
laws of the Macrocosm,·or great world. This crown of
twelve stars, like the Fool's girdle, also symbolizes the
zodiac, the year, and time. The silver lunar crescent un-
der the Empress' feet indicates the fact that the sub-
conscious activities she symbolizes have their basis in
the primary powers of subconsciousness which Tarot pic-
tures in the High Priestess. Actually, there is no funda-
mental difference between the latter and the Empress;
but the High Priestess symbolizes the virgin state of the
Key 3: The Empress (Dal,eth) 61
cosmic subconsciousness, as it is in itself, whereas the
Empress typifies the productive, generating activities of
the same subconsciousness, after it has been impregnated
by seed-ideas originating at the subconscious level rep- .
resented by the Magician.
Besides the cypress trees, the myrtle and the wheat-
ears, the seven pearls round the Empress' neck are
Venusian. So is the green color of her robe. (In the
Rider pack, the robe is white, ornamented with a floral
design in which the units are astrological symbols of
Venus.) Again, she bears a heart -shaped shield, on which
is displayed a dove, sacred to Venus, and symbol also of
the Holy Spirit. (The Rider pack shows a shield em-
blazoned with the conventional astrological symbol of
Venus, and the circular part of the symbol is the Venus-
ian green.) This heart-shaped shield is of copper, the
metal of Venus. "Heart" in practical occultism means
subconsciousness.
According to Dr. Waite, "the sceptre which she bears
is surmounted by the globe of this world.'' Thus it im-
plies dominance over the conditions of the physical plane.
In our version, she carries the scepter in her left hand,
and the globe is surmounted by a cross, so that the orna-
ment on the head of the scepter is actually an inverted v
Venus symbol.
Psychologically, the Empress represents subconscious-
ness as the mother of ideas, the generatrix of menta F'
images. The power by which she works is the power of
subdividing seed-ideas, derived from self-consciousness.
This is the power of deductive reasoning. The apparent
multiplication of images is really the splitting-up of the
seed-ideas into manifold presentations. This is sym-
bolized by the multiplication of the original seed in the
wheat-ears at her feet.
She is called the Empress because subconsciousness
has control over all sequences of development in the
material world. Occult science declares that this control
62 The Tarot
extends even to the mineral kingdom, so that adepts in
the direction of subconsciousness by suggestion are able
to effect transformations even in the inorganic world, by
purely mental means. The particular mental function
peculiar to subconsciousness is imagination, based on
memory.
THE EMPEROR
"t
•
..
·~.
4 THE ?:Mrt:1'01' j7
VIII
KEY 4: THE EMPEROR (HEH)
Heh '(H as in "honor," or E, value 5) is pronounced
·"hay." It means "window," (literally, wind-door). A
window admits light (knowledge) and air (Life-breath,
,spirit) into the house (Beth) of personality. It also
permits outlook, survey, supervision, control, and so on.
Architecturally, windows are derived from doors. Fur-
thermore, since they permit a survey of persons ap-
proaching a house, they enable the inhabitants of the
house to decide whether to open the door to admit
friends, or to bar it against enemies. The most important
thing about a window is transparency, and this takes us
back to the mode of consciousness attributed to the Magi-
cian.
Sight is the sense function attributed by Qabalists to
the letter Heh. Vision, inspection, reconnaissance, watch-
fulness, care, vigilance, examination, calculation, anal-
ysis, induction, inquiry, investigation, and the like, are
all associated in language. All depend largely on the
sense of sight. Thus we may expect to find the mode of
consciousness associated with this letter one which is
active in this kind of mental operations.
Constituting Intelligence is the name given it in the
Hebrew wisdom, and it is said to "constitute creation in
the darkness of the world.'' To constitute is to make
anything what it is, to frame, to compose. Constitution
is closely related to authorship. The author of anything
is its producer, originator, inventor, founder, begetter,
generator, architect and builder. Authorship is therefore
closely connected in our thought with paternity, and
65
66 The Tarot
paternal authority depends on the fact that the father is
head and founder of the family.
In this connection, it is interesting to :find that the
letter Heh, is employed in Hebrew precisely as we use
the English definite article ''the.'' The Constituting In-
telligence is the defining consciousness.
This shows us, first of all, that the Constituting Intelli-
gence must be a variant of self-conscious mental activity,
because to define anything is to name it, and we have
already associated self-consciousness with Adam, the
namer. Definition, moreover, limits, sets boundaries, cir-
cumscribes. It specializes, particularizes, enters into de-
tail, makes distinctions.
The qualities thus indicated are precisely those which
enter into the making of a constitution for any form of
society, and that constitution is the basic law and supreme
authority for its particular social organization. Thus
the letter Heh, as the definite article, implies regulation,
order, law, and all related ideas. Laws are definitions,
and it should always be borne in mind that what we call
"laws of nature" are simply definitions or descriptions
of a sequence of events in some particular field of hu-
man observatio n.
What is even more important for the occultist and the
psychologist is that our personal definitions of the mean-
ing of our experiences constitute suggestions which are
accepted, without reservation, by our subconsciousness.
Thus, in a sense, every man makes his own law, writes
the constitution of his own personal world, and :findsthat
his life-experience is the reproduction of that constitu-
tion through the working of subconscious responses.
Heh is the first of the twelve ''simple'' letters of the
Hebrew alphabet, so called because each has but a single
pronunciation. To it is attributed the first sign of the
zodiac, Aries, the Ram.
Aries is a fiery, cardinal sign. It governs the head and
face. It is ruled by Mars, significant of force, strength,
Key 4: The Emperor (Heh) 67
energy, courage and activity. Mars rules iron, steel,
surgery, chemistry and military affairs.
In Aries the Sun is exalted, or raised to its highest
level of power. The Sun has to ·do with health and vital-
ity. It is the significator of high office, and of positions
of rank and title, so that it represents rulership ·and
authority. It also stands for the Ego, or individuality,
in one's natal horoscope. Its metal is gold.
Aries is a scientific and philosophical sign, and this
agrees with what has been said concerning the Consti-
tuting Intelligence, inasmuch as both science and philos-
ophy have accurate definition as their basis. Astrologers
say Aries represents rulership, government, guidance
and leadership . The oolor corresponding to Aries is
scarlet. The musical tone is C-natural.
North-East is the direction attributed to Heh. These
directions are given in The Book of Formation, and have
to do with a very important esoteric teaching, in which
the manifested universe is represented as a cube, shown
in occult diagrams with its western and southern faces
visible to the observer . (See the accompanying illustra-
tion.)
The six faces of this cube and its interior center are
assigned to the seven double letters of the alphabet. The
three interior co-ordinates correspond to the three mother
letters. The twelve boundary lines represent the twelve
simple letters.
Thus, of the letters already considered, Aleph corre-
sponds to the line extending inside the cube from the
center of the upper face to the center of the bottom face,
so that it is representative of pure Spirit (supercon-
sciousness) as the link between the superior and inferior
manifestations of the Life -power.
The letter Beth, corresponding to the direction Above,
is assigned to the upper surf ace of the cube. Gimel, cor-
responding to the direction Below, is assigned to the
lower face. Daleth, corresponding to the direction East,
68
~
§
;
The Tarot
ABOVE
B 1<~'(1
C)
>
.BJ!.t,OW
fc 'K%Y2
z
WZST•BE.LOW O 'KE.Y 25
I(
TH'ECUBE Or'SPACE.
<
;
is the rear face of the cube shown _inthe accompanying
diagram. The letter Heh, which we are now considering,
is assigned to the vertical edge of the cube, which is the
point of junction between the eastern and northern faces,
connecting the north-east upper corner with the north-
east lower corner.
No more than hints of this cube symbolism can be
given in this introductory text, but we have thought best
to include the figure of the Cube of Space, since careful
study will reveal to discerning readers many clues to a
Key 4: The Emperor (Heh} 69
deeper understanding of the Tarot symbolism.
In Tarot, the direction North, through the letter Peh,
~orresponds to Key 16, analyzed in Chapter 20, and East
is, as we have said, represented in Tarot by Key 3, the
Empress. Later on it will be evident that the Consti-
tuting Intelligence combines the imagination and genera-
tion of ideas associated .
with the Empress with the
destruction of structures of error, symbolized in Tarot
by the lightning-struck Tower. Accurate definition re-
quires clear imagery (Empress), and its application in
action is always destructive to error (Tower). Note, fur-
thermore, that the direction North is associated with
Mars, the ruler of Aries, and that the direction East is
associated with Venus.
The title of Key 4, The Emperor, means "he who sets
in order," and from what has been said, it will be seen
to be peculiarly applicable to this picture. It implies
both authority and paternity. It also represents the head
of government, the source of war, the war-making power,
and so on. These ideas are related to the sign Aries,
and to Mars and the Sun. They are ideas, moreover,
which are in close correspondence to the meanings of the
number 4 given in Chapter 2.
The orange background in the upper part of the pic-
tllre refers to the exaltation of the Sun in Aries, because
orange is the color of the Sun and of gold, in our color-
scale. Below it are red mountains, of igneous rock. Both
in form and color, these refer to the fiery quality of
Aries. Red is also the color of this sign, and of Mars,
its ruler.
These mountains in the distance are forbidding heights,
in sharp contrast to the valley where the Empress sits.
Barren, they represent vividly the sterility of mere
supervision and regulation, unless there be something
vitally warm and fruitful to set in order. On the other
hand, it is the erosion of these barren rocks which pro-
vides the soil for the Empress' garden. ·
70· The Tarot
Far below, at the base of the mountains, flows a river.
This is the same stream of consciousness that begins in
the robe of the High Priestess, and waters the Empress'
garden.
On the Emperor's shoulder is a ram's head, and an-
other is shown on the southern face of the cube whereon
he sits. Thus this second ram's head, combined with the
face of the cube corresponding to South and to the Sun,
suggests the exaltation of the Sun in Aries. Another
intimation that this Key represents Aries is the astro-
logical symbol of this sign, shown as an ornament at the
top of the Emperor's helmet-like crown.
The monarch sits on a cubic stone, like that which is
the seat of the High Priestess. This indicates that the
mode of consciousness here symbolized has its seat or
basis in laws of cosmic manifestation which are at work
in the mineral kingdom. A very few laws suffice for all
the complex manifestations of the Life-power, and they
are operative on "low" planes as well as on "high."
The metal parts of the Emperor's helmet-like crown
are of gold, a further reference to the exaltation of the
- Sun in Aries. The shape of the crown suggests the con-
ventional helmet of Mars, ruler of Aries. Underneath
the crown is a red cap, the color of which refers both to
Mars and Aries.
The composition of the Emperor's :figure deserves
special mention. It is so drawn that the right hand, the
left elbow, and the top of the head form the points of an
equilateral triangle, while the legs suggest a cross. Thus
the basis of the composition is an equilateral triangle
surmounting a cross. This is the alchemical symbol for
the fiery alchemical principle, Sulphur, closely akin to
the Rajas or Agni Tattva of yoga philosophy, and there-
fore related to the element of fire, predominant in the
sign Aries.
The Emperor is clad in steel armor. This further em-
Key 4: The Emperor (Heh) 71
phasizes his correspondence to the martial sign Aries,
because iron and steel are the metals of Mars.
The ornamental flaps of his garment are purple. This
is the color of royalty. It has reference also to the planet
Jupiter, represented in Tarot by the Wheel of Fortune ,
because there is an occult relationship between 4, the
number of the Emperor, and 10, the number of the Wheel
of Fortune. We shall recur to this when we come to Key
10.
The scepter in the Emperor's right hand is a modified
Venus symbol, made of gold, as another reference to the
exaltation of the Sun in Aries. This scepter is also one
form of the Egyptian ankh, or sign of life. It means that
the power of regulation is chiefly derived from the exalt-
ation of solar energy in the sense of sight, and in the
mental vision which is the inner correspondence thereto.
The globe in the monarch's left hand is the conven-
tional symbol of dominion. It is red, color of Mars, and
on it is an inverted, blue-violet T-square. The square is
a symbol of the use of mathematics and geometry and
planning. Because it is blue-violet, and is shaped like a
letter "T," it is in correspondence with Tav, the last
letter of the Hebrew alphabet, to which the planet Saturn,
associated with blue-violet in our color-scale, is assigned.
1
What this hints is that the order and dominion exercised
by the Emperor bring about an inversion or reversal of
the Saturnine power of limitation. Right definition is
itself a sort of limitation, which sets us free from slavery
to circumstances because it enables us, through right
knowledge, to establish new boundaries, to enlarge our
horizon.
The Emperor is an old man, with a white beard, shown
in profile. This is one marked divergence from the
Rider pack, which shows him full-face. Dr. Waite regis-
ters his opinion that nothing particular signifies from
showing the Emperor in profile. Yet none of the old
exoteric packs of Tarot show him full-face, nor does the
72 Tke Tarot
unpublished esoteric version. The more recondite rea-
sons for pref erring the profile which shows only the left
eye of the monarch have deep roots in Qabalistic philos-
ophy and symbolism, but they go far beyond the scope
of the present volume. Enough to say that the present
writer has been instructed in this Qabalistic tradition,
and thinks it of sufficient importance to retain the older
symbolism. For that matter, Dr. Waite had the same
occult instruction, and must have known that Key 4's
place on the Qabalistic Tree of Life, through its connec-
tion with theJetter Heh, makes the use of the profile sym-
bolism, by which Qabalists invariably represented the
Ancient of Days, practically imperative for any repre-
sentation of the Emperor.
The Emperor is obviously the consort of the Empress.
He is, in fact, essentially identical with the Magician,
after the latter's union with the High Priestess has
transformed her into the Empress, and has made him the
father of her children.
It is on this account that the Emperor follows the
Empress in the series. As Magician he is only potentially
a father, just as the High Priestess is only a potential
mother. Mter his consort has borne him children, the
Emperor has opportunity for actual exercise of his par-
ental authority.
In one sense the Emperor represents the Grand Archi-
tect of the Universe, the Ancient of Days. He is the
supreme NOUS, or Reason, the constituting power, alike
of the great world and of the little, of the universe and
of man.
Psychologically, therefore, he represents the self-con-
sciousness of man:,when its activities are engaged in the
work of inductive reasoning whereby errors arising
from superficial interpretation of experience are over-
thrown. He is the definer, the lawgiver, the regulator.
He is the ruling mental activity in human personality.
H-eframes the constitution of your personal world.
THE HIEROPHANT
..
.
..
"
5
ll"i!l'ff
I • '
i-·
.
HIEROJ'HANT ,
IX
KEY 5: THE HIEROPHANT (VAV)
Vav (V, U, W, value 6) means "nail" or "hook"; some-
thing to join the parts of a building together, therefore
associative, like Gimel, also something to support hang-
ing objects, the ref ore something on which other things
depend. A nail is a fastening, a link, a means of union.
As a means of support, it is linked in thought and lan-
guage with such ideas as aid, assistance, sustenance,
furtherance and ministry. It will be seen presently that
these ideas are not only directly connected with the oc-
cult meanings of Vav, but also with the symbolism of the
Hierophant.
In Hebrew, the letter Vav is the equivalent of English
''and.'' Thus the grammatical use of the letter is de-
rived directly from its literal meaning. The conjunction
''and'' links together a series of nouns describing various
objects, as, "apples and pears and lemons." It also in-
troduces dependent clauses in a sentence. In Hebrew,
the letter Vav is used in precisely the same way. Thus,
like a nail, it binds the parts of a sentence together, and
clauses or phrases introduced by it hang from it, like pic-
tures supported by hooks driven into a wall.
Now, the central thought here is "union," and this is
the exact English translation of the Sanskrit noun
"yoga." The same Sanskrit noun is the root of our word
"yoke," and some authorities are of the opinion that the
original hieroglyphic symbol for Vav was a picture of
a yoke such as is used for harnessing oxen.
Yoga is a system of practice whereby the persona [)
consciousness is linked to the universal conscious energy.
Its object is direct, first-hand .experience of those phases
75
76 The Tarot
of reality which are the basis of all religions. The found-
ers of religions are persons who have such experiences,
and the contention of practical occultists is that this kind
of experience may be repeated whenever the right condi-
tions are provided. It is not a capricious gift from on
high. ·It is not miraculous. Rare it may be, but it is per-
fectly natural, and a human being who addresses himself
earnestly to preparing himself for this kind of experience
will find what he seeks. We shall find, presently, that the
Hierophant in Tarot is a symbol of the mode of conscious
activity which takes form in such experiences.
Hearing, which unites man to man by speech, and man
to God by the Word of the Inner Voice, is the sense
attributed to Vav. Jesus said often. "He that hath ears
to hear, let him hear." This is a technical formula of
Ageless Wisdom.
It refers to the development of the interior sense of
hearing just mentioned. In Sanskrit, the noun sruti, lit-
erally "hearing," is the term for revelation. "It alone
can remove that nescience which is innate in human na-
ture," says one ancient book. Similarly, the prophets
of Israel declare, again and again, ''Thus saith the
Lord,'' as if they were reporting things heard. Two of
/them, Samuel and Elijah, were directly aware of the
Divine Presence as a Voice.
What was true then is true now. Knowledge of the
higher aspects of reality comes to us through the sound-
less sound of an Inner Voice, which often speaks as
-> plainly as any voice heard with the physical ear. The
reason is that the hearing centers in the brain are stimu-
lated by higher rates of vibration, which serve as mean s
of communication between ourselves and more advance d
thinkers. Many persons have flashes of this experience,
and our recognition that this is so is expressed by the
oft-repeated statement, '' Something seemed to say to
me.''
Triumphant and Eternal Intelligence is the name of
K ey 5: The Hierophant (Vav) 77
the mode of consciousness corresponding to Vav. It is
"triumphant" because it gives assurance of the ultimate
victory of the Life-power over all apparent obstacles now
seeming to stand in the way of the completion of the
Great Work. It is "eternal" because it not only carries
with it a positive conviction of immortality, lifting per-
sonal consciousness out of the limitations of Time into ,
the realization of the freedom of Eternity; but also be-
cause the revelations of the Inner Voice enable us to
solve particular problems by applying principles which,
as soon as we perceive them, we recognize as being true,
yesterday, today, and forever.
Taurus, the Bull, a fixed, earthy sign, is attributed to
Vav . It is ruled by the planet Venus (Key 3, The Em-
press) , and is the sign of the exaltation of the Moon
(Key 2, The High Priestess). The name of the sign
itself shows a secret correspondence with the higher
spiritual things, and with superconsciousness, inasmuch
as Aleph, the Bull, is the letter corresponding to Ruach,
the Life-Breath, pictured in Tarot by the Fool. The
Voice of the Hierophant gives verbal form to the vision
of the Fool. Revelation (Key 5) is the communication
of the transcendent knowledge of superconsciousness, in
so far as that knowledge can be put into words.
Astrologically, too, the sign Taurus is representative
of latent powers and energies, of secretiveness and re-
serve-ideas clearly suggested by the title and symbol-
ism of the Hierophant. Furthermore, Taurus rules the
neck, which is the link between head and body; and in the
neck is located a psychic center dominated by the Venus
vibration. The exaltation of the Moon in Taurus in-
dicates that the powers of subconsciousness, especially
the powers of memory and of recollection, have their
highest manifestation in the mental activities pictured
by Key 5. In our color-scale, Taurus is red-orange. Its
musical tone is 0-sharp or D-fl.at. .
South-East, the direction attributed to Vav, is repre-
78 The Tarot
sented on the Cube of Space by the vertical line connect-
ing the lower south-east corner with the upper south-east
corner. This edge of the cube is also the line along which
the southern and eastern faces of the cube are conjoined.
In Tarot, South is related to Key 19, the Sun, and East
is related to Key 3, the Empress. Here is suggested a
blending of solar and Venusian qualities. The Sun is a
great center of what Hindus call Prana. The Venusian
vibration is that which manifests in mental imagery .
Occultly, the blending of these two vibrations is the min-
gling of the universal Conscious Energy with the imagi -
native, generative powers of subconsciousness. In th e
activity symbolized by the Hierophant, these two phases
of the Life-power are combined.
Hierophant means "revealer of sacred things." It
w.as the name of the chief officer in the Eleusinian Mys-
teries, and signifies that which makes known the hidd en
import of the appearances whereby we are surround ed.
In many versions of Tarot this Key is named '' The
Pope," but Dr. Waite rightly says that this is "a par tic-
ular application of the more general office that he sym-
bolizes.''
On the other hand, "Pope" really means "Fath er,"
and when we consider the relation of Key 5 to the Qaba-
listic Tree of Life, we notice that the path of Vav is the
·one which begins in Wisdom, the second Sephirah, and
descends to Mercy, the fourth Sephirah. (See dia gram
of the Tree, at the end of this book.) Thus, since the
Sephirah Wisdom is also known as Ab, the Fath er, it
becomes evident that the Hierophant, as an expr ession
of that Sephirah's outflowing energy, is not alto gether
mis-named when it is called "The Pope."
We do not agree with Dr. Waite that the Hier ophant
'' is the ruling power of external religion, . . . exoteric
orthodox doctrine, . . . the outer side of the life which
leads to the doctrine.'' On the contrary, he is the pon-
..,
Key 5: The Hierophant (Vav) 79
tifex, the "bridge-maker" who provides a connecting link
between outer experience and interior illumination. :v
He sits on a throne, between two stone pillars. These,
and the throne, together with the background, are gray,
a color associated with Wisdom, because gray is the tint
resulting from equal mixture of any two complementary
colors. Since color complements are also opposites, gray
stands for the perfect balance of all pairs of opposites,
and this is the practical aspect of Wisdom, the second
Sephirah. Thus the gray background of Key 5 a:ffords
a very definite clue to the position of this Key on t!:ie
Tree of Life, since, in colored representations of the
Tree, the second Sephirah is painted gray.
The design on the capitals of the pillars is a phallic .
symbol of union. The pillars themselves repeat the motif
of duality, and suggest the laws of association repre-
sented by the pillars of the High Priestess.
The throne is also of stone, and the word ''stone'' has
a very special meaning in the Bible and in the Qabalah.
In Hebrew, "stone" is ABN, ehben. The first two letters
of this word, Aleph and Beth, are the letters of the noun
Ab, meaning "Father," and this is one of the Qabalistic
names for the second Sephirah. The last two letters,
Beth and Nun, spell the word Ben, meaning "Son," and
this is the Qabalistic name for the sixth Sephirah, Beauty,
which, as you can see from the diagram of the Tree, is
the central point, and, so to say, pivot, of that diagram.
Thus in the word ABN, ehben, as Qabalists say, "the
names of the Father and the Son, of Wisdom and Beauty,
are conjoined''; and this is the main reason for the many v
symbolic uses of the word "stone" throughout the Scrip -
tures.
At the back of the throne, on either side of the Hiero-
phant 's head, are two horned circles, representing the
sign Taurus. The same Taurus symbol is shown also on
the throne behind the Hierophant in the Rider pack, but
it is drawn in such a way that few persons unacquainted
80 The Tarot
with the occult meanings of Vav would be likely to notice
it. This partial concealment may have been due to the
fact that Dr. Waite seems to have been somewhat con-
cerned lest he should expose the deeper occult significance
of Tarot to any but initiated students.
The crown is a triple tiara, like the Pope's crown. It
is of gold, symbolizing radiant energy and wisdom. It is
ornamented with three rows of trefoils: top row, 3; mid-
dle row, 5; bottom row, 7. (In the Rider pack, the middl e
row has 7, and the bottom row has 5.) The total numbe r
is 15, the numeral value of the Hebrew divine name IH,
Jah. This name is that associated by Qabalists with the
- second Sephirah, and affords another clue to the attribu-
tion of Key 5 to the path joining the second Sephirah to
the fourth .
Since any trefoil represents the number 3, :fifteen of
them stand for 3 x 15, or 45, number of the name ADM;
Adam. Here is a reference to the Qabalistic doctrine that
man or Adam is God's image of Himself-that the pri-
mary thought in the Mind of God, prior to all manife sta-
tion, must be God's awareness of His own nature and
powers, and that this awareness is the true "imag e of
God," designated by the name Adam.
The three trefoils in the upper row designate the three-
fold nature of the Life-power. The :fivein the second row
represent the :fivemodes of manifestation-the Quintes-
sence and the four elements, or the :fiveTattvas of Hindu
philosophy, which are the subtle principles of sensation.
The seven in the bottom row correspond to the Seven
Spirits of God, to the seven sacred planets, to the seven
alchemical metals, and to the seven chakras, or interior
"stars," of the yoga schools. Here we have, also, the
three principles of the alchemists, their five modes of
the manifestation of the One Thing, and their seven so-
called ''metals. ' '
In the Rider paoo:, the tiara is surmounted by a black
"W," indicating the correspondence of Key 5 to the
K ey 5: The Hierophant (Vav) 81
letter Vav. In the B.O.T.A. (Builders of the Adytum)
version, the ornament at the top of the crown is a small
sphere, symbolizing the archetypal world. Below it, the
three rows of trefoils, in descending order, symbolize
the creative, formative and material worlds.
The outer robe of the Hierophant is red-orange, the
color corresponding to Taurus. It has for trimming a
border of blue-green, corp.plementary to red-orange, and
corresponding to the sign Scorpio, the sign opposite and
complementary to Taurus. At the neck, this outer gar-
ment is caught with a clasp in the form of a silver cres-
cent. This is a symbol of the Moon, which is exalted in
Taurus. Its position at the Hierophant's throat is a
reminder that Taurus rules that part of the human body.
Under this red robe the Hierophant wears a garment
of blue, like that of the High Priestess, and having the
same meaning. Under this is a white garment, like that
of the Fool, and having the same significance. The
crosses on the Hierophant 's white shoes ref er to the union
of male and female, positive and negative, forces, and to
the order (4, cross) which results from that union. Simi-
lar crosses are shown on the backs of his hands, on the
carpet under his feet, and on the handles of the crossed
keys. These ten crosses repeat the symbolism of the ten
circular ornaments on the outer garment of the Fool.
Hanging from the crown, behind the ears of the Hiero-
phant, is an ornament in the form of a yoke. This refers
to the primitive meaning of the letter Vav. It falls be-
hind the Hierophant's ears to call attention to these
organs of hearing.
In his left hand, the Hierophant holds a golden staff.
It symbolizes the dominion of the Life-power through
the planes of nature, represented by the knob at the top,
with three cross -bars below it. These latter correspond
in meaning to the three rows of trefoils on the tiara, and
the knob at the top of the staff corresponds to the circu-
lar ornament at the top of the crown. The scepter .is
82 The Tarot
golden, to show that the power exerted in the Hiero-
phant 's dominion is the power of the universal radiant
energy. .
The crossed keys at the Hierophant's feet are the fa-
miliar symbols of the power of the Papacy. Yet they
have a deeper meaning. One is silver, the other golden .
They stand for the solar and lunar currents of radian t
energy, which, as nerve-currents in the human body, ar e
utilized as keys to open the inner doors leading to higher
modes of awareness.
The golden key is the key of heaven, wherein the sun
is ruler. The silver key is associated with hell becau se
of the correspondence between the Moon and Heca te,
whom the Greeks worship ed as a deity of the und er-
world. Thus the silver key relates to the powers of sub-
conscious ness, and the golden key represents the powers
of superconsciousness.
The square dais suggests the number 4, symbol of
order and measurement, as if to sugge st that however
far beyond our pr esent experi ence the higher conscious-
ness may go, it re sts on a solid basis of fact and re ason.
The dais is covered with a red-orange carpet, corre-
sponding by this color to Taurus. The four circl es on it
enclose crosses-the Venus symbol folded in upon itself.
They represent the manifestation of IHVH in the four
worlds. Black and white checker-work at the edges of
the carpet remind us of the Masonic mosaic pav ement,
which represents the alternation of light and darkn ess in
the manifestation o~ the Life-power.
The priests kneeling before the Hierophant wear robes
which repeat the motif of the flowers in the Magician's
garden. Their rob es are ornamented with yellow pal-
liums , symbols of the yoke, or union. These are yellow,
because the yoke is that of Mercury, or intellect ual per-
ception. The priest who wears lilies personifies thought,
the other represents desire. Their attitude of attentive
listening refers to hearing.
Key 5: The Hierophant (Vav) 83
The number of this Key, as you have learned, is that
of law, of adaptation, of religion, and of 19an. Psycho-
logically, the Hierophant represents Intuition, which fol-
lows reasoning, and adds to it. Intuition is subconscious
response to reason, whereby, through laws of association
at work below the conscious level, thought-relations which
go beyond the results attained by reason are attained.
Usually these are perceived by interior hearing. Intui- ,.__,
tioil, it should be noted, means literally '' inner tuiti Q_
n.''
6 THE LOVERS T
X
KEY 6: THE LOVERS (ZAIN)
Zain (Z, value 7) means "sword" or "weapon," sug-
gesting the antithesis of Vav, the nail, because a sword
cleaves, cuts, divides, separates. Diversity, contrast,
antithesis, distinction, and therefore discrimination, are
some of the related ideas. Disc.riminatiGm implies nice
perception, acuteness, sharpness like a sword's edge,
sagacity, and so on.
Smelling is the sense attributed to Zain in The Book of
Formation. The sense of smell has been always associ-
ated with keen perception and sagacity. An old Qabalistic
maxim says, '' Properties are discerned by the nose. ''
Our everyday speech has a number of phrases like '' smell
out" to suggest approach to truth.
· East-Above, the direction assigned to Zain, is the line
bounding the eastern side of the top of the Cube of Space,
and joining the top face (Above, Mercury) to the eastern
face (East, Venus). This line, moreover, joins the top
of the vertical line North-East (Emperor) to the top
of the vertical line South-East (Hierophant). The combi-
nation of East and Above suggests the working together
of the subconscious power of creative imagination and
the self-conscious power of acute discrimination.
Gemim, the Twins, is the zodiacal sign attributed to
Zain. The name of this sign suggests duality, division,
and other ideas related to the meaning of the letter. It
is difficult to tell twins apart, and to do so requires nice
discrimination.
Gemini is ruled by Mercury (Key 1, the Magician),
sometimes personified in Egyptian mythology as the
jackal-headed Anubis, representing discernment and sa-
85
86 The· Tarot
gacity because of the jackal's keen smell of smell. Gemini
governs the lungs, collarbones, shoulders, arms and
hands (all in pairs). Gemini people are said to be given
to inquiry, investigation and experimentation. They
often engage in mental pursuits. In our color-scale,
Gemini is represented by orange. The corresponding
musical tone is D-natural. Gemini is a common sign of
the airy tri plicity.
Disposing Intelligence is the mode of consciousness as-
signed to the letter Zain. To dispose is literally '' to
place apart,'' to arrange, to distribute, to apportion, to
divide. Thus analysis (implied by the meanings of the
letter-name, sword), classification, organization, prepara-
tion and adjustment are all related to this mode of
consciousness. This it is which shows itself in our "dis-
position,'' and one's disposition can be modified by right
discrimination.
The Lovers is the more usual title. Some pseudo-oc-
cultists call this picture '' The Two Paths,'' and say older
versions of the symbolism show a man standing between
two female :figures representing Virtue and Vice. This is
wholly erroneous. In old exoteric versions of Tarot there
are three :figures-a youth and a maiden, facing a
crowned woman. These are the Qabalistic Son and Bride
combined with the Qabalistic Mother or Queen. The de-
sign, aside from its deeper meaning, has obvious refer-
ence to marriage. The title intimates the union of
opposite but complementary modes of existence. It is
also closely related to "Disposing Intelligence." Dispo-
sition, affections, temperament, idiosyncrasies, propensi-
ties-all these are related to the word "love," as well as
to the occult meaning of Key 6.
Our version is essentially the same as Dr. Waite's, and
both are based on the unpublished esoteric Tarot. We
have been at some pains to clarify certain minor obscuri-
ties, but otherwise the symbolism is the same.
The sun overhead has the same general significance as
Key 6: The Lovers (Zain) 87
that behind the Fool. It is the great light-source, -the
dynamo of radiant energy whence all creatures deriv ~
their personal forces. Here it is yellow, or golden, in-
stead of white, to show that it is our day-star, the actual
physical sun whence we draw not only energy and life,
but also, says Ageless Wisdom, potential consciousness.
The sun is not merely a center of physical force, a thing
in the sky. It is the body of a Being.
,____ - '
The angel is Raphael, angel of air, the element attrib-
uted to Gemini, and, in the symbolism of the Roman
Church, the particular angel of the planet Mercury. He
is also the great archangel of the eastern quarter of the
heavens (East-Above). Here he represents supercon-
sciousness, and thus is related also to the Fool. His airy
nature is indicated by the color of his skin, the yellow we
have associated with air and with Mercury. His violet
garment carries out the same idea, because violet is the
color-complement of yellow. Another indication of his
airy nature is the fact that he is supported by clouds. He
is the cosmic Life-Breath, Prana, superconsciousness.
His in:fluenc~ descends on both figures below, streaming
from his upraised hands.
The mountain in the background combines several
meanings. Mountains are symbols of the abode of the
gods. Consider Sinai, Olympus, Meru, Fujiyama. Again,
they suggest climbing, aspiration, the possibility of at-
tainment. We all have peaks to climb, and the incentive
to action, the disposing element in our consciousness
which leads to volition, has always in the background
this idea of climbing above our present level. Thus the
mountain represents what alchemists call the Great
Work. Again, a mountain is often a phallic symbol of
pregnancy, or gestation, suggesting preparation, organi-
zation, and like ideas we have already developed in con-
nection with the letter Zain.
The man at the right of this Key is Adani, namer of
things and tiller of the soil. He is also the Magician of
88 The Tarot
Tarot. Behind him is a tree bearing twelve fiery fruits.
These are the signs of the zodiac, and each flame is triple,
because astrologers subdivide every sign into three parts,
or decanates. Thus the tree behind the man is the tree of
human life, and its fruits represent the twelve main
types, and thirty-six sub-types of personality, or self-
conscious life-expression.
The woman at the left is Eve. She is also the High
Priestess and the Empress. Behind her is the Tree of
Knowledge of Good and Evil. It bears five circular fruits
-the five senses. Up the tree climbs the serpent of sen-
sation, because temptation arises from subconscious
memory of sensation, or from suggestions based thereon.
The serpent is also a symbol of wisdom and of redemp-
tion (Moses' serpent in the wilderness), because wisdom
and liberation result from the right adaptation of the
very forces which, at first, tempt us into mistaken action.
-Thus Dr. Waite says: ''The suggestion in respect of the
woman is that she signifies that attraction towards the
sensitive life which carries within it the idea of the Fall
of Man, but she is rather the working of a Secret Law
of Providence than a willing and conscious temptress. It
is through her imputed lapse that man shall rise ulti-
mately, and only by her can he complete himself.''
In practical psychology the lesson of the picture is
plain. The woman looks toward the angel, the man to-
ward the woman. The self-conscious intellectual mind,
although it is the determining factor in personal con-
sciousness, does not become directly aware of ·supercon-
sciousness. Self-consciousness,. as the symbolism of
Key 1 shows, does receive and transmit the powers of
superconsciousness; but conscious awareness of the na-
~.ture of those powers comes from careful observation of
the activities of subconsciousness. Powers are developed
within, and the subconscious "within" is the woman.
From that within they are educated, or drawn forth, in
response to self-conscious impulses, and. their manifes-
Key 6: The Lovers (Zain) 89
tation is in the :field of self-consciousness (the without).
Development comes by response of the inner to the outer.
It is the answer of woman to man that peoples the world.
It is the response of the interpreting subconsciousness ·
to the observing self-consciousness that peoples the
thought-world with ideas. This is a basic law of mental
development. Its constructive operation depends on the
discriminative exercise of self-conscious powers.
Personal happiness, health and success depend on har-
monious co-operation of these two modes of mental ac-
tivity. To secure this harmony, we must understand that
both are expressions of a power i;;uperior to either. We
must see also that subconsciousness is the mode which, in
response to suggestions originated and framed by self-
consciousness, brings us into personal relationship with
this superior power.
Furthermore, the relationship between self-conscious-
ness and subconsciousness should be one of loving inti-
macy. Hence the two :figures are nude. They veil nothing
from each other. This is not the state of affairs with
most people. Too often, self-consciousness and subcon-
sciousness are "not on speaking terms." Consciously,
we accept this or that idea. Subconsciously, we seek the
realization of its opposite. To correct this error, to es-
tablish harmony between these two phases of personality,
is to have clear, unmixed, unadulterated desires.
Again, since love is the ideal relation between the two,
modes of consciousness, this picture warns us against
any attempt to bully or coerce subconsciousness. Per-
suade subconsciousness, and it will do anything for you·.
Endeavor to drive it harshly, and you set into operation
the law of reversed effort, so that you get a result just .
the opposite to that at which you aim.
Discrimination, then, is the key-to the establishment of·
happy co-operation between the two modes of personal
consciousness. The burden falls on self-consciousness ,.
because it is the framer of suggestion. If it be careless
90 The Tarot
and lax in observation, or harsh and driving in giving
commands to subconsciousness, the results are destruc-
tive. On the other hand, if self-conscious intellect per-
ceives the true relation among the three modes of
consciousness, as symbolized in Key 6, it will be able to
frame a series of suggestions which will make it the re-
cipient of superconscious guidance, through the agency
of subconsciousness.
All that is necessary is to formulate suggestions em-
bodying the idea that subconsciousness can, and does,
receive the influence from above, that it can, and does,
reflect that influence to self-consciousness. Frame sug-
gestions like these in words of your own. Study the
picture, and find words to express its meaning in a for-
mula of auto-suggestion. Your own words are best, and
have most power. You will be amazed and delighted with
the result.
THE CHARIOT
7 THE CHARIOT n
XI
KEY 7: THE CHARIOT (CHETH)
Cheth (Ch, and H as in "help," value 8) is pronounced
khayth. It means a :field, and the fence enclosing it.
''Fence'' suggests enclosure, protection, defense; spe-
cific location; an area set apart for cultivation. It also
implies shielding, safeguard, refuge, safety. Thus it cor-
responds to the ideas represented by the words carapace
and shell.
The idea of location refers back to "house," or Beth,
as does that of shelter. A cultivated :fieldis in contrast to
the open country pictured in Key 6. Cultivation, again,
is suggested by the gardens of the Magician and the Em-
press. Again, the enclosure of a particular area by a
fence is what happens in·the ·mental world when we de-
fine anything, so that Cheth is also related to Heh, con-
sidered as the definite article.
Speech is the human function attributed to Cheth by
Qabal.ists. Speech defines. Words are like fences enclos-
ing particular :fieldsof consciousness. The :fieldof speech
continually engages the labors of the practical occultist
and the applied psychol9gist. The attribution of speech
to Cheth, therefore, indicates that words have preserva -
tive and protective power, that right use of language is a
means to safety. Extend the meaning of speech from the
spoken word to the unspoken words of thought, and you
will understand why the wise have always attached so
much importance to right speech.
Intelligence of the House of lnfouence is the Qabalistic
name for the mode of consciousness corresponding to
Cheth. Literally, it is "consciousness of that which is the
abode of inflowing power." It is consciousness of the
93
94 The Tarot
fact that human personality is like a fenced-in area,
wherein universal forces are at work. These forces flow
into personality from beyond its boundaries. Taking
form in the silent speech of thought, and :finding utter-
ance in the spoken word, they flow out through person-
ality into actual expression and manifestation.
East-Below is represented on the Cube of Space by the
line or edge connecting the lower ends of the vertical
lines North-East and South-East. This edge marks the
junction of the eastern and bottom faces of the cube,
attributed, respectively, to Daleth and Venus, and to
Gimel and the Moon (Keys 3 and 2, the Empress and the
High Priestess). Here is an intimation that, though self-
conscious elements are involved, the mental activities
symbolized by Key 7 are carried on at the subconscious
level.
A little self-study will convince you that your thought
and speech are largely subconscious in origin. Your
vocabulary depends on subconscious associative proc-
esses. Your sentences, your style, your :figures of speech
-all these take shape below the self-conscious level.
Cancer, the Crab, a cardinal, watery sign, is attr ibuted
to Cheth. Here we see the connection between the letter-
name, "fence," and the crab's hard carapace. Cancer is
ruled by the Moon (Key 2, High Priestess), and the
planet Jupiter (Key 10, Wheel of Fortune) is exalted
therein.
Cancer governs the breast, the chest (a fence of bones)
and the stomach. It is a psychic, receptive sign. Its
natives are said by astrologers to be endowed with tena-
cious memory. All this is in accordance with the basic
meanings of the letter-name Cheth.
In our color-scale, the tint assigned to Cancer is or-
ange-yellow. The corresponding musical tone is D-sharp
or E-flat.
The Chariot is the usual title of Key 7. Sometimes it
is The Charioteer, which is even better, since the picture,
Key 7: The Chariot (Cheth) 95
as Dr. Waite says, is really "the King in his triumph,
typifying, however, the victory which creates kingship
as its natural consequence.'' Note that the number of the
card, 7, is that to which Qabalists assign the idea of
Victory.
In the background is a walled city. The wall is a stone
fence. The city is a collection of houses, corresponding
to the ideas relating to Beth and the Magician. The win-
dows of some of the buildings are clearly shown, indicat-
ing that what is represented by Heh and the Emperor is
also behind the surface meanings of Key 7. The wall,
however, is what most clearly establishes the correspond-
ence of this trump to Oheth, the Fence.
Trees and a river in the middle distance remind us of
the symbolism of Key 3, the Empress. This is correct be-
cause speech is not only composed of definitions, but also
embodies mental imagery (Empress) and gives form to
the stream of consciousness. As the river, in Tarot, rises
from the watery substance of the robe of the High Priest-
ess, and as trees are associated with the rich fertility of
the Empress' garden, here, too, is the combination sug-
gested by East-Below (East, Empress, and Below, High
Priestess).
The chariot itself is a movable fence, corresponding
to the letter Oheth. Its body is a cube, carrying out the
symbolism of the cubes whereon the High Priestess and
Emperor sit. Moreover, it is of gray stone, so that it com-
bines the notions of wisdom (gray) and of the union of
Father and Son suggested by the Qabalistic meaning of
ABN, ehben, stone.
Surmounting the body of the chariot are four pillars,
supporting a starry canopy. The number four is the
number of order and measurement. It refers also to the
four elements: fire, water, air and earth. Each pillar is
divided into two equal parts, reminding us of the Her-
metic axiom, "That which is above is as that which is
below."
96 The Tarot
The point of division at the center of each pillar is sur-
rounded by a ring. This is a symbol of Spirit, for the
rings are circles, like zero-signs. The idea is that each of
the four elements is encircled by the One Spiri t.
The starry canopy represents the celest ial forces.
Their descent into the physical plane through the activ-
ity of the four elements is the cause of all externa l mani-
festation. Thus the sta r s in the azure canopy symbolize
the correlation of the influences of distant suns and
planets, of zodiacal constellations, and of human forces.
This canopy therefore represents the forces which sur-
round the ear th, and seem to be above us in the sky. It
represents also the subtle, metaphysical forces which are
above the level of personality. It is therefore a symbol
of what Eliphas Levi called '' Astral Light.''
A shield on the face of the car has the same significance
as the letter-name, the wall in the background, and the
car itself. The red symbol on the shield is one form of
the Hindu lingam-yoni, typifying the µnion of positive
and negative forces in action (red).
In some old Tarot Keys the shield bears the letters
.V.T, written with the periods at the left of the lett ers, to
show that they are to be read, like Hebrew, from right to
left. So read, they spell the Hebrew word TV, Tav . This
is the name of the last letter of the Hebrew alphabet. To
an occultist this conveys the same fundamental idea as
the lingam-yoni, because the original character for Tav
was a cross, combining the vertical masculine line with
the feminine horizontal, like the cross on the breast of
the High Pries tess.
Above the shield is a variation of the Egyptian winged
globe. The globe is yellow, suggesting self-cons cious-
ness, because, in our color-scale, yellow corresponds to
Mercury and the Magici an. The wings are blue, like the
robe of the High Priestess. They are symbols of aspira-
tion.
The charioteer is crowned, and the crown is sur-
Key 7: The Chariot (Cheth} 97
mounted by three golden pentagrams. The pentagram
represents mental dominion. Three are shown, because
the control we exert over cosmic forces by right use of
the power of speech does really extend over three worlds.
This detail of symbolism agrees with older forms of
Tarot symbolism. In the Rider pack, the diadem is a
golden eight-pointed star, having much the same mean-
ing as the pentagrams, but more particularly emphasizing
the idea of the cosmic order typified in Tarot by the
Wheel of Fortune and its eight spokes. This order is the
expression of the supervising authority of the One Self,
symbolized in Key 17 by a golden eight-pointed star.
The charioteer's hair is fair, like that of the Empress
and the Fool. On his shoulders are lunar crescents, in-
dicating the rulership of the Moon in Cancer. His cuirass
is greenish-yellow, or the color of brass, to show that it
symbolizes the protective power of creative imagination,
represented in Tarot by the Empress, inasmuch as brass
is a metal sacred to Venus.
A square on this cui:rass represents order and purity
by its shape and color. On it are three black T's, which
stand for the limiting power of Saturn. They also, like
the .V.T on older versions, ref er to the letter Tav.
The charioteer's golden belt suggests light, and is
ornamented with indistinct signs, among which is one
which is plainly the astrological symbol for Cancer. The
position of this belt, moreover, suggests the slanting
circle of the ecliptic. It represents Time, and the in-
fluences of stellar forces.
The skirt below the cuirass is divided into eight parts,
and is ornamented with ,geomantic symbols, used in mak-
ing magical talismans. They typify dominion .over ter-
restrial forces. ·
The charioteer's scepter is surmounted by a figure 8,
combined with a crescent. This is a combination of the
symbol over the Magician's head with the lunar crown
of the High Priestess. Thus the rider's ensign of author-
98 The Tarot
ity shows tha t his dominion is a result of the blending
of the powers of self-consciousness with those of subcon-
sciousness.
Everything about the charioteer suggests that he sums
up all the powers and potencies of the personag es who
have preceded him in the series of major trumps. He
is their synthesis. He is the true Self, the Master-power
behind all forms of life-expression. Hence Dr. Waite
tells us: "He has led captivity captive; he is conquest
on all planes-in the mind, in science, in progress in
certain trials of initiation . . . He is above all things
triumph in the mind."
. His car symbolizes by its canopy and cubical body the
combination of celestial and terrestrial forces. Viewed
from the fron t, it is in the form of an oblong square.
Thus it corresponds to the traditional Masonic "form of
the lodge." The "lodge" corresponds to the Temple,
and we have the highest authority for the doctrine that
human personality is the living temple of the Most High.
Thus the chariot is truly the '' House of Influence, ' ' and
stands for human personality as the vehicle, or channel
of expression, through which the omnipresent SELF
manifests its dominion over all things.
The sphinxes which draw the car are an innovation
suggested by Eliphas Levi. Older versions of Tarot
show horses, which are sometimes joined together, like
Siamese twins. The horses are sun-symbols. The
sphinxes, combining animal and human attributes , sug-
gest a force common to men and animals. Their con-
trasting colors are like the contrast between the pillars
of the High Priestess. Moreover, the white sphinx wears
a beneficent expression, while the features of the black
one show a forbidding frown. The white sphinx is a sym-
bol of Mercy, the black one of Severity. Note that their
contrasting expressions are similar to those of the human
faces in the lunar cresce nts on the rider's shoulder s.
By mythological allusion, the sphinxes represe nt the
Key 7: The Chariot (Cheth) 99
.
senses, which are continually propounding riddles. Here
they are shown at rest, thus agreeing with the notion of
rest which Hebrew occultism attributes to the number 7.
The yellow wheels of the chariot refer to light-energy,
but particularly to specific activities associated in Tarot
with the planet Jupiter. This is the planet exalted in the
sign Cancer. It is represented in Tarot by the tenth
major trump, called "The Wheel of Fortune." Jupiter,
astrologers say, rules the circulation of the blood, be-
cause it has to do with all forms of rotation, or circular
movement.
To this picture we assign the psychological idea, Re-
ceptivity-Will. The uninitiated believe their "will" to
be something originating in personality. The occultist,
without in the least denying the fact that free will is part
of our equipment, refuses to believe that "personal" free
will exists. For the occultist, all that we mean by "voli-
tion" is but a synthesis of innumerable cosmic influences,
coming to a focus at a point within us.
Hence all the great initiates say, with Jesus, "Of my-
self I can do nothing.'' For the same reason Jacob
Boehme wrote: "If thou canst, my son, for a while but
cease from all thy thinking and willing, then shalt thou
hear the unspeakable words of God . . . When thou art
quiet and silent, then art thou as God was before nature
and creature; thou art that which God then was; thou art
that of which he made thy nature and creature: Then
thou hearest and seest even with that wherewith God
himself saw and heard in thee, before ever thine own
willing or thine own seeing began.''
The more perfectly we understand that the office of
human personality is to serve as a vehicle for cosmic
forces, the more freely does the Primal Will behind all
manifestatiim find expression through us. To others we
may seem to have very strong personal will. We our-
selves will learn from our practice that the strength of
100
• The Tarot
our volition is measured by the degree of our willingness
to let life find unobstructed manifestation throug h us.
This willingness takes form in thought and word, and
the thought itself is unuttered speech. It is a willingness
developed through purposeful concentration . Relaxa-
tion of body, passivity of mind, one-pointed attention to ·
the real presence in our personal field of the limitless
powers of the whole universe, with progressive freedom
in the expression of those powers as our dominant pur-
pose-this is the infallible practical formula for triumph
in the mind and elsewhere.
Impress subconsciousness again and again with the
suggestion that it is the vehicle for Universal Will. Base
these suggestions on reason. See that the One Energy
enters into all modes of power, celestial and terrestrial.
Self-examination will convince you that not the least of
your personal actions is anything more or less than a
particular manifestation in time and space of some phase
of the sum-total of cosmic influences . At our present
stage of mental development, perfect conceptions of this
truth may be impossible, but reasonable ones we may
have at a little expense of observation and reason.
Subconsciousness is _the vehicle through which all
plans, ideas, designs, inventions and forces ente r into
the personal field. Thought and speech are potent in
moulding subconscious response. Furthermore, because
subconsciousness is also the body-building and body-
changing power, suggestions of the type here indicated
will eventually make profound alterations in physical
structure, so that it becomes able to transform into per-
sonal activities cosmic forces whose very existence is
unsuspected by the greater number of human being s.
Complete receptivity is the secret of the most powerful
manifestations of will. Receptivity may be increas ed by
control of language. Herein lies the key to all mighty
works of practical occultism, for, as Eliphas Levi says
truly, '' All magic is in the will.''
STRENGTH
8 STRENCTH t:'
XII
KEY8:STRENGTH(TETH)
Teth (Th, as in "the," also T, value 9) means "snake,"
symbol of what has been known among occultists for
ages as the "serpent-power." This was what Moses
typified by his brazen image in the wilderness. It is the
,astral light of Eliphas Levi, the force designated in
Theosophy by the term Fohat. It is cosmic electricity,
the universal life-principle, the conscious energy which
takes form as all things, and builds everything from
within. The control of this energy in its subhuman forms,
by mental means, is the primary secret of practical oc-
cultism.
The serpent also symbolizes secrecy, subtlety and
wisdom. Thus, in the allegory of Genesis, the tempter is
a snake, and the devil is called the '' old serpent.'' This
serpent-power is the source of illusion, and thus the
"father of lies." Yet, when it is overcome, it becomes
the instrumentality of salvation. Again, because the
ancients observed that serpents cast their skin, the snake
was taken to be a type of reincarnation, regeneration
and immortality.
Taste is the sense, and digestion the function, assigned
to Teth by Qabalists. Literally, digestion is "feeding,"
and this recalls the familiar serpent biting its own tail,
which we have seen in the picture of the Magician. The
serpent -power feeds on itself. That is, it is self-sustain-
ing. Scientifically this is correct. The sum-total of the
universal conscious energy remains ever the same. It
enters into various forms of expression, and these feed
on one another. Hence the serpents on the caduceus, or
103
104 The Tarot
wand of Hermes, represent this law of endless trans-
formation and conversion.
North-Above, the direction assigned to Teth, is rep-
resented on the Cube of Space by the upp er boundary
of the northern face, which is the point of junction be-
tween that face and the top of the cube. This line con-
nects the upper points of the line North~East and the line
North-West. These are the lines corresponding, respec-
tively, to Key 4, the Emperor, and Key 11, Justice.
The northern face of the cube is represented in Tarot
by Key 16, the Tower, symbolizing the planet Mars, and
the fiery activity which has for its most obvious mani-
festation the disintegration of forms. In digestion, the
first step is the breaking-up of food by mastication, fol-
lowed by further disintegration in the chemistry of the
stomach and the intestines.
This disintegrating activity, under the conscious self-
direction of the mental states typified by Mercury and
the Magician (Above), is the basis of practical work in
occultism. Until one is wise enough to select and digest
the proper sorts of food, he is not ready to experiment
with the higher laws of control which enable adepts to
perform their mighty works. Regulation of diet is at
the bottom of practical magic. Corresponding to it, on
the principle expressed in the Hermetic axiom, '' As
above, so below,'' is right selection and assimilati on of
mental food.
Leo, the Lion, a fixed sign of fiery quality, is attributed
to the letter Teth. Leo is ruled by the Sun (Key 19). It
governs the sides, back, heart and spinal column. It is
the sign attributed in Hebrew occultism to the Tribe of
Judah. The astrological symbol for Leo resemb les a
serpent, and the sign, governing the spine, is thus related
to the nerve-currents directed upward through the spinal
centers in the practice of yoga. In modern astrology,
Leo is said to be the sign of the exaltation of Neptune
Key 8: Strength (Teth) 105
(Key 12, the Hanged Man). The color assigned to Leo
is yellow. Its musical tone is E-natural.
Intelligence of the Secret of all Spiritual Activities, or
Intelligence of the Secret of Works, is the mode of con-
sciousness attributed by Qabalists to Teth. Here it
should be borne in mind that all activities are spiritual,
in the literal sense of Spirit, as the cosmic Life-Breath.
Part of the secret is the law that all forces and activities
whatsoever are transmutations and conversions of the
one Conscious Energy. Other phases of this law will be
touched upon in our analysis of the symbols of Key 8.
Strength, the title of Key 8, is sometimes given as
Force, and occasionally, but incorrectly, as Fortitude. It
is courage only as courage is derived from conscious
knowledge of the law typified by the symbolism. The
correct titles, Strength or Force, allude to the fiery Life-
power which is the source of all human action.
The yellow background of the picture agrees with the
color attributed to Leo in our scale. In the distance is a
mountain-peak, like the one shown in Key 6, and having
the same meanings. In contrast to the urban aspect of
Key 7, the scene here is an uninhabited plain. It is a
plain in a valley, suggesting the level of actual existence,
but the absence of houses indicates that the conditions
here are those of nature, apart from human artifice.
The woman's yellow hair identifies her with the Em-
press, so that we may understand her to represent crea-
tive imagination and the subconscious generation of
mental imagery. Instead of a wreath, she wears a crown
of flowers, indicating that, at the point of development .
shown by Key 8, the forces of organic life are nearer to
fruition.
Over her head is the same horizontal 8 that hovers over
the head of the Magician. It has the same meanings. It
further intimates that something of the Magician's
quality has been transferred to the woman. It indicates
the fact that subconsciousness receives the impress of
106 The Tarot
c,, self-conscious mental states, and is modified by self-con-
scious selectivity and initiative. Even as the outcome of
the digestive processes, themselves governed by subcon-
sciousness, depends on our conscious selection of food,
and our conscious attention to the preliminary work of
mastication, so does the outcome of subconscious opera -
tions in general depend for good or ill on the selection
and direction which are the particular business of the
self-conscious plane of mind. Note, in this connection,
that on the Cube of Space the line North-Above is at the
top of the cube, or at the level of the upper surface, which
is assigned to Key 1, the Magician.
The unornamented white robe of the woman signifies
purity, in the strictest sense of that word, which means
"freedom from mixture." Because white is the color as-
signed to Kether, the Crown, 'which is the upp ermost
circle on the Qabalistic diagram of the Tree of Life, this
color, wherever it appears in Tarot symbolism, relates
to th4;lpure spiritual influence of the Primal Will.
Around her waist is a chain of roses, twisted (though
this detail is not very clear in the picture) so as to form
another figure 8, and Dr. Waite says the woman leads the
lion by this chain of flowers. It signifies artistic adapta-
tion (chain) of desire (roses). When we learn how to
weave our desires together into a chain, rejecti ng all de-
sires which are incompatible with our main purpose, and
co-ordinating those we do decide upon as fitting to our
purpose, we shall be able to make wonderful applications
of creative imagination to the control and direction of
the 'serpent-power.
The lion, as king of beasts, represents all subhuman
forces, all subhuman expressions of the cosmic vital elec-
tricity. The king stands for all his subjects. His color
refers to the alchemical Red Lion, symbol of Sulphur,
purified and sublimated by its amalgamation with Mer -
cury. This is exactly the idea hinted at by the attrib ution
of North-Above to this Key, inasmuch as the alchemical
Key 8: Strength (Teth) 107
"sulphur" has to do with a fiery, electro-magnetic po-
tency common to the Sun, ruler of Leo, and to Mars
(North), and this potency is directed by self-conscious-
ness (Mercury, Above). The lion also confirms the attri-
bution of Key 8 to Leo. You will remember that some
mention of this was made in Chapter 3.
The woman tames the lion. In Dr. Waite's version, she
shuts his mouth. In the B.O.T.A. version reproduced
herewith, as in all the older versions, she opens it. This
is preferable, since "to open the mouth" is to make
articulate, to give speech to, and whatever has the power
of speech is assimilated with humanity and impressed
by human thought. When we assimilate the hostile, de-
structive, dangerous, wild forces in nature to the uses of
mankind, we add to those forces the quality of human
consciousness. Thus electricity, the flaming thunder-bolt,
tamed and modified by man is now, as Eliphas Levi pre-
dicted, what gives to human speech '' a universal rever-
beration and success.''
The meaning of the picture should now be plain. The
Great Secret is the law that subconsciousness is at all
times in control of every subhuman manifestation of
cosmic energy. The extent of this control is far greater
than is usually supposed. Every force in nature, down to
those of the inorganic mineral kingdom, is within range ·
of this subconscious direction. Actually, it is because of
this that man is able to extend his dominion over the
forces of his environment, even to the point where he may
bring into actual manifestation chemical elements which,
so far as we are able to determine from spectroscopic
analysis of the stars, exist nowhere but on this planet.
Neptunium and plutonium, the elements brought into ac-
tive manifestation by atomic fission, are truly thought-
born. Their genesis began with self-conscious mathemat-
ical analysis of the properties of matter. This analysis
was then made the basis of imagination and invention.
The new elements began their existence in man's mind,
108 The Tarot
and became actual things in the external world as the
result of mind-directed and mind-conceived works of man.
Even greater things than these are possible for the adept
who has mastered his own emotions and desires.
Subconsciousness always directs the activities of the
subhuman forces of nature. This is true whether the ac-
tion of those forces be hostile or friendly to man. Sub-
consciousness, in turn, is always amenable to impressions
originating at the self-conscious level of mentation.
What matters, therefore, is the kind of patterns we
set. Our mental patterns are determined by self-con-
scious interpretation of experience. Let observation and
attention (the Magician) be faulty, superficial, negative
or fearful and the resulting sequence of subconscious re-
actions is bound to be destructive. Then the spoken word
and unuttered speech of thought (the Chariot) will be
vehicles for a destructive pattern, and we shall set wild
beasts at our own vitals.
Change the pattern, and you change the result. Make
it accurate, profound, courageous, positive. Then you
tame the lion, and he becomes your servant. This, indeed,
is the secret of all spiritual activities, the secret of
strength, the secret of ultimate mastery. Your personal
application of this secret to your own life will change
everything for the better. Carry it farther, into all your
social relations, and you will become one of that increas-
ing number of builders of a new, free world that shall
realize the glory of the Eternal Splendor of the Limit-
less Light.
THE HERMIT
9 THE HERMIT
XIII
KEY 9: THE HERMIT (YOD)
Yod (I, J, Y, value 10) means the hand of man. It is the
open hand, in contradistinction to Kaph, the closed one,
which follows it in the alphabet. Yod indicates power,
means, direction; skill, dexterity; but it is the sign rather
of tendency, aptitude, inclination, predisposition or po-
tency than of actual activity. In the religious symbolism
of the world the open hand is everywhere and at all times
a type of beneficence, and of the freedom of the Supreme
Spirit.
In the Qabalah, this letter has special importance be-
cause it is the initial letter of the Tetragrammaton,
IHVH, and the initial letter also of the word IChIDH,
Yekhidah, the term used in the Wisdom of Israel to des-
ignate the INDIVISIBLE ONE, the Supreme SELF,
having its abode or seat in Kether, the Crown, at the top
of the Tree of Life. Qabalists, moreover, say that the
upper point of the letter refers to Kether, the Primal
Will, while the body of the letter represents the second
Sephirah, Chokmah or Wisdom.
The sense of Touch is that which is attributed to Yod,
and the same letter, in Qabalah, corresponds to the func-
tion of Coition, in which the sense of touch is particularly
active. Esoterically, the letter Yod corresponds to the
experience of union with the Supreme SELF, the true
I AM of the cosmos. This experience, intensely blissful,
is often compared by occult writers, both ancient and
modern, to the intense physical ecstasy of the sex-em-
brace. Prudes may quarrel with. this comparison. Let
them read the Song of Solomon, the mystical poetry of
Persian Sufi.s, or some of the narratives of Christian
111
112 The Tarot
mystical exper ience, and they will learn that some of the
best minds the human race has ever produced have not
scrupled to employ intensely erotic imagery in their en-
deavors to describe the bliss of union with the ONE.
North-Below is the direction attributed by Qabalists
to Yod. On the Cube of Space it is the lower boundary
of the northern face, and the northern boundary of the
lower face. It joins the lower ends of the vertical lines
North-East (the Emperor) and North-West (Justice).
One reason for this attribution is that the destruct ion of
error symbolized by Key 16 (North) is one of the
elements of mystic experience. Furthermore, that ex-
perience depends on certain transformations of the Mars-
force in the physical body, and these transformations are
effected by subconsciousness (Below). Again, mystic
experience is the supreme expression of subconscious
processes of memory and association (High Priestess,
Below). When we most perfectly remember ourselves
we experience this blissful merging of personal con-
sciousness with the universal.
Virgo, the Virgin, a mutable or common earthy sign,
is attributed to the letter Yod. It is ruled by Mercury
(Key 1, the Magician), and is also the sign in which Mer-
cury is exalted. Virgo is dominated, therefore, by self-
conscious initiative, and represents the state in whieh the
highest manifestation of self-consciousness is experi-
enced.
This state is what the Bible calls ''heaven.'' There-
fore Jesus said that in heaven there is neither mar riage,
nor giving in marriage, because in the blissful state of
union there is no sense of "otherness," or separation.
This corresponds to the idea of virginity connected with
the sign. In the state of consciousness we are now con-
sidering, all distinctions of separate personality, and,
consequently, all distinctions of sex, are completely ob-
literated.
Astrologers say Virgo rules the intestines, where di-
Key 9: The Hermit (YO'd) 113
gestion is completed, and where the final selection ·is
made between assimilable material and what is rejected
as waste. In certain forms of occult practice, concealed
under the veils of alchemy, the assimilation of solar
energy from food by the lacteals in the small intestine is
tremendously increased. To this practice we may refer
alchemical references to the First Matter as "virgin's
milk,'' prepared under the regimen of Mercury; to the
process of putrefaction symbolized by a black dragon
(the convolutions of the intestines in the darkness of the
abdominal cavity) ; and to the fact that, in its visible as-
pect, the First Matter is a thing accounted by all men to
be the vilest thing on earth.
Intell igence of Will is the mode of consciousness attri-
buted to the letter Yod. Say the Qabalists: "It prepares
all created beings, each individually, for the demonstra-
tion of the existence of the primordial glory." This
demonstration is the experience hitherto described. The
primordial glory is that of the Supreme SELF.
The word translated above as "Will" means primarily
"delight," and has, for supplementary meanings, "plea-
sure, intent, purpose, determination." Thus we find that
all descriptions of mystic experience agree that it is .
:first-hand knowledge of an ineffable glory, of an unspeak-
able bliss, and of an intensely certain and definite, though
incommunicable, knowledge of the meaning and tendency
of the cosmic life-process. In this experience the ques-
tion, "What is this all about 1" is settled, once and for
all. In it, too, the knowledge that there can be but one
Free Will in the universe, of which Free Will all things
and creatures are personal expressions, is a knowledge
established forever.
The Hermit is a title referring to a passage in the 1
Qabalah which says: "Yodis above all (symbolizing the
Father), and with Him is none other associated." A
hermit lives alone, isolated. The picture shows him alone,
standing on a sn?wy mountain-peak, far above the climb-
114 The Tarot
ing travelers for whom he holds aloft his lantern as a
beacon.
His white beard shows that he is the "Most Holy
Ancient One,'' identified with the Primal Will. His gray,
cowled robe suggests another Qabalistic title for the ONE
-" Concealed with all Concealment." He is the Source
of all, yet is he also the goal of all endeavor. Every
practice in occult training aims at the union of personal
consciousness with the Cosmic Will which is the Cause-
less Cause of all particular manifestations.
At first it may puzzle you to account for the fact that
a letter assigned to the direction North-Below should be
_ symbolized by a man standing on a height. Remember
the axiom, '' That which is above is as that which is be-
low.'' Remember also that such words as cause, source,
origin, etc., are related to that which is basic, funda-
mental, and therefore at the bottom of things.
Again, 9, the number of this Key, is a ~umber of com-
pletion, as you learned in Chapter 2; but in the same
chapter you were told that this completion is insepara-
ble from, and really identical with, the primary Idea
which begins the process of manifestation. The meaning
should be even clearer after you have considered the
analogies between 9, the number of the Hermit, and O,
the number of the Fool.
The sign which precedes all manifestation is 0, and 9,
final figure of the digital series, denotes completion, per-
fection, realiza tion. The only perfect Being must be the
Absolute, and the Absolute is not only No-Thing (the
Fool) but also That which is completely alone (Hermit).
Perfection is prior to, and behind, all manifestation, yet
it is also beyond and above all things.
9 therefore represents the Absolute as the Goal of ex-
~ istence, while Otypifies the same Absolute as the Source
of all. Consequently, in Tarot O is a youth, looking up-
'ward, in the morning light; but 9 is a bearded ancient,
looking down, at night. The Hermit and the Fool are two
Key 9: The Hermit (Yod)
aspects of that which is the Foundation (9) of all mani- 11
festation. The Hermit is the Ancient One, above all
things, yet supporting all. He precedes everything, and,
when considered in that aspect, is forever young (the
Fool); yet He will continue when all else has passed
away, and He is the term of all our hopes.
He stands in darkness, because what is behind our
personifications of the Supreme Reality is darkly incom-
prehensible to our intellects. The darkness represents '
also the hidden, interior, subconscious ·field of the Divine1
Operation. The peak whereon he stands is snow-capped
because to us this Ancient One is an abstraction, cold,
and far removed from the warmth of everyday life. Yet
he himself carries his own light, and holds it aloft for the
benefit of those who toil upward toward him. It is the
light of a golden, six-rayed star, and its interlaced tri-
angles are symbols of union. The six points of the star
hint also at Virgo, sixth sign in the zodiacal series.
Although the Hermit seems to be alone, he is really
th'e Way-shower, lighting the path for climbing multi-
tudes below. He has no need to climb, hence his staff i~
held in his left hand. The staff is one of the implements
of the Magician, and corresponds to the archetypal world .
When we reason about it, the Causeless Cause seems
afar off-a cold, isolated abstraction. In truth it is inti-
mately related to every circumstance in our daily per-
sonal experience. It is the substance, the power, the
consciousness expressed in the least of our experiences.
It is the source of all our personal light and wisdom. It
is the objective of all our aspirations.
The Hermit is the Supreme Will, the cosmic, eternal
urge to freedom. Union with that will is the highest re-
sult of the operation of the law that subconsciousness
responds to the initiative and to the suggestions of self-
consciousness. Only through the working of the subcon-
scious body-transforming powers may our bodiea
116 The Tarot
undergo the subtle changes which make them fit vehicles
for union with the Supreme Spirit.
This is why Mercury, ruler of Virgo, is also ex~lted
or sublimated in that sign. Mercury is the Magician, and
self-training in right interpretation of experience, in
concentration, in the manipulation of subconsciousness,
is what bears fruit finally in union with what is pictured
here as the Hermit. in this union the sense of personal
''self'' is lost, and one knows nothing but the I AM.
Hence occult teachings frequently call this experience
''Isolation,'' exactly what the title of Key 9 implies.
Psychologically, this is the state of being conscious that
all volition is universal, rather than personal. It includes
first-hand knowledge of the law. of the eternal freedom
of the true SELF. This carries with it the perception
that the idea of "personal" will, that is, of will origi-
nating in, or inhering in, personality, must be an illusion.
This consciousness, ''the demonstration of the exist-
ence of the primordial glory,'' is the basis of the' mighty
works of adepts, the foundation for the miracles which
are the evidences of genuine sainthood. Thus, and also
because it is consciousness of the true basis of all mani-
festation, the Hermit bears the number which Hebrew
occultism associates with "Basis" or "Foundation."
This number 9, it should be remarked, is also the num-
ber which Qabalists ascribe to the reproductive organs of
Adam Qadmon, the Archetypal Man. For all sages are
agreed that though Intelligence of Will seems to be the
outcome of personal effort and aspiration, it is really
the final stage of a work initiated and carried on by the
Life-power itself. That work, they say; is one in which
the Heavenly Man reproduces himself in the image of the
earthly. Herein some of our readers may find a clue to
the inner meaning of the doctrine that the Christos is
"begotten, not made."
THE WHEEL OF FORTUNE
10WHEEL 0
~ fOftTUNE
~
XIV
KEY 10: THE WHEEL OF FORTUNE (KAPH)
Kaph (C, as in "core," or K, value 20 as a :final letter,
500) means primarily '' a curve,'' which should be re-
membered in connection with the fact that in Tarot a
wheel is attributed to this letter. Kaph is the hand of
man in the act of grasping. To grasp is to hold, to com-
prehend, to master. What can be grasped mentally is
intelligible, clear, explicit, positive, definite, precise.
These ideas, it will be seen, are in sharp contrast to the
ineffability and abstractness of those which are related
to Yod and the Hermit.
Wealth and Poverty are the pair of opposites attrib-
uted to the double letter Kaph. These are the extremes
of property, the external signs of one's grasp of circum-
stances.
West, the direction attributed to Kaph, is represented
in the diagram of the Cube of Space by the face nearest
the observer. At the place of sunset, West symbolizes
the completion of a day, or of a cycle of manifestation-
the closing of a circle or round of expression. This is
in agreement with the symbol of the closed hand. The
close of the day's work, with the setting sun, is related
to such ideas as completion, accomplishment, mastery,
success, and the like. Free Masons will remember that
the officer who sits in the West is charged with paying
the wages of the workmen.
Again, it is written, "Westward the course of empire
takes its way," for the facts of human history exemplify
the principles of cosmic law. Thus, too, the Occidental
world is the world in which practical grasp of material
powers is the characteristic mark of success, in contrast
119
120 The Tarot
to the Orient, where a man's wealth is more likely to be
reckoned in terms of his understanding of those laws of
mental germination typified in Tarot by Key 3, the Em-
press, to which the direction East is attributed.
Jupiter, the planet attributed to Kaph, rules the zodia-
cal signs Sagittarius (Key 14, Temperance) and Pisces
(Key 18, The Moon). Jupiter is also exalted in Cancer
(Key 7, The Chariot, wherein this planet's influence is
symbolized by the wheels). Jupiter is called the "Lord
of Fortune," or the "Greater Fortune," in contrast to
Venus (The Empress), whom astrologers denominate the
"Lesser Fortune." In astrology Jupiter signifies bank-
ers, judges and theologians or religious dignitaries-that
is, men who have a firm grasp on the comprehensive,
lucid statement of ideas, and knowledge of the applica-
tion of ideas in the administration of practical affairs.
Jupiter is said to govern the circulation of the blood, and
circular motion generally. The color assigned to this
planet in our scale is violet. The musical tone corre-
sponding is B-:flator A-sharp.
Intelligence of Conciliation, or Rewarding Intelligence
of Those Who Seek, is the Qabalistic name for the mode
of consciousness attributed to the letter Kaph. Concilia-
tion is the adjustment of differences, the establishment
of harmony and order, and thus is distinctly Jupiterian .
.This mode of consciousness is what brings perception of
the law which fulfils the promise, '' Seek, and ye shall
find." Conciliation implies concord, agreement, sym-
pathy, peace, amity, tranquillity. The law here shown is
that which reconciles apparent differences, that which
enables us to harmonize the elements of existence, that
whichleads to the winning over of seemingly antagonistic
forces, that which conduces to peace and prosperity.
The title of Key 10, The Wheel of Fortune, combines
the ideas of rotation, cyclicity, sequence, whirling motion,
simultaneous ascent and descent (evolution and involu-
tion), and so on, with the ideas of fortune, destiny,
Key 10: The Wheel of Fortune (Kaph) 121
chance, fate, necessity, probability, and the like. Occult
teaching emphatically asserts that what seems to be
chance-whether absence of purpose or absence of design
-is really the working of unalterable law. The rotation
of circumstance appears to be accidental, but is not
really so.
Ev.ery · effect is the consequence of preceding causes,
and the better we grasp this law of sequence and cy-
clicity, the greater our command over subsequent events.
There is periodicity in everything.
The affairs of men, and those of nations, have a
rhythm, a regularity, a steadiness of beat which enables
the wise to read the meaning of the present in the history
of the past, and makes it possible to forecast the events
of the future from close examination of present tenden-
cies. The wheel, moreover, is a symbol of progress, ad-
vancement, improvement, and so represents the march of
culture, civilization, and amelioration which, in occultism,
is called the Great Work.
The design of the tenth major trump, in this version
of Tarot and in the Rider pack, is adapted from Eliphas
Levi's diagram of the Wheel of Ezekiel, in his Ritual ·of
the Sanctum Regnum. At the corners of the card, seated
on clouds, are the mystical animals mentioned in Ezekiel
1:10 and in Revelation 4 :7. They correspond to the fixed
signs of the zodiac: the bull to Taurus; the lion to Leo;
the eagle to Scorpio; the man to Aquarius. The numbers
of these signs in ·the zodiacal series are 2, 5, 8 and 11,
adding to 26, the number of IHVH. In this name, I is
represented by the lion, the :first H by the eagle, the V by
the man, and the final H by the bull. Thus the "living
creatures" typify the fixed, eternal modes of the One
Reality, which, so to say, remain permanent in contrast
to the flux and reflux symbolized by the turning wheel.
That which was, is, and shall be remains ever the same
in itself, and the whole sequence and rotation of events
goes on within it.
122 The Tarot
The wheel is the symbol of the whole cycle of cosmic
expression, and is also an emblem of any par ticular
series of events. Its center, or pivot, is the archetypal
world; the inner circle is the creative, the middle circle
the formative, and the outer circle the material world.
The eight spokes are like the eight-pointed star, in Key
17, and represent the universal radiant energy. This
central circle is the same as the symbol of the Life-
Breath, ten times repeated on the dress of the Fool.
On the spokes of the wheel in the circle representing
the formative world are the alchemical symbols of mer-
cury (above), sulphur (to the right), and salt (to the
left). These correspond to the three gunas of yoga phi-
losophy: sattva (mercury), rajas (sulphur) and tamas
(salt) . At the bottom of the same circle is one of the al-
chemical symbols for dissolution, identical with the
astrological symbol for Aquarius. Mercury is conscious-
ness, sulphur is passion and activity, salt is ignorance
and inertia. Dissolution is said to be the fundamental
process of the Great Work.
A y(ellowserpent, its wavy movement suggesting vibra-
tion, and its color that which is assigned to light, to the
planet Mercury (Key 1, the Magician) and to the sign
Leo (Key 8, Strength) in one of the ancient occult color-
scales, descends on the left side of the wheel. Its descent
represents the involution of the cosmic radiant energy
into the conditions of name and form. It is the serpent -
power represented by the letter Teth, and so connected
with the sign Leo and Key 8. It is also the force which
descends through the Magician to his garden, and this
force bears the message or impulse of the cosmic will.
Hermanubis (Hermes-Anubis), jackal-headed Egyp-
tian god, rises on the right side of the wheel, to represent
the evolution of consciousness from lower to higher
forms. His jackal's head represents intellectuality. His '
red color typifies desire and activity. He symbolizes the
average lev~l of our present human development of con-
Key 10: The Wheel of Fortune (Kaph) 123
sciousness. Beyond and above him is a segment of the
wheel which only a few human beings have, as yet, trav-
ersed.
~he sphinx typifies the real Self of man, behind the
veil of personality. It is known by the unfoldment of
inner senses corresponding to the outer ones. When this
unfoldment comes, we become aware of the One Thing
which transcends personality. This One Thing is the pro-
pounder of the riddles of existence. It remains motion-
less while the wheel turns. Its blue color relates it to
memory, the basic function of subconsciousness, as if to
emphasize the idea that the highest self-knowledge is
really self-recollection.
On the wheel, in the circle representing the material
world, are the letters TARO countercharged with the
Hebrew letters spelling IHVH. In Hebrew values, the
letters of TARO make the number 671, important in
Qabalah as the number of certain titles of Malkuth, the
Kingdom. As the value of IHVH is 26, the total numera-
tion of the eight letters on the wheel is 697, and the digits
of 697 add to 22, a number associated with the circle or
wheel from time immemorial, and the numbers of letters
in the Hebrew alphabet, symbolized by the major trumps
of Tarot.
By transposition, the letters of TARO may be arranged
to make the following :fivewords: ROTA TARO ORAT
TORA ATOR. "Ator" is an old Latin form of the name
of the Egyptian goddess Hathor. Thus this rather barba-
rous Latin sentence may be translated, '' The Wheel of
Tarot speaks the Law of Hathor (the Law of Nature)."
Psychologically, this Tarot Key refers to the law of
periodicity in mental activity, whereby mental states have
a tendency to recur in definite rhythms. It is the law,
also, of the involution of undifferentiated conscious en-
ergy, and its evolution through a series of personalized
forms of itself. Finally, the Wheel of Fortune is the
Tarot symbol of the law of cause and consequence which
enables us to be certain of reaping what we have sown.
11 JUSTICE.
xv
KEY 11: JUSTICE (LAMED)
Lamed (L, value 30) means, as a verb, "to teach, to in-
struct." As a noun, identical with the Hebrew letter-
name, Lamed signifies "an ox-goad." Since the ox, in
this alphabet, is Aleph, Lamed stands for that which
urges and guides the manifestation of the cosmic power
represented in Tarot by the Fool.
Now, this cosmic power is all-pervading and all-em-
bracing. Consequently, there can be no other power, out-
side it, to set it in motion and direct its course. We must
understand, then, that the letter Lamed stands for some-
thing within the Life-power. It represents an inward
urge or drive, and an inward capacity for self-direction.
In The Book of Formation the special function as-
signed to Lamed is Work or Action. This is also the
basic meaning of the Sanskrit term Karma.
North-West is the direction properly belonging to
Lamed. In the first edition of this book, it was incor-
rectly given as South-West, as in some versim1s of The
Book of Formation, but subsequent research and com-
parison of ancient texts has shown the inaccuracy of this
attribution. The line North-West on the Cube of Space
is the vertical line at the junction of the north and west
sides of the cube. The upper point of this line is the
corner at which the lines North-Above and West-Above
are joined. The lower point of this line is the corner at
which the lines North-Below and West-Below are joined.
The fiery, exciting nature of the planet Mars, connected
with the north side of the Cube of Space is thus com-
bined in this attribution with the expansive and rotary
125
126 Tke Tarot
quality associated with Jupiter. See Keys 16 and 10 for
the Tarot symbolism.
Libra, the Scales, is a cardinal, airy sign. It is ruled
by Venus (Key 3, the Empress), and is the sign in which
Saturn (Key 21, the World) is exalted. Our subconscious
deductions from experience are the seeds of Karma, and
are actually the basis of all our activities. From them
we gain instruction and knowledge. Furthermore, the
highest manifestation of the restrictive, concrete, defini-
tive power of Saturn is brought about through the opera-
tion of the law symbolized by Key 11.
Libra governs the kidneys, loins and lumbar region of
the spine. Astrologers say that Librans love justice, or-
der and harmony. Their Venusian quality is shown by
their love of beauty and culture. They are said to have
keen sense of comparison, foresight, and acute percep-
tions. The Libran color is green. The corresponding
musical tone is F-sharp or G-flat.
Faithf ul Intell igence is the special mode of conscious-
ness attributed by Qabalists to the letter Lamed. The
Hebrew for "faithful" is AMN, Amen, which we say as a
confirmatory expression at the end of prayers. The word
is closely related to the Sanskrit ADM, or Om, and to the
name of the Egyptian god Amun, often written Amen.
In the Qabalah we are told that '' spiritual virtues are
deposited in the Faith ful Intelligen,ce, and augment
therein.'' Here is the very idea of the ripening of per-
ception and interpretatio n into motives for action, so fa-
miliar to occultists as a fundamental meaning of Karma.
Justice, the title of Key 11, signifies the active admin-
istration of law. It also makes us think of balance, poise,
exactitude, accuracy, impartiality, equity, and the like.
The central figure of the design is a conventional per-
sonification of Justice, but she wears no blindfold. Her
yellow hair, like that of the Empress, identifies her as
Venus. So does her green cape, because in our eolor-
scale, green is attributed to Venus. We may identify her
Key 11: Justice (Lamed) 127
also with the woman who tames the red lion in Key 8,
and it should be remembered that, in the exoteric Tarot,
Key 8 is Justice and Key 11 is Strength. This blind does
not mislead those who know the attributions of the signs
of the zodiac to the letters of the alphabet. Just why it
was employed at all may be difficult to understand now.
Yet it does serve to emphasize the fact that Keys 8 and
11 represent two aspects of the operation of a single
power, which power is the creative imagination symbol-
ized by the Empress.
In the B.O.T.A. version, the woman's dress has an
ornamental collar, displaying a blue-violet T-cross. This,
by shape and color, refers to the exaltation of Saturn in
Libra. So does the T-cross which is the hilt of the up-
lifted sword.
The red robe is the color of Mars, complement of the
green of Venus. The Greek myth concerning the clandes-
tine love-affair of Mars and Venus intimates that action
(Mars) and imagination (Venus) are always related.
Mars rules the tonicity of the muscles. Consequently all
work or action, the function attributed in Qabalah to
Libra, depends on this Mars force in the muscles.
Underneath the red robe, showing at the sleeves, is a
blue undergarment. This is the color of the High Priest-
ess, and her number, 2, results from adding the digits of
11, the number of Justice. For all imagination is based
on memory.
In the Rider pack, Justice wears a crown, showing
three turrets, and ornamented with a square jewel. The
three turrets and the four sides of the square give the
number 7, the Qabalistic number of the Sphere of Venus
on the Tree of Life. In the B.O.T.A. version the square
is white, and contains a red circle. Since 22 is the con-
ventional arithmetical symbol for any circle, and a square
stands for 4, the two together, like the Masonic square
and compass, represent the number 26, which is the value
of the divine name IHVH (Jehovah).
128 The Tarot
The golden scales in the woman's left hand are a subtle
hint that solar energy, or light, for which the ancient
symbol is gold, may be used as an instrument whereby to
weigh and measure action. This fact was well known to
occultists in the day Tarot was invented, and modern
science confirms this by making the speed of light, and
also its mass, the basis for calculations which demon-
strate the electrical nature of all so-called "matter."
These same calculations have led to the discovery of
atomic :fission, which will undoubtedly bring about the
revolution of chemical and physical science predicted in
1859 by Eliphas Levi. This discovery will also give the
whole human race new standards of action, and will make
possible in the affairs of men a closer approximation to
ideal justice.
The yellow background refers to the element of air,
since Libra is an airy sign. Violet, the color of the cur-
tains, is referred to Jupiter and the Wheel of Fortune,
to suggest that the veils of mechanism (Key 10) conceal
from the uninitiated that the whole universe is permeated
by the Life-Breath of Spirit, symbolized by yellow.
The throne of the woman has also, stretched between
its two pillars, a violet veil. Pillars and veil are reflec-
tions of the ideas suggested by similar symbols in the
picture of the High Priestess.
The sword is of steel, a metal attributed to Mars. It
is an indication that all action destroys as well as builds.
We may take it, likewise, to represent the elimination of
all waste and hesitancy from wisely directed action, and
to be a reference to the idea of discrimination repre-
sented by Zain, the sword, in the Hebrew alphabet and
by Key 6 of Tarot. '
The general meaning of Key 11 is that education (ox-
goad) has equilibration for its aim. It requires, there-
fore, the elimination of useless, outworn forms (sword,
and attribution of Libra to the kidneys). Education is
completed by action and work. Merely hearing the word,
Key 11: Justice (Lamed) 129
or reading it, is not true education. Action is required,
and action is motivated by subconscious response to self-
conscious observation and concentration.
Psychologically, this picture illustrates the law of poise
and self-direction. A balanced personality is faithful,
constant and confident, because right use of reason has
established enduring certainty as to the just outcome of
all activities. For a practical occultist this card signifies:
(1) You really know only when you have acted; (2)
Equilibration, mental and physical, demands the elimina-
tion of waste, the getting rid of '' excess baggage.''
. ~ Ill "' , .,. • ~,.,....,, .. WIIl. ~~
. --..
-:o
.......
,.. '"" ,,,,.__ ,,.·~ )ri
.
J
XVI
KEY 12: THE HANGED MAN (MEM)
Mem (M, value 40. Value as final letter in a word, 600).
This is the second of the three mother letters of the He-
brew alphabet. Its name means literally ''seas,'' but,
like many plurals in Hebrew, it designates a general idea,
in this instance, "water." In this connection, we may
note that alchemists call water "the mother, seed, and
root of all minerals.''
In ancient books neither direction nor planet is as-
signed to this lett _
er. In the Cube of Space, however, it
corresponds to the inner axis of the cube connecting the
center of the eastern face with the center of the western
face. Moreover, the final form of the letter Mem shares
with the letter Tav the attribution to the innermost cen-
ter of the Cube of Space, and to this attribution part of
the symbolism of Key 12 refers. In modern astrology,
however, Neptune corresponds to Mem. The color assigned
to this planet is pale-blue, and the corresponding musical
tone is G-sharp or A-flat.
Water, the element represented by Mem, is the first
mirror. Water reflects images upside-down, and this
idea is carried out by the symbolism and title of Key 12,
which is a symbol of reflected life, of life in image, of life
in the forms taken by the occult "water," or cosmic sub-
stance.
Hanged Man, the title, means occultly, "suspended
mind," because "man" and "mind" are from the same
Sanskrit root, and this fact was known to the occultists
who invented Tarot. The title refers also to the utter
1
dependence of human personality upon the cosmic life.
In the Rider pack the youth hangs from a T-cross, but
131
132 The Tarot
it is a cross of living wood, to symbolize the cosmic life.
It also represents the letter Tav, and in the B.O.T.A.
Tarot the gallows from which the Hanged Man is- sus-
pended is shaped like a Hebrew Tav, as it is in all ver-
sions of this Key except the Rider pack.
In 1918 I received from an occult correspondent the
following explanation of the Hanged Man:
'' The correct geometrical figure concealed by the
Hanged Man is a cross, surmounting a water triangle.
It signifies the multiplication of the tetrad by the triad.
This is the number 12. The door, Daleth, is the vehicle
of the tetrad, for it is the Great Womb also; and the
head of the Hanged Man reflected therein is the LVX, in
manifestation as the Logos. He is Osiris, Sacrifice, and
Yod-Heh-Shin-Vav-Heh, Yehoshua."
This is explanation enough for an advanced occultist,
but requires some elaboration for the purposes of this
book. It is evident that the legs of the Hanged Man form
a cross, and that lines drawn from his elbows to the
point formed by his hair will form the sides of a reversed
triangle having his arms for its base.
The cross is the number 4, and the triangle is the num-
ber 8. The multiplication of these two numbers results
in 12, which, because it is the number of signs in the
zodiac, represents a complete cycle of manifestation.
The inverted triangle is one of the ancient ways of
writing the letter Daleth, which corresponds to the Em.-
press, numbered 8 in Tarot. She is what Hindus call
Prakriti, the Great Womb of cosmic substance, the gen-
eratrix of all forms.
By a similar numerical correspondence, the crossed
legs of the Hanged Man may be taken to represent the
Emperor, since they indicate the number 4. Thus they
are red, the color of action, and also the color of fire, the
particular quality of the sign Aries, typified by the
Emperor.
The upper garment of the Hanged Man is blue, color
Key 12: The Hanged Man (Mem) 133
,Pl.,,
of water, and of the robe of the High Priestess, symbol
of the universal mind-stuff. It has two pockets shaped
like crescents, and colored silver. Ten silver buttons re-
fer to the ten Sephiroth by their number, and by their
material suggest that manifested life is a reflection of
the One Life.
The belt and the braid down the front of the Hanged
Man's jacket form a cross, and the edging of his collar is
so drawn that if we could see it all it would form a circle.
Thus this part of the Hanged Man's dress forms an in-
verted Venus symbol.
''The head of the Hanged Man ... is LVX, in manifes-
tation as the Logos," means that his head, by its white
hair, suggests identity with the Emperor and the Hermit.
He is the Ancient of Days, reflected into the incarnate
life of personality. One of the old occult names for the
One Life is LVX, which is Latin for "Light," and this ·
word is also an occult reference to the Hebrew name
"Adonai," or "Lord." For the numeral values, of the
letters L, V and X in Roman numerals are, respectively,
50, 5 and 10. Their sum is 65, the numeration of the He-
brew name ADNI, Adonai, Lord. The One Light is the
Word which is made flesh, and is then represented by
the esoteric Hebrew spelling of the name Jesus, i.e.:
IHShVH, Yod-Heh-Shin-Vav-Heh, Yehoshua, because
Jesus was named after the Hebrew hero, Joshua.
These, however, are meanings of the picture which will
not be likely to seem as important as they really are until
the student has made considerable advance along the oc-
cult path. Fortunately, there are other meanings, less
withdrawn from ordinary ways of thinking, but by no
means less important. To these we shall devote the rest
of this chapter.
Here is a man turned upside down, inverted, in a posi-
tion contrary to that in which we find most people. Tra-
dition says, by the way, that St. Peter was crucified in
this position, and the tradition may have mo~e than a
134 The Tarot
hint for us, when combined with the idea that Peter is
the "rock of foundation." For the basis of the occult
approach to life, the foundation of the every-day prac-
tice of a person who lives the life of obedience to esoteric
law, is the reversal of the more usual ways of thinking,
speaking and doing. Hence Jacob Boehme said, you may
remember, that the great secret is "to walk in all things ·
contrary to the world.'' ·
The same idea is represented by the garments of the
Hanged Man. His le.gs are red, color of fire, and his
jacket is blue, color of water. These elements are as op-
posite as light 'and darkness, as contrary as black and
white. Thus . opposition is plainly symbolized by the
clothes, as well as by the position of the figure.
This does not piean outspoken antagonism to others.
On the contrary, such a spirit is precisely the way of the
world which occultists endeavor to avoid. Hence this pic-
ture is associated with the letter Mem, of which Qabalists
say, "Mem is mute, like water." Silent, unostentatious
reversal of one's own way of life, combined with perfect
tolerance of the ways of other people, is the method of
the practical occultist.
In what, then, does the reversal consist? Primari ly, in
a reversal of thought, in a point-of-view which is just
the opposite to that accepted by most persons. At first
there may seem to be no practical advantage in this, but
just consider. One need only look about him to see that
most people are sick, that most people are in trouble, that
most people cannot get along with themselves or the
world. Does it not become evident, then, that most people
are in trouble because they have somehow put the cart
before the horse in their practice of life?
In this scientific age we know that everything is an
expression of the working of the law of cause and effect.
Is it not plain, theref ore, that the miseries afflicting most
people are the result of their negative use of the lawf
For every moment of a human life is some special appli-
Key 12: The Hanged Man (Mem) . 135
cation of the law, and the outcome depends wholly on
whether the application be positive or negative.
Practical psychology shows us the potency of ideas. It
demonstrates conclusively the truth that thoughts are
the seeds of speech and action, that interpretations are
the patterns for experience, that what happens to us is
.what we have selected, whether the selection be conscious
and intentional, or unconscious and unpremeditated.
Thus, in practical psychology, the emphasis is upon the
importance of a changed view-point, and this change is
no less than a total reversal.
Every idea we considered in our study of Key 11
points to the central theme of th1
e Hanged Mari. This is
that every human personality is completely dependent
upon the All, here symbolized by the tree. As soon as
this truth is realized, the only logical and sensible course
of conduct is a complete self-surrender. This surrender
begins in the mind. It is the submission of the personal
consciousness to the direction of the Universal Mind.
That submission is foreshadowed even in the picture of
the Magician, who derives all his power from above.
Until we know that of ourselves we can do nothing, we
shall never attain to adeptship. The greater the adept,
the more complete his personal self-surrender.
Paradoxically, this total submission of the personal
life to Life Itself makes us intensely positive in relation
to other persons, and in relation to the conditions of our
environment. Nobody who follows this course ever be-
comes a human door-mat. Consciousness of the support
of something transcending mere personal human power
always results in positive mental attitudes. In the face
of some of the appearances confronting us as we go
through life, we need something more than just "our"
personal energies to carry us through. In order to have
courage and persistence in spite of seeming disappoint-
ments and difficulties we must know ourselves to be
136 The Tarot
vehicles of a power to which nothing can be an insur-
mountable obstacle.
The mental attitude suggested by the Hanged Man,
then, is "Not my will, but thine." This is ever the posi-
tion of the adept, as, indeed, it is the position of every
person who works in any field of applied science. It is an
attitude born of the knowledge that "my will" is an
illusive, personal thing which is but the reflection, or
mask, of "Thy Will," the real Will, which is the purpose
or motive of the cosmic Life-a Will absolutely free, and
certain to be realized.
This thought does not imply that the Universal Will
visits affliction, disease and poverty upon us. It does not
mean that we must be resigned to our troubles, like dumb
.beasts, making no complaint when they are beaten. It
means that in spite of appearances the cosmic Will works
always toward good, that the universal Will-to-good can-
not possibly be defeated. It means that personality is
known for what it is, a paz:tial expression of the All, and
that in consequence our personal notions of what is best
for us may often be mistaken. Our notions of the ways
in which good is coming to us frequently fall short of
being adequate anticipations of the blessings ahead.
Thus, so long as we continue to make false interpreta-
tions, the inexorable laws of the cosmos work out those
interpretations in pain-bringing forms.
Yet pain itself is friendly, because it is educative. Suf-
fering, poverty, disease, inharmony and death all have
their lessons for us. These are the goals that prod the
race onward in its search for truth. We do not fully
understand why this is the method, but we can see that
the very fact of manifested existence necessitates tempo-
rary limitations, with suffering as an inevitable conse-
quence of such limitations. One does not need to be a
philosopher to know that civilization is the result of hu-
man reaction against pain, the consequence of the human
quest for ways to overcome limitation. Disease teaches
Key 12: The Hanged Man (Mem) 137
us the laws of health, frictions in human relationships
goad us into the discovery of the secret of harmony, and
the wise declare that in the mystery of death lies hidden
the secret of immortality.
Thoughts like these are the exact reverse of what most
persons think. Practices in mind-control and body-direc-
tion such as are taught by psychologists and occultists
are laughed at by the world, and people who take them
seriously are jeered at as men upside-down. Yet the
world's ridicule should be the best evidence that the oc-
cultists are right. For the world is sick unto death, writh-
ing in pain, hag-ridden by war, pestilence and famine;
but the wise have found the way of health, of happiness
and peace.
13 DEATH J
XVII
KEY 13: DEATH (NUN)
Nun (N, value 50; as a final letter, 700) is pronounced
"noon," and as a noun means "fish." As a verb, because
fish are unusually prolific, it means "to sprout, to grow."
The essential idea is fertility, fecundity, productiveness,
generative power, and these ideas are bound up in
thought and language with such words as cause, origin,
source, mainspring, groundwork, leaven, and the like.
Motion is the function attributed by Qabalists to Nun,
and the Hebrew word for it has the primary meaning of
"to walk." From this are derived a great variety of
other meanings such as to travel, to grow, to depart, to
pass away, to whirl, to sail away, and so on. All motion
is change, transformation, modification, variation . Thus,
by linking up these ideas with the thought of foundation
or groundwork implied by the meanings of the letter
Nun, we arrive at the conception that change is the basis
of manifestation.
South-West is the direction assigned to Nun in The
Book of Formation. On the Cube of Space this is the
vertical line at the right of the western face of the cube.
It is the line uniting the western and southern faces. In
relation to Tarot, the direction West is assigned to Key
10, The Wheel of Fortune, and South is the direction
corresponding to Key 19, The Sun. West relates also to
the planet Jupiter, which governs all rotation and circu-
lar movement. The river in Key 13 is a symbol of this,
for any river is part of the cycle of transformations af-
fecting the element of water, which rises from the sea to
• become clouds, descends as rain, and then flows back
to the sea through various watercourses. South relates to
139
140 The Tarot
the Sun, and in the background of Key 13 a rising sun is
shown.
Scorpio, a fixed, watery sign, is assigned to Nun.
Scorpio is ruled by Mars (Key 16, The Tower), and is
said by modern astrologers to be the sign of exaltation
of Uranus (Key 0, The Fool). Scorpio governs the sex-
organs, and is the ref ore closely associated with :repro-
duction. It is, morever, connected with the eighth house
of the horoscope, which is called the house of death. Thus
this sign is directly connected with the title of Key 13.
The corresponding color is greenish-blue. The musical
tone is G-natural.
Imaginative Intelligence is the mode of consciousness
attributed to the letter Nun. Qabalists say: "It is the
ground of similarity in the likeness of beings.'' That is,
it is the basis of the resemblances which are transmitted
through the reproductive function. The choice of the
adjective "imaginative" is in accordance with the doc-
trine of Ageless Wisdom that causation is mental. All
changes are primarily changes in mental imagery.
Change the image, and ultimately the external form will
change.
Death, the title, is, as we have said, obviously r elated
to the astrological meaning of Nun. The Bible says death
is the last enemy to be overcome. But how? '' Overcome
evil with good. Love your enemies.'' In these two brief
sentences is the whole secret.
The forces of change which result in physical death
are inimical only because we misunderstand and faar
them. They are forces connected with reproduction, and
by right use of imagination they may be tamed and trans-
formed, so that they can be utilized for indefinite pro-
longation of physical existence. Death, like every other
event in human life, is a manifestation of law. When we
understand the law we can direct the forces of change so
as to overcome death. Yet understanding never will be
ours until fear, not only of dying, but of death itself, has
K ey 13: Deaih {Nwn) 141
been overcome by right knowledge, and by right inter-
pretation of the phenomena of physical dissolution.
The symbolism in the Rider pack is Dr. Waite's per-
sonal variation from the older versions. Good in some
respects, it has one major defect. Before the skeleton
rider on the pale horse, among the figures about to fall,
is a prelate, wearing a fish-head mitre. This is a refer-
ence to the religious dispensation peculiar to the Piscea:ri
Age. As this passes away, so will pass away also the
notions as to the status of women and children charac-
teristic of the Piscean Age.
This is pe:rfectly true, but Tarot was not invented for
the Piscean Age only, and to limit the operation of the
law pictured by Key 13 to this one period of human his-
tory is to obscure the fact that Key 13 symbolizes some-
thing which is at work in every age.
The B.O.T.A. version, like that shown in older packs,
shows a skeleton with a scythe, reaping living hand~,
feet and heads, which protrude from the ground. Behind
him is a river, and in the background a rising sun. The
river moves from north-west to south-east, and the
reaper walks in the same direction. One of the heads is
male, and wears a crown, the other female and un-
crowned. On the south side of the picture is a bush
bearing a single white rose. The sky in the background
is red.
The skeleton is the basis, or essential thing, in all
movements of the human body. Similarly, change or
transf orma tion-particularly the tran,sf orma tions con-
nected with reproduction-is the framework which sup-
ports the whole body of phenomenal existence. Thus Dr.
Waite says : '' The veil or mask of life is perpetuated in
change, transformation and passage from lower to
higher." Note his use of the verb "perpetuated." The
letter-name Nun, as a proper noun, as when we read that
Joshua was the son of Nun, signifies "perpetuity." In
this connection, note that Joshua, Moses' successor, was
142 The Tarot
the great hero of Israel, after whom Jesus was named.
There is, moreover, an underlying correspondence be-
tween the proper name Nun and the name Joseph. For
Nun has growth and development for its basic meaning,
and Joseph signifies multiplication. Hence, in Jacob's
blessing, recorded in the forty-ninth chapter of Genesis,
we read: "Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful
bough by a well; whose branches run over the wall.''
The name Joshua means literally, "J ah liberates."
The divine name J ah is used in the passage from the
sixty-eight Psalm which runs: "Sing unto God, sing
praises to his name: extol him that rideth upon the
heavens by his name JAH, and rejoice before him."
Qabalists ascribe this divine name to Chokmah, or Wis-
dom, the second aspect of Deity. Chokmah, they say, is
also the Sphere of the Zodiac, or Masloth, '' the highways
of the stars.'' He that '' rideth upon the heavens'' is the
Divine Wisdom which finds expression in the astronomi-
cal order of which our solar system is but a small part.
Consequently, Joshua or "J ah liberates," really means
that ~he entire cosmic order is fundamentally liberative.
It has an irresistible tendency toward the manifes tation
of freedom. ·
In the human heart, this tendency is a continual urge.
It is the basic motivation of every normal person. We
hunger and thirst for liberty. For freedom we sacrifice
~verything else ; and if we are ignorant, we believe we
can attain freedom for ourselves by enslaving others.
Yet the ignorant and the wise are basically the same,
because the realization of perfect freedom is the common
ideal of all men.
To what we adopt as an ideal, to that we give homage.
It is the object of our worship. To it we bow the knee.
Thus, when it is written, '' At the name of Jesus every
knee shall bow,'' we should not suppose it to be a proph-
ecy of a time when all men will be nominal, exoteric
Christians. Th~ name Jesus is just another way of say-
Key 13: Death (Nun) 143
ing the name Joshua, and to the ideal of human liberty
indicated by the fundamental meaning of that name, to
the wisdom which declares the whole cosmic order to be
a process making for freedom, every heart responds.
What Ageless Wisdom always has declared is that
everything works together for freedom and for good, to
them that love God. Modern science begins to confirm
this ancient intuition by showing us that no force or law
of the universe is inimical to man, or an obstacle to his
freedom. To love God is not to go into silly ecstasies of
emotional adoration for a personal Deity. Love is the
fruit of understanding; and when we understand that
the One Life which finds expression in the order of the
heavens of which our world-system is a part is a Life
working al}vays toward the liberation of mankind, we
advance from the fear of the Lord which is only the be-
ginning of wisdom into the recognition of the perfect
beauty of the order of which we are a part. This perfect
love casts out fear, and with the coming of this deeper
understanding comes freedom from fear of death.
It is by death that social changes for the better come
to pass. Old ideas pass away with the death of the per-
sons who hold them. New ideas gain currency as the new
generation comes to maturity. Thus the actual fact of
death is an instrument of progress. And now the time is
close at hand when man shall master the secret of death
itself.
Psychologically, the emphasis falls on imagination.
Change your ideas and your old conception of person-
ality dies. Every few years you have a new body, made
up of trillions of tiny beings, or cells. Change your intel-
lectual patterns, and with the passing away of the pres-
ent generation of cells new ones will come to take their
places. In the mental nucleus of each tiny cell, implanted
there by ·subconscious response to your new patterns,
will be an impulse to realize the new thought in body-
structure, in function, and in external action.
144 Tke Tarot
If your pattern be built in accordance with the ideas
developed through the Tarot series, and culminating in
the self-surrender pictured by the Hanged Man, it will
lead to a complete transformation of your personality.
The "old man" dies. One who arrives at this state can
say with St. Paul, "I die daily." Every morning be-
-0omesa resurrection to the awakened soul. All the old
motives, all the petty ambitions, all the foolish opinions
and prejudices gradually die out, as the cells which carry
them are eliminated in the ordinary course of body-
repair.
Thus,· little by little, there comes a complete readjust-
ment of one's personal conceptions of life and its values.
The change from the personal to the universal view-
point is so radical that mystics often compare it to death.
They are more literal than many of their readers sup-
pose. It is by the death and reproduction of body-cells
that patterns created by imagination are :finallyfixed in
personal consciousness. Then it is that we may truly de-
clare, "The Kingdom of Spirit is embodied in my flesh."
TEMPERANCE
14· TEMn:MNCI: .t,
XVIII
KEY 14: TEMPERANCE (SAMEKH)
Samekh (soft C, or S, value 60) means "tent-peg," or
"prop." It is what makes a tent secure, and thus cor...
responds to what would now be suggested to us by the
foundation of a house. It is the ref ore the letter-symbol
of that which is the basis or support of our house of life.
It is that which sustains, preserves and maintains our
personal existence.
Wrath is the quality associated with Samekh, but this
is a blind. The literal meaning of the original Hebrew
noun is "quivering" or "vibration." A similar blind is
found in the use of the Greek noun thumos, also trans-
lated wrath in the New Testament. The Hebrew word is
RVGZ, and its number is 216, the value of RAIH, sight,
the function attributed to Key 4, The Emperor. 216 is
also the value of ARIH, lion, the name of the zodiacal
sign associated with the Tarot picture of Strength, and
the value of GBVRH, Geburah, Severity, the name of
the strength aspect of the number 5.
The numerical correspondence of these Hebrew words
indicates a basic identity of meaning. Vibration is the
fundamental nature of the fiery power which makes sight
poss1ble, and that same power is the source of all our
strength.
Further:µiore, when translated into Tarot pictures, the
word RVGZ becomes this sequence: The Sun; the Hiero-
phant; the High Priestess; the Lovers. Lay these Keys
on a table, and study them. You will get intimations as
to the real meaning of the vibratory force which would
otherwise escape you. Note that the first letter corre-
sponds to the sun, the second to the sign Taurus, ruled
147
148 The Tarot
by Venus, the third to the moon, and the last to Gemini,
ruled by Mercury. Add the numbers of these Tarot
trumps. The result is 32. As there is no Tarot Key
bearing this number, add the digits, and the result, 5, is
the number of the Hierophant. This, too, is the number
resulting from the reduction of 14, the number of Tem-
perance.
The idea is that vibration is the basis of manifestation,
and that all vibration is essentially like sound, the mode
of vibration which is particularly associated with the
ffierophant. Vibration is fluctuating motion, undulation,
pulsation, alternation. It takes wave-forms.
West-Above, the direction assigned to Samekh, corre-
sponds to the upper boundary of the western face of the
Cube of Space. This is the line of junction between West
(Key 10, The Wheel of Fortune) and Above (Key 1, The
Magician). Here is indicated the combination of the
idea of cycles and rotation with that of concentration and
attentive observation of experience. We shall find this
developed in the picture of Temperance.
Sagittarius, the Archer, is a :fiery,common sign, ruled
by Jupiter (Key 10, The Wheel of Fortune). It governs
the thighs and hips, which support the weight of the body
in standing and ·sitting. The color-correspondence is
blue. The musical tone is G-sharp or A-flat.
Tentative InteZligence,or Intelligence of Probation or
Trial, indicates a mode of consciousness wherein experi-
ence becomesthe test of ideas. It is the kind of conscious-
·ness which puts theory to the test of practical applica-
tion, which makes experiments to verify hypotheses,
which does laboratory work. All such work consists in
the examination and modification of various modes of
vibration.
Temperooce, in the day when Tarot was invented,
meant "tempering" or "modifying." It therefore sug-
gests adaptation. (Here note that the digit value of 14is
5, and 5 means adaptation.) Adaptation is the basis of
Key 14: Temper(l!fl,ce (Samekk) 149
all practical work in Hermetic science. The Emerald
Tablet says: "As all things are from One, so all have
their birth from this One Thing by adaptation.'' Her-
metic scientists endeavor to imitate nature, and adapta-
tion is their method. To adapt is to equalize, to adjust,
to co-ordinate, to equilibrate. Therefore it is written:
"Equilibrium is the basis of the Great Work."
Over the head of the angel, in the B.0.T.A. version of
Key 14, is a rainbow. This is a direct reference to Sagit-
tarius, because the Hebrew name for this sign is QShTh,
Qesheth, the Bow. This is also the .'' bow of promise.''
In the Rider pack, Dr. Waite, with characteristic fond-
ness for being mysterious, substituted for the rainbow
iris flowers, in reference to Iris, Greek goddess of the
rainbow. Behind this rainbow symbolism are recondite
Qabalistic meanings upon which it would be unprofitable
to enlarge in this elementary text. Take what is written
here as a sign-post. If you wish to go farther, consider
its meaning. You might also look up Iris in a good dic-
tionary of mythology.
At the bottom of the picture is a pool, corresponding to
the n1nth Hebrew Sephirah, Yesod, which is the seat of
the automatic consciousness, or vital soul, in man. On
the Tree of Life, the path corresponding to Key 14 con-
nects the sixth Sephirah, Tiphareth, at the center of the
Tree, to Yesod, and thus the pool at the bottom of the
picture is an occult reference to what Qabalists have in
mind when they call Yesod the Sphere of the Moon.
The path rising from the pool appears again in Key 18,
and will be more fully explained in connection with that
card. Observe that it rises over rolling ground, and thus
imitates the wave-motion which is characteristic of all
forms of vibration.
At the upper end of the path is a crown. It signifies
attainment, mastery, and like ideas. It has also a refer-
ence to the esoteric meanings of the number 1, which
Qabalists call "The Crown." The end of the path of at-
150 The Tarot
tainment is the realization of the crown of perfec t union
with the Primal Will. The twin peaks on either side of
the path, under the crown, are Wisdom, the second
Sephirah, and Understanding, the third.
The angel is Michael, archangel of :fire, angel of the
sun, and ruler of the South (Key 19, The Sun). Michael
is also specially connected with Tiphareth on the Tree of
Life. The solar symbol on his head establishes his iden-
tity, as does his yellow hair, and the rays streaming from
it. The fact that Sagittarius is a :fiery sign carr ies the
correspondence still farther. So do the fiery wings of
the angel.
His white robe represents purity and wisdom. At the
neck are written, in Hebrew characters, the letters of the
Tetragrammaton, IHVH. Below the letters is a golden
star with seven points. This has special reference to
skill, because to make such a star a circle must be divided
into seven equal parts. There is no exact mathematical
formula for this. Thus the division must be made by
trial and error. Here we have the underlying idea of the
Intelligence of Probation or Trial. The seven points of
the star symbolize the seven Spirits of God, or aspects
of the Divine Life. They correspond also to the seven
sacred planets, the seven alchemical metals, and the
seven chakras of the Yogis.
One foot of the angel rests on water, symbol of the
cosmic mind -stuff . The other is on land, symbol of con-
crete physical manifestation.
In the Rider pack, the angel pours water from the cup
in his right hand to that in his left. The cups are of gold,
to symbolize the idea that all forms of life-expression
have radiant energy for their basic substance. The upper
cup is self-consciousness, corresponding to the man in
Key 6, The Lovers. The other cup is subconsciousness,
corresponding to the woman in the same picture. The
stream of water (mind-stuff) vibrates between them.
Furthermore, action and reaction are intimated, for when
Key 14: Temperance (Samekh) 151
the lower cup is filled he will reverse the position of the
cups, and that which is now above will become that which
is below.
In the B.O.T.A. version, the symbolism is slightly dif-
ferent, and is based on the esoteric Tarot which has
never been published in its entirety. The angel stands
between a lion and an eagle. The lion is, in the colored
Keys, a dark, earthy brown, like the body of the Devil in
Key 15, because he is a symbol of that same devil, in the
guise of a lion, seeking whom he may devour. Yet this is
also a symbol of fire, and because ARIH, Arieh, the Lion,
has the same numeration as GBVRH, Geburah, Strength,
the lion is a symbol for the Mars-force concentrated in
Geburah. This force is exalted in the sign Capricorn,
and when the Tarot is placed on the Tree of Life, Key
14 stands between the paths of Capricorn and Scorpio.
Thus the composition of this version of Key 14 is a refer-
ence to the place of the Key on the Tree of Life. .For
the eagle on the other side of the picture is a symbol for
the watery sign Scorpio.
Upon the fiery lion the angel pours water. From the
torch in his left hand five flames, shaped like the letter
Yod, fall on the head of the eagle, and a sixth flame
rises. Water on fire, and fire on water, or the action and
reaction of opposites, is thus shown; and this carries out
the general idea of tempering or modification indicated
by the title of the Key.
The angel is the real I AM, or Ego of the entire human
race; having its seat in Tiphareth, the sixth Sephirah.
He is shown adapting and modifying the personal stream
of p-
sychic energy in the actions and reactions of the
self-conscious and subconscious aspects of human per-
sonality. ·
The practical import of the picture is this : We do
nothing of ourselves. The Holy Guardian Angel makes
all the tests and trials which lead us along the path of
attainment. Know this, but act as if you were making the
152 The Tarot
tests yourself. The only correction necessary is the in-
tellectual correction. For practical purposes, the wise
man acts just as if he were doing things '' on his own.''
He knows better, that's all.
In your practice, shoot at some definite mark. Quit
accepting theories and statements-no matter how
plausible they may be-until you have tested them out in
actual practice. The purpose of Ageless Wisdom is to
get you to try, not to persuade you to accept. '1:hus it
is written, "The only failure is failure to try." By trial
you will soon realize that the real working power which
makes the experiments is something higher than your
personality. It is the Angel, on whose robe is written
the identifying name of That which was, and is, and
shall be.
Finally, all your experiments will be in equalization,
in the co-ordination of vibratory activities. There is
nothing in the cosmos but vibration, and all forms of
vibration may be modified and managed by mental con-
trol.
THE DEVIL
THE DE.VIL
XIX
KEY 15: THE DEVIL (AYIN)
A.yin (0, value 70) means "eye" and "foundation." It
signifies also the external, superficial appearances of
things. As organ of sight, the eye is the most important
sense-tool, hence symbolists take it to represent all sensa-
tion, just as the lion, king of beasts, is taken as the rep-
resentative of all subhuman modes of life-expression.
Th~ eye is an orb; vision is limited by the circle of the
horizon; through the eye we see appearances only. Hence
the eye represents the limitations of the visible, and the
bondage of ignorance resulting from the acceptance of
these limitations and appearances as being all there is.
Mirth, the function of consciousness attributed by
Qabalists to the letter Ayin, is usually provoked by in-
congruity, by human weaknesses, foibles, and shortcom-
ings. Nevertheless, laughter is prophylactic. It purifies
subconsciousness and dissolves mental complexes and
conflicts. In a hymn to the sun-god Ra we read: '' Thy
priests go forth at dawn, they wash their hearts with
laughter.'' This is a prescription we may all follow to
advantage.
West-Below combines West (Key 10, The Wheel) with
Below (Key 2, The High Priestess). Here is an intima-
tion that whatever is denoted by Key 15 is the result of
impressions made by the apparently mechanical, fatal
revolutions of circumstance (The Wheel) upon human
subconsciousness (High Priestess). On the Cube of
Space, the line West-Below connects the lower end of the
line North-West to the lower end of the line South-West,
and is the lower boundary of the western face of the cube,
or the western boundary of the lower face.
155
156 The Tarot
Capricorn, the Goat, is a cardinal, earthy sign, govern-
ing the knees, to which we are brought in prayer by our
sense of bondage and personal insufficiency. The natives
of Capricorn are said to be quiet, studious, and somewhat
inclined to materialism. Saturn (Key 21, The World)
rules Capricorn, and Mars (Key 16, The Tower) is ex-
alted therein. The color-correspondence is blue-violet or
indigo. The musical tone is A-natural.
Renewing Intelligence is the mode of consciouness at-
tributed to Ayin. This is directly related to Mirth, be-
cause the perception of incongruities is what actually
brings forth new ideas and adaptations. An incongruity
is something which does not fit. When we find a fact that
does not :fitin with our beliefs, we are obliged to revise
our theories, unless we are the sort of "green apple"
that prefers a comfortable lie to an uncomfortable truth.
It has been, indeed, the incongruity between man's
apparent bondage to circumstance and his ineradicable
intuition that somehow or other he is intended to rule
nature which has driven the race forward in those ave-
nues of research which lead to freedom.
Internally, we know that we are potential lords of crea-
tion. But here we meet a check, and there a def eat,
and so we try to explain why we are not actually as free
as we feel ourselves internally to be. The symbolism of
Key 15 represents the cruder forms of man's answers
to the question, "What keeps me from expressing this
inner freedom I feeU" At the same time, this picture
indicates the correct solution to the problem, and points
to the way which leads out of the difficulty.
The Devil is the English for Latin diabolus, adversary.
The picture refers to man's ideas concerning the nature
of that which seems so relentlessly to oppose his strug-
gles for freedom. In commenting on this, let us once
more remind you of the words ascribed to Jehovah in
Isaiah 45. Remember, too, that the Devil personifies the
Key 15: The Devil (Ayin) 157
serpent-power represented by the letter Teth and Ker
8, Strength.
The name for the serpent which tempted Eve is
NChSh, Nachash, and the number of this word is 358, the
value of MShICh, Messiah. Here is a profound subtlety,
for numerical identity between Hebrew words points to
some inner correspondence of meaning. Finally, it has
been said : '' The Devil is God, as He is misunderstood
by the wicked.''
The number of the trump is 15, which is the number of
IH, Jah, the divine name especially ascribed to Wisdom.
The same number is shown by the number of trefoils on
the tiara of the Hierophant. By addition of digits, 15
reduces to 6, the number of the Lovers. Furthermore, 15
is the sum of the numbers from Oto 5, so that the Hiero-
phant (5), regarded as the summation of a series begin-
ning with O, refers also to Key 15. Compare, now, the
Devil with the Lovers and the Hierophant.
The background of Key 15 is black, color of darkness,
ignorance, limitation, and also of that which is hidden or
occult. Here is an intimation that ignorance is the un-
derlying cause of bondage. A hint, also, that the ridicu-
lous :figure of the Devil is a veil for a profound secret of
practical occultism.
,..
The Devil himself is the polar opposite of the angel
shown in the preceding major trump. He is also a carica-
ture of the angel over the heads of the Lovers, even as
the :figures below him are bestialized reproductions of the
man and the woman in Key 6.
Goat's horns on his head refer to the sign Capricorn.
His wings are bat's wings, signifying the powers of dark-
ness. His face is that of a goat, but he has the ears of a
donkey, to suggest the obstinacy and stubbornness of
materialism. His body is thick-set and gross, and of an
earthen color, to represent the earthy quality of the sign
Capricorn. One side is masculine, the other feminine,
158 The Tarot
because what he represents partakes of the characteris-
tics of both sexes.
Between his horns is a white, inverted Pentagram.
This is a key to the whole meaning of the figure. For the
Pentagram is the symbol of man, and an ·inverted Penta-
gram suggests the reversal of true understanding of
man's place in the cosmos. In point of fact, the mistaken
estimate of man's powers and possibilities is all that
keeps any one in bondage.
The Devil's uplifted right hand has all its :fingers open,
as if in contradiction to the sign of esotericism made by
the Hierophant. The latter's gesture says: "What you
see is not all there is to know.'' The Devil's gesture in-
timates: "What sensation reports is all there is to it."
On the palm of this uplifted hand is outlined an astro-
logical symbol of the planet Saturn, ruling in Capricorn.
Saturn is the planet of limitation, inertia, and the refore
of ignorance.
In his left hand is a torch, burning wastefully, and
giving little light. The torch is a phallic symbol, rep-
resenting the transmission of life from generation to
generation. Its fiery quality refers also to the exaltation
of the Mars vibration in Capricorn. In one sense, this
is the fiery torch of revolution, based on materialistic
interpretations of experience, the torch of terrorism and
anarchy.
It may be worth mentioning that this Devil has a navel.
He is a human product, begotten of man's ignorance. A
symbol of Mercury is shown just below his navel, to in-
dicate that he is a product of faulty observation and
superficial reasoning.
His feet are the claws of an eagle. The eagle is the
bird corresponding to the sign Scorpio. Here the eagle's
claws refer to the materialization and misuse of the
reproductive power, and its debasement in the service of
sensuality.
The Devil sits on a pedestal which is a half-cube. Since
Key 15: The Devil (Ayin) 159
a cube represents That which was, is, and shall be, a half-
cube symbolizes half-knowledge of that reality. Half-
knowledge perceives nothing but the visible, sensory
side of existence.
To this ·half-cube are chained smaller figures, rep-
resenting self-conscious and subconscious modes of hu-
man mentality. Their horns, hoofs and tails show that
when reasoning takes its premises from surface appear-
ances, human consciousness becomes bestialized. Observe
that, though they are chained to the cube, the loops of
the chains are so large that they might lift them off their
heads. Their bondage is imaginary.
This picture represents the first stage of spiritual un-
foldment. It is the stage of conscious bondage. The
Devil personifies the false conception that man is bound
by material conditions, the false notion that he is a slave
to necessity, a sport of chance.
In truth, the forces which appear to be our adversaries
are always ready to serve us. The one condition is that
we understand our essential freedom, and take account
of the hidden side of existence. Then, when we conform
our practice to our knowledge, liberation begins. The
Devil is sensation, divorced by ignorance from under-
standing. Yet he is also what brings renewal, because we
can make no real effort to be free until we feel our limita-
tions. Until they irk us, we can make no effort to strike
off our chains.
16 THE. TO\Vm ~
xx
KEY 16: THE TOWER (PEH)
Peh (P, Ph, F; value 80; as a final letter, 800) means
"the mouth as the organ of speech." It therefore sym-
bolizes power of utterance. Out of it are the issues of life.
North is the place of darkness, of the unknown, of the
sun's annual death. On the Cube of Space, as ordinarily
shown in diagrams, it is the side on the observer's left.
Mars, the planet attributed to Peh, rules Aries (Key 4,
The Emperor) and Scorpio (Key 13, Death), and is
exalted in Capricorn (Key 15, The Devil). According to
astrologers, the Mars vibration is scientific, and is active
in sight. It is the force which finds expression in re-
production, and it gives tonicity to the muscles, being thus
the basis of all human activity. In its psychological mani-
festations it is the destructive, iconoclastic force which
tears down the structures of ancient custom and tradi-
tion. Its color is scarlet, and the corresponding musical
tone is C-natural.
Grace and Sin, or Beauty and Ugliness, are the pair of
opposites attributed by Qabalists to the letter Peh, be-
cause the issues of life, directed by human speech, result
in one or the other. Sin, or "missing the mark," results
in maladjustment and ugliness. Hitting the mark in right
action results in the manifestation of beauty.
Active or Exciting Intelligence is the mode of con-
sciousness attributed to Peh. It stirs up activity, sets
.things going, produces changes, effects transformations.
·Note, in this connection, that in Key 1 the Magician
wears a red outer garment.
The Tower is one of several titles, among them being
"The Lightning-struck Tower," "The Fire of Heaven,"
161
162 The Tarot
and "The House of God." It refers traditionally to the
Tower of Babel, at which human speech was confounded.
When this Key is called '' La Maison de Dieu,'' or '' The
House of God,'' the title indicates the exoteric str ucture
of religious belief. Note that the number of this K ey, 16,
digits to 7, the number of the Chariot, which ref ers to
Speech.
The lightning is a masculine symbol. In the Bhagavad -:
Gita, Krishna says: "Among weapons, I am the thunder-
bolt.'' It is interesting to note that when lightning-fl ashes,
artificially produced, were photographed at the Westing-
house laboratories, they were shown to be spirals, rather
than zig-zags. This fact may have been known to the
ancients, for The Chaldean Oracles of Zoroaster speak
of the Suprewe Spirit as "the god who energizes a spiral
force.'' In olden times lightning was an emblem of fe-
cundation and nutrition, as we learn from Plutarc h, who
says: '' The agriculturalists call the lightning the ferti-
lizer of the waters, and so regard it."
The lightning-flash is the power drawn from above by
the Magician. It is the sword of the Chariotee r, the
scepter of the Emperor, the force which turns the Wheel
of Fortune, the scythe of Death, and the light stre aming
from the Hermit's lantern. It breaks down existing
forms in order to make room for new ones.
. For Qabalists, the lightning-flash is a symbol of the
tenfold emanation of the Life-power. In the B.O.T.A.
version of Key 16, therefore, the thunderbolt is so drawn
that it corresponds to the familiar Qabalistic diagram
of the lightning-fla sh. Concerning this The Bo ok of
Formation says: "Ten ineffable Sephiroth (numera-
tions) ; their appearance is like that of a flash of light-
ning, their goal is infinite.'' In terms of consciousness,
the ·lightning-flash symbolizes a sudden, momentary
glimpse of truth, a flash of inspiration which breaks
down structures of ignorance and false reasoning.
The tower has the same basic meaning as the garden
Key 16: The Tower (Peh) 163
of the Magician, the throne of the Emperor, the turning
Wheel, the field in Key 13. It is subconsciousness, con-
sidered as the root-substance which takes form, first as
mental images, and ultimately as physical things. From
moment to moment, throughout all time, it is being trans-
formed. It is the Prakriti of the Hindus, concerning
which it is written: '' True knowledge makes Prakriti
disappear, first as containing Purusha (the I AM), and
then as separate from Purusha.''
The falling figures correspond to the chained prisoners
in the preceding picture. They fall headfirst, because the
sudden influx of spiritual consciousness represented by
the lightning-flash completely upsets all our old notions
about the relations between subconsciousness and self-
consc10usness.
These figures are clothed, and the man wears both red
and blue, to show a mixture of conscious and subcon-
scious acti yities. Similarly, the woman is shod with red,
but wears a blue robe. The woman, furthermore, is
crowned. In false knowledge, subconscious motives are
permitted to dominate the personality. Thus people ex- ·
cuse themselves for unintelligent action by saying, "I
can't help it; that's the way I feel."
This domination of personality by emotion, and by tele-
pathic invasion through subconsciousness, is overcome
by right knowledge. So is the concealment and division
between consciousness and subconsciousness, here in-
dicated by the fact that the falling figures are fully
clothed.
The crown knocked from the tower by the lightning-
flash is the materialistic notion that matter and form are
the ruling principles of existence. Since "Crown" is a
Qabalistic term relating to the number 1, and to Will,
this crown refers to the false monism of the materialist,
and to the false interpretation of will which makes it
something personal, something which may be set against
the impulse originating in the cosmic Purpose.
164 The Tarot
The tower has twenty-two courses of masonry, and is
built of brick. In Hebrew, the word for moon and the
word for brick is spelt with precisely the same letters,
LBNH, because the white Babylonian bricks resemble
moonlight. Bricks are made of clay, and clay is th e sym-
bol of Adam. Thus the tower suggests a structure of
human speech, because its twenty-two courses correspond
to the number of letters in the Hebrew alphabet. It is
reared on a lonely peak, and suggests the fallacy of per-
sonal isolation which is the basis of all false philo B
ophy.
By contrast with the twenty-two courses of masonry,
twenty-two Hebrew Yods are shown, hanging in the air
on eithe; side of the building. These represe nt the
twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet, and the forces
corresponding thereto. Ten, on one side of the Tower are
arranged in the form of the Tree of Life. They also rep-
resent the elementary and planetary letters. The twelve
on the other side represent the twelve zodia.cal lette·
rs.
They hang in the air, to indicate that the force s they
symbolize rest on no physical foundation.
This picture corresponds to the second stage of spiritual
unfoldment, · wherein a series of sudden, :fitful inspira-
tions leads to the perception that the structure of knowl-
edge built on the foundation of the fallacy of personal
separateness is a tower of false science. At this :s
tage ,
the advancing seeker for wisdom suffers the destr uction
of his whole former philosophy. Fo r this tower is built
upon a foundation of misapprehension. The whole struc-
ture is an elaboratio n of superficial observation, tradi-
tional race-thought, false reasoning and an erro neous
theory of will.
THE STAR
• f••
17 THE STAR
XXI
KEY 17: THE STAR (TZADDI)
Tzaddi (Ts, Tz, or Oz as in "Czar"; value 90, as a final
letter, 900) means "fish-hook," signifying that which
draws the fish (Nun) out of the water (Mem). The water
is reflected, personal existence, symbolized by the
Hanged Man. It is also, in a sense, the ocean of subcon-
scious mentality. The fish symbolizes transforming and
reproductive power. The activity which lifts the fish up
out of the material relations of personal existence, and
utilizes the reproductive forces as a regenerative agency, '.
is what is indicated here.
Now, a fish-hook is a symbol of angling. Thus in our
thought it is related to the ideas of experimentation,
. quest and research. It is a quest for that which is not
definitely realized as yet, a sort of groping, a feeling of
one's way, that we speak of as ''fishing.'' What is clearly
intimated here is that whatever the fish-hook symbolizes
must be some agency or instrumentality whereby one
investigates the unseen and the unknown, whereby one
makes attempts to solve enigmas, or to discover secrets,
or to follow a more or less faint trail leading to the solu-
tion of a mystery.
Meditation is the function attributed to Tzaddi. It has
been defined as "an unbroken flow of knowledge in a
particular object." It is a fishing for truth in the depths
of subconsciousness. The Hebrew word means literally
''conception," and is a transference to things mental of
the idea of physical conception. It refers to the budding
or germination of ideas. Ger]llinal processes in both
plant and animal organisms go on i:u darkness. They
are, moreover, rudimentary. What we are considering
167
168 The Tarot
here, therefore, has to do with the early stages of mental
unfoldment, with the genesis of ideas, rather tha n with
thei r full development.
Pra ctically, meditation is the only safe regene rative
method, because it draws nerve-force up from the re-
productive centers without any actual :fixation of atten-
tion on the centers themselves, and without any thought ·1
about the sex-functions. .
South-Above, the direction attributed to Tzaddi, is the
line on the Cube of Space joining the upper ends of the
lines South-West and South-East, and forming the south-
ern boundary of the upper surf ace of the cube, or the
upper boundary of the southern face. It combines South
(Key 19, The Sun) with Above (Key 1, The Magi cian).
This is the combination of the radiant energy of the sun
with the directive influence of Mercury. Meditation is the
direction of currents of solar force by acts of self-con-
scious attention.
Aquarius, the Water-bearer, an airy, fixed sign, is
attributed by Qabalists to Tzaddi. It is represent ed by
the Man among-the "living creatures" of Ezekiel and the
Apocalypse. Its astrological symbol is shown on the
Wheel of Fortune, two wavy lines, one above the other.
This is also an alchemica l symbol for dissolution, and we
have already seen that solution is one of the idea s con-
nected with the symbol of the fish-hook. The Aquarius
symbol, moreover, is one of many Hermetic repre senta-
tions of the axiom, '' That which is above is as that which
is below.''
Ancient astrology made Saturn (Key 21, The World)
ruler of Aquarius. Modern astrologers find that thi s sign
receives also the influence of Uranus (Key 0, The Fool).
Aquarius governs the ankles. Aquarians are said to be
intuitive, and fond of occult research. They succeed in
pursuits where steady mental application and intense
concentration are necessary. That is, they are naturally
meditative, naturally given to activities which lead to
Key 17: The Star (Tzaddi) 169
the discovery of difficult, elusive modes of truth. All this
agrees with the ideas associated with Tzaddi. The color-
correspondence to Aquarius is violet. Its musical tone is
A-sharp or B-flat.
Natural Intelligence is the mode of consciousness attrib-
uted to Tzaddi. The Hebrew of the adjective "natural"
is from the root TBO, meaning literally "to sink." The
connection with the fish-hook, which must be dropped in
water to catch the fish, is obvious. Natural Intelligence,
or awareness of the hidden qualities of nature, is arrived ,
at by meditation. This is the great secret of the occult
power wielded by Oriental adepts. See Patanjali's Yoga
.Aphorisms, for the enumeration of the many "powers"
which may be developed by intense concentration and
prolonged meditation.
Because the number 17 reduces to 8, this picture has ./
occult correspondence to the trump entitled Strength.
It shows the method whereby knowledge of the Great
Secret is attained. This method solves the mysteries of
nature, and, as the picture shows, unveils her to the en-
lightened seer.
The great yellow star signifies the co§mic radiant ,
energy which is sent forth from the various suns and
fixed stars of the universe. It has eight ;points. Thus its
geometrical construction is like that of the Wheel of
Fortune, or the symbols of Spirit embroidered on the
dress of the Fool. This star symbolizes the solar energy
hinted at by the attribution of the direction South-Above
to the letter Tzaddi. Tlie inventors of Tarot used in-
numerable devices to remind us that in our mental and
magical work we are using an actual force which has
definite physical forms of expression. Meditation modi-
fies and transmutes the personal expression of this
cosmic energy, and that personal expression is what we
term nerve-force.
The seven smaller ·stars refer to the seven '' interior
stars,'' which are the same as the '' chakras '' mentioned
170 The Tarot
by Hindu occultists. They are also the "metals" of al-
chemy, and the planets of esoteric astrology. They are:
Sacral plexus, Saturn, Lead, Muladhara chakra; Prosta-
tic ganglion (below the navel), Mars, Iron, Svadistthana
chakra; Solar Plexus, Jupiter, Tin, Manipura chakra;
Cardiac plexus, Sun, Gold, Anahata chakra; Pharyngeal
plexus, Venus, Copp"er· or Brass, Visuddhi chakra ;
Pituitary, or post-nasal ganglion, Moon, §!,Iver, Ajna.
chakra; Pineal gland, Mercury, Quicksilver, Sahasrara
chakra. They are shown white, to indicate purification.
As said, one should beware of fixing attention upon
the centers themselves. Their activity may be stimu-
lated by engaging in the kind of meditation suggested by
the modes of intelligence attributed to the corresponding
letters. Thus Saturn is represented in Tarot by Key 21
and the Administrative Intelligence; Mars by Key 16
and the Exciting Intelligence; Jupiter by Key 10 and the
Intelligence of Conciliation; the Sun by Key 19 and the
Collective Intelligence; Venus by Key 3 and the Lumi-~
nous Intelligence; the Moon by Key 2 and the Uniting
Intelligence ; Mercury by Key 1 and the Intelligence of
Transparency.
Using the Tarot Keys just enumerated as centers for
concentration will arouse the activity of the correspond-
ing centers, without any danger of physical congestion.
Remember, this is mental angling. This outline and its
explanations are only guide-posts. They are intended
to tell you how to make use of Tarot. Yet further in-
vestigation and study must supplement what you will
find in· these pages. When Eliphas Levi promises the
acquisition of a universal science from the Tarot, he im-
plies that the student must use the Keys. You have just
now been referred to Patanjali's Yoga Aphorisms, and
their enumeration of the powers to be gained from med-
itation. The Tarot pictures are keys to the liberation of
such powers by the same method. Behind their symbols
Key 17: The Star (Tzaddi) 171
are practical secrets of occultism which cannot be put
into words.
Lesser secrets, too, are hidden there, which might be
written out; but my teachers have convinced me that
such a course would be inadvisable. The plain truth is
that the first rule in occult teaching is that the pupil
should be told almost nothing that he can find out for
himself. These pages put you on the track of discovery.
Your own work with the Tarot Keys is the only thing
that will bring you to the point where you will possess
actual first-hand knowledge of the secrets of practical
occultism. -
The mountain in the background means just what it
does in Keys 6 and 8. It is a symbol of the Great Work.
The bird on the bush is a scarlet ibis. This is the Egyp-
tian bird sacred to Hermes, the Magician. Its long bill is
a natural fish-hook. Perched on a tree which represents
__)the human brain and nervous system, it symbolizes the
act of bringing intellectual activity, or the thought-proc-
ess, to rest by concentration. We have to stop thinking
in order to meditate properly, and when we stop thinking ·
Truth unveils herself to us. J
The woman is Hathor, or Mother Nature. In some
respects we may identify her with the Empress. In
others she corresponds to the High Priestess. She is
also the woman who, in Key 8, tames the lion and opens
his mouth. For meditation is largely the utilization and
direction of the powers of deduction and imagination
peculiar to subconsciousness. The knowledge gained in
meditation is gleaned from the imperishable record of
the memory of nature, symbolized by the scroll of the
High Priestess. Furthermore, meditation develops spe-
cific powers, and does this by controlling the animal
forces in human personality, as pictured in Key 8.
The pool is the universal consciousness, or reservoir
of cosmic mind-stuff, which is stirred into vibration by
the act of meditation. This is indicated by the stream of
172 The Tarot
water flowing into the pool from the right-hand pitcher ~
It indicates direct modification of the. cosmic mind--stuff,
apart from sensory experience. The stream fl.owingfrom
the other pitcher divides into five rivulets, which flow
back to the pool along the ground. They indicate th e fact ·
that meditation also modifies sensation, and unfolds
higher and subtler type s of sense experience.
The left knee of the woman, supporting her weight,
rests on earth. Her right knee, bent to form the angle
of a square, is over the pool, and her right foot rests on
the surface of the water. Thus the earth suppor ts her
weight, but she balances hers elf by water. That is, sensa-
tions derived from physical forms are the main support
of meditation, but the se are balanced by experience
gained dir ect from _
subconsciousness !
This picture shows the third stage of spiritual unfold-
ment. It is the calm which follows the storm depict ed by ·
Key 16. It is a period of quest and search. The light is
dim, like starlight, but these stars are distant suns. Thus
it is written: "When you have found the beginning of
the way, the star of your soul will show its light.' '
THE MOON
NOOW:ID.I. 81
CJ
XXII
KEY 18: THE MOON (QOPH)
Qoph (Q, value 100) means "back of the head." This
is the part of the skull which contains the cerebellum and
the medulla oblongata. These parts of the brain are
related to the functions of human personality which man
shares with the rest of the animal kingdom. The medulla,
in particular, governs some of the most important bodily
activities. The cells of this organ remain awake when
the rest of the brain is asleep.
"Head," moreover, means "chief," in Hebrew as in
English; and in the sequence of the Hebrew alphabet,
the letter Qoph, '' back of the head,'' precedes the letter
Resh, which means "head, or countenance." Thus, in
the series of letters Qoph is actually behind, or back of,
Resh, the head. Qoph therefore represents what comes
before the dominion and rulership of which the word
''head'' is a symbol. This is true, also, of the occult
meanings of Qoph, which relate to states of conscious-
ness anterior to perfect control, and leading thereto.
Sleep is the function assigned to Qoph. Sleep is the
pe:uiod of physiological repair, during which the cells of
the body undergo subtle changes which make the advanc-
ing student of occultism ready to experience and under-
stand facts and phenomena concealed from ordinary
men. These facts are the experiential basis of Ageless
Wisdom.
The word translated "sleep" is from The Book of
Formation. It is a technical term in Rabbinical Hebrew,
spelt ShINH, and having the value 365. Furthermore,
by transposition of letters, it may be read HShIN, or Ha-
Shin, "the tooth." Thus it is a word whose number, like
175
176 The Tarot
the Greek abraxas, which also adds to 365, may be a
. mystery-term relating to the number of days, and to the
i number of "eons" ruling the year. It also hints at a
correspondence to the "Holy Letter," Shin.
South-Below corresponds to the lower line on the
southern face of the Cube of Space. This line connects
the lower end of the line South-West to the lower end of
the line South-East. It is the ·line of junction between
the southern face of the cube (Key 19) and the lower
face (Key 2). One suggestion is that the solar radiance
is reflected by subconsciousness. In the processe s ante-
rior to complete control, the directive action of cosmic
tendencies is reflected into the personal sphere of action
by the agency of subconscious states. Up to a certain
point, the cosmic Life- power molds its vehicles without
their co-operation. La ter, those vehicles become aware
of what is going on, and share consciously in the work.
Pisces, the Fishes, a mutable, watery sign is attributed
to the letter Qoph. It is ruled by Jupiter (Key :LO)and
by Neptune (Key 12). Consideration of the Tarot Keys
here indicated will make the meaning clearer.
The processes we are now learning about are the direct
outcome of the "wheels within wheels" of the i terlock-
ing cycles and rotations of cosmic activities. At the
same time, there is a point in human evolutio , repre-
sented by the Hanged Man, at which we become aware
of the fact that personality is only an instrument or
channel for the universal forces active in the Great
Work. This awareness is also part of the devel opmenta l
process represented by the symbolism of Key 18.
It is also related to the sign Pisces because i,hat sign
governs the feet of man; and because feet are the path-
makers, Pisces relates to that Way of which the begin-
ning is found when meditation reveals the "star of the
soul.'' Venus is said to be exalted in Pisces. That is to
say, what the Empress symbolizes reaches its highest ex-
pression in this sign, and therefore in the procesii o?cultly
Key 18: The Moon (Qoph) 177
corresponding to it. Thus we may expect to find that
imagination plays an important part in the activities
now under consideration. The color corresponding to
Pisces is violet-red. The musical tone is B-natural.
Corporeal Intelligence means '' body consciousness,''
that is, the aggregate intelligence of the cells of the body.
The root of the word translated "corporeal" is a Hebrew
verb meaning "to rain upon," and we shall find an indi-
cation of this in the symbolism of Key 18.
The number 18 is 9 by reduction. The Hermit is the
goal of the path shown in this picture. With him we are
united, according to occult teaching, whenever we experi-
ence flreamless sleep. Profound sleep is the state in
which personal consciousness is perfectly joined to the
real I AM.
The Moon symbolizes the reflected light of subcon-
sciousness. The drops of light falling from it correspond
to the implication that "corporeal" is related to "rain."
They are eighteen Hebrew Yods, corresponding to the
number of the Key. (In the Rider pack the number is
15, which somewhat confuses the symbolism.) The num-
ber 18 is the value of the Hebrew noun ChI, Chai, signi-
fying "life." Thus the falling Yods refer to the descent
of the life-force from above into the conditions of corpo-
real existence.
The pool be!ow is the same as that shown in the four-
teenth and seventeenth Keys. It is the "great deep"
of cosmic mind-stuff, out of which emerges the '' dry
land" of physical manifestation. From it all organic
life proceeds. The pool also refers to the ninth of the
Qabalistic Sephiroth, Yesod, which is known as the
Sphere of the Moon, and is the seat of the Vital Soul,
manifested in man as the automatic consciousness, gen-
erally ref erred to in this book as subconsciousness.
The shell-fish climbing from the pool is a symbol of the
early stages of conscious unfoldment. In these first
developments of consciousness, the individual seems to
178 The Tarot
be isolated from the rest of nature. In a certain aspect
of Tarot, related to Egyptian occult doctrines, the shell-
fish symbolizes the god Khephra.
The path, rising and falling, has been worn by the feet
(Pisces) of those who have traveled this way before.
It passes between two animals of the same genu s, both
canine. One, a wolf, remains what nature made him.
The other, a dog, is a product of human adaptatio n. Thus
the path passes between the extremes of nature and art.
At its very beginning, where it rises from the margin
of the pool, the path is bordered by stones and plants,
symbols of the mineral and vegetable kingdoms. Then it
progresses to the point where wolf and dog ar e shown,
as symbols of the animal 'kingdom. In the foreground
it traverses a cultivated field, which symbolizes matters
of more or less general knowledge, until it comes to two
towers, which mark the boundaries of the known. Then
it continues into the Beyond, rising and falling throug h
blue distances which represent the planes of conscious-
ness open to us during sleep or trance.
The towers are the handiwork of man. In the B.O.T.A.
version they have battlements. This is because they rep-
resent the mental attitude of the average man , who con-
ceives himself to be surrounded by a hostile environme nt,
against which he must fight, and from which he must '
protect himself. Thus the towers correspo n:
/1 to the
mental states symbolized by the hard carapace of the
shell-fish.
The path rises and falls, suggesting periodicity, wave-
motion, vibration. Yet it continually ascends, so that,
as one progresses, the time comes when his most de-
pressed states of consciousness are at a higher level than
some of his earlier exaltations. 1
·
Key 18 represents the fourth stage of spiritual unfold-
ment, wherein the knowledge gained by meditation is in-
corporated into the bodily organism. It is the stage of
body-building, or organization in accordan ce with sub-
Key 18: The Moon (Qoph) 179
conscious mental patterns. In the tableau of major
trumps given at the beginning of this outline you will
:find Key 18 at the bottom of a row of three pictures.
At the top is the Emperor, because reason is the mental
tool by which we prepare for right action. In the middle
is Justice, representing the law of poised activity, be-
cause only by action may we make any progress. At the
bottom is the Moon, representing the actual organization
of the body-cells. Without organism there can be neither
function nor faculty. The unfoldment of our latent
powers is made possible by physiological changes in these
bodies of flesh and blood.
Thus it is written: "Flesh and blood cannot inherit the v
kingdom of God,'' because the changes we speak of are
not transmissible from generation to generation. Nature
gives us the wild body. Art must perfect i:t. Yet a flesh
and blood body is the necessary vehicle for mastery as
expressed here on the physical plane, and though it can-
not inherit or transmit the powers of adeptship, it can
become a vehicle for those powers when it is rightly
organized by adaptive methods.
19 THI: SUN .,
XXIII
KEY 19: THE SUN (RESH)
Resh (R, value 200) means the head and face of man. In
the head are gathered together, or collected, all the dis-
tinctively human powers; The word ''countenance,'' in
fact, is derived from a Latin verb meaning "to hold to-
gether, to contain." Again, the head of any project is its
organizer, director, guiding power, manager, controller.
Thus we may expect to find in the symbols of Key 19
plain intimations of authority and leadership.
South is the place of the sun's meridian height, the
place of its greatest brilliance and power. On the Cube
of Space, this is the southern face, on the observer's right
when the cube is viewed from the west.
The Sun is the heavenly body corresponding to Resh.
We
have found it exalted in Aries (Key 4, The Emperor)
and ruling Leo (Key 8, Strength). It is the power which
reaches its highest manifestation in reason, and which
always and everywhere is the ruling force which makes
effective the law symbolized by Strength.
Fruitfulness and Sterility, the pair of opposites at-
tributed to Resh, are the extremes of expression in the
manifestation of solar force. The sun causes all growth,
but it also makes deserts.
Collecting or Collective Intelligence is the mode of
consciousness. To collect is to assemble, to bring to-
gether, to combine, to unify, to embody, to synthesize.
The Collective Intelligence concentrates all the modes of
consciousness which have gone before, and combines
them together in a new form. Thus it is a regenerative
mode of consciousness, incorporating all the elements of
control in a new realization of personality.
181
182 The Tarot
As the number 19 may be reduced to 10, while 10, in
turn, may be reduced to 1, we may understand that the
symbolism of the picture now before us is logica lly de-
pendent on that of the Magician (1) and also on that of
the Wheel of Fortune (10). It is also the final term of
the series of Keys representing self-consciousnes s intel-
lection, viz., 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16.
The title refers to the dominant symbol, which is a sun
with a human counten ance. It represents the truth that
the seemingly material forces of nature really ar e modes
of a consctous energy, essentially human in character and
potencies. The rays of the sun are alternatively waved
and salient. The wavy rays represent vibration. The
straight ones represent radiation, which is apparently
in straight lines.
Four sunflowers, representing the four Qa]?alistic
worlds, and the four kingdoms of nature, mineral, vege-
table, animal and human, turn, not toward the day-star,
but toward the little children, as if to hint that all crea-
tion turns to man for its final development . In the
B.O.T.A. version a :fifth sunflower is shown. It is still
in bud, and turns toward the sun. This bud represen ts
the "Fifth Kingdom," the kingdom of the Spiritual
Israel, composed of human beings who, by understanding
the law of evolution which has brought organized life-
expression as far as ordinary genus homo, is enabl ed
to apply that law to the self-evolution of a "new crea-
ture, " 'who is as far beyond ordinary humanity as the
average human being is beyond the animah i. As yet,
though the whole line of sages, prophets, adepts and
masters belongs to the Fifth Kingdom, that company
of new creatures is small, by comparison with the mass
of humanity. Thus it is symbolized by a sunflower in
bud, rather than in full bloom; and because the outstana-
ing characteristic of all members of the Fifth King dom
is their utter dependence on the universal Life-po wer,
this :fifth flower turns toward the sun.
Key 19: The Sun (Resh) 183
The wall in the background represents human adapta-
tion of natural conditions. It is, furthermore, a symbol
of the whole chain of ideas related to the letter Cheth,
because it is a stone fence. Thus it is a symbol of all the
ideas represented by Key 7 of Tarot, especially the idea
of speech.
Thus Life and the Word (flowers and wall) are shown
in the background of Key 19, to indicate the underlying
forces at work in what is symbolized by this Key. Note
that in the B.O.T.A. version the wall is of stone, in con-
trast to the bricks which compose the tower in Key 16.
Wherever stone appears in Tarot symbolism we are to
understand it as a reference to the Hebrew word ABN,
Ehben, and thus to the perfect union between the Divine
Wisdom which Qabalists call AB, Ab, the Father, and
the One Self of the entire human race, which they call
BN, Ben, the Son. Human speech (the wall) is actually
the manifestation of this union, because all personal con-
sciousness is based on the indissoluble union of the cos-
mic life-force (Ab, the Father) with the central Self
(Ben, the Son) seated in the hearts of men.
From the most primitive speech to the most highly
evolved languages, humanity's word-forms evolve as a
direct consequence of the fact that the word-rp.aker is the
central Self. As t.
hat Self evolves higher and higher
types of personality, through successive rounds and
races, language becomes a more and more adequate
vehicle for the expression of ideas. Yet all human lan-
guage has one basic limitation. Its words are descrip-
tions of, or labels for, various types of sense experience.
Thus the wall, though it is of stone, has five courses,
symbolizing the five human senses. Even in the lan-
guages which have the largest vocabularies, all concrete
terms are limited to describing things and activities
within range of the senses, and all abstract terms are
derived directly from the field of sensory experience.
This is why language fails whenever one attempts to
/
184 The Tarot
use it to represent experiences which go beyond the range
of physical sensation. This is why mystics and seers are
1forced to resort to symbolic uses of language. It is not
that they are trying to hide anything. Nobody could be
more eager to express himself than a wise man who has
had first-hand knowledge of the inner and higher planes
of experience. This is especially apparent in the writings
of the alchemists, who had discovered a Grea t Secret
they wished to share with their fellowmen. Yet none of
them succeeded in saying what he saw. To most readers,
the alchemists seem to be doing their best to conceal
what they know. The truth of the matter is that ordinary
speech will not serve to convey this kind of experien ce
from one mind to another.
On the other hand, he who has had the exper ience finds
that he has no difficulty in understanding the words. As
one grows into the state of consciousness we have called
the Fifth Kingdom, one understands the special meanings
which the sages give to words, and discovers that for the
seers of all periods of human history there is, so to say,
a "new tongue," intelligible to all who have had the ......
higher kind of experience.
{ Yet even this "magical language" will not serve to ex-
mress the highest forms of realization. Consequentl y the
children in this Key are shown standing with their backs
to the wall, and the little girl, indeed, turn the palm of
her hand _
toward the wall, as if in a gesture of repudia-
tion.
Both children are nude, to show their state of Edenic
innocence, comparable to that of the Lovers in Key 6.
They are not quite adolescent, to indicate that thi s stage
of unfoldment, though it is one of regeneration , is not
v the full unfoldment of the powers of the F ifth Kingdom.
The children represent consciousne ss and subcon-
_
sciousness, and they are dancing in a fairy ring, their
hands clasped, to suggest the perfect union and rhythm ic
synchronization of the activities of the two modes of hu-
Key 19: The Swn (Resh) 185
man personality. Each has one foot planted :firmlyin the
central circle of the ring, so that the other foot is free to
swing; and the boy's right hand is extended before him,
palm upward, as if ready to accept something he expects
to receive.
This Key represents the :fifth stage of unfoldment. It
is a degree of adeptship, that of liberation from the limi-
tations of physical matter and circumstances. It is also
a grade of conscious self-identification with the One Life.
Yet it is not :final. For though it is a stage wherein all
physical forces are under the control of the adept, who,
having himself become childlike, realizes in his own per:
son the fulfilment of the promise, '' A little child shall
lead them"-yet a person who has reached this grade
still feels himself to be a separate, or at least a distinct
entity. This is not full liberation, though it is a higher
stage than any of those preceding it. It is, in particular,
the stage in which all physical forces are dominated by
the will of the adept, because he is an unobstructed
vehicle for the One Will which always has ruled those
forces, since the beginning.
NOTE: Since Key 19 is one in which the symbolism of
the B.O.T.A. version, though conforming to that of most
other Tarot packs, differs markedly from that of the
Rider pack, we feel impelled to close this chapter with
the four paragraphs explaining the meaning of the cen-
tral :figure in the symbolism devised by Dr. Waite. We
quote from the first edition of: Key to the Tarot.
"The child is fair, like the Fool, and like the Fool,
wears a wreath and a red feather. The feather has the
same meaning as that of the Fool. The wreath is of
flowers, instead of leaves, intimating the near approach
to the harvest of final realization and liberation.
"The child is naked, in accordance with an old Qa-
balistic saying that Spirit clothes itself to come down,
and divests itself of the garments of matter to go up. \J --t
The nipples and navel of the child are the points of a
186 The Tarot
water triangle, hinting at the letter Mem and the Hanged
Man. For the stage of unfoldment represented by the
Sun is the expression of the law the Hanged Man sym-
bolizes.
"His red banner signifies action and vibration. Its
black staff is like the black wand of the Fool, but is tipped
with a point, similar to the staff of the Chariot eer, and
like it, signifying concentration. The banner is carrie d
in the left hand as an intimation that the meaf!uremen t
and control of vibration which it indicates has passed
from self-consciousness (right hand) to subconsciou s-
ness-has become automatic ... Thus it is easy, and the
great standard seems no burden to the boy.
'' He rides a horse, symbol of solar energy, similar to
the horse of Death [Key 13 in the Rider pack]. He rides
without saddle or bridle, because he represents perf ect
balance. That balance is maintained by his outstretched
right hand, which represents self-consciousness. He is
the regene rated personality, recognizing and affirming
its unity with the Father, or Source of all. He leaves be-
hind the artificial erections of race-consciousness, and
fares forth free and joyous on his journey home.''
JUDGEMENT
;JUDCEME.NT
XXIV
KEY 20: JUDGEMENT (SHIN)
Bhin (Sh, value 300) is pronounced ''sheen.'' It means
"tooth," probably a serpent's fang, and suggests sharp-
ness, acidity, active manifestation. The number of the
letter, 300, is the value of the Hebrew words RVCh
ALHIM, Ruach Elohim, which mean "Life-Breath of
the Divine Ones," or "Holy Spirit." Therefore do
Qabalists call Shin the '' Holy Letter.''
We may understand this letter as being a symbol of
the power which tears down the limitations of form, as
teeth break up food. As the serpent's fang, it represents
the power which "kills" the false personality and its
sense of separateness. Observe that the corresponding
Tarot Key is placed below that named Death in the
tableau given earlier.
Fire is the element attributed to Shin. It is the par-
ticular quality of the solar force and of the Mars
vibration. It is also the quality of the zodiacal signs rep-
resented in Tarot by the Emperor, Strength and Tem-
perance. Its color is scarlet. The musical tone is
C-natural.
Pluto and Vulcan, the latter a planet as yet unrecog-
nized by exoteric astronomy, but considered in the calcu-
lations of some astrologers, are attributed to Shin.
Perpetual Intelligence is the mode of consciousness.
Its name is derived from a Hebrew root meaning "to
stretch." This implies that the Perpetual Intelligence is
an extension beyond the limits of the modes of conscious-
ness common to most human beings. The name also
implies everlastingness, eternity, and thus, conscious
immortality.
189
190 The Tarot
The number 20 reduces to 2. Thus we understand that
the consciousness here represented is the culmination of
mental activities originating in the cosmic memory (2,
The High Priestess). This picture is the last of the series
including Keys 2, 5, 7, 11, 14 and 17.
Judgement, sometimes The Last Judgemen t, is the
title of Key 20. It implies completion, decision, termina-
tion. It is the final state of personal consciou sness, be-
cause that which is represented by the Tarot Key
following it is a state wherein personal consciousness is
wholly obliterated in a higher realization.
Dr . Waite's version of the twentieth trump is less
happy than any of his other departures from medieval
SY,mbolism.It shows three additional figures in the back-
ground, but these add nothing of importance to the real
meaning of the design. Thus the B.O.T.A. version, like
all other versions of this trump, shows only one group.
They are a man, a woman, and a child. Their bodies
are tinted gray, rather than flesh-color, to intima te-
1: that in this phase of personal consciousness the "pairs
of opposites'' have been neutralized, as complemen tary
colors are neutralized in gray; 2: that the scene depicted
is not located in the physical plane.
The man is self-consciousness, the woman subcon-
sciousness, and the child the regenerated personality.
The positions of their arms refer to the 'ymbolic ges-
tures used in certain occult societies to represent the
letters L (woman's extended arms), V (upraised arms of
child) and X (crossed arms of man), which spell the
Latin noun LVX, meaning "Light."
The angel is the Divine Breath, or cosmic :fire,yet he is
obviqusly the angel Gabriel, not only because he carries
a trumpet, but also because Gabriel is the angel of the
element of water, which is indicated by his blue r obe.
The action of heat upon water creat es air, the sub-
stance of breath. Breath is specialized in sound, and the
basis of sound is seven£old. These seven basic tones are
Key 20: Judgement (Shin} 191
indicated by seven lines radiating from the bell of the
trumpet, itself an instrument utilizing sound vibration.
What these tones are, and how to employ them, is not
material for discussion in this elementary treatise. Suf-
fice to say that sound is the instrument of final libera-
tion, and that the seven tones are those which affect the
seven interior stars by sympathetic vibration.
The banner of the cross should measure exactly 5 by 5
units (and does so in the B.0.T ..A..version). Thus the
arms of the cross will include 9 out of the 25 square units
on the face of the banner. 9 is the number of completion,
and 5 is the number of adaptation. Complete adaptation
is one, but only one, of the esoteric meanings of the
banner.
In the astral plane, or fourth dimension, represented
by this Key, all things are the reverse of physical condi-
tions. Hence the man is now in a passive attitude, and
the woman receives the influences of the angel in her
outstretched hands. Note the correspondence of this
stretching gesture to the basic meaning of the 'Hebrew
word translated "Perpetual." The child, as we have
said, is the regenerated personality, and it also stretches
up both arms to their fullest extent.
The coffins float upon a sea which is the final reservoir
of those waters which begin in the robe of the High
Priestess. The coffins are rectangular, to represent the
three dimensions of the physical plane. Standing at right
angles, so to say, to these coffins, the three human :figures
indicate the mathematical definition of the fourth dimen-
sion-that which is at right angles to the other three.
Snowy mountains in the background represent the
heights of abstract thought. This takes purely mathe-
matical form. Thus the symbolism suggests that what is
shown by Key 20 is derived from mathematical con-
siderations.
The child's back is toward us, because he represents
return to the Source of all. This card shows the sixth
192 The Tarot
stage of spiritual unfoldment, in which personal con-
sciousness is on the verge of blending with the universal.
At this stage, the adept realizes that his personal exist-
ence is nothing but the manifestation of the relationship
between self-consciousness and subconsciousness . He
sees, too, that self-consciousness and subconsciousness
are not themselves personal, but are really modes of uni-
versal consciousness. Thus he knows that his personality
has no separate existence. At this stage his intellectu .
al
conviction is confirmed by fourth-dimensional experi-
ences which finally blot out the delusion of separateness
forever.
THE WORLD
21
XXV
KEY 21: THE WORLD (TA V)
Tav (Th, sometimes T, value 400) means signature or
mark, but the mark is a cross of equal arms, like that on
the breast of the High Priestess. This letter is called Tau
in the Greek alphabet, and the Egyptian Tau-cross is
said to have been a tally for measuring the depth of the
Nile, also a square for measuring right angles. Among
the Hebrews it wa,s a symbol of salvation (Ezekiel 9 :4).
Thus it represents salvation from death, and eternal life.
As representing a signature, this letter implies se-
'curity, guaranty, pledge, and so on. A signature is what
makes business instruments valid. The letter Tav there-
fore indicates the final seal and witness to the completion
of the Great Work of liberation.
Center, sometimes called "the palace of holiness in the
midst,'' is the direction attributed to Tav. This palace
of holiness is said to '' sustain all things.'' In Qabalistic
writings it is said to be Jerusalem or Zion, where man
can commune with God.
The Hebrew word for palace is HIKL, Haikal. The
numeral value of this word, 65, is also the number of
ADNI, Adonai, Lord.
In the Cube of Space, the letter Tav is the interior
center, the point where the three co-ordinates which cor-
respond to the three mother letters cross one another.
This center is that point which is the fifth dimension. In
it all spatial relations are united in a single "here," and
all time relations in a single "now." The realization of
this one point is the culmination of concentration.
Saturn is the planet corresponding to Tav. According
to mythology, Saturn ate his own children. He repre-
195
196 The Tarot
sents that which absorbs its own expressions back into
itself. Exoterically, Saturn is the planet of inertia, con-
creteness, profundity, weight. It shares the rulers ip of
Aquarius (Key 17, The Star) with Uranus (Key 0, The
Fool), and is the ruler of Capricorn (Key 15, The Devil).
Saturn is exalted in Libra (Key 11, Justice). Th s we
have here a power which is active in meditation, which is
the source of those apparent limitations which make us
seek a way of escape from bondage, and which :s ex-
pressed in the equilibrated action symbolized by J stice.
Saturn's color is indigo, or blue-violet. The musica l tone
is A-natural.
Dominion and Slavery is the pair of opposites at tribu-
ted to Tav. Right interpretation of the necessit y for
limitation in any form of manifested existence is the
secret of dominion. Wrong interpretation of the same
thing is the cause of our slavery to conditions. The clue
to the right understanding is the aphorism, "He who
would rule Nature must :first obey her laws."
Administrative Intelligence is the mode of conscious-
ness attributed to Tav. This is consciousness of active
participation in the cosmic government. It is entry into
the kingdom of heaven as a fully enfranchised citizen,
charged with full responsibility for the execution of its
laws.
The number 21 is connected with 12 and 3. It is also
the sum of the numbers from Oto 6. Compare it with the
Keys bearing these numbers. In particular, study Key
21 as the summation of the ideas represented by the
series of pictures from Oto 6. Again, 21 is the culmina-
tion of the series of trumps numbered 3, 6, 9, 12, 15 and
18.
The World is the commoner title. Sometimes this Key
is named" The Universe," to indicate that the conscious-
ness it represents is not merely terrestrial, but truly
cosmic.
The four animals at the corners of the design have
Key 21: The World (Tav) 197
been explained in connection with the tenth Key of Tarot.
Note, however, that in Key 10 the Bull faces the Lion,
but in Key 21 the Bull faces away from the Lion. This
is because the Bull corresponds to the last letter of the
Tetragrammaton, IHVH, which symbolizes the physical
plane. In cosmic consciousness the closed circuit of sue-·
cessive transformations of energy is, so to say, broken,
so that the limitations of the physical plane and its three
dimensions no longer bind the consciousness of the adept.
In the Rider pack, the proportions of the ellipse sur-
rounding the dancing figure are incorrect. In older ver-
sions, and in the B.O.T.A. Tarot, this ellipse is five units
wide and eight units high. This gives a very close ap-
proximation to the quadrature of the circle, and is re-
lated also to the dimensions of the sides of the vault
described in the Rosicrucian Fama Fraternitatis. The
proportion is derived from the geometrical construction
of the hexagram, or figure of two interlaced triangles,
shown in the diagram which is the frontispiece of this
book.
In the B.0.T.A. version, as in older packs, the ellipse is
formed of twenty-two groups of three leaves, eleven
groups on either side. These represent the twenty -two
forces corresponding to the letters of the Hebrew alpha-
bet and to the Tarot Keys. There are three leaves in
each group, because every one of the twenty-two forces
has three modes of expression. Any one of these forces
may manifest itself in integration, in disintegration, or in
equilibration, according to the way in which it is applied.
Note that the ellipse is a zero sign, and zero is the nu-
meral symbol of superconsciousness.
The horizontal 8-shaped bindings at the top and bottom
of the wreath are like those over the heads of the Ma-
gician, and of the woman in Key 8. They have the same
meanings . Here they are red, to suggest that the law
symbolized by Keys 1 and 8 has been carried into action.
198 The Tarot
The similarity between them, and their positions, suggest
the Hermetic axiom, "That which is above is as that
which is below."
The dancer represents the merging of self-conscious-v
ness with subconsciousness, and the blending of these two
with superconsciousness. Occult tradition says that the
scarf, violet in color, and shaped like a letter Kaph, con-
ceals the fact that this is an androgyne figure. In this
highest form of conscious experience all sense of separate
sex is lost, along with the extinction·of the sense of sepa-
rate personality. The Dancer is the All-Father and the
All-Mother. She is the Bride, but she is also the Bride-
groom. She is the Kingdom and the King, even as Mal-
kuth, the Kingdom, is by Qabalists called the "Bride,"
but has also the Divine Name ADNI MLK, Adonai
Melek, Lord King.
She bears two wands. In the B.O.T.A. version these
are spirals. That in the right hand turns clockwise. The
one in the left hand turns counter-clockwise. The wands
represent the spiral force of the Life-power. That in the
right hand symbolizes Involution, the other represents
Evolution.
This Key signifies Cosmic Consciousness, or Nirvana. >
For full descriptions of this state see Dr. Richard Mau-
rice Bucke's Cosmic Consciousness,Ali Nomad's book of
the same title, Ouspensky's Tertium Orgooum, Jacob
Boehme's Supersensual Life, William James' Varieties
of Religious Experience, and the writings of Swami Vive-
kananda. The central fact of this experience is that he to
whom it comeshas first-hand knowledge that he is in per-
fect union with the One Power which is the Pivot and the
Source of the whole cosmos. He knows also that through
him the governing and directing power of the universe
flowsout into manifestation.
Words fail to give any adequate idea of this seventh
stage of spiritual unfoldment. We must leave it to your
Key 21: The World (Tav) 199
intuition to combine the suggestions of the picture with
the meanings of the letter Tav. Here is a representation
of what you really are, and of what the cosmos really is.
The universe is the Dance of Life . The immortal, central
Self of you-That is the Eternal Dancer .
XXVI
METHODS OF STUDY
Tms book aims to put into your hands the fundamental
knowledge of Tarot symbolism which will enable you to
use the Keys intelligently. In the nature of things, it can-
not possibly exhaust the subject. One has only to remem-
ber that the twenty-two Keys can be arranged-using
them all-in no less than 1,124,727,000,777,607,680,000dif-
ferent ways, to see that when one adds to these the in-
numerable arrangements of groups of two, three, four,
five, six or more Keys, the number of combinati ons is
beyond reckoning. So far as any human being is con-
cerned, the combinations of the Keys are practically in-
finite. Just as all the words in the dictionary are made up
of letters of the alphabet, so may the Tarot Keys he ar-
ranged to form a limitless number of "words" in the
occult speech of pictorial symbolism.
Indeed, one application of the Tarot Keys is t use
them for spelling out words in the Hebrew tongue. This
does not mean that every word in a Hebrew dictionary
has a hidden occult significance. It does mean that many
words in the Old Testament, and in technical works of
occultism, do reveal their deeper meanings when they
are transposed into the corresponding Tarot Keys. This
is particularly true of the divine and angelic names in
the Hebrew language, and applies also to many Htibrew
proper names such as ADM, Adam, ChVH, Eve, QIN,
Cain, HBL, Abel, and so on. The names of the twelve
tribes of Israel, in particular, offer many striking sug-
gestions when they are spelled out with Tarot Key t3.
Such uses of the Tarot, however, are of interest to
relatively few persons .. · Some of them are dealt with in
200
•·
Methods of Study 201
the more advanced courses of instruction of The Build-
ers of the Adytum, Los Angeles, California.
The ·most important use of Tarot is to evoke thought.
By this time you are aware that every one of the Keys
corresponds to something in your own make-up. A very '
little practice will demonstrate -to you the fact that Key
1, for example, will help you to develop a keener power
of co~ntration and attention. By looking at Key 2, you
will improve your powers of recollection. Key 3 will de-
, velop your creative imagination. And so, on, through the
series.
We recommend, therefore, that you take one Key daily,
and look at it for five minutes. When you do so, let it be
your intention to employ the time thus spent for the
specific purpose of evoking from your inner conscious-
ness the power which corresponds to that Key.
Throughout this book we have noted the colors and the
musical tones corresponding to the Hebrew letters. If
you ·will look at something yellow, and intone the note
E-natural before you begin to look at Key 1, you will
intensify the evocative effect of that Key. ' Use, for the
intonation, a word like the Sanskrit Pranava, AUM, or
the Greek mystery-name IAO, which is pronounced ee-
ah-oh. Or intone one of the statements of The Pattern
on the Tr,estleboard.
Provide yourself with a loose-leaf notebook. Often, as
you are looking at a Key, it will suggest some new idea.
Make a note of it immediately. You may also use this
book to keep track of information about Hebrew letters,
numbers, etc. You will find, now that you have begun
this study, that a surprising quantity of information
relative to numbers, Hebrew letters, and other matters
connected with Tarot will come your way, almost without
your seeking it.
Thus you may need, in addition to your notebook, some
convenient way to file clippings from magazines and
newspapers. Theleastsatisfactoryway to preserve these
202 fte Tarot
is to paste them in a book. A set of strong manilla en-
velopes is far better. For practical purposes, envelopes
opening on the side are more convenient. In these you
may fileyour clippings, using whatever simple filing sys-
tem you may invent. One of the best is to have twenty-two
envelopes, one for each Key. Whenever you add a new
item to your collection, put it in the proper envelope, and
make a note of it on the outside of the envelope.
· Remember, you have only begun to learn about Tarot.
To have the benefit of this wonderful invention, the Keys
must be inside you. This means that you must be able to
call up the image of any Key by a simple act of will.
When you can do this, Tarot will be part of your very
flesh and blood, and then it will begin to effect far-reach-
ing transformations in your thinking, and thus in your
living. What is more, all these transformations will be
of positive benefit to yourself and others.
· In the more advanced work, you will find it greatly to
your advantage to be familiar with the diagram of the
Tree of Life at the end of this chapter. It shows, in the
circles, the English names of the ten Qabalistic Sephi-
roth, their numbers, the names of the ten Rosicrucian
Grades, and the mystic equations connected with these
Grades.
The paths connecting the ten circles are those of the
twenty-two letters and their corresponding Keys. Each
of these paths corresponds also to the mode of conscious-
ness attributed to its letter, and each path is related to
the color mentioned for its letter in this book.
The colors of the Sephiroth are: Crown, White; Wis-
dom, Gray; Understanding, Black; Mercy, Blue; Sever-
ity, Red; Beauty, Yellow; Victory, Green; Splendor,
Orange; Foundation, Violet; Kingdom, Citrine, Russet,
Olive and Black. The citrine is placed in the upper quar-
ter of the tenth circle, the russet in the quarter at the
observer's left, the olive in the quarter at the observer's
right, and the black in the lower quarter.
Methods of Study 203
Thus, from the information given in this book, you
will be able to make a colored diagram of the Tree. Not
every reader will care to do so, but those who do follow
out this hint will find it leading to some very interesting
discoveries.
Again, since every path connects two circles, the Tarot
Key belonging to it may be said to begin in the circle
bearing the smaller number, and to end in the circle
bearing the larger. Thus Key Ois on the eleventh Path
of Wisdom, beginning in 1, The Crown, and ending in 2,
Wisdom. Many clues to the deeper occult meaning of the
Keys, and many of the reasons for the symbols used in
their composition, may be found by studying the placing
of the Tarot on the Tree of Life. Note that in this dia-
gram the numbers of the Keys are placed near the let-
ters, and are distinguished by small letters leading from
the letters to the numbers. The other numbers are the
numbers of the Paths of Wisdom. In the Qabalah the
Sephiroth are called "paths" and so are the letters.
Thus there are Thirty-two Paths of Wisdom. The
names of the modes of consciousness or intelligence cor-
responding to the ten Sephiroth will be found in Chapter
2. The names of the modes of consciousness correspond-
ing to the letters are given in subsequent chapters,
throughout this book.
XXVII
TAROT DIVINATION
To CARRY OUT the instructions in this chapter, you will
need a complete Tarot pack. It does not much matter
what the designs may be. A good pack, drawn by Augus-
tus Knapp, was issued some years since by Manly P.
Hall. It is no longer available. Because of the war, the
French exoteric Tarot, which is perfectly good for divi-
nation, is hard to get, and so is the Rider pack. There
is, however, an American version of the Rider designs,
which may be had from the publishers of this book.
Not everyone can use the Tarot for divination. It takes
a certain temperament. If one has this temperament,
ordinary cards will serve just as well as the Tarot. If
one lacks it, the most careful attention to the rules for
divination will not produce satisfactory results. There
are many other systems for giving ''readings'' with
Tarot cards. We believe this to be one of the best,
This method of divination is not intended for fortune-
telling. If you debase it to that purpose, you will cripple
yourself spiritually. Its proper application is to the
solution of serious questions, for yourself or others.
Before attempting to divine, learn the divinatory
meanings of the ~ cards. Do not try divinatio until
you have committed these meanings to memory, because
the subconscious response and control of shuffling re-
quired for divination necessitate thorough knowledge of
the meaning of every picture.
The divinatory meanings of the major trumps are:
0. The Fool. In spiritual matters: Originality, audacity,
·venturesome quest. In material affairs: Folly, ecce tricity,
inconsiderate action.
204
Tarot Divination 205
1. The Magician. Constructive power, initiative, skill, sub-
tlety, craft, occult wisdom and power.
2. The High Priestess. All meanings derivable from duality.
Fluctuation, reaction, secrets, things hidden, unrevealed future.
3. The Empress. Fruitfulness, beauty, luxury, pleasure,
success. Badly placed in a divinatory layout: Dissipation, lux-
uriousness, sensuality.
4. The Emperor. Stability, power; reason; ambition; over-
sight; control.
5. The Hierophant. Intuition, teaching, inspiration; marriage,
alliance; occult force voluntarily invoked.
6. The Lovers. Attraction, beauty, love. Harmony of inner
and outer life.
7. The Chariot. Triumph, victory, and the like.
8. Strength. Action, courage, power, control of the life-force.
9. The Hermit. Wisdom from above, prudence, circumspec-
tion.
10. The Wheel of Fortune. Destiny; good fortune; turn for
the better.
11. Justice. Strength and force, but arrested, as in the act of
judgement. Legal affairs, lawsuits, when the question relates to
material airairs.
12. The Hanged Man. In spiritual matters : Wisdom, surren-
der to the inevitable. In material affairs: Losses, reverses.
13. Death. Contrarieties; sudden change; death.
14. Temperance. Combination, adaptation, economy, manage-
ment.
15. The Devil. Bondage, materiality, necessity, force, fate.
16. The Tower. Danger, conflict, unforeseen catastrophes,
ambition.
17. The Star. Insight; hope ; influence over others.
18. The Moon. Voluntary change; deception; hidden enemies.
19. The Sun. Liberation; gain; riches.
20. Judgement. Decision, renewal; determines a matter.
21. The World. Synthesis ; success ; change of place.
DIVINATORY MEANINGS OFMINOR TRUMPS
WANDS:Ace (1): Energy, strength, enterprise; principle;
beginning.
2. Dominion.
3. Established strength.
4. Perfected work.
206 The Tarot
5. Strife .; competition.
6. Victory after strife ; gain .
7. Valor; courage in face of difficulties.
8. Activity; swiftness; approach to goal.
9. Preparedness; strength in reserve; victory after oppo-
sition.
10. Oppression; burden of ill-regulated power.
KING. Dark man, friendly, ardent; honesty; possible inheri-
tance.
QUEEN.Dark woman, magnetic, friendly. Business success.
KNIGHT.Dark, friendly, young man. Departure . Change of
residence.
PAGE.Dark young man. Messenger. Brilliance, courage.
Cups: Ace (1) : Fertility, productiveness, beauty, pleasure.
2. Reciprocity, reflection.
3. Pleasure, liberality, fulfilment, happy issue.
4. Contemplation. Dissatisfaction with material success.
5. Loss in pleasure. Partial loss. Vain regret.
6. Beginning of steady gain, but beginning only. New rela-
tions , new environment.
7. Illusionary success. Ideas, designs, resolutions.
8. Abandoned success; instability. Leaving material success
for something higher.
9. Material success; physical well-being.
10. Lasting success; happiness to come.
KING. Fair man; calm exterior. Subtle, violent, artfotic.
QUEEN.Fair woman; imaginative, poetic. Gift of vision.
KNIGHT. Fair man, Venusian, indolent . Arrival, approach.
PAGE. Fair, studious youth. Reflection. News.
SWORDS: Ace (1) : Invoked force; conquest; activity .
2. Balanced force; indecision; friendship.
3. Sorrow, disappointment, tears. Delay, absence, separation.
4. Rest from strife ; relief from anxiety ; Quietness, rest, rest
after illness. NOT a card of death.
5. Defeat, loss, failure, slander, dishonor.
6. Success after anxiety ; passage from difficulties ; a journey
by water.
7. Unstable effort; uncertainty; partial success.
8. Indecision ; waste of energy in details ; a crisis.
9. Worry; suffering, despair, misery. Loss.
10. Ruin, pain, desolation; sudden misfortune. NO'r a card
of sudden death. In spiritual matters: End of delusion.
Tarot Divination 207
KING. Distrustful, suspicious man. Full of ideas, thoughts and
designs. Care, observation, extreme caution.
QUEEN. Widowhood; mourning. A keen, quick, intensely per-
ceptive, subtle woman. Usually fond of dancing.
KNIGHT. Active, clever, subtle, skilful, domineering young
man. Enmity, wrath, war.
PAGE. Vigilant, acute, subtle, active youth.
PENTACLES:
Ace (1): Material gain, wealth, contentment.
2. Harmony in midst of change.
3. Construction ; material increase ; growth ; :financial gain.
4. Earthly power ; physical forces ; skill in directing them.
5. Concordance; affinity; adaptation. (Waite's symbolism
shows that the concord and harmony are necessarily
interior. The unfortunates out in the snow are the pro•
fane, those who have not grasped the inner light.)
6. Material prosperity, philanthropy, presents.
7. Success unfulfilled; delay, but growth.
8. Skill in material affairs.
9. Prudence; material gain; completion.
10. Wealth; riches; material prosperity.
KING. Friendly, steady, reliable married man.
QUEEN. Generous, intelligent, charming, moody married
woman.
KNIGHT.Laborious, patient, dull young man.
PAGE.Diligent, careful, deliberate youth.
N.B. Pages may be young girls as well as young lads.
Queens are not always married, but represent rather
women with experience of life.
1. Before beginning to divine, be sure that the Querent
(person for whom divination is made) has formulated his
question. Explain to him that all questions come under
four major heads-( a) work, business, etc.; (b) love, mar-
riage, or pleasure; (c) trouble, loss, scandal, quarreling,
etc.; (d) money, goods and such purely material matters.
Be careful that the Querent does not tell you his question
or its nature before you begin to divine.
2. Make your mind as passive as possible while you
are shuffling and laying out the cards. Do not try to
guess. Go by what the cards suggest to you.
208 The Tarot
3. Do not limit yourself to the divinatory meanings
given in the outline. They are general, and under the
special circumstances of a divination, may be altered.
Say what comes to you to say.
4. It is better to learn the meanings of the cards than
to write the meanings on them. Better for yourself, and
more impressive for the Querent. By learning the mean-
ings of three cards a day, you may master the significance
of the whole pack in 26 days.
In addition to the meanings given above, observe and
learn the following additional points:
Kings and Queens usually show actual men and women
connected with the matter.
Knights sometimes represent the coming or going of a
matter, according to the direction in which they face.
Pages indicate young people, but often show opinions,
thought, ideas-either in harmony with, or opposed to
the subject.
A majority of:
WANDS-Energy, opposition, quarrel.
CuPs-Pleasure, merriment.
SwoRns---Trouble, sadness, sickness, death.
PENTACLES-Business, money, possessions.
MAJORTRUMPs---Strong forces beyond the Quereut's control.
COURT
CARDs-Society, meetings of many persons .
AcEs-Strength generally. Aces are always strong cards.
If a spread contains :
4 Aces-Great power and force.
3 Aces-Riches, success.
4 Knights-Swiftness, rapidity.
3 Knights-Unexpected meetings. Knights, as a rule show
news.
4 Queens-Authority and influence.
3 Queens-Powerful friends.
4 Kings-Meetings with the great.
3 Kings-Rank and honor.
4 Pages-New ideas or plans.
3 Pages-Society of the young.
Tarot Divination
4 Tens-Anxiety, responsibility.
3 Tens-Buying, selling, commerce.
4 Nines-Added responsibilities.
3 Nines-Correspondence.
4 Eights-Much news.
3 Eights-Much journeying.
4 Sevens-Disappointments.
3 Sevens-Compacts, contracts.
4 Sixes-Pleasure.
3 Sixes-Gain, success.
4 Fives-Order, regularity.
3 Fives-Quarrels, fights.
4 Fours-Rest, peace.
3 Fours-Industry.
4 Threes-Resolution, determination.
3 Threes-Deceit.
4 Twos-Conferences, conversations.
3 Twos-Reorganization, recommendation.
209
A card is strong or weak, well dignified or ill dignified ac-
cording to the cards next it on either side. Cards of the same
suit on either side strengthen it greatly for good or evil, accord-
ing to their nature. Cards of opposite natures weaken it greatly,
for either good or evil.
Swords are inimical to Pentacles; Wands, inimical to Cups.
Swords are friendly with Cups· and Wands ; Wands friendly
with Swords and Pentacles.
If a card fall between two others which are inimical to each
other, (as a Sword card between a Cup and a Wand), it is not
much affected by either.
METHOD OF DIVINATION
l. The Signijicator.-This is the card selected to represent the
Querent.
Married Men-Kings.
Bachelors-Knights.
Women Past 18-Queens.
Adolescents of Either Sex-Pages.
Some diviners use the Magician for men, the High Priestess
for women. Others choose the major trump ·representing the sun
sign of the Querent, on the hypothesis that the sun sign repre-
sents the true individuality of the person. In general, however,
210 The Tarot
it is safer to choose one of the sixteen court cards, as indicated
above. Choose the Significator according to your knowledge or
judgement of the Querent's character, rather than according to
his physical characteristics. •
2. Shuffle the cards, until you feel like stopping.
3. Hand the cards to Querent, ask him to think of the question
attentively, and cut the cards with his left hand. The Querent
should restore the cut, that is, put the pile which was on the
bottom before cutting above the pile consisting of the upper
half of the pack.
4. Take the cards as cut, and place them on the table before
you.
5. Cut the pack with the left hand, and place the t p half to
the left.
6. Cut each of these two packs to the left.
7. These four stacks represent IHVH from right to left.
8. Find the Significator. If in the I pack, the ques:
tion refe rs
to work, enterprise ideas, etc. ; if in the H pack, to marriage,
love or pleasure; if in the V pack to trouble, loss, scandal, quar-
reling, etc. ; if in the 2d H pack, to money, goods, purely ma-
terial matters.
9. Tell the Querent what he has come for. That is, from the
position of the Significator in one of the 4 piles, declare to him
the general nature of his question. If wrong, abandon the divi-
nation. Do not resume the attempt within two h urs. Better,
wait until another day.
10. If right, spread out the pack containing the Significator,
arranging the cards in a circle or wheel.
11. Count the cards from the Significator, in the direction in
which the figure printed on card faces. If the figu1
·e on the card
faces neither right nor left, but straight out from the picture,
count to your left.
N.B.-It is advisable to arrange the cards on the table so that
the Significator will be at the top of the wheel. But be careful
not to alter the sequence of the cards in so doing.
The counting should invariably include the card from
which you start. Thus, if the Signi:ficator is a Pag e, you
will count Seven, and if the card the count ends with be
a seven in one of the suits of minor trumps, you will
begin your second count of seven with that card and
so on.
Tarot Divination
For Kings, Queens and Knights, count 4.
For Pages, count 7.
For Aces, count 11.
211
For small cards of minor trumps, count according to
the number printed at the top.
For major trumps, count: 3 for elemental trumps, (0,
FooL; 12, HANGED
MAN;20, JUDGEMENT)
; 9 for the plan-
etary trumps (those corresponding to double letters and
pairs of opposites) ; 12 for trumps representing signs of
the zodiac.
Make a story of these cards. It is the story of the be-
ginning of the affair.
12. Pair the cards on either side of the Signi:ficator,
then those outside them, and so on. Make another story,
:fillingup details, omitted in the first.
These two stories may not be quite accurate, but it is
to be remembered that your Querent does not, as a rule,
know everything about the matter. Nevertheless, the
main outlines should be such as he can recognize. If not,
abandon the operation at this point.
SECOND
OPERATION
Develops the question.
1. Shuffle and let Querent cut, as before.
2. Deal the cards into 12 packs, for the 12 astrological
houses of heaven.
3. Find the Signi:ficator. According to house in which
it is found, judge that the matter will be affected by the
general quality of that house. The meanings of the
houses are:
First-The person himself.
Second-His finances. Gain or loss, according to the cards
found in this pile.
Third-Brothers, sisters. Short journeys, writings, mental in-
clinations and abilities.
Fourth-Father, home, environment, domestic affairs, lands,
mines and real estate generally.
212 The Tarot
Fifth-Children, love affairs, pleasure, speculation.
Sixth-Sickness, servants, employers, food, clothing, hygiene,
service, small animals.
Seventh-Unions, partnership, marriage, contracts, dealings
with others, and the public generally, legal affairs, open
enmities .
Eighth-Death, psychic experiences of the spirifa :tic kind,
all matters connected with the dead, such as legacies, etc.
Also :financial affairs of the business or marriag e partner .
Ninth-Long journeys, foreign countries, places remote from
birthplace, philosophy, religion, education, dreams, visions,
psychic development.
Tenth-Profession, occupation, honor, fame, promotio n,
mother, employer. Also government affairs.
Eleventh-Friends, associations , hopes and fears.
Twelfth-Unse en or unexpected troubles, hidden or secret
enmities. Restraint, limitations, hospital s, prisons, insane asy-
lums, sanitariums and the like. Secret societies, occultism of the
practical sort, and organizations devoted to it. Lar ge animals.
4. Spread out the pile containing the Signifi ator, as in
former operation, and count and pair as before. Remem-
ber that the two stories thus developed must be mor e or
less colored by the nature of the house in which the Sig-
nificator falls.
THIRD OPERATION
1. Shuffle, etc., as before.
2. Deal cards into twelve stacks, representing the signs
of the zodiac. Even if you have no astrological informa-
tion particularly, you can judge the general meani ng of
the signs, because each is represented by a major trump.
For example, if the Significator should fall in the stack
corresponding to Capricorn, the further developm ent of
the question would be in accordance with the occult mean-
ing of the letter Ayin and the 15th majo r trump . If a
material question, it would probably denote limitation.
If one of pleasure, danger or over -ind lgence on the
sense side. Your own knowledge of the trumps will help
you in this.
Tarot Divination 213
The order of the 12 signs is :
1. Aries - 4. EMPEROR
2. Taurus - 5. HIEROPHANT
3. Gemini - 6. LOVERS
4. Cancer - 7. CHARIOT
5. Leo - 8. STRENGTH
6. Virgo - 9. HERMIT
7. Libra -10. JUSTICE
8. Scorpio -13. DEATH
9. Sagittarius -14. TEMPERANCE
10. Capricorn -15. DEVIL
11. Aquarius-17. STAR
12. Pisces - 18. MooN
3. Find Signifi.cator, count and pair as before.
FOURTH OPERATION
1. Shuffle, etc., as before.
2. Deal cards into ten stacks. Each stack corresponds
to one of the Sephiroth, and thus to one of the statements
of being in the B.O.T.A. affirmations. Thus, if the Sig-
nifi.cator should fall in the seventh pile, the conclusion of
the divination would all be colored by the statement
"Living from that Will, supported by its unfailing Wis-
dom and Understanding, Inine is the Victorious life,''
and your advice to the Querent would all proceed from
that basic idea.
3. Find Signifi.cator, count and pair as before.
As a rule, but not always, the first operation shows past
time, particularly in the pairing of cards, when those
which are in the pile away from which the Signifi.cator
faces will usually indicate past time. If he faces out,
those on your right will be past time as a rule.
Experience alone will enable you to judge time with
any degree of accuracy, and no rules can be given. If you
are possessed of the psychic qualifications necessary to a
diviner, you will "feel" time.
Finally, let me reiterate the thought that this is not to
214 The Tarot
be used for vulgar fortune telling, or to amuse a party of
friends. If you yield to the temptation so to abuse thi s
information, you will pay for it in the loss of all power
of true divination, and probably in the loss of ability to
control the higher rates of psychic vibration. Thus the
ultimate result of abuse of this divinatory pra ctice will
be to make you more negative, mor e the slave of circum-
stance, more liable to evil of every kind.
(Continued from front flap)
sion of the Great Secret ... must follow,
to classhis acquisitions of knowledge and
direct the operation, the order indicated
in the Kabalistic alphabet of the Tarot."
P. D. Ouspensky: "There are many
methods of developing the 'sense of sym-
bols' in those who are striving to under-
stand the hidden force of Nature and
Man, and for teaching the fundamental
principles. The most synthetic, and one
·of the most interesting of these is the
Tarot."
Judge Troward, distinguished jurist,
whose books were, according to William
James, "far and away the ablest state-
ment" of the philosophy of Mental
Science, wrote: "Among such records
explanatory of the supreme mysteries,
three stand out pre-eminent,. all bearing
witness to the same 'ONE Truth, and
..
each throwing light upon the other; and
these three are the Bible, the Great
Pyramid, and the Tarot."
Manly P. Hall in his Encyclopedic
Outline has said that Paul Foster Case is
the leading American authority on the
subject and the publishers believe that
THE TAR.OT: A KEY TO THE WISDOM OF
THE AGES surpasses any book yet written
on the subject.
215 pages 25 illustrations
MACOY PUBUSHING COMPANY
3011 Dumbarton Road
Richmond, Virginia 23228
0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000004'.110000
PAUL FOSTER CASE needs no .
introduction to those fortunate enough to have known him as a teacher :
and lecturer. To ·those who met him first through the pages of this..
book, a few words about his background and varied activities, will be of1 .
interest. <
Mr. Case came from a straight Yankee ancestry on both sides: back
1
to bashful Miles Standish on his mother's side, and from a family of.
clipper and coast-wiseskippers on his father's. He was born in Fairport, ;,
New York, in 1884. He passed on in 1954. :.·.
As a mere lad of sixteen, he became interested in the theatre and for
twenty or more years, engaged in various enterprises: a season with a
showboat in the early years, as a musical director, up through musical
comedy to vaudeville in its hey-day.
His interest in Tarot dated back to 1901 and was provoked by a ques- ·
tion made by Claude Bragdon, "Case, where do you suppose playing-
cards came from?" His inquisitive mind led to the study of the Tarot
and, thus, to occultism, which had been prepared for by an early inter-
est in psych~logy. His Yankee inheritance of common sense and early
training gave Mr. Case a firm and scholarly foundation for his writ-
ings and teaching. His first work on Tarot ·appeared in The Word
magazine; this was followed by a series of articles in Azoth. He suc-
ceeded Michael Whitty as editor of the latter magazine.
.In 1922, Mr. Case began lecturing and teaching Tarot and related .
subjects; he became the Praemonstrator General (Supreme Chief) of
the Order of the Golden Dawn for the United States and Canada and
la!er resigned in order to found The Builders of .the Adytum for the
study of practical occultism. Ann Davies succeeded him as head of
Builders of the Adytum, which has become a world-wide organization
with Headquarters in Los Angeles, California 90042. Mr. Case wrote
extensively on Tarot, Qabalah, Rosicrucianism, Alchemy, Magic, and
Correlation of Color and Sound in Healing.
1 .'·One of his interesting hobbies was legel'demain; he was a member of
International Brotherhood of Magicians and lnternatiorial Guild of
Pi'estidigitators. .
Out of Mr. Case's busy days of teaching and lecturing, and with a
,ri_
ch background of tradition and experience, he found time to write
a unique book-his gleanings of the wisdom of past ages.
oooooooooo,0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
