{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1947__besant___a_study_in_consciosness.pdf","mytitle":"A Study In Consciosness","mylang":"de"}
h s -
A STUDY IN ;
CONSCIOUSNESS
The Theosophical Publishing H
ouse
Âdyar . M
adras . India
First printed
Reprinted
First ADYAR Edition
Second ,,
1904
1907
1912
1918
1925
1938
1947
C O P Y R I G H T—A LL R I G H T S R E S E R V E D
Printed by C. Subbarayudu at the Vasanta Press,
The Theosophical Society, Adyar, M
adras
P
. I. C. No. 85—11-4-47
FOREWORD
THIS book is intended as an aid to students in their study of
the growth and development of consciousness, offering hints
and suggestions which may prove serviceable to them. It does
not pretend to be a complete exposition, but rather, as its
sub-title states, a contribution to the science of Psychology.
Far ampler materials than are within my reach are necessary
for any complete exposition of the far-reaching science
which deals with the unfolding of consciousness. These
materials are slowly accumulating in the hands of earnest
and painstaking students, but no effort has yet been made
to arrange and systematise them into a co-ordinated whole.
In this little volume I have only arranged a small part of this
material, in the hope that it may be useful now to some of
the toilers in the great field of the Evolution of Conscious­
ness, and may serve, in the future, as a stone in the com­
plete building. It will need a great architect to plan that
temple of knowledge, and skilful master masons to direct
the building ; enough, for the moment, to do the apprentice
task, and prepare the rough stones for the use of the more
expert workmen.
ANNIE BESANT
CONTENTS
P
A
R
T I
CONSCIOUSNESS
PAG
E
INTRODUCTION
1. Origins 1
2. Origination of Monads . * * 8
CH
APTER I. T
H
E PREPARATIO
N OF T
H
E F
IE
L
D
1, The Formation of the Atom . . . 1 1
2. Spirit-Matter . . . 13
3, The Sub-Planes . . * 15
4. The Five Planes . . . . 1 9
CH
APTER 1
1
. CONSCIOUSNESS
T. The Meaning of the Word . . . 21
2. The Monads . . . . 2 9
CH
APTER III. T
H
E PEOPLING OF TH
E F
IE
L
D
1. The Coming Forth of the Monads . . 38
2. The Weaving . . . . 4 5
3
*
. The Seven Streams . . . 49
4
*. The Shining Ones . . . 52
P
A
G
E
viiî
C
H
APTER IV
. T
H
E PERM
AN
EN
T ATOM
1. The Attaching of the Atoms 55
2. The Web of Life . . . . 59
3. The Choosing of the Permanent Atoms 60
4. The Use of the Permanent Atoms . 62
5. Monadic Action on the Permanent Atoms . 70
CH
APTER V. GROUP-SOULS
1. The Meaning of the Term . 74
2. The Division of the Group-Soul 78
CH
A
PTER V
I. U
N
IT
Y OF CONSCIOUSNESS
1. Consciousness a Unit 87
2 . Unity of Physical Consciousness 89
3. The Meaning of Physical Consciousness 94
C
H
APTER V
II. T
H
E M
ECH
AN
ISM OF CONSCIOUSNESS
1. The Development of the Mechanism 99
2 . The Astral or Desire Body 106
3. Correspondence in Root-Races 109
CH
APTER V
III. F
IR
S
T H
U
M
AN S
T
E
P
S
1. The Third Life-Wave 111
2 . Human Development 113
3. Incongruous Souls and Bodies 117
4. Dawn of Consciousness on the Astral Plane . 119
C
H
APTER IX
. CONSCIOUSNESS AND SELF-CONSCIOUS­
N
E
SS
1. Consciousness . . . . 126
2 . Self-Consciousness . 130
3. Real and Unreal . . . . 133
ix
PAGE
ZH
A
P
TE
R X. HUM
ANST
A
T
E
SOF CONSCIOUSNESS
1. The Sub-Consciousness 136
2. The Waking-Consciousness . 139
3. The Super-physical Consciousness 143
:H
A
PTER X
I. TH
E MONADA
TWORK
1. Building His Vehicles 156
2 . An Evolving Man 162
3. The Pituitary Body and Pineal Gland . 164
4. The Paths of Consciousness . 168
H
A
P
T
E
R X
II. TH
E N
A
TU
R
EOF M
EM
ORY
1. The Great Self and the Little Selves. 169
2 . Changes in the Vehicles and in Consciousness. 173
3. Memories . . . . . 175
4. What is Memory? . . . . 177
5. Remembering and Forgetting 180
6 . Attention . . . . . 185
7. The One Consciousness 186
Part il
WILL, DESIRE, AND EMOTION
H
A
P
T
E
R I. TH
EW
ILLTO L
IV
E 191
H
A
P
T
E
R II. D
E
SIR
E
1. The Nature of Desire 195
2. The Awakening of Desire 198
3. The Relation of Desire to Thought . 201
B
X
PA
G
E
C
H
A
PTE
R li. D
E
S
IR
E (con
tin
u
ed
)
4. Desire, Thought, Action . . . 203
5. The Binding Nature of Desire . . 204
6 . The Breaking of the Bonds . . . 206
C
H
A
PTE
R III. D
E
S
IR
E (con
tin
u
ed
)
1. The Vehicle of Desire . . . 209
2. The Conflict of Desire and Thought . . 2 1 3
3. The Value of an Ideal . . . 2 1 6
4- The Purification of Desire . . . 2 1 9
C
H
A
PTER IV
. EM
OTION
1. The Birth of Emotion . . . 222
2. The Play of Emotion in the Family . 226
3. The Birth of Virtues . . . 230
4. Right and Wrong . . . . 232
5. Virtue and Bliss . . . . 233
6. The Transmutation of Emotions into Virtues
and Vices . . . . 234
7. Application of the Theory to Conduct . 237
8. The Uses of Emotion . . . 238
C
H
A
PTER V. EM
OTION (con
tin
u
ed
)
1. The Training of Emotion . . ! 243
2. The Distorting Force of Emotion . . 247
3. Methods of Ruling the Emotions . . 249
4. The Using of Emotion . . . 254
5. The Value of Emotion in Evolution . . 258
XI
PAG
E
C
H
APTER V
I. T
H
E W
ILL
1. The Will Winning Its Freedom . • 261
2. Why So Much Struggle ? . . *
270
3. The Power of the Will . . . 2 7 3
4. White and Black Magic .• . •
280
5. Entering into Peace. . . . 2 8 1
INTRODUCTION
THE subject of the unfolding of consciousness in the beings
whose field of evolution is a solar system is one of consider­
able difficulty ; none of us may at present hope to do more
than master a small portion of its complexity, but it may be
possible to study it in such fashion as may fill up some of the
gaps in our thinking, and as may yield us a fairly clear out­
line to guide our future work.
We cannot, however, trace this outline in any way satis­
factory to the intelligence, without considering first our solar
system as a whole, and endeavouring to grasp some idea,
however vague that idea may be, of “ the beginnings in
such a system.
1. ORIGINS
We have learned that the matter in a solar system exists
in seven great modifications, or planes ; on three of these,
the physical, emotional (astral), and mental— often spoken
of as “ the three worlds ", the well-known Triloki, or Tribhu-
vanam, of the Hindu cosmogony— is proceeding the normal
evolution of humanity. On the next two planes, the spiritual
__those of wisdom and power, the buddhic and the atrnic
__goes on the specific evolution of the Initiate, after the
first of the Great Initiations. These five planes form the
field of the evolution of consciousness, until the human
merges in the divine. The two planes beyond the five
2 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
represent the sphere of divine activity, encircling and en­
veloping all, out of which pour forth a!) the divine energies
which vivify and sustain the whole system. They are at
present entirely beyond our knowledge, and the few hints
that have been given regarding them probably convey as
much information as our limited capacity is able to grasp.
We are taught that they are the planes of divine Conscious­
ness, wherein the Logos, or the divine Trinity of Logoi, is
manifested, and wherefrom He shines forth as the Creator,
the Preserver, the Dissolver, evolving a universe, maintaining
it during its life-period, withdrawing it into Himself at its ending.
We have been given the names of these two planes : the lower
is the Anupadaka, that wherein “ no vehicle has yet been
formed ” ; 1the higher is the Adi, “ the first ” , the foundation
of a universe, its support and the fount of its life. We have
thus the seven planes of a universe, a solar system, which,
as we see by this brief description, may be regarded as
making up three groups: I. The field of Logic manifestation
only; II. The field of super-normal human evolution, that of
the Initiate ; III. The field of elemental, mineral, vegetable,
animal, and normal human evolution. We may tabulate these
facts thus :
i. Adi 1 I. The field of Logic manifestation
ii. AnupadakaJ only.
iii. Atmic\ II. The field of super-normal human
iv. Buddhic Jevolution.
v. Mental III. The field of elemental, mineral,
vi. Emotional >vegetable,animal, and normal human
vii. Physical ) evolution.
1 From the P
ra
n
a
va
-va
d
a
, an unpublished Sam
skrit M
S. [Now
published as T
h
e S
cience of theS
a
cred W
ord, or T
h
e P
ra
n
a
va
-va
d
aof
G
a
rgya
ya
n
a
.]
INTRODUCTION 3
The two highest planes may be conceived of as existing
before the solar system is formed, and we may imagine the
highest, the Adi, as consisting of so much of the matter of
space—symbolized by points—as the Logos has marked
out to form the material basis of the system He is about to
produce. As a workman chooses out the materia! he is
going to shape into his product, so does the Logos choose
the material and the place for His universe. Similarly we
may imagine the Anupadaka—symbolized by lines—as con­
sisting of this same matter modified by His individual life,
coloured, to use a significant metaphor, by His all-ensouling
Consciousness, and thus differing in some way from the
corresponding plane in another solar system. We are told
that the supreme facts of this preparatory work may be
further imaged forth in symbols ; of these we are given two
sets, one of which images the triple manifestation of the
Logic Consciousness, the other the triple change in matter
corresponding to the triple Life—the life and form aspects
of the three Logoi. We may place them side by side, as
simultaneous happenings :
LIFE FORM
i. Adi
ii. Anupadaka
We have here, under Life, the primeval Point inthe centre
of the Circle, the Logos as One within the self-imposed
4 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
encircling sphere of subtlest matter, inwhich He has enclosed
Himself for the purpose of manifestation, of shining forth
from the Darkness. At once the question arises : Why
three Logoi ? Though we touch here on the deepest ques­
tion of metaphysics, to expound which even inadequately
requires a volume, we must indicate the answer, to be
wrought out by close thinking. In the analysis of all that
exists, we come to the great generalization ; " All is separa­
ble into *I' and *Not 1/ the ' Self' and the ‘ Not-Self \
Every separate thing is summed up under one or other of
the headings, Self or Not-Self. There is nothing which can­
not be placed under one of them. Self is Life, Conscious­
ness ; Not-Self is Matter, Form." Here, then, we have a
duality. But the Twain are not two separate things isolated
and unrelated ; there is a continual Relation between them,
a continual approach and withdrawal, an identification and a
repudiation ; this inter-play shows itself as the ever^changing
universe. Thus we have a Trinity, not a Duality—the Self,
the Not-Self, and the Relation between them. Ail is here
summed up, all things and all relations, actual and possi­
ble, and hence Three, neither more nor less, is the
foundation of all universes in their totality, and of each
universe in particular.1 This fundamental fact imposes on
a Logos a triplicity of manifestation in a solar system,
and hence the One, the Point, going forth in three
directions to the circumference of the Circle of Matter
and returning on Itself, manifests a different aspect at each
1The student should carefully study Bhagavan Das's T
h
eScience of
Peace, in which the m
etaphysical questions involved are expounded
w
ith rare acumen andfelicity.
INTRODUCTION 5
p lace of contact with the Circle— the three fundamental
expressions of Consciousness : or Will, Wisdom, and Activity
—the divine Triad or Trinity.1 For the Universal Self, the
Pratyag-atma, the “ Inner-Self ", thinking of the Not-Self,
identifies Himself with it, thereby sharing with it His Being;
this is the divine Activity, Sat, Existence lent to the Non­
existent, the Universal Mind. The Self, realizing Himself, is
Wisdom, Chit, the principle of preservation. The Self, with­
drawing Himself from the Not-Self, in His own pure nature,
is Bliss, Ananda, free from form. Every Logos of a uni­
verse repeats this universal Self-Consciousness: in His
Activity, He is the creative Mind, /Criva—corresponding to
the universal Sat—the Brahma of the Hindu, the Holy Spirit
of the Christian, the Chochmah of the Kabbalist. In His
Wisdom, He is the preserving ordering Reason, Jnana—cor­
responding to the universal Chit—the Vishnu of the Hindu,
the Son of the Christian, the Binah of the Kabbalist. In His
Bliss, He is the Dissolver of forms, the Will, Ichchha—corre­
sponding to the universal Ananda—the Shiva of the Hindu,
the Father of the Christian, the Kepher of the Kabbalist.
Thus appear in every universe the three Logoi, the three
Beings who create, preserve, and destroy Their universe,
each showing forth predominantly in His function in the
universe one ruling Aspect, to which the other two are sub­
ordinate, though of course ever-present. Hence, every
1 “ Power, Wisdom, and Love ” is another favourite way of express­
ing this triplicity; but this leaves out Act/vity, and duplicates Love,
unless Love be taken as its equivalent, since Love is essentially active.
Wisdom and Love seem to meto be the same aspect of consciousness ;
that which manifests above as Wisdom, the realization of U
nity, m
ani­
fests in the world of forms as Love, the attractive force which brings
about U
nity inaworld of separated beings.
6 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
manifested God is spoken of as a Trinity. The joining of
these three Aspects, or phases of manifestation, at their
outer points of contact with the circle, gives the basic
Triangle of contact with Matter, which, with the three
Triangles made with the lines traced by the Point, thus yields
the divine Tetractys, sometimes called the Kosmic, Quarter­
nary, the three divine Aspects in contact with Matter, ready
to create. These, in their totality, are the Oversoul1 of the
kosmos that is to be.
Under Form we may first glance at the effects of these
Aspects as responded to from the side of Matter. These
are not, of course, due to the Logos of a system, but are
the correspondences in universal Matter with the Aspects of
the universal Self. The Aspect of Bliss, or Will, imposes on
Matter the quality of Inertia—Tamas, the power of resistance,
stability, quietude. The Aspect of Activity gives to Matter
its responsiveness to action—Rajas, mobility. The Aspect of
Wisdom gives it Rhythm—Satva, vibration, harmony. It is by
the aid of Matter thus prepared that the Aspects of Logic
Consciousness can manifest themselves as Beings.
The Logos—not yet a first, since there is yet no second
—is seen as a Point irradiating a sphere of Matter, drawn
round Him as the field of the future universe, flashing with
unimaginable splendour, a true Mountain of Light as Manu
has it, but Light invisible save on the spiritual planes. This
great sphere has been spoken of as primary Substance : it is
the Self-conditioned Logos, inseparate at every point with the
Matter He has appropriated for His universe, ere He draws
Himself a little apart from it in the second manifestation ;
1Em
erson.
INTRODUCTION 7
it is the sphere of Self-conditioning Will, which is to
lead to the creative Activity : *
*I am This,” when the " This ” ,
the Not-Se!f, is cognised. The Point, speaking symbolically
— in order to make the suggestion of Form as seen from the
side of appearances—vibrates between centre and circum­
ference, thus making the Line which marks the drawing apart
of Spirit and Matter,1rendering cognition possible, and thus
generating the Form for the second Aspect, the Being we
call the Second Logos, symbolically the Line, or Diameter of
the Circle. It is said of this in mystic phrase : “ Thou art My
Son ; this day have I begotten Thee ; ” 2 this relation of
Father and Son within the unity of the Divine Existence, of
the First and Second Logoi, belongs, of course, to the Day of
Manifestation, the life-period of a universe. It is this beget­
ting of the Son, this appearance of the Second Logos, the
Wisdom, which is marked in the world of Form by the differ­
entiation, the drawing apart, of Spirit and Matter, the two
poles between which is spun the web of a universe ; the
separation, as it were, of the neutral inactive Electricity—
which may symbolise the First Logos— into the dual form of
positive and negative—symbolizing the Second—thus making
the unmanifest manifest. This separation within the First
Logos is vividly imaged for us in the preparation for cell-
multiplication that we may study on the physical plane,
wherein we see the processes that lead up to the appearance
1 It is well to remember here that this " drawing apart " is incon­
sciousness only : the id
ea of Spirit is separated from the id
eaof mat­
ter. In the universe of phenomena, there is no Spirit unconditioned
by matter, no smallest particle of matter uninformed by Spirit. All
forms are conscious ; all consciousnesses have forms.
2 P
sa
im
s, ii, 7.
8 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
of a dividing wall, whereby the one cell becomes two.
For all that happens down here is but the reflexion in gross
matter of the happenings on higher planes, and we may
often find a crutch for our halting imagination in our studies
of physical development. "As above, so below/’ Jhe
physical is the reflexion of the spiritual.
Then the Point, with Line revolving with it, vibrates at
right angles to the former vibration, and thus is formed the
Cross, still within the Circle, the Cross which thus " proceed-
eth from the Father and the Son ” , the symbol of the Third
Logos, the Creative Mind, the divine Activity now ready to
manifest as Creator. Then He manifests Himself as the
Active Cross, or Svastika, the first of the Logoi to manifest
outside the two highest planes, though the third stage of
the divine unfolding.
life form
i. Adi
ii. Anupadaka
iii. Atmic
2. ORIGINATION OF MONADS
But before considering the creative Activity of the Third
Logos^ we must note the origination of the Monads, or Units
INTRODUCTION 9
of Consciousness, for whose evolution in matter the field of
a universe is to be prepared. We shall return to their fuller
consideration in Chapter II. The myriads of such Units who
are to be developed in that coming, universe are generated
within the divine Life, as germ-cells in organisms, before the
field for their evolution is formed. Of this forthgiving it is
written : " THAT willed : I shall multiply and be born ; ” 1and
the Many arise in the One by that act of Will. Will has its
two aspects of attraction and repulsion, of inbreathing and
outbreathing, and when the repuision-aspect energizes there
is separation, driving apart.
This multiplication within the One by the action of Will
marks the place of origin—the First Logos, the undivided
Lord, the Eternal Father. These are the sparks of the
Supreme Fire, the “ divine Fragments ” , 2 named generally
4
‘ Monads A Monad is a fragment of the divine Life,
separated off as an individual entity by rarest film of matter,
matter so rare that, while it gives a separate form to each,
it offers no obstacle to the free inter-communication of a
life thus incased with the surrounding similar lives. The life
of the Monads is thus of the First Logos, and is therefore of
triple aspect, Consciousness existing as Will, Wisdom, and
Activity ; this life takes form on the plane of divine Manifest­
ation, the second, or Anupâdaka, Sons of the Father
even as is the Second Logos, but younger Sons with
none of their divine powers capable of acting in matter
denser than that of their own planes ; while He, with ages
of evolution behind Him, stands ready to exercise His divine
1C
h
h
ândogyopanishat, VI, ii, 3.
3 L
ig
h
t onthe P
a
th
.
10 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
powers, " the First-born among many brethren 'L1 Fitly they
dwell on the Anupadaka plane, the roots of their life in the
Adi, as yet without vehicles in which they can express them­
selves, awaiting the day of “ manifestation of the Sons of
God ”.s There they remain while the Third Logos begiqs
the external work of manifestation, the shaping of the object­
ive universe. He is going to put forth His life into matter,
to fashion it into the materials fitted for the building of the
vehicles which the Monads need for their evolution. But He
w
ill not be merged in His work ; for, vast as that work seems
to us, to Him it is but a little thing : " Having pervaded this
whole universe with a portion of Myself, I remain."3 That
marvellous Individuality is not lost, and only a portion thereof
suffices for the life of a kosmos. The Logos, the Over­
soul, remains, the God of His universe.
1R
om
an
s, viii, 29,
2Ibid
., 19.
3 B
h
a
ga
va
d
-G
ita
, x
, 42.
CH
APTER I
THE PREPARATION OF THE FIELD
1. THE FORMATION OF THE ATOM
THE Third Logos, the Universal Mind, begins His creative
Activity by working on the matter drawn in from the infinite
space on every side for the building of our solar system.
This matter exists in space in forms incognizable by us, but is
apparently already shaped to the needs of vaster systems.
For we have been told by H. P. Blavatsky that the atomic
sub-planes of our planes make up the first, or lowest, kosmic
plane. If we think of the atoms of that kosmic plane as
symbolized by a musical note, our atoms, as formed by the
Third Logos, may perhaps be symbolized by the overtones in
such a note. What seems clear is that they are in close-
relation to the " atoms of space ” , correspond with them,
but are not, in their present form, identical with them. But
the seven types of matter, that become our “ atoms ” , are
indicated in the matter drawn from space to form the solar
system, and are ultimately reducible again to them. H. P.
Blavatsky hints at the repeated seven-fold division into atoms
of lower and lower grade, when she writes : “ The One
Kosmic Atom becomes seven atoms on the plane of matter,
and each is transformed into a centre of energy. That same
12 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
atom becomes seven rays on the plane of spirit . . . separate
till the end of the kalpa and yet in close embrace." 1
Outside the limits of a universe this matter is in a very
peculiar state ; the three qualities of matter, inertia, mobility,
and rhythm,2 are balanced against each other, and are in a
state of equilibrium. They might be thought of as existing
as a closed circle, quiescent. In fact, in some ancient books,
matter in its totality is described in this state as inertia. It is
also spoken of as virgin ; it is the celestial Virgin Mary, the
ocean of virgin matter, that is to become the Mother by the
action of the Third Logos. The beginning of creative Activity
is the breaking of that closed circle, throwing the qualities
out of stable into unstable equilibrium. Life is motion, and
the life of the Solar Logos—His Breath, as it is poetically
called—touching this quiescent matter, threw the qualities
into a condition of unstable equilibrium, and therefore of
continual motion in relation to each other. During the life-
period of a universe matter is ever in a condition of incessant
internal motion. H. P. Blavatsky says : "Fohat hardens and
scatters the seven Brothers . . . electrifies into life and
.separates primordial stuff, or pregenetic matter, into atoms."3
The formation of the atom has three stages. First, the
fixing of the limit within which the ensouling life—the Life of
the Logos in the atom—shall vibrate; this limiting and
fixing of the wave-length of the vibration is technically called
“ the divine measure " ; 4 this gives to the atoms of a plane
1 T
h
eSecret D
octrin
e, i, 696. (London edn. 1928).
2 Tam
as, Rajas, and Satva.
3 T
h
eSecret D
octrine, i, 105.
4 Tanm
atra, the measure of That—" T
hat ” being the Divine Spirit,
THE PREPARATION OF THE FIELD 13
their distinctive peculiarity. Secondly, the Logos marks out,
according to this divine measure, the lines which determine
the shape of the atom, the fundamental axes of growth, the
angular relation of these, which determines the form, being
that of the corresponding kosmic atom 1; the nearest anal­
ogy to these are the axes of crystals. Thirdly, by the
measure of the vibration and the angular relation of the axes
of growth with each other, the size and form of the surface,
which we may call the surface or wall of the atom, is deter­
mined. Thus in every atom we have the measure of its
ensouling life, its axes of growth, and its enclosing surface
or wall.
Of such atoms the Third Logos creates five different
kinds, the five different " measures ” implying five different
vibrations, and each kind forms the basic material of a plane ;
each plane, however various the objects in it, has its own
fundamental type of atom, into which any of its objects may
ultimately be reduced.
2. SPIRIT-MATTER
The epithet, spirit-matter, will perhaps be better appreci­
ated if we pause for a moment on the method of the
formation of the atoms of the successive planes. For each
system the matter of space around it is its Root of Matter,
Mulaprakriti, as .the Hindus graphically call it. The matter of
each system has that surrounding matter for its root, or base,
and its own special matter grows out of, is developed from,
that. The Logos, the Oversoul, of the system, drawing
1Collectively, a Tattva.
14 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
round Himself the necessary matter from space, ensouls it
with His own life, and this life within this subtle matter, this
Mulaprakriti, is the Atma, the Self, the Spirit, in every
particle. Fohat, the energy of the Logos, says H. P. B.,
" digs holes in space ” , and no description could be finer and
truer. That whirling energy forms innumerable vortices,
each shaped by the divine energy and the axes of growth,
and each shelled with the matter of space, Atma in a shell
of Mulaprakriti, spirit in a shell of matter, the " atoms ” of
the adi, or highest plane, the first. Some of these remain
as " atoms ” ; others join together and form " molecules " ;
“ molecules ” join together and make more complex mole­
cular combinations ; and so on till six sub-planes below the
atomic are formed. (This by analogy with what may be
observed below, since these highest planes are incognizable.)
Now comes the forming of the atoms of the second plane.
Their measure and axes of growth being fixed as above
described by the Third Logos, some of the atoms of the adi,
or first, plane draw round themselves a shell of the combi­
nations of their own lowest sub-plane; the Spirit plus its
original shell of kosmic matter (Mulaprakriti), or the atom of
the first plane, is the spirit of the second plane, and per­
meates the new shell, formed out of the lowest-grade com­
binations of itself. These shells, thus ensouled, are the atoms
of the anupadaka, or second, plane. By the ever more
complicated aggregations of these the remaining six sub­
planes are brought into being. Some of the atoms of the
anupadaka plane, in like manner, become clothed with the
aggregations of their own lowest sub-plane, and thus become
the atmic atoms, the Spirit now being clothed with two
THE PREPARATION OF THE FIELD 15
shells, inside its atomic wall of aggregations of the lowest
sub-plane of the anupadaka, and the original Spirit, or Life,
plus its two shells, being called the spirit of the atmic plane,
while the wall of its atom is regarded as the matter. This
atom, ensheathed once more in the aggregations of the
lowest atmic sub-plane, becomes the atom of the buddhic
plane, Spirit on the buddhic plane having thus three enclos­
ing films within its atomic shell of lowest atmic aggregations.
On the mental plane the Spirit has a fourfold sheath within
the atomic wall, on the astral plane a fivefold, and on the
physical a sixfold, with the atomic wall in each case in
addition. But the Spirit plus all its sheaths save the outer­
most is ever regarded as Spirit, and the outermost sheath
only as form or body. It is this involution of Spirit which
makes evolution possible, and complicated as the description
may sound, the principle is simple and can be easily grasped.
Truly, then, may we speak of “ spirit-matter" every­
where.
3. THE SUB-PLANES
Now the ultimate atoms of the physical plane are not the
“ atoms" of the modern chemist; the ultimate atoms are
aggregated into successive typical groups, forming “ states
of matter ", and the chemical atom may be in the fifth,
sixth, or seventh of these states, a gas, a liquid, or a solid.
Familiar are the gaseous, the liquid, and the solid states
of matter, or, as they are often called, the gaseous,
liquid, and solid sub-planes ; and above the gaseous
are four less familiar conditions, the three etherîc states
16 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
of matter or sub-pianes, and the true atomic. These
true atoms are aggregated into groups, which then act
as units, and these groups are called molecules ; the
atoms in a molecule are held together by magnetic attrac­
tion, and the molecules on each sub-plane are arranged
geometrically in relation to each other on axes identical with
the axes of growth of the atom of the corresponding plane.
By these successive aggregations of atoms into molecules,
and of simpler into more complex molecules, the sub-planes
of each plane are formed under the directive Activity of the
third Logos, until the field of evolution, consisting of five
planes, each showing seven sub-planes—the first and second
planes being beyond this field—is completed. But it must
not be supposed that these seven sub-planes, as formed by
the Third Logos, are at all identical with those which are now
existing. Taking the physical plane as an illustration, they
bear something of the same relation to the present sub-
planes as that which the chemist calls proto-hydrogen bears
to the chemical element said to be built up out of it. The
present conditions were not brought about by the work of
the Third Logos only, in whom Activity predominates ; the
more strongly attractive or cohesive energies of the Second
Logos, who is Wisdom and therefore Love, were needed for
the further integrations.
It is important to remember that the planes are inter­
penetrating^ and that corresponding sub-planes are directly
related to each other, and are not really separated from
each other by intervening layers of denser matter. Thus we
must not think of the atomic sub-planes as being separated
from each other by six sub-planes of generally increasing
THE PREPARATION OF THE FIELD 17
density, but as being in immediate connexion with each
other. We may figure this in a diagram as follows :
FORM L
IF
E
It must be understood that this is a diagram, not a picture :
/.e., it represents relations, not material facts—the relations
existing between the planes by virtue of their intermingling,
and not forty-nine separate bricks placed in seven rows, one
on the top of another.
Now this relation is a most important one, for it implies
that life can pass from plane to plane by the short road of
the communicating atomic sub-planes, and need not neces­
sarily circle round through the six molecular sub-planes before
2
18 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
it can reach the next atomic sub-plane to continue its de­
scent. As a matter of fact we shall find presently
that life-streams from the Monad do follow this atomic
road in their descent to the physical plane. If we now
consider, a physical atom, looking at it as a whole, we
see a vortex of life, the life of the Third Logos, whirling with
inconceivable rapidity. By the attraction between these
whirling vortices, molecules are built up, and the plane with
its sub-planes formed. But at the limiting surface of this
whirling vortex are the spirillae, whirling currents, each at
right angles to the one within it and the one without it.
These whirling currents are made by the life of the Monad,
not by the life of the Third Logos, and are not present at
the early stage we are considering ; they develop one after
another into full activity in the course of evolution, normally
one in each Round ; their rudiments are indeed completed
by the fourth Round by the action of the Second Logos, but
the life-stream of the Monad circulates in only four of them,
the other three being but faintly indicated. The atoms of
the higher planes are formed on the same general plan, as
regards the Logic central vortex and its enclosing currents,
but all details are at present lacking to us. Many of the
practices of yoga are directed to bring about the more rapid
evolution of the atoms by quickening this spirillar-vivifying
work of the Monad upon it. As these currents of the
monadic life are added to the Logic vortex, the note of life
grows richer and richer in its quality. We may compare the
central vortex to the fundamental note, the whirling encir­
cling currents to the overtones ; the addition of each over­
tone means an added richness to the note. New forces,
THE PREPARATION OF THE FIELD 19
new beauties, are thus ever added to the seven-fold chord
of life.
4. THE FIVE PLANES
The different responses which the matter of the planes
will later give under the impulse of consciousness depend on
the work of the Third Logos, on the “ measure " by which
He limits the atom. The atom of each plane has its own
measure, as we have seen, and this limits its power of re­
sponse, its vibratory action, and gives it its specific character.
As the eye is so constituted that it is able to respond to
vibrations of ether within a certain range, so is each type of
atom, by its constitution, able to respond to vibrations within
a certain range, One plane is called the plane made of
" mind-stuff ", because the " measure " of its atoms makes
their dominant response that which answers to a certain
range of the vibrations, of the Knowledge Aspect of the
Logos, as modified by the Creative Activity.1 Another is
called the plane of “ desire-stuff ", because the " measure "
of its atoms makes their dominant response that which
answers to a certain range of the vibrations of the Will3
Aspect of the Logos. Each type of atom has thus its own
peculiar power of response, determined by its own measure
of vibration. In each atom lie involved numberless possi­
bilities of response to the three aspects of consciousness, and
these possibilities within the atom will be brought out of the
1Chit working on K
riya, i.e., Wisdom working on.Activity yields
M
anas, m
ind.
- Ichchha.
‘20 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
atom as powers in the course of evolution. But the capa­
city of the matter to respond, and the nature of the response,
these are determined by the original action of the triple
Self on it, and by the measure imposed on the atoms by the
Third Logos ; He, out of the infinite capacity of H
is own
multitude of vibratory powers, gives a certain portion to the
matter of a particular system in a particular cycle of evolu­
tion. This capacity is stamped on matter by the Third Logos,
and is ever maintained in matter by His life infolded in the
atom. Thus is formed the five-fold field of evolution inwhich
consciousness is to develop.
This work of the Third Logos is usually spoken of as the
First Life-Wave.
CH
APTER I
I
CONSCIOUSNESS
1. THE MEANING OF THE WORD
LET us now consider what we mean by consciousness, and
see if this consideration will build for us the much longed-for
" bridge ” , which is the despair of modern thought, between
consciousness and matter, will span for us the “ gulf ” alleged
to exist for ever between them,
To begin with a definition of terms: consciousness and life
are identical, two names for one thing as regarded from
with and from without. There is no life without con­
sciousness ; there is no consciousness without life. When
we vaguely separate them in thought and analyse what
we have done, we find that we have called conscious­
ness turned inward by the name of life, and life turned
outwards by the name of consciousness. When our
attention is fixed on unity we say life ; when it is fixed upon
multiplicity we say consciousness ; and we forget that the
multiplicity is due to, is the essence of, matter, the reflecting
surface in which the One becomes the Many. When it is
said that life is " more or less conscious ” , it is not the abstrac­
tion life that is thought of, but " a living thing ” more or
,22 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
less aware of its surroundings. The more or less awareness
depends on the thickness, the density, of the enwrapping
veil which makes it a living thing, separate from its fellows.
Annihilate in thought that veil, and you annihilate in thought
also life, and are in That into which all opposites are re­
solved, the All.
This leads us to our next point: the existence of con­
sciousness implies a separation into two aspects of the
fundamental all-underlying Unity. The modern name of
consciousness, '"awareness", equally implies this. For you
cannot hang up awareness in the void ; awareness implies
something of which it is aware, a duality at the least.
Otherwise it exists not. In the highest abstraction of
consciousness, of awareness, this duality is implied ; con­
sciousness ceases if the sense of limitation be withdrawn, is
dependent on limitation for existence. Awareness is essen­
tially awareness of lim
itation, and only secondarily awareness
of others. Awareness of others comes into being with what
we call Self-consciousness, Self-awareness. This abstract
Twain-in-One, consciousness-limitation, spirit-matter, life-
form, are ever inseparable, they appear and disappear to­
gether ; they exist only in relation to each other; they
resolve into a necessarily unmanifest Unity, the supreme
synthesis.
" As above, so below." Again let the '* below " help us ;
let us look at consciousness as it appears when considered
from the side of form, as we see it in a universe of conscious
things. Electricity manifests only as positive and negative ;
when these neutralise each other, electricity vanishes. In
all things electricity exists, neutral, unmanifest ; from all
CONSCIOUSNESS 23
thing it can appear, but not as positive only, or as negative
only ; always as balancing amounts of both, over against each
other, and these ever tending to re-enter together into
apparent nothingness, which is not nothingness but the
source equally of both.
But if this be so, what becomes of the “ gulf ” ? what
need of the “ bridge ” ? Consciousness and matter affect
each other because they are the two constituents of one
whole, both appearing as they draw apart, both disappearing
as they unite, and as they draw apart a relation exists ever
between them.1 There is no such thing as a conscious unit
which does not consist of this inseparate duality, a magnet
with two poles ever in relation to each other. We think of
a separate something we call consciousness, and ask how it
works on another separate something we call matter. There
are no such two separate somethings, but only two drawn-
apart but inseparate aspects of That which, without both, is
unmanifest, which cannot manifest in the one or the other
alone, and is equally in both. There are no fronts without
backs, no aboves without belows, no outsides without insides,
no spirit without matter. They affect each other because
inseparable parts of a unity, manifesting as a duality in space
and time. The “ gulf " appears when we think of a *' spirit ”
wholly immaterial, and a body " wholly material—i.e., of
two things neither of which exists. There is no spirit which
is not matter-enveloped : there is no matter which is not
spirit-ensouled. The highest separated Self has its film of
1T
hat relation is magnetic, but of magnetism of the subtlest kind,
called Fohat, or Daiviprakriti, “ The Light of the Logos". It is of
Substance, and in it the essence of consciousness and essence of
m
atter exist, polarised but not drawn apart.
24 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
matter, and though such a Self is called •
*a spirit ” because
the consciousness-aspect is so predominant, none the less
is it true that it has its vibrating sheath of matter, and that
from this sheath all impulses come forth, which affect all
other denser material sheaths in succession. To say this is
not to materialize consciousness, but only to recognize the
fact that the two primary opposites, consciousness and mat­
ter, are straitly bound together, are never apart, not even in
the highest Being. Matter is limitation, and without limitation
consciousness is not. So far from materializing conscious­
ness, it puts it as a concept in sharp antithesis to matter, but
it recognizes the fact that in an entity the one is not found
without the other. The densest matter, the physical, has its
core of consciousness; the gas, the stone, the metal, is
living, conscious, aware. Thus oxygen becomes aware of
hydrogen at a certain temperature, and rushes into combina­
tion with it.
Let us now look out of consciousness from within, and see
the meaning of the phrase: " Matter is limitation." Con­
sciousness isthe one Reality, inthe fullest sense of that much-
used phrase : it follows from this that any reality found any­
where is drawn from consciousness. Hence, everything
which is thought, is. That consciousness in which everything
is, everything literally, “ possible ” as well as “ actual ”—
actual being that which is thought of as existent by a separat­
ed consciousness in time and space, and possible all that
which is not so being thought of at any period in time and
any point in space—we call Absolute Consciousness. It is
the All, the Eternal, the Infinite, the Changeless. Con­
sciousness, thinking time and soace. anH nf »1! ^
CONSCIOUSNESS 25
existing in them in succession and in places, is the Universal
Consciousness, the One, called by the Hindu the Saguna
Brahman—the Eternal with attributes—the Pratyag-atma
— the Inner Self; by the Christian, God ; by the Parsi,
Hormuzd ; by the Mussalman, Allah. Consciousness deal­
ing with a definite time, however long or short, with a definite
space, however vast or restricted, is individual, that of a con­
crete Being, a Lord of many universes, or some universes,
or a universe, or of any so-called portion of a universe, h
is
portion and to him therefore a universe—these terms varying
as to extent with the power of the consciousness : so much of
the universal thought as a separate consciousness can com­
pletely think, i.e., on which he can impose his own reality,
can think of as existing like himself, is his universe. To each
universe, the Being who is its Lord gives a share of his own
indefeasible Reality ; but is ever himself limited and controlled
by the thought of his superior, the Lord of the universe in
which he exists as a form. ' Thus we, who are human beings
existing in a solar system, are surrounded by innumerable
forms which are the thought-forms of the Lord of our
system, our Tshvara, or Ruler; the " divine measure "
and the “ axes of growth ", thought by the Third Logos,
govern the forms of our atoms, and the surface thought of
by Him as the limit of the atom and resistant, offers resist­
ance to all similar atoms. Thus we receive our matter, and
cannot alter it, save by the employment of methods also
made by His thought; only so long as His thought continues
can the atoms, with all composed of them, continue to exist,
since they have no Reality save that given by His thought.
So long as He retains them as His body by declaring : " I am
26 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
this: these atoms are My body; they share My life;" so
long they will impose themselves as real on all the beings in
this solar system, whose consciousnesses are clothed in
similar garments. When at the end of the Day of Manifesta­
tion He declares: " I am not this ; these atoms are no
longer My body; they no longer share My life ; ” then shall
they vanish as the dream they are, and only that shall re­
main which is the thought-form of the Monarch of a vaster
system.
Thus, as Spirits, we are inherently, indefeasibly divine, with
all the splendour and freedom implied in that word. But
we are clothed in matter which is not ours, which is the
thought-forms of the Ruler of our system—controlled again
by the Rulers of vaster systems in which ours is included—
and we are only slowly learning to master and use it. When
we realize our oneness with our Ruler, then the matter
shall have no longer power over us, and we shall see it as
the unreality it is, dependent on His will, which then we shall
know as also ours. Then we can " play " with it, as we can­
not while it blinds us with its borrowed Reality.
Looking thus out of consciousness from within, we see
even more plainly than we saw looking at it from the world
of forms, that there is no " gulf", and no need for a
“ bridge Consciousness changes, and each change ap­
pears in the matter surrounding it as a vibration, because
the Logos has thought vibrations of matter as the in­
variable concomitant of changes in consciousness ; and as
the matter is but the resultant of consciousness and its
attributes are imposed upon it by active thought, any change
in the Logic Consciousness would change the attributes of
CONSCIOUSNESS 27
the matter of the system, and any change in a conscious­
ness derived from Him shows itself in that matter as a
change ; this change in matter is a vibration, a rhythmical
movement within the limits set by Him for the mobility of
masses of matter in that relation. “ Change in conscious­
ness and vibration of the matter limiting it " is a “ pair ",
imposed by the thought of the Logos on all embodied
consciousnesses in His universe. That such a constant relation
exists is shown by the fact that a vibration in a material
sheath accompanying a change in the ensouling conscious­
ness, and causing a similar vibration in the sheath ensouled
by another consciousness, is found to be accompanied by a
change in that second consciousness similar to the change in
the first.
In matter far subtler than the physical—as mind-stuff—
the creative power of consciousness is more readily seen
than in the dense material of the physical plane. Matter
becomes dense or rare, and changes its combinations and
forms, according to the thoughts of a consciousness active
therein. While the fundamental atoms— due to the Logic
thought—remain unchanged, they can be combined or dis­
sociated at will. Such experiences open the mind to the
metaphysical conception of matter, and enable it to
realize at once the borrowed reality and the nonentity of
matter.
A word of warning may be useful with regard to the
often repeated phrases of “ Consciousness in a body ",
“ Consciousness ensouling a body ", and the like. The
student is a little apt to figure consciousness as a kind of
rarefied gas enclosed in a material receptacle, a kind of
28 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
bottle. If he w
ill think carefully he will realize that the resist­
ant surface of the body is but a Logic thought-form, and it
is there because thought there. Consciousness appears as
conscious entities, because the Logos thinks such separa­
tions, thinks the enclosing walls, makes such thought limita­
tions. And these thoughts of the Logos are due to His
unity with the Universal Self, and are but a repetition within
the area of a particular universe of the Will to multiply.
A careful dwelling in mind on the distinctions above
traced between Absolute Consciousness, Universal Con­
sciousness, and Individual Consciousness, will prevent the
student from asking the question so often heard : Why is
there any universe ? Why does All-Consciousness limit itself ?
Why should the Perfect become the imperfect, All-Power
become the powerless, God become the mineral, the brute,
the man ? In this form the question is unanswerable, for it is
fonnded on false premises. The Perfect is the All, the
Totality, the Sum of Being. Within its infinity, as above
said, is everything contained, every potentiality, as well as
actuality, of existence. All that has been, is, will be, can be,
ever IS in that Fullness, that Eternal. Only Itself knows
Itself in its infinite unimaginable wealth of Being. Because
it contains ail pairs of opposites, and each pair, in affirming
itself, to the eye of reason annihilates itself and vanishes, It
seems a Void. But endless universes arising in It proclaim
It a Plenum. This Perfect never becomes the imperfect; it
becomes nothing ; It is all Spirit and Matter, Strength and
Weakness, Knowledge and Ignorance, Peace and Strife, Bliss
and Pain, Power and Impotence ; the innumerable opposites
of manifestation merge into each other and vanish in
CONSCIOUSNESS 29
non-manifestation. The All includes manifestation and non­
manifestation, the diastole and systole of the Heart which is
Being. The one no more requires explanation than the
other; the one cannot be without the other. The puzzle
arises because men assert separately one of the inseparate
pair of opposites—Spirit, Strength. Knowledge, Peace, Bliss,
Power—and then ask : “ Why should these become their
opposites?" They do not. No attribute exists without its
opposite ; a pair only can manifest ; every front has a back,
spirit and matter arise together ; it is not that spirit exists,
and then miraculously produces matter to limit^and blind
itself, but that spirit and matter arise in the Eternal
simultaneously as a mode of Its Being, a form of Self-
expression of the Ail, Pratyagatma and Mulaprakrti, express­
ing in time and space the Timeless and Spaceless.
2. THE MONADS
We have seen that by the action of the Third Logos a
five-fold field has been provided for the development of
Units of Consciousness, and that a Unit of Consciousness is
a fragment, a portion of the Universal Consciousness,
thought into separation as an individual entity veiled in
matter, a Unit of the substance of the First Logos, to be
sent forth on the second plane as a separate Being. Such
Units are called technically Monads. These are the Sons,
abiding from everlasting, from the beginning of a creative
age, in the Bosom of the Father, who have not yet been
“ made perfect through sufferings " ; 1 each of them is truly
1H e b r e w s , ii, 10.
30 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
" equal to the Father as touching his Godhead, but inferior
to the Father as touching his manhood ", 1and each of them
is to go forth into matter in order to render all things subject
to himself; 2he is to be “ sown in weakness " that be may
be " raised in power " ; ;j from a static Logos enfolding all
divine potentialities, he is to become a dynamic Logos un­
folding all divine powers ; omniscient, omnipresent, on his
own second plane, but unconscious, '*senseless ", on all the
others,4 he is to veil his glory in matter that blinds him, in
order that he may become omniscient, omnipresent, on all
planes, able to answer to all divine vibrations in the universe
instead of to those on the highest only.
The meaning of this feeble description of a great truth
may be glimpsed by the student by a consideration of the
facts of embryonic life and birth. When an Ego is reincar­
nating, he broods over the human mother in whom his
future body is a-building, the vehicle he will one day inhabit.
That body is slowly built up of the substance of the mother,
and the Ego can do little as to its shaping : it is an embryo,
unconscious of its future, dimly conscious only of the flow of
the maternal life, impressed by maternal hopes and fears,
thoughts and desires ; nothing from the Ego affects it, save
a feeble influence coming through the permanent physical
atom, and it does not share, because it cannot answer to,
the wide-reaching thoughts, the aspiring emotions of the
1Athanasian Creed.
2 I C o r i n t h i a n s , xv, 2 8 .
s I b i d . , 4 3 .
4 H. P. Blavatsky, T h e K e y t o T h e o s o p h y . See p. 6 5 , for the principle,
though applied to a lower stage.
CONSCIOUSNESS 31
Ego, as expressed by him in his causal body. That embryo
must develop, must gradually assume a human form, must
enter on an independent life, separate from that of his
mother, must pass through seven years—as men count
time—of such independent life, ere the Ego can fully ensoul
it But during that slow evolution, with its infantile helpless­
ness, its childish follies, pleasures, and pains, the Ego to whom
it belongs is carrying on his own wider, richer, life, and is
gradually coming into nearer and nearer touch with this
body, in which alone he can work in the physical world, his
touch being manifested as the growth of the brain-con­
sciousness.
The condition of the Monad in relation to the evolution
of his consciousness in a universe resembles that of the Ego
in relation to his new physical body. His own world is that
of the second, the anupadaka, plane, and there he is fully
conscious with the all-embracing Self-consciousness of his
world, but not at first of selves, among whom he is separate,
of “ others ". Let us try to see the stages through which
he passes. He is first a spark in a flame : “ I sense one
Flame, O Gurudeva; I see countless undetached sparks
shining in it." 1 The Flame is the First Logos, the unde­
tached sparks the Monads. His Will to manifest is also theirs,
for they are the germ-cells in his body, that will presently
have a separate life in His coming universe Moved by this
Will, the sparks share the change called “ the begetting of
the Son ", and pass into the Second Logos and dwell in Him.
Then, with the " proceeding " of the Third, there comes to
them from Himthe " spiritual individuality", thatH. P. Blavatsky
1Occult Catechism, quoted in T h e S e c r e t D o c t r i n e , i, 145.
32 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
speaks of, the dawning separateness. But still there is no
sense of “ others ", needed to react as the sense of '* I .
The three aspects of consciousness, theirs as sharing the
Logic life, are still, to use a figure of speech, “ turned in­
wards ", playing on each other, asleep, unaware of a “ with­
out ", sharing the all-Self-consciousness. The great Beings,
called the Creative Orders,1 arouse them to “ outer"
life; Will, Wisdom, Activity awake to awareness of the
“ without"; a dim sense of “ others" arises, so far as
“ others " may be in a world where all “ forms" intermingle
and interpenetrate, and each becomes “ an individual
Dhyan Chohan, distinct from others ".2 At the first stage,
spoken of above, when the Monads are, in the fullest sense
of the term, undetached, as “ germ-cells in His body ", the
Will, Wisdom, and Activity in them are latent, not patent.
His Will to manifest is also their will, but theirs unconsciously ;
He, Self-conscious, knows His object and his path ; they, not
yet Self-conscious, have in them, as parts of His body, the
moving energy of His Will, which will presently be their own
individual Will to Live, and which impels them into the condi­
tions wherein a separate-Self-conscious, instead of an all-Self-
conscious, life is possible. This leads them to the second stage
in the life of the Second Logos, and to the Third. Then,
comparatively separate, the awakening by the Creative Orders
brings with it the dim senses of “ others " and of “ I", and
with this a thrill of longing for a more clearly defined sense
1See T h e P e d i g r e e o f M a n , by Annie Besant, pp. 1 1, 12.
2 T h e S e c r e t D o c t r i n e , i, 285.
3 “ The fullest sense” , i . e . , with no separate individuality; un­
detached, in truth, they ever emain above, ever shining in the
Flame.
CONSCIOUSNESS 33
>f “ I " and of " others ; " and this is the “ individual Will to
.ive", and this leads them forth into the denser worlds,
vherein such sharper definition alone becomes possible.
It is important to understand that the evolution of the
ndividuai " I " is a Self-chosen activity. We are here be-
:ause we Will to Live; “ none else compels ". This aspect
)f consciousness, the Will, is dealt with in later chapters^of
;his book, and here we need only emphasise the fact that
:he Monads are Self-moved, Self-determined, in their entry
nto the lower planes of matter, the field of manifestation,
he five-fold universe. To their vehicles in it, they remain
is the Ego to his physical body, with their radiant divine life
t loftier spheres, but brooding over their lower vehicles and
nanifesting more and more in them as they become more
>lastic. H. P. Blavatsky speaks of this, as the “ Monad is
:ycling on downwards into matter". 1
Everywhere in nature we see this same striving after fuller
nanifestation of life, this constant Will to Live. The seed,
juried in
* the ground, pushes its growing point upwards to
he light. The bud fettered in its sheathing calyx bursts its
>rison and expands in the sunshine. The chick within the
¡gg splits its confining shell in twain. Everywhere life seeks
¡xpression, powers press to exercise themselves. See the
lainter, the sculptor, the poet, with creative genius strug-
ling within him ; to create yields the subtlest pleasure, the
eenest savour of exquisite delight. Therein is but another
^stance of the omnipresent nature of life, whether in the
ogos, the genius, or in the ephemeral creature of a day ;
I
I joy in the bliss of living, and feel most alive when they
1 T h e S e c r e t D o c t r i n e , i, 2 6 7 .
3
34 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
multiply themselves by creation. To feel life expressing Itself,
flowing forth, expanding, Increasing, this is at once the result
of the Will to Live, and its fruition in the Bliss of living.
Some of the Monads, willing to live through the toils of
the five-fold universe, in order to master matter and in
turn to create a universe therein, enter into it to become
a developed God therein, a Tree of Life, another Fount
of Being. The shaping of a universe is the Day of
Forth-going; living is becoming; life knows itself by change.
Those who will not to become masters of matter, creators,
remain in their static bliss, excluded from the five-fold
universe, unconscious of its activities. For it must be re­
membered that all the seven planes are interpenetrating,
and that Consciousness on any plane means the power of
answering to the vibrations of that particular plane. Just as a
man may be conscious on the physical plane because his
physical body is organised to receive and transmit to him its
vibrations, but be totally unconscious of the higher planes
though their vibrations are playing on him, because he has
not yet organised sufficiently his higher bodies to receive and
transmit to him their vibrations ; so is the Monad, the Unit
of Consciousness, able to be conscious on the second plane,
but totally unconscious on the lower five.
He will evolve his consciousness on these by taking from
each plane some of its matter, veiling himself in this matter
and forming it into a sheath by which he can come into con­
tact with that plane, gradually organising this sheath of matter
into a body capable of functioning on its own plane as an
expression of himself, receiving vibrations from the plane and
transmitting ,them to him, receiving vibrations from him and
CONSCIOUSNESS 35
transmitting them to the plane. As he veils himself in the
matter of each successive plane he shuts away some of his
consciousness, that of it which is too subtle for receiving or
setting up vibrations in the matter of that, plane. He has
within him seven typical vibratory powers—each capable of
producing an indefinite number of sub-vibrations of its own
type—and these are shut off one by one as he endues veil
after veil of grosser matter. The powers in consciousness of
expressing itself in certain typical ways— using the word
power in the mathematical sense, consciousness " to the'
third ” , consciousness “ to the fourth ” , etc.— are seen in
matter as what we call dimensions. The physical power
of consciousness has its expression in " three-dimensional
matter ” , while the astral, mental, and other powers of con­
sciousness need for their expression other dimensions of
matter.
Speaking thus of Monads, we may feel as if we were
dealing with something far away. Yet is the Monad very
near to us, our Self, the very root of our being, the
innermost source of our life, the one Reality. Hidden, un­
manifest, wrapt in silence and darkness is our Self, but our
consciousness is the limited manifestation of that Self, the
manifested God in the kosmos of our bodies, which are His
garments. As the Unmanifest is partially manifest in the
Logos as Divine Consciousness, and in the universe as the
Body of the Logos,1 so is our unmanifest Self partially
manifest in our consciousness, as the Logos of our individual
1 In the roaring loom of Time I ply,
And weave for God the garment thou seest Him by,
Goethe.
36 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
system, and in our body as the kosmos which clothes the
consciousness. As above, so below.
This hidden Seif it is which is called the Monad, being
verily the One. It is this which gives the subtle sense of
unity that ever persists in us amid all changes; the sense of
identity has here its source, for this is the Eternal in us.
The three out-streaming rays which come from the Monad—
to be dealt with presently—are his three aspects, or modes
of being, or hypostases, reproducing the Logoi of a universe,
the ‘Will, Wisdom, and Activity which are the three essential
expressions of embodied consciousness, the familar Atma-
Buddhi-Manas of the Theosophist.
This consciousness ever works as a unit on the various
planes, but shows out its triplicity on each. When we study
consciousness working on the mental plane, we see Will
appearing as choice, Wisdom as discrimination, Activity as
cognition. On the astral plane we see Will appearing as
desire, Wisdom as love, Activity as sensation. On the
physical plane, Will has for its instruments the motor organs
(karmendriyas), Wisdom the cerebral hemispheres, Activity
the organs of sense (jnanendriyas)J
The full manifestation of these three aspects of conscious­
ness in their highest forms takes place in man in the same
order as the manifestation of the triple Logos in the uni­
verse. The third aspect, Activity, revealed as the creative
mind, as tne gatherer of knowledge, is the first to perfect
its vehicles, and show forth its full energies. The second
aspect, Wisdom, revealed as the Pure and Compassionate
1This assignment is tentative only. As matter is the feminine side,
Sarasvati, belonging to Brahma, -seems to indicate the inanendriyas,
and Durga the karmendriyas.
CONSCIOUSNESS 37
Reason, is the second to shine forth, the Krishna, the Buddha,
the Christ, in man. The third aspect, Will, is the last to
reveal itself, the divine Power of the Self, that which in its
impregnable fullness is Beatitude, is Peace.
CHAPTER ill
THE PEOPLING O F THE FIELD
1. THE COMING FORTH OF THE MONADS
WHEN the five-fold field is ready, when the five planes,
each with its seven sub-planes, are completed so far as
their primary constitution is concerned, then begins the activ­
ity of the Second Logos, the Builder and Preserver of
forms. His activity is spoken of as the Second Life-Wave,
the pouring out of Wisdom and Love—the Wisdom, the
directing force, needed for the organisation and evolution of
forms, the Love, the attractive force', needed for holding
them together as stable though complex wholes. When
this great stream of Logic life pours forth into the five-fold
field of manifestation, it brings with- it into activity the
Monads, the Units of Conciousness, ready to begin their
work of evolution, to clothe themselves in matter.
Yet the phrase that the Monads go forth is somewhat
inaccurate : that they shine forth, send out their rays of life,
would be truer. For they remain ever “ in the bosom of the
Father ", while their life-rays stream out into the ocean of
matter, and therein appropriate the materials needed for
THE PEOPLING OF THE FIELD 39
their energising in the universe. The matter must be appro­
priated, rendered plastic, shaped into fitting vehicles.
H. P. Blavatsky has described their forthshining in graphic
allegorical terms, using a symbolism more expressive than
literal-meaning words : “ The primordial triangle, which—as
soon as it has reflected itself in the ' Heavenly Man the
highest of the lower seven—disappears, returning into
' Silence and Darkness '; and the astral paradigmatic man,
whose Monad (Atma) is also represented by a triangle, as it
has to become a ternary in conscious devachanic interludes."1
The primordial triangle, or the three-faced Monad of Will,
Wisdom, and Activity, “ reflects itself " in the “ Heavenly
Man", as Atma-Buddhi-Manas, and then “ returns into
Silence and Darkness ", Atma—often spoken of as the
Monad of the lower, or astral man—has to become a tern­
ary, a triple-faced unit, by assimilating Buddhi and Manas.
The word “ reflexion " demands explanation here. Speaking
generally, the term reflexion is used when a force manifested
.on a higher plane shows itself again on a lower plane, and is
conditioned by a grosser kind of matter in that lower mani­
festation, so that some of the effective energy of the force
is lost and it shows itself in a feebler form. As now used in
a special instance, it means that a stream of the life of the
Monad pours forth, taking as the vessel to contain it an atom
from each of the three higher planes of the five-fold field—
the third, the fourth, and the fifth—thus producing the
“ Heavenly Man ". the “ Living Ruler, Immortal ", the Pilgrim
who is to evolve, for whose evolution the system was brought
into being.
1T h e S e c r e t D o c t r i n e , iii, 4 4 4 .
40 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
" As the mighty vibrations of the Sun throw matter into
the vibrations we call his rays (which express his heat, elec­
tricity, and other energies), so does the Monad cause the
atomic matter of the âtmîc, buddhic, and mânasic planes—
surrounding him as the ether of space surrounds the Sun—
to vibrate, and thus makes to himself a Ray, triple like his
own three-fold nature. In this he is aided by Devas from a
previous universe who have passed through a similar experi­
ence before ; these guide the vibratory wave from the Will-
aspect to the atmic atom, and the âtmic atom, vibrating
to the Will-aspect, is called Âtmâ ; they guide the vibratory
wave from the Wisdom-aspect to the buddhic atom, and the
buddhic atom, vibrating to the Wisdom-aspect, is called
Buddhi ; also they guide the vibratory wave from the Activ­
ity-aspect to the mânasîc atom, and the mânasic atom,
vibrating to the Activity-aspect, is called Manas. Thus Âtmâ-
Buddhi-Manas, the Monad in the world of manifestation, is
formed, the Ray of the Monad, beyond the five-fold uni­
verse. Here is the mystery of the Watcher, the Spectator,
the actionless Âtmâ, who abides ever in his triple nature on
his own plane, and lives in the world of men by his Ray,
which animates his shadows, the fleeting lives on earth. . . .
The shadows do the work on the lower planes, and are
moved by the Monad through his Image or Ray, at first so
feebly that his influence is well-nigh imperceptible, later with
ever-increasing power." 1
Âtmâ-Buddhi-Manas is the Heavenly Man, the Spiritual
Man, and he is the expression of the Monad, whose reflected
1The P e d i g r e e o f M a n , pp. 2 5 , 27• slightly modified, as in the
book the passage refers to the fourth. Chain only.
THE PEOPLING OF THE FIELD 41
aspect of Will is Atnna, whose reflected aspect of Wisdom is
Buddhi, whose reflected aspect of Activity is Manas. Hence
we may regard the human Atma as the Will-aspect of the
Monad, ensouling an akashic atom ; the human Buddhi as
the Wisdom-aspect of the Monad, ensouling an air (divine
flame) atom; the human Manas as the Activity-aspect of
the Monad, ensouling a fiery atom. Thus in Atma-Buddhi,
Manas, the spiritual Triad, or the Heavenly Man, we have the
three aspects, or energies, o^ the Monad, embodied in
atomic matter, and this is the “ Spirit " in man, the Jivatma
or Life-Self, the separated Self.1 It is the germinal Spirit,
and in its third aspect the “ baby Ego It is identical in
nature with the Monad, is the Monad, but is lessened in
force and activity by the veils of matter round it. This less­
ening of power must not blind us to the identity of nature.
We must ever remember that the human consciousness is a
unit and that, though its manifestations,vary, these variations
are only due to the predominance of one or other of its
.aspects and to the relative density of the materials in which
an aspect is working. Its manifestations, thus conditioned,
vary, but it is itself ever one.
Such part, then, of the consciousness of the Monad as
can express itself in a five-fold universe enters athirst thus
into the higher matter of this universe, embodying itself in
an atom of each of the three higher planes ; having thus
shone forth and appropriated these atoms for his own use,
the Monad has begun his work ; in his own subtle nature he
cannot as yet descend below the anupadaka plane, and he is
1The term Jivatma is of course equally applicable to the Monad, but
is more often applied to its reflexion.
42 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
therefore said to be in " Silence and Darkness ”, unmanifest:
but he lives and works in and by means of these appropri­
ated atoms, which form the garment of his life on the planes
nearest to his own. We may figure this action thus :
i Adi
ii. Anupadaka
7 ! K %
H
i. Atma
Activity
Atma ¿l \ j
r k ;
iv. Buddhi
\ | Y Buddhi
V. Manas
Manas
V L Kama
vii. Sthula
This spiritual Triad, as it is often called, Atma-Buddhi-Manas,
the Jivatma, is described as a seed, a germ, of divine Life,
containing the potentialities of its own heavenly Father, its
Monad, to be unfolded into powers in the course of evolu­
tion. This is the *
' manhood ” of the divine Son of the
THE PEOPLING OF THE FIELD 43
First Logos, animated by the “ Godhead ”, the Monad_a
mystery truly, but one which is repeated in many forms
around us.
And now the nature, which was free in the subtle matter
of his own plane, becomes bound by the denser matter, and
his powers of consciousness cannot as yet function in this
blinding veil. He is therein as a mere germ, an embryo,
powerless, 'senseless, helpless, while the Monad on h
is own
plane is strong, conscious, capable, so far as his internal life
is concerned ; the one is the Monad in Eternity, the other is
the Monad in time and space ; the content of the Monad
eternal is to become the extent of the Monad temporal and
spatial. This at present embryonic life w
ill evolve into a
complex being, the expression of the Monad on each
plane of the universe. All-powerful internally on his own
subtle plane, he is at first powerless, fettered, helpless, when
enwrapped externally in denser matter, unable to receive
through it, or to give out through it, vibrations. But he w
ill
gradually master the matter that at first enslaves him ; slowly,
surely, he will mould it for Self-expression ; he is aided and
watched over by the all-sustaining and preserving Second
Logos, until he can live in it fully as he lives above, and be­
come in his turn a creative Logos and bring forth out of
himself a universe. The power of creating a universe is only
gained, according to The Wisdom, by involving within the
Self all that is later to be put forth. A Logos does not
create out of nothing, but evolves all from Himself; and
from the experiences we are now passing through we are
gathering the materials out of which we may build a system
in the future.
44 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
But this spiritual Triad, this Jivatma, which is the Monad in
the five-fold universe, cannot himself commence at once any
separate self-directed activity. He cannot gather round
himself any aggregations of matter as yet, but can only abide
in his atomic vesture. The life of the Second Logos is to
him as its mother's womb to the embryo, and within this the
building begins. We may, in very truth, regard this stage of
evolution, in which the Logos shapes, nourishes, and devel­
ops the germinating life, as being, for the Heavenly Man,
or truly the Heavenly Embryo, a period corresponding to the
ante-natal life of a human being, during which he is slowly
obtaining a body, which is nourished meanwhile by the life-
currents of the mother and formed out of her substance.
Thus also with the Jivatma, enclosing the life of the Monad ;
he must await the building of his body on the lower planes,
and he cannot emerge from this ante-natal life and be
" born ” , until there is a body builded on the lower planes.
The birth ” takes place at the formation of the causal body,
when the Heavenly Man is manifested as an infant Ego, a
true Individuality, dwelling in a body on the physical plane.
A little careful thought will show how close is the analogy
between the evolution of the Pilgrimand that of each success­
ive rebirth ; in the latter case the Jivatma awaits the for­
mation of the physical body which isbuilding as his habitation ;
in the former the spiritual Triads, as .a Collectivity, await the
building of the systematic Quaternary. U
ntil the vehicle on
the lowest plane is ready, all is a preparation for evolution,
rather than evolution itself—it is often termed involution.
The evolution of the consciousness must begin by contacts
received by its outermost vehicle; that is, it must begin on
THE PEOPLING OF THE FIELD 45
e physical plane. It can only become aware of an outside
/ impacts on its own outside ; until then it dreams within
self, as the faint inner thrillings ever outwelling from the
lonad cause slight outward-tending pressures in the Jivatma,
:e a spring of water beneath the earth, seeking an outlet.
2. THE WEAVING
Meanwhile the preparation for the awakening, the giving
Fqualities to matter, that which may be likened to the for-
iation of the tissues of the future body, is done by the fife-
Dwer of the Second Logos—the Second Life-Wave, rolling
irough plane after plane, imparting its own qualities to that
iver.-fold proto-matter. The life-wave, as said above,
arries the Jivatmas with it as far as the atomic sub-plane of
le fifth plane, the plane of Fire, of individualised creative
Dwer, of mind. Here they each have already an atom, the
anasic, or mental veil of the Monad, the Logos flooding
lese and the remaining atoms of the plane with His life.
I
Ithese atoms, forming the whole atomic sub-plane, whether
ee or attached to Jivatmas, may rightly be termed Monadic
ssence ; but as in the course of evolution, presently to be
<plained, differences arise between the attached and the
Dn-attached atoms, the term Monadic Essence is usually
Tiployed for the non-attached, while the attached are
died, for reasons which will appear, " permanent atoms ",
(e may define Monadic Essence then as atomic matter
isouled by the life of the Second Logos. , It is His clothing
>
r the vivifying and holding together of forms ; He is clad
atomic matter. His own life as Logos, separate from the
46 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
life of Atma-Buddhi-Manas in the man, separate from any
lives on the plane—though He supports, permeates, and
includes them ail—is clothed only in atomic matter, and it is
this which is connoted by the term of Monadic Essence.
The matter of that plane, already by the nature of its atoms 1
capable of responding by vibrations to active thought-changes,
is thrown by the Second Life-Wave into combinations fit to
express thoughts—abstract thoughts in the subtler matter,
concrete thoughts in the coarser. The combinations of the
second and third higher sub-planes constitute the First Ele­
mental Kingdom ; the combinations on the four lower sub­
planes constitute the Second Elemental Kingdom. Matter
held in such combinations is called Elemental Essence, and is
susceptible of being shaped into thought-forms. The student
must not confuse this with Monadic Essence ; one is atomic,
the other molecular, in constitution.
The Second Life-Wave then rolls on into the sixth plane, the
plane of Water, of individualised sensation, of desire. The
before-mentioned Devas link the Jfvatma-attached, or perma­
nent, units of the fifth plane to a corresponding number of
atoms on the sixth plane, and the Second Logos floods these
and the remaining atoms with His own life—these atoms
thus becoming Monadic Essence as explained above. The
life-wave passes onwards, forming on each sub-plane the
combinations fit to express sensations. These combinations
constitute the Third Elemental Kingdom, and the matter held
in such combination is called Elemental Essence, as before,
and on this sixth plane is susceptible of being shaped into
desire-forms.
1By the Tanmatras, the divine Measures.
THE PEOPLING OF THE FIELD 47
Elemental Essence is thus seen to consist of aggregations
of matter on each of the six nan-atomic sub-planes of the
mental and desire planes, aggregations which do not them­
selves serve as forms for an/ entity to inhabit, but as the
materials out of which such forms may be built.
The life-wave then rolls on into the seventh plane, the
plane of Earth, of individualised activities, of actions. As
before the Jivatma-attached, or permanent, atoms of the
sixth plane are linked to a corresponding number on the
seventh plane, and the Second Logos floods these and the
remaining atoms with His own life—all these atoms thus
becoming Monadic Essence. The life-wave again passes
onwards, forming on each sub-plane combinations fitted to
constitute physical bodies, the future chemical elements, as
they are called on the three lower sub-planes.
Looking at this work of the Second Life-Wave as a whole,
we see that its downward sweep is concerned with what
may fairly be called the making of primary tissues, out of
which hereafter subtle and dense bodies are to be formed.
Well has it been called in some ancient scriptures a “ weav­
ing ", for such it literally is. The materials prepared by the
Third Logos are woven by the Second Logos into threads
and into cloths of which future garments—the subtle and
dense bodies—will be made. As a man may take separate
threads of flax, cotton, silk—themselves combinations of a
simpler kind—and weave these into linens, into cotton or
silk cloth, these cloths in turn to be shaped into garments by
cutting and stitching, so does the Second Logos weave the
matter-threads, weave these again into tissues, and then
shape them into forms. He is the Eternal Weaver, while we
48 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
might think of the Third Logos as the Eternal Chemist. The
latter works in nature as in a laboratory, the former as in a
manufactory. These similes, materialistic as they are, are not
to be despised, for they are crutches to aid our limping at-
tempts to understand.
This “ weaving " gives to matter its characteristics, as the
characteristics of the thread differ from those of the raw
material, as the characteristics of the cloth differ from those
of the threads. The Logos weaves the two kinds of cloth of
manasic matter, of mind-stuff, and out of these w
ill be made
later the causal and the mental bodies. He weaves the
cloth of astral matter, of desire-stuff, and out of this will be
made later the desire body. That is to say, that the com­
binations of matter formed and held together by the Second
Life-Wave have the characteristics which will act on the
Monad when he comes into touch with others, and will
enable him to act on them. So will he be able to receive
all kinds of vibrations, mental, sensory, etc. The charac­
teristics depend on the nature of the aggregations. There
are seven great types, fixed by the nature of the atom, and
within these innumerable sub-types. All this goes to the
making of the materials of the mechanism of consciousness,
which will be conditioned by all these textures, colourings,
densities.
In this downward sweep of the life-wave through the
fifth, sixth, and seventh planes, downward till the densest
matter is reached, and the wave turns at that point to begin
its sweep upwards, we must think, then, of its work as that
of forming combinations which show qualities, and so we
sometimes speak of this work as the giving of qualities. In
THE PEOPLING OF THE FIELD 49
the upward sweep we shall find that bodies are built out of
the matter thus prepared. But before we study the shaping
of these, we must consider the seven-fold division of this
life-wave in its descent, and the coming forth of the “ Shin­
ing Ones ", the " Devas ", the *' Angels ", the “ Elementáis ",
that belong also to this downward sweep. These are the
“ Minor Gods" of whom Plato speaks, from whom man
derives his perishable bodies.
3. THE SEVEN STREAMS
The question is constantly asked : Why this continual play
by Theosophists upon the number seven? We speak of it as
the “ root-number of our system ", and there is one obvious
reason why this number should play an active part in the
grouping of things, since we are concerned with the tripli-
cities previously mentioned and explained. A triad naturally
produces a septenate by its own internal relations, since its
three factors can group themselves in seven ways and no
more. We have spoken of matter, outside the limits of a
universe, as having the three qualities of matter— inertia,
mobility, and rhythm— in a state of equilibrium. When the
life of the Logos causes motion, we have at once the possi­
bility of seven groups, for in any given atom, or group of
atoms, one or other of these qualities may be more strongly
energized than the others, and thus a predominant quality
will be shown forth. We may thus have three groups, in
one of which inertia will predominate, in another mobility, in
a third rhythm. Each of these, again, subdivides, according
to the predominance in it of one or other of the remaining
4
50 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
two qualities : thus in one of the two inertia groups, mobility
may predominate over rhythm, and in the other rhythm over
mobility, and so with the other two groups of mobility and
rhythm. Hence arise the well-known types, classified
according to the predominant quality, usually designated by
their Samskrit terms, satvic, rajasic, and tamasic, rhythmical,
mobile, and inert, and we have satvic, rajasic, and tamasic
foods, animals, men, etc. And we obtain seven groups in
all : six subdivisions of the three, and a seventh in which the
three qualities are equally active. (The varieties of type are
simply intended to mark in each triad the relative energies of
the qualities.)
INERTIA MOBILITY RHYTHM
INERTIA M o b i l i t y Rhythm
INERTIA Mobility R h y t h m
MOBILITY R h y t h m Inertia
MOBILITY Rhythm I n e r t i a
RHYTHM I n e r t i a Mobility
RHYTHM Inertia M o b i l i t y
The Life of the Logos, which is to flow into this matter,
itself manifests in seven streams, or rays.
These arise similarly out of the three Aspects of Conscious­
ness present in Him, as in all consciousnesses, since all are
manifestations of the Universal Self. These are Bliss, or
Ichchha, Will; Cognition, or Jnanam, Wisdom ; Existence, or
KriyS, Activity, So we have the seven streams, or rays of
Logic life:
THE PEOPLING OF THE FIELD 51
All things may be regarded as grouped under these seven
headings, the seven streams of Logic life composing the
Second Life-Wave, and we may think of it as flowing through
the planes, descending through them : so that, if we draw
the planes horizontally, the life-wave would sweep vertically
downwards through them. Moreover in each stream there
will be seven primary subdivisions, according to the type of
matter concerned, and within these secondary subdivisions,
according to the proportions of the qualities within each
type, and so on and on in Innumerable variations. Into these
we need not enter. It is enough to notice the seven types
of matter and the seven types of consciousnesses. The
seven streams of Logic life show out as the seven types of
consciousness, and within each of these the seven types of
matter-combinations are found. There are to be seen seven
distinct types in each of the three Elemental Kingdoms and
on the physical plane. Mme. Blavatsky, in The Secret Doc-
trine, dealing with man, quotes from the stanzas of the Book
of Dzyan, the fact that there were: “ Seven of Them
[Creators] each on His lot ", forming the seven types of men,
and these subdivided : “ Seven times seven shadows of future
52 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
men were born.” 1 Here is the root of the differing tem­
peraments of men.
• 4. THE SHINING ONES
We have now to consider another result of the downward­
sweeping life-wave. We have seen that it gives qualities to
aggregations of matter on the fifth and sixth planes, and*
that we have in the First Elemental Kingdom materials ready
to clothe abstract thoughts ; in the Second Elemental King­
dom materials ready to clothe concrete thoughts; in the
Third Elemental Kingdom materials ready to clothe desires.
But in addition to imparting qualities to aggregations of
matter, the Second Logos gives forth, during this stage of
His descent, evolved beings, at various stages of develop­
ment, who form the normal and typical inhabitants of these
three kingdoms. These beings have been brought over by
the Logos from a preceding evolution, and are sent forth
from the treasure-house of His life, to inhabit the plane for
which their development fits them, and to co-operate with
Him, and later with man, in the working-out of His scheme
of evolution. They have received various names in the
various religions, but all religions recognise the fact of
their existence and of their work. The Samskrit name
Devas—the Shining Ones—is the most general, and
aptly describes the most marked characteristic of their
appearance, a brilliant luminous radiance.2 The Hebrew,
1toe, a t , ii, 18, 81, 9 5 .
2The translation of this descriptive term as " G o d " has led to
much misapprehension of Eastern thought. The "thirty-three crores
THE PEOPLING OF THE FIELD 53
Christian, and Muhammadan religions call them Archangels
and Angels. The Theosophist—to avoid sectarian connota­
tions—names them, after their habitat, Elementals; and
this title has the further advantage that it reminds the
student of their connection with the five “ Elements ” of
the ancient world : AEther, Air, Fire, Water, and Earth. For
there are similar beings of a higher type on the atmic and
buddhic planes, as well as the Fire and Water Elementals
of the mental and desire planes, and the ethereal Ele­
mentals of the physical. These beings have bodies formed
out of the elemental essence of the kingdom to which they
belong, flashing many-hued bodies, changing form at the
will of the indwelling entity. They form a vast host, ever
actively at work, labouring at the elemental essence to
improve its quality, taking it to form their own bodies,
throwing it off and taking other portions of it, to render
it more responsive ; they are also constantly busied in the
shaping of forms, in aiding human Egos on the way to
reincarnation in building their new bodies, bringing materials
of the needed kind and helping in its arrangements. The
less advanced the Ego the greater the directive work of the
Deva; with animals they do almost all the work, and practic­
ally all with vegetables and minerals. They are the active
agents in the work of the Logos, carrying out all the details
of His world-plan, and aiding the countless evolving lives
to find the materials they need for their clothing. All
antiquity recognised the indispensable work they do in
of Gods " are not Gods in the Western sense of the term, which is
the equivalent of the Universal Self, and secondarily of the Logoi,
but are Devas, Shining Ones.
54 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
the worlds, and China, Egypt, India, Persia, Greece, Rome,
tell the same story. The belief in the higher of them is
not only found in all religions, but memories of those of the
desire and of the ethereal physical plane linger on in folk­
lore, in stories of “ Nature-spirits ", “ Fairies ", “ Gnomes ",
“ Trolls ", and under many other names, memories of days
when men were less deeply enwrapped in material interests,
and more sensitive to the influences that played upon them
from the subtler worlds. This concentration on material
interests, necessary for evolution, has shut out the working
of the Elementáis from human waking consciousness ; but
this does not, of course, stop their working, though often
rendering it less effective on the physical plane.
At the stage we are considering, however, all this work,
except that of the improvement of the elemental essence,
lay in the far future, but the Shining Ones laboured diligently
at that improvement.
There was thus a vast work of preparation accomplished
before anything in the way of physical forms, such as we
should recognize, could appear ; a vast labour at the Form
side of things before embodied consciousness, save that of
the Logos and His Shining Ones, could do anything at all,
That which was to be human consciousness at this point was
a seed, sown on the higher planes, unconscious of all with­
out it. Under the impelling warmth of the Logic life, it
sends out a tiny rootlet downwards, which pushes its ways
into the lower planes, blindly, unconsciously, and this rootlet
must form our next object of study.
CHAPTER IV
THE PERMANENT ATOM
1. THE ATTACHING OF THE ATOMS
LE
T us consider the spiritual Triad, the tri-atomic Atma-
Buddhi-Manas, the Jivatma, the seed of consciousness,
within which the warmth of the stream of Logic life, which
surrounds it, is causing faint thrillings of responsive life.
These are internal thrillings, preparatory to external activities.
After long preparation, a tiny thread, like a minute rootlet,
appears, proceeding from the tri-atomic molecule ensheath-
ing consciousness, a golden-coloured thread of life sheathed
in buddhic matter; countless such threads appear from the
countless Jivatmas, waving vaguely at first in the seven
great streams of life, and then becoming anchored—
-if* the
expression may be permitted—by attachment to a single
molecule or unit, on the fourth mental sub-plane. This
anchoring— like the previous one to the three higher atoms,
and like the later ones to the astral and physical atoms—
is brought about by the action of the Shining Ones. Round
this attached unit gather temporary aggregations of ele­
mental essence of the Second Kingdom, scattering and
regathering, over and over again, ever with the attached
56 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
unit as centre. This stable centre, serving for an endless
succession of changing complex forms, is gradually awakened
by the vibrations of these forms into faint responses, these
again thrilling feebly upwards to the seed of Consciousness
and producing therein vaguest internal movements. It
cannot be said that each centre has always round it a form
of its own ; for one aggregation of elemental essence may
have several, or very many, of these centres within it, or,
again, may have only one, or none. Thus with incon­
ceivable slowness these attached units become possessors
of certain qualities ; that is, acquire the power of vibrating
in certain ways, which are connected with thinking and w
ill
hereafter make thoughts possible. The Shining Ones of the
Second Elemental Kingdom work upon them also, directing
upon them the vibrations to which they gradually begin to
respond, and surrounding them with the elemental essence
thrown off from their own bodies.1 Moreover, each of the
seven typical groups is separated from the others by a
delicate wall of monadic essence (atomic matter ensouled
by the life of the Second Logos), the beginning of the wall
of the future Group-Soul.
This whole process is repeated when the Third Elemental
Kingdom has been formed. The tiny thread of buddhic
ensheathed life, with its attached mental unit, now pushes
outwards to the desire-plane and attaches itself to a single
astral atom, adding this to itself as its stable centre on the
desire-plane. Round this now gather temporary aggrega­
tions of elemental essence of the Third Kingdom, scattering
and regathering as before. Similar results follow, as the
1See E v o l u t i o n of L i f e a n d F o r m , by Annie Besant, pp. 132. 133.
THE PERMANENT ATOM 57
countless succession of forms ensheathes this stable centre,
awaking it to similarly faint responses, which in their turn
thrill feebly upwards to the seed of Consciousness, producing
therein, once more, vaguest internal movements. Thus,
again, these attached atoms become slowly possessed of
certain qualities ; that is, acquire the power of vibrating in
certain ways, which are connected with sensation and will
hereafter make sensations possible. Here also the. Shining
Ones of the Third Elemental Kingdom co-operate in the
work, using their more highly developed powers of
vibration to produce sympathetically in these undeveloped
atoms the power of response, and, as before, giving them
of their own substance. The separating wall of each of
the seven groups acquires a second layer, formed of the
monadic essence of the desire-plane, thus approaching a
stage nearer to the wall of the future Group-Soul.
Once more is the process repeated when the great wave
has travelled onwards into the physical plane. The tiny thread
of buddhic-ensheathed life, with its attached mental and desire
units, pushes outwards once more and annexes a physical
atom, adding this to itself as its stable centre on the physical
plane. Round this gather ethereal molecules, but the
heavier physical matter Is more coherent than the subtler
matter of the higher planes, and a much longer term of life
may be observed. Then— as are formed the ethereal types
of the proto-metals, and later proto-metals, metals, non-
metailic elements, and minerals—the Shining Ones of the
Ethereal Physical Kingdom submerge these attached atoms
in their sheaths of ether into the one of the seven ethereal
types to which they respectively belong, and they begin their
58 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
long physical evolution. Before we can follow this further
we must consider Group-Souls, which on the atomic sub­
plane receive their third enveloping layer. But it will be well
to pause for a while on the nature and the function of these
permanent atoms, the tri-units, or triads, which are as a
reflexion on the lower planes of .the spiritual Triads on the
higher, and each of which is attached to a spiritual Triad, its
Jtvatma. Each triad consists of a physical atom, an astral
atom, and a mental unit, permanently attached by a thread
of buddhic matter to a spiritual Triad. That thread has
sometimes been called the Sutratma, the Thread-Self, be­
cause the permanent particles are threaded on it as " beads
on a string ” .L
We may again resort to a diagram, showing the relation.
v 6
*
vi :
»
t
u
V
II
1This term is used to denote various things, but always in the same
sense, as the thread connecting separate particles. It is applied to the
reincarnating Ego, as the thread on which many separate lives are
THE PERMANENT ATOM 59
2. THE WEB OF LIFE
It has been said that the connexion with the spiritual Triad
is through buddhic matter, and this is indicated in the dia­
gram by the dotted line which connects the atoms coming
down from the line in the buddhic plane, and not from the
mânasic atom. It is of buddhic matter that is spun the
marvellous web of life which supports and vivifies all our
bodies. If the bodies be looked at with buddhic vision they
ail disappear, and in their places is seen a shimmering golden
web of inconceivable fineness and delicate beauty, a tracery
of all their parts, in a network with minute meshes. This is
formed of buddhic matter, and within these meshes the
coarser atoms are built together. Closer inspection shows
that the whole network is formed of a single thread, which
is a prolongation of the Sûtrâtmâ. During the ante-natal life
of the babe, this thread grows out from the permanent
physical atom and branches out in every direction, this
growth continuing until the physical body is full grown ;
during physical life the. prana, the life-breath, plays ever
along it, following all its branches and meshes ; at death it is
withdrawn, leaving the particles of the body to scatter ; it
may be watched, slowly disentangling itself from the dense
physical matter, the life-breath accompanying it, and drawing
itself together in the heart round the permanent atom ; as it
withdraws, the deserted limbs grow cold— its absence makes
the " death-chill " ; the golden-violet flame of the life-breath
strung ; to the Second Logos, as the Thread on which the beings in
His universe are strung ; and so on. It denotes a function, rather
than a special entity or class of entities.
60 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
is seen shining around it in the heart, and the flame, and the
golden life-web, and the permanent atom rise along the
secondary 'Sushumna-nadi1 to the head, into the third ven­
tricle of the brain ; the eyes glaze, as the life-web draws
itself away and the whole of it is collected round the per­
manent atom in the third ventricle ; then the whole rises
slowly to the point of junction of the parietal and occipital
sutures, and leaves the physical body— dead. It thus su-
rounds the permanent atom like a golden shell—recalling the
closely woven cocoon of the silk-worm—to remain enshroud­
ing it till the building of a new physical body again demands
its unfolding. The same procedure is followed with the astral
and mental particles, so that when these bodies have
disintegrated the lower triad may be seen as a brilliantly
scintillating nucleus within the causal body, an appearance
which had been noted long ere closer observation revealed
its significance.
3. THE CHOOSING OF THE PERMANENT ATOMS
Let us return to the original appropriation by the Monad
of the permanent atoms of the three higher planes, and
seek to understand something of their use, of the object of
their appropriation ; the same principles apply to the per­
manent atoms of each plane.
In the first place, it will be remembered that the matter of
each plane shows out seven main types, varying according to
1 There is no English name for this passage ; it is a vessel, or canal,
running from the heart to the third ventricle, and will be familiar under
the above name to all students of yoga. The primary Sushumna is
the spinal canal.
TH
E PERM
ANENT ATOM 61
the dominance of one or other of the three great attributes
of matter: inertia, mobility, andrhythm. Hence the perma­
nent atoms may be chosen out of any one of these types,
but it appears that, by a single Monad, they are ail chosen
out of the same type. It appears, further, that while the
actual attachment of the permanent atoms to the life-thread
on the three higher planes is the work of the Hierarchies
before spoken of, the choice which directs the appropriation
is made by the Monad himself. He himself belongs to one
or other of the seven groups of Life already spoken o f; at
the head of each of these groups stands a Planetary Logos,
who " colours " the whole, and the Monads are grouped by
these colourings, each " being coloured by his ‘ Father-
Star \" 1 T
his is the first great determining characteristic of
each of us, our fundamental " colour ”, or "key-note ", or
"temperament". The Monad may choose to use his new
pilgrimage for the strengthening and increasing of thisspecial
characteristic; if so, the Hierarchies w
ill attach to his life-
thread atoms belonging to the group in matter correspond­
ing to his life-group. T
his choice would result in the
secondary " colour ", or " key-note ", or " temperament ,
emphasising and strengthening the first, and, in the later
evolution, the powers and the weaknesses of that doubled
temperament would show themselves with great force. x Or,
the Monad may choose to use his new pilgrimage for the
unfolding of another aspect of his nature; then the Hier­
archies w
ill attach to his life-thread atoms belonging to the
m
aterial group corresponding to another life-group, that in
» ..U lz - U t U i . e r t A r t U/=1 tA /IIle t e T U ' , * -
62 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
choice would result in the secondary “ colour ”, or “ key­
note ”, or " temperament ”, modifying the first, w
ith corre­
sponding results in the later evolution. T
his latter choice is
obviously by far the more frequent, and it tends to agreater
complexity of character, especially in the final stages of
hum
an evolution, when the influence of the Monad makes
itself felt more strongly.
As said above, it appears that all the permanent atoms are
taken from the same m
aterial group, so that those of the
lower triad correspond w
ith those of the higher; but on the
lower planes the influence of these atoms in determiningthe
type of m
aterials used in the bodies of which they are the
generating centres—the question to which we m
ust now
turn our attention—is very much limited and interfered w
ith
by other causes. On the higher pianes the bodies are
relatively permanent when once found, and reproduce
definitely the key-note of their permanent atoms, however
enriched that note may be by overtones ever increasing
in subtlety of harmony. B
ut on the lower planes, while
the key-note of the permanent atoms w
ill be the same,
various other causes come in to determine the choice
of materials for the bodies, as w
ill be better seen
presently.
4. TH
E U
SE OF TH
E PERM
ANENT ATOMS
To put this use into a phrase : The use of the permanent
atoms is to preserve within themselves, as vibratory powers,
the results of all the experiences through which they have
passed. It w
ill perhaps be best to take the physical atom as
TH
E PERM
ANENT ATOM 63
an illustration, since this is susceptible of easier explanation
than those on higher planes.
A physical impact of any kind w
ill cause vibrations corre­
sponding to its own inthe physical body it contacts ; these
may be local or general, according to the nature and force
of the impact. But whether local or general, they w
ill reach
the permanent physical atom, transmitted by the web of life
in all cases, and in violent impacts by mere concussion also.
This vibration, forced on the atom from outside, becomes a
vibratory power in the atom—a tendency therein to repeat
the vibration. Through the whole life of the body, innumer­
able impacts strike it; not one but leaves its mark on the
permanent atom ; not one but leaves it with a new possibil­
ity of vibration. All the results of physical experiences
remain stored up in this permanent atom as powers of
vibrating. At the end of a physical life, this permanent atom
has thus stored up innumerable vibratory powers; that is, has
learned to respond in countless ways to the external world,
to reproduce in itself the vibrations imposed upon it by sur­
rounding objects. The physical body disintegrates at death ;
its particles scatter, a
ll carrying with them the result of the
experiences through which they have passed—as indeed all
particles of our bodies are ever doing day by day, intheir
ceaseless dyings out of one body and ceaseless birthings into
another. B
ut the physical permanent atom remains ; it is
the onlyatom that has passed through all the experiences of
the ever-changing conglomerations we call our body, and it
has acquired all the results of a
ll those experiences. Wrapped
in its golden cocoon, it sleeps through the long years during
which the Jtvatm
a that owns it is living through other
64 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
experiences in other worlds. Bythese it remains unaffected,
being incapable of responding to them, and itsleeps through
its long night in undisturbed repose.1
When the time for reincarnation comes, and the presence
of the permanent atom renders possible the fertilization of
the ovum from which the new body is to grow,3its key-note
sounds out, and is one of the forces which guide the ethereal
builder, the elemental charged with the building of the
physical body, to choose the materials suitable for his work,
for he can use none that cannot be to some extent attuned
to the permanent atom. B
ut it is only one of the forces ;
the karm
a of past iives, mental, emotional, and in relation to
others, demands materials capable of the most varied ex­
pressions : out of that karm
a, the Lords of Karm
a have
chosen such as is congruous, /.e., such as can be expressed
through a body of a particular material group ; this congruous
m
ass of karm
a determines the material group, over-riding
the permanent atom, and out of that group are chosen by
the elemental such materials as can vibrate in harmony with
the permanent atom, or in discords not disruptive in their
violence. Hence, as said, the permanent atom is only one
of the forces in determining the third " colour ", or " key­
note", or *
*temperament ", which characterises each of us.
According to this temperament w
ill be the time of the birth
of the body; it must be born into the world at a time when
1 H
. P
. B
iavatsky throw
s out a h
in
t as to these " sleeping atoms".
See The Secret Doctrine, ii, 710.
2 H
. P
. B
iavatsky callsthe perm
anent nucleus of the low
er2J planes
"the life-atoms"; she says: "The life-atom
s of our (pran
a) life-
principle are never entirely lostw
hen a m
an dies ; " they are " trans­
m
itted fromfatherto son." The Secret Doctrine, ii, 709.
TH
E PERM
ANENT ATOM 65
the physical planetary influences are suitable to its third
temperament, and it thus is born “ under ” its astrological
“ Star Needless to say, it is not the Star that imposes the
temperament, but the temperament that fixes the epoch of
birth under that Star. But herein lies the explanation of the
correspondences between Stars—Star-Angels, that is to say
—and characters, and the usefulness for educational pur*
poses of a skilfully and carefully drawn horoscope, as a guide
to the personal temperament of a child.
That such complicated results, capable of impressing their
peculiarities on surrounding matter, can exist in such minute
space as an atom may, indeed, appear inconceivable—yet so
it is. And it is worthy notice that ordinary science counten­
ances a sim
ilar idea, since the infinitesim
al biophors in the
germinal cell of Weismann are supposed to thus carry on to
the offspring the characteristics of his line of progenitors.
While the one brings to the body its physical peculiarities
from its ancestors, the other supplies those which have been
acquired by the evolving man during his own evolution.
H
. P
. Blavatsky has put this very clearly :
" The German embryologist-philosopher—stepping over
the heads of the Greek Hippocrates and Aristotle, right back
into the teachings of the old Aryans—shows one infinitesim
al
cell, out of m
illions of others at work in the formation of an
organism, alone and unaided determining, by means of con­
stant segmentation and multiplication, the correct image of
the future man, or animal, in its physical, mental and psychic
characteristics . . . Complete the physical plasm, men­
tioned above, the *germinal cell' of man with all its material
potentialities, with the ' spiritual plasm’ so to say, or the
5
66 A STU
D
Y IN CONSCIOUSNESS
fluid that contains the five lower principles of the six-princi­
pled Dhyani—and you have the secret, if you are spiritual
enough to understand it,” 1
A little study of physical heredity in the light of Weis-
mann's teachings w
ill be sufficient to convince the student of
the possibilities of such a body as the permanent atom. A
m
an reproduces the features of a long-past ancestor, shows
out a physical peculiarity that characterised a forbear several
centuries ago, We can trace the Stuart nose through a long
series of portraits, and innumerable cases of such resem­
blances can be found. Why, then, should there be anything
extraordinary in the idea that an atom should gather w
ithin
itself not biophors, as in the germinal cell, but tendencies to
repeat innumerable vibrations already practised. No spatial
difficulty arises, any more than in the case of a string, from
which numerous notes can be drawn by bowing itat different
points, each note containing numerous overtones. We m
ust
not think of the minute space of an atom as crowded
with innumerable vibrating bodies, but of a lim
ited num­
ber of bodies, each capable of setting up innumerable
vibrations.
Truly, however, even the spatial difficulty is illusory, for
there are no lim
its to the minute any more thanto the great
Modern science now sees in the atom a system of revolving
worlds, each world in its own orbit, the whole resembling a
solar system. The master of illusion, Space, like his brother
master, Time, cannot here daunt us. There is no lim
it of the
possibilities of subdivision in thought, and hence none inthe
thought-expression we callmatter.
1 The Secret Doctrine, i, 243, 244.
TH
E PERM
ANENT ATOM 67
The normal number of spirillae at work in the permanent
atoms in this Round is four, as in the ordinary unattached
atoms of matter in general at this stage of evolution. But
let us take the permanent atom in the body of a very highly
evolved man, a man far in advance of his fellows, Insuch
a case we may find the permanent atom showing five
spirillae at work, and may seek to learn the bearing of this
fact on the general materials of his body. In ante-natal life,
the presence of this five-spirilla permanent atom would have
caused the building elemental to select among his materials
any sim
ilar atoms that were available. For the most part,
he would be reduced to the use of any he could find, which
had been in temporary connexion with any body the centre
of which was a five-spirillae permanent atom. Its presence
would have tended to arouse in them a corresponding activ­
ity, especially—perhaps only—if they had formed part of the
brain or nerves of the highly developed tenant of the body.
The fifth spirilla would have become more or less active in
them, and although it would have dropped back into inactiv­
ity after leaving such a body, its temporary activity would
have predisposed it to respond more readily in the future to
the current of monadic life. Such atoms, then, would be
secured by the elemental for his work, as far as possible. He
would also, should opportunity serve, appropriate from the
paternal or maternal bodies, if they were of a high order,
any such atoms as he could secure, and build them into his
charge. After birth, and throughout life, such a body would
attract to itself any sim
ilar atoms which came within its mag­
netic field. Such a body, in the company of highly evolved
persons, would profit to an exceptional degree by the
68 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
propinquity, appropriating any five-spirillae atoms which were
present inthe shower of particles flung off from their bodies,
and thus gaining physically, as well as mentally and morally,
from their company.
The permanent astral atom bears exactly the same relation
to the astral body as that borne by the physical permanent
atom to the physical body. At the end of the life in kama-
loka—purgatory—the golden life-web withdraws from the
astral body, leaving it to disintegrate, as its physical comrade
had previously done, and enwraps the astral permanent atom
for its long sleep. A sim
ilar relation is born to the mental
body by the permanent mental particle during physical,
astral, and mental life; during'the early stages of human
evolution little improvement is made inthe mental perma­
nent unit by the brief devachanic lives, not only on account
of their brevity, but because the feeble thought-forms pro­
duced by the undeveloped intelligence affect very slightly
the permanent unit. But when thought-power ismore highly
evolved, the devachanic life is a time of great improvement,
and innumerable vibratory energies are stored up, and show
their value when the time arrives for the building of a new
mental body for the next cycle of reincarnation. At the
close of the mental life in devachan the golden web with­
draws from the mental body, leaving it also to disintegrate,
while it enwraps the mental particle ; and the lower triad of
permanent atoms alone rem
ains as the representative of the
three lower bodies. These are stored up, as before said, as
a radiant nucleus-like particle w
ithin the causal body. They
are thus all that remains to the Ego of h
is bodies inthe
lower worlds, when that cycle of experience iscompleted, as
TH
E PERM
ANENT ATOM 69
they were his means of communication with the lower planes
during the life of those bodies.
When comes the period for rebirth, a thrill of life
from the Ego arouses the mental unit ; the life-web
begins to unfold again, and the vibrating unit acts as a
magnet, drawing towards itself materials with vibratory
powers resembling, or accordant with, its own. The Shining
Ones of the Second Elemental Kingdom bring such materials
within its reach ; in the earlier stages of evolution they shape
the matter into a loose cloud around the permanent unit, but
as evolution goes on the Ego exercises over the shaping an
ever-increasing influence. When the mental body is partially
formed, the life-thrill awakens the astral atom, and the same
procedure is followed, Finally the life-touch reaches the
physical atom, and it acts in the way already described on
pp. 64-65.
A questioner sometimes asks : How can these permanent
atoms be stored up within the causal body, without losing
their physical, astral, and mental natures, since the causal
body exists on a higher plane, where the physical, as physic­
al, cannot be ? Such a querent is forgetting, for a moment,
that a
ll the planes are interpenetrating, and that itis no more
difficult for the causal body to encircle the triad of the lower
planes, than for it to encircle the hundreds of m
illions of
atoms that form the mental, astral, and physical bodies be­
longing to it during a period of earth-life. The triad forms
a minute particle within the causal body ; each constituent
part of it belongs to its own plane, but, as the planes have
meeting-points everywhere, no difficulty arises in the neces­
sary juxtaposition. We are a
ll on all planes at a
ll times.
70 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
3. MONADIC ACTION ON TH
E PERM
ANENT ATOMS
We may here enquire: Is there anything that can be
properly termed monadic action—the action of the Monad
on the anupadaka plane—on the permanent atom ? Of direct
action there is none, nor can there be until the germinal
spiritual Triad has reached a high stage of evolution : indirect
action, that is action on the spiritual Triad, which in turn acts
on the lower, there is continually. B
ut for a
ll practical pur­
poses we may consider it as the action of the spiritual
Triad, which, as we have seen, is the Monad veiled in
matter denser than that of his native plane.
The spiritual Triad is drawing most of his energy, and alt
the directive capacity of that energy, from the Second
Logos, bathed as he is in that stream of Life. What may be
called his own special activity does not concern itself with all
the shaping and building activity of the second Life-Wave,
but is directed to the evolution of the atom itself, inassocia­
tion with the Third Logos. T
his energy from the spiritual
Triad confines itself to the atomic sub-planes, and until the
fourth Round appears to spend itself chiefly on the per­
manent atoms. It is directed first to the shaping and then
to the vivifying of the spirillaa which form the w
all of the
atom. The vortex, which is the atom, is the life of the Third
Logos: but the wall of the spirillas is gradually formed on the
external surface of this vortex during the descent of the
Second Logos, not vivified by Him
, but faintly traced out
over the surface of this revolving vortex of life. They remain
—so far as the Second Logos is concerned—merely as these
film
y unused channels, but presently, asthe life of the Monad
TH
E PERM
ANENT ATOM 71
flows down, it plays into the first of these channels, vivifying
that channel and turning it into a working part of the atgm.
T
his goes on through the successive Rounds, and by the
time we reach the fourth Round we have four distinct
streams of life from each Monad, circulating through four
sets of spiriilae in his own permanent atoms. Now as the
Monad works in the permanent atom, and it is put forward
as the nucleus of a body, he begins to work sim
ilarly in the
atoms that are drawn round that permanent atom, and
vivifies in turn their spiriilae; but that is temporary verifi­
cation, and not continuous as in the case of the permanent
atom. He thus brings into activity these faint shadowy
film
s, formed by the.Second Life-Wave, and, when the life
of the body is broken up, the atoms thus stimulated return
to the great mass of atomic matter, improved and worked
upon by the life which, during their connexion with the per­
manent atom, has been vivifying them. The channels, being
thus developed, are more capable of easily receiving another
such life-stream as they enter another body and therein
come into relation with a permanent atom belonging to
some other Monad. Thus this work continually goes on, on
the physical and astral planes and in the particle of mental
matter on the mental plane, improving the materials with
which the Monads are permanently or temporarily connect­
ed, and this evolution of atoms is constantly going on
under the influence. of the Monads, The permanent
atoms evolve more rapidly because of their continuity of
connexion with the Monad, while the others profit by
their repeated temporary association with the permanent
atoms.
72 A STU
D
Y IN CONSCIOUSNESS
D
uring the first Round of the terrene Chain, the first set
of spirillae of the physical plane atoms becomes thus vivified
by the life of the Monad flowing through the spiritual Triad.
T
h
is is the set of spirillae used by the pranic, or life-breath,
currents affecting the dense part of the physical body.
Sim
ilarly in the second Round the second set of spirillae
becomes active, and herein play the pranic currents con­
nected with the etheric double. During these two Rounds
nothing can be found, inconnexion with any form, that can
be called sensations of pleasure and pain. During the third
Round, the third set of spirillae becomes vivified, and here
first appears what is called sensibility ; for through these
spirillae kamic or desire energy can affect the physical body,
the kamic prana can play inthem, and thus bring the physic­
al into direct communication with the astral. During the
fourth Round, the fourth set of spirillae becomes vivified,
and the kama-manasic prana plays in them, and makes them
fit to be used for the building of a brain which is to act as
the instrum
ent for thought.
When a person passes out of the normal, and takes up
the abnormal hum
an evolution involved in preparing for and
entering the Path which lies beyond normal evolution, he
has then, in connexion with h
is permanent atoms, a task
of exceeding difficulty. He must vivify more sets of
spirillae than are vivified in the hum
anity of his time. Four
sets are already at his service, as a fourth Round m
an. He
begins to vivify a fifth, and thus to bring into manifestation
the fifth Round atom while still working in a fourth Round
body. It is to this that allusion is made in some early Theo-
sophical books, in which " Fifth Rounders ” and " Sixth
TH
E PERM
ANENT ATOM 73
Rounders ” are spoken of as appearing in our present
humanity. Those thus designated have evolved the fifth and
sixth set of spirillae in their permanent atoms, thus obtaining
a better instrument for the use of their highly developed
consciousness. The change is brought about by certain yoga
practices in the use of which great caution is required, lest
injury should be inflicted on the brain in which this work is
being carried on, and further progress along that particular
line stopped during the present incarnation.
C
H
A
P
T
E
R V
GROUP-SOULS
1. TH
E M
EANING OF TH
E TE
R
M
SPEAKING generally, a Group-Soul is a collection of perma­
nent triads, in a triple envelope of monadic essence. T
his
description is true of all Group*Souls functioning on the
physical plane, but gives no idea of the extreme complexity
of the subject of Group-Souls. For they divide and sub­
divide constantly, the contents of each division and sub­
division decreasing in number, as evolution goes on, until at
last a “ Group-Soul" encloses but a single triad, to which it
may continue for many births to discharge the protective and
nutrient functions of a Group-Soul while no longer technic­
ally describable as one, the “ Group " having separated off
into its constituent parts.
Seven Group-Souls are to be seen, functioning on the
physical plane, before any forms appear. They first show
themselves as vague, filmy forms, one in each stream of the
Second Life-Wave, on the mental plane, becoming more
clearly outlined on the astral plane, and yet more so on the
physical. They float in the great ocean of matter as balloons
GROUP-SOULS 75
might float in the sea. Observing them more closely, we
see three separate layers of matter, forming an envelope,
which contains innumerable triads. Before any inmineraliza­
tion has taken place, no golden life-web is, of course, visible
around these ; only the radiant golden threads which connect
them w
ith their parent Jivatm
as are to be seen, shining with
that strange lustre which belongs to their birth-plane. The
innermost of these three layers consists of physical monadic
essence; that is, the layer is composed of atoms of the
physical plane, ensouled with the life of the Second Logos.
At first sight, these innermost layers appear to be identical in
the seven Group-Souls ; but closer observation reveals that
each layer is formed of atoms from only one of the seven
Matter-groups before described. Each Group-Soul, there­
fore, differs in material constitution from all the rest, and the
contained triads in each belong to the same matter-group.
The second layer of the Group-Soul envelope iscomposed of
astral monadic essence, belonging to the same matter-group
as the first; and the third of units of the fourth sub-plane of
mental matter of the same type. This triple envelope is the
protector and nourisher of the triads contained within it,
veritable embryos, incapable, asyet, of separate independent
activity.
The seven Group-Souls soon multiply, division going on
continually with the multiplication of distinct sub-types, as
the immediate forerunners of the chemical elements appear,
to be followed by the elements themselves and the minerals
formed from them. The laws of space, for instance—apart
from the specialization of the contents of the Group-Soul,
the permanent triads—may lead to a division of it.
76 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
Thus a vein of gold in Australia may lead to the inminer­
alization of many such triads within a single envelope, while
the laying down of another vein in a distant place, say the
Rocky Mountains, may lead to the division of this envelope
and the transfer of part of its contents to America in their
own envelope. B
ut the more important causes which bring
about subdivisions w
ill be explained in the course of our
study. The Group-Soul and its contents divide by fission,
like an ordinary cell—one becomes two, two four, andso on.
All the triads have to pass through the mineral kingdom, the
place in which matter reaches its grossest form, and the
place where the great wave reaches the lim
it of its descent
and turns to begin its upward climbing. Here it is that
physical consciousness must awaken ; life must now turn
definitely outwards, and recognise contact with other iives in
an externa! world.
Now the evolution of each being in these early stages
depends chiefly on the cherishing life of the Logos, and
partly on the co-operating guidance of the Shining Ones,
and partly on its own blind pressure against the lim
its of its
enclosing form. I have compared the evolution through the
mineral, vegetable, and anim
al kingdoms to an ante-natal
period, and the resemblance is exact. As the child is nour­
ished by the life-streams of the mother, so does the protect­
ive envelope of the Group-Soul nourish the lives w
ithin it,
receiving and distributing the experiences gathered in
. The
circulating life is the life of the parent; the young plants,
the young anim
als, the young human beings, are not ready
for independent life as yet, but must draw nourishment from
the parent. And so these germinating lives in the m
ineral
GROUP-SOULS 77
kingdom are nourished by the Group-Souls, by the envelopes
of monadic essence, thrilling with Logic life. A very fair
picture of this stage may be seen in the carpel of a plant, in
which the ovules gradually appear, becoming more and more
independent.
For the sake of a clear conception, we may glance rapidly
forward over the changes through which the Group-Soul
passes, as its contents evolve, before going into details.
During the mineral evolution, the habitat of the Group-Soul
may be said to be that of its densest envelope, the physical;
its most active working is on the physical plane. As its
contents pass onwards into the vegetable kingdom, and
ascend through it, the physical envelope slowly disappears—
as though absorbed by the contents for the strengthening of
their own etheric bodies—and its activity is transferred to
the astral plane, to the nourishing of the astral bodies
of the contained triads. As these develop yet further
and pass into the anim
al kingdom, the astral envelope
is sim
ilarly absorbed, and the activity of the Group-Soul
is transferred to the mental plane, and it nourishes the
inchoate mental bodies and shapes them gradually into less
vagueness of outline. When the Group-Soul contains but a
single triad, and has nourished this into readiness for the
reception cf the third outpouring, what is left of it disinte­
grates into matter of the third sub-planeand becomes a con­
stituent part of the causal body formed by the downpouring
from above meeting the upward-drawn column from below
—to use the graphic water-spout sim
ile. Then is the re­
incarnating Ego born into independent manifestation ; the
guarded ante-natal life is over.
78 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
2. TH
E DIVISION OF TH
E GROUP-SOUL
It is on the physical plane that consciousness must first
evolve into Self-consciousness, must become aware of an
external world that makes impacts upon it, and must learn
to refer those impacts to an external world and to realize as
its own the changes which it undergoes in consequence of
those impacts. By prolonged experiences it w
ill learn to
identify with itself the feeling of pleasure or pain that follows
the impact, and to regard as not itself that which touches its
external surface. !t w
ill thus make its first rough distinction
of “ Not-I ” and “ I As experience increases, the “ I"
w
ill retreat ever inwards, and one veil of matter after
another w
ill be relegated outwards as belonging to the
4
‘ Not-I ” ; but while its connotations change, this funda­
mental distinction between subject and object w
ill ever re­
m
ain. “ I” is the willing, thinking, acting consciousness ;
while the “ Not-I ” is all as to which it w
ills, about which it
thinks, and on which it acts. We shall have to consider later
the way in which consciousness becomes Self-consciousness,
but at present we are concerned only with its expression in
forms and the part played by the forms.
This consciousness awakens on the physical plane, and its
expression is the permanent atom, in this it lies sleeping ;
4
4sleeps in the m
ineral ” ; and therein some awakening into
lighter slumber must take place, so that it may be roused out
of this deep dreamless sleep and become sufficiently active
to pass on into the next stage : “ Itdreams inthe vegetable/’
Now the Second Logos, acting in the envelope of the
Group-Souls, energises the permanent physical atoms and,
GROUP-SOULS 79
by the mediation of the Shining Ones, as we have seen,
plunges them into the various conditions offered by the
m
ineral kingdom, where each attaches to itself many mineral
particles. At once here we see a large variety of possible
impacts, leading to a variety of experiences, andso presently
to lines of cleavage in a Group-Soul. Some w
ill be whirled
high in air, to fall in torrents of burning lava ; some w
ill be
exposed to arctic cold, others to tropic heat; some w
ill be
crushed and sheathed in molten metal, in the bowels of the
earth ; some w
ill be in the sand tossed roughly by rushing
billows. Infinite variety of external impacts w
ill shake and
strike and burn and freeze, and in vague answers of sympa­
thetic vibrations w
ill the deep-slumbering consciousness re­
spond. When any permanent atom has reached a certain
responsiveness, or when a mineral form, Le., the particles to
which a permanent atom has attached itself, is broken up, the
Group-Soul draws that atom from its encasement. A
ll the
experiences acquired by that atom—and that means the
vibrations it has been forced to execute—remain as powers
of vibrating in particular ways, or as " vibratory-powers
That is the outcome of its life in a form. The permanent
atom, losing its embodiment and remaining for awhile naked,
as it were, in its Group-Soul, and continuing to repeat these
vibrations, to go over within itself its life-experiences, sets up
pulses which run through the envelope of the Group-Soul
and are thus conveyed to other permanent atoms: thus
each affects and helps all the others while remaining itself.
The permanent atoms which have had experiences sim
ilar in
character w
ill be more strongly affected by each other than
w
ill be those whose experiences have been very different.
80 A STU
DY S
N CONSCIOUSNESS
and thus there w
ill be a certain segregation going on within
the Group-Soul, and presently a filmy separating w
all w
ill
grow inwards from the envelope and divide these segre­
gated groups from each other; and so there w
ill be an
ever-increasing number of Group-Souls with contents show­
ing an ever-increasing distinction of consciousness, while
sharing fundamental characteristics.
Now the responses of consciousness to external stim
uli in
the mineral kingdom are far greater than many quite realize,
and some of them are of a nature which shows that there is
a dawning of consciousness also in the astral permanent
atom. For chemical elements exhibit distinct m
utual attrac­
tions, and chemical m
arital relationships are continually
disorganized by the intrusion of couples, one or other of
which has a stronger affinity for one of the partners in the
earlier marriage than the original mate. T
hus a hitherto
m
utually faithful couple, forming a silver salt, w
ill suddenly
prove faithless to each other if another couple, hydrochloric
acid, enters their peaceful household ; and the silver w
ill
pounce upon the chlorine and take her to wife, preferring
her to his former mate, and set up a new household as silver
chloride, leaving the deserted hydrogen to mate w
ith hisown
forsaken partner. Wherever these active interchanges go
on there is a slight stir in the astral atom, in consequence of
the violent physical vibrations set up by the violent wrench­
ing apart, and formation, of intimate ties, and vague internal
thrillings appear. The astral m
ust be roused fromthe physic­
al, and consciousness on the physical plane w
ill long take
the lead in evolution. S
till, a little cloud of astral matter is
drawn round the permanent astral atom by these slight
GROUP-SOULS 81
thriliings, but it is very loosely held and seems to be quite
unorganized. There does not seem to be any vibration in
the mental atom at this stage.
After ages of experience in the mineral kingdom, some of
the permanent atoms w
ill be ready to pass into the vege­
table kingdom, and w
ill be distributed by the agency of the
Shining Ones over the vegetable world. It is not to be
supposed that every blade of grass, every plant, has a
permanent atom within it, evolving to humanity during the
ife of this system. Just as in the mineral kingdom, so here;
;he vegetable kingdom forms the field of evolution for these
)ermanent atoms, and the Shining Ones guide them to
labitat after habitat, so that they may experience the
vibrations that affect the vegetable world, and again store up
hese as vibratory powers in the same fashion as before,
he principles of interchange and of consequent segregation
Y
ork out as before, and the Group-Souls in each stream of
¡volution become more numerous, and more different in
heir leading characteristics.
At our present stage of knowledge, the laws according to
rhich permanent atoms in a Group-Soul are plunged into
le kingdoms of nature are by no means clear. M
any
lings seem to indicate that the evolution of the mineral,
egetable, and the lowest part of the anim
al kingdom belong
lore to the evolution of the eartn itself than to that of the
vatm
as representing the Monads who are evolving within
le solar system, and who come, in due course, to this
arth to pursue their own evolution by utilizing the conditions
affords. Grass and sm
all plants of every kind seem to be
Jated to the earth as a man's hairs are related to his body
6
82 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
and not to be connected with the Monads, represented by
Jivatm
as in our five-fold universe. The life inthem, holding
them together as forms, appears to be that of the Second
Logos, and the life in the atoms and molecules composing
them to be that of the Third Logos, appropriated and modi­
fied by the Planetary Logos of our system of Chains, and
further appropriated and modified by the Spirit of the E
arth
—an entity wrapped in great obscurity. These kingdoms
offer a field for the evolution of the Jivatmas truly, but do
not exist, apparently, wholly for this purpose. We find per­
manent atoms scattered though the m
ineral and vegetable
kingdoms, but are unable to pierce to the reasons which
govern their distribution. A permanent atom may be found
in a pearl, in a ruby, in a diamond ,
*many may be found
scattered through veins of ore, and so on. On the other
hand much m
ineral does not seem to contain any. So with
short-lived plants. B
ut in plants of long continuance, such
as trees, permanent atoms are constantly found. B
ut here
again, the life of the tree seems to be more closely related
to the Deva-evolution than to the evolution of the conscious­
ness to which the permanent atom is attached. Itis rather
as though advantage were taken of the evolution of life and
consciousness in the tree for the benefit of the permanent
atom : it seems to live there more as a parasite, profiting by
the more highly evolved life in which it is bathed. The fact
is that our knowledge on these points is extremely frag­
mentary so far.
There is more activity perceptible in the astral permanent
atom during the course of the accumulation of vegetable
experiences by the physical, and it attracts round itself astral
GROUP-SOULS 83
matter which is arranged by the Shining Ones in a rather
more definite way. In the long life of a forest tree, the
growing aggregation of astral matter develops itself in all
directions as the astral form of the tree, and the conscious­
ness attached to the permanent atoms shares, to some
extent, that of its surroundings, experiencing through that
astral form the vibrations causing massive pleasure and
discomfort, these vibrations being the result of those set up
in the physical tree by sunshine and storm, wind and rain,
cold and heat. With the perishing of such a tree, the
permanent astral atom retreats to its Group-Soul, now
established on the astral plane with a rich store of experi­
ences, shared inthe manner before described.
Further, as the consciousness becomes more respon­
sive in the astral, it sends little thrills downwards to the
physical plane, and these give rise to feelings felt as though
in the physical, but really derived from the astral. Where
there has been a long separate life, as in a tree, the per­
manent mental unit w
ill also begin to attract round itself a
little cloud of mental matter, and on this the recurrence of
seasons w
ill slowly impress itself as a faint memory, which
becomes inevitably a faint anticipation.1
At iast some of the permanent physical atoms are ready
to pass on into the anim
al kingdom, and once more the
agency of the Shining Once guides them into anim
al forms.
D
uring the later stages of their evolution in the vegetable
world, it appears to be the rule that each triad—physical
and astral atoms and mental unit—shall have a prolonged
1See Thought-Power, Its Control and Culture, by Annie B
esant,
p
p
. 59-62.
84 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
experience in a single form, so that some thrills of mental
life may be experienced, and the triad may thus be prepared1
to profit by the wandering life of the anim
al. B
ut it also
appears that in some cases the passage into the animal
kingdom is made at an earlier stage, and that the first thrill
in the mental unit occurs insome of the stationary forms of
anim
al life, and in very lowly anim
al organisms.
In the lowest types of anim
als conditions sim
ilar to those
described as existing inthe m
ineral and vegetable kingdoms
also appear to prevail. Microbes, amoebae, hydras, etc., etc.
only show a permanent atom as a visitor, now and again,
and obviously inno way depend upon it for life and growth,
nor do they break up when the permanent atom is with­
drawn. They are hosts, not bodies formed around a per­
manent atom. And it is noteworthy that, at this stage, the
golden life-web in no way represents the organization of the
host's body, but merely acts as rootlets act in the soil,
attaching particles of soil to themselves and sucking there­
from nourishment. The permanent atoms in the anim
al
kingdom have received and stored up many experiences,
before they are used by the Shining Ones as centres round
which forms are to be built.
Needless to say that in the animal kingdom the
permanent atoms receive far more varied vibrations
than in the lower kingdoms, and consequently differen­
tiate more quickly, the number of triads in the Group-
Souls dim
inishing rapidly as this differentiation proceeds
and the m
ultiplication of Group-Souls therefore going on
w
ith increasing rapidity. As the period of individuality
approaches, each separate triad becomes possessed of its
GROUP-SOULS 85
own envelope, obtained from the Group-Soul, and takes on
successive embodiments as a separate entity, though stilf
within the enveloping case of protecting and nourishing
monadic essence.
Large numbers of the higher anim
als in a state of domes­
tication have reached this stage, and have really become
separate reincarnating entities, although not as yet possess­
ing a causal body—the m
ark of what is usually called indi­
vidualization. The envelope derived from the Group-Soul
serves the purpose of a causal body, but consists only of the
third layer, as previously indicated, and istherefore composed
of molecules derived from the fourth grade of mental matter,
that which corresponds to the coarsest ether of the physical
plane. Following the analogy of human ante-natal life, we see
that this stage corresponds with its last two months. A
seven-months' babe may be born and may survive, but it
w
ill be stronger, healthier, more vigorous, if it profits for yet
another two months by its mother's shielding and nourishing
life. So is it better for the normal development of the Ego
that it should not too hastily burst the envelope of the
Group-Soul, but should still absorb life through it, and
strengthen from its constituents the finest part of itsown
mental body. When that body has reached its lim
itof growth
under these shielded conditions, the envelope disintegrates
into the finer molecules of the sub-plane above it, and be­
comes, as above said, part of the causal body.
It is the knowledge of these facts that has sometimes
caused occultists to warn people who are very fond of animals
not to be exaggerated in their affection, nor to show it in
unwise ways. The growth of the anim
al may be unhealthily
86 A STU
D
Y IN CONSCIOUSNESS
forced, and its birth into individuality be hastened out of due
time. M
an, in order to fill rightly his place in the world,
should seek to understand nature and work with her laws,
quickening indeed their action by the co-operation of his
intelligence, but not quickening it to the point whereat
growth is made unhealthy and its product frail and “ out of
season It is true that the Lord of Life seeks hum
an co­
operation inthe working out of evolution, but the co-opera-*
tion should follow the lines which H
is Wisdom has laid
down.
C
H
A
P
T
E
R V
S
UNIT O F CONSCIOU SN ESS
1. CONSCIOUSNESS A U
N
IT
!N studying the very varied manifestations of consciousness,
we are apt to forget two important facts ; first, that the con­
sciousness of each man is a U
nit, however separate and
different from each other its manifestations may appear to
be; secondly, that a
ll these U
nits themselves are parts
of the consciousness of the Logos, and therefore react
sim
ilarly under sim
ilar conditions. We cannot too often
remind ourselves that consciousness is one ; that all appar­
ently separate consciousnesses are truly one, as one sea
might pour through many holes in an embankment. That
seg-water might issue from the holes differently coloured,
if the embankment were composed of differently coloured
earths ; but it would a
ll be the same sea-water ; analysed,
it would a
il show the presence of the same characteristic
salts. So are all consciousnesses from the same ocean of
consciousness, and have many essential identities. Enveiled
inthe same kind of matter, they w
ill act in the same kind of
way, and reveal their fundamental identity of nature.
The individual consciousness appears to be a complexity
instead of a unity when its manifestations are concerned,
88 A STU
D
Y IN CONSCIOUSNESS
and modern psychology speaks of dual and treble and multi­
plex personality, losing sight of the fundamental unity among
the confusion of the manifold. Yet truly is our conscious­
ness a U
nit, and the variety is due to the m
aterials in which
it is working.
The ordinary waking-consciousness of a m
an is the con­
sciousness working through the physical brain at a certain
rate imposed by it, conditioned by all the conditions of that
brain, lim
ited by all its lim
itations, baulked by the varying
obstructions it offers, checked by a clot of blood, silenced
by the decay of tissue. At every moment the brain hinders
its manifestations, while at the same time it is, on the physic­
al plane, its only enabling instrument of manifestation.
When the consciousness, turning its attention away from
the external physical world, ignores the denser part of the
physical brain, and uses only the etheric portions thereof, its
manifestations at once change in character. The creative
imagination disports itself in etheric matter, and drawing on
its accumulated contents, obtained from the external world
by its denser servant, it arranges them, dissociates, and
recombines them after its own fancies, and creates the
lower worlds of dream.
When it casts aside for a while its ethereal garment,
turning its attention away completely from the physical world
and shedding its fetters of physical matter, it roams through
the astral world at w
ill, or drifts through it unconsciously,
turning all its attention to its own contents, receiving many
impacts from that astral world, which it ignores or accepts
according to its stage of evolution or its humour of the
moment. If it should manifest itself to an outside observer
U
N
ITY OF CONSCIOUSNESS 89
—as may happen in trance-conditions—it shows powers so
superior to those it manifested when imprisoned in the
physical brain, that such an observer, judging only by
physical experiences, may well regard it as a different con­
sciousness.
S
till more is this the case when, the astral body being
thrown into trance, the B
ird of Heaven shows itself soaring
into loftier regions, and its splendid flight so enchants the
observer that he deems it a new being, and no longer the
same entity as crawled in the physical world. Yet truly is it
ever one and the same; the differences are in the materials
with which It is connected and through which it works, and
not in itself.
As to the second important fact stated above, man is not
yet sufficiently developed to appreciate any evidence as to
the unity of consciousness in its workings above the physical
plane, but its unity on the physical plane is being demon­
strated.
2. U
N
ITY OF PH
YSICAL CONSCIOUSNESS
Amid the immense varieties of the mineral, vegetable,
anim
al, and human kingdoms, the underlying unity of physical
consciousness has been lost sight of, and broad lines of
cleavage have been set up which do not, inreality, exist. Life
has been wholly denied to the mineral, grudged to the vege­
table, and H
. P
. Blavatsky was ridiculed when she declared
that one Life, one Consciousness, vivified and informed all.
“ W
ith every day, the identity between the anim
al and
the physical man, between the plant and man, and even
90 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
between the reptile and its nest, the rock, and man, is more
and more clearly shown, the physical and chemical constitu­
ents of all being found to be identical. Chemical Science
may well say that there is no difference between the matter
which composes the ox, and that which forms m
an. B
ut
the occult doctrine is far more explicit. It says : Not only
the chemical compounds are the same, but the same
infinitesim
al invisible Lives compose the atoms of the
bodies of the mountain and the daisy, of m
an and the ant,
of the elephant and of the tree which shelters it from the
sun. Each particle—whether you call it organic or inorganic
—is a Life." 1
If this be true, it should be possible to obtain from such
living m
inerals, vegetables, anim
als, and men, evidence of an
identity of life, of sentiency, of response to stimuli; and
while we may freely admit that we should expect to find
gradations of sentiency, that as we ascend the ladder of life
we should expect the manifestations to become fuller and
more complex, yet some definite manifestations of sentiency
should be found in a
ll who share one life. The evidence for
this was lacking when H
. P
. Blavatsky wrote ; it is available
now ; and it is from an eastern scientist, whose rare ability
has ensured his welcome in the West, that the evidence ap­
propriately comes.
Professor Jagadish Chandra Bose, M.A., D.Sc., of Calcutta,
has definitely proved that so-called “ inorganic matter " is
responsive to stim
ulus, and that the response is identical
from metals, vegetables, anim
als, and—so far as experiment
can be made—man.
1 The Secret Doctrine, 1. 281.
U
N
ITY OF CONSCIOUSNESS 91
He arranged apparatus to measure the stim
ulus applied,
and to show in curves, traced on a revolving cylinder, the
response from the body receiving the stim
ulus. He then com­
pared the curves obtained intinandinother m
etals withthose
obtained from muscle, and found that the curves from tin
were identical with those from muscle, and that other metals
gave curves of like nature but varied inthe period of recovery.
(a) Series of electric responses to successive m
echanical stim
u
li a
t
in
tervals of h
alf a m
inute, intin. (b
) M
echanical responses inm
uscle.
Tetanus, both complete and incomplete, due to repeated
shocks, was caused, and sim
ular results accrued, inm
ineral as
in muscle.
Fatigue was shown by metals, least of a
il by tin. Chemic­
al re-agents, such as drugs, produced sim
ular results on
metals withthose known to result with anim
als—exciting, de­
pressing, and deadly. (By deadly is meant resulting inthe
destruction of the power of response.)
A poison w
ill k
ill a metal, inducing a condition of immobil­
ity, so that no response is obtainable. If the poisoned metal
be taken in time, an antidote may save its life.
92 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
A stim
ulant w
ill increase response, and as large and sm
all
doses of adrug have been found to k
ill and stim
ulate respect­
ively, so have they been found to act on metals. “ Among
such phenomena,” asks Professor Bose, " how can we draw
a line of demarcation and say : 4Here the physical process
E
ffects analogous to (a
) incom
plete and (b) complete tetanu
s in
tin
. (a') Incom
plete an
d(b') com
pletetetanus in m
uscle.
a/lA À ✓v
JNAA.c
(a) N
orm
al response. (b) Effect of poison, (c) R
evival by antidote.
UNITY OF CONSCIOUSNESS 93
ends, and there the physiological begins * ? No such barriers
exist." 1
Professor Bose has carried on a similar series of experi­
ments on plants, and has obtained similar results. A fresh
piece of cabbage stalk, a fresh leaf, or other vegetable body,
can be stimulated and will show similar curves ; it can be
fatigued, excited, depressed, poisoned. There is something
rather pathetic in seeing the way in which the tiny spot of
light, which records the pulses in the plant, travels, in ever
weaker and weaker curves, when the plant is under the
influence of poison, falls into a final despairing straight line,
and— stops. The plant is dead. One feels as though a
murder had been committed— as indeed it has.'2
These admirable series of experiments have established, on
a definite basis of physical facts, the teaching of occult
science on the universality of life.
Mr. Marcus Reed has made microscopical observations
which show the presence of consciousness in the vegetable
kingdom. He has observed symptoms as of fright when
tissue is injured, and further he has seen that male and
female cells, floating in the sap, become aware of each
other’s presence without contact; the circulation quickens,
and they put out processes towards each other.3
1These details are taken from a paper given by Professor Bose at
the Royal Institution, May 10th, 1901, entitled “ The Response of
Inorganic Matter to Stimulus.“
2The Professor has not published this lecture, but the facts are in
his book Response inthe Living and Non-Living. 1had the good fortune
to see the experiments repeated at his own house, where one could
watch them closely.
3“ Consciousness in Vegetable Matter"; P
all M
all Magazine,
June, 1902.
94 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
More than three years after the publication of Professor
Bose’s experiments, some interesting confirmation of his
observations arose in the course of M. Jean Becquerel’s
study of the N-rays, communicated by him to the Paris
Academy of Sciences. Animais under chloroform cease
to emit these rays, and they are never emitted by
a corpse. Flowers normally emit them, but under chloro­
form the emanation ceases. Metals also emit them, and
under chloroform the emanation again ceases. Thus
animals, flowers, and metals alike give out these rays, and
alike cease to emanate them under the action of chloro­
form.1
3. THE MEANING OF PHYSICAL CONSCIOUSNESS
The term “ physical consciousness ” is used in two distinct
senses, and it may be useful to pause a moment, in order to
define these. It is often used to indicate what is above
termed "ordinary waking-consciousness ” , /.e., the conscious­
ness of the man, of the Jivatma— or, if the phrase be pre­
ferred, of the Monad working through the Jivatma and the
Sower triad of permanent .atoms. It is also used in the sense
in which it is used here, as consciousness working in physical
matter, receiving and responding to physical impacts, uncon­
cerned with any transmission of impulses onward to the
higher planes, or with any impulses sent to the physical body
from those planes.
1The N-rays are due to vibrations inthe etheric double, causing
waves inthe surrounding ether. Chloroform expels the etheric double,
and hence the waves cease. At death, the etheric double leaves the
body, and the rays consequently can no longer be observed. •
UNITY OF CONSCIOUSNESS 95
In this more restricted and accurate sense, it would
include : (a) any out-thVillings from the atoms and molecules
ensouled by the life of the Third Logos ; (b) any similar out-
thrillings from organised forms ensouled by the life of the
Second Logos ; and (c) any similar out-thrillings from the
life of the Monad, proceeding from the permanent atoms, in
which the spirillae are not directly concerned. When the
spirillae are active, the “ ordinary waking-consciousness ” is
affected. For instance : ammonia sniffed up by the nose
shows two results ; there is a rapid secretion ; that is the
response of the ceils in the olfactory tract; there is also a
“ smell " ; that is the result of a vibration running up to the
sense-centres in the astral body, and there recognized in
consciousness; the change in consciousness affects the first
set of spirillae in the atoms of the olfactory tract, and thus
reaches the " waking-consciousness ’’— consciousness work­
ing in the physical brain. It is only through the spirillae that
changes in consciousness on the higher planes bring about
changes in the “ waking-consciousness " ,
It must be remembered that as the solar system is a field
for the evolution of all the developing consciousnesses
within it, so are there smaller areas within it, serving as
smaller fields. Man is the microcosm of the universe, and
his body serves as a field of evolution for myriads of con­
sciousnesses less evolved than his own. Thus the three
activities mentioned above under (a), (b), and (c) are all
present in his body, and all enter into the physical conscious­
ness working therein ; that in which the atomic spirillae are
96 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
do not now directly affect the “ waking-consciousness " in the
higher animals or in man. They effected it in the earlier
part of the embryonic life in the Group-Soul, while the con­
sciousness in the Second Logos was " mothering " the dawn­
ing consciousnesses derived from it. But physical conscious­
ness has now sunk below the “ threshold of consciousness " ,
while showing itself as “ the memory of the cell " , as the
selective action in glands and papillae, and generally in the
carrying on of functions necessary for the support of bodies.
It is the lowest activity of consciousness, and as conscious­
ness functions more and more actively on the higher plane,
its lowest workings no longer attract its attention, and they
become what we call automatic.
Now it is physical consciousness that is appealed to in
Professor Bose's experiments, and it is the response of this
consciousness in the tin and in the animal that is the same,
and is shown in the pulse indicated by the curves ; the ani­
mal will feel the stimulus while the tin will not— that is the
result of the additional working of the consciousness in astral
matter.
We may thus allege that consciousness, working in physical
matter, responds to various kinds of stimulation, and that the
response is the same, whether it be obtained from mineral,
vegetable, or animal. The consciousness shows the same
characteristic workings, is the same. The differences which,
as already said, we observe as we ascend, lie in the improve­
ment of the physical apparatus, an apparatus which enables
astral and mental— not physical— activities of consciousness
to manifest themselves on the physical plane. Men and
animals feel and think better than minerals and vegetables,
UNITY OF CONSCIOUSNESS 97
because their more highly evolved consciousness has shaped
for itself on the physical plane this much improved apparatus ;
but even so, our bodies answer as the lower bodies answer
to the same stimuli, and this purely physical consciousness is
the same in all.
Now in the mineral, the astral matter connected with the
permanent astral atom is so little active, and consciousness
is sleeping so deeply therein, that there is no perceptible
working from the astral to the physical. In the higher plants
there seems to be a sort of forthshadowing of a nervous
system, but it is too little developed and organized to serve
anything but the simplest purposes. The added activity on
the astral plane improves the astral sheath in connexion with
the plant, and the vibrations of the astral sheath affect the
etheric portion of the plant, and thus its denser matter.
Hence the forthshadowing of a nervous system above
alluded to.
When we com e to the animal stage, the much greater
activity of the consciousness on the astral plane causes more
powerful vibrations, which pass to the etheric double of the
animal, and by the etheric vibrations thus caused, the nervous
system is builded. The shaping of it is due to the Logos
through the Group-Soul, and to the active assistance of the
Shining Ones of the Third Elemental Kingdom, directing the
work of the ethereal Nature-Spirits. But the impulse comes
from the consciousness on the astral plane working in the
permanent atom and the sheath of astral matter attracted by
it, roused to activity by the Group-Soul. As the first very
simple apparatus is formed, more delicate impacts from
without can be perceived, and these impacts also help in the
7
98 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
evolution. Action and reaction succeed each other, am
the mechanism continually improves in receptive and trans
mitting ability.
Consciousness does not do much building on the astra
plane at this stage, and works there in an unorganizec
sheath ; the organizing is done on the physical plane by the
efforts of consciousness to express itself— dim and vaguely
groping as these efforts are— aided and directed by the
Group-Soul and the Shining Ones. This work has to be
completed to a great extent before the Third Life-Wave
pours down, for anim
al m
an has evolved, with his brain and
nervous systems, before that great outpouring comes which
gives the Jivatma a working body and makes possible the
higher evolution of man.
CHAPTER V
I!
TH
E MECHANISM OF CONSCIOUSNESS
1. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE MECHANISM
IN a very real sense the whole of the bodies of man form
the mechanism of consciousness, as organs for willing, think­
ing, and acting ; but the nervous apparatus may be called its
special mechanism, as that whereby, in the physical body, it
controls and directs all. Every cell in the body is composed
of myriads of tiny lives, each with its own germinal con­
sciousness ; 1 each cell has its own dawning consciousness,
controlling and organizing these ; but the central ruling con­
sciousness which uses the whole body controls and organizes
it in turn, and the mechanism in which it functions for this
purpose is the nervous.
This nervous mechanism is the outcome of astral impulses,
and consciousness must be active on the astral plane before
1The term '* lives ” signifies U
nits of Consciousness, but does not
denote the kind of consciousness thus separated, nor necessarily imply
the presence of a Jivatma. It means a cognizable " drop " from the
ocean of consciousness, an atom or collection of atoms ensouled by
consciousness and acting as a unit. An atom is a " life ” , the con­
sciousness being that of the Third Logos. A microbe is a “ life ” , the
consciousness being that of the Second Logos, appropriated and modi­
fied, as before said, by the Planetary Logos and the Spirit of the
Earth.
100 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
it can be constructed, impulses set up by the consciousne
—w
iU
ing to experience and vaguely endeavouring to gr
effect to this Will— cause vibrations in etheric matter, ar
these vibrations, by the very nature of the matter,1beconr
electric, magnetic, heat, and other energies. These are t\
masons which work under the impulse of the master-builde
Consciousness. The impulse is from him ; the execution
by them. The directive intelligence, which as yet he cann<
furnish, is supplied by the Logic life in the Group-Soul, ar
by the Nature-Spirits working under the guidance, as alreac
said, of the Shining Ones of the Third Elemental Kingdom.
W e have then to understand that nervous matter is bu
up on the physical plane under impulses from the astral, tf
directly constructive forces being indeed physical, but th
guidance and the setting in motion of them being astral, /.e
proceeding from consciousness active on the astral plan*
The life-energy, the prana, which flows in rosy waves, pulsin
along the etheric matter in all nerves, not in their medullai
sheaths but in their substance, comes down immediate
from the astral plane ; it is drawn from the great reservoir c
life, the Logos, and is specialized on the astral plane an
sent down thence into the nervous system, blending ther
with the magnetic, electrical, and other currents which forr
the purely physical prana, drawn from the same reservoi
but through the Sun, His physical body ; close examinatio
shows that the constituents of the prana of the mineral kinc
dom are fewer and less complex in arrangement than those c
the prana in the higher vegetable kingdom, and this again lei
1The tanmatra and tattva of the plane, with its six sub-tanmatras ar
sub-tattvas.
THE MECHANISM OF CONSCIOUSNESS 101
so than that in the animal and human, and this difference is
due to the fact that the astral prana mingles in the latter
-and , not in the former— to any perceptible degree, at least.
After the formation of the causal body, this complexity of
the prana circulating in the nervous systems of the physical
body much increases, and it appears to become yet more
enriched in the progress of human evolution. For as the
consciousness becomes active on the mental plane, the
prana of that plane mingles also with the lower, and so on
as the activity of consciousness is carried on in higher
regions.
W e may pause a moment on this word “ prana " that
I have translated as " life-energy Pran is a Samskrit root,
meaning to breathe, to live, to blow, made up of an, to
breathe, move, live, and hence the Spirit, joined with the
prefix pra, forth. Thus pra-an, pran, means to breathe forth,
and life-breath, or life-energy, is the nearest English equiva­
lent to the Samskrit term. As according to Hindu thought
there is but one Life, one Consciousness, everywhere, the
word Prana has been used for the Supreme Self, the all-
sustaining Breath, It is the forth-giving energy of the O ne :
for us, the Life of the Logos. Hence that Life on every
plane may be spoken of as the Prana of the plane; it be­
com es the life-breath in every creature. On the physical
plane it is energy, appearing in many forms, electricity, heat,
light, magnetism, etc., transmutable into each other because
fundamentally o n e ; on other planes we .have no names
whereby to designate it, but the idea is definite enough.
Appropriated by a being, it is prana in the narrower sense
in which it is generally used in Theosophical literature, the
102 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
individual's life-breath. It is the vital energy, the vital force,
of which all other energies, chemical, electrical, and the rest,
are merely derivatives and fractional parts ; and it is a little
quaint for the occultist when he hears scientific men talking
glibly of chemical or electrical energy, and denouncing their
parent, vital energy, as an "exploded superstition These
partial manifestations of vital energy are merely due to the
arrangements of matter in which it plays, cutting off one or
another of its characteristics, or perhaps all of them save
one, as blue glass will shut off all the rays except the blue
ones, and red all except the red.
In The Secret Doctrine H. P. Blavatsky speaks of the rela­
tion of prana to the nervous system. She quotes, and partly
endorses, partly corrects, the view of " nervous ether " , put
forv/ard by Dr. B. W . Richardson ; the Sun-force is " the
primal cause of all life on earth " ,1and the Sun is " the store­
house of vital force, which is the noumenon of electricity a
The " * nervous ether ' is the lowest principle of the Primor­
dial Essence which is Life. It is animal vitality diffused in all
Nature, and acting according to the conditions it finds for its
activity. It is not an "animal product ' ; but-the living animal
the living flower and plant, are its products." 3
On the physical plane this prana, this life-force, builds up
all minerals, and is the controlling agent in the chemico-
physiological changes in protoplasm, which lead to differen­
tiation and the- building of the various tissues of the bodies
of plants, animals, and men. They show its presence by the
1Loc. clt, i, 577,
- / 5iU, 579.
2Ibid., 586.
THE MECHANISM OF CONSCIOUSNESS 103
power of responding to stimuli, but for a time this power is
not accompanied by distinct sentiency; consciousness has
not unfolded enough to feel pleasure and pain.
When the current of prana from the astral plane, with its
attribute of sentiency, blends with that of the prana of the
physical plane, it begins the building of a new arrangement
of matter— the nervous. This nervous arrangement is fun­
damentally a cell, details as to which can be studied in any
modern text-book dealing with the subject,1and the develop­
ment consists of internal changes and of outgrowths of the
matter of the cell, these outgrowths becoming sheathed in
medullary matter and then appearing as threads or fibres.
Every nervous system, however elaborate, consists of cells
and their outgrowths, these outgrowths becoming more
numerous, and forming ever, multiplying connexions between
the cells, as consciousness demands for its expression a
more and more elaborated nervous system. This fundament­
al simplicity at the root of such complexity of details is found
even in man, the possessor of the most highly evolved
nervous organization. The many millions of neural ganglia ~
in the brain and body are all produced by the end of the
third month of ante-natal life, and their development consists
in expansion, and the outgrowth of their substance into
fibres. This development in later life results from the activity
of thought; as a man thinks strenuously and continuously,
the thought-vibrations cause chemical activity, and the
1Such as Schafer's " Histology" in Quain's Anatomy,ttenth editioni;
Halliburton's Handbook of Physiology, 7901 ; Wilson s The Cell in
Development and Inheritance,
■Groups of nerve cells
104 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
dendrons 1 shoot out from the cells, making connexions and
cross-connexions in every direction, literal pathways along
which prana pulsates— prana which is now composed of
factors from the physical, astral, and mental planes— and
thought-vibrations travel.
Returning from this digression into the human kingdom,
let us see how the building of the nervous system, by vibra­
tory impulses from the astral, begins and is carried on. W e
find a minute group of nerve cells and tiny processes con­
necting them. This is formed by the action of a centre
which has previously appeared in the astral body— of which
something will presently be said— an aggregation of astral
matter arranged to form a centre for receiving and respond­
ing to impulses from outside. From that astral centre vibra­
tions pass into the etheric body, causing little etheric whirl­
pools which draw into themselves particles of denser physical
matter, forming at last a nerve cell, and groups of nerve
cells. These physical centres, receiving vibrations from the
outer world, send impulses back to the astral centres, increas­
ing their vibrations ; thus the physical and the astral centres
act and react on each other, and each becomes more com ­
plicated and more effective. As we pass up the animal
kingdom, we find the physical nervous system constantly im­
proving and becoming a more and more dominant factor in
the body, and this first-formed system becomes, in the
vertebrates, the sympathetic system, controlling and energiz­
ing the vital organs— the heart, the lungs, the digestive
tract; beside it slowly develops the cerebro-spinal system,
1Nerve processes, or prolongations, or outgrowths, consisting of
the matter of the cell enclosed in a medullary sheath.
THE MECHANISM OF CONSCIOUSNESS 105
closely connected in its lower workings with the sympathetic,
and becoming gradually more and more dominant, while it
also becomes in its most important development the normal
organ for the expression of the “ waking-consciousness
This cerebro-spinal system is built up by impulses originating
m the mental, not in the astral plane, and is only indirectly
related to the astral through the sympathetic system, built
up from the astral. W e shall see later the bearing of this on
the astral sensitiveness of animals and lowly-developed
human beings, the disappearance of this sensitiveness with
the development of intellect, and its reappearance in the
higher human evolution.
The permanent atoms form the imperfect but only direct
channel between the consciousness manifesting as the
spiritual Triad and the forms he is connected with. In the
case of the higher animals these atoms are exceedingly
active, and in the brief time between the physical lives con­
siderable changes occur in these. As evolution goes on, the
increasing flow of life from the Group-Soul and through the
permanent atom, as well as the increasing complexity of the
physical apparatus, rapidly augment the sensitiveness of the
animal. There is comparatively little sensitiveness in the
lower animal lives, and little in fishes, despite their cerebro­
spinal system. As evolution proceeds, the sense-centres
continue to develop in the astral sheath, and in the higher
animal these are well organized and the senses are acute.
But with this acuteness there is brevity of sensations, and
except with the highest animals little of the mental element
mingles to lend increased and longer continued sensitiveness
to sensation.
106 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
2. THE ASTRAL OR DESIRE BODY
The evolution of the astral body must be studied in relation
to the physical, for while it plays the part of a creator on
the physical plane, as we have seen, its own further develop­
ment largely depends on the impulses received through the
very organism it has created. It does not, for a long time,
enjoy an independent life of its own on its own plane, and
the organization of the astral body in relation to the physical
is quite a different matter, and much earlier in time, than its
organization in relation to the astral world. In the East they
speak of the astral and mental vehicles of consciousness
when acting in relation to the physical, as koshas, or sheaths,
and use the term sharira, or body, for a form capable of
independent action in the visible and invisible worlds. This
distinction may serve us here.
The astral sheath of the mineral is a mere cloud of appro­
priated astral matter, and does not show any perceptible
signs of organization. The same is the case with most
vegetables, but in some there seem to be certain indications
of aggregations and lines, which in the light of later evolu­
tion appear to be the dawn of incipient organization ; and
in some old forest trees distinct aggregations of astral matter
are visible at certain points. In animals these aggregations
become clearly marked and definite, forming centres in the
astral sheath of a permanent and specialized kind.
These aggregations in the astral sheath are the beginnings
of the centres which will build up the necessary organs in the
physical body, and are not the often-named chakras, or
wheels, which belong to the organization of the astral body
THE MECHANISM OF CONSCIOUSNESS 107
itself, and fit it for functioning on its own plane in connexion
with the mental sheath, as the lower type of the »eastern
sukshma sharira, or subtle body. The astral chakras are
connected with the astral senses, so that a person in whom
they are developed can see, hear, etc., on the astral plane ;
they lie far ahead of the point in evolution that we are
considering, a point at which the perceptive powers of con­
sciousness have not yet any organ, even on the physical
plane.
As these aggregations in the astral sheath appear, the
impulses of consciousness on the astral plane, guided as
before explained, play on the etheric double, forming the
etheric whirlpools already mentioned, and corresponding
centres thus arise in the astral sheath and physical body, the
sympathetic system being thus built up. This system always
remains thus directly connected with the astral centres, even
after the cerebro-spinal system is evolved. But from the
aggregations in the fore-part of the astral sheath, ten im­
portant centres are formed, which becom e connected with
the brair. through the sympathetic system, and gradually
becom e the dominant organs for the activities of the phy­
sical, or waking-consciousness— that is, for that part of the
consciousness which functions normally through the cerebro­
spinal system. Five out of the ten serve to receive special
impressions from the outside world, and are the centres
through which consciousness uses its perceptive powers ; they
are called in Samskrit, Jnanendriyas, literally “ knowledge-
senses " i.e., senses, or sense-centres, by which knowledge
is obtained. These set up, in the way before explained, five
distinct etheric whirlpools, and thus construct five centres
108 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
in the physical brain ; these, in turn, severally shape and
remain connected with their appropriate sense-organs. Thus
arise the five sense-organs : the eyes, ears, tongue, nose,
skin, specialised to receive impressions from the outer world,
corresponding to the five perceptive powers of seeing,
hearing, tasting, smelling, feeling. These are specialized
ways in the lower worlds by which part of the perceptive
ability of consciousness, its power of receiving external
contacts, ts exercised. They belong to the lower worlds
and to the grosser forms of matter which shut consciousness
in. and prevent it, thus enwrapped, from knowing other
lives; they are openings in this dense veil of matter, per­
mitting vibrations to enter in and reach the shrouded con­
sciousness.
The remaining five of these ten astral centres serve to
convey vibrations from consciousness to the outer world;
they are the avenues outwards, as the knowledge-senses are
the avenues inwards; they are named Karmendriyas, literally
action-senses, senses or sense-centres which cause action,
These develop like the others, forming etheric whirlpools
which make the motor-centres in the physical brain ,* these,
again, severally shape and remain connected with their ap­
propriate motor-organs, hands, feet, larynx, and organs of
generation and excretion.
W e have now an organised astral sheath, and the continu­
al action and reaction between this and the physical body
improve both, and these together act on the consciousness
and it reacts on them, both again gaining by this mutual
interaction. And as we have already seen, these blind im­
pulses of consciousness are guided ip their play upon matter
THE MECHANISM OF CONSCIOUSNESS 109
by the Logic life in the Group-Soul and by the Nature-
Spirits. Always it is life, consciousness, seeking to realize
itself in matter, and matter responding in virtue of its own
inherent qualities, vitalized by the action of the Third
Logos.
3. CORRESPONDENCE 1N ROOT-RACES
A similar succession in the present, the fourth, Round
marks the evolution of the kingdoms of Nature, the main
characteristics of the previous Rounds being, as it were, re­
peated in the Root-Races, just as the history of evolution
wrought out during long ages is repeated during the em ­
bryonic life of each new body. During the existence of the
first two human Races there were conditions of temperature
which would render sensibility destructive of any life-mani­
festation, and those Races show no sensibility to pleasure and
pain on the physical plane. In the third Race there is sen­
sibility to violent impacts, causing coarse pleasures and pains,
but only some of the senses are evolved, those of hearing,
touch, and sight, and these but to a low stage, as we shall
presently see.
Now in the first two Races there are visible the beginnings
of aggregations in the astral matter of the sheaths, and if
these could connect themselves with appropriate physical
matter there would be in the physical consciousness sensa­
tions of pleasure and pain. But the appropriate connexions
are lacking. The First Race shows a feeble sense of hearing,
the second a vague response to impacts, the dawning sense
of touch.
110 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
The spiritual Triad, at this stage of evolution, is so insen­
sitive to vibrations from external matter that it is only when
he receives the tremendous vibrations caused by impacts on
the physical plane that he begins slowly to respond. Every­
thing begins for him on the physical plane. He does not
respond directly, but indirectly, through the mediation of the
Logic life, and only as the primary physical apparatus is built
up to the subtler impulses come through with sufficient force
to cause pleasure and pain. The violent vibrations from the
physical plane cause corresponding vibration on the astral,
and he becomes dimly conscious of sensation.
CHAPTER V
III
FIR
ST HUMAN STEPS
1. THE THIRD LIFE-WAVE
THE middle of the third Root-Race had been reached; the
nervous apparatus of animal man had been built up to a
.point at which it needed for its further improvement the
more direct flow of thought from the spiritual Triad to which
it was attached ; the Group-Soul had completed its work for
these, the higher products of evolution, as the medium by
which the life of the Second Logos protected and nourished
His infant children ; it was now to form the foundation of
the causal body, the vessel into which the downpouring life
was to be received; the term of the ante-natal life of the
Monad was touched, and the time was ripe for his birth into
the lower world. The mother-life of the Logos had built for
him the bodies in which he could now live as a separate
entity in the world of forms, and he was to com e into direct
possession of his bodies and take up his human evolution.
W e have seen that the Monads derive their being from
the First Logos, and dwell on the anupadaka, the second,
plane during the ages over which we have glanced. W e
have also seen that they appropriated to themselves with the
112 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
help of different agents the three permanent atoms that rep­
resent them as Jivatmas on the third, fourth, and fifth
planes, and also those which form the lower triad on the
fifth, sixth, and seventh. All the communication of the
Monad with the planes below his own has been through the
Sutratma, the life-thread, on which the atoms are strung,
that life-thread— of second plane matter— passing from the
atmic atom to the buddhic, from the buddhic to the manasic,
and from the manasic re-entering the atmic. thus making the
<
f Triangle of Light ” on the higher planes. W e have seen
further that from the line of this Triangle on the buddhic
plane comes forth a thread, the Sutratma of the lower
planes, on which the lower triad is strung.
The time has now come for a fuller communication than
is represented by this delicate thread in its original form, and
it, as it were, widens out. This is but a clumsy way of pic­
turing the fact that the Ray from the Monad glows and in­
creases, assuming more the form of a funnel: “ The thread
between the Silent Watcher and his shadow becomes more
strong and radiant.” 1 This downflow of monadic life is
accompanied by much increased flow between the buddhic
and manasic permanent atoms, and the latter seems to
awaken, sending out thrills in every direction. Other manasic
atoms and molecules gather round it, and a whirling vortex
is seen on the three upper sub-planes of the mental plane.
A similar whirling motion is seen in the cloudy mass surround­
ing the attached mental unit below, enveloped in the re­
maining layer of the Group-Soul, as already described. The
layer is torn asunder, and caught up into the vortex above,
‘ TheSecret Doctrine, i, 285.
FIRST HUMAN STEPS 113
where it is disintegrated, and the causal body is formed, a
delicate filmy envelope, as the whirlpool subsides. This
downflow of life, resulting in the formation of the causal
body, is called the Third Life-Wave, and is properly ascribed
to the First Logos, since the Monads came forth from Him
and represent His triune life.
The causal body once formed, the spiritual Triad has a
permanent vehicle for further evolution, and when Conscious­
ness becomes able to function freely in this vehicle, the
Triad will be able to control and direct, far more effectively
than ever before, the evolution of the lower vehicle.
The earlier efforts to control are not, however, of a very
intelligent description, any more than the first movements of
the body of the infant show they are directed by any intel­
ligence, although we know that an intelligence is connected
with it. The Monad ¡s now, in a very real sense, born on
the physical plane, but still he must be regarded as a babe
there, and must pass through an immense period of time be­
fore his power over the physical body will be anything but
infantile.
2. HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
And this is clearly seen if we look at man as he was in his
early days. Those long-perished Lemurians— if we except
those entities who had already developed consciousness to a
considerable extent, and who took birth in the clumsy
Lemunan bodies in order to lead human evolution— were
very poorly developed as to their sense-organs ; those of
smell and taste were not developed, but were only in process
8
114 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
of building. Their sensitiveness to pleasure and pain was
slight.
In the Atlanteans the senses were much more active ;
sight was very keen and hearing was acute ; taste was
more developed than among the Lemurians, but was still
not highly evolved; coarse and rank foods were found
perfectly tolerable and even agreeable, and very highly
flavoured articles of diet, such as decaying meat, were
preferred to more delicate viands, which were considered
tasteless. The body was not very sensitive to injuries, and
severe wounds did not cause much pain, nor were followed
by prostration— even extensive lacerations failing to incapa­
citate the sufferer— and healing very quickly. The remnants
of the Lemurian Race now existing, as well as the widely
spread Atlantean, still show a relative insensitiveness to pain,
and undergo, with very partial disablement, lacerations that
would utterly prostrate a fifth Race man. A North American
Indian has been reported as fighting on after the side of the
thigh had been slashed away, and taking the field again after
twelve or fifteen hours. This characteristic of the fourth
Race body enables a savage to bear with composure, and to
recover from, tortures that would prostrate a fifth Race man
from nervous shock.
These differences derive largely from the varying develop­
ments of the permanent atom, the nucleus of the physical
body. There is, in the fifth Root-Race, a fuller stream of
life pouring down, causing the greater internal development
of the permanent atom, and increasing as that development
proceeds. As evolution goes on, there is an increasing
complexity of vibratory powers in the physical permanent
FIRST HUMAN STEPS 115
atom, a similar increase in the astral atom, and again in the
mental unit. As birth follows birth, and these permanent
nuclei are put out on each plane to gather round them the
new mental, astral, and physical encasements, the more
highly developed permanent atoms draw round them the
more highly developed atoms on the planes to which they
belong, and thus build up a better nervous apparatus through
which the ever-increasing stream of consciousness can flow.
In this way is built up the delicately organized nervous
apparatus of the fifth Race man.
In the fifth Race man the internal differentiation of the
nervous cells is much increased, and the intercommunications
are much more numerous. Speaking generally, the con­
sciousness of the fifth Race man is working on the astral
plane, and is withdrawn from the physical body except so
far as the cerebro-spinal nervous system is concerned. The
control of the vital organs of the body is left to the sym­
pathetic system, trained through long ages to perform this
work, and now kept going by impulses from the astral
centres other than the ten, without deliberate attention from
the otherwise occupied consciousness, although of course
sustained by it. It is, however, as we shall presently see,
quite possible to draw the attention of consciousness again
to this part of its mechanism, and to* reassume intelligent
control of it. In the more highly evolved members of the
fifth Race, the main impulses of consciousness are sent down
from the lower mental world, and work down through the
astral to the physical, and there stimulate the physical
nervous activity. This is the keen, subtle, intelligent con­
sciousness, moved by ideas more than by sensations, and
116 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
showing itself more actively in the mental and emotional
brain-centres than in those concerned with sensory and
motor phenomena.
The sense-organs of the fifth Race body are less active
and acute than those of the highest fourth Race in respond­
ing to purely physical impacts. The eye, the ear, the touch
do not respond to vibrations which would affect the fourth
Race sense-organs. It is significant, also, that these organs
are at their keenest in early childhood, and diminish in
sensitiveness from about the sixth year onward. On the
other hand, while less acute in receiving pure sense-impacts,
they become more sensitive to sensations intermingled with
emotions, and delicacies of colour and of sound, whether of
nature or of art, appeal to them more effectively. The
higher and more intricate organization of the sense-centres
in the brain and in the astral body seems to bring about
increased sensitiveness to beauty of colour, form, and sound,
but diminished response to the sensations in which the
emotions play no part.
The fifth Race body is also far more sensitive to shock
than are the bodies of the fourth and third Races, being
more dependent upon consciousness for its upkeep. A
nervous shock is far more keenly felt, and entails far
greater prostration. A severe mutilation is no longer a
question merely of lacerated muscle, of torn tissues,
but of dangerous nervous shock; the highly organized
nervous system carries the message of distress to the
brain-centres, and it is sent on from them to the astral
body, disturbing and upsetting the astral consciousness. This
is followed by disturbance on the mental plane; imagination
FIRST HUMAN STEPS 117
is aroused, memory stimulates anticipation, and the
rush of mental impulses intensifies and prolongs sensations.
These again stimulate and excite the nervous system, and
its undue excitation acts on the vital organs, causing organic
•disturbance; hence depression of vitality and slow recovery.
So also in the highly evolved fifth Race body, mental
conditions largely rule the physical, and intense anxiety,
mental suffering, and worry, producing nervous tension,
readily disturb organic processes and bring about weakness
or disease. Hence mental strength and serenity directly
promote physical health, and when the consciousness is
definitely established on the astral or the mental plane,
emotional and mental disturbance are far more productive
of ill-health than any privations inflicted on the physical body.
The evolved fifth Race man lives physically literally in his
■nervous system,
3. INCONGRUOUS SOULS AND BODIES
But we should here notice a significant fact, bearing on
the all-important question of the relation of the nervous
organization to consciousness. When a human conscious­
ness has not yet grown beyond the later Lemurian or earlier
Atlantean type, but is born into a fifth Race body, it presents
a curious and interesting study. (The reasons for such a
birth cannot here be enlarged upon ; briefly, as the more
advanced nations annex the lands occupied by little evolved
tribes and kill them off either directly or indirectly, the
people thus summarily evicted from their bodies have to
find new habitats; the suitable savage conditions are
118 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
becoming rarer and rarer, under the ever-expanding flc
of higher races, and they have to take birth under 1
lowest available conditions, such as the slums of large citi
in families of criminal types. They are drawn to the cc
quering nation by karmic necessity.) Such persons incarn<
in fifth Race bodies of the worst available material. Tf
then show out in these fifth Race bodies the qualities tl
belong to the earlier fourth or the third : and though th
have the physical outer nervous organization, they have r
the internal differentiation in the nervous matter that oi
comes with the play on physical matter of energies comi
from the astral and mental worlds. W e observe in the
the non-responsiveness to impressions from outside, uni«
the impressions are of a violent order, that marks the l<
grade of development of the individual consciousness. V
notice the failing back into inertia when a violent physi<
stimulus is absent; the recurrent craving for such viole
stimulus when roused by physical necessities ; the stirri
into faint mental activity under vehement impact on t
sense-organs, and the blankness when the sense-organs a
at rest ; the complete absence of any response to a thoug
or a high emotion— not a rejection but an unconsciousne
of it. Excitement or violence in such a person is caused
a rule by something outside— by something coming befo
him physically which his dawning mind connects with tl
possibility of gratifying some passion, which he remembe
and desires again to feel. Such a person may not be inte
on robbery or murder at all, but may be stimulated in
either or both by the mere sight of a well-dressed passer-1
who seems likely to have money— money, that meai
FIRST HUMAN STEPS 119
ification by food, drink, or sex. The stimulus to attack
passer-by is at once given, and will be followed at once
action, unless checked by a physical and obvious danger,
* as the sight of a policeman. It is the embodied phys-
temptation which arouses the idea of committing the
>e ; a man who plans a crime beforehand is more highly
eloped ; the mere savage commits a crime on the im-
e of the moment, unless faced by another physical
Dodiment, that oF a force which he fears. And when
crime is committed, he is impervious to all appeals to
Tie or remorse, he is susceptible only to terror,
hese remarks do not, of course, apply to the intelligent
linal, but only to the congenital, brutal, and obtuse type,
third or fourth Race savage in a fifth Race body.
the truths of the Ancient Wisdom more and more colour
Jern thought, they will inevitably, among other things,
dify the treatment of the criminal. Such criminals as are
a spoken of will not be punished brutally, but will be kept
manently under strict discipline, and will be, as far as is
sticable, aided to progress more quickly than would have
n possible under the conditions of savage life. But the
her consideration of this would lead us too far from our
n study, and we must now return to the workings of con-
iusness on the astral plane, as they show themselves in
higher animals and in the lower human types.
DAWN OF CONSCIOUSNESS O N THE ASTRAL PLANE
Ve have seen that astral organization precedes and shapes
physical nervous system, and we have now to consider
120 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
how this must affect the workings of consciousness. W e
should expect to find that consciousness on the astral plane
will become aware of impacts on its astral sheath in a vague
and unprecise way, just as, in the minerals and the plants
and the lowest animais, it became aware of impacts on its
physical body. This awareness of astral impacts will long
precede any definite organization in the astral sheath, the
bridge between the mental and the physical, that will gradu­
ally evolve it into an astral body, the independent vehicle of
consciousness on the astral plane. And, as we have seen,
the first organization in the astral sheath is a response to
impacts received through the physical body, and is related to
the physical body in its evolution. This organization has
nothing to do directly with the reception, co-ordination, and
understanding of astral impacts, but is engaged in being
acted upon by, and re-acting on, the physical nervous
system*. Consciousness everywhere precedes Self-conscious­
ness, and the evolution of consciousness on the astral plane
proceeds contemporaneously with the evolution of- Self-
consciousness— to be dealt with presently— on the physical.
The impacts on the astral sheath from the astral plane
p'roduce vibratory waves over the whole astral sheath, and
the ensheathed consciousness gradually becomes dimly aware
of these surgings, without relating them to any external
cause. It is groping after the much more violent physical
impacts, and such power of attention as it has evolved is
turned on them. The aggregations of astral matter, con­
nected with the physical nervous systems, naturally share in
the general surgings of the astral sheath, and the vibrations
caused by these surgings mingle with those coming from
FIRST HUMAN STEPS 121
the physical body, and affect also the vibrations sent down t'o
it by the consciousness through these aggregations. Thus a
connexion is established between astral impacts and the
sympathetic system, and they play a considerable part in its
evolution. As the consciousness working in the physical
body begins slowly to recognize an external world, these
impacts from the astral— gradually classified under the five
senses as are the impacts from the physical— mingle with
those from the physical plane and are not distinguished as
being different from them in origin. This recognition is the
lower clairvoyance, that which precedes the great evolution
of mind. So long as the sympathetic system is acting as the
dominant apparatus of consciousness, so long will the origin,
astral or physical, of impacts remain as the same to con­
sciousness. Even the higher animals— in whom the cerebro­
spinal system is well developed, but in whom it is not yet,
save in its sense-centres, the chief mechanism of conscious­
ness__ fail to distinguish between physical and astral sights,
sounds, etc. A horse will leap over an astral body as though
it were a physical one •a cat will rub herself against the
legs of an astral figure ; a dog will growl at a similar appear­
ance. In the dog and the horse there is the dawning of an
uneasy sense of some difference, shown by the fear of such
appearances often manifested by the dog, and by the timidity
of the horse. The nervousness of the horse— despite which he
can be trained to face the dangers of a battle-field, and
even, as with Arab mares, learn to pick up and carry away
his fallen rider through all the alarming surroundings— seems
chiefly due to his confusion and bewilderment as to his
environment, and his inability to distinguish between what
122 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
iater he will learnedly call “ objective realities " , again;
which he can injure his body, and " delusions " , or “ hallucir
ations " , through which his body can pass unscathed. T
him they are all “ real " , and the difference of their be
haviour alarms him ; in the case of an exceptionally intelliger
horse the nervousness is often greater, as he evolves
dawning sense of difference in the phenomena themselve;
and this at first, not being understood, is yet mor
disquieting.
The savage, living more in the cerebro-spinal systerr
distinguishes between the physical and the astral phenomen«
though the latter to him are as " real " as the physical ; h
relates them to another world, to which he relegates a
things that do not behave in the way he considers norma
He does not know that, with regard to these, he is consciot
through the sympathetic and not through the cerebro-spin<
system ; he is conscious of them— that is all. The Lemuriar
and early Atlanteans were almost more conscious astrall
than they were physically. Astral impacts, throwing th
whole astral sheath into waves, came through the sense
centres of the astral to the sympathetic centres in th
physical body, and they were vividly aware of them. The
lives were dominated by sensations and passions more tha
by intellect, and the special apparatus of the astral sheatl
the sympathetic system, was then the dominant mechanisr
of consciousness.
As the cerebro-spinal system became elaborated, an
more and more assumed its peculiar position as the chie
apparatus of consciousness on the physical plane, the atter
tion of consciousness was fixed more and more on th
FIRST HUMAN STEPS 123
external physical world, and its aspect of activity, as the
concrete mind, was brought into greater and greater promi­
nence. The sympathetic system became subordinate, and
its indications were less and less regarded, submerged under
the flood of the coarser and heavier physical impacts from
without. Hence a lessening of astral consciousness and an
increase of intelligence, though there still remains in almost
every one a vague sense of non-understood impressions
received from time to time.
At the present stage of evolution this lower form of
clairvoyance is still found among human beings, but in
persons of very limited intellect; they have little idea as to
its rationale, and little control over its exercise. Attempts to
increase it are apt to cause nervous disturbances of a very
refractory kind, and these attempts are against the law of
evolution, which works ever forward towards a higher end,
and does not move backwards. As the law cannot be
changed, attempts to work against it only cause disturbance
and disease. W e cannot revert to the condition in which the
sympathetic system was dominant, save at the cost of health
and of the higher intellectual evolution. Hence the
serious danger of following many of the directions now
published broadcast, to meditate on the solar plexus and
other sympathetic centres.
The practices, a few of which have come over to the
W est, are systematized into Hatha Yoga in India. Control
over the involuntary muscles is regained, so that a man can
reverse peristaltic action, inhibit the beating of the heart,
vomit at will, and so on. Much time and trouble must be
wasted ere the performance of such feats becomes possible,
124 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
and at the end the man has only brought back to the contr
of the will muscles which have long since been handed ov<
by it to the sympathetic system. As that handing-over w<
done by a gradual turning away of attention, so is it by
concentration of attention on the parts concerned that th
earlier achievement is reversed. As such performance
impose upon the ignorant, who regard them as evidences <
spiritual greatness, they are often practised by men wh
desire power and are unable to obtain it in a more legit
mate way. Moreover, they are the easiest form of Hath
Yoga, and are more easily cultivated, and cost far le;
suffering, than holding an arm extended till it withers, c
lying on a bed of spikes.
When the cerebro-spinal system is thrown temporarily int
abeyance, the impulses from the astral sheath through th
sympathetic system make themselves felt in consciousnes:
Hence " lucidity " in trance, self-induced or imposed, th
power of reading in the astral by the use of crystals, an
other similar devices. The partial or complete suspension c
the action of consciousness in the higher vehicle causes it t
direct attention on the lower.
It may be well to add here, to prevent misconception, the
the higher clairvoyance follows, instead of preceding, th
growth of mind, and cannot appear until the organization c
the astral body, in contradistinction to the astral sheath, he
been carried to a considerable height. When this is effecte
by the play of intellect and the perfecting of the physic;
intellectual apparatus, then the true astral senses befor
mentioned, called the chakras, or wheels, from their whirlin
appearance, are gradually evolved. These develop on th
FIRST HUMAN STEPS 125
astral plane, as astral senses and organs, and are built and
con trolled from the mental plane, as w ere the brain-centres
from the astral. C onsciousness is then working on the mental
plane and building its astral m echanism , as b e fo re it w orked
on the astral plane, building its physical m echanism . But
now it works with far greater pow er and greater under­
standing, having unfolded so many o f its pow ers. Further,
it shapes cen tres in the physical b od y from the sym pathetic
and cerebro-spinal system s, to act as physical plane ap­
paratus for bringing into the brain-consciousness the
vibrations from the higher planes. As th ese centres are
vivified, know ledge is “ brought through " , i.e., is available
for the use o f consciousness working in the physical nervous
system . This, as said, is the higher clairvoyance, th e intelli­
gen t and self-directed exercise o f the pow ers o f the
consciousness in the astral b ody.
In this upw ard-clim bing, then, the pow ers o f conscious­
ness are aw akened on th e physical plane, and are then
severally aw akened on the astral and the mental. The
astral and mental sheaths must b e highly evolved ere they
can b e farther d ev elop ed into th e subtleb ody, acting
independently on th e higher planes, and then building for
itself th e necessary apparatus for the exercise o f these
higher pow ers in the physical w orld. And even here, when
the apparatus is ready, built by pure thought and pure
desire, it must b e vivified on the physical plane by the fire
o f Kundalini, aroused* and directed by the consciousness
working in the physical brain.
CHAPTER IX
CONSCIOUSNESS AND SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS
1 . CONSCIOUSNESS
FOR an im m ense period o f tim e — throughout the later
vegeta b le and the animal evolution, and throughout the
evolution o f norma! humanity up to the present tim e— the
astral, or desire, sheath is, as w e have seen, subordinate to
the physical, so far as the workings of consciousness are
con cern ed . W e have now to trace the unfolding o f the
consciousness, o f the life becom in g aware o f its surround­
ings, W hile the nervous system is truly said to b e created
f r o m the astral plane, it is n on e the less created f o r the
expression o f consciousness on the physical plane, and for
its effectiv e working thereon. It is there that consciousness
is first to b e co m e Self-consciousness.
W hen the vibrations o f the ou ter world play on the
physical sheath o f the infolded infant Self, the Jivatma, the
Ray o f the M onad, they at first cause responsive thrills
within that Self, a dawning consciousness within itself, a
feeling unrelated by that Self to anything outside though
caused by im pacts from outside, it is a change outside the
enveloping film o f the Self, clothed in sheaths o f denser
C O N SC IO U SN E SS AND SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS 1 2 7
matter, which outside change cause a ch an ge within that
en v elop e, and this ch ange causes an act o f con sciousn ess—
consciousness o f ch ange, o f a ch anged condition. It may
b e an attraction, a drawing tow ards, exerted by an external
o b je ct over th e sheaths, reaching to the en velop e o f the
Self, causing a slight expansion in the en velop e, follow ing an
expansion in th e sheaths, tow ards the attractive o b je c t ; and
this expansion is a change o f condition, and causes a feeling,
an act o f consciousness. O r it may b e a repulsion, a driving
away, again exerted by an external o b ject against the
sheaths, reaching to the en velop e o f th e Self, causing a
slight shrinking in th e en velope, follow ing th e shrinking
away o f the sheaths from the repellent o b je c t ; and this
shrinking is also a change o f condition and causes a corre­
sponding ch an ge in consciousness.
W hen w e exam ine the conditions o f the enveloping
sheaths under an attraction and a repulsion, w e find they
are entirely different. W hen the im pact o f an external
o b je ct causes a rhythmical vibration in these e n v elop es—
that is, w hen their materials are m ade to arrange th em ­
selves in undulating regular lines o f rarefaction and densifi-
cation— this arrangem ent o f the enclosing m atter permits an
interchange o f life betw een the tw o ob jects that have com e
into con tact, and in proportion to the corresp on d en ce o f the
rarefactions and densifications in the tw o is the fullness o f the
interchange. This interchange, this partial union o f tw o
separated Lives through the separating sheaths o f matter, is
“ pleasure ", and the going out o f the Lives tow ards each
other is “ attraction " ; h ow ever com plicated pleasure m ay
b e co m e , herein lies its essen ce ; it is a sense o f “ m oreness " ,
128 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
o f increased, expanded life. The m ore fully d ev el­
o p e d the Life, the greater the pleasure in the realization o f
this m oreness, in the expansion into the other Life, and each
o f the Lives thus uniting gains the m oreness by union with
the other. As rhythmical vibrations and corresponding
rarefactions and densifications m ake this interchange o f life
passible, it is truly said that " harm onious vibrations are
pleasurable W hen, on the contrary, the im pact o f an
externa! o b je ct causes a jangle o f vibrations in the en velopes
o f the im pacted o b je ct— that is, when the materials are
m ade to arrange them selves irregularly, m oving in conflicting
directions, striking them selves against each oth er__ the c o n ­
tained Life is shut in, isolated, its normal outflow ing rays are
ch eck ed , intercepted, even turned back on them selves.
This ch eck to normal action is “ pain ” , increasing with th e
en ergy o f the indriving, and the result o f th e driving-in
process is “ repulsion ” . H ere, also, the m ore fully d ev el­
o p e d the Life, the greater the pain in this violent reversal o f
its normal action, and in the sense o f frustration that
accom panies the reversal. H en ce, again, “ inharmonious
vibrations are painful Be it ob served that this is true o f
all the sheaths, although the astral sheath b ecom es special­
ized as the recipient o f the class o f sensations later called
pleasurable and painful. Constantly, in the cou rse o f evolu ­
tion, a general life-function thus b e co m e s specialized, and a
particular organ is normally used for its exercise. The astral
b od y being the vehicle o f desires, the n eed fo r its special
susceptibility to pleasure and pain is obvious.
To return from this brief digression into the state o f th e
en velopes to the germ o f consciousness itse lf: w e shall find
CO N SCIO U SN ESS AND SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS 1 2 9
¡t im portant to notice that there is herein no “ aw areness "
o f an external ob ject, no such awareness as. is ordinarily co n ­
v ey ed by the use o f the w ord, Consciousness, as yet,
knows nothing o f an outer and an inner, o f an o b je ct and
a subject ; th e divine germ is now becom ing conscious, it
b e co m e s consciousness with this c h a n g e o f conditions, with
this m ovem en t in the sheaths, this expanding and con tract­
ing, for consciousness exists only in, and, by, change. H ere,
then, for the separated divine germ is the birth o f conscious­
ness ; it is born o f change, o f m otion ; w here and when
this first ch a n ge occurs, there consciousness, for that
separated germ , is born.
The m ere clothing o f this germ with successive en velop es
o f m atter on successive planes gives rise to th ese first vague
changes within th e germ that are the birthing o f con scious­
ness : and n one o f us may count the ages which roll on as
th ese changes b e c o m e m ore defined, and as the en velopes
b e co m e m ore definitely shaped by the ceaseless im pacts
from without, and the no less ceaseless responsive thrillings
from within. The state o f consciousness at this stage can
only b e d escribed as on e o f " feelin g ," feeling b ecom in g
slowly m ore and m ore definite, and assuming tw o phases,
pleasure and pain— pleasure with expansion, pain with
contraction. And, b e it n oted, this primary state o f co n ­
sciousness d oes not manifest the three w ell-know n aspects o f
Wiil, W isdom , and Activity, even in the m ost germinal stage ;
" feeiing " p reced es these, and belongs to consciousness as
a w hole, through in later stages o f evolution it shows itself so
m uch in con nexion with the WHl-Desire a spect as to b e co m e
alm ost identified with i t ; in the plural, as feelings, in deed it
9
130 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
belongs to that aspect, which is the first to arise as a
differentiation within consciousness.
As the states o f pleasure and pain b ecom e m ore definitely
established in consciousness, they give rise to the three
aspects : with the fading away o f pleasure there is a continu­
a n ce o f the attraction in consciousness, a m em ory, and this
b e co m e s a dim groping after it, a vague following o f the
vanishing feeling, a m ovem en t— to o indefinite to be called an
e ffort— to hold it, to retain i t ; similarly with the fading away
o f pain there is a continuance o f the repulsion in conscious
ness, again a m em ory, and this b ecom es an equally vague
m ovem en t to push it away. These states give birth to :
m em ory o f past pleasure and pain, indicating the germ ina­
tion o f the Thought-aspect ; longing to experience again
pleasure, or avoid pain, the germ ination o f the Desire-
aspect ; this stimulating a m ovem en t, the germination o f the
Activity-aspect. Thus consciousness is differentiated into its
three aspects from its primary unity o f Feeling, repeating
in miniature the kosmic process in which the triple Divinity
e v er arises from the O n e Existence. The H erm etic axiom is
here, as always, exem plified : “ As a b ove, so below .”
2. SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS
Desire, thus germ inated, grop es after pleasure, not, as
yet, after the pleasure-giving o b je c t ; for consciousness is as
yet limited within its ow n kingdom , is conscious only in the
within, is conscious only o f changes in that within. It has not
yet turned its attention outwards, is not yet conscious even
that there is an outwards. Meanwhile that outwards of
CON SCIO U SN ESS AND SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS 131
which it is not aware, is continually ham m ering at its vehicles,
and m ost vehem ently at its physical vehicle, the vehicle m ost
easily a ffected from outside, and with m ost difficulty from
within. Gradually th e persistent and violent shocks from
outside draw its attention in their direction ; their irregularity,
their u n expectedness, their constant assaults, their unrelated­
ness to its slow, groping m ovem en ts, their unexplained
appearances and disappearances are in opposition to its
dim sense o f regularity, continuity, o f being always there, o f
slow surges o f ch an ge rising and falling within what is not yet
to it " himself " ; th ere is a consciousness o f d i f f e r e n c e , and
this grow s into a sense o f a som ething that remains within a
changing hurly-burly, a sense o f a “ within " and a “ with­
out ", or, to speak m ore accurately, o f a “ without " and a
" within ", since it is the ham m ering outside that causes the
difference o f “ w ith o u t" and “ w ith in " to arise in c o n ­
sciousness. “ W ithout " com es first, if only by a fraction o f
time, because its recognition alone m akes possible and
inevitable the recognition o f “ within ". So long as th ere is
nothing else, w e cannot speak o f “ within " ; it is everything.
But w hen " without " forces itself on consciousness, " with­
in " rises up as its inevitable op p osite. This sense o f a
“ without " arises necessarily at the points o f con tact b e ­
tw een the continuing consciousness and the changing hurly-
burly ; that is, in its physical vehicle, its physical b ody.
Herein is slowly established the awareness o f “ others " , and
with the establishm ent o f this “ others " com es the establish­
m ent also of “ I " over against them . H e b e co m e s conscious
o f things outside instead o f being conscious only o f changes,
and then he com es to know that the changes are in
132 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
“ himself ” , and that the things are outside himself. Self-
consciousness is born.
This process o f perceiving ob jects is a com plex on e.
It must b e rem em bered that ob jects con tact the b od y in
various ways, and the b ody receives som e o f their vibrations
by th e parts differentiated to receive such vibrations,
The ey e, the ear, the skin, the ton gu e, the nose, receive
various vibratory waves, and certain cells in the organs
a ffe cte d vibrate similarly in respon se. The w aves set up
pass to the sense-centres in th e brain, and th en ce to th e
know ledge-senses in the astral sheath ; there the changes in
consciousness take place which corresp on d with them , as
explained in Chapter II, and th ey are sent on as th ese
changes, the sensations o f colour, outline, sound, form , taste,
smell, etc., still as separate sensations, to consciousness
working in the mental sheath, and are there com bined by it
into a single im age, unified into a single perception o f an
o b je c t . This blending o f the various stream s into on e, this
synthesis o f sensations, is a specialty o f the mind. H ence,
in Indian psychology, the mind is often called " the sixth
sense ” , " the senses, o f which mind is the sixth J W hen
w e consider the fiv e organs o f action in relation ro the mind,
w e find a reverse process going on ; the mind pictures a
certain act as a whole, and th ereby brings about a corre­
sponding set o f vibrations in the mental sheath ; th ese
vibrations are reprodu ced in the m otor senses in the astral
sheath ; they break it up, analyse it into its constituent parts,
and these are accom panied with vibrations in the m atter
o f the m otor cen tres : these, in turn ar**
CO N SCIO U SN ESS AN D SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS 1 3 3
m otor cen tres in th e brain as separate w aves ; the m otor
centres distribute th ese w aves through th e nervous system
to the various muscles that must co -o p e ra te to p rod u ce th e
action. R egarded in this dou ble relation the mind b e co m e s
th e eleventh sense, “ the ten senses, and the on e " 1
3 . REAL AND UNREAL
With the ch ange o f consciousness into Self-consciousness
co m e s the recognition o f a d ifferen ce which later, in the
m ore evolved Self-consciousness, b ecom es th e difference
b etw een the ob jective or 4
4 real "-^-in the ordinary western
sense o f the w ord— and the subjective or " unreal , and
" im aginary". To the jelly-fish, the sea-an em on e, th e hydra,
w aves and currents, sunshine and blast, fo o d and sand
touching the periphery or the tentacles, are not 4
4 real ,
are registered only as changes in consciousness, as in truth
th ey are also to the b ody o f the human in fa n t; I say regis­
tered, not recogn ized, since no mental observation, analysis,
and judgm ent are possible in the low er stages o f evolution.
These creatures are not yet sufficiently conscious o f " others " ,
to b e con scious o f “ them selves " ; and they only feel changes
as occurring within the circle o f their ow n.ill-defined co n ­
sciousness. The external world grow s into " rea lity" as the
consciousness, separating itself from it, realizes its ow n
separateness, changes from a vague " a m " into a definite
4' 1 am " .
As this self-con scious ** l * gradually gains in clearness o f
self-identification, o f separateness, and distinguishes betw een
1B h a g a v a d - G f t a , xiii, 5 .
1 3 4 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
changes within himself and the im pact o f external objects,
he is ready to take the next step o f relating the changes
within himself to the varying im pacts from outside. Then
follow s the d evelopm en t o f Desire for pleasure into definite
desire for pleasure-giving objects, follow ed by thoughts
as to how to obtain them ; these lead to efforts to m ove
after them when in sight, to search for them when absent,
and the con sequ en t slow evolution o f the outer vehicle into
a b od y w ell-organized for m ovem en t, for pursuit, for capture.
The desire for the absent, th e search, the success or failure,
all impress on the developing consciousness the difference
betw een his desires and thoughts, o f which he is, or can b e,
always conscious, and the external ob jects which com e and
g o without any referen ce to himself, and with disconcerting
irrelevance to his feelings. H e distinguishes these as " real " ,
as having an existence which he d oes not control, and which
affects him without any regard to his likings or objections.
And this sense o f “ reality ” is first established in the physical
world, as being the on e in which these contacts betw een
the “ others " and the “ I " are first recognized by co n ­
sciousness. Self-consciousness begins its evolution in and
through the physical body, and has its earliest centre in the
brain.
The normal man, at the present stage o f evolution, still
identifies himself with this brain-centre o f Self-consciousness,
and is h en ce restricted to the w aking-consciousness, or con ­
sciousness working in the cerebro-spinal system, knowing
himself as “ I " , distinctly and consecutively, only on the
physical plane, that is in the waking state. O n this plane
he is definitely self-conscious, distinguishing betw een himself
CONSCIOUSNESS AND SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS 1 3 5
and the outer world, betw een his ow n thoughts and outside
appearances, without hesitation ; h en ce on this plane, and
on this plane only, external things are to him “ real " ,
“ objective " , " outside himself
O n other planes, the astral and the mental, he is as yet
conscious but not self-con sciou s; he recogn izes changes
within himself, but d oes not yet distinguish b etw een th e
self-initiated changes and th ose caused by im pacts from
without on his astral and mental vehicles. To him th ey are
all alike changes within himself. H ence all phenom ena o f
consciousness occurring on super-physical planes— planes on
which Self-consciousness is not yet definitely established
— the normal, average man calls “ unreal ", “ subjective " ,
“ inside himself ", just as the jelly-fish, if he w ere a philos­
opher, would designate th e phenom ena o f the physical
plane. He regards astral or mental ph enom ena as th e
result o f his “ imagination " , /.e., as form s o f his ow n creating,
and not as the results o f im pacts upon his astral or mental
vehicle from external words, subtler indeed, but as “ real "
and “ ob jectiv e " as th e external physical w orld. That is, he
is not y et sufficiently evolved to have reached self-realization
on th ose planes, and thus to have b e co m e capable o f
objectivizing there th e external worlds. H e is only con scious
there o f th e ch anges in himself, th e changes in con sciou s­
ness, and th e external world is con sequ ently to him m erely
the play o f his ow n desires and thoughts. H e is, in fact, an
infant on the astral and mental planes.
\
CHAPTER X
HUMAN STATES OF CONSCIOUSNESS1
1. THE SUB-CONSCIOUSNESS
WE have already noticed the fact that many activities of
consciousness, on ce purposive, have b e co m e automatic, and
have gradually sunk below the “ threshold o f consciousness
The processes which maintain the life o f the b o d y — such as
the beating o f the heart, the expansion and contraction of
the heart, the processes o f digestion, e tc___have all fallen
into a region o f consciousness on which the attention of c o n ­
sciousness is not fixed. And there are innumerable ph enom ­
ena, n ot directly con n ected with the m aintenance of
bodily life, which also inhabit this dim region. The sym pa­
thetic sytem is a storehouse o f traces left by long-past
events— events not belonging to our present life at all, but
events that passed hundreds o f centuries ago, that occurred
in long-past lives, when the Jivatma which is our Self was
abiding in savage human bodies, and even in the bodies o f
animals. Many a causeless terror, m any a midnight panic,
many a surge o f furious anger, many an impulse o f vindictive
1Much on these states will be found in the writer's published
lectures on T h e o s o p h y a n d t h e N e w P s y c h o l o g y .
HUMAN STATES O F CONSCIO U SN ESS 137
cruelty, many a rush o f passionate reven ge, is flung up from
the depths o f that dark sea o f the sub-conscious which rolls
within us, concealing many a w reck, many a skeleton o f our
past. H anded dow n by the astral consciousness o f the tim e
to its physical instrument for putting into action, th e ever-
sensitive plate o f the perm anent atom has caught and p h oto­
graphed them , and has registered them in th e recesses o f
the nervous system , life after life. The consciousness is o ff
guard ; or a strong vibration from another strikes us ; or som e
event rep rodu ces circum stances that start vibrations that
arouse ; in on e way or another, the slumbering possibilities
are aw akened, and hurling itself upwards into the light o f day
com es th e long-buried passion. There to o hide th e instincts
which oft overp ow er reason, instincts that w ere o n ce life-
preserving efforts, or the results o f experiences in which our
body o f the tim e perished, and the soul registered th e result
for future guidance. Instincts of love for the op p osite sex,
ou tcom e o f innumerable unions. Instincts o f paternal and
maternal love, pou red out in many generations. Instincts o f
self-d efen ce, d ev elop ed in countless battles. Instincts o f
taking undue advantage, offspring o f num berless cheatings
and intrigues. And yet again there lurk th ere many vibra­
tions that b elon g to events, and feelings, and desires, and
thoughts o f our present life, experienced and forgotten , but
lying near th e surface, ready'for upcall. Time w ould fail to
enum erate th e contents o f this relic-cham ber o f an im m em o­
rial past, containing old bones fit only for the dust-bin, side
by side with interesting fragm ents o f earlier days, with tools
.■
1
» f t £_ ____________ i. „ r"V/«*- fl-io A r \ r \ r frl*»o
138 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
sub-consciousness belongs to the Past, as the waking-
consciousness to the Present, as the super-consciousness t o
the Future.
A nother part o f the sub-conscious in us is com p osed o f
the contents o f all the consciousnesses that use our b odies
as fields o f evolution— atom s, m olecules, cells o f many
grades. S om e o f the queer spectres and dainty figures that
arise from the sub-conscious in us do not belong to us
at all, but are the dim gropings. and foolish fears, and pretty
fancies, o f the Units o f consciousness at a low er stage o f
evolution than our ow n, that are our guests, inhabiting our
body as a lodging-house.
In this part o f the sub-conscious g o on the wars, w aged
by on e set o f creatures in our b lood against another set,
which do not enter our consciousness, save when their results
appear as diseases.
Human sub-consciousness, working on the physical plane,
is thus com p osed o f very varied elem ents, and it is necessary
thus to analyse and to understand it, in order to distinguish
its workings from those o f the true human super-consciou s­
ness, which resem bles the instincts in its sudden irruptions
into consciousness, but differs entirely from them in its
nature and place in evolution, belonging to th e future while
they belong to th e past. These tw o differ as atrophied
vestigial organs, recording the history o f the past, differ from
germinal rudimentary organs, indicating the progress o f the
future.
W e have also seen that consciousuess, working on the
astral plane, built up and is still building the nervous system
for its instrument on the physical p la n e ; but this also does
HUMAN STATES O F CONSCIOUSNESS 1 3 9
not form part o f what is called the normal w aking-conscious-
ness at this stage o f evolution. In the average man, c o n ­
sciousness, working on the mental plane, is now building up
and organizing the astral b od y as its instrument in the
future on the astral plane ,* but this again d oes not form part
of the w aking-consciousness. W hat then is the human
w aking-consciousness ?
2 . THE W AKING CONSCIOUSNESS
The w aking-consciousness is consciousness working on the
mental plane and on the astral, using m ental and astral
m atter as its vehicle, seated in the physical brain as Self-
consciousness,1 and using that brain with its con n ected
nervous system as its instrument for willing, knowing, and
acting on the physical plane. In w aking-consciousness the
brain is always active, always vibrating ; its activity may b e
stimulated as a transmitting organ from outside through the
senses, or it may b e stimulated by the consciousness from
the inner planes ; but it is ceaselessly active, responding to
the without and the within. In the average man, th e brain
is the oniy part in which consciousness has definitely b e co m e
Self-consciousness, th e only part in which he feels himself as
“ I and asserts himself as a separate individual unit. In all
the rest o f him consciousness is still vaguely groping about,
answering to external im pacts but not y et defining them ,
conscious as to changes in its ow n conditions, but not yet
1See Chapter IX, §§ 1, 2 , for the difference between consciousness
and Self-consciousness ; and Chapter VI, § 3 , for the exposition of the
physical consciousness, which must not be confused with waking-con­
sciousness.
140 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
conscious o f " others " and “ m yself In the m ore advanced
m em bers o f the human family, consciousness, working on
the astral and mental planes, is very rich and active, but its
attention is not yet turned outwards to th e astral and mental
worlds in which it is living, and its activities find their outer
expression in Self-consciousness on the physical plane, to
which all the ou ter attention in consciousness is turned, and
into which is poured as m uch o f the higher working as it is
capable o f receiving. From tim e to tim e, powerful im pacts
on the astral or mental plane create so violent a vibration in
consciousness, that a w ave o f thought or em otion surges
outwards into the w aking-consciousness and throws it into
such furious m otion, that its normal activities are sw ept
away, subm erged, and the man is hurried into action which
is not directed or controlled by Self-consciousness. W e
shall consider this further when w e co m e to the super­
physical consciousness.
W aking-consciousness may, then, be defined as that part
o f the total consciousness which is functioning in the brain
and nervous system , and which is definitely Self-conscious.
W e may con ceiv e o f consciousness as sym bolized by a great
light, which shines through a glass g lob e inserted in a ceiling,
illuminating the room below , while the light itself fills the
room a b ove and sheds its radiance freely in every direction.
C onsciousness is as a great eg g o f light, o f which only on e
end is inserted into the brain, and that end is the waking­
consciousness. As consciousness b e co m e s Self-consciousness
on the astral plane, and th e brain develops sufficiently to
answer to its vibrations, astral consciousness will b ecom e part
o f the w aking-consciousness. Later still, when consciousness
HUMAN STATES O F CO N SCIO U SN ESS 141
b ecom es Self-consciousness on the mental plane, and the
brain develops sufficiently to answer to its vibrations, th e
waking- consciousness will include mental consciousness. And
so on, until all the consciousness on our five planes has
evolved to w aking-consciousness.
This enlarging o f w aking-consciousness is accom panied
with developm ent in the atom s o f the brain, as well as with
the d evelopm en t o f certain organs in the brain, and o f the
connexions betw een cells. For the inclusion o f the astral
Self-consciousness, it is necessary that the pituitary b od y
should b e evolved b eyon d its present condition, and that
the fourth set o f spiriilae in the atom s should b e p erfected .
For the inclusion o f the mental, th e pineal gland must b e
rendered active, and the fifth set o f spiriilae brought into
thorough working order. So long as th ese physical d ev elop ­
ments remain unaccom plished, Self-consciousness may b e
evolved on the astral and mental planes, but it remains
super-consciousness, and its workings d o not express th em ­
selves through th e brain and thus b e co m e part o f the
w aking-consciousness.
W aking-consciousness is limited and con ditioned by the
brain so long as a man possesses a physical b od y, and any
injury to th e brain, any lesion, any disturbance, at o n ce in­
terferes with its m anifestation. H ow ever highly d e v elop ed
may b e a m an's consciousness, he is limited by his brain so
far as its manifestations on the physical plane are con cern ed ,
and if that brain b e ill-form ed or ili-developed, his waking­
consciousness will b e p oor and restricted.
With the loss o f the physical b ody, th e connotation o f
w aking-consciousness changes, and that wnich is here said o f
1 4 2 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
the physical conditions is transferred to the astral. W e may
therefore enlarge our original definition to the general' state­
m ent : w aking-consciousness is that part of the total co n ­
sciousness which is working through its outerm ost vehicle,
that is, which is manifesting on the lowest plane then
tou ch ed by that consciousness.
In the earlier stages o f human evolution, there is little
activity in consciousness on the inner planes except as
stimulated from the o u te r; but as Self-consciousness grows
m ore vivid on the physical plane, it enriches with ever-
increasing rapidity the content o f consciousness on the
in ner; consciousness, working upon its content, rapidly
evolves, until its internal pow ers far outstrip the possibilities
o f their manifestation through the brain, and the latter b e ­
com es ¿
1 limitation and a hindrance instead of a feed er and a
stimulator. Then the pressure o f consciousness on its phys­
ical instrument b ecom es at times perilously great, causing a
nervous tension which endangers the equilibrium o f the
brain, unable to adapt itself with sufficient rapidity to the
pow erful w aves beating upon it. H en ce the truth o f the
saying : " G reat wits to m adness near allied." Only the
highly and delicately organised brain can enable the " great
w its " to manifest them selves on the physical plane; but
such a brain is the on e m ost easily thrown off its balance
by the strong w aves o f these sam e “ great wits ", and this
is " m a d n ess". M adness— the incapacity o f the brain to
respond regularly to vibrations— m ay indeed be due to lack
or arrest o f developm ent, lack or arrest o f brain organization,
and such m adness is not allied to " great wits " ; but it is a
significant and pregnant fact that a brain in advance of
HUMAN STATES O F CO N SCIO U SN ESS 1 4 3
normal evolution, developin g new and delicately balanced
com binations for the enriched expression o f consciousness on
the physical plane, is the brain o f all others that may m ost
easily b e disabled by the throwing ou t o f gear o f som e part
o f its m echanism not yet sufficiently established to resist a
strain. To this again w e must return in considering the
super-physical consciousness.
3 . THE SUPER-PHYSICAL CONSCIOUSNESS
Psychologists in the W est have lately betaken them selves
to the study o f states o f consciousness oth er than the
waking ; these are variously designated as “ abnorm al ” ,
” sub-conscious " inconscient ” , and often as “ d rea m -con ­
sciousness ” — b ecau se the dream is the m ost generally re c­
ognized and universal form o f other-consciousness. At first
there was a ten den cy to regard these states as the result o f
disordered brain conditions, and this view is still largely held ;
but the m ore advan ced psychologists are outgrow ing this
narrow idea, and are beginning to study such states as
definite m anifestations o f consciousness under conditions not
yet understood, but not necessarily disorderly ; som e defin ite­
ly recogn ize a “ larger consciousness ” , a part only o f which
can find expression in the brain as at present evolved. In
the East, this state o f other-consciousness has for long ages
been regarded as higher than the waking state, as that o f
the consciousness set free from th e narrow limits o f the
physical brain, and acting in a subtler and m ore plastic and
congenial m edium . Dream has b een regarded as on e phase
o f this super-physical activity, and as a tou ch with higher
1 4 4 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
worlds ; and means have b een taken to arouse S elf-con ­
sciousness in the dream -w orld, to set Self-consciousness,
cloth ed in its higher vestures, free from the physical b ody
at will ; so that, instead o f the vague and con fu sed answers
to im pacts from higher worlds in u ndeveloped dream states.
Self-consciousness may b e established therein with clear and
definite vision. To e ffe ct this. Self-consciousness in its
higher vehicles must b e at first rem oved from the physical
b od y and m ade active on the astral plane ; for until it knows
itself out o f the dense body, it cannot separate out in th e
“ dream " the extra-physical experiences from the chaotic
fragm ents o f physical experiences m ixed up with them in the
brain. As clear w ater pou red into a m uddy bucket b e co m e s
m ixed up with th e mud, so d oes an astral experience, pou red
dow n into a brain full o f fragm ents of past physical happen­
ings, b e co m e blurred, con fu sed, incongruous.1 Eastern
psych ology h en ce sought after m ethods o f separating th e
Self-consciousness from its physical vehicle, and it is interest­
ing to observe that these m ethods, wholly different as they
are from those used in the W est, and directed to the intensi­
fying o f consciousness, reduce the b od y to the sam e state o f
qu iescen ce as that induced by physical m ethods in the W est,
w hen the w estern psychologist betakes himself to th e study
o f oth er-consciousness.
Super-consciousness includes th e w hole o f the con scious­
ness a b ov e the w aking-consciousness ; that is, all on the
higher planes that d oes not express itself on the physical
plane as Self-consciousness working through the brain. It is
1The student will do well to read carefully C. W. Leadbeater’s useful
book on,D r e a m s .
HUMAN STATES O F CO N SCIO U SN ESS 145
th erefore a great com plexity, and covers a large num ber o f
ph enom ena. Dream , as said, is part o f i t ; so are all th e
workings o f th e astral consciousness asserting them selves as
prem onitions, warnings, visions o f happenings distant in sp a ce
or tim e, va gu e tou ch es from oth er worlds, sudden intuitions
as regards character or events ; also all the workings o f the
mental consciousness, low er or higher, that appear as intui­
tive grasp o f truths, sudden insight into causal connexions,
inspirations— mental or m oral— flashes o f genius, visions
o f high artistic beauty, etc., etc. These irruptions o f the
super-consciousness into th e physical plane have th e charac­
ter o f unexpectedness, o f conviction, o f im perious authority,
o f lack o f apparent cause. They are unrelated, or only
indirectly related, to the contents o f the w aking-consciousness,
and d o not justify them selves to it but simply im pose th em ­
selves on it.
To bring th e super-consciousness into manifestation on the
physical plane, it is necessary— in the early stages— to red u ce
the brain to inactivity, to render the sense-organs unrespons­
ive to physical impacts, and, by expelling the conscious
entity from th e body, reduce that b od y to th e state called
trance. Trance is but the sleep-state, artificially or abnorm al­
ly induced ; w hether produced by m esm eric, hypnotic, m edi­
cinal, or oth er means, the result is th e sam e, or far as the
physical b od y is con cern ed . But the result on the other
planes will d ep en d entirely on the evolution o f consciousness
on th ose planes, and a highly evolved consciousness w ould
not permit th e use o f hypnotic or medicinal m eans— unless,
perhaps, o f an anaethetic for an op era tion — though such a
■one might allow, under exceptional circum stances, th e use o f
10
146 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
m esm erism in producing the trance state. Trance may
b e produced by action from th e higher planes, as by inte
concentration o f thought, or by rapt contem plation
an o b ject o f devotion, inducing ecstasy. These are
m eans used from tim e immemorial by the Raja Yogis o f
East, and the ecstasy o f the Saint in the W est is producec
this rapt contem plation ; the trance is indistinguishable fi
that p rod u ced by the means a b ov e referred to in the
petriere and elsew here. The Hatha Yogis also reach
sam e trance condition, but by m eans m uch resembling
last nam ed—-by staring at a black spot on a white g roi
at the point o f the nose, and oth er similar practices.
But when oth er than physical vision and physical tests
used, how great is the differen ce betw een the super-pi
¡cal conditions o f consciousness in th e hypnotized subject
in th e Y ogi ! H. P. Blavatsky has well described this dif
e n ce : " In th e trance state the Aura changes entirely,
seven prismatic colours being no longer discernible,
sleep also they are not all ‘ at h o m e '. • For th ose wl
b elon g to the spiritual elem ents in the man, v i z . , yell
B u ddh i; indigo, Higher Manas ; and the blue o f the A
E nvelope, will b e either hardly discernible or altogei
missing. The Spiritual Man is free during sleep,
though his physical m em ory may npt b e co m e aware
it, lives, rob ed in his highest essen ce, in realms on o
planes, in realms which are the land o f reality, called dre
on our plane o f illusion. A g o o d clairvoyant, m oreove
he had an opportunity o f seeing a Yogi in the trance s
and a m esm erized subject side by side would learn
im portant lesson in Occultism . H e would learn to know
HUMAN STATES O F CONSCIOUSNESS 147
d ifferen ce b etw een self-induced trance and a hypnotic state
resulting from extraneous influence. In the Yog?, the
' principles ' o f th e low er quaternary disappear entirely.
N either red, green, red-violet, nor the auric blue o f the
b od y are to b e s e e n ; nothing but hardly perceptible
vibrations o f the gold en -h u ed Prana principle, and a violet
flam e streaked with gold rushing upwards from the head, in
th e region w here the Third Eye rests, and culminating in a
point. If the student rem em bers that the true violet, or the
extrem e end o f th e spectrum , is no com pou n d colou r o f
red and blue, but a h om ogen eou s colou r with vibrations
seven tim es m ore rapid than those o f the red, and that the
gold en hue is the essen ce o f th e th ree yellow lines from
ora n ge-red to yellow -orange and yellow , he will understand
the reason why ; he (the Y ogi) lives in his own Auric Body,
now b e co m e the vehicle o f Buddhi-Manas. O n the other
hand, in a subject^ in an artificially produ ced hypnotic or
m esm eric trance, an e ffe ct o f unconscious when not o f
conscious Black M agic unless produ ced by a high A dep t, the
w hole set o f the principles will b e present, with the Higher
Manas paralysed, Buddhi severed from it through that
paralysis, and the red*violet Astral Body entirely subjected to
th e Lower Manas and Kama Rupa.” 1
This d ifferen ce in the appearance o f th e entranced person,
as seen by the clear-seeing eye, is con n ected with a difference
of im m ense im portance in the after ou tcom e of the trance.
The Yogi, w ho thus leaves the b od y, leaves it in full Self-
consciousness, visits the higher worlds in full possession o f
his faculties, and, on returning to the dense b od y, imprints
1T h e S e c r e t D o c t r i n e , iiit 4 7 9 , 480.
148 A STUDY SN CON SCIO U SN ESS
on the evolved brain the m em ory o f his experiences,
little evolved person, entranced, ‘ Moses consciousness
when his Self-consciousness is not d ev elop ed on the hig
planes, his awareness is not there turned outwards ; h
practically as m uch asleep there, in th e astral and mei
worlds, as he is in the physical plane, and on awaking fr
the trance he knows nothing o f what has occu rred during
continuance, either here or elsew here.
If, h ow ever, the subject b e sufficiently evolved, as m
p e o p le are at this stage o f evolution, to b e Self-conscious
th e astral plane, then others may b e profited by question
him while entranced. For in the artificially induced trar
state, wherein the brain is cut o ff from the normal act
and reaction b etw een itself and its environm ent, it becorr
an instrument, h ow ever inadequate, of the super-physi
consciousness. Isolated from its physical environm ent, re
d ered incapable o f responding to its accu stom ed stimuli fr<
outside, cut o ff from its low er attachm ents while remaini
united to its higher, it continues to answer to the impa
from a b ov e, and can d o this the m ore effectively since no
o f its energies are running out into the physical plane. T
is the essen ce o f th e trance state. In the forcible closure
the avenues o f the senses, through which its forces pour c
into the external world, these forces remain available as sei
ants o f the super-physical consciousness. In the silence tf
im posed on the physical plane, the voices o f the other pfar
can m ake them selves heard
In the hypnotic trance, a quickening of the mental Faculti
is ob served : m em ory is found to em b ra ce a far larger a n
for the faint pulsings left by fa r-off events b e co m e audit
HUMAN STATES O F CO N SCIO U SN ESS 1 4 9
when the stronger pulsings from the recen t are tem porarily
stilled ; p e o p le forgotten in the waking state are rem em ­
b ered in the trance ; languages known in childhood, but since
lost, reappear ; trival events re-arise. Som etim es the p er­
cep tive pow ers range over a larger area ; distant occu rren ces
are seen, vision pierces through physical barriers, fa r-off
sp eech b ecom es audible. Fragments o f oth er planes are
also occasionally glim psed, much m ixed up with the thought-
form s o f waking hours. A w hole literature exists on this
subject, and can b e studied by the investigator.
It has also been found that th e results o f d e e p e r trance
are not identical with th ose o f the m ore superficial. As the
trance d eep en s, higher strata o f the super-physical co n ­
sciousness m anifest them selves in the brain. The fam ous
ca se o f Leonie I, II, and III is well-known ; and it should b e
ob served that Leonie I knew nothing o f Leonie IS and H
I ;
that Leonie II knew Leonie I but did not know Leonie III ;
that Leonie 111 knew both Leonie I and II. That is, the
higher knows the low er, while the low er d oes not know the
higher— a m ost pregnant fact.
In th e m esm eric trance, the higher ph enom ena are m ore
easily obtain ed than in the hypnotic, and, in this, very clear
statem ents may b e had o f the ph enom ena o f the astral and
even o f th e mental plane— w here th e “ subject ” is well-
d e v e lo p e d — and som etim es glim pses are gained o f past lives.
W hen w e see that the exclusion o f the physical plane is
the condition for th ese m anifestations o f the super-physical
consciousness, w e begin to understand the rationale o f the
m ethods o f Y oga practised in the East. W hen th e m ethods
are physical, as in Hatha Y oga, the ordinary hypnotic trance
150 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
is m ost often obtained, and th e subject on re-aw akening
rem em bers nothing o f his experiences. The m ethod o f th e
Raja Y oga, in which the consciousness is withdrawn from th e
brain by intense concentration, leads the student to c o n ­
tinuity o f consciousness on the successive planes, and h e
rem em bers his super-physical experiences on his return to
the waking state. Both' in the W est and in the East, the
sam e cessation o f w aking-consciousness is aim ed at, in order
to obtain traces o f the super-physical consciousness, or as
the w estern psychologist would say, from the unconscious in
man. The eastern m ethod, how ever, with thousands o f years
o f exp erien ce behind it, yields results incom parably greater
in the realms o f th e super-physical consciousness, and estab­
lishes, on the sure basis o f reiterated experiences, the inde­
p en d en ce o f consciousness as regards its physical vehicle.
The ecstasy and the visions o f Saints, in all ages and in all
creed s, afford another exam ple o f ih e irruptions from the
“ unconscious In these, prolon ged and absorbing prayer,
or contem plation, is the m eans fo r producing the necessary
brain-condition. The avenues o f the senses b e co m e closed
by the intensity o f the inner concentration, and the sam e
state is reached spasm odically and involuntarily which the
practiser o f Raja Y oga seeks deliberately to attain. H ence
w e find that d ev otees o f all faiths ascribe their visions to the
favour o f the Deity w orshipped, and not to the fact that
they have p rod u ced in them selves a passive brain-condition,
which enables the super-physical consciousness to imprint on
that brain the sights and sounds o f the higher worlds.
Prof. William Jam es, in his V a r i e t i e s o f R e l i g i o u s E x p e r i e n c e ,
points out that som e o f the m ost striking o f th ese irruptions
HUMAN STATES O F CONSCIO U SN ESS 1ST
from the " unconscious ” are cases o f " sudden con versions” ,
in which a sudden thought, or vision, or voice, has ch an ged
at o n ce and com pletely the w hole course o f a m an's waking
life. H e rightly argues that a force, sufficiently pow erful to
produ ce such effects, cannot b e lightly waived aside or c o n ­
tem ptuously ignored by any serious student o f human c o n ­
sciousness. This w hole class of psychical phenom ena dem ands
careful and scientific study, and prom ises a rich harvest o f
results, as to the super-physical consciousness, to repay thè
serious investigator.
As against this view, how ever, it is urged that these facts
are ob served in connexion with m orbid nervous states, and
that the subjects are hysterical, over-excited persons, w h ose
experiences are vitiated by their condition. In the first place,
this is not always true the eastern Raja Yogis are persons
distinguished for their calm ness and serenity, and som e o f
the cases o f conversion have been th ose o f worldly and
capable m en. Let it b e granted, how ever, that in th e
majority o f cases the nervous condition is m orbid, and the
brain over-strained, what then ? The normal brain is adm it­
tedly evolved to the point o f responding to the vibrations o f
the physical w orld, and o f transmitting these upwards, and of
transmitting dow nw ards mental and astral vibrations con n ect­
ed with these, from the higher vehicles. It is not yet evolved
to th e point o f receiving without disturbance very violent
vibrations from th e higher planes, nor o f responding at all to
the vibrations set up in the subtler vehicles by the external
phenom ena o f their own planes. Very violent em otions o f
joy, pain, grief, terror, often prove to o m uch for the normal
brain, causing severe headache, hysteria, and even nervous
152 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
collapse. It is, th erefore, no w onder that the very violent
em otion which causes what is called a conversion should
often b e accom panied by similar nervous distress. The im ­
portant point is, that when the nervous upset has passed, the
e ffe ct— the changed attitude tow ards life— remains. The
nervous disturbance is due to the inadequacy o f the physical
brain to bear th e violent and rapid vibrations dashing dow n
upon i t ; the perm anently ch anged attitude is du e to the
steady pressure o f the super-physical consciousness, c o n ­
tinuously exerted. W here the super-physical consciousness
is not sufficiently d ev elop ed to exert this continuous pres­
sure, the con verted person " falls from grace ” as th e surge
o f em otion ebbs away.
In cases o f visions and like phenom ena,\w e have already
seen that they m ay occu r when a form o f trance has b een
produ ced. But without this, such ph enom ena may occu r in
cases w here the brain is in a state o f tension, either from
som e tem porary cause o c from the fact that its evolution
has g on e b eyon d the normal. Strong em otion may increase
the nervous tension to the point w here response to direct
astral vibrations b ecom es possible, and thus an astral h appen ­
ing b e co m e s visible or audible. The reaction from th e strain
will probably shew itself as nervous disturbance. W h en the
brain is m ore highly evolved than the ordinary brain, has b e ­
co m e m ore com plicated and m ore sensitive, astral h appen ­
ings may b e felt constantly, and this strain m ay well b e
som ew hat greater than the nervous system is quite fitted to
bear, in addition to bearing the ordinary wear and tear o f
m odern civilization. H ence, again, hysteria and oth er form s
o f nervous distress are likely to accom pany the visions.
HUMAN STATES O F CONSCIOUSNESS 153
B u t t h e s e f a c t s d o n o t t a k e a w a y f r o m t h e i m p o r t a n c e o f
t h e e x p e r i e n c e s , a s f a c t s i n c o n s c i o u s n e s s . Rather, perhaps,
d o they increase their im portance, as showing the way in
which evolution works in th e action o f the environm ent on an
organism. The reiterated im pacts o f external forces stimu­
late the grow ing organism, and very often tem porarily over­
strain i t ; but the very strain forces forw ard its evolution.
The crest o f the evolutionary w ave must always consist of
abnorm al orga n ism s; the steady, normal, safe, average
organism s follow on behind ; they are m ost respectable, but
perhaps not so interesting as the pioneers, and m ost certainly
n ot so instructive as regards the future. As a m atter o f fact,
the forces o f the astral plane are constantly playing vigorously
on the human brain, in order that it may develop as a fuller
vehicle of consciousness, and a sensitive brain, in the transi­
tional state, is apt to be thereby thrown a little out o f gear
with the w orld o f its past. It is probable that a g o o d
m any activities to which thought is at present directed
will in the future b e carried on automatically, and will
gradually sink below the threshold o f the w aking-con ­
sciousness, as have don e various functions on ce perform ed
purposively.
As these changes g o on, the subtler vibrations must inevit­
ably show them selves in an increasing num ber in the m ost
delicately equilibrated brains, those which are n o t normal,
inasmuch as th ese— on the crest o f evolution— will b e th ose
m ost capable o f responding. Dr. M audsley writes : " W hat
right have w e to believe Nature under any obligation to
d o her work by means o f com p lete minds only ? She may
find an incom plete mind a m ore suitable instrument for a
1 5 4 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
particular pu rpose.” 1 And Prof. Jam es himself remarl
there w ere such a thing as inspiration from a higher n
might well b e that the neurotic tem peram ent would
the chief condition o f the requisite receptivity.”
W hen w e o n ce recognize that forces subtler th.
physical must necessitate for their expression a m ore i
vehicle than th e brain organised for the reception
physical, w e shall cease to b e troubled or distressed
w e find that the super-physical forces often find their re
expression through brains that are m ore or less out o
with the physical plane. And w e shall understand th
abnorm al physical sym ptom s accom panying their man
tions in no way derogate from the value o f th ese enc
nor from the im portance of th e part they will play
future o f humanity. At the sam e tim e the wish must
ally arise to find out som e m eth od w hereby these i
may b e enabled te manifest them selves without riskin
destruction o f their physical instrument.
This way has been found in the East in the practi
Raja Yoga, w hereby the safe exercise o f the higher cons<
ness is sought by intense concentration. This con centr
in itself, develops the brain as an instrument fo r the si
forces, working in the brain-cells in the manner alread
scribed in connexion with thought.3 M oreover, it s
op en s up the set o f spirillae o f the atom , next in ord
th ose now in activity, and thus adds a new organ fo
higher functioning. This process is necessarily a slow
1Quoted in Prof. James's book, mentioned above, p. 19.
“ mind ” read " brain
‘J I b i d . , p. 2 5 .
See Chapter VII, 8 1.
HUMAN STATES O F CONSCIOUSNESS 155
but it is th e only safe way o f d e v e lo p m e n t; and, if its slow-
ness b e resented, it m ay b e su ggested as a reason for
patience that the student is endeavouring to ante-date the
atom ic developm en t o f the next Round, and he can hardly
ex p ect to accom plish this with rapidity. It is, how ever, this
slowness o f the Raja Y ogic practices which renders them
som ew hat u nacceptable to the hurrying W e s t ; and yet there
is no oth er way to secure a balanced developm en t. The
ch oice lies b etw een this and the m orbid nervous disturbances
which a ccom pan y the irruptions o f the super-physical c o n ­
sciousness into an unprepared vehicle. W e cannot transcend
the laws o f Nature ; w e can only try to understand, and
then to utilize them .
CHAPTER XI
THE MONAD AT WORK
1. BUILDING HIS VEHICLES
LET us now consider the work o f the M onad in the shaping
o f his vehicles, when he has, as his representatives— as him­
self on the third, fourth, and fifth planes— Atma-Buddhi-
Manas, with th e causal b od y as th e receptacle, the treasure-
house, o f th e experiences o f each incarnation.
A t the close o f each period o f life, that is to say, at the
en d o f each devachanic existence, he must stimulate into
ren ew ed activity the three successive nuclei o f the bodies he
is to w ear during his next life-period. First, he arouses the
mental nucleus. This arousing consists in increasing the flow
o f life through the spirillae. It will b e rem em bered that
w hen the perm anent units “ w ent to sleep " the normal flow
o f life in the spirillae lessened, and during the w hole period
o f rep ose this flow is smail and slow .1 W hen the tim e for
reincarnation arrives, this flow is increased, the spirillae thrill
with life, and the perm anent units, on e after another, behave
as m agnets, attracting round them selves appropriate matter.
Thus when the mental unit is stimulated, it begins to vibrate
’ See Chapter IV, §§ 4, 5 .
TH
E MONAD AT WORK *57
strongly, according to the vibratory powers—the results of
past experiances—stored up therein, drawing towards and
arranging round itself appropriate matter from the mental
plane. Just as a bar of soft iron becomes a magnet when a
current is sent through a wire encircling it, and as matter
w
ithin its magnetic field w
ill at once arrange itself round that
magnet, so is it with the permanent mental unit. When the
life-current encircles it, it becomes a magnet, and matter
within the field of its forces arranges itself round itand forms
a new mental body. The matter attracted w
ill be according
to the complexity of the permanent unit. Not only w
ill finer
or coarser matter be attracted, but the matter must also
vary in the development of the atoms which enter into the
formation of its aggregations. The molecules attracted w
ill
be composed of atoms the vibratory energies of which are
identical with, or approach nearly to, or are in tune with,
those of the attracting unit. Hence, according to the stage
of evolution reached by the man, w
ill be the development
of the matter of his new mental vehicle. In this way, incar­
nation after incarnation, a suitable mental body is built up.
Exactly the same process is repeated on the astral plane
inthe building of the new astral body. The astral nucleus—
the astral permanent atom—is sim
ilarly vivified, and acts ina
sim
ilar way.
The man is thus clothed with new mental andastral bodies
which express his stage of evolution and enable whatever
Dowers and faculties he possesses to express themselves
July in their own worlds.
B
ut when we come to the shaping of the body on
:he physical plane a new element appears. So far as
158 A STU
D
Y IN CONSCIOUSNESS
the Monad is concerned, the work is the same. He
vivifies the physical nucleus—the physical permanent
atom—and it acts as a magnet like its fellows. B
ut
now it is as though a man interfered with the attraction
and arrangement of matter within a magnetic field ;
the Elemental, charged with the duty of shaping the etheric
double after the model given by the Lords of Karm
a, steps
in and takes control of the work. The m
aterials, indeed,
may be gathered together, as a workman might carry bricks
for the building of a house, but the builder takes the
bricks, accepts or rejects, and sets them according to the
plan of the architect.
The question arises : Why this difference ? Why, on reach­
ing the physical plane, where we might expect a repetition
of the previous processes, should an alien power take the
control of the building out of the hands of the owner of the
house ? The answer lies in the working of the law of karm
a.
On the higher planes, the sheaths express as much of the
man as is developed, and he is not there working out the
results of his past relations with others. Each centre of con­
sciousness, on those planes, is working w
ithin its own circle ;
its energies are directed towards its own vehicles, and only
so much of them as is finally expressed through the physical
vehicle acts directly upon others. These relations with
others complicate his karma on the physical plane, and the
particular physical form that he wears during a particular life-
period must be suitable for the working out of this compli­
cated karma. Hence the need for the adjusting interference
of the Lords of Karm
a. Were he at a point of evolution at
which he entered into sim
ilarly direct relations with others on
TH
E MONAD AT WORK 159
other planes, sim
ilar limitations of his power to shape his
vehicles on those planes would appear. Inthe sphere of his
external activities, whatever it may be, these limitations must
present themselves.
Hence the shaping of the physical body is done by an
authority higherthan his own ; he must accept the conditions
of race, nation, fam
ily, circumstances, demanded by his past
activities. This lim
iting action of karm
a necessitates the
building of a vehicle which is but a partial expression of the
working consciousness—partial, not only because of the
shutting off of power by the coarseness of the material itself,
but also because of the external limitations above referred
to. Much of his consciousness, even though ready for ex­
pression on the physical plane, may thus be excluded, and
only a sm
all part of it may appear on the physical plane as
waking-consciousness.
The next point in connexion with this building that we
must consider is the special work of organizing the vehicles
as expressions of consciousness, leaving apart the general
building by desire and thought, with which we are so fam
iliar.
We are concerned here with details, rather than with broad
outlines.
We know that while qualities are imparted to matter
during the descent of the Second Logos, the arrangement of
these specialized materials into relatively permanent forms
belongs to H
is ascent. When the Monad, through his re­
flection as the Spiritual M
an, assumes some directive power
over his vehicles, he finds himself in possession of a form in
which the sympathetic nervous system is playing avery large
part, and in which the cerebro-spinal has not yet assumed
160 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
predominance. He w
ill have to work up a number
necting links between this sympathetic system w
l*
inherits and the centres which he must organize in h
body, for his future independent functioning thereii
before any independent functioning in any higher V
€
possible, it is necessary to carry it to a fairly high po
transmitting vehicle, that is a vehicle through which h
<
down to his body on the physical plane. We m
usl
guish between the primary work of the organization
mental and astral vehicles that fits them to be transm
i
part of the consciousness of the Spiritual M
an, and tl
work of developing these same vehicles into indep
bodies, in which the Spiritual M
an w
ill be able to func
their respective planes. Hence there are two task
performed : first the organisation of the mental a
n
<
vehicles as transmitters of consciousness to the p
body ; secondly, the organization of these vehicles
dependent bodies, in which consciousness can functio
out the help of the physical body.
The astral and mental vehicles, then, must be orgat
order that the Spiritual M
an may use the physical b
r<
nervous system as his organ of consciousness on the p
plane. The impulse to such use comes from the p
world by impacts upon thevarious nerve-ends, causinc
of nervous energy to pass along the fibres to the
these waves pass from the dense brain to the <
thence to the astral, thence to the mental vehicle, a
a response from the conciousness inthe causal body
mental plane. That consciousness thus roused by i
from without, gives rise to vibrations, which flow c
TH
E MONAD AT WORK 161
answer from the causal body to the mental, from the mental
to the astral, from the astral to the etheric and dense phys­
ical ; the waves set up electric currents in the etheric brain,
and these act on the dense matter of the nervous cells.
Ad these vibratory actions gradually organize the first
inchoate clouds of astral and mental matter into vehicles
which serve as effective fields for these constant actions and
reactions. This process goes on during hundreds of births,
started, as we have seen, from below, but gradually coming
more and more under the control of the Spiritual M
an ; he
begins to direct his activities by his memories of past sensa­
tions, and starts each activity under the impulse of these
memories stimulated by desire. As the process continues,
more and more forcible direction comes from within, and less
and less directive power is exercised by the attractions and
repulsions of external objects, and thus the control of the
building up of the vehicles is largely withdrawn from the
without and is centred in the within.
As the vehicle becomes more organized, certain aggrega­
tions of matter appear within it, at first cloudy and vague,
then more and more definitely outlined. These are the
future chakras, or wheels, the sense-centres of the astral
body, asdistinguishedfromthe astral sense-centres connected
with the sense-organs and centres of the physical body.1
But nothing is done to vivify these slowly growing centres
for immense periods of time, and the connexion of them
with the physical body is often delayed, even after they are
functioning on the astral plane ; for this connexion can only
be made from the physical vehicle, wherein the fiery force
1See Chapter V
II, § 2.
1
1
162 A STU
D
Y IN CONSCIOUSNESS
of K
undalini resides. Before Kundalini can reach them, so
that they can pass their observations on to the physical body,
they must be linked to the sympathetic nervous system, the
large ganglionic cells in that system being the points of
contact. When these links are made, the fiery current can
flow through, and observations of astral events can be trans­
mitted fully to the physical brain. While they can only be
thus linked with the physical vehicle, the building of them as
centres and the gradual organization of them into wheels
can be begun from any vehicle, and w
ill be begun in any
individual from that vehicle which represents the special type
of temperament to which he belongs. According as a m
an
belongs to one typical temperament or another, so w
ill be
the place of the greatest activity in the building up of all the
vehicles, in the gradual making of them into effective instru­
ments of consciousness to be expressed on the physical
plane. T
his centre of activity may be in the physical, astral,
lower, or higher mental body. In any of these, or even
higher still, according to the temperamental type, this centre
w
ill be found in the principle which m
arks out the tempera­
mental type, and from that it works “ upwards ” or " down­
wards ”, shaping the vehicles so as to make them suitable
for the expression of that temperament.
2. AN EVOLVING M
AN
A special case may be taken to facilitate the under­
standing of this process—a temperament in which the
concrete mind predominates. We w
ill trace the Spiritual
M
an through the third, fourth, and fifth Root-Races,
TH
E MONAD AT WORK 163
When we look at him at work in the third Race, we
find him very infantile mentally, even though the mind
is the predominant note of his type. The surging life
around him, that he can neither understand nor master,
works strongly upon himfrom outside and powerfully affects
his astral vehicle. T
his astral vehicle w
ill be retentive of
impressions, in consequence of the temperament, and the
desires w
ill stimulate the infantile mind to efforts directed to
their satisfaction. H
is physical constitution differs from that
of the fifth Race man ; the sympathetic system is still domi­
nant, and the cerebro-spinal system subordinate, but parts
of the sympathetic system are beginning to lose much of their
effectiveness as instruments of consciousness, belonging, as
such instruments, to the stage below the human. There are
two bodies in the brain especially connected with the sym­
pathetic system in their inception, although now forming
part of the cerebro-spinal—the pineal gland and the pitui­
tary body. They illustrate the way in which a part of the
body may function in one manner at an early stage, may
then lose its special use and function little, if at all, and at
a later stage of evolution may again be stimulated by a
higher kind of life, which w
ill give it a new use and function
at a higher stage of evolution.
The development of these bodies belongs to the inverte­
brate rather than to the vertebrate kingdom, and the “ third
eye ” is spoken of by biologists as the “ invertebrate eye
It is, however, still found as an eye among vertebrates, for
a snake was lately found in Australia which showed on the
top of the head a peculiar arrangement of semi-transparent
scales ; when these were cut away a complete eye was
164 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
found underneath—an eye complete Inits parts although not
functioning. That third eye was functioning among the
Lemurians inthe vague and general way characteristic of the
lower stages of evolution, and specially characteristic of the
sympathetic system. As our man advanced from the L
e~
m
urian into the Atlantean Race, the third eye ceased to
function, the brain developed round it, and it became the
appendage now called the pineal gland. As a Lem
urian, he
had been psychic, the sympathetic system being largely
affected by the surgings of the undeveloped astral body.
As an Atlantean, he gradually lost his psychic powers, as the
sympathetic syste'm became subordinate and the cerebro­
spinal grew stronger.
The growth of the cerebro-spinal system would be more
rapid in this Atlantean than in those of other temperaments,
because the m
ain activity would be inthe concrete mind, and
would thus stimulate and fashion it; the astral body would
lose its predominance sooner, and would become more
rapidly a transmitter of mental impulses to the brain. Hence,
when our man passed on into the fifth Race, he would be
peculiarly ready to take advantage of its characteristics; he
would build a large and well-proportioned brain; he would
utilize his astral chiefly as a transmitter, and would build his
chakras from the mental plane.
3. TH
E PITU
ITAR
Y BODY AND PIN
E
AL GLAND
To return to the second of the two bodies mentioned
above—the pituitary body. This is regarded as developed
from aprimeval mouth, indirect continuitywiththe alimentary
TH
E MONAD AT WORK 165
canal of the invertebrates. It ceased to function as a
mouth in the vertebrates and became a rudimentary organ ;
but it has retained a peculiar function in connexion with the
growth of the body. It is active during the normal period
of physical growth, and the more actively it functions, the
greater the growth of the body. In giants it has been
found that this organ is peculiarly active. Moreover, the
pituitary body sometimes again begins to function in later
life, when the bony framework of the body is set, and then
causes abnormal and monstrous growth at the free points of
the body, hands, feet, nose, etc., giving riseto disfigurement
of a most distressing kind.
As the cerebro-spinal system became dominant, the earlier
function of these two bodies disappeared ; but these organs
have a future as well as a past. The past was connected
w
ith the sympathetic system ; the future is connected with
the cerebro-spinal system. As evolution goes on, and the
chakras in the astral body are vivified, the pituitary body
becomes the physical organ for astral, and later for mental
clairvoyance. Where too great a strain is made upon the
astral faculty of sight while in the physical body, inflamma­
tion of the pituitary body sometimes results. This organ is
the one through which the knowledge gained by astral
vision is .transmitted to the brain : and it is also used in
vivifying the points of contact between the sympathetic
system and the astral body, whereby a continuity of con­
sciousness is established between the astral and physical
planes.
The pineal gland becomes connected with one of the
chakras in the astral body, and through that with the mental
166 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
body, and serves as a physical organ for the transm
isi
thought from one brain to another. In thought-transn
the thought may be flashed from mind to mind, r
matter being used as the medium for transmission
may be sent down to the physical brain, and by me;
the pineal gland may be sent, via the physical ether, 1
pineal gland in another brain, and thus to the rec
consciousness.
While the centre of activity lies in the dominant prii
of the man, the connexion of the chakras with the ph
body must be made, as said, from the physical plane,
object of this connexion is not to make the astral veh
more efficient transmitter to the physical body of the
gies of the Spiritual M
an, but to enable the astral vehi<
be in full touch with the physical. There may be cliff
centres of activity for the building up of transmitting vel*
but it is necessary to start from the physical plane in
to bring the results of the activities of bodies functionir
other planes within the waking-consciousness. Henc
high importance of physical purity in diet and other m
a
People often ask : How does knowledge gained on h
planes reach the brain, and why is it not accompanied
memory of the circumstances under which it was acqui
Anyone who practises meditation regularly knows that r
knowledge that he has not gained by study on the pfv
plane appears in the brain. Whence comes it? It c<
from the astral or mental plane, where it was acquired,
reaches the brain in the ordinary way above descril
the consciousness has assimilated it on the mental p
directly, or it has reached it from the astral, and sends c
TH
E MONAD AT WORK 167
thought-waves as usual, it may have been communicated by
some entity on the higher plane, who has acted directly on the
mental body. But the circumstances of the communication
may not be remembered, for one of two reasons, or for
both. Most people are not what is technically called
‘'awake” on the astral and mental planes; that is, their
faculties are turned inwards, are occupied with mental pro­
cesses and emotions, and are not engaged inthe observation
of the external phenomena of those planes. They may be
very receptive, and their astral and mental bodies may easily
be thrown into vibration, and the vibrations convey the knowl­
edge which is thus given, but their attention is not turned
to the person making the communication. As evolution
goes on, people become more and more receptive on the
astral and mental planes, but do not therefore become aware
of their surroundings.
The other reason for the lack of memory is the absence
of the connecting links with the sympathetic system before
metioned. A person may be " awake ” on the astral plane
and functioning actively thereon, and he may be vividly
conscious of his surroundings. B
ut if the connecting links
between the astral and physical systems have not been made,
or are not vivified, there is a break in consciousness. How­
ever vivid may be the consciousness on the astral plane, it
cannot, until these links are functioning, bring through and
impress on the physical brain the memory of astral experi­
ences. In addition to these links, there must be the active
functioning of the pituitary body, which focusses the astral
vibrations much as a burning glass focusses the rays of the
sun. A number of the astral vibrations are drawn together
168 A STU
D
Y IN CONSCIOUSNESS
and made to fall on a particular point, and vibrations being
thus set up in dense physical matter, the further propagation
of these is easy. A
ll this is necessary for “ remembering ”
4. TH
E PATH
S OF CONSCIOUSNESS
The question arises: Does consciousness always travel
along the same path to reach its physical vehicle ? Transits,
we know, are sometimes made directly through the atomic
sub-planes from plane to plane, and sometimes by passing
through each sub-plane from the seventh to the first before
reaching the atomic sub-plane next below. Which of these
paths does consciousness follow ? In its normal working, in
the ordinary process of thinking, the wave comes steadily
down through each successive sub-plane, from the mental
through the seven astral sub-planes to the physical etheric,
and so to the dense nervous matter. T
his wave sets up
electrical currents inthe etheric matter, and these affect the
protoplasm of the grey cells. But when the peculiar flashes
of consciousness occur, as in flashes of genius, or as in sud­
den illum
inative ideas which flash into the mind—such aflash
as comes to the scientific man when out of a great mass of
facts there suddenly springs forth the unifying underlying
law—then the consciousness pours downward through the
atomic sub-planes only, and thus reaches the brain. T
his is
the illum
inative idea which justifies itself by its mere appear­
ance, like the sunlight, and does not gain in compelling
power by any process of reasoning. Thus reasoning comes
to the brain by the successive sub-planes ; authoritative illu
­
mination by the atomic sub-planes only.
C
H
A
P
T
E
R X
U
THE NATURE OF MEMORY
1. TH
E GREAT SE
LF AND TH
E L
IT
T
L
E SELVES
WHAT is memory ? and how does it work? by what means
do we recover the past, whether near or remote ? For, after
all, whether the past be near or remote, belonging to this or
to any anterior life, the means which govern its recovery
must be sim
ilar, and we require a theory which w
ill include
all cases of memory, and at the same time w
ill enable us to
understand each particular case.
The first step towards obtaining a definite and intelligible
theory is a comprehension of our own composition, of the
Self with its sheaths, and their inter-relation ; and we may
here briefly restate the m
ain facts in the foregoing chapters
which directly bear on the problem of Memory. We m
ust
bear constantly in m
ind the facts that our consciousness is a
unit, and that this unit of consciousness works through various
sheaths, which impose upon it a false appearance of m
ulti­
plicity. The innermost, or most tenuous, of these sheaths is
inseparable from the unit of consciousness; in fact, it is this
sheath which makes it a unit. T
his unit is the Monad, dwell-
ng on the anupadaka plane ; but for all practical purposes
170 A STU
D
Y IN CONSCIOUSNESS
we may take it as the fam
iliar Inner M
an, the Tri-Atom,
Atma-Buddhi-Manas, thought of as apart from the atmic,
buddhic, and manasic sheaths. T
his unit of consiousness
manifests through, abides in
, sheaths belonging to the five
planes of its activity, and we call it the Self working in its
sheaths.
We must think, then, of a conscious Self dwelling in vehi­
cles that vibrate. The vibrations of these vehicles correspond,
on the side of matter, with the changes in consciousness on
the side of the Self. We cannot accurately speak of vibra­
tions of consciousness, because vibrations can only belong to
the material side of things, the form side, and only loosely
can we speak of a vibrating consciousness. We have changes
in consciousness corresponding-with vibrations insheaths.
The question of the vehicles, or bodies, in which con­
sciousness, the Self, is working, is all-important as regards
Memory. The whole process of recovering more or less
remote events is a question of picturing them inthe parti­
cular sheath—of shaping part of the matter of the sheath
into their likeness—inwhich consciousness is working at the
time. Inthe Self, as a fragment of the Universal Self—which
for our purpose we can take to be the Logos, although in
verity the Logos is but a portion of the U
niversal Self—
is present everything ; for in the Universal Self is present all
which has taken place, is taking place, and w
ill take place in
the universe ; all this, and an illim
itable more, is present in
the Universal Consciousness. Let us think only of a universe
and its Logos. We speak of H
im as omnipresent and
omniscient. Now, fundamentally, that omnipresence and
omniscience are in the individualized Self, as being one
TH
E N
ATU
RE OF MEMORY 171
with the Logos, but—we must put in here a but—with a
difference ; the difference consisting in this, that while inthe
separated Self as Seif, apart from ail vehicles, that omni­
presence and omniscience reside by virtue of his unity with
the One Self, the vehicles in which he dwells have not yet
learned to vibrate in answer to his changes of consciousness
as he turns h
is attention to one or another part of his con­
tents. Hence we say that all exists in him potentially, and
not as in the Logos actually ; all the changes which go on
in the consciousness of the Logos are reproducible in this
separated Self, which is an indivisible part of H
is life, but the
vehicles are not yet ready as media of manifestation. Be­
cause of the separation of form, because of this closing in of
the separate, or individualized, Self, these possibilities which
are within it as part of the U
niversal Self are latent, not
manifest, are possibilities, not actualities. As in every atom
which goes to the making up of a vehicle there are illim
it­
able possibilities of vibration, so in every separated Self there
are illim
itable possibilities of changes of consciousness.
We do not find inthe atom, at the beginning of a solar
system, an illim
itable variety of vibrations ; but we learn that
it possesses a capacity to acquire an illim
itable variety of
vibrations ; it acquires these inthe course of its evolution, as
it responds continually,to vibrations playing upon its surface ;
at the end of a solar system, an immense number of the
atoms in it have reached the stage of evolution inwhich they
can vibrate in answer to any vibration touching them that
arises within the system ; then, for that system, these atoms
are said to be perfected. The same thing is true for the
separated, or individualized, Selves. A
ll the changes taking
172 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
place in the consciousness of the Logos which are rep­
resented in that universe, and take shape as forms inthat
universe, all these are also within the perfected conscious­
ness in that universe, and any of these changes can be re­
produced in any one of them. Here is Memory: the
reappearance, the reincarnation in matter, of anything that
has been within that universe, and therefore ever is, inthe
consciousness of its Logos, and in the consciousnesses which
are parts of H
is consciousness. Although we think of the
Self as separate as regards all other Selves, we must ever
remember it is inseparate as regards the One Self, the
Logos. H
is Life is not shut out from any part of H
is uni­
verse, and in H
im we live and move and have our being,
open ever to Him, filled with H
is life.
As the Self puts on vehicle after vehicle of matter, its
powers of gaining knowledge become, with each additional
vehicle, more circumscribed but also more definite. Arrived
on the physical plane, consciousness is narrowed down to
the experiences which can be received through the physical
body, and chiefly through those openings which we call the
sense-organs ; these are avenues through which knowledge
can reach the imprisoned Self, though we often speak of
them as shutting out knowledge when we think of the
capacities of the subtler vehicle. The physical body
renders perception definitive and clear, much as a screen
with a minute hole in it allows a picture of the outside world
to appear on a w
all that would otherwise show a blank sur­
face ; rays of light are truly shut off from the w
all, but, by
that very shutting off, those allowed to enter form a clearly
defined picture.
TH
E N
ATU
RE OF MEMORY 173
2. CHANGES IN TH
E VEH
ICLES AND IN
CONSCIOUSNESS
Let us now see what happens as regards the physical
vehicle in the reception of an impression and in the subse­
quent recall of that impression, /.e., in the memory of it.
A vibration from outside strikes on an organ of sense,
and is transmitted to the appropriate centre in the brain. A
group of cells in the brain vibrates, and that vibration leaves
the cells in the state somewhat different from the one in
which they were previous to its reception. The trace of that
response is a possibility for the group of cells; it has
once vibrated in a particular way, and it retains for the
rest of its existence as a group of cells the possibility
of again vibrating in that same way without again receiving
a stim
ulus from the outside world. Each repetition of an
identical vibration strengthens this possibility, each leaving
its own trace, but many such repetitions w
ill be required
to establish a self-initiated repetition; the ceils come
nearer to this possibility of a self-initiated vibration by each
repetition compelled from outside. But this vibration has
not stopped with the physical cells ; it has been transmitted
inwards to the corresponding cell, or group of cells, in the
subtler vehicles, and has ultimately produced a change in
consciousness. This change, in its turn, reacts on the
cells, and a repetition of the vibrations is initiated from
within by the change in consciousness, and this repetition
is a memory of the object which started the series of
vibrations. The response of the cells to the vibration
from outside, a response compelled by the laws of
174 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUNESS
the physical universe, gives to the cells tha power of re­
sponding to a sim
ilar impulse, though feebler, coming from
within. A little power is exhausted in each moving of matter
in a new vehicle, and hence a gradual dim
inution of the
energy in the vibration. Less and less is exhausted as the
cells repeat sim
ilar vibrations in response to new impacts
from without, the cells answering more readily with each
repetition.
Therein lies the value of the “ without " ; it wakes up in
the matter, more easily than by any other way, the possi­
bility of response, being more closely akin to the vehicles
than the “ within
The change caused inconsciousness, also, leaves the con­
sciousness more ready to repeat that change than it was
first to yield it, and each such change brings the conscious­
ness nearer to the power to initiate a sim
ilar change.
Looking back into the dawnings of consciousness, we see that
the imprisoned Selves go through innumerable experiences
before a Self-initiated change in consciousness occurs ; but
bearing this in mind, as a fact, we can leave these early
stages, and study the workings of consciousness at a more
advanced point. We must also remember that every impact,
reaching the innermost sheath and giving rise to a change
in consciousness, is followed by a reaction, the change in
consciousness causing a new series of vibrations from w
ithin
outwards ; there is the going inwards to the Self, followed
by the rippling outwards from the Self, the first due to the
object and giving rise to what we call a perception, and the
second due to the reaction of the Self, causing what we call
a memory.
TH
E N
ATU
RE OF MEMORY 175
A number of sense-impressions, coming through sight,
hearing, touch, taste and sm
ells, run up from the physical
vehicle through the astral to the mental. There they are
co-ordinated into a complex unity, as a musical chord is
composed of many notes. T
his is the special work of the
mental body: it receives' many streams and synthesizes
them into one ; it builds many impressions into a perception,
a thought, a complex unity.
3. M
EM
ORIES
Let us try to catch this complex thing, after it has gone
inwards and has caused a change in consciousness, an idea ;
the change it has caused gives rise to new vibrations in the
vehicles, reproducing those it had caused on its inward way,
and in each vehicle it reappears in a fainter form. It is not
strong, vigorous, and vivid, as when its component parts
flashed from the physical to the astral, and from the astral
to the mental; it reappears in the mental in a fainter form,
the copy of that which the mental sent inwards, but the
vibrations feebler; as the Self receives from it a reaction—
for the impact of a vibration on touching each vehicle must
cause a reaction—that reaction is far feebler than the
original action, and w
ill therefore seem less “ real" than
that «action ; it makes a lesser change in consciousness, and
that lessening represents inevitably a less “ reality ” .
So long as the consciousness is too little responsive to be
aware of any impacts that do not come through with the
im
pulsive vigour of the physical, it is literally more in touch
vith the physical than with any other sheath, and there w
ill
176 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
be no memories of ideas, but only memories of perceptions,
i.e.» of pictures of outside objects, caused by vibrations of
the nervous matter of the brain, reproducing themselves in
the related astral and mental matter. These are literally
pictures in the mental matter, as are the pictures on the
retina of the eye. And the consciousness perceives these
pictures, " sees ” them, as we may truly say, since the seeing
of the eye is only a limited expression of its perceptive
power. As the consciousness draws a little away from the
physical, turning attention more to the modifications in its
inner sheaths, it sees these pictures reproduced in the brain
from the astral sheath by its own reaction passing outwards,
and there is the memory of sensations. The picture arises in
the brain by the reaction of the change in consciousness,
and is recognized there. This recognition im
plies that the
consciousness has withdrawn largely from the physical to the
astral vehicle, and is working therein. The hum
an conscious­
ness is thus working at the present time, and is, therefore,
full of memories, these memories being reproductions in
the physical brain of past pictures, caused by reactions
from consciousness. In a lowly evolved human type,
these pictures are pictures of past events in which the
physical body was concerned, memories of hunger andthirst
and of their gratification, of sexual pleasures, and so on,
things in which the physical body took an active part, j In a
higher type, in which the consciousness is working more in
the mental vehicle, the pictures inthe astral body w
ill draw
more of its attention; these pictures are shaped inthe astral
body by the vibrations coming outwards from the mental,
and are perceived as pictures by the consciousness as it
TH
E N
ATU
RE OF MEMORY 177
withdraws itself more into the mental body as its immediate
vehicle. As this process goes on, and the more awakened
consciousness responds to vibrations initiated from outside on
the astral plane by astral objects, these objects grow “ real ",
and become distinguishable from the memories, the pictures
in the astral body caused by the reactions from consciousness,
Let us note, in passing, that with the memory of an object
goes hand in hand a picture of the renewal of the keener
experience of the object by physical contact, and this we
call anticipation ; and the more complete the memory of an
event the more complete is this anticipation. So that the
memory w
ill sometimes even cause in the physical body the
reactions which normally accompany the contact with the
external object, and we may savour in anticipation pleasures
which are not within present reach of the body. Thus the
anticipation of savoury food w
ill cause “ the mouth to
water This fact w
ill again appear when we reach the
completion of our theory of Memory.
4. WHAT IS MEMORY?
Now, having noted the changes in the vehicles which arise
from impacts from the external world, the response to these
as changes of consciousness, the feebler vibrations produced
in the vehicles by the reaction of consciousness, and the
recognition of these again by consciousness as memories, let
us come to the crux of the question: What is Memory ?
The breaking up of the bodies between death and reincar­
nation puts an end to their automatism, to their power of
responding to vibrations sim
ilar to those already experienced ;
12
178 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
the responsive groups are disintegrated, and a
il that remains
as a seed for future responses is stored w
ithinthe permanent
atoms ; how feeble this is, as compared with the new auto­
matisms imposed on the mass of the bodies by new ex­
periences of the external, may be judged by the absence of
any memory of past lives initiated in the vehicles themselves.
In fact, all the permanent atoms can do is to answer more
readily to vibrations of a kind sim
ilar to those previously
experienced than to those that come to them for the first
time. The memory of the cells, or of groups of cells,
perishes at death, and cannot be said to be recoverable, as
such. Where then is Memory preserved ?
The brief answer is: Memory is not a faculty, and is not
preserved; it does not inhere in consciousness as a capacity,
nor is any memory of events stored up in the individual
consciousness. Every event is a present fact inthe universe-
consciousness, in the consciousness of the Logos; every­
thing that occurs in H
is universe, past, present, and future,
is ever there in H
is all-embracing consciousness, in H
is
4
1Eternal Now From the beginning of the universe to its
ending, from its dawn to its sunset, all isthere, ever-present,
existent. In that ocean of ideas, all IS; we, wandering in
the ocean, touch fragments of its contents, and our response
to the contact is our knowledge ; having known, we can
more readily again contact, and this repetition—when falling
short of the contact of the outside sheath of the moment
with the fragments occupying its own plane—is Memory.
A
ll “ memories " are recoverable, because a
ll possibilities of
image-producing vibrations áre within the consciousness of
the Logos, and we can share in that consciousness the
TH
E N
ATU
RE OF MEMORY 179
more easily as we have previously shared more often sim
ilar
vibrations; hence, the vibrations which have formed parts of
our experience are more readily repeated by us than those
we have never known, and here comes in the value of the
permanent atoms; they thrill out again, on being stimulated,
the vibrations previously performed, and out of all the
possibilities of vibrations of the atoms and molecules of our
bodies those sound out which answer to the note struck by
the permanent atoms. The fact that we have been affected
vibrationally and by changes of consciousness during the
present life makes it easier for us to take out of the univer­
sal consciousness that of which we have already had experi­
ence in our own. Whether it be a-memory in the present
life, or one in a life long past, the method of recovery is the
same. There is no memory save the ever-present conscious­
ness of the Logos, in whom we literally live and move and
have our being ; and our memory ismerely putting ourselves
into touch with such parts of H
is consciousness as we have
previously shared.
Hence, according to Pythagoras, all learning is remem­
brance, for it is the drawing from the consciousness of the
Logos into that of the separated Self that which in our
essential unity with H
im is eternally ours. On the plane
where the unity overpowers the separateness, we share H
is
consciousness of our universe ; on the lower planes, where
the separateness veils the unity, we are shut out therefrom
by our unevolved vehicles. It is the lack of responsiveness
in these which hinders us, for we can only know the planes
through them. Therefore we cannot directly improve our
memory ; we can only improve our general receptivity and
180 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
power to reproduce, by rendering our bodies more sensitive,
while being careful not to go beyond their lim
it of elasticity.
Also we can “ pay attention " ; i.e.f we can turn the aware­
ness of consciousness, we can concentrate consciousness, on
that special part of the consciousness of the Logos to
which we desire to attune ourselves. We need not thus
distress ourselves with calculations as to " how many angels
can stand on the point of a needle ", how we can preserve
in a limited space the illim
itable number of vibrations experi­
enced in many lives; for the whole of the form-producing
vibrations in the universe are ever-present, and are avail­
able to be drawn upon by any individual unit, and can be
reached as, by evolution, such a one experiences ever more
and more.
5. REM
EM
BERING AND FORGETTING
Let us apply this to an event in our past life: Some of
the circumstances " remain in our memory ", others are
" forgotten ". Really, the event exists with all its surround­
ing circumstances, “ remembered " and "forgotten " alike,
in but one state, the memory of the Logos, the Universal
Memory. Anyone who is able to place himself in touch
with that memory can recover the whole circumstance as
much as we can ; the events through which we have passed
are not ours, but form part of the contents of H
is conscious­
ness ; and our sense of property in-them is only due to the
fact that we have previously vibrated to them, and therefore
vibrate again to them more readily than if we contacted
them for the first time.
TH
E N
ATU
RE OF MEMORY 181
We may, however, contact them with different sheaths at
different times, living as we do under time and space condi­
tions which vary with each sheath. The part of the conscious­
ness of the Logos that we move through in our physical
bodies is far more restricted than that we move through in
our astral and mental bodies, and the contacts through a
well-organised body are far more vivid than those through a
less-organised one. Moreover, it must be remembered that
the restriction of area is due to our vehicles only ; faced by
the complete event, physical, astral, mental, spiritual, our
consciousness of it is limited within the range of the vehicles
able to respond to it. We feel ourselves to be among the
circumstances which surround the grossest vehicle we are
acting in, and which thus touch it from " outside ” ; whereas
we “ remember " the circumstances which we contact with
the finer vehicles, these transmitting the vibrations to the
grosser vehicle, which is thus touched from " within
The test of objectivity that we apply to circumstances
"present'’ or " remembered ” is that of the "common
sense If others around us see as we see, hear as we hear,
we regard the circumstances as objective ; if they do not, if
they are unconscious of that of which we are conscious, we
regard the circumstances as subjective. But this test of
objectivity is only valid for those who are active in the same
sheaths ; if one person is working in the physical body and
another in the physical and the astral, the things objective to
the man in the astral body cannot affect the man in the
physical body, and he w
ill declare them to be subjective
hallucinations. The " common sense can only work in
sim
ilar bodies : it w
ill give sim
ilar results when a
ll are in
182 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
physical bodies, a
ll in astral, or all in mental. For the “ com­
mon sense " is merely the thought-forms of the Logos on
each plane, conditioning each embodied consciousness and
enabling it to respond by certain changes to certain vibra­
tions in its vehicles. It is by no means confined to the
physical plane, but the average humanity at the present stage
of evolution has not sufficiently unfolded the indwelling
consciousness for them to exercise any “ common sense "
on the astral and mental planes. " Common sense ” is an
eloquent testimony to the oneness of our indwelling lives ;
we see all things around us on the physical plane inthe same
way, because our apparently separate consciousnesses are a
ll
really part of the One Consciousness ensouling ail forms.
We all respond in the same general way, according to the
stage of our evolution, because we share the same conscious­
ness ; and we are affected sim
ilarly by the same things
because the action and reaction between them and our­
selves is the interplay of the One Life in varied forms.
Recovery of anything by memory,* then, is due to the
ever-existence of everything in the consciousness of the
Logos, and He has imposed upon us the lim
itations of time
and space in order that we may, by practice, be able to
respond swiftly by changes of consciousness to the vibrations
caused in our vehicles by vibrations coming from other
vehicles sim
ilarly ensouled by consciousness ; thus only can
we gradually learn to distinguish precisely and clearly ; con­
tacting things successively—that is, being in time—and
contacting them in relative directions in regard to ourselves
and to each other—that is, being in space—we are gradual­
ly unfolded to the state in which we can recognise a
ll
TH
E N
ATU
RE OF MEMORY 183
simultaneously and each everywhere—that is, out of time
and space.
As we pass through countless happenings in life, we find
that we do not keep in touch with a
ll through which we
have passed ; there is a very limited power of response in
our physical vehicle, and hence numerous experiences drop
out of its purview. In trance we can recover these, and
they are said to emerge from the sub-conscious. Trulythey
remain ever unchanging in the Universal Consciousness, and
as we pass by them we become aware of them, because the
very limited light of our consciousness, shrouded in the
physical vehicle, falls upon them, and they disappear as we
pass on ; but as the area covered by that same light shining
through the astral vehicle is larger, they again appear when
we are in trance—that is, in the astral vehicle, free from the
physical; they have not come and gone and come back
again, but the light of our consciousness in the physical
vehicle had passed on, and so we saw them not, and the
more extended light in the astral vehicle enables us to see
them again. As Bhagavan Das has well said :
“ if a spectator wandered unrestingly through the halls of
a vast museum, a great art-gallery, at the dead of night
with a single sm
all lamp in one hand, each of the natural
objects, the pictured scenes, the statues, the portraits,
would be illum
ined by that lamp, in succession, for a single
moment, while all the rest were in darkness, and after that
single moment, would itself fall into darkness again. Let
there now be not one but countless such spectators, as
many in endless number as the objects of sight within the
place, each spectator meandering in and out incessantly
184 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
through the great crowd of all the others, each lamp brir
momentarily into light one object and for only that spec
who holds that lamp. T
his immense and unmoving buildi
the rock-bound ideation of the changeless Absolute,
lamp-carrying spectator out of the countless crowd isone
of consciousness out of the pseudo-infinite lines of such,
make up the totality of the one universal consciousr
Each coming into light of each object is its patency, i
experience of the jiva ; each falling into darkness is its i
<
into the latent. From the standpoint of the objects th
selves, or of the universal consciousness, there is no late
nor patency. From that of the lines of consciousn
there is." 1
As vehicle after vehicle comes into fuller working, the c
of light extends, and the consciousness can turn its atteni
to any one part of the area and observe closely the obj«
therein included. Thus, when the consciousness can fund
freely on the astral plane, and is aware of its surroundi
there, it can see much that on the physical plane is " pa:
—or " future," if they be things to which in the " past1
haslearned to respond. Things outside the area of lightcom
through the vehicle of the astral body w
ill be within the a
i
of that which streams from the subtler mental vehicle. Wi­
the causal body is the vehicle, the “ memory of past live
is recoverable, the causal body vibrating more readily
events to which it has before vibrated, and the light shini
through it embracing a far larger area and illum
inating seer
long " past "—those scenes being really no more past th
the scenes of the present, but occupying a different spot
1The Science of Peace.
TH
E N
ATU
RE OF MEMORY 185
time and space. The lower vehicles, which have not pre­
viously vibrated to these events, cannot readily directly
contact them and answer to them ; that belongs to the
causal body, the relatively permanent vehicle. B
ut when
this body answers to them, the vibrations from it readily run
downwards, and may be reproduced in the mental, astral,
and physical bodies.
6. ATTENTION
The phrase is used above, as to consciousness, that *
*it
can turn its attention to any one part of the area, and
observe closely the objects therein included." This “ turning
of the attention " corresponds very closely in consciousness
to what we should call focussing the eye in the physical
body. If we watch the action taking place in the muscles of
the eye when we look first at a near and then at a distant
object, or vice versa, we shall be conscious of a slight move­
ment, and this constriction or relaxation causes a slight com­
pression or the reverse in the lenses of the eye. It is an
automatic action now, quite instinctive, but it has only become
so by practice ; a baby does not focus his eye, nor judge
distance. He grasps as readily at a candle on the other side
of the room as at one within his reach, and only slowly learns
to know what is beyond his reach. The effort to see clearly
leads to the focussing of the eye, and presently it becomes
automatic. The objects for which the eye is focussed are
within the field of clear vision, and the rest are vaguelyseen.
So, also, the consciousness is clearly aware of that to which its
attention isturned; otherthings remainvague, “ out of focus ’'.
186 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
A man gradually learns to thus turn his attention to things
long past, as we measure time. The causal body is put into
touch with them, and the vibrations are then transmitted to
the lower bodies. The presence of a more advanced student
w
ill help a less advanced, because when the astral body of
the former has been made to vibrate responsively to long
past events, thus creating an astral pictureof them, the astral
body of the younger student can more readily reproduce
these vibrations and thus also " see But even when a man
has learned to put himself into touch with his past, and
through his own with that of others connected with it, he w
ill
find it more difficult to turn hisattention effectively to scenes
with which he has had no connexion ; and when that is
mastered, he w
ill still find it difficult to put himself intotouch
with scenes outside the experiences of his recent past; for
instance, if he wishes to visit the moon, and by his accus­
tomed methods launches himself inthat direction, he w
ili find
himself bombarded by a hail of unaccustomed vibrations to
which he cannot instinctively respond, and w
ill need to fall
back on his inherent divine power to answer to anything
which can affect his vehicles. If he seeks to go yet further,
to another planetary system, he w
ill find a barrier he cannot
overleap, the Ring-Pass-Not of his own Planetary Logos.
7. TH
E ONE CONSCIOUSNESS
We thus begin to understand what is meant by the state­
ment that people at a certain grade of evolution can reach
this or that part of the kosmos ; they can put themselves
into touch with the consciousness of the Logos outside the
TH
E NATURE OF MEMORY 187
lim
itations imposed by their material vehicles on the less
evolved. These vehicles, being composed of mattermodified
by the action of the Planetary Logos of the Chain to which
they belong, cannot respond to the vibrations of matter
differently modified ; and the student must be able to use his
atmic body before he can contact the Universal Memory
beyond the lim
its of his own Chain.
Such is the theory of Memory which I present for the con­
sideration of Theosophical students. It applies equally to the
sm
all memories and forgettings of everyday life as to the
vast reaches alluded to in the above paragraph. For there
is nothing sm
all or great to the Logos, and when we are
performing the smallest act of memory, we are as much
putting ourselves into touch with the omnipresence and
omniscience of the Logos, as when we are recalling a far-
off past. There is no 4
4far-off ", and no 4
4near A
ll are
equally present at all times and in all spaces ; the difficulty is
w
ith our vehicles, and not with that all-embracing changeless
Life. A
ll becomes more and more intelligible and more
peace-giving as we think of that Consciousness, in which is
no 4
4before " and no 4
4after ", no 4
4past " and no 4
4future
We begin to feel that these things are but the illusions, the
lim
itations, imposed upon us by our own sheaths, necessary
until our powers are evolved and at our service. We live
unconsciously in this mighty Consciousness in which every­
thing is eternally present, and we dimly feel that if we could
live consciously in that Eternal there were peace. Iknow of
nothing that can more give to the events of a life their true
proportion than this idea of a Consciousness in which
everything is present from the beginning, in which indeed
188 A STU
DY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
there is no beginning and no ending. We learn that
there is nothing terrible and nothing which is more than
relatively sorrowful; and in that lessor, is the beginning of a
true peace, which in due course shall brighten into joy.
PART II
WILL DESIRE, AND EMOTION
CHAPTER 1
THE WILL T O LIVE
IN the brief study of Origins which forms §§ 1, 2 of the
Introduction to this book, we saw that the Monad, coming
forth from the First Logos, showed in his own nature the
tri-unity of his Source, the aspects of Will, Wisdom, and
Activity.
It is to the study of Will— showing itself as Will on the
higher plane and as Desire on the lower— that we are now
to turn our attention ; and the study of Desire leads us to
the study of Emotion, indissolubly attached to it. We have
already seen that we are here because we have willed to live
in the lower worlds, that the Will determines our stay here.
But the nature and power and work of the Will are for the
most part but little realized, for in the earlier stages of
evolution it is not manifest on the lower planes save as
Desire, and it must be studied as Desire before it can be
understood as Will.
It is the Power-aspect of consciousness, ever veiled within
the Self, hiding as it were behind Wisdom and Activity, but
Drompting both to manifestation. So hidden is its nature
;hat many regard it as one with Activity, and refuse to it the
dignity of an aspect of consciousness. Yet Activity is the
192 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
action of the Self on the Not-Self, that which gives to the
Not-Self its temporary Reality, that which creates ; but Will
hides ever within, impelling to Activity, attracting, repelling,
the core of the Heart of Being.
Will is the Power which stands behind Cognition and
stimulates Activity ; Thought is the creative activity, but Will
the motive power. Our bodies are as they are, because the
Self has for countless ages set his Will that matter should be
shaped into forms whereby he may cognize and energize on
all outside himself. It is written in an ancient Scripture :
“ O f a truth this body is mortal, O Maghavan, it is subject
to death. Yet is it a resting-place of the immortal and
bodiless Atma. . . The eyes are intended as organs of
observation for the Being who dweileth within the eyes. He
who willeth, ' I shall smell,’ is the Atma, wishing to experience
fragrance. He who willeth, ‘ I shall speak,’ is the Atma,
wishing to utter words. He who willeth, ' I shall hear,’ is the
AtmS, wishing to listen to sounds. He who willeth, ‘ I shall
think,’ is the Atma. The mind is the celestial eye, observing
all desirable objects. By means of the mental celestial eye,
Atma enjoyeth all.” 1
This is the secret, the motive power, of evolution. True,
the great Will traces the high road of evolution. True,
spiritual Intelligences of many grades guide the evolving
entities along that high road. But too little attention has
been paid to the countless experiments, failures, successes,
the little by-ways and twists and curls, due to the groupings
of the separate Wills, each Will to Live trying to find Self-
expression. The contacts from the outer world arouse in
1C h h a n d o g y o p a n i s h a t , VIII, xii, 1, 4 , 5.
THE WILL TO LIVE 193
each Atma the Will to know what touches. He knows but
little in the jelly-fish, but the Will to know shapes, in form
after form, an ever-improving eye that hinders less his power
of perception. As we study evolution, we become more
and more conscious of Wills which shape matter, but shape
it by groping experiments, not by clear vision. The presence
of these many Wills makes the constant branching of the
evolutionary tree. There is a real truth in Professor Clifford's
playful story to the children about the great Saurians of an
early age : “ Some chose to fly and became birds ; others
chose to crawl, and became reptiles." Often we see an at­
tempt foiled, and then the attempt is made in another
direction. Often we see the most clumsy contrivances side
by side with the most exquisite adaptations. The latter are the
results of Intelligences knowing their aims and constantly
chiselling the matter into appropriate forms ; the others are
the outcome of the strivings from within, still blind and grop­
ing, but steadfastly set to Self-expression. If there were
only outside designers, seeing the end from the beginning.
Nature would present us with insoluble puzzles in her build­
ing, so many are the inadequate attempts, the ineffective
designs. But when we realize the presence of the Will to
Live in each form, seeking Self-expression, shaping his vehi­
cles for his own purposes, then we can see alike the creative
plan which underlies all— the plan of the Logos; the
admirable adaptations which work out His plan— the labour
of the building Intelligences ; and the inapt contrivances and
clumsy expedients— due to the efforts of the Selves that
will, but have not yet the knowledge or the power to per-
Form perfectly.
13
194 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
It is this groping, striving, struggling divine Self, which, as
evolution goes on, becomes in ever-increasing measure the
true Ruler, the inner Ruler, the Immortal. Anyone who
grasps that he is himself that Immortal Ruler, seated within
his Self-created vehicles of expression, gains a sense of
dignity and power which grows ever stronger and more
compelling on the lower nature. The knowledge of the
truth make us inly free. The inner Ruler may still be ham­
pered by the very forms he has shaped for self-expression,
but knowing himself as the Ruler, he can work steadfastly to
bring his realm into complete subjection. He knows that he
has come into the world for a certain purpose, to make
himself fit to be a co-worker with the Supreme Will, and he
can do and suffer all which is necessary to that end. He
knows himself divine, and that his Self-realisation is only a
question of time. Inwardly the divinity is felt, though out­
wardly ft is not yet expressed, and there remains to become
in manifested what he is in essence. He is king de jure,
not yet de facto.
As a Prince, born to a crown, patiently submits to the dis­
cipline which is fitting him to wear it, so the sovereign Will
in us is evolving to the age when royal powers^will pass
into its grasp, and may patiently submit to the necessary
discipline of life.
CHAPTER li
DESIRE
1. THE NATURE OF DESIRE
WHEN the Monad sends forth his rays into the matter of the
third, fourth, and fifth planes, and appropriates to himself
an atom of each of these planes,1 he creates what is often
called his “ reflection in matter,” the human " Spirit ” , and
the Will-aspect of the Monad is mirrored in the human
Atma, whose home is on the third or atmic plane. That
first hypostasis is indeed lessened in powers by the veils of
matter thus endued, but it is in no way distorted ; as a well-
made mirror produces a perfect image of an object, so is the
human Spirit, Atma-Buddhi-Manas, a perfect image of the
Monad, is, indeed, the Monad himself veiled in denser mat­
ter. But as a concave or convex mirror yields a distorted
image of an object placed before it, so do the further re­
flexions of the Spirit in, or involutions into, yet denser matter
show but distorted images thereof.
Thus, when the Will, in its downward progress, veiling
itself farther on each plane, reaches the world immediately
above the physical, the astral world, it appears therein as
1See Part I, Chapter IV, 3 .
196 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
Desire. Desire shows the energy, the concentration, the
impelling characteristics of Will, but matter has wrenched
away its control, its direction, from the Spirit, and has
usurped dominion over it. Desire is Will discrowned, the
captive, the slave of matter. It is no longer Self-determined,
but is determined by the attractions around it.
This is the distinction between Will and Desire. The in­
nermost nature of both is the same, for they are verily but
one determination, the Self-determination of the Atma, the
one motor-power of man, that which impels to Activity, to
action on the external world, on the Not-Self. When the
Self determines the activity, uninfluenced by attractions or
repulsions towards surrounding objects, then Will is manifest­
ed. When outer attractions and repulsions determine the
activity, and the man is drawn hither and thither by these,
deaf to the voice of the Self, unconscious of the Inner Ruler,
then Desire is seen.
Desire is Will clothed in astral matter, in the matter which
by the Second Life-Wave was formed into combinations, the
reaction between which and consciousness would cause
sensations in the latter. Clothed in this matter, the vibra­
tions of which are accompanied with sensations in conscious­
ness, Will is modified into Desire. Its essential nature of
giving motor-impulses, surrounded by matter which arouses
sensations, answers by impelling energy, and this energy,
aroused through and acting through astral matter, is Desire.
As in the higher nature Will is the impelling power, so in
the lower nature Desire is the impelling power. When it
is feeble the whole nature is feeble in its reaction on the
world. The effective force of a nature is measured by its
DESIRE 197
Will-power or its Desire-power, according to the stage of
•evolution. There is a truth underlying the popular phrase,
" The greater the sinner the greater the saint/' The
mediocre person can be neither greatly good nor greatly
b ad ; there is not enough of him for more than petty
virtues or petty vices. The strength of the Desire-nature in
a man is the measure of his capacity for progress, the measure
of the motor-energy whereby that man can press onwards
along the way. The strength in a man that impels to re­
action on his environment is the measure of his power to
modify, to change, to conquer it. In the struggle with the
Desire-nature which marks the higher evolution, the motor-
energy is not to be destroyed but transferred; lower Desires
are to be transmuted into higher, energy is to be refined
while- losing nought of its power; and finally the Desire-
nature is to vanish into Will, all the energies being gathered
up and merged into the Will-aspect of the Spirit, the Power
of the Self.
No aspirant, therefore, should be discouraged by the
storming and raging of desires in him, any more than a
horse-breaker is displeased with the rearings and plungings of
the unbroken colt. The wildness of the young untrained
creature, and his rebellion against all efforts to control and
restrain, are the promise of his future usefulness when disci­
plined and trained. And even thus are the strainings of
Desire against the curb imposed by the Intelligence, the
promise of the future strength of Will, of the Power-aspect
of the Self.
Rather does difficulty arise where desires are feeble, ere
yet the Will has freed itself from the trammels of astral
198 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
matter; for in such case the Will to Live is expressing itself
but feebly, and there is little effective force available for
evolution. There is some obstacle, some barrier, in the
vehicles, checking the forthgoing energy of the Monad, and
obstructing its free passage, and until that barrier is removed
there is little progress to be hoped for. In the storm the
ship drives onward, though there be peril of wreck, but in
the dead calm she remains helpless and unmoving, answering
neither to sail nor helm. And since in this voyage no final
wreck is possible, but only temporary damage, and the storm
works for progress rather than the calm, those who find
themselves storm-tossed may look forward with sure convic­
tion to the day when the storm-gusts of Desire will be
changed into the steady wind of Will.
2. THE AWAKENING OF DESIRE
To the astral world we refer all our sensations. The centres
by which we feel lie in the astral body, and the reactions of
these to contacts give rise to feelings of pleasure and pain
in consciousness. The ordinary physiologist traces sensation
of pleasure and pain from the point of contact to the brain-
centre, recognizing only nervous vibrations between periphery
and centre, and in the centre the reaction of consciousness
as sensation. We follow the vibrations further, finding only
vibrations in the brain-centre and in the ether permeating it,
and seeing in the astral centre the point at which the re­
action of consciousness takes place. When a dislocation
between the physical and astral bodies occurs, whether by
the action of chloroform, ether, laughing-gas, or other drugsr
DESIRE 199
the physical body, despite all its nervous apparatus, feels no
more than if bereft of nerves. The links between the physical
body and the body of sensation are thrown out of gear, and
consciousness does not respond to any stimulus applied.
The awakening of Desire takes place in this body of
sensation, and follows the first dim sensings of pleasure and
pain. As before pointed out1 pleasure “ is a sense of
‘ moreness', of increased, expanded life", while pain is a
shutting in or lessening of life, and these belong to the whole
consciousness. “ This primary state of consciousness does
not manifest the three well-known aspects of Will, Wisdom,
and Activity, even in the most germinal stage ; ‘ feeling '
precedes these, and belongs to consciousness as a whole,
though in later stages of evolution it shows itself so much
in connexion with the Will-Desire aspect as to become
almost identified with it." " As the states of pleasure and
pain become more definitely established in consciousness
they give rise to another; with the fading away of pleasure
there is a continuation of the attraction in consciousness,
and this becomes a dim groping after it " — a groping, be it
noted, not after any pleasure-giving object, but after a con­
tinuance of the feeling of pleasure— “ a vague following of
the vanishing feeling, a movement— too indefinite to be called
an effort— to hold it, to retain it; similarly with the fading
away of pain there is a continuation of the repulsion in
consciousness, and this becomes an equally vague movement
to push it away. These stages give birth to Desire."
This arising of Desire is a feeble reaching out of the life in
200 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
vague, groping. Beyond this it cannot go, until Thought has
developed to a certain extent, and has recognised an outer
world, a Not-Self, and has learned to relate various objects
in the Not-Self to the pleasure or pain arising in conscious­
ness on contacting them.
But the results of these contacts, long before the objects
are recognized, have caused, as above indicated, a division
in, a forking of, Desire. We may take as one of the simplest
illustrations the craving for food in a lowly organism ; as the
physical body wastes, becomes less, a sense of pain arises in
the astral body, a want, a craving, vague and indeterminate ;
the body, by its wasting, has become a less effective vehicle
of the life pouring down through the astral, and this check
causes pain. A current in the water that bathes the organism
brings food up against the body ; it is absorbed, the waste
is repaired, the life flows on unobstructed ; there is pleasure.
At a little higher stage, when pain arises, there is the desire
to escape from it, the sense of repulsion arises, the contrary
to the sense of attraction, caused by pleasure. There results
from this that Desire is cloven in twain. From the Will to
Live arose the longing to experience, and in the lower vehicle
this longing, appearing as Desire, becomes on the one hand
a longing for experiences that make the feeling of life more
vivid, and on the other a shrinking from all that weakens and
depresses. This attraction and repulsion are equally of the
nature of Desire. Just as a magnet attracts or repels certain
metals, so does the embodied Self attract and repel. Both
attraction and repulsion are Desire, and these are the two
great motor-energies in life, into which all desires are ulti­
mately resolvable. The Self comes under the bondage of
DESIRE 201
Desire, of Attraction-Repulsion, and is attracted hither and
thither, repelled from this or that, hurried about among
pleasure and pain-giving objects, as a helmless ship amid the
currents of air and sea.
3. THE RELATION OF DESIRE TO THOUGHT
We have now to consider the relation that Desire bears
to Thought, and see how it first rules and then is ruled by
the latter.
The Pure Reason is the reflexion of the Wisdom-aspect of
the Monad, and appears in the human Spirit as Buddhi. But
it is not the relation of Desire to the Pure Reason with which
we are concerned, for it cannot, in fact, be said to be
directly related to Wisdom, but to Love, the manifestation
of Wisdom on the astral plane. We are to seek rather its
relation to the Activity-aspect of the Monad, showing itself
on the astral plane as sensation and on the mental as
thought. Nor are we even concerned with the Higher Mind,
which is creative Activity, Manas, in its purity ; but with the
distorted reflexion of this, the lower mind. It is this lower
mind which is immediately related to Desire, and is inextri­
cably intermingled with it in human evolution ; so closely
joined, indeed, are they, that we often speak of Kama-
Manas, Desire-Mind, as of a single thing, so rare is it, in the
lower consciousness, to find a single thought which is uninflu­
enced by a desire. “ Manas verily is declared to be twofold,
pure and impure ; the impure is determined by desire, the
pure is desire-free." ’
1B i n d o p a n i s h a t , 1.
202 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
This lower mind is “ thought " on the mental plane ; its
characteristic property is that it asserts and denies ; it knows
by difference ; it perceives and remembers. On the astral
plane, as we have seen, the same aspect that on the mental
plane is thought appears as sensation, and is aroused by
contact with the external world.
When a pleasure has been experienced, and has passed
away, Desire arises to experience it again, as we have seen.
And this fact implies memory, which is a function of the
mind. Here, as ever, are we reminded that consciousness
is ever acting in its threefold nature, though one or other
aspect may predominate, for even the most germinal desire
cannot arise without memory being present. The sensation
caused by an external impact must have been many times
aroused, before the mind will establish a relation between
the sensation of which it is conscious and the external
object which has caused the sensation. At last the mind
“ perceives " the object, /.e., relates it to one of its own
changes, recognizes a modification in itself caused by the
external object. Repetitions of this perception will establish
a definite link in memory between the object and the
pleasurable or painful sensation, and when Desire presses for
the repetition of pleasure, the mind recalls the object which
supplied that pleasure. Thus the mingling of Thought with
Desire gives birth to a particular desire, the desire to find and
appropriate the pleasure-giving object.
This desire impels the mind to exert its inherent activity.
Discomfort being caused by the unsatisfied craving, effort is
made to escape the discomfort by supplying the object
wanted. The mind plans, schemes, drives the body into
DESIRE 203»
action, in order to satisfy the cravings of Desire. And
similarly, equally prompted by Desire, the mind plans,
schemes, drives the body into action in order to avoid the
recurrence of pain from an object recognized as pain-giving.
Such is the relation of Desire to Thought. It rouses,
stimulates, urges on, mental efforts. The mind is, in its
early stages, the slave of Desire, and the rapidity of its
growth is in proportion to the fierce urgings of Desire. We
desire, and thus are forced to think.
4. DESIRE, THOUGHT, ACTION
The third stage of the contact of the Self with the Not-
Seif is Action. The mind having perceived the object of
desire, leads to, guides, and shapes the action. Action is
>ften said to arise from Desire, but Desire alone could only
irouse movement, or chaotic action. The force of Desire is
>ropulsive, not directive. Thought it is that adds the element
>
f direction, and shapes the action purposively.
This is the ever-recurring cycle in consciousness— Desire,
bought, Action. The propulsive power of Desire arouses
bought; the directive power of Thought guides Action,
his sequence is invariable, and the clear understanding
lereof is of the profoundest importance, for the effective
ontrol of conduct depends on this understanding and on
s application in practice. This shaping of karma can only
e achieved when this sequence is understood, for evitable
id inevitable action can only thus be discriminated.
It is by Thought that we can change Desire, and thereby
lange Action. When the mind sees that certain desires
*204 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
have impelled to thoughts that have directed actions which
were productive of unhappiness, it can resist the future
promptings of Desire in a similar direction, and refuse to
guide actions to a result already known as disastrous. It
can picture the painful results, and thus arouse the repellent
energy of Desire, and can image the blissful outcome of
desires of the opposite kind. The creative activity of Thought
can be exerted in the moulding of Desire, and its propulsive
energy can be turned into a better direction. In this way
Thought can be used to master Desire, and it may become
the ruler instead of the slave. And as it thus asserts control
over its unruly companion, it begins the transmutation of
Desire into Will, changing the governance of the outgoing
energy from the outer to the inner, from the external objects
that attract or repel to the Spirit, the inner Ruler.
5. THE BINDING NATURE OF DESIRE
Since the Will to Live is the cause of the forthgoing, of
the life seeking embodiment and appropriating to itself that
which is necessary for its manifestation and persistence in
form, Desire, being Will on a lower plane, will show similar
characteristics, seeking to appropriate, to draw into itself, to
make part of itself that whereby its life in form may be
maintained and strengthened. When we desire an object,
we seek to make it part of ourselves, part of the " I ", so
that it may form part of the embodiment of the “ I". Desire
is the putting forth of the power of attraction ; it draws the
desired object to itself. Whatever we desire, we attach to
ourselves. By the desire to possess it, a bond is established
DESIRE 205
between the object and the desirer. We tie to the Self this
portion of the Not-Self, and the bond exists until the object
is possessed, or until the Self has broken off the bond and
repudiated the object. These are “ the bonds of the
heart 'V and tie the Self to the wheel of births and deaths.
These bonds between the desirer and the objects of desire
are like ropes that draw the Self to the place where the
objects of desire are found, and thus determine its birth into
one or another world. On this runs the verse : “ He also
who is attached ever obtains by action that on which his
mind has set its mark. Having obtained the object of action
he here performs, he comes again therefore from that world
to this world for the sake of action. Thus is it with the
desiring mind." 8 If a man desires the objects of another
world more than the objects of this, then into that world will
he be born. There is a continuing tension in the bond of
Desire until the Self and the object are united.
The one great determining energy, the Will to Live, which
holds the planets in their path around the sun, which pre­
vents the matter of the globes from scattering, which holds
our own bodies together, that is the energy of Desire. That
which rules ail is in us as Desire, and it must draw to us, or
draw us to, everything into which it has fixed its hooks. The
hook of Desire fixes itself in an object, as a harpoon in the
whale at which it is flung by the harpooner. When Desire
has fixed its harpoon in an object, the Self is attached to
that object, has appropriated it in Will, and presently must
appropriate it in action. Hence a great Teacher has said :
1K a t h o p a n i s h a t , vi, 15.
2B r i h a d a r a n y a k o p a n i s h a t , IV, iv, 6.
206 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
" If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out and cast it from
thee . . . if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off and
cast it from thee.” ] The thing desired becomes part of the
body of the Self, and if it be evil it should be torn out, at
whatever cost of anguish. Otherwise it will only be worn
away by the slow attrition of time and of weariness. " Only
the strong can kill it out. The weak must wait for its growth,
its fruition, its death.” 2
6. THE BREAKING OF THE BONDS
For the breaking of the bonds of Desire, recourse must
be had to the mind, Therein lies the power which shall first
purify and then transmute-Desire.
The mind records the results which follow the appropria­
tion of each object of Desire, and marks whether happiness
or pain has resulted from the union of that object with the
embodied Self. And when, after many appropriations of an
attractive object, it has found the result to be pain, it regis­
ters that object as one which should be avoided in the future.
“ The delights that are contact-born, they are verily wombs
of pain.” 3
Then arises strife. When that attractive object again
presents itself, Desire throws out its harpoon and seizes it,
and begins to draw it in. The mind, remembering the pain­
ful results of previous similar captures, endeavours to check
Desire, to cut with the sword of knowledge the attaching
bond. Fierce conflict rages within the man : he is dragged
1M a t t . v. 2 9 , 3 0 . 2 L i g h t o n t h e P a t h , 4 .
3B h a g a v a d - G h a . v. 2 2 .
DESIRE 207
forward by Desire, held back by Thought ; many and many
a time Desire will triumph and the object will be appropriat- ^
ed ; but the resulting pain is ever repeated, and each suc­
cess of Desire arrays against it another enemy in the forces
of the mind. Inevitably, however slowly, Thought proves
stronger, until at last victory inclines to its side, and a day
:omes when the desire is weaker than the mind, and the
attractive object is loosed, the attaching cord is cut. For
;hat object, the bond is broken.
In this conflict, Thought seeks to utilize against Desire the
;trength of Desire. It selects objects of Desire that give a
elatively lasting happiness, and seeks to utilize these against
he desires that swiftly result in pain. Thus it will set artistic
igainst sensual pleasure ; it will use fame and political or
ocial power against enjoyments of the flesh ; it will stimulate
he desire to please the good, to strengthen abstention from
icious delights ; it will finally make the desire for eternal
ieace conquer the desires for temporal joys. By the one
reat attraction the lower attractions are slain and cease to
e any longer the objects of desire : " Even taste (for them)
jrneth away from him after the Supreme is seen.” 1 The
sry energy of Desire can tear it away from that which
rings pain, and fix it on that which brings bliss. The same
>rce that bound is made to serve as an instrument of free-
cm. Wrenching itself away from objects, it will turn up-
ards and inwards, attaching the man to the Life whence he
ime forth, and in union with which consists his highest bliss.
Herein lies the value of devotion as a liberator. Love,
rning to the Supreme, sees Him as eminently desirable, as
1B h a g a v a r l - G i t a , ii, 5 9 .
208 A STUDY SN CONSCIOUSNESS
an Object for intense desire, and this bums up attachments
to objects that keep the heart in bondage.
Only by the Self as Thought can be mastered the Self as
Desire; the Self, realizing itself as the life, overcomes the
Self embodied and thinking itself to be the form. The man
must learn to separate himself from the vehicles in which he
desires, thinks, and acts, to know them as part of the Not-
Self, as material external to life. Thus the energy that
went out to objects in the lower desires becomes the higher
desire guided by the mind and is prepared to be trans­
muted into Will.
As the lower mind merges itself in the higher, and the
higher into that which is Wisdom, the aspect of pure Will
emerges as the Power of the Spirit, Self-determined, Self-
ruled, in perfect harmony with the Supreme Will, and there­
fore free. Then only are all bonds broken, and the Spirit is
unconstrained by aught outside himself. Then, and then
only, can the Will be said to be free.
CHAPTER III
DESIRE (con tin ued )
1. THE VEHICLE OF DESIRE
WE shall have to return to the struggle in the Desire-nature,
n order to add some useful details to that which has been
ilready said ; but it is first necessary to study the Vehicle of
desire, the Desire-Body or Astral Body, as this study will
inable us to understand the precise method in which we may
vork to subdue and get rid of the lower desires.
The Vehicle of Desire is made up of what is called astral
-»atter, the matter of the plane above the physical. This
latter, like the physical, exists in seven modifications,
hich relatively to each other are like the solid, liquid,
aseous, etc., sub-states of matter on the physical plane,
s the physical body contains within itself these various
ib-states of physical matter, so does the astral body
>ntain within itself the various sub-states of astral matter,
ich of these sub-states has in it coarser and finer
gregations, and the work of astral, as of physical purifica-
n, consists in the substitution of the finer for the coarser.
Moreover, the lower sub-states of astral matter serve
¡©
fly for the manifestation of the lower desires, while the
14
210 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
higher sub-states vibrate in answer to the desires whi
changed, by the intermixture of mind, into emotion
lower desires, grasping after objects of pleasure, f
the lower sub-states serve as medium for their at
force, and the coarser and baser the desires, the coa
the aggregations of matter that fitly express them. As
sire causes the corresponding material in the astral I
vibrate, that matter becomes strongly vitalized and
fresh similar matter from outside to itself, and thus in
the amount of such matter in the constitution of th
body. When the desires are gradually refined into en
intellectual elements entering into them, and sel-
diminishing, the amount of finer matter similarly incr«
the astral body, while the coarser matter, left unvitalize
energy and decreases in amount.
These facts, applied to practice, help us to weal
enemy which is enthroned within us, for we c
prive him of his instruments. A traitor within the -
more dangerous than a foe outside, and the desire-bc
as such a traitor, so long as it is composed of elemei
answer to the temptations from without.
Desire, as it builds in the coarser materials, n
checked by the mind, the mind refusing to picti
passing pleasure which the possession of the objecl
entail, and picturing to itself the more lasting sorrow i
cause. As we get rid of the coarser matter which '
in answer to the baser attractions, those attractions
power to disturb us.
This Vehicle of Desire, then, must be taken in
according to its building will be the attractions that r
DESIRE 211
from without We can work upon the form, change the
elements of which the form is composed, and thus turn the
enemy into a defender.
When a man is evolving in character, he is, however, con­
fronted with a difficulty which often alarms and depresses
him. He finds himself shaken by desires from which he
shrinks, of which he is ashamed, and despite his strenuous
efforts to shake them off, they none the less ding to and
torment him. They are discordant with his efforts, his hopes,
his aspirations, and yet, in some way, they seem to be his.
This painful experience is due to the fact that the conscious­
ness evolves more rapidly than the form can change, and
the two are to some extent in conflict with each other.
There is a considerable amount of the coarser aggregations
still present in the astral body ; but as the desires have be­
come more refined, they no longer vivify these materials.
Some of the old vitality none the less persists therein, and
although these aggregations are decaying they are not
wholly gone.
Now although the man's Desire-nature is no longer using
these materials for self-expression, they may yet be thrown
into temporary activity from outside, and thus take on a
semblance of vitality as a galvanized corpse might do. The
desires of other people— desire-elementals of an evil kind—
■ n
ay attach themselves to these disused elements in his astral
Dody, and they may thus be stimulated and revivified, and
:ause him to feel as his own the promptings of desires he
ibhors. Where such experiences are undergone, let the
>ewildered combatant take courage ; even in the inrush of
hese desires, let him repudiate them as hone of his, and
212 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
know that the elements m him they utilize are of the past,
and are dying, and that the day of their death and of his
freedom is at hand.
We may take an example from dream, to show this work­
ing of effete matter in the astral body. A man, in a former
life, was a drunkard, and his after-death experiences had
impressed deeply on him a repulsion for drink; on rebirth,
the Ego in the new physical and astral bodies impressed on
them this repulsion, but there was none the less in the astral
body some matter drawn thereinto by the vibrations caused
in the permanent atom by the former drunkenness. This
matter is not vivified in the present life by any craving for
drink, nor any yielding to the drink-habit; on the contrary,
in the waking life, the man is sober. But in dream, this
matter in the astral body is stimulated into activity from
without, and the control of the Ego being weak over the
astral body,1 this matter responds to the drink-craving
vibrations that reach it, and the man dreams that he drinks.
Moreover, if there still be in the man a latent desire for
drink, too weak to assert itself during waking-consciousness,
it may come up in the dream-state. For physical matter
being comparatively heavy and hard to move, a weak
desire has not energy enough to cause vibrations therein ;
but that same desire may move the much lighter astral
matter, and so a man may be carried away in a dream by a
desire which has no power over him in his waking-con­
sciousness. Such dreams cause much distress, because not
understood. The man should understand that the dream
1The Ego turns his attention inward during sleep, until he is able to
use his astral body independently; hence his control over it is weak.
DESIRE 213
shows that the temptation is conquered so far as he is con­
cerned, and that he is only troubled by the corpse
of past desires, vivified from outside on the astral
plane, or if from within, then by a dying desire too weak
to move him in his waking moments. The dream is a
sign of a victory well-nigh complete. At the same time
it is a warning ; for it tells the man that there is still in his
astral body some matter apt to be vivified by vibrations of
the drink-craving, and that therefore he should not place
himself during waking life under conditions where such
vibrations may abound. Until such dreams have entirely
ceased, the astral body is not free from matter that js a
source of danger.
2. THE CONFLICT OF DESIRE AND THOUGHT
We must now return to the struggle in the Desire-nature,
to which reference has already been made, in order to add
some necessary details.
This conflict belongs to what may be called the middle
stage of evolution, that long stage which intervenes between
the state of the man entirely ruled by Desire, grasping all
he wants, unchecked by conscience, undisturbed by remorse,
and the state of the highly evolved spiritual man, in whom
Will, Wisdom, and Activity work in co-ordinated harmony.
The conflict arises between Desire and Thought— Thought
beginning to understand the relation of itself to the Not-Self
and to other separated selves, and Desire, influenced by the
objects around it, moving by attractions and repulsions,
drawn hither and thither by objects that allure.
214 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
We must study the stage of evolution in which the accu­
mulated memories of past experiences, stored in the mind,
set themselves against the gratification of desires which have
been proved to lead to pain ; or, to speak more accurately,
in which the conclusion drawn by the Thinker from these
accumulated experiences asserts itself in face of a demand
from the Desire-nature for the object which has been
stamped as dangerous.
The habit of grasping and enjoying has been established
for hundreds of lives, and is strong, while the habit of resist­
ing a present pleasure in order to avoid a future pain is only
in course of establishment, and is consequently very weak.
Hence the conflicts between the Thinker and the Desire-
nature end for a long time in a series of defeats. The young
Mind struggling with the mature Desire-body finds itself con­
stantly vanquished. But every victory of the Desire-nature,
being followed by a brief pleasure and a long pain, gives
birth to a new force hostile to itself, that recruits the strength
of its opponent. Each defeat of the Thinker thus sows the
seeds of his future victory, and his strength daily grows while
the strength of the Desire-nature diminishes.
When this is clearly understood, we grieve no longer over
our own falls and the falls of those we love ; for we know
that these falls are making sure the secure footing of the
future, and that in the womb of pain is maturing the future
conqueror.
Our knowledge of right and wrong grows out of experi­
ence, and is elaborated only by trial. The sense of right and
wrong, now innate in the civilized man, has been developed
by innumerable experiences. In the early days of the
DESIRE 215
separated Self all experiences were useful in his evolution,
and brought him the lessons needful for his growth. Gradu­
ally he learned that the yielding to desires which in the
course of their gratification injured others, brought him pain
out of proportion to the temporary pleasure derived from
their;satisfaction. He began to attach the word “ wrong ”
to the desires the yielding to which brought a predominance
of pain, and this the more quickly because the Teachers who
guided his early growth placed on the objects which attracted
such desires the ban of Their disapproval. When he had
disobeyed Them and suffering followed, the impression made
on the Thinker was the more powerful for the previous fore­
telling, and conscience— the Will to do the right and abstain
from the wrong— was proportionately strengthened.
In this connexion we can readily see the value of admoni­
tion, reproof, and good counsel. All these are stored up in
the mind, and are forces added to the accumulating memo­
ries which oppose the gratification of wrong desire.
Granted that the person warned may again yield when the
temptation assails him ; that only means that the balance of
strength is still in the wrong desire; when the foretold
suffering arrives, the mind will recall all the memories of
warnings and admonitions, and will engrave the more deeply
in its substance the decision : " This desire is wrong.” The
doing of the wrong act merely means that the memory of
past pain is not yet sufficiently strong to overbear the
attraction of eagerly anticipated and immediate pleasure.
The lesson needs to be repeated yet a few times more, to
strengthen the memory of the past, and when that is done
victory is sure. The suffering is a necessary element in the
216 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
growth of the soul, and has the promise of that growth
within it. Everywhere around us, if we see aright, is growing
good ; nowhere is there hopeless evil.
This struggle is expressed in the sad cry : “ What I would,
that I do not,* what I would not, that l do.” “ When Iwould
do good, evil is present with me.” The wrong that we do,
when the wish is against the doing, is done by the habit of
the past. The weak Will is overpowered by the strong
Desire.
Now the Thinker in his conflict with the Desire-nature calls
to his aid that very nature, and strives to awaken in it a
desire which shall be opposed to the desire against which
he is waging war. As the attraction of a weak magnet may
be overpowered by that of a stronger one, so may one
desire be strengthened for the overcoming oF another, a
right desire may be aroused to combat a wrong one. Hence
the value of an ideal.
3. THE VALUE OF AN IDEAL
An ideal is a fixed mental concept of an inspiring char­
acter, framed for the guidance of conduct, and the formation
of an ideal is one of the most effective means of influencing
desire. The ideal may, or may not, find embodiment in an
individual, according to the temperament of the man who
frames it. and it must ever be remembered that the value of
an ideal depends largely on its attractiveness, and that that
which attracts one temperament by no means necessarily
attracts another,, An abstract ideal and a personal one are
equally good, regarded from a general standpoint, and that
DESIRE 217
should be selected which has, on the individual choosing it,
the most attractive influence. A person of the intellectual
temperament will usually find an abstract ideal the more
satisfactory; whereas one of the emotional temperament
will demand a concrete embodiment of his thought. The
disadvantage of the abstract ideal is that it is apt to fail in
compelling inspiration ; the disadvantage of the concrete
embodiment is that the embodiment is apt to fall below
the ideal.
The mind, of course, creates the ideal, and either retains
it as an abstraction, or embodies it in a person. The time
chosen for the creation of an ideal should be a time when
the mind is calm and steady and luminous, when the Desire-
nature is asleep. Then the Thinker should consider the
purpose of his life, the goal at which he aims, and with this
to guide his choice he should select the qualities necessary
to enable him to reach that goal. These qualities he should
combine into a single concept, imagining as strongly as he
can this integration of the qualities he needs. Daily he should
repeat this integrating process, until his ideal stands out
clearly in the mind, dowered with all beauty of high thought
and noble character, a figure of compelling attractiveness.
The man of intellect will keep this ideal as a pure concept.
The man of emotional nature will embody it in a person,
such as the Buddha, the Christ, Shri Krishna or some other
divine Teacher. In this latter case he will, if possible, study
His life, His teachings, His actions, and the ideal W
ill thus
become more and more strongly vivified, more and more
real to the Thinker. Intense love will spring up in the heart
for this embodied ideal, and Desire will stretch out longing
218 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
arms to embrace it. And when temptation assails, and the
lower desires clamour for satisfaction, then the attractive
power of the ideal asserts itself, the loftier desire combats
the baser, and the Thinker finds himself reinforced by right
desire, the negative strength of memory which says : “ Abstain
from the base/' being fortified by the positive strength of
the ideal which says : “ Achieve the heroic."
The man who lives habitually in the presence of a great
ideal is armed against wrong desires by love of his ideal, by
shame of being base in its presence, by the longing to re­
semble that which he adores, and also by the general set
and trend of his mind along lines of noble thinking. Wrong
desires become more and more incongruous. They perish
naturally, unable to breathe in that pure clear air.
It may be worth while to remark here, in view of the
destructive results of historical criticism in the minds of
many, that the value of the ideal Christ, the ideal Buddha,
the ideal Krishna, is in no way injured by any lack of historic­
al data, by any defects in the proofs of the authenticity of
a manuscript. Many of the stories related may not be
historically true, but they are ethically and vitally true.
Whether this incident happened in the physical life of this
Teacher or not is a matter of small import; the reaction of
such an ideal character on his environment is ever profound­
ly true. The world-scriptures represent spiritual facts,
whether the physical incidents be or be not historically true.
Thus' Thought may shape and direct Desire, and turn it
from an enemy into an ally. By changing the direction of
Desire, it becomes a lifting and quickening instead of a
retarding force, and where desires for objects held us fast
DESIRE 219
in the mire of earth, desire for the ideal lifts us on strong
wings to heaven.
4. THE PURIFICATION OF DESIRE
We have already seen how much may be done in the
purification of the Vehicle of Desire, and the contemplation
and worship of the ideal which has just been described is
a most potent means for the purification of Desire. Evil
desires die away as good desires are encouraged and
fostered— die away merely from want of nourishment.
The effort to reject all wrong desires is accompanied by
the firm refusal of thought to allow them to pass on into
actions. Will begins to restrain action, even when Desire
clamours for gratification. And this refusal to permit the
action instigated by wrong desire gradually deprives of all
attractive power the objects which erstwhile aroused
it. " The objects of sense . . . turn away from an abstemi­
ous dweller in the body." 1 The desires fade away, starved
by lack of satisfaction. Abstention from gratification is a
potent means of purification.
There is another means of purification in which the repul­
sive force of Desire is utilized, as in the contemplation of the
ideal the attractive force was evoked. It is useful in extreme
cases, in which the lowest desires are tumultuous and in­
surgent, such desires as lead to the vices of gluttony, drunk­
enness, and profligacy. Sometimes a man finds it impossible
to get rid of evil desires, and despite all his efforts his mind
\/ields to th*air Ctronn Imnnlco anrl <aw
il **
i/->
* U
.r-
220 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
brain. He may conquer by apparent yielding, carrying on
the evil imaginations to their inevitable results. He pictures
himself yielding to the temptations that assail him, and sink­
ing more and more into the grip of the evil that masters him.
He follows himself, as he falls deeper and deeper, becoming
the helpless slave of his passions. He traces with vivid imag­
ination the stages of his descent, sees his body becoming
coarser and coarser, then bloated and diseased. He contem­
plates the shattered nerves, the loathsome sores, the hideous
decay and ruin of the once strong and healthy frame. He
fixes his eyes on the dishonoured death, the sad legacy of
shameful memory left to relatives and friends. He faces in
thought the other side of death, and sees the soil and dis­
tortion of his vices pictured in the suffering astral body, and
the agony of the craving of desires that may no longer be
fulfilled. Resolutely he forces his shrinking thoughts to dwell
on this miserable panorama of the triumph of wrong desires,
until there rises within him a strong repulsion against them,
an intolerable fear and loathing of the result of present
yielding.
Such a method of purification is like the surgeon's knife,
cutting out a cancer which menaces the life, and, like all
surgical operations, is to be avoided unless no other means
of cure remain. It Is better to conquer wrong desire by the
attractive force of an ideal, than by the repulsive force of a
spectacle of ruin. But where attraction fails to conquer,
repulsion may perhaps prevail.
There is also a danger in this latter method, since the
coarser .matter in the Vehicle of Desire is increased by this
dwelling in thought on evil, and the struggle is thereby
DESIRE 221
rendered longer than when it is possible to throw the life into
good desires and high aspirations. Therefore it is the worse
method of the two, only to be accepted when the other is
unattainable.
By higher attraction, by repulsion, or by the slow teaching
of suffering, Desire must be purified. The " must ” is not so
much a necessity imposed by an outside Deity as the imperial
command of the Deity within, who will not be denied. With
this true Will of the Divinity, who is our Self, all divine forces
in nature work, and that divine Self who wills the highest
must inevitably in the end subdue all things to himself.
With this triumph comes the ceasing of Desire. For then
external objects no longer either attract or repel the outgoing
energies of Atma, and these energies are entirely directed
by Self-determined Wisdom ; that is, Will has taken the place
of Desire. Good and evil are seen as the divine forces that
work for evolution, the one as necessary as the other, the
one the complement of the other. The good is the force
that is to be worked with ; the evil is the force that is to be
worked against; by the right using of both, the powers of
the Self are evolved into manifestation.
When the Self has developed the aspect of Wisdom, he
looks on the righteous and the wicked, the saint and the
sinner, with equal eyes, and is therefore equally ready to
help both, to reach out strong hands to either. Desire, which
regarded them with attraction and repulsion, as pleasure­
giving and pain-giving, has ceased, and Will, which is energy
directed by Wisdom, brings fitting aid to both. Thus man
'ises above the tyranny of the pairs of opposites, and dwells
n the Eternal Peace.
CHAPTER IV
EMOTION
1. T H E B IR TH O F E M O T IO N
E M O T IO N is not a sim ple o r p rim ary state of co nscio usness,
but is a co m p o u n d m ade up by th e interaction of tw o of
th e a sp e c ts of th e Self— D esire and Intellect. The play of
In tellect on D e sire g ives birth to Em otion ; it is th e child of
both, and show s so m e o f th e ch aracteristics of its fath er,
In telle ct, as w ell as of its m o th er, D esire.
In th e d e v e lo p e d condition Em o tio n seem s so d ifferent
fro m D e sire th at th eir fun d am en tal identity is som ew hat
ve ile d ; but w e can se e this identity either by tracing th e
d e v e lo p m e n t o f a d esire into an em o tion, or by studying
both sid e by side, and finding th at both have th e sam e
ch a ra cte ristics, th e sam e divisions, th at th e o ne is in fact an
e lab o rate d form of th e o ther, th e elaboration being due to
th e p re s e n c e in th e later of a n u m b e r of intellectual elem en ts
a b se n t fro m , or less m arked ly p ro m in e n t in, th e earlier.
L e t us tra ce th e d e v e lo p m e n t of a d esire into an em otion
in o n e of th e co m m o n est of hum an relations, th e relation of
sex. H e re is d e sire in o n e o f its sim plest form s ; d esire for
fo o d , d e sire fo r sexual union, are th e tw o fundam ental d esires
o f all living th ing s— d esire J o r fo o d to m aintain life, d esire for
E M O T IO N 223
sexual union to in crease life. In both th e se n se of " m o re ­
ness " is e x p e rie n ce d , or, o th erw ise stated , p leasu re is fait.
T h e d esire fo r fo o d rem ains a d esire ; th e food is a p p ro ­
p ria te d , assim ilated, loses its se p a ra te identity, b e co m e s part
o f th e “ M e T h ere is no co ntinued relation b e tw ee n th e
e a te r and th e fo o d w hich g ives sco p e for th e elaboration of
an em o tion. It is o th erw ise in th e sex-relatio n, w hich ten d s
to b e co m e m o re and m o re p erm an en t with th e evolution of
th e individuality.
Two savag e s are drawn to w ards e ach o th e r by th e a ttra c­
tion o f sex ; a passion to p o ssess th e o th e r arises in e a ch ;
e ach d esires th e o th er. The d esire is as sim ple as th e d esire
fo r foo d. But it canno t b e satisfied to th e sam e e xten t, for
n eith er can w holly ap p ro p riate and assim ilate th e o th e r;
e a ch to so m e extent m aintains his o r h e r se p a ra te identity,
and each o nly partially b e co m es th e " M e " o f th e o th er.
T h ere is in d e e d an extension of th e “ M e " , but it is by w ay
o f inclusion and not by w ay of self-identification. The p re s­
e n c e of this persisting barrier is n ecessary for th e tra n sfo rm a­
tion of a d esire into an em o tion. This m akes p ossible th e
atta ch m e n t o f m em o ry and anticipation to th e sam e o b ject,
an d not to an o th er o b je ct sim ilar in kind— as in th e ca se of
foo d . A continuing desire fo r union w ith th e sam e o b je ct
b e co m e s an em o tion, thoughts thus m ingling with th e p ri­
m ary d esire to possess. Th e b arrier w hich k e e p s th e m utu­
ally a ttracte d o b je cts as tw o not one, w hich p reven ts th eir
fusion, w hile it see m s to fru strate really im m o rtalizes ; w e re
it sw e p t aw ay , desire and em otion .alike w ould vanish, and
th e T w a in -b e co m e -O n e m ust th en se e k an o th e r extern al
o b je ct for th e fu rth er self-exp ansio n of p leasu re.
224 A ST U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
To return to our savages, d esire-u nited . The w om an falls
sick, and c e a se s, for th e tim e, to be an o bject of sex-g rati­
fication. But th e man rem em b ers past, and anticipates
future, delight, and a feeling of sym pathy with h er suffering,
of co m p assio n fo r her w eakn ess, arises within him. The p e r­
sisting attraction tow ards her, due to m em ory and anticipa­
tion, ch a n g e s desire into em o tio n , passion into love, and
sym p ath y and co m passio n are its earliest m anifestations.
T h e se, in turn, will lead to his sacrificing him self to h er,
w aking to nurse her w hen h e w ould sleep , exerting him self
for h er w hen he would rest. T h ese spontaneous m oods of
th e love-em otio n in him will later solidify into virtues, /.e., will
b e co m e p erm an en t m o ods in his ch aracter, show ing th e m ­
selves in resp o n se to th e calls o f hum an need to all persons
with w ho m h e co m es into co n ta ct, w h eth er th ey attract him
o r not. W e shall se e later th at virtues are sim ply perm anent
m o ods of right em o tion.
B efo re , h o w eve r, dealing w ith th e relation of eth ics and
em o tion, w e m ust furth er realize th e fundam ental identity of
D esire and Em otion by noting th eir ch aracteristics and divi­
sions. A s this is done, w e shall find that em otions do not
fo rm a m e re jungle, but that all spring from one root, divid­
ing into tw o m ain stem s, e ach of th e se again subdividing into
b ran ch e s, on w hich gro w th e leaves of virtues and of vices.
This fruitful idea, m aking p ossible a scien ce of th e em otions,
and h e n ce an intelligible and rational system of eth ics, is due
to an Indian author, B hagavan D as, w ho has for th e first tim e
intro d u ced o rd e r into this hitherto confused region of co n ­
sciousness. Stu den ts of p sych o lo g y will find in his S c i e n c e o f
t h e E m o t i o n s a lucid tre atise , setting forth this sch em e,
E M O T IO N 225
w hich red u ce s th e ch ao s of the em o tions into a co sm o s, and
shapes th erein an o rd ered m orality, lh e b ro ad lines o f
exposition fo llo w ed h e re are draw n from that w ork, to w hich
readers are re fe rre d for fuller details.
W e h a ve seen th at D esire has tw o m ain e x p re s s io n s ;
desire to attract, in o rd er to p o ssess, or again to co m e into
co ntact with, any o b je ct w hich has p revio usly affo rd ed
pleasure ; d esire to rep el, in o rd e r to drive fa r aw ay, or to
avoid co n ta ct w ith, any o b je ct w hich has p revio usly inflicted
pain. W e h a ve see n that A ttraction and Repulsion are th e
tw o form s o f D e sire , sw aying th e Seif.
Em otion, being D esire infused with In tellect, inevitably
show s th e sam e division into tw o. Th e Em otion w hich is o f
th e nature o f A ttractio n , attracting o b jects to e a ch o th e r b y
p leasure, th e integrating e n e rg y in th e u niverse, is called
Lo ve. The Em otion w hich is of th e nature of R epulsion,
driving o b je cts apart from e ach o th e r by pain, th e d isin te­
grating e n e rg y in th e universe, is called H a te . T h e se are th e
tw o stem s fro m th e root of D esire, and all th e b ran ch e s o f
th e em o tions m ay be traced back to o n e o f th e se tw ain.
H e n c e th e identity of th e ch aracteristics of D e sire and
Em otion ; L o v e see ks to draw to itself th e a ttractive o b je ct,
or to go afte r it, in o rd er to unite w ith it,' to p o ssess, o r b e
p o ssessed by, it. It binds by p leasu re, by h ap p in ess, as D e sire
binds. Its ties are ind eed m o re lasting, m o re co m p licate d ,
are co m p o se d o f m o re num ero us and m o re d elica te th re a d s
interw oven into g re ate r co m p lexity, but th e e sse n c e o f
D esire-A ttractio n , th e binding of tw o o b je cts to g e th e r, is th e
e sse n ce of Em o tio n -A ttractio n , of Lo ve . A n d so also d o e s
H ate see k to drive aw ay fro m itself th e rep e llen t o b je ct, o r
15
2 2 6 A S T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
to fle e fro m it, in o rd e r to b e ap art fro m it, to repulse, or b e
rep u lse d by, it. It se p a ra te s by pain, by unhappiness. A nd
th us th e e ss e n c e of D e sire -R e p u lsio n , th e driving apart of
tw o o b je cts, is th e e sse n c e of Em o tio n -R epu lsio n , of H a te .
L o v e and H a te a re th e e lab o rate d and thought* infused form s
o f th e sim ple D e sire s to p o ssess and to shun.
2 . T H E P LA Y O F E M O T IO N IN T H E FA M ILY
M an has b een d escrib ed as " a social anim al ” — th e biologi­
cal w ay o f saying that h e d ev e lo p s b est in co ntact with, not
in isolation fro m , his fello w s. H is distinctively intellectual
ch a ra cte ristics n e e d , for th e ir evolutio n, a social m edium , and
his k e e n e st p le a su re s— and h e n c e necessarily his kee n e st
p ain s— arise in his relations with o th ers of his own sp e cie s.
T h e y alo ne can e v o k e fro m him th e resp o n ses on w hich his
fu rth e r gro w th d ep e n d s. All evo lu tio n, all th e calling out of
laten t p o w ers, is in resp o n se to stim uli from w ithout, and,
w h e n th e hum an stag e is re a ch e d , th e m ost poignant and
e ffe c tiv e stim uli can oniy c o m e from co ntacts with hum an
b ein g s.
S e x -attractio n is th e first social bond, and th e children born
to th e husband and w ife form w ith th e m th e first social unit,
th e fam ily. T h e p rolonged h e lp le ssn e ss and d e p e n d e n ce of
th e hum an infant g ive tim e fo r th e physical passion of p are n t­
a g e to ripen into th e em o tion o f m aternal and paternal love,
an d thus g ive stability to th e fam ily, w hile the fam ily itself
fo rm s a field in w hich th e various em o tions inevitably play.
H e re in a re first estab lish ed d efin ite and p erm an en t rela­
tio n s b e tw e e n hum an being s, and on th e harm ony of th e se
E M O T IO N 227
relations, on th e b enefits b esto w ed by th e se relations on each
m em b er of th e fam ily, d o es th e h app in ess of e ach d e p e n d .
W e can ad van tageo usly study th e play of Em otion in th e
fam ily, sin ce h e re w e h ave a co m p aratively sim ple social unit,
w hich ye t affords a p icture in m iniature of so cie ty at large.
W e can find h e re th e origin and evolution o f virtues and
vices, and s e e th e m eaning and o b je ct of m orality.
W e have alread y seen how sex-passio n e vo lve s u nd er
stress of circu m stan ces into th e em o tio n of love, and how
this love sho w s itself as te n d ern ess and co m p assio n w h en th e
w ife, instead o f being th e equal m ate, b e co m e s h elp less and
d ep e n d e n t, in the te m p o rary physical inferiority ca u se d , say,
by child-bearing. Sim ilarly, should sickness or accid e n t re ­
d uce th e husband to th e tem p o rary physical inferiority,
te n d ern ess, and co m p assio n will flow out to him from th e
w ife. But th e se m anifestatio ns of love cann o t b e show n by
th e stro n g er w ithout evoking from th e w e a k e r answ ering
lo ve-m an ifestatio n s ; th e se in th e co nditio n of w ea kn ess will
h a ve as th eir natural ch aracteristics trust, co n fid e n ce , g ra ti­
tude, ail eq u ally lo ve-em o tio n s co lo u red by w ea kn ess and
d e p e n d e n ce . In th e relation o f p arents to children and of
children to p are n ts, w h ere physical superio rity and inferiority
are far m o re strong ly m arked and persist fo r a co n sid erab le
period of tim e, th e se lo ve-em o tio n s will b e co ntinually m ani­
feste d on both sides. T en d e rn e ss, co m p assio n, p ro tectio n ,
will b e co nstan tly show n by th e p arents to th e child ren , and
trust, co n fid e n ce , g ratitude, will be th e co n stan t a n sw e r of
th e children. V ariations in th e expressio n o f th e lo ve-em o tio n
will be ca u se d by variety of circu m stan ce s, w hich will call out
g en ero sity, fo rg iven ess, p atie n ce , e tc ., on th e part o f th e
228 A S T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
p arents, and o b e d ien ce , dutifulness, service ab len e ss, e
th e part of th e children. Taking th e se tw o classe s o\
em o tio n s, w e s e e th at th e co m m o n e sse n c e in th e on<
is b e n e v o le n c e , and in th e o th e r re v e re n c e ; th e first i
looking dow n w ard s on th o se w e a k e r, inferio r to itseli
o th er, love looking u pw ards on th o se stro n g er, supei
itself. A nd w e can th en g en e ra lize and s a y : L o ve 1c
d o w n w ard s is B e n e v o le n ce ; L o v e looking upw ards is R
e n c e ; and th e se are th e sev e ral co m m o n characterist
L o v e fro m sup erio rs to inferio rs, and L o v e from inferu
sup erio rs universally.
Th e norm al relations b e tw e e n husband and w ife, and
b e tw e e n b ro th e rs and sisters, affo rd us th e field fo r stu
th e m anifestatio ns of love b e tw e e n equals. W e see
show ing itself as m utual te n d e rn e ss and m utual trustfui
as co n sid eratio n , re sp e ct, and d esire to p le a se , as quic
sig h t into and e n d e av o u r to fulfil th e w ish es of th e othe
m agnanim ity, fo rb e a ra n ce . T h e e lem en ts p rese n t in
lo ve -em o tio n s of sup erio r to inferio r are found h e re
m utuality is im p ressed on all of th e m . So w e m ay say
th e co m m o n ch a racteristic of L o v e b e tw ee n equals is D
fo r M utual H elp .
Thus w e h a v e B e n e v o le n ce , D e sire fo r M utual H elp,
R e v e re n c e as th e th re e m ain divisions o f th e L o v e -E m o
an d u n d e r th e se all lo ve-em o tio n s m ay b e classified. Fc
hu m an relations a re sum m ed up u nd er th e th re e classes :
relations of sup erio rs to inferiors, of equals to equal
inferiors to sup erio rs.
A sim ilar stu dy o f th e H a te -E m o tio n in th e fam ily w ill;
us sim ilar fruits. W h e re th e re is h a te b e tw e e n husband
E M O T IO N 229
w ife, th e te m p o ra ry superio r will show h arsh n ess, cru elty,
o pp ressio n to the te m p o rary inferior, an d th e se will b e
an sw e red by th e inferior with h ate-m an ifestatio n s c h a ra c ­
teristic of w ea k n ess, such as vind ictiven ess, fear, and
tre a ch e ry . T h e se will b e even m o re a p p are n t in th e relations
b e tw e e n p aren ts and ch ild re n , w hen both are d o m in ated by
th e H a te -E m o tio n , sin ce th e disparity is h e re g re a te r, and
tyran ny b re e d s a w hole cro p of evil e m o tio n s— d e c e it,
servility, co w a rd ice w hile th e child is help less, and dis­
o b e d ie n ce , revo lt, and rev e n g e as it gro w s o lder. H e re again
w e se e k a co m m o n ch a racteristic, and find th at H a te looking
dow nw ards is Sco rn , and looking upw ards is F e a r.
Sim ilarly, H a te b e tw e e n equals will show itself in an g er,
co m b ative n e ss, d isre sp e ct, vio le n ce, a g g re ssive n e ss, jealo u sy,
inso lence, e tc ,— all th e em o tio n s w hich rep el m an from m an
w hen th e y stan d as rivals, fa ce to fa c e , not hand in hand.
T h e co m m o n ch a racteristic o f H a te b e tw e e n eq u als will th us
b e M utual Injury. A n d th e th re e m ain ch a racteristics o f
th e H a te -E m o tio n are Sco rn , D e sire fo r M utual Injury,
and Fe a r.
Lo ve is ch a ra cte rize d in all its m anifestatio ns by sym p ath y,
self-sacrifice, th e d esire to give ; th e se are its essential
factors, w h e th e r as B e n e v o le n ce , as D esire fo r M utual H e lp ,
as R e v e re n ce . Fo r all th e se directly se rv e A ttractio n , bring
about union, a re o f th e ve ry n ature o f L o ve . H e n c e Lo v e is
of th e Spirit ; fo r sym p ath y is th e feelin g fo r an o th e r as o ne
would fe e l fo r o n e self ; self-sacrifice is th e reco g n itio n o f th e
claim of th e o th e r; as o n e self ; giving is th e condition of
spiritual life. Thus L o v e is se e n to belo ng to th e Spirit, to
2 3 0 A S T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
H a te , on th e o th er hand, is ch a racterize d in all its m ani­
festatio ns by antipathy, self-ag g ran d isem ent, th e desire to
ta ke ; th e se a re its essential facto rs, w h eth er as Sco rn ,
D e sire fo r M utual Injury, or F e a r. All th e se directly serve
R epulsion, driving o ne ap art fro m ano ther. H e n ce , H a te is
of M atter, e m p h asizes m anifold ness and differen ces, is
essentially sep ara te n e ss, b elo ngs to th e form -side of th e
u niverse.
W e h ave th us far d ealt w ith th e play of Em otion in th e
fam ily, b e ca u se th e fam ily se rv e s as a m iniature of so ciety.
S o cie ty is only th e integration o f num ero us fam ily units, but
th e a b se n ce of th e blood-tie b e tw e e n th e se units, th e a b se n ce
of reco g n ize d co m m o n interests and co m m o n o bjects, m akes
it n ece ssa ry to find so m e bond w hich will supply th e p lace of
th e natural bonds in th e fam ily. T h e fam ily units in a so cie ty
a p p e a r on th e su rface as rivals, rath er than as brothers and
sisters ; h e n c e th e H a te -E m o tio n is m o re likely to rise than
th e Lo v e -E m o tio n , and it is n e c e ssa ry to find som e w ay of
m aintaining h a rm o n y ; this is d o n e by th e transm utation of
lo ve-em o tio n s into virtues.
3 . T H E B IR TH O F V IR T U E S
W e h ave see n that w h en m e m b e rs of a fam ily pass
b e yo n d th e sm all circle of relatives, and m e e t p eo p le w h o se
in te re sts are e ith e r indifferent o r o p p o se d to th em , th e re is
not b e tw e e n th e m and 'the o th e rs th e m utual interplay of
L o v e . R ath er d o es H a te show itself, ranging from the w a tc h ­
ful attitud e o f suspicion to th e destro ying fury of w ar. H o w
th en is a so ciety to b e co m p o se d o f th e sep ara te fam ily units ?
E M O T IO N 231
ft can only b e done by m aking p e rm an en t al! th e e m o ­
tional m oods w hich spring from L o ve , and by eradicating
th ose w hich spring fro m H a te . A p e rm an en t m o od o f a
love-em otio n d ire cted to w ards a living being is a V irtu e ; a
p erm an en t m o o d of a hate-em o tio n d ire cted against a
living being is a V ice. This ch a n g e is w ro u gh t by th e
Intellect, w hich bestow s on th e em o tio n a p e rm an en t
ch a racter, seekin g harm ony in all relations in o rd er th at
happiness m ay result. That w hich co n d u ce s to h arm ony and
th e re fo re to h app in ess in th e fam ily, springing spo ntaneo usly
from L o ve , is V irtue w hen p ractised to w ards ail in e v ery
relation o f life. Virtue springs from L o ve , and its result is
happiness. S o also that w hich co n d u ce s to disharm ony and
th erefo re to m isery in th e fam ily, springing spo n taneo usly from
H ate, is V ice w h en p ractised to w ards all in all relations of life.
A n o bjectio n is raised to this th e o ry, that th e p erm an en t
m ood of a lo ve-em o tio n is a virtue, by pointing out that
adultery, th e ft, and o ther vice s m ay spring fro m th e love-
em o tion. H e re analysis o f th e e lem en ts enterin g into the
m ental attitud e is n e ce ssa ry . It is co m p lex , not sim ple. The
act of ad u ltery is m otived by love, but not by lo ve alo ne.
There e n te r into it also co n te m p t o f th e ho n o u r o f an o th er,
ind ifferen ce to th e happiness of an o th er, th e selfish grasping
at p ersonal p leasu re at th e co st of social stability, social
honour, social d e c e n c y . AH th e se spring from h ate-em o tio n s.
The love is th e o ne red e e m in g fea tu re in th e w hole tra n sa c ­
tion, th e o n e virtu e in th e bundle o f sordid v ice s. Sim ilar
analysis will alw ays show th at w hen th e e xe rcise of a love-
em o tion is w ro n a, th e w ronnnpcc li^c in tUa.
2 3 2 A S T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
4 . R IG H T A N D W R O N G
L e t us now turn, fo r a m o m en t, to th e question of Right
and W ro n g , and s e e th e relation th e y b ear to bliss and
m isery. F o r th e re is an idea w idely cu rren t th at th e re is
so m eth ing low and m aterialistic in th e view that virtue is th e
m e an s to bliss. M any think th at this idea d eg rad es virtue,
giving it th e se c o n d place w h e re it should hold th e first, and
m aking it a m ean s instead of an e n d . L e t us then see w hy
virtue m ust b e th e path to bliss, and how this inheres in th e
n ature of things.
W h e n th e In tellect studies th e w orld, and sees th e in-
n u m b erab le relations estab lish ed th e re in , and o b serves th at
harm onious relations bring ab o ut h app in ess and that jarring
relations bring ab o ut m isery, it se ts to w ork to find out th e
w ay o f establishing universal h arm o n y and h en ce universal
bliss. Fu rth e r, it d isco vers th at th e w orld is m oving along a
path w hich it is co m p e lle d to tre ad — th e path of evolution,
and it finds out th e law of evo lu tio n. F o r a part, a unit, to
se t itself with th e law of th e w h o le to w hich it belongs m eans
p e a c e , harm ony, and th e re fo re h ap p in ess, w hile for it to set
itself against th at law m ean s friction, disharm ony, and
th e re fo re m isery. H e n ce th e Right is th at w hich, being in
h arm o n y with th e g reat law , brings bliss, and th e W ro ng is
th at w hich, being in conflict with th e g re at law, brings m isery.
W h e n th e In tellect, illum inated by th e Spirit, se e s n ature as
an e xp ressio n of divine Thought, th e law of evolution as an
exp ressio n of th e divine W ill, th e goal as an expression of
divine Bliss, th en fo r h arm ony w ith th e law of evolution w e
m ay sub stitute h arm o n y with th e divine W ill, and th e Right
E M O T IO N 2 3 3
b e co m e s th at w hich is in harm ony with th e W ill of G o d , and
m orality b e co m e s p e rm e a te d with religion.
5. V IR T U E A N D B LISS
P erfectio n , harm ony with th e divine W ill, cann o t b e
sep ara te d fro m bliss. V irtue is th e road to bliss, and if a n y ­
thing does not lead th e re it is not virtue. T h e p e rfe ctio n of
th e divine n ature e xp resses itself in harm ony, arid w h en th e
sca tte re d “ divine fragm ents ” co m e into harm o n y th e y
ta ste bliss.
This fact is so m etim es veiled by an o ther, /.e., th at th e
p ractice of a virtue under certain circu m stan ce s brings ab o ut
m isery. That is tru e, but th e m isery is te m p o ra ry and
superficial, and th e b alan ce b e tw ee n that o uter m isery and
th e inner bliss arising from th e virtuous co nd u ct, is in favo u r
of th e la t t e r ; and further, th e m isery is not d u e to th e
virtue but to th e circu m stan ces w hich o p p o se its p ra ctic e , to
th e friction b e tw e e n th e goo d organism and th e evil e n viro n ­
m ent. So w hen you strike a harm onious ch o rd am id a m ass
o f discords, fo r a m o m ent it increases th e d isco rd. Th e
virtuous m an is throw n into co nflict with evil, b u rith is should
not blind us to th e fact that biiss is e v e r w e d d e d indissolubly
to Right and m isery to W ro n g. E ve n though th e righteous
m ay suffer tem p o rarily, nothing but rig h teo u sness can lead to
bliss. A nd if w e exam ine th e co nscio u sn ess of th e rig h teo u s,
w e find that h e is h ap p ier in doing th e right though superficial
pain m ay result, than in doing th e w rong w hich w ould ruffle
th e inner p e a c e . T h e co m m issio n of a w rong act w ould ca u se
him inner anguish outw eighing th e external p lea su re. E ve n in
234 A S T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
th e ca se w h e re rig h teo u sness lead s to external suffering
suffering is less th an w ould b e ca u se d by unrighteousi
Miss H e le n Taylor has w ell said th at for th e m an w ho die
th e sa k e o f truth , d eath is e asie r th an life with falsehooc
is e a sie r and p lea sa n te r fo r th e rig hteous m an to die
m artyr th an to live as a h yp o crite.
S in ce th e n ature of th e Se lf is bliss, and th at bliss is
h in d e re d in m anifestatio n by resisting circu m stan ce s,
w hich rem o v e s th e friction b e tw e e n itself and th e se circ
stan ce s and o p en s its onw ard w ay m ust lead to its Self-res
tion, i.e., to th e realization of bliss. V irtu e d o es this,
th e re fo re virtue is a m eans to bliss. W h e re th e inner m
of things is p e a c e and joy, th e harm o n y w hich p erm its
n ature to unveil itself m ust bring p e a c e and joy, and to f
c
abo ut this harm o n y is th e w ork o f virtu e.
6 . T H E T R A N S M U T A T IO N O F E M O T IO N S IN T O
V IR T U E S A N D V IC E S
W e h a ve now to se e m o re fully th e truth of w hat w as
ab o v e, th at virtue grow s out o f e m o tio n , and how far
tru e th at a virtu e or a v ice is m e re ly a p e rm an en t m oc
an e m o tio n . O u r definition is th at virtu e is a perm a
m o o d o f th e lo ve-em o tio n , and v ic e a p erm an en t m oc
th e h a te -e m o tio n .
T h e e m o tio n s belonging to love are th e co n stru ctive e
gies w h ich , draw ing p e o p le to g e th e r, build up th e fam ily
trib e , th e nation. L o v e is a m anifestatio n o f attraction,
h e n c e holds o b je cts to g e th e r. This p ro ce ss o f integr.
b egin s w ith th e fam ily, and th e relations estab lish ed betv
E M O T IO N 235
its m em b ers in th e co m m o n life of th e fam ily entail, if th e re
is to b e h app in ess, th e acting to w ards e a ch o th er in a helpful
and kindly w ay. Th e obligations n e c e ssa ry fo r th e estab lish ­
m ent o f h app in ess in th e se relations are called duties, th at
w hich is due from o ne to th e o th er. If th e se d uties are not
d isch arged th e fam ily relations b e co m e a so u rce of m isery,
sin ce th e clo se co n tacts of th e fam ily m ake th e happ iness of
e a ch d e p e n d e n t on th e tre atm e n t o f him by th e o th ers.
No relation can be e n te re d into b e tw ee n hum an beings
w hich d o e s not establish an obligation b e tw ee n th e m , a
duty o f e ach to w ards th e o ther. The husband loves th e
w ife, th e w ife th e husband, and nothing m o re is n e e d e d to
lead each to see k th e o th er's happ iness than th e intense
sp o n taneo us wish to m ake th e b elo ved h ap p y. This lead s
th e o ne w ho can give to supply w hat th e o th er n ee d s. In
th e fullest se n se , " love is th e fulfilling o f th e law " ; 1 th e re is
no n ee d fo r th e feeling of an obligation, fo r love se e k s e v e r
to help and to bless, and th e re is no n ee d for thou shalt " ,
or “ thou shalt not
But w hen a person, m o ved by love to d isch arg e all th e
duties of his relation with an o th er, co m e s into relation w ith
th o se he d o e s not love, how is a harm onious relation w ith
th e m to be established ? By recognizing th e obligations of
th e relation into w hich he has e n te re d , and discharging th e m .
The doings w hich grew out of love in th e o n e ca se p re se n t
th e m se lv es as obligations, as duties, in th e o th er, w h e re lo ve
is not p rese n t. Right reason w orks th e sp o n ta n e o u s actio n s
o f love into p e rm an en t obligations, or duties, and th e lo ve-
em o tio n , m a d e a p e rm an en t e lem en t of co n d u ct, is called a
1 Ram, xui, 10.
2 3 6 A S T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
virtu e. This is th e justification o f th e sta te m e n t that a v
is th e p e rm a n e n t m o od of a lo ve -em o tio n . A perm s
state o f em o tio n is e stab lish ed w hich will show itself wh
relation is m a d e ; th e m an d isch arg e s th e duties of
relation ; he is a virtuous m an. H e is m o ved by e m o
m a d e p e rm a n e n t by th e in tellect, w hich reco g n ises
h a p p in ess d e p e n d s on th e e stab lish m en t o f harm o n y i
relatio n s. L o v e , rationalized an d fixed by th e intellec
virtu e.
In this w ay m a y be built up a scie n c e of eth ics, o f w
th e law s a re as m uch an in evitab le se q u e n c e as those
w hich any o th e r s c ie n c e is built.
So also b e tw e e n th e h a te -e m o tio n and vice s th e re
sim ilar relation. The p e rm a n e n t m o o d o f a h a te -e m o tic
a v ic e . O n e p erso n injures an o th e r, and th e seco n d reti
th e injury ; th e relation b e tw e e n th e se tw o is inharmonic
p ro d u ctiv e o f m isery. A n d as e a ch e x p e cts injury from
o th e r, e a ch tries to w ea ke n th e o th e r's p o w e r to ini
injury, and this is th e sp o n tan eo u s action o f hate. W l
this m o o d b e c o m e s p e rm an en t, an d a m an show s it in <
relation into w hich h e e n te rs w h e re in th e o pp o rtu nity for
m anifestatio n arises, then it is ca lle d a vice . A m an o f i
co n tro lle d passio ns and u n d e v e lo p e d nature strikes a blc
a sp o n ta n e o u s exp ressio n of h a te . H e re p e a ts this oft<
an d >
t b e co m e s habitual w h en he is an g ry. H e infli
pain an d ta k e s p leasu re in th e infliction. The v ice
cru elty is d e v e lo p e d , and if he m e e ts a child o r a p ers
w e a k e r th an him self, he will sh o w cru elty m e rely b
ca u se he co m e s into relation w ith th e m . • A s th e lov
em o tio n , g uid ed and fixed by right reaso n , is virtue, so t
E M O T IO N 2 3 7
h a te -e m o tio n , guided and fixed by d isto rted and blinded
reaso n , is v ice .
7. A P P L IC A T IO N O F T H E T H E O R Y T O C O N D U C T
W h e n th e n ature of virtue and vice is thus se e n , it is cle a r
th at th e sh o rtest w ay of streng th ening tk e virtues and
elim inating th e vice s is to w ork d irectly on th e em otional
sid e o f th e c h a ra cte r. W e can strive to d eve lo p th e love-
em o tion, th us affording th e m aterial w hich th e reaso n will
e lab o rate into its ch a racteristic virtues. T h e d e v e lo p m e n t of
th e lo ve-em o tio n is th e m ost e ffe ctiv e w ay of evolving th e
m oral ch a ra cte r, virtues being but th e b losso m s and th e fruits
w hich spring fro m th e root o f love.
The value of this cle ar view of th e transm utation of
em o tions into virtues and vice s lies in th e fact th at it g ives
us a d efin ite th e o ry on w hich w e can w ork ; it is as th ough
w e w e re see kin g a ” distant place, and a m ap w e re p lace d
b e fo re our e y e s ; w e tra ce th e re o n th e road w hich lead s
fro m our p re se n t position to our goal. So m any really g oo d
and e arn e st p e o p le spend years in vag u e aspirations afte r
g o o d ness, and y e t m ake but little p ro g ress ; th e y are goo d
in p u rp o se but w ea k in attainm ent ; this is ch iefly b e ca u se
th e y do not understand th e nature in w hich th e y are
w orking, and th e best m eth o d s for its culture. T h ey
are like a child in a g ard e n , a child e a g e r to s e e his
garden brilliant with flo w ers, but w ithout th e kn o w ledg e to
plant and cu ltivate th em , and to exterm in ate th e w e e d s
w hich o ve rg ro w his plot. Like th e child, th e y long
fo r th e sw e e tn e ss o f th e virtu e-flo w ers, and find th eir
238 A S T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
g ard en overrun with th e rank grow th of th e w ee d s
o f vice.
8. T H E U S E S O F E M O T IO N
The u ses of th e lo ve-em otio n are so obvious that it seem s
sca rce ly n e c e ssa ry to dwell upon th e m , and y e t too m uch
stress ca n n o t b e laid on th e fa ct th a t love is th e co nstructive
fo rc e in th e u niverse. H aving >drawn to g eth e r th e fam ily
units, it w eld s th e se into larg er tribal and national units, and
th e se it will build in th e futu re into th e B ro therh oo d of M an;
N or m ust w e om it to note th e fa ct th at th e sm aller units
draw out th e lo v e -p o w e r and p re p a re it fo r fuller expression.
Their u se is to call into m anifestatio n th e hidden divine p o w er
of lo v e w ithin th e Spirit, by giving to it o b je cts close at hand
th at a ttra c t it. T h e love is not to b e co nfined within th e se
n arro w lim its, but as it gains streng th by p ractice it is to
sp re a d o utw ards until it e m b ra ce s all sentient beings. W e
m ay fo rm u late th e law of lo ve : R e g ard e v e ry aged person
as y o u r fa th e r o r m o th e r ; reg ard e v e ry person of sim ilar age
as y o u r b ro th e r o r s is t e r ; reg ard e v e ry yo u ng er person as
yo u r child. This sum s up hum an relations. The fulfilm ent
of this law w ould ren d e r earth a p a rad ise , and it is in o rd er
th at th e earth m ay b e co m e such a p arad ise that th e fam ily
exists.
A m an w ho w ould w iden his lo ve-relatio n s should begin to
reg ard th e w elfa re o f his co m m u n ity as h e regards th e w e l­
fare of his ow n fam ily. H e should try to w ork for th e
public g o o d o f his co m m u n ity w ith th e e n e rg y and interest
w ith w hich he w orks fo r his fam ily. Later, he will extend his
E M O T IO N 239
✓ ¡ng interest and labour to his nation. Then a p p e a rs th e
eat virtue of public spirit, th e sure p recu rso r o f national
osperity. L a te r still, he will lo ve and labour for hum anity,
id finally h e will e m b ra ce within his loving ca re all sen tie n t
sings and will b e co m e " th e friend of e v e ry cre atu re
Few , at th e p rese n t stag e of evolution, are really able to
/e hum anity, and to o m any sp eak of loving hum anity w ho
e not rea d y to m ake any sacrifice to help a suffering
o ther or sister clo se at hand. The servan t of hum anity
jst not o verlo o k th e hum an beings at his doo r, nor in
agination w a te r w ith sentim ental sym p ath y th e distant
rden, w hile th e plants round his d o o rw ay a re dying from
aught.
The uses of hate are not at first so obvious, but are no n e
5 less im portant. At first, w hen w e -study h ate and s e e
at its e ssa n ce is disintegration, d estru ctio n , it m ay se e m
e v il; " H e w ho hateth his b rother is a m u rd e re r/' saith a
sat T e a c h e r/ b e cau se m urder is but an expressio n of h ate ;
d e ven w h e n h ate does not go so far as m urder it is still
destroying f o r c e ; it b reaks up th e fam ily, th e nation, and
e re v e r it g o e s it tears p e o p le apart. O f w hat use, th en ,
la te ?
First, it drives ap art incongruous e lem en ts, unfit to co m b ine
jeth er, and thus p reven ts continuing friction. W h e re
ongruous u n d e velo p ed p e o p le are co n c e rn e d , it is b e tte r
th em to b e driven far ap art to pursue th eir sev e ra l paths
evolution, than to be kep t within rea ch of o n e an o th er,
nulating e a ch o th e r to in cre ase d bad e m o tio n s. S e co n d ly ,
: repulsion felt by th e ave ra g e soul fo r an evil p erso n is
I S* John, ii, 15.
240 A S T U D Y SN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
b eneficial, so long as that evil p e rso n has th e p o w er of lead ­
ing him astray ; for that repulsio n, although it be hate, guards
him fro m an influence u nd er w hich he m ight otherw ise
succum b. C o n te m p t for th e liar, th e hypo crite, th e w o rk e r
o f cru elty on th e w eak, is an em o tio n useful to th e o ne w ho
fe e ls it, and also to th e o n e against w ho m it is d irected ; fo r
it te n d s to p re se rv e th e o ne from falling into sim ilar vices, and
it te n d s to aro u se in th e d esp ise d p e rso n a feeling of sh am e
th at m ay lift him fro m th e m ire in w hich he is plunged. So
long as a p erso n has any te n d e n c y to a sin, so long is hatred
ag ainst th o se w ho p ractise th e sin p ro tective and useful.
P resently, as he evo lve s, he will distinguish b etw een th e e v il­
d o e r and th e evil, and will pity th e e vil-d o e r and co nfine his
h atred to th e evil. L a te r still, se c u re in virtue, he will hate
n eith e r th e e vil-d o e r nor his evil, but will se e tranquilly a low
sta g e o f evo lu tio n, out of w hich he will strive to v lift his
y o u n g e r b ro th e r by fitting m eans. “ Righteous indignation " ,
“ n ob le sco rn ", " just w rath " , all a re p h rases w hich reco g n ise
th e u sefuln ess of th e se e m o tio n s, w hile seeking to veil th e
fa ct th at th e y a re essentially fo rm s of h a te ___a veiling w hich
is d u e to th e feeling th at h ate is an evil thing. N one th e
less a re th e y essentially form s of h a te , w h ateve r th ey m ay b e
ca lle d , th ough th e y play a useful part in evolution and th e ir
sto rm s purify th e social atm o sp h e re . Intolerance of evil is
far b e tte r than ind ifferen ce to it, and until a man is b eyo n d
th e rea ch pf tem p tatio n to any g iven sin, intolerance of th o se
w h o p ractise it is fo r him a n e c e ssa ry safeguard.
. L e t us ta k e th e c a se of a m an little evo lved ; he desires to
avoid gro ss sins, but y e t fe e ls te m p te d to th em . The d esire
to avo id th e m will show itself as h atred of th o se in w hom
E M O T IO N 241
h e se e s th em ; to ch e ck this h atred w ould b e to p lun g e him
into tem p tatio n s h e is not y e t strong e no u gh to resist. A s
he e vo lves fu rth e r and furth er fro m th e d a n g e r o f yielding
to te m p tatio n , h e will h ate th e sins, but will pityingly sy m ­
pathize with th e sinner. N ot till h e has b e c o m e a saint can
he afford n o t to h a te th e evil.
W h e n in o urselves w e fee l repulsion from a p erso n w e
m ay b e sure th at w e have in us so m e lingering tra c e s o f th at
w hich w e dislike in him . The E g o , see in g a d an g er, drags
his v e h icles aw ay. A m an, p e rfe ctly te m p e ra te , fe e ls less
repulsion to w ard s th e drunkard than a te m p e ra te m an w h o
occasionally e x ce e d s. A w om an, utterly p u re, fe e ls no
repulsion fro m a fallen sister, fro m w h o se co n ta ct th e less
pure w ould w ithdraw th eir skirts. W h e n w e rea ch p e rfe ctio n ,
w e shall lo ve th e sinner as well as th e saint, and p e rch a n ce
m ay show th e lo ve m ore to th e sinner, sin ce th e saint can
stand alo ne but th e sinner will fall if he b e not loved.
W h e n th e m an has risen to th e point w h e re h e h ates
n eith er sinner nor sin, then th e disintegrating fo r c e — w hich is
hate am ong hum an beings— b e co m es sim ply an e n e rg y to b e
used fo r destro ying th e o b stacles w hich em b arrass th e path
of evolution. W h e n p e rfe cte d w isdom guides th e c o n ­
structive and d estru ctive energ ies, and p e rfe cte d love is
th e m o tive p o w er, then only can th e d estru ctive fo rc e be
used w ithout incurring th e root-sin of th e feeling or se p a ra te ­
ness. To fe e l ourselves d ifferen t fro m o th ers is th e “ g re at
h eresy " , fo r sep ara te n e ss, w hen th e w h o le is evolving to ­
w ards unity, is opposition to th e Law . T h e feeling of
sep ara te n e ss is definitely w rong, w h e th e r it lead s to o n e 's
thinking o n e self m o re righteous or m o re sinful. Th e p e rfe ct
!6
242 A S T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
saint identifies him self w ith th e crim inal as m uch a s
an o th er saint, fo r th e crim inal an d th e saint are alike d i
although in d iffe re n t stag e s o f evo lu tio n. W h e n a m a n
feel thus, he to u ch e s th e life o f th e C h rist in m an. H e <
not think of h im self as se p a ra te , but as o n e w ith all. T o
his own ho liness is th e holiness o f hum anity, and th e si
any is his sin. H e builds no b arrier b e tw e e n him self a n d
sinner, but pulls dow n an y b arrier m a d e by th e s in n e r,
sh are s th e sin n e r’s evil w hile sharing w ith him his g o o d .
Tho se w ho can fee l th e truth o f this " co u n se l o f p e r
tio n ” should, in th eir daily lives, s e e k to p ractise it, h o w *
im p erfectly. In dealing w ith th e less a d v a n ce d , th e y sh<
e v e r see k to le ve l th e dividing w all. F o r th e s e n s e
sep ara te n e ss is sub tle and e n d u re s till w e a c h ie v e C h i
ho od . Y e t by this e ffo rt w e m ay g radu ally lessen it, a n c
strive to identify o u rselve s w ith th e lo w e st is to e x e r c is e
co n stru ctive e n e rg y w hich holds th e w orlds to g e th e r, a n c
b e co m e channels fo r th e d ivin e lo ve.
C
H
A
PTE
R V
EMOTION (continued)
1. T H E T R A IN IN G O F E M O T IO N
E M O T IO N is, w e h ave seen , th e m o tive p o w e r in m an ; it
stim ulates th o u g h t; it im pels to action ; it is as ste am to th e
eng in e ; w itho ut it m an w ould b e inert, p assive. But th e re
a re m any w ho are th e continual p rey o f th eir em o tio n s ; w ho
a re hurried hither and th ither b y em o tio n s, a s a rud d erless
ship b y-sto rm y w inds upon th e o ce an ; w ho a re to ssed high
and d ragg ed low b y surg es o f joyous and painful feeling s ;
w ho altern ate b e tw e e n exaltation and d esp air. S u ch a p e r­
son is sw ayed , subjugated by em o tio n s, continually h arassed
by th e ir co nflict. H e is m o re o r less a ch a o s w ithin, and is
erratic in his outw ard actions, m o ved by th e im p u lse o f th e
m o m en t, w ithout d u e co nsideration fo r surrounding circu m ­
stan ces, such co nsideration as w ould m a ke his actio n s w ell-
d ire cte d . H e is o ften w hat is called a g o o d p erso n , inspired
by g en e ro u s m o tives, stirred into kindly actio n s, full o f
sym p ath y with suffering and e a g e r to bring relief, plunging?
quickly into action intended to aid th e su ffe re r. W e h a v e
not h ere to do w ith th e indifferent o r th e cru e l, but with o n e
w h o se em o tio n s hurry him into action, b e fo re h e h a s
2 4 4 A S T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
co n sid ered th e conditions o r fo re ca st th e results of his activity
b eyo n d th e im m ed iate relief o f th e pain b e fo re his view .
Such a p erso n — -though m o ved by a d esire to help, th ough
th e stim ulating em o tion is sym p ath y and desire to re lie v e
sufferin g — o ften d o es m o re harm than g o o d in co n se q u e n c e
of th e in co n sid eraten ess o f his actio n . T h e em o tion w h ich
im p els him springs from th e lo ve -sid e of his nature, fro m th e
sid e w hich d raw s p e o p le to g e th e r, and w hich is th e root o f
th e co n stru ctiv e and p reservin g v irt u e s ; and in this v e ry fact
lies th e d an g e r of such a p e rso n . If th e em o tion had its
ro o t in evil h e w ould be th e first to e ra d ica te i t ; but just b e ­
ca u se it is ro o te d in th at lo ve -em o tio n w h e n c e spring all th e
social virtu es, he d o e s not su sp e c t it, he d o es not e n d e av o u r
to co ntro l it. “ I am so sy m p a th e tic ; I am so m uch m o ved
by su ffe rin g ; 1 ca n n o t b e ar th e sig ht of m ise ry ." In all such
p h rases, a ce rtain self-p raise is im plied, th ough th e to n e m ay
b e o n e of d e p re ca tio n . Truly, sym p ath y is adm irable, q u a
sym p ath y, but its ill-directed e x e rcise is o ften p ro vo cative o f
m isch ief. So m e tim e s it, injures th e v e ry o b je ct o f sym p ath y,
and le a v e s him finally in w o rse c a se than at first. Too o ften
u n w ise fo rm s of relie f are a d o p te d , m o re to rem o v e th e pain
of th e sym p ath izer than to cu re th e ill of th e su fferer, and a
m o m e n tary pang is sto p p e d at th e co st of a lasting injury,
really, though" not avo w ed ly, to relie v e th e pain of th e o n­
lo o k e r. T h e reactio n o f sym p ath y on th e sym p ath e tic p erson
Is g o o d , d e e p e n in g th e lo ve -em o tio n ; but th e action on
o th e rs is to o o ften bad ow ing to th e lack o f b alan ced
th o u g h t. It* is e asy at th e sight of pain to fill earth
and sky with b u r shrieks, till all the. air is throbbing ; \%
is -hard to p au se, to m e asu re .th e ca u se o f pain and
E M O T IO N 2 4 5
th e cu re, and th en to apply a rem ed y w hich heals in­
stead of p erp etu ating . Right R easo n m ust g o vern and d irect
em o tion if good is to result from its e x e rcise . Em otion
should b e th e im pulse to action, but not its d ire cto r ; d ire c­
tion belo ngs to th e intelligence, and its guiding p rero g ative
should n e v e r be w re n ch e d aw ay fro m it. W h e re th e co n ­
sciousness thus w orks, having strong em o tion as th e im pulse
and right reaso n as director, th e re is th e sym p ath e tic and
w ise m an w ho is useful to his g en eratio n.
< D esires h a ve b e e n well co m p are d to h o rse s h arn e sse d to
th e chario t of th e body, and d esires are ro o te d in em o tions.
W h e re th e em o tio n s are uncontro lled th e y are like plunging,
unbroken h o rses th at im peril th e safety of th e chario t and
th re a te n th e life of th e ch a rio te e r, The reins h ave been
co m p ared to th e m ind, th e reins that g uid e th e h o rses,
restraining or loosening as is n e e d e d . T h ere is w ell im aged
th e relationship b e tw ee n em o tion, intelligence^ and action.
Em otion g ives th e m o vem en t, intellig en ce co ntrols and
guides, and th en th e Self, will use activity to th e best
ad vantage, as b eco m es th e ,ruler of th e em o tions, not th eir
victim .
W ith th e d eve lo p m e n t o f that a sp e c t of co n scio u sn ess
w hich will show itself as Buddhi in th e sixth su b -ra ce , and
m o re co m p lete ly in th e sixth R o o t-R a ce , th e em o tional
nature rapidly evo lves in som e of th e ad v a n ce d fifth R a ce ,
and often fo r a tim e o ffers m any troublesom e* and e v e n
distressing sym p to m s. A s evolution p ro ce e d s, th e se will b e
outgrow n, and th e nature will b e co m e b alan ced as w ell as
strong, w ise as well as g en ero u s ; m ean w h ile th e rapidly
developing nature will b e storm y arid o ften distressful, and
246 A S T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
will suffer keenly and long. Y e t in th o se very sufferings lies
its future streng th as its p rese n t purification, and in p ro p o r­
tion to th e sh arp ness of th e sufferings will be th e g reatn ess
o f th e result. It is in th e se pow erful natures th at Buddhi is
struggling to birth, and th e anguish o f th e travail is upon
th e m . P resently Buddhi, th e C h rist, th e " little child " , will
b e born, W isd o m and L o ve in o n e , and this, united to high
in tellig en ce, is th e spiritual E g o , th e tru e Inner M an, th e
Ruler Im m ortal.
T h e stu den t, w ho is studying his ow n nature in o rd er to
ta k e his ow n evolution in hand and d irect its future co urse,
m ust carefully o b se rv e his ow n stren g th and his own w e a k ­
n ess, in o rd e r to reg u late th e o n e an d c o rre ct th e o th er. In
u n even ly d ev e lo p e d p erso n s intellect and em otion are apt to
v ary in in ve rse ratio to e a ch o t h e r ; strong em otions go w ith
w e a k intellig en ce, an<} strong intellig en ce with w eak e m o ­
tions ; in o ne ca se th e directing p o w e r is w eak, in th e o th er
th e m o tive. The student th en in his self-analysis m ust s e e
w h e th e r his in te llig en ce is w ell-d e v e lo p e d , if he finds his
em o tio n s to b e s tr o n g ; h e m ust te st him self to d isco ver
w h e th e r h e is unwilling to look at th ing s in " th e cle ar dry
light o f intellect " ; if h e fe e ls re p e lle d w hen a subject is
p re se n te d to him in this light, h e m a y rest assured that th e
em o tional sid e of his nature is o ve r-d e v e lo p e d in proportion
to th e intellectual side. F o r th e w ell-balan ced m an would
rese n t n eith er th e cle a r light o f th e directing intelligence, i^ior
th e strong fo rce o f th e m o tive e m o tio n . If in th e past
o n e sid e has b e en o ve r-cu ltiva te d , if th e em o tions have b e en
fo ste re d to th e d etrim en t of th e intellig en ce, then th e effo rts
should b e tu rn ed to th e streng th en in g of th e intellect, and
E M O T IO N 2 4 7
th e rese n tm e n t w hich arises against a co ldly intellectual p re ­
sentation should b e sternly cu rbed , th e d iffe re n ce b e tw e e n
intelligence and sym pathy being reco g n ise d .
2 . T H E D IST O R T /N G F O R C E O F E M O T IO N
O n e of th e things m ost apt to b e o verlo o ked by th e
em otional p erson is th e w ay in w hich em otion fills his su r­
rounding atm o sp h e re with its vibrations, -and th e re b y biasses
th e intellig en ce ; everything is seen th ro ugh this a tm o sp h e re
and is co lo u red and distorted by it, so th at things do not
reach th e intellig en ce in th eir tru e form and colour, but arrive
tw isted and discoloured. O u r aura surrounds us, and should
be a pellucid m edium through w hich all in th e o uter w orld
should reach us in its own form and c o lo u r ; but w h en th e
aura is vibrating with em otion it canno t act as such a m ed ium ,
and all is re fra cte d th at passes into it, and re a ch e s us quite
o th e r than it is. If a person is under w ater and a stick is put
n ear him in th e air, and he tries to to uch it his hand will b e
w rongly d ire cted , for he will put his hand to th e p la ce at
w hich he s e e s th e stick, and as th e rays com ing fro m it are
refracte d on entering th e w ater, th e stick will b e, fo r him ,
displaced. Sim ilarly w hen an im pression fro m th e o u ter
w orld re a ch e s us through an aura o ve r-ch arg ed with e m o ­
tion, its p ropo rtio ns are d istorted and its position m isjudged :
h e n ce th e data supplied to th e intellig en ce are e rro n e o u s, and
th e jud g m en t fo u n ded upon th em will th e re fo re n ecessarily
be w rong, h o w e v e r accu rately th e in tellig en ce m ay w ork.
Even th e m o st careful self-analysis will not entirely p ro te c t
us against this em otional disturbance. The in te lle ct e v e r
2 4 8 A S T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
te n d s to jud g e favourably th at w hich w e like, unfavourably
that w hich w e dislike, ow ing to th e " refraction ” ab o ve-
nam ed. The arg um en ts in favo u r of a certain co urse are
throw n into a strong light by our d esire to follow it, and th e
arg um en ts against it are throw n into th e shade. The o ne
se e m s so cle a r and forcible, th e o th e r so dubious and fee b le.
A nd to our m ind, seeing th ro u gh th e em otion, it is so
sure th at w e a re right, and th at an yo n e w ho does not se e
as w e do is b iassed by p reju d ice or is wilfully p erve rse .
A g ain st this e v e r-p re se n t d an g e r w e can only guard by
ca re an d p ersisten t effo rt, but w e canno t finally e scap e
it until w e tra n sce n d th e em o tio n s and b e co m e absolutely
th eir ruler.
O n e w ay rem ains in w hich w e ca n aid ourselves to a right
ju d g m en t, and th at is by studying th e w orkings of co nscio us­
ness in o th ers, and in w eighing th e ir decisions under circu m ­
sta n ce s sim ilar to our ow n. Th e ju d g m en ts w hich m ost repel
us a re th o se m o st likely to be useful to us, b ecau se m ade
th ro ugh an em o tional m edium v e ry different from our own.
W e ca n co m p a re th eir decisions with ours, and by noting
th e points th at a ffe c t th em m o st and o urselves least, and
that w eig h m o st heavily with us and m ost lightly with th em ,
w e m ay d isentan g le th e em otional from th e intellectual e le ­
m ents in th e judgm ents. A n d e v e n w h e re our conclusions
are m istaken th e effo rt to arrive at th em is co rrective and
illum inative ; it aids in the m astery of th e em otions and
stre n g th en s th e intellectual e le m e n t. Such studies should of
co u rse b e m a d e w hen th e re is no em o tional disturbance, and
its fruits should b e sto red up fo r u se at th e tim es w hen th e
ém o tions are strong.
E M O T IO N 2 4 9
3 . M E T H O D S O F R U L IN G T H E E M O T IO N S
The first an d m o st pow erful m eth o d fo r obtaining m astery
o f th e em o tio n s is— as in all th at to u ch e s co n scio u sn ess—
M editatio n. B efo re co ntact with th e w orld has disturbed th e
em o tions, m editation should b e reso rted to. C o m in g back
into th e body a fte r th e period of physical sle e p , from a w orld
subtler than th e physical, th e Ego will find his te n e m e n t quiet
an d can ta ke possession calm ly o f th e rested brain and n erve s.
M editation later in th e d ay, w hen th e em o tio n s h a ve b e en
d isturbed and w hen th e y are in full activity, is not as e ffi­
cacio u s. T h e quiet tim e w hich is available a fte r sle e p is
th e right seaso n fo r e ffe ctive m editation, th e d esire-b o d y
th e em o tional nature, being m o re tranquil than a fte r it has
plunged into th e bustle of th e w orld. From th at p e ace fu l
m orning hour will stream out th e influence w hich will guard
during th e d ay, and th e em otions, soo th ed and stilled, will
be m o re am en ab le to co ntrol.
W h e re it is possible, it is well to fo re cast th e q uestio ns
w hich m ay arise during th e d ay, and to co m e to co nclusions
as to th e vie w to b e taken, th e co nd u ct to b e p ursued. If
w e know th at w e shall be p laced under certain co nditio ns
th at will aro u se our em otions, w e can d e c id e b e fo reh an d on
our m ental attitude and e ven co m e to a decision on our
action. Supposing such a decision has b e en re a ch e d , th en
w hen th e circu m stan ces arise that decision should b e recalled
and a c te d upon, e ven though th e swell of th e em o tio n s m ay
im pel to w ards a d ifferent co urse. Fo r instan ce, w e a re going
to m e e t a p erso n fo r w hom w e have a strong affectio n , and
w e d ecid e in o ur m editation on th e co u rse th at it is w isest to
2 5 0 A VS T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
p ursue, deciding in th e c le a r light o f calm intelligence w hat is
b est fo r ail co n cern e d . To this decisio n w e should a d h e re ,
e v e n th ough th e re is th e inclination to f e e l: “ I had not
given th e p ro p e r w eight to that v ie w ." A s a m atter of fact
u n d e r th e se co nditio ns o ve rw eig h t is given, th e p ro p er
w eig h t having b e en given in th e ca lm er th o u g h t; and it is
th e w isest plan to follow th e path previously chalked out,
d e sp ite th e em o tional p ro m p tin g s of th e m om ent. T h ere
m a y b e a b lund er of ju d g m e n t, but if th e blunder b e not
se e n during m editation it is n ot likely to be seen during a
swirl of em otions.
A n o th e r m eth o d of curbing th e em o tions is to think o ver
w h at is going to b e said b e fo re sp e ak in g , to put a bridle on
th e to n g u e . T h e m an w ho has le arn e d to control his sp e e ch
has c o n q u e re d e veryth in g , says an an cie n t eastern law giver.
The p e rso n w ho n e v e r sp e ak s a sh arp or ill-considered w ord
is w ell on th e w ay to co ntrol e m o tio n . To rule sp e e ch is to
rule th e w h o le n ature. It is a g o o d plan not to sp eak— to
d elib e ra te ly ch e c k s p e e c h — until o n e is cle a r as to w hat o ne
is going to say, is sure th at th e sp e e c h is true, that it is
a d a p te d to th e person to w ho m it is to be ad d ressed , and
th at it is such as o ug h t to be sp o k e n . Truth co m es first and
fo re m o st, and nothing can e xcu se falsity of sp e e ch ; m any a
s p e e c h u ttere d u n d er stress o f em o tio n is false, either from
e x ag g eratio n o r distortion. Then, th e ap p rop riateness of th e
sp e e c h to th e p erso n a d d re sse d is to o o ften forgotten, in th e
hurry o f em o tio n o r th e e a g e rn e ss of strong feeling. A
q uite w rong idea o f a g reat truth m ay b e p resented if th e
p o in t o f view of th e p erson a d d re sse d is not borne in mind ;
sym p ath y is n e e d e d , th e seein g as h e se e s, for only then can
E M O T IO N 251
th e truth be useful and helpful. O n e is not trying to help
o neself, but to help an o th er, in putting th e truth b e fo re him.
Perhaps th e co n cep tio n of law as ch a n g e less, inviolable,
absolutely im partial, m ay to th e sp e a k e r b e inspiring,
strength ening, uplifting ; w h e re as th at co n cep tio n is ruthless
and crushing to an u nd evelo p ed p e rso n , and injures instead
of helps. Truth is not m ean t to crush but to e le v a te , and
w e m isuse truth w hen w e give it to o n e th at is not rea d y .
There is p len ty to suit th e n eed s of e a c h , but discretio n is
n eed ed to ch o o se w isely, and enthusiasm m ust not fo rce a
prem ature enlig h ten m en t. M any a yo ung T h eo so p h ist d o es
m ore harm than goo d by his o ve r-e a g e r pressing on o thers
af th e tre asu re s h e prizes so highly. Lastly, th e form o f
:he sp e e ch , th e n ecessity or th e usefulness of its u tteran ce .
;hould be co n sid ere d . A truth that m ight help m ay b e
:hanged into a truth that hinders by th e w ay in w hich it is
3ut. “ N e v e r sp e ak w hat is untrue, n eve r sp eak w h at is un-
fe a s a n t/ ' is a golden rule of sp e e ch . All sp e e ch should b e
ruthful, sw e e t, and ag ree a b le . This ag ree a b le n ess o f sp e e ch
> too o ften fo rg o tten by w ell-m eaning p e o p le , w ho e v en
»ride th e m se lv e s on their cand o u r w hen th e y a re m e rely
jd e and ind ifferen t to th e feelings of th o se w hom th e y
ddress. But th at is n either good b reed in g nor religion, fo r
le unm annerly is not th e religious. Religion co m b ines
erfect truth with p e rfe ct co u rtesy. M o re o ve r, th e super-
jous, th e u seless, is m ischievous, and th e re is m uch injury
Dne by th e continual bubbling o ve r of frivolous em o tions in
latter and sm all talk. People w ho canno t b e ar silen ce and
e e v e r ch atterin g fritter aw ay th eir intellectual and
3ra! fo rce s, as w ell as give u tteran ce to a hundred follies
252 A S T U D Y IN C O N S C IO U S N E S S
b e tte r left unsaid. To be afraid of sile n ce is a sign of m
w ea kn ess, and calm silen ce is b e tte r than foolish sp e e ch
sile n ce th e e m o tio n s grow and stren g th en w hile rem a
co n tro lled , and th us th e m o tive p o w e r o f th e n ature incrc
and Is also b rough t into su b je ctio n . T h e p o w er o f i
silent is g re a t an d often, e x e rcise s a m o st soothing efi
on th e o th e r hand, he w ho has le arn e d to b e silent m ui
ca re fu l th at his sile n ce does not tre n ch on his co u rtesy,
h e d o e s not, b y inap pro p riate silen ce am ong o thers, r
th e m fee l chilled and u n co m fo rtab le.
S o m e m ay fe a r th at such a co nsid eratio n b e fo re speec
is outlined m ay so hinder e xch a n g e o f th o u g h t as to pare
co n ve rsa tio n ; but all w ho h ave p ractised such control
b e ar w itn ess th at a fte r a b rief p ra ctice no n o ticeab le inti
is ca u se d b e fo re th e reply is u tte re d . Sw ifte r than light
is th e m o vem en t of th e intellig en ce, and it will flash o ver
p oints to b e co n sid e re d w hile a b reath is being draw n:
tru e th at at first th e re will b e slight hesitation, but in a
w e e k s no p au se will be req u ired , and th e review o f th e j
p o se d u tte ra n ce will be m ad e to o sw iftly to cause
o b stru ctio n . M an y an o rator ca n testify th at in th e r<
to rre n t of a d ecla m ato ry p erio d th e m ind will sit at e,
turning ab o u t altern ative se n te n ce s and w eighing th eir
s p e c tiv e m erits e re o ne is ch o sen and th e rest are ca st asi
and y e t n o n e in th e rapt a u d ie n ce will know aught of
b y-p lay, o r d re am th at behind th e sw ift u tteran ce th er
an y such se le ctiv e action going on.
A third m eth o d o f m astering em o tion is by refraining fi
acting on im pulse. Th e hurry to a c t is ch a racteristic of
m o d ern m ind, and is th e e x ce ss o f th e p ro m p titu de w hic
E M O T IO N 253
its virtue. W h e n w e co nsid er life calm ly w e realize that
th e re is n e v e r an y n eed for h u r r y ; th e re is alw ays tim e
eno ugh , and actio n , h o w eve r sw ift, should b e w ell co n sid ere d
and unhurried. W h e n an im pulse co m e s fro m so m e strong
em o tion and w e spring forw ard in o b e d ie n ce w ithout c o n ­
sideratio n, w e act unw isely. If w e train o urselves to think
b e fo re w e act in all ordinary affairs, th en if an a ccid e n t or
anything e lse should happ en in w hich p ro m p t action is n e c e s ­
sary, th e sw ift m ind will b alan ce up th e d em an d s o f th e
m o m e n t and d irect swift action, but th e re will b e no hurry!
no in co n sid e ra te unw ise blundering.
“ But should I not follow m y intuition ? ” so m e o n e m ay
ask. Im pulse and intuition are to o o ften co n fu sed , though
radically d ifferen t in origin and ch aracteristics. Im pulse
springs fro m th e d esire-n atu re, from th e co nscio usn ess w o rk ­
ing through th e astral body, and is an e n e rg y flung o utw ard s
in resp o n se to a stim ulus from outside, an e n e rg y und irected
by th e intellig en ce, hasty, unconsidered, headlong. Intuition
springs from th e spiritual E go , and is an e n e rg y flow ing o u t­
w ards to m e e t a dem and fro m outside, an e n e rg y d ire cted
by th e spiritual E g o , strong, calm , p u rp o seful. F o r distin­
guishing b e tw e e n th e tw o , until th e n ature is th oro ughly
b alan ced , calm consideration is n ecessary, and d elay i;s
e s s e n tia l; an im pulse dies aw ay under such co nsid eration and
d e la y ; an intuition grow s c le a re r and stro n g er under such
conditions ; calm ness enab les th e low er m ind to h e a r it and
to feel its se re n e im perio usness. M o re o ve r, if w hat se e m s to
b e an intuition is really a suggestion from so m e higher B eing,
that suggestio n will sound th e louder fo r our quiet m e d ita ­
tion, and will lose nothing o f fo rce by such calm d elay.
254 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
It is true that there is a certain pleasure in the abandon­
ment to the headlong impulse, and that the imposed restraint
is painful for a time. But the effort to lead the higher life is
full of these renounceals of pleasure and acceptances of
pain, and gradually we come to feel that there is a higher joy
in the quiet considerate action than in the yielding to the
tumultuous impulse, and that we have eliminated a constant
source of regret. For constantly does such yielding prove a
source of sorrow, and the Impulse is found to be a mistake
If the proposed action be good, the purpose to perform it
will be made stronger, not weaker, by careful thought. And
if the purpose grows weaker with the thinking, then is it sure
that it comes from the lower source, not from the higher.
Daily meditation, careful consideration before speech, the
refusal tovyield to impulse, these are the chief methods of
turning the emotions into useful servants instead of danger­
ous masters.
4. THE USING OF EMOTION
Only he can use an emotion who has become its master
and who knows that the emotions are not himself but are
playing in the vehicles in which he dwells and are due to
the interaction between the Self and the Not-Self. Their
ever-changing nature marks them as belonging to the vehi­
cles ; they are stirred into activity by things without, answered
to by the consciousness within. The attribute of consciousness
that gives rise to emotions is Bliss, and pleasure and pain are
the motions in the desire-vehicle caused by the contacts of
the outer world, and by the response through it to these of the
EMOTION 255
Self as Bliss ; just as thoughts are the motions due to similar
contacts and to the response to them of the Self as Knowl­
edge. As the Self knows itself and distinguishes itself from
its vehicles, it becomes ruler of the emotions, and pleasure
and pain become equally modes of Bliss.
As progress is made, it will be found that greater equili­
brium is attained under stress of pleasure and pain, and that
the emotions no longer upset the b^ance of the mind. So
long as pleasure elates and pain paralyses, so that the per­
formance of duty is hindered and hampered, so long is a
man the slave, and not the ruler, of his emotions. When
he has- learned to rule them, the greatest wave of pleasure,
the keenest sting of pain, can be felt, and yet the mind will
remain steady and address itself calmly to the work in hand,
Then whatever comes is turned into use. Out of pain is
gained power, as out of pleasure are gained vitality and
courage. All become forces to help instead of obstacles
to hinder.
Of these uses oratory may serve as an illustration. You
hear a man fired by passion, his words tumbling over each
other, his gestures violent; he is possessed by, carried away
by, emotion, but he d’oes not sway his audience. The orator
who sways is the master of his emotions and uses them to
affect his audience; his words are deliberate and well-
chosen even in the rush of his speech, his gestures appro­
priate and dignified. He is not feeling the emotions, but he
has felt them, and he now uses his past to shape the pres­
ent. In proportion as a speaker has felt and has risen
above his emotions will be his power to use them. No one
without strong emotions can be a great speaker; but the
256 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
greatness grows as the emotions are brought under cor
A more effective explosion results from a careful arra
ment of the explosives end a deliberate application oi
match than by flinging them down anyhow, and the m
after them, in the hope that something may catch.
So long as anyone is stirred by the emotions, the <
vision needed for helpful service is blurred. The valu
helper is the man who is calm and balanced while ft
sympathy. What sort of a doctor would he be who in
midst of performing an operation should burst into te;
Yet many people are so distressed by the sight of suffe
that their whole being is shaken by it, and they thus incn
the suffering instead of relieving it. All emotion ca
strong vibrations, and these pass from one to another,
effective helper must be calm and steady, remaining
shaken and radiating peace. One who stands on a i
above the waves can help another to gain that vante
ground better than if he were himself battling with
waves.
Another use of the emotions when they are thoroughl
hand is to call up and use the appropriate one to rous
another person an emotion beneficial to him. If a pei
be angry, the natural answer to his vibrations is anger in
one he meets, for all vibrations tend to be sympathetic
reproduced. As we all have emotion-bodies, any b
vibrating near us in a particular way tends to cause sin
vibrations in us. if we have in our bodies the appropr
matter. Anger awakens anger, love awakens love, ger
ness awakens gentleness. When we are masters of
emotions and feel the surge of anger rising in respons*
EMOTION 257
the vibrations of anger in another, we shall at once check
this answer and shall let the waves of anger dash up against
us, while we remain unmoved. The man who can hold his
own emotion-body quiet, while those of others are vibrating
strongly around him, has learned well the lesson of self-
control. When this is done, he is ready to take the next
step, to meet the vibration of an evil emotion with the
vibration of the corresponding good emotion, and thus he
not only withholds himself from anger, but sends out vibra­
tions that tend to quiet the anger-vibrations of the other.
He answers anger by love, wrath by gentleness.
At first, this answer must be deliberate, of set purpose,
and angry people can be taken to practise on. When one
comes in our way, we utilize him. The attempt will be,
doubtless, cold and dry in the beginning, with only the will
to love in it and none of the emotion ; but after a while, the
w
ill to love will produce a little emotion, and at last a habit
will be established, and kindness will be the spontaneous
answer to unkindness. The steady, deliberate practice of
answering thus the vibrations of wrong emotions reaching
us from outside will establish a habit in the emotion-body,
and it will respond rightly automatically.
The teaching of all the great Masters of Ethics is the
same : “ Return good for evil." And the teaching is based
on this interchange of vibrations caused by love-and hate-
emotions. The return of evil intensifies it, while the return
of good neutralizes the evil. To stir love-emotions in others
by sending to them a stream of such emotions, so as to
stimulate all that is good in them and to weaken all that is
bad, is the highest use to which we can put our emotions in
17
258 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
daily human service. It is a good plan to bear in mind a list
of correspondences in emotions, and to practice accordingly,
answering pride by humility, discourtesy by compassion, arro­
gance by submission, harshness by gentleness, irritability by
calmness. Thus is a nature built up which answers all evil
emotions by the corresponding good ones, and,which acts
as a benediction on all around, lessening the evil inthem and
strengthening the good.
5. THE VALUE OF EMOTION IN EVOLUTION
We have seen that emotion is the motive power in man,
and to turn it into a helper in evolution we must utilize it to
lift and not allow it to degrade. The Ego, in his evolution,
needs " points to draw him ” upwards, as says The Voice of
the Silence, for the upward way is steep, and an attractive
object above us, towards which we can strive, is an aid
impossible to overestimate. Only too often we lag on the
way, and feel no desire to proceed ; aspiration is inert, the
longing to rise has fled. Then may we summon emotion to
our aid, by twining it around some object of devotion, and
thus gain the impetus we need, the lifting force we crave.
This form of emotion is what is often called hero-worship,
the power to admire and love greatly one who is nobler
than oneself; and to be able thus to love and admire is to
have at disposal one of the great lifting forces in human evolu­
tion. Hero-worship is often decried because a perfect ideal
is not possible to find among men living in the world, but a
partial ideal that can be loved and emulated is a help in quick-
*ening evolution. It is true that there will be weaknesses
EMOTION 259
in such a partial ideal, and it is necessary to distinguish
between the heroic qualities and the weaknesses found in
conjunction with them ; but the attention should be fixed on
the heroic qualities that stimulate, and not on the blemishes
that mar every one who has not as yet transcended humanity.
To recognize that the weaknesses are of the Not-Self and
are passing, while the nobility is of the Self that endures, to
love what is great and to be able to pass over what is small,
that is the spirit that leads to disdpleship of the Great Ones.
Only good is gained by the hero-worshipper from his ideal,
if he honour the greatness and disregard the weakness, and
on the hero himself will fall the karma of his own short­
comings. •
But it is said: if we thus recognise the nobility of the
Self in the midst of human weaknesses, we are only doing
what we should do with all, and why make a hero out of any­
one in whom there is still any human weakness ? Because of
the help our hero gives us as an inspiration and a measure of
our own achievement. No ordinary person can be turned into
a hero ; it is only when the Self shines out with more than
ordinary lustre that the inclination to hero-worship arises.
The man is a hero, though not yet superhuman, and his
weaknesses are but as spots in the sun. There is a proverb
which says : “ No man is a hero to his valet-de-chambre,”
and the cynic reads this as meaning that the most heroic
man owes his greatness to distance. But is not the meaning
rather that the valet-soul, intent on the shine of a boot and
the set of a necktie, cannot appreciate that which makes
the hero, having naught in him that can sound sympathet­
ically with the notes the hero strikes ? For to be able to
260 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
admire means to be able to achieve, and love and reve
for the great is a sign that a man is growing like them.
When emotion is thus aroused, we should judge our
by our ideal, and be ashamed to do or think augh
would bring a shade of sorrow over the eyes of hi
revere. His presence should be with us as an uplifter,
judging ourselves in the light of the greater achievemer
find ourselves also beginning to achieve.
That the pure light of the Self shines through none
walk the miry paths of earth is true, but there are
through whom enough light shines to lighten the dark
and to help us to see where to plant our feet,
better to thank and honour these, to rejoice and *be gl
them, than to belittle them because they are not who
heaven, because some touches of human weakness
entangle their feet. Blessed indeed are they who ha'
themselves the hero-nature and hence recognize their <
kin ; for them waits the open gate to the upper rea<
and the more they love, the more they honour, the sw
will be their approach to that gateway. No better ki
comes to a man than to find the hero who may bear
company to the entering ; no sadder karma than to I
seen him, in an illuminated moment, and then to have
him aside, blinded by an imperfection he is outgrowing.
CH
APTER V
I
THE WILL
1. THE WILL WINNING ITS FREEDOM
WE return now to the consideration of that power in man
with which we started—the Will. The student will remem­
ber that it was stated that it was the Will of the Self, of the
individualized Self—individualized though as yet unconscious
of its individualization—which drew him into manifestation.
Not by compulsion, not by external necessity, not by any­
thing opposed to him from outside, but by the great Will of
which his own Will is part—his Will individualized as a centre
but not yet cut off by circumference of matter—pulsing in
him as the life-blood of the mother pulses in the yet un­
born child, he reaches forth towards manifestation, dimly
longing for the rich thrill of life enveiled in matter, for the
exercise of powers yearning for activity, for the experience
of worlds tumultuously full of movement. That which con­
sciously the Logos wills—the Logos willing to become
incarnate in a universe—all the centres of individualized life
within Him also will, though as it were blindly and groping
towards a fuller life. It is the Will to live, to know, and that
forthgoing Will sets to manifestation.
262 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
We have seen that this Will, the Power of the Self, be­
comes what we call Desire on the denser planes of matter,
and that, blinded by matter and unable to see its way, its
direction is determined by the attractions and repulsions
playing upon it from external objects. Hence we cannot
say of the Self at this period that he is Self-directed ; he is
directed by attractions and repulsions that touch him at this
periphery. We have further seen that as Desire came into
touch with Intelligence, and these two aspects of the Self
played upon each other, emotions evolved, showing traces
of their parentage, of their Desire-mother and of their In­
telligence-father. And we have studied the methods by
which emotion may be controlled, put to its true uses, and
thus rendered serviceable instead of dangerous in human
evolution.
We have now to consider how this Will, the hidden Power
which has ever moved to activity though not yet controlling
activity, slowly wins to freedom, that is, to Self-determination.
In a moment we shall consider what is meant by this word
“ freedom
Essentially and fundamentally free in its origin as the
Power of the Self, Will has become bound and limited in its
attempts to master the matter into which the Self has en­
tered. We need not shrink from saying that matter masters
the Self, not the Self matter, and this it does by virtue of
the Self regarding matter as himself, identifying himself with
it; as he wills through it, thinks through it, acts through it,
it becomes to him verily himself, and deluded he cries : “ I
am this! " and while it lim
its him and binds him, he, feeling
it to be himself, cries : " I am free." Yet is this mastering
THE WILL 263
f the Self by matter but a temporary thing, for the matter
ever changing, coming and going, impermanent, and is
ver being shaped and unconsciously drawn round and re­
nted by the unfolding forces of the Self, permanent amid
le impermanent.
Let us come to the stage in human evolution in which
memory has grown stronger than the instinctive outgoing to
le pleasant and withdrawing from the painful : in which
itelligence rules Desire, and reason has triumphed over
npulse. The result of the age-long evolution is to be
*aped, and part of that result is freedom.
While the Will is expressing itself as Desire, determined
i its direction by outside attractions, it is obviously not free,
ut very distinctly bound. Just as any living creature might
e dragged by a force greater than its own force in a direc-
on unchosen by it, so is the Will dragged away by the
ttraction of objects, pulled along the path which promises
Measure, which is agreeable to pursue ; it is not active as a
¡elf-determined force, but on the contrary the Self is being
Iragged away by an external and compelling attraction.
No more vivid picture of the Self, under these conditions,
an be given than that before quoted from an ancient Hindu
icripture, in which the Self is limned as the rider in a chariot,
nd the senses, attracted by pleasure-giving objects, are the
mgovernable horses that carrry away the chariot of the body
nd the helpless rider within it. Although the Will be the
ery Power of the Self, so long as the Self is being carried
way by these unruly horses, he is emphatically bound and
iot free. It is idle to speak of a free Will in a man who is
he slave of the objects around him. He is ever in bondage,
264 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
he can exercise no choice ; for though we may think of such
a one as choosing to follow the path along which attractions
draw him, there is in truth no choice nor thought of choice.
So long as attractions and repulsions determine the path,
all talk of freedom is empty and foolish. Even though a
man feels himself as choosing the desirable object, the
feeling of freedom is illusory, for he is dragged by the
attractiveness of the object and the longing for pleasure in
himself. He is as much, or as little, free as the iron is free
to move to the magnet. The movement is determined by
the strength of the magnet and the nature of the iron an­
swering to its attraction.
To understand what we mean by freedom of the Will, we
must clear away a preliminary difficulty which faces us in the
word 4
1choice ". When we appear to be free to choose,
does that so-called freedom of choice mean freedom of
Will ? Or is it not true to say that freedom of choice only
means that no external force compels us to elect one or
another of alternatives ? But the important question that
lies behind this is: "What makes us choose ? " Whether
we are free to act when we have chosen is a very different
thing from whether we are " free ” to choose, or whether
the choice is determined by something that lies behind.
How often we hear it said as a proof of the freedom
of the Will: " I am free to choose whether I will leave
the room or not; I am free to choose whether I w
ill
drop this weight or not. ’ 8ut such argument is beside
the question. No one denies the power of a person,
physically unconstrained, to leave a room or to stay
in it, to drop a weight or to upold it. The interesting
THE WILL 265
question is : “ Why do i choose ? ” When we analyse the
choice, we see that it is determined by motive, and the
determinist argues : " Your muscles can uphold or drop the
weight, but if there is a valuable and fragile article under­
neath, you will not choose to drop it. That which determines
your choice not to drop it is the presence of that fragile
object. Your choice is determined by motives, and the
strongest motive directs it.” The question is not: “ Am I
free to act ? ” but: “ Am I free to will ? ” And we see
dearly that the Will is determined by the strongest motive,
and that, so far as that goes, the determinist is right.
In truth, this fact that the Will is determined by the
strongest motive is the basis of all organized society, of all
law, of all penalty, of all responsibility, of all education. The
man whose will is not thus determined is irresponsible, in­
sane. He is a creature who cannot be appealed to, cannot
be reasoned with, cannot be relied on, a person without
reason, logic, or memory, without the attributes we regard
as human. In law, a man is regarded as irresponsible when
no motive sways him, when no ordinary reasons affect him ;
he is insane, and is not amenable to legal penalties. A Will
which is an energy pointing in any direction, pushing to action
without motive, without reason, without sense, might per­
haps be called " free ” , but this is not what is meant by
4
<freedom of the Will” . That Will is determined by the
strongest motive must be taken for granted in any sane
discussion of the freedom of the Will.
What then is meant by the freedom of the Will ? It can
be but a conditioned, a relative, freedom at most, for the
separated Self is a part of a whole, and the whole must be
266 A STUDY S
N CONSCIOUSNESS
greater than, must compel, all its parts. And this is true
alike of the Self and of the bodies in which he is ensheathed.
None questions that the bodies are in a realm of law and
move within law, can move but by law, and the freedom with
which they move is but in relation to each other and by
virtue of the interplay of the countless forces which balance
each other variously and endlessly, and in this variety and
endlessness offer innumerable possibilities and thus a free­
dom of movement within a rigidity of bondage. And the
Self also is in a realm of law, nay is himself the very law, as
being part of that nature which is the Being of all beings.
No separated Self may escape from the Self which is all, and,
however freely he may move with regard to other separated
Selves, he may not, cannot, move outside the life which
informs him, which is his nature and his law, in which he lives
and moves, The parts constrain not the parts, the separated
Selves constrain not the separated Selves ; but the whole
constrains and controls the parts, the Self constrains and
controls the Selves. Yet even here, since the Selves are the
Self, freedom starts up from amid apparent bondage, and
4
4none else compels
This freedom of a part as regards other parts while in
bondage to the whole may be seen clearly in physical nature.
We are parts of a world whirling through space and revolv­
ing also on its own axis, turning eastwards ever. Of this we
know naught, since its motion carries us with it, and all moves
together and at once, and in one direction. Eastwards we
turn with our world, and naught we can do will change our
’’ - \/_i. 4
*
*
* nfUa, d
M
rl +
/-%fl-w
a florae
THE WILL 267
s. I may go to the west of a person or a place,
we are both whirling eastwards ceaselessly. And of
tion of a part with regard to a part I shall be con-
small and slow as it is, while of the vast swift whirling
rries all parts eastwards and onwards ever, I shall be
jnconscious, and shall say in my ignorance; " Behold,
noved westwards." And the high Gods might laugh
ptuously at the ignorance of the fragment that speaks
direction of its motion, were it not that They, being
now of the movements within the motion, and of the
nich is false and yet true.
yet again may we see how the great Will works on-
ndeviatingly along the path of evolution, and compels
travel along that path, and still leaves to each to
his method of going, and the fashion of his uncon-
rorking. For the carrying out of that Will needs every
of working and every method of going, and takes up
izes all. A man shapes himself to a noble character,
urishes lofty aspirations, and seeks ever to do loyal
thful service to his fellows; then shall he be brought
where great opportunities cry aloud for workers, and
\ shall &e wrought out by him in a nation that needs
wiping, and he shall fill a hero's part. The part is
by the great Author: the ability to fill it is of the
)wn making. Or a man yields to every temptation
comes apt to evil, and he uses ill such power as he
d disregards mercy, justice, and truth in petty ways
daily life; then shall he be brought to birth where
¡on is needed, and cruelty, and ill ways, and the Will
s wrought out by him also in a nation that is working
268 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
out the results of an evil past, and he shall be of the weak­
lings that tyrannize cruelly and meanly and shame the nation
that bears them. Again is the part written by the great
Author, and the ability to fill it is of the man’s own making.
So work the little Wills within the great Will.
Seeing, then, that the Will is determined by motive con­
ditioned by the limits of the matter that enveils the separated
Self, and by the Self whereof the Self exercising the Will
is part—what mean we by the freedom of the Will ? We
mean, surely, that freedom is to be determined from within,
bondage is to be determined from without; the Will is free,
when the Self, willing to act, draws his motive for that voli­
tion from sources that lie within himself, and has not the
motive acting upon him from sources outside.
And truly this is freedom, for the greater Self in which he
moves is one with him : " I am That ” ; and the vaster Self
in which moves that greater Self is orie with that vaster, and
says also: “ I am That ” ; and so on and on, in huger and
huger sweeps, if world-systems and universe-systems be
thought of; yet may the lowliest " I ” that knows himself
turn inwards and not outwards, and know himself as one with
the Inner Self, the Pratyagatma, the one, and therefore truly
free. Looking outwards he is ever bound, though the limits
of his bondage recede endlessly, unlimitedly ; looking inwards
he is ever free, for he is Brahman, the Eternal.
When a man is Self-determined, then, we may say that
the man is free, in every sense in which the word freedom
is valuable, and his Self-determination is not bondage, in any
harassing sense of that word. That which in my innermost
Self I will to do, that to which none other forces me, that
THE WILL 269
bears the mark which distinguishes between the free and the
bound. How far in us, in this sense of the word freedom,
can we say that our Will is free ? For the most part, but few
of us can claim this freedom in any more than a small por­
tion. Apart from the previously-mentioned bondage to
attractions and repulsions, we are bound within the channels
made by our past thinkings, by our habits—most of all by
our habits of thought—by the qualities and the absence of
qualities brought over from past lives, by the strengths and
the weaknesses that were born with us, by our education
and our surroundings, by the imperious compulsions of our
stage in evolution, our physical heredity, and our national
and racial traditions. Hence only a narrow path is left to us
in which our Will can run; it strikes itself ever against the
past, which appears as walls in the present.
To all intents and purposes the Will of us is not free. It is
only in process of becoming free, and it will only be free
when the Self has utterly mastered his vehicles and uses
them for his own purposes, when every vehicle is only a
vehicle, completely responsive to his every impulse, and
not a struggling animal, ill-broken, with desires of its own.1
When the Self has transcended ignorance, vanquishing the
habits that are the marks of past ignorance, then is the
Self free, and then will be realized the meaning of the
paradox, " in whose service is perfect freedom ” , For then
w
ill it be realized that separation is not, that the separated
Will is not. that, by virtue of our inherent Divinity, our Will is
1T
his is only accomplished when the life of the Self informs the
m
atter of his vehicles, instead of the downward-striving elemental
essence, i.e., when the lawof the Spirit of Life replaces the lawof sin
and death.
A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
of the Divine Will, and that it is which has given us
ghout our long evolution the strength to carry on that
:ion, and that the realization of the unity of Will is the
ition of fredom.
ng these lines of thought it is that some have found
iding of the age-long controversy between the “ free-
of the Will and determinism, and, while recognising
■uth battled for by determinism, have also preserved
jstified the inherent feeling : “ I am free, I am not
That idea of spontaneous energy, of forthgoing
•from the inner recesses of our being, is based on the
ssence of consciousness, on the " I ” which is the Self,
elf which, because divine, is free.
2. WHY SO MUCH STRUGGLE ?
we survey the long course of evolution, the slow pro-
>
f the development of the Will, the question inevitably
n the mind : " Why should there be all this struggle
fficulty ? Why should there be so many mistakes and
iy falls ? Why this long bondage before freedom can
ained ? " Before replying to this, a general position
ie laid down. In answering any question, the limits of
uestion must be borne in mind, and the answer must
2judged to be inadequate because it does not answer
¡r question that is all the time present in the back-
I. An answer to a question may be adequate without
a final answer to all questions ; and its adequacy is not
gauged if it be thrown aside as not answering a further
THE WILL 271
of many students arises from a restless impatience that will
not deal in any kind of order with the questions that come
thronging to the mind, but demands that they should all be
answered at once, and that the answer to one question
should cover all the others. The adequacy of means must
be judged in relation to the end which those means are
designed to bring about. In ail cases the answer must oe
judged by its relevancy to the question asked, and not by its
not replying to some other allied question lying at the back
of the mind. Thus, the relevancy of any means found to
exist in a universe must be decided by an end found to be
aimed at in ihat universe, and they must not be judged as
though offered as an answer to the further question : “ Why
should there be any universe at all ? " That question may
indeed be asked and answered, but the proof of the ade­
quacy of a means in a universe to an end, seen to be aimed
at in that universe, will not be that answer. And it is no
evidence that the answer to the original question is inade­
quate, if the questioner replies : *
*Yes, but why should there
be a universe ? ” In replying to the question ; '*Why should
there be all these mistakes and falls in treading the path of
evolution ? " we must take the universe as existing, as a fact
to start with, and must study it in order to discover the end,
or, at least, one of the ends, towards which it is tending.
Why it should tend thitherward is, as said, a further question,
and one of profoundest interest ; but it is by the discovered
end that we must judge the means employed to reach it.
Even a cursory study of the part of the universe in which
we find ourselves shows us that one at least of its ends—if
not its end__is to produce living beings of high intelligence
272 ' A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
and strong will, capable of taking an active part in carrying
on and guiding the activities of nature and of co-operating
in the genera! scheme of evolution. Further study, carried
on by the unfolding of the inner qualities and endorsed by
ancient writings, shows us that this world is not alone, but
forms one of a series, that it has been aided in the evolution
of its humanity by men of elder growth, and is to yield men
of its own growing for the aiding of younger worlds in ages
yet unborn. Moreover, it shows also a vast hierarchy of
superhuman beings, directing and guiding evolution, and as
the centre of the universe the threefold Logos, Ruler and
Lord of His system ; and it tells that the fruitage of a system
is not only a great hierarchy of mighty Intelligences, with
ranks of ever-lessening splendour stretching below them, but
also this supreme perfection of a Logos as the crown of
all. And it unveils vista after vista of increasing splendour,
universes where each system is but as a world, and so on
and on, in ever-widening range of illimitable glorious fullness
of life unending. And then the question rises; “ By what
means shall be evolved these mighty Ones, who climb from
the dust to the stars, and from those stars that are the dust
of vaster systems to the stars that are to them as our mire
to our sun ? ”
Thus studied, imagination fails to find a path by which
these self-poised, self-determined Beings can reach that per­
fect equilibrium and steadfast inerrancy of wisdom that fits
them to be the “ nature ” of a system, save just that path
of struggle and of experience along which we strive to­
day. For could there be an extra-kosmic God, with nature
other than that of the Self we see unfolding around us in
THE WILL 273
harmonious certainty of linked sequence, with nature irregular
and fitful, changing and arbitrary, incalculable, then it might
be that out of that chaos might be flung up a being called
“ perfect ", but truly most imperfect, since most limited, who,
having no experience behind him, and therefore without
reason and „without judgment, might as a machine act
“ rightly " in, /.e., in accordance with, any given scheme of
things, and grind out, as does a machine, the sequence of
movements arranged for it. But such a being would only fit
his scheme, and outside it would be useless, incompetent.
Nor would there here be life, which is the changing self­
adaptation to changing conditions, without the loss, the
disintegration of its centre. By the troublous path along
which we are climbing, we are being prepared for all emerg­
encies in the universes in the future with which we may
have to do, and that is a result well worth the trials to which
we are exposed.
Nor must we forget that we are here because we have
willed to urtfoid our powers through the experiences of life
on the lower planes ; that our lot is self-chosen, not imposed ;
that we are in the world as the result of our own " Will to
Live " ; that if that Will changed—though truly it is not so
changeful—we should cease to live here and return to the
Peace, without gathering the harvest for which we came.
“ None else compels."
3. THE POWER OF THE WILL
This power—which has ever been recognised in Occultism
as the spiritual energy in man, one in kind with that which
18
274 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
sends forth, supports, and calls in the worlds—is now being
groped after in the outer world, and is being almost un­
consciously used by many as a means of bringing about
results otherwise unattainable. The schools of Christian
Science, Mental Science, Mind-Cure, etc., are all dependent
for their results on the outflowing power of the Will. Dis­
eases yield to that flow of energy, and not only nervous dis­
orders, as some imagine. Nervous disorders yield the most
readily, because the nervous system has been shaped for the
expression of spiritual powers on the physical plane. The
results are the most rapid where the sympathetic system is
first worked upon, for that is the more directly related to
the aspect of Will, in the form of Desire, as the cerebro­
spinal is more directly related to the aspects of Cognition
and of pure Will. The dispersion of tumours, cancers, etc.,
and the destruction of their causes, the curing of lesions and
bone-fractures, imply for the most part considerable knowl­
edge on the part of the healer. I say " for the most part ",
because it is possible that the Will may be guiWed from the
higher plane even where physical plane knowledge islacking,
in the case of an operator at an advanced stage of evolution.
The method of cure, where knowledge is present, would be
as follows : the operator would form a mental picture of the
affected organ in a state of perfect health, creating that part
in mental stuff by the imagination : he would then build into
it astral matter, thus densifying the image, and would then
use the force of magnetism to densify it further by etheric
matter, building the denser materials of gases, liquids, and
solids into this mould, utilizing t,he materials available in
the body and supplying from outside any deficiencies. In
THE WILL 275
this the Will is the guiding energy, and such manipula­
tion of matter is merely a question of knowledge, whether
on this or on the higher planes. There is not the danger
in cures wrought by this method that accompanies
those wrought by an easier, and therefore commoner,
system, by the working on the sympathetic system alluded
to above.
People are advised, in some of the methods now popular­
ized, to concentrate their thoughts on the solar plexus, and
to “ live under its control The sympathetic system governs
the vital processes—the functioning of the heart, lungs,
digestive apparatus—and the solar plexus forms its most
important centre. Now the carrying on of these vital pro­
cesses has, as before explained,1passed under the control of
the sympathetic system in the course of evolution, as the
cerebro-spinal System has become more and more dominant.
And the reviving of the control of this system by the Will, by
a process of concentration of thought, is a retrograde and
not a forward step, even though it often brings about a cer­
tain degree of clairvoyance. This method, as already said, is
much followed in India in the system called Hatha Yoga, and
the student learns to control the action of the'heart, lungs,
and digestive apparatus ; he can thus inhibit the beating of
the heart, can stop the lungs, can reverse peristaltic action,
and so on. And when it is done, the question arises : What
have you gained by your success ? You have brought again
under the control of the Will a system which in course of
evolution had been rendered automatic, to the great con­
venience of the owner of these lower functions, and have
1 See Part I, Chapter X, § 1.
276 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
thus taken a step backward in evolution. To do this
failure in the long run, even though there may be
moment a palpable result to show.
Moreover, the concentration of thought on a ce
the sympathetic system and, most of all, on the solar
means a serious physical danger, unless the learner be
the physical observation of his teacher, or be able to r
and bring through to the physical brain the instructor
may be given to him on a higher plane. Concentrât
the solar plexus is apt to bring on disease of a peculia
tractable kind. It issues in a profound melancholy i
impossible to remove, in fits of terrible depression
sometimes in a form of paralysis. Not along these
should travel the serious student, intent on the knowlec
the Self. When that knowledge is obtained, the bod
comes the instrument on which the Self can play, and a
is needed meanwhile is to purify and refine it, so that f
come into harmony-with the higher bodies and be pref
to vibrate rhythmically with them. The brain will thi
rendered more responsive, and by industrious thinkinc
the action of meditation—not on the brain, but on lofty
—it will be gradually improved. The brain becomes a b
organ as it is exercised and this is on the road of evolu
But to work directly on the sympathetic plexuses is or
road of retrogression. Many a one comes, asking for
verance from the results of these practices, and one can
sadly answer: “ T0 undo the mischief will take yef
Results may be gained quickly by going backwards, but
better to face the upward climbing, and then utilize
physical instrument from above, not from below.
THE WILL 277
There is another matter to be considered in healing
eases by Will—the danger of driving the disease into a
iher vehicle, in driving it out of the physical body.. Disease
)ften the final working out of the evil that existed previously
the higher planes, and it is then far better to let it thus
rk out than to forcibly check it and throw it back into the
>t!er vehicle. It is the last working out of an evil desire
an evil thought, and in such a case the use of physical
sans of cure is safer than the use of mental means, for the
mer cannot cast it back into the higher planes, whereas
i latter may do so. Curative mesmerism does not run this
iger, belonging as it does to the physical plane ; that may
used by any one whose life, thoughts, and desires are
■
e. But the moment Will forces are poured down into the
/sical, there is a danger of reaction, and of the driving of
! disease back into the subtler vehicles from which it
ne forth.
If mental curing is done by the purification of thought and
>ire, and the natural quiet working of the purified thoughts
i desires on the physical body, no harm can result; to
tore physical harmony by making harmonious the mental
] astral vehicles is a true method of mental healing, but it
not as rapid as the Will-cure and is far harder. Purity of
id means health of body: and it is this idea—that where
mind is pure the body should be healthy—that has led
ny to adopt these mental methods of healing.
\ person whose mind is perfectly pure and balanced will
generate fresh bodily disease, though he may have some
¡xhausted karma to work off, or he may take on himself
le of the disharmonies caused by others. Purity and
278 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
healthy truly go together. When, as is and has be
case, some saint is found to be suffering physically, th
<
a one is either working out the effect of bad thinking
past, or is bearing in himself something of the worl
harmony, turning or. to himself the forces of disha
harmonizing them within his own vehicles and sendin<
forth again as currents of peace and goodwill. Man
been puzzled by seeing that the greatest and the
suffer, both mentally and physically. They suffer for
not for themselves, and they are truly White M
a<
transmuting by spiritual alchemy, ,in the crucible of the
suffering bodies, the base metals of human passions ir
pure gold of love and peace.
Apart from the question of the ways of working
body by the Will, another question arises in the thoi
mind : Is it well to use the Will in this fashion for 0
1
helping ? Is there not a certain degradation in usi*
highest power of the Divine within us in the service
body, to bring about merely a good condition of p
health ? Is it well that the Divine should thus turn ston
bread, and so fall under the very temptation resisted
Christ ? The story may be taken historically or mythic
matters not; it contains a profound spiritual truth <
instance of obedience to an occult law. Still remair
the answer of the tempted : *
*Man does not live by
alone, but by evfery word that proceedeth out of the
of God/' This ethic seems to be on a higher plan
that which yokes the Divine to the service of the p
body. One of the dangers of the present is the wors
the body, the putting of the body on,too high a pinn<
THE WILL . 279
a reaction from, exaggerated asceticism. By using the Will
to serve the body, we- make the Will its slave, and the
practice of continually removing little aches and pains by
willing them to go saps the higher quality of endurance. A
person thus acting is apt to be irritable under small physical
discomforts which the Will cannot remove, and the higher
power of the Will, which can control the body and support it
in its work, even though it be suffering, is undermined.
Hesitancy to use the power of the Will for relief of one's
body need not arise from any doubt as to the soundness of
the thought, the reality of the law, on which such action is
based ; but from a fear that men may fall under the tempta­
tion of using that which should lift them to realms spiritual as
the minister of the physical, and may thus become slaves of
the body, and be helpless when the body fails them in the
hour of need.
It is an occult law, binding on every Initiate, that he may
not use an occult power for his own helping ; if he do, he
loses the power to help others, and it is not worth while to
forfeit the great for the small. That already referred-to
story of the temptation of the Christ has a further-reaching
significance than most understand. Had He used His occult
power to turn stones into bread for the relief of His hunger,
instead of waiting in patient strength for the food brought
by the Shining Ones, He would not later have been able to
endure the mystic sacrifice of the Cross. The taunt then
flung at Him contained an occult truth : “ He saved others :
Himself He cannot save." He could not use, to spare Him­
self one pang, the powers that had opened the eyes of the
blind and made the leper clean. Those who would save
280 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
themselves must give up the divine mission of being Saviours
of the world. They must choose between the one and the
other as they evolve. If in their evolution they choose the
lower, and use the great powers they have won for the ser­
vice of themselves and of the body, then must they give up
the higher mission of using them for the redemption of the
race. There is such an immense activity of mind at the pres­
ent time that the need is all the greater for the employment
of its powers to the highest ends.
4. WHITE AND BLACK MAGIC
Magic is the use of the Will to guide the powers of exter­
nal nature, and is truly, as its name implies, the great science.
The human Will, being the power of the Divine in man, can
subjugate and control the inferior energies, and thus bring
about the results desired. The difference between White
and Black Magic lies in the motive which determines the
Will ; when that Will is set to benefit others, to help and
bless all who come within its scope, then is the man a White
Magician, and the results which he brings about by the exer­
cise of his trained Will are beneficial, and aid the course of
human evolution. He is ever expanding by such exercise,
becoming less and less separate from his kind, and is a
centre of far-reaching help. But when the Will is exercised
for the advantage of the lower self, when it is employed for
personal ends and aims, then is the man a Black Magician, a
danger to the race, and his results obstruct and delay human
evolution. He is ever contracting by such exercise, becoming
more and more separate from his kind, shutting himself
THE WILL 281
within a shell which isolates him, and which grows ever
thicker and denser with the exercise of his trained powers.
The Will of the Magician is ever strong, but the Will of the
White Magician is strong with the strength of life, flexible at
need, rigid at need, ever assimilating to the great Will, the
Law of the universe. The Will of the Black Magician has
the strength of iron, pointing ever to the personal end,
and it strikes against the great Will, and sooner or later
must shiver itself into pieces against it. It is the peril of
Black Magic against which the student of occultism is guarded
by the law which forbids him to use his occult powers for
himself ; for though no man is a Black Magician who does
not deliberately erect his personal Will against the great
Law, it is well to recognize the essence of Black Magic and
to check the very beginnings of evil. Just as it was said
above that the saint harmonizing the forces of disharmony
within himself is truly the White Magician, so is he the Black
Magician who uses for his own gain all the forces he has
acquired by knowledge, turns them to the service of his own
separateness, and increases the disharmony of the world by
his selfish graspings, while seeking to preserve harmony in
his own vehicles.
5. ENTERING INTO PEACE
When the Self has grown so indifferent to the vehicles in
which he dwells that their vibrations can no longer affect him ;
when he can use them for any purpose ; when his vision has
become perfectly clear; when the vehicles offer no opposition,
282 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
from himself animates them ; then the Peace enfolds him
and the object of the long struggle is attained. Such a one,
Self-centred, no longer confuses himself with his vehicles.
They are instruments to work with, tools to manipulate at
his will. He has then realised the peace of the Master, the
one who is utterly master of his vehicles, and therefore
master of life and death. Capable of receiving into them
the tumult of the world and of reducing it to harmony ;
capable of feeling through them the sufferings of others, but
not sufferings of his own ; he stands apart from, beyond,
all storms. Yet is he able ever to bend down into the storm
to lift another above it, without losing his own foothold on
the rock of the Divine, consciously recognized as himself.
Such are truly Masters, and Their peace may now and then
be felt, for a time at least, by those who are striving to tread
the same path, but who have not yet reached that same
rock of the Self-conscious Divine.
That union of the separate Will with the one Will for the
helping of the world is the goal which seems to be more
worthy of reaching after than aught the world can offer.
Not to be separate from men, but one with them ; not to
win peace and bliss alone, but to say with the Chinese
Blessed One : “ Never will I enter into final peace alone,
but always and everywhere will I suffer and strive until all
enter with me ” —that is the crown of humanity. In propor­
tion as we can realise that the suffering and the striving are
the more efficacious as we suffer only in the sufferings of
others and feel not suffering for ourselves, we shall rise
into the Divine, shall tread the " razor path ” that the Great
Ones have trodden, and shall find that the Will, which has
THE WILL 283
guided us along that path, and which has realized itself in
the treading of that path, is strong enough still to suffer and
to strive, until the suffering and the strife for all are over,
and all together enter into Peace.
PEACE TO ALL BEINGS
INDEX
INDEX
PAGE
ACTION, Impulsive ... ... ... 252
„ What is ... ... ... ... 203
Activity ... 5 et seq., 32, 36, 39, 40,42, 50, 51, 191
,, Correspondences of, with Persons of Trinities 5, 32
,, Germination of ... ... ... 129
Adi, Formation of sub-planes ... ... ... 14
,, the First Plane ... ... ... 2, 3, 8, 10
Analogy of axes of crystals ... ... ... 13
,, of distorted appearance of stick in water ... 247
,, of earth’s motion, and man’s limits of freedom 266
„ of embryo ... ... 30, 43, 76, 85, 111
,, of flame and sparks ... ... ... 31
,, of focussing the eye ... ... ... 185
,, of horses and charioteer ... 245, 263
,, of positive and negative electricity ... 22
,, of weaving ... ... ... ... 47
Ananda, Bliss aspect of Logos ... ... ... 5
Animal kingdom, Passage into ... ... ... 83
Animals and astral consciousness ... ... 121
,, centres in astral sheath of ... ... 106
,, feeling or sensitiveness of ... ... 105
,, forcing evolution of ... ... ... 85
288 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
PAGE
Animals, Higher, re-incarnating entities ... 85
Anticipation and memory ... 177
Anupadaka, formation of sub-planes 14, 15
,, the Second Plane... 2, 3, 8 et seq.
Archangels, (see Devas)
" As above, so below " 8, 22, 36, 130
Astra body ... 106, 128
,, ,, built round permanent atom ... ... 157
,, ,, or vehicle of desire 209 et seq
. ,, purification of ... 210
,, ,, Self-consciousness in ... 144
Astral centres ... 104, 1 0 6 et seq. , 132, 161, 198
,, ,, and sympathetic system 107, 162
,, chakras 107, 124, 161
,, consciousness, Dawn of 119 et seq
,, plane, Functioning on 107, 167
,, self-consciousness and fourth set of spirillae ... 141
,, self-consciousness and pituitary body ... 141
,, sheath, Organization of 120 et seq
Astrology and temperament ... 65
Athanasian Creed quoted ... 30
Atlantean, Consciousness of th e... 122, 164
Sense developm ent of the 114, 116
Atma-Buddhi-Manas ... ... 36, 39, 40, 55, 156, 195
„ What is 14
Atmic Plane, Formation of atoms of 14
,, the Third Plane... 8
Atom (or Atom s), Axes of growth 13
,, evolution of ... 171
INDEX 289
PAGE
Atom (or Atoms), Five fundamental types of 13, 19
Formation of ... ... ... 11, 12
Kosmic ... ... ... ... 11
of higher planes guided to Monad by Devas 40, 42
68,
of planes, Forming
Permanent
Permanent, and ovum
Permanent and Weismann
Permanent astral
Permanent atmic or akashic
Permanent, attached to Jivatma
Permanent buddhic
Permanent, Definition of ...
Permanent, History of passage through lower
kingdoms ... ... ... 78 et seq., 84
Permanent, link between lower forms and triad 105
Permanent manasic ... ... 40, 42
Permanent physical ... 63 et seq., 68, 69, 158
14, 15
55 et seq., 81 et seq.
... 64
... 66
69, 157
40, 42
.. 55
40, 42
.. 45
Permanent, Recalling past lives through
Permanent, Sprillae of
Permanent, storehouse of experience
Permanent, Use of
Powers involved in
Ultimate
Atomic sub-planes, Direct passage of life through
Attention ...
Attraction ...
Auric body ...
Automatism of bodies destroyed at death ...
19
137, 178
18, 67
.. 66
.. 62
19, 20
.. 15
.. 17
85, 186
.. 200
.. 147
177, 178
290 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
PAGE
Awareness ... ... ... ... 22, 129
,, and self-consciousness ... ... 22
,, in chemical reactions... ... ... 24
BABY Ego ... ... ... ... ... 41
Becquerel, M. Jean, and N-rays ... ... 94
Benevolence ... ... ... ... 228
Bhagavad-Gita, quoted ... 10, 132, 133, 206,
207, 219
Bindopanishat, quoted ... ... ... 201
Bliss and virtue ... ... ... ... 233
,, Pleasure and pain becom e m odes of ... ... 255
Bodies, Organization of subtle ... 159 et seg.
,, Organization of subtle, and temperament ... 162
Body, Evolution of, from a sheath ... 34, 160
,, Relation of, with consciousness ... ... 27
Bose, Prof. J.C., Experiments of ... 90 et seg,, 96
Brahman ... ... ... ... 25, 268
Brain and madness ... ... ... ... 142
,, as limitation ... ... ... 141, 142
„ centre of self-consciousness ... ... 139
„ Effect on, of development of consciousness ... 141
,, in waking-consciousness on ... ... 139
,, Pressure of super-consciousness on ... ... 142
Brihadaranyakopanishat, quoted ... ... 205
Brotherhood of man ... ... ... ... 238
Buddhi, Development of ... ... ... 245
,, Manas, Atma ... 36, 39, 40, 55, 156, 195
Buddhic plane, Formation of atoms of ... ... 15
INDEX 291
PAGE
CAUSAL body 44, 85, 101, 111
,, ,, and memory ... 186
,, ,, Formation of ... ... 112
Cell-multiplication, as symbol of separation in First Logos 7
Cerebro-spinal system 105, 115, 122, 159, 164
,, ,, and waking* consciousness ... 105
Chakras, Astral 106, 124, 161, 165
Chemical reaction and evolution of consciousness ... 80
Chhandogyopanishat, quoted 9, 192
Chit, Sat, Ananda 5
Chloroform, etc., Action of ... 198
Choice ... 264
,, of part in life ... 267
Christ, and temptation to turn stones into bread ... 279
Christian Science ... 274
Clairvoyance and Hatha Yoga ... ... 123
,, Higher ... 124
,, Lower . 121-23
Clifford, Prof, quoted ... 193
Common sense ... 181
Concentration in Râja Yoga ... 154
Conscience 213 ef seq.
Consciousness 21 et seq., 34, 94, 141
,, Absolute, Universal, Individual 24, 25
,, analogy of electricity ... 22
,, and body ... 27
,, and brain ... ... 139
,, and life identical ... ... 21
,, and memory ... ... 173
292 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
PAGE
Consciousness and motor-organs ... ... 138
,, and pineal gla n d ... ... 1 4 1 ,1 6 4
,, and pituitary body ... 1 4 1 ,1 6 4
„ and self-consciousness ... ... 78
„ and sense-organs ... ... 108
„ and vibration ... ... ... 26
„ Anim al... ... ... ... 97
„ as awareness ... ... ... 22
„ Astral, aroused from physical ... 80
„ Beginning of human ... 54, 55 et seq.
,, Birth o f ... ... ... 129
,, Clearness of physical ... ... 172
Creative power of ... ... 27
,, D ream ... ... ... ... 88
,, Extension of ... ... ... 166
,, Extension of waking .... ... 141
,, in mineral and vegetable ... 78, 97
, in Root-Races ... ... ... 105
,, incursions from super- ... ... 14C
,, Lower workings of, becom e automatic. 9<
,, Mechanism o f ... ... ... 9(
of fifth Root-Race man ... ... 1 1 ,
„ Seven types of ... ... ... 5
». States of human ... ... 136 et sec
„ Super-physical ... ... . 14
„ symbol of globeand light ... ... U
,, the master-builder # # 1C
,, Three fundamental expressions of ... 5,3
,, T rance... ... ... i
INDEX 293
PAGE
Consciousness, Two paths of ... 168
,, Units of 87, 99
,, Unity of .. 87, 89, 96, 182
Waking ... 88, 95, 105, 139 et seq.
Conversion, Sudden ... ... 151
Corinthians, quoted ... ..................... 30
Criminals, Treatment of ... 119
Cross, The 8 et seq.
DAIVJPRAKRITi or Fohat ..................... :.. 23
Death, Indrawing o f life-web a t ... ... 59
Desire 191, 195
„ Awakening of ... .130, 198 et seq.
„ and attraction and repulsion 200, 225
„ and emotion ... 224 et seq.
,, and pleasure and pain ... 199
,, Binding nature of 204 et seq.
,, Breaking of bonds of ... 206 et seq., 215, 219
„ Ceasing of ... 221
,, com pared to horses of charioteer .. ... 245
,, Conflict between thought and 206-07
„ Evolution of ..: 134
,, in dreams ... 2 12
„ Lower, conquered by higher ... , 207
„ Purification of ... . 219 et seq.
,, Relation of, to thought and action ., ... 201
,, Sex, and emotion o f love 222 et seq.
,, Transmutation of, into will ... 208
,, Value of devotion in freeing from .. ... 207
294 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
PAGE
Desire, Vehicle of 209 et seq.
,, Vitality of out-grown ... 211
», Will to live and ... ... 205
Devachan ... ... 68
Devas ... ... 40, 46, 49, 52 et seq., 55 et seq.
,, Coming forth of ... 52
„ Orders of ... 53
», Work o f ... 52 et seq., 69, 76 , 79, 81, 83, 97
Devotion, Value of ... 207
Difference, Consciousness of ... 131
Disease, Curing, by will 274, 277
Dream consciousness ... 88, 143 et seq.
Duality, Basis of ... 4, 23
Duty ... 235
EARTH, Evolution of ... 81
Elements, Proto- ... 16
,, The five ... 53
Elementáis ... 53
>
» the builders of physical bodies ... 64, 158
Elemental essence ... 46
,» kingdoms 52, 55, 56
»* », Formation of the three ... 46
t. „ The first »... 46
»
> », The second... 46, 55, 56, 69
>
» », The third ... 46, 56, 57
Emotion ... 191
„ , and action ... 252 et seq.
,, Answering evil by good ... 257
INDEX 295
PAGE
Emotion, Arousing, in another ... ... ... 256
,, Balancing of, and intellect ... ... 246
„ Becoming master of ... ... ... 254
Birth of .......................................... 222, 262
Curbing, by control of speech ...
Distorting force of
Identity of desire and ...
Ill-regulated...
in face of suffering
in the family
Motive power in man is
of hate and of love
Ruling the ...
Sex-desire and love- ...
Studying, of others
Training of ...
Transmutation of, into virtue and vice
250 et seq.
... 247
... 224
... 244
244, 256
226 et seq.
... 243
... 225
249
222 et seq.
248
... 243
234
Uses of 238 et seq., 254
,, Value of, in evolution ...
,, Value of, of hero-worship
,, Value of meditation
Eternal Now
Eternal, The
Ethics, The science of ...
Evil, Returning good for
Evolution, Influence of separate wills in ...
,, Involution, and
,, Law of
„ of consciousness. Beginning of ...
... 258
... 258
... 249
... 178
9, 24, 28, 36
... 236
... 257
... 192
19, 20, 44
232
44
296 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
PAGE
Evolution, Right and wrong in ... ... 232
„ Taking, in hand ... ... ... 246
,, Value of emotion in ... ... ... 258
Experience evolves knowledgeof right and wrong ... 214
FAILURE, Equanimity in ... ... ... 214
Fairies (see Devas)
Family, Evolution of emotion in ... ... 226 et seq.
Fear ... ... ... ... ... 229
Feeling, the first manifestation of consciousness 129, 199
Field o f human consciousness ... ... ... 1 , 2
,, Preparation of the ... ... 11 et seq.
Fifth Race, Nervous development of ... 114 et seq.
,, „ Sense-organs of ... ... ... 116
Fifth Rounders ... ... ... ... 72
Fohat ... ... ... ... 12, 14, 23
Form, Symbols of ... ... ... 3, 6, 8
Freedom of will ... ... 265, 268 et seq.
Freedom of will, analogy from physical nature ... 266
Freedom of will, Partial ... ... 266, 269
GENIUS, Flash of .......................................... ... 168
Germ-cells ... ... ... ... . . 9
Gnomes (see Devas)
God, Will of ... ... .. ... 233
Goethe, quoted ... ... ... ... 35
G ood, Returning, for evil ... ... ... 257
Group-souls- ... ... 5 6 ,5 7 ,7 8 ,1 0 0 ,1 0 9
„ „ analogy of mother and child ... ... 76
INDEX 297
PAGE
Group-souls, Definition of ... 74
,, „ Division of ... 75
„ ,, Habitat of ... 77
„ ,, The seven ... 75
„ ,, Triple envelope of ... 75
Gunas (see Satva, Rajas and Tamas)
HATE and repulsion ... ... 225
Hate-emotion and vice ... 236
,, ,, between equals ... ... 229
,, ,, in family 228, 229
,, „ is of matter-side ... ... 230
„ „ towards inferiors and superiors ... 229
,, „ Uses of 239, 240
Hatha-Yoga 124, 275
Health, Influence of mind on ... 117
Heavenly Man 39-41
Hebrews, quoted ... 29
Heresy, The great ... 241
Hero-worship ... 258
Highly-evolved persons, Value of association with 67
Horoscope, Value of ... 65
Hypnotism ... ... 145
ICHCHHA (see Will)
Ideals, Great Teachers as ... 217
,, How to form ... ... 217
P r r s / - i f O1Q
298 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
Ideals, Varieties of
Imagination ...
Impulse and intuition ...
,, Refraining from acting on
Individualization
Individuality
Inertia, mobility, rhythm
Initiate, Field of consciousness of
,, Law binding on
Instincts arise from sub-consciousness
Intellect and emotion ...
„ Balancing of, and emotion
„ biassed by emotion
Intuition and impulse ...
„ Source of
Involution and evolution
Ishvara, His Body
,, Thought-forms of
PAGE
216, 217
... 135
... 253
... 252
... 85
... 10
12, 50
2
... 279
... 137
... 222
... 246
... 248
... 253
... 253
19, 20, 44
... 25
25, 28
JAMES, Professor, quoted
,, referred to
Jivâtma
... 154
..................... 150
41, 44, 45, 95, 98, 112, 136
..................... 42, 55
.. 44
,, a seed of divine life
,, as embryo
,, Attachment of permanent atoms to ... 55
,, Birth of ... ... ... ... 44
,, evolves through lower kingdoms as parasite ... 82
,, First stirrings of consciousness of ... ... 126
Jnana (see Wisdom)
INDEX * 299
PAGE
Jnanendriyas, (knowledge-senses) 36, 107, 132
John 1, ii, 1 5 ; quoted ... 239
KAMALOKA ....................... 68
Kama-manas 201
Karma 64, 203
,, Lords of 64, 158
Karmendriyas 36, 108
Kathopanishat, quoted ..................... 205
Key to Theosophy, The quoted ... ... 30
Kosmic atom ...
Kosmic Plane, L ow est... 11
Kriya (see Activity)
Kundalinl 125, 162
LEARNING is remembrance ... 179
Lemurians-, Consciousness of 122, 163
„ Sense-development of ....................... 113
,, Third eye in ... 163
Leonie 1, II, III, Case of .......................149
Life and consciousness identical ....................... 21
,, Symbols of .......................3, 8
Life-Wave, First ....................... 20
„ ,, Second 38, 45 et seq., 70, 74
Third ... 98, 1 1 1 , 113
Light on the Path, quoted 9, 206
Line, The, as symbol ... ... 7, 8
Logic Manifestation, Field of 2
Logoi, The three 2 et seq.
300 A STUDY SN CONSCIOUSNESi
Logos ... ...
,, Body of
,, Everything present to
„ First ...
,, Plan of
,, Planetary
,, Preparatory work of, in system
,, reservoir of life ...
,, Second ... 7, 9, 16, 18, 32, 7<
,, Second, Com m encem ent of activity of
,, Second, as W eaver
,, Second, Work of
,, Self-conditioning of
,, Static and dynamic
„ Third ... 8 ,1 0 , 1 1 , 1 6 , 1 8 , :
,, Third, as Chemist
„ Third, Work of ...
,, Thought-forms of
,, Unity of, with universal self
Lords of Karma
Love, The attractive force of
,, The Law of
Love-em otion, a constructive energy
,, ,, and attraction
,, ,, and duties
,, ,, and vice ......2
,, ,, and virtue
,, ,, between equals ...
,, ,, Birth of
INDEX 301
PAGE
Love-emotion, Development of ... ... 237
„ „ develops moral character ... 23 7
,, „ is of spirit . ... 229
,, ,, towards inferiors and superiors 227, 228
,, „ Widening of ... ... 238
MADNESS and “ great wits ” ... ... 142
Magic, white and black ... 280
Man, An evolving 162
, / Consciousness of average ... ... ... 139
,, Life-history of, through early races ... ... 163
,, Normal centre of consciousness o f ... ... 134
„ Normal, not self-conscious on higher planes 135
,, the m ic r o c o s m ....................... ... ... 95
Manas, Atma-Buddhi- ... 36, 39, 40, 55, 156, 195
Matter, Characteristics given to ... ... 48
,, Etheric states of . .. 15
,, is limitation ... 24
„ Nonentity of ... ... ... 27
„ Reflexion of Trinity in ... ... 6
„ Seven types of ... ...4 8 ,5 1
,, States of ... ... 15
,, Three qualities of ... 12, 49, 50
Matthew, v. quoted ... ... 206
Maudsley, Dr., quoted ... ... 153
Meditation ... ... « . .. 249
„ _ Gaining of knowledge by ... 166
,, Ruling emotion by ... ... ... 249
Memory,, a function of mind ... ... 202
302 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
PAGE
ry and anticipation ... ... 177
and attention ... 185
and brain-cells ... ... 173
and concentration ... 180
and learning ... 179
and objectivity ... 181
and perception ... 174, 175
Astral, and perceptions... ... ... 176
Birth of ... 130
Definition of ... ... 172
Expansion o f... ... 184
in time and space ... 182
in trance ... 183
limited by vehicles ... 171
Nature o f 169 et seq.
not a faculty ... ... ... 178
of astral experiences ... ... 167
of limited selves 171, 176
of Logos . . . 170, 178
of past events and lives ... 180, 184, 186
of sensations ... 176
simile of traveller with lamp ... 183
Undying ... «... . . . .... 178
Universal, Contacting the ... ... 187
body, Self-consciousness in ... ... 141
M Work of ... 175
curing, The best method of ... 277
nucleus, Mental body built round ... 157
,, re-awakened by Monad ... 156
INDEX 303
PAGE
Mental plane, Formation of atoms of ... ... 15
Mesmerism ... ... ... ... 1 4 5 1
,, Curative ... ... ... 277
Metals ... ... ... ... 91 et seq.
Metals, Proto— ... ... ... ... 57
Microbe, Definition of ... ... ... 99
Mind and breaking bonds of desire ... ... 206
,, the sixth or the eleventh sense ... 132, 133
Mineral kingdom ... ... ... 76, 78
,, ,, Astral sheath of ... ... 106
,, ,, Consciousness in ... 8 0 ,9 7
,, ,, Permanent atoms in ... ... 28
,, ,, Prana in ... ... ... 100
Mobility, inertia, rhythm ... ... 12 ,5 0
Molecules . ... ... ... 14, 16, 18
Monad, Action of life of, on atoms ... ... 18
‘7 ;- analogy of embryo ... ... 30, 111
,, as germ-cells in Body of Logos ... ... 32
,,building his vehicles at reincarnation ... 156
,, Definition of ... ... ... 29
,, evolution of consciousness in lower worlds 31 et seq.
,, Life-streams from, through atomic sub-planes... 18
„ Original condition of ... ... ... 31
Monadic essence ... ... ... 45, 56
Monads, Action of, on spirillse ... ... 70, 71
,, ,, ,, on permanent atoms ... ... 70
,, and evolution of matter ... ... 71
,, and Will of Logos ... ... ... 32
,, and will to live ... ... 32, 33, 34
304 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
Monads are our true selves
PAGE
... 35
„ Birth of, on physical plane ... 113
,, choice of permanent atoms ... 61
,, Coming forth of ... 38
,, Diagram o f action of ... 42
,, Fundamental temperament of ... 61
,, in bosom of Father ... 38
,, in eternity and in time and space ... 43
,, Involution of ... 35
„ Origination of 8
,, Reflection of 39, 195
,, Secondary temperament of ... 62
, Seven vibratory powers of ... 35
,, Some, do not enter five-fold universe ... 34
,, take permanent atoms ... 39, 112
,, Three rays from ... '36
,, younger sons of the Father ... 9 ,2 9
Moon, Visiting the ... 186
Moral character, developed by love-emotion ... 237
Morality permeated with religion ... 233
Motive ... 265
Motor organs and centres 36, 108, 132
Mulaprakriti 13,29
Mutual help ... 228
Mutual injury ... 229
NATURE spirits (see Devas)
N-rays ... 94
Nerve-cell, Formation of ... 104
INDEX 305
PAGE
Nerve-impact and response, History of ... 160, 198
Nervous disorders ... ... ... 274
,, strain of incursions from super-consciousness 151
,, system, Building of
,, in different races
OPPOSITES, The pairs of
Orator, and control of emotions
,, and control of speech .
Organisms, Abnormal ...
Origins
Oversoul
Ovum, Fertilisation of ...
PAIN, Nature of
j „ Yielding to desire brings
yields power
Past lives, Memory of ...
Peace, Eternal
Pedigree of Man, the, quoted
Perception and memory
,, Rationale of
Permanent Atom (see Atom)
Physicalbody and karmic law
„ ,, and permanent atom
}> ,, only self-consciousness
,, ,, only partial expression of man
Physical world, Sense of reality first established in
97, 99, 103
113 et seq
28
255
252
153
1, 8
6
64
128, 129, 199, 200
... 214
... 255
... 184
187, 221, 282
32, 40, 61
... 174
... 132
158
158
130
159
134
3ineal gland and pituitary body
20
141, 164, 165
306 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
Planes, Basis of the
,, The five ,
The seven
Plants, Consciousness in
Pleasure and pain
,, Nature of
» yields vitality and courage
Point as a symbol
Prana
>, and life-web
,, Astral, and nervous system
,, Definition o f word
,, in mineral and vegetable kingdoms
,, Kinds of
„ o f physical, astral, and mental planes
Pratyagatma
Psalms, quoted
Psychology, Eastern and western
Public spirit ...
Pythagoras, referred to
PAGE
... 13
16, Î9
1
93, 97
... 254
127, 199
... 255
6 et seq.
... 147
... 59
... 103
100 et seq.
... 100
... 72
100-03
5, 25, 29, 268
7
... 143
... 239
... 179
QUATERNARY, Kosmic ... # 6
Questions and Answers, True relations between ... 270
RAJAS, Tamas, Satva ... ... _ ... 6 12
Rays, The seven ... ... ^ cjq
Reason, Pure ... ... ... 201
Real and unreal ... ... ... 133
Reality, Sense o fMrooted in physical world ... 134
INDEX 307
Reed, Mr, Marcus, referred to ...
PAGE
... 93
Reflexion, Explanation of term ... 39
,, of Monad 39, 41, 195
Reincarnation ... 64
„ First steps by Ego at each ... 69
,, How new bodies are built at each 156 ei seq.
Repulsion ... 200
Response in living and non-living 90 et seq.
Reverence ... 228
Rhythm, inertia, mobility 12, 50
Richardson, Dr. B. W ., and Prana ... 102
Right and wrong 214, 232
Righteous indignation ... 240
" Ring-Pass-Not ” ... 186
Romans, quoted 10, 235
Root of matter (see Mulaprakriti)
Root-Races ... 162 et seq.
Root-Races, Development of consciousness in 109, 111
Ruler, The Inner ... 194
SAINT and Yogi, Comparison of ... 150
„ Sufferings of ... ... 278
,, The perfect 241, 242
Sat 5
Satva, Tamas, Rajas ... ... 6, 12
Savage, and astral perception ... ... 122
,, Effect of extermination of ... 117
„ souls in civilised surroundings ... 118
Science of Emotions, The, referred to ... 224
308 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
PAGE
Science of Peace, The, quoted ... ... 184
,, referred to ... 4
Scorn ... 229
Secret Doctrine, The, quoted 12, 311, 32, 33, 39 , 51,
64, 65, 90, 102, 112, 147
Seif and not-self 4, 203, 208, 254
,, as bliss 234, 255
,, as charioteer ... 263
,, as desire ... 208
,, as power ... 197
,, as thought . . . 208, 255
„ Great, and little selves 169 et seq., 266
,, Matter temporarily masters the • . . ... 263
,, shapes matter into forms . . . ... 192
„ The truly free * . . ... 268
Self-awareness and self-consciousness 22, 78
Self-consciousness 22, 78, 130 et seq., 133, 139
,, Brain the centre of • . . ... 139
in higher vehicles . . . ... 144
Sense-centres . . . ... 132
Sense-organs, Formation of . . . ... 108
Separateness, the great heresy . . . ... 241
,, Transcending of . . . ... 242
Seven, The number ... . . . ... 49
Sex-relation as basis o f love-em otion 222 et seg.
,, first social bond . . . ... 226
Sheath, Organisation of, into a body . . . 34, 160
Shining Ones (see Devas)
Silence, Value o i .,, ... 252
INDEX 309
Sinner, Compassion for
„ Greater, greater saint ...
,, Repulsion from
Sixth Rounders
Solar Logos
,, plexus, Concentration on ...
,, system
Souls and bodies, Incongruous ...
Space and time
Speech, Control o f - ...
,, Golden rule of
Spirillæ ... ... ... 67,
,, Connection of with clairvoyance
,, evolution in Râja Yoga
,, Nature and development of
Spirit
,, Involution of
„ -Matter
,, of the Earth
,, Relation of, and matter ...
Spiritual man, Growth of directive power of
,, Triad
Streams, The seven
Struggle, Why so much
Sub-consciousness
,, stores relics of the past ...
Sub-planes, Formation of
„ of each plane correspond
Suffering
PAGE
... 241
... 197
... 241
... 72
... 12
275 et seq.
1 et seq.
117 et seq.
... 182
250, 251
... 251
70 et seq., 95
... 141
... 154
18, 71 et seq.
7
14
... 13
82, 99
... 23
... 161
40 et seq., 70
... 49
270, 273
136 et seq.
... 136
...' 14
16, 17
215,' 244, 256
A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
PAGE
Prana 100, 102
insciousness ... ... 138
,, Contents of 144 et seq.
,, Manifestation of ... 145
,, Pressure on brain of ... 142, 151
la-nadi ... 60
i ... 112
and W eb of Life ... 59
o f form and life ... 3, 8
of musical note and overtones ... 18
etic system, Origin and functions of 105, 107,
115, 121, 136, 159, 162, 274, 275
Rajas, Satva ... ... 6, 12
i 12, 46, 100
13, 100
liss Helen, quoted ... 234
, Great, as ideals ... 217
ment, and organisation of bodies ... ... 162
Fundamental . ... 61
Neurotic ... 154
Secondary ... 62
Third ....................... ... 64
... ... ... ... 6
Conflict of, with desire-nature 213 et seq.
X 147, 163
ntricle ... 60
Conflict between desire and 206-07
desire and action 203, 218
INDEX 311
Thought-forms of Ishvara
„ Germination of
„ transference
Threshold of consciousness
Time and space
Trance
„ and Raja Yoga ...
„ Condition o f aura in
,, Gaining of knowledge during
„ Glimpses of past lives in ...
„ Hypnotic
,, Mesmeric
„ of little-evolved person
Trees, Life of
Triad, Lower 58, 60
Lower, how preserved in causal body
produces septenate
„ Spiritual
Triads, Diagram of
,, Function o f
Triangle
Trinity, Basis of
„ correspondences
42, 1
PAGE
... 25
... 130
... 166
... 136
... 182
... 145
... 146
... 146
... 148
... 149
146, 148
... 149
... 148
82, 83, 106
. 68, 84, 112
... 69
... 49
10, 111, 113
... 58
... 58
6
4
... 5 ,6
UNIT, Mental permanent
Unity, True source of ...
Universal Self
Universe, Purpose of ...
Unreal and real
55, 68
35
5
271
133
312 A STUDY IN CONSCIOUSNESS
PAC
VEGETABLE, Astral sheath of .......................1C
„ kingdom ... c
„ Prana in ... ....................... 1C
Vibration accompanies a change o f consciousness ... 2
Vice, Definition of 231,23
,, Hate-emotion is .......................23
Virgin Mary ... ....................... 1
Virtue and bliss .......................23
,, and iove-emotion .......................23
,, and pain .......................23
„ Birth of 230 st sec
,, Definition of ... 2 2 4 ,2 3 1 ,2 3
,, Growth of, in family .......................22
Visions, The seeing of ....................... 15
Voice of the Silence, The, quoted .......................25
WATCHER, Atma the ... ... 4
W ater-spout, Simile of .............................. 7:
W eb of li f e ....................... 59, 8.
Weismann, referred to ....................... 6.
Why is there a universe ? ... 28, 271, 27:
Will ... 5 et seg., 32, 36, 39, 40, 42, 50, 19
,, analogy of charioteer ... 26:
,, and choice ...................... 26'
„ and desire ... 205, 208, 26:
„ and motive ... 26J
„ becom es desire ...................... 26:
„ Bodies form ed by ....................... 19:
„ Correspondences of, with Persons of Trinities
INDEX 313
PAGE
Will, Curing disease by ... ... ... 274
,, Desire as a manifestation of ... 195, 196
,, Freedom of ... ... ... 208, 265, 268
,, Great, and evolution ... ... ... 267
„ Nature o f ....................... ... 1 9 1 ,1 9 2 ,1 9 6
,, of God, and harmony ... ... ... 233
„ Power of ... ... ... ... 273
,, Selfish use of ... ... ... ... 278
,, takes place of desire ... ... ... 221
„ to live ... 32, 191, 192, 205, 2 6 1 ,2 7 3
,, winning its freedom ... ... 261 et seq.
Wills, Little, within Great Will ... ... ... 268
, Separate ... ... ... 192, 282
Wisdom 5 et seq., 32, 36, 38-40, 42, 50, 51, 191, 221
,, Correspondences of, with Persons of Trinities 5
YOGA and atomic evolution ... ... ...1 8 , 73
Hatha ... ... ... ... 149
Raja .......................................... 150, 154
Yogi and saint ... ... ... ... 150
Condition of, in trance ... ... ... 146
Consciousness of, while out of body ... ... 147
