{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1947__anonymous___hypnotism_a_psychic_malpractice.pdf","mytitle":"Hypnotism A Psychic Malpractice","mylang":"de"}
HYPNOTISM
A Psychic
Malpractice
The Theosophy Company
245 West 33rd Street
LOS ANGELES (7), CALIFORNIA
PRICE =5 CENTS
'
Among the Objects of the Theosophical Movement is
“the investigation of the unexplained laws of nature and
the psychical powers latent in man.” Hypnotism, as a
misuse of one of man’s psychical powers, comes within the
purview of such investigation. This pamphlet examines
the theories of modern hypnotists, and the claims made
in their behalf, in the light of the Theosophical philoso
phy. All statements ofered in explanation of hypnotic
phenomena or in criticism of the practices of hypnotists
are based upon the writings of H. P. Blavatsky and
William Judge, co-founders of the Theosophical
Movement and authors of the source-literature of the
Theosophical Teachings. lnquirers desiring to carry their
investigation further will ﬁnd suggestions for additional
reading in the selected book list facing page 28.
HYPNOTISM: A PSYCHIC MALPRACTICE
FTER more than a century of devious and precarious exist
Aence
beyond the pale of scientiﬁc orthodoxy, Hypnotism,
that psychic changeling substituted by modern Materialism
in place of Mesmei-’s beneﬁcent art, is coming into its dubious
“own.” During the past ten years, dozens of articles on the
wonders of hypnotism,have appeared in the picture magazines,
digests, and organs of popular science. VVith few exceptions, these
discussions have had the unmistakable purpose of persuading the
reading public that no possible harm can come to anyone who
allows himself to be hypnotized, that the practitioners of hypnotism
are a long-suffering group of devoted humanitarians engaged in a
determined struggle against the forces of superstition and ignorance,
and that, once the opposition to hypnotism has been overcome,
vast beneﬁts will at once become available to everyone.
Fortiﬁed by the encouragement of scientiﬁc specialists, the cam
paign conducted by popular writers is slowly wearing away the
distaste of the average man for becoming a helpless subject of
some modern Svengali. By dint of sheer repetition of these claims,
which are met by the desire of many to appear “modern” and
sophisticated in their acceptance of the latest scientiﬁc “truth,”
hypnotism now threatens to invade modern medicine in force, while
those who raise even a feeble objection are placed in the position
of having challenged the authority of scientiﬁc research. It is time,
therefore, for renewed investigation of the nature of hypnotism, of
the scientiﬁc theories connected with its practice; and, in contrast,
for a review of the Theosophical teaching on the subject.
Search for a brief, unequivocal deﬁnition of hypnotism in scien
tiﬁc sources is unrewarding. In his voluminous Hypnosis and
Suggestibility, Prof. Clark L. Hull, professor of psychology at the
Yale University Institute of Human Relations, devotes a few con
cluding pages to “Interpretations,” largely critical of all deﬁnitions.
He admits “the fundamental elusiveness of the phenomena” and
ﬁnally, with obvious reluctance, offers the following positive state
ment: “The only thing which seems to characterize hypnosis as
such and which gives any justiﬁcation for the practice of calling
it a ‘state’ is its generalized hypersuggestibility." He quickly adds
that the only difference between the normal state and the hypnotic
1 HYPNOTISM
'
is one of degree in susceptibility to suggestion, and that “the
essence of hypnosis thus lies in the fact of change in suggestibility.’"
In a summary of the scientiﬁc literature on the subject, Paul
Campbell Young of Louisiana State University gives at least eight
distinct theories of hypnotism. Braid, to whom psychologists owe
the name “I-Iypnotism" (from the Greek hypnos, meaning sleep)»
spoke of it as a “derangement of the cerebrospinal centers."
Hypnosis is described by some as “dissociation,” either a “verti
cal” or a “horizontal” cleavage in the structure of the personality
—the latter type of split being adopted for the reason that the
hypnotic state is in some sense subconscious. McDougall and
others regard hypnosis as an expression of a speciﬁc instinct, in
volving “gregariousness” and “submission.” Freud held that it is
an “unconscious ﬁxation of the libido on the person of the hypno
tizer.” Sidis claimed that hypnosis and sleep are “two differenti
ated conditions arising out of a primitive rest-state,” and Pavlov
distinguished between sleep and hypnosis by saying that “more of
the brain action is inhibited in sleep.”’
H H
In I890, when asked if Science was entirely wrong in its
deﬁnition of hypnotic phenomena, H. P. Blavatsky replied: “It has
no deﬁnition, so far.”‘ This seems still to be generally true, and
probably the best contemporary scientiﬁc statement is that of
Dr. Milton H. Erickson, a practicing psychiatrist, who has said
that hypnotism “is a psychological phenomenon, as little understood
as most psychological phenomena,” adding that “any understand
ing of hypnosis beyond the descriptive phase is purely speculative.“
There is of course some excuse for the uncertainty of psycholo
gists. The scope of hypnotic phenomena includes areas which are
terra incognita to the average research worker, and the forces in
voked are veritably protean in nature. What cannot be forgiven,
however, in the face of admitted ignorance, is the bland dismissal by
modern hypnotists of the terrible dangers inherent in their prac
tices. The attempt to win popular approval for hypnotism today is
symptomatic of an extensive cycle of unconscious or semi-conscious
sorcery. The fact that modern man supposes that the “black arts”
were long ago exposed as mere superstitions of the Dark Ages will
‘Hypnosis and Suggestibility, D. Appleton-Century Co., New York, 1933, pp. 391-92.
“Psychological Bulletin, September, 1926, p. 517.
““l-Iypnotism," Lucifer, December, 1890 (reprinted in THEOSOPHY xxx1,4-11). Further
quotations from H. P. Blavatsky, unless otherwise identiﬁed, are from this article and
from another discussion of Hypnotism, reprinted in THEOSOPHY xxx, 491-592.
‘Medical Record, Dec. 5, 1934.
A PSYCHIC MALPRACTICE 3
not protect him from their rebirth in the guise of “science,” nor
can “good motives” alone, on the part of many of the present
hypnotizers, forestall very much the spread of psychic and moral
weakness to which the processes of hypnosis naturally contribute.
While there will undoubtedly be cases in which substantial help
seems to have been gained from hypnotism by individuals, the
factors of egoic aﬁinity and special karmic conditions must here
be counted as all-important, leaving the ﬁnal Theosophical judg
ment of modern hypnotism without signiﬁcant change. Even in
instances where it appears that only good has been obtained by sub
mitting to hypnosis, there is always the possibility of some deep
lying suggestion or psychic infection, introduced while the subject
was in a passive state, which will manifest after many years, and
then without revealing any obvious connection with the earlier
experience of hypnotism. Certainly no theosophist would ever allow
himself to be hypnotized, whatever the intentions of the operator;
nor would any student dream of imposing his will on another by
this means. The advantages to be gained, if any, are few and
dubious at best, while the dangers, known and unknown, are
immeasurable.
Although Theosophy offers occult knowledge in explanation of
hypnotic phenomena, it must not be imagined that these things
constitute a “simple” subject for study. There are obstacles to be
overcome, diﬂiculties to be encompassed, but while the obstacles
confronting the scientiﬁc investigator arise from his ignorance of
the principles involved, and the various levels of psychic action in
the human constitution, together with the multiplicity of the
phenomena and the inadequacy of available theories to account for
them, the theosophist ﬁnds his problem to lie in tracing the action
of a single fundamental force or principle through all the subtleties
of man’s sevenfold nature, and in the interrelation of one being
with another in terms of this force. “One common vital principle
pervades all things,” wrote H. P. Blavatsky, describing the corner
stone of what the ancients named Magic; and this Principle, she
added, “is controllable by the perfected human will.”‘ Understand
ing of the whole category of psychic or occult phenomena, includ
ing hypnotism and Mesmerism, depends entirely upon a grasp of
the implications of this single sentence. Otherwise, there can be
only ignorance, followed by its follies, its mistakes, its tragedies.
In Theosophy, the study of hypnotism is nothing more than an
elaboration of this one idea.
‘Isis Unveiled II, 590.
4 HYPNOTISM
What, then, is Hypnotism?
The Adepts and Sages of antiquity gave particular names to the
one great Force,’according to the plane and manner of its expres
sion. As the vital energy directed by the will of the magnetic healer
or adept, the Greeks called it the “breath of Cybele,” the creative
and life-giving force obtained from the Great Mother, who was
the personiﬁcation and type of the vital essence in all things. In
India, it was known as Akasa Tattwa—“the one chief agent, and it
underlay the so-called ‘miracles’ and ‘super-natural’ phenomena in
all ages, as in every clime. As the parent-root or essence is uni
versal, so are its effects innumerable. Even the greatest adepts can
hardly say where its possibilities must stop.”
In her discussion of this force, Madame Blavatsky observes:
“As stated repeatedly before, the blossoms of magic, whether white
or black, divine or infernal, spring all from one root,” which means,
in practical terms, that the morality of its use depends entirely
upon the motive, the purity, and the knowledge of the practitioner.
That is why, in one place, H.P.B. wrote that “every Hypnotist,
every man of Science, however well-meaning and honorable, once he
has allowed himself to become the unconscious instructor of one
who learns but to abuse the sacred science, becomes, of course,
morally the confederate of every crime committed by this means,”
While saying elsewhere that Hypnotism “is naught but the Trataka
of the Yogi, the act of concentrating his mind on the tip of the nose,
or on the spot between the eyebrows,” through which ascetics
obtained “temporary deliverance of the soul from the body; a com
plete disenthralment of the spiritual man from the slavery of the
physical with its gross senses.”°
From these considerations, it should be evident that the only
intelligent approach to the modern practice of hypnotism lies in
an examination of its general background in scientiﬁc theory, the
framework of motive and method of its application, and a com
parison of scientiﬁc claims with the Theosophical teachings on
the subject. Of equal importance will be a review of the popular
version of hypnotic phenomena, as reﬂected in the mass circula
tion periodicals which shape public opinion.
For the purposes of this examination, eight “Facts about Hyp
nosis," drawn from a recent text, Principles of dbnormal Psy
chology (1941), by Maslow and Mittelman, will serve as the basis
for comparison of scientiﬁc and Theosophical ideas. (The “Facts”
will be reprinted in italics, followed by comment and discussion.)
“A Modern Panarion, p. 366.
A PSYCHIC MALPRACTICE 5
I. Hypnosis is a perfectly normal phenomenon which is mani
fested in a mild form in everyday life without attracting any particu
lar attention.
If hypnotism, as in Prof. I-Iull’s deﬁnition, is regarded as simply
a state of “suggestibility,” this is a true statement. But in normal
life the individual has the capacity to subject all suggestions to
discriminative judgment; not so under hypnosis. Witness to the
intellectual and moral helplessness of the hypnotic subject is Dr.
Luys, who was, during the closing years of the last century, physi
cian to La Charité Hospital of Paris. The following passage is
quoted from Dr. Luys by an English writer on hypnotism:
From the social point of view these new states of instantaneous
loss of consciousness into which hypnotic or merely fascinated subjects
may be made to pass deserve to be considered with lively interest . . .
the individual in these conditions no longer belongs to himself; he is
surrendered, an inert being, to the enterprise of those who surround
him. At one moment in the passive stage of this condition of lethargy
or of catalepsy, he is absolutely defenseless, and exposed to any
criminal attempt on the part of those who surround him. He can be
poisoned and mutilated. Where a woman is concerned she may be
violated and even infected with syphilis, of which I have recently
observed a painful example in my practice. She may become a mother
Without any trace existing of a criminal assault, and without the
patient having the smallest recollection of what has passed after she
has awakened. Sometimes, in the active condition, the state of lucid
somnambulism, and even in the condition of simple fascination, the
subject may be exposed to the influence of suggestions of the most
varied kind on the part of the person directing his actions. He may
be induced to become a homicide, an incendiary, or suicide, and all
these impulses deposited in his brain during sleep become forces
silently stored up, which will burst forth at a given moment with
the precision, accuracy of performance and automatic impetuosity
of acts performed by the really insane.’
These warnings from one who made hypnotism his career
are simply a repetition and illustration of what has been said by
H. P. Blavatsky.
2. Theoretically, anyone can hypnotize. Hypnosis consists in
creating conditions that encourage the appearance of a tendency
which inheres not in the hypnotist, but in the person being hypno
tized. No special qualiﬁcations are required except conﬁdence, a
certain amount of prestige, and a knowledge of the procedure.
"Ernest Hart, Hypnotism, Mesmerism and the New Witchcraft, D. Appleton 8: Co.,
New York, 1896, pp. 137-38.
6 HYPNOTISM
According to Theosophy, any healthy man or woman can bring
about mesmeric phenomena, through the ﬂow of magnetic ﬂuid
from the operator to the subject. The state of trance, however,
or even a healing effect, may be induced with or without such direct
inﬂuence, the necessary condition being either “faith in the patient,
or robust health united with a strong will, in the operator.” The
“tendency” in the subject, spoken of by Maslow and Mittelman,
is the tendency to passivity or mediumship; in cases of healing,
9
it is the patient s unconscious will.
3. /I Hypnotist does not have any supernatural power, nor
animal magnetism. He is in no way diﬂerent from ordinary men.
There is no “supernatural power”; therefore, the hypnotist can
not use
it,
and he
is
the same as ordinary men except in his exercise
of
a
dangerous power over which he has gained
a
degree of control
without understanding
it
at all. He may use what
is
called “animal
magnetism,” or he may not, depending upon his methods; but he,
like every other human being, has animal magnetism. No form of
life
is
without it.
The doctrine of animal magnetism as the ﬂuid communicated
by the operator or healer was ﬁrst taught by Mesmer. The idea
itself, of course, did not originate with him, for this method of
healing had been applied for ages.” It was accepted by the followers
of Mesmer and became the foundation of the practice developed
by such healers as Elliotson, Esdaile, the Marquis de Puységur,
the Baron Du Potet, and others. In I841, an English surgeon,
James Braid, found that the hypnotic trance could be induced by
having the subject gaze ﬁxedly at some bright object, eliminating
entirely the so-called “mesmeric passes.” This method was usually
accompanied by verbal suggestion. Braid performed many opera
tions on patients thus made insensible to pain. To Braid, therefore,
is
attributed the “great discovery” that the theory of animal
magnetism
is
“false”! Later,
in
France (Nancy), H. Bernheim
performed an experiment which he believed disproved the “mag
netic” theories of the Paris school of hypnotism, headed by Charcot,
and since that time, for scientiﬁc investigators, “animal magnetism”
has been synonymous with superstition.
Despite the claims of Braid and Bernheim, and their successors,
Theosophy asserts that Animal Magnetism
is
a
reality, and that
it
operates to produce what are called hypnotic effects by modern
psychologists. In all cases where mesmeric passes are used, there
“Isis Unveiled
I,
216.
"See Ennemoser’s History
of
Magic, Bohn’s Library, and throughout Isis Unveiled.
A PSYCHIC MALPRACTICE 7
is a passage of animal magnetism from the operator to the subject.
The ﬂuid creeps over the body of the subject, changing the polarity
of the cells in every part and thus disconnecting the outer from
the inner man. When this process is complete, the astral, or inner,
psychic, man is almost disconnected from the body. Many hypnotic
phenomena are explained by the fact that the magnetic ﬂuid wakes
up certain inner and non-physical divisions of the subject, causing
a change of relation between the various sheaths surrounding the
inner man, and making possible different degrees of intelligence,
clairvoyance and the like. On the nature of the magnetic ﬂuid,
H. P. Blavatsky has written:
That which is transmitted has no name in European languages,
and if we simply describe it as will, it loses all its meaning. The old
and very much tabooed words, “enchanttnent,” “fascination,”
“glamor,” and “spell,” and especially the verb “to bewitch,” ex
pressed far more suggestively the real action that took place during
the process of such a transmission, than the modern and meaningless
terms “psychologize” and “biologize.” Occultism calls the force
transmitted, the “auric ﬂuid,” to distinguish it from the “auric light”;
the “ﬂuid” being a correlation of atoms on a higher plane, and a
descent to this lower one, in the shape of impalpable and invisible
plastic Substances, generated and directed by the potential Will. . . .
In hypnosis by means of mesmeric passes, it is the will of the
operator himself that acts upon the nervous system of the patient,
whether the operator is aware of the process or not. The “will
vibrations” so induced are “atomic” and absolutely distinct from
the molecular vibrations produced by the mechanical method
developed by Braid, in which the subject ﬁxes his eyes on some
bright spot, a metal or a crystal. In the latter case,
It is the eye—the most occult organ of all, on the superﬁcies of our
body—which, by serving as a medium between that bit of metal or
crystal and the brain, attunes the molecular vibrations of the nervous
centers of the latter into unison
(i.
e., equality in the number of their
respective oscillations) with the vibrations of the bright object held.
And,
it
is
this unison which produces the hypnotic state.
The discovery that
a
trance condition could be produced without
the direct inﬂuence of the operator caused the rejection of the
doctrine of animal magnetism, or the magnetic ﬂuid, but
it
was not
realized that even so-called “inanimate” objects have also their
magnetic qualities and rates of vibration. According to H.P.B.:
In the case of gazing,
it
is
the eye—the chief agent of the Will of
the active operator, but
a
slave and
a
traitor when this Will
is
dormant—that, unconsciously to the patient or subject, attunes the
oscillations of his cerebral nervous centers to the rate of the vibra
8 HYPNOTISM
tions of the object gazed at by catching the rhythm of the latter
and passing it on to the brain. But in the case of direct passes, it is
the Will of the operator radiating through his eye that produces
the required unison between his will and the will of the person
operated upon. For, out of two objects attuned in unison—as two
chords, for instance—one will always be weaker than the other, and
thus have mastery over the other and even the potentiality of destroy
ing its weaker “co-respondent.” . . .
Though the difference between hypnosis produced by mechanical
means, and that induced by the direct gaze of the operator, plus his
will, depends on the plane on which the same phenomenon is pro
duced, still the “fascinating” or subduing agent is created by the
same force at work. In the physical world and its material planes,
it is called MOTION; in the worlds of mentality and metaphysics it is
known as wIL1.—the many-faced magician throughout all Nature.
Thus there is an occult force or power, not “supernatural,” which
is fundamental in all hypnotic phenomena. It operates on various
planes and is invoked by the hypnotist in various ways, affecting
the subject accordingly.
4. Hypnosis has nothing to do directly with will power. If any
thing, it is the people with somewhat stronger wills who are most
hypnotizable. Even long continued trances need have no eﬂect on
this quality. Some subjects have been hypnotized more than a
thousand times without any perceptible effect on their will power.
Psychologists know so little about the will—being unable, in the
ﬁrst place, to provide an adequate deﬁnition of this faculty—that
such statements about “will power” have virtually no meaning.
What is commonly called “will” in modern parlance is simply con
centrated desire which takes the form of great determination in the
personal man. Strong desire need be no obstacle to hypnosis,
unless it is directed against the process of subjection attempted by
the operator. As to the eﬂects of continued submission to hypnosis,
Dr. Sandor Lorand, chief of the Mental Health Clinic of Mount
Sinai Hospital, New York, is on record as saying that hypnotism
“makes the patient dependent upon the physician, whereas the
mentally ill should be made independent and self-reliant.”‘° He calls
for laws to control the practice of hypnotism and points out that
most European countries forbid any but accredited physicians to
hypnotize. “The hypnotist,” he says, “tries to suspend the critical
faculties of the subject.” Is this’ “harmless”?
]. M. Charcot, famous French hypnotist, in an article written
for the American Forum of April, I890, provided a serious warning
“New York Herald Tribune, Sept. 6, 1936.
A PSYCHIC MALPRACTICE 9
to all those attracted by the hypnotizer’s appeals. At that time a
wave of interest in hypnotism was sweeping Europe, spread by
practitioners who gave performances in local theaters. These
“showmen,” he said, could be traced by the victims they left behind.
Subjects of the experiments became nervous and irritable. “Some
of them,” he wrote, “fall of their own accord into a deep sleep,
out of which it is not easy to awaken them; thereafter they are
unﬁtted for the performance of the duties of everyday life. Others,
and they are the majority, are seized with convulsions resembling
the crises of conﬁrmed hysteria.” Dr. James L. McCartney, a
psychiatrist connected with the New York State Reformatory at
Elmira, reports that once a patient has been hypnotized, the con
trol of the operator over the subject may be resumed with ease,
even though the two are separated by a thousand miles. All that
is needed is a pre-arranged signal, communicated by letter, tele
phone, telegram, or radio. Dr. McCartney is also of the opinion
that “sensitized persons suffering from certain atomic changes in
their tissue may . . . tune their special senses or brain cells into a
speciﬁc radio frequency and so become sensitive to suggestions that
are known to be always passing through the ether. . . . These
‘radio’ suggestions planted in the brain of the patient may set up
auto-suggestion and so lead to compulsions, just as suggestions
given to a patient under hypnosis may direct his action after he
awakens.”“ Dr. H. H. Hart of Columbia University, director of
the neurological clinic of the Vanderbilt Institute, points out that
hypnotism tends to increase suggestibility, and that those who
possess this feature (suggestibility) most abundantly are just as
prone to accept unfavorable as favorable suggestions. He adds:
“If they are not controlled by constructive suggestion and the
authority of the physician, they are just as apt to fall a prey to
destructive suggestion on the part of relatives, friends and popular
nostrums of the day.’”'
If these are the possibilities, who can say with any certainty that
repeated hypnosis does not weaken the will, or more accurately,
the self-control, of the subject? In contrast to such claims is an
English physician’s statement, supported by years of clinical ex
perience, that “the conﬁrmed and trained hypnotic subject is a
maimed individual in mind and body, and is likely at any time to
be dangerous to himself and to society.””
"Los Angeles Daily News, April 9, 1938; New York Herald Tribune, May 7, 1936.
“Journal of Nervous and Mental Disearfs, November, 193:.
“Hypnotism, Mesmerism and the N cw Witchcraft, p. 69.
I0 HYPNOTISM
5. In the hands of a skilled technician who uses it for scientiﬁc
or therapeutic purposes, it [hypnosis], is a powerful instrument
for good. No harmful eﬂects have ever been conﬁrmed in the
literature.
Who is to say which are the “skilled technicians,” in a ﬁeld where
so much ignorance prevails? The fact is that hypnotic parlors and
“schools” are springing up in every large city in the United States.
The medical profession and the general public are both receiving
frequent appeals to learn the secrets of hypnotism. The classiﬁed
advertising columns of the daily newspapers abound with oﬂers
of hypnotic treatments for all manner of ills—one such proposal,
signed by the self-styled “president” of a “Hypnotic Research
Association,” suggests that “help” can be gained, with or with
out the knowledge of the person to be hypnotized! In this case,
where does “help” end, and voodoo begin?
If the scientiﬁc literature on hypnotism provides no evidence of
harm done to patients through hypnotism, then that literature is
either biassed, incomplete, or dishonest. The extreme caution in
the use of hypnotism advocated by physicians of long experience
is itself evidence of the known hazards of the practice. Theosophists
regard the manifest irresponsibility of the popularizers of hypnotism
as sufficient reason for prohibiting it entirely, by law, in the
present age. _
6. The ability to be hypnotized is positively correlated with
intelligence.
This is not surprising. Intelligence is the mark of progressive
mental individuality, and psychic sensitivity develops naturally with
increased intelligence. Theosophy teaches that at the present time,
the human race, particularly in the United States, is undergoing
a cycle of rapid psychic unfoldment.“ Therefore, the dangers of
hypnotism are a special menace in this country, and at this time.
7. Theoretically, any normal person can be hypnotized—some
much more easily than others. Psychotics are the only group gen
erally reported to be “immune” to
it,
and even
a
few
of
them have
been hypnotized.
In the case of the insane, there
is
already an alien force in pos
session of the demented person’s body; the ego has lost its control
over the organism and over the inner, psychic apparatus, so that the
“See Five Messages from H. P. Blavatsky to the American Theosophists, pp. 25-26, 29.
A PSYCHIC MALPRACTICE 11
connection between the higher and the lower man—temporarily
broken by the hypnotist in the case of normal subjects—-—no longer
exists. If the hypnotist were also an adept, skilled in the art of
the exorcist, another result might be obtained. Modern psychiatry
could learn a great deal from the teachings of Theosophy, if
psychiatrists would undertake an impartial study of the sevenfold
constitution of man.
8. The person in a trance will do nothing that he does not want
to do and that he would not do in the waking state. If anything,
experiments along these lines show that people are much more
suspicious of immoral or criminal suggestions in a trance than in
a waking state.
We hear this again and again of hypnosis, and there is much
truth in it. But it is not the whole truth. There is nothing in this
statement to indicate how a subject of unscrupulous character might
be used by an equally unscrupulous hypnotist, or by an operator
ﬁlled with passionate hate for a personal enemy. There is no
warning of the way in which resistance to immoral or criminal
suggestion might be overcome by specious persuasion or by the
general weakening of the subject's moral stamina through repeated
suggestion. Further, when we are told that no crimes can be insti
gated through hypnotism, it is because the hypnotists want the
general public to believe that the practice of their art does not
threaten society. But when there is the possibility of public approval
of the sinister side of hypnotism, these scientists have quite another
story to unfold.
It is often claimed that no one can be hypnotized unless he
wishes it; that full cooperation with the operator is necessary.
On the whole, this is true. The self-possessed individual, of positive
nature, and unwilling to submit to hypnosis, cannot be hypnotized
by any ordinary operator, least of all if he knows that an attempt
to do so is being made. Dr. George I-I. Estabrooks, however, in his
recent book, Hypnotism (I943), maintains that it is far from im
possible to hypnotize some subjects against their will. There are
means, he says, by which the operator may shift a sleepwalker or
sleeptalker (somnambulist) directly over into hypnosis without
either his knowledge or consent. He also describes several deceptive
devices by which fully awake subjects can be hypnotized without
knowing what is happening. Once this control is established, future
trances can be arranged for by post-hypnotic suggestion.
HYPNOTISM AND MESMERISM
NATURAL question concerns the difference, if any, be
Atween Hypnotism and Mesmerism. Certainly, a wide
abyss separates the curative methods of Anton Mesmer
from the trance condition obtained by the modern hypnotist.
“Mesmer,” Prof. Clark Hull points out, “did not hypnotize his
subjects,” and the sleeping trance identiﬁed with the hypnosis of
today was ﬁrst obtained by the Marquis de Puységur, apparently
by accident, in 1784.‘ Mesmer’s patients, therefore, did not lose
their consciousness in the way that the subjects of hypnotism
do when fascinated by a bright object, or by the operator's eye.
Mesmer himself disapproved Puységur’s methods as showing “a
lack of understanding.” Of the two, Mesmerism and Hypnotism,
H. P. Blavatsky wrote:
One is beneﬁcent, the other maleﬁcent, as it evidently must be;
since, according to both Occultism and modern Psychology, hypnotism
is produced by the withdrawal of the nervous ﬂuid from the capillary
nerves. The latter being, so to say, the sentries that keep the doors
of our senses opened, they become anaesthetized under hypnotic condi
tions, and allow these doors to get closed.
She ampliﬁes the comparison by quoting from a French author
ity of the Du Potet school, A. H. Simonin: '
He shows that while “in Magnetism (mesmerism) there occurs
in the subject a great development of moral faculties"; that his
thoughts and feelings “become loftier, and the senses acquire an
abnormal acuteness"; in hypnotism, on the contrary, “the subject
becomes a simple mirror." It is Suggestion which is the true motor
of every action in the hypnotic; and
if,
occasionally, "seemingly
marvelous actions are produced, these are due to the hypnotizer, not
to the subject.” Again. . . . “In hypnotism instinct,
i.
e., the animal,
reaches its greatest development; so much so, indeed, that the aphor
ism ‘extremes meet’ can never receive
a
better application than to
magnetism and hypnotism.” How true these words, also, as to the
diﬁerence between the mesmerized and the hypnotized subjects:
“In one, his ideal nature, his moral self—the reﬂection of his divine
nature—-are carried to their extreme limits, and the subject becomes
almost
a
celestial being (un ange). In the other,
it
is
his instincts
which develop in
a
most surprising fashion. The hypnotic lowers
“Hypnotism in Scientiﬁc Perspective,” Srientiﬁc Monthly, August, I929.
’Mai-garet Goldsmith, Franz Anton Mesmer, Doubleday Doran, New York, 1934.,
p. 172.
HYPNOTISM AND MESMERISM 13
himself to the level of the animal. From a physiological viewpoint,
magnetism (mesmerism) is comforting and curative, and hypnotism,
which is but the result of an unbalanced state, is--most dangerous.
There are, however, some important qualiﬁcations to be applied
to this high praise of mesmerism. Perhaps it should be said that
the elevated state described is a possible effect of mesmerism. If
the mesmerist is himself diseased, he may, in imparting his vital
essence to the patient, infect the latter and rob him of what
strength he has. Discussing mesmeric healing, H.P.B. warns in
Isis Unveiled:
If a diseased person—medium or not-—attempts to heal, his force
may be suﬁiciently robust to displace the disease, to disturb it in the
present place, and cause it to shift to another, where shortly it
will appear; the patient, meanwhile, thinking himself cured.
But, what if the healer be morally diseased? The consequences
may be inﬁnitely more mischievous; for it is easier to cure a bodily
disease than cleanse a constitution infected with moral turpitude.
. . . If the gift of prophecy, as well as hysteria and convulsions,
can be imparted by “infection,” why not every vice? The healer,
in such a case, conveys to his patient—who is now his victim-—the
moral poison that infects his own mind and heart. His magnetic
touch is deﬁlement; his glance, profanation. Against this insidious
taint, there is no protection for the passively-receptive subject. The
healer holds him under his power, spell-bound and powerless, as the
serpent holds a poor, weak bird. The evil that one such “healing
medium” can eﬁect is incalculably great; and such healers there are
by the hundred.‘
The supposition that there is no such thing as “magnetic ﬂuid,”
and that all hypnotic or mesmeric phenomena are due to “sugges
tion,” or simply “mental” inﬂuence, makes it logical for modern
psychologists to disregard the possibility of moral contagion of
this sort. But no man who has learned the secret of mesmeric
healing—and there are many who have—can doubt the reality of
this vital essence. When a healthy operator mesmerizes a patient,
with a determined desire to relieve and cure him, the exhaustion
felt by the former is proportionate to the relief given: a process
of endosmosis has taken place, the healer having parted with a
portion of his vital aura to beneﬁt the sick man. The process may
be reversed, also, in which case the operator “vampirizes” the
subject by exosmosis of the latter’s vitality. In both cases, Madame
Blavatsky states, “the agent of transmission is a magnetic and
attractive faculty, terrestrial and physiological in its results, yet
‘Isis Unveiled I, 217.
14 HYPNOTISM
generated and produced on the four-dimensional plane-—the realm
of atoms.” Further: “The healthy vital ﬂuid imparted by the
physician who mesmerizes his patient, can and does cure; but too
much of it will kill.” Good intentions, obviously, are not enough
to prevent the amateur mesmerist from doing great harm. Not
only should he have a clear idea of the occult laws and processes
invoked by the practice, but also, he must be absolutely sure of his
motive and psychic and moral purity; otherwise, he may seem to
give help on the physical plane, while actually spreading the subtle
taints of his own inner nature among all who come under his
inﬂuence.
Many real and God-like healers are described in Isis Unveiled,
men who have lightened the burden of human pain from disease
in every century. But these, when not adepts, have always felt
within themselves the conviction of high calling, and their lives
reveal the ineffaceable marks of a great altruistic mission. Such
healers are instructed by intuition, the voice of the higher Ego, and
though often lacking in culture and medical learning—as in the
case of Valentine Greatrakes, a poor and ignorant Irishman—their
capacity to accomplish well-nigh “miraculous” cures is beyond any
doubt. Greatrakes, for example, was endorsed by Robert Boyle,
the famous seventeenth-century chemist, and several eminent physi
cians of the time testiﬁed to the reality of his cures.
Questioned as to the difference between hypnosis produced by
mechanical means, such as revolving mirrors, and that caused by
the direct gaze of the operator, H. P. Blavatsky replied:
The gaze of the operator is more potent, hence more dangerous,
than the simple mechanical passes of the Hypnotizer, who, in nine
cases out of ten, does not know how, and therefore cannot will. The
students of Esoteric Science must be aware by the very laws of the
occult correspondences that the latter action is performed on the
ﬁrst plane of matter (the lowest), while the former, which necessi
tates a well-concentrated will, has to be enacted, if the operator is
a profane novice, on the fourth, and if he is anything of an occultist
on the ﬁfth plane.
The principle involved in all forms of hypnotism is that of
sympathetic correspondence between rates of vibration. The objec
tion that a galvanometer fails to show the presence of these vibra
tions, or of any electric or magnetic ﬂuid (the two are really
identical), thereby disproving the “ﬂuid” theory, may be met by
pointing out that the ﬂuids “are due in their essence and origin to
. . . molecular motion, now transformed into atomic energy,” and
having passed to a higher plane of action, the instrument “can no
HYPNOTISM AND MESMERISM 15
longer be affected by the energy displayed on a plane with which
it is entirely disconnected.”
Unless the nervous cells of the subject become attuned to the
vibratory rate of the hypnotic inﬂuence, whatever its point of
origin, no hypnotic condition will ensue. H.P.B. writes in summary:
To ensure success in a hypnotic experiment, two conditions are
requisite: (a) as every organic or “inorganic” body in nature is dis
tinguished by its ﬁxed molecular oscillations, it is necessary to ﬁnd out
which are those bodies which will act in unison with one or another
human nervous system; and (b) to remember that the molecular
oscillations of the former can inﬂuence the nervous action of the
latter, only when the rhythms of their respective vibrations coincide,
i. e., when the number of their oscillations is made identical; which,
in the case of hypnotism induced by mechanical means, is achieved
through the medium of the eye. . . . The nature of the Force trans
mitted from one man or object to another man or object, whether in
hypnotism, electricity, metallotherapeuty or "fascination," is the same
in essence, varying only in degree, and modiﬁed according to the
sub-plane of matter it is acting on; of which sub-planes, as every
Occultist knows, there are seven on our terrestrial plane as there
are on every other.
Wm. Q. Judge distinguishes between Mesmerism and Hypnotism
by describing the difference in the effects of these two practices.
Of Hypnotism by mechanical means, he says:
The real rock of offense is this, and well known to theosophical
students, that as the force and power of hypnotism are better known,
it will be seen that whatever the inﬂuence
is,
the process going on in
hypnotism
is
the contracting of the cells of the body and brain from
the periphery to the center. This process
is
actually
a
phenomenon
of the death state, and
is
the opposite of the mesmeric effect; and this
point
is
not known to the medical profession, nor will
it
be, as they
now proceed, because post mortem examinations never reveal the
action of
a
living cell. Magnetism by human inﬂuence starts from
within and proceeds to the outer surface, thus exhibiting
a
phenome
non of life the veryopposite of hypnotism. And the use of magnetism
is
not objectionable, yet
it
should be limited in practice to competent
members of the medical profession. . . . In all its anaesthetic phases
it
[hypnotism] can be duplicated by mesmerism without any bad
effects. Dr. Esdaile has abundantly shown this. Laws ought to be
passed making
it
a
misdemeanor to have
a
public or private hypnotic
séance.‘
The inability of hypnotic subjects to recall what has happened
to them while
in
a
trance state
is
explained by the existence of
“Hypnotism and Theosophy,” Tmzosornv xxvn, 58-61. See also, “Hypnotism,”
Tneosornv xxv, 311-16.
16 HYPNOTISM
several states and sub-states of consciousness into any one of which
the subject may be forced by the hypnotizer. The localization of
the subject’s consciousness in one or another sub-ﬁeld of action
results in behavior or conduct which is almost entirely automatic
—an effect largely due to the speciﬁc contractile action of the
hypnotic process. “This,” writes Mr. judge, “will always prevent
the Ego from educating itself to remember from state to state and
ﬁeld to ﬁeld the experience of each, which education, however, is
possible in the mesmerized or magnetized state, and of course in
the normal waking life.” Elsewhere he says:
Body, soul, and astral man properly in relation give us a sane man ;
hypnotized, the relation is broken and we have a person who is not
for the time wholly sane. Acute maniacs are those in whom the dis
junction between astral man and soul is complete. Where the
hypnotized one remains for months in that state, the astral man has
become the slave of the body and its recollections, but as the soul is
not concerned no real memory is present and no recollection of the
period is retained. . . .
I go still further and say that many persons are already in a half
hypnotized state, easily inﬂuenced by the unprincipled or the immoral;
that the power to hypnotize and to be sensitive to it are both pro
gressive stages of our racial evolution; that it can and will be used
for selﬁsh, wicked, and degrading purposes unless the race, and
especially the occidental portion of
it,
understands -and practices true
ethics based on the brotherhood of man. Ethics of the purest are
"found in the words of Jesus, but are universally negatived
by
Church,
State, and individual. The Theosophical doctrines of man and nature
give
a
true and necessary basis and enforcement to ethics, devoid of
favoritism or illogical schemes of eternal damnation. And only
through those doctrines can the dangers of hypnotism be averted,
since legislation, while affixing penalties, will not alter or curtail
private acts of selﬁshness and greed.
The following passages are condensed from H. P. Blavatsky’s
“Black Magic
in
Science”:
The amateur hypnotists of Science dig with their own hands
the graves of many
a
man’s and woman's intellect; they enslave
and paralyze freewill
in
their “subjects,” turn immortal men into
soulless, irresponsible automata, and vivisect their souls with as
much unconcern as they vivisect the bodies of rabbits and dogs.
In short, they are fast blooming into “sorcerers,” and are turning
science into
a
vast ﬁeld of black magic. The minority of learned
physicians and other scientists experiment
in
“hypnotism” because
they have come to see something
in
it,
while the majority still deny
the actuality of animal magnetism
in
its mesmeric form, even under
HYPNOTISM AND MESMERISM 17
its modern mask——-hypnotism. The former—entirely ignorant of
the fundamental laws of animal magnetism—experiment at hap
hazard, almost blindly. Hence they interfere with, and awaken
to action the most dangerous forces of nature, without being aware
of it. Instead of healing diseases—the only use to which animal
magnetism under its new name can be legitimately applied—they
often inoculate the subjects with their own physical as well as
mental ills and vices. . . .
By trying the magic effect of the human will on weaker wills;
by deriding the existence of occult forces in Nature—forces whose
name is legion—and yet calling out these, under the pretext that
they are no independent forces, not even psychic, in their nature, but
“connected with known physical laws,” men in authority are virtually
responsible for all the dire effects that are and will be following
their dangerous public experiments. Verily Karma—the terrible
but just Retributive Law—will visit all those who develop the
most awful results in the future, generated at those public exhibi
tions for the amusement of the profane. Let them only think of
the dangers bred, of new forms of diseases, mental and physical,
begotten by such insane handling of the psychic will! They laugh
at the occult sciences and deride Mesmerism? They may learn
that the idea of a crime suggested for experiment’s sake is not
removed by a reversed current of the will as easily as it is inspired;
that if the outward expression of the idea of a misdeed “suggested”
may fade out at the will of the operator, the active living germ
artiﬁcially implanted does not disappear with it; that once dropped
into the seat of the human—or rather, animal—passions, it may
lie dormant there for years sometimes, to become suddenly awak
ened by some unforeseen circumstance into realization.
Men of undeniable scientiﬁc education who experiment on
Hypnotism in public, lend thereby the sanction of their names to
such performances. And then every unworthy speculator acute
enough to understand the process may, by developing by practice
and perseverance the same force in himself, apply it to his own
selﬁsh, often criminal, ends. Result on Karmic Lines: every Hypno
tist, every man of Science, however well-meaning and honorable,
once he has allowed himself to become the unconscious instructor of
one who learns but to abuse the sacred science, becomes, of course,
morally, the confederate of every crime committed by this means.
Such is the consequence of public “Hypnotic” experiments which
thus lead to, and virtually are, BLACK MAGIC.
THE MENACE OF HYPNOTISM
HAT You Should Know about Hypnotism,” an article
in the magazine, Life Story, is typical of current at
tempts to deny, minimize or explain away the dangers
of Hypnotism, while dramatizing its present-day applications in
psychological medicine. The writer, Marie Beynon Ray, is intro
duced as the author of Doctors of the Mind, “known for her meticu
lous research and careful analytical writing.”
Beginning with the case of a girl stricken by amnesia, whose
memory was restored through hypnotism, and describing how the
veterans of the ﬁrst great war were helped to regain their speech
or hearing by hypnotic treatment, the article continues with a
superﬁcial survey of its wide use today, ending with’ direct instruc
tions to the reader on how to ﬁnd a medical hypnotist to consult.
Accepting without question the assertions of the hypnotists them
selves, the writer identiﬁes the familiar objections to hypnotism as
mere “delusions.” She says:
We fear, most of us, that if we are hypnotized——
I. We are weak-willed.
2. We may never wake up.
3. We can be forced to commit immoral or criminal acts.
4. We will remain permanently in the power of the. hypnotist.
These fears, all of them, the doctors assure us, are pure delusions,
without foundation in fact. There is not the slightest danger of not
coming out of hypnosis any more than of not waking from a normal
sleep. Nor is hypnotism a battle of wills, since no one can be
hypnotized if he does not wish to be. Anyone, the strong-willed
equally with the weak-willed, can be hypnotized. If anything, it is
the more intelligent person, rather than the less intelligent one,
who is the more easily hypnotized. Certainly no one can be forced
to commit an immoral act against his will and nature. And finally,
the power of the hypnotist is of short duration. That, so far as its
therapeutic value goes, is its chief limitation.’
This article administers a polite scolding to all those reluctant
for any reason to submit to hypnotism, ridiculing the idea that it
is a “sinister power” and urging: “It is a very simple, harmless
procedure, as easy and unfrightening as taking a pill.” The popular
appeal is insidious:
‘Life Story. September, 194.5. See also, for a similar denial of the dangers of
Hypnotism, “Hypnotism Comes of Age,” Reader’: Digest, October, 1943.
THE MENACE OF HYPNOTISM 19
Is it worth trying? For that insomnia perhaps? For the compul
sion to toss ﬁve or six cocktails into your astounded stomach every
night before dinner and wait for them to explode? For that séance at
the dentist's? For that pain for which the doctors can ﬁnd no organic
cause? For that abnormal shyness? For any illness or condition that
has been pronounced a nervous disorder?
No harm, even conservative medical men assure us, can come of
trying it—-and if you put yourself into the hands of a competent
psychiatrist, a great deal of good may come of it.
Early in his career, Sigmund Freud, the founder of the psycho
analytical movement, experimented with hypnotism of the Charcot
school in Paris, but decided against its use in the methods of psycho
therapy he was developing. Today, largely as a result of the
stimulus of wartime necessity, psychiatry and psychoanalysis are
returning to hypnotism as a technique which assists in exposing the
causes of neuroses. Publicity given to the hypnotic methods of
Army psychiatrists in treating battle neuroses—called “shell shock”
during the last war-——has done much to weaken popular opposition
to hypnotism. Reports of startling recoveries are frequent, and in
almost every case some form of hypnotism has played a part. A
summary of the procedure appeared in the Atlantic Monthly for
November, 1945:
Psychotherapy under sedation—variously termed narcosynthesis,
narcoanalysis, abreaction, and hypnoanalysis——was used initially
almost entirely for combat soldiers and ﬂyers. Subsequently, it was
used more widely and proved itself of tremendous value in competent
hands because it was simple, produced results quickly, and had no
serious complications. It was effective probably because a great
majority of combat soldiers, even though they became quite ill, were
essentially normal personalities prior to their combat experience.
The psychic pressures of war become acute in prolonged combat,
as was demonstrated by the wave of neuroses which struck the
British Army after Dunkerque. American troops were exposed to
the same sort of ordeal on Guadalcanal, where the Marines de
fended a six-mile by three-mile beachhead for months. They had
landed expecting to be relieved soon after, but help did not come.
Lt. Com. E. Rogers Smith, Mare Island psychiatrist, pointing out
that never had healthy, trained men been subjected to such condi
tions, has written: “The strain and stress experienced by these men
produced a group neurosis that has not been seen before and may
never be seen again.” Among the symptoms were “headaches,
lower thresholds to sharp noises, periods of amnesia, of panic,
psychosomatic complaints, generalized or limited tremors, func
20 HYPNOTISM
tional palsies.” Commander Smith said of these victims of war who
became his patients that they suffered primarily from “a disturbance
of the whole organism—a disorder of thinking and living—of even
Wanting to live.’”
Types of mental crackups and emotional disorders caused by
the war have been described from time to time in the periodicals
and the press. One account reports the experiences on the North
African front of Lt. Col. Roy L. Grinker and Maj. John P. Speigel,
psychiatrists who there introduced the use of hypnotic drugs as the
initial step in emergency psychotherapy. At ﬁrst, their work was
with ﬂyers, of whom these are typical cases:
Before an important mission, a squadron leader lost conﬁdence,
dreaded the thought of deserting his men and had to be grounded.
. . . A turret gunner with a strong aversion for killing anything de
veloped hysterical paralysis of his right hand. . . . A beribboned ace,
brought home for a triumphant swing around the country, remem
bered his friends at the battle front and screamed: “A hell of a war
we’re ﬁghtinglm
The treatment developed by Grinker and Speigel, called “narco
synthesis,” begins with intravenous injection of a relaxing drug,
often sodium pentathol, which induces a sort of “twilight sleep.”
This drug, a derivative of barbituric acid, has the advantage of
acting quickly, although there are other less desirable effects.
The psychiatrist then attempts to draw out “the terrors buried
deep in the patient’s subconscious mind.” Sometimes hypnosis is
used to produce the relaxed state, without the aid of drugs. But
in either case, the patient is reduced to a passive condition similar
to or identical with light hypnosis, and is then subjected to the
probing questions of the analyst, who attempts to get at the
experience which caused the mental disorder. In a recent Life,
john Hersey reported almost verbatim the session of an Army
psychiatrist with a veteran who had this diagnosis: “Anxiety state,
severe, with hysterical conversion symptoms manifested by paralysis
of right leg.” In the course of the interview, the patient was helped
to understand the psychic cause of his paralysis and to overcome it.‘
More than 40 per cent of all Army medical discharges, Life
reports, were neuropsychiatric cases, and a total of I,ooo,o0o such
cases have been admitted to Army Hospitals for treatment. These
men are in various stages of psychosomatic disorder, a common
"‘The Psychiatric Toll of Warfare,” Fortune, December, 194.3.
‘Newsweek, May 29, 1944..
-
‘Life, Oct. 29, 194.5.
THE MENACE OF HYPNOTISM 2i
form being the “hysterical conversion symptom”—a paralyzed
limb, a heavy tic or twitch, loss of speech, or “a digestive disturbance
or some other physical failing for which there is absolutely no
physical basis.”
What can be said about the plight of these men, and how can
the emergency methods of treating them be questioned, even
though hypnotism is involved? The use of hypnotic techniques and
drugs arose from the urgent need of treating large numbers of men
without delay. A psychoanalyst, it has been pointed out, can usually
obtain the same results without hypnosis, but his treatment may
require many interviews over a long period before the patient
responds Without resistance. Hypnosis or a hypnotic drug often
eliminates this resistance in a few seconds. A delay in the treatment
of combat neurosis may mean that the symptoms become “ﬁxed”
and chronic, making the cure much more difficult. This happened
in the case of the Marines from Guadalcanal, who actually broke
down only after months of constant ﬁghting. When they reached
other islands or home, “the golden time for therapy had passed.”
First, it should be noted that there was one group of Marines
on Guadalcanal which suffered virtually no psychiatric casualties—
the “Raider” battalion of Lt. Col. Carlson. Wise treatment of his
men and the absence of military etiquette, together with conduct
that inspired complete conﬁdence in the commander seem to be
the explanation. “Carlson also encouraged his men to paint or
write or compose if they had any desire to do so.” According to
the account in Fortune, most of them did. But despite Carlson’s
astonishing record, he was “kicked upstairs” to a desk job on the
Paciﬁc Coast. Fortune concludes with the comment: “There would
seem to be no ﬁeld command for an oflicer with Evans Carlson's
proven qualities of leadership and with his respect for the dignity
of man.”
Thus intelligent preventive measures are themselves an important
alternative to narcohypnosis, and such measures might be applied
in civilian life as well as in the armed forces. The difficulty, of
course, lies in the difference between the loose organization of the
civilian population and the close control and observation of men's
lives in the Army. It is hardly possible for psychiatrists to pre
scribe preventive measures for psychoneurosis among civilians
except in the very broad terms of large scale social reforms. Also,
such reforms would have to be carried out as the result of general
enlightenment, more or less voluntarily; otherwise, some sort of
benevolent dictatorship would be needed to make them effectual,
22 HYPNOTISM
and that would constitute a terrible national neurosis in itself. The
fact is that the social evils which involve modern man in war have
the same deep-rooted causes as the defects in therapeutic practice,
so that criticism, in this case, must be fundamental rather than
speciﬁc. \
A second comment to be made on narcohypnosis may be drawn
from a statement by Dr. Sandor Lorand, a psychoanalyst previously
quoted on hypnotism. He says:
Hypnosis is most valuable for the acute neuroses, those of fairly
recent origin, where we usually know the immediate cause of the
symptom. But if the symptom is based on a neurotic personality,
then the cure would not be permanent, other symptoms would
develop later, and we would have to use psychoanalysis to unearth the
underlying complexes.
We still don’t know, for example, whether the men at the front
who have been treated by hypnosis or narcohypnosis will remain well
on their return home. No doubt many of them are fundamentally
normal men in whom extraordinary mental and physical strains have
produced exhaustion. Such men should have no recurrences. But
those who were already somewhat unstable personalities before they
entered the service may break again. They should be watched and
guarded. Some of them will need further treatment.‘
Elsewhere, Dr. Lorand has said that hypnotism is not considered
effective in ordinary cases of amnesia, “because, to get the memories
of the victim from the unconscious, he must be put in a cataleptic
state. It is not therapeutic because too deep a hypnosis is necessary.”
He adds, “In psychiatry, we never use so deep a hypnosis as would
be necessary here, because it changes a personality.” He regards
hypnotism as only an “auxiliary” treatment in such cases, to prepare
the patient for analysis.
These are the questions raised by experienced physicians. What,
in addition, might the theosophist say?
The most obvious criticism is to call into question the ethical
foundations of a culture which, in the extremity of modern war,
ﬁnds itself compelled to resort to hypnotism as a means of reliev
ing the extraordinary pressures imposed upon its youth. The
victims are in such a disordered psychic state, under emergency
conditions, and in such numbers, that medical men must reduce them
to virtual automata in order to help them at all. For that is what
narcohypnosis does. The agonized psyche of the war-torn neurotic
‘Life Story, September, I945.
‘New York Herald Tribune, Sept. 6, 1936.
THE MENACE OF HYPNOTISM 23
is drugged into submission to the analyst’s quest for facts, and then,
helpless as a child, he is led to see how “foolish” he has been. Or,
how foolish the psychiatrist says he has been, for there may be a
difference in the validity of the suggestions given. A man who fears
returning to the obligations of civilian life, and who develops a
nervous paralysis in his leg as a subconscious means of assuring
himself care without responsibility, may be helped to overcome
this weakness by intelligent suggestion. On the other hand, it seems
an unjustiﬁed intrusion for a psychotherapist, however well-inten
tioned, to use plausible persuasion on a man who is overcome by
revulsion for killing his fellow beings. Drugged into undiscriminat
ing acceptance of suggestion, the patient may be made to gain a
pseudo-adjustment that will last a few years, and after that, when
his sense of wrong-doing returns, the neurosis will attack him with
added fury. If the reconciliation of the individual with his terrible
memories can be achieved without devices of suggestion, or actual
deception, when he is in full possession of his faculties and able
to choose for himself, then the conduct of the psychiatrist is entirely
moral; but often, there may not be time for this conscientious treat
ment. When suggestion, good or bad, is imposed on the plastic
psychic nature of a dazed and defenseless man, the integrity of the
individual has been assailed and Karma will exact its penalty, late
or soon.
Other medical uses of hypnosis are in the treatment of deleterious
habits. It is used to overcome alcoholism, insomnia, nail-biting,
excesses of diet, fear phobias and like aﬂlictions. But in all these
instances, the subject exchanges the weakness of the habit for the
weakness of dependence on the hypnotist. He does not become
stronger. The only possible value of overcoming bad habits by
hypnosis would be in cases where the victims are so lacking in moral
stamina that they are literally unable to check the weakness without
help from the outside. And obviously, here, the subject must regain
his own self-control during the interval of release from the habit
which hypnosis has provided; otherwise, he will have to face the
same temptations again, to which will have been added the weak
ness of increased suggestibility. This objection to hypnotism is
clearly indicated by Dr. D. Ross Diefendorf, in his text on clinical
psychiatry:
Hypnotism is of limited value, because those susceptible to hypnotic
suggestion are apt to be inﬂuenced by any powerful suggestion that
happens to be presented. Furthermore, hypnotic experience brings
about an undesirable dependency of the patients upon the physician,
24. HYPNOTISM
which makes impossible an effective subjugation of their own wills in
the strife with morbid inﬂuences.
The greater the inﬂuence exerted, the more easily auto-suggestions
arise, and the quicker the efficacy of the hypnotic suggestion is nullified
by other and opposing ideas.’
More stringent is the warning of Prof. Vllesley Raymond Wells,
of Syracuse University. He is convinced from experimental research
that hypnotism can be used to make innocent persons perform acts
which would ordinarily be repulsive to them. Reporting on his
experiments, he writes:
This investigation has been devoted to the problem whether a
hypnotized subject, who is noncriminal in character, can be made
to commit real crime. The answer, on the basis of actual experi
mental results, is emphatically in the affirmative.“ -
These conclusions were reached through experiments on the men
and women students of Syracuse University. Prof VVclls succeeded,
by using “new methods” of hypnotism, in turning persons of the
highest moral integrity into “real thieves.” One must wish that
there could be a rule at Syracuse, as at many other universities, for
bidding hypnotic experiments. It is horrifying to think that these
university students are being exposed to criminal suggestion, as a
matter of “experiment,” when the operators, however “expert,”
may be unable to remove the effects of such suggestions.
The uses proposed for Hypnotism in war illustrate various
criminal applications. In Hypnotism, Dr. Estabrooks, a recognized
authority, details several ways in which hypnotism might have been
used to win the recent war. One involves hypnotizing enemy
prisoners to learn their secrets, and suggesting to them while
entranced that their own country is the real “enemy,” adding post
hypnotic direction in accord with this idea. An enemy officer could
be provided with false information while under hypnosis, resulting
in disaster to his side when guided by his report. The possibilities
of a hypnotized espionage service are suggestively outlined, and
the creation of self-saboteurs out of hypnotized prisoners is another
inspired idea. Dr. Estabrooks says that “a hypnotist who really
wished a murder could almost certainly get it”—a conclusion some
what different from the pious denials so common in the publicity
spread on behalf of hypnotism.
Of course, things done for victory in a war are seldom counted
as crimes; only when the men return home with the habits acquired
in battle are the latter recognized as “criminal” tendencies. And
“Clinical Psychiatry, 1923, p. 4.74.. ‘Los Angeles Examiner, March 5, 1941.
THE MENACE OF HYPNOTISM 25
then it is deemed too late for anything but punishment. But what
ever can be done to win a war can be done for private ends as
well. Dr. Estabrooks’ book makes clear the enormous possibilities
for successful crime in the practice of hypnotism, and it convicts
the hypnotists of evasion, if not actual deception, in their pretense
that no evil may be accomplished by hypnotic means.
In recent years one experimenter in hypnotism has developed a
method which appears to circumvent the usual objection to being
hypnotized—the surrender of the subject’s will to another. Andrew
Salter contributed to the April, I941, issue of the Journal of
General Psychology an article on “Three Techniques of Auto
hypnosis,” in which he detailed his technique of teaching people
to hypnotize themselves, to cure bad habits and overcome weak
nesses. He wrote:
In autohypnosis not only does the “subject” hypnotize himself, but
he also has complete control of the trance state at all times. To use
a word that should be obsolete, the only person with rapport is the
subject, and that rapport with himself.
However, before the subject can learn to hypnotize himself,
Salter explains, “I ﬁnd out if the person who wishes to learn auto
hypnosis is a good hypnotic subject in the ﬁrst place.” The person
must then be “developed” into “as good a hypnotic subject as
possible,” after which Salter tells him “that if he wishes, he can be
taught to put himself into a trance wherein he can give himself
suggestions as I would give them, and with the same effect, if not
better.”
There may be some advantage in turning the power of suggestion
over to the subject himself, but the “development” has already
taken place, and this must increase his suggestibility or passivity.
Actually, autohypnosis is nothing more than a psychological trick,
and in the long run can accomplish no particular good. The only
real recovery from bad habits results from the arousal of the will.
A person ought to be able to overcome his habits without throwing
himself into a trance. Such means may be successful for a while,
but relapses can always occur, with the possibility that the individual
will then resort to another hypnotist for help. Certainly, from the
moral viewpoint, there is little difference between autohypnosis and
the ignorant affirmations of “mental healing,” and in the case of
the former there is the added hazard of the morbid passivity of
the hypnotic state.
Popular accounts of autohypnosis have appeared in Time, Life,
Magazine Digest, and the New York Times, all thoroughly approv
26 HYPNOTISM
ing.° Original publication of Salter’s work in the erudite Journal
of General Psychology was sponsored by Prof. Clark L. Hull of
Yale, who describes autohypnosis as “quite sound.” It is certainly
“sound” for Mr. Salter, who charges $500 to $750 per treatment.
Worst of all the abuses of hypnotic practice are the various forms
of stage and parlor entertainment by this means which are now
becoming quite common. In I940, a Los Angeles cultist, Manly P.
Hall, gained notoriety by hypnotizing the actor, Bela Lugosi, on a
movie set, in order to create “realistic” terror for a scene in a
horror picture. Hall was to suggest that the actor was suffocating
to death. He did, and the entranced Lugosi experienced so deep
a terror that he broke the strongly braced wall of the set in trying
to escape. Then he collapsed on the ﬂoor. A doctor found his pulse
had reached I60.“
The possibilities of mass hypnotism were demonstrated recently
in connection with a radio program. The operator was Howard
Klein, an entertainer who during the war performed hypnotic
experiments in Army camps, using soldiers for subjects. In the case
of the radio program, Klein
appeared to observers to hypnotize more than half of a group of
volunteers in a closed room out of sight. His voice was carried to
them over a loud-speaker but did not go on the air. The success of
this experiment inspired a plan for Klein to try to hypnotize an
entire radio audience, but it was stopped by horriﬁed executives who
pointed out that if Klein hypnotized 100,000 listeners, probably
10,000 would sue for damages. Men driving cars might be put into
a trance and their cars wrecked, invalids might have relapses, and
almost every crime committed while Klein was on the air would be
blamed on him.“
Despite the obvious hazards of hypnotism, the writer who re
ported this description of Klein’s exploit ended his article by telling
the readers of .4merican Magazine that there is hope for “enormous
good” from hypnotism because “the younger generation is coming
out of colleges with no prejudice against hypnotism and with a real
curiosity as to its practical possibilities.”
Apparently Klein, like some other modern hypnotists, sometimes
relies on his voice to induce hypnosis in his subjects, without causing
them to gaze at a bright object. This method, while different from
that introduced by Braid, also employs the principle of vibration,
”Respectively, issues of June 6, 194.1; Nov. 11, 194.1; January, 194.2; June 8, 1941.
“New York World-Telegram, Jan. 19, 194.0.
““Can You Be Hypnotized ?” American Magazine, May, 194.2.
THE MENACE OF HYPNOTISM 27
and doubtless reaches and affects the brain through the sense of
hearing instead of through the eye.
A popular account of mass hypnotism appeared recently in
Liberty, describing the capacity of a white man to hypnotize I00
Zulus. The elderly Norwegian storekeeper, Pedar Titlestad, of
Qudeni, Zululand, is pictured standing among the massed bodies
of the Zulus, who lay all about on the ground, in deep trance. He
had predicted that they would be healed of all ailments when they
awoke. “I use my power only for good,” he told the Liberty writer."
Hypnotic experiments on children in the public schools, ending
disastrously, have been reported in the press. In I939 an NEA
feature described the hypnotization over the radio of a boy of
seventeen. In the latter case the operator was an eleven-year-old
girl who broadcast her hypnotic instructions while the subject sat
before a receiver in his home, “concentrating” on them. Later,
the girl went to the boy’s house to restore him to consciousness.
A psychologist, it is said, watched the demonstration “with interest.”
The Life article cited earlier describes and illustrates parlor
hypnotism as a “periodic fad,” which is said to be “safe enough
when conducted by experienced hypnotists.” Amateurs, however,
may fail to bring subjects out of a trance. On some occasions,
Life reports, the current of inﬂuence may be reversed, the subject
hypnotizing the operator, but this happens only when the operator
is “extraordinarily inept”l” Look, another picture magazine,
devotes several pages to the “near miracles” of Ralph Slater, in
this article the emphasis being on the medical applications of
hypnotism. “Long scorned as a kind of black magic,” the Look
editors say, Hypnotism “is recognized today as a growing science.”“
Slater recently demonstrated hypnotic techniques in Carnegie
Hall, New York, before an audience of Army, Navy, and civilian
physicians and psychiatrists. He told the press that “Slaterism”
—his method of hypnosis—is “the swiftest possible approach to
the subconscious mind.” Volunteer subjects for the exhibition
were soldiers and sailors suffering from battle fatigue.”
Whatever the editors and popular writers about hypnotism say
about the “value” and promise of Hypnotism, however they attack
“Liberty, May 8, 1937; see also Los Angeles Hera_ld-Expr_ess, Feb. 17, 1939. A
chapter in Prof. Estabrooks’ Hypnotism, condensed in Science Digest for October, 194.3,
described other possibilities of mass hypnosis.
“Life, Nov. 1o, 194.1.
“Look, July 28, 194.2.
“New York Daily News, May 13, 1945.
28 HYPNOTISM
its critics as deluded by superstition, the fact will remain that it is
both “a kind of black magic” and a “growing science,” although
modern knowledge of its scientiﬁc aspects is still extremely frag
mentary. Theosophical warnings against these practices cannot be
too urgent, nor can the grounding of students in the teaching on
this important subject be too thorough, in view of the increasing
practice of hypnotism, and the spreading idea that it
is,
after all,
“harmless.” Theosophists alone have the opportunity to provide
an understanding of the dangers of hypnotism, based on occult
law, with knowledge to back up their warnings.
It
is
not, as some
others are,
a
subject which students may ﬁnd much pleasure
in
studying, nor
is
the task of controverting popular misconceptions
and perversions enjoyable for those who prefer to emphasize areas
of agreement between Theosophy and modern science; but the task
must be undertaken. For, as H. P. Blavatsky wrote
in
her charge
to the American theosophists:
The experiments made
in
Hypnotism and Mesmerism are experi
ments of unconscious, when not of conscious Black Magic. The road
is
wide and broad which leads to such destruction; and
it
is
but too
easy to ﬁnd; and only too many go ignorantly along
it
to their own
destruction. . .
.
Whenever the healer interferes, consciously or unconsciously—
with the free mental action of the person he treats, it is—Black
Magic. Already these so-called sciences of “Healing” are being
used to gain
a
livelihood. Soon some sharp person will ﬁnd out that
by
the same process the minds of others can be inﬂuenced in many
directions, and the selﬁsh motive of personal gain and money-getting
having been once allowed to creep in, the one-time “healer” may be
insensibly led on to use his power to acquire wealth or some other
object of his desire.
This
is
one of the dangers of the new cycle, aggravated enormously
by
the pressure of competition and the struggle for existence.
.
.
.
In your hands, brothers,
is
placed in trust the welfare of the
coming century; and great as
is
the trust, so great
is
also the
responsibility.
THEOSOPHICAL LITERATURE
ISIS UNVEILED: A Master-Key to the Mysteries of Ancient and
Modern Science and Theology. By H. P. BLAVATSKY
This exhaustive study of Religion and Science in the light of Theosophy was
the ﬁrst presentation of the Wisdom Religion to the Western World. It
devotes many chapters to the phenomena of Spiritualism, both of the nine
teenth century and of other periods. No thoughtful reader can put down
this work without having gained enormously in understanding of many
important subjects which are wholly neglected in the usual histories of
religious and scientiﬁc thought up to the present.
Vol. I—SCIENCE, xlv-I-628 pages. Vol. II—THEOLOGY, iv-l-640 pages.
Photographic facsimile of original edition (1877), two volumes bound in
one (cloth), complete with general index and supplementary index of broad
philosophical topics _ .._____ . ._ .._.$7 50
THE OCEAN OF THEOSOPHY By WILLIAM Q. Juno:
An epitome of the Theosophical Philosophy designed to serve the needs of
the ordinary reader. Over a period of thirty years, this book has proved
its value as the text used by study classes in Theosophy in many parts of the
world. While briefer than the works of Madame Blavatsky, the Ocean
provides a comprehensive view of the entire system, is easy to understand
and gives thorough and adequate treatment of the great problems of evolu
tion and human destiny.
Textually accurate reprint of the original edition (1893) vii + 153
pugs‘;
nu
F59
(cloth) . . ._._.. .c....-_____ _._.._._.._
THE LAWS OF HEALING: Physical and Metaphysical
Despite the many advances of modern medicine and the enormous sums
spent in laboratory experimentation and research, the physical and mental
ills of civilization increase year by year. A leading physician engaged in
public health work recently pointed out that half (the deaths now taking
place in the United States are caused by chronic disease—“a plague of as
great a proportion as any to which mankind has been subject.” The rise in
psychic and mental disorders in our time is well known. The Laws of
Healing, while making no quack promises of miraculous recovery, offers in
brief space the fundamental principles of health in body and soul. It also
provides an analysis of the various doctrines of “mind cure,” and the
popular “germ theory of disease” is critically examined.
4.8 pages (paper).._..
CYCLES OF PSYCHISM: The Import of Psychic Evolution
The fascination of the "psychic" is proverbial. It will surprise some read
ers of this pamphlet to learn that there is nothing really mysterious or
unique about psychic faculties or powers, but that a great secret of human
evolution is represented by their manifestations. Equally important to
understand are the hazards which confront the dabbler in things “psychic”
-—apparently innocent practices such as “Yogi” breathing exercises and at
tempts to develop mediumship are not what they seem. Cycles of Psychism
contains a statement of some of the basic laws through which psychic
phenomena are possible, a brief survey of psychism through western his
tory, and discussion of scientiﬁc investigation of the phenomena and present
day psychic trends. The reader will find that the Theosophical perspec
tive sheds an indispensable light on the broad ﬁeld of psychic events.
53 pages (PBPU)----——-—-—-~ -----~-------
Prices subject to change without notice
Complete book list mailed on request
THE THEOSOPHY COMPANY
245 West 33rd Street, Los Angeles (7), California, U. S. A.
_-_-_--_---_-----___-__-_____-_-.$o so
._$o 50
1,____
The monthly magazine, THEOSOPHY, founded in
I912, is the only Theosophical journal independent of any
organizational platform. Devoted to dissemination of the
original teachings of Theosophy, as recorded by the found
ers of the Movement, it provides students with reprints
of the many articles written by H. P. Blavatsky and
Wm. Q. Judge, as clear statements of the philosophy and
guides to effective Theosophical work.
General articles bring the light of Theosophy to bear on contempo
rary problems and endeavor to make practical applications of the
teaching in terms of everyday life. Frequent studies comparing
“Science and the Secret Doctrine" assist the reader in correlating
Theosophical tenets with developments in the various ﬁelds of
modern science. A department of survey and review, “On the
Lookout,” shows the relation between Theosophy and contemporary
thought in many ﬁelds of inquiry, while running comment on
scientiﬁc, social and educational theories and problems illustrates
the immediate practicality of Theosophy today. The magazine
maintains a correspondence department to aid students and inquirers
on matters of Theosophical history and philosophy.
The subscription price is per year. A free copy will be
mailed on request.
Address all Communications, Subscriptions and
Remittances to
The Theosophy Company
245 West 331-d Street
LOS ANGELES (7), CALIFORNIA
J:‘:~Ji<“\§'u
-1“;-_.5
}
‘N
I
é
