{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1946__williams___you_are_psychic.pdf","mytitle":"You Are Psychic","mylang":"de"}
You Are Psychic
BY
SOPHIA WILLIAMS
BP
,W73
Aft
Copyright 1946,
in the United States and the Dominion of Canada
By Sophia Williams
Press of Murray & Gee, Hollywood
PREFACE
There has been a rising tide of interest in psychic
communications since the middle of the last century.
Several obvious causes have contributed to this. Through
out the whole field of science there has been an unprece
dented flow of discovery and an amazing accumulation
of new knowledge. With the steady advance of education
and the increase of literacy there are more people pre
pared to be thoughtfully interested in sharing such knowl
edge. Also, the world has experienced the two greatest
wars in its recorded history. During and following periods
of crisis this tide of interest has always risen and that is
especially true of the present.
Multitudes of people who have been affected by the
recent war will seek and receive solace by communicating
with those who have passed through the change called
death.
There are many able and sincere men and women
who can and will act as mediums to bring about genuine
contacts between the seeker and his departed loved ones.
Unfortunately, however, there has grown in this country
an extremely lucrative "racket" participated in by for
tune-tellers of numerous kinds who prey upon a grief
stricken but misguided clientele. In the main the activi
ties of these racketeers are definitely illegal, but the
passing of laws seems to have the effect of merely making
a large proportion of such fakers more crafty. Many of
the clients, themselves, in their lack of sound knowledge
and absence of the ability to discriminate between the
true and the false, and motivated by an understandable
desire to make contact with the departed, actually coop
erate in protecting the very racketeers who are deceiving
and cheating them. This applies to many people of
education and culture as well as to those less literate.
My purpose in writing this, my first book, has been
to perform my part in eliminating this nauseous "busi
ness" by helping the reader to develop his own normal
faculties and to thus make possible to him the genuine
psychic communications he seeks.
I have never made commercial use of the psychic
powers which I have developed within myself, but I have
always been alert and eager to assist others in achieving
similar development. The mistaken belief that psychics
are born and not made and that psychic ability is a
special gift possessed by only a chosen few led me to
this undertaking, the creation of a simple, understandable
primer. Herein I have sought to outline the rudimentary
steps which you may take, to the desired end of making
psychic contacts yourself, rather than remain dependent
upon others who might or might not be capable and
honest.
If I have repeated myself in spots it has been because
of my desire to make my explanations and directions
clear and simple and to impress upon the mind of the
reader the importance of each step toward the achieve
ment of success. If I have made myself as clear as I have
tried to, surely repetition can do no harm.
I am presenting an article published in a recent issue
of the Psychic Observer which will offer some idea of my
own work. I might relate hundreds of cases in which I
or some other psychic has received evidential proof of
the continuation of personality after death. To convince
yourself of the survival of such personality, learn how
to make your own personal contacts — and banish all
your doubts forever. — S.W.
Sophia Williams
/ HEARD A SPIRIT VOICE
SATURDAY EVENING POST WRITER
ENTERTAINS NOTED MEDIUM IN
HIS NEW YORK APARTMENT
I Witness Phenomena In Bright Light
By
Maurice Zolotow
15 Washington Place
New York City
One of the strangest experiences in my life com
menced rather prosaically last autumn when Halsey
Raines, a publicity man for M-G-M in New York, tele
phoned and asked me if I knewltf Mrs. Sophia Williams.
He said she was the Chicago medium who, some years
ago, engaged in a remarkable series of experiments with
Hamlin Garland, during which various voices identified
themselves as the spirits of ancient Spanish missionaries
in California and related where and how forgotten mis
sion crosses and old Christian relics could be found.
Garland, on her instruction, had dug and found several
hundred crosses. The incidents are related in full in
Garland's "Mystery of the Buried Crosses."
Since Mrs. Williams was to be in Manhattan for only
one day, I told Raines that I would like to meet her
socially and, she being agreeable, both of them came
to my home that evening.
Houdini and D. D. Home
No seances or experiments were planned or intended.
To meet Mrs. Williams, I invited two friends also inter
ested in psychic research: Stewart Robb, the author of
a book on Nostradamus and Walter B. Gibson, a
magician.
Mrs. Williams did not know or suspect that either
Robb or Gibson were to be present jit my house. She
had never met either gentleman, nor had she ever met
myself, or my wife.
Mrs. Williams turned out to be a worldly and utterly
II
charming lady. She is not classed as a professional
medium and rarely accepts fees for her psychic work, as
she is said to have an independent income.
We spoke of mediumship, of vaudeville — in her
youth she had been a stage dancer, of Houdini and of
Daniel Douglas Home.
Gibson and she reminisced about vaudeville artists
they had both known.
Stewart Robb Inquires
Mrs. Williams said all her phenomena had occurred
in full light. We were then sitting in the living-room of
my apartment, which was brilliantly illuminated by an
indirect-lighting lamp and a bridge lamp.
As we sat and chatted desultorily, Robb, rather rest
less and determined not to miss an opportunity to wit
ness some psychic demonstration, said he had brought a
Ouija board along and would Mrs. Williams care to
attempt a session with the planchette.
She seemed bored, but consented and she and Robb
sat with the board for half-an-hour. No phenomena
resulted. She then tried automatic writing, but received
only a few messages of a very general nature.
Gibson Amazed
Then Mrs. Williams turned to Gibson and, still smil
ing, said she might give some clairvoyance. She asked
him if it were not true that he had been married before
and divorced and that he had a son by his first wife.
Rather amazed, Gibson nodded in the affirmative.
is
She then said he had been an insurance agent some 25
years ago. (Even I had not known this fact.) Gibson
affirmed the truth of the statement. She then went on to
tell him a remarkable series of evidential facts about his
family, his brothers and sisters, and more distant relatives.
She concluded by speaking of a gold-watch she said
he had and gave the background as to how he had
received the watch. Gibson later told me that in his
varied experience with mediums and psychics, he had
never seen such an incredible demonstration of clair
voyance.
We Heard! !
I then said that I felt we ought to discontinue this
as Mrs. Williams was a guest and I did not feel we ought
to tire her. She said she suffered no ill effects. We then
discussed the source of her psychic energy, which Mrs.
Williams seemed to believe was somewhere in the region
of her solar plexus. We talked some more. It was about
eleven-thirty and then Mrs. Williams, who was sitting
on the couch, suddenly cocked her head, and said,
"»id y«u hear that?"
We all said we had heard nothing. My wife listened
carefully.
"There," said Mrs. Williams, "It spoke again."
I asked Raines to remain at the other side of the
room. Robb and Gibson also kept at least five feet away.
My wife and I, jumping up, flanked Mrs. Williams on
both sides.
13
And then we heard it! ... a timid etheric voice in
the air. It seemed to be speaking about two feet above
Mrs. Williams' head. It sounded like the faint whistling
rhythmic noise of a cricket, rather similar to some of
the accounts describing the voicing of Walter, Margery's
control.
I repeat — the lights were fully on at all times.
The faint voice continued to come and go for several
moments, and my wife and I screwed up our ears to
make out the words being spoken.
Finally, I said I thought it was repeating, "David,
David, David, David." Robb bounced up and claimed
this as a very close relative of his, but since the voice
did not offer any more details, we hesitated to accept
this as evidential.
After about fifteen minutes, the voice faded away.
I then said to Mrs. Williams that I wished to make
a more lengthy study of the phenomena and write a
careful article about her strange gifts.
Never before — even in connection with D. D. Home
— had I heard of independent-voice phenomena under
these conditions.
She said she was willing to do this and would grant
me several interviews on her next trip to New York.
She is now engaged in clearing up some private affairs
on the west coast and I am looking forward to Mrs.
Williams' return to New York and another visit from
the etheric messenger.
14
Chapter I
YOU ARE A PSYCHIC
What is psychic force? How does psychic force oper
ate? How have I arrived at the conclusions set forth in
this book? At the risk of boring the better informed I
start by assuming that the reader has no knowledge of
this general subject so that I may avoid leaving the least
informed groping for greater clarity. I believe I may best
attain my objective by relating my own experiences.
I began as a sceptic. I desired to either disprove
psychic claims or to develop the faculties which produce
this natural phenomenon. I watched and analyzed every
step of the way over a period of years. Thus I arrived at
certain concrete conclusions concerning what takes place
in the mental and physical spheres during psychic
manifestations.
Now, having instructed many others and having
watched their development and compared their reactions
with my own, it has been definitely demonstrated to me
that there is in constant operation, an overmind or force,
which for lack of a better name I shall throughout this
book call the "stream of intelligence."
Each of us is a channel through which this stream
of intelligence circulates. We absorb
it,
according to our
capacities, the amount and quality of knowledge, infor
15
mation and understanding of which we are capable. As
we learn in time to absorb correctly and understand-
ingly, our capacities enlarge and our intelligence in
creases.
Ordinarily people go through life gathering in a hap
hazard manner whatever knowledge they actually
obtain. There is neither correlation nor constructive
preparation for the future, nor toward real understanding
in this unplanned type of gathering knowledge.
Each of us is really like one volume of a complete set.
We hold within us what we might refer to as pages of
that volume. We fill those pages with the knowledge we
acquire for future use. It is plain to be seen, therefore,
that it behooves us to get our information in an orderly
manner if it is to be of value to us or to humanity. This
also saves us from having to scramble through the entire
book when we need some specific bit of the information
which we have stored away.
The process of obtaining knowledge direct from the
overmind or stream of intelligence through psychic chan
nels is a perfectly natural one. It takes time and patience
however, to develop. In my experience, the information
I "receive" by means of this channel seems to come
through intermediaries. It comes in the form of words
and conversations from distinct personalities who have
passed through the change called dea;th. They always
identify themselves and their identities can be checked
and proved.
This is a fact which I have demonstrated to hun
dreds of others and to my own satisfaction. It
is,
however,
still
a
moot question and open for discussion among most
scientific men. Many of them admit that the phenomenon
exists but many do not admit that
it
is
in any way con
nected with non-physical personalities.
I
shall explain
more about these "non-physical" personalities later.
It
is
not the purpose of this book to convince the
reader that what
I
have said herein
is
true.
I
desire only
to instruct you so that you too may develop your extra
sensory perception and psychic faculties, and thus "re
ceive" information through psychic means at will, or
with such readiness as you may become capable of. As
you learn you will unquestionably evolve your own theory
of how this phenomena occurs and establish your own
methods of making psychic contacts.
x
It
is
apparent to me that there
is
in Nature
a
store
of general overall knowledge which, like
a
great ency
clopedia, contains answers to all of our questions. By
this
I
do not mean that all knowledge
is
stored away
somewhere and that all answers are there for the tap
ping, for knowledge
is
itself constantly in a state
of
evolvement.
We must look at the Cosmos as
a
great chemical
laboratory, in which changes and experiments are
constantly going on; we must believe that there must
be in Nature an Over-All formula which changes as the
ingredients are mixed and remixed. Such changes and
17
actions, as they take place and according to the manner
in which they take place, form new and different ele
ments, thus making knowledge continuously progressive
and evolutionary as Nature herself progresses.
As we learn to tap the stream of intelligence we must
do so in a manner which is beneficial to ourselves and
to humanity at large. The stream of intelligence con
tains everything to date that is contained in the Over-All
formula of the Cosmos, for knowledge is constantly
in the process of enlarging and growing.
As is the case with any formula, we must select the
right ingredients so that they may be mixed correctly
to bring about desired results. Most of our mistakes
are made because we have not learned to take from
the stream of intelligence the right information which
\ at the time will bring success. As Shakespeare has so
aptly explained
it,
"There
is
a
tide in the affairs of
men, which taken at the flood leads on to fortune.
Omitted, all the voyages of life are bound in shallows and
in misery/'
When your extra-sensory faculties are developed
and understood
it
is
found that what we call past,
present and future are in reality all one —
a
constantly
molding cycle of events, each one an integral part of
the other. It therefore becomes possible to know and
observe what has already taken place and why, what
is
now happening, and what potentially should happen
in what we call the future.
18
You also become aware of this fact: although man
in a sense is a free agent, in reality all Nature is
one and indivisible and all of Nature influences the ever
changing cycle of events. It thus becomes evident that
you must learn the fundamental principles which
govern and activate the universal whole. This can be
learned through the developement of the psychic.
It
is,
through this greater understanding more readily
seen that one man alone can not bring about the com
pletion of any event no matter how trivial, and that
developing psychic faculties merely for the solving of
material and physical problems alone will not be likely
to work successfully.
Tapping the stream
of
intelligence properly, or as
nearly so as your understanding and ability permit
is
the way to put to use basic logic thus developed,
which works as rules and tables do in applied mathe
matics.
*
After you learn to apply psychic knowledge you then
are able to use your judgment freely in making decisions,
which however, may be either right or wrong according
to the manner of your interpretation of the potential
evolution of events. In this way only
is
man
a
free agent.
If either by lack of understanding, or for any other
reason, he acts unwisely, he not only suffers the con
sequences himself but also affects universal progress.
It
is
but natural to suppose that man can never
completely understand Nature and her workings be
*9
cause Nature, of which man is a part, is forever in a
state of evolvement. But the more fully we do under
stand and the more knowledge we have the fewer the
mistakes we will be likely to make. That is a spiritual
application but it applies well to man's physical and
mental life, because the physical and mental are only
reflections of the spiritual.
Know how to adjust yourself to the universal whole
and to understand the why of events, which psychic
understanding teaches you, and you will become less
liable to make errors, and less prone to criticize and
judge others for the mistakes they make. You will realize
that the mistakes of others are dependent in part upon
what you yourself may do, and that each one of us
helps bring about the mistakes and the successes of others.
Man must know himself apart from temporal things
and fully in relation to the intellectual and universal
whole. Man must, of course, live objectively while he is
part of the physical phase of life, but the inner or in
tellectual man is the real man. He creates his own ob
jective world by his thoughts put into action. If man
does not know who and what he
is,
and how he fits into
the universal life and action, he can neither think nor
act correctly.
Man must be able to trust his own judgement before
he becomes capable of judging others. His ideas are of
no value unless and until he understands how to think
and what his thoughts mean. He must gain his know
20
ledge and understanding as an individual, realizing at
all times his connections with, and responsibility to the
whole. He must therefore, adjust himself and his abilities
to the universal whole even though the problem at hand
be trivial. In other words, every act and every reaction
of each one of us is really only our part in Cosmic action
and reaction, and every result affects every one of us.
It is only by persistent effort to develop and gain
understanding and knowledge of your own inner qualities
that you can create a harmonious state of being for
yourself and in effect for humanity. Every decision you
may make must be the best you can make, never over
looking the effect of your action and thoughts on others.
It is in this way you may help create for yourself and
for every other person in the universe harmony of thought
and action. This is the kind of "knowing" —the reality of
comprehension — which is gained when you develop and
use your extra-sensory and psychic faculties.
NOTE : Unless you possess an exceptional capacity for
understanding and assimilating the essence of what you
read, the contents of the foregoing chapter cannot yet
be thoroughly clear to you. When I began my investi
gations of this subject, what you have just read would not
have been completely clear to me. Therefore, I ask you
to go back and read the entire chapter again, slowly and
carefully.
Study requires not merely reading. You must digest
what you read. To digest food we chew it before we
21
swallow it. In your haste it is probable that you have
"gulped" Chapter i. We are dealing with knowledge that
cannot be gulped, with mental food that
is,
or may seem,
just
a
little "tough" at first.
Remember, we are pioneers, in
a
sense, in psychic
exploration and in the advancement of knowledge gained
from such exploration. Patience in enlarging our under
standing brings rewards well worth all the effort involved.
Stfi
Chapter II
CLAIRVOYANCE AND CLAIRAUDIENCE
(Extended Vision and Hearing)
Each one of us possessed of so called normal mental
capacity can develop extra-sensory ability and use his
faculties to bring about psychic contacts.
In the years during which I have worked with many
people and helped them develop these faculties, I have
demonstrated to myself that every one of us possesses
y psychic ability in greater or lesser degree. I say with
implicit faith in the truth of my statement that such
extended hearing, seeing, and sensing abilities, greatly
beyond what we call normal hearing, seeing and sensing,
can be developed in each one of us. Further, I say this
is all in accord with a natural law and not something
mysterious or supernatural. This is more difficult to
develop with some than with others but it is possible with
all
It is true that we really make our own arrangements
to get psychic information, and the type of information
we may receive depends on the mental capacity of the
"receiver", and on contacting the right sources of in
formation. If we strive to contact "senders" who will help
us, and we are certain they are of the quality we desire
them to be, then we will learn something of value every
*3
time we make a psychic contact. In this work we are not
unlike radio instruments. We must learn to tune in on
the exact wave length which will bring us the information
or, let us say the program for which we are reaching.
Such information, when received, must then be intel
ligently applied to our needs.
My own experience leads me to believe that there
are two ways of "receiving". One seems to come by way
of intermediaries or disembodied personalities. When I
receive information through such sources I am able to
name the personalities, describe them and give other
positive proof and identification. The second method of
contact is a direct one. In employing it I tune directly in
on the overmind or stream of intelligence. This contact
is far more difficult to make than one made through
intermediaries. Sometimes I tune directly into the stream
of intelligence with no difficulty. There are other times
when I am unable to do so. I am still exerting every
effort to overcome my inability to make such contacts
at will, and am carefully studying how to do so. When I
succeed, as I know I shall, this information will be passed
on to you.
Both sources of information, however, are usually
accurate. Sometimes interpretation by the "receiver" is
incorrect and in this way mistakes are made which really
are the mistakes of the one who is interpreting. Frequent
ly such mistakes are corrected in either the same or
another sitting.
24
If we are dealing with, or receiving from disembodied
personalities, (and this
is,
of course, something you will
decide for yourselves after you learn to tune in), the
information received has
a
definite human quality. It
is
likely to be colored by the personality of the sender,
and may be relatively right or wrong according to the
sender's opinion on that subject.
If life and personality are continuous, and
I
believe
they are, the sender—the disembodied personality —be
comes further advanced than we are through the greater
opportunity to acquire understanding after the change
called death. He has, also, with less obstruction,
a
clearer
view of the potential future. The sender thus becomes
better able to give us assistance with whatever he
is
attempting to "send" us and we can always rely on the
fact that whatever these disembodied personalities may
tell us,
it
is
with
a
sincere desire to be helpful.
Now
I
will give you an idea of how to "sit" for devel
opment. My belief
is,
that
if
a
means to acquire such
development exists, then every proven way to do so, as
set down hereafter, should be of help. There
is
also the
possibility that you, the reader, may be
a
natural receiver,
that you may be able to tune in the first time you try.
On the contrary,
it
may take you a long time. Patience
and perseverance will be all that
is
required to prove that
psychic phenomena exist and that every normal man,
woman and child
is
a
prospective "receiver" and can
make contacts
if
he or she will make the effort.
25
In order to achieve psychic manifestations —absolute
relaxation is the first step. . . . Never concentrate ! You
must be ready to receive and not be all set to force some
kind of contact. Put your desire for information on a
high level. Sit each day if you can, at the same time and
place, for half an hour at least. Keep these appointments
faithfully. Conscious thought must be avoided —consci
ously trying not to think is thinking.
Sit in the state of mind that comes when, while
watching a moving picture, the screen suddenly becomes
blank, and as though you were quietly awaiting the
reappearance of the picture and the sound of the voice to
begin again. The secret is to sit in a state of expectancy,
your mind cleared of all conscious thought and memories.
Then, pictures will begin to appear. Perhaps only a
flash of sight or sound, or only a vivid impression, in the
beginning. . . .or, you may have exceptionally clear and
satisfying results immediately.
Thus you will begin to learn how to see clairvoyantly
and hear clairaudiently. Relaxation is one of the first
musts when sitting for psychic manifestations. Be seated
comfortably and relax. Begin to relax by starting at the
top of the head and relax each part of the body. Say to
yourself —audibly if it helps you—"my head is relaxed,
my face is relaxed" etc., etc., until you have gone over
every part of you and feel completely rested and relaxed.
Do not lie down to accomplish this because you will, in
such an achieved state, go to sleep. Just sit relaxed and
26
comfortable and try to empty your mind. Make it empty ;
remove and erase every thought, every memory, every
idea. When you do this you will have accomplished one
of the most difficult of tasks. Time, patience and practice
will bring success.
It is difficult to empty the mind of thoughts because
every thought you have is one solely in relation to yourself.
The world exists for each one of us entirely within our
selves and within our own minds and only as it impresses
us or relates to us personally. Therefore, the act of for
getting one's self—that's a hard thing to do.
However, it can be done. To some people it may come
quite easily. For example, when we get ready for sleep
each night we either clear the mind or we do not fall
asleep. To make psychic contact we must do two things—
remain awake and yet clear the mind of all thoughts and
ideas. I have found a means of arriving at this state of
mind and it may be helpful to others. I close my eyes
and picture a blank gray wall or a quiet, serene body of
water. Since it is important that all sounds be shut out
also, it is best to sit in a quiet room that is semi-dark.
When we once arrive at a state of detachment we are
ready for clairvoyance and clairaudience, which are
extended senses of hearing and seeing beyond the so
called physical range of sight and hearing.
In my own experiences I have found that the sense
of time is eliminated, and I am able to see and hear things
in the present, past and future with equal clarity, or I
27
see them as one. After all, time is merely a measurement
set up by man !
The following brief explanation will help to show
the types of hearing and seeing that follow through the
mediums of clairvoyance and clairaudience, as they differ
from physical faculties.
(Clairaudience : The ability to hear sounds not norm
ally audible. Clairvoyance: Ability to see things out of
the range of ordinary perception.)
I say again at this point that conclusions and expres
sions advanced by me in this book are the result of my
own experiences. Yours may be quite different. These are
mine. Don't accept them — prove them !
The pictures I see and the information which I hear
psychically are definite mental impressions. They seem
to be impressed on the brain centers which control hear
ing and vision but they do not take physical and concrete
form. They are more nearly like pictures and conversa
tions one recalls as having taken place in the past.
As these impressions and conversations begin to "come
in", try not to analyze. Remain calm and detached and
just watch and listen. When you put active thoughts into
motion and mix conscious thinking with the impressions
which come in without conscious effort, you cease being
detached. Detachment is most important. It is the channel
through which information is received. By shutting out
the physical you open the door to the psychic.
A state of detachment must therefore come without
28
conscious effort. Any active or conscious thought must
be avoided if success is to follow. There are also other
elements which enter into this matter of reception. You
make of yourself an instrument comparable to a radio
set; much depends on the condition of your set. Those
who may be ill are not as likely to receive as clearly as
those who are in good health. That is because a sick body
will tend to upset the balance necessary to keep the mind
detached and at ease.
Again, there are times when the detachment is com
plete and all else seems to be favorable for fine reception
and nothing at all happens. This seems to indicate that
there are forces beyond our control which impede the
natural reception that ordinarily follows. As a conse
quence, do not expect or demand certain definite infor
mation in the beginning. Accept anything at all which
may come in, if at first anything at all does come in. Nor
should one have any set, preconceived ideas on the sub
jects he is anxious to hear about, for he is likely to have
such ideas upset.
An open mind is an absolute necessity. You must have
a state of mind prepared to accept any information which
may come through, on any subject and about any thing.
Information received may be quite contrary to that
desired or quite foreign to the ideas of the one "receiving".
Frequently it may be startling and entirely unexpected ;
undesired ; astonishing.
It is quite natural that we all are anxious to receive
29
help on physical and financial problems and it may be
that some of you have definitely in mind to get such help,
but the information which comes through sometimes
covers entirely different subject matter and does not even
refer to that which the sitter hopes for. With right desire
on the sitter's part everything which comes in psychically
should be instructive and beneficial.
The most important and real development is that of
the inner man, and by that I mean what is commonly
referred to as the spirit, the soul, the inner power or what
ever other term one prefers to employ. By such develop
ment our relationship to the whole of humanity becomes
greatly defined.
We discover through psychic understanding that each
of us is solely responsible for our own behavior. Although
we are separate worlds within ourselves, yet we are one
and indivisible with the whole, whether conscious or
unconscious of the fact, responsible in a measure for the
functioning and the unity of the whole. Instruction or
information coming via extra sensory channels will, there
fore, generally be of a nature quite impersonal, and to
many not immediately desirable because most people
want to hear things about themselves and their own
problems.
We cannot hope to see through our own eyes, nor
through the eyes or understanding of others, the complete
picture of any event. Each happening is in itself an infin
itesimal part of the great spread of events reaching out
So
in every direction. We can and must learn, with the
development of extended vision and hearing, to see and
hear far above and beyond the physical ranges of sight
and hearing. This helps us judge more competently. As
a consequence we become better able to act more reason
ably. We are much less liable to make errors.
Having once acquired extended vision and hearing
you will have a more clear and graphic picture of the so
called past and present and enough idea of the potential
future to enable you to mold it to a great extent, accord
ing to your own judgement. Then you can try to bring
about the results you desire, always taking into consid
eration the best interests of all others involved.
Events in the too near future can not always be
changed or influenced as I shall do my best to explain
by the following simile : Events are drops of water in the
river of life. There may be obstacles like logs (in the
river) which divert the stream, and instead of flowing
along its normal course, the waters may be diverted to
other channels.
Sometimes, if we can foresee the course of events be
fore obstacles are encountered, we may be able to remove
them, or to change our course so as to take into considera
tion every means necessary to alter these events.
Such events reach from the so called dim past like
an endless chain to the unformed, distant future, involv
ing not only ourselves but an infinite number of other
people and circumstances. We cannot see the composite
whole but we must enlarge our intellectual capacities so
as to understand to our fullest capability, and thus be
enabled to act wisely under all circumstances.
Looking backward over what has happened to you
and the courses you have taken, you will be able to see
that there were always two or more paths you might have
chosen. It is possible, in many instances, with better
vision and more understanding to retrace your steps, to
walk another path which you had previously avoided, and
perhaps correct mistakes you have unwittingly made.
By means of extra sensory psychic channels you de
velop a better and clearer understanding of honesty,
truthfulness and fair dealing, and this in turn brings
better judgment for large and small daily problems. We
may develop these propensities first within ourselves. As
Shakespeare says, "To thine own self be true, and it must
follow as the night the day, thou canst not then be false
to any man." The job of remaking ourselves into really
worthwhile men and women is such a big one that it will
leave us little time to judge or criticize others.
In prayers you really criticize God's judgment when
you ask him to change things to the way you wish them.
Why not learn to understand the harmonious whys and
wherefores of creation? In that way you may learn how
to change yourself to
fit
into the pattern and then perhaps
understand the reason underlying it. We cannot expect
nature to change to fit our pattern —we must fit ourselves
into the pattern of nature.
32
Never criticize people of race, creed or color different
from your own. Learn to understand why creation found
it best to include all that is now of this universe ; above
all, learn to understand that every thing that is in the
universe is needed and is of value in relation to everything
else. This manner of thinking, seeing and hearing psychic
ally
is,
in reality, the merging of man's mind with infinite
intelligence which governs all things, all people and all
knowledge. Only in this way can you or
I
release the
shackles of wrong thinking, wrong action and wrong
understanding from our consciousness and our lives. Thus
by understanding ourselves and the universal rights of
others, we learn to recognize and protect those rights for
humanity at large.
It
is
well to recognize that even
a
world with
a
per
fectly balanced economy will not be
a
peaceful world.
Only when man
is
at peace with himself can there be
peace among men. Learning and recognizing that another
man differs from you in appearance, ideas, habits and
color because of evolution, heredity, environment and
capacity for knowledge will surely make life happier for
all and make for
a
lasting peace among all peoples.
This
is
the type
of
knowledge we gain by psychic con
tact with the stream
of
intelligence. This
is
a
study not
for weaklings nor for narrow minded, self satisfied people
who are bigoted, selfish and interested only in the ac
quirement
of
worldly possessions! Such knowledge and
harmonious understanding, knowledge gained through
33
clairvoyance and clairaudience comes without great effort
to the man who knows what he seeks and what psychic
development helps him learn. With a better understand
ing of the world in which we live and of man in general,
our own dealings with others become more harmonious
and equitable, and our differences fewer. Hence, we learn
how to get the possessions and supplies we need and de
sire. Our desires, of course, will change and increase in
such knowledge and as we learn and develop we will seek
more lasting acquirements.
We thus prepare ourselves for the future with confi
dence and understanding. And our direct contact with the
stream of intelligence causes us to see and hear and learn
the highest and best that life holds — all according to our
individual capacity, broadened and enlarged through
psychic study.
34
Chapter III
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS
Each and every one of us should learn to use his or
her natural faculties through which we can see and hear
beyond the physical range. When this has been accomp
lished many of us will find that physical phases of medi-
umship will follow this development as a matter of course.
Many phases of physical manifestations are possible
For example ; I have seen writing appear on a slate with
out any physical contact whatsoever. I have had the
rare privilege of witnessing the materialization of a dis
embodied personality in broad daylight. As a rule most
physical phenomena is produced in dark rooms as light
rays seem to interfere with manifestations. In rare cases,
however, somebody who is evidently constructed physic
ally as to be able to do so, may make possible the produc
tion of such phases in the light.
In my own case a small high pitched voice is often
heard which seems to come from the air around me, or
from some other part of the same room in which I sit.
This happens both in lighted and darkened rooms or out
of doors, and neither the time nor the place seems to
affect the production of this independent voice. This is
a phase of physical mediumship.
It is just as important to be calm and detached for
35
bringing in this kind of phenomenon as it is for mental
reception. Direct concentration or excitement or nervous
ness prevents reception of this or any other phenomena.
Harmony among sitters is of the utmost importance
to produce the best results.
When psychic contact has been made with one of our
disembodied friends on the next dimension or directly
with the stream of intelligence, and when you have
learned how to control such contacts by means of in
struction psychically received, you will continue to pro
gress spiritually and to develop all of the psychic powers
within yourself and within your range of ability and
capacity.
An excellent way to begin development is to form
a small group of interested people, say from two to ten
people, who will spend one evening a week, or two if
they can, in what I call an experimental circle. Most
groups of this kind begin by sitting around a table in a
semi-dark room. It is more comfortable to sit where
the sitters may relax. When one places the hands lightly
on the table, raps often are heard and sometimes the
table moves and tilts.
I do not believe sitting in the dark is a requirement
for making psychic contacts, but in the beginning, with
no opportunity to look about and to center the interest
on anything in the room, darkness is very helpful. I have
found, however, that in order to produce levitation or
materialization, darkness is necessary. More about this
36
later. In any event, darkness has a quieting effect and it
helps toward detachment and relaxation.
Here again we must stop to realize that each one of
us is differently constructed both mentally and physically.
Experiments which may work for one of us may fail
for another. There are, however, a few simple rules
which apply to all efforts toward psychic development.
Relaxation, detachment, harmonious surroundings,
impersonal desires, and an attitude of thankfulness for
any contacts which may be made and for any information
received.
From there on one works out his own method of secur
ing results. There is a personalized, natural ability within
every one of us. We can, up to certain point, follow the
precepts which have proven successful with others. But
there comes a certain time and place in the efforts we
make to get in touch psychically with those on the next
dimension of life, with the disembodied personalities who
answer our call for assistance in the development of our
own forces, when and where we must start on "our own."
It is a point at which we seem to be able to select the best
manner in which we, as individuals, should go on from
there.
When information "comes in", never stamp it as untrue
nor as trivial until you have carefully analyzed it in all
its phases. Never accept anything as being absolutely
true until you have made certain that it is true. We all
find, as we go forward, that all things believed to be either
37
true or untrue, either good or evil, are only relatively so.
What may be true one day may, because of certain
changes in events or in the mixing of circumstances in this
great chemical laboratory of life, be untrue or only par
tially true the next day. Good, evil, truth, untruth —
these are all relative. So heed this advice : neither accept
nor reject until you have analyzed, until you have made
every test to satisfy yourself as to the nature of the infor
mation you receive. Many times something which ap
pears to be right or wrong over a long period of time will
prove to be exactly the opposite from what was first be
lieved. There are also greater or lesser degrees of right
and wrong, just as there are many shades of colors be
tween black and white. However, it is a fact that there is
no positive right or wrong, good or evil. They are ideas
related only as they concern you or only as your own
situation may be involved.
The psychic phenomena of materialization requires
a dark room, not completely dark, but with very little
light, preferably red, which is just sufficient to light up
the phosphorescent like material that forms or material
izes into the various shapes and likenesses of personalities,
and which are concrete forms visible to the eye and not
mental pictures nor impressions. This material is called
teleplasm and is exuded from the bodies of some of the
sitters who apparently are so physically constituted as to
be able to help in the production of such phenomena.
Teleplasm appears like a phosphorescent mist that glows
like lighted silver. It sometimes takes on the appearance
of a person, a face, a hand or one of many other forms.
The forms and objects so created are animated, move
about and in some instances the personalities speak, give
their names or relationships, etc. and actually identify
themselves.
It has been my practice never to suggest any kind
of phenomena unless I have experienced it myself or
have seen it and satisfied myself that what I saw was
not a fraudulent attempt to mystify an audience. There
fore I say here, that while materialization is a rare form
of psychic mediumship, it is nevertheless one that I am
39
satisfied is true, and possible to experience by any student.
And I never accept any information, identification or
other form of psychic experience unless I am sure it is
genuine.
Speech issuing from materialized forms is made pos
sible by the creation (in life's great chemical laboratory)
of an artificial voice box, (a copy of the human voice
box) which is made from this teleplasm. This is my theory
of how disembodied personalities can make sounds which
are recognizable as a sort of toneless human speech.
Many people among whom were a number of scien
tists of standing, have heard this voice and have seen
these manifestations through the channels I am able to
contact. Among these scientific men there have been those
who were not satisfied that my theory is correct. This
is,
in my opinion, largely due to the fact that only in the last
few years have men of science become interested enough
in this kind of phenomena to study
it
and to attempt to
classify
it
and to solve the riddle so that they may arrive
at conclusions which are acceptable to science at large.
It
is
a
study well worth their while and of great impor
tance to humanity.
The theory
is
that disembodied personalities mold
this teleplasm into forms resembling themselves as they
appeared while among us, and before they entered into
the next dimension of life. They animate the form so
molded and don what we might call
a
teleplasmic over
coat to make us see and recognize them and through
40
which they speak to us. Such speech is possible through
the use of the teleplasmic voice box. Inasmuch as I have
experienced these things, you must take my word for it
only until you have personally experienced the same thing
and can arrive at some theory that is more acceptable
to you than this one of mine. The teleplasmic material
being mist like, diffuses easily. Therefore it is well to
construct a small cabinet to sit in, or to use a clothes
closet or some other small enclosed space. Try sitting this
way and have one or more observers with you when you
do. The phenomena may occur at a time and where you
are unable to see it yourself.
Materialization is a rare phase of mediumship but it
is my belief that any one, with the necessary physical
make up, may develop it. All physical phases of medium-
ship and all manifestations are dependent upon this tele
plasmic substance, and it seems plausible to suppose that,
like electricity, about which we know so little, it too can
be put to use in many ways while we are gaining greater
knowledge concerning it.
Independent voices, slate writing, levitation and any
number of other psychic manifestations also dependent on
teleplasm do take place, and although we do not under
stand exactly how they take place or what causes them
to occur, it is possible for many people to develop these
phases and to produce such manifestations.
As I have previously told you, the development of
clairaudience and clairvoyance is the first and most im
41
portant step in psychic development. You must learn to
see and know the personalities you contact through ex
tended vision and hearing. From that stage forward the
student will be instructed psychically and told what to do
and how to bring about other kinds of phenomena. It
immediately becomes your individual job after you have
taken these first steps which are of such great importance.
Since we differ so greatly in physical and mental make
up, each one of us must work out his or her own means
of getting results which in each case may differ from
others.
In my own experience, for example, psychic seeing
and hearing came rather readily from the start. I had
four years of demonstrating this to hundreds of people
before I discovered the small, high piched voice, pre
viously mentioned, which began to speak near me.
It is an audible voice which gives intelligent informa
tion, as you can see and understand by reading of my
experiences with the late Hamlin Garland, Dean of
American Authors, whose book "The Mystery of the
Buried Crosses" relates all this in detail.
In the beginning it is wise to try to use your clairaudi-
ent and clairvoyant powers to help work out the prob
lems of others. Thus you can easily remain impersonal,
a consideration of greatest importance in this work. You
are so close to your own affairs that at first it may seem
difficult to separate the information which comes through
42
the extra-sensory channels from ordinary every day
thoughts.
Knowing as I do that this kind of information comes
to us from distinct personalities who have passed through
the change called death, I have certain knowledge as to
how these personalities contact me, what manner of lives
they live and why many things occur.
But this book is designed to help others develop to
the point where they themselves can and will see and hear
through this psychically extended ability. When that
occurs every one who becomes a student can form his own
opinions without preconceived ideas. / do not ask or ex
pect you to take my word for anything at all. Quite
the contrary — I insist that you do it yourself and then
formulate your own theories.
The only knowledge worth while is provable knowl
edge and that must be worked out by each individual for
himself. I have offered here the first basic steps, and it
is up to the reader to try them and formulate his own
opinion. Then I am sure he will find the door opened into
a new and miraculous world, a world in which the gain is
so great that it helps not only himself but also contributes
to the benefit of the Cosmic whole.
4S
Chapter V
SECURITY
It is but natural for each of us, trained as we are from
the day we are born, to consider physical needs as the
most important in our daily endeavors,
The word "security" is an important one. It means
in its common acceptance, enough to eat, enough to wear,
a place to live and a reserve in case of illness, old age or
emergency.
Through psychic interpretation we learn that security
comes with understanding and with the ability, in a large
measure, to influence potential future events, as has been
stressed emphatically in this little book.
The average person always visualizes food, shelter,
and enough things to make life comfortable and to satisfy
the desires and appetites, as being the basis of security.
The psychic student gets a far more comprehensive know
ledge of what the word really means.
He learns that things, as such, are not worth striving
for; that with understanding and information, derived
from the ability to tune in on the stream of intelligence,
the student learns how to live. By living in harmony with
this fuller knowledge and understanding, he automatic
ally attracts what is required to make life on this dimen
sion comfortable, harmonious and fully supplied with
45
every necessity. And, in learning all of this, he becomes
able to avoid illness and other distresses. How? By
prevention, by going harmoniously and constantly along
the right path, by avoiding mishaps, misadventures and
preventable mistakes. He also learns, when he begins to
analyze, to forget his physical personality. For the physi
cal is merely a vehicle for the spiritual, the real, under
standing, extra-sensory T€>W.
Therefore the student takes little if any notice of
physical reactions. •* the contrary he judges and con
cludes each problem as being based on the spiritual, the
psychic, the extra-sensory. His life then is on a higher
plane of understanding, a less painful one and one of
broader experience, and of full and complete supply
according to his needs and to this newer understanding.
All of these benefits are his although he is still living in
this phase of physical existence.
As a consequence, each one's part «f the plenty —
happiness, love, comfort, knowledge, health and all else
which goes to make up the better life, all created for
man's use and of which there is more than enough for
every person—becomes an active ingredient in the every
day living of every person whe learns how to live.
Shapter Tl
PHYSICAL HEALIN9 BY SPIRITUAL MEANS
Many of our human ills are based on mental upsets.
The great increase of psychiatric treatments prove that
these treatments are benefitting a constantly growing
number of people. Envy, greed, hate, anger and «ther
emotional disturbances wreak havoc on the physical sys
tem. W0rry and fear do more damage than all diseases
put tegf&fcr. They act like boomerangs, and not only do
they affect one mentally but physically as well. The effect
of thoughts on your physical body causes healthy as well
as sick reactions. Knowledge and right thinking can bring
to you only health, peace and happiness.
The b#dy obeys its mental commands. It responds to
thoughts of happiness, health and well being with an im
mediate uplift of spirit. It reacts with a springiness of
step and a harmonious desire to get into action. To the
contrary, thoughts of illness, hopelessness and unhappi-
ness induce a bleak outlook and such thought effects are
felt in the body as soon as they are formulated. Thoughts
of fear have been known to kill. Such thoughts cause
physical reactions that oftimes lead to death.
Had our forebearers understood how to think and to
apply that thinking properly to right living, we would all
be endowed with normal, healthy bodies and minds. The
47
foregoing is but a small array of what your own thinking
will do to you and for you. Right thinking will produce
right effects
—wrong thinking will bring about all of the
difficulties to which man is heir.
We owe it to ourselves and to every one with whom
we come in contact, to learn to think right — to analyze
whatever knowledge we withdraw from the stream of in-
teligence so as to make the best use of such knowledge to
assure that our bodies as well as our minds will be healthy
and happy. Thus can we hand down to our children
strong, healthy bodies and keen, intelligent, unhampered
thinking processes. Imagine such a general condition
existing and its effect on humanity at large.
Health, wealth and happiness—they are not three,
they are one. All are conceived in the overmind or
stream of intelligence and controlled by overmind
in action. This is truly a magic formula. Know how to
tap the stream of intelligence, how to put knowledge to
work correctly and you are at once benefitted in every
way.
Many diseases were bequeathed to us by our forebear-
ers who were ignorant of cause and effect. Put right think
ing into action and establish a cause now that will pro
duce good effects ever after.
Begin now to change the endless chain of events. It
lies within your power and understanding to do so—and
you can make the future better for yourself and for the
coming generations.
48
Two great wars which have come upon us within a
generation have caused us to become a nervous and high
strung people. Only by learning control through under
standing can we divest the future of recurring wars and
the ills that follow, and in this way greatly benefit our
selves and the universal whole.
Life is to each of us an ever forming pattern into
which we are constantly fitting the pieces together like a
puzzle. Therefore, it behooves us to learn to select pieces
which fit into their proper places, and to do so the very
first time without making mistakes and suffering because
of lack of understanding.
Begin now to sit quietly each day ; relax, detach, for
get self, learn through extra-sensory means just how
to do really productive thinking. Thus you will acquire
health, plenty and peace of mind.
Before you—the present reader—lies a new world to
explore—the psychic. What your exploration can bring
you is beyond description. What you actually do with
this great opportunity lies entirely within yourself. It is
up to you.
49
Part II
INTERMEDIATE LESSONS
Lesson I
There are three basic rules to remember and cling to
for successful psychic contact. They are: relaxation, de
tachment and vizualization.
Sit in a quiet, semi-dark room each day, at the same
time if you can. Make a regular appointment with your
self to sit, and keep that appointment. Choose a com
fortable chair where you can relax completely. Relax
from the top of your head to the soles of your feet. If
necessary, speak aloud to yourself by saying, "The top of
my head is now completely relaxed. My forehead is re
laxed, my eyes are relaxed," and so on down to the soles
of your feet. Sometimes audible suggestion helps to do
the job better. Practice relaxing until you can drop into
a chair and become comfortable and completely unaware
of your body. It may take weeks of practice to accom
plish complete relaxation, but it is immensely beneficial,
both for making psychic contacts and for general health.
You will soon find that it is conducive to achieving a state
of calm and rest.
In these days of speed, worry and nerve wracking ex
5i
pcricnccs, fifteen minutes of absolute physical and mental
relaxation and rest will do wonders for you.
Next, practice detachment. Forget self. Make your
mind a blank. Don't think. At first you'll find your
thoughts jumping from one thing to another and impos
sible to control. Do not be discouraged by this, and do
not concentrate. Detachment is the direct opposite of con
centration. It is not the focusing of your mind on one
specific thing in order to eliminate all others. Detach
ment is a state of blankness wherein you forget even your
self. Gazing into a crystal or a glass of water may help
you, as both of these objects are colorless.
Finally you will cease to be aware of the object you
are looking at, or the reason for your activity. You will
soon find yourself able to relax and to blank your
thoughts out at will. It is wise to try these experiments in
the day time when you are wide awake and your vitality
is high , otherwise this state of comfortable relaxation and
detachment may cause you to fall into sleep.
Having accomplished these two requirements means
that half of the battle is won.
The next step is psychic vizualization and hearing,
which are actually one. Being completely relaxed and
detached, you become like a hollow tube through which
the overmind or stream of intelligence flows. This stream
is a thought stream and you, being the receiving instru
ment, are impressed by these thoughts, which may ap
pear to take the form of sights or sounds. As an anology,
52
you arc a motion picture projector. The pictures, which
are thoughts in the overmind, are projected through you
and reflected or impressed upon the screen which is your
brain. Your brain picks them up and utilizes them. They
may run across the screen so swiftly that you see only
snatches, until you learn to receive slowly and to control
your intake. Such pictures seen, or conversations heard
are like visual or oral recollections. By this statement I
mean that such extended hearing and seeing are re
ceived by you in somewhat the same manner as recalling
some past episode. But you can and may receive through
your psychic faculties, information and data on subject
matter entirely new to you.
During this process of visualization you must remain
detached. The moment you begin to analyze or question,
you break the sequence or chain of thoughts which you
are viewing.
If while viewing a motion picture you stopped time
and time again to analyze or criticize you would lose
the story. Sit as you do while attending a motion picture
show and do your thinking and analyzing after it is over.
Try in this way to get information for others, prefer
ably strangers. Being able to tell other people specific
things, such as names, particular happenings or circum
stances which you couldn't possibly know will prove to
you that the incoming information is correct. Receiving
provable information about the future which no one
knows, will give you added confidence in your prophetic
53
ability. Forming a small group, of not more than ten
people who are interested in the development and sitting
at a regular time and place will speed up this develop
ment. In such a group you can practice on each other
and by keeping records you may check back on the valid
ity of the information so received.
Many psychics give messages in symbolic form. Learn
from the very beginning not to get your information
symbolically. It is quite true that you must express in
your own words what you see or hear, but if you see and
hear clearly, you can and will describe it accurately.
Always get specific information. If you see a man, des
cribe him ; get his name and any other positive identifica
tion or evidential data about him. Never color these
mental impressions with your own personal ideas. Give
the messages as they appear, quickly and without de
liberation or thought, no matter how silly they may seem
to be.
Here is a good exercise to practice with a group. Have
each sitter write a word, sentence or question, or draw a
picture on a sheet of paper. Fold these papers and
place a mark of identification on the outside of each.
Then exchange your paper for one prepared by some one
else in the class. Each person tries to read and receive an
answer to questions without opening the message written
within. This may seem like a feat of mind reading or
telepathy.
In a sense it
is,
yet you may receive answers to these
54
questions which will later prove true. Often you may
get accurate information unrelated to the sheet of paper
you hold. This so-called Psychometric reading makes
one adept at picking up mental impressions from others
in the room and it then becomes easier to reach out and
select what you desire from the stream of intelligence.
So, with practice and perseverance, you can gain
through relaxation, physical comfort and release from
nervous strain; you will soon learn through detachment
and visualization to attune yourself to receive knowledge
and information free from distortion and personal preju
dice. These first few steps are actually one. The develop
ment of clairvoyance (clear vision) and clairaudience
(clear hearing), open the door to the entire field of
psychic manifestations.
Be patient and persistent in your efforts. Do not ex
pect miracles to happen over night. Developing a singing
voice or learning any art or trade takes much time and
patience. Psychic development also takes time, work and
perseverance, but the reward is worth all of the effort.
You must develop clairvoyance and clairaudience as your
first step toward psychic power.
I am certain that much of the information and phen
omena I receive comes through intermediaries, those
personalities who exist in another space dimension or
function on a higher rate of frequency. It is apparent to
me that when these personalities pass into the next di
mension they carry with them all of their habits, faults
55
and ideas, which they retain until they learn to progress.
If a man was a liar here, he may still be a liar after death.
Death only gives him the choice to progress or to remain
as he is until he desires to change.
It is therefore a necessity to be sure that you see
psychically, the person with whom you are in contact,
and to know whether or not you can trust his or her
judgment in giving advice.
The time comes to every psychic student when he will
have developed his abilities to the point beyond contact
with intermediaries. Then he tunes directly into the
stream of intelligence. At that stage the student must be
able to trust his own judgment in selecting information.
Until that time comes, however, he must be sure of the
contacts he makes, and that those sources of information
are trustworthy.
All these ideas are my own. They are the result of
my own experience. As you progress and develop your
psychic abilities, you may arrive at entirely different
conclusions. I will at all times be greatly interested in
hearing of your progress and any new conclusions you
may reach.
56
Lesson II
This is a lesson of "don'ts." It is intended as a warning
that will save you from receiving false and misleading in
formation. It will teach you to expect and demand logical
answers to questions you may ask. This study is not to
be confused with superstitions, voodooism or black magic.
It is neither supernatural nor supernormal. It is in accord
with natural law. Each step accomplished is a formula
which, when repeated time and again, will obtain the
same result.
Being, in a sense, a radio instrument the results de
pend on your mechanism, which must be in proper con
dition for psychic reception. If you are nervous, upset
or ill do not expect good results. When you cannot relax
as you should you will receive either distorted informa
tion or none at all. There is at times a sort of fog or im-
pedence which seems to obstruct reception. This is un
doubtedly caused by a force or forces outside the physical
body over which we seem to have no control. Do not try
to force reception at such times.
As for religious beliefs, they are separate and apart
from this phenomena. No doubt you will form a new
philosophy or augment the one you already hold, through
information received. But do not allow yourself to at
tribute all happenings to the contacts you make.
If you become convinced, as I have, that you are in
57
touch with distinct personalities who have passed through
the change called death, accept from them any informa
tion they are willing to give you, but weigh and analyze it.
They are expressing personal opinions and although they
may and probably are further advanced than we, they
are not infallable. Their opinions may be relatively right
or wrong.
I have read many books and heard numerous people
say that they can not come in contact with persons long
gone because these persons have progressed to the fourth
or seventh or tenth plane, as the case may be, and are thus
unable to come back. Think how illogical such a state
ment is. Planes are not places ; they are planes of men
tal and spiritual development. A kindergarten student
is on a different mental plane than is a college graduate,
yet they may sit together in the same room and speak to
one another.
So it is after the change called death. Those who
have developed greatly beyond our capacities of under
standing can visit with us if they so desire, but they will
not discuss with us subjects that we lack the capacities to
understand. There are no words to describe the ex
periences they now have.
I constantly hear the expression, "That is some
thing we are not supposed to know". Do not believe that.
You will discover that we can and will learn everything
we are capable of understanding, As our knowledge in
creases, so our capability for more knowledge increases.
58
Being an active part of the whole of Creation, we must
and will learn eventually all there is to know. As you
progress you must decide for yourself, as I have done,
whether or not life and personality are continuous. If
through psychic development, you arrive at the same con
clusions that I have, you will also realize that there are no
barriers to learning except individual capacity. This is
like a series of gates which open for you when you are
ready to go ahead.
The whole of Creation is itself constantly progressing,
and we as part of it must progress with it. There can be
no final goal or peak of perfection. That would mean
stagnation and death. This, to me, seems the only logical
kind of reasoning and I am constantly enlarging my ca
pacity for knowledge and spiritual understanding through
it. You will do the same and with less confusion. You
will learn to accept psychic information which makes
sense, and discard the foolishness, the fears and the super
stitions.
We begin (as a student of Chemistry does) by per
forming certain experiments. After obtaining certain
results we are able to repeat these experiments time after
time and obtain the same results.
Do not believe that you must sit in a pitch dark room,
hold hands and keep your feet flat on the floor to ex
perience psychic phenomena. This might be a "must" for
some people and it is undoubtedly of benefit in some in
stances, but fine manifestations will and do occur in
59
brightly lighted rooms and without any preparation
or ceremony whatever. Where phenomena that requires
the use of the vapor like substance called teleplasm
occurs it seems necessary to sit in a dimly lighted room.
The teleplasm is exuded by sitters in a lighted room, but
because of its phosphorescent nature is not visible in full
light. However there have been records of full material
izations and levitation in full bright day light. These are
isolated cases and may depend on the physical structure
of the medium involved. But you may be so constructed.
My advice to the beginner is to try for this sort of
phenomena in a dimly lit room, using a tiny red or amber
bulb. Have just enough light to make visible the tele
plasm.
In sitting with a group, you may have to rearrange the
seating of the members to obtain desired results. Inas
much as some persons seem to have a sort of negative
effect in one place, try changing until the effect is differ
ent. You can experiment until you find the best seating
arrangement. It seems best, as a general rule, to alter
nate your male and female sitters.
After sufficient development you will forget self at any
time or place regardless of conditions and will tune in
with ease and success. You will become like a radio in
strument through which infinite intelligence flows.
In group sittings I advise you to sit comfortably
around a table with finger tips placed lightly on the table.
Complete silence is not required. Conversation in nor
60
mal voice range, without excitement and with students
remaining seated and relaxed, should be the means of
producing raps on the table and other types of manifesta
tions.
61
Lesson III
When you have developed clairvoyance and clair-
audience you wall no doubt become convinced that the
information you receive through this extra-sensory de
velopment comes from distinct personalities. The incom
ing information will sound as if a teacher were relaying it
to you. As I have said many times before, I am con
vinced that / constantly come in touch with non-physical
or discarnate personalities. Much of the information I
receive comes from a teacher who instructs me. Desire
to learn evidently attracts a teacher or instructor suited
to your needs and to your capabilities for learning.
Thought seems to be the communicating medium in
the next phase of life. So a thought or unspoken desire
for development constitutes a broadcast for a teacher.
These teachers will, first and foremost, help you to
develop extended vision and hearing. You must then
be sure of recognizing them clairvoyantly and by clair-
audience, hear their instructions and learn what is best
for you to do.
Each person, being differently assembled both men
tally and physically, must pursue an individual course
or method for development beyond the mental phase.
While there are many exceptional psychics who never
develop any of the physical phases of mediumship it is
63
my contention that, with proper instruction from teach
ers who have "passed over," almost everyone is a poten
tial physical medium. Many persons, of course, may not
be sufficiently advanced to be prepared for these phen
omena. We cannot teach geometry to a kindergarten
pupil.
I cannot say what requirements are necessary to make
possible these physical manifestations. It may be either
mental or physical or a combination of the two. It ap
pears however to be a physical thing which some people
have in greater degree than others. I have known cases
where people have tried for years to produce physical
phenomena and who were suddenly rewarded with suc
cess. Therefore I believe that a great many persons are
capable of bringing about these physical manifestations,
if they will carefully follow instructions given them.
Many persons try for trumpet phenomena. They
place a large tin or aluminum horn on the floor and wait
for it to be levitated and for voices to issue from it. The
horn or trumpet is merely an instrument for amplifica
tion and conservation of sound, since voices coming inde
pendently or issuing from no evident physical source are
easily diffused. Therefore, it is often necessary for an
instrument such as the trumpet to be used. In many
cases, however, the voices will be heard without such
instruments. Most people sit in darkened rooms for such
phenomena and cannot produce voices in the light. In
my own case the voices speak in the light and regardless
64
of time or place. In trying for such phenomena it is well
to have a small group, as each sitter seems to add power
to the phenomena. The group must, of course, be har
monious and, during any and all sittings remain relaxed
and detached.
One other important bit of advice is necessary. Do
not ask for one specific person and close the door to
others. The person to whom you wish to speak may not
wish or be able to speak, while others may be very eager
and help to enlighten you on many subjects. In other
words, open the door for any and all visitors who are of
good character. Demand only that those visiting speak the
truth as they know it and are of progressive natures. Act
as you would were you inviting ordinary visitors to your
home. You would naturally want intelligent, nice people
who would be truthful and respectable.
I believe that the failure of many persons to acquire
the physcial mediumship comes from the ideas they have.
Here again, they let superstition, religious beliefs and
foolish fancies enter. Some believe it necessary to sit in
a circle in complete darkness, hold hands, place feet flat
on the floor, or sing hymns. The only necessities are, as
I have repeated numerous times, that each sitter be
relaxed and absolutely comfortable, that there be mental
harmony among the group and that they all be desirous
of knowledge and progress.
You may try in a darkened room at first if you wish.
Sometimes the darkness helps one to relax and takes
65
one's mind off of objective things. If you are successful
in the dark, then try in the light. It is much more con
vincing to the skeptic to hear voices issuing from the air
in a lighted room.
There are other phases of physical phenomena and
the same power or conversion of teleplasmic material is
evidently used to produce all types of physical manifes
tations, so that if you are successful in receiving one type
you will most likely have the same success with others.
66
Lesson IV
Automatic writing is a very satisfactory means of
communication. Here again, as with all other phases,
we must first be completely relaxed and detached. Take
a pencil in hand and place it on paper just as if you were
going to write. Then wait for the pencil to be moved
without voluntary participation on your part. When I
do this I feel a contraction of the muscles in my arm,
followed by a quivering feeling. Then my hand seems
to be pushed or moved back and forth on the paper.
Absolute detachment is necessary, so that you do not
in any way influence the messages which are being
written.
It is wise to read a book while the writing is going
on, or engage in conversation with another person. In this
way you are not aware of what is being written, and
your own thoughts and ideas will not in any way enter
into what appears on the paper. In the beginning you
will probably receive nothing but lines, circles or
scratches. It takes time and practice before understand
able sentences appear. When you finally begin to write
legible material you will receive astonishing messages.
This, like all other psychic phenomena, depends on the
mental capacity of the individual who is the receiving
instrument. As I have explained before, we attract to
ourselves from the over mind the kinds of information
67
we are capable of absorbing. If we are only interested in
trivialities, we receive only trivial things.
It is a fact that like attracts like. Persons of low
mentality always have friends of like mentality. You will
receive first, what you can understand, and second, the
kind of information you are interested in and seek. Again
I repeat that my own experiences prove to me that these
psychic contacts bring me in touch with distinct person
alities in another phase of life. These personalities relay
to me information on my own level of intelligence, under
standing and desires. You will no doubt draw your own
conclusions about the pheonmena you receive, but you
will find that no matter what you believe concerning the
source of such phenomena, you will get only what you
are capable of absorbing.
As you continue to receive this information you will
find that your capacity for knowledge will expand, be
cause you will be instructed and logical explanations will
be forthcoming to solve problems, answer questions and
increase your wisdom. Being capable of tuning in to the
stream of knowledge or intelligence allows you to con
tinue your education. You are again going to school and
learning new and wonderful things. If you have not had
the advantage of a college education you now have the
opportunity and unlimited opportunities far beyond that.
As long as you desire to learn there is always something
ahead, and, learning in this way, you will be less apt to
get wrong information. Much of our school learning is
68
abstract in nature. Except for the exact sciences, where
experiments prove the rules, we gather a lot of informa
tion based on the opinions of men.
Assuming that our psychic information much of the
time is passed on to us from men in another phase of
life, we then have the same situation to contend with.
However, if we seek contacts with personalities who have
progressed greatly on their side of life, we are assured
of more accurate information than that received from
teachers here. Those on the other side who have gone
forward are surely capable of answering correctly any
of the questions we may or can propound. There is
always much that they, no matter how far forward they
have traveled, do not know or understand, because the
Cosmos is constantly evolving and new questions arising.
They , however, have long ago solved the simple prob
lems of our earthly existence and therefore are capable
of explaining methods to help us forward.
So far I have tried to explain the methods of several
types of contact and by one or more means you will
probably have opened the door to the University of Life.
Don't waste this wonderful opportunity to learn and
merely ask for trivial information. The small and simple
things are our own to solve. These little jobs must be
done by us to teach us the rudimentary steps.
We will never have any of our problems actually
worked out for us by those on the other side, but we will
receive knowledge which will teach us the simple and
69
best means for working out our own problems and avoid
ing mistakes. Try sitting each day, if you can, at the
same time. Experiment by giving some time to mental
and physical phenomena and you will, sooner or later,
make a contact. From then on nothing is impossible.
70
Lesson V
You will find that as you develop and progress with
your psychic work that you will become more and more
sensitive, both mentally and physically. You will become
keenly aware of thoughts and sensations. For instance,
you will feel the character of people more keenly. Some
of these sensations will not be pleasant ones. It is impor
tant that you learn to control these feelings so they will
not affect you adversely. In many instances you may
feel illness in others. If you fail to control these feelings
you will even suffer the pain of the ailments with which
they are afflicted. It is enough to see or sense the condi
tion and then, by mental control, shut out the actual
pain or discomfort. Learn at once to objectify all so called
messages you receive, whether they be mental or physical
ones. In this way you, in a sense, hold them off at arm's
length and see them clearly from every angle.
When you feel disgust or anger for people and you
can see and understand the reasons which make you
react as you do, anger and disgust will be replaced by
tolerance and pity. Your own judgment will tell you
whether or not you can then offer advice that will be
helpful.
Man, because of his lack of knowledge and training,
views life as through a keyhole. He, therefore, sees only
a very small portion of the actual picture. Being able to
71
•ce with greater perspective and at the same time elimi
nate personal feelings and judgments not only helps the
other fellow, but saves you from stirring up your own
emotions continuously.
As you begin to use your extended vision and hearing
you will notice that a new calmness develops within you.
The more often we make use of these faculties, the more
adept we become in helping others as well as ourselves.
The human brain seems to act as a kind of switch
board through which these psychic faculties operate.
Therefore one must allow them to enter without obstruct
ing the flow. After a complete picture or idea has entered,
then and only then must you analyze or judge.
In psychic work thought alone seems sufficient when
one is asking a question. The answers to thought ques
tions may be received by raps, audible voice, writing,
mental impression or in many other ways. Again I repeat
that my experiences have convinced me that life is con
tinuous and that usually the answers to questions come
from persons who exist in another phase of life. Therefore
when you become convinced of the same thing, you must
guard against misinformation by knowing who gives the
information and how trustworthy the sender may be.
By keeping your thoughts and desires on a high plane
of intelligence, you will receive information of like intel
ligence. You may speak your ideas and questions audibly
if you find that the best means of expression, but by
merely thinking you will receive replies.
72
Each and every manifestation or phenomena is made
possible by and through the instrumentation of the
psychic who is the receiver. In group sittings, each per
son contributes to the so called power necessary for the
production of phenomena. When you obtain satisfactory
results you may then feel confident that any or all types
of phenomena may be forthcoming through patience and
perseverance.
Independent writing is a phase of physical medium-
ship which you may develop. Place a slate with a small
piece of slate pencil or chalk on the face of it upon a
table. Cover the slate with a piece of dark cloth to shut
out all light and proceed to forget it. Here again detach
ment or lack of concentration upon the results seems to
bring success. Try it over and over and undoubtedly you
will find writing upon the slate when you finally achieve
the state of mind which seems to produce results. A pad
of paper with a small piece of lead upon it will, in some
cases, answer the same purpose as a slate does.
This phase, which is called independent writing,
differs from automatic writing inasmuch as the chalk or
pencil is moved about independent of any physical power,
instead of being held by a person desiring information.
This provides a satisfactory means of communication and
is entirely uninfluenced by the receiver, coming as it does
without any apparent physical assistance.
73
Lesson VI
Inasmuch as I have experienced all the sensations
and effects I have so far mentioned, I am giving you
the benefit of these experiences by describing my own
methods of obtaining these results. Again I repeat that
my methods will work with others up to a certain point.
From there on you may have to devise means of your
own to obtain further results. The extent of success you
obtain through my instructions depend upon you as an
individual. Because of both physical and psychological
differences, individuals may and will receive various
results by practicing the identical method.
Lack of inhibitions makes the production of psychic
phenomena more easy and simple. Persons, noises, places
may have an adverse effect upon you, and this you will
have to overcome by the elimination of self. The produc
tion of independent voices differs very little from other
manifestations. My knowledge concerning this or any of
the other phases of phenomena was meager when my
development began. After seeing a few demonstrations
of various kinds, and reading what books I could get
from the Public Library, I decided to prove to myself
whether or not psychic communication was a fact. If
others could produce these phenomena I was sure I also
could develop whatever it took to do likewise.
For four years I sat quietly each day learning the
75
art of relaxation and complete detachment. During those
years I advanced my knowledge through information
received by raps, automatic writing, clairvoyance and
clairaudience. At times when my family and friends
took part in sittings, partial materialization also appeared.
After four years of these extraordinarily interesting ex
periences we suddenly began to hear a squeaky high
sound in our home. We looked about to see if it came
from steam radiators or loose boards. Finally we became
aware of the fact that the noise sounded like words being
spoken. With no apparent effort on my part the voice
eventually became clear and understandable, although
it has always remained toneless and very high pitched.
Through experiences such as I have related it seems
apparent to me that the only qualifications absolutely
necessary for development and progress along these lines
are sincere desire and patience. As you become capable
and as your capacity enlarges, one phase follows another
in sequence. In using the word capacity I mean a kind
of growth which takes place in an involuntary manner.
One becomes physically capable, in some unknown way,
of producing unusual phenomena; simultaneously one
achieves understanding of the processes at work which
he may not (because of lack of words) be able to explain.
There is a sense of tolerance for others, a feeling of
peace within that can be received in no other way.
You cannot and must not decide for yourself what
76
manner of psychic phenomena you will develop. Of
course, each of us may desire to excell in one or another
field of production, but each must accept that for which
he is best suited. It
is,
I
repeat, involuntary growth. We
can, however, through mental and physcial co-operation,
help whom or whatever
it
is
that stimulates this growth.
By allowing unobstructed inflow of the stream of intel
ligence, and by heeding its advice as to physical co-oper
ation, we develop to the best of our capabilities.
You will eventually discover the best means to employ
for bringing about certain manifestations. Lying down in
a
darkened room may bring desired results.
It
remains
for you to discover the most effective means of co-opera
tion to get results. You may be
a
potentially fine voice
medium, of which there seem to be few.
I
am of the
opinion that many of us possess the ability to produce
independent voice and with persistance of purpose, will
succeed in obtaining it.
At first the voice may be weak and difficult to under
stand, but by experimentation you may save time in
improving it. My own lack of knowledge in the begin
ning of my development made the process long and
tedious. Because of the thin, reedy quality of the voice
I
somehow produce,
it
was necessary, and still
is
at times,
to use amplification to increase the sound. At first
a
trumpet or tin horn was used as
a
hearing aid. By placing
the small end in the ear for listening,
it
conserved and
77
amplified the sound. Later, in my work with Hamlin
Garland, we used an electric amplifier.
You may be fortunate, because of physical make-up,
in producing a loud voice with the sufficient tonal quality
that makes for easy understanding. Some groups with
whom I have come in contact feel that they get better
results by sitting in circular formation, holding hands
and keeping their feet flat on the floor. They believe that
this produces a kind of battery which adds strength to
the phenomena. In my own case it makes no apparent
difference how we sit, whether there be darkness or light
or whether there be two or ten persons present. When
poor reception follows, it is because of lack of relaxation
by one or more of the group, or because of inharmony
among the sitters. Sometimes, of course, there seem to be
conditions beyond our control or understanding which
make for poor reception or, none at all.
You cannot select the kind of phenomena you desire,
but you can open or close the door to personalities who
wish to enter and speak to you. You are the host inviting
guests to your own home. Be sure to ask for names and
identifications of those who enter; and better still,
through clairvoyance, see those who speak to you. Accept
any information they offer for what it is worth. If a
man was untrustworthy while in the physical body he
may not have progressed sufficiently since passing over
to be trusted. Use your judgment in psychic work exactly
as you do in all other affairs. Do not accept statements
78
that sound illogical. Ask for detailed explanations and
satisfy yourself as to their authenticity. In this work you
are dealing with normal phenomena. It is neither super
natural nor supernormal. If it seems to be either, it is
simply because we do not understand. The radio seems
supernatural to a savage.
You may become bored with my constant repetition
of relaxation and detachment, but I hope to make it
most important to you because these states of being bring
desired results. During such states you must also have
visual and hearing expectancy. You will see and i hear i
psychically because clairvoyance and clairaudience can
be developed by any mentally normal person.
If you are successful in receiving independent voice,
you as well as all others within hearing range will be
aware of it. When these voices become clearly audible
you can carry on regular conversations, ask questions
and receive intelligent answers. I have heard these voices
speaking many different languages, and contrary to
much public opinion, worthwhile information on all sub
jects has been forthcoming. This, of course, depends en
tirely on the contacts one makes. Use caution in making
these contacts, use judgment in accepting information
received and your efforts will be rewarded.
79
Lesson VII
There are numerous phenomena which occur during
trance. The subject may be the medium through which
materialization may take place. There may be manifested
the phenomena of transportation, apport, independent
writing, voice, finger prints on wax, or any other physical
phenomena, depending entirely on the medium's capacity
for production.
From personal observation I believe trance to be a
state similar to hypnosis and probably induced in its
initial state by the subject himself. After lulling himself
into a superficial state of sleep, the subject then seems
to be taken under control by outside influence and invol
untarily produces results of one kind or another. The
trance state may be induced in many ways. Either lie
down or sit in a comfortable position so that you are
completely unaware of your body. Stop your thoughts
from flitting to different subjects. / realize that this is a
big order, but it can and must be done. You will relax
your body and become totally unconscious of it quite
easily, but quieting the mind is the difficult thing to do.
Nevertheless it can be done. If necessary at first, concen
trate on a color or think of a calm body of water. When
we go to sleep each night we do exactly this. Very often,
before sleep comes, we go over events of the day or plan
for tomorrow and we think so much that we finally
81
exhaust ourselves and sleep finally comes. Nevertheless,
at the final moment when sleep overtakes us our minds
become blank. When inducing trance one must not allow
his or her mind to be at all active, but still and passive.
Never analyze your feelings or the reactions caused
by the inducing of trance. Your pulse beat will probably
increase, your breathing may become rapid, and because
of these unusual feelings, fear may result. The normal
feeling is to cling to consciousness, but if one forgets self,
the sensation is one of falling into natural sleep, and one
will awaken as from natural sleep. You may even set a
time for awakening by merely thinking or stating aloud
the exact moment you wish to awaken.
If, during your previous experiments and experiences,
you have convinced yourself that these phenomena are
in some manner controlled by personalities on the "other
side," you must then be certain that while in trance you
are under the guidance of someone on whom you can
rely. Just as in hypnosis, the operator must not only be
trustworthy but intelligent as well, because practically
the same conditions exist and you as the subject must
not act unwisely. Although one will never do anything
which is contrary to his or her moral judgment while
in the hypnotic state, he or she may, under control, act
foolishly.
Trance has a very important place in psychic work.
The subject can not influence nor color any information,
which may be forthcoming, by his or her own thoughts
82
or ideas. One becomes a clear channel like a telephone
through which unadulterated information comes.
Through clairvoyance and clairaudience the medium
expresses information received, in his or her own way,
and often interprets such information incorrectly. In
trance the words expressed are those of the sender, not
the receiver.
Practically the same conditions exist during trance,
when physical manifestations take place. The subject is
completely relaxed so that his or her physical body can
lend whatever assistance is necessary to make production
successful. Judge how important it is to place yourselves
in the hands of competent operators who can be trusted
completely.
Before experimenting with trance you will have had
sufficient experience to enable you to judge the source of
your information as to its veracity. After lying down or
seating yourself in a very comfortable position and empty
ing the mind of all active thought you then are begin
ning to induce trance, and you will finally be taken over
by your unseen control. In some cases soft rhythmic music
or the ticking of a clock helps induce sleep. If these
methods fail, try gazing at a small ray of light, which can
be produced by painting a light bulb black except for a
spot about the size of a dime, through which the light
may shine.
Each and every person will find his or her own best
method for achieving the trance state. I find that seating
83
myself in a comfortable chair in a dark or semi-dark,
quiet room and covering my eyes to keep from having
visual distraction, I can best reach the subjective state
I am seeking.
When a subject reaches the sleep state he will usually
speak, answer questions asked him by witnesses, or he
may move about and act according to the direction of
his unseen control. In some cases he may remain abso
lutely quiet during the entire period of trance, but upon
awakening will relate experiences or conversations Which
took place during his so called absence from the physical
plane.
It is unwise to attempt to induce trance when you are
overtired or sleepy, for the result will probably be just
ordinary sleep. The most important thing
is,
I
repeat,
certainty that the unseen operator
is
trustworthy and
truthful. Trance
is
a fine phase, through which one can
and will receive accurate and valuable information.
84
Lesson VIII
Although materialization is a rare phase of psychic
phenomena, it is my belief that any physical medium is
capable of producing it. All physical manifestations re
quire the use of teleplasm to make possible their produc
tion and if a person can produce this substance to enable
a pencil or table to move, then with practice he can also
cause to appear materialized or etherialized forms. This
teleplasmic substance oozes from the body of the medium
and forms itself into various shapes. Apparently some
people possess a sufficient physical power to exude either
more of this teleplasm or a highly condensed type of it.
It
is,
in some manner, used like cloth to spin garments
for the visiting personalities. Where the material
is
less
dense, the garment
is
thin and wispy. This manifestation
is
usually referred to as etherialization. The more opaque
form
is
called materialization.
Most materialization mediums are in trance during
this phenomenon but in the annals of psychic research
there are mentioned
a
few who produced such manifesta
tions while awake and some even caused forms to appear
in brightly lighted rooms, or in daylight.
I
myself wit
nessed such
a
demonstration in bright sunlight. The
medium was
a
man named William Hart, who has since
passed away.
I
apparently possess
a
thin type of teleplasm which
85
produces ethereal like forms, and that perhaps is the
reason for the high reedy quality of the independent
voice which is heard around me. Masks form over my
face and occasionally the teleplasm will cover my entire
body.
The material is a sort of vapory substance with a
phosphorescent glow, which diffuses easily. It
is,
there
fore, wise to construct
a
small cabinet in which the instru
ment may be seated, and this enclosure will help concen
trate the material so that
it
can shape itself more readily.
The room should be dark except for
a
tiny red or amber
light high up near the ceiling where the direct rays will
not interfere with the phenomena. Light rays seem to
have
a
bad effect when shining directly on the teleplasm.
Leave
a
small slit or opening in the front of the cabinet
so that the material can come through.
There are definite physical sensations which accom
pany this form of phenomenon. Usually
a
cold breeze
is
felt near by and a feeling as
of
a spider web forming
over one's face, neck and arms. Breathing will become
rapid and then slow down considerably. A kind of hol-
lowness may be felt in the stomach or diaphragm. It
is
quite natural when these sensations take place that you
will begin to analyze them, but after they occur
a
few
times you will pay no attention at all to them.
This, like all other manifestations, necessitates
a
state
of
unconcern. The moment one begins to analyze the
process the production stops. Detachment seems abso
86
lutely necessary for any and all phenomena and the most
successful demonstration I have given was when I was
unconscious of what was taking place. While sitting for
some other type of demonstration, or just talking with
people, the etherializations have taken place. This has
happened without the aid of a cabinet but always in a
dimly lit room.
As the teleplasmic substance is exuded from the body
of the medium it depletes the system while in use. It is
therefore necessary to allow this substance to be re-ab
sorbed by the body when the demonstration is over. As
I have said, light rays have a dissolving effect upon the
material, so bright lights should not be turned on until
the subject is sure that he or she feels normal again.
You may feel discouraged because materialization is
not forthcoming for some time, but apparently it is a
most difficult type of demonstration to produce and may
take a long time. However, like all work of this kind, it
requires patience and perseverance. If you have the quali
fications for producing any type of physical phenomena,
you may be sure that with time and patience you can
and will produce all types.
At first there may be just tiny spots or wisps of this
phosphorous-like substance around you, but eventu
ally you will produce faces or full figures. When full
forms finally appear they will be animated by the per
sonalities they clothe and voices will issue from them.
This same teleplasmic substance which clothes the visitor
87
also produces some sort of voice box so that speech is
possible.
From observation and information received via
psychic channels I have concluded that everything in
the Cosmos has form and substance, much of which we
cannot sense because of our physical and mental limita
tions. These visiting personalities or so called spirits have
form and substance which we cannot see with the physical
eye. They therefore borrow from us, enough physical
substance or material to clothe themselves, so that we
may see, hear and recognize them. It becomes evident
while watching materialization that teleplasmic material
is being molded into different forms, much as a sculptor
molds clay figures. In such manifestations as levitation or
independent writing, small quantities of teleplasm are
exuded by the psychic instrument, just sufficient to pro
duce rods or bars for manipulation. But the phenomenon
of materialization requires a large quantity of the sub
stance and therefore depletes the body of the medium
during the demonstration. Special , care is therefore re
quired, so that the body of the psychic may re-absorb
this teleplasm. This phase of psychic phenomena
is,
ac
cording to books on the subject, extremely rare, but
it
is
also in my opinion one of the most satisfying and con
vincing.
I
shall be exceedingly interested in hearing from
readers that they have experienced such phenomena, and
I
hope that my suggestions will help to bring them about.
88
Lesson IX
The trance state is conducive to production of ex
tremely interesting phenomena for the observers, but may
also bring like results to the subject. While the observers
look on, the subject himself may actually leave the physi
cal body and travel in so called space and time. This is
called astral travel. During the period of trance, while
the body of the medium sits, or lies quietly asleep, and
the teleplasmic substance of the instrument is being
utilized to produce some physical type of phenomenon,
the ego or actual self of the medium may travel, see
other places, visit some one at a distance who will be
quite unaware of his or her presence, and even visit and
talk with those who have ostensibly died. One may travel
to a distant place, enter the home of a friend, note the
exact time by clock, describe the room and other details,
and afterwards verify each detail of the trip.
In contrast to our movements while awake, this travel
is effortless. For instance I might desire to go from Chi
cago to New York while in trance. I seem to be there
instantly, without the sensation of having traveled at
all. It is thought travel and yet one actually goes, sees
things he has never seen before and can later give
accurate descriptions of the places he visits. Thoughts
are definite things and we must learn to objectify our
thoughts by putting them into action. We do this when
89
we desire to perform astral travel. Before going into
trance we plan a trip we wish to make, and then set about
making it without any physical activity whatsoever.
We travel much as we do when watching a motion
picture travelogue. As a spectator, we actually travel,
see strange lands and people and become one with the
picture. It is possible that in astral travel we bring
scenes, conversations and events to us rather than go
to them. Whatever your explanation may be, these ex
periences are unusually interesting, as well as conducive
to investigation. In the eternal here and now we can,
with understanding, impinge upon that which we desire.
Living as we do on a physical plane of existence, we
must first desire, then plan, and then through physical
action bring these thoughts and plans into being. Our
limited sense of logic tells us that it is impossible to
achieve results by thought alone. Yet such things can
be accomplished, and through knowledge, the operating
principle becomes clear and logical. The thing which
hampers us most is that we cannot think of ourselves
apart from our physical bodies, but in a state of trance
we are oblivious of the physical part of us, and the ego
or self, being unobstructed, acts with freedom.
Before entering a state of trance decide definitely
what your desires are for astral travel. Do not leave your
destination or activity to chance, but plan in advance;
decide what you wish to do or where you desire to go.
If you were about to take a pleasure or business trip, you
90
would sit down and plan an itinerary. You wouldn't
buy a straight ticket to San Francisco if you wished to
visit New York. First make your plans for an astral trip,
then sit or lie down in a most comfortable position, loosen
your clothing and induce a state of trance. Any pressure
on the body makes one aware of the "physical you,"
which you must forget completely. Do not fall into
natural sleep. You will know the difference by the new
sensation. In astral travel you will find that you are
acting in a dual way as both hypnotist and subject. You
induce trance and, by planning beforehand, control your
activities while in trance.
It is apparently a phenomenon brought about by auto
suggestion in which you are at one and the same time
asleep yet awake and traveling. Direct yourself with
caution and understanding. Don't set out on useless or
foolish missions, but accomplish something. Gain
knowledge on each expedition.
91
Lesson X
Spiritual healing is accomplished in various ways.
There are healers who claim to heal by the laying on
of hands, the mumbling of magic words or by uttering
prayers. Having had little or no contact with these people,
I am in no position to judge them. To dispute all such
claims would be simple ignorance on my part, for many
cases of so called miraculous cures have been observed
and recorded by men of integrity. Knowing, as I do,
that nature includes within itself the solutions to all
problems, I assume that the answers to physical as well
as mental healing questions are certainly included. Hav
ing seen teleplasm exuded and then re-absorbed involun
tarily by the body, I know that other substances can like
wise be introduced. Probably certain basic substances to
supply body deficiencies can and are supplied if and
when we know how to acquire them.
Having witnessed many amazing recoveries and heal
ings in which no prayers were offered up, nor was the
patient subjected to manipulation, or any other kind of
physical contact, I know that so called spiritual healings
are a fact. Undoubtedly great physicians, having "passed
over," continue to learn more and more about healing.
Certainly they can and do minister to us if we allow them
to do so. In our limited states of development here, none
of us has sufficient knowledge and understanding to see
93
and know much about anything in particular. Health
as well as peace of mind and ample provision is a matter
of knowledge ; knowledge of how to live in accordance
with nature's laws. Unfortunately, many of us are heirs
to the weaknesses of our predecessors and, knowing
little more than they did, we pass these weaknesses down
to the next generation.
Knowledge and understanding comprise the only
solution and this may lie in the hands of healers or skilled
medical men. We cannot deny the fact that medical
science has made us a healthier race and has extended the
life span of man considerably. But, at the same time,
we must admit that remarkable healings take place by
spiritual means alone. I accept with much gratitude the
aid and advice offered me through those personalities
who have left the physical plane and whose vision and
understanding surpass ours.
They have, on numerous occasions, diagnosed illnesses
and these diagnoses were corroborated by physicians.
They have advised specific treatments and remedies
which the physicians also prescribed. I have seen patients
recover after medical science had given up all hope and
those from "the other side" said, "We will help." This,
like much else I have told you, will mean little until you
have had like experiences. All I say is: "Prove it for
yourselves."
As I near the end of this little book let me state that
the knowledge I have gained through psychic contacts
94
has brought me untold happiness and contentment. I
have learned to live with myself and understand others.
I have formulated my own philosophy and religion which
is based on reason and logic. The more I learn the more
I realize how little I know, and the more grateful I am
for having the doorway of knowledge open to me.
I am certain that among my readers there are many
who will find the key to this doorway and enter a new
and wonderful world of peace, progress and plenty. I
shall at all times be extremely interested in your develop
ment and progress, and shall always be willing to offer
any suggestions or help I can. It is certain that with such
understanding we can and will help build a better world
for coming generations.
END.
95
SUGGESTED READING
DEATH AND ITS MYSTERY Camille Flammarion
PHANTOM WALLS . . . Sir Oliver Lodge
SURVIVAL OF MAN .... Sir Oliver Lodge
WHY I BELIEVE IN PERSONAL
IMMORTALITY . ... Sir Oliver Lodge
PATIENCE WORTH . •
. . Casper S. Yost
CLAIRVOYANCE AND MATERIALIZATION . Gustave Geley
FORTY YEARS OF PSYCHIC RESEARCH . Hamlin Garland
MYSTERY OF THE BURIED CROSSES . Hamlin Garland
OUR UNSEEN GUEST . . . Stewart Edward White
UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE Stewart Edward White
THE ROAD I KNOW i . Stewart Edward White
96
