{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V25 1911","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v25_1911.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V25 1911","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXV
(CONTAINING PARTS LXII, LXIII, LXIV, AND APPENDIX)
191 I
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
191
1
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Maryleeone, W
GLASGOW: JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vinxent Street
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-28 Trehont Street, Boston, Mass
All rights reserved
CONTENTS
PAET LXII.
March, 1911.
PAOE
I. Commemorative Address : William James and Frank Podmore.
By H. Arthur Smith, - 1
II. Frank Podmore and Psychical Besearch. By Mrs. Henry
SlDGWICK, - - 5
III. In Memory of William James. By W. M'Dougall, 11
IV. William James as Philosopher. By Professor J. H. Muirhead, 30
V. Professor Pigou on Cross-Correspondences. By the Bight Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, - - - 38
VI. Report on a Further Series of Sittings with Eusapia Palladino
at Naples :
I. General Report. By the Hon. Everard Feilding
and W. Marriott, 57
II. Statement by Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, 59
III. Detailed Account of the Table-lifting Incident, - 63
IV. Comments on the Above. By Alice Johnson, - 67
V. Note on the Report. By W. W. Baggally, - - 69
Supplement :
Reviews
:
Mr. F. Podmore's " The Newer Spiritualism." By the Rev.
M. A. Bayfield, 70
Open Letter to Dr. Stanley Hall. From Andrew Lang, -
90
Dr. Tanner's "Studies in Spiritism." By Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, -
102
"The One-Horse Dawn": Additional Note on an Experiment
described in Proc. Vol. XX. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, - 109
PART LXIII.
June, 1911.
I. Evidence of Classical Scholarship and of Cross-Correspondence
in some New Automatic Writings. By Sir Oliver Lodge :
Introduction, - - ------ 113
Part I. Concerning the Script of February 4, 1910, - - 120
Part II. Concerning the Script of February 10, 1910, - -
147
140853
... ...
iv Qovle^ls:.
II. Notes on Mrs. Wiile.tt's Scripts of February, 1910. By Mrs.
A. W. Verrall, - - 176
I. History of the Period from March, 1908, to March, 1910, 177
II. Sources and Correspondences of Phrases in Mrs. Willett's
Script, - - - 190
III. Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. By Alice Johnson :
Introduction, - - - 218
Cross-Correspondences, - - 229
The Principle of Selection in the Production of Scripts, - 282
Appendices, - - 293
IV. Note on the Cross-Correspondence "Cup." By Mrs. A. W.
Verrall, ---------- 304
V. Miss Verrall's Script of March 16, 1908 : a Correction and
an Addition. By Mrs. A. W. Verhall, - - - 320
VI. The Hypnoidal State of Sidis. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D., - 338
Supplement :
Reviews:
"An Adventure," - - 353
Professor Robinson Ellis's " The Tenth Declamation of
(Pseudo-) Qnintilian." By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, - - 361
PART LXIV
August, 1911.
General Meetings, - ... - . 363
[. Presidential Address. By Andrew Lang, - 364
II. Poltergeists, Old and New. By Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., 377
III. Les Phenomenes Physiques de Spiritisme : Quelques Difficultes.
Par le Comte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, - 413
IV. On the a priori Argument against Physical Phenomena. By
Sir Oliver Lodge, - - 447
V. A Case of Emergence of a Latent Memory under Hypnosis. By
G. Lowes Dickinson, - ... 455
Supplement :
Review :
Professor Flournoy's " Esprits et Mediums." By the Rev.
M. A. Bayfield, - 468
APPENDIX TO PART LNIV
December, 1911.
Officers and Council for 1911, - - 477
List of Members and Associates, - 478
Index to Vol. XXV, - .... 520
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXII.
March, 1911.
I.
COMMEMOBATIVE ADDBESS :
1
WILLIAM JAMES AND FEANK PODMOEE.
By H. ARTHUR SMITH.
A few days ago I took from my bookshelves, not for a first
or second perusal, that delightful little volume from the pen
of Frederic Myers, which has appeared since his death, entitled
Fragments of Prose and Poetry, a work which is doubtless
known to many of you. It recalled to my memory many
illustrious names of those now gone from us, who in the past
countenanced and encouraged us in our researches. I need
not speak of the well known names of those who have pre-
ceded me in this chair or have otherwise been closely associated
with us, such as Henry Sidgwick, Balfour Stewart, Edmund
Gurney, and Dr. Hodgson. But I dare say that there are
many of our more recent adherents who are not aware that
1
This Address and the two papers that follow were read at the Private
Meeting of the Society on November 8th, 1910.
2 H. Arthur Smith. [part
our roll of membership has included such notabilities (only
to name a few) as Lord Tennyson, Euskin, Professor Adams,
Robert Louis Stevenson, Dr. Goodwin (the late Bishop of
Carlisle), Richard Holt Hutton, Lord Leighton, G. F. Watts,
Professor Lombroso, and Mr. Gladstone.
My thoughts have been drawn in this direction by the
fact that, since last we met, our Society has suffered a double
bereavement, and two other names of distinction have to be
added to the honourable list of past supporters. It will have
caused no surprise, therefore, to any of you that this meeting
should take the form which has been announced of a Memorial.
Our Society and the cause of Psychical Research generally
have suffered incalculable loss by the passing away within
a few days of each other of Professor William James and
Prank Podmore, names which have been closely connected
with our work since its commencement, and will surely always
be remembered in the same connexion as long as this work
continues. This being so, it will, I think be recognised by
all as obviously appropriate that we should devote our after-
noon to a commemoration of services so long continued and
of such inestimable value.
The Society is fortunate that the task has been undertaken
by such competent judges as Mrs. Sidgwick and Mr. M'Dougall,
neither of whom needs any introduction by me. Under these
circumstances I may confine myself to a few brief comments
by way of introduction to the subject, one on which, as your
President for the time being, I should certainly not like to
be silent.
As you all know, Professor James was one of the most
distinguished of our Presidents, and for many years devoted
much of his strenuous life to the inquiries with which we
are concerned. Of his general work in the field of philosophy
I feel that I am not competent to speak to any purpose.
Justice can only be done to a thinker so original and so
profound by one who has pursued the study of psychology
much more closely than I have been able to do ; and this
advantage we have this afternoon. As President, however, I
wish at this, the very first opportunity, to acknowledge the
immense service he rendered to our Society in its early days
by so intimately associating his great name with our researches.
LXII.] Gommemorative Address. 3
I have seen it somewhere stated that whereas his brother
Henry James has written fiction in the spirit of a philosopher,
William James wrote philosophy with all the grace of a
novelist. We have been fortunate indeed in having had for
so many years the countenance and co-operation of a genius
which may perhaps without exaggeration be described as unique.
Mr. Podinore was personally known by most of us. Of
the tragic circumstances of his sudden, and as it would seem,
untimely death, I need not speak. As a young man, fresh
from a brilliant academic career at Oxford, he identified
himself with our work, and he was, I think, for more than
twenty-five years a member of our Council. His co-operation
with Gurney and Myers in the production of The Phantasms
of the Living is alone sufficient evidence of the value of
his services, and it is evidence also that he had a far more
open mind in regard to many of our inquiries than some
have supposed. To the last (his most recent publication has
appeared since his death) Mr. Podmore devoted his exceptional
gifts, scientific and literary, to the consideration of the various
matters which from time to time have attracted our attention.
His general attitude towards them is well known to all our
readers and need scarcely be enlarged upon. Podmore was
essentially a critic, in his later years a sceptical critic if you
will, and as such must have been prepared to face the
disapproval of those whose enthusiasm yearns, impatiently
perhaps, for definite affirmative answers to the questions
which present themselves. It is easy to understand and in
some degree to sympathise with the impatience which has
sometimes found expression in our meetings at what some
have regarded as the excessive caution or even timidity of
the critic. But on the other hand, having regard to the
novelty and the in many respects peculiar character of our
investigations, I cannot but feel and acknowledge our in-
debtedness to one who has so often effectively reminded us
of the desirability, nay even of the necessity, of making
haste slowly. I think I may say with truth and confidence
that one of the chief characteristics which has distinguished
our Society's reports from the conclusions so hastily expressed
by less cautious inquirers, has been our willingness to give
due weight to any and every objection and criticism, to
4 H. Arthur Smith. [part
consider with candour and fairness any and every suggested
explanation of the phenomena before us, however disappointing
to more impressionable seekers. In this respect I venture to
think that Mr. Podmore's attitude has been of high value
and deserves a full acknowledgment from those who are left
to carry on the work which so long and so continuously
occupied his thoughts. Such tribute, I think, is his due and
will be cordially and sympathetically accorded.
We are indeed inestimably poorer if we have lost the
services of two workers so qualified and so indefatigable as
James and Podmore. But have we lost them ? I think that
one of the results of our researches has been to make many
of us less ready than once we were to apply to the departed
the despairing words of George Eliot, to speak of their lives as
" Gathered like a scroll within the tomb,
Unread for ever."
We are rather encouraged to apply other familiar words of
the same writer, albeit in very different sense from that in
which she used them
:
" Oh may I join the choir invisible
Of those immortal dead who live again."
Have we then lost their services ? We shall see.
lxii.] Frank Poclmore and Psychical Research. 5
II.
FRANK PODMORE AND PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
By MRS. HENRY SIDGWICK.
By the death of Mr. Frank Poclmore on August 14th, 1901,
at the age of fifty-four and in the midst of vigorous work, the
Society for Psychical Research has lost another of its earliest and
best workers. Mr. Poclmore was almost, though not quite, an
original member of the Society ; he was elected to its Council
in the first year, and served on it for an unbroken period of
twenty-seven years. He also, after the death of Mr. Gurney
in 1888, held, jointly with Mr. Myers, the office of Honorary
Secretary of the Society for some eight or nine years. Merely
on the administrative side, therefore, he did much for the
Society. But he was also from the beginning active in
investigation, and as previous experience, scientific training,
and critical ability combined with patience and industry to
make him a valuable worker, it was natural that he should be
found on more than one of the early investigating committees.
His experience as a psychical researcher began when he
was an undergraduate at Oxford. He had entered the Uni-
versity with a classical scholarship, and while there obtained
a first-class in Science, so that he must have been an under-
graduate of some distinction. Those were days when interest
in the phenomena of spiritualism had been greatly roused by
Sir William Crookes's investigations and by Mr. Alfred Russel
Wallace's adhesion to the cause. The fame of the medium
D. D. Home, who had only retired two or three years before,
was wide spread, and to those who were admitted behind his
() Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
anonymity the experiences of Mr. W. Stainton Moses were
very impressive. With the impetuosity of youth Mr. Pod more
seems to have become convinced rather rapidly of the genuine-
ness of the alleged facts and of the truth of the doctrines
of modern spiritualism. In 1875 and 1876 he was a con-
tributor to a considerable extent to the spiritualistic magazine,
Human Nature, and showed already the agreeable ease of
style and power of clear exposition which characterise his
later works. In 1876 we find an account by him of a
seance he had with Slade, the once famous slate-writing
medium. It was a very ordinary seance apparently, but in an
address to the National Association of Spiritualists in 1880
he says of this seance that he remembers writing on the day
following that it had finally solved his doubts as to the
truth of spiritualism. This tendency impulsively to accept
evidence on the positive side—to welcome it at first sight as
convincing—never left him, I think. It was on second
thoughts that doubts came in.
Whether any special cause led him in early days to the
more sceptical attitude I do not know. It may have been
due to the discovery of fraud where he had suspected
none, or it may have been merely a reaction from too
facile belief that came with larger views. Probably both
causes co-operated. It at any rate seems likely that the
knowledge that he had at one time been too easily con-
vinced developed in him the very cautious and critical
spirit he exhibited as a member of our Society. The dis-
illusionment seems to have been gradual. In 1880 he
addressed the National Association of Spiritualists as a
spiritualist, though with "a voice from Laodicea." 1
And though
he said that so far from believing in the spiritualistic theory,
he could not even say that he believed the most elementary
facts which he had witnessed and on which that theory is
based, the general trend of the address is rather to maintain
that from psychological causes he and others like him cannot
maintain their belief—not because they discover the evidence
to be bad, but because the experiences that for a moment
convince fit in so little with the ordinary facts and ex-
1
This was the title of his lecture, see Spiritualist newspaper for March 26,
1880.
lxil] Frank Poclmore and Psychical Research. 7
periences of life that the mind instinctively rejects them as
soon as the first vivid impression has worn off.
It is probable, however, that at the time he gave the address
he had already come to the opinion, which he certainly held
later, that there was very little, if any, really good evidence
for Spiritualism. And what is really interesting about Mr.
Podmore and what made him so valuable a member of our Society
was that he suffered this set-back from a position too hastily
taken up without losing his belief in the great importance of
Psychical Research ; that he remained to the end of his life
willing to give the great amount of time and trouble he did
to the investigation. He was rewarded by some positive con-
clusions. Of the reality of telepathy between living persons
he had no doubt. The address to which I have already
referred shows us that he had been convinced of this from a
very early date. "Some six years ago," he says in 1880,
" when I first believed in Spiritualism, I instituted a few
experiments in table-turning with a circle of intimate friends.
The results most convincingly proved the possibility, under
certain conditions, of mind influencing mind without the ordi-
nary means of communication." From this belief and a
perception of the great importance of it I have no reason
to think he ever swerved, and he certainly held it strongly
during all the later years of his life. In his last book,
The Newer Spiritualism, which he left ready for publication,
but which only appeared after his death, he concluded by
saying :
" If we reject, for the present, at any rate, the explana-
tion ... of communication from the dead, we must seek for
some other cause adequate to the effects. There remains only
the agency which has been provisionally named telepathy . . . .
The establishment of such a faculty . . . would surely be a
result worth all the labour spent. . .
."
And labour on it and on all branches of Psychical
Research, as I have already said, he never grudged. From
being an active member of investigating committees of our
Society in early days, he became a collaborator with Mr.
Gurney and Mr. Myers in the book Phantasms of the Living,
which was the first great attempt at co-ordinating the fruits
of the Society's work. Mr. Gurney was, as we know, mainly
responsible for the actual writing, as well as for most of the
8 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
theoretical discussion in the book, but, as is stated in the
preface, " the most difficult and important part of the under-
taking—the collection, examination, and appraisal of evidence
—
has been throughout a joint labour ; of which Mr. Podmore
has borne so large a share that his name could not possibly
have been omitted from the title-page." This was in 1886,
and I may point out that his co-operation in this work is
itself a proof that Ins work was not entirely destructive, as
some people seem to think. Later he contributed several im-
portant studies and many reviews to our Proceedings. The most
important papers are " Phantasms of the Dead from another
Point of View," in 1889 (Vol. VI.), "Poltergeists," in 1896
(Vol. XII.), both of which are based in part on cases he had
himself investigated; and "Discussion of the Trance Phenomena
of Mrs. Piper," in 1898 (Vol. XIV.) All these contain
important evidential discussion, and much of the matter in
them, with occasionally some modification of view, has been
incorporated in the appropriate parts of the books on Psychical
Research which he has since published.
1
These books cover nearly the whole range of Psychical
Research, and are valuable as giving the results in a popular
and readable form without sacrifice of exactness of statement.
In fact, with a candid and impartial mind and a good
judgment, a pleasant style and a faculty for clear arrange-
ment and lucid exposition, a wide and thorough knowledge
of the subjects dealt with, both through historical reading,
personal investigation, and careful following of the investiga-
tions of others, he could not but be an excellent exponent
as well as a good critic. His Modern Spiritualism is likely, I
think, to remain a standard work on the history of that subject.
But it is not only in narrative or descriptive writing that he
is good ; he can also put succinctly and clearly discussions
of theoretical questions—physiological or psychological —as an
instance of which I may mention the chapter on " Hallucina-
tion in General " in Apparitions and Thought-Transference.
What his writings are apt to lack is the quality of inspirit-
1
The books are: Apparitions and Thought- Transference, 1894; Studies in
Psychical Research, 1897 ; Modern Spiritualism, 1902 ; The Naturalisation of
the Supernatural, 1908 ; Mesmerism and Christian Science, 1909 ; The Newer
Spiritualism, 1910.
LXII.] Frank Podmore and Psychical Research. 9
ingness, if I may coin a word. It is not every one who has
the courage and perseverance of Mr. Podmore himself, and the
critical attitude he maintains is apt to produce on less vigorous
investigators the effect of a douche of cold water from which
they cannot react, and from which therefore they instinctively
recoil. I think it is this which has made some members of the
Society impatient with him. Not realising how open-minded he
really was, and how honest his search for truth, they have
regarded him as almost in antagonism to advance in a positive
direction. This is, I am sure, a great mistake. He would
have rejoiced as much as any of us in the attainment of
positive conclusions, though more cautious than some of us in
accepting them.
In the meanwhile, on the way to these conclusions, there is
no doubt that Mr. Podmore's critical attitude, combined with
his wide and thorough acquaintance with facts and theories,
actual and historical, concerning the subjects with which the
Society deals, was of immense value in our work. Psychical
Eesearch suffers far more, I think, from ignorance than from
deliberate opposition ; and it is difficult to say whether most
harm is done by the ignorantly credulous, who accept appear-
ances too readily at their face value and theorise without
taking into account all the facts, or by the ignorantly
incredulous, who do not take the trouble to find out what it is
they are attacking. Ignorant criticism we can get plenty of,
but when not harmful it is usually quite useless. What it is
not easy to find is a man with unflagging energy in keeping
his knowledge up to date, unflagging belief in the importance
of the investigation, who yet can put himself outside it and
view it from an impartial, impersonal, and mainly critical
standpoint. All real scientific investigators, of course, however
sanguine and enthusiastic, endeavour to maintain a critical
attitude ; but there is a distinct advantage, at least in investi-
gations so difficult and elusive as ours, in having, so to speak, a
professional critic. It is a useful division of labour, and an
investigator of sanguine temperament can more easily let himself
go in speculations and hypotheses of a daring kind if he knows
that what he says will be closely criticised by a competent, but
colder and more cautious colleague, and possible weak points
discovered and exposed for discussion.
10 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
The Society will be fortunate, indeed, if it finds another
critic equally friendly, learned, painstaking, and accurate, to
take Mr. Podmore's place and put the brake on when there
are any signs of running too fast. And it will be still more
fortunate if those who are working for the Society find in their
new critic so kindly and unselfseeking a colleague as Frank
Podmore.
LXII.] In Memory of William James. 1 1
III.
IN MEMORY OF WILLIAM JAMES.
By W. M'DOUGALL.
At the end of August of this year [1910] the telegraphic cables
carried to every part of the civilised world the news of the
death of William James, and in every country many hundreds
of men and women felt that one of the great lights was gone,
one of the great forces withdrawn. It was no occasion for
bitter regret ; for James was approaching the usual term of
man's active life, and, though there had been good reason to
anticipate further additions to his intellectual output, he had
already made a rich and splendid contribution to the thought
of our age ; he had achieved a world-wide fame and was
regarded with intense admiration and affection by a host of
readers and a large band of personal friends. We had rather
to be glad in the knowledge that his death was preceded by
no severely disabling and prolonged malady, and that he
enjoyed until the last days the active exercise of his great
powers.
It is fitting that at this, the first meeting of the Society
since his death, we should record our sense of his services to
the Society ; and that we should spend a little time in bringing
before our minds the nature and extent of those services, and
in making clear to ourselves the attitude towards the work
and aims of the Society of one whose opinion in regard to
that work and those aims was entitled to carry more weight
than the opinion of any person now living.
I could wish that the honour of voicing our tribute to
William James had fallen to one who could claim old-standing
12 W. M'Dougall. [part
friendship with him, one who could give you some intimate
glimpses of his noble and strenuous character and of the
growth and working of his clear-shining intellect. My own
personal acquaintance with James (I hope I may say friend-
ship, for he won my heart at our first meeting) was of few
years' standing only. But for nearly twenty years I have been
an enthusiastic reader of all his works, and for nearly the
same period have known him to be the largest influence
affecting my intellectual life.
I must, then, be content to try to put together an outline
sketch of James' work and influence in relation to our Society.
James was happy in that his life was in a quite exceptional
degree a unified system of activities. Beginning with a
thorough study of the biological and medical sciences, he
actively pursued these until near his fortieth year as assistant
professor of physiology at Harvard. He was then appointed
to a chair of psychology in the same University and devoted
himself chiefly to that subject for more than twenty years.
The appearance in 1891 of his great book, the Principles of
Psychologij, secured for him a world-wide reputation as the
greatest psychologist of his age, perhaps (as Prof. Dewey has
lately said) the greatest of any age. From that time onward
his productive activity turned more and more towards the
problems of general philosophy, and since 1902, when he
became professor of philosophy at Harvard, it was devoted
almost wholly to those problems. This may well be regarded
as an ideal course of intellectual activity : would that all our
philosophers could approach their tasks with the same expert
knowledge of the natural sciences and of psychology
'
During the period of his philosophic activity James made
himself the acknowledged leader of a school of thought (the
pragmatic and radical empiricist school) which, whatever fate
be in store for it, has been a most active ferment in the
philosophical world ; to it has been largely due that great
revival of philosophical activity which marks the opening years
of the twentieth century.
James' active interest in " Psychical Eesearch," which ex-
tended through the last thirty years of his life, was not some-
thing apart from and disconnected from the main system of his
activity ; rather it was for him an integral part of the whole,
LXII.] In Memory of William James. 13
a part most intimately connected with the rest. It was the
expression of the same tendencies of mind which shaped all
his philosophical work ; to it he brought, or rather, to it he
was brought by, just those peculiar qualities of mind that
made him so original and successful in the more strictly
academic fields of philosophy and psychology.
In any attempt to define these special qualities, the first
place must be assigned to his direct vision of, and to bis
keen sense of the importance of, the concrete realities of
human life. Always he comes back to empirical realities, to
the immediate experience of men in general as the ground
and test of all theoretical constructions. This was the key-
note of all his efforts, of all that was most original in his
psychology {e.g. his description of the stream of thought with
which the Principles sets out), of his pragmatism, of his
radical empiricism, of his pluralism, of his epoch-making study
of the religious consciousness, and of his keen interest in
" Psychical Eesearch."
It was this keen sense of reality which, in spite of his
large tolerance, led him to occasional expressions of impatience
directed against what he called vicious intellectualism, and
against the rationalistic construction of theories of the universe
that are totally indifferent to the actual nature of the world
we know. It was this which forbade him to attempt to
impose system and order where none can be discerned, forbade
him to aim at constructing a finished picture of the universe,
and led him to prefer a " thick " to a " thin " philosophy ;
meaning by the " thin " highly abstract and purely logical
procedures such as those which lead to the conception of the
Absolute as the only reality ; and by the " thick " a way of
thinking that involves constant reference to, and faithful regard
for, the largest possible mass of empirical fact. " A large
acquaintance with particulars," he said, " often makes us wiser
than the possession of abstract formulae, however deep."
Another striking characteristic was his wonderful open-
mindedness. He was always ready and anxious to find the
possible grain of truth in every belief, the possible gleam of
insight in every human utterance, whether in a philosophical
system of the kind least attractive to him, in the wildest
assertions of religious exaltation, or in the crude expressions
14 W. M'Dougall. [part
of less gifted, and especially younger, colleagues. He had the
keen eye of the great scientist for the significance of the
exceptional, the seemingly irregular and unintelligible pheno-
menon. I well remember a Fellow of the Eoyal Society saying
to me :
" I'm not interested in anything until I can understand
it." James' attitude was just the opposite of that. He was
most interested in whatever was most difficult to understand,
most problematic. I venture to say that that is the truly
scientific attitude characteristic of all great discoverers. The
smaller minds are not interested in, they cannot apperceive or
become aware of, phenomena that will not fit into their par-
ticular system of pigeon-holes, and will not wear any one of
their stereotyped labels.
This large openness of mind, together with his native
kindliness, rendered him wonderfully appreciative of the work
of other men ; also it prevented his thought from crystallising
in any rigid forms, and allowed his intellect to go on growing
till the last. To his generous appreciativeness many a younger
and obscure colleague in the fields of philosophy and psychology
could bear grateful witness. It was finely displayed when,
two years ago, James introduced the ideas of Prof. Bergson to
an Oxford audience. Instead of regarding his younger and
less widely famous colleague as a rival to be jealously criticised,
he gave a glowingly eulogistic account of his teaching, admitted
that it had worked a revolution in his own mind, and ranked
himself as a disciple. The same fine trait was strikingly
displayed again in the last published work of his pen,
the article on a Pluralistic Mystic in a recent number of the
Hibbert Journal.
Thirdly, it was characteristic of James that he took his
philosophy very seriously. For him it was no merely academic
game in which each player plays for his own hand, striving
to devise some system peculiar to himself; rather, in his view,
the advance of philosophy was a matter of the greatest
practical importance for the welfare of mankind. Constantly
he had in view human needs and aspirations, human limita-
tions and human possibilities. In all his writings there is
manifested (and more and more clearly if they are considered
in the order of their production) his earnest wish to come to
agreement with others, to achieve a view of the world that
lxi r. ]
>>
>fyh ; §(zifho>ry °pf\ illia,in\ James. 1
5
shall be acceptable to all men ; his strong desire to bring
increase of •
-philosophic/ undemanding father than merely to
develop and establish - his ' 'o'wn circle of ideas. The same
earnestness was shewn by the continuance of his strenuous
activity after his retirement from his chair at Harvard at
an age at which he might well have claimed the right to rest
on his laurels.
If to these three distinctive qualities of his mind we add
a penetrating and versatile intellect, a strong sense of humour,
and great powers of expression, we have, I think, the main
psychological keys to the understanding of his intellectual
achievements. That the style is the man was eminently true
of James ; his lively and forcible style, which made everything
he wrote a delight to his readers, reveals everywhere the
qualities we have noted, the keen eye for empirical fact and
the faithful acceptance of it as the foundation and test of
all theoretical constructions and of all beliefs ; the open-
mindedness ; the interest in and generous appreciation of the
ideas of other men ; the earnest desire to harmonise all human
knowledge in one continuously advancing body of pragmatic
truth.
Such in barest outline was the man. Let us now record
with gratitude his services to the cause of " Psychical Research."
Most obvious to the world at large and of inestimable benefit
to this Society was the fact of his open and active espousal
of its cause, his lending his name and prestige at a time
when to be a prominent member of the Society was to incur
risk of ridicule, or worse. The Society has been fortunate in
counting among its members, especially among its presidents
and vice-presidents, a number of names of the highest intel-
lectual distinction ;
but, with the single exception of that of
our revered first President, no name probably has been, or
could have been, of so much service to the Society as that
of William James. For his claims to be heard with respect
on all branches of our work were unique. No other man
of our time has made an equal mark in science, philosophy,
and religion ; no one has moved with so much mastery in all
these three great fields of thought.
But James was not content to serve as our figure-head,
and to lend us moral support and the prestige of his name.
16 W. M'-Donqall. , Tpart
° • ""•
• o " o „s s <•;.<• 5- i>°! c
":
"'t
He has done much hard spade-work for the Society. He
was one of the founders . of the' -American' Society, and one
of its most active leaders from its inception in, 1884 until
its union with our parent Society in 1890. He was the
discoverer of Mrs. Piper, and the first carefully to investigate
and report upon her trances ;
and, after Dr. Hodgson went to
America to take up her case, James supported that prince of
investigators with active help and warm friendship. To the
Proceedings of the American Society he contributed papers on
hypnotism and automatic writing based on personal investiga-
tion. He was a Corresponding Member of the English Society
from 1884-1889, a Vice-President from 1890-1910, and
President during the years 1894-5. Besides his presidential
address, he contributed a number of papers to our Proceedings
and undertook a large amount of work in connexion with the
census of hallucinations.
James wrote also at least three weighty expositions of the
work and aims of the Society in three of the leading popular
magazines of the United States
;
1
and he brought together
parts of these in an essay published in the very widely read
volume entitled " The Will to Believe." That essay must, I
think, be regarded as the most powerful and convincing of all
apologies for this Society.
But James' moral support of, and his active participation
in the work of, the Society were neither the whole nor the
chief part of his services to " Psychical Research." If James
had never been a member of our Society, if even he had
never heard of it and its work, we should still have to
recognise him as a great influence, perhaps the greatest
individual influence of our time, making for the progress and
extension of our enterprise. For the main tendency and aim
of all his widely influential teaching was identical with what
I take to be the deepest lying aim which the Society pursues
along its highly special line of inquiry—namely, the reconcilia-
tion of science and religion on empirical grounds.
That the reconciliation of science with religion is the
essential task of philosophy has long been widely recognised.
But no such reconciliation has yet been achieved. James
1
Scribner
,
s Magazine, March, 1890; The Forum, July, 1892; The American
Magazine, 1908.
LXII.] In Memory of William James. 17
found himself in a world in which almost all influential
thinkers accepted one or other of two types of philosophy.
On the one hand was the naturalistic school, which held fast
to the world of empirical fact, and to the principle that the
laws of mechanism hold undisputed sway throughout the
universe ; its utmost concession to religion being such recogni-
tion of an Unknowable power behind all things as Herbert
Spencer taught. On the other hand were the transcendental
idealists, who, having capitulated to empirical science as regards
all the phenomenal world, claimed to have learnt from Kant
and Hegel how to preserve a quasi-religious sphere of thought
by constructing a purely logical scheme of reality that bore
no relation whatever to the world of empirical fact, one which
would remain equally valid no matter what might be the
nature of our human experience of the world in which we
live our daily lives —a time- less, space-less, cause-less, un-
changing, infinite whole.
However widely different were the tempers and teachings of
these two dominant schools of the Unknowable and the
Absolute, they agreed in one point of fundamental importance,
namely, they acknowledged the absolute sway of mechanical
principles in the empirical world ; that is to say, both alike
were thoroughly mechanistic. To both these schools James
resolutely opposed himself. He doubted whether the human
mind would ever achieve the ideal of philosophy, a system of
knowledge complete and harmonious in all its parts ; he was
very certain that no such system has been, or can yet be,
constructed. " The actual universe," he said, " is a thing wide
open, but rationalism makes systems, and systems must be
closed." 1
He protested and rebelled against all closed systems
;
he saw on every hand the raw edges of our knowledge ; but
that did not lead him merely to seek more facts ; he was
a genuine and original philosopher in that he persistently
sought better ways of understanding the facts we have. He
firmly believed that human knowledge is but at the beginning
of its course ; and he believed that, if only because human
knowledge is growing, the universe, of which that knowledge
is a part, is growing also. " Eeality," he said, ". . .is still
1
Pragmatism : a New Name for some old ways of thinking, London, 1907,
p. 27.
B
18 W. M'BougaU. [part
in the making, and waits part of its complexion from the
future . . . the universe is still pursuing its adventures." 1
The only reality recognised by Eationalism of either type
he found intolerably unreal. He could not away with the
optimism of the Absolutist rationalism which condones the
miseries of man as necessary parts of the Absolute's perfection
;
he recognised the looseness of the reasoning by which
Absolutism seeks to establish itself, and affirmed the absurdity
of the claim of that reasoning to compel our assent to its
conclusions. He boldly asserted that the only view of the
universe acceptable to him was one that regards it as capable
of becoming something better than it is, and as one in which
the moral efforts of men may contribute towards that result.
His philosophic aim was to conceive the universe in accord-
ance with these demands, and to shape a philosophy capable
of development, consciously incomplete, looking to the empirical
sciences for aid, and requiring for its completion the co-
operative efforts of many generations of thinkers ; a philosophy
which shall work in the scientific spirit rather than in that
of rationalistic dogma, regarding its most cherished conceptions
as but hypotheses to be constantly tested and evaluated by the
pragmatic method, that is to say, with regard to their signifi-
cance and value as guides to human life.
James, therefore, rejected as unproven and improbable the
assumption common to both the dominant schools, the assump-
tion of the absolute sway of mechanical causation in the
empirical world ; and in standing out thus against the mechanistic
dogma, he was, of course, striking a powerful blow for " Psychical
Eesearch." For of all the considerations that lead men to
ignore and deny the aims of "Psychical Eesearch," to affirm
the impossibility of the happenings we record, the mechanistic
dogma is by far the most influential ;
" these things," they
say, " cannot happen, for they are incompatible with our
mechanical first principles."
James' brilliant attack on the two most prevalent philo-
sophies has swept away this dogma from the minds of many,
and has shaken its hold on the minds of many more ;
it has
shewn that these are not the only possible philosophies for a
self-respecting man of modern culture ; it has taught all who
1
Pragmatism, p. 257.
LXII.] In Memory of William James. 19
have felt its force to keep open minds, to recognise the uncer-
tainty of all philosophic conclusions, to respect empirical fact,
and to recognise that in our present state of ignorance it is
absurd to pretend to say that this or that cannot happen.
Every part of James' work contributed towards this effect,
so favourable to " Psychical Eesearch " ; for it was all of a
piece. His pragmatism was primarily an extension of the
scientific attitude of mind towards the problems and theories
of philosophy. As the instrumental theory of truth it became
a powerful lever for the uprooting of the dogmas of both
naturalism and absolutism. His radical empiricism was the
natural supplement of his pragmatism, and his pluralism the
natural, if not the inevitable, outcome of their conjunction.
Together they made strongly for the rescue of human person-
ality from the position of indignity and insignificance to which
it had been reduced by both the prevalent systems. They
made plausible, or at least possible, a belief in some survival
after death, the belief in a personal God and in a real com-
munion between God and man, and even the belief in the
objective efficacy of prayer and of moral effort.
James treated psychology as one of the natural sciences
;
but he consistently refused to reduce all consciousness to the
level of an epiphenomenon or silent spectator ; he insisted
always on the real efficiency of our consciousness, our feelings,
our efforts, our thoughts as teleological co-determinants of our
bodily movements. He discovered an unsuspected wealth of
detail in the stream of consciousness ; and he restored to that
stream its unity, rejecting root and branch the mechanical
descriptions and explanations of associationism. He restored
effort, activity, desire, in short, the will, to its rightful place.
He was the first academic psychologist to make adequate
recognition of the importance of modern medical studies of
hysteria and of the reality and theoretical importance of
hypnotism, automatic speech and writing, and states of dissocia-
tion in general.
Above all he was the first to grasp firmly the thorny subject
of the psychology of the religious consciousness ;
boldly to
admit the pathological character or affinities of many of its
manifestations, and yet to affirm their value and to find in
them empirical evidence of the truth of religion. His Varieties
20 W. M'Dougall, [part
of Religious Experience was immensely successful. Psychology
had been regarded as the natural enemy of religion. All that
was changed at once, and the few years that have elapsed
since the appearance of that book have seen the birth of
several journals wholly devoted to religious psychology, and
the publication of a dense stream of books and pamphlets on
the same subject, mostly written by religiously-minded persons,
many of them by theologians and eminent divines.
In all these ways, then, James' philosophical activity ran
parallel in a larger orbit with the work of the S.P.E. It was
a philosophy which justified our methods and our aims, and
rendered possible at least the hope of finding in the general
scheme of things an intelligible place for the facts we
aim at.
In these three ways, then, James rendered immense service to
" Psychical Eesearch." Let us ask—What did the Society do
for him ? What in his view has it achieved, and what was
the importance for his thought of that achievement ?
James distinguished broadly what he called the mechanical
and the personal views of nature
—" science," he said, " essentially
only stands for a method and for no fixed belief; yet as
habitually taken, both by its votaries and outsiders, it is identi-
fied with a certain fixed belief—the belief that the hidden order
of nature is mechanical exclusively, and that non-mechanical
categories are irrational ways of conceiving and explaining even
such things as human life." To this " mechanical rationalism,"
as he called it, James' whole drift and striving were opposed
;
for him the personal view of nature was the true one ; and
there can be no doubt that he was greatly strengthened in
this belief by his knowledge of the results of " Psychical
Eesearch."
As early as 1890 he proclaimed Mrs. Piper as his 'one
white crow,' meaning that her case had made it impossible to
accept the principle that our knowledge comes to us only by
the channels of sense. And, needless to say, his conviction
of the supernormal origin of her trance-knowledge was but
strengthened by his later acquaintance with that remarkable
woman. This case, together with other evidence, convinced
him that our minds can and do communicate in some way
that cannot be reconciled with the mechanical categories
;
LXII.] In Memory of William James. 21
or, in other words, that telepathy is a fact of nature, and
that it is not explicable on physical principles.
To have found adequate empirical evidence of this trans-
cendence of the mechanical categories was of crucial importance
for James' system of thought. If, as he held, the proof is
conclusive, mechanistic rationalism is finally shattered by it,
and the personal view of nature established, and it was this
he had in view when he wrote that our Society has restored
the continuity of history.
1
In his lectures at Oxford, two years ago, James announced
his firm conviction that " most of the phenomena of psychic
research are rooted in reality," and it was obvious, I think,
to those who knew him, that the results of "Psychical Eesearch"
had played a greater part in shaping the thought of those
lectures than he judged it expedient explicitly to affirm before
an audience so ignorant of the facts.
In a recent number of the American Magazine, James'
undertook to state the principal effect upon his opinions of
" twenty-five years of dabbling in
1
Psychics.' " The following
"'Religious thinking, ethical thinking, poetical thinking, teleological,
emotional, sentimental thinking, what one might call the personal view of life
to distinguish it from the impersonal and mechanical, and the romantic view of
life to distinguish it from the rationalistic view, have been, and even still are,
outside of well-drilled scientific circles, the dominant forms of thought. But
for mechanical rationalism, personality is an insubstantial illusion. The chronic
belief of mankind, that events may happen for the sake of their personal
significance, is an abomination. . . . But the S.P.R.'s Proceedings have, it
seems to me, conclusively proved one thing to the candid reader ; and that
is that the verdict of pure insanity, of gratuitous preference for error, of
superstition without excuse, which the scientists of our day are led by their
intellectual training to pronounce upon the entire thought of the past, is a
most shallow verdict. The personal and romantic view of life has other roots
besides wanton exuberance of imagination and perversity of heart. It is
perennially fed by facts of experience. ... It is the intolerance of science for
such phenomena as we are studying, her peremptory denial either of their
existence or of their significance (except as proofs of man's absolute innate
folly), that has set science so apart from the common sympathies of the race.
I confess that it is on this, its humanizing mission, that the Society's best
claim to the gratitude of our generation seems to me to depend. It has
restored continuity to history. It has shown some reasonable basis for the
most superstitious aberrations of the foretime. It has bridged the chasm,
healed the hideous rift that science, taken in a certain narrow way, has shot
into the human world" (Essay on "Psychical Research" in the vol. Will to
Believe, pp. 324-326).
22 W. M'Dougall. [part
are the main points of his confession. " I am baffled as to
spiiit-return, and as to many other special problems." He held
the spiritistic hypothesis unproven ; and it was not consistent
with his view of personality ;
nevertheless, with his invariable
largeness, he kept an open mind in that direction. As regards
" Physical phenomena " he wrote :
" I find myself believing
that there is '
something in ' these never-ending reports of
physical phenomena, although I haven't yet the least positive
notion of the something. It becomes to my mind simply a
very worthy problem for investigation." The main ground of
this opinion was the accumulation of evidence to form what
he called a faggot, and the constancy of type of the phenomena.
He affirmed the frequency of automatic writing, and its
constancy to type.
He affirmed " the presence, in the midst of all the humbug,
of really supernormal knowledge. ... In really strong mediums
this knowledge seems to be abundant, though it is usually
spotty, capricious and unconnected."
He inclined
'
' to picture the situation as an interaction
between slumbering faculties in the automatist's mind and
a cosmic environment of other consciousness of some sort
which is able to work upon them. If there were in the
universe a lot of diffuse soul-stuff, unable of itself to get
into consistent personal form, or to take permanent possession
of an organism, yet always craving to do so, it might get its
head into the air, parasitically, so to speak, by profiting by
weak spots in the armor of human minds, and slipping in
and stirring up there the sleeping tendency to personate. It
would induce habits in the subconscious region of the mind
it used thus, and would seek above all things to prolong its
social opportunities by making itself agreeable and plausible.
It would drag stray scraps of truth with it from the wider
environment, but would betray its mental inferiority by
knowing little how to weave them into any important or
significant story."
He added his conviction that " the phenomenon is actuated
by will of some sort anyhow," meaning that the messages of
" automatic speech and writing" are not, as the term seems to
imply, the products of merely mechanical neural processes, but
express desire, intention and design.
lxii.] In Memory of William James. 23
He concluded by asserting the enormous complexity of the
phenomena and the necessity for suspension of judgment and
prolonged and patient inquiry. " That is why I personally am
as yet neither a convinced believer in parasitic demons, nor a
spiritist, nor a scientist, but still remain a psychical researcher
waiting for more facts before concluding."
"Hardly, as yet, has the surface of the facts called 'psychic'
begun to be scratched for scientific purposes. It is through
following these facts, I am persuaded, that the greatest scientific
conquests of the coming generation will be achieved."
These few extracts will suffice to indicate the nature of the
effect in James' mind produced by the work of this Society
;
they show that this effect was of very great, in fact, of crucial
importance. They show also that his attitude towards the
work of the Society was truly scientific in the higher sense of
that word, and that, while he remained thoroughly critical and
chary of forming positive conclusions, he confidently regarded the
results hitherto achieved as but a small and imperfect sample
of a splendid harvest of knowledge still to be reaped by
" Psychical Eesearch." To my mind his attitude seems wholly
admirable, a model to be held up for all of us to copy as
nearly as our powers will permit.
While, then, James rendered great services to our Society,
the work of the Society powerfully influenced his thought.
The relations between him and the Society were fruitful and
reciprocally advantageous in a high degree. By this action
and reaction between his philosophical principles and the
results of " psychical research," James' thought was led to a
definite issue upon the problem, which is at once the central
problem of all philosophy, and the immediate and special
problem for the illumination of which this Society exists,
namely, the problem of the nature of human personalities and
their position in the universe.
In his Principles of Psychology, James took up decidedly the
antimechanical view of the human organism, criticising most
effectively and destructively those various formulations of the
relation of mind to body, which deny all real efficiency in the
physical world of our consciousness, our thought, feeling, and
will, the epiphenomenalism of Huxley and most naturalists, and
the various forms of psycho-physical parallelism. Classing all
24 W. M'Dougall. [part
these together under the head automaton-theory, he wrote " My
conclusion is that to urge the automaton theory upon us, as
it is now urged, on purely a 'priori and ^fist-metaphysical
grounds, is an unwarrantable impertinence in the present state
of psychology." 1
And he affirmed that "it is to my mind,
quite inconceivable that consciousness should have nothing to
do with a business which it so faithfully attends "
;
2
meaning
the processes of the brain.
Throughout he never wavered in his opposition to the
mechanical philosophy, whether in the form of mechanical
materialism or the mechanistic rationalism of the transcen-
dental idealists or absolutists.
ISTow throughout the history of thought the great rival to
all the mechanistic theories has been the soul-theory, the
animistic theory that man's body is animated by a soul, an
immaterial thinking being, which is the ground of his indi-
viduality, and is capable of surviving the death of his body,
and preserving all or something of his personality beyond the
grave.
It might have been expected that James' rejection of all
the mechanistic doctrines would have led him to embrace the
soul-theory. But he never did accept it. In the Principles
he presented the soul-theory forcibly and sympathetically, and
confessed " that to posit a soul influenced in some mysterious
way by the brain-states and responding to them by conscious
affections of its own, seems to me the line of least logical
resistance, so far as we yet have attained."
3
But, though
treating the theory with respect, and asserting that " it is at
any rate less positively objectionable than either mind-stuff or a
material monad creed,"
4
he insisted that " it does not strictly
explain anything,"
5
that the conception of the soul is not
required by psychology, and that the passing thought of each
moment of consciousness is the only subject logically required
for the intelligible description of our mental life.
In the Principles, then, James, refusing to accept the soul-
theory, left open the question of the nature and ground of
personality ; and in his later writings we find him more
decidedly opposed to the soul-theory. In his Oxford lectures
1
Principles, vol. i. p. 138. ' Ibid. p. 136. 3
Vol. i. p. 181.
4
Op. cit. p. 182. 5
Op. cit. p. 371.
LXII.] In Memory of William James. 25
of two years ago he returned to the question and said
—
" Souls have worn out both themselves and their welcome,
that is the plain truth. Philosophy ought to get the mani-
folds of experience unified on principles less empty. Like
the word '
cause,' the word '
soul ' is but a theoretic stop-
gap—it marks a place and claims it for future explanation
to occupy." 1
And he complained that the conception of the
soul has no pragmatic significance ; which for him was equiva-
lent to saying that it is useless, and therefore invalid.2
This is not the occasion for any examination of James'
reasoning. We have rather to seek to grasp as clearly as
possible what his own view was : and this is worth doing
because his view was unfamiliar, distinctive, and by no means
easy to seize. James' frequent and sympathetic references to
Myers' conception of the Subliminal Self may easily lead the
casual reader to suppose that he accepted Myers' hypothesis
or one very similar to it. But that would be an error. We
must recognize clearly that Myers' doctrine was a development
and extension of the soul-theory and that James rejected that
theory.
Yet it is equally clear that James believed and taught that
the mind of man is not wholly destroyed at death, that in
some sense and in some degree it survives the death of his
body.
In the Principles James criticised very forcibly and de-
cisively rejected the view that individual human consciousness
can be regarded as compounded of lesser consciousnesses,
sensations, or units of feeling, or fragments of consciousness
of any kind. And he recognised that the only logical
alternative to this doctrine of mind-stuff (of atoms of con-
sciousness capable of being compounded into larger and larger
wholes of consciousness) seems to be the soul-theory ; but yet,
as we have seen, he rejected that theory and left open the
problem for further investigation.
In his Ingersoll Lecture on Human Immortality? he adopted
a peculiar theory of the function of the bodily organism or
of the brain in our mental life, one which he called " the
theory of separation " or " the transmission theory." By these
names he implied the notion that there exists a great sea
1
A Pluralistic Universe, p. 210. "Ibid. 3
Boston, 1898.
26 W. M'Dougall. [part
of consciousness or thought ; that the consciousness of each
one of us is but a ray of this univeral consciousness ; and
that the brain of each man is a translucent or half-transparent
spot in the veil of nature through which a ray of the uni-
versal consciousness intermittently struggles to illumine for
brief moments the material world. According to this view,
then, the bodily organism is the principle of individuality
;
mind or consciousness is essentially one ; and our individual
consciousnesses, so-called, are but distorted beams filtered out
from the universal consciousness by our brains ;
and, when
those brains decay, the beams cease to be thus transmitted.
It is clear that this " transmission theory " escapes materialism,
but it is equally clear that it does not provide for any
survival of human personality after the death of the body.
James returned to the transmission theory in his lecture on
the " Energies of Men," developing it from the point of view
that in our moral and intellectual efforts each of us draws
spiritual energy from that larger whole of which, according
to the hypothesis, his mind is but a fragmentary manifestation;
and, in accordance with his invariable tendency, he adduced
in a striking and original way new empirical evidences of the
reality of such influx of the greater tides of life through the
channels of human personality. 1
But his later utterances show that he was not satisfied with
the position defended in the Ingersoll lecture. It was obvious to
him that it was hardly consistent with his rejection of the notion
of the compounding of consciousness. For the reabsorption of
individual consciousness in the universal sea implies such com-
pounding. Acordingly he returned to the problem in his Oxford
lectures. He told us how he had wrestled long and long with this
notion of the compounding of consciousness, and how, approach-
ing it now from the side of over-individual consciousness, rather
than, as in the Principles, from the side of composition of individual
human consciousness from lesser parts, he had reversed his
opinion, thrown over his own brilliant demonstration of the
absurdity of the notion, and made it the keystone of his
philosophic scheme of the universe. After this revolution, it
was possible to modify the doctrine of the Ingersoll lecture
in a way that made it less intangible, less a matter of metaphor
1
Philosophical Review, 1907.
lxil] In Memory of William James. 27
and vague suggestion merely. He modified it in the direction
of assimilating it to Fechner's panpsychic view of the universe.
" The drift," he said, " of all the evidence we have, seems to
me to sweep us very strongly towards the belief in some form
of superhuman life with which we may, unknown to ourselves,
be co-conscious. We may be in the universe, as dogs and cats
are in our libraries, seeing the books and hearing the conversation,
but having no inkling of the meaning of it all. . . . The analogies
with ordinary psychology and with the facts of pathology, with
those of psychical research, so called, and with those of religious
experience, establish, when taken together, a decidedly formidable
probability in favour of a general view of the world almost
identical with Fechner's."
1
And Fechner's view or vision of
the world was one of a hierarchy of consciousnesses, each member
of the hierarchy being at once both a consciousness for itself
and a part of a more widely inclusive consciousness of a higher
level or order. James expressed his conception of the relation
of the individual human consciousness to the more inclusive
consciousness as clearly perhaps as it is capable of being
expressed in the following words :
" Out of my experience, such
as it is (and it is limited enough) one fixed conclusion dogmati-
cally emerges, and that is this, that we with our lives are like
islands in the sea, or like trees in the forest. The maple and
the pine may whisper to each other with their leaves, and
Conanicut and Newport hear each other's foghorns. But the
trees also commingle their roots in the darkness underground,
and the islands also hang together through the ocean's bottom.
Just so there is a continuum of cosmic consciousness, against
which our individuality builds but accidental fences, and into
which our several minds plunge as into a mother-sea or
reservoir. Our '
normal ' consciousness is circumscribed for
adaptation to our external earthly environment, but the fence
is weak in spots, and fitful influences from beyond break in,
showing the otherwise unverifiable common connection. Not
only psychic research, but metaphysical philosophy and specula-
tive biology are led in their own ways to look with favour
on some such '
panpsychic ' view of the universe as this."
2
1
A Pluralistic Universe, p. 309.
2
The American Magazine, " The Confidences of a Psychical Researcher,,"
1908.
28 W. M'Dougall. [part
He refused to identify this wide mother-sea of consciousness
with the absolute mind of idealistic monism, basing his refusal
chiefly on moral grounds. Even the widest consciousness of
all he regarded as less than the whole universe. " However
much may be collected, however much may report itself as
present at any effective centre of consciousness or action,
something else is self-«overned and absent and unreduced to
unity." 1
This is the essential character of his pluralistic
universe. To what more inclusive forms our individual
consciousnesses belong he did not pretend to say ; but that
they do so belong was his main thesis ; and he believed that
the mystic's experience of union and absorption of the self
in a higher power is what it claims to be ; and it is after
that model that he would have us conceive the life beyond
the grave. It is clear that this view implies no personal
immortality ; the life of the individual man is but a temporary
and partial separation and circumscription of a part of a
larger whole, into which it is reabsorbed at death, and the
body remains the individualising principle. But he held that
this view, besides being more consonant than any other with
all the empirical evidence, is pragmatically justified on moral
grounds ;
because, as organs of the larger whole, we play a
part in determining its development and welfare; "our thoughts
determine our acts, and our acts redetermine the previous
nature of the world " ;
2
and so we may, in a very real sense,
hold ourselves to be co-workers with God, helping Him to
make the universe something nobler than it yet is.
More than any other man of our time, James was qualified
by his openness of mind, his courage and originality, his
powerful intellect, his wide knowledge of empirical fact and
philosophical speculation, and his prolonged and earnest wrest-
ling with the fundamental problems, to express conclusions
that must command a deeply respectful hearing. To many
members of this Society it must be a disappointment that
such a leader should have reached a conclusion adverse to the
survival of human personality. But it is much that his final
position is one which affirms the real efficiency and abiding
value of the moral and intellectual efforts of mankind. And
our Society may well renew its courage and its conviction
1
A Pluralistic Universe, p. 322. 2
0/?. cit. p. 318.
lxii.] In Memory of William James. 29
of the value of its work, in recognising that that work played
no small part in enabling James to reach and maintain that
position. And let us bear in mind the deliberate expression
of his mature judgment. " Hardly, as yet, has the surface of
the facts called '
psychic ' begun to be scratched for scientific
purposes. It is through following these, I am persuaded, that
the greatest scientific conquests of the coming generation will
be achieved."
That such a leader in the world of thought has published
to the world this high estimate of the importance of the
Society's work, and has generously avowed the large influence
of that work upon his constructive efforts, must permanently
strengthen the Society and must support us in the conviction
that we have set our hands to no mean task.
30 Professor J. H. Muirhead. [part
IV.
WILLIAM JAMES AS PHILOSOPHER.
By PROFESSOR J. H. MUIRHEAD.
I have a double difficulty in accepting the Editor's invitation
to write a short article on this subject. I am writing from
the point of view of general philosophy in a periodical devoted
to psychical research, and I am writing on a philosopher
whom, in spite of great admiration and respect, I have never
been able to accept as my own leader. I may thus be said
to be an outsider to the second power. I justify myself in
view of the first of these disqualifications by saying at once
that a philosopher's attitude to at least some of the aims of
psychical research is to a large extent dependent on his philoso-
phical view in general, and that I believe Professor James's
was so in a particular degree. The second disqualification is
more serious in an article like the present. But I believe it
is less fatal in my own case than it might be in the case of
other abler critics, seeing that, while differing widely from Pro-
fessor James in letter, I find myself in far greater sympathy
with his spirit than I do with many present day writers
with whom I am in greater literal agreement.
If we would know what that spirit is, we have to turn to
the general movement of philosophic thought, and particularly
to that of our own time. The history of science and philo-
sophy has been written from many points of view. The most
helpful is that from which it is regarded as a series of ever
deeper reactions from the abstract to the concrete, from ab-
sorption in conceptions too narrow for the facts of human life
and experience back to the fulness of reality. For such
lxil] William James as Philosojiher. 31
reactions all the great philosophers from Socrates to Hegel may
be shown to stand. To understand our own time we have
to realise that we are ourselves living in the middle of just
such another. From a period of obsession, both in physical
and social science, by the idea of rigid mechanical laws to
which human ideals have to be subordinated, we have passed
to the advocacy of the central place of human purposes, and
the subordination to them of scientific generalisations as things
partial, tentative, provisional. The writings of Poincare,
Boutroux and Bergson in France, of Wundt and Eucken in
Germany, of Karl Pearson and James Ward among ourselves
are sufficient indication of this general drift. Together they
stand for the assertion by man's spirit of the claim to be
master in its own house, and to see everything sub specie
humanitatis.
It is the fighting part he has taken in this movement, since
the publication of the Will to Believe, in 1897, that gives its
significance to "William James's work. There are, I believe,
thousands to whom that book and his other popular works,
by their broad humanity, their cheerful faith in the open-
ness of all roads, have seemed to have lifted the intel-
lectual sky as with the promise of Spring. It is this, far
more than the actual doctrines they contain, that has been
the source of his deserved and unique popularity. Whether
his influence will be a permanent one it is too early perhaps
to say. What a close study of his works has brought home
to my own mind is that his controversy with the school in
England and America, which, not less than he, has set itself
against the abstractions of a barren intellectualism, is likely
to prove a source of weakness rather than of strength, and
that just in so far as he himself in the constant development
of his ideas, which is one of the most attractive features of his
writings, stops short of their conclusions, his work is likely
to lose in fruitfulness.
An article like the present would be no suitable place for
a review of his philosophy as a whole. What I desire to do
is to try within its limits to show by one or two examples,
first, that what he claims for the world as a whole is true
of his own thought : it has no fixed statuesque outlines,
but on the contrary is always undergoing expansion and
32 Professor J. H. Muirhead. [part
development; in the second place, that, notwithstanding this,
and mainly, I think, because of imperfect emancipation from the
intellectualist presuppositions which he lives to combat, he fails
in the end to make the best of the position he has won.
I take three points which will be recognised as crucial—his
doctrine of the meaning of truth, his antagonism to intel-
lectualism founded on the antithesis between sense-experience
and conception, and his pluralism.
(1) The first is stated and restated in a hundred passages
in which we are implored to disabuse ourselves of all academic
and scholastic definitions of truth, and to face the question
squarely as to what truth consists in as a matter of fact and
experience. When we do so, we are assured, what we shall
find is that truth is no rigid system to which the soul ascends
over a series of rigid conceptions, as to a marble shrine over
marble steps, but the felt fitness of an intellectual attitude to the
requirements of a concrete situation—its power to bring us into
fruitful relations with it and enable us to make capital out of it.
Truth-seeking is thus literally truth-making—verity is verification.
No one who has gone through James's books with the single
aim of understanding this contention can rise from the study
without feeling that his ideas of the process known as verifica-
tion have been widened and deepened. Many of James's state-
ments of it are purple patches in the psychology of cognition.
What the student cannot help regretting is that the earlier ones
should have contained so much that was ambiguous, and left
so much to be supplied by the reader. The author himself
pathetically complains of the obtuseness of his critics, and
even of his friends, " who have boggled at and refused to
take the spirit rather than the letter of our discourse."
This is apt to recall Carlyle's juryman who complained that
he had never met eleven such obstinate men in the same
room in his life. A whole generation of scholars does not
go obstinately wrong over a theory which has been stated
with reasonable clearness and the necessary qualifications.
By the emphasis on the feeling of satisfaction, as well as by
the name Pragmatism itself, it was inevitable that the theory
should suggest the old Protagorean heresy, /u-erpov avOpwiros,
and be met with the taunt that willing to believe was tanta-
mount to believing as you will.
LXII.] William James as Philosopher. S3
If James's own mind ever gave harbour to such an idea,
he has made ample amends by the clearness with which he
states his true view in his later articles. In the first place,
by satisfactoriness, he tells us, he does not mean mere practical
utility. Man has logical as well as practical needs. Con-
sistency is the breath of the soul's life, as air is of the body's.
" After man's interest in breathing freely, the greatest of all
his interests is his interest in consistency." 1
And, in the
second place, this consistency has an objective counterpart : it
is a guarantee to us, the only guarantee we have, of corre-
spondence with that " matrix of experiential circumstances
"
which we call reality. " The pragmatist, being himself a man
and imagining in general no lines of true belief contrary to
ours about the '
reality ' which he has laid at the base of
his epistemological discussion, is willing to treat our satisfac-
tions as possibly really true guides to it, not as guides true
solely for us." 2
In view of such a statement, the long wearisome controversy
as to the meaning of the will to believe may well be laid to
rest. But agreement on this point between pragmatism and
its critics only raises a new question, which unfortunately we
have no longer the opportunity of discussing with James.
Granted that satisfactoriness is satisfactoriness " in the long
run and on the whole "
—that the harmony we seek is harmony
with the totality of experience, is not such an ideal experience
just what we mean by the " matrix of experiential circum-
stances " ? Can reality be anything else for us ? If it cannot,
it seems as though James to complete his theory must advance
a step further in the direction of the intellectualist, or, as I
should prefer to call it, impersonal idealism, which he opposes,
and hold that the mark of reality is just this harmonious
setting in an ideal experience. If, on the other hand, we
are asked to conceive the possibility of a reality without
relation to such an experience, is this not just an appeal
to the idea of an absolute or unknown in its worst possible
form ? In reading such passages as that just quoted, or
again that in which he claims that his theory of truth
is " purely epistemological " and " prejudges nothing as to
the constitution of realities, so that the most diverse meta-
1
The Meaning of Truth, p. 211. "Ib., 192.
0
34 Professor J. H. Muirhead. [part
physics can vise it as their foundation,"
1
one cannot but feel
that James fails to carry his Pragmatism to its legitimate
conclusion, and to reap the full fruits of it as an answer to
all forms of agnosticism and pessimism. Are not his opponents
here the truer pragmatists when they insist that such a " thing
in itself" unrelated to experience as we know it, save as an
incognisable duplicate, belongs to the lumber-house, not to the
utilisable furniture of the human mind ?
(2) The second of the above points is equally fundamental.
Granting we can experience reality as it truly is (and James
as well as Bergson, whom he takes here as his master,
constantly assumes that we can), what is the medium of this
insight ? James's answer to this question is well known.
Conception, the very eye of the soul according to " intellect-
ualism," merely serves to short-cut the real processes of
apprehension. It is like a measuring rod laid along the
surface of the ground touching it here and there, but merely
as a guide to hand or eye and giving no real contact with its
actual outline. For this we have to dip back into the stream
of sense-experience where we can feel ourselves into its strains
and pressures, its real directions, and its living meanings. If
this article were upon James as a psychologist, it would be
necessary again to express our gratitude to him for the service
he has done mental science by the emphasis he has laid upon
the presentational, or immediately given element in the cogni-
tive life. This is only equalled by our debt to him for his
exposition of the instinctive, or immediate element in the cona-
tive. But the question is of the relation of conception to
reality, and it is just here that we have to notice the same
kind of ambiguity as we found in his doctrine of truth. As
in the latter he started with an uncritical account of what is
meant by satisfaction and only gradually arrived at a statement
of the two different senses it may bear, so here, I think,
it can be shown that he started with a theory of conception,
which philosophy had already outgrown, and was only
beginning to realise its imperfections when, unfortunately, his
life was cut short. It is quite true that we may use con-
ception in the sense of a class notion or a general formula,
the leading feature of which seems to be the omission of
1
Meaning of Truth, p. 215.
LXII.] William James as Philosopher. 35
particulars. But already, long before James and Bergson had
begun to write, this notion of the " abstract universal
"
had been subjected to a destructive criticism, just on
the ground which these writers urge, of the partial and
schematic view that general ideas give of the concrete reality.
Here there is no difference, as James himself recognises when
he classes Hegel among the " thick " writers as contrasted
with the alleged thinness of his English interpreters.1
Where
difference begins (and it is a vital one) is in the plan
that is proposed for the correction of this abstractness.
To the idealist from Plato to Hegel the half truths of
the understanding have to look for correction, not back
to the uncriticised life of sense-experience, but forward to its
fuller interpretation by the aid of synthetic reason,
—
the resolute endeavour of thought to see the part in relation
to the whole,—which gives it its meaning. Do James and
Bergson mean to deny this ? In view of a careful collation of
the relevant passages in both, I cannot myself believe it. To
say that to get into touch with the truth about the world we
have to turn our backs upon the systematising, correlating
intelligence, and merge ourselves in the unsifted experiences of
the sensory world, is like saying that in order to live truly we
must set aside all reflection upon the meaning of life—all
attempt to bring our impulses into harmony with one another
and with the recpurements of social life, and fall back upon
uncriticised instinct. Here also I venture to think that
Professor James, by permitting himself to be led into
exaggeration by his generous enthusiasm for the real and the
concrete, has failed to make full use of the truth which
he grasped. It surely is no part of Humanism to depreciate
the place of the organising intelligence, whether in theory or
practice. Let the faith in this once be abandoned (and with
it our faith in our intellectual, moral and aesthetic ideals), we
have yet to learn what hold we can establish through
philosophy on the spiritual world, the vindication of whose
reality is the underlying motive of all James's works.
1
"He plants himself in the empirical flux of things and gets the impression
of what happens. Concepts were not in his eyes the static self-contained
things that previous logicians had supposed hut were germinative and passed
beyond themselves into each other." A Pluralistic Universe, "Hegel and his
Method," p. 89 foil.
36 Professor J. H. Muirhead. [PART
(3) The third point, the theory of " a Pluralistic Universe,"
has been in principle disposed of in what has been already
said. If, as we have just seen, the conception of the unity
of the intelligence with the world which it knows is a
presupposition of our experience : if, as James himself assures
us, "there is a push, an urgency within our very experience
against which we are on the whole powerless and which
drives us in the direction that is the destiny of our belief"
—a destiny he explains, as we have seen, as fulness and
consistency ; if the same presupposition, mutatis mutandis,
underlies our practice and is the inspiration of all our
art, how is it possible for the pragmatist to hold that the
world falls into disconnected parts ? In the admission of
such a possibility have we not again only the ghost of the
Absolutism, against which the whole theory is a revolt ?
Given such independent parts, would we not have just the
kind of Absolute we desire to exclude ? Or (if this is one of
the wiredrawn arguments against which James protests) what
is the pragmatic value of such an idea ? It gives us, we are
told, the sense of liberty. In a way it does. It gives us
the liberty of believing in the Devil, of supposing that the
world may be quite otherwise than it appears, and that the
"push" or urgency that James speaks of may, all unknown to
us, be counteracted by another, which in the end will falsify
all our beliefs and bring to nought all our efforts. But into
what " fruitful reforms " has such an idea ever led mankind ?
The one true ultimate basis of freedom is faith, not in the
contingency, but in the rationality of the world. James com-
plains of the statuesque unity of the world as the Platonist
conceives it. But Plato himself recognised that there are
other kinds of unity besides that of the statue. There is the
unity of a living thing, and there is the unity of a purposeful
act ; there is unity in the general tendency of biological
evolution, and there is unity in the stumbling progress through
trial and error of which human life seems to consist. With the
recognition of this we come back, I do not say to Monism, for
that is ambiguous in its turn, but to something quite different
from Pluralism —a world that seems in a way we are still
far from understanding pledged to honour the drafts our logical
and ethical ideas make upon it.
LXII.] William James as Philosopher. 37
If space had allowed, I believe I could have shown here
also that James, like all great thinkers, has himself provided
us with the means of correcting his own exaggerations. But
perhaps I have said enough to indicate the place this paper
would claim for him in the pantheon of modern philosophy.
He has himself told us that humanism is a spirit rather
than a formulated doctrine, " like one of those secular changes
that come upon public opinion overnight, as it were borne
upon tides '
too deep for sound or foam,' that survive all the
crudities and extravagances of their advocates, that you can
pin to no one absolutely essential statement, nor kill by any
decisive stab." This is truly and eloquently said. I for one
am far from desiring to kill it. On the contrary, I desire to
see it kept alive in the spirit of its distinguished founder,
and going on from more to more. To attain this object it is,
I believe, necessary that it should free itself from earlier limita-
tions and come out more whole-heartedly and consistently on
the side, if not of the will to believe, at any rate of the
belief in the will and the ultimate harmony between the make
of things and its deepest impulses and ideals.
38 Rigid Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
V.
PKOFESSOK PIGOU ON CKOSS-CORKESPONDENCES.
BY THE RIGHT HON. GERALD W. BALFOUR.
Those who see in the phenomena now familiarly known as
" cross-correspondences " something beyond mere fraud or chance
would appear at first sight to have two explanations to choose
from. Either the observed concordances must be wholly as-
cribed to telepathic action between the subconscious selves of
the automatists (the agency of their conscious selves being
supposed to be ex hypothesi excluded, or at least reduced to a
minimum) ; or else we must assume the intervention of some
intelligence external to the automatists—an intelligence which,
if it cannot be connected with any living person, presumably
is, what the script habitually claims it to be, a disembodied
spirit.
In an interesting paper which was published in the Proceedings
of June, 1909 (Vol. XXIII. pp. 286-303), Professor Pigou main-
tains the thesis that this choice of explanations is not really
open to us, at all events so far as the evidence from cross-
correspondences is concerned ;
that upon that evidence taken
alone we are not entitled even to suspend judgment, but are
bound, in accordance with the recognised methods of science,
to decide in favour of subliminal as against spiritual agency.
A criticism of Professor Pigou's paper by Sir Oliver Lodge
appeared in the Society's Journal for October, 1909, followed
by a reply from the author and a further rejoinder from his
critic in November.
Although these later contributions to the discussion have done
a good deal to clear up the issues raised in the original paper,
lxii.] Professor Pigou on Gross-Correspondences. 39
it appears to me that much still remains to be said : and
something, at least, of this I will try to say here.
Professor Pigou's argument may be reduced to three main
propositions and a conclusion.
(1) The Bamsden-Miles experiments show that the pro-
duction of a simple correspondence is not outside
the known powers of the subliminal self.
(2) The results of Dr. Verrall's attempts to get a certain
Greek phrase reproduced in Mrs. Verrall's automatic
script show that the subliminal consciousness can
also produce the complementary element in a comple-
mentary correspondence.
(3) The complementary element exhibited in what for
shortness' sake we may call the Verrall Case is
comparable in all essentials with the complementary
element in the best cross-correspondences recorded in
the Proceeding?, up to the date of Professor Pigou's
paper.
The conclusion which follows from these premises is that
the production of complementary correspondences of the best
type between two or more automatic scripts is within the
known powers of the subliminal self; and accordingly, in the
absence of other or further evidence, we are bound by the
recognised canons of scientific investigation to accept the sub-
liminal consciousness acting within its known powers as a more
probable cause of complementary correspondences than discarnate
entities whose existence is admittedly hypothetical.
Professor Pigou's conclusion would be an important one if
established, and this makes it the more necessary to subject
the three main propositions on which it is founded to searching
examination.
According to proposition (1) the Eamsden-Miles experiments
in thought-transference show that the production of simple
correspondences between the automatic scripts of different writers
is within the known powers of the subliminal consciousness.
How is this proved ? Professor Pigou starts from the fact
observed by Miss Eamsden that among the impressions she
received from Miss Miles " those which are the most surprisingly
40 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
correct are some which were never intentionally transferred at
all." From this experience—not an uncommon one in connection
with experimental thought-transference—he infers that the
subliminal self of A is sometimes capable of influencing the
perceptions of B apart from conscious will. If, now, A and
B are two automatic writers and A's subliminal self possesses
the capacity of influencing B's perceptions apart from conscious
will, we are entitled to conclude that A's subliminal self is able
to exercise a similarly independent influence on B's script. And
since, ex hypothcsi, it can influence A's script, it is evidently in
a position to bring about a simple correspondence between
the two.
The critical step in this argument is the inference that the
subliminal self of one person is sometimes capable of influencing
another person's conscious perceptions apart from conscious
will.
In the Bamsden-Miles experiments the general plan adopted
was that Miss Bamsden should think of Miss Miles regularly
at 7.0 p.m. on every day that an experiment was to be tried,
and write down the impressions that came to her. " Miss
Miles on her side had no fixed time for thinking of Miss
Bamsden, but thought of her more or less during the whole
day, and in the evening noted briefly what ideas had been
most prominently before her mind during the day, and which
she wished to convey, or thought might have been conveyed,
to Miss Bamsden" (Proc. Vol. XXI. p. 71).
It seems to me impossible in these conditions to infer with
any certainty that the conscious will of one or the other or
both of the experimenters was not an essential and determining
factor in the result. On the one side we have the conscious
will to transmit impressions, on the other the conscious effort
of expectant attention, each experimenter meanwhile fixing her
thoughts on the other. These are the invariable accompani-
ments of the phenomena. How can they be eliminated or
safely disregarded ? The fact that the impressions received by
Miss Bamsden were not always those which Miss Miles in-
tended to convey does not prove that the subliminal self of
Miss Miles was capable of influencing Miss Bamsden's percep-
tions apart from Miss Miles' conscious will, but only that the
particular impression transferred was sometimes independent of
LXII.] Professor Pigou on Cross-Correspondences. 41
Miss Miles' conscious will. 1
The attitude of Miss Miles'
conscious self may have been the conditio sine quel non of
there being any thought-transference at all. Moreover, even
if we were entitled to ignore the factor of Miss Miles'
conscious will, there remains the possible effect of Miss
Eamsden's conscious will still to be considered. There is
nothing in these experiments, so far as I can see, that would
warrant us in excluding the hypothesis that the true " agent
"
in the case was Miss Eamsden's conscious self, and that the
process was one of " tapping " Miss Miles' thoughts, conscious
or subconscious, rather than of passively receiving impressions.
Other observations of psychical phenomena might perhaps justify
the contention that the subliminal self of one person is capable
of influencing the perceptions of another person without the
exercise of conscious will on the part of either supraliminal
self; but this cannot, I think, be proved from the Eamsden-
Miles experiments taken alone.
Still less do these experiments prove a power on the part
of Miss Miles' subliminal self deliberately to influence Miss
Eamsden's perceptions. Even if we consent to treat the
conscious will of one or both of the supraliminal selves as
negligible factors in the result, the transference of impressions
may have been a mere automatic effect of interaction between
two psychical entities in which deliberate intention played no
part whatever. It is difficult to be quite sure of Professor
Pigou's attitude towards this important Cjuestion of intention.
When he argues from the experience of Miss Eamsden and
Miss Miles that " the subliminal self of (say) Mrs. Verrall
could probably bring about a simple correspondence between
her automatic script and that of some other scribe," and speaks
of the subliminal self as the " agent " who is " responsible
"
for the result ; still more when he claims to have shown that
the "manufacture" {Proceedings, Vol. XXIII. p. 294) of simple
correspondences is within its known powers, or speaks of the
subliminal self of one automatist as "trying" {pp. cit. p. 2 95)
i The fact that all the impressions conveyed had formed part of the contents
of Miss Miles' supraliminal consciousness at some time during the same day,
and that Miss Miles was thinking of Miss Ramsden more or less during the
whole day, makes the case weaker still from the point of view of Professor
Pigou's argument.
42 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
to impress a given idea on the automatic script both of herself
and of some other automatist, are we or are we not to
understand that he uses these terms in a sense implying
deliberate purpose on the part of the subliminal consciousness ?
If the answer is " yes," then I must insist in reply that
the mere fact of a simple correspondence occurring cannot, of
itself, form any ground for inferring intention. Other evidence
of intention may be forthcoming : for instance, an intimation
given in one script that an attempt has been, or will be,
made to obtain in another the emergence of the particular
word or idea that forms the subject of the correspondence.
Similarly we know from the testimony of Miss Miles' normal
self that she intended to convey certain impressions to Miss
Eamsden : but this cannot by any possibility be made to prove
that Miss Miles' subliminal consciousness could form such an
intention on its own account.
If, on the other hand, the answer is in the negative, if, that
is, we are to understand that he does not attribute deliberate
purpose to the subliminal self, the question immediately arises
whether some, at least, of the simple correspondences recorded
in the Proceedings cannot be shown to have been deliberately
produced by whatever agency was at work. Now that many
unmistakable cross-correspondences are claimed in the script to
be the deliberate work of the controls, and that this claim is
constantly put forward before the cross-correspondences have
been discovered, are facts familiar to all who have studied the
literature of the subject. It will hardly be disputed that these
facts constitute at least prima facie evidence of intention.
Unless this evidence can be discredited—and Professor Pis;ou
has made no attempt to discredit it—I must hold that his
argument, even if valid as regards involuntary correspondences,
falls short of what is required. The known powers of the
subliminal self will not have been proved to cover all the
phenomena which even simple correspondences sometimes
present.
Professor Pigou's second proposition, to which I now pass,
refers exclusively to the complementary element in a comple-
mentary correspondence. As the Eamsd en-Miles experiments
were supposed to show that the powers of the subliminal
lxii.] Professor Pigou on Cross-Corresjoondences. 43
consciousness extend to the independent production of simple
correspondences, so the Verrall case is now appealed to as
proving that the production of the complementary element in a
complementary correspondence is also included in those powers.
To make my criticism of this proposition intelligible it is
necessary to recapitulate the facts of the case as set forth in
Professor Pigou's own statement.
In April, 1901, Dr. Verrall wrote down a phrase from a
passage of Euripides, set for translation in the Classical Tripos
of 1873 when he was a candidate. The phrase consists of
three Greek words, fxovoirwXov e? aw, the more obvious meaning
of which would be " towards the one-horse dawn," though
according to an interpretation which Dr. Verrall inclines to
favour, the real meaning may be " towards the lonely-
wandering dawn." Dr. Verrall's intention, which he was
careful not to reveal to anybody, was to try for a reproduc-
tion of this phrase in Mrs. Verrall's automatic script.
A large number of what seem to be fragmentary repro-
ductions of the words or meaning of the phrase occurred in
Mrs. Verrall's script during the course of the next five
months. Of these Professor Pigou selects four, which he gives
as follows
:
July 4 : Yellow is the colour of the dawn.
Sept. 2 : e? to.
Sept. 1 1 : /xoVo? fxera 6eov ovSe aWov two? (alone with
God and none other).
Sept. 18: e(9 «7T7ro? (one horse).
In addition to these four " relevant passages," as he calls
them, Professor Pigou selects three others not in the nature
of reproductions, but capable of being interpretated with some
plausibility as applicable to incidents associated with the
phrase in Dr. Verrall's mind or connected with the Tripos
examination in which it occurred. The passages in question are
:
Aug. 20: "The long room with the many windows is
near this hot room, he was outside."
Sept. 20: "There were others there but he knew more
than the rest."
Sept. 9 :
" Find the herb inoly, that will help—it is a
guide."
44 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
Professor Pigou contends that if we suppose the four
partially reproductive passages " to have occurred in the
writings of separate automatists, we have all the conditions of
a typical cross-correspondence," and that the other three
passages add a finishing touch to the analogy and make it
complete. Let us pass this claim by for the moment, and
enquire how far he has succeeded in proving that the com-
plementary element in the case originated in the subliminal
activities of Dr. or Mrs. Yerrall or both.
A satisfactory proof of subliminal origin must at least exclude
two other possibilities—origin from a discarnate intelligence, and
origin from Dr. Verrall's supraliminal consciousness.
Professor Pigou dismisses the intervention of a discarnate
intelligence on the ground of superfluity—Dr. Verrall's conscious
self being already there to discharge any function for the sake
of which we might otherwise be tempted to invoke spiritual
agency. There is no doubt force in this contention. We do
not invoke spiritual agency to explain thought-transference in
the case of Miss Miles and Miss Eamsden. Why, it may be
asked, should we do so as between Dr. and Mrs. Verrall ?
The argument from superfluity is not perhaps absolutely
conclusive, but at all events I do not propose to contest it.
Granted, however, that we have no reason to call in the aid
of discarnate intelligences, the possible agency of Dr. Verrall's
conscious self still remains to be disposed of.
Professor Pigou, as we have seen, draws a distinction
between a complementary correspondence and the comple-
mentary element in a complementary correspondence. Replying
to Sir Oliver Lodge in the Society's Journal of November,
1909, he admits that the script relating to Dr. Verrall's test-
words " did not originate in subliminal activities, but in Dr.
Verrall's conscious purpose." To infer from the script that
a complementary correspondence can originate in subliminal
activity would not, in Professor Pigou's opinion, be legitimate.
But to infer from it that the complementary element in a
complementary correspondence can so originate, is legitimate,
for the reason that " it is clear that the complementary relation
between Mrs. Verrall's different scripts formed no part of Dr.
Verrall's intention."
If, however, intention is to be the test of origin, are we to
lxii.] Professor Pigou on Gross-Correspondences. 45
understand that Professor Pigou considers the complementary
relation between Mrs. Verrall's scripts to be due to intention
on the part of one or both of the subliminal consciousnesses at
work ? It would seem he ought to do so ; otherwise why is
the argument from absence of intention valid against origin
in Dr. Verrall's conscious self, and not equally valid against
subliminal origin ? On the other hand the general tenor of
Professor Pigou's paper rather suggests that in his view the
complementary element in this case (and therefore probably in
all other cases) is not intentional at all, but is a kind of
by-product arising out of the limitations to which subliminal
agency is subject.
These inconsistent points of view have their root in an
ambiguity which seems to haunt Professor Pigou's argument
throughout. I have already called attention to it when dealing
with his inferences from the Kamsden-Miles experiments. We
then saw that in claiming for the subliminal consciousness
power to bring about a simple correspondence, Professor Pigou
used expressions which appear to imply, though without
definitely affirming, that in this operation the subliminal self
was to be regarded as an agent acting with deliberate intention.
That, at least, appears to be the natural interpretation of the
language he employs, though its precise meaning is never,
perhaps, made clear beyond the possibility of doubt.
A similar obscurity meets us here in connection with
Professor Pigou's second proposition, and will meet us again in
connection with his third.
Complementary correspondences may be divided, in respect of
their complementary character, into two classes ; to the first
belong those in which the division of the idea as a whole into
complementary parts or aspects seems to proceed upon a deliber-
ately calculated scheme or plan ; to the second, those of which
this cannot be said. Let us agree to call the former purposive,
and the latter non-purposive—descriptive terms which will also
apply to the complementariness, or complementary element, in
them.
Professor Pigou is of course alive to the distinction between
the two classes ;
indeed, in speaking of the less complex comple-
mentary cases he tells us himself that absence of intention
deprives the complementariness of all significance. On the other
46 Rigid Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
hand he never clearly states—I may almost say he is careful
to avoid clearly stating—whether in his opinion the comple-
mentary element in the Verrall case is or is not intentional.
His argument seems to rest sometimes on one view, sometimes
on the other. When he contends that the complementary
element in the case could not have originated in Dr. Verrall's
supraliminal self because the complementary relation between
Mrs. Verrall's different scripts formed no part of Dr. Verrall's
conscious intention, he is really employing a test which is
applicable only to the purposive class : when he contends that
it must therefore have originated in subliminal activities, this
test is dropped, the distinction between the two classes is
allowed to fall into the background, and the reader is left free
to treat the correspondence, if he so please, as purely non-
purposive.
Now, complementariness of the non-purposive order being, as
Professor Pigou says, " of no significance," if the complementary
element in the Verrall case is wholly of this character, the
subliminal origin claimed for it is hardly worth calling in
question. Nevertheless, it may be of use to point out that
even for this lower form of complementariness Dr. Verrall's
supraliminal activities may have been largely responsible, and
that this possibility is not shut out by the mere fact that the
complementary relation of Mrs. Verrall's scripts formed no part
of Dr. Verrall's conscious intention. There are various ways
in which complementariness of the non-purposive kind may be
supposed to arise. For instance, it might be the purely accidental
result of a number of tentative approximations to an idea which
is never itself clearly grasped. Or it might have its source
in the changing moods of the percipient, if there be only one
as in the Verrall case, or in the idiosyncrasies of the different
percipients if there be more than one, as in the cross-corre-
spondences described in the Proceedings. Or again, it might
result incidentally from thought-transference from a consciousness
which, without any deliberate intention to produce comple-
mentariness, dwells now on one, now on another, aspect of the
idea to be transferred, with corresponding modification of the
impressions produced.
If we consider the passages quoted by Professor Pigou as
contributing to form the complementary element in the Verrall
lxii.] Professor Pigou on Gross-Correspondences. 47
case, we shall see reason to think, at least with respect
to one, and that perhaps the most striking of all, that the
explanation last given is probably the true one. " On
Sept. 18," writes Mrs. Verrall,1
"the script got vaguely hold
of the only idea not hitherto reproduced, namely, that of
'
horse '
in the ordinary view of the meaning of /j.ov6ttu>\o<;,
'
having one horse.' " (The writing on that date may be read
eunriro<;, i.e. of goodly horses, or et? 77T7ro?, i.e. one horse. The
latter is the reading adopted by Professor Pigou). " On this
occasion," continues Mrs. Verrall, " while I was writing in one
room, my husband sitting in another definitely fixed his mind
on the notion of '
horse '
which had so far been conspicuously
absent." In this instance, then, the evidence is entirely
opposed to Professor Pigou's contention. Dr. Verrall, from his
examination of the script, knew that something was wanting
and tried successfully to supply it.
Indeed it might fairly be claimed for this particular contri-
bution to the complementary element in the scripts that it
really did originate not merely in Dr. Verrall's conscious
thought, but in his conscious purpose. And if each fragmentary
contribution had a similar history, we should be obliged, I
think, to class the correspondence as purposive, and attribute
it wholly to Dr. Verrall's conscious self. As a matter of fact
this is not the case, and the complementariness, taken
altogether, must, in my opinion, be classed as non-purposive.
But all the fragments cited by Professor Pigou, with one single
exception, might, so far as we can tell, have had their origin
in the conscious, though undesigned,2
direction of Dr. Verrall's
thoughts at different times to different parts of the Greek
phrase, to its general meaning, or to the various associations
connected with it. The one fragment concerning which we
can definitely say that his conscious self could not have been
the direct source of inspiration is the sentence " Find the
herb moly, that will help—it is a guide." The connection of
the "herb moly" with the Classical Tripos of 1873 had been
entirely forgotten by Dr. Verrall, and therefore the reference to
it could not have been directly due to any conscious mental
activity on his part. But even here his desire to give " a
1
Proceedings, Vol. XX. p. 164.
2
I.e. undesigned so far as the production of complementariness is concerned.
48 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
clue " may have had some general influence on the script
produced, and have been the real motive power without which
subliminal activity could not have come into play.
It thus appears that if we make deduction of all the
contributions to the complementary element in the case which
it is possible to ascribe to Dr. Verrall's conscious mental
activities, what is left is hardly sufficient to prove subliminal
origin even of non-purposive complementariness against any one
who cared to dispute it ;
while of evidence to prove that the
production of purposive complementariness is within the powers
of the subliminal self Professor Pigou has not brought forward
so much as a vestige. In the absence of such evidence, his
second proposition, even if true in a sense, will remain without
relevance to the general argument so long as there is ground
for suspecting purpose in the complementary element in any
of the examples with which the Verrall case is put into
comparison.
This brings us to Professor Pigou's third proposition, which
asserts that the complementary element in the Verrall case is
comparable in all essentials with what we find in the best
complementary correspondences recorded in the Proceedings.
In examining the question here raised 1 may begin by
clearing two considerations out of the way. They are not with-
out interest, but they do not reach the heart of the matter.
In the first place, the things compared are, on the one side
complementary fragments distributed between different auto-
matists, on the other side complementary fragments presented
consecutively in the script of a single automatist. Professor
Pigou himself calls attention to this difference, but only to
set it aside as of no importance. I do not altogether agree
with him, but am ready for the nonce to accept his stand-
point and treat the complementary fragments in the Verrall
case as if they had been distributed contemporaneously among
several scripts instead of appearing consecutively in one.
In the second place, if we had nothing before us but the
isolated passages quoted by Professor Pigou from Mrs. Verrall's
script—but which we are now to imagine scattered between
various automatic writers—it is more than doubtful whether
even Mr. Piddington's ingenuity would ever have connected
LXII.] Professor Pigou on Cross-Correspondences. 49
them together, or referred them to the fxovoirwXov e? am of
Euripides. Both the connection and the reference really
depend on the knowledge we possess, apart from the script,
concerning Dr. Verrall's attempt at thought-transference. On
the other hand, in the best examples of cross-correspondences
to be found in the Proceedings, either the complementary
parts cohere sufficiently to tell their own tale to the
intelligent student of the scripts, assisted, of course, by their
approximately contemporaneous appearance, or the scripts
themselves give us helping hints enough to point our attention
in the right direction.
I do not insist further on the difference here indicated,
because it may be urged that it is only one of degree ; and
in many of the examples given in the Proceedings I should
be prepared to concede this. A little more or a little less of
coherence between the fragments might easily be sufficient on
the one hand to raise doubtful correspondences into certain
ones, on the other to prevent even the suspicion of a corre-
spondence from ever arising.
In the best cases of complementary correspondence, however,
I believe the difference is not merely of degree, but of kind.
It is the old issue once more—presence or absence of design.
But the old issue is also the important one, and I do not
think Professor Pigou has fairly faced it.
As I have already said, the complementary element in the
Verrall case, taken as a whole, must be regarded as non-
purposive. If we were justified in assuming that the com-
plementary element in all other cases known to us was
non-purposive, then I should be willing to admit that the
complementary fragments in the Verrall case, if distributed
between several autotnatists, presented a fair, though by no
means a favourable, example of the class generally. But to
assume this would be an obvious begging of the question.
For suppose a single case in which there was good reason to
infer a purposive correspondence either from the form of the
fragments and their interrelation, or from some indication
given in the script itself, then, so far as that case was con-
cerned, the analogy of the Verrall case would have broken
down. A correspondence of the purposive class is not in all
essentials comparable with one of the non-purposive class.
D
50 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
I do not suggest that Professor Pigou has been guilty of
this obvious petitio principii. But the procedure he has
adopted leads insensibly to much the same practical result.
He does not in so many words affirm that the complementary
element in all correspondences is non-purposive. He simply
avoids the point altogether. The question of intention, he now
tells us, is a secondary one. According to him a more satisfactory
method of procedure is " to leave it aside altogether, and ask
quite directly :
'
Do the complementary correspondences, the
authorship of which is now under investigation, differ in any
marked degree from other complementary correspondences that
we have grounds for attributing to subliminal agency ?
'
This," he adds, " is all we need : for if the answer is in the
negative, we know, without delving behind the facts for
explaining intentions, that the phenomena which we are study-
ing fall within the capacity of subliminal agents, and therefore,
on the principles here adopted, are probably due to them."
I venture to think that Professor Pigou's supposed improve-
ment in method is no improvement at all, and that its
adoption has led to unfortunate results. For I do not believe
it possible to make a useful comparison between the comple-
mentary correspondences in the Proceedings and the novoirwkov
case, without asking the very question which he eliminates
as being of secondary importance. It may not always be
easy to answer the question with confidence ; but unless we
ask it, it will be still more difficult to decide whether there
is a " marked degree of difference " between any given
complementary correspondence and the one which he sets up
as a standard of comparison. To ask whether the comple-
mentary element in a correspondence is purposive or non-
purposive is a help, not a hindrance, in determining whether
it differs " in a marked decree " from that which Dr. Verrall's
D
experiment exhibits.
It seems to me that we are entitled to press Professor
Pigou for an answer to these two questions : First, does the
relation of the complementary fragments in the Verrall case
show design, or does it not ? Secondly, is there or is there
not any ground for inferring design in the distribution of the
complementary fragments between different automatists in the
best examples to be found in the Proceedings ? In his paper
lxil] Professor Pigou on Gross-Correspondences. 5J
he has avoided a definite answer to either question ; but if
brought to bay and compelled to reply, I think he must
needs answer both in the negative, or else frankly abandon his
second and third propositions as untenable.
My own answer to the first of these questions has already
been given. The complementary element in the Verrall case
is in my judgment non-purposive—or if any trace of purpose
can be detected in it, we must ascribe this to Dr. Verrall's
conscious desire to till up an observed gap in the automatic
script, and not to the subliminal activities either of himself or
of Mrs. Verrall. The second question still awaits discussion.
If it can be answered in the affirmative—if, that is, it be
possible to show that the complementary element in the best
cross-correspondences is purposive—the counter-case to be made
in reply to Professor Pigou's paper will be complete.
This aspect of the subject was discussed in an article
contributed by me to the Eibbert Journal of January, 1909,
shortly after Mr. Piddington's paper on " Concordant Auto-
matisms
" 1
appeared, and I am unwilling to labour over the
same ground again. I will therefore deal with it as briefly
as I can.
I had occasion to point out, earlier in this paper, that a
simple correspondence, that is to say, a straightforward con-
cordance between two or more automatic scripts, cannot be
made to yield proof that an intelligent will has been at work
to produce the concordance. Evidence of intention in such a
case can only come from something added to the concordance
—for instance, a subsequently verified claim in the script
itself that a given word or idea is the subject of a corre-
spondence which has been, is being, or is about to be
produced under conditions which exclude normal communica-
tion between the automatists.
Complementary correspondences have in this respect an
advantage over simple ones. Evidence that the complementari-
ness is intentional may be derived not only from supplementary
indication of purpose afforded by statements in the script, but
also from the distribution of the complementary parts and
the nature of the relations between them.
To illustrate this, let us suppose that four automatists sit
1
Proceedings, Vol. XXII.
52 Rigid Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
independently on the same day, and produce scripts each of
which contains a reference to the Ace of Hearts. Here we
have a simple correspondence, and there is nothing in the
nature of the concordance between the scripts to prove that
it may not have resulted from the blind operation of psychical
laws, and not at all from the deliberate action of an intelligent
will.
Next suppose that instead of all four scripts containing a
reference to the Ace of Hearts, one of them mentions the Ace
of Hearts, another the Ace of Diamonds, a third the Ace
of Clubs, and the fourth the Ace of Spades. Here we have
a complementary correspondence. The complete idea would be
the combined aces of the pack, and the distribution of a
different ace to each automatist cannot but suggest the
possibility that design, and not merely chance, has been at
work.
Let me now take a very extreme illustration, and suppose
that instead of four automatists we have fifty- two, and that
each separate script names a different card of the pack. In
this case the complete idea is evidently the whole pack, and
the distribution and mutual relation of its parts is such as to
make the presence of design a practical certainty.
I repeat, this is an extreme illustration, and I do not for
a moment pretend that any real example we can point to
approaches it for cogency. But that some of the examples in
the Proceedings do make probable the existence of design in
the distribution and relation of the complementary parts is a
conclusion which I find it difficult to resist. Two of the best
cases of this kind are described in Mr. Piddington's paper
under the headings " Light in West " and " Euripides." 1
As
regards these, I may perhaps be allowed to refer to my article
in the Hibbert Journal, where they are dealt with at some
length. Here is another example which I choose for its com-
parative simplicity.
On the 16th of April, 1907, Mrs. Holland, in India,
produced a script of which these were the opening sentences :
Maurice. Morris. Mors.
And with that the shadow of death fell upon him, and his
soul departed out of Iris limbs.
1
Proceedings, Vol. XXII. pp. 241-281.
lxil] Professor Pigoit on Cross-Correspondences. 53
On the following clay, during the waking-stage of Mrs. Piper's
trance, the word Sanatos was uttered, but altered immediately
afterwards to Tanatos. There can be no doubt that this was
a misapprehension or mispronunciation of Thanatos ; and on
the 23rd the word emerged in its correct form. {Thanatos
is of course the Greek, and Mors the Latin, for Death).
On the 29 th of April Mrs. Verrall wrote a piece of script
wholly occupied with references to Death. It contained, inter
alia, no less than four quotations, one from Landor, one from
Virgil, one from Horace, and one from Shakespeare, all directly
involving the idea of death, although, as Mr. Piddington justly
remarks, the word itself seems to be studiously shunned.
Mors indeed occurs in the passage from Horace ; but the
Shakespearian quotation "Come away, come away, [Death]"
appears in a truncated form with the significant noun omitted.
On the 30th Mrs. Piper again uttered the word Thanatos
during the waking-stage, repeating it three times over in
close succession.
In this case the same idea is expressed by all three
automatists, and the complementary element lies in what
seems to be a calculated difference of form. Mrs. Piper is
totally ignorant of Greek : Mrs. Holland is quite unfamiliar
with Latin. Yet Mrs. Piper's utterance is confined to the
bare Greek equivalent, which she evidently does not under-
stand ;
the Latin equivalent is the prominent word in Mrs.
Holland's script ; and the emergence in both cases suggests a
sound heard rather than an idea apprehended, the Maurice,
Morris, Mors of Mrs. Holland answering to the Sanatos,
Tanatos, Thanatos of Mrs. Piper. Meanwhile in Mrs. Verrall's
script there appears to be a deliberate avoidance of the word
" death," the idea being conveyed entirely by means of literary
allusions.
I should be strongly inclined to suspect intelligent purpose
in the peculiarities of an arrangement like this, even without
taking into account the numerous intimations of intention so
often given by the scripts in connection with cross-correspon-
dences. But these intimations cannot be ignored if we are
to form a right judgment on the question now before us. No
doubt in most instances the claim put forward in the scripts
only applies to the production of a cross-correspondence, not
54 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
to the production of a complementary element in it. The
latter would of course imply the former, but not vice versd.
Passages may also be found, however, which must be con-
strued as intimations that the distribution of different parts of
an idea to different automatists is intentional. The Ave Roma
immortalis correspondence, which is one of the two selected by
Professor Pigou for comparison with the Verrall case, is an
instance in point. The completed idea here is that of a well-
known picture in the Vatican. Mrs. Verrall's script gives
various details of the picture, unmeaning to herself, but all
brought into an intelligible whole by the phrase Ave Roma,
immortalis occurring a few days later in Mrs. Holland's script.
The nature and distribution of the complementary parts in this
case may be faintly suggestive of design, but are certainly
not unmistakeably so. On the other hand their appearance in
each script is accompanied by comments which throw further
light on the matter. For on March 2nd, when the cross-
correspondence begins, Mrs. Verrall is told by the script that
word will be sent her " through another lady," and that after
some days she will easily understand what the scribe says
:
and on March 7th, when the cross-correspondence ends, Mrs.
Holland's contribution is followed by the words " How could
I make it any clearer without giving her the clue ?
" These
two comments taken together can only mean (1) that a cross-
correspondence was being deliberately brought about ; (2) that
the complementary element in it was purposive, the object
being to keep back from Mrs. Verrall a clue-giving fragment
of the whole idea.
For another very interesting illustration of the way in which
the intentional and purposive character of a cross-correspondence
can be brought out by comments in the script itself I may
refer to the " Sesame and Lilies " case, published in the latest
volume of the Proceedings?- since Professor Pigou's paper was
written.
Let me now try to summarise the results of this long dis-
cussion. If I am right, Professor Pigou's argument fails at
almost every point.
The Eamsden-Miles experiments do not prove that a simple
correspondence can originate in subliminal activities apart from
1
Vol. XXIV. pp. 264-3-26.
lxii.] Professor Pigou on Gross-Correspondences. 55
the conscious will of a supraliminal self. Still less do they
prove that a subliminal self acting on its own account can
deliberately produce a simple correspondence.
The Verrall experiment does not prove that the comple-
mentary element in a purposive correspondence can originate in
subliminal activities. Even as regards complementariness of
the non-purposive order the experiment seems to prove little
or nothing. But complementariness of this kind has no special
significance. We may readily admit the probability that its
source is often subliminal ; and in a sense, therefore, it may
be said to be within the powers of the subliminal self to
produce it. In this connection, however, it would be less mis-
leading to speak of the impotence, or the limitations, of the
subliminal self than of its powers.
Finally, Professor Pigou's contention that the complementary
element in the Verrall case
1
is in all essentials similar to that
of the best correspondences to be found in the Proceedings is
not, in my opinion, tenable. His argument tacitly implies
either that all these correspondences are non-purposive, or else
that purposiveness is a negligible feature in the cases which
show evidence of it. The latter alternative has nothing to
commend it : the former does not appear to me to be borne
out by the facts.
My conclusion is that Professor Pigou has not succeeded in
proving that the production of complementary correspondences
of the best type is within the known capacities of the sub-
liminal self. It may, indeed, be within the capacities of the
subliminal self to plan and carry out such complementary
correspondences : but this is hypothesis, and until it is proved
we are entitled to set against it another hypothesis, and to
suspend judgment between the two. I confess that this is
still my own attitude. It is no easy matter to find firm
ground anywhere ;
we must continue to feel our way cautiously
in more than one direction. At the same time, I doubt
whether any final verdict is likely to be reached along the
lines followed by Professor Pigou. He rests the whole weight
of his argument on experimental telepathy. Now, in experi-
mental telepathy we must, from the very nature of the case,
start from supraliminal activity. Starting from supraliminal
x
For additional Note by Mrs. Verrall oa this case, see below, p. 109.
—
Ed.
56 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
activity, is there any point at which we are logically justified
in cutting loose from it, even where the idea transferred is
not consciously present in the mind of the presumed agent ?
To put the difficulty in another way, in proportion as we
eliminate supraliminal activity, we eliminate also the experi-
mental character of the enquiry, and find ourselves dealing with
nearer and nearer approximations to the very automatic states
whose capacities we set out to ascertain by an appeal to ex-
perimental analogies. Thus we are no further advanced, and
our problem lies still unsolved before us.
LXII.] Further Sittings with Etbsapia Palladino. 57
VI.
EEPOET ON A FURTHER SERIES OF SITTINGS
WITH EUSAPIA PALLADINO AT NAPLES.
I.
General Report.
By the Hon. Everard Feilding and W. Marriott.
Naples, December 5th, 1910.
With a view to attempting to confirm either the favourable
report on Eusapia Palladino issued by Messrs. Feilding,
Baggally and Carrington, published in Proceedings, Vol. XXIII.
(Part LIX., November, 1909), or the unfavourable one by
Mr. W. S. Davis in the American S.P.R. Journal for August,
1910, a short series of five sittings was held in Naples in
November and December, 1910. The sitters were as follows:
Stances I. and II.—Count and Countess Perovsky-Petrovo-
Solovovo and Mr. Feilding.
Seance III.—Count Solovovo, Mr. W. Marriott, Mr. Feilding.
„ IV.—As in No. III. and Countess Solovovo.
V.—Mr. Marriott and Mr. Feilding.
At Seance I. the control was at the time considered so
unsatisfactory that, although fraud was not specifically proved,
neither Count Solovovo nor Mr. Feilding is disposed to attach
any evidential importance to the few small phenomena which
occurred.
Seance II. was the only one at which, with the possible
exception of table levitations, any phenomena of the slightest
interest occurred. They were, however, of so insignificant a
character that, especially in the light of the possible fraud at
58 Farther Sittings with Eusdpia Palladino. [part
the first Seance, and the undoubted fraud in the last three,
none of the three sitters is disposed to draw any positive
conclusions. Seances III., IV., and V. were in the opinion of
all those present unquestionably mainly, and in the opinion
of Mr. Marriott wholly, fraudulent. The medium evaded
throughout any effective control, frequently making it impossible
for the sitter on her left side to prevent her from releasing
her left hand or foot, and took advantage of this to make
constant use of them, as well as of her elbow, for the
production of spurious phenomena. Such phenomena con-
sisted of (1) shaking movements of the curtain, throwings of
it over her shoulder, surreptitious pullings at it with her hands
or elbow, kickings at it with her feet. (2) Touches with her
left foot on her neighbours. (3) Upsetting of the cabinet table
with her elbow. (4) Moving of a chair with her foot. (5)
Lifting of the cabinet table with her hand after effecting its
release,—not by substitution, but merely by removing it from the
back of the controller's hand, this position being the only form
of control she would usually permit. As regards this last effect,
it may be added that though Messrs. Feildiug and Marriott
distinctly saw the movement of the medium's hand and arm
against a background of luminous paint, Countess Solovovo,
who was controlling the hand in question on the table and
under the curtain, had the distinct impression of its continuous
grasp. Count Solovovo is inclined to consider the hypothesis
of some abnormal suggestive influence on the part of the medium
to account for this impression.
With this tentative exception, all the sitters are agreed
that the whole of the above-named phenomena were entirely
fraudulent. As regards the table movements, consisting, in the
last three seances, of only one total and two partial levitations,
Mr. Marriott is strongly of opinion that these also were
fraudulent, inferring from the position of the hands that they
were accomplished by a balance of the table between the left
hand and foot, and by an upward throw of her (E. P.'s) fingers
respectively. Mr. Feildiug, who was actually observing the
hands at the time, disputes the conclusion that these actions
did, in fact, take place, but is not disposed to lay any stress
upon a few phenomena sporadically occurring among others of
an unquestionably fraudulent character. He is further of
lxil] Farther Sittings with Euscipia Palladino. 59
opinion that the table movements were the only phenomena
which in any way resembled the occurrences at the former
Naples series of experiments, and states that the conditions of
control permitted were wholly different from those permitted
in that series.
The seances in question appear identical with the seances
described by Mr. Davis. The medium pleaded illness and
fatigue throughout, and although it had been intended to hold
a series of ten or twelve seances, it was not thought worth
while to continue any longer in the circumstances.
At the termination of the series Eusapia was informed of
the negative conclusions which had been arrived at and of the
spurious nature of the phenomena which had been presented.
While not disputing the justice of these conclusions, she stated
that she had no recollection of anything that transpired after
the close of the table movements which usually occupy the
first part of her sittings, after which the light is reduced for
other phenomena. She pleaded her state of health as an
excuse for her failure to give satisfaction. She nevertheless
accepted her full fee.
IT.
Statement by Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
December, 1910.
Whilst substantially agreeing with the above report, I feel
bound to make the following reservations and observations
:
With regard to Seance II. some of the things which happened
impressed me favourably. I was twice touched on my right
side ; a little table in the " cabinet " was suddenly and violently
overturned ; and one of the objects which then fell off it
moved along the floor for a very appreciable period of time.
The hand and foot control seemed to me very satisfactory ; at
least we repeatedly said so at the time, and 1 wrote so in my
notes the day after. I think in such incidents it is the im-
pression felt at the time of the occurrence (I am speaking of
experienced enquirers only) which must really count—-not the
one produced by subsequent unfavourable circumstances (unless
revealing sources of error hitherto unsuspected), or even merely
" as time goes on." Of course into my expressed conviction
60 Farther Sittings with Eusapia Palladino. [part
of the efficacy of the hand-control there entered even at the
time an appreciable element of uncertainty due to the fact that,
as usual, E. P. did not allow her hand to be grasped (I will
revert to this point). In my note on the sitting in question
I say also that " the conviction 1 here express . . . does not
apply to the possible hypothetical use of an apparatus."
With regard to Seance III. and the incident in connection
with my wife controlling, it should be noted that at the time
the table was lifted up as if by Eusapia's hand, her right hand
ivas linlcecl with F.'s on the table uncovered and dimly visible (as
stated in my note written out on the next day), whereas her
left was 'under the curtain (also upon the table) and invisible.
Our impression at the time (as expressed by E.) was that
" substitution was impossible " (see my next day note). And to
quote my wife's words in her written statement (made the
next day) :
" I positively deny having lost contact with E. P.'s
hand a single moment during the incident described."
I may mention that before our sittings had begun I had
said to Mr. Feilding that it seemed to me very desirable to
make some decisive step in advance with regard to the con-
ditions of the " phenomena," and in view of all the doubts
and discussions to which the question of hand-holding with
E. P. gives rise, I suggested that we should " count" only
those " phenomena " which should occur with at least one of
the meelium's hands visible. Neither of us seemed afterwards
inclined to adhere unreservedly to so high a standard ! But
in the incident under consideration we seem to have come
within measurable distance of it ! And though the unavoidable
lack of information as to certain particulars—for instance as
to the exact distance separating Eusapia's two hands—is much
to be regretted, this occurrence has on the whole seemed to
me to be very instructive and tending to give support to the
theory that a " medium " is occasionally able—whether con-
sciously or unconsciously—to induce in the person controlling
him something like a tactile hallucination, for which view
there is to my mind very strong evidence on record in the
"chair-threading" experiments with Sambor. 1
1
These experiments (at least those made with this special aim by myself and
my friends) have absolutely convinced me that either passage of matter
through matter is a fact, or that a medium's hand, even when very well held
lxii.] Further Sittings with Eusapia Palladino. 61
With regard to the table movements, I agree with Mr.
Feikling in thinking most of them inconclusive ; but I con-
sider that one partial table-levitation (away from Eusapia) which
we witnessed at the end of the third sitting, in a bright
light, three persons (Mr. Feikling, Mr. Meeson, the stenographer,
and myself) controlling E. P. and Mr. Marriott looking on, was
rather remarkable, and I thought it difficult at the time to
admit that Mr. Marriott's explanation (as given in the report)
could be the true one. I may add that from what he told me
I inferred that he had not actually seen E. P. throw up the table
with her fingers, but had concluded that this was her method.
On the whole, and though I am by no means absolutely
certain that any table movements and levitations we witnessed
were genuine, I think that here is matter for further investi-
gation. The conditions under which these things occur make
me think that they are or may be suitable for scientific
enquiry and I hope they may be investigated again. Even an
exposure of E. P.'s levitations so extremely damaging to her
mediumistic reputation as W. S. Davis's does not explain
everything, and gives us no right whatsoever to answer the
question definitely in the negative.
On the other hand, E. P.'s " cabinet phenomena," as I
have witnessed them (both in Naples in 1910 and in St.
Petersburg in 1898), have left me under the impression
that here matters ought to be seriously mended before we in-
vestigate them further. I agree with Mr. Marriott in thinking
that the hand control she usually admits when such " pheno-
mena " occur is practically non-existent. She throws every
obstacle in the way of this hand control. In my experience,
at least, she constantly objected to my holding even her thumb
or her little finger. She constantly complained of my squeez-
(not in the least as Eusapia's hands are), can liberate itself, and afterwards
return to its original position without the controller becoming aware of it.
And after some conversations I had on the subject with Mr. Marriott (an
expert in conjuring) I am even more than before inclined to see in this "chair-
threading" some unusual form of "supernormal suggestion,'' and shall not
believe this to have been a trick in the ordinary sense of the word until I
have been shown the same thing by a regular conjurer.
On the other hand, I still maintain that we have no good evidence whatever
of the possible production of collective hallucinations at spiritistic seances,
visual or other [Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XXI., pp. 436-482).
62 Further Sittings vnth Eusapia Palladino. [part
ing her hand too much. She insisted on her hands being
covered (with the curtain), and even asked that they should
be brought nearer to one another, and this at the most
successful sitting of the series,—the 2nd ! The hand-sub-
stitution I noticed repeatedly. Apart from this, she constantly
changes the respective positions of her limbs—both feet and
hands. The latter especially are a regular pierpetuum mobile.
Now this circumstance is extremely important, for as the
conditions of the control are perpetually and ceaselessly
changing, illusions of memory as to the exact conditions under
which something occurred are eminently apt to spring up.
Of course the presence of a shorthand writer will to a great
extent eliminate this source of error ;
but, seeing that no
shorthand writer was present at the great majority of obser-
vations in the case of E. P., my present impression is that the
great bulk of the evidence re her " cabinet-phenomena " is of
no decisive importance.
In my experience, then, with such control as E. P. admits,
complete conviction in the true sense of the word is strictly speaking
unattainable. And what, I ask, is the use of " relative convic-
tion " like the one, say, I felt as to the efficacy of the control
at Seance II. ? The fact that I had this impression at the
time is interesting ; but it does not carry us one step further.
At most we are driven to the " supernormal suggestion " theory.
At future scientific seances E. P. must either allow her hands
to be plainly visible to all, or allow them to be grasped (as
Sambor invariably did, as I have said, during the experiments
with the " chairs," thus giving something amounting to absolute
conviction). The foot-control, in which she places her foot
upon that of her neighbour, should also be done away with.
These demands are eminently reasonable. It is simply prepos-
terous to assert that they could act negatively on the " pheno-
mena." Enough time, money and work has already been spent,
and strictly speaking to no avail. A new departure must be
made at last.
If E. P. consents to the above conditions, well and good
;
if she does not, she must either be left alone ; or—a course
of action I should recommend—in future experiments we should
no longer investigate the " cabinet-phenomena " themselves, but
the conditions of the control at the time such "phenomena " are
lxil] Farther Sittings with Eusapia Palladino. 63
occurring. Any " manifestations " taking place with both of
E. P.'s hands invisible (supposing they are controlled as un-
satisfactorily as they are now) should not be taken into account
at all. And particular attention should be given to making
clear whether anything will happen with either one or both of
the medium's hands visible. In the former case we shall
have to give full weight to the " supernormal suggestion
"
theory ; and only in the latter—if positive results are obtained
—shall we really have to face the hypothesis of a new " physical
force " and the like. If, on the contrary, after a new series
of experiments it is clearly shown that no " cabinet-phenomena
"
occur when both the medium's hands are visible, this negative
conclusion will be also very important and will make it
probable that in former experiments too we need not look
beyond errors of observation, illusions of memory, etc. (coupled
perhaps sometimes with some kind of " suggestion ") to account
for the most puzzling of Signora Palladino's performances.
Of course the question of the foot-control too is of vital
importance, since I, for my part, have little doubt that the
medium's feet may more than once have played a fundamental
part in " spirit " touches and grasps.
III.
Detailed Account of the Table-Lifting Incident.
(a) Extract from Mr. Feilding's Notes on Seances
III. and IV. {November 26 and 28, 1910.)
December 1, 1910.
In the course of the two seances the " phenomena " pro-
duced consisted of a few raps of doubtful origin, apparently
not in the table ; a few slides of the table of about an inch
at a time, not shown to be fraudulent but under unsatisfactory
conditions ;
an upsetting of the cabinet table to all appearances
accomplished by [E. P.'s] elbow; bulgings of the dress (quite unlike
any bulgings which I have previously seen) and apparently
done with the foot ; a few movements of the curtain clearly
seen to have been done with the hand after substitution had
been effected ; a movement of a chair close to the medium,
64 Farther Sittings with Eusapia Palladino. [part
evidently done by the foot after substitution bad actually been
notified ; and the lifting of the cabinet table clearly seen by
Marriott and myself against a card of luminous paint to have
been done with the hand controlled by Countess Solovovo.
Also one total and two or three partial levitations, as to which
there is a difference of opinion between Marriott and the rest
of us. It would be absurd to lay stress on small matters of
this kind following on a series of purely fraudulent phenomena.
The chief point of interest is the lifting of the cabinet table
visibly by Eusapia's hand, notwithstanding that the Countess
insisted on her not having lost control of the hand in questioc
No substitution had been effected, her right hand being visible
in mine, and the only apparent alternatives are either the
formation of a fiuidic hand on Countess Solovovo's (a theory
put forward by Cavaliere Chiaja) to lift the table ; or else a
mere lapse in her observation. Taking the case on its own
merits, the latter is of course the more reasonable assumption.
(b) Note on Seance of November 28, 1910.
By Count Solovovo.
November 29th, 1910.
My wife controlling all the time on E. P.'s left, F., Mr.
Marriott, Meeson, then E. again on her right.
The seance may be safely put clown as—to say the least—of
an extremely suspicious character throughout, with, however,
one exception. At a certain moment when an attempt was
being " mediumistically " made to pick up something in the
cabinet from the floor, F., who was controlling E. P. on her
right, saw against a luminous background E. P.'s left arm pro-
ducing the movement. Mr. Marriott, who was under the table
holding E. P.'s feet, saw the same thing. The medium's right
hand, linked with F.'s, was on the table uncovered and dimly
visible. The medium's left hand, which my wife controlled,
was also upon the table, but covered with part of the curtain.
On E. asking my wife whether she had not let E. P.'s hand
go, she emphatically denied it, stating that E. P., though not
allowing her to hold her hand all the time in the proper sense,
did not withdraw it for a single moment, and repeatedly
clutched at it.
lxii.] Further Sittings with Eusapia Palladino. 65
As F. said at the time, substitution was impossible. I also
dimly saw E. P.'s right hand linked with his over or on the table.
My wife's conviction that at the time she had not released
the medium's hand was absolute. But it is of course possible
that after being told over and over again by that cleverest of
conjurers, Mr. Marriott, that she was mistaken, she may feel less
certain about the matter. But we should not allow such
suggestions to work—whether one way or the other ; and in
justice to E. P. my wife's original and complete conviction
should be put on record.
(c) Note by Countess Solovovo.
November 29th, 1910.
I positively deny having lost contact with Eus. P.'s hand a
single moment during the incident described, and, as my hand
with her left one was under the curtain, on the table, whereas
her right was visible, though it is true very dimly, and held
by F., and not near enough to mine to touch me with it, she
was not able to make one of her hands do duty for two.
[In reply to questions, the following further details of the
incident were sent to us by Countess Solovovo.—Ed.]
January 16 th, 1911.
(1) I was holding E. P.'s hand very lightly, because she
complained of being scpieezed too tightly each time I tried to
hold her hand fully in mine, and most of the time she had
her hand on my hand and pressed it very strongly each time
a movement occurred, or was patting it, but not for a second
did I lose contact with it ; and when Mr. FeildinQ said :
" She
is using her hand, because I saw it clearly trying to lift up
the little table," I did not think he was speaking of the hand
/ held (I was so sure of having had it on mine all the
time), and when he told me I must have let it go, I posi-
tively denied it, and up till now I am as sure as one can
be of anything that she did not use the hand that was in
mine (or on mine).
(2) Her hand was not motionless, for, as I said before, she
moved it about over mine, patted me, pressed my hand very
strongly sometimes, sometimes let me hold hers fully in mine,
E
66 Further Sittings with Eusapia Palladino. [part
then would turn my hand down and put hers over, but all
the time without taking it off entirely ; and when her hand
was over mine, I several times turned my hand and felt with
my fingers if her fingers were on my hand, and each time I
felt them I tried to do the same thing with my thumb, and
I felt also that it was the same hand I held all the time.
Our hands were on the table and covered by the end of the
left part of the curtain.
(3) My attention was all the time concentrated on holding
her hand, as I was sure of her foot, Mr. Marriott controlling
both feet under the table. He told me a few days later
that most likely my attention had been too much concen-
trated on holding her hand, and that on account of the
tension of my mind I had not remarked when she had
slipped away from me ; but I am sure that if I had said
my mind had been quite free during the time I held her,
and that I was not entirely and only occupied in observing
the hand I held, Mr. Marriott would have said I had been
" distraite," and had not remarked when Eusapia took away
her hand.
I think also that, had she taken away her hand for a
short time and afterwards brought it back again, I should
have felt a difference in my sensations before and after she
had removed her hand, whereas I felt no difference at all,
and continued feeling her hand in or on mine.
The little table was not lifted on to the table we sat at
(as far as I remember, perhaps I am wrong); it seems to me
it was lifted behind the curtain and then fell down again.
But it was only Mr. Feilding and Mr. Marriott who could see
what was going on behind the curtain ; I could not, as I was
not sitting facing the opening in the middle of the curtain,
but just behind it ; that is, the left half of the curtain was
opened in the middle, near E. P.'s head and shoulder, and, as
I was sitting on her left-hand side, I could not see what was
going on inside the cabinet unless I bent very much forward,
and at that moment I was absorbed only in attending to the
hand I held.
My impression is that she did not use her left hand in
lifting the little table, and during all the sitting it seemed to
me she was trying very hard to move the objects, but not
lxii.] Further Sittings with Eusapia Palladino. 67
with her physical hands, but with some inner power, and she
seemed to suffer and to be very tired each time something
had moved.
I think this is all I remember of the sitting ; it is very
incomplete, but I have a very bad memory for details, and
remember only my impressions.
Barbara Perovsky-Solovovo.
IV.
Comments on the Above.
By Alice Johnson.
Countess Solovovo's careful and detailed description of her
sensations during this incident seems to me to show clearly that
it was not, as Mr. Feilding suggests, through any " mere lapse
in her observation " that she let Eusapia's hand go ; while
the fact that the hand had somehow become free was proved
by the joint observations of Mr. Feilding and Mr. Marriott.
A lapse of attention or observation is a thing that frequently
occurs in ordinary life ;
everybody must be familiar with the
experience of failing to notice an object directly within his
view when he is thinking of something else. In some cases this
may almost amount to what is called a " negative hallucination."
But this is quite different from what Countess Solovovo
describes. Instead of failing to notice the presence of an
object, she had a clear perception of its presence while it was
absent : that is, she had a distinct and full-blown positive
hallucination or illusion, lasting evidently for a perceptible
period of time.
I am especially interested in this, because I have long
been convinced that a similar experience happened to me
during my second sitting with Eusapia at Cambridge in
1895. On that occasion Eusapia was standing up, Mr.
Myers standing on one side and holding her right arm and
hand, and I on the other side holding her left arm and hand,
my right arm being interlaced with her left. The two other
persons present were sitting on the floor behind her, so as to
see her dimly outlined against the white ceiling, the room
being extremely dark. These witnesses saw an elongated
68 Further Sittings with Eusapia Palladino. [part
object proceeding from her body, moving about and often
changing in shape and length. It was too dark for them to
see how it was attached to her, or how the controllers were
holding her ; but if her left arm had got free, it could easily
have executed all the movements, and in doing so would have
presented just the appearance they described. The evidence
that the arm was not free depended solely on my conviction
that I was holding it. I was certain at the time that I was
holding it ; but later, in view not only of the systematic
frauds discovered, but also of my observations of various illu-
sions experienced at these sittings, I became convinced that
my impressions as to holding her arm on that occasion were
purely hallucinatory.
The evidence for this is, of course, not so clear as in Countess
Solovovo's case, since at the Cambridge sitting it was too dark
for the witnesses actually to see whether the elongated object
was Eusapia's arm or not ; and as they supposed at the time
that I was holding the arm, they took the object to be
something else. At the Naples sitting there was more light,
for the background was of luminous paint instead of an ordinary
white-washed ceiling, and here the arm that lifted the small
table was seen to be attached normally to Eusapia's left shoulder.
If it had been too dark to see this, the sitters would probably
have regarded the movement as supernormally performed, on
the strength of Countess Solovovo's conviction—apparently so
well founded—that she was holding Eusapia's left hand.
In my paper " On the Education of the Sitter " (Proceedings,
Vol. XXL, pp. 483-511) I brought forward evidence derived
from various different sources in support of the hypothesis
that some mediums have an unusual power of imposing illusions
and hallucinations on their sitters, and that this may account
for some of the most remarkable records of apparently telekinetic
phenomena. The case described above tends to confirm this
hypothesis. It does not, of course, explain all the phenomena
reported on good evidence to have occurred in the presence of
Eusapia ; but it suggests that those which depend for their
authenticity on the testimony of one witness as to the control
exercised—and a considerable proportion of the best cases come
under this definition—must be seriously discounted.
LXir.] Further Sittings with Eusapia Palladino. Git
V.
Note on the Eepokt.
By W. W. Baggally.
I should like to make a few remarks on the above Beport.
Both the American sittings and those lately held with Eusapia
Ballaclino differ materially in many respects, but principally in
the following, from those held by Mr. Feilding, Mr. Carrington
and myself in Dec. 1908. In the American and in the
recent Naples sittings no phenomena were obtained under the
following conditions :
" when both the medium's hands were
distinctly visible away from or quietly resting on the seance
table, or both hands clearly seen when being held by the
controllers and at the same time her body was in view down
to her feet." In these cases the supposition that the phenomena
were produced fraudulently through the substitution or release
of one of her hands or feet could not be entertained.
It was the phenomena under the above test conditions,
which we obtained at our seances in Dec. 1908, that greatly
impressed me, and I laid particular stress on them (and gave
some examples) in my final note in the Report of our Naples
sittings. So far I have not met with any satisfactory explana-
tion of how Eusapia could have produced these phenomena by
normal means. It is certain that no accomplice was present,
and we had satisfied ourselves by examination that no apparatus
was being used.
I am afraid I cannot accept Miss Johnson's theory that
Eusapia possesses the power of inducing a continuous halluci-
nation of the sense of touch in the minds of her sitters.
Experienced investigators are well aware that a temporary
hallucination of this nature can be induced when a medium's
hand is surreptitiously removed for a moment from the con-
troller's hand. We were unceasingly on our guard against
such an occurrence at our Naples sittings. It should be noted
that Mr. Feilding states that the conditions of control permitted
in the recent sittings were wholly different from those permitted
in the former Naples sittings. In a letter that I have received
from Mr. Feilding, he says :
" Everything this time was different
[from our previous seances] and exactly like the reports given
of the American conjurers' sittings."
70 Rev. M. A. Bayfield, [part
SUPPLEMENT.
REVIEW.
The Newer Spiritualism. By Frank Podmore.
(Fisher Unwin, London, 1910. Svo, pp. 320, 8s. 6d. net.)
This book, which Mr. Podmore brought to completion only a short
time before his death, is a closely reasoned and temperate review of
the evidence for the reality of supposed communications with the
spirits of the dead, and for the genuineness of certain physical
phenomena, which has been accumulated since the publication of
F. W. H. Myers' Human Personality. It is the work of an acknow-
ledged master in these subjects, and, as such, deserves the attention
of all serious students of them, whatever may be their prepossessions.
The discussion is copiously illustrated by detailed descriptions and
analyses of many of the most important cases, and the reader is
thus enabled to form his own judgment upon the evidence as the
inquiry proceeds. Those who are familiar with the author's previous
writings will hardly need to be told that the book possesses the
added attraction of an excellent literary style, and that there is not
a dull page in it—not even in the welcome index.
The ultimate purpose of Human Personality was to prove the
survival of the soul after death. With this tremendous question
Mr. Podmore is not here concerned, and he offers no opinion upon
it. When he leaves the physical phenomena, he addresses himself
solely to the inquiry whether the supposed communications from a
spirit world, obtained through trance or automatic writing or other
means, are really what they profess to be, or are not rather derived
telepathically from the minds of the living. Myers' theory of a
subliminal consciousness is, however, so intimately bound up with
LXII.] Review. 71
the whole matter, that Mr. Podmore considers it not inconsistent
with his purpose to devote an introductory chapter to its consider-
ation. In view of the manifold and far-reaching bearings of Myers'
great conception, the chapter is of cardinal importance.
Mr. Podmore gives an adequate statement of the theory, of which
the substance may be quoted.
"Now, the peculiar contribution of Myers to modern psycho-
logy lies here. He accepts to the full the results of modern
research. He recognises that human consciousness, as we know
it, is a highly composite and unstable thing, having neither
completeness nor essential unity. Consciousness is, to employ
his own simile, a selection, like the visible spectrum, accidental,
interrupted, and variable, from a much larger potential whole.
But at this point Myers' views diverge from those of the
recognised schools. To him the surface consciousness, the only
thing which we know as consciousness in ordinary life, is com-
paratively unimportant. 'I award no primacy,' he writes, 'to
my ordinary waking self, except that, among many potential
selves, this one has shown itself the fittest to meet the needs
of common life.' It is the hidden life which counts—the self
which the struggle of the market-place and the senate has
thrust back into the darkness, or has not yet called into conscious
activity.
"The subliminal consciousness, he supposes, may embrace a
far wider range, both of physiological and psychical activity,
than is open to the normal personality. The invisible spectrum
of consciousness stretches indefinitely in either direction, extend-
ing on one side to physiological processes which have long
dropped out of human knowledge, on the other to supernormal
faculties, of which only stray hints have reached us in our
present stage of evolution."
He completes the account by a reference to those hystero-epileptics
who in their conscious state may be almost completely without the
senses of touch, sight, and hearing, and whose memory is, as to a
great part of their life, a blank ; but who, when placed in the
deepest hypnotic trance, largely recover these senses, and are able to
fill up the blanks in the memory, and to give a clear account of the
shock which brought on their illness —a thing which, when conscious,
they were unable to do. The trance has brought to the surface the
real self which the calamity had obscured. As is well known,
Myers saw in these sad cases a significant analogy. Man, in his
72 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
present environment, he believed, may be, as compared with his real
and potential self—the self of his subliminal consciousness —no more
than the crippled and shrunken thing which these poor sufferers are,
under the grip of their infirmities. To quote Mr. Podmore
:
" In that larger potential consciousness, which, as we have
warrant for inferring, surrounds the narrowed personality which
suffices for our common every-day life, he believed himself to
discern traces of faculties too large for merely terrestrial needs,
and signs of a guiding power wise with more than human fore-
sight. This, in effect, is Myers's case. There need be no fear,
he proclaims, lest the soul of man should be disintegrated
with the disintegration of the body ; because it exhibits '
traces
of faculty which this material or planetary life could not have
called into being, and whose exercise even here and now involves
and necessitates the existence of a spiritual world.'
"
Mr. Podmore admits the cogency of the argument, but disputes
the premises. "What," he asks, "is this 'subliminal self,' and what
are its chief properties ?
" In his answer he admits that " certain
pathologic cases . . . show that there may exist, below the personality
exhibited to us in ordinary life, another personality, larger, freer,
saner"; and that "the hypnotic memory, too, is, as a rule, wider
than the waking memory " ; and he takes note of the remarkable
phenomena produced by hypnotic suggestion. But
"the secondary personality in the case of Felida X. and the
'Misses Beauchamp' is obviously the product of pathologic con-
ditions, whilst in the hypnotic subject it seems probable that it
is simply the result of training. Apart from these special cases,
and from a few sporadic instances of latent faculty emerging in
dreams, or through the planchette and the crystal, there is
scanty support for the assumption of a hidden personality in
man. There is little evidence, in other words, that, in normal
persons, there is below the surface any sequence of memories or
separate form of consciousness, so far organised or so stable as
to deserve the name of a secondary personality ; and there is
still less evidence of interference with the operations of the
work-a-day self by any such subterranean agencies."
His conclusion is, that—while, " in these lofty regions where we
almost lose sight of terrestrial analogies, we have no right to use
the word 'impossible,' perhaps not even the word 'improbable'"
—
the present evidence for the existence of a subliminal self is insufficient.
LXII.] Review. 73
That our present evidence is far from amounting to demonstration,
may be readily granted ; but Mr. Podmore's admissions are consider-
able, and his arguments seem to leave the balance of probability
still on the side of Myers's illuminating theory. To say nothing of
the evidence afforded by automatic writing 1
and crystal-gazing which
Mr. Podmore is disposed to minimise, but which is not to be
neglected, we may ask whether it is fair to the argument to lay so
much stress on the pathologic features of some of the cases, and
whether he is justified in refusing to attach weight to the evidence
furnished by those which are of this nature. Moreover, a large
number of the cases are not pathologic. And if we take three
typical cases, mentioned in this chapter, in only two of which the
pathologic element appears to be present, what do we find 1 One of
Dr. Bramwell's patients, a Miss A., could, in obedience to hypnotic
suggestion, count 11,470 minutes, and then, in a waking state, make
a cross on a piece of paper. In 55 such experiments she was
successful 45 times. This can hardly be the result of training ; it
would rather appear to indicate the liberation of a remarkable latent
power, already existing fully developed. Again, Huxley cited the
case of a man "who had suffered some injury to the brain, which
induced occasional accesses of automatism. In the automatic state
he would write from dictation, without looking at the paper, and
would be able to correct what he had written, crossing the fs and
dotting the i's with perfect accuracy, though a sheet of cardboard
was interposed between his eyes and the writing." On this and
similar cases Mr. Podmore observes, " The power is possibly to be
explained as a special development of the muscular sense." But
this, even if it should prove to be a proper description of the faculty
employed, is not an explanation ; it is no more than a re-statement
of the fact. It does not matter what sense or faculty was at work.
The significance of the performance lies in the fact that the man
appears to have possessed an extraordinary latent power, not merely
existing in germ, but full-grown, which, owing to his condition at
the time, when other powers were compulsorily dormant, could
emerge and come into play. In his ordinary condition the man was
cramped by the necessities of his environment ; he could not afford
(if that is the right word) to '
specialise ' in this way, but must
practise a more or less levelling economy of his powers. But the
emergence of this hidden faculty entitles us to infer the presence of
1 The evidence afforded by automatic writing may, I think, prove to be
overwhelming—-see below, p. 82, ff.
74 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
others no less extraordinary and abnormal ; and this brings us to
Myers's subliminal consciousness, and goes far to justify his apt simile
from the visible and invisible spectrum, which Mr. Podmore considers
misleading. It is but a step further to imagine, with Myers, a con-
dition of life in which all man's powers ma}7
be free to exhibit and
exert themselves to the same and an even greater degree. Once more,
we have the case of the calculating boys, whose condition, so far as
I am aware, we have no reason for supposing to be pathologic. Of
these Mr. Podmore writes, "The power of extracting cube roots and
calculating logarithms at sight can at no period have been a common
endowment of the race." This is to beg the question, and one
naturally asks, why not 1 True, the race as we know it in its
present environment has not the power in esse; but the point is,
does the race possess these powers in posse 1 To use the old philo-
sophic terms, have we the Svvafiis, though we may be denied the
ivepyeia 1 Even from the cases before us—apart from numerous
other strong indications —it seems a reasonable inference that there
are within every individual abilities both transcending and out-
numbering those of the every-day self, and ready to come forth for
recognition, whenever by some happy or unhappy chance the prison
door is unlocked. Moreover, it is well known that hypnotism can
stimulate the will and elicit a surprising strength in the moral
region ; from which it would appear that the subliminal includes
both the mental and moral qualities—that is, embraces the whole
man. Our dreams, indeed, are often nonsense, and our dream
actions sometimes reprehensible from a moral point of view, and
abhorrent to our waking selves, —as when one dreams that one has
quietly cut off all one's brother's fingers with a pair of scissors
—but that hardly affects the question ; we do not know what the
will is, nor the conditions and limits of its control.
If, then, Mr. Podmore is right when he says that the years that
bave elapsed since Myers's death have produced no fresh evidence
to support his " great synthesis "
—a statement which might be dis-
puted—neither do I find in Mr. Podmore's criticisms anything by
which it is materially weakened. His own confessedly great know-
ledge of the subject has produced no obstinate fact which refuses to
be fitted in.
The two opening chapters of the main inquiry give an interesting
risume" of the various phenomena exhibited by D. D. Home. These
performances the author regards as, for the most part, pure im-
posture, successful, where it was successful, through mal-observation
LXII.] Review. 75
or hallucination on the part of the witnesses. In a careful discussion
of the famous case of levitation, when Home appeared to float into
an upstairs room through the window, he shows that the witnesses
could have had no positive assurance that Home had ever been
outside the window at all. By some of the fire tests, however,
and one instance at least of the alleged elongation of Home's body-
Mr. Podmore confesses himself puzzled, and he abstains from
pronouncing an opinion.
" I cannot readily represent to my imagination the mental
processes by which two intelligent men holding a lighted candle
and taking special steps to correct their measurements, . . .
could have supposed Home's body to be abnormally lengthened,
when he was really, let us say, only standing on tip-toe and
stretching himself."
" The difficulty is quite as great with the red-hot coal per-
formance. . . . The testimony to Home's feats is abundant ; and
it is difficult to see how Sir W. Crookes, if in possession of
his normal senses, could be mistaken in describing the flames
licking Home's fingers."
As to Eusapia Palladino, whose trial also extends over two chapters,
Mr. Podmore, as was already well known, will have none of her.
Her performances, including the seances held at Naples at the end
of 1908, are examined at considerable length, but the conclusion
is that she is no more than the fine fleur of the art of trickery. She
is finally dismissed, with some impatience, if not to limbo, at least
to the limbo of detected frauds of which one has had more than
enough.
Whether one believes that the Naples committee were deceived,
or not, there is no doubt that all who are interested in these
matters owe them a large debt of gratitude for the painstaking
inquiry which they conducted. Their labours have produced at
least one lasting result. We have on the one hand the fact that
three exceptionally capable investigators were convinced that they,
at any rate, had not been deceived by Eusapia ; on the other hand,
we have the undisputed fact that she has over and over again,
and up to a quite recent date, been detected in imposture. The
conjunction of these two facts makes it clear that in future no
investigation of physical phenomena—however skilled may be the
investigators—will be thought to be of any practical value, unless
the tests applied are mechanical and automatic. If these are want-
ing, the observations of the witnesses may carry conviction to
76 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
themselves, but the outside public must remain—I will not say
uninfluenced, but unconvinced.
In a chapter preceding detailed examinations of the mediumship
of Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Thompson, Mr. Podmore makes some just
and discriminating remarks on the moral diathesis of trance mediums
in general. In feats of clairvoyance pure and simple—as distinct
from the power of acquiring knowledge telepathically from the mind
of a living person—he puts no credence. He does not believe the
faculty exists. He is convinced that Stainton Moses and the Eev.
C. B. Sanders (a Presbyterian clergyman of Alabama, who developed
a secondary personality calling itself X + Y = Z) had themselves
hidden the '
lost ' articles which they professed to discover ; and
that Alexis Didier—whom the famous conjurer Houdin failed to
detect in fraud—had already seen, as he rapidly turned the leaves
of the almost closed book, the words he professed to read from a
page lying some distance underneath one of the two pages which
became visible when the book was laid open. But he is disposed
to think the trickery was not necessarily conscious.
" Alexis may well have been quite unconscious of the channel
through which he derived his information. It is possible that
one may be justified in taking an equally charitable view of
the performances of X + Y = Z, and that the right hand of Mr.
Stainton Moses may not have known what the left hand was
doing."
Accordingly, in speaking of these cases, the word '
fraud ' must
only be used with a reservation.
" A trance medium is, ex hypothesi, in an abnormal condition :
and there are other indications that the dissociation of conscious-
ness frequently involves impaired moral control. In using the
word 'fraud,' therefore, in this connection we do not necessarily
imply a higher degree of moral responsibility than when we
pass judgment on the play-acting of a child. Conjuring tricks
and sham telepathy seem to be merely part of the automatic
romance."
By this standard, and with this reservation, the author would
judge certain doubtful incidents in the mediumship of Mrs. Piper
and Mrs. Thompson.
We now come to the great question of the supposed communica-
tions with discarnate spirits through the trance mediums and the
cross-correspondences. In reviewing the early sittings of Mrs. Piper
LXIT.] Review. 77
Mr. Podmore notes some facts which must affect our judgment of
the more recent phenomena.
"The significant point in these early sittings is that the
information given about the sitter's living friends seems, generally
speaking, to have been as vivid, as copious, and as accurate as
the information given about the dead, and that there is no
means, as a rule, of discriminating between them either as
regards substance or source—-that is, the statements about the
dead and the living alike are given as if they proceeded
directly from Phinuit's own knowledge. Sometimes, on the other
hand, where the dead are concerned, the utterances are put
into their mouths, but there is rarely any indication that this
is more than a traditional dramatic device."
Of the Piper-Hodgson communications he would give the same
explanation as that implied here—that is, the telepathic. He fully
recognises the extraordinary vraisemblance of the dramatic impersona-
tion, but he points out the important fact that no test questions
were answered, and that the control showed ignorance of several
matters which, considering what he apparently did remember, he
might reasonably be expected not to have forgotten. He suggests,
however, another conceivable explanation
:
"If we could suppose that sometimes the real Hodgson com-
municated through the medium's hand, and that sometimes,
more often, when he was inaccessible, the medium's secondary
personality played the part as best it could, these difficulties
would no doubt be lessened. It may be justifiable, as a guide
to further investigation, provisionally to entertain such a hypo-
thesis ; but it seems hardly necessary to say that at this stage, at
any rate, it cannot be seriously defended."
With the development of cross-correspondences the problem became
more complicated. In these Mr. Podmore recognises the directive
action of an intelligence other than that of the automatists,
but he fails—as others of us have failed—to find sufficient evidence
for believing the intelligence at work to be that of a discarnate
spirit. In discussing the Browning-Hope-Star incident and the Latin
message, he draws attention to a significant fact. After dictating
the message, Mr. Piddington had impressed on the Piper-Myers the
importance of the scheme of cross-correspondences in general. 1
The
1
Mr. Piddington of course made no allusion to the peculiar (i.e. the supple-
mentary) kind asked for in the Latin message.
78 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
control replied, " If you establish telepathic messages, you will doubt-
less attribute all such to thoughts from those living in the mortal
body." On this Mr. Podmore remarks :
"The answer shows conclusively that the Piper-Myers had
not grasped the plan of complex cross-correspondences which
the Verrall-Myers, according to the hypothesis, had been
actively elaborating for some years previously ; and further,
that the Piper-Myers at that date, Jan. 18, 1907, had not yet
succeeded in translating the Latin message."
The word 'conclusively' is perhaps too strong; but as coming from
one who professes to be identical with the other Myerses who have
so long been furnishing supplementary cross-correspondences and
emphasising their value, the remark of the control is certainly inex-
plicable. The sitting of Feb. 27, 1907, has, however, been relied
upon as showing that at that later date, at any rate, MyersP under-
stood the whole matter. This seems to me disputable. It is true
that at that sitting Myers P pointed to the Browning-Hope-Star
incident, and offered it as his answer to the Latin message, but, like
the unintentionally witty, he may have been doing better than he
was aware. Did he know how good his answer was 1 The differentia
of the 'supplementary' cross-correspondences, which gives them their
peculiar value, is that the scripts of, say, three automatists concerned
are not fully intelligible when considered separately, but when
compared with one another, are found to be connected by a common
idea which is the key to the whole. There is nothing to show that
MyerSp understood this to be the point of the experiments, though
naturally his wave of the hand—so to call it —towards the Browning-
Hope-Star incident was at once recognised as remarkably significant.
Yet surely the real Myers, having grasped the Latin message—as ex
hypothesi he had done—would not have omitted to make such a
crucial detail clear.
But the fact is—as Mr. Podmore, I think, shows, and most people
have probably concluded for themselves—the Piper-Myers never did
really understand the Latin message, though he seems to have
gathered from some source or sources—among which telepathy may
be included—that it referred to cross-correspondences. This fact
has always seemed to me peculiarly damaging to his claims. In
the utterances of the various mediums the 'spirit' has given no
signs of intellectual decay. He is alert and intelligent ; and the
automatic scripts, both in matter and style, are at times not
unworthy of the real Myers. How, then, should he be unable to
LXII.] Review. 79
translate, from a language as familiar to him as English, a couple
of sentences which, highly idiomatic though they are, would present
no difficulty to an able sixth-form boy 1
The knowledge of the meaning of one or two individual words in
the message Mr. Podmore would attribute to the use of a dictionary
by the medium when in an unconscious state ; but he is careful to
add
:
"To recognise, however, that the knowledge shown by the
entranced Mrs. Piper was perhaps derived from a dictionary
does not imply bad faith on the part of Mrs. Piper whom her
friends know and esteem in the waking state. Nor does it
seriously invalidate the evidence in the other cases, since no
dictionary could have told Mrs. Piper what Mrs. Verrall was
writing; in Cambridge or Mrs. Holland in India."
The matter is summed up in the following words :
" It would appear, then, from the four months' trial of the
Latin message that the trance personality which the experi-
menters call MyeiSp, or the Piper-Myers, had not even at the
end of the sittings grasped the scheme of complex cross-
correspondences : was so far from grasping it, indeed, that not
even the numerous hints given in the course of the dialogue
succeeded in conveying that idea. From this it would seem to
follow, not merely that the Piper-Myers is an intelligence of
distinctly inferior capacity, but that it is not identical with the
intelligence, claiming to emanate from the same source, which
has for years past been elaborating, through Mrs. Verrall's hand,
a scheme of complex cross-correspondences."
It is only fair to note here that upholders of the spiritistic inter-
pretation of the phenomena believe MyersP to be, not the real Myers,
but a secondary personality of Mrs. Piper (corresponding to the
subliminal self of the automatic writers), which receives communi-
cations from him. (See Miss Johnson in Proc, Vol. XXIV., p. 262 f.)
Thus the utterances of MyersP may be at one time a true message
repeated accurately, at another time a true message imperfectly
delivered, at another a mere invention. Mr. Podmore was certainly
well acquainted with this view when he wrote the passage quoted
above ; but his point—as I understand him—is that, in the absence
of any sure criterion by which to distinguish true messages from
false, and in face of the discrepancies between the two personalities,
it is difficult to believe there is a real Myers behind either of them.
80 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
Coming to the more recent evidence, Mr. Podmore confesses
himself to be strongly impressed by the Lethe incident in Mr.
Dorr's sittings.
" It must, I think, be admitted on all hands that the method
of answering the Lethe question was well devised ; that this is
precisely the kind of evidence demanded for the proof of spirit-
identity ; and that, though no single case can, of course, be
conclusive, yet that if evidence of this kind could be multiplied,
the presumption in favour of the reality of sjnrit communication
might at length become irresistible."
But he finds two difficulties. The first arises from the discrep-
ancies between the knowledge shown in these sittings by the
medium's writing hand and her utterances in the waking stage.
The hand is frequently unable to explain at a subsequent sitting
what the voice had spoken. Thus, on one occasion the voice mur-
mured something that sounded like "pavia"; it then added, "Mr.
Myers is writing on the wall," and spelt out " c, y, x." There can
be no doubt that "pavia" was meant for papavera (poppies), and it
was afterwards made certain that the letters c, y, x were intended
for the name Ceyx. Yet the hand explained " c, y, x" as "chariot,"
and "pavia" as "Pomona."
"But the successful allusions," writes Mr. Podmore, "whether
written or spoken, are counted, for the purpose of the corre-
spondence, as proceeding from the same intelligence; and
indeed some of the utterances in the waking stage are prefaced
with the remark '
Mr. Myers says.' It is extremely difficult to
reconcile this ignorance or forgetfulness with the identity of the
spirit purporting to communicate alike by hand and voice."
The second difficulty is connected with the name Ceyx.
"The name written Ceyx is a dissyllable; and not only so,
but both vowels are long—Ce-yx (pronounce Kay-eeks). But
it would seem that both the hand and voice in their efforts to
recall the exact word represent it as a monosyllable. . . .
Now, this misconception, improbable in a scholar who was
familiar with the original poem where the word occurs repeatedly,
would be, one must think, impossible to a scholar who was
also a poet, for whom the sound of a word must be of primary
importance."
Myers, however, pronounced the word as See-ix, which might sound
more like a monosyllable. But so also would Mr. Dorr pronounce it.
lxil] Revieiv. 81
On the Dorr sittings as a whole Mr. Podmore suspends judgment,
finding the difficulties and improbabilities involved in a telepathic
explanation as serious as those which attach to a recognition of
spirit agency.
" If all these stores of classical learning really came from
Mr. Dorr's mind, we have to credit him with a capacious
forgetfulness, if the phrase may be allowed, hardly less remark-
able in its way than the powers of telepathic assimilation which
we must ascribe to the trance intelligence."
This is certainly true ; and for myself, I must confess that, while
I nevertheless lean to the telepathic solution, I find the contem-
plation of the amazing powers with which Mrs. Piper must then
be credited far more staggering than would be the proof of
communication with a departed spirit. As against the telepathic
explanation, attention may be called to another point. The river,
with its name Lethe, is a quite subordinate feature of the tale, and
is perhaps the last detail one would have expected to emerge if
one could have revived Mr. Dorr's memories in connexion with the
story. Even when the whole of the fragments of the puzzle-picture
were set before him, he was unable to piece them together. And
yet, on the telepathic hypothesis, it is by this one weak link of
association that Mrs. Piper is able to recover the whole train of
recollections.
On the other hand, neither did (could?) 1
the Piper-Myers put
the fragments together as a connected whole; and the omission, or
inability, to do so is suspicious. If he was the real Myers, he knew
the story ;
why, then, did he not tell it in a plain manner ? Why
present it in just that fragmentary condition in which we have
many reasons for supposing it may have survived in some deepest
cells of Mr. Dorr's memory 1
Another highly important case, the famous Sevens Incident,
formed the subject of an article by the author in the Contemporary
Review for September, 1909. Examining it again here, Mr. Podmore
reiterates his conviction that it is purely telepathic. It arose from
Mr. Piddington's 'posthumous' letter about the number, or rather
from his continuing obsession by it, and he is a recognisable instance
1
In one sitting Mr. Dorr said to the control, "I see no connexion between
Iris and Lethe." To which Myersp replied, "No, only Iris shot an arrow into
the clouds and caused a rainbow. It brought it to my mind simply." What
an answer to come from what professed to be the spirit of F. W. H. Myers
recalling the story of Ceyx and Alcyone !
F
82 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
of what has long been sought for—an agent external to the automatists,
originating the cross-correspondence. But Mrs. Verrall—who would
appear to have much to answer for—is held to be the chief agent
in the dissemination of the idea.
" Mr. Piddington tells us he was not thinking specially of
his letter during the three months over which the cross-corre-
spondences extended, though few days of his life passed without
his thinking of the subject. It would appear, then, as if some
other factor were needed to reinforce Mr. Piddington's uncon-
scious telepathy. That other factor must be sought in Mrs.
Verrall's agency. We find traces of her influence in the Dante
allusions. An attempt, then, may be made, of course provision-
ally and in very crude fashion, to sketch the mental processes
which seem to be involved. Mr. Piddington had for years
been repeating Seven for all the world—that is all the world
within the range of his telepathic influence—to hear. His is
a voice crying in the wilderness, however, until it happens that
Mrs. Verrall reads the Divine Comedy, and the idea of Seven,
already latent in her mind, 1
is reinforced by a series of Dante
images. Mrs. Verrall, then, apparently a much more powerful
telepathic agent than Mr. Piddington, swells the stream of
telepathic influence, and the effects, in the remaining automatists,
rise to the surface of the dream consciousness."
Miss Johnson, who is a controversialist of not inferior acumen,
has combated this view, and in more than one friendly encounter
with the author has undoubtedly scored some points. Her view
may be summed up in her own words
:
" It appears to me, in short, that many of the items of this
cross-correspondence afford strong evidence of the design or
agency of some intelligence which was cognisant of the whole
scheme, as finally revealed ; —I refer especially to the use made
of the Latin verses in Mrs. Piper's case, and to the veiled
allusions to Mr. Piddington's letter in the Verrall scripts ;—and
it seems to me difficult to attribute so complete a knowledge
of it to the subliminal consciousness either of Mrs. Verrall or
of Mr. Piddington."
This conclusion seems to me just, though not exactly for the
reasons specially mentioned here. It is difficult, I think, for any one
1
Mrs. Verrall's subliminal self would appear to have had some knowledge of
the letter at about the very hour when it was being written.
lxil] Review. 83
who studies the cross-correspondences of this class without prejudice
to resist the conclusion that some intelligence originates each experi-
ment, and perhaps to some extent influences its course. The
evidence for this is even stronger in the Sesame and Lilies case, 1
which Mr. Podmore does not discuss, than in the Sevens Incident.
Prof. Pigou has suggested that the difference in the details
which emerge in the various scripts may be due to chance rather
than to selection ; but the cause seems inadequate, and there is
ample evidence scattered about the cases that some one knows a
cross-correspondence is being attempted. Thus, in the Sesame and
Lilies incident we have in Mrs. Verrall's script,
" Then besides the Lilies there is to be another word for
you, and for her Lilies and a different word 2
—So that Lilies is.
the catchword to show what words are to be put together.
And your second word is gold. Think of the golden lilies
of France.
You will have to wait some time for the end of the story,
for the solution of the puzzle—but I think there is no doubt
of its ultimate success."
Clearly there is an author, who is possibly also prompter and
stage-manager, behind the scenes.
But it may be asked, do we yet know enough of the powers
of the subliminal consciousness to preclude the presumption
that the some one who originates, and perhaps directs, may be
one of the subliminals concerned ? For myself, I must confess I
have had almost from the beginning a steadily growing suspicion
that Mrs. Verrall's subliminal—which from the first professed to be
controlled by spirits—should have the credit for most, at any rate,
of these highly elaborated and ingenious experiments. It appears to
have been the originator of the idea, which emerged in her script
as early as March, 1901, 3
and to have made repeated attempts to
carry it out in the years that followed, but with no very striking
results until we come to the triumphant successes of 1907. Through-
1
See Mrs. Verrall's admirably clear analysis of this, Proc, Vol. XXIV.,
pp. 264 ff.
2
As a matter of fact, the script failed on this point.
3
See Miss Johnson's paper, Proc, Vol. XXI., pp. 375 ff. , where a large number
of references to the scheme are collected from Mrs. Verrall's script. These
numerous hints, however, were understood by no one until the early part of
1906, when Miss Johnson, with great acuteness, detected the supplementary
nature of many of the cross-correspondences.
84 Rev. M. A. Bayfield, [part
out these latter correspondences there may be found, as I think,
—
at any rate by any one who knows Mrs. Verrall well, and Dr. and
Mrs. Verrall have been my most intimate friends for many years
—
constantly recurring indications that, in the great majority of cases
the central idea in each emanates from her. I find these signs as
conspicuous as anywhere else in the remarkable Sesame and Lilies
case, which has been claimed as peculiarly strong evidence for the
spiritistic view.
Now, considering the notoriously non-moral character of all sub-
liminal consciousnesses, it will hardly be denied that Mrs. Verrall's,
having once evolved the idea of supplementary cross-correspondences,
with a view to proving its spirit inspiration, would be quite capable
of devising one, and of attempting to carry it out. It would
naturally continue to sustain the fiction of spirit agency with all
possible ingenuity and resource. To take the next step, I venture to
offer the following suggestion of a possible modus operandi, hoping
that a consideration of what we already know of the powers of the
telepathic faculty may be held to redeem it from the charge of
rashness.
First, then, this subliminal consciousness launches, and continues
to launch, into the void—not necessarily by any special effort, but
merely as a result of the process of thought—the ground-idea of
such a correspondence, to be assimilated by any other automatists
(including trance-mediums) who can receive it. This idea—after
many abortive onesided experiments had been patiently pursued
by its author—is at last grasped by other automatists. Then
comes a time when Mrs. Verrall's subliminal proclaims in a similar
manner, and as it has often done before, a subject for an experi.
ment, and the others proceed to execute the congenial task with
enthusiasm, —for they too are interested in maintaining the illusion
of a spirit agency. Avoiding, as a rule—for they have been
inspired so to do—any definite expression of the leading idea, they
commit to their scripts, rather, associated ideas, anything thai occurs
to them as their thoughts in butterfly fashion flutter about it.
1
We
then may get from different automatists, at various dates, scripts
like the following, 2
with other matter—perhaps fragments of another
1
The amount of control which a subliminal may have over its thoughts is
a point outside my present purpose. There is much evidence that it is often
very imperfect.
-I wish to state emphatically that these imaginary scripts are not written
in mockery. They are meant to be a fair and serious representation of the
tXII.] Revieiv. 85
cross-correspondence—intermixed. Spirit signatures would, of course,
be appended.
From Mrs. Verrall. (a) Brown is the colour brown cloth
—
the little furry creatures were brown too some of them
—
brun bruns House of Brans—I am weak to-day my thoughts
wander 1
—vermin ermine*—disiecti membra poetae. Tu vero
collige, ita totum redintegrabis. 2
TrapdftaWe Parable—it is a
sort of parable. irapafiaXov but there was no boat. Not the
Styx, another river. 3
(//) Tom Tom the Piper's son —Pippa the pipper passes 4 —
mixtis carminibus non sine fistula—fistula cum lyra. There were
children—antro seclusa relinquit. 5
Hamel—Du Hamel Kremlin.
They had
Sparkling eyes and flaxen curls.*
His eyes were green as leeks 6
No you have got it wrong
And sharp blue eyes, each like a pin.*
(c) As thick as leaves in 7
—what 1 Not a valley but a river.
He swam the Esk river where ford there was none. 8
Kop kopje
manner in which the subliminal consciousness appears to work. No one can
value more highly than I do both the experiments and the devotion of the
experimenters. Whatever may be the knowledge gained from them, it will,
in my judgment, be priceless.
1
These words occur in one of Mrs. Verrall's own scripts, which contain
other similar remarks, purporting to express Myers' own condition. As a
spirit's excuse, they look suspicious ; but they would come naturally enough
from a subliminal striving to recover a half-lost memory.
2 " Limbs (or fragments) of the dismembered poet" (quotation from Horace).
But do you collect them ; then you will restore the whole.
3
Trapaj3aWe (para-balle), put side by side, compare. Trapa/SaXou (parabalou), lay
her alongside, put to shore, shouted by Charon, in his boat on the Styx, in a play
of Aristophanes.
i
Pippa Passes is the title of a poem by Browning.
5 " With mingled music of flute and pipe"—"pipe and lyre," Horace.
" She leaves them shut up in the cave," Virgil.
6
Shakspeare.
7
Imperfect reminiscence of Milton's " Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the
brooks In Vallombrosa " (of the fallen angels in the lake of fire).
8
From Scott's Lochinvar.
86 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
Spion Kop another shameful hill. It was a hill Koppe[lberg]
—
successimus antro. 1
Lasciate ogni speranza—but they did not
die—Pennsylvania [Transylvania]. Iv o-ir^c yXa^vpiZ. 2
He never
can cross that mighty top*—Chavez. But this was long ago.
Et ineluctabile fatum.3
(d) Without father without mother 4
Melchisedech.
(e) There was no guessing his kith and kin.*
Wherever he sat down and sung
He left a small plantation. 5
From Automatist B. (/) Robert toi que j'aime but it is not
the opera, though he was a singer. She sang too—-My Romney
The rest in order, last an amethyst.0
(g) Boys and girls come out to play—one was lame—the
lame and the halt —Treloar. 7
(h) The pipe and tabor is in their feasts 8
pipe and tabor.*
Note that, it is a clue. Another will help.
Orpheus with his lute made trees
And the mountain tops that freeze
Bow their heads when he did sing. 9
motley * Motley's Dutch 10
—no another country—motley's the only
wear. 9
(j) guilders* Guildhall the Lord Mayor. Pay pay pay, but
that is Kipling. Till thou hast paid the uttermost farthing. 11
1
"We entered the cave," Virgil. What follows is part of Dante"s famous line,
"Lasciate ogni speranza, voi che entrate," Abandon every hope, all ye that enter.
2 " In a hollow cavern," Iliad.
3 " And unescapable doom," Virgil.
4 " Without father, without mother, without descent," of Melchisedech, Ep. to
the Hebrews.
5
Tennyson, Amphion.
"Last line of Mrs. Browning's Aurora Leigh, in which Romney Leigh is a chief
character.
7 Reminiscence of Sir Wm Treloar's Homes for crippled children. He was
once Lord Mayor.
8
"The tabret, pipe, and wine are in their feasts," Isaiah.
9
Shakspeare.
10
A hint at Motley's History of the Dutch Republic.
11
From the Parable.
LXII.] Review. 87
From Automatist C. (k) The children ran after the music
—
there is a poem—Robert—Robert and Richard were two merry
men. jSTo not that. It is an old legend—he wrote the story.
The Caliph's kitchen.*
(I) It was magic music
For it was in the golden prime
Of good Haroun Alraschid. 1
(m) Oh, young Lochinvar came out of the west.'2
The subject of the supposed correspondence, as most readers will
easily have discovered, is Robert Browning's Pied Piper of Hamelin,
actual quotations from which are marked with a *.
Now, this imaginary script (producible in five minutes by merely
abandoning all control of the thoughts) is, I submit, not a parody, but
a sober parallel to the supplementary cross-correspondences in our
records, which exhibit passim the same liability to boggle over
names, and the same curious tendency to wander off to absolutely
alien topics, however weak—or even grotesque—may be the link of
association. And in other real scripts, confessedly not even tele-
pathic, there is plenty of evidence that the subliminal at times
suffers from a similar loss of control, producing similar aberrations,
and has difficulty in recalling its memories. On the other hand, we
have no good evidence that these characteristics of the scripts arise
from a spirit's inability to convey its own thoughts clearly through
the medium ; for such incoherent utterances are intermingled, in
the same script, with other matter lucid in thought and sure in
expression, but which differs also in this, that it does not make
the same demands upon the subliminal memory. It is difficult,
therefore, to resist the conclusion that we are dealing with sub-
liminals which have received nothing from outside, except (in the
case of automatists other than Mrs. Verrall) the cardinal conception
of a supplementary cross-correspondence, and (where they are not
the originators) the subject of the correspondence in hand—unless
we add occasional telepathic messages such as " young Lochinvar
"
above, which is supposed to be an echo from the " Esk river " of
another automatist. That a real spirit's mind may wander after
the manner of the scripts, is surely a solution of the matter which
believers—or would-be believers—in the spirit's survival will accept
only after every other has been proved untenable.
The evidence of design, then, in the scripts is irresistible ; but if
1
Tennyson. 2
From Scott's Lochinvar.
88 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
once it is granted that two or three subliminals could be brought
to understand what is meant by a supplementary cross-correspondence,
we need not go beyond the automatists themselves to find the
designer; it might be any one of the circle of sensitives. Prof.
Pigou felt it necessary to suggest a reason why the various auto-
matists do not hit upon the same details oftener than they do
;
but surely it is unlikely that they would, where the subject of the
experiment is fairly wide. A, B, and C, searching their memories,
may well recall different points in a subject of moderate extent,
and the number of conceivable associated ideas is obviously un-
limited. At the same time, even the most far-fetched of these latter,
if one gets enough of them, help to identify the central idea, and
to swell the evidence of design.
Further argument in support of this view—which is of course
merely provisional—would be out of place here, and I must content
myself with what has been already said. I will only add, that I
believe a minute examination of the scripts would reveal much
evidence in its favour.
To return to Mr. Podmore, it will be seen that his views remain sub-
stantially what, from his published utterances, they have been known
to be for many years. He unduly minimises, as I think, a good deal of
scattered evidence for clairvoyance and certain physical phenomena,
but on the larger question of spirit communications most people
will probably consider that he takes a very strong position. In a
highly interesting chapter, entitled "The Stage Setting of the
Trance," he makes a formidable general assault on the genuineness
of all spirit controls, and his arguments are certainly difficult to
meet. Some years ago he wrote, in his Modem Spiritualism:
" Mrs. Piper would be a much more convincing apparition if
she could have come to us out of the blue, instead of trailing
behind her a nebulous ancestry of magnetic somnambules, witch-
ridden children, and ecstatic nuns."
He reaffirms the opinion now. He points out that dissociation of
consciousness is frequently accompanied by the sense of a new
personality, which naturally demands a new name —a fact notorious
in those cases where the dissociation is complete and lasting. In
view of this, he asks what substantial grounds we have for believing
Mrs. Piper's latest controls to be different in kind from their prede-
cessors. Just as in former days the secondary personality called
itself by names suggested by the medium's earlier surroundings, so
now—as I understand Mr. Podmore—it has assumed fresh ones
LXII.] Review. 89
adapted to and reflecting her more recent associations ; and there
is no more reality in the "Myers" and "Hodgson" and other
controls of to-day than there was in the " Phinuit " (that "pre-
posterous scoundrel," as one sitter called him), and " Mrs. Siddons,"
and "Sebastian Bach," and "Chlorine," and "General Vanderbilt,"
and " Loretta Ponchini " of long ago.
From which it would appear that some secondary personalities, at
any rate, are a sort of psychic chameleon !
Nevertheless the labours of the experimenters are very far indeed
from being wasted ; and so far from discouraging them, Mr. Podmore's
last word is that, though the buried gold which some of us are
expecting to find may be visionary, there will result from this
industrious digging of a very fruitful vineyard rewards of another
kind, perhaps even richer.
M. A. Bayfield.
90 Andrew Lang. [part
OPEN LETTER TO DE. STANLEY HALL.
From ANDREW LANG.
Alleyne House,
St. Andrews, December 1st, 1910.
Dear Sir,
Excuse the liberty which I assume when I throw
my reflections on some recent work of yours into the old-
fashioned form of a " Familiar Epistle to an Author." I have
been reading with interest Dr. Tanner's Studies in Spiritism,
with an Introduction by G. Stanley Hall, Ph.D., LL.D.1
Your
own contributions to what you style such a " searching, im-
partial, critical estimate " of the work of the English Society
for Psychical Research as that Society has never enjoyed
before,2
attracted my particular attention. I do not disparage
the performances of Miss Tanner, Ph.D., when I say that the
work of the Master interested me even more than that of the
impartial Disciple.
In all studies and in all discussions every man or woman
who takes a part has a natural or artificial bias,—or plenty
of both. My bias in the matter of Mrs. Piper and her per-
formances is identical with your own. Thus you say, " we all
have fathers, but somehow it seemed to me vulgar to hold the
intercourse which I should love to " (hold ?)
" with my father's
spirit in such a way as this," namely, through Mrs. Piper.:i
I have elsewhere expressed precisely the same sentiments,
to which I adhere.4
You write, " we dishonour our immortal parts " (or rather,
perhaps, the immortal parts of our dead friends ?)
" by thinking
1
D. Appleton and Co., London and New York, 1910. 2
Op. cit. p. xxxiii.
3
Op. cit. p. xxviii. 4
In The Making of Religion, chapter vii.
LXII.] Review. 91
that we find them here";
1
—in Mrs. Piper's parlour! Your
sentiments are mine : nothing could induce me to intrude on
the denizens of the next world through the agency of Mrs. Piper,
(whom I never met,) or of any other " entranced " medium,
savage or civilised.
But Science must " do diverse and disgusting things " in
the search for Truth, and you have clone diverse and dis-
gusting things to Mrs. Piper ;
prodding her with an esthesio-
meter, and filling her nostrils with camphor and ether ; her
mouth with sugar and salt, which she " took very uncon-
cernedly," to quote Claverhouse (pp. 236-239). Volenti non
fit injuria, you might also have exhibited snuff, and found out
whether it made her "control" "Hodgson" sneeze or not.
A scientific study of Mrs. Piper is one thing ; serious con-
sultation of the dead through Mrs. Piper is another, and, I
agree with you, is a vulgar thing.
Thus far we are in accord ;
and, again, I am in a state
of absolute agnosticism about Mrs. Piper's case : I can go
further, I have never seen in the published reports any proof,
for me, that she is in touch with even an off-current, so to
speak, of the consciousness of any persons discarnate. Some
of her performances puzzle me, for example the replies of her
" Hodgson " to Professor William James, the answers of her
"Mr. Myers" to questions on Eoman mythology; and so forth. 2
I am puzzled ;
and, (here we approach the main point of my
difficulty,) I am inclined to suppose that Mrs. Piper, in her
normal condition, could not have given the replies which, as
" Hodgson " and as " Myers," she did give to the questions of
Mr. James and of Mr. Dorr. The abnormality of her con-
dition seems, in some way, to help her, but is her condition,
in fact, abnormal when she gives sittings ?
We now reach the question to which your answers, in Dr.
Tanner's book, appear to me, (excuse my frankness in a matter
of Science,) to be so lacking in coherence as to resemble the
utterances of " split personalities." Is Mrs. Piper, to your
mind, when she gives a " sitting,"—-when she is " entranced "
—
really dans son assiette, really in possession of her normal
intelligence, and of ber senses five ? If so, she must be a
1
Studies in Spiritism, p. 267.
2
For these see Proceedings S.P.B., Parts LVIII. and LX.
92 Andrew Lang. [part
common forthright impostor (or strangely self-deceived by
self-suggestion) ; for she says that she is " in trance " ; that her
normal consciousness is in abeyance ;
while, when restored to
her normal consciousness, she retains no memory of what she
said, did, and suffered while in trance. Such are her pro-
fessions, and if, while seeming to be in trance, she is really in
full persistent normal consciousness, she says what she knows
to be—erroneous.
Is it a conceivable hypothesis that in her assumed " trance
"
she is normally conscious, but that she has suggested herself
into so firm a belief in her own unconsciousness that, after
the trance, she actually retains no memory of having been
conscious ? Has she successfully administered to herself a
" post-hypnotic suggestion " not to remember things of which
she was as conscious, in her " trance," as a hypnotised patient
is conscious in his of what he is told to do or abstain from
doing ? If so she is
li
So false she wholly takes herself for true."
If I had to wairer, and if the wager could be decided, I
would lay five to one that after her trance she really retains
no memory of what occurred in it. That is only an im-
pression for what it is worth. Nor is the analogy of a patient
hypnotised by another person, close and exact ; for Tie, it
seems, can be hallucinated by the external suggestion, whereas,
on the hypothesis which I indicate, Mrs. Piper is widely
awake to the external world, but is hypnotised, by herself,
into remembering nothing about it.
Perhaps you have some such solution of the problem in
your mind when you doubt as to whether Mrs. Piper's
" method be a conscious invention on her part," or " a method
unconsciously drifted into "
(p. xx). If you adhered firmly to
this line of conjecture, and if it means that Mrs. Piper
hypnotises herself by self-suggestion, and gives herself a "post-
hypnotic suggestion " to forget, my only difficulty would be
that I know not whether, in a hypnotic condition, a patient
can be keenly conscious of every minute event. Your ex-
planation, if I understand you, of some effects of Mrs. Piper
which have astonished observers, and have been ascribed to
" supernormal " influences, telepathic or spiritual, is that in
Review. 93
trance her sense of hearing is acute and vigilant ; her powers
of inference and observation and of normal memory exceed-
ingly keen, and that thus she can amaze spectators by her
statements. All this I am not disputing, but do you steadily
maintain that her senses, and memory, and powers of deduc-
tion, in
' :
trance," are normal, or perhaps even above the
powers of her every-day intelligence ?
On this all-important and very interesting question, you
appear, if I may use a Shakespearian phrase, to " speak with
two voices," and to hold irreconcilable opinions. I may very
probably be mistaken : it is so easy and so natural to mis-
understand an argument. I can only quote various state-
ments of yours which, at present, I cannot reconcile.
Your contributions to Dr. Tanner's book, taken in the order
in which they were obviously written, are " Current Notes by
Dr. Hall" (pp. 259-273), the matter in pages 177-185, and
the " Introduction " (pp. xv-xxxiii). As to your " Current
Notes" you say that they were "jotted down with no thought
of their publication, least of all in their present form
"
{Introduction, p. xxxiii). " Their present form," I presume,
is the form in which they were originally written by you,
while the impressions received by you from the " sittings
"
were fresh in your memory ? Yet I am not certain on this
point; the "jotted notes" are sarcastic and eloquent. "Are
they tempting sirens that would lure us to our destruction,
or are they angelic beckonings to a higher world ?
" This
reads, does it not? like a passage of deliberate rhetoric, not
like a jotting. Indeed the whole chapter has the air of
being a studied composition. As evidence, it would be much
more valuable, (according to the ideas of the Society for Psychical
Eesearch,) if it really were contemporary with the sittings
;
were really " a few notes on the Piper sittings jotted down
with no thought of their publication, least of all in their
present form "
(p. xxxiii). Is the " present form " or is it
not, the original form of the jotted notes ? If not, the
original notes are much to be desired.
Leaving the notes and the Introduction for a moment, we
observe (p. 190) that "before Mrs. Piper entered the trance
. . . Dr. Hall explained to her that we had no doubt at all
about the genuineness of her trance or of her own honesty."
94 Andrew Lang. [part
Now you confessedly thought it de bonne guerre, (and here I
agree with you,) to deceive the entranced Mrs. Piper,—that is,
the so-called " Hodgson,"—by saying the thing that was not
;
by " my involuted lie" (p. 179). I do not deem this a moral
fib, but a scientific and experimental stratagem. But I suppose
that, when you assured Mrs. Piper, in her ordinary state, of
your belief in her " honesty " and in " the genuineness of her
trance " you were not telling an " involuted lie." I take this
for granted.
The point that puzzles me is, do you still retain your belief
in the " genuineness " of Mrs. Piper's " trance " ? Your remarks
on this question, in your " Introduction " and " Current Notes"
perplex me; partly because of the terminology which you
employ : to this point I will return.
As to trance, genuine trance, it is fair to take it in the
sense of Dr. Tanner's definition. " Trance states are by no
means the exclusive possession of mediums. They are common
in hysterical subjects, and in cases of secondary personality,
and can be produced by hypnosis or suggestion with proper
subjects. While in the trance the victim is more or less
unconscious of what is going on about her, and on recovering
remembers her feelings more or less dimly. The state has
many resemblances to somnambulism. Neither the causes nor
cure of it are as yet well understood "
(p. xxxvi). This I accept
for the sake of argument.
If Mrs. Piper be " honest,"—as you told her you believed
her to be,—in trance she is " more or less unconscious of what
is going on about her." She retains, she says, no memory of
what was going on, after she wakens. But, if honest, she
cannot tell, when she wakens, whether, when entranced, she
was conscious of what was going on around her or not. When
we say that we have had a dreamless sleep, we only mean that
we retain no memory of having dreamed. In some cases it
can be proved, by a bedfellow who heard us talking in our
sleep, that we really did dream. If Mrs. Piper be dishonest,
we cannot trust her report ; if she be honest, her report is of
no value, for she merely does not remember having been
conscious of her environment : whether by self-suggestion or
not.
We are thus dependent on your opinion as to the extent
LXII.] Review. 95
of her normal consciousness of all, or of much, that passes in
her room while she is entranced. Now I cannot discover what,
in this matter, your opinion really is. (For my part, I have no
opinion as to whether or not the " trance " is " genuine.") You
say (p. xix) that the sitter has the impression that Mrs. Piper
" is almost as much out of the game in this state as if she were
dead." The sitters, therefore, at last come to talk quite freely,
and your theory is that Mrs. Piper listens to even the faintest
sounds, and tries to make her profit out of what she hears
;
for, you say, in fact, "her ear is awake and alert" (p. xix).
If so, then Mrs. Piper's trance, (as far as I can understand.) is
not genuine ;
for, following Dr. Tanner's definition, " in trance
the victim is more or less unconscious of what is going on
about her"; whereas you say that, at least often, she is acutely
conscious even of things concealed, as when Mr. Dorr pretends
to go out, opening and shutting the door, but slips back again
(pp. 214-215).
As this is so, how could you tell Mrs. Piper that you
believed in " the genuineness of her trance " ? You believe
no such matter, if you accept Dr. Tanner's very moderate defini-
tion of the amount of ordinary consciousness in trance. You
write " it often seemed that only her eyes " (hidden in a
cushion) " were out of the game, and all " (my italics) " her
mental and emotional powers were very wide awake" (p. xx).
But not only " her eyes were out of the game," for " general
sensibility [is also] shunted out . . . and certainly her respiratory
functions, taste, smell, general tactile sensibility and motor
innervation are asleep" (p. 268).
On this showing a great deal of Mrs. Piper is certainly
asleep ; so a great deal of her trance is certainly genuine.
Meanwhile her ears, or one of them, and all her mental and
emotional powers were, on your showing, very wide awake.
So far her trance is not genuine, nor is she honest. You add,
" and yet I am by no means convinced that she acted her
sleep-dream. ..." (p. xx).
You know, as well as I, that in the dreams of sleep the
sleeper is, at most, but faintly and erroneously conscious of
the sounds in his environment, and that when such sounds
give occasion to a dream, the dream dramatizes and misinter-
prets them out of all resemblance to the objective cause of the
96 Andrew Lang. [part
hallucination. Mrs. Piper, on the other hand, you say, is, as
regards her mental powers, " often very wide awake," in a
" sleep-dream " which, none the less, you are not " convinced
"
that she feigns. Yet you are (apparently) convinced that she
" acts " the " sleep-dream," for you are convinced that, " often at
least her mental powers are very wide awake." Now, in sleep-
dreams, as an all but universal rule, our " mental powers " are
very remote from being " wide awake,"—we could not cheat,
in a " sleep-dream," or try to cheat, observers who were watching
us. Yet Mrs. Piper apparently tries to do nothing else.
You go on to give " abundant evidence,"—in the same page,
—" that Mrs. Piper-Hodgson's soul is awake and normal." If
by " soul " you mean Mrs. Piper's ordinary intelligence, and if
that be awake and normal, when she is acting the part of
Hodgson, then she is not in a trance, as Dr. Tanner defines
trance, and is an impostor ; like Mr. Pickwick I will be more
explicit and say " a humbug." But then, that she is " acting
her sleep-dream," one of your split selves is " by no means
convinced." Like Malvolio, you " think nobly of the soul," as
our immortal part. If, when you speak of Mrs. Piper's "soul"
as " awake and normal " in her assumed trance, you mean, not
her normal intelligence, but her " soul " in the Platonic sense,
then you agree with Sir Thomas Browne. " There is some-
thing in us that is not in the jurisdiction of Morpheus . . .
we are somewhat more than ourselves in our sleep ; and the
slumbering of the body seems but to be the wakening of the
soul." Perhaps that is what you mean ? Perhaps you mean
that, in trance, Mrs. Piper's " soul," or immortal part, is its
true unconditioned self? But if you mean that, in trance,
Mrs. Piper's every-day intelligence
' :
is awake and normal,"
then, once more, you are cpaite convinced that,—often at least,
—she " acts her sleep-dream "
; for in " sleep-dreams " nobody's
every-day intelligence is " awake and normal." Without
banter, I am so perplexed by your statements of your opinion
that an explanation will be welcome to an earnest inquirer.
If your position is that (p. xix) Mrs. Piper's normal ear
" is awake and alert," keenly aware of everything audible, if
her ear is on the catch for every whisper of external sug-
gestion, if her normal 'cuteness is watching for every oppor-
tunity to cheat,—if this be your opinion,—why do you express
lxil] Review. 97
a very different theory in your " Current Notes " on your six
sittings with this
" Daughter of Debate,
That discord still doth sow 1
"
In these notes (p. 265) you write: "Thus, the auditory centres
were not asleep, but seemed in full function, and at first we
thought that there was some hyperacuity, although we were
not infrequently asked to repeat as if to keep up the illusion
that the hand was hard of hearing. Yet here, too, subsequent
observation suggests obtuseness and subnormality that, while the
ear heard, it did so dimly and sleepily, or else tended to drop
off into the slumber in which the eye and other orienting
faculties were wrapped. On the whole we incline to the idea
that, although we have here " (in Mrs. Piper's normal and very
acute sense of hearing,) " the source of by far most of the
information the control seems to possess that appears super-
normal, that the ear itself in point of fact is not very wide
awake, and most of the time is only a little above the middle
state between sleeping and waking."
Here, sir, in apparent contradiction of what you say (p. xix)
—" her ear is awake and alert,"—you write that, at first, this
ear " seemed in full function," yet that, in fact, it was not in
full function, not " alert," but " tended to drop off into the
slumber,"—heard " dimly and sleepily," and so forth, and most
of the time is only a little above the middle state between
sleeping and waking," in which state we hear in the vaguest
and most dislocated fashion. By your account " most of the
time " Mrs. Piper's ear is not " awake and alert," and not on
the catch for even whispered hints. We have here a clearly
drawn and most important distinction between the impressions
made on you by your earlier and your later studies of the
alertness of Mrs. Piper's ear, or sense of hearing. Your
" Current Notes," in which Mrs. Piper's ear hears " dimly
and sleepily, or tended to drop off into slumber," were, or
ought to have been, written under the vivid recent impression
of your interviews with that lady. Have you "got them down
in your notes " ? Your Introduction, I presume, was written
later, after the book of Miss Tanner, Ph.D., was finished. In
your Introduction, all is changed, the ear has now become
G
98 Andrew Lang. [part
" keen and alert." I know not how you could write this
statement, if you remembered what you had written in your
"Current Notes."
Your " searching, impartial, critical " estimate of Mrs. Piper
has now been treated to an examination which I can honestly
call " impartial." I do not wish to be captious : I am sincerely
unable to understand why, in the conclusions of your Intro-
duction you appear to forget what " later observation " taught
you.
Your theory of what some reckon Mrs. Piper's successes
seems to rest on the discovery that, when she is "entranced,"
her normal intelligence and her sense of hearing are at once
extremely alert " often
"
;
and yet, usually, or " most of the
time," are somnolent and beclouded, " sleepy " and " dim."
I may have overlooked, I certainly have failed to discover,
any mode of reconciling so many conclusions which to me
look like contradictions in terms. But Dr. Tanner's con-
clusions " are in substantial agreement " with yours, and you
are " satisfied and shall probably never want more sittings."
Were I you, I should pine for more sittings in the hope of
discovering whether I really thought that Mrs. Piper's ear is
" keen and alert " ;
or, on the other hand, as " subsequent
observation suggests," " heard dimly and sleepily, or else
tended to drop oil' into the slumber in which the eye and
other orienting faculties were wrapped" (p. 265). How can
both of these conclusions be correct ? Why do you express
(pp. xix-xx) in your Introduction the conclusions which, as
reported in your " Current Notes," subsecpuent observation
proved to be mistaken ? Conclusions which are apparently
irreconcilably contradictory cannot be the basis of discussion.
The problem of determining the presence or absence of very
wide-awake normal intelligence and keen sensitiveness to im-
pressions in a person whose " general sensibility is shunted
out," and whose " respiratory functions, taste, smell, general
tactile sensibility and motor innervation are certaiidy asleep,"
(p. 268) is, of course, very difficult! If I understand you,
Mrs. Piper can somehow " shunt out " all the faculties which
she does shunt out, and yet " often " retain her normal intelli-
gence, her powers of hearing, comparing, and inferring, while
also " most of the time " her hearing is very somnolent and
lxii.] Review. 99
therefore her inferences from what she dimly hears must be
the vaguest of dreams.
Puzzled as every conscientious reader must be, one turns
to the "Notes of the Sittings," pp. 166-258. Here, one
hopes, will be found contemporary records of the general keen
alertness, and of the usual somnolent inefficiency, of Mrs. Piper's
normal sense of hearing.
The theory and method of the sittings is that Mrs. Piper,
or her spiritual " control," can only hear what is spoken loud
to her right hand, which the control dominates. Your theory
is that (a) Mrs. Piper's ear has its normal powers of hearing
;
and, again, (b) that it has not. In the records taken during
the sittings I find only the following notes which assert the
reaction of Mrs. Piper, or of Hodgson, to sounds other than
remarks shouted into her writing hand.
(1) p. 195. "Hodgson seems to break in, in response to
some unnoted remark from Mr. Dorr." The remark of Mr.
Dorr being " unnoted " we can say no more.
(2) p. 229. Dr. Tanner had said to Dr. Hall "with a
laugh " that some undecipherable writing by Mrs. Piper
" looked as if it might be the be"innimr of '
Hell and damna-
o o o
tion.' " The writing; hand remonstrated against what Dr.
Tanner had said.
In this instance Mrs. Piper, or " Hodgson " certainly heard
what Dr. Tanner said, with a laugh, about Hell and damna-
tion. This is, I think, the only instance of such hearing
which is not matter of presumption and conjecture.
(3) p. 229. A reference to Mr. Dorr's return to the room
whence he had made a pretence of departing. It is inferred
that Mrs. Piper heard some sound whence she inferred that a
trick was being played.
(4) " We talked to each other a minute or so. Presumably
the control heard, and went on" (p. 241). But nothing in the
context suggests that " the control heard " your conversation.
(5) There followed (Fifth sitting) some futile attempts at
experiments to detect Mrs. Piper's powers of hearing, and Dr.
Tanner says " I whispered to Dr. Hall to try to fool the
control . . . but 1 think that he heard me "
(p. 243).
This is only a conjecture of Dr. Tanner's : the " control," in
these experiments, was not always easily " fooled."
100 Andrew Lang. [part
(6) On p. 251 (Sixth sitting) several experiments on hearing
are tried, and " doubtless the control heard, the first time the
question was asked," but this is the common " doubtless " of
science and means no more than that you prefer to suppose
that the " control " heard the question.
(7) p. 256. A case of hearing what you and Dr. Tanner said
to each other. What you said to each other involved an obvious
misinterpretation of what Mrs. Piper (or " the control ") had
been saying to you, and " the control " kept insisting on his
own opinion.
I can only find, as contemporary records of the acute
hearing of Mrs. Piper in trance, these few cases, conjectures,
and presumptions.
Of the somnolence of the ear, " most of the time," I find no
contemporary record.
To return to the contrast between your scanty contemporary
notes of your guesses that Mrs. Piper hears acutely in " trance,"
on one side, and your large general assertion, on the other,
that her hearing is acute, you say (p. 204), "The left ear is
certainly awake, because, over and over, murmured words
between those present, steps, rustles, laughs, and many other
noises are heard and reacted to, sometimes unexpectedly, by
the writer."
Where are your contemporary records of these many " re-
actions " ? You give to the general reader your large assertion
on p. 264, lines 1-5. You contradict it (as far as I can
understand you) on page 265, and all the exact evidence you
offer for the assertion on page 264 is your "doubtless," your
" I think," your " presumably," with one or two certainties.
Yet on your theory of Mrs. Piper's acute hearing, you base
your theory of her alleged successes : surely there ought to
be more proofs both of the vigilance and of the somnolence
of her sense of hearing.
Once more, you are singularly inattentive to your own con-
temporary reports of your six sittings. At the Fourth, after
you had told your " involuted lies " to " Hodgson," Hodgson
said " I am interested in seeing how many stories you can
tell in a minute. They (sic) awfully bad. They are awful
whoppers" (p. 228). In the Sixth sitting (p. 255), Hodgson
says " I have felt so keenly your various whoppers all this
LXII.] Review. 101
time. ... I think I told you so before." (The dates of
sittings are not given.)
Your report, incredible as it seems, actually goes on :
" which
he certainly had not, having been trustful to the point of
credulity." Thus, when you reach page 255, you have for-
gotten, beyond recall even by your proof sheets, what you
had chronicled on page 228,—namely, "Hodgson's" detection
and denunciation of your " awful whoppers." You do not
remember all this even when "Hodgson" (p. 255) says, "I
think I told you so before." You reply " which he certainly
had not." Yet he had ! Poor " Hodgson's " memory is much
better than yours and Dr. Tanner's combined. It is you
who here " display the inability that we should expect from
a secondary personality. .
."
These notes deal only with the method and logic of your
contributions to the book of Dr. Tanner. Concerning Mrs.
Piper, it is my opinion that if it were possible to put her
fleshly ears out of action, without in any way injuring these
organs, " Hodgson," Eector and Co. would be deaf, and, of
course, could not answer questions which could not reach
them, unless by dint of telepathy between the quick and the
dead. If these spirits replied, and replied correctly, to ques-
tions asked mentally by the sitters, their case would be much
stronger, though, of course, not a crucial test. " Nevertheless
the experiment ought to be made by some competent
person," writes Sir Oliver Lodge. When physical hearing
has been put out of action, then sitters need not shout, they
may put their questions mentally. But till these conditions
are secured, I venture to think that experiments with Mrs.
Piper are nugatory.
I remain,
Your obedient servant,
A. Lang.
102 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvick. [part
REVIEW.
Studies in Spiritism. By Amy E. Tanner, Ph.D. (D. Appleton &
Co., New York and London, 1910, pp. 408.)
Mr. Lang deals above with Professor Stanley Hall's share in Dr.
Tanner's book Studies in Spiritism. A brief notice of the book as
a whole should perhaps be added.
But first let me say a few words about Mr. Lang's concluding
paragraph, which it seems to me unduly depreciates Mrs. Piper's
phenomena. I agree with him, as I think all who have sat with
her in England do, in believing that the trance-personality hears in
a normal manner through Mrs. Piper's ears, and that its impression
of hearing with the hand is a matter of self-suggestion. 1
(It is a
pity that Mr. Hall and Miss Tanner did not succeed in stopping
the ears so as to put this beyond the possibility of question.) I
also agree with Mr. Lang that answers to mental questions would
greatly add to the evidence for thought-transference from the
sitter, though scarcely at all, I may remark, to that for thought-
transference between Mrs. Piper and other automatists, for which
the evidence is in my opinion strong. But I cannot agree
with his view that without answers to mental questions from
the sitter experiments with Mrs. Piper are nugatory ; and in this
I think that most of those who have studied fully the published
reports of her sittings would agree with me. Does he perhaps, like
Professor Hall and Dr. Tanner, believe that the records are so
incomplete that even important remarks by the sitter are omitted 1
Certainly at sittings at which I have been present either as manager
or sitter this has not been the case. It has never been assumed by
me, nor I think by other English sitters, that any remark or sound
made in the room was inaudible to the trance-personality, and it
surprises me that Mr. Hall and Miss Tanner should ever have
1
Compare Mr. Myers' Human Personality, Vol. I., p. 192.
LXII.] Review. ] OM
acted as if this were so—for instance, in the case referred to by Mr.
Lang above, No. 5, p. 99. I do not know Mr. Dorr's view, but it
seems to me unlikely that in telling them —if he did so—that they
might talk freely to each other he meant to imply that they could
count on not being heard by the trance-personality.
It does not appear that the report by Professor Hall and Dr.
Tanner gives a complete account of all that happened at their six
sittings, but probably what is reported is enough to enable us to form
a fair judgement of the whole. Nor does it seem likely that the
omission to note all their own remarks (an omission which they
complain of—or perhaps too readily assume to have occurred—in
the case of other sitters) has seriously, if at all, lessened the value
of their sittings, which in other respects give the impression of
being carefully recorded, and which form a useful addition to the
material for studying Mrs. Piper's trance state. Having no interest
in keeping on friendly terms with the trance-personality, they were
able to use methods scarcely open to those who wish to continue
experimenting—in fact, in the language of the Hodgson control,
they told him "awful whoppers." They thus induced HodgsonP
to admit comradeship and common reminiscences with Professor
Hall, who says he never met Hodgson in the flesh ; and they
succeeded in obtaining messages from wholly fictitious friends
and relations. Similarly, by substituting, unknown to the trance-
personality, or at least without his betraying that he detected the
imposture, other objects for Hodgson's "influences," 1
they showed
that the effect of these is probably due to suggestion, as in the
case of bread pills. These results will not, I think, surprise any
of the English investigators, but it is useful to have experimental
demonstration of them.
Attempts to persuade HodgsonP to deny his own identity failed
completely, though I notice that Professor Hall is convinced that
he could have been bluffed out of existence had the effort
been persisted in (p. xxiii.). Personally, I doubt whether the most
tactful handling would, in Mrs. Piper's case, induce a supposed
communicator to deny the identity he claimed ; but doubtless such
communicators can be suppressed or encouraged by the sitters.
Mr. Hall and Miss Tanner also confirmed and extended some
1
"Influences," that is objects which have been in physical contact with the
supposed communicator when in the body, though not a necessity, are supposed
to help communication. They may serve to concentrate the attention of the
-trance-personality, or their use may be purely suggestive.
104 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
experiments of Dr. Hodgson's 1
showing comparative insensibility of
various kinds during trance. Their attempts at Freudian psycho-
analysis were incomplete and of little interest.
The accounts of the six sittings with Mrs. Piper held by Mr.
Hall and Miss Tanner occupy about one fourth of the book. There
is also a little chapter, interesting from a psychological point of view,
called "The medium in germ," on two cases of incipient mediumship
which had come under Miss Tanner's notice. The rest of the book
consists of discussions of Mrs. Piper's phenomena generally, of cross-
correspondences, of the evidence for telepathy furnished by the Pro-
ceedings of the Society for Psychical Research and Phantasms of the
Living, of a chapter on Mrs. Verrall, and a discussion of the Census of
Hallucinations. Unfortunately brevity, hasty reading, and forgetful-
ness of " the tremendous influence of a preconceived theory on one's
interpretations of facts" (see p. 105) very much diminish the value
of what Professor Hall describes as Miss Tanner's "searching, im-
partial, critical estimate" (p. xxxiii). In fact her presentation of
facts and arguments cannot be assumed to be fair without reference
to the originals. For persons with the original accounts before them
her remarks might sometimes be useful, but my impression is that
they would seldom be found to add anything of value to what is
put before the reader in the case as originally described, and
they constantly misrepresent the case and are essentially mis-
leading. I have not, indeed, compared the criticism with the matter
criticised in all cases myself, and if I had it would obviously
be impossible to follow Miss Tanner throughout within the limits of
this notice. I will therefore content myself with giving a few of
the instances of inaccuracy, misinterpretation or curious reasoning
that have struck me in reading her book.
(a) On p. 296, in discussing "The Case of Mrs. Verrall," Miss
Tanner says :
" At various times the script attempted a word to be
sent as a test to Dr. Hodgson, finally giving the words Ariadnes
stella coronaria, and making an allusion to another constella-
tion, Berenice's hair. Dr. Hodgson in reply said that he had
thought about syringas in connexion with her script, and that
syringas had a special significance for him. Now the Latin name
for syringa is Philadelphus Coronarius, and the combined reference
to Ariadne's crown and Berenice's hair is supposed by Mrs. Verrall
to be intended to recall Philadelphus or brotherly love. 7'his is rather
far-fetched, however." I raise no objection to the abstract till we
1
Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 4.
LXII.] Revieiv. 105
come to the part I have put in italics. Mrs. Verrall says nothing
about brotherly love. What she does say is " that the introduc-
tion of Berenice was accounted for, if what was wanted was not
only coronarius but Philadelphia
" l
; and in case by chance any one
should fail to remember the close association, in history, of the
names Berenice and Ptolemy Philadelphus, she refers to it in a
foot-note. This is not far-fetched at all.
(b) Here (pp. 136, 137) is an attempt to provide a common train
of thought in three automatists to account for cross-correspondences
on the words 'cup' and 'Diana,' and (in two of them) references
to Macbeth. Miss Tanner says :
" We got a clew here in the fact
that Henry Irving played 'Macbeth' and 'The Cup' in London
that winter, though we are not told just when." She doubtless
refers to a conjecture of Mr. Piddington's as to association of ideas
in one of the scripts. He says (Proc, Vol. XXII., p. 206): "The
conjunction of allusions to Macbeth, The Cup, and a '
Henry '
[in Mrs.
Holland's script] was, perhaps, due to an association of ideas with
Henry Irving, who produced, and acted in, these two plays."
"That winter" is an interpolation of Miss Tanner's and, as that
winter was 1906-7, and Henry Irving died in 1905, and, I may add,
at no time acted in Macbeth and The Cup in the same year,'2
is
obviously an erroneous one. So that clue fails.
(c) The following is a specimen of Miss Tanner's arguments. On
p. 344 she refers to the case of Miss R. seeing the face of Mrs. J. W.
in two places nearly or quite at once on the night of Mr. J. W.'s
death (Journal S.P.R., Vol. XII, p. 317). Miss R. unfortunately
failed to note the experience in writing, though she specially
observed the hour, till two days later when she heard of the death.
"This," says Miss Tanner, "is an excellent illustration of the defects
in all testimony in which the vision is not written out prior to the
knowledge of the death. What proof is there that this is not an
illusory memory, especially if, as seems to be the case, Miss R.
is given to vivid images and feelings of premonition 1" (Whence she
gets this impression about Miss R.'s tendencies to vivid images, etc.,
I do not know. Miss R.'s own statement is: "To the best of my
belief I have never seen an appearance of any similar kind before.")
The case would, of course, have been more cogent if a note had been
1
See Pi-oceedings, Vol. XX., p. .309.
- The Ctip was produced by Irving at the Lyceum in 1881, and has not been
played in London since. Macbeth was played by him in 1875 and again in
1888.
106 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
made, but even taking Miss Tanner's abridged account, and still
more with the details given in the original, it appears to me to be
one where illusion of memory is improbable. However, Miss Tanner
thinks differently, and having persuaded herself that there probably
was illusion of memory, she goes further and actually regards the
case as evidence that such illusions are common. She says: "Such
a case . . . convinces us that illusions of memory even within a few
days of the event may be so common as to invalidate every case
except those in which the hallucination is written out in detail at
the time and before the corresponding event is known."
(d) Here is another specimen of Miss Tanner's arguments. She
refers with well-merited admiration to Mr. Davey's experiments
(Proc, Vol. IV.), showing how inaccurate observation and memory of
conjuring tricks is. Then, criticising the evidence for apparitions at
the time of death, and referring to the paucity of contemporary
documents, she says (p. 352): "Does it not seem curious that a
committee [the Census Committee] cognisant of Mr. Davey's brilliant
demonstration of the transpositions and lapses of memory within
even one hour after the event should base a supposedly scientific
argument for telepathy on evidence of this sort?" The value of the
evidence is of course greatly diminished by absence of contemporary
notes. At the same time, the kind of lapse of observation and
memory involved in misstatements in the case of accounts of Mr.
Davey's conjuring tricks is very different from that in accounts of
apparitions at the time of death. For instance, I should unhesitat-
ingly assume Miss Tanner's account of a conjuring trick witnessed but
not understood by her to be inaccurate, though given immediately
after witnessing it, because I should know that the conjuror had tried
to give her false impressions at the time, and because I should
feel sure that the numerous small incidents which went to make
up the whole occurrence, and to which she had no clue, would tend
to get misplaced or forgotten even when observed. But if Miss
Tanner told me that Miss Smith called on her at three o'clock on
Saturday afternoon I should have no reason to doubt her word
;
though, of course, if anything of importance turned on the exact
day and hour of the call it would be desirable to enquire whether
she or others could bring forward corroborative circumstances con-
firming her recollection.
(e) Here is an instance of Miss Tanner's conjectural explanations
{p. 58). At a sitting with Mrs. Piper which Sir Oliver Lodge was
managing, and at which he was himself taking notes, a " Mr.
LXII.] Review. 107
Wilson," deceased, professed through the Phinuit control to send
messages to his son, who was not present. The following is an
extract from the report
:
"... He lives somewhere in your neighbourhood
0. J. L. Yes he does.
and has got a friend named Bradley—a very great friend
of his. He thought first of being a doctor. ..."
The son had never thought of being a doctor, but when the
remark was made at the sitting Sir Oliver thought it correctly
represented something he had been told by the son. His inference
from this, and from the fact that of other statements made by
'Mr. Wilson' those only referring to matters known to Sir Oliver
were correct, is that "a great deal of this looks obviously like
thought-transference." On this Miss Tanner comments, "Doubtless
there was thought-transference, but it was done by Sir Oliver
involuntarily betraying his opinion to Phinuit, I would venture to
say." Now how does one, when there is no beating about the bush,
involuntarily betray an impression of the sort in question 1 Does
Dr. Tanner think that Sir Oliver unconsciously whispered " he
thought first of being a doctor" and that Phinuit repeated it after
him ? Or does she believe that Sir Oliver's contemporary notes are
as much abbreviated, or abstracted with a bias, as the accounts of
cases in her book ? Surely in this case a more plausible alternative
hypothesis to telepathy would be that Phinuit made a guess which
accidentally coincided with Sir Oliver's idea.
Dr. Tanner gives two chapters to "Telepathy and other Allied
Phenomena," and rather strangely says (p. 321) that under the name
of telepathy " are grouped all such things as crystal gazing, veridical
dreams, death warnings, premonitions that come true, automatic
writing, and even spirit communication itself by some." In the first
of the two chapters she discusses spontaneous and experimental
thought-transference. (I am interested, by the way, to learn that
the experiments at Brighton in 1889-90, in which I took a large part,
"are now discredited," p. 326. This is news to me.) In the second
of the two chapters Miss Tanner discusses the " Census of Hallucina-
tions." It is curious to find her saying after this (p. 365) :
" The
great trouble with the cases for all sorts of telepathy is that it is
almost, if not quite, impossible to collect all the negative instances,
for that would mean devoting one's time to writing down the
thoughts which bring up persons. We cannot even begin to calculate
the probabilities in the case until we know something more of the
108 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
numbers of negative cases." It was a principal object of the
" Census of Hallucinations," to compare the number of coincidental
with non-coincidental—-positive with negative—hallucinations, and
Miss Tanner actually discusses the chapter on recognised apparitions
where the proportion of these occurring within twelve hours of the
death of the person seen is compared with the proportion of such
coincidences that chance alone would give (and shown, of course,
enormously to exceed it). It seems possible, however, that she has
not altogether understood the object of a calculation which she has
certainly failed to follow, and of which she gives an account on
p. 350, which is neither correct nor intelligible.
I could multiply instances of inaccuracy and misrepresentation,
also of the use of misleading phrases, such as those by which Miss
Tanner seems to suggest that " the Psychical Researchers " are collec-
tively responsible for the opinions of any one interested in Psychical
Research. But I have, I think, said enough. It is likely enough
that the book will impress those who derive their knowledge of
the evidence discussed from it alone ; but a very different view will
be formed by those who are able to check Dr. Tanner's version of
the evidence by reference to the original sources. As Dr. Tanner
is a professional psychologist, and presumably therefore aims at
learning and expounding the truth, the book must be regarded
as failing in its object.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
LXII.] " The One-Horse Dawn." 109
" THE ONE-HOESE DA.WN:"
Additional Note on an Experiment Described in
"Proceedings," Vol. XX., pp. 156-167.
By Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
In the account given in Proc. S.P.E., Vol. XX., of an attempt
made by my husband without my knowledge, to convey
to my script three Greek words occurring in a passage from
the Orestes of Euripides set for translation in the Classical
Tripos of 1873, I gave what I believed to be a complete list
of the allusions in my script to that experiment. But I
have lately found what appears to be a reference to the
context of the words fiovoircoXov eg aS> and to the name of
the play.
The script in question was obtained on June 30, 1901,
between what I had regarded as the first and second refer-
ences to the "three Greek words" (p. 387). I quote here
the relevant part, omitting only a wholly disconnected intro-
ductory phrase and a concluding portion, introduced by the
name " Gurney " and ended by the signature " E. Gy." which
purports to represent an attempt on the part of a " Sidgwiek-
control " to make an evidential statement about a MS. play.
1
Script of June 30, 1901. 9 p.m. Eiffel Alp.
Facto superposito superpone semper quod infacetum viderit
—
sic in cacumina pervenies. A-aprots AapraS>7</>o/)w . arcton stella
in caelo /3oott?v sequitur. fmm in originem retro
—
SrjXrjnjpiov
Sekrov a8eA<£os 8e\(f>iKr) o/xt^y xPWeTaL ingenium adhibe—pone
mentem tuam, interpretationem caecam veritatis Dei. Ill and
'See Proc, Vol. XX., pp. 279-280; 416 for the play; 305-307 for the form
of signature, " E. Gy."
110 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [PART
then 3 more, put nine and count the days listen that night
—
the bird will come 1'
uccel di Dio. in the everlasting
snows—you cannot fail to note. Peace and a sword.
The point appears to lie in the words from \apnrdg to
Xp)'i<T€Tat. They follow upon a general instruction
1
to " go
on superposing " " so will you reach the height," and precede
injunctions to apply ingenuity to their interpretation. They
may be thus represented in English :
" a torch to the torch
bearer ; Arcton (Great or Little Bear) a star in the sky
follows Bootes (the Charioteer). A river back to its source—
deleterion (?) of a tablet—a brother will use the Delphic
voice."
Arcton is probably a slip for Arctos ; in any case the next
sentence makes it clear that the intention is to describe a
reversal of the natural order of the stars ;
Bootes, the Charioteer,
otherwise Arcturus, instead of following the Bear, is himself
followed by the Bear. This idea is repeated in the next
sentence ; the river flows back to its source. The next word
(S>i\i]T>'ipioi>) certainly, and the second (SeXrov) probably,'
2
is
meaningless and may merely represent a feeling after the
following words (see Proc, Vol. XX., p. 57). The last four
words, however, are intelligible, and applicable to Orestes
;
Orestes the brother of Iphigenia and Electra, did carry out
the orders of the " Delphian voice." I can think of no other
" brother " who did this. Here, then, may be an allusion to
the Orestes.
The reversal of natural phenomena in the Orestes describes
only the reversed movement of the sun. The script introduces
two instances. The first closely recalls the illustration in the
Orestes, suggesting, as Euripides does, a revolution of the heavens
from West to East. I have found no classical prototype for
the pursuit of Bootes by the Bear. The second illustration,
the backward flowing of a river, recalls the Chorus in the
Medea (1. 409) avw 7roTu/uun' tepwv ywpovo-i -wayat (The mystic
river-head flows upwards).
The use, however, of Latin suggests that the reminiscence is
1
The grammatical forms are inaccurate, and precise rendering is not possible.
-This may refer to the tablet which is the means of identifying Orestes as
the brother of Iphigenia in the I. T.
LXII.] " The One-Horse Datvn." Ill
rather of a Latin passage. Ovid 1
uses the same image twice
(Her. v. 29 and Trist. ii. 8. 1). In the passage in the Tristia,
which contains two of the words introduced into the script,
retro and flumina, he writes not only of the backward-flowing
river but of the reversal of the chariot of the sun :
" In caput alta suum labentur ab aequore retro
Flumina, conversis solque recurret equis,"
thus recalling the reversed movement described in the passage
of the Orestes, /j.ov6irw>\ov e? dw.
The words Xufx-jra? Xu/x7raS>]Cp6pto '
a torch to the torch-
bearer '
confusedly recall the famous simile in the Agamemnon
(1. 324). They appear to me to belong to the introductory
portion of the script, and, like the remarks about " super-
position," to suggest co-operation of some sort.
But the reversal of natural phenomena and the brother who
is to use the Delphian voice appear to relate to the context of
the " three Greek words " and to the title of the play.
The appointment which the script made was not kept, and
no "bird" of any kind had a chance of appearing on July 15,
1901. But in the later attempts from August 13, 1901,
onwards, to guess the three words, a cock plays a large part
;
an " incredible bird " also appears in the first script dealing
with the subject, on June 16, 1901,2
so that "the bird"
constitutes a point of contact with other scripts containing
references to fxovoirwXov e? aw.
1
Quoted in Paley's edition of the Medea of Euripides.
2
A " cockyoly bird " had attracted my attention in the script of May 11, 1901.
See Proc, Vol. XX., pp. 328-330.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXIII.
June, 1911.
I.
EVIDENCE OF CLASSICAL SCHOLARSHIP AND OF
CROSS-CORRESPONDENCE IN SOME NEW AUTO-
MATIC WRITINGS.
BY SIR OLIVER LODGE.
Introduction.
Membeks of the Society who have followed the subject of Cross-
correspondence are aware that in recent years several ladies,
some of them previously strangers to us, have proved able to
produce script containing evidential matter which purports to
come from deceased members of the S.P.R., amon» others from
the late Mr. Myers ; and one of these ladies, now known to us
as Mrs. Willett, seems to be endowed with exceptional power
and productiveness, though no report of her work has yet been
made to the Society.
It is probable that eventually a Report of considerable magni-
tude will be made upon this case, which is turning out to
be important, but meanwhile the present paper deals with
H
Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
some communications which I have had with Mrs. Willett
through the post, after hearing about her through Mrs. Verrall
and seeing some of the material which she had produced.
Concerning Mrs. Willett herself the following statements
have been made by Mrs. Verrall in a letter to me, dated
23 February, 1910.
Statement by Mrs. Verrall concerning Mrs. Willett.
She is not a member of the S.P.R., and has never seen anj'
papers whatever in proof. She knows no one who attends meetings,
and it is therefore most unlikely that she should even know the
names of papers read there, and impossible, I think, that she should
know anything of the contents. She has, however, read and anno-
tated Mr. Piddington's paper (Vol. XXII.), and has similarly read
Miss Johnson's paper (Vol. XXL).
I have notes stating exactly what scripts she has seen. 1
. . . When
I stayed with her in January last ... I was extremely careful to
say nothing about any of the recent unpublished papers prepared
for the forthcoming volume of Proceedings. . . .
She knows that there have been cross-correspondences between
Helen and me in England and Mrs. Piper in America. She knows
absolutely nothing in detail. . . .
I have had many opportunities of checking Mrs. Willett's accuracy
of memory and statement, and have always found it very marked.
She is an excellent witness in every way, and her own statement
could, I feel sure, be entirely depended upon.
So much for Mrs. Verrall's statement concerning this lady.
Miss Alice Johnson, Eesearch Officer to the S.P.K., has now
made her acquaintance, and has formed a very favourable
impression. Appended is her first-hand statement.
1
In the course of my correspondence with Mrs. Willett I found that
references to her had been made in the scripts of other automatists, and
as her collaboration was helpful in the elucidation of such references, I
have sent her from time to time copies of my daughter's scripts and my own,
as well as of some parts of the Mac scripts (now published in Proc. Vol.
XXIV., p.
-
264). It will be seen that a few of the phrases in the scripts
quoted in this paper are derived from these sources. For fuller information
on this subject see my supplementary paper, which follows. —M. de G. V.
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some Nexv Script. 115
Miss Johnsons Statement concerning Mrs. Willctt.
July 22nd, 1910.
I was introduced by Mrs. Verrall to Mrs. "Willett in the early
part of this year, and have had several opportunities of talking with
her about her script and the circumstances under which it has been
produced. As to the result of these interviews, I concur absolutely
in Mrs. Verrall's opinion expressed above. I am confident that Mrs.
Willett's testimony is given under a strict sense of responsibility
and with ever}' care to make it as accurate as possible. She is by
no means devoid of critical faculty, and is, I think, accurate by
nature in regard to essentials of evidence. I should without hesita-
tion accept any statement from her as to the extent of her normal
supraliminal knowledge of topics in her script, and I believe she is
extremely careful to give whatever information she possesses that
would bear on this point, or on the equally important question of
matters that mav once have been within her knowledge and since
forgotten.
Supplementary Preliminary Statement by 0. J. L.
For my own part T am assured not only of Mrs. "Willett's
good faith, and complete absence of anything that can be called
even elementary classical knowledge, but also of the scrupulous
care and fidelity with which she records her impressions, and
reports every trace of normal knowledge which seems to her
to have any possible bearing upon the script. We are able
in fact to regard her as a colleague in the research, in the
same sort of way that we are able to regard Mrs. Holland.
I may also emphasise the fact that the scripts dealt with
below were copied, and the copies sent to me at once, by Mrs.
Willett. Occasionally, when anything seemed specially import-
ant, the original was sent to me—either with or without a
copy ; and when this was not done, the original was always
deposited, in a sealed envelope, with some responsible person
living in another house,—so as to get a postmark and an
endorsement of receipt, that there might be no sort of
mistake or question about the date, if that happened to turn
out to be an important item. This is a good precaution to
take in such cases, when possible cross-correspondence may be
116 Sir Oliver Lodge. [PART
anticipated, and when the writing as it comes is largely unin-
telligible to the automatist.
Edmund Gurney is supposed to be the chief communicator
or manager of Mrs. Willett's automatism, and many messages
come from him; but occasionally we are told that "Myers" is
in touch with " the machine," and some episodes connected
with what it is convenient to call Myersw, shall be narrated.
The chief portion of what I have first to report takes its origin
in a question which Mr. Dorr, of Boston, U.S.A., asked of a
Myers control, through Mrs. Piper, in America in March, 1908.
The answers then and there received have been studied by
Mr. Piddington, were found to be of singular interest, and were
reported on by him to a private meeting of the Society held
on Oct. 28, 1909—his paper being read to the meeting by Miss
Helen Verrall. At this date Mrs. Willett was living in a remote
part of the country and there is no reason to suppose that
she ever saw the Journal of the Society. Moreover, no details
at all are given of this paper in the Journal. It is only
referred to (in October and November, 1909) under the title,
" Some Classical Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance," and was not
published in the Proceedings (Part LX.) until April, 1910.
I myself had heard of the paper beforehand and had read
parts of it ; so in September it occurred to me that it would
be instructive to ask the Myers-like influence operating through
Mrs. Willett the very same question as had been asked of the
Myers control working through Mrs. Piper. At this period I
had not had first-hand experience of Mrs. Willett's phenomena,
though I had made her acquaintance in London on the 17th of
May, 1909; but inasmuch as the character of the "Myers"
communications coming through her had favourably impressed
me, I wrote with some care to her on 28 Sept., 1909, enclos-
ing a question in a sealed envelope for her to open at any
convenient time when it seemed likely that script would be
forthcoming.
Letter from 0. J. L. to Mrs. Willett, dated 28th Sept. 1909.
I want to ask F. W. H. M. a question a projws of nothing, and
propose to enclose it for you to use when you have an opportunity.
It is a very short one, but more important than it will sound.
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 117
It may be best not to open it till you feel ready to communicate
it.
The answer may take some time before it is complete, but a
record of everything said, gibberish or otherwise, —perhaps especially
on the first occasion—may be important.
The envelope enclosed in this letter of mine to Mrs. Willett
was stuck up and endorsed by me as intended for F. W. H. M.
through Mrs. Willett, under date 29 Sept., 1909.
It happened that she was not doing any automatic writing
at this time, and therefore did not open the envelope till
some months later. It was subsequently returned to me at
my request for inspection, and on the tongue is now written
in Mrs. Willett's writing :
" Opened by me
Feb. 4, 1910
The sheet of paper enclosed in the envelope runs as follows:
Mariemont, Edgbaston, 29 Sept. 1909.
My dear Myers, I want to ask you a question—not an idle one.
What does the word Lethe suggest to you?
It may be that you will choose to answer piece-meal and at
leisure. There is no hurry about it. Oliver Lodge.
My object of course was to see whether what we may call
the " Willett-Myers " could exhibit a train of recollection
similar to that of the " Piper-Myers," when stimulated by one
and the same question. And the circumstances were such that
even if identically the same train of memories were tapped
—
which on any hypothesis was improbable—the evidence would
be good for something supernormal, though in that case it
might have to be assumed that the supernormality was limited
to telepathy from the living.
But the answers that I got through Mrs. Willett were supple-
mentary to, and by no means identical with, those obtained
through Mrs. Piper. They contain a common element, and in
my judgement are characteristic of the same personality, but
they are not identical.
118 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
In speaking for the moment of " the same personality," I
must guard against the supposition that I regard the Piper-
Myers, the Willett-Myers, the Verrall-Myers, the Holland-
Myers, as all exactly the same. On the assumption that they
all include something of a real " Myers," the mixed or com-
pound personalities should all contain a common element, and
this common element may he dominant or recessive, according
to circumstances ; but on any hypothesis we must expect the
messages as we receive them to be more or less sophisti-
cated by the instrument through which the communications
are made. The personalities would probably differ, as Miss
Johnson has clearly pointed out (Proc. Vol. XXIV., p. 262),
somewhat as chemical compounds may differ when they all
contain a common element. In no case do we get the Myers
element pure and undiluted. Sometimes it comes out more
clearly than at others, but it must surely be influenced by
the material channel through which it conveys its intelligence
—especially j^erhaps as regards the literary form which the
communications take,—and we may expect that the range of
" Myers " reminiscences which can be tapped by such means
must be limited, or at least curbed to some extent in power
of expression, by the range of memory and association—or
as some might say by the brain deposit—of the person through
whom the answers are obtained.
In the case of an entranced medium, like Mrs. Piper, I
should anticipate that more complete control could be exer-
cised, and that the inevitable sophistication would be less
—
when the conditions are favourable—than with a medium
not entranced ; and it may thus be possible sometimes, and
with difficulty, to get recorded words or signs alien to the
mind of the automatist ;
—who indeed is then, I am inclined
to think, not so much an automatist influenced tele-
pathically, as an automaton or agency or machine " possessed
"
for the time by some experienced and managing " control,"
who operates dynamically or telcrgically. That at any rate
seems a legitimate working hypothesis ; but in all probability
the grades and shades of mediumship are very various, and
for my own part I have not found any two precisely alike.
With more experience we shall be able to classify them, I
expect ; but the classes will probably, as usual, shade off into
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 119
each other, and there will be no clear lines or boundaries of
demarcation.
It is becoming clear to me that when communications are
being sent, in such cases as those of Mrs. Verrall, Mrs. Holland,
and Mrs. Willett, the process consists in a kind of selection
rather than in creation or origination. Original thoughts may
sometimes be passed through, but the easiest method is to find
in the mind or perhaps in the brain of the medium some deposit
of reminiscence which can be evoked or stimulated, and which
can convey approximately something like the idea required. It
does not appear to be at all easy to impress people with
meaningless or foreign words or sentences, but reservoirs of
partial knowledge can, it appears, be tapped sometimes and
utilised in such a way that an intelligent and patient reader
can clearly make out the underlying meaning and connexion,
from what is " got through."
But on this hypothesis it is manifestly natural that the
associations expressed through different channels shall be
differently worded, shall fall into different groups, and shall be
very far from being identical in phrase and detail. Part of
these differences may be reasonably attributed to an intelligent
desire of the control to avoid direct telepathy, or any appearance
of direct telepathy, between the automatists. But another part
may I think be reasonably attributed to the fundamental
difficulties grouped round the subject, and to the conditions
under which alone communications of this kind are possible.
A statement made by Myersw is of interest in this connexion.
He recognises that the use of different automatists to convey
a single idea necessitates attention to various forms or modes
of expressing that idea; for in a Willett script of Feb. 10,
1910 (reported more fully in Part II. below), occur the words:
That I have to use different scribes means that I must show
different aspects of thought, underlying which unity is to be found. 1
For a further discussion of this matter, the section in Miss
Johnson's paper below on " The Principle of Selection in the
Production of Scripts " may be referred to.
l
lt will he observed that the Willett script, like that of Airs. Holland, uses
the word "scribe" in the sense of automatist.
120 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
PART I.
CONCERNING THE SCRIPT OF 4 FEBRUARY, 1910.
Chap. I. The Lethe-Dork Episode in Willett Script.
I will first briefly summarise the answers which were given
to Mr. Dorr's question about Lethe, when first addressed to
the Myers control through Mrs. Piper in America, and then
I will reproduce and fully discuss the answers which were
given to the same question when put by me to the communicator
through Mrs. Willett in this country.
It will be noticed that the object of the interrogator in the
two cases somewhat differed. Mr. Dorr's object was to stimulate
the classical interest, and tap the classical and literary reminis-
cences, of the Piper-Myers. Hence he asked many questions, of
which that concerning Lethe was one. Whereas my object was
chiefly to ascertain whether the Willett-Myers could show any
recollection of the previous question, and whether it would
give at all similar answers. In the result I may say at once
that a recollection of Mr. Dorr as having been associated with
this question was clearly indicated ; and I may further say that
the answers obtained in the two cases, though they both
si lowed remarkable classical knowledge decidedly beyond that of
the questioner, did not on the whole relate to the same topics.
In answer to this particular question, MyersP referred mainly to
incidents narrated by Ovid,—Myersw mostly to subjects treated
of by Virgil ;
though undoubtedly both controls showed a
familiarity with Virgil, as well as with other literature. And
in some cases there was an overlapping of reminiscence of a
very appropriate and remarkable kind.
To give any adequate idea of the force and meaning of all
the allusions will need a detailed analysis, such as has already
been performed in Part LX. (Vol. XXIV.) and in other volumes
of the Proceedings by those who have written the papers con-
tained therein. Every such analysis involves labour, as well
as knowledge and ingenuity, and I am glad to say that Mrs.
Verrall will supplement my paper by an analysis of this kind,
applied to two of the Willett scripts.
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 121
The answers to the Lethe question obtained through Mrs.
Piper are now published in Part LX. (March, 1910) of the
Proceedings (Vol. XXIV.). They contain references to " cave,"
" Olympus," " Iris," " flowery banks," " Somnus," " Morpheus,"
" Ceyx," •
and " poppies," all of which are explained by Mr.
Piddington as reminiscences of Ovid's Metamorphoses, Book XI.
They also, however, contain the word " Sibyl." which suggests
a Virgilian connexion with Lethe ; for it was in the company
of the Sibyl of Cumse that ^Eneas saw the river of Lethe
flowing by the Elysian fields.
Other classical references from the same and the preceding-
Book of the Metamorphoses were likewise given to Mr. Dorr
through Mrs. Piper in connexion with his Lethe question,
—
involving such names as Orpheus and Eurydice, Pygmalion,
Hyacinthus. The real intention of none of these references
was understood by Mr. Dorr at the time, as is clear from his
own contemporary comments upon them.1
Willett Script.
I shall now give the answers which were written through
Mrs. Willett's hand, when she, in solitude, on Eeb. 4, 1910,
had opened my question and read it (so to speak) to the
intelligence which at the time was controlling her hand and
producing automatic writing.
I must first explain that in the automatic writings of Mrs.
Willett, the name of the ostensible communicator not only
comes at the beginning, but is repeated at intervals throughout
the script. The object of this repetition of the name is not
quite clear, but it seems to be a plan adopted of fixing the
communicator's own attention to the matter in hand ;
while it
occasionally serves as a sort of punctuation-mark or break, like a
full stop or the beginning of a new paragraph. It also has
the effect of keeping constantly before us the identity of the
ostensible communicator ; but in reading it is best to ignore
most of these interruptions.
1
In her paper below Mrs. Verrall gives summarised details concerning Mr.
Dorr's sittings with Mrs. Piper during December, 1908, and March, 1909,
—
which are dates later than those of the sittings dealt with in Mr. Piddington's
paper.
122 Sir Oliver Lodge. [PART
The writing of the script is legible enough. Unlike Mrs.
Piper's, but like much of Mrs. Holland's, it is continuous, the
words all running together. The hand-writm" does not seem
to me to be like any one's in particular : it is large and feature-
less. I have at a later stage seen this script being pro-
duced ;
it is rapidly written, and appears to come quite
automatically. Occasionally it contains remarks addressed to
the automatist herself, such as "take a fresh pen," "let the
hand go," " don't scrawl," etc., etc.
In sending me the script, Mrs. Willett accompanied it by a
letter written on the same clay and posted on the next, which
ran thus
:
I opened your sealed envelope, No. 1, to-day during the script
which I now send. It is the most "scrappy" sc. I ever had, and
the first in which a word is printed (it took some time to do) ;
the printed word is "PEAK." The script seems full of bits from
other scs. or poems. I feel like sending you the sc. itself, so 1
have marked off the words with a red pencil, and I also send a cop}'
ami notes of what I know of the quotations—but the sc., as a whole,
suggests nothing much to me—I only hope it may to you. 1
Script of Feb. 4.
Here is the Script in as near facsimile as ordinary printing
can make it, the two portions in parentheses near the begin-
ning beins; the words of Mrs. Willett herself:
(Scribble)
Myers yes I am here
I am now ready to deal
with the question from Lodge
Before you open the envelope
reread his letter to you
the one that accompanied
the letter to me
(I did so
—
" I want to ask F.W.H.M. a question a propos of nothing, and
propose to enclose it for you to use when you have an opportunity.
It is a very short one, but more important than it will sound. It
1
See Appendices A and B, and Mrs. Verrall's Supplementary Paper.
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some Neiu Script. 123
may be best not to open it till you feel ready to communicate it.
The answer may take some time before it is complete, but a record
of everything said, gibberish or otherwise, —perhaps especially on
the first occasion—may be important."
The script continued)
Yes now open the Question |
the envelope containing the question
(I did so and read it through twice
" My dear Myers, I want to ask you a question—not an idle one.
What does the word Lethe suggest to you?
It may be that you will choose to answer piece-meal and at
leisure. There is no hurry about it. Oliver Lodge."
The script began at once)
Myers the Will again to live
the Will again to live the
River of forgetfulness
not reincarnation
Once only does the soul
descend the way that leads
to incarnation the blending
of the Essence with the
instrument Myers tu Marcellus
Eris you know that line
you [Mrs. Willett]
T mean
Write it nevertheless and add
Henry Sidgwicks
In Valle Redueta
Add too the Doves and the
Golden Bough amid the
Shadows add too
Go not to Lethe
Myei s
Myers there was the door to
which I found no key
and Haggi Babba too
This is disconnected but not
meaningless the shining souls
shining by the river brim The pain forgotten but there
is another meaning another
124- Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
more intimate link and connection
that now I cannot give
it does not escape me I see
the bearing Rose fluttering rose leaves blown
like ghosts from an enchanter
fleeing Myers and Love
Love the essential essence
not spilt like water on
the ground far off forgotten
pain not not (A break and pause here)
Darien the Peak
in Darien the Peak
Peak PEAK (Another pause)
m Myers I have not done yet
to Lodge this may have meaning
to Lodge this may have meaning
Let him remember the occasion
Myers I am not vague
I am not vague
I want an answer to this to this
Script from Lodge
Myers tell
him I want an answer
Does he recognise my recognition
Does he recognise my recognition
Myers pause (did so) Let Lodge speak (?)
speak let him speak
Myers enough for to-day Myers
let Lodge speak
F.
(End of Feb. 4 Script.)
Some notes accompanied this script when sent to me,
indicating the amount of Mrs. Willett's normal knowledge
;
these will be referred to in Appendix A.
Now, I have to confess with some shame, though the fact of
my ignorance really improves the evidence, that, at the time,
these various literary references did not seem to me at all satis-
factory as an answer to my question ;
and I sent a message, to
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some Neiv Script. 125
be read to Myersw at some future time, saying that I expected
something better. (See Appendix B.)
But gradually I have perceived, partly with the help of
explanatory notes by Mr. Piddington and Mrs. Verrall, and
partly by my own reading, that the answers are admirable
;
as I will later on endeavour to explain.
Meanwhile, however, on the very next day (February 5th),
and therefore before I had been made aware of the existence
of the script of Feb. 4, Mrs. Willett was conscious of a special
effort being made, and she obtained a remarkable script, con-
cerning the coming of which she makes the statement annexed :
Statement by Mrs. Willett concerning her reception of the
script of February 5th, a facsimile and a transcription of which
follow.
5 Feb., 1910.
Note about 6.10 p.m. I came downstairs from resting and
suddenly felt I was getting very dazed and light-headed with a
hot sort of feeling on the back of my neck—I was looking at the
Times newspaper—I did not think of script until I felt my hands
being as it were drawn together—I could not seem to keep them
apart and the feeling got worse—and with a sort of rush I felt
compelled to get writing materials and sit clown, though [people]
were in the room and I have never tried for Sc. except alone
(with the exception of the time with Mrs. V.). The enclosed Sc.
came—the most untidy Sc. I ever had—a long pause after the
word "spell it."
After the sheet (1) I thought the Sc. was finished and began in a
few minutes to copy it out when I felt my hands " going " again and
took another sheet (2) when some more Sc. came.
I am giving the original Script and this note to now,
as I do not feel a copy can be made of the writing, some of which
is unlike any I ever had.
I still feel very dazed and uncomfortable. The Sc. has no
meaning whatever to me. I take the word in large letters to be
Dorr,
and this I know is the name of some man in America concerning
whom Mrs. Verrall sent a message [to the Willett communicators]
in the summer to say that his sittings (with Mrs. Piper, I think)
had brought good evidence—I know she has written a paper about
126 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
these sittings — but I know nothing whatever about them, nor
about the person named "Dorr," except that he exists, and is
American.
P.S. —As there is no post out from here after 6.30 (the Sc. finished
at 6.25 p.m. and I looked at the clock at once) and this cannot catch
it as post-box is some minutes walk away, I am giving the Sc. and
notes to [a relative] so that the date may be attested, in case it has
any importance—and he will keep the envelope and post it to Sir
Oliver Lodge to-morrow.
[This carefulness suggests subliminal stimulus or planning,
in order to prevent any such direct telepathy from me as
might be stimulated by the reception of the Feb. 4 script.
I did not receive that first script till Feb. 6. The portion
written now, on Feb. 5, I received on Feb. 7. 0. J. L.]
Copy of Sc. of 5 February, 1910, ended 6.25 p.m.
You felt the call it I it is I who write Myers. I need urgently
to say this tell Lodge this word Myers Myers get the word I
will spell it (scribbles) Myers yes the word (1) is DORR
[end of sheet 1]
We (?) H (scribbles, perhaps M)
Myers the word is
(Scribbles) D DORR
Myers enough
F [end of sheet 2]
In reply to this 0. J. L. wrote to Mrs. Willett herself,,
as follows
:
7 Feb. 1910.
This is just a line to acknowledge receipt of the script through
your friend this morning and to say that the word communicated
has a meaning and a good one. I will say no more.
Facsimile of short Script received from Mrs. Willett on
5 February, 1910.
After the first sheet had coine it appeared to have finished,
and she was beginning to copy it when she felt another impulse,,
and the second sheet came. The point of interest is the
exceptional mode of obtaining the word Dorr.
Now it is manifest that this obtaining of the word Dorr as an
v u
/
/\Kir
i 1 /PI
u 4f , i
lw thy
1 w{
y
If) /j j
¥U
r
//
p. 120.
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some Nexv Script. 127
. answer to the question " What does Lethe suggest to you ?
" is
specially noteworthy, inasmuch as there is no classical or literary
association about it that could be drawn from memory : it could
be nothing but sheer information, obtained either telepathically
from some member of the S.P.E. or as part of the recollection
of a Myers personality. Xo connexion in fact exists between
Lethe and Dorr, except the fact, unknown to Mrs. Willett, that
a Mr. Dorr of Boston had asked a Myers control, through the
entranced Mrs. Piper, a question about Lethe—the same
question as the one which I now addressed to what purported
to be the same personality communicating through Mrs. Willett.
Miss Johnson informs me that Part LX. of Proceedings, though
dated March, 1910, was not issued from the printer till April 9,
also that she posted a special copy to Mrs. AVillett on April 19.
Before that date Mrs. Willett was entirely in ignorance of the
answers which Mr. Dorr had obtained through Mrs. Piper, and
indeed of the fact that any such question had been put.
Further references to this matter, emphasising the importance
of it as seen from " the other side," appear in later scripts.
On February 10th, 1910, for instance, the script begins as
follows
:
Myers yes I am ready I know what Lodge WANTS he
wants to prove that I have access to knowledge shown elsewhere
Myers.
[Then after a few literary references it goes on :]
Dorr's scheme excellent Myers that I have to use different
scribes means that I must show different aspects of thought
underlying which Unity is to be found. 1
The first intimation that the normal and supraliminal Mrs.
Willett had of the real meaning of the name Dorr in this
connexion was through Part LX. of the Proceedings S.P.E., con-
taining Mr. Piddington's paper. This was received by her for
the first time on 20th April, 1910, as she thus reported to
me on April 2 9 th, 1910 :
Miss Alice Johnson sent me the last Proceedings. I have only
had time to glance through part of it —but you can imagine my
surprise when I caught sight of the words
Lethe . . . Dorr.
J
As noted above, the word "scribe" is used in the sense of automatist.
128 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
I could hardly believe my eyes. And I think I see parts of my
Script about Lethe have links with the answers through Mrs. Piper.
This is a tremendous encouragement to me, for 'they' are ofcen so
puzzling and confusing that I get fits of discouragement about the
value of my script.
In any communications subsequent to this date, April 20,
1910, it must be remembered that the newly-published Part
LX. has been seen by Mrs. Willett.
Subsequent references in, Willett Scrijrt, to the Dorr- Lethe episode.
On May 1st, 1910, the following came from Myersw :
I laboured terribly to get clear with Dorr. The same plan might
be carried out with more intelligence and less confusion to trance
personalities. That is the difficulty. If the sitter has not got the
knowledge which makes the matter intelligible, he blunders in and
as it were alters the " points," switching the trains on to wrong
points. But if on the other hand the sitter has got the knowledge,
then you will say that it is merely subliminal Piper groping about
in the mind of the sitter. Those are the horns.
Quite true ; and of the two horns I prefer the former.
But this Dorr episode was not quite finished with, even
now; for on June 5th, 1910, I received the following script
by post from Mrs. Willett :
Pluto and Bees
Re Lethe
I said there was a pun somewhere
I meant in my own Sc not in Plu (scribble) not in either plato
or others I Myers made a pun I got in a WORD I wanted
by wrapping it up in a QUOTATION
Later I got the WORD itself after an effort which disturbed
my Machine and which Gurney deprecated as being an exp
exemplification of the End justifies the Means Gurney tell me
Lodge can you find it now Myers I got the WORD in by choosing
a quotation in which it occurs and which was known to the
Normal Intelligence of my Machine Write the word Selection
Who selects my friend Piddington?
I address this question to Piddington Who Selects.
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 129
Some expansion of this important topic of " selection " will
be found in a paper on the subject by Miss Johnson below,
p. 282.
The statement about the pun had come in a script of March
7th, 1910, before Mrs. W. had received Part LX. of Proceedings,
in this way
:
Write again the Nightingale
1 want that seen to 1
Pluto not not Plato this time but PLUTO
Bees Bees the hum of Bees
Myers there was a pun but I do not want to say where.
We had taken this to refer to some classical pun, and I
had a long and fruitless hunt for it. The script of June 5th,
1910, which I have already quoted, was in answer to a written
statement about my failure to find a pun in connexion with
either Bees or Pluto or Lethe. The explanation given on
June 5th clearly showed me what pun was intended, especially
when taken in connexion with the following communication
which had come on May 6th, 1910:
Edmund Gurney Tell Lodge I don't want this to develop into
trance. You have got that, we are doing something new.
[It then went on to say that the method now usuallj' employed
was telepathic, not telergic, and added—].
If you want to see the labour of getting anything telergic done
here [you] can see the word Dorr.
That word had to bo given in that wa37
,
after efforts had been
made to convey it telepathically without success.
It was a great strain on both sides.
We don't want to move any atoms in the brain directly.
Very well then, the meaning clearly is that the pun was in
connexion with the word " Dorr " ; that is to say, the word
"Dorr" had first been given as part of a quotation familiar
1
The Nightingale was mentioned on Feb. 10, 1910, in the second Lethe
script, quoted below, p. 148, and was at once identified as Keats' " Nightiugale "
(p. 158). The desire expressed by Myers,v to have it again written and "seen
to" suggests that at this time the whole point had not been apprehended; and
in fact the complete associations with the word were not worked out till con-
siderably after March 7, 1910 (see below, p. 159, and Mrs. Vertall's paper,
pp. 206-9).
I
130 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
to the automatist, though inasmuch as it would probably not
in that form be recognised, it was given next day with
special, almost unjustifiable, effort, in a quite exceptional
manner, so as to get it clearly and unmistakably recorded
the day after the envelope containing the question had been
opened.
I naturally looked back, therefore, to see what familiar
quotation was intended, in the script that had come immediately
after the envelope had been opened (Feb. 4), and it quite
plainly was the following
:
Go not to Lethe Myers
Myers there was the door to which I found no key and Haggi
Babba too
This is disconnected but not meaningless.
The introduction " Go not to Lethe " (from Keats's Ode
to Melancholy—quoted also in a script of Miss Helen Verrall's
of Nov. 5, 1908, which Mrs. Willett had seen—) is employed
here, 1 presume, merely as a quotational way of switching
the subject straight back to Lethe before introducing the word
required to be given in answer to the question " What
does Lethe suggest to you." The answer intended is that
one of the suggestions conveyed by the word Lethe was the
recollection of Mr. Dorr, who in America had asked precisely
the same question through Mrs. Piper. And the mode of trans-
mission adopted, in order to get this meaningless name recorded,
is by stimulating the automatist to reproduce a familiar quota-
tion from Omar Khayyam—" There was the door to which I
found no key."
By " Haggi Babba " I understand an attempt at Ali Baba, of
Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves, and a reference to the door of
" Open Sesame." But whether or not that is so, the pun is
clearly on the woi'd " door," showing that an effort was made
to give this sort of key-word on the very first occasion the
question had been seen (Feb. 4); though it was not till the
next day that it could be given, by special effort, in an unmis-
takable, properly spelt, and clearly recognisable fashion.
For further information, see Mrs. Verrall's supplementary
paper, below.
(End, of " Dorr " e
r
pisode.)
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 131
Chap, II. Lethe and " The Will to live."
I now take the more literary references in this same piece
of Willett script recorded above, p. 123, as produced on 4th
Feb., 1910, and quote them in order.
The first answer, given directly the question had been read,
was
:
The Will again to live the Will again to live
the River of forgetfulness.
Now, to any one familiar with the Sixth Book of the JEneid
(as I regret to say I then was not, though perhaps for
evidential reasons my ignorance was in this case useful),
" the Will again to live " is an admirable sentence to be sug-
gested by the idea of Lethe. For it is when iEneas, while
visiting the Underworld in company with Anchises, sees the
river of Lethe, that he also sees mustering on its banks the
souls who have been purified from the stains of their former
existence, and who are destined to live on earth once more.
They assemble on the banks, like bees humming round lilies,
waiting until their turn comes to drink the water of forget-
fulness so that they may wish for a new terrestrial existence.
This is a famous passage of Virgil, and has been translated
by Myers himself in his Essay on Virgil (Classical Essays,
p. 174):
" And last to Lethe's stream on the ordered day,
These all God summoneth in great array ;
Who from that draught reborn, no more shall know
Memory of past or dread of destined woe,
But all shall there the ancient pain forgive,
Forget their life, and will again to live."
Thus the actual words, " will again to live," occur in
connexion with Lethe in F. W. H. Myers's poem ; and these
words, it must be noted, had not long ago caught the eye of
Mrs. Willett herself, for in her annotations on the script, when
it was sent to me, there is at these words the following note :
I recognise this as a quotation from one of Mr. Myers's Poems,—
I think, but am not certain—from his Essay on Virgil. [For fuller
detail see letters quoted on pp. 142, 3 below.]
132 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
She did not appear to have noticed any connexion between
these words and Lethe—-and she had not yet seen Part LX.
of Proc, Vol. XXIV., where in a footnote a connexion is
indicated.
Nevertheless, if this were the only incident, we should
have to assume that this part of the answer emanated from
her subconscious and lapsed memory.
I find, indeed, that the stanza just quoted occurs not only
in the Essay on Virgil, but was incorporated by Mr. Myers,
in modified form, in his original and published poem called
" The Passing of Youth." (See the Renewal of Youth and other
Poems, p. 136.)
"God the innumerous souls in great array
To Lethe summons by a wondrous way,
Till these therein their ancient pain forgive ;
Forget their life, and will again to live."
It may be noted here that the very first answer given by
the Piper-Myers to Mr. Dorr's question, as soon as he had got
the word, was
Lethe. Do you refer to one of my poems 1 (See Proc. XXIV.,
p. 87.)
A recollection of the above quoted passage may well be
supposed to underlie and to justify this reference; which
hitherto has been thought by us to be inappropriate, since Mr.
Piddington had failed to discover a reference to Lethe in
F. W. H. Myers's original poems.
Coming back now to Mrs. Willett again, I say that if
" the will again to live " had been the only answer to the
question about Lethe, although we should have recognised its
extreme appropriateness,1
we should have had to refer it to
the subconsciousness of Mrs. Willett, because she had certainly
1
For instance, Mrs. Verrall makes note concerning it as follows : —The point
here to my mind is that exactly the right reminiscence was selected for the first
answer. Ninety-nine people out of a hundred would associate Lethe with forget-
fulness, whereas here it is, quite characteristically of its supposed authorship,
associated with life upon this planet. That is the association for Plato and
for Virgil. Virgil thinks of re-incarnation ; that idea [the idea of re-incarnation
on this earth] is contradicted by Myers w.
lxiu.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 133
read the translation in Mr. Myers's Essay on Virgil. But
the script goes on, after " the Eiver of forgetfulness," —which
being an idea in general popular knowledge is useless for our
purpose—first of all, singularly enough, to contradict what
would appear to be the significance of the phrase, " will again
to live," and to say
:
Not reincarnation
Once only does the soul descend the way that leads to incarnation.
This I take merely as an assertion of the present opinion
of Myersw on that subject—thrown in gratuitously as it were
—not as a literary reference ;
though it does contain an
expression " descend the way " which recalls a line in a poem
of F. W. H. Myers, To Tennyson:
"When from that world ere death and birth
He sought the long descending way."
If I may venture an interpretation of so mystical a matter,
I apprehend the implication of the script, and of the poem just
quoted, to be that the souls awaiting incarnation on Lethe shores
may be regarded as drinking it to forget previous existence amid
other surroundings, or under other conditions, before descending
into earth life,—thus teaching a doctrine of pre-existence indeed,
but not exactly re-incarnation,
—
i.e. not necessarily or not
at all the kind of pre-existence which Virgil suggests—the
kind most likely to occur to an ancient writer—a previous
existence on this earth.
Then the script goes on :
The blending of the Essence with the instrument
tu Marcel! us Eris. . . .
In Valle Reducta
Add too the Doves and the Golden Boucfh amid the shadows.
Add too Go not to Lethe.
And then, after the Omar Khayyam Door episode, which
appears in rather smaller writing, as if interpolated in the
main message, it continues :
The shining souls shining by the river brim
the pain forgotten.
134. Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
To take this last sentence first
:
" The pain forgotten " clearly represents F. W. H. Myers's
poetic translation in his Essay on Virgil, p. 174, already
quoted :
" the ancient pain forgive Forget their life," etc.
;
and the only word not ohviously explicable in this sentence of
the script is the adjective " shining." I take the word
" shining " partly to mean that the assemblage is the brilliant
posterity of iEneas, the triumphant leaders of future Rome.
For instance the one who is to be or who would be Marcelius,
if the fates were propitious, is described by Virgil as " ex-
cellent in beauty and glittering in arms." But partly also
—and this is probably more to the purpose—the epithet
" shining " signifies that the whole group is depicted as purified
by much tribulation, their guilt having been blown out of
them by hungry winds, or washed out in ocean depths, or
burned out as by fire,
" till length of days completing time's circle takes out the clotted
soilure and leaves untainted the ethereal sense and pure spiritual
flame."—Mackail, JEneid, p. 141.
Or, in the version of F. W. H. Myers himself,—the deliver-
ance from sin :
"cleansed of the fire, abolished in the sea" . . .
" Hath left unsoiled by fear or foul desire
The spirit's self, the elemental fire."
Myers, "Essay on Virgil," p. 174.
The sentence and epithet may also recall Bunyan's pilgrims
looking across the river of death into the land of Beulah.
Now we will return to the beginning of the above four
lines of quotation from the script. " The blending of the essence
with the instrument " is not a phrase or an idea which could
be obtained from any part of Mr. Myers's Essay on Virgil
—
not for instance from the translation
"Each breathing thing obeys one Mind's control,
And in all substance is a single Soul " ;
but the idea does occur in the JEncid itself, in the explana-
tory speech of Anchises concerning the Lethean spirits, in
answer to ^Eneas' question how it happens that any souls
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 135
desire to return to sluggish bodies,
—" Whence comes their mad
desire for life ?
"
Anchises' explanation contains inter alia the following sen-
tence :
"An intelligent principle pervading every member puts the whole
mass in action, and blends itself with the mighty frame of the
Universe,"
which clearly conveys an idea capable of being expressed by
some such phrase as a " blending of the essence with the
instrument."
Professor Mackail translates the sentence in this form :
" A soul shed abroad in them sways all their members and mingles
in the mighty frame."
And F. W. H. Myers's verse translation has just been quoted
(p. 134).
The Latin (Jfi. vi. 736 and 7) is : .
Spiritus intus alit, totamque infusa per artus
Mens agitat molem, et magno se corpore miscet.
These two lines are well known ; but on asking Mrs. Willett
what knowledge of Virgil she possessed, she said her only
acquaintance with him was Church's Story of the JEneid—a book
which happened to be in her house. But she has also read
F. W. H. M.'s " Essay on Virgil," and moreover is an ordinarily
educated lady. She knows no Latin, however, and on referring
to the book specified by her, which contains only an abbreviated
version, I find that this particular passage does not occur.
An extract will be given later from this book in order to
show that the further Virgilian references cannot have been
thus obtained, subliminally or otherwise. (See Appendix A. to
this portion, p. 142.)
In Tennyson's great poem " To Virgil " this idea of the
immanence of an Anima mundi in creation is probably referred
to by the lines
:
" Thou that seest Universal Nature moved by Universal Mind "
;
but, however familiar these lines may appear to be to every
one, they cannot constitute a normal source of the reference
to that subject in the form taken by the script ;
moreover,
136 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Mrs. Willett informed me that she had not read the poem, though
she had seen the line quoted somewhere, " Golden branch
amid the shadows." Months later, on 25th October, 1910, I
read the poem to her.
The script goes on :
Tu Marcellus Eris.
and breaks off to tell Mrs. Willett that she knows that line
;
which was true. The reason she knows it is because it had
already been quoted in Miss Verrall's script of dates between
April 29 and May 20, 1909, which had been given her to
annotate 1
—a fact explained to me later by Mrs. Verrall.
It is not therefore the mere occurrence of these words, but
the occurrence of them in a Lethe connexion, that is important
;
for there had been nothing previously to show any such con-
nexion. But there is a connexion ;
for, in Virgil's Sixth Book,
iEneas was told that one and the most notable of the souls
standing by the river bank ready to be incarnated, would,
when his time came, be Marcellus. This reference to Marcellus
is reproduced in Church's " Stories," but the word " Lethe
"
does not occur in them. The complete sentence " Tu Marcellus
eris, Manihus date lilia plenis" is quoted in Proc. Pt. 57,
p. 300, in connexion with the " Thanatos—mors—death" cross-
correspondence ; and this Part of the Proceedings Mrs. Willett had
read : but again there is no mention of Lethe there. The episode
of the young Marcellus is referred to obscurely in the con-
clusion of Myers's " Essay on Virgil," and is associated with
the strewing of lilies
:
"Give, give me lilies; thick the flowers be laid
To greet that mighty, melancholy shade "
;
but the name Marcellus is not there given. He is only spoken
of as "that last and most divinely glorified of the inhabitants
1
Her attention had indeed been specially called to it, because Mrs. Verrall
had sent to Mrs. Willett for experimental purposes on May 19, 1909, certain
questions, which she had also given to Miss Verrall, namely : (1) "Please make
clear the connexion between '
Tu Marcellus eris ' and '
Jam satis ' (beginning of
an ode of Horace mentioned in contemporary H. V. script)," and (2) " Please
explain why the Golden Bough is mentioned ? " There was no opportunity,
however, for transmitting these questions to a Communicator, and accordingly
no answer was obtained. For further details, see Mrs. Verrall's paper below,
pp. 180, 186.
Lxur.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Scriirt. 137
of the under world" {/E. vi. 883), about whom it was pro-
phesied that he should die prematurely. T am of opinion that
there was no normal association of Marcellus with Lethe in
Mrs. Willett's mind.
Then her script goes on :
Write it nevertheless and add
Henry Sidgwick's
In Valle Reducta.
Now In Valle Reducta (in a sheltered vale) is the opening
phrase of Virgil's description of the river of Lethe (JE. vi. 703).
It and its context are thus translated by Bryce (Bohn's Scries)
:
" Meanwhile iEneas, in a winding vale, observes a lonely grove,
and brakes that rustle in the woods, and the Lethean stream which
skirts those peaceful homes. All around were flitting countless
crowds and troops of ghosts ; even as when, on a peaceful summer's
day, bees in the meadows settle on the various flowers, and swarm
around the snow-white lilies ; the whole plain buzzes with their
humming noise." 1
I quote the whole passage now, though the reference in
the script to the bees and the lilies comes later. Note
that the sheltered or lonely vale through which Lethe runs
is expressed in Virgil by the phrase /// valle reducta ; and
these words in the script are called " Henry Sidgwick's
"
because Henry Sidgwick had been represented as communi-
cating them, through what is called the " Mac " script, in July,
1908. This, it is true, had been seen by Mrs. Willett, but it
contained no reference to Lethe, though the phrase in valle
reducta is followed by the words " ^Eneid 6," and preceded by
" yEneas." There is no mention of Marcellus in the Mac
script, and therefore at no time any reason for her connecting
In valle reducta with Marcellus or Lethe. There may have
been (see foot-note on p. 136) an obscure reason in her mind
for connecting the Golden Bough with Marcellus, but none
'The word "winding," in the first line of this translation, hardly represents
the usual significance of the word reducta, —which is "withdrawn," rather than
"bent back";—the latter meaning is associated with redunca.
So also a better translation of the concluding words is
—"all the plain is
murmurous with their humming."
138 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
for connecting " the Golden Bough " with In vallc rcducta.
(See Mrs. Verrall's supplementary paper below.)
The fact, however, that both these Latin phrases, tit Maredlvs
eris and in voile reducta, had passed through her mind, seems
to have made it possible for Myersvv to make her quote
these two passages in the original Latin—a thing usually
difficult or impossible.
It is the combination and juxtaposition that, is notable, not
the occurrence of the phrases themselves.
The fact that Virgil compares the souls on the banks of the
river of Lethe to bees humming round lilies, taken in conjunc-
tion with the phrase " tu Marcellus eris," is of possible interest,
since the immediate context of " tu Marcellus eris " is " Mani-
bus date lilia plenis "—" give lilies with full hands." Mr.
Piddington considers that this double allusion to lilies in the
script, although only implicit, strengthens the conjecture in his
(then unpublished) Lethe paper of a connexion in the mind of
Myersp of lilies with Lethe (Proc. Vol. XXIV, p. 135).
As for " the Doves and the Golden Bough amid the shadows,"
—the Golden Bonsh is the branch which xEneas had to obtain
before he could enter the infernal regions ; and the Doves are
the doves of his mother Venus, which, by fluttering about,
directed him to the spot in the woods round Avernus—the
entrance to the under-world—near which grew the Golden Bough,
which was to be the key whereby he was enabled to effect
an entrance and so ultimately to arrive at the river of Lethe.
It is quite possible, and rather Myers-like, that this hunting
about for the mode of obtaining entrance suggested the form
of the almost immediately succeeding Omar Khayyam reference,
about " the door to which I found no key," and the open-
sesame reference which immediately followed it, as recorded
on page 130. Besides, the door of Omar Khayyam also repre-
sented an entrance into mysteries.
1
This is the Virgilian description of " the doves " mentioned
in script
:
" They, feeding as they go, flew forward just so far that the eyes
of those who follow keep them in view, and then, when they reached
'There may have been another reason for the reference given, as I have
since learnt there was a "door and key" cross-correspondence, which is narrated
by Mrs. Verrall below, pp. 193-204.
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some Neiv Script. 139
the jaws of fell Avernus, they ascend in rapid flight, and floating
through the air, they both sit down together on their chosen spot
above the bough, from which the golden hue, discordant with the
tree, "learned through the branches." /T, ,
„ . . .
° & (Bryces Translation.)
And this is the Virgilian description of " the golden bough
amid the shadows" (also mentioned in the above Willett script):
" On a shaded tree there hangs a bough concealed from view,
golden in its leaves and pliant stem, held sacred to Juno of the
nether world [i.e. Proserpine]. This the grove covers and the
winding glades shut out from view."
But this idea of the shaded or hidden bough is clearly
given, and is given in almost the precise phrase of the script
(though without mention of the doves) in Tennyson's poem
To Virgil, which had been referred to in one of Miss Verrall's
scripts. This script, with a note attributing it to Tennyson, had
been seen by Mrs. Willett ; who herself informed me of the
fact, after her usual careful fashion. The line is :
" Golden
branch amid the shadows."
That this gorgeous poem of Tennyson's, full of Virgilian
spirit and references, appealed strongly to F. W. H. Myers—so
strongly that it would be natural to suppose that the recollec-
tion of it would persist into another state of existence, if any-
thing of earthly memory can persist—is clear from several
passages in his writings ; it is, in fact, quoted in his Essay on
Virgil (p. 148), and is prefixed to that Essay as a motto; but
I find it referred to in a specially appropriate manner in a
letter or short memoir on Tennyson, which at the request of
Lord Tennyson he wrote in order that it might be appended
to that Life of his father which Lord Tennyson was pre-
paring. Thence I quote it :
—
" But most Virgilian of all are the two central lines
:
'
Light among the vanish'd ages ; star that gildest yet this phantom
shore ;
Golden branch amid the shadows, kings and realms that pass to
rise no more.'
Ay, this it is which lives for us out of the confused and perishing
Past ! The gross world's illusion and the backward twilight are lit
by that sacred ray.
140 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
And how iioble a comparison is that of the elect poet himself to
his one golden bough in Avernus' forest, which gleamed amid the
sea of green !
Talis erat species auri frondentis opaca
llice ; sic leni crepitabat bractea vento.
We are here among things that shall endure."
Chap. III. Lethe—continued.
Not yet, however, are we through the truly remarkable
piece of script which came on Feb. 4, 1910. Immediately
after the line about " the shining souls shining by the river
brim " we get,
—
The pain forgotten but there is another meaning another more
intimate link and connection that now I cannot give It does not
escape me I see the bearing
Rose fluttering rose leaves blown like ghosts from an enchanter
fleeing and Love Love the essential essence not spilt like water
on the ground far off forgotten pain.
" Forgotten pain " may readily refer to Lethe ; and as for
" Love the essential essence not spilt like water on the ground
"
—the eternity of love, no matter what happens to the Physical
Universe, is the burden of The Renewal of Youth as well as
of many another poem by F. W. H. Myers.
For instance in Classical Essays, p. 99 :
" Now from about thee, in thy new home above,
Has perished all but life, and all but love."
Also in St. Paul
:
"Love shall survive and love be undiminished
Love be imperishable, love be young."
But it also suggests a phrase of In Memoriam. lxv. :
" Love's too precious to be lost
A little grain shall not be spilt."
This section of In Memoriam immediately follows one which
is closely connected with it in thought ; the earlier section
lxiil] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 141
suggests that we shall learn, at some time "far-off," that no pain
or desire is purposeless ; and it claims for the departed a
splendid outlook and copious vision as compared with their
previously cabined and restricted earthly estate. To a mind so
richly stored with subtle literary allusions and connexions as
Myers's was, this contiguity or sequence may have had
significance, and to it a sympathetic reader may be inclined to
attribute the next line of the script, which occurs after a pause
—a pause perhaps for thought
—
Darien the peak in Darien
The Peak Peak PEAK
" I have not done yet "
—he continues.1
No indeed he had not done yet! For this idea of the
vision as from a mountain top, comparing things past
present and to come, seems to have brought up in his mind
a multitude of instances in Literature where the condition of
future existence was compared with that of earth—sometimes
to its advantage, sometimes to its disadvantage, and thus
filled him with reminiscences of passages in Virgil and Homer
and Horace as well as in poems of his own ; with recollec-
tions of Achilles and Anchises, of Ulysses and -.Eneas—till,
as we may fancifully imagine, the rush of ideas is too over-
whelming at that stage of the day's script, and he can only
await a further opportunity of disburdening himself of some
fraction of his thoughts.
'In Keats' Sonuet, On first lookhnj into Chapman's Homer "a Peak in
Darien" was the summit whence Cortez and his followers viewed for the first
time the expanse of the Pacific. It was used symbolically of course to
represent the outlook opened up to Keats' sympathetic e3T
es by this translation
of Homer.
" Then felt I like some watcher of the skies
When a new planet swims into his ken ;
Or like stout Cortez when with eagle eyes
He stared at the Pacific—and all his men
Look'd at each other with a wild surmise
—
Silent, upon a peak in Darien."
And the phrase was employed by Frances Power Cobbe, and occasionally
adopted by the founders of the S.P.R., to signify cases when dying persons
seemed to catch glimpses of another world. These cases, Mrs. Sidgwick tells
me, rather specially interested Mr. Myers. (See Human Personality, Vol. II.
p. 31.)
142 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Hence the short residue of the script of that first day consists
of adjurations to me to let him know if I am able to under-
stand what has come through, so far.
I have not done yet.
To Lodge this may have meaning.
Let him remember the occasion
[i.e. the occasion appropriate to the peak of Darien, as I take it]
I am not vague I am not vague
I want an answer to the script from Lodge
Tell him I want an answer
Does he recognise my recognition
(repeated)
Let Lodge speak
Speak let him speak
Enough for to-day
Let Lodge speak
I endeavoured to carry out these instructions so far as
understanding the script goes, though slowly because of pressure
of other work, and the process took time. As to informing
Myersw, it seemed better not to give the automatic writer too
much normal information at first, lest it should spoil future
evidence ; still I have gradually conveyed the idea that much
of what he had said was understood.
[End of discussion of Script of Feb. 4-]
Appendix A.
Mrs. Willctt's normal knoiolcdgc.
Some notes were written by Mrs. Willett to show how
much she recognised at the time as derived from her normal
information on the subjects referred to in her script of Feb. 4th,
1910. These notes were sent to me at the same time as the
script, which I received on Feb. 6 ;
but they only amount to
this—that she had seen some of the Latin and other phrases
in H. V. script and Mac script (where, in notes, the sources
were given, as will be more exactly reported by Mrs. Verrall).
She had seen the phrase " Will again to live " in one of Mr.
Myer s'poems
—" I think, but am not certain, from his Essay
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 143
on Virgil " (she writes)—and had seen the phrase " Peak in
Darien," without understanding it, while turning over the pages
of Human Personality. And in a concluding note she says
:
I know nothing of Virgil except Church's "Stones from Virgil,"
or some such name, a shilling book that happens to be in the
house.
I accept Mrs. Willett's statement made in her letter of
Feb. 5 quoted on page 122, that the script as a whole "suggests
nothing much to me—I only hope it may to you," and con-
sequently that she was for all practical purposes ignorant of
Virgil. Nevertheless the fact that an English abridgement of
Virgil had been seen by her—how casually we do not know
—
rendered it necessary that this book should be examined to
see how far it could have supplied the apposite Virgilian
quotations. Could it, for instance, have prompted the connexion
of Manibus date lilia plenis (i.e. tu Marcellus cris) and in vallc
reducta with each other and with Lethe ?
It seems to me that it could not, but I quote from it some
relevant passages
:
Relevant Extracts from the version of the JEneid luhich had
been in Mrs. Willett's hands,—namely, " The Story of the
JEneid," also ccdlcd " Stories from Virgil," by the Rev. Alfred
J. Church, Professor of Latin in University College, Lonelon.
Chapter XIV. is called "The Dwellings of the Dead." It
opens with the visit of iEneas and the Sibyl to the Infernal
Eegions, in order to visit the Shade of his Father. After
they have seen many things, and asked the way of Museeus,
the story goes on to relate the meeting
:
Then they beheld Anchises where he sat in a green valley, re-
garding the spirits of those who should be born in aftertime of
his race. And when he beheld iEneas coming, he stretched out
his hands and cried, " Comest thou, my son ? Hast thou won thy
way hither to me? Even so I thought that it would be, and lo !
my hope hath not failed me."
And ^Eneas made answer, " Yea, I have come a long way to see
thee, even as thy spirit bade me. And now let me embrace thee
with my arms."
But when he would have embraced him it was as if he clasped
the air.
144 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Then JEneas looked and beheld a river, and a great company
of souls thereby, thick as the bees on a calm summer day in a
garden of lilies. And when he would know the meaning of the
concourse, Anchises said, "These are souls which have yet to live
again in a mortal body, and they are constrained to drink of the
water of forgetfulness." And ^Eneas said, "Nay, my father, can any
desire to take again upon them the body of death 1 " Then Anchises
made reply :
" Listen, my son, and I will tell thee all. There is
one soul in heaven and earth and the stars and the shining orb
of the moon and the great sun himself ; from which soul also
cometh the life of man and of beast, and of the birds of the air,
and of the fishes of the sea. And this soul is a divine nature,
but the mortal body maketh it slow and dull. Hence come fear
and desire, and grief and joy, so that, being as it were shut in a
prison, the spirit beholdeth not any more the light that is without.
And when the mortal life is ended, yet are not men quit of all
the evils of the body, seeing that these must needs be put away
in many marvellous ways. For some are hung up to the winds,
and with some their wickedness is washed out by water, or burnt
out with fire. But a ghostly pain we all endure. Then we that
are found worthy are sent into Elysium and the plains of the blest.
And when, after many days, the soul is wholly pure, it is called
to the river of forgetfulness, that it may drink thereof, and so return
to the world that is above."
[Thereupon iEneas and the Sibyl were led to a hill whence
they could see the whole company, and Anchises pointed out
a considerable number of souls who were destined to be
famous descendants,—mentioning them by name, and fore-
shadowing the glory of Koine.]
Then [Anchises] spake again: "Regard him who is the first of
all the company of conquerors. He is Marcellus ; he shall save the
state in the day of trouble, and put to flight Carthaginian and Gaul."
Then said JEneas, for he chanced to see by his side a youth clad
in shining armour, and very fair to look upon, but sad, and with
downcast eyes, "Tell me, father, who is this? How noble is he!
What a company is about him ! But there is a shadow of darkness
round his head."
And Anchises made answer: "0 my son, seek not to know the
greatest sorrow that shall befall thy children after thee. This youth
LXin.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 145
the Fates shall only show for a brief space to man. . . . Alas ! for
his righteousness, and truth, and valour unsurpassed ! 0 luckless boy,
if thou canst haply break thy evil doom thou shalt be a Marcellus.
Give handfuls of lilies. I will scatter the bright flowers and pay
the idle honours to my grandson's shade."
Tims did Anchises show his son things to be, and kindled his
soul with desire of glory.
It appears to me that this material, even if read by Mrs.
Willett—and she has no conscious recollection of having read
it—would fail to furnish her with the Virgilian quotations and
references which her hand produced in response to the simple
stimulus of "Lethe"—a word singularly enough not mentioned
by Church in this book.
The episode of the Golden Bough is related however. It
comes in a previous chapter, about 8 pages before the extracts
reproduced above, and I will quote this too
:
Then the Sibyl spake, saying, " Son of Anchises, it is easy to go
down to hell. The door is open day and night. But to return,
and struggle to the upper air, that is the labour. Few only
have done it, and these of the lineage of the Gods and dear to
Jupiter. Yet if thou wilt attempt it, hearken unto me. There
lieth hid in the forest a bough of gold which is sacred to the
Queen of hell. Nor may any man go on this journey till he
have plucked it, for the Queen will have it as a gift for herself.
And when the bough is plucked, there ever groweth another ;
and if it be the pleasure of the Gods that thou go, it will yield
to thine hand. But know that one of thy companions lieth
dead upon the shore. First must thou bury him, and after
offer due sacrifice, even black sheep. So shalt thou approach
the dwelling of the dead."
[Nine lines omitted] ....
But when ./Eneas beheld the forest, how vast it was, he said
" Now may the Gods grant that in this great forest the bough
of gold discover itself." And as he spake, lo ! two doves flew
before his face, and settled on the grass, and he knew them
to be the birds of his mother, and cried, saying, " Guide me
now to the bough of gold, and thou, my mother, help me as
before." Then the birds flew so that he could still see them
with his eyes, and he followed after them. '
But when they
146 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
came to the mouth of Avernus, they sat both of them on the
tree. And lo ! the bough of gold glittered among the
branches and rustled in the wind. Right gladly did iEneas
break it off, and carry it to the dwelling of the Sibyl.
Appendix B.
0. J. Z.'s normal knowledge.
On February 6th, 1910, the day I received the important
script of Feb. 4 hitherto commented on, I was very busy, but
I sent three hasty replies to it at different periods of the
day. These replies had better be reproduced, as showing
(1) how little information could at that time have been
extracted from my mind,
(2) how much, or little, information was imparted to Mrs.
Willett when she read them.
They were in three sealed envelopes, and she opened and
read them to Myersw on Feb. 10, as is reported later.
(No. 1) Well Myers, but I want more from you about Lethe
and its suggestions than that. It must awaken literary and
classical reminiscences in your mind. What you have said
so far seems naturally sophisticated a little with what your
Scribe has been reading. 1
But, while you have been thinking,
perhaps more has occurred to you. I had better say no more
at present.
(No. 2) The phrase " peak in Darien " occurs in your book—
1
remembered it dimly and have looked it up. Miss Cobbe
collected some cases of clairvoyance of the dying, wherein,
shortly before death, they showed themselves aware of some-
one in the spirit who had only recently died, and of whose
death they had no normal means of knowing. She seems to
have published this little collection of cases under the title
1
This quite unnecessary and erroneous suspicion had reference to a paper
which I had sent to Mrs. Willett in January—a chapter on Incarnation out
of my book '.'
Reason and Belief." It will be seen below (p. 170) that I am
rebuked by Myersw for having sent it, and also for imagining a possible con-
nexion between it and what was recorded on Feb. 4. Note also that I am
here using the word "Scribe"' in the sense of automatist, —as the communi-
cators do.
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 147
"The Peak of Darien." (So says Proc. S.P.E., Vol. V.,
p. 459. Paper by Gurney completed by Myers.)
(No. 3) "A Peak in Darien" is reminiscent of Keats. Perhaps
that is what you wanted me to perceive. But do not be
afraid of my literary ignorance, which is great ; because I
have means of ferreting out any literary allusions if they are
known to man. So don't think of me or of what I shall
understand, but let your own thoughts luxuriate, and trust
to their being understood—though perhaps not immediately.
0. J. L.
I will not add any comment to emphasise the ludicrous
insufficiency of these hasty and immediately contemporary
replies. It must be disappointing to any Intelligence, who
has sent answers so excellent, to have them received with
ignorance—however completely that ignorance subsequently
disappears ; but the communicating intelligences, whatever they
are, are patient, and the response on Feb. 10 was as worthy
as that of Feb. 4.
PART II.
Concerning the Script of 10 February, 1910.
Chap. IV. Evidence of supernormal access to knowledge.
We now pass on to consider more particularly the matter written
by Mrs. Willett's hand on Feb. 10, 1910. And in the first
instance it may be convenient to quote the whole of it, as it
stands, just as I did with that of Feb. 4, on p. 123.
I am assured that Mrs. Willett did not show my question to
anyone after opening the envelope on Feb. 4, and made no
enquiries on the subject of Lethe, or on any other classical
subject, between Feb. 4 and Feb. 1 0 ; which was the next
available occasion for the production of ordinary script—ordinary,
I mean, as distinguished from the interjected and exceptional
writing of Feb. 5 ; and what came on Feb. 10 was definitely
regarded by Mrs. Willett as a continuation of the communi-
cation of Feb. 4.
148 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Here then is the Script of Feb. 1 0 ; but I must explain once
more that the frequent interjection of the name of the ostensible
communicator is a peculiar feature of these scripts, and that
in reading it these mechanical or auxiliary interruptions or
punctuations can be omitted.
Complete Copy of Willctt Script of Feb. 10, 1910.
Myers yes I am ready I know
what Lodge wants he wants me
to prove that I have access to
knowledge shown elsewhere
Myers give me his 3 answers
all all together
(The answers, printed on p. 146, were here opened and read.)
Myers there is an Ode I want
an Ode Horatian
Lydia I referred to the
Ode elsewhere
Write write the word
Seneca
Again Filial piety that was
the motive that led him
the son to the Father
Virgil
But Ulyss there is a
paralel Ulysses
this is confused in Myers
confused in the script but not
in my mind. The confusion
is not in my thought but
in the expression of it as it
reaches you Lodge
The nightingale but
but I no no no
Myers begin again
the nightin Nightingale but Shelley
too Myers as well
Once more ye Laurels
Myers this seems incoherent
Myers but don't be discouraged
LXlll.] Classical Scholars!dp, etc., in some New Script. 149
Myers
Myers Dorrs scheme
Excellent Myers that
I have to use different Scribes
means that I must show different
aspects of thoughts underlying
which unity is to be found
Strew on her Roses Roses
Ganymede.
Myers Mrs. Verrall might
make something of that
Myers homeless in the heart of
Paradise Myers
Where was the Sybil
flavicomata.
Myers I have not finished
Myers Myers wait
Myers the draught of forgetfulness
What is Anaxagoras for not
Anchises that is not what
I want
Which only I remember which
only you forget there is a line
of Swinburne's I want
that Pagan singer of fair
things and all dead things
Go thither and all forgotten
days Myers something
like that Swinburne
By the Waters of Babylon
we sat down and wept when
we remembered thee oh
Zion
Myers Myers get thee to a
Nunnery
The Shepherds pipe the Muses
dance and Better to Rule among
no to slave among the living
that King it mid the
Dead
Sleep the dream that flits by
150 Sir Oliver Lodge. [PART
night Sleep and his twin
Brothers not Brothers
single Brother
His name was writ
in water
Myers Homer and Horace the
thought allied but I cannot
get it clear
Watts Watts
you are getting Myers
you are getting dim Enough
'
F
(End of Script of 10 Feb. 1910, ended at 12-lfi p.m.)
Now when trying to understand the meaning of any person,
especially one who is speaking under physical difficulties, it is
customary, legitimate, and indeed necessary, for the hearer to
put himself into an attentive and receptive attitude,—trying to
catch each partially expressed meaning, and to eke out obscure
hints or allusions by painstaking and sympathetic interpreta-
tion. Only in that way is an understanding to be secured.
And in ordinary cases a test of success in interpretation is
furnished by the subsequent approval or acceptance of the
speaker ; indications furnished in the course of conversation
give a listener his clue and make him aware whether he is
pursuing the right train of thought or not. This sort of clue
is necessarily absent in the case of script, unless it is obtained
subsequently, so that special effort is needful when endeavouring
to interpret the meaning which underlies the more or less
fragmentary utterances obtained through the various channels
of a cross-correspondence.
It is manifest, however, that in so far as any correspondences
detected relate to scripts which have been printed and published,
some difficulty arises, and stringency of criticism becomes
necessary ;
especially if any of the writings of the past have
been seen by the automatist who is producing fresh material.
In that case the evidence of knowledge shown must be severely
criticised, and everything that can be supposed stored in either
the conscious or the sub-conscious mind of the automatist must
be reasonably and frankly allowed for, in drawing conclusions.
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 151
All this being understood and premised, we will go through
the above script in detail.
Chap. V. Comparison of States.
And first we may remember that when trying to enter
sympathetically into the soul of the communicator, as he
brought his script of Feb. 4, 1910, to a necessary provisional
end, with the ejaculation " I have not done yet," we made a
guess or fanciful suggestion—as printed on p. 141 —that, arising
out of this idea of the vision of one world from another, there
flowed into the mind of Myersw such a multitude of ideas
that the script had to cease for a time ;
since a rush of this
kind—at least in my own experience—usually has an inhibi-
tory effect for a few moments. But the ideas themselves
begin to emerge on the next opportunity afforded him for
the customary kind of script—namely, on Feb. 10, 1910.
When Mrs. Willett sat clown to write, the first words that
came were these :
—
Myers yes I am ready I know what Lodge WANTS he wants
me to prove that I have access to knowledge shown elsewhere Myers
give me his 3 answers all all together.
Myersw opens by saying that 0. J. L. wants to prove that
he (Myers) has access to knowledge shown elsewhere. (" Else-
where " may be understood to mean through Mrs. Piper during
Mr. Dorr's sittings, chiefly, though not necessarily exclusively.)
This quite correct statement is the clue to what follows.
So Mrs. Willett opened the three envelopes sent by 0. J. L.
in answer to the Script of Feb. 4, 1910, and read them in
order. Their contents are printed above (p. 141), but they are
unimportant.
Then the script began again
:
Myers there is an Ode I want an Ode Horatian
Lydia I referred to the Ode elsewhere
A question sent by Mrs. Verrall to Myersw through Mrs.
Willett, which is quoted in a foot-note to p. 136, above, must
be assumed to have directed Mrs. Willett's attention to the
152 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Ode of Horace, I. 2, beginning Jam satis. Neither this Ode how-
ever, nor I. 28, mentions " Lydia." The subject of the Archytas
Ode, I. 28, had appeared through other automatists and had
been already dealt with at considerable length by Mr. Piddington
in Proc. S.P.E., Vol. XXII., which Mrs. Willett had seen. But
more was written (see Proc. Vol. XXIV., pp. 150 ff.) than
had yet been published ; and the above seems to allude to
the subject matter of this subsequently published portion,
because the script continues :
Write write the word Seneca
Again Filial piety that was the motive that led him
the son to the Father
Virgil
Now it was precisely filial piety—a desire to communicate
with his dead father Anchises—that led iEneas to visit the
Underworld. The name " Seneca,' as Mrs. Verrall suggests,
is possibly introduced in the script during an effort to
express the idea of filial piety—Seneca having written De con-
stantia, ad Helviarn matrem, a discourse addressed to his own
mother on his father's death. It seems most unlikely that
Mrs. Willett has any such association with Seneca.
The script continues, after the word " Virgil " written in
connexion with the visit of iEneas to the Under-world,
—
But Ulyss there is a paralel Ulysses. This is confused in
Myers confused in the Script but not in my mind. The
confusion is not in my thought but in the expression of it as
it reaches you Lodge.
Here then a parallel is indicated between iEneas and
Ulysses, in connexion presumably with the Lethe episode.
And I find that on page 172 of F. W. H. Myers's Essay on
Virgil, a parallel of this kind is distinctly elaborated. When
./Eneas sees the souls on the banks of the river of Lethe
waiting for " re-incarnation," he is astonished that anyone
should want to live again on earth,
"And the form of the question which he asks (A. vi. 719) is in
itself highly significant. Compared, for example, with the
famous contrast which the Homeric Achilles draws between
even the poorest life on happy earth and the forlorn kingship
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 153
of the shades, it indicates that a change has taken place which
of all speculative changes is perhaps the most important, that
the ideal has heen shifted from the visible to the invisible,
from the material to the spiritual world
—
" 0 father, must I deem that souls can pray
Hence to turn backward to the worldly day?
Change for that weight of flesh these forms more fair,
For that sun's sheen this paradisal air?"
Extract from F. W. H. M.'s Essay.
The corresponding Homeric incident, presumably alluded to
in the script, occurred during the visit of Ulysses to the Shades
when he meets with Achilles, who—in the famous saying
wherein occur the words eirdpovpos or adscriptns glebce (cf.
Proc. Vol. XXII., p. 400)—maintains that it is better to be
a slave among the living than a king among the dead ; thus
taking a very different view of the relative advantages of the
two states from that taken by iEneas.
The fact that F. W. H. Myers had himself drawn the parallel,
which is indeed obvious, between the two visits, and, what is
less obvious, had contrasted the two mental attitudes—that of
iEneas as described by Virgil and that of Achilles as described
by Homer,—makes it clear, I think, on any hypothesis as to
source, that this same parallel is the one referred to in the
script.
And this explanation is clinched by the occurrence a little
later on in the script—as soon as the thought of the com-
municator had again become clear, we may suppose—of the
words,
Better to Rule among no to
slave among the living
[than] King it mid the Dead.
This phrase makes clear which Horatian Ode was in the
communicator's mind during the production of the first four words
of this script.
I may as well quote Mrs. Verrall's remarks on the passage
about Virgil and Ulysses already commented on
:
The point here is the appropriateness of those reminiscences.
Myers's Essay on Virgil (p. 172) connects Lethe and the Homeric
154 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Achilles, and a classical scholar remembers that ^Eneas' visit to
Anchises is reminiscent of the Homeric story of Odysseus (Ulysses)
and the Underworld. Hence it is natural to say that " there is a
parallel" after mentioning Virgil and Ulysses, —natural I mean to
Myersw, but not, I think, to Mrs. Willett. 1
[For further comment
on these allusions to Homer see Mrs. Verrall's paper below, p. 188.]
And now that the notion of comparing ideas of different
ages and different writers, concerning the condition of humanity
in earthly existence as contrasted with the condition in a
future state,—now that this idea has occurred to Myersw, it is
pursued into further developments ;
for, after a reference to
Shelley, Tennyson, and Keats, the script concludes :
Myers Homer and Horace the thought allied
but I cannot get it clear
Watts Watts
Readers of Mr. Piddington's recent papers will remember
his notable discovery of the deep-seated correspondence between
Horace Ode i. 28 and F. W. H. Myers's published poem called
" Immortality." The circumstances which gave rise to the
identification or alliance should be looked up in the then already
published Proceedings, Vol. XXII., pp. 397-401, and in the
(at that time—February, 1910) unpublished Proceedings, Vol.
XXIV., pp. 150-169, which for the first time—explicitly at
1
The name of Ulysses is not mentioned in the Essay on Virgil (above
quoted), and must therefore have come into the script from some other
source. Mrs. Willett's note on her recollections of the Essay on Virgil shows
some confusion in her mind between ^Eneas and Ulysses, but no knowledge of
any parallel between them. Thus, whereas in her first letter of February 5,
1910, accompanying the script, she wrote :
"'Will again to live.' I recognise this as a quotation from one of Mr.
Myers's poems—/ think, but am not certain, from his Essay on Virgil ;
"
a month or two later, on June 17, 1910, in answer to a request from O.J.L. to
write down the " connexion or context or significance of the phrase (the will
again to live), without looking it up specially," she wrote as follows:
"I am vague as to what the piece of poetry is in which the words occur.
It must, I suppose, be a translation from Virgil. My impression is that it is
said by a Father to a Son (either Ulysses or Aeneas—I never can remember
which belongs to Homer and which to Virgil) who went down to Hell to see
bis Father."
It is possible that some such confusion in the automatist's mind prevented
the completion of the intended parallel. All such confusion must in fairness
be attributed to her, for it is carefully disclaimed by Myersw.
lxiil] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 155
least—introduces Homer as a third member of the alliance.
1
Suffice it here to say that Horace in that " Archytas " ode
takes a pessimistic view of death, regarding with gloom the
future destiny of men whose earthly career had been brilliant,
—thus suggesting something not altogether unlike the feeling
expressed by the Homeric shade of Achilles.
The fact that the thought expressed in the words quoted
from Homer is allied to the " Archytas " ode of Horace, is
not at all familiar ; and though something is explained in
the published Vol. XXII. (p. 397 et seq.) which Mrs. Willett
had read, it is unlikely that she had grasped the idea
;
moreover, the word " Watts " in her script seems to show
knowledge of the unpublished Proc. Vol. XXIV, p. 187. For
the allusion to " Watts " is presumably a reference to G. F.
Watts's picture of Orpheus and Hurydice,—a legend full of the
endeavour, though of fruitless and pathetic endeavour, to exchange
one state for another. There is reason to think that this picture
had been already referred to by MyersP in his answers con-
cerning Lethe to Mr. Dorr through Mrs. Piper (Proc. Vol. XXIV.,
pp. 130, 132), and it was closely associated with the 0 vidian
answer then given to the Lethe question ; and this picture has
also possibly been referred to in Miss Helen Verrall's script,
see Proc. Vol. XXIV., p. 187. It was one of the pictures
specially selected for notice in F. W. H. Myers's poem " On
Mr. Watts' Collected Works," in the stanza:
" For here the Thracian, vainly wise,
Close on the light his love has led,-
—
Oh hearken ! her melodious cries
Fade in the mutter of the dead :
—
'
Farewell ! f rom thy embrace I pass,
Drawn to the formless dark alone :
I stretch my hands,—too weak, alas
!
And I no more, no more thine own.'
"
(Fragments, p. 191.)
In fact, taking the whole into account, it seems certain that
knowledge is shown of the references to the Horace Ode in
Dorr's sittings described by Mr. Piddington in his then
unpublished paper, (now published in Vol. XXIV.) ; and the
1
See Mrs. Verrall's paper below, p. 189.
156 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
script may in a sense be regarded as confirmatory of
Mr. Piddington's interpretation of those references. Further-
more, it now appears that a contribution is made in this
script, through the " Waters of Babylon " and " Watts," to the
cross-correspondence on "Exile"; as explained in Mrs. Verrall's
paper below, p. 209.
The script of Feb. 10, 1910, seems to imply that corre-
sponding ideas concerning the relationship between present and
future existence, and the relative value and dignity of the two
states, are to be found in Shelley, Keats, and Tennyson ;
—
a
hint which is conveyed by the sentences or quotations introduced
in the middle of those references to comparison of states,
—
Sleep the dream that flits by night
Sleep and his twin brother
His name was writ in water.
The first of these sentences suggests Shelley's Queen Mab ;
the second Tennyson, as well as Shelley ; and the third Keats.
To display the meaning possibly intended, the following
verses may be quoted
:
From Adcmais, —
" He hath awakened from the dream of life
Tis we who, lost in stormy visions, keep
With phantoms an unprofitable strife."
" He has outsoared the shadow of our night."
" What Adonais is why fear we to become ?"
" The soul of Adonais, like a star,
Beacons from the abode where the Eternal are."
The whole poem expresses anything but enthusiasm for the
conditions of terrestrial existence.
But indeed it is difficult to say anything more sympathetic
as regards Shelley from this point of view than what F. W. H.
Myers says in "Human Personality," Vol. I., p. 97, about the
larval indications of wings found in the grub which fore-
shadow the butterfly.
The third poet referred to, Keats, often emphasised the gain
to be expected on transition from worldly existence, though no
doubt he regarded its possibilities differently in different moods.
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 157
As for the second poet,—such a quotation as " Death and
his brother" would have been interpreted as Shelley, but
" Sleep and his twin brother " suggests Tennyson. So I quote
some portions thus possibly recalled,
From In Memoriarn —
lxxi. " Sleep, kinsman thou to death and trance
"
lxviii. "When in the down I sink my head,
Sleep, Death's twin-brother, times my breath ;
Sleep, Death's twin-brother, knows not Death,
Nor can I dream of thee as dead."
It is perhaps worth noting that " Sleep, Death's kinsman,"
occurs in JEncicl vi. 278, consanguineus Leti Sopor; so that
this is what may have suggested the reference. I may quote
also from sections of In Memoriarn comparing the two
states ;
since, as is fairly plain from the context, it is for that
reason chiefly that the references are introduced into the
script. The passages preceding and following the references to
Death and Sleep in the script are preceded by " Better to
slave among the living than King it mid the dead," and
followed by " Homer and Horace the thought allied."
The following lines occur in preceding sections of In
Memoriarn
:
lxi. "If, in thy second state sublime." . . .
lxiv. " Dost thou look back on what hath been,
As some divinely gifted man,
Whose life in low estate began,
And on a simple village green."
On these sections Professor A. C. Bradley (p. 157 of his
" Commentary ") comments thus :
—
" The poet's friend is almost throughout imagined as he is in
that '
second state sublime ' which the poet conceives to be far
superior to the earthly state in which he himself remains. Tennyson
himself had to point this out in connection with xcvii."
A man so keenly interested as F. W. H. Myers was in
problems connected with a possible future state would assuredly
158 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
have been impressed by these sections, and might well have
associated them with utterances of Homer and Virgil and
Horace, such as have now been quoted, as well as with
passages in his own poems.
Chap. VI. Lethe and Knowledge of other Scripts.
But we have been led on to the end of this script of
Feb. 10, 1910, without having nearly exhausted its earlier
part.
Let us, therefore, return to a plainly Lethean reference,
written at an earlier stage, immediately after the reference to
Virgil and Ulysses
:
The Nightingale but but (scribbles) no no (scribbles)
Myers begin again
the Nigh in Nightingale but Shelley too Myers as well
Once more ye Laurels Myers this seems
incoherent but don't be discouraged
Further on, as we have already seen, the script makes a
very plain reference to Keats, by the phrase,
His name was writ in water
—itself a simple and easy Lethean reference to any man of
letters, or, for that matter, to Mrs. Willett.
So there is no doubt that it is Keats' poem, Ode to a
Nightingale, that is here referred to by the word " Nightin-
gale." It is evident, also, that the reference constitutes a good
answer to the question, " What does Lethe suggest to you,"
for its first verse begins thus
:
"My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains
My sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk,
Or emptied some dull opiate to the drains
One minute past, and Lethe-wards had sunk."
So that reference is quite clear. And it may be the occur-
rence here of the word " hemlock," which suggests an ampli-
fication of this word in the next important script which
arrived about a month later. (See Chap. VII. below.)
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 150
But then, after mentioning " nightingale,' the script goes
on :
but Shelley too as well
Once more ye Laurels
This seems incoherent but don't be discouraged.
Now it is true that the word " nightingale " occurs in several
of Shelley's poems—in Rosalind and Helen, for instance, and also
in one specially called The Woodman and the Nightingale ;
but
neither of these corresponds either to Lethe or to knowledge
shown elsewhere ; so the object of, as it were, bracketing Shelley
with Keats in this connexion was not apparent.
The key is found in the next sentence of the script
:
Dorrs scheme excellent Myers that I
have to use different scribes means that I must
show different aspects of thought
underlying which Unity is to be found.
Prompted by this hint, Mrs. Verrall made a note in May
1910,1
as follows:
The " nightingale " I took to refer to Keats' poem which gives
the word " Lethewards." But "Shelley too" puzzled me, as I
could not think what reference by Shelley to a nightingale was
important in this connexion. The next words "Once more ye
laurels" gave me the clue, —thus: "Once more" etc. is a quotation
from Milton's Lycidas which is a prototype of Shelley's Adonais.
That sent me to Adonais, stanza xvii.,
" Thy spirit's sister, the lorn nightingale,
Mourns not her mate with such melodious pain,"
which is a covert allusion to Keats' poem. Note that stanza xv.
refers to "Echo," and stanza xvi. to "Hyacinth" and "Narcissus."
These subjects had been referred to by MyersP in connexion with
Lethe, as described in Mr. Piddington's (then unpublished) paper
in Proc. Vol. XXIV. ; this coincidence can hardly be accidental, but
seems to justify the claim of Myersw to "show different aspects of
thought " by the use of " different scribes." Here we have another
group of references to the Ovid stories, closely followed by the
word "Ganymede" [see below]. I believe the omission of the
name Ovid by Myersw to be intentional.
1
See also Mrs. Verrall's paper, p. 209.
160 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Mr. Piddington agrees with the suggestions contained in this
ingenious piece of literary criticism. It will be observed that
the above quotation from Adonais effectually welds together
Shelley, Keats, and Nightingale. (See also a discussion of the
part played by Mrs. Willett in the cross-correspondence " Echo
"
and "Nightingale" in Miss Johnson's paper below, p. 244.)
The script having finished the sentence about showing
different aspects of a single thought through different scribes
(meaning thereby different automatists) goes on :
Strew on her Roses Roses
Ganymede
Mrs Verrall might make something of that
homeless in the heart of Paradise.
Where was the Sybil 1
Flavicomata
I have not finished, wait,
the draught of forgetfulness.
" Strew on her roses " is a quotation from Matthew Arnold's
well-known poem Reqidescat, familiar to Mrs. Willett; it describes
the passing of the spirit from the confinement of life to the
" vasty halls of Death."
Tt is not apparent to a reader why the name Ganymede
occurs, but it appears to have a cross-correspondence significance,
and the following suggestions may be made :
—The story of
Ganymede is told in Ovid, Metamorphoses, Book X, immediately
before that of Hyacinthus, which had been introduced by MyersP
in connexion with the Lethe question put by Mr. Dorr.
Again in the first book of the JEneid (1. 28) the name of
Ganymede occurs in connexion with the wrath of Juno, a
subject discussed at considerable length in Mr. Dorr's sittings
with Mrs. Piper ; and one of Mr. Dorr's questions (Proc. Vol.
XXIV., p. 175) concerned the immediately preceding line (1.
27). The next words of the script, "Mrs. Verrall might make
something of that," i.e. of the name of Ganymede, are therefore
appropriately spoken by anyone who knew that the story of
Ganymede is alluded to in xEncid I. and that Mrs. Verrall had
written a paper dealing largely with the knowledge of that
book shown by MyersP. Neither of these facts was known to
Mrs. Willett.
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 161
The phrase, " Homeless in the heart of Paradise," is a quotation
from Myers's poem called " Immortality " (see Proc. Vol. XXII.,
p. 399) connected by Mr. Piddington with Horace's Archytas
Ode (I. 28). Taken in connexion with the opening words in this
script, it points to an intention, underlying the whole script of
Feb. 10, to refer to that particular ode of Horace.
"Where was the Sibyl?" seems a reminiscence of Mr. Dorr's
question, "Where did the Sibyl live?" {Proc. Vol. XXIV,
p. 144 ff.)
As to the word " flavicomata " I condense notes received from
Mr. Piddington and Mrs. A^errall.
Flavicomata means yellow-haired. The word is not extant,
but is correctly formed. With this word, Mrs. Willett had the
following association,—she had seen it in a script of Mrs.
Verrall's, where on Jan. 16, 1908, it was written (incorrectly)
in two portions, " tiavi comata " and applied to a tree, probably
a laburnum, thus
:
"What is the foreign name of the tree—something su^'ests its
yellow hair—flavi comata (yellow haired)."
The application of the epithet flavicomata to a tree undoubtedly
recalls to a Virgilian scholar the auricomos fetus, " gold-haired
branches," of the tree which iEneas was to seek in the woods
round Avernus, where the Sibyl lived {JEn, VI. 141). But Mrs.
Willett is no Virgilian scholar, and it is difficult to discover
any reason in her literary memories for the transition from the
Sibyl's dwelling place to the word flavicomata. Moreover, as
Mr. Piddington points out, there may well have been another
reason for the introduction at this point of the word flavi-
comata into Mrs. Willett's script. As already stated, it had
occurred in a script of Mrs. Verrall's, seen by Mrs. Willett,
But a word almost equivalent in meaning, and of the same
grammatical formation, had occurred in another script of Mrs.
Verrall's, which Mrs. Willett had not seen, but which, written
on September 9, 1903, is printed in full in Proc. Vol. XX.,
pp. 427-428. I here quote only such parts of it as are
relevant to our immediate purpose :
Auricomata goldhaired, Camilla's yellow hair
reminds.
flava eomam
—
L
162 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
nexit in hastam
Oritella
Coronata
Ariadne's crown in the sky.
C comes Ononis.
Auricomata—like flavicomata, a non-existent but correctly
formed word—means "golden-haired," and is exactly equivalent
to the auricomos of Am. VI. 141.
Flava comam means " yellow as to the hair " and is equiva-
lent to flavicomata.
Comes Orionis means " companion of Orion " and is a quota-
tion from Horace, C. I. 28, the " Archytas " Ode.
If Mrs. Willett's flavicomata he regarded as referring back
to Mrs. Verrall's script of September 9, 1903, with its "auri-
comata
"—"flava comam "
—and " comes Orionis" it supplies yet
another proof of the communicators having " access to know-
ledge shown elsewhere " ; for in Mr. Dorr's sittings with Mrs.
Piper, MyeiSp had spontaneously shown that he knew that
Orion is associated with the Ode which was the subject of
the "Horace Ode question" (see Proc. Vol. XXIV, pp. 150-
169 and especially pp. 157-158). Flavicomata thus killed
three birds with one stone. Implicit in it were allusions to
the Golden Bough, the Sibyl, and Horace, C. I. 28. For
economy and neatness of method, this pregnant use of a
single word could hardly be surpassed.
But indeed it is indisputable that many words in the
Willett script now under consideration allude to episodes in
Mr. Dorr's sittings which are discussed by Mr. Piddington and
Mrs. Verrall in the then unpublished volume of Proceedings
(Part LX.). Thus, Ganymede recalls questions in Dorr's sit-
tings about the context of passages from the jEncid (see
Proc. Vol. XXIV, pp. 69-73); "homeless" etc. recalls the
Horace-ode question (see Proc. Vol. XXII., p. 399) which
was the subject of spontaneous reference by MyersP in Dorr's
sittings (see Proc. Vol. XXIV., p. 153); "where was the
Sybil " recalls Dorr's question at those sittings (see Proc. Vol.
XXIV., p. 144); "the draught of forge tfuln ess " alludes to
the Lethe question (see Proc. Vol. XXIV., p. 91).
The last three references represent the three subjects, and
the only three subjects from Mr. Dorr's sittings, which are
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 163
dealt with by Mr. Piddington in his then unpublished
paper.
On my informing Myersw,
by message in sealed envelope
(posted 25 Feby. 1910, opened and read by Mrs. W. on March
7), how good and clever we thought the whole intention of
" Flavieomata," the response came, on March 7, 1910,
Yes that point I knew had a good chance.
It was Sidgwick who suggested it
Hes He is not able to do much with this
Machine but he can through me assist
via my Machine here.
I expect to have more to say some day about the implication
of a sort of mediumship on that side, mingled with the possibility
of what I am inclined to guess may be an ethereous body,
which is here indistinctly suggested. But all this would
open a large subject which can well await further treatment
hereafter. Compare, however, a hint in my own previously
published little book " The Ether of Space," end of Chapter
VIII.
Then the script of March 7, 1910, goes on:
Write again the Nightingale
I want that seen to
Pluto not not Plato this time but PLUTO
Bees Bees the hum of Bees.
Now, " Nightingale," as we have seen, is a recognised reference
to Lethe, and so is the "hum of Bees," pp. 137, 138, and 144.
Upon it Mrs. Verrall noted in May, 1910 :
There is no doubt in my mind that the reference here is to
Am. vi., the bees round the lilies at Lethe's stream. The word
hum represents the Latin " strepit omnis murmure campus." This I
think very remarkable,—the reference I mean to " hum of bees " as
a reminiscence evoked by Lethe. J. O. P. will tell you of the special
interest that the passage has in connexion with "lilies and poppies"
in his Lethe paper. And if I have not sent you a reprint of a
recent article of mine in the Classical Review I will do so.
This paper of Mrs. Verrall's in the Classical Review for
March, 1910, has reference to the association of Bees and
164 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Lilies in Virgil, with the special significance which he probably
attached to the symbolism. But I confess that the actual
communications of scholars on these subjects are so like the
scattered references in the scripts, —both of those which have
now appeared in Vol. XXIV. and of those which I obtained
through Mrs. Willett at a date before that part of the Proceedings
had been published, —that it requires some effort to discriminate
between them ; which tends to confirm my impression that we
are tapping a mind full of literary feeling and classical scholar-
ship. And the advantage of the fact that these communications
have come to me is obvious, since my mind is only potentially,
but not actually, either the one or the other.
Chap. VII. Evidence for Scholarship.
One of the points which Mrs. Verrall specially notices in
scripts which purport to come from Myers is ' their occasional
scholarly character—beyond any ordinary amateurish acquaint-
ance with classical literature. This I think comes out clearly
in the material received through Mrs. Piper by Mr. Dorr (as
published in Part LX. of the Proceedings, Vol. XXIV.), but it
comes out with equal strength in the material received through
Mrs. Willett, who is quite ignorant of Classics, though she
has a fair amount of ordinary literary knowledge,—much more
than Mrs. Piper has.
A simple and not specially striking instance of accuracy in
classical allusion shown by Willett script may be cited as an
illustration. When the word " Hemlock " appeared in a script
of March 7, 1910, the continuation was:
Hemlock and the cold slowly rising, met in serene confidence
the draught of deliverance. See also the Phsedo. The attitude was
the result of long years of pondering, and of intuitive knowledge
the same as we are now arriving at by the slower but necessary
method of experiment.
These few words, says Mrs. Verrall, are exceedingly well
chosen and represent both the account by Xenophon (Memora-
bilia, iv. 8) which emphasises the " deliverance," and by Plato
(Pltccdo) which shows the " cold slowly rising " the " serene
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some Neiv Script. 165
confidence " and the " draught." The next sentence too
—" his
attitude was the result of long years of pondering and of
intuitive knowledge,"—is a good and scholarly description.
It must be noted, however, that the two chief authorities
for the life of Socrates are mentioned in Human Personality,
Vol. II., p. 95, and that some years ago Mrs. Willett read a
translation of the concluding chapters of the Phaedo.
I myself note one among many illustrations of classical
accuracy, in the fact that between the rivers mentioned in the
JEneid, Book VI., namely, the Styx, Cocytus, and other rivers
of Hades on the one hand, and Lethe—a river washing the
shores of the Elysian fields—on the other, no kind of confusion
has ever been exhibited by a Myers control. Such confusion
is not always avoided by scholars, for on my relating to an
exceptionally learned classical Professor some part of the Virgilian
reminiscence stimulated in Mrs. Piper's trance-communicator
by the word " Lethe," he at once cproted the famous line
about the dead stretching out their hands in longing toward
the further shore : Tendehantque manus ripaz ulterioris amove.
But the souls which congregate on Lethe banks,—and which,
in a Virgilian passage alluded to in the script, are likened to
the swarmino- of bees,—are not thinking of the farther shore at
all ;
they do not want to get across Lethe, they want to drink
it. It is the dead who lie unburied on the earth or sea
who stand on the bank, not of Lethe but of Cocytus
—
it is these who stretch out their hands in longing toward the
i'arther shore ; for they are not allowed to cross in Charon's
boat until their bodies are buried.
Indeed, in a Myers H. V. script of Sept. 1908 (see Proe.
Yo\. XXIV., p. 191) this river of Hades is definitely referred
to as " the river of wailing," and is mentioned in the same
sentence with Lethe in order apparently to emphasise the
distinction between them :
No no go not to Lethe, and the river of wailing too,
Upon the shore they stood and stretched their arms.
An incident showing at least an elementary knowledge of
Greek on the part of one of the inspirers of Willett script,
—
Gurneyw probably—to the extent at any rate of Greek declen-
sions and the meaning of a couple of words, one not a common
166 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
one, (p)')iu.>i and xp/ovxo'c,—may perhaps be noted later in its
proper place ; but another incident indicative of classical know-
ledge may be conveniently reported here.
Prayer of Ajax.
When speaking of the difficulty which people have in follow-
ing up anything which negatives the trend of their own life
work, and of the absence in most cases of any strenuous long-
ing for illumination whatever might be the result, Myersw,
communicating with me orally in May 1910,—in a manner
which will be described at the beginning of the next chapter
—said :
Light more light though it should blind me.
A prayer, that is, a prayer long ago.
To which I replied :
" Yes I know, the prayer of dying Goethe."
On which I got the response
:
Yes but there is a classical analogy.
Prayer of Ajax.
This I then dimly remembered, and with assistance found
it, in the Iliad, XVII., 647, ev oe (paei kou oXe&crov}
This may be regarded as common knowledge, and its occur-
rence is therefore not remarkable. The line is quoted and
accurately translated in the biographical Memoir of Henry
Bidgwick, which Mrs. Willett had read ; but she does not
know the Greek letters. The same English phrase " though it
blind me," without the Greek, had occurred in the script of
Miss Helen Verrall, who had made a note associating it with
both Goethe and Ajax ;
and this, too, had been seen by Mrs.
Willett. Mrs. Willett herself associates it with Goethe, so
she tells me in reply to an enquiry, but with nothing else.
1
The prayer is made by Telamonian Ajax in the midst of the strange darkness
which the gods had sent to protect the body of Patroclus and to assist the
Trojans. The appeal is for light, even though it be fatal, and may be para-
phrased thus—If thou wilt destroy us, yet destroy us in the light ;
or, let us
have light whatever be the consequence ;
or, let us perish in the face of day.
Goethe of course used the word "Light,"' as it was used in the above script,
for mental illumination.
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 167
Now comes the notable incident of which the above is a
necessary though detached and independent prelude.
About a week later I had another opportunity of receiving
communications personally ;
and after a great number of other
subjects the question came orally
:
Now Lodge do you want to say anything to me ?
I then said, " May T ask a question ?
" and on permission
being given I asked, a propos of nothing, what a certain
sentence meant, namely,
ev 06 (pdei icai oXecrcroi'.
The oral conversation through Mrs. Willett which followed
I had better give in full ; it will be perceived that Mrs.
Willett speaks of the communicator in the third person, as
" he," though at the beginning and the end a few words are
reported in the first person
:
O. J. L. Do the words [just cited, —-spoken thus, without translation
or explanation] mean anything to you ?
Mrs. W. Greek. How shall I make this clear.
Where comrades wander.
Then he says a word with a g and s's.
Glossolally, that's the word.
He says that that's a separate faculty.
0. J. L. Very well, perhaps I had better not bother him through this
machine, but ask it through a trance medium.
Wait a minute, give him a chance.
0. J. L. Shall I repeat the sentence 1
No he has got it pretty clear.
[Mrs. Willett murmured it over nearly correctly, except that
the last word was pronounced by her more like the
English word " lesson " or " lessen "
; which she immedi-
ately corrected, saying, " He says it is oless-on."]
He says it makes him think of comrades, but it is difficult
to explain why ; and of change, complete change.
It makes him think of his own death, something of his own
life.
That sort of question has a better chance when asked
through an entranced subject.
168 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Will you try it with Mrs. Piper?
What you have got down he knows will appear to you
fearful rubbish, but it's not altogether rubbish.
Think of trying to dictate to a First Standard child, that is
the condition.
Then he says, Ajax.
Then he says, Cassandra; and surely any fool can see the
connexion between Cassandra and a god with wings, no
that's not it, Mercury. And then he says
Though it should blind me. Though it should blind me
(repeated).
And he says he fell, struck by a fork,
And then he says, he will. . . .
Mother and Lover of Men the sea, 1
The Pagan singer of sweet things.
Now Lodge she has groped far enough,
Stop writing.
Upon this I have to note that the first idea—that about
comrades—evidently emanates from Mrs. Willett herself, since
" comrades " occurs in a Greek line well known and often
repeated in connexion with Myers, about which I had spoken
to her some months previously.
But the detection of the identity of these last Greek words
with what had been said previously, and their close connexion
with the phrase " Though it should blind me," cannot be due
to chance, and is surely beyond Mrs. Willett's normal know-
ledge. There was nothing to indicate any connexion with
what had been a mere episode on a previous occasion among
a mass of other material. I was present, but I gave no sort
of indication, when the word Ajax was said, that it was
specially acceptable.
The Ajax who insulted Cassandra and who fell struck by a
fork—whether of lightning or Neptune's trident does not matter
—and was drowned in the sea, is not the greater Ajax who
made the prayer, but is Ajax Oileus.
The immediate reference to Swinburne when the sea has
been thought of is very natural.
1
Swinburne, Triumph of Time :
"I will go back to the great sweet mother,
Mother and lover of men, the sea."
lxiil] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 169
The phrase " Then he says '
he will
'
" may possibly be
intended to refer to the bragging of this latter Ajax, which
resulted in his sudden doom.
I consider the mention of Ajax in connexion with the Greek
sentence, and the virtual though not literal translation of it, to
be quite good ;
but the apparent confusion between the
greater and lesser Ajax must be counted as an exceptional
unscholarly defect.
Chap. VIII. Non-Evidential Statements.
In addition to script which reached me by post I had in
May, 1910, some short personal interviews with Mrs. Willett,
for the purpose of receiving automatic communications ; and
at these sometimes the pencil was laid down, and she began
to talk instead of writing : thus making it more like a " voice-
sitting " with Mrs. Piper instead of a " writing-sitting," except
that Mrs. Willett did not go into any kind of trance but merely
sat and spoke. It appears to be a sort of inspirational speak-
ing, but not of a vague or general kind, it is definitely associated
with a particular personality e.g. Myersw or Gurneyw, and has
been found to be evidentially worth attention.
The utterance is often fluent and rapid, and note-taking is
difficult ; indeed it hardly seems to be desired. I noted all
I could, being able to write very rapidly, though I regret to
say very illegibly also. Consequently the report, of which
only samples are now given, is not always perfectly verbatim.
Most of it is correct, however, and from it I will select
almost at random a few statements from the Myersw com-
munications, which may be of interest although they are of
a non-evidential character. One is to the effect that
Telepathy is not a matter of the organism, nor of any shadow
of it. It does not pertain to matter, nor is it the result
of any physical peculiarity. No, it is the law of the Mete-
therial, it is the mark of evolution in human faculty, the
extension of man's powers not evolved by the friction of
material self-preservation : not protoj)lasmic but cosmic.
Some of this is certainly rather characteristic.
170 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
So also is the following rebuke addressed to me in connexion
with my preliminary non-recognition of the appropriateness of his
answer to my Lethe question, namely, the answer " the will
again to live," and his references to reincarnation
:
Why did you say that the reference to reincarnation was in-
appropriate when it emerged as an answer what had Lethe
reminded him of? You saw in it a repetition of something
that the machine had been reading. It was more than that.
[See App. B. above, p. 146.]
Why did you send her your paper*? [An unpublished paper on
Incarnation.] You sent it to her supraliminal. [I had done
so, in January 1910, and it was unwise.]
I wanted to select from that subject but then the supra rose up
and beat me back. It fitted in with what I had been successful
in adumbrating with regard to the Ode. You thought it was
based on something you had been writing, but you are not
the only man who has written on that subject !
It might be illuminating to Miss Johnson to realise that we suffer
from them just as much as they do from us. How much
more ready I am to hear than you to pray. Think of what
somebody said that these things come not forth save by
prayer and fasting. That was a sort of saying that was on
the level of development which had then been reached by the
hearers, but you are able to translate that into terms suitable
for the present state, and (notes illegible) of "prayer" replace
it by withdrawal from immediate multiple impressions, leaving
as it were a surface to collect, which is capable of receiving
impressions and is virgin of any. (On such a surface) impres-
sions can be registered (but not on one) crowded up and
down and through with the ordinary business of life.
And translate " fasting " into the newer word abstention.
You will see Lodge in time this will be realised, and people will
think it worth while to provide the proper conditions, just
as they think it worth while now to give to wheat scientific
treatment ; and they won't (attempt communication) after
neglecting almost every necessary condition.
Don't mind going slowly.
They won't then say—now then you show us what you can do.
What I want to drive in is the necessity for co-operation.
Investigation at arm's length has had its day, and there's so little
that is independent of conditions.
lxiil] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 171
No one is so overpowered by my ignorance as I am : I, Myers.
Every machine is different, and experience is the sole instructor.
But while I am experimenting I may be—-it is necessary to
experiment, I myself now experiment—and yet I may be
losing ground. And if I don't experiment, and don't advance
with fearful risk, how are you going to get the only minds
worth having to take this seriously.
This also :
Lodge the most difficult things are the most worth doing.
Dare to fail is becoming my motto—dare to risk failure.
There is no doubt there is a risk in attempting things at this
stage of the enquiry.
Much is lost—some in the passage from us to you, some in
your own incapability of interpreting things already through.
Chiefly in the lack shown in some quarters of adopting as a
working hypothesis the theory that we are what we claim
to be.
And a^ain this :
It is no doubt legitimate to say that ideal conditions cannot be
realised ; but whether they can be realised or not does not
affect the fact.
There is an extraordinary obstinacy of the investigators. They
have to do with delicate machines and they won't take the
trouble to study them.
A great deal of the atmosphere is too—I shall call it superior
—
too superior in its attitude.
You know the text, he that is not like a little child.
It is much better for them to learn than to dogmatise. There is an
awful danger in your thinking—a heap of you—that the learn-
ing stage is so much over now that you can think you have
precedents, can lay down rules, and that sensitives can be
standardised. Whereas, as a matter of fact, there are many
varieties, and you can't lay down canons, you can't bring
them up to a standard. You have still much to learn ; so
have we. Do you admit this 1
And another sentence is of interest
:
He is trying to make himself real to people who are not only
conscious of their own reality, but who are among people
172 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
who admit their reality. How much of your sense of reality
is due to that? Think that over. There is a paralysing
sense of isolation in the experience of coming back.
Chap. IX. Discussion of the Possibility of a Normal
Explanation of the Facts.
Most of the script of major importance received by me,
and dealt with above, seems to have been started into activity
by my question about Lethe. At first the answers were con-
fined to reminiscences of Lethe itself, but the idea was speedily
caught that I wanted to detect in Myersw knowledge of
matters that had been referred to by other Myers controls,
I know what Lodge wants, he wants me to prove that I
have access to knowledge shown elsewhere.
This was, indeed, exactly the object of my question,—and
Myersw entered into the game con amove, flooding me with
literary and classical allusions.
But, of all the scripts thus received, I think none excelled
in interest the one obtained on the first occasion—immediately
after the envelope containing my question had been opened by
Mrs. Willett—namely, on February 4, 1910. The extraordinary
appropriateness of the answers then given, to the idea of
" Lethe " as treated in classical and modern literature, seems
to me a truly remarkable fact.
It will be contended that Mrs. Willett is simply reproducing
things already within her normal knowledge (both supra- and
sub-liminal). A good many of the allusions made in the
script have reference to things that we know she has seen
and partially read,—for instance, F. W. H. Myers's Essay on
Virgil, Human Personality, Church's Stories, and those numbers
of the Proceedings S.P.R. which are mentioned by Mrs. Verrall
on p. 215, besides ordinary literary sources known to educated
people. Moreover not a few of the phrases employed in her
script had already appeared in scripts of other automatists, some
of which she had seen. The history of what she had seen
must be narrated by Mrs. Verrall, but I understand that in
her judgment the evidence is not thereby weakened. The way
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some New Script. 173
in which these allusions are combined or put together, and
their connexion with each other indicated, is the striking
thing,—it seems to me as much beyond the capacity of
Mrs. Willett as it would be beyond my own capacity. I
believe that if the matter is seriously studied, and if Mrs.
Willett's assertions concerning her conscious knowledge and
supraliminal procedure are believed, this will be the opinion of
critics also ;
they will realise, as I do, that we are tapping the
reminiscences not of an ordinarily educated person but of a
scholar, —no matter how fragmentary and confused some of the
reproductions are. I quite recognise that safety and credit lie
in the direction of forcing, even into absurdity, every explanation
that can by any means be considered normal ;
but, in spite of
that, I am bound to say that no normal explanation that has
as yet been suggested wears the garb of truth.
The problem that has to be solved is how it comes about
that all those appropriate literary and classical reminiscences
flow from Mrs. Willett's hand in response to a given
stimulus ; and I confess that I cannot conceive any normal
explanation for it, except the supposition of fraud on the
part of Mrs. Willett. Fraud, I mean in this sense,—that
instead of really opening the envelope and reading the ques-
tion for the first time on February 4th, 1910, as recorded
on p. 121 above,—just when she was ready for her automatic
writing, with no source of information open to her except her
own knowledge,—she had in reality, and contrary to her
statement which I fully believe, opened the envelope some
weeks previously, had industriously studied the subject with
the aid of classical friends, and was now retailing information
thus normally obtained.
Such a supposition—grotesque to any one who knows Mrs.
Willett—is one that by a stranger may be preferred to any
other, in this particular instance, notwithstanding the fact that it
conspicuously fails to account for knowledge of what had come
through in certain scripts of other automatists—scripts which
were certainly unknown to Mrs. Willett. And—if I may
paraphrase a sentence of Henry Sidgwick's in an early address
to the Society, Proc. Vol. I., p. 12 —it will be an indication of
the value and success of the effort made by the communicators,
and of the test which they have supplied us with, if such a
174 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
supposition is seriously urged as competent to furnish a
normal explanation.
It may be said —for such things are often said—that
it is the most scientific course to press a normal explana-
tion at all hazards, and in face of every obstacle, before
admitting anything else. With this contention, plausible
as it sounds, and true though it is in many cases, I
do not agree. The scientific attitude is to find if possible
the true solution, not the most plausible or superficial
one, of any problem. And it is by no means scientific to
ignore a number of the facts and conditions, when devising
even a provisional explanation. Some view which occurs to
a casual reader ought not to be allowed to supersede and
overpower the deliberate judgment of a careful student of the
facts. I assert that no careful student of the phenomena —
that is no one who painstakingly scrutinises the whole of the
evidence —can be permanently satisfied, in this case, with a
normal explanation ; and I have not scrupled to indicate
throughout my own view.
For instance, at the outset, the kind of references and classical
allusions which would be given by a fraudulent writer would
surely be of an inferior and less scholarly description than those
which have actually been obtained. Moreover, although the
hypothesis of fraud may manage to survive in connexion
with the occurrences on one particular date, when Mrs. Willett
was alone, it will not explain what happened on other days,,
when I was present myself and put questions and received
answers without giving any sort of opportunity for " hunting
things up."
People will no doubt say,—oh that was telepathy ! Yes,,
but that is not a normal explanation ; and it is entirely
different from the hypothesis of fraud. The same explanation
will not tit the two sets of circumstances ;
telepathy will
not explain the one, fraud will not explain the other.
The only alternative which will explain both, is the
supposition that Mrs. Willett is a classical scholar in disguise.
But then that will not explain the obtaining of the word
" Dorr," nor for the knowledge shown of the writings of other
automatists. Some other hypothesis has to be invented for all
that: and no doubt one will be forthcoming. But it is almost
lxiii.] Classical Scholarship, etc., in some Nexv Script. 175
proverbial in science that whenever a fresh hypothesis has to
be invented to account for every fresh case, it is an indication
that the explorer is off the track of truth. He feels secure
and happy in his advance only when one and the same
hypothesis will account for everything—both old and new
—
which he encounters.
The one hypothesis which seems to me most nearly to
satisfy that condition, in this case, is that we are in indirect
touch with some part of the surviving personality of a scholar
—and that scholar F. W. H. Myers.
That has gradually come to be, I confess, my own working
hypothesis, which I am ready to abandon freely on good
grounds—but on good grounds only,—not in deference to
sentimental prejudice. I admit that it is a momentous con-
clusion—when it comes to be a " conclusion,"—I doubt if we
any of us realise, to the full, how momentous. But in
science we are not unused to discoveries of considerable
magnitude ; and if, after due scrutiny facts become compulsory,
men of science must be ready to enlarge their scheme of the
universe so as to admit them.
176 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
II.
NOTES ON MES. WILLETT'S SCRIPTS OF FEBRUARY,
1910.
By MRS. A. W. VERRALL.
In this paper I propose to supplement Sir Oliver Lodge's general
account of Mrs. Willett's script
:
(1) by a brief historical statement covering the period between
March, 1908, when answers to a question about Lethe were
obtained from MyersP,
and February, 1910, when the repeated
question was answered by Myersw ;
(2) by a detailed examination of the probable sources of the
quotations and allusive phrases of which Mrs. Willett's script
largely consists.
The investigation of these two subjects has increased my sense
of the value of Mrs. Willett's scripts of February, 1910, by
adding further evidence of supernormal knowledge on her part,
and by emphasising the closeness of interconnexion between the
intelligences which we call Myersw,
MyersP,
MyersH,
etc., and so
reinforcing the claim that each of these intelligences makes to
represent the same underlying personality. For, while Mrs.
Willett was completely ignorant of what had passed at Mr.
Dorr's sittings with Mrs. Piper in 1908, and of the very fact
that he had had sittings in 1909, the statements of Myersw were
appropriate to an intelligence aware of the conversations between
Mr. Dorr and MyersF in those two years. Again, the apparent
incoherence of the phrases used by Myers w is reduced to order,
and their sequence becomes intelligible, when we are acquainted
with the contents of other automatic scripts, contents not known,
when the scripts were obtained, to Mrs. Willett, nor known as a
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 177
whole to any one living person. Various persons were familiar
with parts of the scripts in question, but no one of us possessed
as a whole the knowledge which, now that it has been collected
together, converts a jumble of disconnected phrases into an intel-
ligible sequence of associated ideas. This fact is an important
element not to be overlooked in any attempt to frame a hypothesis
which will account for the phenomena of Mrs. Willett's script.
The supplementary evidence here brought forward was for the
most part inaccessible to Sir Oliver Lodge, and it seems con-
venient to present it to the reader in a separate paper.
I. From March, 1908, to March, 1910.
Considerable time elapsed between the date when Mr. Dorr
asked MyersP what the word Lethe suggested to him and the
answer to that question by Myersw, after its repetition by Sir
Oliver Lodge to Mrs. Willett. It may be useful to state here
what associations with the word Lethe had, during that interval,
received particular attention from the small group of persons
aware of the earlier incident and acquainted with Mrs. Willett's
phenomena. In this statement 1 have included notes of the dates
at which, by reading books or by seeing copies of certain selected
scripts, Mrs. Willett obtained normal knowledge likely to have
affected the contents of her script. It should, however, be
remembered that there was no reason why her attention should
have been directed to allusions, in what she read, to Lethe.
The summary is arranged as far as possible in chronological
order and is followed by detailed explanations of points that
require fuller treatment.
Chronological Sum mary.
On March 23, 1908, in the course of sittings held with Mrs.
Piper between March 9 and May 26, 1908, and largely occupied
with attempts to revive the literary memories of Frederic Myers,1
Mr. Dorr asked of MyersP the question :
" What does the word
Lethe suggest to you ?
" The answers given consisted chiefly of
allusions to Ovid's account of the source of the water of Lethe as
told in the story of Ceyx and Alcyone (Met. XL), but incidentally
J
See Proc, Vol. XXIV., Part LX., published in April, 1910.
M
178 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
showed a knowledge of certain Virgilian associations with Lethe,
as an Elysian river (Proc., Vol. XXIV., pp. 134-5) visited by
Aeneas in company with the Sibyl (Proc, Vol. XXIV., pp.
144-50). None of these allusions were recognised by Mr. Dorr.
In October, 1908, Mrs. Sidgwick made a preliminary examina-
tion of the record of these sittings, and in November, 1908, I
made a detailed study of the classical allusions in them, but in my
ignorance of Ovid's Metamorphose* I failed to trace any coherence
in the answers of MyersP to Mr. Dorr's question about Lethe.
On December 13, 1908, Mr. Dorr had a sitting with Mrs.
Piper, at which, in continuance of his earlier experiment, he read
aloud several times in Latin the speech 1
of Anchises (jEn., VI,,
724-751) and also a passage from Swinburne's Hymn of Man—
in the Songs before Sunrise—quoted in Frederic Myers's Science
anel a. Future Life (p. 177). The control showed no signs of
recognising either passage, but at the close of the sitting MyersP
stated that he would refer to the Latin within a few hours " at
Mrs. Verrall's." I knew nothing of what had taken place at
these sittings, and indeed was not aware till April, 1909, that
Mr. Dorr had had any sittings with Mrs. Piper except those
between March and May, 1908.
On December 21, 1908, I read through the Sixth JEneid for
the purpose of a paper,
2
which was completed on January 11,
1909 ; between these two dates there were references to Virgil by
Myersv. Thus in my script of December 29, 1908, it was said
that in every script containing a single word of Virgil something
would be found derived from an external source, as distinguished
from the subliminal self of the automatist ; on January 6,
1909, the script contained words noted at the time as a transla-
tion of Virgil's lines (JEii.,VI., 129-31) describing those admitted
to the underworld ; and on January 11, 1909, Myersv wrote that
"the Virgil" had helped, and that he thought he could get a
reflexion of the thought elsewhere.
3
Meanwhile, on January 4, 1909, and again on January 5,
1
For an account of this speech, see Sir Oliver Lodge's paper above, pp. 184, 135,
144.
2
Subsequently published in the March, 1009, number of the Magazine of the
National Home Reading Union.
3
The text of the scripts is given below, p. 183. The script of Jan. 6, 1909, was
subsequently found to contain a cross-correspondence with Mrs. Willett on a
literaiy but non-classical subject, which it is hoped shortly to publish.
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 179
1909, Mr. Dorr read to Myers P translations by Cranch and
by Frederic Myers, of JEneid, VI. 724-751 (Anchises' speech),
and also in Latin JEneid, VI. 883-886 (Lilies for Marcellus).
Translations were also read of passages from Lucretius, Book III.,
and Virgil, Georgia II., and Eclogue IV. The greater part of
both sittings was occupied with reading to the control, and
nothing was said in the trance indicating any recognition by
Myers P of the Virgilian passages.
In February, 1909, Mr. Piddington was at work on the
paper subsequently published in Proc, Vol. XXIV., under the
title " A Prelude and a Sequel to the Horace Ode Question,"
and about February 28 lie found the passage in Ovid's Meta-
morphoses which for the first time explained to us the allusions
to the story of Ceyx and Alcyone by Myers P in March -May,
1908. Between March and July, 1909, he was engaged in
writing the papers on " Three Incidents " from those sittings,
which were published later in Proc., Vol. XXIV. In the course
of the summer the contents of these papers were communicated
to the small group of persons—of whom Mrs. Willett was,
of course, not one—engaged in investigating the records of Mr.
Dorr's sittings before they were published.
On March 1, 1909, Mr. Dorr, before having heard anything of
Mr. Piddington's discoveries, read to Myers P , in the original,
three passages from JEneid, VI., namely, 124-129 (descent
to Avernus), 143-8 (description of Golden Bough), 883-
886 (Lilies for Marcellus). and translations of the last two,,
and also of 724-751 (Anchises' speech). At the suggestion
of Mr. Piddington, but without knowing why the suggestion
was made, he also during the sitting read aloud in Latin the
first six lines of Horace, Odes, I. 28 (Archytas), mentioned
the phrase Adscriptas glebae, and read aloud in Greek the
words of Achilles (Od. XL 489), which Mr. Piddington believes
to have been associated in Frederic Myers's mind with that
Ode of Horace (Proc, XXIV, 150-169). Confident, though
erroneous, statements were made by the Piper-controls in their
attempts to identify the authorship of the various passages
read. Successful attempts at cross-correspondence were made
in this sitting,1
but no knowledge whatever was shown of the
passages read by Mr. Dorr.
1
Only one is noticed in this paper, below, p. 184.
180 Mrs, A. W. Verrall. [part
On April 26, 1909, I heard that on December 13, 1908,
and March 1, 1909, Myers P had expressed to Mr. Dorr the
intention of conveying in my script allusions to JEneid, VI.
724-751 (Anchises' speech), and 124-129 (descent to Avernns).
On April 29, 1909, Miss Verrall's script, written in my
presence, combined with "jam satis" (a quotation from Horace,
Odes, I. 2) the phrase " Tu Marcellus eris " (JSneid, VI. 883).
This phrase was repeated in H.V. script, again in connexion
with the same Ode of Horace, on May 6, 1909. Allusions
to the Golden Bough (JEneid, VI. 201-9) appeared in H.V.
script of May 11 and 13, 1909.
On May 19, 1909, I sent to Mrs. Willett, who had not
seen the above-described H.V. scripts, the following questions
to be addressed to Myersw : (1) 'Please make clear the con-
nexion between " tu Marcellus eris" and "jam satis"'; (2)
'
please explain why the Golden Bough is mentioned,' telling
her that the questions referred to recent H.V. script. No
answer was obtained from Mrs. Willett, as she had no oppor-
tunity, while trying for script, of putting the questions to the
communicator.
On June 26, 1909, Mrs. Willett read parts of F. W. H.
Myers's Essays, Classical and Modern, including the Essay on
Virgil.
On July 26, 1909, copies of Miss Verrall's above-described
script (April 29, May 6, May 11 and May 13), were shown to
Mrs. Willett.
In August, 1909, Mrs. Willett read Euskin's Sesame and
Lilies, which incidentally mentions Dante's " Matilda by the
edge of happy Lethe."
On September 28, 1909, Sir Oliver Lodge sent to Mrs.
Willett the covering letter and the closed envelope, containing
the question about Lethe to be addressed, when an opportunity
occurred, to Myersw as described in his paper. Mr. Piddington
was informed of this by Sir Oliver Lodge.
On October 1, 1909, I heard from Sir Oliver Lodge that he
had thus sent an exact repetition of the question asked by
Mr. Dorr :
" What does the word Lethe suggest to you ?
"
The expectation—so far as there was any expectation—both
of Sir Oliver Lodge and of me, was that this question might
elicit from Myers w allusions similar to those produced in Mr.
lxiil] Notes on Mrs. Willetfs Scripts. 181
Dorr's sittings of 1908 by Myers P, i.e. to the Metamorphoses
of Ovid. Mrs. Willett was in complete ignorance of what
had taken place at those sittings.
On October 28, 1909, an abbreviated arrangement of Mr.
Piddington's paper on Lethe (Proc., Vol. XXIV., pp. 86-144)
was read by Miss Verrall in London at a meeting of the
S.P.K., for Members and Associates only. No report of that
paper or of its subject appeared in the Journal or elsewhere.
Mrs. Willett was not present nor did she hear anything
about the meeting from anyone. The two papers entitled
" The Sibyl " and " A Prelude and a Sequel to the Horace Ode
question," subsequently published in the Proceedings (Vol.
XXIV., pp. 144-169), were not read at the meeting.
In January, 1910, I learnt from Mrs. Willett that Sir
Oliver Lodge's closed envelope had not yet been opened by
her.
On February 4, 1910, Mrs. Willett opened this envelope,
and answers from Myers w were obtained, as described in Sir
Oliver Lodge's paper, on February 4, 5 and 10.
In March, 1910, in the Classical Review was published a
paper, long planned by me, and written about November, 1909,
which dealt with two points in the Sixth JEnevl, 11. 27-30
(sculpture on the temple near the Sibyl's cave), and 707-9
(lilies by Lethe's stream).
This concludes the chronological summary. Some points
require further comment.
Attempt at Cross-correspondences on the Sixth JEneid
While the answers of MyersP in 1908 to Mr. Dorr's
question about Lethe had referred in the first instance, and
mainly, to Ovid's Lethe, it was the Virgilian Lethe which
emerged instantly and unmistakably in the answers of Myers w
in 1910. For this various explanations may be offered, among
which must be reckoned the normal knowledge of the auto-
matist—whatever be the intelligence that utilised that knowledge
and selected appropriate items. But it has been suggested to
me by Miss Johnson that there is another factor which must
not be left out of consideration. In Mr. Dorr's four sittings
with Mrs. Piper in December, 1908, and January and March,
182 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
1909, Mr. Dorr, carrying further the scheme inaugurated by
him in 1908, selected several passages from Latin authors to
read aloud as likely to be familiar to the supposed com-
municator. Four of these selections were from the Sixth
JEneid. Of these four, two passages, both closely associated
with Lethe (Anchises' speech, 724-751, and the descent to
Avernus, 124-129) were chosen by Myers P for transmission
to me. This choice suggests that some special interest was
attached to these particular passages by Myers P,
though here
again the selection may have been determined telepathically
by my own preoccupations at the time.
The facts are as follows
:
(1) Anchises Speech (724-751).
On December 13, 1908, two passages in all were read by
Mr. Dorr to MyersP, —the whole speech made by Anchises
beside the " Lethean stream," and eight lines from Swinburne's
Hymn of Man. The greater part of the sitting was occupied
with reading and spelling over to the control the twenty-eight
Latin lines. At the close MyersP said, " I shall refer to the
Latin within a few hours earthly time at Mrs. Verrall's.
Myers. And translate it here when we meet again. 1
M."
No script was produced by me after December 11, 1908,
till December 28, by which date my thoughts were normally
much occupied with the Sixth JUncicl, which I read through on
December 21, as above described. No reference to the speech
of Anchises was made in my script, which, however, about
that period contained four statements by Myersv which may
be connected with the expressed intention of MyersP.
(a) December 28, 1908.
. . . But listen. I have got a clear message written by Mrs.
Piper just lately, which you will understand when you see it. . . .
F. W. H. M.
This was the first reference in my script to Mrs. Piper
1
No opportunity occurred for translation by Myersp, as Mr. Dorr's next
sitting, on Jan. 4, 1909, was largely occupied by unavoidable discussion of
Mrs. Piper's future plans, after which Mr. Dorr read to the controls certain
passages, among thein being a translation of the speech of Anchises.
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 183
since Nov. 5, 1907, when a reference was made to the English
experiments of 1906 and 1907.
(b) December 29, 1908.
. . . lovers of Virgil remember that phrase—it will serve as a
link more than once. Wherever in any writing you find the words
or even a single word of Virgil, there you will find something that
has filtered through from an external source, not yours, nor Helen's,
nor compound of both. . . . Wherever you have the Virgilian words
look for a meaning in the passage, a direct message from me. Do
you want the signature 1
Yours. F. W. H. M.
(c) January 6, 1909.
. . . Yet some there are by valour or God's grace
Heroes and prophets, leaders of the race,
Who thro' the barriers ordained have past
And seen the Form within the Shadowy Vast.
F. W. H. M.
These lines, occurring in verses descriptive of a vision, were
noted by me at the time as reminiscences of JEneid, VI. 129-
131: " Pauci, quos aequos amavit Iuppiter aut ardens evexit
ad aethera virtus . . . potuere."
(d) January 11, 1909.
. . . The Virgil has helped. I think I can get a reflection of
the thought elsewhere. But I wish you would sit with Mrs. Piper.
... I have a new type of expt. to try, but I must have Mrs.
Piper quite clear for that. . . .
F. W. H. M.
" The Virgil," as I noted at the time, might refer either to
the paraphrase in my script of January 6, or to the paper
on the Sixth ^EJneid, which I completed just before obtaining
script on January 11.
But although there was no reference in my script to the
speech of Anehises, three words from that speech did appear
in my daughters script of January 22, 1909, which opened
with the words, " Spiritus intus alit." These are the first three
words of the third line of Anehises' speech (JEneid, VI. 726),
and summarise the philosophic view there set forth. No other
184 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
quotation from Virgil is found in H.V. script between
September 10, 1908\ and March 23, 190!), on each of which
days occurred a phrase (not the same phrase) from the First
JEneid. Her next quotation from the Sixth JEneid, " Tu
Marcellus eris," is on April 29, 1909, as described above.
The speech of Anehises then, which MyersP undertook to
repeat to me on December 13, 1908, was not mentioned in
my script, but its leading words are found on January 22, 1909,
in my daughter's script.
2
(2) Descent to Avernus (124-129).
On March 1, 1909, Mr. Dorr read to MyersP the opening
lines of the Sibyl's answer to Aeneas' request to visit
his father, beginning with 1. 124, and ending in the middle
of 1. 129. To his question whether he had made the lines
clear, MyersP replied :
" Very good. 1 want you to continue a
little or take another, to get several through and to show you
my answer clearly. I will not only give it here, but 1 will
refer to it at Mrs. Verrall's also."
Neither my script nor my daughter's reproduced the actual
lines read, though the lines immediately following (129-181,
" pauci quos . . . potuere") were, as I have said, paraphrased
in my script of January 0, 1909.
So far we have considered the connexion between MyersP
and Myeisv or MyersH v. But the connexion of Myersw with
MyerSp seems closer. MyersP had no further opportunity of
showing his knowledge of the passages read to Mrs. Piper by
Mr. Dorr on March 1, 1909, as Mr. Dorr had no more sittings
with Mrs. Piper. The passages from Virgil read on that day
by Mr. Dorr were four :
(1) Descent to Avernus, in Latin.
(2) Golden Bough, in Latin and English.
(3) Speech of Anehises, in English.
(4) Lilies for Marcellus, in Latin and English.
The last three of these were immediately and clearly
referred to by Myersw on February J, 1910, when Mrs.
1
See Miss Johnson's paper below, p. 237.
'-See Proc, Vol. XX., p. 258, for another case where a "message for trans-
mission" intended for me appeared in H.V. script.
Lxur.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 185
Willett opened Sir Oliver Lodge's envelope : namely Golden
Bough, Marcellus, and Anchises' speech,—this last by the words
" blending of the essence with the instrument."
1
The first on
the list, the Descent to Avernus, was not alluded to on
February 4, but hinted at on February 10 in the remark
about the place where the Sibyl lived. Later we shall see
2
that other classical topics brought to the notice of MyersP in
the course of Mr. Dorr's readings on March 1, 1909 emerged
in Mrs. Willett's script of February 10, 1910. So that it
would seem as if the threads left loose by MyersP at the last
sitting of Mr. Dorr were at once picked up by Myersw on
the communication to Mrs. Willett of Sir Oliver Lodge's
question. Of Mr. Dorr's sittings neither Sir Oliver Lodge nor
Mrs. Willett had any knowledge whatever ;
any connexion,
therefore, between those sittings and Mrs. Willett's script, if not
accidental, must be wholly supernormal, and, moreover, cannot
have been derived by direct telepathy from Sir Oliver Lodge.
But though Mrs. Willett had no normal knowledge of Mr.
Dorr's experiments, she had seen certain selected scripts of
my daughter's, and I now pass on to consider what use was
made of that knowledge in her own script.
Mrs. Willett's utilisation of H. V. Scrijrf.
On May 19, 1909, as has been narrated above, Mrs.
Willett's attention was directed by my questions to the phrase
" Tu Marcellus eris " in connexion with an Ode of Horace,
and at the same time to the Golden Bough.
In June Mrs. Willett read, either in whole or in part,
Frederic Myers's Essay on Virgil. This Essay refers in foot-
notes to dZn., VI., on the pages where mention is made of
Lethe (p. 172) and of the golden bough (p. 112), and to it
is prefixed, as part of its motto, Tennyson's line
3
" Golden branch amid the shadows."
1
Mrs. Willett's scripts are quoted on pp. 123, 124, 126, 148-50 ; for her
normal knowledge on these points, see JSir O. Lodge's paper passim, and
also below, p. 193.
2
Below, p. 188.
a
No mention is made of the authorship of the line either there, or later (p. 148)
where the line is quoted.
186 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
On July 26, no answer having been obtained to my questions,
Mrs. Willett was shown copies of the H.V. scripts which had
suggested them to me. Two of these scripts (April 29, May 6)
combined allusions to " Tu Marcellus eris " with an Ode of
Horace, and the other three (May 11, May 13, May 20)
mentioned the Golden Bough. I quote the relevant parts
:
April 29, 1909. [The script was produced in my presence and
the remarks and questions within round brackets (...) were said
aloud by me at the time].
Fulmina Jovis satis jam grandine how does it go the Horace I
mean. Do you understand 1
(I understand the Latin you did not finish) [i.e. I recognised the
allusion to Horace, OA. I. 2].
It is a message to you.
(The Latin?)
Yes
(Say more, make it plain)
Virgil too you should combine the two
(What Virgil ?)
Tu Marcellus eris this and the Horace. There are many differ-
ences but one common thought it is that I want to bring out—read
(Aloud 1)
No.
(The poems 1)
By the yes by the waters of Babylon
(Go on)
Exile the will of heaven I don't think I can get it clear. She
does not understand.
(Who does not understand ?)
Helen
(Think it over and finish next week)
Yes enough.
May 6, 1909. (M. de G. V. present.)
Tu Marcellus eris that was said . . . Many sacrifices to the
purposes of Fate that was the thought it is in Horace too. Do you
U.D.
(Yes. Is the word or idea in Horace
1
?)
Idea. Jam satis.
and elsewhere in Horace but it was to that ode that special
reference was to be made ask ask.
LX1II.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 187
(Who ?)
You
(Whom ?)
Piddington ask
(About the Horace ?)
Yes and Virgil.
May 11, 1909.
Within the silvery radiance of the wood a tempered shade—dark
green within the depths,
the doves of Venus
Son (?)
May IS, 1909. (M. de G. V. present.)
Cypria dea—do you UD?
(No)
Cypria dea
(I read those words)
The doves were the sign that led him doves bay tree golden
branch amid the shadows.
May 20, 1909. [Before writing this script my daughter read the
same two questions which had been sent to Mrs. Willett on May 19.
See above, p. 180.]
Tree the entrance to the world of the Dead that was the thought
golden branch amid the shadows. . . .
star that guildest (sic) yet this phantom shore. . . . The unknown
depths down down—the golden bough must be plucked.
Taking into account Mrs. Willett's reading of these scripts,
we may attribute to her normal knowledge and inference, or
to her subliminal memory, the association of two ideas derived
from the Sixth xEneid, the Golden Bough and the phrase
Tu Marcdlus eris. But if normal association only is at
work, what induced her to omit all reference to the Ode of
Horace definitely associated in her mind with the phrase
Tu Marcellus eris, both by my question on May 19, 1909,
and by the statements of the above H.V. scripts which she
saw on July 26 ?
Such a reference would of course be inappropriate among
associations with Lethe. But how did Mrs. Willett know that ?
She could have learnt it neither from her knowledge of Virgil,
188 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
which is small, nor from her knowledge of Horace, which is
less. Suppose, however, that we attribute to a happy accident
the omission from a Lethe-context of all reference to a topic
(Ode of Horace) normally associated by Mrs. Willett with
another topic (Tu Marcellus eris) which is introduced into
her script. To what happier accident are we to attribute the
combination of Horace with Homer on February 10, 1910, in
a phrase directly reminiscent of the H.V. script of April 29,
1909, where it is applied to Horace and Virgil? MyersHV ,
on April 29, 1909, wrote of the "common thought" of Horace
and Virgil which he could not " get clear." Myersw writes
on February 10, 1910, "Homer and Horace the thought allied
but I cannot get it clear." Words clearly recalling the H.V.
script are utilized to convey something new, something not
normally known to Mrs. Willett, an alliance of thought between
Homer and Horace.
The only commentary, 1 make bold to say, that has suggested
an alliance of thought between those two poets is the commentary
by Mr. Piddington on the obscure early writings of Myersv
(iVoc, Vol. XXIV, pp. 150-169). In February, 1909, Mr.
Piddington was considering what bearing certain statements
about Horace, made by MyersP in March, 1908, had on the
juxtaposition by Myersv in March, 1901, of a quotation from
Horace, Od. I. 28, and a Latin version (adscriptus glcbae)
of a word
—
eirapovpos—which occurs only in HOMEK, Odyssey,
XL 489. Mr. Piddington, without giving his reasons, asked
Mr. Dorr to read certain passages to Myers P.
Accordingly
on March 1, 1909, Mr. Dorr read to MyersP :
(a) the
first six lines of that Ode of Horace (in Latin), and, after an
interval occupied with other matters, (b) the phrase adscriptus
glebae, followed by (c), the words fiovXoifxyv k eirapovpo<; ewv
O^TfJo/xei' a\\w [rather would I be a slave and the hireling of
another . . . (than rule among the dead)], in the original Greek
(Odys., XI. 489). Considerable time was spent in communi-
cating these words, and in their repetition to the control.
When this was over, and Mr. Dorr asked if the subject should
now be left, Myers P replied: "Yes you may be sure of our
answer."
That answer may be found in Mrs. Willett's script of February
10, 1910, which contains a translation of this line from the
I. XIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 189
Odyssey, prefaced by words probably reminiscent of the diver-
gent sentiment uttered by Milton's fallen archangel in the
famous line (Par. Lost, I. 263)
—
" Better to rule in Hell than serve in Heaven."
Mrs. Willett's script runs: ''Better to Rule among no to
slave among the living than King it mid the Dead."
The Homeric line is translated in Mr. Piddington's paper,
written between April and July, 1909, and published in April,
1910 (Proc, Vol. XXIV, Part LX.), after the production of
Mrs. Willett's script. This paper is a further contribution
—
" a prelude and a sequel "
—to the Horace Ode question, which
was published in the Proceedings (Vol. XXII.) of October, 1908.
That volume was read soon after publication by Mrs. Willett.
In this earlier paper the attention of the reader is directed
entirely to the question of connexion between Horace's Ode to
Archytas and a poem by F. W. H. Myers. There is no mention
of Homer, and it would need classical knowledge and very
careful reading to infer from Mr. Piddington's paper any sug-
gestion of connexion between Homer and Horace. On p. 400
(Vol. XXII.) the words of Achilles to Odysseus appear in the
middle of a suggested interpretation of the Ode to Archytas.
They occur between the name Pythagoras, who (pp. 404-5) is
definitely stated to be referred to in the Ode, and a verbal
quotation in Latin from the Ode. There is no mention of
their source nor any indication that they do not form part of
the Ode of Horace which Mr. Piddington is paraphrasing, and,
in the absence of knowledge to the contrary, they would be
taken by the reader to be part of that Ode. The only reference
to the Odyssey in this paper (Vol. XXII., p. 404) would cer-
tainly not encourage the idea that there was any legitimate
connexion between the Odyssey and the Ode of Horace ; for
Rector's half acceptance of Mrs. Sidgwick's suggestion that by
" Odessus," etc., he was aiming at " Odyssey," is mentioned by
Mr. Piddington as "a good instance of" Rector's readiness "to
accept a misleading suggestion." The second paper, not pub-
lished till after the production of Mrs. Willett's script, deals
with the connexion between Homer and Horace simcrested to
Mr. Piddington by an examination of the statements of MycrsP
in 1908 and of Myersv in 1901, neither of which were known
190 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
to Mrs. Willett. In this second paper frequent allusion is
made to Achilles and this line in the Odyssey.
Mr. Piddington wrote (Proc, Vol. XXIV., p. 159), con-
cerning Mr. Dorr's reading of the Horatian lines to MyersP on
March 1, 1909, and their failure to elicit a response: "here for
the present, and probably for good, the matter stands." But
I think we may claim that Mrs. Willett's script carries the
matter further, and that in the words, " Myers Homer and
Horace the thought allied," we have from Myersw a response to
a suggestion made nearly a year before to MyersP and not known
to Mrs. Willett.
II. Sources and Correspondences of Phrases in
Mrs. Willett's Script.
As the greater part of Mrs. Willett's script consists of
quotations and allusive phrases, some derived from literary
sources, some paralleled in the scripts of other automatists, I
have set out, so far as I could, in the following table these
" sources " and " correspondences," showing in each case whether
the corresponding passage was within Mrs. Willett's normal
knowledge and whether its context supplied a reason for
associating it with Lethe. For this purpose, in order to be
on the safe side, I have counted the Sixth jEneid as associated
with Lethe, and I have assumed Mrs. Willett to be acquainted
with Church's stories based on that book, with all the English
authors named in my table, and with all Mr. Myers's published
work. Where Mrs. Willett had no normal knowledge of the
parallel phrases in other automatic writings, the connexion of
course constitutes what we have called a cross-correspondence.
Throughout I have given references to the numbers of pages
in this volume where detailed comment may be found, but I
have given the names only of the authors, as exact references to
chapter and verse will in most cases be found in Sir Oliver
Lodge's paper. But in many cases the mere statement and
classification is inadequate, and there I have added notes, as
indicated by the *.
Lxur.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 191
List of Probable Sources of Phrases and Correspondences
in Mrs. Willett's Script of Feb. 4 and Feb. 10, 1910
Italics are used where the context of the passage supplies a reason
for associating it with Lethe ;
underlining is used where the phrase
in question occurs in an author or script normally unknown to Mrs.
Willett. Mr. Piddington's two articles on " the Horace Ode " are
referred to respectively as J. G. P. 22 ; and J. G. P. 24.
Phrases. Authors. Script. Page.
Feb. 4, 1010.
(1) The will again to live Myers 131
(2)*River of forgetfulness Church H.V. 193
(3) Soul descend the way Myers 133
(4) Blending of essence with Virgil 134
instrument
(5)*Tu Marcellus eris Virgil H.V. 136, 144, 193
(6)*In valle reducta Virgil Mac. 137, 193
(7) Doves and golden bough Church H.V. 138, 145
(8) Golden bough amid the
shadows
("Myers
(Tennyson
11 . V . 1 39 1 87
(9) Go not to Lethe Keats H.V. 130
(10)*Door to which I found Omar Khay- Mac Holland ^ 193
no key yam Forbes H.V. 1
ff-
(11) riaggi ±>at>ba
(Tiuskin
(Arabian Nights
1 V V 11
.
(12) Souls shining by the Virgil 134
river brim
(13) Pain forgotten Myers 134
(14)*Rose leaves . . . enchanter Shelley Mac H.V. 212 ff.
fleeing
(15) Love spilt . . . ground Tennyson 140
(16) Far off Tennyson 141
(17) Peak in Darien
j
"Myers
[Keats
141
Feb. 10, 1910.
(18) Ode Horatian J. G. P. 22 Piper 151, 189
(19) Lydia 152
(20) Seneca 152
192 Mrs A W Verrall [PAKT
Phrases. Authors. Script. Page.
(21) Filial piety led son to (Myers 152
father \Church
(22)*Ulysses, there is a Myers 152, 204
parallel
(23)*Nightingale
f
Keats
\Shelley
r Pi per 158, 206 ff.
(Holland
(24) Once more ye laurels Milton H.V. 159
(25)*Strew on her roses Arnold M.V. 160, 204
(26) Ganymede ... Mrs. Ver- Virgil Piper 160
rall
(27) Homeless in the heart JMyers 161
of Paradise [J. G. P. 22
(28) Where was the Sybil
f 77" *7
|
Virgil
r a p 04 Piper
161
(29) Flavicomata Virgil M.V. 161
(30)*Draught of forgetfulness Plato ? 205
(31)*Anaxagoras Plato
/'32
>
)*Arifhisps
(Myers
\ Church
131
(33)*I remember . . . you for- Swinburne TT 11 J
Holland _' ! H l It.
get
(34)*Dead things . . . forgot- Swinburne rloiiano. Jul) n.
ten days
(35)*Waters of Babylon . . . 1 '-alius
I T V
11. V .
OAQ ft'
Zion
(36) Get thee to a nunnery Shakespeare
(37) Shepherds pipe Muses 193
dance
(38) Better to rule Milton 153, 189
(39)*To slave . . . dead
(Homer
[J. G. P. 22
H.V. 153, 188
(40)*Sleep, the dream that Ovid] I'ipt r 156, 210
flits by night Tennyson
(41)*Sleep and his twin
brother
JMyers
(Tennyson
H.V. 157, 210
(42)*Writ in water Keats H.V.; H.V. 156, 213
(43) Homer and Horace J. G. P. 24 Piper 154, 188
(44) Watts J. G. P. 24 H.V. 155
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 193
(2) River of Forgetfulness,
This phrase occurred in an H.Y. script of Feb. 5, 1908,
seen by Mrs. Willett. The script ran :
No no go not to Lethe . Reeds the reeds by the river's edge
the river of forgetfulness and from those reeds the pipes were made
whereon the shepherd softly played.
A recollection of this phrase perhaps accounts for the " shep-
herds pipe" on Feb. 10 (No. 37).
(5) (6) Tu Marcellus, etc. In valle, etc.
Mrs. Willett knows no Latin and has not read these phrases
in Virgil's Sixth sEncid, whence they come. But in the copies
seen by her of the two scripts (Mac and H.Y.) where the Latin
phrases occurred, references were given to JEn,, VI., so that the
source of the two phrases is here counted as within Mrs.
Willett's normal knowledge. In neither case was there any
association in the script with Lethe.
(10) Cross-correspondence on Door.
This phrase, directly derived from the Rubaiyat of Omar
Khayyam, as recognised by Mrs. Willett, constitutes a remarkable
cross-correspondence with the scripts of four other automatists/
namely, (1) Miss Mac and her brother, (2) Miss Verrall, (3)
Mrs. Holland, and (4) Mrs. Forbes. I relate the episode in
detail, quoting and commenting on the scripts in their chrono-
logical sequence.
(1) Mac Script, September 12, 1908.
'Tis not for every chance seeker after knowledge to obtain the key
that unlocks the DOOE.
[Drawing of two hearts pierced by an arrow] . .
This sentence was contained in the script received by me
from Miss Mac on September 26, 1908, as described in
Proceedings, Vol. XXIV, p. 26d. The particular sentence in
question was overlooked by me at the time, probably because
it was not among the H.S. communications, but formed part
of a series of attempts from a combination of controls to relate
N
194 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
a story in Italian verse. This part of the Mac script was
seen by no one but Mrs. Sidgwick and myself, till in October,
1910, I showed it to Miss Johnson. She was at once struck
by the resemblance between the sentence in question and the
pun in Mrs. Willett's script of Feb. 4, 1910, on the name
which emerged in her next day's script, in large letters, DORK,
and shortly afterwards found the references to the same topic in
the scripts of Miss Verrall, Mrs. Holland, and Mrs. Forbes
described below.
It is clear, I think, that this allusion in the Mac script
should be regarded as belonging to the series of allusions to
Sesame and Lilies, which made up the larger part of the cross-
correspondences between Mac and, Verrall scripts in 1908. It
differs, however, from the rest of that series in two respects
:
{a) All the other allusions in the Mac script occurred between
July 19 and July 27, before the beginning of any allusions in
the Verrall scripts (Aug. ] 1-2 2)
;
(&) The other allusions all came from SidgwickM, whereas
this sentence is contributed by one of several unnamed com-
municators combining to tell a romantic story in Italian with
occasional episodes in English. After the drawing of the arrow
on September 12, 1908, follows an account of the heroine of the
story immuring " herself within the heartless walls of a nunnery."
Her profile is then drawn and this is followed by a message
from the Sidgwick control, thus
:
Professor Sidgwick. Progress is pitifully slow but sure(r) the
easier it is.
The whole preceding communication about the door, the arrow,
and the Italian ston' is in a new handwriting which reappeared
on one or two occasions but was never assigned to a named
control.
Regarded as part of the Srsame and Lilies series, the sentence
in question has two points of special interest. (1) It is the
only allusion in the Mac script to one of the obvious normal
associations with the word Sesame, namely the open door,
and (2) it thereby makes another correspondence with the
HV script, for on September 23. 1908,—after my daughter
and I had compared our scripts and detected in them incomplete
allusions to Sesame and Lilies, but before we had received any
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 195
communication whatever from Miss Mac,—the H.V. script in-
cluded in its reminiscences of Sesame and Lilies, a topic—the
open door—which had not occurred in either M.V. or H.V.
script.
1
But in view of the sequel—the reappearance of the Door in
other scripts and the emergence in later Mac scripts of topics
selected at Mr. Dorr's sittings for transmission to other auto-
matists 2
—it is possible to see in this sentence a punning
reference to those sittings. Neither to the Macs, when this
script was produced, nor to me when it was received, was it
known that messages had come from MyersP since Mrs. Piper's
return to America, or that any sittings with Mrs. Piper had
been held by Mr. Dorr.
(2) H.V. scripts.
(a) September 23, 1908.
. . . note the literary allusions something should be made of them,
putting one with another the clue is there, but several things have
been missed but try again.
An implement of peace, the fork of the husbandman the sowing
of the grain a star flower something like a daisy, what does that
mean 1
? The message was confused the star flower and lilies too look
back the open door.
(b) October 24, 1908.
. . . circles wheels within wheels the closing of the door the
open door. . . .
[Drawing of an anchor] an anchor that is a clue the pinions of
Hope. . . .
three red roses and a book remember . . .
[Drawing of an arrow] that too and 4.
a rainbow in the sky. ... 3
The first of these is the script just referred to and marks
the reminiscence in H.V. script of our impression about the
1
The script is quoted below. See also Proc, Vol. XXIV., p. 281.
2
See Miss Johnson's paper, pp. 269 ff.
3
The portion of the script here omitted, as disconnected with the subject
of the present paper, refers to a topic subsequently found to occur in Mrs.
Willett's automatic writing.
196 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
incomplete correspondence on Sesame and Lilies. The second
script repeats the " open door," an idea easily associated with
Sesame, but combines with it " the closing of the door," and
introduces the drawing of an anchor 1
—the usual Sidgwick symbol
in H.V. script—and of an arrow,
2
often used in the Verrall
scripts to indicate a cross-correspondence. Both arrow and
anchor connect the H.V. script closely with the Mac script.
The anchor occurred throughout their script and had been
interpreted as a Sidgwick symbol. This Miss Verrall knew,
but as she had not seen the Mac script of September 12, 1908,
she did not know that there the allusion to the not unlocked
Door was followed by a drawing of an arrow. It looks as if
the particular form taken by the reminiscence of Sesame and
Lilies in H.V. script both on Sept. 23 and on Oct. 24 was
determined by the desire of the scribe to repeat the Door
which ought to have been, but was not, recognised as a cross-
correspondence between the Mac and H.V. scripts of September
12 and 23, 1908.
It is tempting to see in the words " and 4 " an indication of
the number of automatists subsequently found, as will be seen,
to have references to the " opening of doors." But I think it
more likely that the " and 4 " is to be combined with the three
of " three red roses " to make seven, and thus to serve, with the
unmistakable allusions
—" circles wheels within wheels " and the
"rainbow"—to recall
3
the earlier H.V. script of May 11, 1908,
which makes part of the elaborate cross-correspondence on
Sevens'
1
described by Miss Johnson (Proc., Vol. XXIV., pp. 222-
258). If that is so, a link is made with the next script which
we have to consider, that of Mrs. Holland.
l
See Proc, Vol. XXIV., p. 295. 2
See Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 77-86.
3
It is characteristic of the H.V. script to indicate inter-connexions between
different pieces of script, often separated by considerable intervals, by means
of the repetition of certain clue words or phrases (which thus serve as what
Prof. Bury, in his introduction to Pindar's Nemean Odes, calls " responsions ").
4
Miss Verrall knew nothing of this cross-correspondence when her script
of Oct. 24, 1908, was obtained. She was told on Nov. 18, 1908, that her
script of May 11, 1908, made a cross-correspondence on 'Seven' with Mrs.
Piper, and she was told on Nov. 20, 1908, that Mrs. Holland's script also came
into the series.
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 197
(3) Mrs. Holland's Script, Nov. 25, 1908.
.... The other George—not G. P. —he goes to the other one
Five in this—the fingers of the hand—G. B. D. F. A.
—alone and warming his five wits the white owl in the
belfry sits —
S. M. E.G. H.S. F.M. R. H.
Another set of fives for you
—
Not for Cambridge this time—America and Cheltenham and London
are in it—not Berks.
=@ no reason for believing it for a minute
—
This extract follows immediately upon a long piece of script
introducing several topics which had been chosen as messages
for transmission by MyersP earlier in the year, and some of
which also appear in H.V., M.Y., or Mac script.
1
It is
immediately followed by a couple of sentences alluding to a
topic (unknown to Mrs. Holland) that has occurred in Mrs.
Willett's script, and was said in a Willett script of January
28, 1909, to have been referred to by Mrs. Holland, thus
constituting something like a cross-correspondence between the
scripts of Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Willett. The extract above
quoted may be interpreted as follows
:
G. P. represents George Pelham, a frequent control, as Mrs.
Holland knew, in Mrs. Piper's trance. Is " the other George
"
a reference to Mr. George B. Dorr, in whose sittings with Mrs.
Piper—not known to Mrs. Holland—had appeared the messages
for transmission reproduced in the earlier part of this script ?
The script then announces that there are " Five in this." If it
stood alone, this phrase might mean that either five controls
1
For a full account of this script of Mrs. Holland's, and the circumstances
of its production, see Miss Johnson's paper, pp. 218, "225.
198 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
or five automatists are concerned with some topic contained in
this script. But in view of the later statement that the initials
of five controls are " another set of fives," the first " five " must
be taken definitely to apply not to controls but to automatists.
The notion of five is reiterated throughout the rest of the
script ; five divisions in the first drawing, five fingers, five notes
of the bass clef—this last selection perhaps determined by the
fact that the first three letters of these notes make the initials
(unknown to Mrs. Holland) of Mr. Dorr, G.B.D. —five wits,
five names of places
;
1
and the script ends with four sets
of fives, among them being five concentric circles, which recall
the " circles wheels within wheels " of H.V. script of October 24,
1908.
The only point not thus accounted for is the drawing of a key,
and it is a fair inference that this key represents the topic with
which the live automatists are concerned. In the H.V. script,
with which by its " concentric circles " this script is closely
connected, there is mention of a door, a door which there is good
reason to think represents an attempt to emphasize the unnoticed
Door of the Mac script. Is it fanciful to see in the key of
Mrs. Holland's script a reproduction of the " key " of the Mac
script ? The reader will better judge when the sequel has been
related.
The scripts of these three automatists are separated by a
considerable interval, more than a year, from the scripts of the
other two, Mrs. Forbes and Mrs. Willett. Darin"' that interval
two things occurred which may have a bearing on the problem
before us: (1) a paper on Sesame and Lilies, afterwards published
as part of a larger paper in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., was read
by me at a private meeting of the S.P.E. on May IS, 1909,
and (2) at the end of September, 1909, Sir Oliver Lodge devised
the experiment of repeating to Myersw the cpiestion that had
been asked of MyersP by Mr. Dorr. The proposed experiment
was communicated to me and to Mr. Piddington, but was not
known to any one else till Mrs. Willett opened Sir Oliver
Lodge's envelope on Feb. 4, 1910. It was, therefore, not
known to Mrs. Forbes when the following script was pro-
1
If these names are intended, as seems probable, to suggest the localities
of the automatists, they are incorrect.
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 199
dueed and sent to me, for whom Mrs. Forbes understood the
message to be intended
:
(4) Mrs. Forbes's script, December 12, 1909.
[Attempts at capital letters] Lodge is the best friend [confused
statement about a test] written—openings of doors—with less over-
shadowed scenes—we see freely you through a glass darkly. E.G.
sends this letter, Talbot is the writer.
Mrs. Forbes, though not present at the S.P.E. meeting on
May 18, 1909, had heard from me in August a brief outline of
the Sesame and Lilies incident, and her interest in it may be
reflected in the reference in her script to " openings of doors."
Here, again, however, as in the case of my daughter's script,
the choice of the particular phrase may have been determined by
the communicator's desire to emphasize the word Door, of which
we had failed to recognize the importance in the Mac script. But
Mrs. Forbes's knowledge or interest does not account for the
introduction into her script of Sir Oliver Lodge's name, whicli
Mrs. Forbes had no reason to connect with Sesame or with
Dorr or Doors, open or closed. When I received this script
I saw a point in the openings of doors, but none in the intro-
duction of Sir Oliver Lodge's name either on this occasion or
when it occurred again in Mrs. Forbes's script of February 6,
1910.
Between these two scripts of Mrs. Forbes came Mrs. Willett's
scripts of February 4 and 5, 1910:
(5) Mrs. IVilletis script.
February If, 1910.
... Go not to Lethe. Myers. Myers. There was the door to
which I found no key and Haggi Babba too. This is disconnected
but not meaningless.
February 5, 1910.
. . . Tell Lodge this word Myers. Myers get the word I will
spell it Myers yes the word is D 0 R R.
We are only concerned here with the form in which Myersw
indicated to Sir Oliver Lodge that one of the associations which
the word Lethe had for him was the name Dorr. The allusion
to that name on February 4, 1910, is made in two sentences
200 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
joined by the word " and." Have these two sentences any special
point ? Do they contribute anything to the problem before us ?
The first sentence introduces in a quotation from Omar
Khayyam the two words '
Door ' and '
Key.' Each of these
singly had occurred in interconnected scripts—Door in Miss
Verrall's script (seen by Mrs. Willett), and Key in Mrs. Holland's
(not seen by Mrs. Willett). Both words had been used together
in the earlier Mac script of September 12, 1 908, with which
none of the three automatists was acquainted.
The second sentence, " Haggi Babba too " doubtless alludes to
" open Sesame," the magic formula of Ali Baba in one of the
tales of the Arabian Nights Entertainments. This story was
known to Mrs. Willett in childhood, and was probably recalled
by her reading of Buskin's Sesame and Lilies 1
in the summer
of 1909, as well as by the H.V. script of September 23, 1908,
which she had seen in the spring of 1909. By the word "too,"
Myersw in this second sentence definitely links (a) the group
of allusions to Sesame (Haggi Babba) with (b) the idea of a
door without a key. This is precisely what I had failed to
do when I read the sentence in the Mac script about a " key
that unlocks the DOOB.," though I now have no doubt that
those words did form part of the group of allusions to Sesame
in the Mac script.
The first sentence, then, in Mrs. Willett's script gives evidence
of supernormal knowledge of the Mac script, and does this by
means of a quotation appropriate in a series of associations
with Lethe, if among those associations are present the Vir-
giliaii and Blatonic passages of the Sixth JEneicl and the Tenth
Book of the Republic.
For those who are not familiar with Omar Khayyam, I
recall the context of Mrs. Willett's quotation. The poet sums
up the results of the learned studies of his youth as telling
him no more than that
"I came like Water and like Wind I go.
Into this Universe and why not knowing
Nor whence like Water willy nilly flowing:
And out of it, as Wind along the Waste,
I know not whither willy nilly blowing."
1
See Sesame, § 50.
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 201
Even when, like Mahomet 1
before him, he passed "Up from
Earth's Centre through the Seventh Gate " of the Planets to
the Empyrean, he could not unravel " the Knot of Human Death
and Eate."
"There was a door to which I found no key."
This passage of the Bvbaiyat is based upon Neo-Platonism L>
and so goes ultimately back to Plato's story of the Vision of Er
{Republic, X.), who in his trance passed by the seven whorls of
the Planets in his journey to the Plain of Lethe and the
Kiver of Forgetfulness. And it is the problem of Human
Death and Fate which Virgil treats in the speech of Anchises to
iEneas and the Sibyl by the " Lethean stream."
Thus, on February 4 and 5, 1910, Myersw completed the
cross-correspondence begun in the Mac script of September 12,
1908, and the next day, February 6, that completion was
announced in a script of Mrs. Forbes. The first part of this
script, in looking-glass writing, was apparently addressed to me
;
it was followed by a message in ordinary writing to Mrs. Forbes
herself telling her to send the first message to me.
(6) Mrs. Forbes's script, Feb. 6, 1910.
{Looking-glass writing.
)
Oliver Lodge will be glad to know the key we send it to o
—
3
be sure it will be opened by the seeker. Be of good courage, it is
left to you to be the finder. Best be still, summer shall be soon,
my best of open doors is to be with brightest sunshine—life shall
be Triumphant. „ . . _
Hidmund tmrney lalbot.
{In ordinary writing.)
We want the letter sent to Mrs. V.—from me to Cambridge
friends—she has the sense to see it is. . . . Seeing will be needed
if she is to decipher it. . . . We are writing it for the sake of the
word wanted, it will help if you say this. We see you have
been trying, it will soon seem clearer, send it on quickly.
1
For an account of the Vision of Mahomet and the connexion of that and
other "Astronomical Apocalypses" with the myths of the Phaedrus and
Republic, and with the Paradiso of Dante, the reader is referred to Prof.
J. A. Stewart's book on the Myths of Plato, pp. 350 ff.
2
See inter alia Heron Allen's edition of FitzGerald's translation, Intro-
duction, pp. xxii. ff.
3
(?) open.
202 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
There is no mistaking the intention here. This script
connects directly with Mrs. Forbes's earlier script of December
12, 1909, about "Lodge" and the "openings of doors"; here,
however, it is not the " door " but the " key " which " Oliver
Lodge will be glad to know." On this very day, Sir Oliver
Lodge did in fact receive a message from Myersw with the
words " This is the door to which I found no key,"—this
being the first time that the word " key " was brought within
his knowledge.1
Moreover, a definite and unmistakable con-
nexion with the Mac script is made by the introduction into
Mrs. Forbes's script of the word " seeker," used in no inter-
vening script. " Tis not for every chance seeker after know-
ledge to obtain the key that unlocks the DOOR," said the
unnamed scribe on September 12, 1908, when this set of
allusions began. After it ended with the answer of Myersw
to Sir Oliver Lodge's question, GurneyF and Talbot Forbes
wrote " Oliver Lodge will be glad to know the key ... be
sure it will be opened by the seeker."
" It " was not, however, " opened " for some time after this.
The connexion between the quotation from Omar Khayyam in
Mrs. Willett's script on February 4 and the name Dorr in her
script of February 5 was not perceived till after two further
allusions to the subject 2
by Myersw. Fven after the detection
of the pun of Myersw, the cross-correspondence with other auto-
matists on the word " Door " remained undetected for some little
while, as no one person possessed the whole information required
for its apprehension. Some points had been observed and noted ;
the connexion, for instance, of Mrs. Forbes's script with the cross-
correspondence on " Sesame and Lilies," and in particular with
Miss Verrall's scripts of September 23 and October 24, 1908,
was perceived by me when I received Mrs. Forbes's script. But
I had at that time no knowledge either of Mrs. Willett's script
or of Mrs. Holland's, and Miss Johnson, who knew Mrs. Holland's
script, did not see the Mac script of September 12, 1908, with
its emphasised " DOOR," till October, 1910. If the intelligence
that directs these complicated experiments knows what is going
on and is capable of feeling, a considerable strain must occasion-
ally be made upon its patience!
'Sir Oliver Lodge had not seen either the Mac script of September 12, 1908,
or Mrs. Holland's script of November 25, 1908.
2
See Sir O. Lodge's paper, p. 128.
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willctt's Scripts. 203
204 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [PAET
The foregoing tabular statement will serve as a summary
of the above described cross-correspondence. The names of the
automatists are given in chronological sequence, with dates, on
the left. I have divided the contents of the scripts into two
parts, called respectively Phrase and Context. Under " Phrase
"
I have given such other recurrent words as were actually
included in the sentences containing the words door [D] and
key [K]. Under " Context " I have included references in the
context of those sentences to Sesame [S], and other points
indicative of interconnexion with other scripts. In the last
column I have put the letters " c.c," standing for cross-corre-
spondence, wherever in my opinion there is internal evidence
in the script itself that it claims to be part of a whole com-
pleted through other automatists.1
I pass on to the next point requiring a note.
(14) Ode to the West Wind,
See below on (42).
(22) Ulysses.
The name Ulysses is not mentioned in the passage from
F. W. H. Myers's Essay on Virgil, which is here counted as
a " source " within Mrs. Willett's normal knowledge.
(23) Nightingale
See below on (33)-(35).
(25) "Strew on her roses."
This line of Matthew Arnold's was known to Mrs. Willett,
and she had seen it quoted, as she herself noted, in an M.V.
1
This claim is plainly made in both the H.V. scripts, as well as in Mrs.
Holland's script. It is also made, I think, in Mrs. Willett's script of Feb. 10,
which is a continuation of the scripts of Feb. 4 and 5, by the words "Lodge
wants . . . me to prove access ... to knowledge shown elsewhere,"—such
a desire not having been expressed or hinted in Sir Oliver Lodge's letters.
The same intention is probably indicated by the drawing in the Mac script
of two hearts pierced by an arrow, and by the statement in Mrs. Forbes's
second script that Mrs. V. is "to decipher it" and that a "word" is wanted.
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 205
script of August 14, 1907. But she did not know that its
appearance there re-echoed an earlier emergence in the course
of some experiments in table-tilting between my daughter and
her cousin, Mrs. Eiviere, and that it had thus been recognised
as the subject of cross-correspondence between other automatists.1
(30) (31) Plato's "Phaeclo."
Here follow a group of six sentences, including two proper
names, and four phrases easily associated with Lethe as the
Water of Forgetfulness. Can any explanation be offered for
the particular selection of associations here made ?
The first phrase (30), the Draught of Forgetfulness, stand-
ing alone, could not be claimed as specifically applicable to
anything in particular. The words are little more than a
paraphrase for the Waters of Lethe. But followed as they are
by the name Anaxagoras, to a classical scholar they can recall
only one draught of forgetfulness—the cup of hemlock drunk
by Socrates. Students of Plato will remember the effect on
the development of Socrates' philosophy produced by the writings
of Anaxagoras, as described in two chapters (46, 47) of the
Phaeclo,—two chapters, be it noted, which do not form part
of the " concluding chapters " of the Phaeclo of which Mrs.
Willett had once read a translation. 2
In a mind feeling after associations with the word Lethe,
which has already produced an allusion to Keats's Nightingale,
the " drowsy numbness ... as though of hemlock I had drunk,"
may easily have led on to the thought of the hemlock drunk by
Socrates, the draught, as Myers w later called it, of deliverance.
But I fail to account by any normal associations of Mrs. Willett's
for the introduction into the script of the name of the great
predecessor of Socrates, Anaxagoras, accused like Socrates himself
of impiety against the gods.3
1
A paper on this subject was read by me at the meeting of the S.P.R.
on Dec. 8, 1910, and will be published later in Proceedings.
2
See above, p. 165.
3
In conjunction with this, the reader is reminded that later references to
Socrates in Mrs. Willett's script also appear to show more accurate knowledge
than would be expected from Mrs. Willett herself. See above, p. 164.
206 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
(33)-(35) Three Poems of Swinburne's.
Next follow (33, 34) two reminiscences of Swinburne, both
associated with one aspect of Lethe, namely, forgetfulness.
Neither is an exact quotation, as is recognised in the script,
but there is no difficulty in tracing what is intended. The
first words, " which only I remember which only you forget,"
recall Swinburne's poem of Itylns, where the memory of the
nightingale and the forgetfulness of the " sister swallow," whom
she addresses, are emphasized in almost every verse ;
e.g. " Hast
thou forgotten ere I forget "—" Could I forget or thou remember
"
—" Can I remember if thou forget—But the world shall
end when I forget." 1
The second sentence, " and all dead things go thither, and all
forgotten days—something like that," recalls Swinburne's Garden
of Proserpine.
" There go the loves that wither, . . .
And all dead years draw thither,
And all disastrous things
;
Dead dreams of days forsaken . .
."
Thus the " I," that alone remembers, is the Nightingale,
Mother of Itylus, and it is to the Garden of Proserpine that
go " all dead years " and " dreams of days forsaken."
Now the two words " Nightingale " and " Proserpine " are
the subject of cross-correspondence between other automatists,
the one—Proserpine—originating in Mrs. Piper's trance on
March 2 4, 1908, and the other—Nightingale—in Mrs. Holland's
script of Nov. 25, 1908. But this script, which originates
the cross-correspondence on Nightingale by means of a quotation
from Oscar Wilde's The Burden of Itys, reproduces the Proser-
pine of MyerSp by means of a quotation from Swinburne's
Geirden of Proserpine, and, as if to show that the conjunction
is not fortuitous, four months later (nothing having meanwhile
occurred to draw Mrs. Holland's attention to the subject)
both topics are implicitly introduced on March 24, 1909,
by quotations from two poems of Swinburne's, the Garden of
Proserpine, and the Chorus from Atalanta in Calydon about
1
The rhythm of the quotation recalls another poem of Swinburne's, Rococo, but
in that poem there is no contrast between the remembrance of one person and the
forgetfulness of another.
LXIIL] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 207
the Nightingale and Itylus. A detailed account of these
cross-correspondences, in which rny daughter and I are con-
cerned, as well as Mrs. Holland, Mr. and Miss Mac, and
Mrs. Piper, is given in Miss Johnson's paper,1
but for the
sake of completeness a brief summary is here made :
Proserpine.
(a) March 24, 1908. Mrs. Piper's trance. "Proserpine the
seasons. . . . Proserpine Spring upward and the Seasons. . . .
I am thinking of Proserpine."
(b) July <26, 1908. Mac script. "Hoc fecit Persephone.
Eheu fugaces postume postume."
(c) August 26, 1908. M.V. script. "Guardian on the
threshold . . . the goddess [i.e. Proserpine] holds in her hand
a pomegranate—flower and fruit red."
(d) September 10, 1908. H.V. script. "The goddess
[i.e. Proserpine] holds in her hand a white flower, but they are
red too. Better to be a slave than rule among the dead
"
(Oct. XI. 489).
(e) September 19, 1908. H.V. script. "Flaming torch . . .
four pomegranate seeds."
(/) November 25, 1908. Mrs. Holland's script. "Pale be-
yond porch and portal crowned with faint leaves she stands
[i.e. Proserpine]."
(g) March 24, 1909. Mrs. Holland's script. "We are not
sure of sorrow And joy was never sure [Swinburne's Garden
of Proserpine"].
(h) August 19, 1909. H. V. script. "The flowery mead
asphodel Persephone the Chariot of Dis . . . go not to Lethe,
sleep too brings forgetfulness."
(i) November 10, 1909. Mrs. Holland's script. "Per-
sephone. ... Oh singer of Persephone . . . the hidden piping-
thrills. . . . The voice of the bird."
(k) February 10, 1910. Mrs. Willett's script. "All dead
things go thither and all forgotten days something like that
[Swinburne {Gen-den of Proserpine)]. . . . The dream that flits by
night" [Tennyson's Demeter and Persephone, see below (40)].
1
See pp. 233-50.
208 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
(I) March 2, 1910. Mrs. Holland's script. "Pars thyma,
etc. [Ovid's Fasti] . . . Oh Proserpine for the flowers now that
thou lets frighted fall. Pale beyond porch and portal, etc.
[Swinburne's Garden of Proserpine]. Pomegranate seeds . . .
Dusky Dis . . . fiery-footed steeds."
Nightingale.
(a) November £5, 1908. Mrs. Holland's script. Quotation
from Burden of Itys (Nightingale)—with Echo substituted for
Sorrow in Mrs. Holland's recollection—and quotation from
Comus introducing the word Echo.
1
({3) December 9, 1908. Mrs. Piper's trance. "The nightin-
gale has a lyre of gold " (quotation from Henley's Echoes) given
as a subject for cross-correspondence and followed shortly by
the mention of " Mrs. Holland."
(7) March $4, 1909. Mrs. Holland's script. " The Thracian
ships and the foreign faces [Swinburne's Atalanta]."
(§) February 10, 1910. Mrs. Willetl's script. " Nightin-
gale " explicitly twice, implicitly once (by means of an allusion
to Swinburne's Itylus). Echo perhaps implicitly, in an allusion
to " Shelley's Nightingale."
With regard to these cross-correspondences it is noticeable
that in the case of " Proserpine," of the eleven references the
first and last (a and I) alone give the Latin name. Three of
the intervening allusions (b, h, i) give the Greek name, Per-
sephone ;
three (c, d, f) describe, but do not name, the goddess;
in the remaining three (e, g, 7c), the allusions are implicit only.
In the case of " Nightingale," in Mrs. Holland's first script
(a) the word is implicit and associated with the word
Echo. This arrangement is exactly reversed in Mrs. Piper's
trance (/3), where the word Nightingale occurs in a quotation
from one poem of a series whose title—not mentioned—is Echoes.
To the Nightingale and to the name Itylus, Mrs. Holland's
second script (7) makes implicit reference. Mrs. Willett's
script (0) contains the word Nightingale explicitly more than
1
The word Echo appears to have been used by Myersp in Mr. Dorr's sittings
of March to May, 1908, to indicate a cross-correspondence; see Proc, Vol.
XXIV., pp. 81, 116.
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 209
once, and recalls Mrs. Holland's implicit allusion to Itys and
Itylus by a quotation from a poem of Swinburne's called Itylus.
If, as I think,
1
the intention of the words " once more ye
laurels " is to indicate that Shelley's Nightingale means Shelley's
reference in Adonais to the Nightingale of Keats,
2
we have an
implicit allusion in Mrs. Willett's script to Echo, which is
named in the preceding stanza of Adonais as another of the
things made beautiful by Keats.
The last (No. 35) of this group is associated by the words
" Waters " and " remembered
"
3
with Lethe, and closely con-
nected with the two preceding quotations from Swinburne.
Sivper Flumina Babylonis is the title of a poem by Swinburne
in Songs before Sunrise, which begins with the opening words
of Ps. cxxxvii. Mrs. Willett was not acquainted with the poem,
but some lines of it are quoted in the Memoir of Henry
Sidgwick (p. 588), which she had read, and the words Super
Flumina Babylonis appear in an M.V. script of April 12,
1909, written a few days after Swinburne's death, and seen
by Mrs. Willett in July, 1909. She had also seen the quota-
tion from the Psalm, " By the waters of Babylon," in H.V.
script of April 29, 1909,4
but she did not know that those
opening words of the Psalm had been employed" in an earlier
H.V. script as part of the cross-correspondence between Miss
Verrall's script and Mrs. Piper's trance on " Exile and Moore
"
(Proc., Vol. XXIV, p. 187). So that here too, as in the two
preceding sentences, Mrs. Willett's script selects among phrases
associated with Lethe (" forgetfulness," " water ") one which
1
See p. 159. The main part of my note on the interpretation of Shelley's
Nightingale as the Nightingale of Adonais was marie and communicated to Sir
Oliver Lodge some months before I saw Mrs. Holland's script of November
25, 1908, or the record of Mrs. Piper's trance on December 9, 1908, and
before I had recognised the allusion to Swinburne's I(>/lw< in Mrs. Willett's
script.
-That some value was attached by Myersw to the word Nightingale is clear
from the statement on March 7, 1910 (see p. 129), which suggests that the
full point of the Nightingale had not yet been perceived.
3
The words "forget" and "remember" each occur twice in the nine verses
of the Psalm, vv. 5, 6, 7.
4
See above, p. 186, where the script is quoted.
5
That fact was known to my daughter when her script of April 29, 1909,
was produced, and is unmistakably therein alluded to, as is shown by the next
following word on April 29, "Exile."
O
210 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
implicitly refers to a word, Exile, which had heen, without
Mrs. Willett's knowledge, the subject of a cross-correspondence
between other automatists.
Under these circumstances I cannot believe it an accident
that the three allusions to Swinburne contained in these con-
secutive remarks of Myers w should all recall words—Nightingale,
Proserpine, Exile—which, unknown to Mrs. Willett, were already
the subjects of cross-correspondence between the trance-utter-
ances of Mrs. Piper and the scripts of other automatists. More-
over, it must be remembered that these statements follow upon
a group of references to other topics—Ganymede, Sibyl, etc.
1
—
discussed in Mrs. Piper's sittings with Mr. Dorr, and introduced
by Myers w with the words :
" Dorr's scheme excellent—Myers
—
that I have to use different scribes, means that I must show
different aspects of thoughts, underlying which unity is to be
found."
(39) To slave, etc.
See above, p. 189, for Mrs. Willett's normal associations with
this phrase and its application in her script.
(40) (41) Sleep.
Between a plain allusion to Homer and a plain allusion
to Keats comes a group of sentences to which no literary
prototype can with certainty be assigned. That Death and
Sleep are brothers is a commonplace of poetry from Homer 2
onwards, and no specific allusion can therefore be recognised in
this passage to Virgil,
3
Shelley,
4
Tennyson,0
or Frederic Myers.6
None of the poets named give Sleep more than one Brother,
though Tennyson, it is true, in one section of In Memoriam,
makes Sleep "kinsman" to death and trance and madness.'
'See above, p. 162. -//., XIV., 231.
3
Mneid, VI., 278, " consanguineus Leti Sopor."
4
Queen Mab, 1. 2, "Death, and his brother Sleep."
5
In Mem., Ixviii., "Sleep, Death's twin brother." Tennyson's own note here
gives the reference to the Sixth JEneld, 278.
6
Fragments, p. 124, "Oh sleep! thy true twin brother."
7
The poem in Fragment* is clearly reminiscent of In Memoriam, and the choice
of the epithet "true" suggests that the brotherhood of sec. Ixviii. is preferred
to the kinship of sec. Ixxi., that Sleep is in the author's view more nearly akin to
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willelt's Scripts. 211
I have found no certain literary source for the sentence,
" Sleep, the dream that flits by night." To me the phrase
recalled the noiseless flight of the dream-god Morpheus sent
by Sleep to Alcyone (Ovid, Met., XL 646): " Ille volat nullos
strepitus facientibus alis per tenebras " (he flies on noiseless
wing through the darkness). But since the above was written,
it has been suggested to me that the phrase in the script
recalls the lines from Tennyson's Demeter and Persephone
(quoted on p. 204 of F. W. TL Myers's volume of Essays called
Science and a Future Life)
:
" Last, as the likeness of a dying man,
Without his knowledge, from him flits to warn
A far-off friendship that he comes no more."
This therefore may be the source from which it is derived.
But that is perhaps only another way of saying that it goes
ultimately back to the passage in Ovid's Metamorphoses which
it recalled to me. That Tennyson was familiar with the story
of Proserpine as told in Metamorphoses, V., is clear. He follows
Ovid closely in the details of the disappearance of Proserpine
and the search by Demeter. But he differs completely from
Ovid in his account of how the news came to the mother
that her child was in Hades. In Tennyson's poem, Demeter
learns this from a veridical dream, related by Demeter in words
that recall another passage in the Metamorphoses, the veridical
dream by which Alcyone was informed of the death of Ceyx
(Ovid, Met., XL 646, 660). After the above quoted allusion
to a '
phantasm of the living,' Tennyson's Demeter goes on :
" So he, the God of dreams, who heard my cry,
Drew from thyself the likeness of thyself
Without thy knowledge, and thy shadow past
Before me, crying. ..."
So in the Metamorphoses, Sleep chooses Morpheus, the Dream
God, who thereupon flits noiselessly through the darkness, and,
assuming the likeness of Ceyx, announces himself to Alcyone
as the shadow of her husband
—
" nosces
inveniesque tuo pro coniuge coniugis umbram."
Death than to Trance or Madness. For a complete exposition of Frederic
Myers's theory of Sleep, see Human Personality, Vol. I., pp. 150, 151.
212 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [PART
(42) Writ in Water.
This phrase was repeated in a script of my daughter's written
on Feb. 16, 1910. To complete these comments I therefore
here add notes on certain scripts of hers and mine, produced
in February, 1910, which appear to form part of this series,
or at least to show points of contact with Mrs. Willett's scripts
of approximately the same date. There are three in all, two
of my daughter's and one of mine, written in ignorance of
Mrs. Willett's and of each other's scripts.
H.V. Script. February 5, J 9 10.
When the sound of the harp is mute—alone in the darkness—stray-
ing leaves autumn's harvest—as I walk in autumn's even when the
dead leaves pass—the flight of the birds too —minstrelsy song there is
something about that I want to say—a quotation —wait.
songs of the old world and of the new a new world worth
your old
note that
and the waters of Babylon enough.
" If I walk in autumn's even
When the dead leaves pass
"
is a quotation from a poem of Shelley's. 1
The script then
seems to pass, with the thought of autumn, to reminiscences
of Keats's To Autumn, with his " Gathering swallows twitter
in the skies " and his " songs of spring " and autumn's " music
too." It then quotes, with a difference, Browning's Alt Vogler 2
and ends with " the waters of Babylon." This last phrase is
fairly frequent in H.V. script, this being its fourth occurrence
since its first appearance on May 16, 1908, as part of the
cross-correspondence on Exile and Moore. 3
My daughter's next script was as follows
:
H.V. Script. February 16, 1910.
. . . You should write more often and regularly—then it would
be easier to give the message.
1
The poem is not included in all editions, but was published in Mr. W. M.
Rossetti's edition of 1870, and is included in a selection from Shelley familiar
to Miss Verrall.
2
See Proc, Vol. XXII., p. 380, where a similar point is made.
3
See Proc, Vol. XXIV., p. 186 ff.
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts. 213
beyond the barriers of the sun —that is one idea—where the
slant rays kiss the water a level beam.
a golden line from shore to shore
the pathways of the deep
who shall talk of paths writ in water
the unharvested deep. . . .
In these two scripts there are three points of contact with
Mrs. Willett's scripts of February 4 and February 10, 1910,
of which neither my daughter nor I knew anything
:
(1) On February 4, 1910, Myersw quotes the greater part
of the third line of Shelley's Ode to the West Wind. The first
three lines of that poem run :
" Oh wild West Wind, thou breath of Autumn's being,
Thou from whose unseen presence the leaves dead
Are driven, like ghosts from an enchanter fleeing."
The first two lines of the Ode offer resemblances with the
lines of Shelley's other poem quoted in the H.V. script. It
is possible that these two lines represent the " quotation
"
which the scribe of Feb. 5 wanted " to say," and for which
the automatist was to " wait."
(2) On February 10, 1910, Myersw quotes the first verse
of Psalm exxxvii., four words of which, " the waters of
Babylon," occurred in H.V. script of February 5.
(3) On February 10, 1910, Myersw quotes the words from
the epitaph on Keats " his name was writ in water," while
on February 16 the H.V. script applies the three distinctive
words " writ in water " in a different connexion.1
As has been said, Sir Oliver Lodge's question about Lethe
would account for the introduction into Mrs. Willett's script of
phrases containing the word " water." But there was no such
reason for their introduction into H.V. script. My daughter
was altogether unaware that any attempt had been made to
connect Myersw and MyersP , that any question had been asked
of Myersw, or that any particular interest attached to associa-
tions with Lethe other than those explained in Mr. Piddington's
paper which she had read at a meeting of the S.P.R. in October,
1909, when, as far as she was concerned, the Lethe episode was
concluded.
1
The words were noted by my daughter at the time as referring to Keats's
epitaph.
214 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
In the case of ray script the resemblance with Mrs. Willett's
script is not in the phraseology but in the topic, namely Lethe.
I quote the whole.
M.V. Script. February 15, 1910.
Oh for a draught of some deep stream—but deep is not the word
—
clear is better though not yet right.
haustus longos deep draughts that quench the thirst.
Deep wells of cool no
Deep wells and crystal founts
TTlJ-yUL KpV(TTaWlVOL tUippVTOC
No not yet
the ever flowing crystal fount
the source of Life and Joy
forth flowing from the Sacred Mount
no don't say obvious nonsense—the rhyme hinders—but you now
have the general sense. I can't think why you will not just put
down the words without making up bad verses to disguise from
yourself what you are doing. Now write FOUNT no more than
that—and off you go to Fountains Abbey—no more.
F. W. H. M.
The allusion here is plainly to Dante's Lethe as described in
Purgatorio, XXVIII. to XXXI. Dante's Lethe is translucent (die
nulla nasconde) and cool (die si in ova bruna bruna sotto Vombra
perpetua), fed not from rain but issuing from a fount that never
fails (csce di fontana salda e certa) ; it flows through the earthly
Paradise situated on the Mount of Purgatory : its draught
destroys sad memories (mr.morir triste) and is a necessary prelude
to the entry into eternal life and to the quenching of Dante's ten
years' thirst (la. decennc sete).
1
These allusions to Lethe were produced in the first piece of
script obtained by me after Mrs. Willett's final allusions to Lethe
on February 10, 1910. As I have said, I did not know that
Mrs. Willett had opened Sir Oliver Lodge's envelope, or that she
was producing script ; of this I was not informed till some weeks
1
See Proc, Vol. XXII., p. "237 for earlier reference to Lethe in a script of mine
recalled by this script. The word aeipvros only occurs once in Greek poetry, viz.
in Soph., 0. C. 4(59, where it is applied to the sacred fountain at Kolonos whence
CEdipus takes the water for the offering to the Eumenides which precedes his
purgation and death.
LXIIL] Notes on Mrs. WAlletfs Scripts. 215
later in a letter from Sir Oliver Lodge. My latest information—
=
at the end of January—was that the envelope had not been
opened and that Mrs. Willett was not writing automatically.
Three pieces of script were produced by me in February (Feb. 1,
Feb. 8, Feb. 9), before the above described allusion to Dante's
Lethe. So that even if we attribute that allusion to my normal
knowledge that Mrs. Willett had received a cpiestion about
Lethe and would be likely soon to be sitting for script, yet some
supernormal connexion between her script and mine is indicated
by the chronology, as well as by the supplementary character of
the allusion in my script, there being, as we have seen, no
reference whatever to Dante's Lethe in Mrs. Willett's script.
This omission in her script is the more remarkable in that Mrs.
Willett had read with some care Mr. Piddington's Eeport in
Proceedings, Vol. XXII., where much attention is given to Dante's
Purgatorio in connexion with the cross-correspondence on Light
in West, and where the words River of Lethe are emphasised
(p. 268) by appearing in leaded type.
That the omission from Mrs. Wiliett's Lethe-scripts of all
mention of Dante was intentional is made the more likely by the
following incident, recorded by Mrs. Willett on March 23, 1910,
and received by Sir Oliver Lodge, who was abroad, on April 7,
before the issue of Proceedings, Part LX., Vol. XXIV., containing
Mr. Piddington's paper on the Lethe incident.
1
Mrs. Willett relates how she felt an impulse on March 22,
1910, to look through certain volumes of the Proceedings. 2
The
result was twofold. The first result showed supernormal
knowledge, but does not concern us here ; the second is thus
reported in Mrs. Willett's note :
Then I felt there was more. . . . After a little time I fetched
Mr. Piddington's "Report" (Oct. IOCS; i.e. Vol. XXIL). It is a
good long time (months) since I had looked at it. I keep it in a
drawer where I also keep Miss Johnson's Report (June, 1908; i.e.
Vol. XXL). I took both books out and went and sat down.
1
Part LX. of Proceedings, though dated March, 1910, was not posted from
the printers till April 9, 1910, and was not sent to Mrs. Willett till April
19, 1910.
2
Mrs. Willett is not a member of the S.P.R.. and does not receive its
publications. Some numbers of the Proceedings have been sent to her for
definite purposes.
216 Mrs. A. W. VerralL [part
Something in me rejected Miss Johnson's—so I took up Mr.
Piddington's. ... I thought I had better turn the pages carelessly
and see if I " felt," as I did [in the first case], that 1 had got
" it." It was some minutes before I lit on what I knew (though
how I can't explain) was wanted—page 268 in big print—" the river
of Lethe." The words preceding are
" Dante enters the Terrestrial Paradise and reaches the river of
Lethe."
To sum up :
—my—I don't know what to call it —impression or
round-about given words (for I seemed led to the words) was
Lethe—with Dante.
Of course I see Lethe has to do with Sir 0. L's. messages. . . .
I know nothing of Dante's writings —I have a small Italian Divina
Commedia . . . but have never read it.
I never connected Lethe and Dante, nor did I know (at least
consciously) that Dante had written about Lethe. . . .
I do not know whether anything capable of being interpreted as
a reference to Dante's account of Lethe has come in my (to me)
confused script written in answer to the Lethe question.
This incident is instructive. It will no doubt be variously
interpreted. It is certain that within the last year Mrs.
Willett had had two opportunities of learning that Dante
had written about Lethe, once when she read—and read
with special interest—Ruskin's Sesame and Lilies, with its
eloquent concluding passage comparing Tennyson's Maud with
Dante's " great Matilda " by the " edge of happy Lethe," and
also when she read Mr. Piddington's Report (Proa, Vol.
XXII.); so that, had her script included a reference to Dante's
Lethe, we should certainly have counted that allusion as due
to subliminal memory. It is, however, clear that not all
Mrs. Willett's normal associations with Lethe emerged in the
apparent tangle of her Lethe scripts, and I myself think that
there is evidence that this particular omission was not accidental.
For not only was there no mention of Dante's Lethe by
Myersw, but that omission was immediately followed, at
the first opportunity,
1
by the mention of just that very
1
After February 10, 1910, no further script was obtained from Myersw till
March 7, 1910. The first script from MyersT in that interval was on Feb. 15,
and the first H.V. script was on Feb. 16, 1910.
LXIII.] Notes on Mrs. Wiilett's Scripts. 217
subject by Myersv,
although the association of Lethe with
Dante is far less familiar to me than its associations with
Plato or with Virgil. Taking all circumstances into account,
I regard the incident of March 22, 1910, as marking the
recovery of a memory deliberately withheld. It is, to my
mind, another of several signs of intelligent direction shown
throughout the series of incidents which culminated with Mrs.
Wiilett's script of February, 1910. We must put the omission
of Dante, on February 4 and 10, and the reminder of that
omission on March 22, in the same class as the re-arrange-
ment of topics drawn from H.V. script, and the significant
choice of quotations from Swinburne.
The problem to be solved is clearly stated by Myersw.
Just as the words, " Ask Piddington," are constantly used by
Myersv and MyersH v to draw attention to a point of special
value in the accompanying script, so Myersw on June 5,
1910, also emphasises the importance of the evidence for
Selection in Mrs. Wiilett's script in words which may fitly
conclude these notes
:
Write the word Selection.
Who selects, my friend Piddington 1
I address this question to Piddington.
Who Selects ?
218 Alice Johnson. [part
III.
THIRD REPORT ON MRS. HOLLAND'S SCRIPT.
By ALICE JOHNSON.
Introduction.
This paper is concerned primarily with certain cross-corre-
spondences between Mrs. Holland's script and that of Mrs.
Piper produced some months earlier, namely, during her 21
sittings with Mr. Dorr from March 9 to May 26, 1908, which
were reported in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., Part LX., published
in April, 1910.
It happened that Mrs. Holland produced only two pieces of
script (on March 4 and 10, 1908,) during the period of Mrs.
Piper's sittings, and neither of these contains anything connected
with the sittings. Her next script, dated July 23, 1908, is
concerned with the important cross-correspondence of Sevens
dealt with in my Second Report on her automatic writing
(Proceedmtjs, Vol. XXIV. p. 238). After that she wrote
nothing more until Nov. 25, 1908,
1
when she began again
to write regularly, that is as a rule once a week.
The prelude to this period was my interview with Mrs.
Holland on Nov. 24, 1908 (see my Second Report, op. cit. p. 241),
when 1 ^ave her a short account of the main points in the
cross-correspondence of Sevens, mentioning that Mrs. Piper had
been having sittings with an acquaintance of ours in America,
and had given the phrase " We are seven." Mrs. Holland
was much interested in hearing of this case, and it seems
probable that her talk with me about it stimulated her
automatic faculty into fresh activity. The contents of her
1
Except a piece of script produced in my presence on Nov. 24, 1908, and
not dealt with here.
lxiil] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 219
writing, however, cannot be thus accounted for, since I had
not mentioned Mr. Dorr's name, nor said anything about any
of the other topics of the Piper sittings, of which I then
knew very little. Yet Mrs. Holland's script on the following
day (discussed in detail below) referred to " the other George
—
not G. P.," and soon after gave the letters " G.B.D.F.A.," 1
the
first three of which are the initials of Mr. Dorr's name.
I saw her again on Nov. 28, 1908, and went over this
script with her. She told me the sources of some of the
quotations in it, and pointed out that the letters were the five
lines of the bass clef. I told her that the first three of them
were also the initials of a person known to me (without
mentioning his connexion with Mrs. Piper), but that I thought
her interpretation was probably the correct one. I said nothing
of the cross-correspondences contained in the script, since I
did not discover them till some months later.
Meanwhile I had on Oct. 20, 1908, sent her Vol. XXII.
of the Proceedings, containing Mr. Piddington's report of the
Piper sittings in England, 1900-1907; and she had already
seen the first report on Mrs. Verrall's automatic writing
{Proceedings, Vol. XX.), as well as my first report on her
own script in Ar
ol. XXI. Her knowledge of all these matters
must be borne in mind in considering the script of this later
period.
Possible Telepathy from the Investigators.
It is also to be noted that these cross-correspondences did
not occur in Mrs. Holland's script until after Mrs. Verrall
knew of the occurrence of the topics in Mrs. Piper's trance.
Mrs. Verrall knew nothing about Mrs. Piper's sittings at the
time they were taking place ; but after they were completed
the records were sent to England and were put into her
hands for study in October, 1908. Similarly Mrs. Holland's
" Sevens " script, and her " Sesame and Lilies
"
2
scripts were
produced after Mrs. Verrall knew of the occurrence of those
topics in the scripts of other automatists.
Mrs. Sidgwick, Mr. G. W. Balfour, and Mr. Piddington, as
well as Mr. Dorr, must also be regarded as possible telepathic
1
See Mrs. Verrall's paper above, p. 197.
-See Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. p. 319.
220 Alice Johnson. [part
agents in this case, for they too were engaged in studying
the Piper records during part of the period that Mrs.
Holland was producing these scripts, Mrs. Sidgwick having
read the records both before and after Mrs. Verrall, Mr. Balfour
next, and Mr. Piddington beginning his work on them about
Feb. 10, 1 909. Some slight evidence for telepathy from
Mrs. Sidgwick and Mr. Piddington to Mrs. Piper in trance
is, I think, to be found in his report on the English sittings
of 190G-7, the strongest case being that of the "Steeple"
incident {Proceedings, Vol. XXII. pp. 38-46), when the word
" Steeple " was given in the Piper script a few days after Mr.
Piddington dreamt or imagined that I had told him it formed
the subject of a cross-correspondence in some other scripts.
It is to be noted, however, that he had told Mrs. Verrall of
this before the word came out in the Piper script.
Similarly there are a few cases (see especially " Comus " and
"Shelley's Skylark" below, pp. 253 and 272) where a subject
suggested by Mr. Dorr to Mrs. Piper in trance is reproduced
in Mrs. Holland's script, and where, therefore, it is conceivable
that Mr. Dorr may have exercised some telepathic influence
on Mrs. Holland. There is, however, no evidence for telepathy
from Mr. Dorr apart from Mrs. Piper ; no reference to him
being made in the Holland script except in connexion with
the Piper sittings.
The general question of what influence may be exercised on
the automatists by telepathy from one another is deferred to
the theoretical discussion at the end of this paper. I merely
note here what persons may, through their normal know-
ledge of the Piper records, be regarded as possible telepathic
agents in relation to Mrs. Holland.
From Nov. 25, 1908, to May 19, 1909, Mrs. Holland
produced twenty-two pieces of script. Three of these con-
tained contributions to the Sesame and Lilies cross-correspond-
ence, and were quoted in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. pp. 319-326;
ten are quoted in connection with other cross-correspondences
below. Two later ones, carrying on the cross-correspondence
Proserpine, are added.
It will be seen that other automatists besides Mrs. Piper,
in particular Miss Arerrall, are also concerned in these cross-
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 221
correspondences, while connexions are further shown with
some later American sittings with Mrs. Piper, Dec, 1908,—
March, 1909, four of which were held by Mr. Dorr and six
by Miss Theodate Pope, a friend of Dr. Hodgson's and a
member of the Society, who has had a long experience
of Mrs. Piper's trance phenomena, and who kindly under-
took to continue Mr. Dorr's experiments.
Finally, some of the cross-correspondences reappear in Mrs.
Willett's scripts of Feb., 1910, reported in Sir Oliver Lodge's
paper above, which were linked up with the Piper sittings
by his question, put to Myersw,
" What does the word Lethe
suggest to you ?
"
For the convenience of the reader I insert overleaf a tabular
list of the cross-correspondences, arranged in the order of their
emergence in Mrs. Holland's script, with the dates on which
the same topics occurred in the scripts of other automatists.
The Question of Chance Coincidence.
The first thing to strike the eye in this table is the long
periods of time over which several of the topics are distributed
among the automatists, and this at once raises the question
whether some of the cross-correspondences may not be due to
chance.
The mere probability that the same word or phrase may
occur through chance alone in two given scripts by two
different writers is the same, whether the two scripts were
produced on the same day, or with an interval of a hundred
years between them. But that they should be contemporaneous
adds another and a very important factor to the coincidence.
And when we try to determine whether the coincidence is
due to telepathy (either from incarnate or from discarnate
minds), a fresh element is introduced into the argument.; for,
since we must suppose the contact between two minds which
constitutes telepathy to take place at a certain time, it would
be much more reasonable to attribute a coincidence between
two scripts to telepathy if they were produced on the same
day than if there was a long interval between them.
On the other hand, the scripts merely record the emergence
of some of the subliminal impressions of the automatists, and
ett.
1910 1910 1910 1910 1910
o
OS " -
Will
o"
i—i i—
i
Mrs.
Feb. ^ J Feb.
Mar.
Feb.
Feb.' Mar.
CO CO
o o
m
o
OS OS of
1—
1
c?
d
co~ cf 2 °°
1-1
o
CI
he
EH
P« s
0) 1-3
CO
00
OS
CM
bC
3
OS O CO
O i—
i
o
OS OS OS
i—( i—
(
rH
cf co~ oT
i—
i
i—
(
d 42 &b
<ao a3 3
00
o ,
OS - 1908 1909
CO
o"os~c£T
i—i rH CI
OX
[Sept. [oept.
Jan.
CO
O - -
as - -
1
—
1908 1908
o" i—T to
CO CO
os~
—
'
CM
3
00
o ..
OS -
co rti
CI CT
Oh *=>
co O
CO
r
ci ci
H H IM
&b fee feb
B 3 3
<!<<<]
Sh *h ^
ci oi o, CD
-
O
CO CO
o o
OS OS
CI
CO OS O
O O rH
os os os
CI CI
>
o o
rH
O ci
v.P.
CP o
os os o CO 0C CO
O O rH c o ~ „
as os os OS 3S os " "
— 1
—
rH
o" cm"
1-'
Os' os"~co"o~
CT rH C 1
CI CO
IH* > !_'
> ci odd
03 o ci o CO (D CO CO
X P
o
co
>
o
o
cs
!Z5
ci
O
o
3
c
'43
—
bD
B
-
co
c
c
-
-.
CD
s
EH
r^
CO
C
ci
CD
oi
03
CD
o
I—
I
03
—
CT5 OS
o o
<33 03
x
33
X
-
3!
CC
X
—
00 00 X 00 O 00 00
o o ; O „I-H o o
as OS 03 03 -OS CTJ
i—
1
o" OS* o" t-" co" icT lO
i—
i
•AO •AO
o,^ % — Sept.
<1 ^3
00 00 X
O . O O
C3 33 03
00 cM~co~ eo" CO
~ Cvl <M
33
-
—
i
>: i-!
eS
s
00
o X
r
(33
00
-
—J
i—
i
„
02 03 o3 n\
— CO
^
—
j
Z- eS
< 00 X 2-M
CO O —
i
o
l
-H 03 ri
.
«—
1
—
E-
-
<
(35 CT5 :
.
o o =3
as cs r. 33 3:
X
00
o
OS
CO 00
o o
ai as
o o
eo co
o o
00 33 33
c r o c
C3 C3
1
—
r—
<
~ o~
CO
—
o
s o -_
CO
Eh
* Cm
< <
S
o
O
SET
-
-
E
t-
tc
c
c
C
Skylc
(A
iley's
Mei Exil
She!
—
'
>-„
X
—
p
eS
C
c
~
e3
w
a
-r
O
c
-
O
224 Alice Johnson. [part
these impressions may not be recorded until some time after
they arise ;
while, again, the transmission (from whatever
source) to the second automatist may not take place until some
time after the first record has been made. Thus there may
be a real telepathic connexion between two scripts, in spite of
their production at different dates.
1
But since the only ascer-
tainable dates are those of their production, it is obvious that
the strength of the evidence for a telepathic connexion depends
—partly at least—on the shortness of the interval between the
dates.
It depends also, of course, on the number and degree of
the coincidences in proportion to the total amount of script.
In cases of this type, however, no exact calculation of prob-
abilities can be made, since the data are not only indeterminate
in number,—it may sometimes be a matter of opinion whether
a coincidence should count as such or not,—but they are also
incommensurable in value. We can only judge roughly by a
common sense estimate whether the total amount of coincidence
is decidedly more than we should expect to occur by chance.
The argument is of the same kind as those used in discussing
many literary questions. For instance, it is believed that Shake-
speare drew his materials for Julius Caesar from North's translation
of Plutarch's Lives on account of the numerous resemblances in
the plot, characters, etc. ; and evidence in such a case, while
it can never be made mathematically demonstrable, may be
more than enough to satisfy the reasonable requirements of
scholars. For this conclusion, the study of Julius Caesar alone
may suffice ; it would not be necessary to analyse all the
works of Shakespeare in order to estimate what proportion
the coincidences with North's Plutarch bore to Shakespeare's
whole output. Similarly it is possible, I think, for readers of
the Proceedings to judge whether the cross-correspondences there
recorded are beyond what can reasonably be attributed to
chance, without reference to the unpublished portions of the
scripts.
I have explained above that Mrs. Holland was practically
1
It is noteworthy that when a statement is made in one script as to the
occurrence of a topic in the script of another automatist, if any time is
mentioned, it is generally stated incorrectly. Several instances of this are
given below.
LXIII.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 225
producing no script during the first and main batch of the
Piper sittings in question, so that contemporary correspondences
could not have occurred. But in my view the total bulk
of coincidence between her scripts of Nov. 25, 1908, to
May 19, 1909, and the Piper scripts of the period March
9 to May 26, 1908, as shown in the detailed record below,
is too great to be reasonably ascribed to chance.
The same principles of reasoning apply to cases where a topic
recurs several times in different scripts by the same automatist.
These too are coincidences which may or may not be due to
chance ; that is, the topic may have been mentioned inde-
pendently on different occasions, or the later mentions may
be connected with the first. If the topic is associated with
the same phrase or the same idea more than once, or if the
second mention follows closely on the first, it is probable
that the two are causally connected. Thus, in the complicated
cross-correspondence of Proserpine (No. -1 below) Proserpine is
referred to four times in Miss Verrall's script ; the first two
references coming so close together that they seem to form
parts of one allusion. On the other hand the third and
fourth references are less obviously connected with the first
two.
Proserpine is also referred to four times in Mrs. Holland's
script. On the last occasion (Mar. 2, 1910), the same quota-
tion is repeated as on the first occasion (Nov. 25, 1908),
which seems a link between the two. But the last occasion
is near in point of time to Mrs. Willett's allusion to Pro-
serpine (on Feb. 10, 1910), which is linked with Mrs.
Holland's first script by the fact that in the writing of both
automatists the Nightingale is referred to, as well as Proserpine.
This to my mind points to the conclusion that none of these
coincidences is due to chance alone, but that Mrs. Holland's
scripts are linked to one another by memory, and to Mrs.
Willett's by telepathy (whether through the agency of an
incarnate or of a discarnate mind).
In considering the question of chance coincidence, it has
also to be noted that when a number of cross-correspondences
occur in one piece of script, the probability that they are due
to something beyond chance is greatly increased. Thus Mrs.
Holland's script of Nov. 25, 1908, contains five. The first of
p
2-2(1 Alice Johnson. [part
these, " Convolvulus and shell," is weak, taken alone, but the
presence of four others in the same script strengthens it.
Again, "Confirmation" (No. 10, on Dec. 30, 1908) is a weak
one, taken alone, and in any case may, I think, be attributed
to chance, and I only quote it to complete the record of the
script in which it occurs.
Again, when several cross-correspondences in a single script
appear in another single script by a different automatist, written
at a different time, the improbability that these coincidences
are due to chance is very great. Thus Mrs. Willett's script
of Feb. 10, 1910 (see table) refers to three cross-correspond-
ences
—" Echo." " Nightingale," and " Proserpine "
—that appear
in Mrs. Holland's script of Nov. 25, 1908, while the latter
script contains also the cross-correspondence " Door ( = Dorr)
Key," which reaches its climax in Mrs. Willett's scripts of
Feb. 4 and 5, 1910 (see Mrs. Verrall's paper above, pp. 193—
204). The combination of all these seems to me far beyond
what can reasonably be attributed to chance.
A few more specific facts may be given, bearing on this
question.
Classical Allusions in Mrs. Holland's Script.
The reports of Mr. J lorr's sittings with Mrs. Piper in
Proceedings, Part LX., show that—in consequence of his
deliberate plans of experiment with her—her trance utterances
during those sittings were full of classical allusions. Now
several of the cross-correspondences here dealt with are con-
cerned with classical topics. These had hitherto been com-
paratively rare in Mrs. Holland's script, though references to
literary subjects in general are very frequent. Since April,
190G, Mrs. Holland has been aware that Mrs. Verrall's script
contains a good deal of Latin and Greek, and it might be
supposed that this knowledge would have influenced her
subliminally to refer to classical subjects. But the whole of
her script from the beginning of 1905 to the end of July,
1908, which consists of 160 pieces of writing, contains only
twenty-two references to such subjects, i.e. on an average, one
reference in seven scripts. On the other hand, in the period
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 227
now under consideration (Nov. 25, 1908, to May 19, 1909)
she produced twenty-two pieces of script, in which seventeen
classical references are to be found, that is, on an average,
more than two references in every three scripts. The refer-
ences are thus more than five times as numerous during this
period as they were before. The following is a complete list
of them :
(1) Nov. 25, 1908. Quotation from The Burden of Itys.
(2) „ " Sweet Echo, fairest nymph."
(3) „ Quotation from The Garden of Proserpine.
(4) Dec. 30, 190S. Quotation from Prometheus Unbound.
(5) „ The Pleiades.
(6) „ The Muses on Helicon.
(7) Jan. 13, 1909. Caryatides.
(8) Feb. 10, 1909. Caduceus—The dog tooth Mercury.
(9) March 1909. Quotation from The Garden of Proser-
pine.
(10) „ Quotation from Atalanta in Ccdydon.
(11) Apr. 1, 1909. The Charonic Staircase.
(12) Apr. 10, 1909. Diotima—the 5th line of the 3rd Speech.
(13) Apr. 11, 1909. The Stygian River.
(14) „ Cassiopeia swings low in the midnight
sky.
(15) Apr. 14, 1909. The Cyclops.
(16) „ "In valour is not Love a Hercules."
(17) May 19, 1909. Perseus, Medusa, and Andromeda.
Out of these 17 classical allusions, 15 form the subject of
cross-correspondences,1
and in the case of two only, viz. Nos. 7
and 12, has no correspondence been found with the scripts of
other automatists.
1
Thirteen of these are quoted in the present paper; two, "The Pleiades"
and the "Muses on Helicon," belong to the "Sesame and Lilies" cross-
correspondence (Proc, Vol. XXIV. p. 324).
228 Alice Johnson. [part
Cross-correspondences claimed by the Piper controls to have
appeared in Holland, script.
Date of mention
in Mrs. P.'s trance.
Subject of Cross-correspondence.
Date of appearance
in Mrs. H.'s Script.
Mar. 23 1908. City in flames ; Dido
;
Burned ; Juno.
Mar. 24 Fairy roses.
Styx. Apr. 11, 1909.
Mar. 30 > >
Lime-leaf.
Mar
men
.
31
%J Jl ,
Floating statue in the
air.
5)
Echo and Narcissus. Nov. 25, 1908.
Apr.
J.
13, Drawing of dot and circle.
Apr. 21, 7)
Rock of Ages.
Syringa.
Apr. 27, ) '
Pegasus. Soaring wings.
May 4, J'
Turkeys and Birds. Dec. 9, 1908.
May 12, 5)
Some verses by Byron.
55
Daughter of the Sun.
55
Cyclops. Apr. 14, 1909.
j;
Medusa's Head. May 19, 1909.
5)
Clouds.
Thus, out of 16 cross-correspondences claimed by the Piper
controls to have occurred in Mrs. Holland's script, 5 appeared
later.
The question how far the knowledge of classical topics shown
in Mrs. Piper's trance is to be regarded as supernormally
acquired was fully discussed in the papers by Mrs. Verrall and
Mr. Piddington in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., and does not concern
us here. The details of these subjects mentioned in Mrs.
Holland's script were no doubt all familiar to her, except in
the cases of the " Charonic staircase " and of the quotation from
Ovid (see below, pp. 246-50). But the present paper deals
mainly with the evidence for supernormal connexion between
Mrs. Holland's scripts and the scripts or trance-utterances of
other automatists,—evidence which is not affected, one way or
the other, by the question of whether the knowledge shown in
LXTIL] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 229
any individual trance utterance or script has or has not been
normally acquired.
I now give the cross-correspondences in detail, in the chrono-
logical order of their appearance in Mrs. Holland's script.
Ckoss-Correspondences.
(1) Convolvulus and Shed.
(2) Echo and Narcissus.
(3) The Nightingale.
(4) Proserpine.
These topics are contained in Mrs. Holland's script of
November 25th, 1908, as follows:
—
" Then an octave struck the answer." 1
Make no mistake.
(1)- Curling wreaths of smoke that take fantastic forms
—
Convolutions. Convolvulus the clinging creeping flower
—The Morning glory—fragile bells of morning—blue and
purple as it were sunrise skies
—
(2 and 3) I might perhaps get the verses I remembered to
you—if not my own—yet mine by right of memory
"Oh Memory cast down thy wreathed shell." 3
Not the shape here but the sound—the echoing repeat-
ing sound—" Sweet Echo—fairest nymph that dwells
unseen." 4
(i) " Pale beyond porch and portal
Crowned with faint leaves she stands." 5
The other George—not G. P. —he goes to the other one
—
[Here follows the passage quoted in Mrs. Verrall's paper above,
p. 197.]
1
R. Browning, A Toccata of Galuppi.
'-The numbers in brackets are not part of the scripts, but are inserted for
convenience of reference.
:i
Oscar Wilde, The Burden of Itys. 4
Milton, Comus.
5
Swinburne, The Garden of Proserpine ; "faint" should be "calm."
230 Alice Johnson. [part
(1) Convolvulus and Shell.
The first part of the above script seems to reflect some
topics occurring in two consecutive scripts of Miss Verrall's,
produced three or four weeks earlier, viz.:
(October 30th, 1908.)
The blue flowers were periwinkles.
A mossy bank beside the stream
and convolvulus too.
F. W. H. Myers.
(November 4th, 1908).
No you grow confused wait. A round shell hold it to your
ear the sound of the sea a network of lines over the
surface.
The bluebells that was the other clue. Put them together.
I interpret this as meaning that the convolvulus suggests
something rather similar to itself (since both are of spiral
habit), namely, a shell in which one may hear the murmuring
sound that is supposed to be an echo of the sea-waves.
" Periwinkle," in the first script, is also a shell, as well as a
flower.
The same association of ideas appears in Mrs. Holland's
script : convolutions—convolvulus or morning glory—fragile
bells, blue and purple, the form of which suggests the
" wreathed shell," which in turn leads on to the " echoing
repeating sound " to be heard in it.
1
1
The association between the flower and the shell is perhaps derived from
Wordsworth's lines :
" I have seen
A curious child, who dwelt upon a tract
Of inland ground, applying to his ear
The convolutions of a smooth-lipped shell,
To which, in silence hushed, his very soul
Listened intently."
( The Excursion, Book IV.
)
lxiil] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 231
(2) Echo and Narcissus; and (3) The Nightingale.
Mrs. Holland's quotation from The Burden of Itys is the
first line of one verse, the whole of which is as follows
:
" O Memory cast down thy wreathed shell
!
Break thy hoarse lute O sad Melpomene !
0 Sorrow, Sorrow keep thy cloistered cell
Nor dim with tears this limpid Castaly !
Cease, Philomel, thou dost the forest wrong
To vex its sylvan quiet with such wild impassioned song
!
"
Itys (or Itylus) was the son of Zethos and Aedon; the
latter laid a plot to kill her sister-in-law Niobe's son, and
killed her own son by mistake. Being pursued by her husband,
she was turned into a nightingale {Greek, ayScov). According
to another version of the legend, Itys was the son of Tereus
and Procne. Tereus, having fallen in love with Procne's sister
Philomela, deserted Procne, who avenged herself by killing
Itys and serving him up at his father's table. Tereus pursued
Procne and Philomela, who were changed into a nightingale
and a swallow, or a swallow and a nightingale, respectively.
In Oscar Wilde's poem (as in Swinburne's Atcdanta in Cedydon
and Itylus) it is the nightingale who is the mother of Itys.
The chief idea then that is implicit in this quotation made
by the script is the Nightingale ;
cf. Miss Pope's sitting below.
Mrs. Holland told me the source of the quotation, and
afterwards wrote out for me the whole verse from memory.
But I found that her version was not quite correct ; instead of
" 0 Sorrow, Sorrow," she wrote " 0 Echo, Echo." Thus the
words Shell and Echo are prominent in her version, and it was
perhaps this combination that suggested to her the next
quotation from Comus, which contains the same two wordy.
It is the first line of the song sung by the Lady, when
lost in the forest, to attract her two wandering brothers :
"Sweet Echo, sweetest nymph, that liv'st unseen
Within thy airy shell
By slow Meander's margent green,
And in the violet-embroidered vale
Where the love-lorn nightingale
Nightly to thee her sad song mourneth well
:
Canst thou not tell me of a gentle pair
That likest thy Narcissus are 1
"
232 Alice Johnson. [part
The script through this quotation again gives Shell implicitly,
and in the same way the Nightingale and also Narcissus, who
is naturally associated with Echo, Echo being the nymph who
was in love with Narcissus.
Echo and Narcissus had been given by Mrs. Piper, with
special reference to the " poetical memories associated with
"
them, as shown in the following extracts from the records
of Mr. Dorr's sittings
:
(2) Echo and Narcissus.
(March SO, 190S.) (Waking-stage.)
I love the beautiful Eclio ! Walking through the forest
Echo greets me everywhere ! Narcissus smiles at my
feet and I am surrounded by love.
Tell Mr. Dorr, " I say my utterances echo, echo everywhere,
if that is he. I think he will understand what I mean
by echo, if that is he !
"
I get a laughing echo—music.
(March 31, 1908.) G. B. D. I have just recalled from yesterday's
waking-stage that you spoke of Echo repeatedly ; was
that a message 1
Yes. From Mrs. [Holland] and as [my] own utterances to
the spirit of the Light reminded me of what I had
written there a few days ago I brought it here to you.
"Echo, Echo everywhere !
" And I wrote, " As I wandered
through woodland paths Echo greeted me and Narcissus
sprang up about my feet." You will receive this ere
long.
(April 6, 1908.) G. B. D. "Laughing winds—I love the beautiful
echo, I walk through the forest, etc." Was that a
symbol 1 »
Yes, and poetical memories associated with my readings of
mythological characters and subjects.
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 233
(3) The Nightingale, etc.
The Nightingale was given by Mrs. Piper later, as follows :
Extract from record of Miss Popes sitting of Bee. 9th, 1908.
[The controls on being asked to give "a message for
England," i.e., for some of the other automatists to
reproduce, replied :]
Tis not that I love Caesar less but Rome more E. H. G. P.
Yes, don't you know it 1
Miss Pope. Yes.
Repeat—Softly [Miss Pope repeats the line.]
G. P. has one which I think good.
The nightingale has a lyre of gold.
Myers and Hodgson with the help and encouragement
of G. P.
The lark is on the wing.
No more, too many may lead to confusion, besides the light
is getting faint. . . .
Listen before I go I want to tell you that I am not creeping
like some ghostly cricket where a house has burned.
Message (two lines were made, like the number 11).
Miss Pope. What do those two lines mean ?
Emphasis.
We shall get on famously after a while.
I saw and helped Mrs. Holland.
Pour " messages " are included in this passage
:
(a) "'Tis not that I love Ctesar less, but Rome more."
Nothing corresponding to this has been found in the
other scripts.
(b) " The nightingale has a lyre of gold." This is the
first line of a poem by W. E. Henley, belonging to a
series of short poems called Echoes. Thus " Echo " is
implicit in this quotation, while " Nightingale," as
already seen, is implicit in Mrs. Holland's quotations
about "Echo."
234 Alice Johnson. [part
(c) " The lark is on the wing." This is probably a remi-
niscence of the cross-correspondence Shelley's Skylark
already given in Mr. Dorr's sittings, see below, p. 272.
(d) " I am not creeping like some ghostly cricket where a
house has burned," which seems from the context to
have been specially intended for Mrs. Holland. It is
a quotation (incorrectly given ; the actual line being :
" Yes, you, like a ghostly cricket, creaking where a
house was burned ") from Browning's A Toccata of
Gcduppis, while Mrs. Holland's script of Nov. 25th,
1908, begins with another quotation from the same
poem, " Then an octave struck the answer " (see above).
The latter quotation is repeated in Mrs. Holland's
script of Jan. 20th, 1909, with the addendum:
" Take this from that if that be otherwise,"
1
as if
to emphasise its importance.
For further allusions to the Nightingale, implicit in Mrs.
Holland's script, and explicit in Mrs. Willett's, see below, under
Proserpine.
(4) Proserpine.
Mrs. Holland's script of Xov. 25, 1908, quoted above, has:
" Pale beyond porch and 'ported
Crowned with faint leaven she stands."
The other George—not G. P. —he goes to the other one
—
I take " the other George " to be Mr. George Dorr, which
seems to indicate that a cross-correspondence with Mrs. Piper
is being attempted.
In the latter's trance, the following allusions to Proserpine
occurred :
{March 1908.) (G. B. D. reads a few lines in Latin describing
Juno's visit to the cave of Aeolus and asks:) Does this
suggest anything to you 1
Yes, it suggests—I quoted part of that myself—I thought
of Proserpine and the seasons.
G. B. D. No, this has reference to the time when Juno tries to
prevent Aeneas from reaching Italy.
1
Hamlet, Act ii. Scene 2.
LXIII.J Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 235
Yes, yes. Winds—Storm—waves—Neptune.
(After writing " Neptune," the hand expresses dissatisfaction
with it and tries to cross it out) Proserpine Spring
upward—and the Seasons
(Some question asked which was not noted.)
Yes, Light—no, I am thinking of Proserpine. Aphrodite
Juno's child. Goddess (this word is crossed out) Niobe
— Water drowned
(Waking-stage.)
Child—Eros—love—Venus—paramour—Where her feet trod
—flowers
—
Mr. Piddington observes that there are two natural links,
apparently unknown to or unnoticed by Mr. Dorr, between
Aeolus and Proserpine, the scene of whose rape was Sicily.
(1) It is when Aeneas and his Ueet are "scarcely out of
sight of the land of Sicily " (Am. i. 34) that Juno resolves
to go to Aeolus' cave and bid him help her against Aeneas.
(2) The cave of Aeolus was in Aeolia (Am. i. 52), i.e. the
Lipari Islands, just north of Sicily. That MyersP should say
that the cave of Aeolus suggested Proserpine to him seems,
therefore,—especially when combined with various incidents given
by Mrs. Verrall in her paper on these sittings in Proceedings,
Vol. XXIV.,—to indicate an intimate knowledge of the Aencicl
on his part.
It will be seen that the trance-personality returned to the
subject of Proserpine twice more during the sitting, in spite of
Mr. Dorr's attempts to lead it off on to other lines. The story
of Proserpine is clearly, though somewhat indirectly, indicated :
" Juno's child—Goddess—Niobe." Here the train of thought
seems to be :
" Proserpine—Juno's child—No, the child of
another goddess—a goddess who was a bereaved mother," which
leads on to the other classical example of a bereaved mother,
—
Niobe. The words " Spring upward—Child —where her feet
trod—flowers " seem to relate to the return of Proserpine in
the spring and suggest reminiscences of the following passage
in Tennyson's Demeter and Persephone 1
(another reminiscence
1
It will be remembered that Demeter and Persephone are the Greek names of
Ceres and Proserpine.
236 Alice Johnson. [part
appropriate to MyersP, for the poem is more than once quoted
in the published works of F. W. H. Myers)
:
" So in this pleasant vale we stand again,
The field of Enna, now once more ablaze
With flowers that brighten as thy footstep falls,
All flowers—but for one black blur of earth
Left by that closing chasm, thro' which the car
Of dark Aidoneus rising rapt thee hence.
And here, my child, tho' folded in thine arms,
I feel the deathless heart of motherhood
Within me shudder, lest the naked glebe
Should yawn once more into the gulf, and thence
The shrilly whinnyings of the team of Hell,
Ascending, pierce the glad and songfnl air,
And all at once their arch'd necks, midnight-maned,
Jet upward thro' the mid-day blossom. No!
For, see, thy foot has touch'd it ; all the space
Of blank earth-baldness clothes itself afresh,
And breaks into the crocus-purple hour
That saw thee vanish."
The subject of Proserpine also appeared in the Mac script
of July 26, 1908, in Mrs. Verrall's script on Aug. 26, 1908,
and in Miss Verrall's script on Sep. 10 and 19, 1908, the
autoinatist in each case being ignorant of the occurrence of the
subject in the script of any other writer.
The reference in the Mac script was as follows
:
{July 26, 1908.)
Erebus and terror—Hoc fecit Persephone
—
Eheu fugaces postume postume.1
While the Piper script refers to the return of Proserpine
(Persephone) in the spring, as well as to her being carried
off, this alludes only to her sojourn in the infernal regions
(Erebus). The ode of Horace which it quotes (" Eheu fugaces,
Postume, Postume,"' Odes, II. 14) does not refer to Proserpine,
but is quite appropriately associated with her, for it laments
1
For the context of this, see Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. p. 309.
2
"Postumus" is the name of the friend to whom the Ode is addressed.
LXIII.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 237
over the brief and fleeting nature of all earthly joys, as com-
pared with the eternal gloom of Hades.
This script was not seen by Mrs. or Miss Verrall until
Sep. 26, 1908,
1
and it was not until October, 1908, that Mrs.
Verrall saw any of Mr. Dorr's records of his sittings with
Mrs. Piper.
Meanwhile Mrs. Verrall produced on Aug. 26, 1908, the
following script
:
2
[In Latin : A guardian on the threshold, but beneath the
threshold who?] 3
And yet the words are guarded with
the fence of the teeth. In books is wisdom who seeks
shall find. Ask for the pomegranate flower—the goddess
holds it in her hand. Flower and fruit red.
Here the Latin words, followed by the Homeric phrase
" fence of the teeth," suggest the guardianship of Hades. In
that case, the " guardian on the threshold " would be the
three-headed dog, Cerberus, to whom the words " fence of the
teeth," are especially appropriate, for his snarl and bark are
always emphasised. " In books is wisdom, who seeks shall
find " seems to mean that the reference is to some literary
topic.
" Beneath the threshold who ?
" 4
may refer to Proserpine, the
goddess of the infernal regions. There is at any rate no doubt
that Proserpine is the goddess with the pomegranate flower or
fruit. The allusion to Proserpine, then, is the clearest point
in this script.
The following allusions to Proserpine occur in Miss Verrall's
script, produced in ignorance of her mother's, just quoted :
(Sep. 10, 190S).
A cup a white cup a flower I think she holds it in her
hand [In Latin : a true goddess]. 5
[Drawing of flower]
1
See Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. pp. 264 and 311.
2
It may be worth noting that this is the only allusion to Proserpine in
•282 scripts by Mrs. Verrall, covering a period of nearly four years.
3
Custos in limine—sed sub limine quis ?
4
It is possible that the words "sed sub limine quis?" are also intended to
convey a pun on the word subliminal, meaning "Who do you suppose directs
your subliminal activity ?
"
5
Dea vera, i.e. Venus (Virgil, JZn. I. 405).
238 Alice Johnson. [part
thus the lotus flower but they are red too better to be
a slave than rule among the dead who said it? [In
Greek : amongst the dead.] 1
(Sep. 19, 1908.)
A cap of liberty and a flaming torch the sparks shall burn
the chaff which the wind scattereth. . . .
four pomegranate seeds that was part of the charm the
seeds are cut seed pearls.
Of these two scripts, the first, referring to a goddess hold-
ing a flower in her hand, and to Hades, seems clearly con-
nected with Mrs. Verrall's of Aug. 26: but the "true goddess"
is Venus, not Proserpine, though it is Proserpine who rules
among the dead.
In the second script, the " pomegranate seeds " that were
" part of the charm " is an unmistakeable allusion to Proser-
pine,2
who was to be liberated from Hades on condition that
she had eaten nothing while there. She had, however, taken
a pomegranate 3
and eaten seven of its seeds ; but in spite of
this was permitted to return to the earth every spring, though
she had to go back to Hades for part of every year.
The " cap of liberty " and " flaming torch " of the first part
of the script almost certainly refer to Proserpine too ; the " cap
of liberty " is the pileum, the characteristic head-covering of
Mercury, or Hermes. In the representations of Proserpine's
"Eetum," she is usually led by Hermes, wearing this cap. The
" torch " is associated with underworld goddesses in general, and
in this particular case may refer to the torches lit at Mount
Etna by Ceres, who carried one in each hand when she set
out to search for her daughter Proserpine.
Eeturning now to the allusion to Proserpine in Mrs.
Holland's script of Nov. 25, 190S (see above, p. 229), we
see that her quotation with its context follows closely the
1
ev (pdi/itvois (Homer, Od. XI. 489, 491).
"Mrs. Verrall noted "Proserpine" as a cross-correspondence between her
own and her daughter's script on Sep. 26, 190S.
3
This pomegranate is called by Ovid (Met. V. 536) pun.ice.vm pomum, puniceum
being an unusual word for red. Both Mrs. and Miss Verrall's scripts speak
of the flower or fruit being "red."
lxiil] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 239
sentiment of the Mac script and the Horace Ode therein
quoted :
"Pale beyond porch and portal,
Crowned with calm leaves, she stands,
Who gathers all things mortal
With cold immortal hands
;
There go the loves that wither,
The old loves with wearier wings
;
And all dead years draw thither,
And all disastrous things."
(Swinburne, The Garden of Proserpine.)
Mrs. Holland's script, however, quotes only the first two
lines of the poem, underlining the words " portal " and " leaves."
The words " Beyond porch and portal " have some resemblance
to Mrs. Verrall's phrase " Beneath the threshold " ; while the
emphasis laid in both scripts on the idea of an entrance (Mrs.
Holland, " beyond porch and portal " ; cf. Mrs. Verrall, " A
guardian on the threshold, but beneath the threshold who ?
And yet the words are guarded with the fence of the teeth ")
seems to link on this cross-correspondence with the elaborate
one formed by a pun on the name of Mr. Dorr (" Door-Key,"
see Mrs. Verrall's paper above, p. 193) Mrs. Holland's con-
tribution to which occurs in this same script.
PROSERPINE : CONTINUED.
The next script to be quoted refers only to Dis (Pluto), and
not to Proserpine ; but I include it under this topic because I
believe that the reference—like some of Mrs. Piper's references
to Proserpine—is derived from Tennyson's Derneter and Per-
sephone. The passage occurs in a script of Miss Verrall's,
dated Jan. 26, 1909 :
. . . the shapes that haunt the dusk 1
the twilight the
kingdom of dreams you do not get the thought clearly
wait flitting forms on the threshold between the Seen
and the Unseen. [In Latin : flitting round the gates of
Dis, flitting round.] - . . .
1
Tennyson, In AJemoriam, xcv.
" Ostia Ditis circumvolitantia circumvolitantia.
240 Alice Johnson. [part
This recalls to me the following lines from Demeter
:
"Last as the likeness of a dying man,
Without his knowledge, from him flits to warn
A far-off friendship that he comes no more,
So he, the God of dreams, who heard my cry,
Drew from thyself the likeness of thyself
Without thy knowledge, and thy shadow past
Before me."
The same passage is, I think, the source of the phrase in
Mrs. Willett's script of Feb. 10, 1910, quoted below, p. 245:
" Sleep, the dream that Hits by night," which is immediately
followed by the words, " Sleep and his twin Brother," probably
derived from In Mnnoriam, lxviii. :
" Sleep, Death's twin
brother."
Thus both scripts seem to associate these two poems
together, and the sections of In Memoriam chosen are appro-
priate, for they refer to a dream about Hallam in which he
does not seem to be dead, and to the trance in which
Tennyson conceived himself to have communicated with Hallam.
The topic of Proseririnc recurs several times more in Mrs.
Holland's scripts, and it is important to note the frequent
association of it with the Nightingale, which was shown to be
implicit in her script of Nov. 25, 1908.
Her next allusion occurs on March 24, 1909, as follows:
" We are not sure of sorrow
And joy was never sure
"
The Thracian ships and the foreign faces.
The first of these quotations is from Swinburne's Garden of
Proscrjmie, the context being
:
" We are not sure of sorrow,
And joy was never sure
;
To-day will die to-morrow
;
Time stoops to no man's lure."
The second is from the Chorus of Atalanta in Calydon :
" And the brown bright nightingale amorous
Is half assuaged for Itylus,
For the Thracian ships and the foreign faces
The tongueless vigil and all the pain."
LXlii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script 241
The next allusion to Proserpine in any of the scripts is in
Miss Verrall's of August 19, 1 909, as follows
:
The flowery mead—asphodel—Persephone—the chariot of
Dis foam-flecked steeds Asphodelos
" No, no, go not to Lethe " 1
sleep too brings forgetfulness
In the intenser light that heralds in the dawn
When the grey clouds roll back from Day's portal to let
the dawn ride forth —the horses of dawn and of death
dawn and death
The first part of this script seems to be founded on a
reminiscence of the passage from Demeter and Persephone given
above, p. 236, but with the flowery "field of Enna " the script
combines the Asphodel Meadow of Elysium, which is referred
to in the last four lines of the poem :
" [Thou shalt] see no more
The Stone, the Wheel, the dimly-glimmering lawns
Of that Elysium, all the hateful fires
Of torment, and the shadowy warrior glide
Along the silent field of Asphodel."
The quotation from Keats is perhaps introduced next partly
on account of the casual allusion to Proserpine in its context.
Next comes a script of Mrs. Holland's, dated November
10, 1909 :
P—persiflage —persist —In penitence —Persephone —Penste-
mon
—
Oh singer of Persephone from the far meadows desolate
—
Hast thou forgotten Sicily 1
Through the stilled groves the hidden piping thrills
—
What forms are these coming—All white through the gloom
—
The voice of the bird
—
The torture of the whirling wheel wherein the power of the
philter lay . . .
1 " No, no, go not to Lethe, neither twist
Wolf's-bane, tight-rooted, for its poisonous wine ;
Nor suffer thy pale forehead to be kiss'd
By night-shade, ruby grape of Proserpine ;
"
(Keats, Ode on Melancholy.)
Q
2i2 Alice Johnson. [part
Here, I think, are further allusions to the poem Demeter
and Persephone ;
" the far meadows desolate " being probably
the fields that remained barren in consequence of the grief
of Demeter. "Hast thou forgotten Sicily?" suggests the
"clouded memories"; and "the hidden piping," and "the voice
of the bird," suggest the " sudden nightingale " in the passage
from Demeter given below, p. 240.
" The hidden piping " has perhaps also a secondary reference
to Mrs. Piper, whose name is not infrequently the subject of
puns in the script.
" The torture of the whirling wheel " I take to be an allusion
to the last four lines of the poem, quoted on p. 241 in con-
nexion with Miss Verrall's script of Aug. 19, 1909.
" What forms are these coming
So white through the gloom 1
• • • • *
'Tis Apollo comes leading
His choir, the Nine."
is a quotation from the song of Callicles in Matthew Arnold's
Empedocles on Etna. This seems to be brought in through a
normal association of ideas, Empedocles and Persephone both
belonging to Sicily. But, as observed above, the association
between Proserpine and Sicily seems implicit also in the Piper
trance-utterances.
Mrs. Holland's next allusion to Proserpine occurs in her
script of March 2, 1910, the whole of which I quote:
" Oh lark be day's apostle
To mavis, merle and throstle
—
Bid them their betters jostle
—
From day and day's delight
—
1
Pars thy ma—pars casiam—melifontos
Plurima lecta rosa est et sunt sine nomine flores—crocus liliaque
alba
—
" Oh Prospero " Oh Proserpine for the flowers now that thou lets
righted fall"
1
R. Browning, Pippa Passes.
LXIII.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 243
Pale beyond porch and portal
Crowned with faint leaves she stands
Who gathers all things mortal
In calm immortal hands
Pomegranate seeds—Cleft rosy at the heart.
Dusky Dis
—
Gallop apace you fiery footed steeds
Toss [?] jam-jam The other ignoramus is less tiresome
—
Foreshadowings—Overshadowings
—
Take pains not to let them misunderstand the Latin attempt
—
but you are always behindhand—dealing with arrears of months
ago—
Both hands send this
—
F. W. H. M. R. H.
In the letter accompanying this, Mrs. Holland wrote
:
Last night's script begins with a Browning [quotation]
—
Pippa
Passes—tries, to get a few Latin words, misquotes Winter's Tale,
"Oh Proserpine, etc.," then Swinburne, finally B. and Juliet.
From "Take pains" my left hand insisted on holding the pen
too, —a new and cumbrous plan.
For comments on the Latin in this script, see separate
section below, p. 246.
The quotations following the Latin are
:
(a) " 0 Proserpina,
For the flowers now, that frighted thou let'st fall
From Dis's waggon ! Daffodils
That come before the swallow dares, and take
The winds of March with beauty."
(The Winter's Tale, Act iv. Scene 4.)
(b) " Pale beyond porch and portal," etc., previously quoted by
Mrs. Holland on Nov. 25, 1908 (see above, p. 229), from The
Garden of Proserpine.
(c) "Dusky Dis" from—
" Ceres. Since they [Venus and Cupid] did plot
The means that dusky Dis my daughter got,
Her and her blind boy's sandal'd company
I have forsworn."
(The Tempest, Act iv. Scene 1.)
244 Alice Johnson. [part
The fact of this quotation coming from The Tempest no
doubt accounts for the mention of Prospero in connexion with
Proserpine in the script.
(d) " Juliet. Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,
Towards Phoebus' lodging : such a waggoner
As Phaethon would whip you to the west,
And bring in cloudy night immediately."
(Romeo and Juliet, Act iii. Scene 2.)
This script has many points of resemblance to Miss Verrall's
of August 19, 1909, quoted above. In both the chariot and
horses of Dis are connected—by a not unnatural association
of ideas—with the horses of the Sun ; but while Miss Verrall's
script speaks of " the horses of dawn," Mrs. Holland's are those
of the setting sun.
This carrying on, or recrudescence, of the topic of Proserpine,
must be considered in connexion with its emergence in Mrs.
Willett's script of February 10, 1910, in which script, as
already remarked, we find that a number of the cross-corre-
spondences involved in Mrs. Holland's script of Nov. 25, 1908,
are—so to speak—gathered together and focussed,—namely,
Echo (implicitly, see Sir Oliver Lodge's paper above, p. 159,
and Mrs. Verrall's paper, pp. 208-9), the Nightingale and Pro-
serpine. The whole script is given by Sir Oliver Lodge (see
above, pp. 148-50); I quote here the passages relating to the
two latter cross-correspondences
:
(The Nigldingale).
The Nightingale hut but I no no no
begin again
The nightin Nightingale but Shelley
too as well
Once more ye Laurels
Which only 1 remember
which only you forget
(Proserpine).
There is a line of Swinburne's I want
that Pagan singer of fair things
and all dead things go thither
lxiil] Third Re-port on Mrs. Holland's Script. 245
and all forgotten days
something like that Swinburne
Sleep the dream that flits by night
Sleep and his twin Brothers
not Brothers single Brother
The above references to the Nightingale and Shelley were
interpreted by Mrs. Verrall (see above, p. 159) as alluding to
Shelley's poem Aclonais, Stanza xvii., an interpretation which
seems to me sound ; and Mrs. Verrall remarks that the
two preceding stanzas refer to Echo and Narcissus, which are
thus linked with the Nightingale in this poem, as in the two
poems quoted by Mrs. Holland on Nov. 25, 1908, and in
the one quoted by Mrs. Piper on Dec. 9, 1908 (see above,
pp. 229 and 233).
The next phrase in Mrs. Willett's script,
" Which only I remember
Which only you forget
"
is a reminiscence of the refrain in Swinburne's Itylus, whereas
Itylus is also referred to in the passage from Atalanta in
Calydon, quoted by Mrs. Holland on March 24, 1909. It is
interesting to note that the phrase seems re-echoed in Mrs.
Holland's script of Feb. 16, 1910, which begins:
I shall remember while the light lives yet
And in the darkness I shall not forget.
Mrs. Willett's phrase,
" And all dead things go thither
And all forgotten days
"
is misquoted from The Garden of Proserpine (see Mrs. Verrall's
paper, p. 206); while "the dream that flits by night" seems
(see above, p. 240 and also Mrs. Verrall's paper, p. 211) to be
a reminiscence of Tennyson's Demeter and Persephone.
These topics are reiterated in Mrs. Willett's script of
March 7, 1910 :
l
Write again the Nightingale
I want that seen to
Pluto not not Plato this time, but PLUTO
Bees Bees the hum of Bees
1
For the context of this, see Sir Oliver Lodge's paper above, p. 129.
246 Alice Johnson. [PART
Pluto (Dis) here is perhaps primarily associated with Lethe,
the main topic of these Willett scripts, but is also of course
closely connected with Proserpine,
1
with whom the Holland
script of March 2, 1910, associates bee-plants (see below) and Dis.
The association of the Nightingale with Proserpine both in
the Holland and Willett scripts indicates an additional tele-
pathic link between them, for the two topics are by no
means necessarily associated together,—in the same way that
e.g. Ceres and Proserpine would be,—and I do not think
they are often found together in literature. They are, however,
associated in the following passage from Tennyson's Demeter and
Persephone, which seems to have been the source of certain phrases
in Mrs. Holland's script of Nov. 10, 1909 (see p. 241):
" Thou earnest, 0 my child,
Led upward by the God of ghosts and dreams,
Who laid thee at Eleusis, dazed and dumb,
With passing thro' at once from state to state,
Until I brought thee hither, that the day,
When here thy hands let fall the gather'd flower,
Might break thro' clouded memories once again
On thy lost self. A sudden nightingale
Saw thee, and flash'd into a frolic of song
And welcome ; and a gleam as of the moon,
When first she peers along the tremulous deep,
Fled wavering o'er thy face, and chased away
That shadow of a likeness to the king
Of shadows, thy dark mate."
Latin Quotation in Mes. Holland's Script of
March 2, 1910.
Pars thyma—pars casiam—melifontos
Plurima lecta rosa est et sunt sine nomine flores—crocus liliaque
alba
—
On this Mrs. Verrall sends me the following notes
:
January 27, 1911.
In Ovid, Met. V. 392, Proserpine is described as picking " violets
or white lilies," (ant violas aut Candida lilia carpit) and it is in
1
Cf. Persephone, Dis and Lethe mentioned together in Miss Verrall's script of
Aug. 19, 1909, p. 241, above. This script had not been seen by Mrs. Willett.
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 247
this passage that she is said to have dropped her flowers in her
fright. 1
There is, however, another famous account of the story in Ovid,
Fasti IV. 393-620. Here Ovid describes the flowers which Proser-
pine and her companions pick, and Mrs. Holland's words come
straight out of this (Paley's text, 11. 440-442) :
"Pars thyma, pars rorem, pars meliloton amant.
Plurima lecta rosa est, sunt et sine nomine flores.
Ipsa crocos tenues, liliaque alba legit."
(Some prefer thyme, some rosemaiy, some melilote : many a rose
is plucked, and there are, too, flowers unnamed. She herself
[i.e. Proserpine] picks slender crocuses and white lilies.)
She has substituted for rorem the word casiam—which is closely
associated with it in Virgil (Georg. II. 213), both being food for
bees—and she has written " melifontos " for " meliloton " (it is a kind
of clover). She has omitted the flowers named in the preceding
11. 437-439, viz. : buttercups, violets, poppies, hyacinths, amaranth.
I can't help feeling a possible connexion with my article pub-
lished in the Classical Review on March 1, 1910. But the connexion
is subtle. I am speaking of passages in Virgil where white lilies
are mentioned, and I name " cassia, vervain, thyme " among low-
growing plants, the favourites of bees. I give the reference (above
noted) to Virgil, Georg. II. 213, which combines "casiam" and
"rorem," but I do not quote it. I am not dealing with Ovid, but
the Fasti passage is very familiar to me (I have read it often with
children in class), and it seems odd that on the day after the
appearance of my talk about white lilies and bee-plants, Mrs.
Holland should write about an Ovidian passage which deals with
white lilies and bee-plants. Ovid, it is true, does not mention bees
;
but to the classical student thyme, cassia, and melilote are typical
bee-plants.
If this is so, the question arises, is this knowledge wholly super-
normal, or did Mrs. Holland see the Classical Pieview which usually
comes out punctually on the first of the month 1 Even so, I don't
see how she could have got any sense of connexion between Ovid's
Proserpine (Fasti) and my article except supernormally.
The point of interest in this is that my article deals with Lethe,
bees, and lilies.
1
It is from the Metamorj>hoxes (probably known to him in Golding's transla-
tion) that Shakespeare takes his allusions, quoted by Mrs. Holland, to Proser-
pine in The Winter s Tale and The Tempest.
24N Alice Johnson. [part
This is the article referred to in Sir Oliver Lodge's paper
above, p. 163, in connexion with the passage about Pluto and
Bees in Mrs. Willett's script of March 7, 1910, quoted on p. 245.
It may, I think, be taken as certain that neither Mrs.
Willett nor Mrs. Holland had seen this paper at the time of
producing the scripts referred to
:
1
but I have read it care-
fully with a view to judging what could be inferred from it
by non-classical readers. Mrs. Verrall mentions bees in con-
nexion with Lethe, but not with Pluto, and it appears to me
very unlikely that Mrs. Willett should have derived this latter
connexion from Mrs. Verrall's paper, even if she had seen it.
As to Mrs. Holland, Mrs. Verrall has stated fully in her
note above the facts bearing on the question of possible con-
nexions between Mrs. Holland's script and her paper, and I
can find no other points in the paper from which, as it appears
to me, Mrs. Holland could have deduced anything that emerged
in this script.
If, then, any connexion exists between the scripts and Mrs.
Verrall's paper, it would seem that it must be telepathic in
origin, for the scripts reflect, not what is stated in the paper,
but some of the topics that would be associated with it in
Mrs. Verrall's mind.
In regard to Mrs. Holland's substitution of casiam for rorem
in the Latin quotation, Mrs. Verrall has quite recently found
that there is a difference of reading among the editors of Ovid
in respect to line 440 of Fasti, Book IV. The older editions in
common use in the early part of last century read casiam, and
it is pretty certain that this would have been the reading known
to Mr. Myers as a boy. Casiam is also the reading of the latest
edition of the Corpus (1894). Merkel, however, (1841) reads
rorem, which was the reading familiar to Mrs. Verrall.
The context of the Ovid quotation in Mrs. Holland's script
has also to be considered.
" Proserpina " is mentioned twice only in Shakespeare
:
Winters Tale, Act iv. Scene 4 (quoted by Mrs. Holland), and
Troilus and Cressida, Act ii. Scene 1, "as Cerberus is at
Proserpina's beauty."
1
1 have made special enquiries on this point in regard to Mrs. Holland and
Mrs. Verrall has done the same in regard to Mrs. Willett.
lxiil] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. IV.)
Dis is mentioned twice only, in the Winter's Tale and
Tempest, both quoted by Mrs. Holland. The Troilus and
Cressida passage does not refer to the story of Proserpine,
so Mrs. Holland has included in her script of March 2 ;
1910,
the only two references by Shakespeare to the story, both of
which are derived from Ovid's Metamorphoses.
She follows them up with a quotation from Borneo and Juliet
:
" Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds."
"Fiery-footed steeds" is a translation of Ovid, Met. II. 392,
where in his account of the story of Phaethon he speaks of:
" ignipedum vires . . . equorum " (the strength of the fiery-
footed horses).
1
This, then, is another unmistakeable allusion by Mrs. Holland
to Ovid, as represented in Shakespeare.
Thus her script of March 2, 1910, represents—not only a
combination of the two Ovid versions of the story of Proser-
pine with Shakespeare's two allusions to one of those versions
(a combination which may possibly be found in some passage of
literary criticism, though we have not been able to trace any
such), but in addition an allusion to another Ovid story, viz.
that of Phaethon.
The script shows at least more knowledge of Ovid than can
be derived from Shakespeare, who was apparently unacquainted
with the Fasti.
As to the actual quotation from the Fasti, it is of course
impossible to prove that Mrs. Holland had not casually seen
this somewhere, and reproduced it from her subconscious memory.
That she was not aware of having recently seen any Latin
phrases is shown by her letter to me, quoted above, where she
remarks that the script " tries to get a few Latin words "
; for
it is her custom to tell me whenever she can trace the origin
of such in her script.2
Enquiries made later have failed to
throw any light on this.
1
The word ignipes (Mrs. Verrall tells me) is used only twice in Latin
poetry: (1) by Ovid, as above; (2) by Statius, Thtb. I. 27, in a passage
deliberately recalling the passage in Ovid.
2
Latin phrases, generally very familiar ones, occur occasionally, but by no
means often, in her script. Greek words are still more rare. In several cases
she has traced these latter to words casually seen in the midst of her ordinary
English reading, and reproduced in an apparently mechanical and unintelligent
way.
250 Alice Johnson. [part
It may be worth adding that Tennyson in his Dcmeter and
Persephone, which has already been mentioned as the source of
several of the factors in this cross-correspondence, follows closely
Ovid's version of the story, and that the same version seems to
lie behind Mrs. Piper's references to Proserpine on March 24,
1908, and Mrs. and Miss Verrall's references in Aug. and
Sep. 1908.
It was, as shown above, MyersP who originated the " Proser-
pine " cross-correspondence, and who in other cases had shown
evidence of knowledge of Ovid. Mrs. Holland's 0 vidian
references (made, it is to be noted, before any reports on these
Piper sittings had been published) were to passages known to
Mrs. Verrall ; whereas the Piper Ovidian references to " Lethe
"
were not known to Mrs. Verrall. But in both cases it is
" Myers " who claims to be the communicator of the Ovidian
references, and with Ovid, as we know from the autobiographical
passages in Fragments of Prose and Poetry (p. 17), Frederic
Myers was intimately acquainted.
(5) Door Key.
For the details of this cross-correspondence, see Mrs. Verrall's
paper above, pp. 193-204.
(6) Birds and Turkeys.
Mrs. Holland at the end of a long script produced on
Dec. 9th, 1908, and immediately after a passage quoted in
connexion with the " Sesame and Lilies " incident (Proceedings,
Vol. XXIV. p. 32 0), writes as follows:
and a path between —
LXIII.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 251
I attached no meaning to this.
On May 11th, 1909, I saw Mrs. Holland and read over
with her a quantity of her recent script, so that she might
as far as possible identify the quotations which I had not
traced. On coming to the " Mallard " and drawing of birds,
she said that it reminded her of a College song, " Let All
Souls' men have their mallard."
Later when it occurred to me that this might have a possible
connexion with a phrase in Mrs. Piper's script, I asked
Mrs. Holland to look up this song, which she found in
The Minstrelsy of Isis : Poems relating to Oxford, edited by
J. B. Firth. The first verse is as follows
:
" Griffin, Turkey, Bustard, Capon,
Let other hungry mortalls gape on,
And on their bones with stomachs fall hard
But let All Souls men have the mallard."
The mallard feast is, it appears, held at All Souls' College
within a night or two of All Souls' Day (i.e. November 2nd),
and this was an old drinking song associated with the
ceremony.
The corresponding parts of Mrs. Piper's script are
:
{April 6, 190S.) G. B. D. Now shall I give you a new message?
(Hand assents.)
G. B. D. It refers to the landing of the Pilgrim Fathers here and
the first settlement of this country.
" The breaking waves dashed high
On a stern and rock-bound coast."
Do you understand what " Pilgrim Fathers " means 1
Something about birds or turkeys
(G. B. D. explains. The hand suddenly rushes down to the paper
and writes :) Pilgrim's Progress ! Yes, Pilgrim Fathers.
G. B. D. Now you understand about the "breaking waves" and the
" rock-bound coast " 1 I think you can make a mental
picture of it which may help you in giving it to the
other Lights.
Good, I understand well. Breaking waves ?
G. B. D. Yes, breaking on a stern and rocky coast.
252 Alice Johnson. [part
(April 22, 1908.) G. B. D. I have just discovered the association
in R. H.'s mind between turkeys and pilgrims that made
the Light write the one when I spoke of the other,
—
Pilgrim Fathers, Fast Day, Thanksgiving and Turkey.
(Hand expresses great satisfaction) I could not think of the
word
(It was evident in the action of the hand that Thanks-
giving is the word meant, and E,. H. the speaker.)
G. B. D. You might add it and turkeys to the message.
(Hand expresses that it will.)
(May 4, 1908.) [On "Thanksgiving" being mentioned:] I said
Turkeys and Birds to Mrs. Holland, and Mrs. V. also.
For the sake of English readers it may be well to explain
that Thanksgiving Day is an American national holiday
appointed—in Massachusetts, at least,—by proclamation by the
Governor of the State. The last Thursday in November is
always the day appointed. It is a feast day which com-
memorates the celebration by the Pilgrim Fathers of their first
harvest in America. On that occasion they found wild turkeys
in the woods and brought them home to add to their feast.
Hence turkeys have always been the staple of Thanksgiving
dinners.
Fast Day commemorates another incident in the history of
the early settlers in Massachusetts. After they had been there
about two years their supplies gave out, and as the expected
ship from England did not arrive, great suffering resulted,
and the Governor ordered a day of fasting and prayer to be
observed. This being done the ship arrived while the people
were praying in church. Within the last few years, Fast Day,
which was gradually transformed into a festival, has been
re-christened Patriots' Day.
The pictorial form used in Mrs. Holland's script on this
occasion may possibly have been derived from Mr. Dorr's
suggestion to Mrs. Piper, " I think you can make a mental
picture of it," whereas the ideas that were apparently most
prominent in Mrs. Piper's trance consciousness,
—" birds or
turkeys " and " breaking waves,"—are roughly represented in
Mrs. Holland's drawing.
lxiil] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 253
The fact that the little known English festival alluded to by
Mrs. Holland and the well-known American one alluded to
by Mrs. Piper both occur in November adds somewhat to the
correspondence.
(7) Sesame and Lilies.
For the details of this cross-correspondence, see Proceedings,
Vol. XXIV., pp. 264-326.
(8) Comus.
Mrs. Holland writes on December 16th, 190S :
The glassy cool translucent wave
—
I want her to draw a recumbent figure not this one the
drawing one—Helen could help. . . .
" The glassy cool translucent wave " is quoted from the
first part of the Attendant Spirit's invocation to Sabrina
in Covins. The first few lines of this (with a few other
passages from Comus) had been read by Mr. Dorr to the
Piper controls on May 4th, 1908, and on May 8th he had
suggested that they should " make one of the other Lights
give the name of Comus, or of Circe, or make some refer-
ence to the poem,—quote some lines from it, perhaps.
1
'
Again
on May 12th he repeated
I read you "Sabrina fair, listen where thou are sitting,
Under the glassy cool translucent wave." Perhaps this,
as a quotation, may help you to give it to the other
Lights.
Thus, besides the lines to " Sweet Echo" quoted above, p. 231,
part of the very passage that Mr. Dorr suggested on this
occasion was reproduced by Mrs. Holland.
A number of allusions to Comus were made in the Piper
sittings, for a full report of which see Mrs. Sidgwick's paper
in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., pp. 196-9.
The " recumbent figure " mentioned in Mrs. Holland's script
as to be drawn by " Helen " is perhaps the nymph Sabrina,
for river deities are normally recumbent in Greek art. The
254 Alice Johnson. [part
Piper controls had also said on May 12th, 190S, that they
would give to Miss Verrall " Caves, nymphs, water-nymphs
and Maid of the Sea, Maidens fair twining their golden locks."
Again in Miss Pope's sitting with Mrs. Piper on December
21st, 1908, MyersP,
indicating a date with more accuracy than
usual, wrote :
[Mrs. Verrall] also wrote, or Helen did, Water nymphs, sprite.
Recently within three Sabbaths.
Miss Verrall produced the following script on November
20th, 1908 :
A hand long and narrow the fingers close together [drawing
of hand] white as alabaster the blue depths of ocean
Of his bones are coral made 1
—in the caves of ocean
where the sea nymphs dwell—mermaids the lure of the
sea—lorelei [drawing of bow and arrow]
and nought shall save the fisherman
whom once that net hath trapped
The arrow, which appears in this script, is often introduced
into the Verrall scripts, apparently as a symbol of a cross-
correspondence. (An instance is to be found in Miss Verrall's
script of Oct. 24, 1908, also in the Mac script of Sept. 12,
1908, both quoted in Mrs. Verrall's paper above, pp. 193-6.)
Miss Verrall's script here closely reproduces the subjects
named in Mrs. Piper's trance, and is also a sort of paraphrase
of the latter part of the Attendant Spirit's invocation to
Sabrina, namely :
" By Leucothea's lovely hands,
And her son that rules the strands
;
By Thetis' tinsel-slippered feet,
And the songs of Sirens sweet
;
By dead Parthenope's dear tomb,
And fair Ligea's golden comb,
Wherewith she sits on diamond rocks
Sleeking her soft alluring locks ;
By all the nymphs that lightly dance
Upon the streams with wily glance ;
1
The Tempest, Act I. Scene 2.
lxiil] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 255
Rise, rise, and heave thy rosy head
From thy coral-paven bed,
And bridle in thy headlong wave,
Till thou our summons answered have.
Listen and save !
"
" Leucothea " means the white goddess, so that " white as
alabaster " would be a suitable phrase to apply to her ; and
the " mermaids the lure of the sea " and the " Lorelei " of the
script are equivalent to the " Sirens " and " Ligea." In
Heme's ballad of the " Lorelei " who lures the fisher boats
on to the rocks
:
" Die schonste Jungfrau sitzet
Dort oben wunderbar,
Ihr goldnes Geschmeide blitzet
Sie kammt ihr goldnes Haar
;
" Sie kammt es mit goldenem Kara me
Und singt ein Lied dabei ;
Das hat eine wundersame
Gewaltige Melodei."
If it be admitted that the resemblances between Miss Verrall's
script and the passage from Comus are too great to be put
down to chance, and that the script really refers to that
passage, whereas Mrs. Holland's script actually quotes from
another part of the same passage, the case may be compared
with the one given by Mrs. Verrall in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV.,
pp. 297-8, where the first stanza of a French poem ("La vie
est vaine ") is closely paraphrased in the Mac script, while the
second stanza of the same poem is quoted in a script of Miss
Verrall's.
(9) Time and Eternity; Prometheus.
(10) Confirmcdion.
These cross-correspondences are contained in Mrs. Holland's
script of December 30th, 1908, the whole of which I quote:
Fer—Fervent—fervency—Forth on the vigil—each take part
Knights of the yet undaunted heart. 1
1
Misquoted from R. L. Stevenson's Our Lady of the Snows:
"Pour forth and bravely do your part,
O knights of the unshielded heart !
"
256 Alice Johnson. [part
(9) The solemn beat of Time swinging through the spheres
to Eternity
—
Here Oh here—we bear the bier of the Spectres of many
a vanished year—Spectres we of the dead time be
—
We bear Time to his tomb in Eternity —" Sun-treader
life and light be thine for ever"—"Lest [sic] oft is peace
in Shelley's mind than calm on waters seen "
—
(7) Con—Context is lacking—Not constant remembrance
—
Con—"Art thou poor yet hast thou golden slumbers—oh
sweet content—to add to golden numbers golden numbers.
The Pleiades—Stars in her hair were 7 —No the Muses
on Helicon—Coniston
—
(10) Coney Island—Confirmation strong as proofs of Holy Writ
—Conlan —Conrad—Connacht—Connecticut—Concord
Confirmed—confirmed oh that is stronger made which was
before bound up with ribs of iron "
—
F. W. H. M.
[the signature is followed by drawings of a bird and other
objects which seem to have no significance.]
The passage marked (7) in the above belongs to the cross-
correspondence " Sesame and Lilies," see Proceedings, Vol. XXIV.,
p. 324.
(9) Time and. Eternity; Prometheus.
It has been suggested to me that the first phrase in the
part of the above script marked (9) is a reminiscence of
Henry Vaughan's poem :
" I saw Eternity the other night,
Like a great Ring of pure and endless light,
All calm, as it was bright
;
And round beneath it Time, in hours, days, years,
Driven by the spheres,
Like a vast shadow moved, in which the world
And all her train were hurled.
Yet some, who all this while did weep and sing,
And sing and weep, soared up into the Ring;
But most would use no wing.
LXIII.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 257
O fools, said I, thus to prefer dark night
Before true light
!
To live in grots and caves, and hate the day
Because it shows the way,
The way, which from this dead and dark abode
Leads up to God,
A way where you might tread the Sun and be
More bright than he
!
But, as I did their madness so discuss,
One whispered thus,
'
This Ring the Bridegroom did for none provide,
But for his Bride.'"
There is a certain resemblance between these passages of the
poem and the Platonic phrase in Miss Verrall's script of
Nov. 19, 1908, quoted below, p. 259.
It seems to me probable that it was from this poem that
Browning derived the word " Sun-treader " in the line quoted
shortly afterwards by Mrs. Holland. This, combined with the
idea of " Time and Eternity," would make a natural association
of ideas between the three quotations that follow in her script,
viz.:
(a) " Here, oh here :
We bear the bier
Of the Father of many a cancelled year
!
Spectres we
Of the dead Hours be,
We bear Time to his tomb in eternity."
This is from Shelley's Prometheus Unbound, Act IV., and is
sung, after the release of Prometheus, by the " Train of dark
Forms and Shadows," which represent " the past Hours."
(b) " Sun-treader, life and light be thine for ever !
Thou art gone from us."
From Browning's Pauline ;
the " Sun-treader " being Shelley.
(c) " Less oft is peace in Shelley's mind
Than calm in waters seen."
From Shelley's To Jane : The Recollection.
R
258 Alice Johnson. [part
Prometheus.
The subject of Prometheus occurred a good many times in
Mr. Dorr's sittings with Mrs. Piper.
On March 24th, 1908, Mr. Dorr read to the control some
lines from the beginning of Mrs. Browning's translation of the
Prometheus of Aeschylus, explaining, without mentioning its
title, that it was " the beginning of a play of Aeschylus, and
Shelley wrote about it also." To which the control replied,
" Yr
es, I understand, let me recall—who was it that was
bound to the rock?" At the next sitting, on March 30th,
the control wrote :
Posthemus—Unbound. I tried and tried to get it through.
[On Mr. Dorr remarking that the name aimed at was
associated in Latin with the word vinctus, the control
added] Bound. I spelt it right that time.
Mr. Dorr then read several more verses from the translation
of Prometheus, and further talk ensued on the subject. In
the waking-stage of this day the name " Prometheus," which
had not been mentioned by Mr. Dorr, was given for the first
time by the control, with a few remarks about him. On
March 31st Mr. Dorr suggested that "Prometheus" would be
a good message to take to the other automatists, and mentioned
various ideas associated with the name which might help in
conveying it, such as the vulture that gnawed his breast, the
rock to which he was bound, and his gifts to man. On
April 7th, in the waking-stage, came the words
:
Fire—From careless man—he taught them all his wiles and
wisdom. Shelley ! He taught them all he knew. And
they were envious of him—Poor Prometheus ! What
would we have known but for him !
Prometheus was referred to again as a message to be taken
with "Fire" and "Art," on April 1.3th, 14th, 22nd and
27th, and May 4th, 8th, 12th and 13th.
The following script about Prometheus was produced by Mrs.
Verrall on Sept. 23, 1908 :
[In Greek. He wrapped up beforehand the fillets and so also the
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 259
veils ; he brings in also the nard. For in a narthex was hidden
the fire by which Prometheus made men like unto gods] 1
In a narthex stem conveyed 2
By the god who disobeyed
Broke the fate, mankind to save
So gave freedom to the slave.
And Ocean's nymphs his loneliness deplore
Floating melodious to the distant shore
Where the dim form of man's immortal friend
Waited the issue and foreknew the end.
There is something else wanted to make this complete—more than
Foreknowledge goes to make a god, and more than sympathy with
suffering. Can't you fill the void in the story 1
Not perhaps yet, try later.
This is the only mention of Prometheus in 282 scripts by
Mrs. Verrall, covering a period of nearly four years.
On the Greek in this script, Mrs. Verrall sends me the
following note
:
The word TvpovKaXvxpev means "wrapped up or hid beforehand,"
and there is a grammar mistake over the word \i'npa.. The word
for fillet is mitra, fern., so that its accusative plural should be mitras :
tas mitras would be " the fillets " (as I knew). The word in the script
ought to come from a singular mitron. But there is no such word.
There is, however, a word miton, meaning thread ; the accusative
plural of which would be ta mita. If this were what is intended
the sentence would very well represent an attempt to indicate cross-
correspondences :
" he concealed beforehand the threads." Anyhow
concealment is clearly an important element in this M. V. script.
Time and Eternity.
A reference to " Time and Eternity " occurred in a passage
in Miss Verrall's script of November 19th, 1908, as follows:
Time's hour glass whose sands never run out—Time and
eternity. [In Greek : Time is as it were an image of
eternity given (?) to men.] 3
1
irpovKoXvpev to. fiirpa u>o-avTus Kai to. Ka\vfi/j.ara eicrcpepei Kai tou uapoov. eu
yap vdp6r]KL Ka\v/Jtp.euou to trvp u> Tlpofj.rjdevi tovs dudpurrovs dioiffiu eoi/f6ras twoirjo-e.
2
iHschylus, Prometheus Vinctus, passim.
3
XP°"0s wairep eiKuv tis ecrrt tov aiwviov rots avOpwirois 5e5w/
ul
ue<'os.
260 Alice Johnson. [part
I asked Mrs. Verrall in March, 1911, whether she could
trace the origin of the Greek in this script, and after a
little investigation she replied :
I find the phrase "Time an Image of Eternity" in Plato's Timaeus,
which Helen has read and known well.
(Ch. X.) Troiei fikvoi'Tos alwvos ev evl Kar apiOpov toucrai' altnviov eiKova,
tovtov ov 81] ypovov Mvopo.Kapev.
Translation (by R. D. Archer-Hind) " [while God was ordering the
universe], he made of eternity that abides in unity an eternal image
moving according to number, even that which we have called time."
There is no doubt whatever that the H. V. script reproduces this
:
it has the words eiKwv (image) and almv (eternity), atwvtos (the
eternal), and xP'n'
0<s (time).
The passage is difficult, and R. D. A.-H. has a long note on the chief
difficulty, —that time is described as an eternal image of eternity. The
H. V. script gets out of the difficulty by leaving out the adjective
(eternal) and inserting the qualifying wv-rrep, " as it were," " Time is, as
it were, an image of the Eternal given to men." The word for
given is ungrammatical, though it is plain enough what is meant
;
and the gender of "image," ei/c&v, is incorrect.
This interpretation by Mrs. Verrall of Miss Verrall's script
as reminiscent of the Timaeus was made in ignorance of the
suggestion made to me by another friend about a month earlier,
that Mrs. Holland's phrase about " Time and Eternity " was
reminiscent of Vaughau's poem ; but it will be seen that there is
a close resemblance between the Timaeus passage and the poem,
which happened to be unknown both to Mrs. and Miss Verrall.
Miss Verrall's script deviates from its original source in
describing Time as given to men, and this seems the only link
—
if link it can be called—between her scripts and the " Prome-
theus " scripts of Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Verrall, both of which
refer to Prometheus' gifts to men.
Another unmistakable link, however, is provided by Mrs.
Holland's script, which was the latest of the four, and which
combines the topics " Time and Eternity " and " Prometheus
"
in a single quotation from Shelley's Prometheus Unbound.
I wish to lay special stress on this case, because it seems to
me to fulfil the condition suggested by Mr. Piddington in his
well-known experiment of the " Latin Message," which he gave
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 261
to Mrs. Piper's trance personalities at the end of 1906. The
suggestion he made to them, translated into English, runs as
follows
:
1
" Try to give to A. and B. two different messages, between
which no connexion is discernible. Then as soon as possible
give to C. a third message, which will reveal the hidden
connexion."
Now here Mrs. Verrall's script of Sep. 23, 1908, states
explicitly " There is something else wanted to make this com-
plete "
;
possibly meaning that a cross-correspondence is being
attempted. The Greek part of the same script also refers to
something wrapped up, or concealed, beforehand, i.e. to some hidden
design in the references. Between this and Miss Verrall's script
of Nov. 19, 1908, I think it may fairly be said that "no con-
nexion is discernible." But in Mrs. Holland's script of Dec.
30, 1908, a "hidden connexion" between the two earlier ones
is revealed.
Mrs. Verrall, it is true, refers to the Prometheus of Aeschylus,
while Mrs. Holland refers to the Prometheus of Shelley ; but
this connects the Holland script with the Piper sittings, in which
Shelley was mentioned as well as Aeschylus, while the Piper
trance utterances are clearly connected with Mrs. Verrall's
script.
(10) Confirmation
.
The passage marked (^10) in Mrs. Holland's script of
Dec. 30, 1908, contains two quotations from Shakespeare:
(a) "Trifles light as air
Are to the jealous confirmations strong
As proofs of holy writ :
"
(Othello, Act III. Scene 3.)
(b) " Confirm'd, confirm'd ! O, that is stronger made
Which was before barr'd up with ribs of iron !
"
(Much Ado about Nothing, Act iv. Sc. 1.)
Note also that the syllable " con- " occurs thirteen times in
the script besides in these cpuotations
:
Con—Context—Constant—Con—Content —Helicon —Coniston
—Coney—Conlan—Conrad—Connacht—Connecticut—Concord.
J
See Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 313.
262 Alice Johnson. [part
A connexion is perhaps intended with Mrs. Verrall's script
of April 30, 1908, which, like Mrs. Holland's, claims to come
from Frederic Myers, and contains the word " confirmation " with
two other words beginning with " con- " and clearly indicates that
a cross-correspondence is intended. The passage is as follows
:
Not the only test word has been given between you and
Helen there are other words to be similarly used when
the time comes. And confirmation could I think be
obtained by others help. Anyhow why not try for con-
temporary corroboration. Thus : Conversation about a
dulcimer, ask to whom that recalls something.
A slight contribution to the same cross-correspondence is to
be found in Mrs. Piper's sittings as follows
:
(May 12, 1908.)
(Waking-stage.)
[after reference to a number of messages :]
They told me to take Winged Victory, and Spire,
Conformation
Altar—Altar—and Chancel
I have travelled many miles to get those to you, George
(May 13, 1908.) G. B. D. Then she spoke of Conformation.
Confirmation it should be.
(11) Mercury.
(12) Exile.
"
(13) Shelley's Skylark.
These topics occur explicitly or implicitly in Mrs. Holland's
script of February 10th, 1909, as follows:
(11) And e'en with Paradise devised the Snake.
Man's forgiveness give and take. 1
Beat beat beat in a regular muffled cadence—Caduceus
—
The dog tooth Mercury has not yet begun to bud
—
Propert—Property—Prospice finem
—
1
Oh, Thou, who man of baser Earth didst make,
And e'en with Paradise devise the Snake
:
For all the Sin wherewith the Face of Man
Is blacken'd—Man's forgiveness give—and take !
E. FitzGerald, Omar Khayyam.
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 263
(12) St. Bridget's Day—St. Bride—Our lady of the mantle green
—
The Phoenix
—
" By feathers green across Casbeen
Are with the splendid anguish gilt." 1
The black lyn
—
Oh Bay of Dublin my heart you're troubling
" 2
Not Lord F. Cavendish he died long ago—his wife
—
The man in a grey coat who drove the car
—
"As at the best it is but this most foul strange and
unnatural
—
3
"Leave your home behind lad and give
your friends your hand "
— 4
In terra pax—donum [sic] donum dulce donum.
(13) Hail to thee blythe [sic] Spirit
Bird thou never wert 5—
Not even a goose.
(11) Mercury.
In this apparently disjointed script, the way in which one
topic leads on by association of ideas to another can be
traced, not perhaps completely, but to a rather striking extent.
The Snake of the first quotation, combined with the word
" cadence," seems to suggest " Caduceus." The Caduceus, or
herald's staff, was originally an olive stick, round which were
twined festoons of wool. Later the festoons became serpents,
1
A. C. Benson, The Phoenix. The marks of omission between the two lines
quoted are in the original script.
2
Oh, Bay of Dublin! how my heart you're troublin',
Your beauty haunts me like a fever dream.
Lady Dufferin, The Bay of Dublin.
3 Murder most foul, as in the best it is,
But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
Hamlet, Act r. Sc. 5.
4
Leave your home behind, lad,
And reach your friends your hand.
A. E. Housman, A Shropshire Lad (in, The Recruit).
5
Shelley, To a Skylark.
264 Alice Johnson. [part
as is frequently found in representations of the Caduceus in
Greek art.
The Dog Mercury (Mercurialis perennis) is a very common
plant having small green flowers, which blooms in April and
May. Its foliage is some of the earliest spring green. The
mention of the Caduceus shows that the script is alluding not
only to the flower, but also to the god Mercury.
Compare with this Miss Verrall's script of April 20th, 1908,
as follows :
Minos and Rhadamanthus and a third
[In Greek : Hermes, leader of souls] 1
the symbol of his office
[here follow two drawings of the Caduceus, or herald's
staff, the symbol of Hermes or Mercury] and the souls
follow
A holly leave or something like that green and prickly a
holly wreath
Troy Laodamia saw a vision too
This script of Miss Verrall's is connected with some utterances
in the waking stage of a Piper sitting of March 23rd, 1908
(see the cross-correspondence " Troy and Joy," in Mrs. Sidgwick's
paper in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. pp. 182-185), when Mercury
was mentioned by Mrs. Piper as one of the items of the cross-
correspondence.
(12) Exile,
The next topic seems to be another re-emergence of a cross-
correspondence between Mrs. Piper and Miss Verrall, the one
entitled " Exile and Moore " in Mrs. Sidgwick's paper (op. cit.
pp. 186-189); and here again the original cross-correspondence
is reproduced only partially. It began with Mrs. Piper, who,
on March 23rd, 1908, wrote "Exile," which "came out with
Moore," or " connected with the word Moore."
Miss Verrall's scripts on this topic are, it will be remembered,
as follows :
(April 27th, 1908.)
The shamrock for Ireland and an English rose
An open book—Dominus illuminatio mea 2
1
Ep/XTJJ \pVXOTTOfXTTO%.
2
The motto of Oxford University. An open book is part of the Oxford
arms.
lxiil] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 265
A golden harp the harp that once through Tara's halls 1
The lute with a single string Watts' picture
(May 16th, 1908.)
By the waters of Babylon- the song of exile in a strange
land
singing in a tongue unknown but the music is sweet and
music is a universal language
Garay mekon no it is useless the harp upon the willows
write that too the harp that once through Tara's halls
A seven-stringed lute the lute of Orpheus Eurydice
clamat 3
Here Miss Verrall quotes twice a line from a poem of
Moore's, referring to an Irish harp, and also refers to exile
and the harp of the exiled Jews in Babylon. Watts'
picture mentioned in her first script is probably the picture
of Orpheus and Eurydice painted in 1869 and now hanging
in the Watts gallery at Compton, in which Orpheus holds
a lute with all the strings broken but one ;
for it seems clear
that the two scripts are connected together, and Orpheus
and Eurydice are explicitly mentioned in the second one. In
the waking stage of Mrs. Piper's trance on March 30, and
again on March 31, 1908, Orpheus and Eurydice had been
mentioned (see Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. pp. 105-6) and Mr.
Piddington in his discussion of these sittings shows that Orpheus
and Eurydice belong to a group of Ovidian references connected
with the answers given by MyersP to Mr. Dorr's question about
Lethe (op. cit., pp. 115-120) and gives reasons for thinking that
MyerSp also had in mind Watts' picture of Orpheus and
Eurydice (op. cit., pp. 130-132), which is thus described in
F. W. H. Myers's "Stanzas on Mr. Watts' Collected Works": 4
For here the Thracian, vainly wise,
Close on the light his love has led ;
—
Oh hearken ! her melodious cries
Fade in the mutter of the dead :
—
1
T. Moore, "The harp that once through Tara's halls
The soul of music shed,
Now hangs as mute on Tara's walls
As if that soul were fled."
'Psalms 137, verses 1-4.
3
Trans. Eurydice cries out. Cf. Virgil, Georg. iv. 494.
4
Fragments of Prose, and Poetry, p. 191.
266 • Alice Johnson. [part
" Farewell' ! from thy embrace I pass,
Drawn to the formless dark alone :
I stretch my hands, —too weak, alas !
And I no more, no more thine own."
The poem deliberately recalls the famous passage in the
Fourth Georgic, to which Miss Verrall's script of May 16,
1908, also alludes, the last four lines of this verse being a
translation of Georg. iv. 497-8.
The same topics are referred to later in the Mac scripts and
in Mrs. Willett's script, given below, but the next script in
chronological order dealing with the general subject of " Exile
"
is Mrs. Holland's of Feb. 10, 1909, quoted above. This
contains nothing about a harp or lute, but consists of a
number of variations on the theme of Exile, chiefly associated
with Ireland in general (and so perhaps by implication with
the harp, as the emblem of Ireland), though not with Moore
in particular, viz. :
(a) " St. Bridget's Day—St. Bride—Our Lady of the Mantle
Green."
The green which is so marked a characteristic of the Dog
Mercury mentioned earlier in the same script seems to lead
on to St. Bridget. Her Day is February 1st. She
founded the important religious house at Kildare, of which
she became Abbess, and which attracted scholars from all
parts of Ireland, as she was a great patroness of educa-
tion and the fine arts. She died in 523, and is regarded
as the chief woman saint of Ireland, being often spoken of in
association with the Virgin. She is called St. Bride of the
Mantle and the Foster Mother of Christ,1
from the legend that
she was miraculously transported to Bethlehem on the night
that Christ was born ;
she then took the child in her arms and
covered it with her mantle and nursed it all through the night.
In the Hebrides she is regarded as " the aid-woman of mothers."
There is a story of Fiona Macleod's,2
which begins with an
1
The legends and folk-lore connected with St. Bride and referred to in the
text are chiefly taken from Carmina Gadelica : Hymns and Incantations, with
illustrative notes on words, rites and customs, dying and obsolete ;
orally collected
in the Highlands and islands of Scotland, and translated into English. By
Alexander Carmichael (Edinburgh, 1900).
2 " St. Bride of the Isles " in the volume Spiritual Tales.
lxiil] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 267
account of the banishment of St. Bride's father from Ireland
immediately after her birth, when he went to Iona, taking her
with him, so that she was an exile from Ireland. There may
possibly be some allusion to this banishment in the script,
though Mrs. Holland tells me that she never read the story,
and I have failed to find any foundation, either historical or
legendary, for its opening.1
The subjects associated with St.
Bridget in the script seem at least to refer to Scotch as well as
to Irish legends of her. Thus " the Snake " ;
—the Serpent was
supposed in Scotland 2
to emerge from its hollow among the
hills on St. Bride's Day, and a propitiatory hymn was sung to it
:
" To-day is the Day of Bride,
The serpent will come from its hole
;
I will not molest the serpent,
Nor will the serpent molest me."
One of the customs of St. Bride's Day was the pounding of the
serpent in eftigy.
Innumerable charms to guard against various evils, or to assist
all sorts of domestic arts and operations, are associated with the
name of " the golden-haired Bride," and it was perhaps the invoca-
tions of St. Bride and the Virgin in connexion with the important
functions of the kindling and " smooring " of the fire that led on
the automatist to write next of the Phoenix. But St. Bridget is
especially associated with the spring, for " it is on her day . . .
[that] the death of the year is done with and the birthday of the
year is come," 3
and this makes another connexion with the
Phoenix, regarded as a symbol of the Eesurrection.
The name Bridget is derived from Brighid or Brio-it, the
Celtic goddess or Muse of Song, daughter of the Dagda, who,
like Orpheus, had a wonder-working harp.4
1
The story as a whole is founded on "The Genealogy of Bride
7
'
in Alexander
Carmichael's Carmina Gadelica (Vol. I. p. 165). I fancy that "Fiona Macleod "
(the literary secondary personality of William Sharp) invented the opening part
in consequence of his great affection for Iona and interest in St. Bride, so
that he liked to imagine that she, as well as St. Columba, had actually lived
there.
'-It is well known that there are no snakes in Ireland, since they were banished
thence by St. Patrick, who was born about half a century earlier than St. Bride.
3
Lady Gregory, A Book of Saints and Wonders, p. 12.
4
Cours de Literature Celtique, Vol. I. p. 56.
268 Alice Johnson. [part
(b) " The Phoenix." The script quotes two detached lines
from Mr. A. C. Benson's poem of this title, as if to imply
that the whole of it was in the mind of the scribe. It is as
follows
:
1
" By feathers green, across Casbeen,
The pilgrims track the Phoenix flown,
By gems he strewed in waste and wood
And jewelled plumes at random thrown.
" Till wandering far, by moon and star,
They stand beside the fruitful pyre,
Whence breaking bright with sanguine light,
The impulsive bird forgets his sire.
" Those ashes shine like ruby wine,
Like bag of Tyrian murex spilt
;
The claw, the jowl of the flying fowl
Are with the glorious anguish gilt.
" So rare the light, so rich the sight,
Those pilgrim men, on profit bent,
Drop hands and eyes and merchandise,
And are with gazing most content."
This poem seems a sort of conglomerate of the older oriental
myth of the Phoenix with its later forms, as adopted into early
Christian symbolism. Ambrose, e.g., used the Phoenix as a
symbol of the Resurrection and there is a famous Anglo-Saxon
poem on the subject, probably written in the latter half of
the eighth century and attributed to Cynewulf.2
The poem
1
In answer to enquiries about this poem, Mr. Benson writes to me: "I
dreamed the whole poem in a dream, in 1894, I think, and wrote it down in the
middle of the night on a scrap of paper by my bedside. I have never had a
similar experience, and, what is more curious, it is a lyric of a style which I
have never attempted before or since. ... I really can offer no explanation
either of the idea of the poem or its interpretation. It came to me so
(apparently) without any definite volition of my own that I don't profess to
understand or to be able to interpret the symbolism."
It is quoted here in full, by the kind permission of the author and of the
publisher, from The Poems of A. G. Benson (London: John Lane, The Bodley
Head, 1909), p. 263.
2
See Stopford Brooke's History of Early English Literature, in which a trans-
lation of a great part of the poem is given.
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 269
describes the Paradise in which the Phoenix lives alone,—
a
Happy Isle, like the Elysian Fields of Homer or the Earthly
Paradise of Dante. Once in every thousand years, attended
by troops of birds, he flies far to the Syrian land, where in a
desert place on a high tree he makes his nest for death.
There " in a season of calm weather," when the wind is still
and the clouds are cleared away and every storm under heaven is
hushed, he builds his nest and sets it on fire. The young
Phoenix, who rises out of the ashes, gathers together the relics
of the parent body and, covering them with herbs, takes them
in his claws and flies back with them to his native land.
" All men and all the birds flock to see his flight, but he
outstrips their sight and comes alone to his happy isle, where
once more he dwells in the grove, delighting in the welling
streams."
The lifediistory of the Phoenix, then, might possibly be
regarded as another illustration of the idea of Exile.
(c) " The black lyn, etc." Here the script returns definitely
to Irish associations : the name " Dublin " or " Duibh-linn
"
means the black pool. Next comes a quotation from a song
by an Irishwoman, Lady Dufferin, whose best known poem is
'
The Irish Emigrant," and afterwards a reference to the
Phoenix Park murders, probably suggested by the previous
mention of the Phoenix. Then come two further quotations
referring to the general topic of exile from home. " Dulce
donum " (sweet gift) is of course a misquotation of " dulce
domum " (sweet home), but there seems a double meaning in
it, for it immediately follows the words " in terra pax," and
the peace brought down to earth might be called a " sweet
gift."
Exile—Continued.
The following references in the Mac scripts seem specially
connected with Miss Verrall's scripts of April 27th and
May 16th, 1908, quoted above, which had not been seen
by the Mac family at the time the following scripts were }
obtained.
27o Alice Johnson. [part
(June 27, 1909)
And Tara's harp is hung.
{August 24, 1909)
You see it is just as well to send it by driblets. 1
Easier
for you to see contact with Helenns (sic). The mind is
mased (sic) by the mass of material. . . .
He only grasped a shadow
Eurydice I mean—you forget—poor wretch.
Both these scripts purported to come from the Sidgwick
control, who is the one associated with evidential matter in the
Mac scripts of 1908 dealt with in Mrs. Verrall's paper in.
Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. pp. 264-318.
The words " he only grasped a shadow " are a translation
of Virgil, Georg. iv. 501, " Presantem nequiquam umbras," so
that in this Mac script, as well as in Miss Verrall's script of
May 16, 1908, the allusion is not only to the story of
Orpheus and Eurydice, but also to Virgil's version of that
story, which is the one used by F. W. H. Myers in his poem
quoted above.
Miss Verrall's script returns to the subject on Feb. 5, 1910,
in the following phrases :
2
When the sound of the harp is mute
and the waters of Babylon
This must be regarded as a normal reminiscence of the
cross-correspondence on " Exile," which was known to Miss
Verrall at the time ; but it seems to be supernormally con-
nected with the emergence of the same topic in Mrs. Willett's
script five days later.
Mrs. Willett, on Feb. 10, 1910,3
immediately following on the
1
This sentence no doubt refers to Miss Mac's custom of sending the scripts
at intervals to Mrs. Verrall, " Helenn " being of course Miss Verrall.
2
For the whole of this script and a discussion of it, see Mrs. Verrall's
paper above, p. 212.
:;
For the whole of this script, see ISir Oliver Lodge's paper above, pp. 148-
150.
lxiti.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 271
passage quoted above (p. 244-5) under the Cross-correspondence
" Proserpine " wrote :
Swinburne. By the waters of Babylon we sat down and
wept when we remembered thee oh Zion . . .
Homer and Horace the thought allied but I cannot get it
clear
Watts Watts
you are getting dim Enough
As explained in Mrs. Verrall's paper above (p. 209) there
is probably a double reference here,—to the title of Swin-
burne's poem, Super Flumina Bdbylonis, as well as to the
opening words of Psalm 137. Mrs. Willett had seen Miss
Verrall's script of April 29, 1909 (quoted in Mrs. Verrall's
paper above, p. 186), in which the phrase "By the waters of
Babylon " occurs, but she did not know that it had at any
time formed part of a cross-correspondence, or that there had
been a cross-correspondence on the topic Exile. Considering
how much evidential matter is contained in this whole script
of Mrs. Willett's, there seems strong ground for supposing, as
suggested by Sir Oliver Lodge (see above, p. 155), that
" Watts—Watts " belongs to the same general topic and refers
to the picture by Watts, which was presumably alluded to
by Miss Verrall on April 27, 1908 (see above, p. 265).
It is noteworthy that while in Mrs. Holland's script of
Nov. 25, 1908, certain cross-correspondences that had emerged
separately in the scripts of other automatists,—viz. " Echo,"
" Nightingale," and " Proserpine," were all associated together
;
so in Mrs. Willett's script of Feb. 10, 1910, another single
cross-correspondence, hitherto disconnected,—viz. " Exile,'"—is
added to this group, a link being found in the notion,
common to all, of the contrast between memory and forget-
fulness. This idea is clenched in the passage from Mrs.
Holland's script of Feb. 16, 1910, already quoted:
I shall remember while the light lives yet
And in the darkness I shall not forget.
272 Alice Johnson. [part
(13) Shelley s Oclc " To a Skylark."
At the end of Mrs. Holland's script of Feb. 10, 1909, and
apparently quite disconnected from what precedes them, occur
the first two lines of this poem (see above, p. 263). This is
another case (cf. the cross-correspondence " Comus," No. 8 above,
p. 253) where a quotation suggested by Mr. Dorr to be given
through " one of the other Lights " appeared in her script.
It was referred to in Mrs. Piper's trance as follows :
(May 4th, 1908.)
G. B. D. You spoke of Shelley's poem the Skylark the other day ;
1
perhaps you could get one of them to quote for you
some lines from it.
We will impress her to write it.
(Waking-stage.)
Which would you rather be, G.I A mermaid at the bottom
of the sea [i.e. Sabrina, see cross-correspondence " Comus "]
or a spirit blithe and gay and free [i.e. Shelley's Sky-
lark] 1 Answer that when you are free. No hurry
about it.
(May 8th, 1908.)
G. B. D. We agreed the other day upon Shelley's poem the Skylark
as a message.
(The hand makes successive upward-darting movements like
a lark ascending).
G. B. D. And you were going to try and make one of the other Lights
write some lines from that. And if you can do that, I
think you may be able to make them write some lines
from Comus too. They both must be familiar to some
among the other Lights.
(
JVaking-stage.
)
We said Ode, and we said Skylark, and we wrote them.
And she drew a bird.
Again in the sitting with Miss Pope on Dec. 9th, 1908,
quoted above, p. 233, comes the phrase " The lark is on the wing,"
which seems to be a reminiscence of the same message.
1
I.e. on April 22nd, 1908; see cross-correspondence "Cyclops and Hercules"
below, p. 281.
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 273
(14) Charon and Styx.
Mrs. Holland's script of April 1st, 1909, begins as follows:
Charonic. The staircase for the unheard unseen feet of the
returning.
The word " returning " is clearly used here in the sense of
revenants (ghosts).
In her script of April 11th, 1909, occurs the following
passage
:
The present occupant of my old rooms—News of him—No
—I was not concerned with that last message—it was
Myers—Not here the other side of the herring pond
—
"Piper sit thee down and write
In a book that all may read." 1
The Stygian River
—
In the letter accompanying this, Mrs. Holland told me that
she regarded "The Stygian River" as a quotation from E. A. Poe.
It occurs in the first lines of his poem Lenore
:
" Ah, broken is the golden bowl
!
the spirit flown forever !
Let the bell toll ! a saintly soul
floats on the Stygian River."
Mr. Piddington, seeing these scripts shortly afterwards, wrote
to me of the first
:
This is an undoubted reference to the i<Xljxa^ ^apuveios, i.e.
Charon's (or Charonean) staircase, "a staircase in the [Greek]
theatre, leading up to the stage as if from the world below, by
which adiosts entered." 2
Charon's staircase is referred to, I am told, in Donaldson's
Theatre of the Greeks and Haigh's Attic Theatre.
I wrote on April 24th, 1909, to ask Mrs. Holland what,
if anything, was suggested to her mind by the passage quoted
above from her script of April 1st, and she replied on April
27th, 1909: "I cannot see that Charon, the ferryman of the
1
W. Blake, Introduction to "Songs of Innocence."
- Liddell and Scott's Greek Dictionary.
S
274 Alice Johnson. [part
Styx, has any earthly—or unearthly—connection with a stair-
case." Later enquiries elicited that she had not either read
or seen Donaldson's Theatre of the Greeks or Haigh's Attic
Theatre, and she adds :
" I have no knowledge of the Greek
Theatre."
It is to be noted that these enquiries were not made until
after the second script—that of April 11th—had been written.
The latter obviously purports to be inspired by Dr. Hodgson
(though his name is not mentioned), and refers to some
message alleged to have been given in America at a sitting
with Mrs. Piper, who is not infrequently alluded to in this
punning manner in the Holland script. " The present occu-
pant of my old rooms " may perhaps be taken to mean Mr.
Dorr, who, though not occupying Dr. Hodgson's rooms in a
literal sense, was taking the place he had so long held in
regard to Mrs. Piper's sittings.
The message is stated to be " The Stygian River," whereas
" Styx " had been claimed (see below) in Mrs. Piper's trance
as a message that had been given to Mrs. Holland.
The following are the passages in which " Charon " and
" Styx " were referred to by Mrs. Piper
:
(March 16, 1908.) G. B. D. Who was Charon ?
I remember Charon perfectly well
G. B. D. What did he do ?
I remember father, if I understand the name
G. B. D. No, you have not got it yet
Oh, I am thinking of Aeneas's father 1
G. B. D. I would like to have you take off with you the word
Charon to work over. Charon was associated with a
river ;
try and recall it ... .
Yes, I will think it all out for you ;
give me time
1
For the context of this extract, see Mrs. Verrall's paper, Proceedings,
Vol. XXIV. p. 72. On March 10th Mr. Dorr had asked Myersp what was the
name of Aeneas's father. Mrs. Verrall explains that it was appropriate that
the mention of Charon should recall the father of Aeneas, for it was on his
visit to his father in Hades that Aeneas used the services of Charon.
lxiil] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 275
(March 17, 1908.) What was that word you asked me about,
beginning with C 1
G. B. D. It is Charon
Spell it
G. B. D. Shall I spell it in Greek ? (Hand nods assent. G. B. D. spells
it accordingly in Greek letters. Hand dashes down before
the word has been quite spelt through and draws vehe-
mently a series of parallel lines)
G. B. D. What does that mean ?
Sticks . . .
STICKS
G. B. D. [after an attempt to get the English letters of Charon written
as he gives the Greek ones :] What has Charon to do
with Styx ?
(Rough drawing of boat is here made) Boat
G. B. D. Splendid.
More
G. B. D. Tell me more about Charon and what he had to do with
the Styx.
Ferry. FERRY
(March 23, 190S.) (The hand draws a series of short straight parallel
lines)
G. B. D. Did you try to give 1
anything besides these ?
Ferry.
G. B. D. Did you write Ferry 1
I did certainly. Time may come, time may go, but I go
on for ever. Ferry
1
This question refers to the messages attempted to be transmitted to other
automatists. Mr. Dorr means : Did you try to make one of the other auto-
matists do anything besides drawing a series of lines ?
276 Alice Johnson. [part
G. B. D. Then you wrote "ferry" at the end of these verses'?
Then I signed Ferry. Myers and I drew several lines
(Two more straight parallel lines are here drawn)
{March 24, 1908.) G. B. D. You drew a picture of the Styx by short
straight lines. Whom did you give this to 1
Helen. Also Mrs. H. [i.e. Mrs. Holland]
(March 30, 190S.) G. B. D. [referring to what messages have got
through :] Styx 1
Yes, three (hand draws three parallel lines)
G. B. D. Angels, written with the word procession 1
Yes— She did not understand Sticks.
On April 14th it is stated that Styx has now been given
to "the other Lights" and is done with. On April 21st, on
Mr. Dorr reading out this statement, the word <:
Styx " is spelt
correctly for the first time, it having been previously spelt
" Sticks."
It will be seen that a claim is made that " Styx " has been
transmitted to Miss Verrall and Mrs. Holland. Charon and
Styx occurred a year later, as shown above, in Mrs. Holland's
script, and an echo of the same subject is perhaps to be found
in Miss Verrall's script of Sep. 5, 1908, quoted below, p. 282,
which contains the words
:
Go not to Lethe and the river of wailing too Upon the
shore they stood and stretched their arms.
The " river of wailing " is Cocytus, a river in Hades very
near the Styx, and it is the unburied dead who stand there,
stretching out their arms in longing for Charon to come and
carry them across. This same script contains, it will be seen,
another cross-correspondence with Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Piper
on " Hercules."
(15) Medusa's Head.
In the middle of a long script of Mrs. Holland's on April 11,
1909, part of which is quoted above, comes the phrase:
Cassiopea swings low in the midnight sky—-A shallow Spring
sky—not the velvety tropic depths of dark that we have
seen
—
lxiil] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script, 277
It is true that the constellation of Cassiopeia is at its
lowest " in the midnight sky " from the middle of February
to the middle of April. Cassiopeia, as the mother of Andromeda,
is intimately connected with her rescuer Perseus. Their story is
described in Mrs. Holland's script of May 19, 1909, as follows:
Pershore —pericarp—Persia —Perseus—The Fateful Head—
-
Medusa—The mirrored shield and the winged sandals of
swiftness
—
Take this for sign—One eye only among the three—passed
from one to another that each might see by turns
—
She is still within sound of the sea but not by such rocks
as Andromeda knew while she waited for the coils of the
sea monster to lift curling among the slow ripples at the
margin of the sand
—
Mrs. Piper's references to Medusa's Head were as follows
:
March 31st, 190S.
(Waking-stage.)
(A word is whispered indistinctly which G. B. D. first wrote
down as Fefeus and then as Theseus, the first part of
the word still remaining thick and indistinct)
Took the head through the air and then the blood dropped
down and Pallas made it
—
I said P theus ! I don't know what he's talking about!
During the next sitting, on April 6th, Mr. Dorr enquired
• £
whose head was it and who took it ? But don't try to answer
this now, leave it to tell me in the subliminal." In the waking
stage of the same day Mrs. Piper said
:
War, Minerva
Took the head and out of the head the blood dropped
down to the earth and out of the blood sprang the
winged horse.
{April 7th, 1908.)
[On the above sentence being read by Mr. Dorr to the trance
personality, the hand wrote :]
Horse. Peg— —
278 Alice Johnson. [part
G. B. D. Are you not confused here over two memories 1
Perhaps I am, read and clear me.
G. B. D. I won't read now, but you understand what Pegasus stood
for, don't you?
I understand pretty well.
G. B. D. You remember his flight into the sky 1 You have just spoken
of it [Pegasus and his flight into the sky had been
mentioned earlier in the sitting]
Oh yes, I said it to her but perhaps she did not understand.
Medusa's head
—
G. B. D. Now you will remember this tale and that it is a different
one from that of Pegasus
—
Minerva comes in here, I faintly recall it
1
The details already mentioned were repeated in the waking
stage of this day, and at the next sitting, on April 13th, when
Mr. Dorr mentioned " Medusa," the hand wrote :
P cut off the head
Later in the sitting Mr. Dorr suggested that " Medusa's
head " would be a good message to take to the other Lights,
adding :
" Describe it if you can as you have to me, carried
through the air and dropping blood." In the waking stage of
this day the name Perseus was given clearly for the first
time.
Medusa's head was mentioned again on April 14th, 21st
and 22nd, and on April 27th Mr. Dorr remarked: "It may
help you to give it if you recollect the effect the head had
on those who beheld it." At which the hand made a gesture
expressive of great horror and wrote, " Bad, 'wicked."
On May 4th "Snakes" was associated by the trance-personality
with " Medusa's head," and on May 8th Mr. Dorr talked further
about it as a message.
1
When Perseus cut off Medusa's head, the blood sinking into the earth pro-
duced the winged horse Pegasus. Minerva caught and tamed him and presented
him to the Muses.
lxiil] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 279
On May 12th the trance-personality wrote that it had been
received by Mrs. Holland, who had written " Blood—Horse
—
Head, etc.," and on May 13th, 1908, in connexion with Medusa's
head, it wrote :
Doesn't Pallas come in here 1 Her gift— head.
It has been seen that Mrs. Holland, like Mrs. Piper, refers to
the head of Medusa, Perseus, and the gifts of Pallas (namely,
" the mirrored shield and the winged sandals of swiftness," by
which Perseus was helped to find Medusa and to cut off her
head). But she makes no reference to Pegasus, and she brings
in other details of the Perseus myth,—such as the three Grey
Sisters and the rescue of Andromeda from the sea monster,-
—
which are not mentioned by Mrs. Piper.
(16) Cyclops and Hercules.
Mrs. Holland's script of April 14th, 1909, contains the
following :
The Cyclops
" In valour is not Love an Hercules
Still climbing trees in the Hesperides " 1
Kennst du das Land 1
2
The Isle of the Hesperides, as a sort of earthly Paradise,
seems here to lead on to the country described in Mignon's
song
:
" Kennst du das Land, wo die Citronen bluhn,
Im dunkeln Laub die Gold-Orangen gluhn,
Ein sanfter Wind vom blauen Himmel weht,
Die Myrte still und hoch der Lorbeer steht,
"Kennst du den Berg und seinen Wolkensteg 1
Das Maulthier sucht im Nebel seinen Weg,
In Hohlen wohnt der Drachen alte Brut
;
Es stiirzt der Fels und iiber ihn die Fluth."
1
Love's Labour Lost, Act iv. Sc. 3.
3
Goethe, "Mignon's Song " in Wilhelm Meister's Lehrjahre.
280 Alice Johnson. [part
Here, as in the garden of the Hesperides, we have citrons
and oranges (the golden apples of the Hesperides being sup-
posed to be the oranges of Spain) ; and also a dragon.
On May 12th, 1908, MyersP had claimed that "Cyclops"
had been given to Mrs. Holland, and the topics Cyclops and
Hercules,—or, at least, subjects associated with Hercules,—had
been put together in Mrs. Piper's trance as in Mrs. Holland's
script, as will be seen from the following extracts :
1
(April '22, 190S.) [Hand makes drawing and writes "Centaur," then]
(Hand reaches out and touches G-. B. D. on both eyes and
then upon the centre of the forehead, where it presess
heavily)
G. B. D. Do you mean to describe a creature with a single eye in the
centre of his forehead 1 [i.e. a Cyclops]
Yes. Sophocles
G. B. D. Do you mean that Sophocles wrote of such a one 1
(Hand assents.)
[Mr. Dorr now goes over a number of the topics that had
been chosen for transmission to the other automatists.
the last mentioned being "Atlas." The hand then writes:]
Mrs. Verrall has written a few verses from Browning which
I, Myers, gave her recently from Euripides. 2
Where she
has selected the verses, the words appeal to me and
describe one of our messages here.
[Mr. Dorr notes that he did not know that Browning had
translated any of Euripides' plays, but found that the
1
Part of the record of this sitting has already been quoted in Proceedings,
Vol. XXIV. (pp. 27 and 191-2) in connexion with the garden of the Hesperides
—the subject of a cross-correspondence between Mrs. Piper's and Miss Verrall's
scripts. I give part of it again here to show how this topic became associated
with the Cyclops in Mrs. Piper's trance.
2
In commenting on this passage in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. pp. 25-28, Mr.
Piddington points out that it seems to refer to a cross-correspondence between
Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Holland of which neither Mrs. Piper nor Mr. Dorr
could at that time have had any normal knowledge. Mrs. Verrall's scripts on
March 4th and 25th, 1907, had contained references to the Herades Furens of
Euripides, and Mrs. Holland's script of April 16th, 1907, had referred to
Browning's translation of the same play. See Proceedings, Vol. XXII. pp. 212-
220, not published till some time after Mr. Dorr's sittings.
LXIII.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 281
book he had brought with him to the sitting—A. W.
Pollard's Odes from the Greek Dramatists—contained extracts
both from Browning's translation of the Hercules Furens
and from Shelley's translation of the Cycloids. He pro-
ceeded to read aloud some passages from the former,
one of which was :
" And next to the melodious maids he came,
Inside the Hesperian court-yard : hand must aim
At plucking gold fruit from the appled leaves,
Now he had killed the dragon, backed like flame,
Who guards the unapproachable ; he weaves
Himself all round, one spire about the same."
On hearing these lines, the trance-personality wrote :]
I am listening carefully—Apple—correct. She quoted it in
answer to apple.
[From the context, " she " appears to mean Mrs. Verrall. Mr.
Dorr then read some verses from Shelley's Cyclops, explain-
ing that it was a translation from the Greek, and the
trance-personality, on being asked whose verses they were,
answered :]
Did he write Ode'to the Sky Lark?
[Mr. Dorr assented, and said that he wished to give "Cyclops
' r
as a message to be taken to the other automatists. In
the waking-stage of this day came the words :]
Cyclops—head, snakes.
Atlas, globe on his head and shoulders
Cyclops had one eye in his forehead ....
Cyclops was—Centaur, no, that's mixed ! Half head, half
bodjr
, tell him that. Say, snakes from the head.
Here it is evident that the idea of the Cyclops is confused
with Centaurs and other topics,—such as the garden of the
Hesperides and Atlas,—associated with Hercules, and it certainly
seems remarkable that this combination of unconnected ideas
should occur both in Mrs. Holland's and in Mrs. Piper's script.
On April 27th and May 8th, 1908, the Cyclops is again referred
to as a message to be taken, and on May 12th MyersP claimed,,
as stated above, that it had been given to Mrs. Holland.
282 Alice Johnson. [PART
Meanwhile, on April 22, 1908 (see above), he had maintained
that Mrs. Verrall had quoted Browning's lines about the
Hesperides. This is perhaps one of the instances in which, as
Mrs. Verrall has observed, the trance personalities seem not to
distinguish between her and her daughter's scripts. Miss Verrall,
on September 5th, 1908, produced the following script, part of
which refers to the same subjects as Browning's lines
:
The garden of the sun the golden apples that the dragon
guarded Who stole the apples froward mortal Hesperides
three nymphs no no go not to Lethe 1
and the river of
wailing too Upon the shore they stood and stretched
their arms.
The Principle of Selection in the Production
of Scripts.
" To choose is to create."
—
0. W. Holmes.
In discussing the cross-correspondence of Sevens in my second
report on Mrs. Holland's script,'
2
I gave a detailed analysis of
the various elements in the case, showing the use made in
it both of fragments of the automatists' normal knowledge and
—apparently—of telepathy between the different living persons
concerned ; and pointing out certain features which, in my
view, indicated that the whole scheme might be attributed to
" some other intelligence, which, surveying and selecting from
these diverse elements,—namely, the ideas normally arising in
the minds of the automatists and of Mr. Piddington, and the
play of telepathy between them,—diverted them all to its own
purposes and so shaped the event," The present section is an
attempt to develop further the theory there suggested of the
part which T conceive to be played in the construction of
cross-correspondences by this principle of Selection.
In the great majority of the scripts of all the automatists
here dealt with, including those between which cross-correspon-
1
Keats, Ode on Melancholy. Lethe, it will be remembered, had been
suggested as a subject for cross-correspondence in this same sitting of April
22, 1908, with Mrs. Piper. (See Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. p. 191.)
- Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. pp. 254-263.
LXIII.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script, 283
dences are to be found, the actual contents of each script
relate to facts, topics, or ideas known and more or less familiar
to the writer who produces it. In this the scripts resemble
ordinary cases of experimental thought-transference, where the
idea that the agent wishes to transfer relates to something
familiar to the percipient, and telepathy is manifested by the
percipient's selection, out of a number of more or less familiar
ideas, of the particular one that had been thought of by
the agent. Similarly, when a cross-correspondence occurs
between scripts, there seems to be a selection, out of one
automatist's ideas, of something corresponding to what another
has written.
For the automatic writing does not, of course, reproduce all
the ideas in the mind of the automatist. It resembles rather
those dreams which represent one or two trivial ideas chosen
apparently at random out of the dreamer's stock of thoughts.
We can often trace the source of a dream to something recently
seen or heard, but we can seldom or never give a satisfactory
explanation of why that particular thing, rather than a number
of other possible things, should have recurred in the dream.
It can sometimes be attributed to a train of thought, leading
on from one idea to another ; or sometimes to a slight external
stimulus mingling in the train and shaping or distorting it.
But why the train of thought should go in one direction
rather than another, why one external stimulus should affect
it perceptibly and another not, remains mysterious.
The same normal, though obscure, psychological processes
with which we are all familiar in dream and reverie are also
at work in automatic writing. Here, too, we can often trace
the ideas and the phrases to something that has recently passed
through the automatist's mind or to a discoverable train of
thought. And it is probable that, the more we knew of the
circumstances, the more of these links of normal causation
would be discovered, though even then the cpiestion of what
determined the emergence of one idea rather than another
would be difficult to solve.
But while many of the individual scripts considered by
themselves seem explicable by normal causes, some other
factor has to be assumed for the coincidences between them,
granting, as I think it must be granted, that these are too
284 Alice Johnson. [part
numerous to be put clown to chance. As another person may
enter a room and break in on the reverie of a solitary thinker,
and by speech or action may turn or influence the course of his
thoughts ; so this other factor of telepathy (whether from the
incarnate or the discarnate), which seems to act frequently,
though intermittently, and with varying degrees of force, tends
to influence the scripts in such a way as to bring them into
harmony with one another.
The telepathic influence in these cases produces, as is well
known, harmony, and not uniformity. One script does not
give the exact words of another, but expresses the same idea,
or sometimes another aspect of the same idea, in different
words. The absence of any exact resemblance between the
two may be clue to one of two causes : either (a) telepathy
has partially failed, so that the result is only partially success-
ful, or (5) there is a deliberate intention on the part of the
telepathic influence which acts on the scripts to make them
express the same idea differently. Of course we cannot
assume that there is any such deliberate intention unless we
have some fairly definite evidence of it. If two scripts express
ideas which are clearly parts of one whole,—for instance, if one
gives " Julius " and the other " Caesar,"—the whole idea is
better
—
i.e. more precisely—expressed than if both gave
" Julius," for Julius would apply to many more people than
Julius Caesar.
On the other hand, if one script gave " Brutus " and the
other " Caesar," we should infer that there might have been
some telepathy between the two scripts, but that, if so, it was
only partially successful ; the second script, we should suppose,
ought to have given " Brutus," but only got somewhere near it
by giving " Caesar."
In ordinary experiments in thought-transference between
two living persons, cases like this often occur, when the per-
cipient does not reproduce exactly the thought of the agent,
but gives something more or less approximating to it, as if
the attempt had fallen short. But it seldom, if ever, happens
that the percipient gives something which definitely supple-
ments or adds to the agent's thought in such a way that the
two between them give a more complete representation of one
idea than is to be found in either alone, whereas this supple-
lxiil] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 285
mentary character is often found in the scripts relating to the
more complicated cross-correspondences.
To illustrate the difference, compare two cases given above,
"Birds and turkeys" (p. 250), and " Comus " (p. 253). In
the first, the scripts of Mrs. Holland and Mrs Piper do not
supplement one another ;
they express two separate and
distinct, though similar, things,—not two parts of one idea. It
seems probable, therefore, that the difference between them
was not deliberately caused, but that it happened uninten-
tionally. The case thus resembles a partially successful experi-
ment in thought-transference.
In the second case, " Comus," Mrs. Holland quotes a phrase
from the address to Sabrina, while Miss Verrall gives a para-
phrase of another part of it, and these two scripts, with Mrs.
Piper's trance utterances, supplement one another, giving a
more complete representation of this part of the poem than
any one of them alone. Here, then, the differences between
the scripts afford some evidence of design ;
the supplementary
element in them seems to be what Mr. Balfour calls " pur-
posive." 1
A more definitely complementary relation between two scripts
is seen in the case of " Echo " and i:
Nightingale," in Mrs.
Holland's script of Nov. 25, 1908, and Mrs. Piper's of
Dec. 9, 1908 (see pp. 229 and 233), where Mrs. Holland gives
" Echo " explicitly and " Nightingale " implicitly, and Mrs. Piper
reverses the process.
A somewhat similar kind of complementariness is seen in
the distribution of separate parts of a cross-correspondence
between different automatists. Thus in the " Door—Key " case
(see Mrs. Verrall's paper above, pp. 193-204), Miss Verrall's
script mentions " Door " and Mrs. Holland's gives a drawing of
a key, whereas both words had occurred in the Mac script.
Again, in the " Sesame and Lilies " case (Proceedings, Vol. XXIV.
pp. 264-318), Mrs. Verrall's script mentions "Lilies," and Miss
Verrall's alludes indirectly to " Sesame," shortly after the com-
plete phrase " Sesame and Lilies " had appeared in the Mac
script.
A farther step, and one affording stronger evidence for
design on the part of an intelligence external to all the
1
See Proceedings, Part LXII. p. 45.
286 Alice Johnson. [part
autornatists, is found in cases of the converse type, where one
automatist's script ingeniously links together two entirely dis-
similar topics that have previously appeared separately in the
scripts of two other autornatists,—a plan that had been suggested
in Mr. Piddington's Latin Message, and that seems to have
been successfully carried out in the case of " Prometheus " and
"Time and Eternity" (see p. 256), where these topics, which
had occurred respectively in the scripts of Mrs. and Miss
Verrall, were combined by Mrs. Holland in a single quotation.
An amplification of this process is seen where cross-corre-
spondences that had seemed already complete reappear, in the
form of factors in a larger scheme, in a later script by another
automatist. Thus, " Proserpine," which had already formed the
subject of a cross-correspondence between Mrs. Piper, the
Macs, and Mrs. and Miss Verrall, recurs in Mrs. Holland's
script of Nov. 25, 1908, woven in with some other cross-
correspondences
—
e.g. " Echo " and " Nightingale "
; while Mrs.
Willett's script of Feb. 10, 1910, repeats these topics, com-
bining with them the hitherto separate cross-correspondence of
" Exile," and finding a fresh link of association between them
all in the notion of the contrast between memory and forget-
fulness (see p. 271).
A similar blending of several simple cross-correspondences
into one complicated whole was shown by Mr. Piddington to
occur in the " Light in West " case (Proceedings, Vol. XXII.
pp. 241-280).
It must, I think, be admitted that cross-correspondences
of so elaborate a character as these differ in a marked way
from ordinary cases of experimental thought-transference,
which seem to involve nothing more than a momentary effect
produced by one mind on another, the effects produced at
different moments having no coherence or connexion with one
another.
The cross-correspondences point rather to an intelligence
which is continually thinking, continually making plans, con-
tinually developing them and adapting them to circumstances.
We have to consider how far this intelligence can be identified
with the subliminal selves of the autornatists.
The script of each automatist taken by itself seems, indeed,
to indicate great activity and intelligence on the part of her
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 287
subliminal self. The latter can, to begin with, draw on a wider
range of subjects than is accessible to the supraliminal, for
the subliminal memory is more extensive than the supraliminal.
Not only is there a great variety in the topics introduced
,
but great ingenuity is shown in expressing them in different
ways : e.g. by a number of different quotations appropriate to
the same subject ;
by altering the quotation to make it suit ;
by various devices for emphasising different words in it which
are not emphasised in the original ;
by the choice of quotations
which refer to a topic indirectly through their context, and
so on.
So far as all this goes, there is nothing provably beyond
normal subliminal powers, and it would be a natural result
of the long continuance of any automatic activity that the
subliminal self should become more and more developed. It
must also be largely influenced by the knowledge which the
automatists have in course of time acquired normally, both
of their own and of other scripts. For they cannot be kept
permanently in ignorance of each other's scripts, or of the
discussions on them, since, sooner or later, they see the articles
published about them. jSTor can they help speculating on the
subject themselves, and being influenced by the speculations of
others.
In any case, the scripts of each automatist undoubtedly suggest
an active intelligence, with idiosyncracies of its own, and work-
ing on its own account,—something as different as possible
from a mere channel for the utterances of another mind, as
different as possible from the ordinary conception of " spirit
control," which implies that the mind of the automatist is in
abeyance, while he mechanically reproduces phrases, as it were
dictated to him from outside.
It has generally been assumed that the best evidence for
communication from the spirits of survivors could be obtained
under such conditions, where everything came as directly as
possible from the spirit, while the mind of the automatist was
as much as possible put out of action. The idea is, of course,
a very plausible one on the face of it.
It has further been assumed that this condition is most
likely to coincide with a state of deep trance, and that the
deeper the trance, the more complete is the " possession " by
-288 Alice Johnson. [part
the spirit, and consequently the better are the results obtained.
For this idea, there is, it seems to me, little or no evidence.
We do not find in practice that what comes through an auto-
matist in trance is constantly better than what comes through
an automatic writer, whose mental condition shows little
or no signs of dissociation.
Further, a study and comparison of a great number of scripts
seem to show that activity on the part of the subliminal self
is by no means necessarily an obstacle to the influence of an
outside mind. For the great development of subliminal action
which is, I think, to be found in the recent scripts has coin-
cided with a great development in the supernormal connexions
between them, which have become both more numerous and
more complex. This fact points either to a freer play of
telepathy between the automatists, or to a stronger telepathic
influence from outside, acting on all of them, and tending to
produce connexions between them. Or it may be, as I am
inclined to think, that there is both more telepathy between
them, and more telepathy from a source external to all of
them.
This hypothesis is, in effect, one that occurred long ago to
Mr. Myers, who had, I think, a quite extraordinary faculty for
foreseeing the trend of events in psychical research. In refer-
ence to a case where the vision of a death was seen, —not at the
time it occurred, but at the time when the news of it reached
a third person,—he observed :
I conjecture that a current of influence may be started by a
deceased person, which, however, only becomes strong enough to be
perceptible to its object when reinforced by some vivid current of
emotion arising in living minds. I do not say that this is yet
provable ;
yet the hint may be of value when the far-reaching inter-
dependencies of telepathy between the two worlds come to be better
understood. 1
What is here foreshadowed is a simple kind of co-operation
between two minds—the discarnate and the incarnate—as if
two men were pulling at one rope in the same direction, so
that the total pull would depend simply on the sum of their
efforts. But if co-operation between the two minds be once
1
Human Personality, vol. ii. p. 55.
LXlil.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 289
started, it might develop into a much more complicated rela-
tionship, and it seems clear that when Mr. Myers was speaking
of "the far-reaching interdependencies of telepathy between the
two worlds," he was thinking of the possibilities of its develop-
ment. For his whole thought was coloured by his strong belief
in the possibility of quite new things happening—things that
had never happened in the world before, but that were the
normal growth and outcome of previous happenings.
Now the normal result of physical evolution, as we know
it, is that as we rise in the scale from the inanimate to the
animate, from the plant to the animal, from the animal to
man, we find at each step a more definite and complete indi-
viduality,—a tree is more of an individual than a rock, and a
dog more than a tree,—and at the same time, with each up-
ward step, we find more and more points of contact—more
and more complicated relationships—between the individual and
the world outside him. As he becomes more active and vital
and distinct from the world, the more closely is he also bound
up with it.
These conceptions are familiar enough, so far as concerns
the physical universe. But if we conceive the same process
carried on into the relationship between the incarnate and the
discarnate, it might produce a result something like what we
see in the scripts. Suppose that the discarnate mind has a
definite plan and purpose of getting some rather complicated
idea expressed, and that it is able by telepathy to influence
the incarnate minds of the automatists. Their minds mean-
while are actively working and producing ; but what actually
emerges in the script is to a great extent determined by the
discarnate influence, which we may suppose is constantly select-
ing from their thoughts and turning their ideas into channels
that fit its own purposes. Where one phrase that has just been
written in the script may suggest to the automatist's mind a
good many others naturally associated with it, the discarnate
influence selects out of these something appropriate to the
whole cross-correspondence and gets that one expressed in
preference to the others. The mental activity of the automatist
thus gives a wider choice to the discarnate influence, and enables
it to express itself in a great variety of ways, affording scope
for subtle and complicated connexions between the scripts.
T
2!J0 Alice Johnson. [part
There would here be a collaboration between the two minds
somewhat similar to that between the minds of a skilled hypnotist
and his subject. The hypnotist does not exercise compulsion on
his subject or directly produce any mechanical effect on him ; but
their two minds are working together towards the same end,—both
desiring a certain result, e.g. of healing, to be produced. It is
impossible, with our present knowledge, to distinguish the parts
they play, but often the co-operation of the two minds and wills
brings about a result which, apparently, neither could produce
alone.
There have been some remarkable cases where the scripts
afford evidence of knowledge beyond the automatist's normal
scope (apart from supernormal connexions with other scripts), as,
apparently, in Mrs. Holland's quotation from Ovid's Fasti
given above, (p. 246), and in the references to "Lethe" by
Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Willett. The importance and interest of
these cases is not to be undervalued. But I think it possible
that those in which the automatist collaborates, in the way
suggested, with the spirit belong actually to a more advanced
type, and that what we are witnessing here is a new step in
evolution, capable of great developments in the future.
There is, at least, one point on which all serious students
of the subject seem to be agreed, viz. that these scripts do
represent a new development ; if there is nothing in them be-
yond telepathy between the automatists, it is at all events
telepathy of a more advanced and potent kind than has ever
been met with before,—something that both stimulates and
restrains, that both gives and withholds ;
something that can
keep a definite and intelligent plan in mind over a long
period of time and bring it to fruition at last,—a fruition
that none of the persons concerned in the matter,—neither the
automatists nor those to whom their scripts are entrusted,—are
able to foresee.
All this, however, might be attributed to the subliminal
self of one of the automatists', and when I first brought for-
ward the theory of cross-correspondences,1
I remarked that if
they were not the work of a spirit, which was very far from
being proved, the most likely hypothesis was that they were
1
See Proceeding, Vol. XXI., pp. 369-391.
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 291
concocted by the subliminal self of Mrs. Verrall. This
hypothesis has been adopted since by our leading critics, —by
Mr. Podmore ;
implicitly, as I understand, by Professor Pigou
;
and later by Mr, Bayfield in the discussion included in his
review of Mr. Podmore's last book in Proceedings, Part LXII.
The reason why the plan of cross-correspondences might
with some show of plausibility be attributed to Mrs. Verrall
was that hints of it appeared in her script (though they passed
undetected by herself) some time before there were any dis-
coverable allusions to the subject in the scripts of other auto-
matists. This did not, of course, prove that the plan originated
in Mrs. Verrall's mind, because it might have been transmitted
to her telepathically by its originator ; but it did tend to show
that if any one of the automatists had originated it, she was
probably the one. Further, many of the cross-correspondences
started in her script, so that it might be supposed in these
cases that she was the telepathic agent from whom the others
derived them. There are, however, other important cases in
which the topic appeared first in the scripts of other auto-
matists, and there are even some in which Mrs. Arerrall's
script is not concerned at all ; so that we have now reached
a point where, on the supposition that the whole of the
cross-correspondences are worked exclusively by the automatists,
we should have to assume that several of them, besides Mrs.
Verrall, are capable of the task. Or else we should have to
assume a sort of telepathic committee meeting . of the sub-
liminal selves of the automatists, at which they scheme together
and settle on their different parts.
We know that the subliminal self has considerable powers
of romancing, of dramatic personation, of expressing ideas in a
form altogether foreign to the supraliminal self; we often find
an apparently deliberate obscurity of utterance, a veiling of
meaning, as if the subliminal wished to protect itself from
supraliminal interference by concealing its real aim. There
seems, in fact, no limit to the degree of invention or of
ingenuity that it can display, in so far as the -performances of
the cmtomatist owning it are concerned. There is therefore
nothing surprising in finding a romance, or an epic, or a
realistic personation, running through a long series of the scripts
of a single automatist.
292 Alice Johnson. [part
It has never been maintained, then, that the whole scheme
of cross-correspondences, and many individual cases among them,
were beyond the inventive capacity of Mrs. Verrall's subliminal
self. The difficulty lies in the execution, of the plan ; in the
appropriate distribution of the parts among diiferent auto-
matists, who ex hypothesi are not in communication with each
other except telepathically ; for to carry out such a plan would
seem, as already said, to involve much greater powers of
telepathy than the experimental evidence so far obtained
would warrant us in assuming.
Nevertheless the question whether any mind beyond those
of the automatists is concerned remains open ;
spirit agency is
not yet proved conclusively. And before this is conclusively
proved it may seem premature to discuss by what particular
processes it might work, so that some justification is required
for the attempt to formulate so dubious a speculation as the
one here brought forward. In the end, of course, our case
must rest on concrete evidence. We have appealed to science
and to science we must go to have our claims settled. But
my present argument is addressed in part to some of the
a priori objections to the hypothesis of spirit agency. People
start with certain theories of its nature and find that the facts
do not correspond. They are apt to think that the scripts
are either produced by the influence, say, of Mr. Myers, or
they are not. They find in them passages which are rather
silly, rather incorrect, rather illiterate, and in every way unlike
Mr. Myers. They then say that Mr. Myers, as we knew him,
cannot have produced those passages, and that therefore the
scripts cannot be inspired by him. Even if they admit that some
part may be inspired and some not, they generally conceive
of the failure as being due to some mechanical difficulty of
control, the automatist being on this view a more or less
complicated and delicate instrument, on which the spirit is a
more or less efficient and skilled performer.
This conception does not, to my mind, fit the facts. The
scripts appear to me rather to represent the combined mental
activity of two or possibly more personalities. These com-
binations we call for convenience MyersP,
Myersv ,
MyersH, etc.
If we attempt roughly to allot functions to the members of
LXIII.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 293
the combination, we may say that the automatist provides, as
it were, ready-made material out of which the spirit weaves
his design, as the finished products of one trade may provide
the raw material for another. But we must never allow our-
selves to suppose that any material metaphor can afford us
more than a hint of certain aspects only of the phenomenon.
In particular, we must keep in mind that we are dealing
not with physical but with mental facts, to which the laws of
arithmetic do not apply. For instance, if a given passage
in a script is the product of two minds, it does not follow
that the more of one mind is in it, the less there is of the
other.
Finally, I would suggest, as a working hypothesis, that the
best evidence is to be looked for not from a suppression of the
automatist's personality, but rather from its free development
in collaboration with a personality less limited than itself,
because already freed from space and matter.
Appendix A.
The " Diamond Island " Incident.
In my first report on the automatic writing of Mrs. Holland
I quoted a piece of script produced by her in India on
January 17th, 1904,1
the concluding part of which was as
follows :
"We few, we happy few, we band of brothers"
—
2
Dear old chap you have done so much in the past three
years —I am cognisant of a great deal of it but with
strange gaps in my knowledge—If I could only talk with
you—If I could only help you with some advice—I tried
more than once did it ever come—There's so much to be
learnt from the Diamond Island experiment
—
well meaning but very ignorant—bound to be tinged by
the channels through which they are conveyed—Help me
—give me the help if not yet of your belief of your
sympathy—Take the message to you all I cannot yet fully
and [ending in illegible scribble].
1
See Proceedings, Vol. XXI. p. 235. -Henry V., Act iv. Scene iii.
294 Alice Johnson. [part
I stated in a foot-note to this script that I was unable to
conjecture the meaning of the phrase " Diamond Island experi-
ment ;
" and Mrs. Holland, who was accustomed to tell me of
any facts within her knowledge that could throw light on the
script, had made no comment on it. Nor did it convey
anything, as far as I could learn, to those who read the
Proceedings.
On Nov. 24th, 1908, Mrs. Holland, being in England, came
to see me and told me among other things that she thought
this phrase must be an allusion to wireless telegraphy, since
Diamond Island (which she believed to be near Diamond
Harbour at the mouth of the Hoogli river) had a wireless
station on it. Some time later Mrs. Verrall, hearing of this
interpretation, pointed out to me that it followed that the
whole of this part of the script was intended to be addressed
to Sir Oliver Lodge, and I then perceived that most of the
message evidently was intended for him. But on communi-
cating with him on the subject, though he recognised the
appropriateness of the general tone and substance of the message,
the phrase " Diamond Island " awoke no chord in his memory.
He told me, however, that the Lodge-Muirhead system was at
work between Burma and the Andaman Islands, and he wrote
to his friend and partner in this matter, Dr. Alexander Muir-
head, F.B.S., on Feb. 24, 1910, to ask:
Do you remember whether any wireless experiments were conducted
across the mouth of the Hoogli or anywhere in that neighbourhood ?
If so, can you name the place 1 ... I should rather like to know
whether they tested the Andaman installation first at the Hoogli
—
or wherever it was. They must have tried it somewhere ... Is
there a wireless station on the Hoogli, do you know?
Dr. Muirhead replied on Feb. 26, 1910:
I believe Mr. Simpson, the man who put up the Andaman Wire-
less, has been conducting some experiments between a pilot boat
. . . and Calcutta. . . . The Andamans circuit is between Diamond
Island, at the mouth of the Irrawaddy in Burma, and Port Blair . . .
Thus it appears that Mrs. Holland's conjecture of a con-
nexion between Diamond Island and wireless telegraphy was
LXIII.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 295
correct, but that she had located it wrongly, viz., at the mouth
of the Hoogli, whereas it is really situated at the mouth of the
Irrawaddy, in Burma. From enquiries made with Sir Oliver
Lodge's help, I find that towards the end of August, 1904,
operations were begun for linking up the Settlement of Port
Blair in the Andaman Islands with the general telegraph system
of India by establishing wireless telegraph stations at Port Blair
and at Diamond Island, which was already connected by cable
to the mainland. The distance to be spanned was 305*2 miles.
The system chosen was the Lodge-Muirhead, with which pre-
liminary experiments had already been carried on for three
months in the early part of 1904; the 150 feet masts were
made in the Calcutta workshops, the scientific apparatus being
supplied by the Lodge-Muirhead Co. in England. The work,
which was executed by the Indian Government Telegraph
Department, went on for several months, the circuit being in
complete working order first on Feb. 10th, 1905.
This installation was an event of some importance in the
history of wireless telegraphy, for it was one of the first
installations in the British Empire connecting different land
stations ; the main developments of wireless telegraphy having
previously been for the purpose of connecting shore stations
with ships.
Sir Oliver Lodge of course knew of the Burma-Andamans
installation, but had entirely forgotten that the Burma end of
the installation is on Diamond Island 1
(which is a very small
island, not marked on most atlases).
When I questioned Mrs. Holland about her knowledge of
these matters, she told me that she had known at or about
that time that the Lodge-Muirhead system of wireless telegraphy
was being experimented with in India, but she could not say
whether it was before or after the date of the script, which
had conveyed no meaning to her when it was written.
In reply to a question what normal means of acquiring
information about experiments on Diamond Island existed in
India in January, 1904, Mr. M. G. Simpson, of the Govern-
ment Telegraph Department, who had superintended the setting
1
From a letter on the subject which he has recently found, it appears that
the geographical fact did actually come under his eye, but awakened no conscious
attention, in "March, 1903.
296 Alice Johnson. [part
up of the installation, wrote to Sir Oliver Lodge from Calcutta
on April 18th, 1910 :
... In 1902 I was at home, hut some of my officers did some
wireless experiments in July at Diamond Harbour. They were not
very successful, but a paragraph or two appeared in the local press
about them. I came out here in December 1902, and in 1903,
January, I put up a little temporary station at Sangor Island at the
mouth of the river and another on a small Government steamer, the
"Guide," and we worked out to the Sandheads where the pilot
vessel is stationed 40 miles from Sangor. This was reported in due
course and found its Avay into the papers. During the whole of
1903 there was a weekly financial paper, Capital, in Calcutta con-
stantly jibing at Government for their dilatoriness with regard to
wireless and urging them to come to terms with the Marconi Co.
In Jan., '04, apparatus began to arrive from Elmers End [Messrs.
Muirhead & Co.'s works in Kent] and in February we started out
from Calcutta to try and link up Diamond Island with the Andamans.
I can't be quite certain now, but I think it is more than probable
information of this intention appeared in the local press. At first
we established communication over a short distance, Elephant Point
to Amherst, and it was not till April, 1904, any actual experimenting
was done on Diamond Island.
The script referring to the Diamond Island experiment was
written, as stated above, in January, 1904 ; but from
Mr. Simpson's letter it appears not impossible that Mrs. Holland
may already have seen references to the subject in one of the
Indian papers. She herself knows nothing in detail of wireless
telegraphy, and she could not remember that any of the friends
she was accustomed to see at that time had spoken to her of the
subject or took any interest in it. It happened, however, that
she had heard a lecture by Marconi in 1901 or 1902, and had
rather regretted that an Italian was (as she erroneously sup-
posed) ahead of Englishmen in the subject. Consequently she
was pleased when she heard of the Lodge-Muirhead system being
used. She wrote to me on March 19 th, 1910:
I am sorry that I cannot be certain, after the lapse of so many
years, if I heard or read any mention of the Lodge-Muirhead system
before writing the script of Jan. 17th, 1904.
My impression is that I must have seen some newspaper reference
lxjii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 207
to it, since I ani as sure as I can be, when dealing with anything
so far away, that I did not hear any conversation about it.
I left India in April, 1904, and returned there more than two
years later.
My ignorance of the matter is shown by my belief—until just
lately—that Diamond Island was near Diamond Harbour in Bengal,
instead of in Lower Burma, where it is really situated.
It is clear then that Mrs. Holland's reference to the " Diamond
Island experiment " cannot be regarded as strictly evidential,
since she may have had normal knowledge of it.
The script nevertheless is remarkably appropriate in several
respects as a message to Sir Oliver Lodge. It was written on
Jan. 1 7th, 1904, the third anniversary of Mr. Myers's death,
which was also the end of Sir Oliver Lodge's three years'
Presidency of the S.P.B. I take the phrase—" you have done
so much in the past three years " to refer to this. The tone
of affectionate intimacy running through the whole script is
also especially appropriate.
Mrs. Holland knew the date of Mr. Myers's death and that
Sir Oliver Lodge had been President of the S.P.E. in 1903 ;
but when I asked her if she knew in January, 1904, that
he was an intimate friend of Mr. Myers's and that he had been
President for three years, she replied
:
Feb. 20th, 1910.
... I did not realise then that Sir Oliver Lodge was an intimate
friend of Mr. Myers's. There were references to him, of course, in
[Human Personality], especially in reference to early experiments with
Mrs. Piper ; but I did not know there was a friendship of long
standing, and I certainly did not know in Jan., 1904, that he became
President of the S.P.E. after Mr. Myers's death. I am surprised to
hear that he held it for three years, —I thought it had been for
two ... It never struck me before that this message was to Sir
Oliver Lodge. . . .
It is further significant that, as Sir Oliver Lodge tells me,
Mr. Myers had been keenly interested in his work in wireless
telegraphy and it was while with Mr. Myers and stimulated
by him that he devised the fundamental plan for " tuning " which
in some form or another is necessarily used in all systems of
wireless telegraphy and was first patented by him in 1897.
298 Alice Johnson. [part
The term " syntouy " was invented for him by Mr. Myers and Dr.
A. T. Myers. Sir Oliver Lodge had, as is well known, been ex-
perimenting for years on the theoretical side of the subject,
and it was partly, or even largely, his discoveries between 1888
and 1894 which, in the energetic hands of Mr. Marconi, in
1896 and onwards, led to the development of wireless telegraphy
for practical purposes. Mr. Myers had been much interested in
this development and anxious that the results of his friend's work
should not be unduly exploited by others.
While the script is thus thoroughly characteristic of the
relation between Mr. Myers and Sir Oliver Lodge, the fact
that it is connected in point of time with the first important
cross-correspondence between Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Verrall
—
the " Selwyn Text Incident "
1
—seems to lend weight to the
supposition that what we may call the " Diamond Island script
"
may have been at least partially inspired by the surviving
personality of F. W. H. Myers.
I may add that the patent referred to above for "Improve-
ments in Syntonised Telegraphy without Line Wires " is the
important one which, by Mr. J ustice Parker's judgment delivered
in the Chancery Division of the High Court on April 28th,
1911, has just been renewed to Sir Oliver Lodge for another
term of seven years.
Appendix B.
A further detail in the " Sevens " Cross-correspondence.2
In the Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research
for March, 1911, Professor Hyslop comments at length on a
number of points in this case, and in the midst of his discussion
gives an interesting interpretation of certain words spoken in
the waking stage of Mrs. Piper's trance on May 8th, 1908.
After an apparent attempt to translate the Latin- verses of the
Tavern Club motto, in which the only word audible to Mr. Dorr
was " Habit," she said
" We are Seven
I said Clock ! Tick, tick, tick ! Stairs." 3
J
See Proceedings, Vol. XXI. pp. 219-239.
-See Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. pp. 222-263. s
Op. cit. p. 223.
LXIII.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 299
This was supposed by Mr. Dorr to be an allusion to Long-
fellow's poem, The Old Clock on the Stairs. Prof. Hyslop has
now ascertained that there is a clock on the staircase of
the Tavern Club leading up to the dining-room, and that at
banquets, when there are no guests present, it is the habit of
the members to assemble downstairs, and there at a fixed
hour to sing the Latin verses, and then go upstairs to the
dining-room. It seems, therefore, that the words, " Clock ! tick,
tick, tick ! Stairs." might appropriately have been uttered
by Hodgsonp among the reminiscences evoked by the verses.
Whether or not Mrs. Piper had any normal knowledge of this
clock it is, of course, impossible to say.
Appendix C.
Some further Cross-correspondences between Mrs. Piper s Trance
and the Scripts of other Automatists.
As stated above, four sittings with Mrs. Piper were held by
Mr. Dorr and six by Miss Pope, during the period Dec. 7, 1908,
to March 1, 1909. At only four of Miss Pope's sittings were
attempts made to send " messages " to the other automatists, and
some of these were merely repetitions of " messages " attempted
in Mr. Dorr's previous series. Part of Miss Pope's record of
Dec. 9, 1908, and an extract from that of Dec. 21, 1908, are
given above, pp. 233 and 254, and part of her record of
Jan. 13, 1909, is as follows:
(MyerSp communicating.)
LUX UBE
Lux UBE
[These three letters, especially the E, look like an attempt to
write Greek letters, which had been attempted earlier in
the sitting]
Lux
[Soon afterwards came another attempt to write Greek words,
with the explanation:]
The first Greek words were strength, star, to give light, to
help free souls
300 Alice Johnson. [part
Helen wrote gathering clouds, clouds are gathering in the
west and she also wrote Lux.
She also wrote winding stream or winding sheet and I am
not sure which. It sounds like stream and I go on for
ever
Then another thing was written. Arrow, light and swift as
an arrow. The bird is on the wing.1
Then Mrs. Verrall
wrote as did Mrs. Holland also' clouds before dawn.
Meadow violets blooming and Larkspur Garden Steep
banks or Bank.
Lux Ube is perhaps an attempt at the motto TTbi crux ibi
lux and the above seems to reflect in a fragmentary way Miss
Verrall's script of Nov. 5th, 1908, which was as follows:
Mist on the high peaks of the mountains at sunrise when
the clouds in the valley grow rosy in the growing light.
Lucifero radio Phoebus iam diffugat umbras et sub luce nova
nova lucent omnia.2
Green fields and pastures new 3
that was the idea a new
day and a new undertaking the old order changeth 4
but
still the harmony remains throughout,
a butterfly in the sunshine and pink hollihocks against an
old brick wall
a cottage garden old-fashioned flowers mingled together and
grass green paths between the beds hie et ubique. 5
On Nov. 10, 1908, Miss Verrall's script contained the follow-
ing:
The two horns of the moon & between them a cord—thus
Diana's shafts speed swiftly—the arrow by day.
Mr. Dorr's four sittings were mostly occupied with attempts
to carry on his experiments in trying to revive the literary
memories of F. W. H. Myers. As in his earlier series, the
results obtained appeared at the time to be incoherent, rambling,
and worthless, but have turned out on further investigation to
1
Cf. "The lark is on the wing," written at Miss Pope's sitting of Dec. 9, 1908.
2
Trans. Now Phoebus with light-bearing ray puts to flight the shadows and
beneath the new light all things shine anew.
:i
Milton, Lycklas. "Fields" should be "woods."
4
Tennyson, The Passing of Arthur. 5
Here and everywhere.
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 301
be of considerable interest. The most important parts of them
consist of connexions with later scripts of Mrs. Willett,
and with the more or less contemporary scripts of Mrs. and
Miss Verrall, as described in Mrs. Verrall's paper above
(pp. 176-90). Mrs. Verrall deals only with the classical
allusions ; I supplement her account with a few further corre-
spondences, which add to the cumulative evidence for connexion
between these Piper sittings and Miss Verrall's scripts.
In a sitting with Mrs. Piper held by Mr. Dorr on March 1,
1909, certain messages were said to have been oiven to Miss
Verrall, as follows :
Tell Piddington chirades. H.
G. B. D. What is that word 1
Charades. 1
Helen Trailing Trail Trellis.
G. B. D. Is that word "trailing;"?
Yes. Very good.
Sea Season Polling. Roll Waves.
I got these through Helen V.
(G. B. D. reads from F. W. H, Myers's paper "In Memory
of Henry Sidgwick" the verse from Tennyson's "The
Voyage " beginning
"For one fair Vision ever fled,"
when the hand wrote :)
Wait for this. I have already referred to this particular verse
with Helen.
G. B. D. Helen who ?
V.
'Mrs. Verrall informs me that parts of a charade were, as she believes,
distributed between her and Miss Verrall's scripts between Nov. 12 and Dec. 21,
1907. There is therefore some point in connecting "charades" with H. V.
script.
302 Alice Johnson. [part
(a) Trailing.
The following are extracts from Miss Verrall's scripts
:
(Nov. 24, 1908.)
grapes purple a vineyard on the sunny South a sloping
hillside with trailing vines.
(Feb. 10, 1909.)
night in her sable cloak.
I saw the sable gardents (sic) of the night sweep through her
marble halls.
This is a misquotation from Longfellow's " Hymn to the
Night "
:
"I heard the trailing garments of the Night
Sweep through her marble halls !
I saw her sable skirts all fringed with light
From the celestial walls !
"
(March IS, 1909.)
The tangled boughs a matted screen
branches branches held
When Birnani wood shall come to Dunsinane. 1
a moving forest ....
a twisted spiral a pole black & yellow & green upon it
twined around green trailing up the rod ....
(b) Sea, Rolling waves and " The Voyage."
The following extracts from Miss Verrall's script refer to
these topics
:
(Dec. 12, 190S.)
From the deep the wailing of the waters the salt spray dashes
over the rocks thalassa thalassa 2
the deeps of deliverance the seaddng's child the white-
maned steeds
Far back through creeks & inlets making comes silent
flooding in the main.3
1
Macbeth, Act v. 8c. 3. 2
The sea, the sea.
3
A. H. Clough, "Say not the struggle nought availeth."
lxiii.] Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script.
(Dec. 15, 190S.)
Birds on the sea shore the sea gull's cry
[In Greek : Of the sounding sea.] 1
[Jan. 22, 1909.)
On the face of the waters—when the deeps are stirred.
{Feb. 1, 1909.)
a ship a ship comes sailing
but never a ship for me 2
the sound of great waters when the bed of ocean rocks
we know the merry world is round
and we may sail for evermore. 3
(Feb. 3, 1909.)
Beneath the ,white cliffs by the tossing sea.
1
iro\v<p\oaj3oio BaKaaa-qs (Homer).
2
Cf. " Oh what comes over the sea,
Shoals and quicksands past ;
And what conies home to me,
Sailing slow, sailing fast ?
A wind comes over the sea
With a moan in its blast
;
But nothing comes home to me
Sailing slow, sailing fast."—C. G. Rossetti.
3
Tennyson, The Voyage, last two lines.
304 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
IV.
NOTE ON THE CBOSS-COBBESPONDENCE " CUP."
Being a suggestion as to the meaning and source of the word
"Cup " employed successfully as a message for cross-correspondence
by Mrs. Pipers trance-personalities in the sittings of 1907.
By MRS. A. W. VERRALL.
In the majority of the " Concordant Automatisms " resulting
from the experiments with Mrs. Piper during her visit to
England in 1906-7, described by Mr. Piddington in Proceedings,
Vol. XXII., the leading word was framed by one or more of
the automatists concerned in a literary setting, so that it
emerged as part of a poetical quotation, or as the subject of
a more or less elaborate literary allusion. Thus in the Con-
cordant Automatisms grouped round the idea of " Light in
West " (Section xix.) and culminating in references to East and
West by three automatists on April 8, 1907, Dante, Browning,
and Tennyson were laid under contribution. Were this habit
confined to the scripts of Mrs. Holland, my daughter and
myself, it would hardly require comment. Those scripts are
full of literary reminiscences, easily accounted for by the previous
education and the general tastes and interests of the automatists.
The employment of a quotation to introduce a transmitted word
may be due to some necessity to conceal the intention from
the normal consciousness, always ready to interfere and inhibit
phenomena where the script is produced without trance.
But with Mrs. Piper the case is otherwise. Neither her
previous history nor her general tastes and interests lead us
to expect literary allusions in her trance utterances. Nor are
such literary allusions found in the records of her earlier
sittings. Their introduction is a new and noteworthy occur-
lxiii.] Note on the Cross-Correspondence " Cup." 305
rence, and only conies into prominence in the English
sittings.
For this, various explanations may be suggested. The ex-
pectation of the sitters is a factor not to be omitted. The
type of mind, again, of the other automatic writers deliberately
brought into close connexion with the trance-consciousness of
Mrs. Piper may be supposed to have produced some effect upon
that consciousness. Moreover, Mrs. Piper had opportunity of
reading the report of my script {Proceedings, Vol. XX.) and
so of acquainting herself with the sort of phraseology which
was presumably to be expected from Myersv. And my ques-
tion addressed to MyersP, as to his associations with the words
auTos ovpai'og ciku/uoop, directed the attention of the trance-
controls towards literary subjects. Whatever explanation is
adopted, the fact remains that in these English sittings Mrs.
Piper's trance-personalities showed an acquaintance with English
poetry never shown by them before, and often associated that
poetry with words selected for transmission, using it as a sort
of framework for the transmitted phrase, much in the same
fashion as did the other automatists concerned. Not only
were there allusions in the Piper trance to Browning and
Tennyson in the course of references to the " answer to the
Latin message " which emerged amid similar allusions in the
Holland and Verrall scripts, but in one case (Section xviii.)
two lines of Wordsworth suggested a group of " cross-cor-
respondences," some of which were successfully reproduced by
another automatist, but without any trace of the quotation
which accompanied them in the Piper script
:
" I wandered lonely as a Cloud
That floats on high o'er Vales and Hills."
1
An examination of the series of Concordant Automatisms
described by Mr. Piddington shows that among the contem-
porary successes 2
only three emerged without a literary setting
1
My point here is not whether or not Mrs. Piper was normally acquainted
with Wordsworth's poem. That may very well have been the case. The
noteworthy point is the selection in her trance for cross-correspondence of a
group of words combined by literary associations.
2
1 exclude "Celestial Halcyon Days" (Section x.), where Myersp referred
to an expression in an earlier script of mine, not to a contemporary ex-
periment.
U
306 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
furnished by one or other of the automatists concerned, namely,
those described in Sections v., xiii., and xxii. In the case of
Section v., " Library, my own name, and Mrs. Sidgwick's,"
these three ideas were woven together, both in Mrs. Piper's
script and my own, into a story, untrue indeed and improbable,
but with a certain superficial plausibility which, serving as a
framework, may perhaps have enabled the triple combination
to appear in both scripts. Only two cases remain in which
the Concordant Automatisms emerged, so to say, bare, with
very little setting or decoration. I have nothing further to
add on the subject of Section xxii., " Laus Deo," but some-
thing may, I think, be learnt from a further consideration of
the cross-correspondence on " Cup," described in Section xiii.
(Proceedings, Vol. XXII. pp. 179-192).
The word " Cup " was announced as a cross-correspondence
by Hodgsonp on March 18, 1907 (p. 179); the word "Cup"
appeared in Mrs. Holland's script (p. 191) on the morning of
March 19; 1
and on the evening of March 19, a Cup was drawn
and the word written in my script (p. 181). On no other
occasion during the period covered by these sittings with
Mrs. Piper did the word " Cup " occur in either Mrs. Holland's
script or mine. In neither of those scripts is the word " Cup
"
the subject of a literary quotation. In Mrs. Holland's script, it
is applied to a stone cavity, eventually intended to hold water.
In my script the Cup is said to be of silver ; it is drawn with
a stem, foot and bowl, and no handle. Nor is there any
indication of literary allusion in the announcement of a cross-
correspondence by Hodgsoiip. But two English poems are
referred to several times during the sittings with Mrs. Piper,
either of which is easily associated with the word " Cup," a
cup being prominent in both. FitzGerald's poem, The Rubaiyat
of Omar Khayyam, centres round the " Cup " which is to be
filled with " Ruby Vintage," and the word occurs eight times
in the seventy-five stanzas of the first edition. In Browning's
Rabbi ben Ezra the speaker's meditations culminate in the
comparison of man with a " Cup " ; this image is carried
1
The water drops have not as yet begun to wear the stone—After the cup
has been worn in the stone the falling drops can be collected—but not
before— At present there is only a damp spot—inadequate for thirst
quenching.
lxiii.] Note on the Gross-Correspondence " Cup." 307
through the concluding eight of the thirty-two stanzas, and the
word " cup " occurs three times.
Allusions in the Piper script to Omar Khayyam are made
on Feb. 12, 13, March 12, 19 and 20, 1907. On Feb-
ruary 12, in a would-be evidential communication from a
supposed dead friend of the sitter, a spontaneous reference was
made to the poem. The allusion was not at first understood
but was later recognised, after it had been described as a
quotation from the Book of a Dreamer in a Persian Garden.
On Feb. 13, Mr. Piddington being the sole sitter, further
remarks were made about a " Persian Garden," which was
now said to be a cross-correspondence for Mrs. Verrall devised
by HodgsonP with the concurrence of MyersP. The word
" Paradise," pointing to a passage in F. W. H. Myers's
Fragments of Prose and Poetry (p. 5), had occurred in the
trance on January 30, when I was the sitter, and may have
led on, by an easy association of ideas, to the selection
of " Persian Garden," as a cross-correspondence for transmission
to me. The word " Paradise " recurred on March 6 as a
subject of cross-correspondence, and was shortly followed by
the word " Bird," a connexion more popular than literary.
Both words occur in Omar Khayyam :
" Bird " twice in stanza
vii., and " Paradise " in stanzas xi. and xii. But no allusion
to the poem was suggested by the controls on Feb. 13 or
March 6. On March 12, however, Omar Khayyam unmistak-
ably again makes an appearance, again not as a subject for
cross-correspondence, but as an attempt at a verifiable remi-
niscence from HodgsonP , addressed to the sitter, Mr. John
Russell. The poem reappears in Mrs. Busseil's sittings on
March 19 and 20.1
I quote all extracts bearing on these
definite allusions to the poem.
Extract from Record of Sitting with Mrs. Piper held on February 12,
1907.
(Present : Mr. Piddington in charge and Mr. X. as sitter
;
Z communicating :)
[At a previous sitting on February 11, the sitter Mr. X. had asked
the communicator, Z, if he remembered a certain friend whose foreign
1
Neither Mr. Russell nor Mrs. Russell was introduced by name. For
further account of these sittings the reader is referred to Proceedings,
Vol. XXII. Section xiii.
308 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
tri-syllabic name began with P. In connexion with that enquiry the
following statements were made. Note by M. de G. V.]
Do you remember one evening when we were talking about
the possibilities of this life. I said wait until I get over
and I will show you.
And the Book of the man who said he sat and dreamed
about this life
until he had drunk the wine. . . .
But he referred to a quotation of a Hindoo who said he
drank his wine.
J. G. P. Rector, we must get this clear.
Change the machine kindly [i.e. the pencil] and it may help
me in making it clearer.
I said P reminded me of the Persian Garden.
(Sitter fails to understand.) 1
You are stupid but you never used to be.
Sitter : You had not found me out then, Z.
Oh, I know you fully old chap but don't you understand
what I am driving at.
Sitter: I think I do, but I don't understand the reference to the
Persian.
It was a saying that the Persian in his garden dreamed all day
about God and the Universe and Life in general but
never got any further then—beyond his dream. This
was P .
[repeated in answer to difficulties of reading :]
I say never got beyond his dream
[Here followed attempts to remind Mr. X. of evenings spent
with Y. at his house. Later the communicator returned to
the subject as follows :]
Got, understood yet my reference to the Hindoo dreamer ?
I said well it's no use if there is no life beyond. I said, when
I was in the body, if there was no life beyond there is no
justice in this life.
1
The name, a foreign one, mentioned by the Sitter bears some resemblance in
sound to the name Pehlevi in Omar Khayyam, stanza vi. where it follows on the
stanza which introduces two Persian names, Iram and Jamshyd, as well as the
word " Garden."
lxiii.] Note on the Cross-Correspondence " Cup." 309
Extract from Record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on March 12,
1907.
(Present : Mrs. Sidgwick in charge, and Mr. John Russell as
sitter.)
[The word Dawn had been mentioned by HodgsonP in the course
of attempts to remind the sitter of incidents that would be familiar
to him. Note by M. de G. V.}
Sitter : What is Dawn 1
What.
Don't you remember %
Sitter : I am not sure whether I do.
What is Dawn do you ask 1
Sitter : Yes.
Don't you remember my description of a poem in which I
gave you.
and you thought it a good thing or point,
by Fitzgerald.
Sitter : Again, please.
By Fitzgerald.
Sitter : I have forgotten, but I will see when I get home.
[Later in the same sitting, Hodgson communicating says :]
Do you remember Fitzgerald and a joke they made on me,
made about my being Irish.
Sitter: Irish what?
Don't you remember the joke I made about being Irish 1
Sitter : No.
Extract from Record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on March 19,
1907.
(Present : Mrs. Sidgwick in charge, and Mrs. John Russell as
sitter; Hodgson communicating:)
Don't you remember a poem I used to recite to you of
Fitzgerald's, about drinking up the wine of life.
Don't you remember it, and how fond I used to be of it 1
310 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Sitter : I can't remember your reciting it.
Yes I tried to make J. understand, but it was useless. I
tried so hard. I used to recite it for you, it was about
a Hindoo or a Persian I can't remember which.
Sitter: Yes, I remember the poem, but I don't remember your
Extract from Record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on March 20,
(Present : Mrs. Sidgwick alone, Myers communicating :)
Hodgson told her [i.e. Mrs. Verrall] to say a line or two
from the poem I . . .
No man ever came back to tell us what is before us.
E. M. S. (reading over) Is that the poem ?
(Rector communicating)
Yes I do not get in all the words clearly but I do my best.
He [i.e. Myers] repeats.
No man ever came back from whence he has gone to tell
us of the shore.
It is Persian,
Yes, he says : Rector, if you can tell Mrs. Sidgwick what
I say at all clearly, she will certainly understand my
meaning.
E. M. S. I understand. You have given Mrs. Verrall a line from a
Persian poem'?
Yes he made her write Omar and left it as she seemed
There is no doubt as to the references to Omar Khayyam
on these four clays. The combination of Dawn and Fitz-
Gerald on March 12 would alone determine the allusion. The
poem begins with a description of the coming of Dawn, " Awake,
for Morning in the Bowl of Night ..." and the word Dawn
comes in the first line of the second stanza.1
Again, on Feb. 13
reciting it.
1907.
E. M. S. Persian 1
tired.
I quote throughout from the First Edition.
lxiii.] Note on the Cross-Correspondence "Cup." 311
and March 19, the allusion is explicit, in spite of the extraordinary
confusion between Hindoo and Persian, which is made by both
trance-communicators and is, as Mrs. Eussell notes, absurd as
comincr from Dr. Hodgson. The words, " dreamed about this
life—until he had drunk the wine" (on Feb. 12), and again
"drinking up the wine of life" (on March 19), point to the
second stanza, and especially to its concluding line :
" Dreaming when Dawn's Left Hand was in the Sky
I heard a Voice within the Tavern cry,
'
Awake my Little ones, and fill the Cup
Before Life's Liquor in its Cup be dry.'
"
On March 20, MyersP definitely claims that HodgsonP has
succeeded in conveying to me a line from a Persian poem.
The name Omar fixes the allusion, and the words, obviously
intended to represent a line from the poem, may with certainty
be referred to the conclusion of the third stanza :
" You know how little while we have to stay,
And, once departed, may return no more." 1
It may therefore be regarded as certain that allusions to
FitzGerald's poem, probably to particular stanzas, were made by
the trance-personalities in Mrs. Piper's sittings on Feb. 12,
March 12, March 19, and March 20, 1907.
The allusions to Browning's Rabbi ben Ezra were on April 24
and 29, and May 6 and 8, 1907. On April 24, a group of
words contained in the second, third, fourth and fifth stanzas
of the poem and also the name Ezra were brought out during
the course of attempts on the part of the trance-personalities to
indicate what line of Browning had been aimed at in the triple
cross-correspondence described as " Browning, Hope, Star." 2
On
April 29, one of these words, "Vaunt," was mentioned by
Myersp in my presence as the subject of a cross-corre-
spondence, but it had no context and I did not connect it
with anything. On May 6 and May 8, the word " Vaunt
"
was again spoken of to Mrs. Sidgwick as the subject of a
1
In the words "before" and "shore" of Myersp I am disposed to see
reminiscences of the three rhymed words of stanza iii., namely, "before,"
"door," and "more."
2
See Proceedings, Vol. XXII. p. 413; and also Section vi.
312 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
cross-correspondence which MyersP hoped to complete. I quote
the extracts in question :
Extract from Record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on April 24,
1907.
(Present : Mrs. Sidgwick alone ;
Hodgson communicating).
Do j'ou remember my words Mars the planet.
Jove.
Mars Egla
(Rector communicating).
He [i.e. Hodgson] is giving me the words as he thinks they
appeared [i.e. in Mrs. Verrall's writing.]
[After recapitulating some cross-correspondence, Myers com-
municating, says :]
Ezra
What vaunts life
Vaunt
transcends Did you understand
E. M. S. Not quite. What is it that transcends life ?
The star spark flame
Do you understand it now 1
E. M. S. Poetical expressions ?
Yes. I believe whereas it is difficult to get through the
words one after the other I believe I can make you
understand that I know what I gave her [i.e. Mrs.
Verrall.]
I now recall the transcends
and Vaunt
did they not appear?
[Later in the same sitting]
One word more. I gave Mrs. Verrall Vaunt and trans-
cendentalism. 1
1
See Mr. Piddington's Report, Proceedings, Vol. XXII. p. 374, for an
explanation of the substitution of "transcendentalism" for "transcends."
lxiii.] Note on the Cross-Correspondence " Cup." 313
Extract from Record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on April 29,
1907.
(Present: Mrs. Verrall and Miss Johnson; Myers communicating).
[After reference to the word "azure," which was only read
with difficulty :]
I also referred to the word Vaunt and I want you to
look it up.
M. de G. V. You want me to look up the word Vaunt 1
Yes in your writing.
o
Extract from Record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on May 6, 1907.
(Present Mrs. Sidgwick and Miss Johnson ; Rector communi-
cating).
We will go on with it [i.e. " Cloud " as a cross-correspondence]
or other words.
E. M. S. Particularly with the word Vaunt and what you meant to
bring out with that.
Yes certainly we gave her the word [i.e. mentioned it when
Mrs. Verrall was present] but there is so much more we
could say about it or concerned with it.
Extract from Record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on May 8, 1907.
(Present Mrs. Sidgwick and Miss Johnson ;
Myers communicating).
I am still interested in Vaunt and shall complete it.
It is therefore certain that these two poems, FitzGerakl's
and Browning's, both of them easily associated with the word
" Cup," were referred to by the trance-personalities in the course
of the sittings. Before deciding whether the " Cup " of March 18,
1907, was associated with either or both, we must examine
carefully the statement in the trance of that day.
As is described by Mr. Piddington,1
the words claimed to
come from HodgsonP, and were thus written
:
" Cup used
C C"
1
Proceedings, Vol. XXII. p. 179, Section xiii.
314 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
The word " used " is marked as not certain in Mr. Pid-
dington's account of the sitting, but I have myself little
doubt that it is correct. Mrs. Sidgwick points out that the
word is almost exactly like the word " used " in other
places, and says that she would be satisfied with the reading
" Cup used C.C." if it made any sense in the context. I
feel, with Mr. Piddington, the difficulty, arising from an
acquaintance with the usual phraseology of the Piper script,
of attributing to the controls the elliptical or condensed con-
struction required if the meaning of " Cup used C C " is to
be " Cup has been (or, 'is to be ') used as a cross-correspond-
ence." This objection would disappear if the word " used
"
could be regarded as forming part, not of the control's remark,
but of the phrase to be transmitted. I should punctuate thus,
" Cup used "
; then—after a pause—" C C,"—the explanation
" cross-correspondence " being appended to the phrase " Cup
used," to show that the two words just written were a message
for transmission to other automatists. There would be no
difficulty in the selection by the controls of that particular
combination, if any meaning attached to it.
1
The question
thus arises,—is there any point in the addition
(1) of a word following upon Cup;
(2) of the particular word " used."
To both these questions I think that an affirmative answer
can be given.
(1) A reference to the sitting of January 30th, 1907, shows
a reason for avoiding the single word " Cup " as a subject for
transmission to me. I was the sitter on January 30th, and
among other words, said to have occurred in my earlier script,
" Chalice " was mentioned. This reminded me, as I noted at
the time, of an allusion in my earlier script to the Latin Cyathus,
Cup, the connexion of which with Christian ritual I had quite
recently been investigating. Of this I said nothing at the
sitting, but shortly afterwards " Cup " was mentioned with-
out context by MyersP. As therefore my attention had on
January 30th been called to the word "Cup," that word alone
was not a good choice for a cross-correspondence with me. A
1
See Proceedings, Vol. XXII. p. 287, where a particular kind of sea and sky,
"Sea and Sky Blue," is indicated as the subject of a cross-correspondence.
lxiii.] Note on the Cross-Correspondence " Cup." 315
similar difficulty had arisen in another case.
1
The word
" Wreath," intended for a cross-correspondence, had been
mentioned in my presence on January 21, 1907; on Jan-
uary 23 Rector apologised to Mr. Piddington for the blunder,
and on March 4 MyersP, after hearing that " Laurel wreath
"
had appeared in my script, explained that " laurel " had been
added to " wreath " to make the cross-correspondence evidential.
It is thus consistent with the previous conduct of the controls,
since the word " Cup " had been mentioned in my presence, to
add another word when employing " Cup " as a subject for cross-
correspondence.
(2) Without going so far as to say that "Cup used" recalls
Rabbi ben Ezra to a student of Browning, I yet assert that if
it is desired to distinguish by a single epithet the cup of ben
Ezra from the cup of Omar, used is well chosen. The distinction
between the two conceptions of a cup lies just in the use of the
vessel, and the word use is introduced into one poem and not
into the other. Omar's cup is to be filled with " Life's Liquor
"
(ii.), with "Wine Eed Wine" (vi.), with what "clears To-Day of
past regrets " (xx.) ; it is to drown the memory that " without
asking " we are " hurried hither " and " hurried hence " (xxx).
;
the " Ruby A^intage " is to be drunk " with old Khayyam," and,
" when the Angel with his darker Draught draws up," we are
to " take that " without shrinking (xlviii.). Rabbi ben Ezra
on the contrary bids us look not " clown but up ! to uses of a
cup" (30); and asks Cod "who mouldest men ... to take and
use Thy work" (32). It would be difficult to find a single
word better suited than " used " to distinguish between the two
cups and at the same time to recall the culminating stanzas of
Browning's poem.
A further point for consideration is whether by an examina-
tion of the script of the other two automatists concerned in the
cross-correspondence any reason is found for associating the Cup
of March 18, 1907, with either Omar Khayyam or Rabbi ben
Ezra. Neither the slowly-forming stone cup of Mrs. Holland's
script of March 19, 1907, nor the silver cup of my script of
the same day, represents the earthenware cup of Omar and ben
J
See Proceedings, Vol. XXII. Section ix., especially pp. 101, 102; and note
the above quoted statement by Rector on May 6th, 1907, about the additions
that could be made to a word inadvertently mentioned in my presence.
316 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Ezra, though the ultimate purpose—" thirst quenching "
—of the
uncompleted cup described in her script
1
recalls the purpose of
Browning's cup,—to slake the thirst of the Master when the
cup has been made perfect as planned. In my script I find two
points where it is possible to see a connexion with Browning's
poem, but neither is certain. My scripts of March 19 and 20,
1907, are plainly intended to be continuous,
2
and the second
script aims, as Mr. Piddington has pointed out, " at giving
expression to one thing St John's College, Cambridge."
It reaches this goal " by devious bye-paths," in the course of
which it passes from the Feast of St. John the Baptist to the
Feast of St. John the Evangelist, kept at St. John's College,
Cambridge, thus perhaps recalling the " festal board " of Rabbi
ben Ezra (30). The second point of possible connexion is
contained in a later script of March 26, 1907, of which I
here quote the whole
:
Write again later—out of doors—but now say this :
what turns the wheel, the four-spoked wheel of time 1
[drawing of a four-spoked wheel] from left to right revolving.
With this script may be compared the phrases in stanzas
26 and 27 of Rabbi ben Ezra, "feel why time spins fast," and
" time's wheel runs back or stops." There is no reason, how-
ever, as far as I know, why the wheel of time should be four-
spoked.
No one of these scripts is sufficiently distinctive to be applied
to Rabbi ben Ezra, if taken alone. But I should not expect to
find accidentally within nine days, in the scripts of three differ-
ent automatists, four references presenting such parallelism to
the ideas and language of Rabbi ben Ezra, as is presented by the
four in question, which are summarized in the following tabular
form
:
Date. Automatisms 'phrase. Browning.
Mar. 18 P. " Cup used " Uses of cup (30)
3
Use Thy work (32)
Mar. 19 H. "Thirst quenching" To slake Thy thirst (31)
" inadequate " Amend . . . perfect the cup
(32)
1
See above, p. 306, foot-note. 2
See Proceedings, Vol. XXII. p. 183.
3
The numbers in brackets refer to the stanzas of Rabbi ben Ezra.
LXIII.] Note on the Cross-Correspondence "Clip." 317
Date. Automatist's phrase.
Mar. 19 V. " Feast . . . Feast
"
Mar. 26 V. "What turns the
wheel
"
" Wheel of Time."
Browning.
festal board (30)
Gocl, whose wheel (25) time
spins (26)
Time's wheel (27) times . . .
in Thy hand (32)
The persistency of allusions
1
to Rabbi hen Ezra in the Piper
trance is shown in a sitting of Mr. Dorr's with Mrs. Piper in
1908, when on May 8 the first line of the poem, "Grow old
along with me," was selected as a subject for cross-correspond-
ence with me. It was not reproduced in my script, nor were
any of the cross-correspondences from Rahbi ten Ezra, mentioned
on April 24, 1907, successfully transmitted by the trance-
personalities. " Cup," however, which is a word in the poem,
was transmitted, as above described, but when it was mentioned
in Mrs. Piper's trance on March 18, 1907, it was not connected
with Browning or assigned to any specified automatist.
Some confirmation of the view set out in this paper is
supplied by other evidence from the sittings with Mrs. Piper
in February and March, 1907. From these sittings I infer
that the "Cup used," of March 18, whatever it may have
meant, was not the cup of Omar Khayyam. The sitting of
Feb. 1 2 as well as the immediately preceding sitting of March 1
2
and the two succeeding sittings of March 19 and 20 contain
allusions to Omar KJiayyam—allusions, it may be said in
passing, that show an acquaintance with the poem at once more
intimate and less directly expressed than would be expected
were the source in Mrs. Piper's own mind. Words associated
with the poem are selected for transmission. The connexion
of the word " cup " with FitzGerald's poem could not fail to be
known to one who associated with that poem " Dawn," " Wine
of Life," and " no man ever returns," etc., but no such association
1
There have also been quotations from the poem in other scripts : on January
7, 1904, MyersH cpaotecl from stanza 25 (Proceedings, Vol. XXI. p. 215)
:
"All I could never be
—
All men refused in me
This I was worth to God whose wheel the pitcher shaped,"
and on Oct. 20, 1906, H. V. script has (stanza 3) " folly wide the mark. " Neither
of these scripts was known to Mrs. Piper, or to Mrs. Sidgwick, when allusions
to the poem were made by MyersP in April, 1907.
318 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
is suggested for the " Cup used C C." Even had the suggested
cross-correspondence consisted of the single word " Cup," I should
be indisposed, under the circumstances, to connect it with
Omar Khayyam. When we remember that between " Cup
"
and " C C " was inserted a word wholly inappropriate to Omar
Khayyam's cup, I think it is clear that on March 18 there
was no intention on the part of HodgsonP to suggest any
association between " Cup used C C " and the cup of Omar
Khayyam.1
This is not the place to discuss in detail whether there
is a historical link between the two poems, or whether a
student of literature would naturally pass from the thought of
EitzGerald's Omar Khayyam to the thought of Browning's
Rabbi ben Ezra. The first edition of Omar Khayyam was
published in 1859, and, though not generally known till some
time later, it was enthusiastically praised and eagerly read by
a small group, among whom were Swinburne and Dante
Eossetti. In the autumn of 1861 Eobert Browning came to
live in London, and often saw Eossetti, who had been a friend
of his for some years. It is probable that a poem which had
so strongly impressed Eossetti was not unknown to Browning.
In 1864 Rabbi ben Ezra was published in the volume called
Dramatis Personcc. If any one reads and compares the two
poems, noticing especially the treatment in both of the image
of the Fotter, he will find it difficult to believe that the work
of the earlier poet was unknown to the later poet. The
comparison of man to the Eotter's Clay is not new ; as Eitz-
Gerald reminds us, it is found " in the Literature of the
World from the Hebrew Brophets to the present time " ; it
is as appropriately employed by the Hebrew as by the Fersian
thinker. But the form of stanzas 2 6 and 27 of Rabbi
ben Ezra suggests that the view there represented is not only
an expression of personal belief, but a refutation of some
existing theory, and a comparison with stanzas xxxvi. and
xxxvii. of Omar Khayyam suggests whose that theory was.
1
The view that "Cup used" is, in fact, a reminiscence of Rabbi ben Ezra
need not imply a deliberate reticence on the part of the controls. The phrase
may have been a first emergence, provoked by the interest of the experimenters
in Browning, of allusions to Rabbi ben Ezra, definitely formulated on
April 24, 1907.
lxiii.] Note on the Cross-Correspondence "Cwp" 319
Omar Khayyam says that he " watch'd the Potter thumping
his wet Clay," and thereupon he urges his auditor
—
" Ah, fill the Cup ;
—what boots it to repeat
How Time is slipping underneath our Feet
:
Unborn To-morrow and dead Yesterday,
Why fret about them if To-day be sweet
!
"
Kabbi ben Ezra bids his auditor
—
" note that Potter's wheel,
That metaphor!"
and goes on
:
" Thou, to whom fools propound,
When the wine makes its round,
Since life fleets, all is change ; the Past gone, seize To-day
!
Fool! all that is, at all,
Lasts ever, past recall
;
Earth changes, but thy soul and Clod stand sure."
If accident, and not acquaintance with FitzGerald's poem,
produced so apt a criticism of Omar's theory of life and ex-
pressed it by a different interpretation of Omar's metaphor,
the coincidence is remarkable. But that there are remark-
able undesigned coincidences in the history of literature, as
elsewhere, it is not for a student of Psychical Eesearch to
deny.
320 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
V.
MISS VERKALL'S SCRIPT OF MARCH 16, 1908:
A CORRECTION AND AN ADDITION.
By MRS. A. W. VERRALL.
The script in question is quoted and commented on in
Proceedings, Vol. XXIV. pp. 297, 298. It runs as follows:
La vie est breve
Un peu d'espoir
Un peu de reve
Et puis bonsoir.
The end of the story.
Like a crimson petalled rose the rose of Sharon.
When the proof was sought he told them that the only means of
obtaining it was to persevere in the attempt to prove the connexion.
Gautier and Hugo those together types to be compared.
Unless there is a possibility of setting the two side by side there
would be no opportunity.
is is the —
now at his ease
[drawing of flower] note this flower.
When I wrote the paper on " A New Group of Experi-
menters " in Proceedings, I thought that the two-stanza poem,
of which the second verse appears in the above H. V. script,
was by Victor Hugo. This, however, is not the case. On
the first occasion—many years ago—when I made the acquaint-
ance of the poem, it was attributed to Victor Hugo, and
having never had reason to question the authorship, I accepted
that statement without further consideration. But on being
informed of my mistake, soon after the publication of Proceedings,
Part LX., I took some pains to ascertain the authorship of
the poem. This, with some difficulty, I have done.
LXIIL] Miss Verrall's Script of March 16, 1908. 321
The poem is quoted in Du Maimer's Trilby (published
1894), which also contains an English poem based upon it.
But the author is not there named. In one well-known book
of reference the poem is quoted incorrectly—the first and
third lines of the two stanzas being transposed, so that
" amour " and " haine " appear in different stanzas, and the
poem begins " La vie est breve "—and in the same book it
is incorrectly attributed to Alfred de Musset. In 1902 the
two stanzas were set to music by Madame Teresa del Eiego
and published, together with an English version by the composer.
Madame Teresa del Eiego has set and translated the trans-
posed arrangement of the two stanzas, though her song is
named, " La vie est vaine," from what, in her arrangement,
is the first line of the second stanza. But she has printed
on the fly-leaf, besides her own version, the original lines by
Leon de Montenaeken and the " author's own English version."
Here the two stanzas are not transposed, but run as in my
paper in Proceedings with " amour " and " haine " in the first
stanza, which begins " La vie est vaine." A third stanza is
added which runs as follows
:
" La vie est telle
Que Dieu la fit
;
Et telle quelle . . .
Elle suffit."
This third stanza was, to the best of our belief, unknown
to the automatists concerned in the cross-correspondence, as
well as to me, until, in the course of enquiries as to the
authorship of the lines, Miss Mac came across the words set
to music and wrote to me on April 30, 1911. The further
information thus obtained, though it shows that what I called
a " two-stanza poem by Hugo " is in fact by Montenaeken
and contains a third stanza, does not affect the correspondence
between the H. V. and Mac scripts, nor the complementary
nature of that correspondence. For on March 16, 1908, an
H. V. script, containing internal evidence that it was incom-
plete and required supplementing, quoted the second stanza
of a French poem, of which the first stanza appeared
independently, three months later, in the script of some
new automatic writers whose script, by order of their
x
322 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
" communicators," was sent to me as containing messages
intended for me. To all the automatists concerned the two
stanzas of the poem, and two only, were known, as they were
to me ;
by one automatist, my daughter, as by me, the author-
was thought to be Victor Hugo.
But it will be observed that the H. V. script does not
attribute the lines to Hugo. Taking that script as it stands,
without preconceptions of any kind, there is no more reason
to attribute the verses to Hugo than to Gautier. Both those
names appear later in the same script, and neither is claimed
as the author of the opening lines. But, believing as I did,
that the opening lines were a quotation from Hugo, I naturally
supposed the lines thus quoted to represent the poem of Hugo
later alluded to in the script, as representing a type to be
compared with a poem of Gautier. Of Gautier's work I was
completely ignorant, as was my daughter. I looked through a
collection of his poems—which I do not possess—to see if I
could find a poem comparable with " La vie est breve," but I
could find none.
So much for my mistaken statement ; I pass to the con-
sideration of the H. V. script. It is clear that the inclusion
of these lines in a script which also suggests a comparison of
the types of Hugo and Gautier would be completely justified
if, for instance, there existed poems by Hugo and Gautier
characteristic of their respective authors and referring to the
topic which is the subject of the poem whose second stanza is
quoted in the script,—the emptiness and brevity of life. That
being so, and it being certain that the lines are neither by
Hugo nor by Gautier, it remains to be seen whether any
poems by Hugo and Gautier can be found which fulfil these
conditions, and whether any clue to those poems is contained
in the H. V. script. I believe that there are such poems,
and I have been led to their discovery by means of what
was written in my own script and in the script of other
automatists. I relate the circumstances in detail, prefacing
my account with a statement about my own knowledge of the
two poets at the time (October 1910) when my own scripts
were produced.
(1) I had no acquaintance with Gautier, except what was
derived from looking at the index and turning over the pages
lxiil] Miss Verrall's Script of March 16, 1908. 323
of his collected poems, as just above described, some time in
the winter of 1908-9, to see if I could find a parallel with
" La vie est breve."
(2) Much of Victor Hugo's poetry is exceedingly familiar
to me. But certain volumes—among them Toutc la Lyre—
I had never seen until, in April or May 1910, after his
authorship of " La vie est breve " had been challenged, I went
to the University Library and looked cursorily through the
volumes which I do not possess, turning over their pages and
glancing at all poems with short lines such as there are in
" La vie est breve," for which I was looking.
The clue to what I now believe to have been the intention
of the H. V. script of March 16, 1908, was obtained as
follows
:
My script of October 3, October 4 and October 10, 1910,
emphasized the word "Meditation." On September 22, 1910,
I had seen this word in the record of a sitting of Mrs. Piper's
of July 16, 19 10.
1
There the word was introduced into a
verse apparently indicated as a subject for cross-correspondence.
It appeared to me, however, when I read the record, that the
intention was to emphasize, not the lines uttered, but the
actual word " Meditation."
Whether or not my impression was correct, it was, beyond
all doubt, reproduced in my script of Oct. 3, 1910, and probably
again in my scripts of Oct. 4 and 10, 1910. They run as
follows :
Oct. 3, 1910. 10.20 p.m.
Meditation and /icAe-raco 2
are much the same—and you will find
recorded that Mrs. Piper has a hand in the combination.
Your first impression about Meditation was right.
Write to-morrow earlier in the day, and again for a good message
on Wednesday.3
1
See below, p. 331, for extracts from Mrs. Piper's sittings with comment.
2
The use in Latin Bucolic poetry of the word meditor (to practise) is similar to
the use of jueXerdu in Greek. Milton follows the classical use of meditor in the
phrase " to meditate the Muse."
3
See below, pp. 325, 33o, for Wednesday's script.
324 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Oct. 4, 1910. 4.10 p.m.
Samaritan—write down a word that is in your mind—it is the
only way to clear the lumber out.
Satisfied he is not but well content. 1
|V|"p-^ no not quite that.
It is not easy when you keep rejecting the words which come
first to your mind.
Meditation is a good long word in M — will that fill your gap?
and ask about the Golden Numbers.1
It seems impossible to get you to distinguish sometimes between
your thoughts and ours, —and you constantly overlook idiosyncracies
wh. 2
ought to tell you who the writer is —
Oct, 10, 1910. 11.30 a.m.
No ordinary effort will be spared
Meditation, Fancy's Child—no
Sweet Meditation heavenly maid
and apt alliteration's artful aid.
Then there are Augustine's Meditations 3
—but they are not what
I want.
It is a purely poetic association with the word.
Pacing in the cloister slow
no cloister's shade
*In a script of Mrs. Holland's (Dec. 30, 1908) quoted in Proc. Vol. XXIV.
p. 324, and known to me, occur the words "content" and "golden numbers."
I can offer no explanation of the reminiscence here of that script.
The word "golden" has perhaps some special association, unknown to me,
with Theophile Gautier. See Swinburne's Memorial Verses (to Th. G.)
"In types of clean chryselephantine verse.
Who gave thee words more golden than fine gold."
"The sunrise of whose golden-mouthed glad head,"
and his Sonnet with a copy of Mile de Maupin
"This is the golden book of spirit and sense,"
and again his Theophile Gautier,
" Sa parole de marbre et d'or."
2
Such as the abbreviated " wh." for "which," a characteristic in the letters of
F. W. H. M.
3
Augustine's Confessions is, I suppose, meant.
LXIII.] Miss Verrall's Script of March 16, 1908. 325
But you do not seem able to complete
cJ\fh
Meditation heavenly maid.
That will do for to-day.
There is no cross-correspondence between my script and
Mrs. Piper's, as I had seen the record of her sitting. But
the repetition of the word in three scripts of mine within a
week emphasizes the word " meditation," and on some other
occasions I have found meaning in cases where my script has
repeated emphatically a word originally introduced by a normal
association. At the time I was unable to see any point in
the reiteration of the word " meditation."
In the early part of January 1911, I came across an allusion
in a book,1
which I was reading, to " Gautier's axiom." The
same sentence contrasted " the rose " and " the laurel." This
struck me, as in recent scripts there had been some association
of rose and laurel, and on January 7, 1911, I noted " Gautier's
axiom " as a point to be looked up, but I did nothing further
in the matter at that time.
On Jan. 21, 1911, I saw my daughter's script for the period
Sept. 7, to Nov. 22, 1910, which I had not seen before, and
found an unmistakable cross-correspondence between M. V.
script 2
of October 5 and H. V. script of October 6, 1910.
Stringed instruments appeared in both scripts ;
my script
certainly, and my daughter's probably, quoted from Scott's
Lay of the Last Minstrel ;
my script had, in emphasized
writing, " toute la lyre "
—the title of a volume of Victor Hugo's
poems ;
and, further, my script represented that it was dealing
with the second of two groups wanted : "I do not think you
have got the first word at all. What you have is the second
The cross-correspondence between our scripts on a " stringed
instrument" was noted 3
by me on January 21, 1911, but
1
Men and Ghosts, by Edith Wharton.
- The cross-correspondence is here summarized. See below, pp. 335 ff. , for the
scripts and full comments.
3
The reader may not assent to my view as to the correspondence between
the scripts ; but, in any case, it is certain that I noted my own impression
on seeing my daughter's script, as "c.c. on stringed instrument."
word.
33
326 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
I made no attempt to connect it with anything else. It is,
however, to be remembered that my part of this cross-
correspondence was produced on the " Wednesday " on which
I was told, in the script of October 3, 1910, to write "for
a good message."
On Jan. 27, 1911, I had an opportunity of looking for
" Gautier's axiom," in which I expected to find a comparison
or contrast between the rose and the laurel. Mrs. Wharton's
sentence runs as follows: "He had but one idea in his beautiful
obstinate head. He wanted the laurel and not the rose, and
he kept on repeating Gautier's axiom and battering ... at his
limp prose." The allusion is unmistakably to the following
lines, contained in the first poem of Gautier's first volume
:
" Ce qui charme s'en va, ce qui fait peine reste,
La rose vit une heure, et le cypres cent ans."
In his preface to the volume, Gautier expounds the views
condensed into the couplet above quoted,—his admiration for
the beautiful and his conviction of its evanescence. The motto
at the head of this poem is a quotation from Malherbe's famous
lines on the death of his friend's child, thus :
" Ce monde ou
les meilleures choses out le pire destin." The name of the
poem is " MSditation."
Here, therefore, we have a poem of Gautier
—
(1) characteristic of the author,
(2) closely associated with the topic of "La vie est breve,"
(3) bearing a title
—
Meditation—a word emphasized by the
repetition in my script (Oct. 3, 4, 10, 1910) of the word,
which had been mentioned in Mrs. Piper's trance (July 8, 16,
1910) as a subject for cross-correspondence.
These facts naturally struck me, and having thus found a
connexion between the M. V. "Meditation" (Oct. 3, 4, and 10)
and Gautier, I looked back at the intervening script (Oct. 5)
to see if it also were connected with the subject. I then
noted that this script, already emphasized by forming part of
a cross-correspondence, contained the words " toute la lyre,"
which are the title of a volume of Victor Hugo. 1
1
I had not noticed this before. My note runs: "Jan. 27, 1911. Toute la
lyre is the name of a vol. of V. Hugo, I think,"
lxiilJ Miss Verrall's Script of March 16, 1908. 327
On Jan. 28, 1911, I went to the University Library to see
whether anything in Victor Hugo's Toutc la Lyre threw light
on the script. The volume was not one of those known to
me, but I had looked through it, as above described, in search
of the lines "La vie est breve," in April or May 1910. I
now found in it two poems of interest in the present con-
nexion, thus: (1) The last poem of Book IV., dated " Le
Jour des Morts, 1872 "
—the year of Gautier's death—-is
addressed " a, Theophile Gautier." It describes the early friend-
ship of the two poets, dwells on the old age of the present
writer
1
—
" Moi, blanchi par les jours sur ma tete neigeant,
Je me souviens des temps ecoules, . .
."
and recalls Gautier's preface and his poem " Meditation " by
allusions to his search for the beautiful.
" Va chercher le vrai, toi qui sus trouver le beau."
(2) In the sixteenth poem of Book III., called " Epitaphes
d'Enfants," the ending of a child's short life is regarded as a
subject not of regret but of rejoicing, thus exactly reversing
the sentiment of Gautier. Gautier laments the evanescence of
the beautiful, which perishes like a rose, or the child of
Malherbe's lines
:
" Ce qui charme s'en va, ce qui fait peine reste,
La rose vit une heure, et le cypres cent ans."
Hugo, on the contrary, envies the brevity of the child's life
:
" Enfant, que je te porte envie
!
Ta barque neuve echoue au port
;
Qu'as tu done fait pour que ta vie
Ait sitot merite la mort ?
"
Thus, following the hints of " meditation " (in M. V. script of
Oct. 3, 4, and 10) and of " toute la lyre " (M. V. script of Oct. o),
we have arrived at poems by Hugo and Gautier, characteristic
of their respective authors and dealing with the emptiness and
brevity of life. Hereby a meaning is given to the remarks of
H. V. script of March 16, 190S, which, after quoting the stanza
1
Cf. M. V. script :
" The minstrel was infirm and old." Toutt la Lyre, Hugo's
final volume, might be described, not indeed as the Lay of the Last Minstrel,
but as the Minstrel's Last Lay.
328 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
beginning " La vie est breve," says that " Gautier and Hugo
"
are " types to be compared."
Moreover, an explanation is now forthcoming for the choice
of the word " rose " to serve as a second link in the cross-
correspondence on the two-stanza poem, " La vie est breve,"
between the H. V. and Mac scripts. The introduction of a
second topic, not associated with either stanza of the French
poem, is strong evidence, as I noted in my paper on the
subject (Proc. Vol. XXIV. p. 299), that the correspondence
on the French poem is not accidental. Still stronger evidence
of design is now furnished by the identification of the poem
of Gautier, which, according to the H. V. script of March 16,
1908, presented a type for comparison with Hugo. For
Gautier's poem, based on Malherbe's lines, chooses as a type of
the evanescence of beauty the short-lived " rose," and this gives
point to the introduction of a "rose" in the H. V. script.
The choice of a rose to combine with each stanza of the
French poem as topics for transmission is, as I recognised
Proc. Vol. XXIV. p. 297), not inappropriate, and might, for
instance, be accounted for by a familiarity with Malherbe's
poem on the death of his friend's little daughter
:
" Et rose, elle a vecu ce qui vivent les roses,
L'espace d'un matin."
I did, indeed, detect and note at the time references to
Malherbe's lines in the Mac scripts; thus, 1
on July 21, 1908,
" why did the rose fall so young and fresh
—" and on July 26,
1908, "alas for the faded faded petals—helas elle est morte dans
sa jeunesse quand tout est frais et nouveau."
But it requires a knowledge not of Malherbe but of
Gautier to see the appropriateness of introducing Gautier's
name into the H. V. script of March 16, 1908, with its
"brevity of life" and its "rose"; and it takes a knowledge
both of Gautier and of Hugo to suggest in the same connexion
that those types should be compared. That knowledge neither
my daughter nor I possessed at the time when her script was
written.
2
I have acquired it since by following up hints
1
The scripts are quoted in Proc. Vol. XXIV. pp. 308, 309.
2
That is perhaps recognised in the remark about the lack of opportunity,
unless there were a possibility of putting the two side by side ; it was long
before such an opportunity occurred.
lxiii.] Miss Verrall's Script of March, 16, 1908. 329
given in script. It is, of course, possible—though I do not
myself accept as sufficient such an explanation,—that the
hints suggested by the words in my own script, " Meditation
"
and " toute la lyre," were due to subliminal memory of what
I had seen in turning over the pages of Gautier and Hugo,
after I was acquainted with the H. V. script of March 1G,
1908. But my subliminal memory does not account for the
choice, as a subject for transmission to other automatists, of
the word "Meditation" in Mrs. Piper's sittings of July 1910
—before the appearance of the word in my script—nor for
the cross-correspondence between M. V. and H. V. script, which
drew my attention to the words " toute la lyre." And I am
as certain as I can be of anything, that in March 1908,
neither my daughter nor I had any knowledge whatever
:
(a) of Gautier's Meditation;
(5) of Hugo's Epitaplies cVEnfants or of any poem in Touts
la Lyre
;
(c) of any reason why a comparison of the types of Hugo
and Gautier should throw light on the conjunction of a rose
with the last stanza of a poem commemorating the emptiness
and brevity of life.
To make the dates and sequence of incidents clear to the
reader, I append a chronological table, showing the chief
incidents.
(1) March 16, 1908. H. V. La vie est breve; rose;
Gautier and H112:0 to
be compared.
(2) July 27, 1908.
(3) Sept. 26, 1908.
Mac.
Mrs. Verrall receives Mac
script and notes cross-
correspondence on " La
Vain is life ; rose.
vie, etc."
(4) Dec. 1908. Mrs. Verrall, accepting
Hugo's authorship of
" La vie, etc.," fails to
find comparable poem
by Gautier.
330 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
(5) April, 1910. Proceedings, Part LX. (Vol.
XXIV.), issued from
printers, with account of
cross-correspondence on
" La vie, etc."
(6) May, 1910. Mrs. Verrall, hearing that
" La vie, etc.," is not by
Hugo, looks through all
Hugo's poems.
(7) July 8, 1910. Piper. Meditation.
(8) July 16, 1910. Piper. Meditation.
(9) Sept. 2 2, 1910. Mrs. Verrall sees records
of Piper sittings in
July 1910.
(10) Oct. 3, 1910. M. V. Meditation.
(11) Oct. 4, 1910. M. V. Meditation
(12) Oct. 5, 1910. M. V. Toute la lyre.
(13) Oct. 6, 1910. H. V. Dulcimer.
(14) Oct. 10, 1910. M. V. Meditation.
(15) Jan. 7, 1911. Mrs. Verrall notes refer-
ence by Mrs. Wharton
to Gautier's axiom con-
nected with " rose " and
" laurel."
(16) Jan. 21, 1911. Mrs. Verrall sees H. V.
script of Oct. 6, 1910,
and notes cross-corre-
spondence on " stringed
instrument."
(17) Jan. 27, 1911. Mrs. Verrall finds Gautier's
Meditation.
(18) Jan. 28, 1911. Mrs. Verrall finds Epi-
taphes d'Enfants and a
poem to Gautier in
Hugo's Toutc la Lyre.
lxiil] Miss Verrall's Script of March 16, 1908. 331
Appendix A.
" Meditation " in Mrs. Piper's Sittings.
The following extracts from Mrs. Piper's sittings of July 8
and July 16, 1910, show how the word "Meditation" was
there introduced :
Extract from Sitting of July 8, 1910. Sitters, Lady Lodge and Sir
Oliver Lodge, the latter taking notes : contemporary notes are in rcrand
brackets, letter additions in square brackets.
( Waking-stage.)
Myers. Meditation.
(Very faint. Then she began to whisper a poem fast and low
—
too low to hear properly. All I could record was this.)
, meditation . . .
sleeping dead
Laurels round
ever grow.
Meditation links it. (These words were said at end of stanza
as a sort of explanation. The stanza sounded quite like poetry,
but it was whispered very fast. I said " Could Myers repeat it
again," on which it seemed to be repeated, and this time all I got
down was this.)
Churchyard tree
walked with gorgeous feet
about the sleeping dead.
Meditation links it
Life open peace
completes the semblance.
Let's stick to the old never mind the new.
Extract from Sitting of July 16, 1910. Sitters, Miss Johnson and Sir
Oliver Lodge, the latter taking notes.
(B. H. communicating.)
Meditation.
0. J. L. Yes, I want to understand about that.
Connects it.
332 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
0. J. L. Links it 1
Yes.
0. J. L. I cannot find a poem called Meditation.
Meditation comes out in Mrs. Holland's also will appear
at Mrs. W.'s. Wait for it.
0. J. L. Yes, all right, but let me ask you : In the waking stage
last time Myers recited a verse of a poem, but I could
not get it down quite. Could you write the poem %
Elegy
I'll get Myers to repeat it for me.
As through the graveyard's lone retreat
my Meditation led
Slow I walked with cautious feet
above the sleeping dead
(0. J. L. in reading mis-read the word before " feet.")
Cautious he said
Got it 1
Cautious.
0. J. L. Yes I see, cautious feet.
Meditation clinches it.
0. J. L. Can you tell me if it is an original poem 1
No he quoted it.
0. J. L. Does he wish to say where he quoted it from 1
Elegy.
0. J. L. Do you mean Gray's Elegy?
Yes.
[This must be an instance of an accepted but erroneous
suggestion.—0. J. L.]
But Meditation will play a most interesting pari
0. J. L. Yes I understand, a c.c.
LXIII.] Miss Verrall's Script of March 16, 1908. 333
And the last two lines through loth lights.
Wait for them.
Times around Helen coming slowly
[This is certainly incorrectly deciphered. —0. J. L.]
(0. J. L. tried to repeat this, emphasizing Helen.)
Yes V
Got it?
0. J. L. No, I haven't.
Helen V
Wait for it wait for it
0. J. L. Yes, yes.
What precisely was the intention of the above, I feel un-
able to determine, but note the following points :
(a) Meditation, on July 8, emerges as from MyersP and is,
on July 16, referred to as from him by HodgsonP.
(h) Meditation is repeatedly said (twice on July 8, and again
on July 16) to "link" something; it will play a part.
(c) Meditation was at first supposed by Sir 0. Lodge to be the
title of a poem; his note of July 13, 1910, gives a list of
poets in whose works he had failed to find a poem called
Meditation. After HodgsonP has learnt that no poem called
Meditation has been found, he says that the word will play
a part and accepts the suggestion that he means a cross-corre-
spondence. This suggestion is not spontaneous.
(d) The fragmentary lines of July 8, completed on July 16,
have not been identified, nor have they been found in any
other automatic script.
(e) " Elegy " is given twice as a clue to the identification
of the poem ; the sitter's suggestion that Gray's Elegy is in-
tended is accepted, but erroneously.
(/) The poem in question is said not to be one by Frederic
Myers.
(g) The last two lines of the poem are emphasized as a
subject for transmission.
Possible points of contact with the Meditation, of Gautier
are to be found in (&), (c), (e), (g). Gautier's poem called
334 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Meditation, and described by him as an Elegy,
1
does " link
"
or "connect" parts, otherwise unconnected, in the H. V. script
of March 16, 1908, and the important lines of Gautier's poem
are the last two, which allude to Malherbe's poem, and intro-
duce the rose and the characteristic " axiom."
" Ce qui charme s'en va, ce qui fait peine reste,
La rose vit une heure, et le cypres cent ans."
It has been suggested to me that the " Churchyard tree " of
Mrs. Piper's waking stage (July 8, 1910) may be an attempt
to represent Gautier's cypress, a tree evidently selected by him
for its associations with places of burial. This suggestion
perhaps receives some support from the parallelism which is
thus presented between
(a) the substitution in Mrs. Piper's trance of " Churchyard
tree " for " Laurels," and
(h) the expectation in my mind that the axiom would con-
cern a rose and a laurel, whereas in fact it concerns a rose
and a cypress.
This expectation was derived, in my ignorance of the poem,
from my reading of Mrs. Wharton's book, and is due solely
to the form of her sentence, not to any statement of hers.
The " laurel " of immortality is preferred by the personage in
her story to the fleeting beauty of the " rose." I read this
story for the first time in January 1911, soon after the
publication of the book. If therefore the parallelism with Mrs.
Piper is other than accidental, its explanation must be found
elsewhere than in my mental activity, whether consciously or
unconsciously exercised. The association in my mind between
" cypress " and " laurel," in connexion with " Meditation,"
demonstrably came into existence only in January 1911, and
not earlier, and cannot therefore be held accountable for the
combination by MyersP, six months before, of " Meditation
"
with " Laurels " and " Churchyard tree."
^autier divides his early poems into "Elegies," and "Paysages," and
Meditation is numbered as Elegie xii.
lxiii.] Miss Verrall's Script of March 16, 1908. 335
Appendix B.
Cross-correspondence between M. V. and H. V. Script
on " Stringed Instrument."
The scripts, produced independently and within twelve hours
of one another, run as follows :
M. V. Script. Oct. 5, 1910. 10.15 p.m. Cambridge.
how often has the tune been played before ? then say
minstrel the minstrel was infirm and old 1
IT
ap hoel
toute la
lyre 2
no you do not
get the shape
I do not think you have got the first word at all. What you have
is the second group.
Hoehs lays 3
That is better.
1
Scott's Lay of the Last Minstrel, introduction, 1. 2.
2
Name of a volume of Victor Hugo's poems, the last published.
3
Confused recollection of Gray's Bard, I. 2 (last line): "High born Hoel's
harp or soft Llewellyn's lay."
336 Mrs. A. W. Verrail. [part
//. V. Script. October 6, 1910. 10 a.m. London.
Aslant lines aslant. I cannot get it clear
a peak of Darien 1
a damsel with a dulcimer 2
The lonely road
[Drawing of snake with tail in mouth] thus
Ye have heard with your ears
More later
My daughter and I compared notes on January 21, 1911,
as to scripts produced since our last comparison on September
7, 1910. Her script of October 6 was the first obtained by
her since we parted. Between the two scripts above quoted
there seems a distinct correspondence.
Both allude to a stringed instrument, named in one
case, but not in the other. The " lines aslant " of H. V.
script perhaps have some relation to the two drawings in
M. V. script, both of which show " lines," though not " aslant,"
and evidently represent some stringed instrument, said not
to be satisfactorily executed, and not to give " the shape
"
wanted. Clearly neither represents a lyre. A dulcimer is,
it appears,3
an irregularly shaped four-sided wooden instrument
over which are stretched metal strings. The first drawing
might represent strings stretched over solid wood ; the second
clearly shows a frame on the left-hand side and so approxi-
mates to a harp. Taking together the two drawings and the
explanatory phrase written beside them, " toute la lyre," I am
disposed to think that the intention was to represent not a
particular musical instrument, but the general idea of stringed
instruments.
Not only is there, as I think, a correspondence between
these scripts on a " stringed instrument," but also on Scott's
poem, The Lay of the Last Minstrel. M. V. script has the
word " Minstrel," quotes the second line of the poem, and
ends with the word " lays." Here, then, the reference to
Scott's poem is explicit. H. V. script, with its " the lonely
road," suggests a reference to two passages in the poem,
1
Keats, Sonnet on first looking into Chapman's Ho?)ier.
2 Coleridge, Kubla Khan.
3 Neither my daughter nor I had any precise idea of a dulcimer, other than
that it was a stringed instrument.
Lira.] Miss Verrall's Script of March 16, 1908. 337
namely, the first line, " The way was long," and, more
definitely, the second and third lines of the final verses
:
" And did he wander forth alone ?
Alone in indigence and age."
I have no explanation to offer of the words " a peak of
Darien " in H. V. script. The phrase was known by my
daughter as a quotation from Keats's Sonnet. She had no
other associations with it, and did not know of its application
to S.P.B. cases
1
until I told her of it, on January 21, 1911.
The snake in H. V. script, taken together with the follow-
ing words, suggested to us " the deaf adder " that stoppeth
her ears, and may probably be taken to mean that the
intention of the script, though stated, has not been understood.
There is no indication in either script of cross-correspondence
with any other automatist. But the paragraph in M. V. script
about the " second group " suggests that the important point
of the script, whatever that point may be, was to be the
second of two phrases. In this connexion it should be
noted that the M. V. script was produced on a day (Oct. 5,
1910) appointed two days beforehand in M. V. script (Oct. 3,
1910) thus: "Write to-morrow and again for a good message
on Wednesday." If I am right in considering that the
common topic of M. V. script of October 5 and of H. V.
script of October 6 indicates the second of two associated
phrases, it would be reasonable to look to M. V. script of
October 3, 1910, for the first phrase.
l
See Sir 0. Lodge's paper on Mrs. Willett's script above, p. 141. My
daughter had not read proofs of his paper.
V
338 T. W. Mitchell, M.J). [part
VI.
THE HYPNOIDAL STATE OF SIDIS.
By T. W. MITCHELL, M.D.
Our knowledge of the efficacy of suggestion in the treatment
of morbid conditions is apt to bias our judgment in regard to
the value of other psychotherapeutic measures and in regard to
the interpretation of the results obtained by the employment
of such measures. We know how powerful and how far
reaching is its action, we know how subtle and indirect may
be its use, we know so well the difficulty of eliminating its
possible influence in every form of treatment whatsoever, that
we may be inclined to ascribe to its virtues results that are
in part at least dependent upon other factors. And although
it is probable that the importance of suggestion in the domain
of psychotherapy can never be gainsaid, and that the increased
suggestibility brought about by the induction of hypnosis
cannot be denied, yet we are bound to examine any mode of
psychic treatment that is put forward by responsible men, and
to appraise without prejudice the theoretical considerations
advanced by them in explanation of their results.
We know the efficacy of suggestion, and we know it is
a good rule of method not unnecessarily to multiply our
causes ; but we also know that no scientific dictum has been
more productive of advance in knowledge than that which tells
us to examine our residues. The history of Science affords us
many instances in which the neglect of residual phenomena in
experimental research has led to the overlooking of important
facts, and prevented investigators from making discoveries
which, had they paid due attention to their residues, they
could hardly have missed. The great chemist Cavendish
probably missed the discovery of Argon because in his estimate
lxiil] The Hypnoidal State of Sidis. 339
of the nitrogen of the air he neglected a residue which his
experiments showed him could not be more than 1-1 20th
part of the whole. More than a hundred years afterwards
this residue was accounted for by the discovery of Argon.
Now in the history of psychotherapy, from its earliest
beginnings down to our own time, we find many cases where
the circumstances under which curative results have been
obtained render it difficult for us to range these results under
the category of the therapeutics of suggestion. The mesmeric
operator, by a prolonged series of passes, induced a trance
condition which in itself appears to have had a curative
influence. In other instances benefit was obtained when no
evidence of the mesmeric state was to be found. We try to
hypnotize a patient and fail, but while he lies quiescent we
give him curative suggestions which seem to be effective. We
ask a patient to lie quietly with closed eyes while we murmur
therapeutic suggestions in a monotonous voice, and sooner or
later he derives great benefit from this process.
Such cases as these may be regarded as the residual pheno-
mena of the therapeutics of suggestion, and just as Cavendish
and his successors too readily assumed that all the so-called
nitrogen of the air was the same as the nitrogen of nitre, so we
may be missing some important truth if we too readily assume
that all these therapeutic results are due solely to suggestion.
The value of suggestion during hypnosis is well attested, and the
possibility of effecting physiological and psychological change
by its means is supported by a large amount of experimental
evidence. But evidence of this kind is greatly lacking in
regard to suggestion without hypnosis, and until it is forth-
coming we are justified in receiving with some suspicion
accounts of the therapeutic efficacy of suggestion in the waking
state. We seem bound to consider whether some state of
consciousness intermediate between waking and hypnosis may
not be artificially induced and utilized for the purpose of
giving therapeutic suggestions. We should also keep open
minds in regard to the possible influence of agencies other
than suggestion in every form of psychotherapeutic practice.
The scientific investigation of states of consciousness inter-
mediate between waking and hypnosis is a contribution to
psychology and psychotherapy which we owe practically to one
340 T. W. Mitchell, M.J). [part
man—Dr. Boris Siclis of Brookline. A research into the
nature of suggestibility carried out by him some thirteen or
fourteen years ago led him to formulate certain laws and
conditions of normal and abnormal suggestibility. In order to
get suggestibility in the waking state he found that certain
conditions have to be complied with. Attention must be fixed,
but it must be distracted from the suggestion. There must be
monotony of impressions, limitation of voluntary movements,
and consequently a limitation of the field of consciousness.
He regards hypnosis (abnormal suggestibility) as " a disaggrega-
tion of consciousness, a slit, a scar produced in the mind that
may extend wider and deeper, ending at last in a total dis-
junction of the waking, guiding, controlling consciousness from
the reflex consciousness." Normal suggestibility he believes to
be of a like nature—" it is a cleft in the mind, only here the
cleft is not so deep, not so lasting, as it is in hypnosis or in
the state of abnormal suggestibility ; the split is here but
momentary, evanescent, fleeting, disappearing at the very
moment of its appearance." 1
According to Sidis there is no suggestibility without dis-
aggregation of consciousness. Suggestion in the waking state
is effective only when limitation of the field of consciousness
is produced by the conditions under which the suggestion is
given. Suggestibility is an attribute of the subconscious, and
only when there is a disaggregation of consciousness as a whole
is it possible to appeal directly to the subconscious. Now in
the treatment of psychopathic disorders we often find it desir-
able to get into communication with the subconsciousness of
our patients, not primarily for the purpose of giving sugges-
tions, but in order that we may discover mental material
which has become dissociated from the waking consciousness.
So far as I can discover from the writings of Dr. Sidis, it
was in order to determine whether certain cases of amnesia
were merely disaggregative, and therefore curable, or absolute
and incurable, that he first made use of the conditions of
normal suggestibility as a means of gaining access to the sub-
conscious for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes. The same
end may be obtained by the induction of hypnosis, but hypnosis
cannot always be easily induced, and sometimes it is objected
1
The Psychology of Suggestion (New York, 1906), p. 88.
LXIII.] The Hypnoidal State of Sidis. 341
to. But " where hypnosis is not practicable, and the sub-
conscious has to be reached, we can effect a disaggregation of
consciousness, and thus produce an allied subconscious state by
putting the patient under the conditions of normal suggesti-
bility." 1
Sidis maintains that by keeping the patient for a
short time under the conditions of normal suggestibility we
induce a peculiar mental state which he has named the
hypnoidal state. The process by which it is induced he calls
hypnoidization.
Many different methods of hypnoidization may be employed,
but they all fulfil the main requisites for the production of
normal suggestibility, namely, monotony and limitation of
voluntary movement. In his work, The Psychology of Sug-
gestion, Sidis gives the following account of his original
method :
" The patient is asked to close his eyes and keep
as quiet as possible, without, however, making any special
effort to put himself in such a state. He is then asked to
attend to some stimulus, such as reading or singing. When
the reading is over, the patient, with his eyes still shut, is
asked to repeat it, and tell what came into his mind during
the reading, during the repetition, or after it. Sometimes, as
when the song-stimulus is used, the patient is simply asked to
tell the nature of ideas and images that entered into his mind
at that time or soon after."
2
In his Studies in Psychopathology (1907) he writes: "As
modifications of the same method, the patient is asked to
fixate his attention on some object, while at the same time
listening to the beats of a metronome ; the patient's eyes are
then closed ;
he is to keep very quiet, while the metronome or
some other monotonous stimulus is kept on going. After
some time, when his respirations and pulse are found some-
what lowered, and he declares that he thinks of nothing in
particular, he is asked to concentrate his attention on a subject
closely relating to the symptoms of the malady or to the sub-
merged subconscious state." 3
Writing in 1909 on The Therapeutic Value of the Hypnoidal
State, he says : " The procedure of hypnoidization is quite
1 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, March 14, 1907, p. 325.
2
The Psychology of Suggestion (New York, 1906), p. 224.
3
Boston Medical and Surgical J'our-nal, Mar. 14, 1907, p. 325.
342 T. W. Mitchell, 31. D. [part
simple and may be described as follows. The patient is told
to close his eyes and keep very quiet. He is then asked to
attend to some monotonous stimulus such as the beats of a
metronome, or listen to a continuous note produced by a
tuning-fork, or to smell some pleasant odour, or simply to
submit himself to a gentle massage in which touch and
pressure are of uniform intensity. This should be carried out
in a room where it is dark and quiet. Fatigue, physical and
mental, especially emotional, is a favourable condition. A
prolonged warm bath with relaxation is favourable. A pre-
disposition to sleep is helpful. It is therefore best to make
the first attempt at hypnoidization late at night, when the
patient is both tired and sleepy. In most cases darkness,
quietness, repose, fixation on a bright point and listening to
the monotonous buzzing of an inductorium are conditions
favourable to the induction of the hypnoidal state, even at
the very first attempt." 1
It may be observed that the first description is specially
applicable to the investigation of cases of amnesia. The
second method described would apply more particularly to the
use of hypnoidization as a means of discovering dissociated
complexes of a pathogenic nature. In the last description
stress is laid on the induction of the hypnoidal state as an
end in itself.
By the use of these or similar methods a state of con-
sciousness is induced which differs from full waking but is not
hypnosis or ordinary sleep. The patient is apparently awake
and in possession of all his faculties, but scraps of dissociated
memories, which he cannot ordinarily recall, keep rising into
consciousness. The whole feeling-tone becomes one of acquies-
cence and indifference. Pulse and respiration become diminished,
but are liable to occasional disturbances. Fluctuations of
sensory acuteness, sudden apparently unaccountable starts, and
a slight tendency to resist any change of posture of limbs or
body, without actual catalepsy, may be observed. But the
condition is essentially an unstable one and constantly varies
in depth. At one moment the patient may be practically in
the ordinary waking state, at another he may be on the very
brink of hypnosis or of sleep. Yet on the whole it is a state
1
Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Aug. 19, 1909, p. 247.
LXIIl.] The Hypnoidal State of Siclis. 343
of rest and calm. Mental and physical activity are relaxed,
emotional excitement becomes stilled, and suggestions meet with
little resistance.
The hypnoidal state is an intermediate territory, on the
border-land of waking, sleep, and hypnosis. In the course of
a valuable experimental study of sleep 1
in man and the lower
animals, Sidis discovered that the hypnoidal state is a phase
of consciousness which is passed through in every transition
from one of these states to another. In passing from the
waking state to ordinary sleep or hypnosis, there is always a
longer or shorter hypnoidal stage. In the practice of hyp-
noidization the patient sometimes drops into hypnosis, or he
may fall asleep without touching on hypnosis. And so also,
in awakening from sleep or from hypnosis, the hypnoidal state
has to be passed through. Sidis found that the farther we
descend in the scale of animal life, the more important does
the hypnoidal state become in relation to bodily rest and
recuperation, and he concludes that it is the primitive rest-
state out of which both sleep and hypnosis have been evolved.
The relation to each other of waking, sleep, hypnosis, and
the hypnoidal state may be represented in a diagram in which
1
.
Journal of Abnormal Psychology, Apr.-Sept., 1908.
344 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
the primitive hypnoidal state is regarded as a nucleus from
which the segments of the larger circle, waking, sleep, hyp-
nosis, have arisen. The transition from one of these segments
to another can take place only through the central territory
with which they each have direct relations.
The spontaneous occurrence of the hypnoidal state in man
is as a rule merely a transitory stage in the alternation of
waking and sleep. From the point of view of evolution it is
a vestige derived from a long race of ancestors, a rudimentary
function which has been superseded by the more highly
specialized rest-state, sleep. But it can be artificially induced
and maintained by the methods which have been described,
and it can be utilized with effect in the treatment of psycho-
pathic disorders.
The therapeutic use of the hypnoidal state is a somewhat
complex subject, for hypnoidization may be employed merely
as an adjunct to other methods or as a curative measure in
itself. To understand the claims which Sidis puts forward for
it at the present time, we cannot do better than to examine
the types of cases in which it has been used by Sidis himself
at various stages in the development of his practice of it. The
first record of his use of hypnoidization I have been able to
find is in the account of the well-known Hanna case, given in
full in Multiple Personality by Sidis and Goodhart. This was
a case of total amnesia, following a severe injury. The
patient, a cultured clergyman, was reduced to the mental
condition of a new-born child. All his former acquisitions and
memories seemed to have entirely disappeared, and he had to
start learning everything again from the beginning. When he
was put into the hypnoidal state various fragmentary experi-
ences of his past life emerged into consciousness, demonstrating
to his observers that his lost memories were merely dissociated
and not destroyed. The same method was made use of in
other cases of amnesia, and it was found to be of great
assistance in effecting the resurrection of dissociated mental
material and its reintegration in consciousness.
With the progress of his studies in psychopathology, the
reintegration of consciousness became, for Sidis, the aim of all
therapeutic endeavour in connection with maladies that are
associated with, or produced by, mental dissociation. The
LXIII.] The Hypnoidal State of Sidis. 345
recurrent psycho-motor states of functional psychosis, insistent
ideas, imperative concepts, persistent or periodically appearing
emotional states, so-called psychic epilepsy and other states of
dissociation, all lent themselves to treatment by hypnoidization.
By its means the dissociated complexes could be recovered,
the psychogenesis of the malady could be traced, a synthesis
of consciousness affected, and the patient thereby cured. As
his confidence in his method increased, Sidis gradually ex-
tended its employment, until at the present time he seems to
use it in every kind of disorder in which psychotherapy is
indicated. Writing in 1909, he says: "All cases of a
psychopathic character admit of treatment by hypnoidization.
This, however, is too broad a statement, as the hypnotic
state is far more powerful and attains its end in a shorter
time than the hypnoidal state. In those cases therefore where
hypnosis can be used, it should by all means be employed.
There is, however, a far larger number of cases where hypnosis
is not quite easy to induce, either on account of the patient
himself or on account of unfavourable external circumstances.
In such cases, and they form the vast majority of psycho-
pathic cases, the hypnoidal state is of the utmost importance
from a diagnostic, psychopathological and therapeutic stand-
point."
1
It is thus as a substitute for hypnosis, when the
induction of the hypnotic state is for any reason impossible,
that Sidis recommends treatment by hypnoidization.
Now, it might be inferred that in using the hypnoidal
state as a substitute for hypnosis, we should have to rely
mainly upon the suggestibility of the state in the one case as
in the other. We might suppose that suggestion during the
hypnoidal state is the essential part of the treatment. But
surprisingly little stress is laid by Sidis on this part of the
technique. The most that he says of it is that " the suggesti-
bility of the state, if skilfully handled, is apt to increase the
therapeutic efficacy."
2
Nor is it in its usefulness as a means
of enabling us to get into touch with dissociated mental
complexes, and thereby to assist in their reintegration in
consciousness, that the sole or chief therapeutic value of the
hypnoidal state exists. He says, " once the hypnoidal state is
1
Boston Medical and Surr/ical Journal, Aug. 26, 190P, p. 291.
-Ibid. p. 246.
346 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
induced by any of the various methods of hypnoidization, we
can either attempt to follow up the history and the develop-
ment of the malady, or we may chiefly work for the thera-
peutic effect and treat the present symptoms. It is, however,
advisable from a purely practical therapeutic purpose to
combine the two procedures, as the cure is then far more
effective and far more stable. In cases where the history of
the origin and development of the disease could not be traced
on account of the age or unintelligence of the patient, the
therapeutic effects alone of the hypnoidal state have been
utilized. The results are not so satisfactory so far as scientific
information is concerned, but they are nevertheless of great
benefit to the patient."
1
It would appear, then, that Sidis ascribes some special
therapeutic virtue to the hypnoidal state, cmite apart from the
suggestibility which characterises it, and apart also from the
assistance which it gives us in tracing the pathogenesis of
psychopathic disorders. On what, then, does this special thera-
peutic virtue depend ? According to Sidis, it depends on the
fact that through the hypnoidal state access is gained " to the
stores of potential subconscious reserve energy, which by a
liberation of energy bring about a reassociation and synthesis
of the dissociated mental systems underlying the symptoms of
the disease. The therapeutic value of the hypnoidal state
consists in the liberation of reserve energy requisite for the
synthesis of the dissociated systems."
2
Before going on to consider this contention, it will be well
to examine the practice of hypnoidization in regard to its
value as a method of employing suggestion, and as a means of
facilitating the recovery of lost or dissociated memories.
If Sidis is right in supposing the hypnoidal state to have
curative value in itself, it will be very difficult to determine
how much importance we should ascribe to suggestion during
the state, even when it is persistently used and relied upon
by the physician as the essential therapeutic measure. Sidis
gives practically no detailed record of his use of therapeutic
suggestion in the hypnoidal state, and other observers who
have reported their experience of hypnoidization have done so
1
Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Ibid. p. 247.
2 Journal of Abnormal Psychology,
June-July, 1909, p. 155.
LXIII.] The Hypnoidal State of Sidis. 347
almost exclusively with reference to the recovery of dissociated
memories.
Perhaps the best example of the use of suggestion as an
exclusive therapeutic measure in the hypnoidal state is to be
found in the practice of Dr. Bramwell's method of treatment
by suggestion. I think there can be little doubt that by his
method of oivino- suggestions Dr. Bramwell induces in his
patients a state of consciousness which is identical with the
hypnoidal state of Sidis. But in this mode of treatment there
is, besides the suggestions, a prolongation of the hypnoidal
state ; and if the hypnoidal state in itself has therapeutic
virtue, it is manifestly difficult to be sure how much of Dr.
Bramwell's good results is due to suggestion and how much
to the postulated virtue of the hypnoidal state. If, however,
we disregard the supposed virtues of hypnoidization by itself,
there is good evidence to show that in some cases valuable
results may be obtained by the use of suggestion in the
hypnoidal state.
The value of hypnoidization in the resurrection of dis-
sociated memories is that which is perhaps most firmly
established. And this applies not only to the restoration of
the forgotten experiences of ordinary amnesia, but to the
recovery of dissociated memories that are of pathogenic
significance. The most striking work that has been clone in
this connection is to be found in the publications of Freud
and his school on psycho-analysis ;
but the general principle of
the reintegration of dissociated mental complexes as a curative
measure in the treatment of the psycho-neuroses has been
arrived at independently by several workers. Sidis himself lias
insistently taught that reassociation of dissociated complexes
effects a cure of psychopathic disease.
But although Sidis uses the hypnoidal state for psycho-
analytic purposes, in so far as by its means he brings back
to consciousness pathogenic experiences that cannot be recalled
by ordinary association, he does not believe, as the Freudians
do, that this process is in itself curative. He thinks that " the
information of the psychogenesis given to the patient is valuable
only in so far as by a systematic course of direct and in-
direct suggestion, by mediate associative and immediate asso-
ciative suggestion, by substitution, disintegration, and synthesis,
348 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PAET
both in the waking and hypnoidal states, we help to transform
the associative course and emotional tone of the patient's
mental life." 1
We must remember that Sidis admits that all the lost
memories that can be recovered by hypnoidization can be more
easily recovered if hypnosis can lie induced. The realm of
the subconscious laid bare in patches in the hypnoidal state
is the same as that which is laid bare in its entirety
during hypnosis. But those who are familiar with Freud's
views will remember that he deprecates the use of the
hypnotic state for purposes of psycho-analysis, on the grounds
that whilst in hypnosis the resistances to the emergence of
pathogenic memories are lessened in some directions, they are
made more intense in others. The region of consciousness
laid bare by the induction of hypnosis does not always contain
all the pathogenic material whose recovery is necessary, and
the psychic force which prevents the emergence of this
material into the waking consciousness is at least equally
effective in preventing its emergence into the hypnotic con-
sciousness. In my own experience I have found this resistance
to be very great in the hypnotic states of patients suffering
from the graver forms of hysteria.
If then, in such cases, hypnoidization be no more efficacious
than hypnotization, it would seem that Freud's method
is the best for the purpose of psycho-analysis ; but I think
it is possible that in some cases the hypnoidal state may
have a superiority over hypnosis in this respect which Sidis
does not explicitly claim for it. Indeed, it seems probable
that the hypnoidal state may be the best condition of con-
sciousness in which to make use of Freud's technique. Sidis
has expressed the opinion that some of Freud's success may
be due to the unconscious use of the hypnoidal state, and
the conditions under winch Freud conducts his analysis
render this supposition not improbable.
But in expressing this view Sidis is not referring to Freud's
success in conducting the psycho-analysis. He does not mean
that by the unconscious use of the hypnoidal state Freud
renders easier the discovery of pathogenic complexes. What
he means is that Freud by his method of conducting the
1
Journal of Abnormal Psychology, June-July, 1909, p. 154.
LXill.] The Hypnoidal State of Sidis. 349
analysis unconsciously induces the hypnoidal state, and that
his therapeutic success may be due in part to the virtues
inherent in the hypnoidal state rather than to the psycho-
analysis. This inherent virtue of the hypnoidal state is the
most interesting claim made by Sidis in regard to the
practice of hypnoidization. In his later writings he insistently
maintains that the use of hypnoidization alone, without sugges-
tion or psycho-analysis, is sufficient to cure certain morbid
conditions. He bases this claim on the fact that he has found
the hypnoidal state effective towards this end, and he inter-
prets his results as being due to a release of reserve energy
which has been locked up in the inhibited and dissociated
systems or complexes.
The principle of reserve energy is based upon a wide
generalization of facts, namely, that far less energy is utilized
by the individual than is actually at his disposal. In the
struggle for existence, those forms of life which have accumu-
lated a store of reserve energy that can be drawn upon in
emergencies, have the best chance of survival. The more
complex an organism becomes, the greater is its need to avoid
reaction to every passing stimulus. Such unrestrained reactions
must be inhibited or there will be a wasteful expenditure
of energy, which will leave the organism unprepared for
occasions of stress in its struggle for life. The inhibitions
increase with the growth in complexity of the nervous system,
and they are brought about by the multiplicity of associa-
tions that are formed in the course of phylogenetic and onto-
genetic experience. Nothing so clearly marks off the higher
from the lower races of mankind as the amount of inhibition
they show in regard to instinctive or immediate response to
external stimuli. The inhibitions exercised by civilized man
are a consequence of the multiplicity of associations which all
his mental complexes have acquired, and it is the increase
of inhibitions that has led to that accumulation of reserve
energy, ever ready to be called upon in emergencies, which
has made him master of the world.
When we weigh the considerations for and against a
certain line of conduct, the delay in our response to the
stimulus is due to the inhibitions exercised by the manifold
of associated complexes that have been aroused to function.
350 T. W. Mitchell, 31. D. [part
These complexes exercise an inhibitory influence on the
complex which has been stimulated. We are familiar in
experimental psychology with the notion of a stimulus-thres-
hold, and the effect of an increase of associations is to raise
the stimulus-threshold of a complex. A complex that has
many associations will not be so readily aroused to function
as one that has few.
Now if a complex from any cause becomes dissociated,
it drops out of the personal life and cannot be set in action
through its ordinary sensory or associative channels. It will
then appear as if its stimulus-threshold were very high. But
in fact, if we can by any means tap the dissociated complex,
its threshold will be found to be very low. And this is
what we should expect. Cut off from association with other
complexes which were wont to exercise upon it an inhibitory
influence, it now reacts to minimal stimuli and manifests
itself with great intensity. Freed from the restraining influence
of its normal associations, its locked-up energy is expended
in wasteful and inappropriate activity. This is well illustrated
in attacks of so-called psychic epilepsy and in the psycho-
motor reactions of other dissociated states.
In a dissociated complex energy is held in reserve which
cannot be drawn upon for the requirements of the individual,
and if by any means this energy comes to be released, it is
expended in ways that are worse than useless as regards the
adjustment of the organism to its environment. And even
when no dissociation has occurred, the inhibitions exercised by
associated complexes may, under certain circumstances, be so
great that a complex may be practically cut off from the
functional life of the individual, and its reserve energy
rendered unavailable. Here the result is due, not to the
dissociation of the complex, but to the raising of its thres-
hold so high that normal stimuli are inadequate to arouse it
to function. In the one case we have a complex with a
very low threshold, functioning only sporadically and exces-
sively because it is dissociated. In the other we have a
complex, still functionally related to its associated complexes,
but with a stimulus-threshold so high that it cannot be
overstepped by the ordinary stimuli of life. In one case
energy is stored and then wastefully expended ; in the other
LXIII.] The Hypnoidal State of Sidis. 351
case energy is stored, but it is unavailable. In both cases,
so long as the dissociation or the inhibitions continue,
nervous energy is lost to the individual and his mental and
physical life is impoverished.
Now these are the conditions met with in functional
psychosis and in the psychoneuroses, and if we can restore the
dissociated functions, or break down the inhibitions, we shall
liberate the reserve energy of the dissociated and inhibited
complexes, re-establish normal associations, and restore the
patient to health. Sidis maintains that this end can frequently
be obtained by means of the hypnoidal state. In this state
there is a lowering and redistribution of thresholds. Access
is gained to the reserve energy of dissociated complexes,
and the energy so available assists in repairing the breaches
of associative continuity. The high thresholds of inhibited
complexes are lowered and reserve energy is liberated. " The
overacting dissociated systems with their automatic reflex
reactions may form associations with other systems and thus
become inhibited as well as controlled in their function by
the voluntary activity of personal consciousness, while the
inhibited systems with their raised thresholds and accumulated
reserve energy are set to function."
1
The reintegration of the
dissociated and inhibited complexes is accompanied by a new
feeling-tone, a fresh emotional energy, which sometimes amounts
to a complete transformation of personality.
These are the principal points which seem to claim atten-
tion in regard to the hypnoidal state. It is maintained by
Sidis that a definite state of consciousness, different from waking,
sleep, and hypnosis, is brought about by subjecting the patient
to the conditions of normal suggestibility, namely, monotony and
limitation of voluntary movement. It is a state in which there is
a variable and fluctuating disaggregation of consciousness, whereby
a partial and intermittent access to the subconscious may be
obtained. The intercourse with the subconscious so established
may be utilized for the purpose of giving therapeutic suggestions,
or for the recovery of the submerged memories of simple amnesia
and for the discovery of dissociated complexes of pathogenic
significance. Finally, the hypnoidal state may be employed as
1
Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Sept. 9, 1909, p. 360.
352 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
a therapeutic agency in itself, by virtue of its power of lowering
and redistributing the thresholds of inhibiting and inhibited
complexes, and so releasing reserve energy which assists in the
restoration of normal associations. This, according to Sidis, is
its chief therapeutic value, and it is a claim which, if substan-
tiated by the experience of other observers, will entitle the
method of hypnoidization to be considered a discovery of the first
rank, and a most noteworthy contribution to psychotherapeutics.
I do not desire on this occasion to enter into any critical
examination of the views put forward by Sidis in explanation
of Ins therapeutic results. For practical physicians the most
important matter at the present time is the fact that such results
have been obtained by the use of the methods which Sidis has
described in his writings on the hypnoidal state. The whole
subject is relatively new, and I do not think we have had
sufficient experience of the method to be justified in having
very decided views one way or another in regard to its use-
fulness. My own experience, so far as it goes, tends to
corroborate in every respect the claims put forward by Sidis.
I have observed the good effects of the hypnoidal state apart
from any other measure, and whether or not his doctrine of
the lowering and redistribution of thresholds and the release
of reserve energy affords an adecpaate explanation, I have little
doubt that continued treatment by hypnoidization is sometimes
of marked benefit in psychopathic disorders.
LXIII.] Review. 353
SUPPLEMENT.
REVIEWS.
An Adventure (Macmillan & Co., St. Martin's Street,
London, 1911).
This is the title of a book by Miss Morison and Miss Lamont
(assumed names) which has been widely read and has made a
considerable sensation. It describes a visit to the Petit Trianon on
August 10th, 1901, when various people and things were seen which
the two ladies afterwards concluded were hallucinatory, and
"wondered whether [they] had entered within an act of the Queens
[Marie Antoinette's] memory when alive, and whether this explained
[their] curious sensation of being completely shut in and oppressed"
(p. 23). What exactly entering into an act of memory is we do
not know, but it does not appear to be a dream state, since the
authors continue: "What more likely, we thought, than that during
those hours in the Hall of Assembly [on August 10th, 1792]... she
had gone back in such vivid memory to other Augusts spent at
Trianon, that some impress of it was imparted to the place
"
(pp. 23-4). Besides, the story ends up with a tour of the interior of
the Petit Trianon in the company of a solidly real modern French
wedding party (pp. 10, 25). If, however, the authors do not mean
a dream state by "entering into an act of memory," their theory
appears to involve their own bodily transportation through what is
now a solid wall (see V., pp. 87-89). A good deal of evidence
would be required before a phenomenon of this kind could be
accepted as a fact.
However, we need not trouble ourselves about the "act of
memory " theory, as it does not seem to us that, on the evidence
before us, there is sufficient ground for supposing anything super-
normal to have occurred at all. The persons and things seen
z
354 "An Adventure.'' [PAET
were, we should judge, the real persons and things the seers
supposed them to be at the time, probably decked out by tricks
of memory (and after the idea of haunting had occurred to them,
pp. 11, 20) with some additional details of costume suitable to the
times of Marie Antoinette (p. 24). No detailed account of the
experiences was apparently written till three months later, Nov.,
1901, 1
and it is unusual to be able to rely on one's memory for
details of things seen after even a much shorter interval of time.
Vagueness of memory is the more likely to have occurred in this
case, as the ladies, who at best do not seem to be very good at
topography, were not apparently attending closely to their surround-
ings ;
they are careful to explain that they were talking about
England and mutual acquaintances as they walked (pp. 3, 4), and
continued their " conversation about other things after every inter-
ruption" (p. 102). It may easily be due to this comparative absence
of mind at the time that they failed later to recognise the places
where they had been. " Not only was there no trace of [the old
paths]," says Miss Morison of a visit made three years later, " but
the distances were contracted, and all was on a smaller scale than
I recollected" (p. 36). This erroneous impression of size about a
place new to one, and where one does not know one's way, is a
common experience.
It may be worth while to examine the narrative more syste-
matically. We have in the hook separate accounts by the two ladies,
but these are not strictly independent, as they wrote them after talk-
ing their experiences over. Still, the accounts differ in some respects,
and, as often happens when two people walk together, they did not
always notice the same things. Our friend, M. Sage, who lives at
Paris, anil has on previous occasions made some investigations for us,
kindly walked over the ground with their accounts before him, and
sent us, with his comments, plans and picture post-cards, some of
which we reproduce here. The plan we give below is a sketch by
M. Sage giving an enlarged representation of a portion of a map of the
palaces and gardens of Versailles by M. Marcel Lambert, Architecte
des Domaines de A^ersailles et des Trianons. The line and letters
on the plan explain M. Sage's view of the route taken by Miss
Morison and Miss Lamont. It should be observed that the plans
in their book do not profess to be more than diagrammatic.
'The papers written then are, we are told, "still in existence'' (p. 103).
Does this mean that the two narratives at the beginning of the book do not
exactly reproduce these papers?
LXIII.] Review.
The two ladies having reached—by a route which their description
leaves doubtful, but which is unimportant—the intersection of the
Allee de la Reine with the Allee des deux Trianons, should have
followed the latter in the direction away from the Grand Trianon,
and would shortly have arrived at the main entrance of the Petit
Trianon. Instead they took the "Chemin Creux," passing on their
right the Musee des Ventures (A, on map), out of a window of
which (the dwelling-house of the gardien forms part of it) a woman
was shaking a cloth, and on their left the Grand Trianon. They
followed the Chemin Creux to C, then turned to the right, passing
behind farm-like buildings and cottages, and noticing farm and garden
implements (p. 16), probably at I), reached the crest of the rising
ground at E, and turned into the garden of the Petit Trianon.
It was here that they began to feel as if they had lost their
way, and as if something were wrong (p. 17). "An extraordinary
depression had come over " Miss Morison (p. 4). It was the latter
part of the afternoon of a hot day spent in sight-seeing, and when
they began to realise that they had lost their way a feeling of
oppression was perhaps not unnatural. Miss Morison attributed it
to fatigue (p. 102), but afterwards thought that the fatigue 'he
result, not the cause, of the uncomfortable sensations (p. 102), and
remembers herself as not at all tired (p. 4). Miss Lamont describes
the feeling as eerie, and culminating in an impression of something
uncanny (p. IS), but is careful to explain (p. 103) that she "did
not mean that she had the least idea at the time that any of the
people encountered were unreal or ghostly," and that " this was
still more true of the scenery." Nevertheless, remembering this
feeling of "dreamy unnatural oppression" (p. 11), a week later, they
agreed that the place was haunted (pp. 11, 20).
On entering the garden they saw two men (probably at F, a
spot close to the entrance to a gardener's yard, and where M. Sage
also found garden labourers at work) whom they describe as dressed
in "greyish green coats with small three-cornered hats" (Miss
Morison, p. 4), "in official dress greenish in colour" (Miss Lamont,
p. 17).
1
This description does not seem to correspond to the dress
of either officials or gardeners at Trianon now. The former, M.
Sage informs us, wear cocked hats, and the latter have by way
of uniform a Mpi (the kind of cap French soldiers wear) with a
broad red band. This last may possibly have given an impression
to Miss Lamont which crystallised into official dress. But whatever
1
" Greenish" becomes "green" in later references.
Z2
356 "An Adventure." [part
the dress was, it seems clear that at the time they took the men
for gardeners. " We spoke of them as gardeners," Miss Morison
says, "because we remembered a wheelbarrow of some kind and
the look of a pointed spade" (p. 4), and again she speaks of "con-
necting the sound [of the running man] with the gardeners"
(|). 5). In later years they decided that these men probably repre-
sented in the "act of memory" two brothers Bersy, attendants on
Marie Antoinette, who, research shows, were likely to have been on
guard somewhere about that spot in 1789.
They asked these men their way and were told to go straight
on. If that meant by the path marked on our plan with an arrow
it would have been the shortest way to the entrance of the house
from the point F. They, however, appear to have taken it to
mean the path towards G—the Rocher bridge. Just before reaching
G they would be, as their description requires, at a point where
their path ended, being crossed by another. They would then
have a kiosk, (the Belvedere, H, 1
) in front to their left and a rustic
bridge (the Rocher Bridge, G) to their right (see view of these,
below, taken from another point).
The ladies do not admit, however, that either the bridge or the
kiosk have any resemblance to those they saw, and further conclude
from researches made in 1908 and 1907 (pp. 48 and 67) that besides
these and not far from them there were in 1789 another kiosk and
another rustic bridge, now no longer existing, which may have
resembled what they remember. Much stress is laid on these two
items as evidence of supernormal vision. It is unfortunate for their
theory that neither lady saw more than one kiosk or one bridge in
that region on their first visit, nor does Miss Lamont appear to
have done so on the subsequent one when she regarded her
experience as supernormal (p. 30). (For the diagrams on pp. 53
and 62 do not represent what they saw at any one time, but are
only their hypothetical reconstructions of the results of their
reseat ches.) That no more kiosks or bridges were seen than now
exist goes to confirm our conjecture that it was the existing ones
which they saw.
It is true, however, that the descriptions of the kiosk in the book,
" A light garden kiosk, circular and like a small bandstand " (in Miss
Morison's account, p. 4); or "A building consisting of some columns
roofed in" (in Miss Lamont's account, p. 18)—do not correspond well
1
This building, judging from post-cards and map, seems to be called indif-
ferently by the names "Belvedere," "Pavilion de Musique," and "Kiosque."
LXIII.] Review. 357
to the Belvedere, and are more like the Temple de l'Amour (see illus-
tration). On the other hand, Miss Lamont in January, 1902, went to
see the Temple de l'Amour, and decided that it was not the building
they had seen in 1901 (p. 26), and on the same occasion took for
granted that the Belvedere was that building, "for coming upon it
from behind, all the water was hidden from" her (p. 30). Is it
possible that they saw both buildings in 1901 and retained a kind
of composite mental picture of them'? We understand from M.
Sage that the Temple de l'Amour (/ on the map) is visible from
the points—among others—marked K and L on the map, and if the
ladies made a ditour through either of these points in approaching
the house, which there is some reason to think they did, they
would have had a view of it in front and to the left, which mitrht
have merged itself in memory with that of the Belvedere. It must
be remembered that the grounds are not large (the distance as the
crow flies from the Belvedere to the Temple de l'Amour is only about
300 yards), but they are carefully laid out, and—except in the
formal French garden—planted with trees and shrubs so as to give
an idea of size and distance and prevent the plan of the grounds
from being obvious from any one point. That, in fact, is the
meaning of Jardin Anglais (English garden, p. 8).
Near the kiosk sat a man in slouched hat and cloak whose
appearance the ladies disliked, and who they afterwards thought
might be the Comte de Vaudreuil, well known at the Court of
Marie Antoinette.
At the junction of the paths a man ran up to them from behind
and directed them to the right as the way to the house. They
heard but did not see his approach. This running man may, as
Miss Morison at first supposed, have been one of the gardeners they
had spoken to, who, observing that they still did not realise the
way, pursued them to put them right. This would accord well
with his curious smile (pp. 7, 19), for most of us are slightly
amused when others lose their way in a place familiar to our-
selves. Why, on the other hand, in the "act of memory" a mes-
senger bringing to Marie Antoinette news of the approach of the
mob, as they afterwards supposed the man to be, should smile is not
explained. The sudden appearance and disappearance of this man
is easily accounted for, M. Sage thinks, as the paths are narrow
and tortuous and the shrubs thickly planted. Miss Morison speaks
of a "rock (or whatever it was) that shut out the view at the
junction of the paths" and over or through which she supposes the
358 "An Adventure.' [part
man to have come (pp. 5-6). Neither any mysteriousness in the
man's appearance and disappearance, nor any strangeness in his
costume seems to have struck the ladies at the moment. It was
only a week later, on talking it over, that they "realised for the
first time, the theatrical appearance of the man who spoke to
[them], the inappropriateness of the wrapped cloak on a warm
summer afternoon, the unaccountahleness of his coming and going"
(p. 12). His accent puzzled them somewhat. It is suggested, as
fitting with the "act of memory," that it may have been Austrian
pronunciation of French (p. 22) or Breton (p. 65), but M. Sage
remarks " il-y-a de bizarres accents en Seine-et-Oise," and much
cannot be based on that.
It is interesting to note that " the rock or whatever it was that
shut out the view at the junction of the paths" (pp. 5-6) becomes
definitely an "isolated rock standing up as we saw it behind the
running man " on p. 71, to correspond with what the authors regard
as the aspect of the garden in 1789. On p. 54, " he stood in front of a
rock, and seemed to come either over, round, or through it." On p. 113,
" he came over and stood witli his back against rocks of considerable
size piled on one another." It seems rather odd, by the way, that
a messenger in a hurry should come over a rock, and very mysterious
that he should come through it, unless, indeed, the implication is
that the rock was identical with the grotto in which, according to
tradition, the Queen sat when the messenger came to her (p. 58).
About this grotto we are told (p. 61) that "though a '
ruisseau
'
passed through it, persons could go freely out at both ends"; but
then how could it be at the same time an isolated rock (p. 71) and
where was the "ruisseau'"?
After the rustic bridge, the way by which the ladies approached
the house is too vaguely indicated to be securely traced. M. Sage
thinks it most likely that they followed the dotted line (see map).
Miss Morison says the "pathway led under trees; it skirted a narrow
meadow of long grass, bounded on the further side by trees, and
very much overshadowed by trees growing in it. This . . . shut out
the view of the house until we were close to it " (pp. 7-8). Miss
Lamont says: "We then followed a narrow path till almost im-
mediately we came upon the English garden front of the Petit
Trianon "
(pp. 19-20). Near the house Miss Morison saw a lady,
unnoticed by Miss Lamont, wearing a pale green fichu and sitting
on a seat on the grass. She took her at the time for a tourist
(pp. 8, 9), but now supposes it may have been a vision of Marie
LXIII.] Review. 359
Antoinette, who they find possessed in 1789 green bodices and white
fichus (p. 75.) A green bodice with a white muslin fichu over it
would look greenish. The idea seems to have been suggested by a
report heard by Miss Lamont in November, 1901, "that on a certain
day in August Marie Antoinette is regularly seen sitting outside
the garden front at the Petit Trianon, with a light flapping hat
and a pink dress " (p. 22). This legend, however, they tell us, " is
of course incapable of proof" (p 74).
The Petit Trianon has terraces on its north and west sides— the
west one fitting in architecturally with the French garden. From
this terrace the ladies looked over into the Cour d'honneur on
the south (the only way into the house for visitors), inaccessible
from where they were, and then moved towards one of the long
windows, which was unshuttered (p. 9). These movements seem
sufficient to suggest to any one watching them that they wished to
get into the house and did not know how to proceed, and probably
account for a young man politely coming to them and showing them
the way round. He "looked inquisitively amused" as he did so
(pp. 10, 20), like the running man.
There are, however, two mysteries connected with this man. In
the first place the ladies thought he came out of a door which he
banged behind him, and four years later (p. 80) identified the building
from which he came as the disused chapel (M on the map) from
which no openable door on to the terrace has existed for many
years. A door now inaccessible from inside once opened on to what
is now a small separate terrace or balcony, and they make out to
their satisfaction that there was once a connection on a level between
this terrace and the one on which they stood. We do not profess
to be able to follow their reconstruction of the altered terrace with
complete conviction, but assuming them to be right about this, their
suggestion is that the}' were approached by a ghostly man walking
along a ghostly terrace. The chapel door in question is only partially
visible now from the terrace on which they remember standing, and
another door observed by M. Sage about 10 ft. further west and
suggested by him as a more plausible alternative is not visible
from the terrace at all. On the whole our own suggestion would
be that a noise as of a banging door occurred simultaneously with
the approach of the man, and suggested to them in recollection
that he came through a door.
The other mystery we have already referred to. It is that, as
the ladies neither remember walking so far round as is necessary
360 An Adventure'' [part
in order to get from the west side of the house to the Court of
Honour, nor entering the Avenue des deux Trianons by so narrow
a path as the present one, they think they may, in order to reach
their destination, have been transported by a roadway that existed
through the buildings in Marie Antoinette's time where there is now
solid building with no gates (pp. 88, 89) ! We may remark that in the
incident of " the chapel man " the ladies themselves played in the
supposed act of memory the part of intruders observed by the Queen
while sitting in front of the house, while in the incident of the
running man their part was that of the Queen herself. This, how-
ever, may be what happens in " acts of memory."
These are the principal incidents of the " Adventure." In others
there seems even less solid foundation for a supernormal explanation.
We ought perhaps to refer to supposed hallucinatory music heard
by Miss Lamont on a subsequent visit in 1902, and believed by her
to have been of the date of Marie Antoinette—"faint music as of
a band, not far off" (p. 29). She ascertained that no band was
playing in the grounds for the public benefit on that day. She
wrote down from memory about 12 bars, but these are not repro-
duced in the book, and have not been found consecutively in any
music examined. They may of course be so characteristic as to
be convincing, but even in that case may have been an appro-
priate hallucinatory reproduction of Miss Lamont's general recollec-
tions of eighteenth century music. On the other hand, a more
realistic explanation may be afforded by the fact that a good deal
of exercising of soldiers goes on constantly in the neighbourhood of
Versailles and the Trianons, and that snatches of military band music
might well be heard, M. Sage tells us. It is true that in a later part
of the book the sounds are said to be " of a band of violins "
(p. 94),
but as they were faint and intermittent it seems not impossible that
there was some uncertainty about the instruments.
In conclusion, while gladly admitting that Miss Morison and Miss
Lamont have produced a very readable book and have taken praise-
worthy trouble in looking up historical facts and traditions, we
cannot honestly say that they appear to us to have added anything
of interest on the positive side of Psychical Research. The founda-
tions on which the supernormal claims of the "Adventure" are
built are too slight, and too little allowance is made for the
weaknesses of human memory both in adding to and subtracting
from facts—weaknesses from which there is no reason to think the
writers of this book suffer less than the rest of the world.
LXIII.] Review. 361
The Tenth Declamation of (Pseudo-) Quintilian. A Lecture delivered
in the Hall of Corpus Christi Coilege on May 11, 1911, by ROBINSON
Ellis, Corpus Professor of Latin Literature. (London and Oxford,
Henry Frowde. Is. net. Pp. 24.)
This last work of the doyen of Oxford Latinists may be read with
interest and profit by all psychical researchers, for, as the Professor
himself points out in his preface, the declamation he has selected for
translation "is interesting spiritualisticatty, I do not suppose that
any ghost story has ever been recorded so circumstantially, and this
is my chief reason for selecting it." The declamation is a plea
supposed to be made on behalf of a mother whose only son had
died, but reappeared to her looking well and happy on the night
after his cremation, and regularly afterwards, growing more confident
and substantial and ultimately materializing completely, embracing
her and conversing with her all night. The lady at last got the
ghost to promise to appear also to his father, and then told her
experience to her husband. The result, however, was different from
what she expected. The father " was afraid to see his son
"
(ch. 6 s.f), whose return from his tomb he apparently considered
quite improper. So he employed a magician to pronounce incanta-
tions in order to confine the ghost within the sepulchre, and, to
make assurance doubly sure, also closed up the sepulchre with iron
clamps. The effect was immediate. The ghost ceased to pay his
nightly visit of consolation, and after his third failure, the mother
made inquiries, and discovered what had been done. Her indigna-
tion was so intense that she brought an action for cruelty (malae
tractationis) against her husband. Hence the declamation.
Of course it cannot be inferred that the declamation was suggested
by any actual case. But its author shows fine logical acumen and
knowledge of human nature. He shows the true spirit of psychical
research, and had evidently reflected more than most on the problem
of the relation of the living to the departed, while his work is at
any rate good evidence of the state of opinion and sentiment at the
time. It is astonishing how very modern it all sounds. The whole
story might have happened yesterday, except that a modern British
father, troubled with a ghost-seeing wife, would either have had the
ghost laid by a priestly exorcist, or have appealed to a doctor to
certify his wife for admission to an asylum. But no change of
times and religious profession has altered the ordinary practical
attitude and sentiment towards the revenant that won't stay dead.
3G2 Dr. F. G. S. Schiller. [part lxiii.]
The judges doubtless decided against the mother, and would do so
still, and so long as such is the normal attitude, it is no wonder
that the seeds of scientific knowledge which a rare chance scatters
are slow to take root in the unpropitious soil of social prejudice.
It is worth noting that the author of the Declamation had a very
good notion of psychical evidence. He is careful to note that the
phantom could not be ascribed to expectant attention, because "alarm,
not grief, was uppermost when the ghost first stepped suddenly before
me" (ch. 13), and that the mothei- only gradually became convinced
of its genuine objectivity (ch. f4). He argues strenuously against
the supposition that it was a dream or subjective illusion, and traces
a growth in confidence and materiality in the apparition itself (ch. 6).
He scores good points by emphasizing that the lady had no reason
not to expect her son's appearance after the incantation, and that
her sentiment was logically far more natural and rational than her
husband's, whose psychology, in palliating his dread of the abnormal
under the guise of solicitude for his wife's health, he depicts very
subtly. He clearly ranks himself among the precursors of pragma-
tism by enunciating the mother's "right of believing" in the more
consoling interpretation of her experiences (ch. 13). And, lastly, he
very definitely raises two of the chief cruxes about such psychical
evidence generally — viz. how is it that in advanced cases, whether
spontaneous or experimental (spiritistic), these phantoms seem to
'materialize'? and how is it that apparently fatuous exorcisms seem
to be efficacious in laying '
ghosts ' 1 The second of these questions
is probably the more urgent of the two for psychical researchers to
answer; for they might hope to discover why phantoms materialize
if they could only catch them. If, however, 'ghosts' have been
rendered thoroughly distrustful by men's instinctive unfriendliness,
and shrink from the unsolicited insults of exorcists, it may take the
psychical researcher a long time to convince them that he is not
merely a modern disguise of the old exorcist, but genuinely appre-
ciative of a genuine apparition. And then we may possibly cease
to encounter uniform failure in our attempts to interview 'ghosts'!
F. C. S. Schiller.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXIV.
August, 1911.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 137th General Meeting of the Society was held at Morley
Hall, George Street, Hanover Square, London, W., on Tuesday,
January 31st, 1911, at 5 p.m., Mr. H. Arthur Smith in the
Chair.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., read part of the paper on
" Poltergeists, Old and New," which is printed below.
The 138th General Meeting was held in the same place on
Tuesday, May 16 th, 1911, at 5 p.m., the President, Mr.
Andrew Lang, in the Chair.
Mr. Lang delivered the Address which is printed below.
364 Andrew Lang. [part
I.
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
Delivered on May 16th, 1911.
By ANDREW LANG.
Since the noble peer who, to the carnal eye, seemed " but a
landscape painter " informed the village maiden that he was
" Lord of Burleigh ;
Burleigh House by Stamford town " ; no
mortal—not even the village maiden—has been so much sur-
prised as I was, when invited to be President of the Society
for Psychical Research. This is, indeed, " the burden of an
honour unto which I was not born." My illustrious prede-
cessors have been eminent in the most severe sciences
—
involving an extensive knowledge of the mathematics, in the
first place; and, in the second, a personal and intimate
acquaintance with the natural history of the fugitive molecule,
and the shy and retiring ion. Among such distinguished
predecessors I may be permitted to mention Professor Barrett,
of the Old Guard. We argue glibly, now, for or against
" telepathy." The idea of such intercommunication of distant
minds, or brains, or both, not through the normal channels of
sense, is as familiar to modern savages, " vacant of our glorious
gains," as it was to Hegel ;
and, again, as it is to the
untutored Gaelic-speaking Celts of North-Western Scotland.
The term " telepathy " we owe to Mr. Myers. But Professor
Barrett, as early as 1870, introduced what we now call
" telepathy " to the notice of the British Association itself at
Glasgow, of all places, and presently he made the earliest
experiments of note in " thought-transference " between persons
in normal conditions. Our obligations to Professor Barrett do
LXIV.] Presidential Address. 365
not end with his introduction of thought-transference to the
British Association at Glasgow, which, I fear, like the Turkish
passengers in Thackeray's poem " The White Squall " " thought
but little of it."
I can think of no work published under the auspices of
the Society which contains more stable evidence of the exist-
ence of strange neglected faculties in human nature, than
Professor Barrett's two papers on " The So-called Divining
Bod." 1
In the five hundred pages of this book, which is
not in the least degree sensational, or rhetorical, a book which
demanded serious disinterested labour, we really have proof,
I think, of some process by which the human intelligence
obtains information—marketable, practical information—in ways
which are still obscure to psychological science. A faculty
which had been dismissed to the limbo of popular superstitions
turns out to be a fact, and a serviceable fact. I cannot but
regret and condemn the flippancy of my Lord Byron, the poet.
His mother-in-law, Lady Milbanke, was a dowser or water-
finder, with the divining rod. On her regretted demise, Lord
Byron said that she would find the faculty useful in the place
where, according to his teleology, she had gone
!
Some of my predecessors in this Chair have been distinguished
moral philosophers ; others have been statesmen ; others meta-
physicians ; others have been psychologists, learned in the
mechanism of the brain and the nerves.
One was a poet with a note of his own, unique and
unmistakable, the differentia of a poet ; he was a keen and
gracious literary critic too ; a scholar, whom I first knew in
the merits of his Latin verse ; in fact was universally gifted.
He, over and above all this, was a humourist. Yet he turned
away, in seeking an aim for his energy, from all these
things, and devoted himself to Psychical Research. He studied
the arcana of body and mind ; he made himself an authority
about hypnotism—recognised as such by the authoritative ; he
was the Pounder, it may be said, and the inspirer of modern
Psychical Research, and, happy in his friends, he was accom-
panied by others who could temper, by a sagacious and
humorous scepticism, the enthusiasm of his nature. That poetic
enthusiasm, however, was indeed bridled in him, as I have
1
Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 2-282; Vol. XV., pp. 130-383.
366 Andrew Lang. [part
already suggested, by a gift extremely rare among the earnest,
of a keen sense of humour, an exquisite irony.
No Society with aims like ours, not, indeed, novel, but
new in our age, could be more fortunate than ours was in
the leadership of that group ; of Mr. Henry Sidgwick, Mr.
Edmund Gurney, Professor Barrett, Mr. Frederic Myers, and
latest lost, Mr. Podmore, whose mission was to throw cold
water on too sanguine brethren. In our other Presidents we
have been happy enough to possess men of the highest intel-
ligence in the most varied fields of life and action ;
while, in
the only lady who has presided over us, we recognise the
patience and open mind of Science, truly so called, with the
resolute fairness and absence of bias, and, if I may use a term
not really frivolous, with the sportsmanlike quality—which
is far from being universally present even in scientific his-
torians ; and even in leaders of physical science.
On this matter of fairness much is to be said : for the
peculiarity of many of our honourable adversaries is that they
believe us to have a bias, and themselves to have none. Now
every thinking and rational being is, naturally, of bias and
prejudice all compact. The essential mark of the scientific
temperament is to know that bias we all have, and to guard
against it. Monsieur Charles Eichet states the case well in
our Proceedings (Vol. V., p. 22). "There is such a thing as
good faith, perfect, stainless, absolute ; but we almost never
meet it, and should not even expect it in ourselves. Strive as
we may, we are always led on, more or less, to give a coup de
ponce, that is, to press our conclusions in the direction which
we prefer. We may resist the temptation ; but that is un-
availing, for, if we do, we press too hard in the opposite
direction, which is just as bad and dangerous."
Exactly ; but not as dangerous to ourselves. In such deli-
cate equilibrium let us tip the balance against our desires.
We may be wrong, either way, but if we give that little
touch, that coup de pouce, against our inclinations, at least our
consciences are clear. Besides not much can be lost to the
cause of knowledge by the tiny tip of the balance against our
inclinations. If we have no evidence so firm that it cannot
keep its equilibrium against a mere coup de pouce, then our
evidence is almost nAgligcablc.
LXIV.] Presidential Address. 367
Indeed it is true that the subjects which we study are
extremely evasive; like tricksy follets which play at hide and
seek with us. But this is not a peculiarity of our topics alone.
How often does it happen that, in history, we almost lay our
hands on the truth, but are disappointed by a mutilated docu-
ment ! In the study of Homer and his age, we are baulked
by the spoliation of ancient burial cairns, and by a blank in an
important passage of Diogenes Laertius. The fairies have spirited
away the essential words ;
" the Irruntarinia have taken them,"
as the natives of Central Australia say—but we pursue our
studies, historical and archaeological ; and in psychical research,
in spite of all the evasions of the truth for which we seek,
we should not be more easily daunted than in history and
archaeology.
It is in no conventional humility that I recognise my too
patent inferiority to each and every one of the former
Presidents of our Society, and to many of its actual members,
whom I would gladly see in my place. Not only am
I ignorant of physiology and experimental psychology, but I
have only once, by accident, seen a person under hypnotic
influence, and I never but once was in the same room with
a professional medium,—a famous medium she was,—but a
complete failure on that occasion ! I have lately been taxed
by the author of a book on our subject (a book which I
happened to review) with my " aristocratic " aversion (he called
it " aristocratic ") to paid mediums. But surely the reasons for
my sentiment are conspicuous enough. If there be such
faculties as telepathy, premonition, clairvoyance, and the powers
of holding intercourse with the dead, and summoning them up
in material form, we have good reason to think that such
faculties cannot be turned on at will, punctually, for money
down. As The Scholar-Gipsy says :
" It needs heaven-sent moments for this skill."
Consequently the punctual paid medium, being human, and
earning a livelihood by his or her alleged faculty for making
tables float in air, or jump about the room, is tempted to cheat,
and gets caught by the ankle, like Eusapia, where her ankle
should not be. Our records abound in examples of the
detection and exposure of paid mediums, to whom the most
368 Andrevo Lang. [part
honourable amateur medium must speak in the words of the
poet
:
" Said Fanny, though tears it may cost,
I think we must part, my dear Sue,
For your character's totally lost,
And / have not sufficient for two."
The most honourable people who have had what they think
supernormal experience are subject to illusions of memory, and
the temptation to give that tiny coup de pouce. We must be
most carefully watchful of ourselves and of each other : while
of the paid medium I wish that we could steer clear altogether.
We would never be trysted with a paid medium if I had my way.
I have therefore never resorted, for scientific or other purposes,
" to them that mutter and peep," professionally. My qualities,
in this field of study, are first, I venture to think, a fixed
desire to be sportsmanlike
—" at least as far as I am able "
—
and, in the second place, familiarity with the historical, the
folk-lorish, and the anthropological aspects of the topics which
we study.
These aspects do not greatly interest the Society, for what
the Society desires is " modern instances," fresh evidence from
just persons ready to submit to cross-examination. But in
my own mind the enormous volume of historical and an-
thropological reports of supernormal phenomena, and their
striking uniformity with alleged modern experiences, produces
the conviction that so much smoke can only be ex-
plained by the existence of some fire. I must not speak of
the psychical experiences of savages ;
these, for want of
contemporary records duly attested, are illustrative, not evi-
dential. Nor must I, for the same reason, dilate on the
strange stories of the psychical experiences of men of genius.
This is a most curious theme. Among such cases, in various
degrees, I have observed those of the wraith of Byron, seen by
Sir Robert Peel ; of incidents in the lives of George Sand,
Goethe, Dickens, Thackeray, Lord Nelson, Dr. Donne, Shelley
;
the last words of de Quincey—a most pathetic story ;
—the
experiences of Sir Walter Scott ; and—not in the supernormal
exactly, but in the " subliminal " way—a record, from his own
pen, of the Duke of Wellington. But this is " the blue smoke "
LXIV.] Presidential Address. 369
of literature ; and of history, you will say. Still, with this blue
smoke there is some fire, as the cause thereof. The Duke of
Wellington, in a private letter of his, published in Sir Herbert
Maxwell's Life of that great man, could not guess that he
was playing into the hands of Mr. Myers's theory of the
Subliminal Self, and Mr. Myers obviously never read the letter.
To be fair is the first thing of all, and I dare to say that
the Society has been fair. It is not in human nature not to
make mistakes, and never to be inclined to accept evidence
which examination proves to be erroneous ; never to indulge in
hypotheses which criticism demonstrates to be worthless. But
when the Society has been deceived, it has not concealed the
fact, and, as to hypotheses, as a Society we have none. The
Society, as such, has no views, no beliefs, no hypotheses, except
perhaps the opinion that there is an open field of inquiry
;
that not all the faculties and potentialities of man have been
studied and explained, up to date, in terms of nerve and brain.
jSTow this opinion is also, I presume, entertained by the most
stalwart and emancipated " rationalists." Their belief, however,
I suppose, is that everything in human nature can be, and
probably will be, explained on terms, chemical and biological,
satisfactory to themselves. The members of the Society, as a
rule, perhaps, though not necessarily, are not absolutely sure of
that : perhaps there are other things to be discovered, though
what these other things may be, at present we know not. This
mere conception of the possibility of the existence of faculties
not readily to be explained in terms of what, in the airy
currency of speech, we call " matter," is, I think, that in the
Society which irritates so many people. If other members
of the Society agree with me in the hope (in my own case the
belief) that many orthodox theories of all kinds are apt to be
upset in the course of time, that new fields of knowledge are
perhaps to be annexed, our attitude may, doubtless, be called
Eomantic. Yet in other fields I have seen my early romantic
aspirations made actual ; I have seen a vast region of the historic
past, in which from boyhood I fervently believed, thrown open
by the spade of the excavator. I have seen Homer's " golden
Mycenae " and " Crete of the Hundred Cities " won from the
realm of dreams by Dr. Schliemann, and by Mr. Arthur Evans,
and their followers.
370 Andrew Lang. [part
Therefore I may not live to see, but I hope that later
generations will see, certain world-old world-wide beliefs find
scientific recognition. Hegel believed in almost all the " super-
normal " phenomena which we, not necessarily believing in
them, have the audacity to study : and the brain of Hegel was
not, as Mr. Carlyle said of Mr. Keble's, " the brain of a
rabbit.''
I spoke of my desire to be fair, and in my desire to be
fair I have deliberately exhibited my bias, my romantic pre-
possessions. I would, as a matter of taste, prefer certain facts
to be established, rather than not. I would even welcome
with pleasure an indisputable Poltergeist ; not that I think him
a desirable inmate of the universe—far from it. When I say
Poltergeist, I mean an authenticated instance of the queer
disturbances and movements of objects, of which history is so
full. Thus in a very early Life of St. Dunstan we find that,
as a boy, he was a Somnambule, in mature life was a centre
of Hying and falling stones, and, before death, was bodily
levitated, bed and all, before the eyes of the bewildered monks.
These are not saintly miracles. Men would rather conceal
than invent them about a holy man, and they are parallel in
character to those modern instances on which Mr. Barrett
lately read a paper, and to Claire Claremont's case, as given
in the journals of herself and Shelley. In short I am not
certain that this kind of thing never occurs. But to suggest
to little poltergeistish boys, by a gentle correction, that they
should not be mediums, appears a sagacious measure. I have
lived to see many so-called scientific certainties proved to be
fleeting phantasms of hypothesis, and more of them, I think,
will go by the primrose path to the gulf and grave of
Lachmann—and other learned persons ! But these expressions
of bias are only made in a spirit of fairness, and I must not,
dare not, say that the scientifically orthodox would rather
prefer that there were no Poltergeist ; even nothing correspond-
ing to what we call " Telepathy." The orthodox believe them-
selves, I am aware, to be wholly destitute of bias and
prejudice,—and surely they ought to know ! But were I to
think myself destitute of bias, I would be mournfully bereft of
humour ;
and, were I to conceal the circumstance, I would be
equally devoid of honour.
LXIV.] Presidential Address. 371
None the less, I do not, at present, believe in a Poltergeist :
in fact, for the moment, you have a sceptical President, who
gives the cowp de police against his inclinations. Other pre-
judices possess me which I shall later divulge. As they are
on the sceptical side, perhaps they ought not to be called
" prejudices," but " the intuitive monitions of stalwart common-
sense, and genuine inductive science." (I have always heard
that Inductive science is " true and tender," and Deductive
science " an old offender.")
Meanwhile, though entirely destitute of hostile bias, our
critics are, certainly, a little careless and inaccurate. Perhaps
this error springs from a strong consciousness of intellectual
superiority. They should remember that their native genius
can scarcely be superior to that of the great Napoleon, who
fell, to the regret of the Whig party, and of Lord Byron, and
Mr. Hazlitt, by plunging into wintry Eussia without waiting
for the arrival of his supplies, and without even providing
instruments calculated to prevent his cavalry from slipping
about on the frozen roads. With the same Napoleonic con-
fidence in their own intellectual superiority, our adversaries
criticise us without taking the trouble to read what we have
written ; or even to re-read what they have written themselves.
This negligence can only arise from their sense of intellectual
greatness. Thus a friend of my own, whom I do not name,
was criticising the Society's Census of Hallucinations. " Thou-
sands of persons," he wrote, " were asked whether they had
ever seen apparitions, and out of these people some hundreds,
mostly intelligent foreigners, replied in the affirmative." There
was no truth in these assertions ! Of the persons who
answered the questions (which, of course, did not ask " whether
they had seen apparitions") in the affirmative, 1499 were of
British birth, 185 were not, and, of course, were therefore
" unintelligent." " For all that I can see, foreigners is fools."
I had vainly warned my scientific friend that his statistics, as
to the proportions of British subjects and undesirable aliens,
were incorrect. Confident in his intellectual superiority, he
rushed, like Napoleon, on his doom, and published his fantastic
statistics. I might also mention a foreign critic, foreign but
not unintelligent, Herr Dr, Parish, author of a popular work,
Hallucinations and. Illusions. He, too, criticised the Society's
372 Andrew Lang. [part
Census of Hallucinations: He got rid of the phenomena by
misstating the facts in the report under his eyes, and by then
explaining away stories which, as he gave them, were of his
own unconscious manufacture. He also accused the reporters
of not taking the very precautions which they did take and
especially emphasised !
Again, Dr. Pierre Janet (foreign, I admit, but intelligent),
in his work, Les Nivroses et les Idles Fixes (1898), made much
use of Miss Goodrich Freer's valuable paper on " Crystal Gazing
"
in the Society's Proceedings. But he attributed this lady's ex-
periences not to herself, but, now to " a young girl," now to
" a poor seeress," now to " a rather mystic person." He then
triumphantly explained the experiences—by the theory which
Miss Goodrich Freer had herself advanced in the vast majority
of cases, namely, by the revival of memories—but he did this
without saying that the lady had anticipated him.1
This kind of criticism " is not cricket," perhaps ; but nobody
is ever consciously unfair. We are all only subject to the
hallucinations of our bias, to Bacon's " spectres of the cave
"
(idola speens), and men of science, like Sir David Brewster,
have before now given, not the coup de pouce, but the coup de
bottc, to their own signed and written statements of their own
strange experiences. Almost equally painful examples of this
error, the error of superior persons in thinking themselves
infallible, may be gleaned from a work no older than yesteryear,
Studies in Spiritism, by Miss Amy E. Tanner, Ph.D.2
Miss
Tanner is a Doctor of Philosophy, of what University I know
not. On some points I think, against my bias, that she is
right in her criticisms, but am open to conviction if she can
be proved to be wrong. On her first page she states that
" the Psychical Eesearchers " (under correction I suppose her
to mean the Society for Psychical Eesearch) " have printed
voluminously, persistently calling their work '
scientific,' and
maintaining that they have '
proved ' certain facts bearing in
the most fundamental way upon personal survival after death."
" Whereby we have " drawn to ourselves " a large following,"
aud so forth, and so forth. Dr. Tanner must have overlooked,
" In the mad pride of intellectuality," as her country's chief
1
See my Making of Religion, Appendices A and C.
2
Appleton & Co., London and New York, 1910.
LXIV.] Presidential Address. 373
poet says, the perpetual protests of the Society that, as a
Society, it never expresses any collective opinion. No Society
does. The Folk-Lore Society may publish my theories of
Totemism. But they also publish those of several benighted
members who are so misguided as to reject my views. The
British Academy publishes, but is not committed to, the
opinions of Mr. Bidgeway as to who the Bomans really were,
—
and so on, in every case. If Mr. Feilding and other observers
thought that Eusapia did some inexplicable things in their
presence, and said so in our Proceedings, other members of our
Society arose and said, in the same work, that the performances
might be very easily explained by the old familiar tricks. But
so superior are our critics that this simple fact—every member
may air his own opinions, and the Society has contracted itself
out of all responsibility for every opinion—is unknown to our
censors. By sheer force of native genius, they may say what
they please, quite independent of the simple truth. Not only
does the Society abstain from offering any opinion as to the
Society's having " proved " certain facts bearing in the most
fundamental way upon personal survival after death, or any
other facts, but the Society continually publishes the essays of
members who maintain, in certain cases, that no such proofs
have been produced. A member is very welcome to disprove,
if he thinks he can, all evidence even for Telepathy. The
members who argue on the negative side, as regards commu-
nication with the dead, in the Proceedings of the Society are,
I think, more numerous than the members—if any such
members exist—who argue in the affirmative : who say that
such communications are proved. Of course if our critics say
" you should not publish the observations of members with
whom we do not agree," of members who take the affirmative
side, I understand them, and partly sympathise with them.
But, unluckily, the constitution of the Society obliges us to
hear all parties, and to side with none.
My own bias, to proceed in the path of confession, curls
away from Mrs. Biper and from all professional mediums. A
case of abnormal psychology so curious as hers is worthy, indeed,
of the study of orthodox psychologists, and I would be the last
to complain if our Society left her for three or four years in
the hands of savants who think, like Dr. Hall, that they might
374 Andrew Lang. [part
succeed in exorcising all her " sub-personalities," all her " com-
municators," and making her a perfectly normal human being
;
which she is, apparently, when she does not voluntarily pass
into a very curious and enigmatic mental condition. As to
the real nature of that condition—as to whether, when appar-
ently entranced, she is acutely conscious—the reports of Dr.
Hall and Dr. Tanner are too self-contradictory and too casual
to enable me to form any opinion. One cannot even be
certain that on all occasions the condition is absolutely the
same.
My own opinions are almost identical with the hesitations
of the late Professor William James as described by him in
the Proceedings. Much more evidence than has been published
is needed before I can enter into the way of belief in the
identity of Mrs. Piper's " communicators " with the dead men
that they profess to be. As at present instructed, I believe
in nothing of the sort. In the matter of experiments I prefer
to deal with highly-educated British subjects, such as the ladies
to whom we are obliged for so many automatic writings. I
have read with much interest and some agreement Dr. Tanner's
criticisms of what are called " Cross-Correspondences." But
criticism of her criticisms in detail I must leave to writers
better accpuainted than myself with those perplexing documents.
At the lowest they illustrate the singular workings of the sub-
conscious mind, especially in the matter of impersonation. I
have read, for example, passages in the documents which bring
to my ears the very accents of the voice of one of the " com-
municators," and imitations of his style which, I think, the
conscious self of the most consummate parodist could not
compose. In short, there are cases in which communicators
are at once so perfectly impersonated and so thoroughly false,
that our rude forefathers would have regarded the subconscious
self as a synonym for the Devil. If this view were correct
it would give a great shock to the Eationalist.
After prolonged study of the documents, I find myself in
complete bewilderment over the Cross-Correspondences, with a
tendency to think that, in matters so vast, so various, and so
incoherent, it must needs be that patient ingenuity will dis-
cover correspondences which some minds will accept as the
result of design, and others as the result of fortuitous coincidence.
LXIV.] PresiclentiaI Address. 375
Between chance coincidences, and subconscious memories; by
supposing, for example, that Mrs. Verrall had read the Neo-
platonists though she believed she had not, Dr. Tanner can
explain away most things. Yet if she has herself read Plotinus,
Porphyry and Iamblichus in the original Greek, I am sure
she will admit that she could not entirely forget the circum-
stance ; these writers demand more serious application than an
ordinary novel.
When it comes to three cases of predictions automatically
written, Dr. Tanner is puzzled. Subconscious memory will not
explain, but why not try chance coincidence ? Apparently
Dr. Tanner does perceive, though many other critics do not,
that the theory of chance coincidence may be overworked.
On one " supernormal " point I have to confess myself
resolutely credulous, namely telepathy. The word " telepathy,"
of course, is a merely technical term to cover a variety of
incidents, some of which, but not all, might be explained on
the hypothesis that minds may intercommunicate by other
means than the channels of the senses. On this point I am
convinced by personal experience, by experiments, made in my
presence, and by others, carefully and contemporaneously re-
corded by friends whom I can entirely trust, and by spon-
taneous experiments of the same and other friends. Of course
the evidence which, in the circumstances, is sufficient for me,
need not be convincing to, or, perhaps, need not even be
thought worthy of a moment's consideration by other people.
Still, I am wholly convinced. When Dr. Tanner's ally, Dr.
Stanley Hall, writes, " only when conditions can be so con-
trolled that, e.g., a teacher can announce beforehand that, on
such a day, hour, and place he will demonstrate these things,
can or will they be accepted by any sound scientific mind,"
one is merely amazed by the learned Doctor's attitude. For
my part I should at once regard the " teacher " as a humbug.
If either Keats or Wordsworth had announced that, in a
teacher's lecture-room, on January 29, 1820, at three forty-
five p.m., he would write an ode of immortal merit, and if he
did write it,—we all see that he must have composed his
poem before he made his promise, and committed it to
memory. " The wind " of poetic inspiration " bloweth where it
listeth," and so does the telepathic breeze, which requires a
376 Andrew Lang. [part
harmony of an unguessed-at kind between two or more minds.
Thus experimenters may now hit on the " heaven-sent moment,"
and now miss it. If " sound scientific minds " will not believe
in telepathy till its conditions can be punctually produced to
order, they can never believe in it at all. I see no reason to
suppose that the existence of telepathy can ever be de-
monstrated to the satisfaction of this order of scientific
intellect. But, believing in telepathy myself, I take pleasure
in the opinion that we do not yet know all about everything
;
that, if we persevere, we may discover numbers of curious and
interesting things.
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New. 377
II.
«
POLTERGEISTS, OLD AND NEW.
By Professor W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S.
Perhaps I may be permitted to express my own gratifi-
cation, and I venture to say that of the whole Society, in
the announcement we have just heard, that Mr. Andrew Lang
has accepted the office of President for the ensuing year. It
is an appropriate coincidence that this announcement should
synchronize with the reading of a paper on a subject to
which Mr. Lang has devoted so much historical research and
literary skill.
The term " Poltergeist " is translated Hobgoblin in our
German dictionaries, but that is not the equivalent, nor have
we any English equivalent to the German word. It is
derived from polter, a rumbling noise, or poltern, to make a
row, to rattle ; a polterer is a boisterous fellow, a poltergeist
therefore a boisterous ghost. It is a convenient term to
describe those apparently meaningless noises, disturbances and
movements of objects, for which we can discover no assignable
cause.
The phenomena are especially sporadic, breaking out sud-
denly and unexpectedly, and disappearing as suddenly after a
few days, or weeks, or months of annoyance to those con-
cerned. They differ from hauntings, inasmuch as they appear
to be attached to an individual, usually a young person, more
than to a place, or rather to a person in a particular place.
Moreover, ghostly forms (except, if we may trust one or two
witnesses, a hand and arm) are not seen. They appear to
have some intelligence behind them, for they frequently
respond to requests made for a given number of raps ; the
intelligence is therefore in some way related to our intelli-
gence, and moreover is occasionally in telepathic rapport with
378 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
our minds. For in one case, which I submitted to a long
and searching enquiry, I found that when I mentally asked
for a given number of raps, no word being spoken, the re-
sponse was given promptly and correctly, and this four times
in succession, a different number being silently asked for in
each case. There are other characteristics which bring the
subject of poltergeists into close connection with the physical
phenomena of spiritualism. The movement of objects is
usually quite unlike that due to gravitational or other attrac-
tion. They slide about, rise in the air, move in eccentric
paths, sometimes in a leisurely manner, often turn round in
their career, and usually descend quietly without hurting the
observers. At other times an immense weight is lifted, often
in daylight, no one being near, crockery is thrown about and
broken, bedclothes are dragged off, the occupants sometimes
lifted gently to the ground, and the bedstead tilted up or
dragged about the room. The phenomena occur both in
broad daylight and at night. Sometimes bells are con-
tinuously rung, even if all the bell wires are removed. Stones
are frequently thrown, but no one is hurt ; I myself have
seen a large pebble drop apparently from space in a room
where the only culprit could have been myself, and certainly
I did not throw it. Loud scratchings on the bedclothes,
walls and furniture are a frequent characteristic ; sometimes
a sound like whispering or panting is heard, and footsteps are
often heard without any visible cause. More frequently than
otherwise the disturbances are associated with the presence
of children or young people, and cease when they are taken
from the place where the disturbance originated, only to be
renewed on their return, and then abruptly the annoyance
ends.
If upon the cessation of the disturbances, investigators
appear on the scene and ask for something to occur in their
presence, and are sufficiently persistent and incredulous, they
may possibly see a clumsy attempt to reproduce some of the
phenomena, and will thereupon catch the culprit child in
the act. Then we hear the customary " I told you so,"
and forthwith the clever investigator will not fail to let the
world know of his acumen, and how credulous and stupid
everybody is but himself. I will return later on to the
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New. 379
psychological cause of this not infrequent simulation of mys-
terious phenomena, especially by children.
The point to which I am anxious to draw attention is the
essentially temporary and fugitive nature of the phenomena,
and that if we are fortunate enough to hear of them at once,
and are able to visit the place whilst the disturbances are
going on, the presence of the most skilful and incredulous
observer will not affect the result—and under such circum-
stances I challenge the scornful to produce a single adverse
witness. In fact, to any one who has made a serious and
prolonged study of the subject of poltergeists, it is simple
waste of time to reply to the arguments of those who assert
that fraud and hallucination are adequate explanations of the
whole phenomena.
In the Journal of our Society for 1884, the late Mr.
Podmore published the report of his investigation of a famous
case of poltergeist occurring in a house at Worksop.1
The
enquiry was made five weeks after the disturbances had ceased,
and unfortunately he did not quote, as Mr. A. Lang points
out, the contemporaneous and more striking account of the
phenomena attested by an excellent witness, which Mr. Lang
gives in full.
2
Nevertheless Mr. Podmore came to the con-
clusion that the evidence of the eye-witnesses he examined was
unimpeachable, and that the phenomena were supernormal ; and
he acids at the conclusion of his report :
" To suppose that
these various objects were all moved by mechanical contri-
vances argues incredible stupidity, amounting almost to im-
becility, on the part of all the persons present who were not
in the plot."
Twelve years later, in 1896, without further personal in-
vestigation of this particular case, Mr. Podmore changed his
views. Por in a lengthy report on poltergeists, printed in
Vol. XII. of our Proceedings, he suggests that fraud arising
from love of notoriety among young people, and hallucination
on the part of the observers, are the true explanation of the
majority of poltergeist phenomena, including the above case.
This, of course, is the popular view.
1
Journal S.P.R., Vol. I., p. 199, and also Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XII.,
p. 46.
2
The Making of Religion, Appendix B, p. 356.
2B
380 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
In a review of oue of Mr. Podmore's books dealing
with poltergeists, published in Vol. XIII. of our Proceedings—
and also in his great work on the " Making of Religion "
—
our new President has taken the other side, and so cogently
shown the unscientific character of the popular view, that I
need not discuss the matter further. But more than two
centuries ago, one of the earliest Fellows of the Royal Society,
whom Mr. Lecky describes as a man of " incomparable ability,"
Joseph Glanvil, the author of Saducismus Triumphatus, dealt
with every objection raised by modern critics, and demon-
strated that neither fraud nor hallucination was adequate to
explain the poltergeist phenomena which were abundant in
his day.
1
Like all other inexplicable supernormal phenomena,
it is, as Glanvil says, simply a question of adequate and
trustworthy evidence. With all deference, I venture to com-
mend sceptics who dogmatize on this question to Glanvil's work
on the Vanity of Dogmatizing, a book of which Mr. Lecky
remarks :
" Certainly it would be difficult to find a work dis-
playing less of credulity and superstition than this treatise."
I will now pass on to give some of the evidence that exists
on behalf of the genuineness of poltergeist phenomena, beginning
with recent cases that have come under my own notice, and
then briefly reviewing some of the other abundant evidence
that exists in different places, and which stretches back to
remote periods of time.
2
The Enniscorthy Case.
The first case I will relate has recently occurred at Ennis-
corthy, a town in Co. Wexford. My attention was drawn to
the matter through a letter from the representative of a local
newspaper, Mr. Murphy. After some correspondence, and in
answer to my request, Mr. Murphy kindly drew up the
accompanying admirable report
:
Statement by Mr. N. J. Murphy,
The strange manifestations which took place at Enniscorthy last
•Tub', 1910, may perhaps interest some students of Psychology, and
1
My copy of Glanvil's Saducismus Triumphatus is the 3rd Edition, published
in 1700. Glanvil was one of His Majesty's chaplains.
2
Mr. F. W. H. Myers has given some remarkable and well attested cases of
poltergeists in two of his papers published in the Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VII.
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and Neiv. 381
more particularly the members of the Dublin Section of the Society
for Psychical Research.
At the outset let me say that I am a journalist by profession
and in pursuit of "copy" for the paper I represent, "The Ennis-
corthy Guardian," I was brought into touch with those concerned
in the manifestations, and introduced to the room where these
manifestations occurred.
The " haunted " house was one in which a labouring man named
Nicholas Redmond and his wife resided in Court Street, Ennis-
corthy. Redmond's earnings were supplemented by his wife keeping
boarders. On the ground floor of the house are two rooms—
a
shop and a kitchen. Both are lofty and spacious, and the latter is
situated under the room in which the manifestations occurred.
The upstairs portion of the premises consists of three bedrooms.
The floors of these bedrooms are of wood, and are all intact, the
house being a comparatively new one. Two of the bedrooms look
out on the street, and the third, in which the occurrences took
place, is situate at the back of these. All three are entered from
the same landing and are on the same level. Redmond and his
wife slept in the front room immediately adjoining the room in
which the occurrences described below took place. The rear bed-
room was occupied by two young men who were boarders. They
had separate beds. Their names are John Randall, a native of
Killurin, in this County, and George Sinnott, of Ballyhogue, in this
County. Both these men are carpenters by trade. I can bear
personal testimony to the occurrences which I am about to describe.
I accepted nothing on hearsay evidence, and I place my experiences
before your Society exactly as the circumstances occurred to me.
Many of the details have already been published in the daily papers,
and are quite true, much of what appeared having been written by
myself.
Hearing strange rumours about the house, I proceeded to make
enquiries. The owner of the house replied to my questions that
the rumours I had heard of the house were quite true, and in
response to my application for permission to remain all night in
the "haunted" room, he replied: "I will make you as comfortable
as I can, and you can remain as long as you want to, and bring a
friend with you, too, because you will feel more comfortable." My
next move was to procure a volunteer to accompany me, who was
found in the person of Mr. Owen Devereux, of the "Devereux"
Cycle Works, Enniscorthy. Together we went to the house on the
382 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
night of the 29th July, 1910, and immediately proceeded to make a
tour of inspection. Sinnott, Randall and the owner of the house
having gone out of the room for a few moments, we made a close
BACK OF HOUSE.
FRONT OF HOUSE.
The above is a plan of the room where the young men slept.
inspection of the apartment. The beds were pulled out from the
walls and examined, the clothing being searched ; the flooring was
minutely inspected, and the walls and fireplace examined. Every-
thing was found quite normal. Sinnott's bed was placed with the
head at the window. The window faced the door as one entered
the room. Randall's bed was placed at the opposite end of the
room at right angles to Sinnott's, and with the foot to the door.
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and Nevj. 383
The two boys prepared to retire, Mrs. Redmond having placed two
chairs in their bedroom for the use of the narrator and his com-
panion. The occupants of the room having been comfortably dis-
posed of—each in his own bed and chair respectively—the light
was extinguished. This was about 11.20 p.m.
The night was a clear, starlight night. No blind obstructed the
view from outside, and one could see the outlines of the beds and
their occupants clearly. At about 11.30 a tapping was heard close
at the foot of Randall's bed. My companion remarked that it
appeared to be like the noise of a rat eating at timber. Sinnott replied,
" You'll soon see the rat it is." The tapping went on slowly at
first, say at about the rate of fifty taps to the minute. Then the
speed gradually increased to about 100 or 120 per minute, the noise
growing louder. This continued for about five minutes, when it
stopped suddenly. Randall then spoke. He said :
" The clothes
are slipping off my bed : look at them sliding off. Good God ! they
are going off me." Mr. Devereux immediately struck a match
which he had ready in his hand. The bedclothes had partly left
the boy's bed, having gone diagonally towards the foot, going out at
the left corner, and not alone did they seem to be drawn off the
bed, but they appeared to be actually going back under the bed
much in the same position one would expect bedclothes to be if a
strong breeze were blowing through the room at the time. But
then everything was perfectly calm.
Mr. Devereux lighted the candle and a thorough search was made
under the bed for strings or wires, but nothing could be found.
Randall, who stated that this sort of thing had occurred to him on
previous nights, appeared very much frightened. I adjusted the
clothing again properly on the bed and Randall la)' down. The
candle was again extinguished. After about ten minutes the rapping
recommenced. First slowly, as before. It again increased in speed
and volume, and after about the same interval of time it again
stopped. When the clothes were going in under the bed on the
first occasion, Sinnott sat up in bed and said :
" Oh, God ! look at the
clothes going in under the bed." He also appeared very nervous.
The rapping having stopped on the second occasion, Randall's voice
again broke the silence. " They are going again," he cried ; " the
clothes are leaving me again." I said, "Hold them and do not let
them go: you only imagine they are going." He said: "I cannot
hold them ;
they are going, and I am going with them ; there is
something pushing me from inside : I am going, I am going, I'm
384 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
gone." My companion struck a light just in time to see Randall
slide from the bed, the sheet under him, and the sheets, blanket
and coverlet over him. He lay on his back on the floor. The
movement of his coming out of bed was gentle and regular. There
did not appear to be any jerking motion. Whilst he lay on the
floor, Randall's face was bathed in perspiration, which rolled off him
in great drops. He was much agitated and trembled in every limb.
His terribly frightened condition, especially the beads of perspiration
on his face, precludes any supposition that he was privy to any
human agency being employed to effect the manifestations. Sinnott
again sat up in bed, and appeared terrified also. Mr. Redmond,
hearing the commotion, came into the room at this time. Randall
said: "Oh, isn't this dreadful? I can't stand it; I can't stay any
longer here." We took him from the floor and persuaded him to re-
enter the bed again. He did so, and we adjusted the bedclothes.
It was now about midnight. The owner of the house returned
to his own room, and we remained watching until about 1.45, and
during that time nothing further occurred. Redmond returned then
to see how we were getting on, and took a seat by my side in
Randall's bedroom. The three of us having sat there for about five
minutes, the rapping again commenced, this time in a different part
of the room. Instead of being near the foot of Randall's bed as
heretofore, I located it about the middle of the room at a place
about equally distant from each bed. It went on for about fifteen
minutes, and then ceased. It was at this time fairly bright, the
dawn having appeared in the eastern sky. Randall was not inter-
fered with any further that night, and we remained watching till
close on three o'clock, and nothing further having occurred we
left the house.
On the following night I remained in that room from eleven o'clock
till long past midnight. Neither Randall nor Sinnott were there,
having gone home to the country for the usual week-end. I heard
or saw nothing unusual.
Randall could not reach that part of the floor from which the
rapping came on any occasion without attracting my attention and
that of my comrade. I give up the attempt to explain away the
strange manifestations. I hope some member of the Society may be
able to do so.
Nicholas J. Murphy.
1 George Street, Enniscorthy,
August Uh, 1910.
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New. 385
I have read the foregoing, and I corroborate the statements
therein.
Owen Deveretjx.
August tth, 1910.
In reply to my enquiry whether any further disturbances
had since occurred, and that in any case I should wish to
make a personal investigation of the matter, I received the
following letter from Mr. Murphy :
Enniscorthy, November 11, 1910.
Dear Sir, —In reply to yours, I beg to say that the house in
which the phenomena occurred is now vacant. The tenant, Mr.
Redmond, and his wife, left Enniscorthy about the middle of August.
Randall left the house on the Monday evening after the occurrence
described took place. Nothing unusual was ever seen or heard in
the house until Randall went to lodge there. However, I should be
very glad to see you in Enniscorthy. Randall and Sinnott are in
the town, and you can question them. Mr. Devereux and myself
are always at your service, and we have no objection to our names
and addresses being published.
Yours faithfully,
N. J. Murphy.
I was not able to visit Enniscorthy until a few weeks later,
when I spent a day examining the witnesses and the house
where the disturbances occurred. The following notes written
at the time give the result of my enquiry
:
On Tuesday, December 6th, 1910, I visited Enniscorthy, and
saw and closely questioned the eye-witnesses mentioned in Mr.
Murphy's paper, with the exception of Sinnott and Redmond,
who were away. I also saw the servant who slept in a small
room adjoining the one in which the disturbances occurred.
She scouted the idea of the boys playing tricks, and added an
important fact, viz. that the large iron bed in which Sinnott
slept along with another lodger had lost one of its castors
;
nevertheless, it was dragged across the room with the two
young men in it, leaving a mark along the floor where the
iron leg had scraped along. The bed, she told me, was so
heavy that, even with no one in it, she had to get assistance
when moving it. She was terribly scared by the disturbances,
386 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
and left the place as soon as she could. I begged her to write
down what she had observed, and Mr. Murphy sent me her
statement which follows.
I then visited the house where the disturbances took place.
It was empty and unfurnished, and in the hands of the painters.
The descriptions given by Mr. Murphy and by Randall are
quite correct.
I had a long interview with Randall, and he impressed me
very favourably ; an intelligent, straightforward youth about
eighteen years old. He undertook to write down a detailed
account of what had occurred during the time he lodged with
Redmond. This he did, and his statement is annexed. Randall
is a Protestant, and I saw the rector of his parish, who knew
the young man well and testified to his good character and
trustworthiness. His letter to me is given later on.
I saw Mr. Devereux, the companion whom Mr. Murphy took
with him. He owns a cycle shop in Enniscorthy, and is a
skilled mechanic, an excellent witness. He corroborated Mr.
Murphy's statement, and said he went to the house feeling sure
he would be able to discover that one or other of the lads was
playing a practical joke. But he was unable to unravel the
mystery. He said that what occurred in his presence could
not possibly have been done by Randall or his companion. I
also had an interview with the previous occupant of the house.
Nothing had occurred in his time.
Statement of Bridget Thorpe.
I was a servant in the house of Mr. Nicholas Redmond, 8 Court
Street, Enniscorthy. I remember John Randall coming to lodge
there. It was on a Monday night he first came. On the following
Friday morning I heard John Randall and George Sinnott, another
lodger, talking about the clothes being pulled off the bed. On
Friday night I heard the bed running about the floor in Randall's
room. I was then in my own room. On the next morning I heard
John Randall say that he would not sleep in the house any more.
I remember going into Randall's room one night with Mr. Redmond
as we heard noises ; and when we went in Richard Roche, another
lodger, who was there that night, was in one bed and John Randall
in another. The bedclothes were all pulled through the bars at the
foot of Roche's bed. Roche was very much frightened. I frequently
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New. 387
heard rapping in Randall's room. I always thought it came from
the corner of Randall's room nearest to Mr. Redmond's room. On
the night that Mr. Murphy and Mr. Devereux were there I heard
footsteps walking about the lobby outside the door where they were.
I often heard these footsteps. The night I heard the bed running
about the floor, the floor shook as if a very strong man was pulling
the bed around.
(Signed) B. Thorpe.
Witnessed by N. J. Murphy.
It will be noticed that Randall mentions two companions in
the bedroom with him. This was for a short time the case,
but one of them had left when Mr. Murphy visited the house.
Statement written by J. W. Randall.
On Saturday, the 2nd of July, 1910, I came to work in Ennis-
corthy as an improver in the carpentry trade. Monday, I went to
lodge in a house in Court Street. There were two other men
stopping in the same house as lodgers. They slept in the same
room also, but shared a different bed at the other side of the room.
My bed was in a recess in the wall at the opposite side. There was
one large window in the room, which opened both top and bottom.
The room was about 14 feet scpaare and 10 feet high. There was
one door opening into it. The window already described was in
the back Avail of the house nearly opposite the door opening into the
room from the top landing. There were two other doors on the
same landing opening into different rooms. There was also a fire-
place in the room.
On Monday night, July 4th, we went to bed, and my first night
in the strange house I think I slept pretty soundly. We got up at
six o'clock the next morning and went to work. We left off work
at six in the evening, and went to bed the same time as the night
before, between 10 and 10.30 o'clock, slept soundly, and all went well,
also on Wednesday.
Went to bed on Thursday night at 10.45, the three of us going
as before. We blew out the light, but the room was then fairly
lightsome. We had been only about ten minutes in bed when I felt
the clothes being gently drawn from my bed. I first thought it was
the others that were playing a joke, so I called out, " Stop, George,
it's too old." (George being one of their names and the other
Richard.) Then I heard them say, "It's Nick" (that is the name
388 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
of the man of the house). It wasn't any of them that had pulled
the clothes off me, so they thought it was Nick that was in the
room, and did not mind. At this time the clothes had gone off my
bed completely, and I shouted to them to strike a match. When
they struck a match I found my bedclothes were at the window.
The most curious part was that the same time when the clothes
were leaving my bed, their bed was moving. I brought back the
clothes and got into bed again. The light was then put out, and it
wasn't long until we heard some hammering in the room—tap-tap-tap-
like. This lasted for a few minutes, getting quicker and quicker.
When it got very quick their bed started to move out across the
floor, and that made us very frightened, and what made us more
frightened was the door being shut, and nobody could open it without
making a great noise. They then struck a match and got the lamp.
We searched the room thoroughly, and could find nobody. Nobody
had come in the door. We called the man of the house (Redmond);
he came into the room, saw the bed, and told us to push it back
and get into bed (he thought all the time one of us was playing
the trick on the other). I said I wouldn't stay in the other bed by
myself, so I got in with the others ; we put out the light again,
and it had been ordy a couple of minutes out when the bed ran out
on the floor with the three of us. Richard struck a match again,
and this time we all got up and put on our clothes ; we had got a
terrible fright and couldn't stick it any longer. We told the man
of the house we would sit up in the room until daylight. During
the time we were sitting in the room we could hear footsteps leaving
the kitchen and coming up the stairs ; it would stop on the landing
outside the door and wouldn't come into the room. The footsteps
and noises continued through the house until daybreak. We got up
at nine o'clock and went to work for a three-quarter day.
That night (Friday) when we went to bed about eleven o'clock
we felt a bit nervous in going. We put out the light, and in a few
minutes the footsteps started again, and noises. There were also
noises like chips getting chopped in the kitchen. This night passed
over not near so bad as the night before, but yet we were afraid to
go to sleep.
Saturday we all went home for the Sunday, but returned Sunday
evening. We went to bed Sunday night as before, and it passed
over with very slight noises. On Monday night the noises
started again after going to bed, and about a quarter of an hour
their bed ran again. They then struck a light, and I got into the
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old .
and New. 389
bed with them. There were terrible noises everywhere ; on the
walls, out on the landing, and downstairs. We left the light lighted
for some time, and whilst it was lighted, what added more to our
fright was a chair dancing out to the middle of the floor without a
thing near it. We put out the light again after moving back the
bed. Immediately the light was put out the bed ran again out
on the floor. Richard had the matches always ready to strike.
Every time we would hear the noise and feel the bed moving, we
would shout :
" Strike, Richard, strike ; we're going again !
" We
were trembling from head to feet with fear. We left the light
lighted till morning after that.
Tuesday night passed over about the same, and on Wednesday
night there wasn't a stir. After hearing nothing on Wednesday
night we thought it had stopped, but still we felt nervous. On
Thursday night it started as bad as the first night, and several
people remarked it being so bad on the night exactly a week after
it had started. The bed ran out several times, and what never
happened to any one of us before, George was lifted out of bed without
a hand near him. He went home next day, and stopped at home
for two clays. So while he was away, Richard and I stopped in
the room. The same noise still continued, and the bed ran also.
We went home on Saturday as on the week before.
George came back again on Sunday night, and slept in the same
bed with us again, and it wasn't extra bad that night. It went on
about the same way every night until the following Friday night,
when it was very bad. The bed turned up on one side, and threw
us out on the floor, and before we were thrown out, the pillow was
taken from under my head three times. When the bed rose up, it
fell back without making any noise. This bed was so heavy, it took
both the woman and girl to pull it out from the wall without
anybody in it, and there was only three castors on it. After being
thrown out of the big bed, the three of us got into my bed. We
were not long in it when it started to rise, but could not get out
of the recess it was in unless it was taken to pieces. It ceased
about daybreak, and that finished that night's performance.
It kept very bad then for a few nights. So Mr. Murphy, from
the "Guardian" Office, and another man named Devereux, came
and stopped in the room one night. They sat on two chairs in the
room, while we lay each in our own beds. We were not long in
bed when I felt a terrible feeling over me like a big weight. I
then felt myself being taken from the bed, but could feel no hands,
390 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
nor could I resist going. All I could say was :
" I'm going, I'm
going ;
they're at me." I lay on the floor in a terrible state, and
hardly able to speak. The perspiration was pouring through me.
They put me back in bed again, and nothing more than strange
knockings and noises happened between that and morning. We
slept again in the room the next night, but nothing serious happened.
We then got another lodging, and the people left it also. For the
three weeks I was in the house I lost nearly three-quarters of a
stone weight. I never believed in ghosts until that, and I think it
would convince the bravest man in Ireland.
John William Eandall.
18 Main St., Enniscorthy.
I heard from Eandall a few days ago (January 25th).
Nothing has occurred in his new lodgings. The curious
association of a particular person in a particular place at a par-
ticular time is very characteristic of all poltergeist phenomena.
From the Rev. Canon Rennison.
Kilpatrick Eectory, Wexford,
Jan. 27, 1911.
Dear Sir, —I have known John Eandall for the past five years, and I
believe him to be a thoroughly truthful and trustworthy boy. I
think you may rely on any particulars he has given you about the
"haunted house" at Enniscorthy. He has always been a steady,
well-conducted boy, so far as I know. I am very glad to hear you
are reading a paper on the whole affair.
Yours very truly,
John Eennison.
My best thanks are due to Mr. N. J. Murphy, who kindly
spared neither time nor trouble in assisting me in these
enquiries.
The Derrygonnelly Case.
I now pass on to another Irish case of which I heard soon
after the disturbances broke out, and was able to visit the
spot while the poltergeist was still active, so that I was an
eye-witness of many of the occurrences. I wrote a detailed
account of what took place at the time, and it was published
in the Dublin University Magazine for December, 1877, under
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New. 391
the title of " The Demons of Derrygonnelly." ISTo report of
this case has yet appeared in our Proceedings, and I can only
briefly summarize it here.
In 1877 Mr. Thomas Plunkett, of Enniskillen, a gentleman
who has devoted much time to the geological and archaeological
investigation of the County Fermanagh, wrote to tell me of
some mysterious disturbances occurring in a farmer's cottage
near some prehistoric limestone caves he was exploring, and
asking me to visit the place, which I did.
The place was a hamlet called Derrygonnelly, about nine
miles from Enniskillen, and the cottage was some two miles
further on. A more lonely spot could hardly be found in
this country. Across the bog that lay before us rose the huge
limestone cliff's of Knockmore, crowned by an escarpment of
overhanging rock. The cottage itself was hidden in the hollow
of a field, and no other house could be seen anywhere.
The household consisted of a grey-headed farmer who had
recently lost his wife, and a family of four girls and one boy,
the youngest about ten years of age, and the eldest, Maggie,
round whom the disturbances arose, about twenty years old.
The cottage had the usual large kitchen and dwelling-room,
with earthen floors in the centre, and a smaller room opening
from each side. In one of them Maggie and the girls slept
on a large, old-fashioned four-post bed. The noises, rappings
and scratches generally began after they had retired, and often
continued the whole night through. Eats, of course, were first
suspected ; but when objects began to move without any visible
cause, stones to fall, candles and boots repeatedly thrown out of
the house, the rat theory was abandoned and a general terror
took possession of the family. Several neighbours urged them
to send for the priest, but they were Methodists, and their class
leader advised them to lay an open Bible on the bed. This
they did in the name of God, putting a big stone on the top
of the volume ; but the stone was lifted off by an unseen hand,
and the Bible placed on top of it. After that " it," as the
farmer called the unseen cause, moved the Bible out of the
room and tore seventeen pages right across. Then they could
not keep a light in the house, candles and lamps were mysteri-
ously stolen, or thrown out. They asked their neighbours' help,
and here I cp;iote the old farmer's words :
" Jack Flanigan came
392 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
and lent us his lamp, saying he would engage the devil himself
could not steal it, as he had got the priest to sprinkle it with
holy water." " But that," the old man said, " did us no
good either, for the next day it took away that lamp also."
They were forcer] to keep their candles in a neighbour's house
some way off, and fetch them at night, and keep them
lighted.
During the evenings I spent in the cottage, the farmer and
each of his children were independently examined. He gave
me a concordant account of the singular freaks of this polter-
geist, and their vain efforts to put a stop to it. Those who
are interested can read the story, told by the old man, which
I took down in writing, as it is published in full in my article
already referred to.
My own observations were as follows : After the children,
except the boy, had gone to bed, Maggie lay down on the bed
without undressing, so that her hands and feet could be ob-
served. The rest of us sat round the kitchen fire, when faint
raps, rapidly increasing in loudness, were heard, coming appar-
ently from the walls, the ceiling and various parts of the
inner room, the door of which was open. On entering the bed-
room with a light the noises at first ceased, but recommenced
when I put the light on the window-sill in the kitchen. I had
the boy and his father by my side, and asked Mr. Plunkett
to look round the house outside. Standing in the doorway
leading to the bedroom the noises recommenced, the light was
gradually brought nearer, and after much patience I was able
to bring the light into the bedroom whilst the disturbances
were still loudly going on. At last I was able to go up to
the side of the bed, with the lighted candle in my hand, and
closely observed each of the occupants lying on the bed. The
younger children were apparently asleep, and Maggie was
motionless ;
nevertheless, knocks were going on everywhere
around ; on the chairs, the bedstead, the walls and ceiling.
The closest scrutiny failed to detect any movement on the part
of those present that could account for the noises, which were
accompanied by a scratching or tearing sound. Suddenly a
large pebble fell in my presence on to the bed ; no one had
moved to dislodge it even if it had been placed for the purpose.
When I replaced the candle on the window-sill in the kitchen,
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New. 393
the knocks became still louder, like those made by a heavy
carpenter's hammer driving nails into flooring.
At midnight we drove back to Enniskillen, and next day I
telegraphed to Dublin to an acute and careful observer, presi-
dent of one of our learned societies, to come down to help me
in the investigation. He kindly did so. It was the Eev.
Maxwell Close, M.A., a man honoured in Dublin for his great
learning, remarkable critical insight and singular sobriety of
judgment.1
With him a clay or two later, we again drove over
in the evening the eleven lonely miles to the farmer's cottage.
In spite of the vigilance of my friends, Mr. Close, Mr. Plunkett
and myself, we failed to detect the slightest attempt at im-
posture by any of the family, and we were each equally
certain that we were not the victims of hallucination. The
noises were heard as before ; we searched within and without
the cottage, but no cause could be found.
The following night we made another visit with the same
result. When we were about to leave some two hours later,
the farmer was distressed that we had not " laid the ghost," and
I asked him what he thought it was. He replied :
" I would have thought, sir, it do be fairies, but them late
readers and knowledgeable men will not allow such a thing,
so I cannot tell what it is. I only wish, sir, you would take
it away."
" Have you asked it to answer a question by raps V I
asked.
"I have, sir," he said, "as some one told us to do, but
it tells lies as often as truth, and oftener, I think. We tried
it, and it only knocked at L.M.N, when we said the alphabet
over." I asked him if it would respond to a given number of
raps, and he said it would. This it did in my presence. Then
I mentally asked it, no word being spoken, to knock a certain
number of times and it did so. To avoid any error or delusion
on my part, I put my hands in the side pockets of my over-
coat and asked it to knock the number of fingers I had open.
It correctly did so. Then, with a different number of fingers
open each time, the experiment was repeated four times in
1
The Rev. Maxwell Close died a few years ago ; he was one of the earliest
members of the S.P.R. , an obituary notice of him by the present writer
appeared in the Journal S.P.R. for November, 1903.
394 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
succession, and four times I obtained absolutely the correct
number of raps. The doctrine of chances shows that casual
coincidence is here practically out of the question, and the
interesting fact remains that some telepathic rapport between
the unseen agent and ourselves appears to exist, on this occa-
sion at any rate.
Before leaving, it was uow past midnight, the farmer
implored us not to go without ridding him of this pertinacious
poltergeist. So I asked my clerical friend to read a few
words of scripture and offer up a prayer. He did so,
choosing appropriate passages from our Lord's ministry to the
possessed, and a suitable prayer. It was a weird scene, the
children were in bed, but not asleep, in the inner room,
the farmer and Mr. Plunkett seated by the kitchen fire,
Mr. Close seated on a stool at the open bedroom door, I
holding a lighted candle for him, and seated just within the
bedroom. The noises were at first so great we could hardly
hear what was read, then as the solemn words of prayer
were uttered they subsided, and when the Lord's Prayer
was joined in by all, a profound stillness fell on the whole
cottage. The farmer rose from his knees with tears streaming
from his eyes, gratefully grasped our hands, and we left for
our long midnight drive back to Enniskillen.
I am afraid this does not sound a very scientific account,
but it is a veracious one.
Subsequent correspondence, and reports from Mr. Plunkett,
showed that the poltergeist had fled from that night onwards,
until some curious visitors, after reading my published descrip-
tion, had gone to the farmer's cottage, and tried to bring
it back again. It came, they said, feebly and furtively, but
whether genuine or Maggie's Irish desire to please the visitors,
I have no means of knowing. The farmer is now dead,
and Maggie, I believe, in service, but I have lost sight of
them all.
In both the preceding cases the disturbances took place
at night, in the next two cases they occurred in the day
chiefly. The reason appears to be that only when the living
radiant point, or psychic, is in a particular place, and more
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New. 395
or less at rest, do the disturbances break out. The boy
Eandall was away from his lodgings all day at work ; the girl,
Maggie, was largely engaged in farm work outside, as well as
housework within, and some phenomena took place in the day
time when she was in the house, but were less marked until
she went to bed. In the next case the psychic was evidently
more powerful, a somnambulist and clairvoyant, and the dis-
turbances arose when she was in the house, both in the day-
time and at night. As in the case of dowsing, hypnosis,
clairvoyance, telepathy and probably all psychical phenomena,
the effect of education, the cultivation of the reasoning powers,
alert consciousness, in fine, cerebral activity generally, usually
diminish and ultimately inhibit the production of supernormal
phenomena.
The Atlantic Monthly Case.
One of the most remarkable and carefully investigated cases
of poltergeists is recorded in the Atlantic Monthly} a leading
American review, for August, 1868. This case is so little
known and so admirable that I will briefly summarize it.
An Irish girl, 18 years old, named Mary Carrick, went to
live as servant with a family in Massachusetts soon after her
arrival in America. Six weeks after she came to the family,
the house bells began violently ringing without any assignable
cause. This would occur at intervals of half an hour through-
out the day and evening. The wires were detached from all
the bells, but the ringing still continued. The bells were
hung near the ceiling of the room, 11 feet high. They only
rang when the girl was in the room or in the adjoining one,
and were seen to ring by the family without any visible cause.
The ringing was not a mere stroke of one bell, but a violent
agitation of all the bells* A careful examination made by the
writer of the article, Mr. Willis, showed that no mechanism
of any kind was attached to the bells. So far the case is like
the well-known " Bealings Bells " in Suffolk, described with
i Like other articles in the Atlantic Monthly, the name of the author, Mr.
H. A. Willis, is not given in the text, but only in the Table of Contents. As
the article was published 43 years ago, it is, I fear, hopeless to obtain any
confirmatory evidence at the present day ; but I have written to the Editor of
the Atlantic Monthly with this object in view. As yet no further information
has been obtained.
2C
396 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.RS. [part
great care by Major Moor, F.K.S., in 1834, a full account of
which will be found in Dale Owen's "Debateable Land," p. 239
et seq.
But more remarkable phenomena followed in the American
case. Loud and startling raps occurred on the walls, door and
windows of any room where the girl was at work, and followed
the "irl from room to room, and could be heard in her bedroom
at night when she was apparently fast asleep. A little later,
chairs were upset, crockery thrown down, tables lifted and
moved, and various kitchen utensils hurled about the room.
This was during July. In August a careful daily record was
kept. The writer of the article states that he saw the table
at which the girl had been ironing suddenly lifted when no
one was near enough to touch it. This also happened when
a child was sitting on the table, and when the writer and
other persons tried to hold the table down.
On the 6 th of August, as Mary was placing the tea tray
on a heavy stone slab, lh inches thick, and weighing 48 lbs.,
the stone slab suddenly flew up, struck the tray and upset the
dishes upon it. The writer states that this happened again
in his own presence when he was carefully watching the girl,
who was at the moment in the act of wringing out some
clothes. The slab rose and fell back with such force that it
broke in two, no one touching it. Soon after one-half of the
slab was pitched on the ground and the fragments thrown
about. Another clay a large basket filled with clothes was
thrown to the floor, a stool having on it a pail filled with
water ran along the floor; a wash tub filled with clothes was taken
off its stand and flung to the ground, and the contents thrown
about.
The girl would often start in her sleep and scream in terror,
the family watching the girl and hearing the violent noises.
The result of all this disturbance greatly alarmed and excited
the girl, who was ignorant and superstitious ; it brought on a
serious attack of hysteria, and she had to be taken to an
asylum. All the noises ceased in her absence. At the end
of three weeks she was sufficiently recovered to return to her
work. None of the movements subsequently took place, but a
month later she suffered from somnambulism. Many times when
fast asleep she rose in the middle of the night, dressed herself,
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and Nevj. 397
and went about her work downstairs in the pitch darkness,
even studying some lessons she was doing, and returned to
bed in an hour or two.
She was also clairvoyant, and one remarkable instance of
this is given by the writer of the article.
The report concludes by saying it may be justly asked why
no scientific men were asked to investigate the phenomena
during the ten weeks they lasted. To this the writer replies
that whilst the phenomena were in full force, a statement
of the facts was sent to a leading scientific man in America,
with an earnest request that he would investigate and report.
The request was treated with absolute contempt ;
they were
told that such things could not happen, and that it was all
trickery.
The writer of the article then tried some experiments him-
self. He conceived that the sounds might possibly be electri-
cally produced, and made some experiments to test this idea.
When the bedstead on which the girl slept was insulated on
glass nothing occurred, but when the insulators were removed
the noises returned as violently as ever. A daily journal of
the weather and of the disturbances was kept, expecting that the
phenomena would be more frequent on dry clear days, but
some of the most remarkable disturbances occurred on very
rainy ones. With candour the writer therefore concludes that
there is some difficulty in applying the electrical hypothesis.
Electricity has to bear a good many sins on its head, but
we may safely exonerate it from creating the poltergeist pheno-
mena. The insulation experiments, tried not only on the bed,
but also on tables and chairs, certainly inhibited the disturb-
ances, but this inhibition was more probably due to the effect
of suggestion either on the girl or on her unseen tormentors.
Psychic subjects are exceedingly suggestible, and this often lays
them open to perpetrate fraudulent imitations, especially when
the enquirer feels confident trickery is an adequate explanation
of everything.
The Portland, Oregon, Case.
In the autumn of 1909 one of the leading newspapers
on the Pacific coast published details of extraordinary dis-
turbances and movement of objects which occurred in a house
398 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
in Portland, Oregon. Subsequently an article on the subject
appeared in the Pacific monthly, and the publicity thus
given to the case led to its careful investigation by Dr.
Gilbert and Mr. Thacher, two most competent investigators,
who were requested by the American Society for Psychical
Eesearch to make a critical and full enquiry. The results of
this enquiry are given in detail in the Journal of the
American S.P.B. for September and November, 1910.
The phenomena were associated with the presence of a boy
named Elwin March, who, at the time of these occurrences,
was eleven years old, and lived with his grandparents, Mr.
and Mrs. Sawyer, at 546 Marshall Street, Portland, Oregon.
The first disturbance took place on Oct. 28th, 1909. A
reporter at once got hold of the story, witnessed some of the
phenomena, and next day published a full report in the
principal local newspaper. The consequent notoriety was so
annoying to the Sawyers that they were glad to hand the
boy, Elwin, over to Dr. Gilbert, who took him into his own
house in Portland, and kept his whereabouts secret for a
week until the reporters again ferreted him out. Meanwhile Dr.
Gilbert had obtained a detailed statement of the first dis-
turbances from eye-witnesses, but Dr. and Mrs. Gilbert failed
to obtain any satisfactory evidence of supernormal phenomena,
and, in fact, were convinced that the boy Elwin was the
author of the later, if not of the whole of the occurrences.
I will return to this presently.
On the other hand the other investigator, Mr. Thacher,
whose report, published in the Journal of the American
S.P.B. for Nov. 1910, is one of painstaking care, after a most
searching investigation, says : Practically all the eye-witnesses
were convinced that the movements were produced by super-
normal agencies, and the witnesses were numerous enough and
intelligent enough to create a presumption in favour of genuine
poltergeist phenomena. Mr. Thacher remarks :
" I began to
collect testimony on Oct. 29 (the day after the first outbreak)
and have watched closely all developments for a period of several
months. I wrote out the story immediately after the events
narrated, it is in substance a diary, and reflects the mental
attitude of the witnesses at the time, which gives it a certain
value in the final analysis and conclusion."
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New. 399
Let us now look at the evidence. A medical man, Dr.
Ainley, testified on Oct. 29th, and made a signed statement
next day that he was in Mr. Sawyer's house on Oct. 28th,
and standing near the door, saw the telephone fall from its
stand, no one being near it but the boy, Elwin, who had come
past it and was then standing near him. Shortly afterwards
a chair near the telephone rose up and then fell on the floor.
It was picked up, and again it was raised and fell on
the floor. No one was touching it, and no one was nearer
than four feet (subsequently corrected to six feet) from the
chair, and the movements occurred plainly in his, Dr. Ainley's
sight. Another medical man, J. C. Ross, M.D., of Portland,
also signed a declaration that he went to the house immedi-
ately after the disturbances, found the occupants frightened
and bewildered, chairs, tables and pictures overturned ; dishes
lying broken on the floor, having by some unseen force been
pulled off a sideboard. He, however, did not see any move-
ments after he arrived.
Another witness who had been in the U.S. artillery
deposed that he saw two chairs rise up and tip over in the
dining-room, whilst the boy, Elwin, was in the kitchen and
no one within ten or twelve feet of the chairs when they rose
and fell over. Mr. and Mrs. Sawyer made very detailed
depositions of the movement of various articles of furniture
when no one was near them. A large glazed picture which
hung on the wall, slid slowly down the wall to the floor
and rested there without breaking the glass or doing any
damage. Mr. and Mrs. Sawyer both saw this, and Mr. Sawyer
added that the picture was lifted off the suspending hook,
came slowly down, struck the ground at one corner, and then
righted itself and stood leaning against the wall.
Another witness, Mr. Casson, said that, hearing of these dis-
turbances, he went to the house and saw several knives and
forks rise up an inch or two from the drain-board of the sink
and fall over on to the floor. A small basket on the sink also
rose up and fell over on the floor. He and Mrs. Sawyer, the only
persons present in the room, were six or seven feet away from
the sink, and the boy, Elwin, was in an adjoining room. Mr.
Sawyer deposed to the plaster coming off the wall and pieces
thrown into the room. One piece of plaster flew from the
400 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.E.S. [part
kitchen wall, hit a tailor's goose-iron which was on the table,
which in its turn, though weighing over a stone, flew off the
table on to the floor. Another day he saw a basket with some
onions in it come off the table, and two cans of condensed
milk followed it, and all fell on the floor. Then the bread can,
with a pail containing some meat which stood in the pantry,
fell on the floor, and a number of plates came off the shelf,
and fell on the floor. Elwin, though in the room, was not
near the things at the time this occurred. The basket that
fell was replaced, and again thrown down ; this was done
several times running. Many other disturbances are reported,
and numerous witnesses affirmed no visible agency could have
caused them.
Now let us hear the other side. Dr. Gilbert, who had taken
the boy to his house, found him cheating at a game, and also
saw him deliberately move some objects, when he thought he
was not observed. This was some time after the original dis-
turbances, and when nothing had lately occurred. There can
be no doubt the boy did practise several tricks in December,
when removed from the Sawyers' house where the disturbances
broke out, and Dr. Gilbert obtained a confession from him that
he did so. Moreover, though at first he denied having had
anything to do with the manifestations, when they first broke
out at the Sawyers' house, yet Dr. Gilbert says he was so con-
vinced of the boy's having tricked them all along that after
severe cross-examination he obtained a qualified admission from
the boy that he did do some of the earlier things. Hence
the conclusion arrived at by Dr. Gilbert was that the whole
phenomena were fraudulent, and no supernormal agency need
be assumed. On the other hand, Mr. Thacher, who made a
more prolonged and searching investigation, says with consider-
able justice :
" Could the fact that the boy had been the centre
of attention for several weeks, and that the interest was waning,
together with the strong and constantly repeated wishes of the
small group of persons about him that the movements without
contact should be repeated, be sufficient to induce him to '
fake
'
the phenomena, and then lie about it [the earlier ones] ? Or
were all the witnesses utterly unreliable, and was the immediate
family all bound together in the deception ?
"
Now it turns out that there were two persons who influenced
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New. 401
Dr. Gilbert's opinion, by attributing fraud to the boy at the
outset; one stated that he found 38 threads fastened outside
the window of the dining-room, by which the lad probably moved
the objects. This evidence also led Dr. Hyslop, of the American
S.P.H., at first to conclude that the whole thing was fraud.
However, Mr. Thacher discovered that these adverse witnesses
were absolutely untrustworthy. No one saw the witness find
the threads, and none were to be found ; even if the threads
had been there, the witness could not explain how they could
move various objects within the room. Finally, this witness
was found to be a rogue, so that Dr. Hyslop eventually stated
his evidence was valueless. The other witness who had stated
that the boy himself pulled the plaster off and threw it, turns out
to be the owner of the house and anxious to discredit the whole
story, as it was likely to depreciate his property; his statements
were merely inferences of his own, he had seen nothing to
support them, and Mr. Thacher shows they are entirely dis-
proved, inasmuch as the plaster came from parts of the wall
and ceiling which the boy, even if present, could not possibly
reach.
On the one side we have two discredited witnesses, and on the
other over twenty credible and disinterested witnesses who testify
to these occurrences as being due to some unseen inexplicable
agency. Take, for instance, Mr. Jerome Holmes' statement ; he
affirms iii writing that when in the dining-room on October 28th
in the afternoon he saw a chair, which was standing near the
door, go right up in the air as much as three feet, and then, whilst
it was poised in the air, it turned half over to a horizontal
position, and then fell on the floor. No one was near the chair
when it went up in the air. El win March had just gone out
of the room and was outside the door when the chair rose up
and fell. " The chair was plainly in my sight, and I am sure
that no person in the room touched it during its movements,"
Mr. Holmes remarks, adding that when he stated what he him-
self clearly saw in broad daylight, people said to him, " Well,
you must be crazy." Here as elsewhere, as regards the wit-
nesses, it was against their interest to make up these stories.
That the disturbances, like other poltergeist phenomena, are
more or less attached to a place, is seen from the fact that
after Elwin and his grandparents had left Marshall Street, the
402 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
phenomena did not follow them ; but it is asserted move-
ments of objects without contact occurred for a short time in
the neighbouring house. Two witnesses told Mr. Thacher the
facts, but declined to let their names be published, as they did
not wish " to be mixed up in any spooky business." This
evidence is, therefore, of little value.
There can be no doubt that this is an important case, not only,
nor perhaps chiefly, from a psychical point of view, but from a
psychological standpoint.
We find what appear to be undoubtedly genuine phenomena
passing into fraudulent imitations by the lad around whom
interest chiefly centred. As a recent American writer on the
" Psychology of child development " says :
" A child sees an
elder writing with a pencil. When he has a chance he tries
it. To an observer it is a case of imitation, but to the child
it is an attempt to get a new experience with a pencil through
the image furnished by the adult."
Other cases of trickery, and even confession to a part of
the phenomena observed, are recorded in our Proceedings. In
a poltergeist case occurring in 1895 at Ham, near Hungerford,
Berks., Mr. Westlake saw the twelve-year-old child, who was the
centre of the disturbances, deliberately move objects. In the
case of Emma Davies at Wem, in Shropshire, Mr. Hughes, who
investigated the case on behalf of our Society, obtained a partial
confession from Emma Davies.1
This led to a critical review
of the case by my friend, Mr. C. C. Massey, who published a
pamphlet which showed how inconclusive such subsequent con-
fessions are, for objects jumped off tables and out of cupboards
when the girl was outside the room, and under circumstances
quite inconsistent with trickery. Mr. Massey remarks that it
is probable the vanity of the girl was more gratified by the
reputation of having duped the investigators than by that of
being the medium of an unknown force.
The question then arises, are we to reject as worthless evi-
dence of what appear to be supernormal phenomena because
sometimes there are cases of subsequent imitation and trickery,
and even occasionally confession of fraud ? In cases of
1
For these and several other recent cases of poltergeist phenomena, see the
full reports published in Vol. XII. of our Proceedings.
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New. 403
poltergeist, children are usually the centre of disturbances, and
the superficial or prejudiced observer, knowing the love of
mischief among children, and that in his and nearly every one's
experience objects don't jump about without an assignable cause,
naturally comes to the conclusion that any supernormal ex-
planation is needless and absurd. But this a priori argument,
which satisfies the man in the street, completely breaks down
when a critical and historical study of the whole subject is
made.
In the numerous trials for witchcraft recorded in different
countries the so-called witches freely confessed that they did
quite impossible things. One of the most tragic and heart-
breaking series of confessions occurred in the village of Mobra,
in Sweden, where in 1670, it is stated in the public register of
the Lords Commissioners who tried the case, that 71 children
freely confessed that they were engaged in witchery, that they
were carried away by the devil ; and being " separately and in-
dependently examined to see if their confessions did agree," the
Commissioners state they " found that all of them except some
very little ones, who could not tell all the circumstances, did
practically agree in the confession of particulars." And the
particulars consisted in describing the traditional devil, how they
were carried through the air and down chimneys, that burning
candles were stuck in their hair, but they were not burnt, that
they were beaten with thorns, etc., etc. And all this upon
oath, and in peril of their lives. In fact, 15 children, who so
confessed, were thereupon burnt ; 36 children, between 9 and
16 years old, considered less guilty, were publicly beaten once
a week for a year, and forced "to run the gauntlet"; 20 more,
mere babies, were lashed with rods for three Sundays at the
Church door. The number of children more or less found
guilty, we are told, was 300. In addition 70 women, all from
this same village, were tried; 23 freely confessed their witch-
craft and were burnt, the rest were imprisoned and afterwards
executed.
1
Obviously, therefore, we must not place too much reliance
upon the confessions of children, nor of uneducated persons,
who believe the superstitions of their clay to be actual facts,
and tacitly accept the opinion of their '
betters,' when told
1
See Glanvil, Saducimus Trhunphatus, the last tract.
404 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
that they have taken part in the witchery of which they are
accused.
The Dale Tower, Georgia, U.S.A., Case.
One of the most recent poltergeists has occurred in Georgia,
U.S.A., and is described in the Occult Review for May, 1911.
The narrator is a medical man, T. Hart Raines, M.D., who as
soon as he heard of the occurrences began an investigation, and
whilst he did not witness the phenomena himself, he inter-
viewed the three young men who collectively saw what
occurred, and he personally visited the scene of the disturb-
ance. Dr. Raines states that the young men are intelligent
telegraph operators, and their veracity above suspicion : they
are positive that they were not deceived nor hallucinated, and
they have all signed a statement certifying to the truth of the
facts.
The disturbances took place in a little railway telegraph
tower at Dale, Georgia, on the main line of the Atlantic coast
railroad. The tower adjoins the railway track, and is the
only house of any description within a quarter of a mile.
During nine months in the year the tower is closed, and is
opened for the tourist season from January to April. The
three young men—Bright, Davies, and Clark —opened the
tower on January 4, 1911, and were the sole occupants living
in its two rooms, one room above the other, a trap-door closing
the stair leading to the upper room. The first thing that
occurred was the sudden, inexplicable flinging open of the
trap-door, and the difficulty of keeping it closed. In spite of
fastening it with stout nails and an iron bar, it would still fly
open ;
mysterious footsteps were also heard on the stair, but a
careful search revealed no cause for the disturbances. Then
followed the raising and lowering of the window sashes in the
upper chamber, in full view of the three occupants, no one
being near the window. " To assure themselves against
tricksters, the trap-door leading down to the floor below was
closed and securely fastened, and raised only when necessary
to descend to the ground. This precaution had no effect what-
soever on the phenomena, and soon various articles began to
be levitated about the room in broad open daylight in full view
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and Neiv. 405
of all three occupants of the tower, when there was no possible
chance for trickery or fraud. A can of condensed milk was
seen to lift itself into the air and pass from one end of the
desk to the other without the contact of a visible hand. A
large dish-pan lying near the stove slowly lifted itself and
rolled down the stairs and out of the tower and under it,
from whence it had to be fished out with the aid of a long-
pole. A lantern was levitated on to the desk without having
been touched, and in full view of all. On another occasion
this lantern made a wild rush across the room and dashed
itself into fragments against the wall. An ordinary can-opener
flew wildly about the room and fastened itself in the centre of
the ceiling. I [Dr. Raines] saw this can-opener, and can
assure any one interested that the most expert could not
perform a similar feat once in a hundred efforts. Frequently
bolts and taps, such as are used in railroad construction
work, would be hurled into the room, breaking a hole in
the glass of the window scarcely large enough to enter
through.
" On one occasion, when objects were being hurled about the
room so persistently that the tower was hastily abandoned by all
three occupants, a chair was dashed out of the upper window,
and fell with such force that one of the rings was broken. This
in broad daylight, with no one in the tower, and the only avenue
of entrance or of escape guarded by the three occupants of
the tower. I [Dr. Raines] saw the chair, and only a terrific
blow could have so injured it."
The young men were now in a state of panic, and one of
them walked seven miles to the nearest town, to resign his
position, and he assured Dr. Raines nothing would induce him
again to go through the eerie experience he had suffered. The
last of the strange occurrences took place a few days before Dr.
Raines visited the tower and made a searching investigation of
the possibility of some outside person tricking the young men.
This, he says, was impossible, nor could the vibration of passing
trains have caused the phenomena, and any attempt to climb
the stair would have been instantly detected by the operators,
one of whom was always on duty. Dr. Raines is convinced that
there was no chance of deception, that the operators were
perfectly truthful and were not the victims of hallucination.
406 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
In fact, the whole record exactly resembles other poltergeist
phenomena in their sudden development and sudden cessation.
A recent case of poltergeist in Surrey was reported in the
newspapers, and on inquiry I learnt the phenomena occurred
as narrated ; but I have been unable to visit the place and
obtain the evidence at first hand.
The Vienna Poltergeist.
In the Journal of the Society for May, 1907, there is a
report of a typical poltergeist occurring in a Vienna suburb.
The report is sent by an eye-witness of some of the disturbances,
Mr. Warndorfer, a member of the S.P.E., living at Baden, near
Vienna, Eegarding this case Miss A. Johnson (Eesearch Officer
of the S.P.E.) writes to me as follows :
" Mr. Warndorfer, whom
I know personally, is an unusually cool-headed and competent
observer, and a very intelligent and open-minded man. He is
genuinely interested in psychical research, and would, I feel sure,
be prepared to give an impartial account of anything he wit-
nessed." Miss Johnson adds that she believes Mr. Warndorfer
" is not convinced of the genuineness of this case, or of any
telekinetic phenomena ; what it amounts to is that he investi-
gated this case carefully, and did not discover any fraud in it."
The principal points in the narrative are as follow : A smith
named Zimmerl has a shop near Vienna (address given), where
he employs two apprentices. The shop is at the end of a
long court, in the souterrain of a large house inhabited by
tradespeople, so that it is entered by going down a short, open
stair. Zimmerl had had the shop some four years, but nothing
unusual occurred until July, 1906, when a report appeared in
a Vienna paper of the mysterious disturbances that had broken
out in this smith's shop.
On July 16th, 1906, Mr. Warndorfer visited the shop and
heard from Zimmerl how tools, bits of iron, etc., had been flung
about the place, and both the master and one of his apprentices
had been hurt by one of these missiles. He had watched the
boys, but could not detect any tricks on their part ; in fact,
when they were outside the shop the missiles still flew about,
and from an opposite direction to where they stood, and where
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New. 407
a solid wall intervened. The police had investigated the matter
and could find nothing to account for the disturbances. The
tools, etc., had to be put into boxes and moved outside, as they
were afraid to work otherwise. The man was much scared,
and lost customers through this mysterious annoyance. Once
a pipe Hew from one side of the shop to the other, and then
came back and settled on the anvil in the middle of the room ;
another time the pipe was taken from Zimmerl's mouth and
fluttered on to the lathe.
Mr. Warndorfer made several subsequent visits, and heard
still more remarkable accounts, and was able to witness many
of the occurrences. On one occasion he saw more than a
dozen objects thrown about, and was " perfectly certain none
of the persons present could have thrown them " ; one was
thrown when he happened to be alone in the shop. He never
saw the objects actually fly, but heard them fall ; some dropped
close to him, and three struck him on the head. In reply to
enquiries from the S.P.R., Mr. Warndorfer relates five cases of
inexplicable movements of objects, which he witnessed in day-
light, and of which he believes " the chances of mal-observation
were very small indeed." One of these cases was as follows
:
A small glazed picture which he had seen hanging on the wall
a few minutes before came fluttering through the air to the
middle of the shop, where it fell on the floor, but did not
break ; in fact, it moved like a sheet of paper. At the time
he was standing about a yard and a half in front of the
picture, nobody being near it, nor in that part of the shop
through which it moved. He did not see it leave its place,
but saw it when it was about a couple of yards from where it
alighted. Mr. Warndorfer adds that he thinks " it would be
very difficult, though not impossible, to throw or drop such a
picture without its breaking." Another incident witnessed by
Mr. Warndorfer occurred when the smith was out of the shop
and the two apprentices were drilling a hole in a piece of
iron. He was watching their slow work and noticed that their
four hands were all engaged at their work ; of this he was " per-
fectly certain," when suddenly one of the boys screamed with
pain ; a pair of big iron compasses, which had been lying on
the work-bench a yard behind the boy, had flown across and hit
the boy sharply on the temple, causing a swelling and a little
408 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
blood. Mr. Wiirndorfer saw the iron compasses ricochetting
as it were off the boy's head and falling to the ground. He
himself was five times hit—three times on the head, as already
mentioned, and twice elsewhere, once rather severely, with
pieces of iron and steel that unaccountably flew across the
room and struck him.
The disturbances continued for two months, and then ceased.
One of the lads, round whom the disturbances seemed to
cluster, was taken to the police court and fined, though he
denied all guilt, and there was no direct evidence of his having
thrown anything. The boys were, nevertheless, dismissed, and
the disturbances ceased. Mr. W;irndorfer, however, does not
consider that this proves anything, and he is right, for if his
observations were correct the boys could not have been the
culprits.
The foregoing poltergeist closely resembles that which occurred
at Swanland, near Hull, in 1849, and a narrative of which
was written by an eye-witness, Mr. Bristow, and published by
the S.P.E.. Prof. Sidgwick, in 1891, interviewed a surviving
witness of the phenomena, who confirmed Mr. Bristow's ac-
count. Here three workmen in a carpenter's shop were pelted
with bits of wood, etc., which seemed to sail through the air
" as if borne on gently heaving waves," and no visible cause
could be discovered for the disturbances, which lasted about
six weeks. The narrative given, if accurate, shows that any
normal explanation of the phenomena is untenable.
It must be borne in mind that the evidence on behalf of
the phenomena we have been considering rests upon observation
and not upon experiment. We cannot repeat the phenomena
at will, but must rest content with the statements of credible
witnesses. Under such circumstances no single case, however
well attested, can produce conviction of the supernormal
character of the phenomena ; inasmuch as our reason renders
us instinctively hostile to the reception of any evidence which
cannot be readily fitted in to the structure of our existing
knowledge. We have, therefore, to rely upon the accumulation
of testimony from many independent observers, in cases widely
separated both in space and time. It is with the object of
adding to the strength of the faggot of evidence, which exists
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New 409
on behalf of poltergeists, that this paper has been added to
others on this subject already published in our Proceedings.
Every one will admit the truth of Glanvil's remark: "That
which is sufficiently and undeniably proved ought not to be
denied because we know not how it can be, that is, because
there are difficulties in the conceiving of it
"
;
and if the array
of testimony from credible and competent witnesses in different
countries and different ages concerning poltergeist phenomena
be set aside, all testimony to strange and sporadic occurrences,
such as meteorites, fireballs, red-rain, mock-suns, etc., must also
be discredited. Few of us have witnessed the fall of meteoric
stones to the earth, yet we believe in their existence in spite
of the impossibility of their reproduction at our pleasure. The
reason why we believe is of course the testimony of many
trustworthy witnesses to whom we hare given attention. In
fact there are some phenomena in physical science which are
as rare, elusive and inexplicable as those in psychical research.
That strange phenomenon, to which the name of fire-ball or
globe lightning has been given, is an example. " As we have
hitherto been unable to reproduce a fire-ball by our most
powerful electrical machines, some philosophers have denied that
any such thing can exist ! But as Arago says :
1
Where should
we be if we set ourselves to deny everything we do not know
how to explain ?
' The amount of trustworthy and independent
evidence which we possess as to the occurrence of this pheno-
menon is such as must convince every reasonable man who chooses
to pay due attention to the subject. No doubt there is a great
deal of exaggeration, as well as much imperfect and erroneous
observation, in almost all these records. But the existence of the
main feature (the fire-ball) seems to be proved beyond all doubt."
These are the words of that eminent and genuine scientific
man, the late Professor P. G. Tait, and the words I have
italicized are, in my opinion, equally true of the phenomena
of poltergeists. There has been, no doubt, much " exaggeration
and erroneous observation " in connection with this subject,
but this can also be said of the early stages of other new and
striking additions to our knowledge.
Moreover, the evidence for poltergeist phenomena is
strengthened when we remember the injury to themselves
which the witnesses often suffered. As Grlanvil says of Mr.
410 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
Mompesson, " He suffered in his name, his estate, and in all
his affairs, and in the general peace of his family. Unbelievers
took him for an impostor, others thought it was a judgment of
God upon him for impiety. He suffered also in loss of servants
and the health and constant affrights of his whole household."
Conclusions.
The conclusions to which a study of the subject has led me
may be stated as follows
:
(1) That fraud and hallucination are inadequate to explain
all the phenomena.
(2) That the widespread belief in fairies, pixies, gnomes,
brownies, etc., probably rests on the varied manifestations of
poltergeists.
(3) That in these phenomena occurring in all countries and
going back to remote periods of time we have, as Mr. Lang
suggests, one probable origin of Fetishism among savages, the
belief that an inanimate object may be tenanted by what is
thought to be a spirit.
(4) That the noises, sudden movements of objects, and other
physical phenomena appear to be associated with some unseen
intelligence which can respond, though fitfully and imperfectly,
to an uttered and, there is some evidence to show, to an
unlettered request ; hence they must be in some degree related
to our intelligence.
(5) That the disturbances are usually, though not invariably,
associated with the presence of a child or young person of
either sex, and appear to be attached to a particular place as
well as to a particular person ;
some animate as well as inani-
mate point d'a/ppui seems to be essential.
(G) The phenomena are sporadic and temporary, their dura-
tion varying from a few days to several months, disappearing
as suddenly as they came.
(7) They produce annoyance to those concerned, and some-
times, though rarely, injury.
(8) They can be inhibited by suggestion, acting either upon
the human radiant point or upon the unseen agency, or possibly
upon both.
(9) The close connection of poltergeist disturbances with the
LXIV.] Poltergeists, Old and New. 411
physical phenomena of spiritualism, suggests that the latter
would be more effectually studied immediately after they were
first noticed, and in the place where they first occurred in the
presence of the child, or other " medium," round whom they
centred. Further, we may expect simulation, and even con-
fession of subsequent trickery, in the case of children, after
the phenomena have ceased.
As the universe is founded on order and follows definite
intelligible laws, we might expect to discover some analogy
between the operation of seen and unseen causes. I fear,
however, it will be a long time before we shall bring
out of " the disorderly mystery of ignorance into the orderly
mystery of science " these puzzling and freakish phenomena.
We find, however, in meteorological disturbances, in the
unseen physical phenomena of wind and weather, similar
puzzling and apparently freakish occurrences. Albeit we have
no doubt that long-continued patient observation and classifica-
tion will ultimately reveal the complex and orderly physical
causes at work in our fitful weather. But the scientific use of
the imagination is necessary alike in meteorological and bizarre
psychical phenomena, such as poltergeists.
The obvious question arises, why in the latter is a human
radiant centre necessary ? In inorganic nature we find in the
behaviour of saturated solutions of salts a state of unstable
equilibrium such that a particle of solid matter dropped into
the quiescent liquid will suddenly create a molecular disturbance
which spreads throughout the solution, causing solid crystals to
appear and aggregate ; a general commotion results for a short
time, until the whole becomes a solid mass of crystals. Here
we see the effect of a nucleus upon a previously quiescent state
of things. Microscopists are familiar with similar phenomena.
Especially in cell growth the presence of a nucleus is essential.
We may term the child, or other living person in poltergeist
phenomena, the nucleus, which is the determining factor. We
ourselves and the whole world may be but nucleated cells in a
vaster living organism, of which we can form no conception.
Some incomprehensible intelligence is certainly at work in the
congeries of cells and in the galaxy of suns and stars.
But evolution in animate and inanimate nature is unlikely to
2d
412 Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
be confined to the visible universe. Living creatures of
different types and varied intelligence may exist in the unseen
as in the seen. Possibly these poltergeist phenomena may be
due to some of these, perhaps mischievous or rudimentary, in-
telligences in the unseen : I do not know why we should
imagine there are no fools or naughty children in the spiritual
world ;
possibly they are as numerous there as here. But why
the conjunction of a particular locality and a particular human
organism enables them to play pranks in the material world,
we are as ignorant as the savage is as to why a dry day and
particular material are necessary for the working of an electrical
machine in the production of electricity.
At present our obvious duty is to collect, scrutinize, and
classify these phenomena, leaving their explanation aside until
our knowledge is larger.
lxiv.] Les Phenomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 413
III.
LES PHENOMENES PHYSIQUES DU SPIRITISME
:
QUELQUES DIFFICULTES.1
Pak le COAITE PEROVSKY-PETROVO-SOLOVOVO.
Les " phenomenes physiques " du spiritisme semblent etre plus
que jamais a l'ordre du jour dans le monde des " psychistes."
Les seances de Carancini ; les experiences avec Eusapia Pal-
ladino a Naples (en 1908 et 1910) et aux Etats Unis ; celles de
M. de Rochas avec Bailey a Grenoble ;
les performances
etourdissantes d'Ofelia Corrales a San Jose (Costa-Rica), etc.,
ont donne a cette sempiternelle question un regain d'actualite.
II peut paraitre opportun au moment ou elle se pose une fois
de plus avec une acuite particuliere ;
ou, de l'incident du pied
d'Eusapia saisi dans l'ombre du " cabinet " a New York 2
aux
photographies de la soi-disant " Mary Brown," tout vient attiser
la discussion—de jeter un coup d'oeil sur l'etat actuel du
probleme. Et pour s'en rendre un compte exact il sera utile
de passer en revue les difficultes qui semblent militer contre
l'authenticite des phenomenes ; les objections qu'on peut y faire.
La situation y gagnera certainement en nettete.
La plupart de ces difficultes sont du reste bien connues,3
quoique quelques-unes de celles que nous allons citer aient
comparativement peu, je crois, retenu l'attention ; elles ne sont
pas toutes d'importance egale, mais certaines nous paraissent
tres serieuses. Et leur force cumulative est en tous cas con-
siderable. J'indiquerai a la fin de mon article la conclusion
—
provisoire—a, laquelle elles m'acculent. Pour le moment qu'il
1
This paper is printed in French, having been originally written for a French
journal.
—
Ed.
2
Journal of the Society for Pxychical Research, avril 1910, pp. 265-275;
Psychische Studien, fevrier 1911.
3
On en verra quelques-unes enumerees par exemple chez Podmore, Studies in
Psychical Research, pp. 110-115.
414 Comte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
me suffise de preciser que, si depuis les vingt et quelques annees
que j'ai consacrees a l'etude du sujet sous ses differents aspects
j'ai fait graduellement beaucoup de chemin dans le sens du
scepticisine et de la negation—je suis quand meme et par-
dessus tout sincerement desireux de traiter le probleme avec
une complete impartiality. Aux esprits et aux mediums de me
prouver que je fais fausse route en penchant vers la negative
pour certains faits ou soi-disant tels. Si cette preuve nous
est jamais donnee, je m'inclinerai bien volontiers devant elle, car
je crois fermement que rien ne peut prevaloir contre ce qui est.
( 1 ) Les phe'nomines physiques du spiritisme sont tre~s
improbables a priori.
A la verite il taut ici distinguer. Us ne le sont pas tous
egalement. Quelques-uns le sont meme assez peu, et je crois
que, si jamais le jour vient ou l'authenticite, par exemple, des
" raps " et de la telekinesie sera reconnue, nous les ferons rentrer
dans le cadre de nos connaissances physiques sans difficult^.
Mais que dire, par exemple, de faits tels que les materialisations,
les " apports " et le " passage de la matiere a travers la
matiere "
—surtout des deux derniers ? Ne renversent-ils pas de
fond en comble—ou a peu pres—nos notions actuelles ? Ne
contredisent-ils pas les lois les plus certaines, sans parler de
l'experience non-interrompue de milliards d'hommes durant je
ne sais combien de milliers d'annees ?
On me repondra que l'improbabilite apriorique ne suffit pas
pour rejeter des faits bien etablis ; on pourra me rappeler
les aerolithes, la circulation du sang, les chemins de fer, le
phonographe—que sais-je encore ? D'accord : je suis le premier
de cet avis. Et tous ces exemples de negations aprioriques
auxquelles la realite vient donner un dementi eclatant sont
fort instructifs. Mais—il s'agit de s'entendre sur le sens des
mots " bien etablis." Et il serait, je crois, mal aise de disconvenir
que plus un fait est en soi improbable, plus nous sommes autorise's
a nous montrer elifficiles en faits de preuves. II ne peut y avoir
la-dessus deux opinions.
Or dans le domaine du spiritisme que voyons-nous ? Presque
exactement l'oppose. Plus tin ph&aomdnc est invraisemblable, moins
les preuves eju'on avance en faveur de so
r
n authenticity sont satis-
LXIV.] Les Phe'nomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 415
faisantes ! En effet. S'agit-il de " coups frappes," de levitations
de tables et de certains mouvements sans contact — les
temoignages sont quelquefois excellents. lis le sont meme si
bien que je doute qu'un chercheur ve'ritablement impartial et bien
au courant de la question puisse les rejeter. Si nous passons
aux " materialisations," beaucoup plus extraordinaires—nous
voyons que nos " preuves " ont extremement baisse comme qualite.
Sauf quelques observations jusqu'a un certain point curieuses et
deconcertantes sur des apparitions de " mains " avec D. D.
Home et peut-etre avec Eusapia,
1
c'est surtout sur Katie King
et Sir W. Crookes que nous devons nous rabattre. C'est
maigre apres un tiers de siecle. Ajoutons que certaines des
observations de Sir W. Crookes relatives a " Katie King " ont
pu paraitre avec raison preter a, la critique.2
Et en dehors
d'elles je ne vois presque rien !
Tout de meme c'est encore quelque chose evidemment ! Mais
si nous faisons un pas de plus dans le domaine—je ne dirai
meme pas de l'improbable, mais humainement parlant de l'im-
possible ; si nous passons aux " apports " et autres faits de ce
genre—que trouvons-nous ? Pour le " passage de la matiere a
travers la matiere "
—peu de temoignages serieux et pas un
seul fait veritablement concluant. Pour les " apports " c'est
moins encore. On sait que les preuves de leur realite se
rattachent pour la plupart au nom de Stainton Moses : en
dehors de lui je ne connais presque pas de cas tant soit peu
dignes de retenir l'attention.
3
Or pour S. Moses il n'y a pas de
1
Voir cepetidant ce que je dis a ce sujet dans mon post scriptum.
2
Voir par exemple les observations de M. Podmore dans Modern Spiritualism,
Vol. II., pp. 155-157.
3
On pourra s'en rendre compte en lisant le chapitre consacre aux apports
chez Aksakow, Auimisme et Spiritisme (pp. 484-495 de l'original russe). Sur
les six cas qu'il cite un a le Colonel Olcott pour temoin, ce qui suffit pour le
disqualifier entitlement ; un second est atteste par M. Robert Cooper—un
spirite tres honorable celui-la, mais comme temoin par trop "commode"; un
troisieme peut s'expliquer tres facilement en supposant une entente prealable
entre "une jeune dame douee de faeultes mediumniques " qui n'est pas nominee
et Monck—un professionnel amplement deinasque. Les trois autres cas sont
a la verite meilleurs ; mais la encore dans deux les temoignages sont loin
d'etre suffisants, et certains details essentiels nous viennent de seconde main.
Reste finalement un seul cas relate par Crookes et se rapportant a une seance
avec Miss Kate Fox (Jencken). Mais cette fois il ne s'agit plus d'un veritable
"apport," mais plutot d'un transport d'objet (une sonnette) d'une chambre
416 Comte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
doute que la grande majorite de ses pheriomenes (les apports
y compris) puisse s'expliquer par de la fraude de sa part
—
necessairement consciente pour certains cas, peut-etre incon-
sciente pour d'autres. II est certainement invraisemblable
qu'un homme dans sa situation se soit amuse durant des annees
a mystifier ses amis les plus proches ; mais il est infiniment
plus improbable encore de supposer qu'il ait eu le don de faire
venir on ne sait d'ou, ni comment, a travers l'espace, divers
objets et de leur faire traverser portes et murs en leur con-
servant leur forme premiere. Et je pense que dans ce cas nous
avons a choisir non—comme on l'a dit—entre " a physical and a
moral miracle "—mais plutot entre " a physical impossibility
and a moral improbability." II est difficile d'hesiter entre les
deux.
(2) Les incidents qui out donne naissancc a ce gru'on appellc le
" spiritucdisme modernc " sont indnbitctblcment jusqu'a un
certain 'point suspects.
Je veux parler des fameux " raps " qui se firent entendre
en 1848 k Hydesville, puis a Eochester, en presence des soeurs
Fox, et sans lesquels il n'y aurait peut-etre pas de spiritisme
a l'heure qu'il est. II est hors de doute que des sons pareils
peuvent etre facilement produits soit a l'aide des doigts du
pied, soit avec les muscles du genou ; il parait egalement
certain que les personnes qui experimenterent avec les Fox
au tout commencement ignoraient que de pareils trues fussent
possibles. Nous avons aussi d'autres circonstances suspectes
:
la non-reussite des experiences entreprises en 1851 avec deux
des sceurs Fox par trois professeurs de Buffalo (Flint, Lee et
dans une autre. II est vrai que Sir W. Crookes nous dit avoir lui-meme
ferme a cle la porte de celle oil avait lieu la seance. Le cas, je l'avoue, me
parait digne d'attention ; mais comme il est a ce point de vue a peu pres le
seul de son espece ; comme d'autre part le recit qu'en fait Sir W. Crookes
est evidemment distinct des notes qu'il a du prendre immediatement apres la
seance et qu'il a pu y omettre telle on telle circonstance importante—on ne
pent vraiment attacher a ce r^cit de valeur decisive. En y supposant une
inexactitude des plus legeres on pourrait voir dans le transport de la sonnette
un fait de " telekinesie " tout au plus. Neanmoins je reconnais que l'incident
decrit par l'illustre savant anglais est curieux ;
quelle pitie que les "esprits" se
refusent comme regie generale a nous en donner de pareils ! (On en trouvera
la description aussi dans les Bexearches de Crookes, p. 97.)
lxiv.] Les Phenornenes Physiques clu Spiritisme. 417
Coventry)
;
1
le fiasco de Margaret Fox-Kane devant la " Com-
mission Seybert "
;
2
celui de Kate Fox-Jencken avec Mme
Sidgwick; 3
la declaration qu'aurait faite en justice en 1871
une parente des Fox, Mme Norman Culver
;
4
enfin la fameuse
"confession" des scours Fox elles-memes en 1888; 5
confession
retiree ensuite, il est vrai, et a laquelle diverses circonstances
enlevent indubitablement du poids. Quoiqu'il en soit, tous
ces incidents ne laissent pas que de jeter un jour quelque
peu suspect sur les fameux " Rochester knockings," tout en ne
nous permettant pas de conclure positivement dans le sens de
la fraude.
(3) Suspectes aussi—et combien !—les conditions clans lesqicelles ont
lien, la plupart clu temps les phenornenes.
C'est l'obscurite et le demi-jour si propices a la fraude et
aux erreurs des sens ; c'est l'injonction aux assistants de se
tenir les mains, precaution qui peut avoir son bon cote mais
qui gene singulierement toute investigation ; de chanter ou de
parler (aux seances d'Eusapia) ; de ne pas concentrer l'attention
sur les phenornenes ; c'est la defense constante de faire ceci ou
cela, de s'approcher ou de regarder de trop pres ; c'est le me'dium
assis seul et en liberte dans le " cabinet " a la plupart des
seances de materialisation ; enfin c'est en general l'impossibilite
de controler comme on le voudrait. Je ne crois pas qu'aucun
spirite raisonnable puisse nier le bien-fonde de l'affirmation qui
a du. etre faite bien des fois et que de toute facon je reprends
pour mon compte : les conditions qui favorisent les phenornenes
favorisenl dgalement la fraude.
(4) II y a plus : ce ne sont pas seulement les conditions dans
lesquelles les plUnomenes se produisent, ce sont les " his
"
mime qui soi-disant les rigissent qui favorisent aussi la
supercherie.
En effet : si les spirites etaient toujours consequents avec
eux-memes, ils se mettraieut dans l'impossibilite de jamais
J
R. B. Davenport, The Death-blow to Spiritualism, pp. 132-144.
2
Davenport, The Death-blow to Spiritualism, pp. 164-200.
z
Proc. of the S.P.R., Vol. IV., pp. 47, 48.
4
Maskelyne, Modern Spiritualism, pp. 24-27.
5
Davenport, op. cit., passim.
418 Comte Perovsky-Petvovo-Solovovo. [part
prouver que de la part du medium il y a eu tricherie
!
Trouve-t-ou ce dernier a la place de l'apparition qu'un des
assistants a saisie un peu brutalement a une seance de materia-
lisation—on nous affirme qu'il y a eu reunion des deux, mais
dans des conditions anormales ; et que l'apparition ne pouvant
pas revenir vers le medium puisqu'on la reteiiait—c'est le
medium qui a ete attire" vers la forme materialisee.1
Trouve-t-on
dans le " cabinet " des masques, voiles et autres objets servant
au deguisement—on nous dit que ce sont les esprits qui les y
ont apportes
;
2
ou que la seance ayant ete brusquement
interrompue ils n'ont pas eu le temps de d^materialiser les
voiles.3
La main materialisee est-elle subrepticement enduite
d'une matiere colorante quelconque, dont les traces sont ensuite
relevees sur la main du medium ? C'est que la main materia-
lised s'etant formee aux depens de cette derniere et y rentrant
une fois la seance terminee, a du necessairement y transporter
les particules de la matiere colorante.4
La main materialisee
s'est-elle maladroitement montree revetue d'une manche iden-
tique a celles du vetement du medium—on nous assure que
ce ne sont pas seulement les membres et le corps du medium
qui se dedoublent mais aussi ses habits. Nous donne-t-on des
preuves de toutes ces enormites ? Oui—mais elles sont presque
toutes telles qu'on pourrait a la rigueur sen passer et croire
sur parole.
5
1
Harrison, clans le Spiritualist, 29 decembre, 1876 (cite par Podmore, Modern
Spiritualism, Vol. II., p. 10S) ; lettre du Dr. A. R. Wallace au Light,
no vein b re, 1882.
2
Aksakow, Materiaux your l'appr4ciation de Vicriture automatique (experiences
personneV.es) ainsi que de la materialisation, pp. 279, 280, note (en russe).
3
Voir le chapitre correspondant dans Brackett, Materialised Apparitions,
je n'ai lu cet ouvrage qu'en traduction russe.
4
Aksakovv, Animisme et Spiritisme, p. 139 (original russe).
5
C'est du reste ce qu'il faut bien faire pour ['affirmation de M. Aksakow
quant au role des apports dans les seances de materialisation ; de preuves
il n'en donne que je sache aucune. Pour ce qui est du dedoublement des
vStements ( !) le seul incident de ce genre digne d'attention que je connaisse
se rapporte a la fameuse experience eleetrique de Crookes et de Varley avec
Mine Fay: on y vit, parait-il, qui "l'apparition" que parut dans l'ouverture
du rideau et remit un livre a Cox portait la meme robe que le medium et
mhne ses bracelets (The Spiritualist, 1875, I., p. 151). J'ignore si la critique
que M. Podmore a faite des experiences en question est tout a fait justitiee
(Modern Spiritualism, Vol. II., pp. 158, 159), mais je ne puis ne pas attacher
lxiv.] Les Phenomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 419
Ce n'est pas tout : ces theories abracadabrantes sont gene-
ralement fabriquees ad hoc, pour expliquer tel ou tel cas
particulier, alors qu'auparavant il n'en etait pas question. Eu
voici un exemple. J'ignore le noiu du spirite qui a le premier
lance l'hypothese d'une " main materialised " pour expliquer les
transports d'objets " sans contact." II paraitra a un sceptique
assez probable que ce qui a pu donner l'impulsion premiere a
cette hypothese-la c'est quelque aventure desagreable arrivee a
un medium aussi maladroit qu'ingenieux. Quoiqu'il en soit il est
trop tard maintenant pour recriminer, et force nous est
actuellement de traiter cette theorie avec egards. Mais que
dire par exemple de l'hypothese du " til etherique," du " hi
materialise" emise par M. le Docteur Ochorowicz dans ses si
interessants articles sur ses experiences avec Stanislawa Tomczyk?
Des centaines de milliers de spirites sont nes et morts depuis
la date fatidique des "Eochester knockings" sans jamais avoir
envisage une telle possibility. Et jusqu'a M. Ochorowicz, le
medium le plus audacieux, le plus " sans gene," ne se serait
jamais permis de recourir a une explication pareille. Aujourd'hui
c'est autre chose : de vastes et de nouveaux horizons s'ouvrent
devant nous—et aussi de nouvelles facilites de tricherie et
de nouvelles excuses a invoquer pour les mediums fraudeurs.
Toujours cette meme deplorable coincidence entre une " loi "
—
ou soi-disant telle—et les conditions qui facilitent la super-
cherie.1
A noter encore que toutes ces theories si commodes pour eux
ne sembleut pas avoir ete mises en avant en premier lieu par
les " esprits " eux-memes—qu'on pourrait cependant croire le
mieux informes. Esprits et mediums preferent en laisser
l'initiative a de simples spirites (ou " psychistes ")
—quittes, sans
d'importance au fait que lorsque Mme Fay est venue en Russie en 1888-89
elle s'est obstinement refusee a les renouveler sous des pretextes eminemment
mensongers (Rebus, 1889, p. 117); elle y a ete en outre d^masquee, et en
general sa " mediumnite " est des plus suspectes qui se soient jamais produites.
1
En ecrivant ce qui precede je n'exprime pas d'opinion sur les experiences de
M. Ochorowicz en elles-memes. S'il en a —je Tavoue— d'irresistiblement sus-
pectes, il y en a aussi de deconcertantes et difficilement explicables {Annates des
Sciences Psychiques, 1910, No. 3-4, pp. 33-39). Je ne juge pas : je constate qu'il
y a coincidence facheuse pour la cent et unieme fois. Et je ne puis refuser a
M. le Docteur Ochorowicz 1'expression de mon admiration pour sa science et ses
infatigables travaux.
420 Comte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
doute, a intervenir et a donner leur sanction une fois le terrain
suffisamment prepare.
(5) Lei varUU extraordinaire des conditions soi-disant exige'es
par les phenomenes est aussi de nature a donner raison
anx sceptiqties.
On nous dit par exemple que l'obscurite est une condition
necessaire—et a ce propos on invoque la photographie et je ne
sais quoi encore. Et cependant Home, nous raconte-t-on,
operait presque toujours dans une lunriere suftisante pour bien
observer. Et cependant les "slate-writing mediums" americains
donnent leurs seances en plein jour. Et meme on vient nous
dire aujourd'hui (MM. Feilding, Baggally et Carrington a propos
d'Eusapia Palladino) que " plus les precautions etaient com-
pletes, plus la lumiere etait forte, plus les phenomenes etaient
nombreux." 1
(Voila certes une affirmation bien nouvelle et
bien inattendue.) Tantot la " chaine des mains" est considered
comme etant de toute necessite, a ce point que rien ne se
produit plus une fois qu'elle est rompue; tantot on sen passe
tout-a-fait—du moins en ce qui regarde le medium lui-meme.
Certains mediums n' " operent " qu'isoles des assistants et bras
et jambes litis (comme les Davenport) ; d'autres ne consentent
qu'avec les plus grandes difficultes et exceptionnellement a se
laisser attacher les mains a celles des controleurs (Eusapia).
Et pour la seule facon de controler les mains il y a des
nuances ! Sambor par exemple se laissait presque toujours
tenir dans le sens strict du mot. Au contraire Eusapia ne
l'admet pas ; M. le Docteur Ochorowicz nous a tres ingenieuse-
ment explique pourquoi.
2
Et puisque je viens de citer son nom
je me permettrai d'ajouter qu'a mon avis les conditions dans
lesquelles se produisent a l'heure actuelle en presence de son
medium Mile Tomczyk les levitations de petits objets vont
certainement k l'encontre de ce que les spirites ont tache de
nous inculquer durant soixante ans. Pour les " apports " : non
seulement beaucoup de mediums a effets physiques n'en pro-
duisent pas du tout, ma-is les esprits de Home affirmaient (e'est
Crookes qui nous raconte le fait) que la matiere ne peut passer
1
Proceedings of the 8.P.B., Vol. XXIII., p. 323.
-Annates des Sciences Psychiqucs, 1896, No. 2, pp. 105-107.
lxiv.] Les Phenomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 421
a travers la matiere; et cependant . . . Enfin pour les materia-
lisations: ime condition soi-disant essentielle—c'est la "transe"
du medium qui doit etre en plus isole des assistants. M.
Aksakow a meme elabore a ce propos une ingenieuse theorie
d'apres laquelle a chaque " materialisation " partielle ou totale
correspondrait une " dematerialisation " aussi partielle ou presque
totale du corps du medium lequel pourrait par consequent
devenir " invisible." (Voila encore une hypothese bien commode
a certain point de vue.
1
) Et cependant non seulement les cas
ou medium et apparition auraient ete vus simultanement ne
sont pas apres tout si peu nombreux ; mais aux seances des
mediums de profession americains on voit souvent apparaitre
une, deux, trois apparitions en meme temps que le medium
—
et meme en pleine lumiere '
La " transe " non plus n'est pas
une condition sine qua non ; le polonais Jan Guzik—pour ne
citer que lui—n'est ni " entranse," ni meme isole du cercle
lorsque se produisent ses " materialisations "—aussi tres sui
generis, puisqu'avant lui nous n'avons jamais entendu parler,
je crois, de materialisations a caractere mi-animal (!). (Des
bandes de toile enduites d'une substance lumineuse et apposees
sur les jambes de Guzik—je parle d'apres mon experience per-
sonnelle—presentent un obstacle insurmontable a ces materialisa-
tions-la.)
Et une fois materialisees—comnie elles se comportent differem-
ment les apparitions! Aujourd'hui tel "esprit" parle qui
soutenait auparavant qu'un esprit materialise ne pent parler.
2
Ou bien, alors que certains ne tarissent pas en babillages " de
omni re scibili et quibusdam aliis," un autre affirme qu'une
fois revetu temporairement d'une enveloppe corporelle un
habitant de l'autre monde n'en sait pas plus que les assis-
tants,3
etc., etc.
Et voyez les apports. Alors que pour produire le plus
simple mouvement d'objet sans contact le medium doit l'avoir
i C'est, comme on sait, la soi-disant disparition des jambes de Mine d'Espe-
rance a une seance a Helsingfors qui apousse' M. Aksakow a formuler sa theorie
(v. Un cas de demat&rialisation partielle du corps d'un medium). M. Carrington a
fait bonne justice de cet incident dans un interessant article des Proceedings of
the American S.P.R., Vol. I. pp. 131-168.
- Proceedings of the S.P.B., Vol. IV., p. 61.
3
Pareille affirmation a ete faite en ma presence a une seance de Mme
Corner (Florence Cook).
422 Comte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
tout pres de soi et que l'experience rate infailliblement s'il
en est autrement—voila que d'autres objets voyagent sans
encombres, a travers les airs sur des distances souvent tre.s
considerables (comme de Portsmouth a Londres).
1
Les " lois
"
les plus essentielles des phenomenes sont ainsi renversees de
fond en comble, mais les spirites ne sen montrent pas autre-
ment preoccupes. lis repondront sans doute que les "apports"
appartiennent a un tout autre ordre de faits que les uiouve-
ments sans contact (comme si c'etait la une explication !)
—
et voila tout.
L'impression qui se degage de tout cela c'est que ces soi-
disant lois ne sont que le fruit de la fantaisie des mediums
—
quand ce n'est pas de leur ingeniosite. Une seule—ou a pen
pres—ne varie presque jamais : les conditions de I'investigation ne
sont 'pas telles que I'dbservateur les cUsire, mais telles que le
medium les vent.
(6) A supposer les pltinomenes authentiqu.es ce n'est phis d'tme
seide force physique inconnue les produisant qu'il s'agirait
mais de plusieurs.
En eftet, comme le dit M, Podniore," quelque sage que soit
l'adage " entia non sunt multiplicanda praeter necessitatem " il
serait vraiment par crop parcimonieux le critique qui s'obsti-
nerait a mettre sur le compte d'une seule et unique force
physique des faits aussi differents que : les levitations d'objets,
(tables) avec contact ; les transports d'objets sans contact
;
les levitations et "elongations" du corps humain (Home);
le passage de la matiere a travers la matiere (noeuds de
Zollner, etc.); les apports; les coups frappes ; les sons musicaux
et parfums (Stainton Moses); l'incombustibilite (Home); les
materialisations.
II est clair que si tous ces faits sont authentiques, ce n'est
pas par une " force " unique, mais bien par plusieurs, qu'ils
doivent etre produits. Eien d'inqDrobable dans la supposition
que non seulement une, mais de multiples forces inconnues
peuvent operer dans la nature : qui oserait le nier apres
toutes les decouvertes de ces dernieres annees ? Mais c'est la
1
Aksakow, Animisme et Spirilisme, p. 489 (original russe).
- Modem Spiritualism, Vol. II., p. 183.
lxiv.] Les Phenomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 4-23
concentration de plusieurs de ces forces inconnues en un meme
individu ou une meme categorie d'individus ; c'est leur gravita-
tion a toutes, pour ainsi dire, autour d'un meme centre qui est
invraisemblable. Comme le dit toujours M. Podmore, l'impro-
babilite apriorique de l'hypothetique force psychique est enor-
mement accrue rien que par l'enumeration des multiples fonctions
auxquelles ladite force aurait a. pourvoir.
1
(7) L'origine purement terrestre de toutes les traces permanentes
quoit jamais laissSes une stance spiritiquc est certaine.
La meche que Crookes a coupee sur la tete de " Katie
King" etait formee de veritables cheveux, de l'origine la plus
indubitablement bumaine. Son vetement—a en juger par les
morceaux quelle y d^coupa pour les donner a ses admirateurs
—
ne semble, non plus, avoir presente rien de particulierement
enigmatique au point de vue de l'etofte. Les multiples apports
de Stainton Moses et d'autres mediums n'offraient et n'offrent
non plus rien d'extra-terrestre. Dans certains cas—comme
pour Anna Eothe et Bailey—on a meme pu decouvrir la bou-
tique de fleurs ou d'oiseaux ou ces braves mediums s'etaient
approvisionnes en vue de la seance
!
Et ainsi de suite. Si exception apparente il y a, c'est que
l'objet, la substance en question n'ont pas ete soumis a un
examen digne de ce nom.
(8) Plus les conditions d'une experience midiumnicpuc sont
rigonrcuses, plus les chances de r&ussite de eetfe experience
diminuent.
A mesure que 1'observateur elimine les causes d'erreur et
met de plus en plus les " esprits " au pied du mur—les phe-
nomenes decroissent en intensite pour disparaitre souvent tout-
a-fait. Ou bien le medium s'arrange de fa^on a eluder
l'experience embarrassante qu'on veut lui imposer et offre a
1'observateur autre chose. Pres de 40 ans se sont ecoules
depuis que Crookes dans un article fameux 2
exposait ce que
1
Modem Sph-itualism, Vol. II., p. 183. A noter cependant qu'ime ingenieuse
theorie developpee par Myers dans Human Personality, Vol. II., pp. 530-543,
permettrait d'expliquer par 1'operation d'une meme cause efficiente la plupart
des phenomenes.
2
Quarterly Journal of Science, v. Researches in Spiritualism, p. 6.
424 Gomte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
les phenomenes sont et ce qu'on est en droit d'exiger qu'ils
soient—mais helas! si depuis lors progres il y a, c'est plutot
du progres a rebours. L'echec presque constant des expe-
riences veritablement decisives finit par devenir un argument
negatif terriblement serieux.
1
Les exemples abondent. lis sont particulierement frappants
peut-etre dans le domaine de l'ecriture directe sur ardoises.
Le nombre d'observations apparemment tres concluantes s'y
rapportant est fort imposant ; mais l'investigateur veut-il
s'entourer de precautions speciales et excluant nettement la
fraude—le crayon ne bouge plus. Plusieurs des experiences de
Zollner avec Slade sont un autre exemple de cette meme
particularite ; l'astucieux americain s'arrange plus d'une fois de
facon a tourner les " tests " vraiment decisifs et a presenter
au savant allemand quelque chose d'autre ne leur ressemblant
que superficiellement. Pour passer a un cas qui m'est per-
sonnel : avec Sanibor des chaises s'enfilent sur ses bras alors
que ses mains ne sont que tenues (quoique, ma foi, tres bien
tenues !). C'est la un " phenomene " qui se renouvelle un nombre
incalculable de fois et quelquefois presque sur commande.
Voila qui est fort bien—mais . . . un simple ruban de toile
passe a travers les manches de la redingote du medium et
celles de ses voisins fait invariablement " rater " ce " pheno-
mene." II en est ainsi, je crois, de tous les mediums. II
leur arrive quelquefois de presenter des faits apparemment
incomprehensibles, mais sitot que nous exigeons des garanties
speciales et en demandons alors la repetition—il ne se produit
plus rien ou presque rien.
II est vrai, il n'est que juste d'ajouter, premierement, que
dans l'ignorance ou nous sommes des phenomenes presumes
quelques-unes de ces " garanties speciales " ont pu quelquefois
f'aire violence a telle ou autre de leurs lois les plus essentielles
et en rendre des lors la production impossible
;
2
ensuite que
'Jedis " presque " pai'ce que je considere que certaines experiences tres pro-
bantes se rapportant aux mouvements d'objets d'un caractere plus ou moins
elementaire ont toutefois reussi.
2
Je serais enclin a mettre dans le nombre la pleine liuniere (quelque desirable
qu'elle soit en principe) pour tous les phenomenes autres que les "raps" et les
mouvements sans contact et levitations de tables ;
l'interposition d'obstacles
materiels compacts entre le medium et les objets a mouvoir (tels qu'une cloison
metallique) ;
peut-etre aussi la pretention (bien des fois emise) de pouvoir faire la
lxiv.] Les Phenomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 425
plus d'une fois il est arrive aux observateurs eux-memes de
negliger im detail important et par la de vicier l'experience.
Neanmoins et malgre ces reserves necessaires, la difficulte sub-
siste. La on le prestidigitateur ne pent rien le midium 99
fois sur 100 (ne serait-ce pas plutdt 999 fcis sur 1000 ?) ne
re'ussit pas mieux.
(9) Aussi voyons-nous que la presque totaliU des " plUnomenes
physiques" a-t-elle ite reproduite par les prestidigitateurs.
S'ils n'ont pas demoli tout l'edifice si laborieusement eleve au
cours de quelques dizaines d'annees par les mediums a effets
physiques, ils n'en out certainement laisse debout que quelques
pans de murs ! Ils ont fait table rase des multiples temoignages
accumules en faveur de l'ecriture directe sur ardoises ;
ils ont
reproduit ou explique les photographies spirites, les trues des
seances de materialisation (par exemple la materialisation gra-
duelle de " l'esprit " devant les assistants) ; les " raps " (du moins
certains "raps"); les phenomenes lumineux (du moins certains
phenomenes lumineux) ; les procedes a l'aide desquels les
mediums parvenaient a se debarrasser des liens dont on les
chargeait ; a sortir des sacs dans lesquels on les enfermait—ou
a produire leurs phenomenes malgre ces liens et ces sacs,
etc., etc.
Je ne connais rien de plus instructif sous ce rapport que
la lecture des ouvrages speciaux consacres a nous narrer les
trues en usage chez les mediums (americains surtout).
1
L'in-
geniosite des i^rocedes qui y sont decrits tient quelquefois du
prodige ! Et on se dit en parcourant cette suite interminable
lumiere a n'importe quel moment d'une seance. Pour ce qui est de la pleine
lumiere il est admissible a priori (quoique bien i'acheux !) qu'elle puisse veritable-
ment nuire aux phenomenes; quant aux "obstacles materiels," comme nous ne
repoussons pas a priori l'hypothese d'une " materialisation " de membres humains,
il est comprehensible que ces membres ne puisseut pas agir a travers une cloison
metallique, ou le couvercle et les parois d'une boite hermetiquement fermee. Un
eclairage subit de la chambre ou la seance a lieu pourrait a mon avis etre preju-
diciable au medium. On le voit, je fais encore la part assez belle aux "esptits,"
quelque sceptique que je sois a leur egard. En revanche je comprendrais
l'attitude d'un investigateur refusant d'experimenter avec un medium dont les
mains seraient aussi mal tenues que celles d'Eusapia.
1
Je recommande en particulier l'ouvrage de Carrington, The Physical Pheno-
mena of Spiritualism, fraudulent and genuine.
-
420 Comte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. ["part
de recits ou l'investigateur, quelqu'alerte et intelligent qu'il
soit, donne invariablement dans le panneau malgre les precau-
tions les plus minutieuses. Oui, certes, ces sortes de recherches
doivent etre l'apanage de quelques-uns seulement ! Oui, le
temoignage de celui qui n'a pas fait du sujet une etude
speciale (qui n'a pas en particulier etudie la prestidigitation)
ne pent forcement valoir grand'ehose ! Nous ne demandons pas
a tin assyriologue de trancher un probleme ardu d'algebre, ou a
un chiniiste de se prononcer sur la lecture d'un texte cunel-
forme ; nous ne regardons pas un chirurgien comme speciale-
ment competent en architecture et ne rechercherons pas l'avis
d'un architecte relativement a un probleme de chimie. A plus
forte raison comment peut-on invoquer le temoignage du premier
venu 1
dans une question aussi compliquee que celle de savoir
si tel ou tel phenomene apparemment incomprehensible peut
ou ne peut pas etre du a un " true " ? II est clair que par-
eille question releve des specialistes.
Du reste j'aurai encore l'occasion de toucher a ce sujet.
Eevenons a ce qu'ont reussi a faire nos prestidigitateurs et
constatons que sur certains chapitres ils ont non seulement
egale mais surpasse les mediums. Les vases remplis d'eau et
de poissons rouges ; les lapins et oiseaux vivants que nous
voyons surgir grace a leur baguette magique, venant on ne sait
d'ou, devant nos yeux emerveilles dans des dalles brillamment
eclairees—valent bien les apports de Bailey, d'Anna liothe ou
menie de Stainton Moses. II faut bien croire d'ailleurs, que les
adeptes de la magie blanche ont, somme toute, assez bien
reussi dans leur imitation des phenomenes mediumniques,
puisqu'il s'est trouve des spirites—et non des moindres—pour
affirmer que certains d'entr'eux n'etaient que des mediums
honteux. (O'est ce quAlfred Eussel Wallace notamment a fait
pour plusieurs et en particulier pour Davey.1
)
1
lit meme si ce temoin n'est pas le premier venu, mais s'est illustre dans un tout
autre domaine, la question ne me semble pas se poser tres differemment. Je rap-
pellerai a ce propos que certains savants dont le temoignage en faveur des
phenomenes mediumniques a et(5 souvent cite comme ayant beaucoup de poids ont
reconnu ne rien comprendre a la prestidigitation (ainsi MM. Scheibner et Weber ;
Seyhert Commission's Report, pp. 108-110).
Journal of the S.P.B., mars 1891. On me fera observer peut-etre que meme
s'ils ont reproduit beaucoup de phenomenes les prestidigitateurs n'ont pas reussi a
les reproduire tous ; ensuite que certains prestidigitateurs, Davey par exemple,
LXIV,] Les Phenornenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 427
Nous somraes loin de meconnaitre l'importance du fait que
certains prestidigitateurs appeles a donner leur avis sur l'au-
tbenticite de quelques phenornenes se sont prononces nettement
pour l'affirruative (par exemple Bellachini et Kybka a propos
de Slade et d'Eusapia ; MM. Carrington et Baggally qui
out experiments avec cette derniere a Naples en meme temps
que M. Eeilding sont egalement des experts en la matiere)
;
mais leurs verdicts sont contre-balances par ceux d'autres
specialistes d'un caractere tout oppose. II est fort naturel
du reste qu'un Bellachini puisse tout comme un autre etre
pris au depourvu par un true qu'il ne connait pas ; aurait-il
persevere dans son attitude premiere s'il avait continue ses
recherches ? That is the question.
Puisque nous parlons en ce moment de prestidigitation, rappelons
que les spirites insistent souvent sur le grand desavantage
dans lequel le medium serait place vis-a-vis du faiseur de
tours de passe-passe, celui-ci operant sur une estrade, avec ses
propres instruments et appareils, souvent entoure d'acolytes
;
celui-la venant au contraire seul dans une maison etrangere,
sans rien apporter avec soi ; en proie a la suspicion ;
bref,
a en croire certains " croyants," toutes les facilites seraient
l'apanage du prestidigitateur et la situation du medium serait
des moins commodes.
Voyons s'il en est vraiment ainsi. Tout d'abord
:
(a) Beaucoup de prestidigitateurs—ou presque tous—viennent
donner des seances en ville. lis ne se font quelquefois
accompagner de personne ; ils empruntent tres souvent aux
assistants certains objets dont ils ont besoin, comme des
montres, des mouchoirs de poche, des pieces de monnaie, etc.
(h) Beaucoup de mediums—surtout en Amerique et en
Angleterre—donnent des seances chez eux et se servent de
leurs propres appareils (ardoises, etc.). Rien ne leur manque
alors : tables et portes truquees, comperes caches au bon
endroit et ainsi de suite ad infinitum.
Ensuite il faut se rappeler que le medium n'est nullement
etaient doues de facultes d'adresse et d'ingeniosite exceptionnelles, et qu'on ne peat
avec vraisemblance attribuer au premier venu ; enfin qu'il est theoriquement
possible que deux phenornenes apparemment identiques puissent etre dus a deux
causes absolument differentes. Je suis pret k conceder ces quelques points, mais
sauf pour le premier je ne leur vois pas une tres grande importance.
2E
42S Comte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
tenu de produire les pbenomenes quand meme ;
qu'il a a sa
disposition mille et une bonnes raisons pour n'en rien faire
quand—pour une cause ou pour une autre —cela ne l'arrange
pas (il pent meme a la rigueur, s'il est a court d'excuses,
ne rien dire apres n'avoir rien produit et s'en aller comme
il etait venu sans que sa reputation en patisse) ;
1
que
souvent une seance nulle lui donne pour ainsi dire un
regain de mystere ; enfin que generalement on exige beaucoup
plus du prestidigitateur (qui n'a pas droit, lui, aux seances
nulles !) cpie du medium comme phenomenes et que la
majorite de ceux qui fr^quentent les seances spirites savent
(il faut leur rendre cette justice) se contenter de peu.
II n'irait pas loin le prestidigitateur qui se mettrait en
tete d'imiter les mediums (ou du moins la plupart des
mediums) au point de vue de la modicite des resultats
!
Enfin faut-il expliquer que bien souvent l'ambiance aussi
est beaucoup moins favorable a l'emule de Kobert Houdin
qu'au medium ? Et tout en admettant volontiers que dans
nombre de cas ce dernier peut se trouver dans une situation
des plus desagreables, je crois somme toute que les pretendus
avantages qu'a sur lui le prestidigitateur sont exageres.
Les risques h courir seraient evidemment iucomparablement
plus serieux pour le medium si, une fois demasque, il etait
definitivement " coule " ; mais on sait bien que cela n'arrive
jamais. La plus eclatante des "exposures" a-t-elle jamais mis
fin a la carriere d'un medium ? Priere de me citer quelques cas !
(10) Presque tous les mediums a effets physiques connus out 6U
convaincus de fraude—et plutot dix fois quune.
Dans la carriere de D. D. Home lui-meme—pourtant unique
a certains points de vue—il y a des incidents suspects.2
Pour
les autres c'est une suite interminable de scandales et de trues
demasques, trues souvent grossiers, d'autres fois d'une surprenante
1
Pour des mediums plutot bavards et, ma foi, tres amusauts quelquefois
comme feu Sambor, j'en connais d'autres qui preferent garder un silence
obstine\ Ce silence a ses avantages. Pour le medium il n'y a ni explica-
tions a donner, ni questions gunantes a redouter : il se tire d'embarras avec
quelques monosyllabes du sens le plus vague—et ses affaires n'en vont pas
plus mal : au contraire !
-Journal S.P.B., mai 1903.
lxiv.] Les Phenomhies Physiques du Spiritisme. 429
ingeniosite (mais plus rarement). Les mediums americains
viennent naturellement en premiere ligne. Et la serie est loin
d'etre close
!
Ce cote de la question est trop connu du reste pour que
j'y insiste ; mais puisque les spirites mettent souvent en avant
l'argument qu'on peut tres bien etre medium et frauder par
ci—par la quand ineme, soit dans un etat d'inconscience, soit
pour suppleer a un epuisement temporaire de la " force
"
inediumnique, je ferai observer que bien souvent—le plus souvent
—quand on demasque un medium on constate la premeditation
;
que d'autres fois on se trouve en presence d'une veritable or-
ganisation sysUmatiqne ayant pour but la fraude sur une vaste
echelle. Ce serait, assure-t-on, le cas pour la grande majorite,
tout au moins, des mediums de profession americains—sans en ex-
cepter les " trance-mediums "
—lesquels constitueraient ni plus ni
moins qu'une vaste association embrassant presque tout le pays
;
association dont les membres se communiqueraient mutuellement
tous les renseignements pouvant mieux faire marcher le com-
merce et se soutiendraient les uns les autres dans le louable
but de mieux berner leurs clients. Pour ceux-la pas de doute
que les excuses ordinaires des spirites ne tiennent pas debout.
Un autre de leurs arguments consiste a dire que de ce que
tel phenomene ait ete simule il ne s'en suit pas qu'il n'y en ait
pas d'authentiques ; et pour un pen on irait jusqu'a jouer sur
les mots et a pretendre qu'on ne peut imiter que ce qui existe
;
si done on imite un phenomene quelconque e'est que celui-ci
doit forcemeut exister par lui-meme ! (Je crois avoir vu
quelque part ce raisonnement ') A ceci je repliquerai : si en
etudiant une categorie de " faits " ou soi-disant tels, nous
constatons (a) que pas un de ces " faits " ne peut etre—n'a ete
—rigoureusement prouve ;
(b) que parmi ces " faits " beaucoup
sont indubitablement d'origine frauduleuse ; et (c) qu'ils peuvent
etre reproduits artificiellement ;
si, dis-je, nous constatons tout
cela, que serons-nous en droit de conclure ? Simplement ceci : que
la categorie de "faits" en question n'existe probablement pas I
1
1
Je posai un jour a un spirite tres honorablement connu, aujourd'hui decide,
la question : quelle peut bien gtre a l'egard des phenomenes frauduleux l'attitude
des " esprits " eux-memes? II me fut repondu : "Une longue experience m'a
appris que ces esprits sont de simples canailles." Un " psychiste " des plus
illustres auquel je faisais part il y a peu de temps de cette opinion s'empressa
de s'y rallier entieremeut.
430 Comte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
(11) Les mediums pay6s sont loin d'etre les seuls a frauder.
Lorsque, en 1882, fut organisee la Societe anglaise des Re-
cherches Psychiques ses fondateurs attachaient grande importance
a la possibility d'observer des phenomenes physiques en presence
non de mediums payes mais de simples particuliers. Leur
attente fut en tres grande partie deciie. Mais la ou elle ne Fa
pas ete je crois que les savants anglais ont pu se convaincre
que leur point de depart etait faux et que, en excluant—ou
a peu pres
1
—les mediums payes, ils ne faisaient nullement
disparaitre le seul stimulant qui pousse a la fraude. On ne
trompe pas que par interet pecuniaire ; nous n'en sommes
pas encore la, Dieu merci ! Le role de porte-parole de
l'Au-dela ; d'intermediaire entre deux mondes qu'un gouffre
sans fond separe ; de canal par ou, venant de la plus enig-
matique des sources, s'ecoule la mysterieuse force psychique
—
est assez tentant pour pouvoir pousser bien sou vent tout seul
k donner le coup de pouce. A part cela, n'oublions pas que
la table autour laquelle ont vient faire la " chaine " est un
puissant element niveleur. Tel personnage eminent qui dans
la vie de tons les jours laisserait a peine franchir au medium
le seuil de son antichambre est tout heureux de l'avoir assis
a ses cotes k une seance de spiritisme et pour un peu serait
pret a faire toutes ses fantaisies. De son cote le medium, s'il
est suffisamment intelligent pour ne pas se contenter de simples
satisfactions d'amour propre—satisfactions de contre-bande plus
ou moins—saura faire fructifier ailleurs ces bonnes dispositions
et en recueillir les resultats sous une forme plus tangible. Bref
il y a pour un medium bien d'autres manieres a tirer profit
du spiritisme qu'en passant a la caisse au bout de chaque
seance. Rappelons nous Home qui ne se faisait jamais payer lui.
Ensuite il existe plus de gens qu'on ne croit communement
qui trouvent tres amusant de mystifier leurs semblables sans
raison apparente. Voila encore l'origine possible de plus d'une
mediumnite surprenante (voir plus loin). A noter que quand
notre farceur en aura assez (on se lasse de tout !) rien ne
l'empeche (telle Katie King annongant qu'elle va quitter Florence
Cook) de declarer qu'il a perdu sa mediumnite—et voila
!
1
Tout en mettant en avant ce principe, ils ne s'y sont pas toujours conformes
(tt^moins Eglinton, Eusapia, Mine Piper).
lxiv.] Les Phenomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 431
Pour ce qui est des conditions de controle l'observateur est
certainement moins bien partage (sauf des cas rarissimes) avec
un medium prive qu'avec un professionnel. Quand on a affaire
a ce dernier on tient generalement (sentiment bien naturel !) a
en avoir pour son argent. Au contraire le premier vous fait
une faveur en vous admettant ; et cette faveur—comment la
reconnaitre sinon en ne se montrant pas trop exigeant, ni
comme controle, ni comme phenomenes ?
La confiance ne se commande pas. Tel individu en inspire
une sans bornes a A, qui ne dit rien qui vaille a B. De ce que
tel cercle spirite ait une confiance entiere en la personne du
medium, un des leurs, otfrant toutes sortes de garanties comme
situation, comme relations personnelles, comme desinteresse-
ment—il ne s'en suit nullement qui cet individu soit reellement
au-dessus du soupcon. Du reste, a, mon humble avis, tout
homme, quelqu'il soit, affichant des pretentions extraordinaires
et en elles-memes invraisemblables doit etre presume' capable de
tromper jusqu'a ce qu'il ait apporU une preiwe pe'remptoire de
la v6riU de ses allegations.
Enhn je crois qu'aucun de ceux ayant etudie les faits d'altera-
tion de la personnalite, de double conscience, etc., ne niera la
possibility de la fraude inconsciente. De ce que mediums
tricheurs et spirites fanatiques aient use et abuse de cette
excuse pour couvrir la fourberie la plus manifeste, il ne faut
pas conclure qu'il ne puisse y avoir la une part de verite.
Mais s'il en est vraiment ainsi—le degre de confiance qu'on
peut avoir dans tel ou tel personnage a Vitat de veille n'a plus
rien a voir a la question.
Pour finir je me permettrai de demander : sont-ils apres tout
si nombreux les cas ou des phenomenes tels que les apports ou
la materialisation aient ete constates en presence de personnes
honorablement connues et jouissant de l'estime et de la con-
sideration generales ?
(12) Si des phenomenes et de ceux qui les produisent nous
passons a ceux qui les observent—nous serons tout
d'abord amenes a, constater qu'un tres grand nombre de
Umoignages s y rapportant est dinui de toute valeur.
Pourquoi ? Parce que ces temoignages emanent tres souvent
d'individus dont la credulite sans bornes, la cecite a tout indice
432 Comte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
de fraude, le manque de sens critique, le fanatisme, ont fait un
tort irreparable au spiritisme et meme aux recherches psyehiques
en general, Dieu sait pourquoi censees en etre solidares ! Kare-
ment, je crois, le proverbe, " Mon Dieu, preservez moi de mes
amis," a trouve meilleure application. La crdduliU des spirites!
Que d'exemples ridicules, burlesques, quelquefois presque re-
pugnants, ces quatre mots suffisent a evoquer dans notre memoire
a tons, nous autres " psychistes " !
Oui, il faut se le dire : dans ce domaine etrange il est
certains temoins—honnetes ou du moins se croyant tels—dont
les declarations les plus categoriques n'ont absolument aucune
valeur. Quoiqu'ils affirment, le critique doit passer outre a
toutes leurs assertions.
Je viens d'ecrire les mots " honnetes ou se croyant tels."
Cela ne les empeche pas de travestir la v^rite a chaque pas
—
consciemment ou semi-consciemment. Un desir intense que
ceci ou cela soit ne nous pousse-t-il pas a fermer les yeux avec
obstination—avec violence, pourrais-je dire—sur tout ce qui est
contraire a notre " marotte "
—pour parler vulgairement ? Des
lors, au 'point de vuc pratique la question de savoir si certains
de ces temoins sont de bonne foi perd son interet.
Us sont convaincus fermement que les phenomenes existent
;
c'est entendu. Aussi ne veulent-ils plus rien connaitre de tout
ce qui ne parle pas en faveur de cette authenticity. Us
passeront outre a tous les indices de supercherie de la part
du medium. II n'en sera pas question dans les comptes-rendus
qu'ils feront de ses phenomenes ; au contraire, tout ce qui lui
semblera favorable sera exagdre" et souligne. Un scandale
eclatera-t-il ? le medium sera-t-il pris la main dans le sac ?
lis commenceront par reserver leur indignation pour celui qui
l'aura demasque ;
1
ils accepteront ensuite de sa part les excuses
les plus boiteuses : enfin il y a beacoup a parier qu'ils feront tout
pour etouffer l'affaire, pour ne pas l'ebruiter.
Allons plus loin. Supposons que des spirites dans cet ordre
(ou plutot ce desordre !) d'idees ont livre a la publicite la
description de phenomenes etonnants qu'ils auraient observes.
1
Je me rappelle avoir lu il y a bien des amines dans la Revue Spirite comme
quoi quelques sceptiques qui avaient saisi " I'apparition " a line stance de
materialisation americaine avaient ete roues de coups "non seulement par
les amis visibles et presents," mais aussi soi-disant par les invisibles.
lxiv.] Les Phenomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 433
Supposons qu'il leur aura ete demontre par A + B qu*ils ont ete
grossierement mis dedans. Supposons que, par extraordinaire,
ils se seront laisses convaincre. Mais comme (1) on n'aime pas
generalement a reconnaitre son erreur ; (2) comme il est entendu
que les phenomenes existent tout de meme en ge'ne'ral (de ce
que telle maison vende des vins frelates il ne faut pas conclure,
n'est-ce pas, qu'il n'y ait que cela dans le commerce, etc.)—il
est assez vraisemblable, je crois, que les spirites en question ne
rectifieront pas et prefereront garder de Conrart le silence
prudent.
Je crois qu'on pourrait aller plus loin encore. Supposons
un de ces spirites " ultra " k une seance ou le medium est
entoure de sceptiques plus ou moins mal disposes. Les esprits
refusent obstinement de se manifester. Le medium est enerve
;
l'assistanee gouailleuse. Notre spirite sait pertinemment que les
pihe'nomdnes existent : ne les a-t-il pas observes cent fois ? Alors
pouvons-nous etre absolument surs que cette fois-la—la cent
et unieme—s'il en a l'occasion, il ne fraudera pas lui-meme ad
majorem spirit uum gloriam ?
La tentation pour lui doit etre en tous cas terriblement
forte.
1
En dehors de ces fanatiques extremes il existe encore
d autres categories de spirites au sujet desquels un doute l£ger
peut (sans calembour) se presenter a l'esprit. II en est soit
qui se sont fait du spiritisme une situation ou un gagne-pain
;
1
Tout r^cemment encore on m'affirmait chose pareille d'un spirite de St
Petersbourg occupant une haute situation. Apres tout je ne dis pas que pareil
fait s'est necessairement produit ;
je dis que theoriquemeut il peut tres bien se
produire. Je ne parle ici et plus haut que des spirites fanatiques. Mais j'ai
ete" frappe des privautes que prennent quelquefois avec la verite d'autres
spirites—ponderes, prudents, non exempts de quelque scepticisme. Toutd'abord,
que de scandales 6touffes ! Humainement cela est tres comprehensible ; mais
le tableau general est des lors forcement incomplet. Le silence garde sur des
experiences negatives (et au cours desquelles le medium a convaincu de
fraude) venant a la suite d'autres, positives celles-la et proclamees " urbi et
orbi," me semble aussi devoir etre evite. Enfin que dire d'une description
d'une serie d'experiences faite sur un ton ou on ne voit guere percer de doute
—
alors que l'experimentateur est au moment mime persuade qu !
un des resultats
obtenus est du a la fraude ? La publication—dans une revue ou un ouvrage
special—de recits emanant de personnages dont le temoignage vaut tres peu aux
yeux de celui qui les publie me parait egalement peu desirable. On pourrait
sans doute multiplier ces exemples ;
je ne cite que ceux que j'ai presents a la
memoire et qui me sont personnellement connus.
434 Gomte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
soit qui s'en servent pour faire leur chemin dans tous les
rnondes ; soit qui—pour des raisons que je n'ai pas a approfon-
dir—se sont particulieremeiit infeodes a tel ou tel medium.
Dans un compte-rendu de seances recemment publie j'ai pu
lire quelques lignes consacrees a decrire les precautions prises
non plus contre le medium mais contre un des assistants
appartenant apparemment a unede ces categories ;
d'oii je conclus
que je ne suis pas le seul a m'en mefier quelque peu !
Enfin, disons le franchement : les seances spirites sont loin
d'etre toujours recreatives ; et les longues heures d'attente
frequemment infructueuse passees dans l'obscurite ou dans un
soi-disant "demi-jour" vous donnent quelquefois Tenvie
irresistible de varier un peu la monotonie d'un passe-temps qui
pour etre hautement instructif et plein des plus transcendantes
esperances n'en est pas moins souvent fort ennuyeux.
Heureux celui qui n'a jamais eprouve cette tentation-la
!
D'illustres personnages n'y ont-ils pas succombe ?
1
Et, comme
ici comme ailleurs, " il n'y a que le premier pas qui coute," ce
qui n'etait a l'origine qu'une facetie sans lendemain, finit par
devenir une habitude inveteree. On se met a mystifier syste-
matiquement sans en tirer aucun profit.
Je crois en avoir fait, helas, la triste experience. Des 1904
j'avais concu des doutes serieux au sujet du role joue dans
les seances du cercle dont je faisais partie par X—avec qui
jetais du reste depuis plusieurs annees deja dans les meilleurs
termes.2
Le succes brillant de la plupart des seances aux-
quelles X assistait et controlait, et la non-reussite de celles
auxquelles il n'etait pas present nous donnerent tout d'abord
l'eveil—a moi et k quelques autres membres de notre cercle.
A un certain moment nos soupcons devinrent meme si irre-
sistibles
—
que je cms devoir m'en ouvrir a X lui-meme. Les
assurances qu'il me donna furent si categoriques et apparemment
si sinceres C{ue mes doutes s'evanouirent—ou je les forq.ai a
s'evanouir. Ainsi nous avions veritablement ^te temoins de
1
Notamment feu le professeur Mend^leew aux seances de la commission
nominee en 1875 par la Soci^te Physique pres TUniversite de St Petersbourg
(Aksakow, Divulgations, p. 109 [en russe]); tricheries assez anodines du reste;
et le professeur Bianchi a la seconde seance de Lombroso avec Eusapia
[Annates des Sc. Psych., 1891, 6, p. 331).
2
Voir Proceedings S.P.R., Part LV., pp. 403, 404.
lxiv.] Les Phenomenes Physiques du Spiritisme.
phenomenes surprenants—et avec quatre mediums differents
!
Les esprits avaient decidement fait des prodiges en notre
faveur ; et avec les " apports " seuls dont ils nous avaient
gratifies : (une grosse pomme de pin ; des photographies de
personnes inconnues ; une collection de monnaies russes du dix-
huitieme siecle ; une ancienne monnaie grecque ; deux cles
;
une brochure ; une bande de toile ; une boite de cold-cream
vide cachee dans un fauteuil et decouverte le lendemain
matin ; un petit thermometre trouve egalement le lendemain de
la seance sur le rebord d'une armoire—tous objets d'origine
inconnue,1
) avec ces seuls " apports," dis-je, on pouvait former
tout un petit musee.
Et cependant . . .
Bref—un peu moins de six ans apres que nos premiers
soupcons eussent pris naissance (en fevrier 1910)—levenement
les confirmait d'une facon irrefutable. II fut constate in-
dubitablement que X laissait le medium—ou soi-disant tel—agir
a sa guise. Une petite lampe electrique soudainemeut allumee
au beau milieu de la seance, d'un cote, les confidences du soi-
disant medium de l'autre, nous revelerent que X lachait la
main du medium quand ce dernier lui en manifestait dis-
cretement l'euvie. II la lachait meme si bien que leurs deux
mains avaient quelque peine a se retrouver ensuite ! A part
cela il n'y a pas de doute pour moi que X a triche aussi
pour ainsi dire directement.2
II est certain que la preuve positive qu'il ait egalement
fraude ou laisse frauder aux seances anterieures (deux avec
Sambor en mai 1902 ;
seances avec la sceur de Sambor,
Mme W. ; avec le Dr. Sch., un medium prive ; avec Luba
Morozow de Vladikavkaz ; enfin avec Jan Guzik 3
immediate-
ment avant la seance decisive) fait defaut ; et il est douteux
que nous l'obtenions jamais. En tous cas la forme sous
laquelle X refuta mes soupcons en 1904 lui rendrait, a mon
1
A une seance de .Sambor (13 mai, 1902) il y en eut aussi " d'apportes " de
la chambre d'a cote—oil nous nous rendions durant les entr'actes.
2
En particulier, lors de " l'apport " de la monnaie grecque—pendant une sus-
pension de seance—le medium (Luba Morozow) ne se trouvait meme pas dans
la chambre. En revanche X y etait lui. II y a aussi d'autres observations da
meme genre se rapportant a X—notaminent a la seance oil on le demasqua.
3 II y fut pourtant constate que Guzik avait a un certain moment une
main libre, X etant un de ceux qui le contrulaient.
436 Gomte Perovsky -Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
avis, assez difficile im aveu. Eh bien, soit : j'admets qu'il y
a doute (quant a, la fraude) pour ces seances. Mais comme
(Us notre premiere tentative s&rieuse de tirer la question au clair,
nos soupcons quant au rdle jou6 par X rccevaient une confir-
mation 6clatante—comment attacher une valeur quelconque a
toutes les experiences anterieures ou il lui etait possible de
tricher ?
Et notez que ce personnage extraordinaire est loin d'etre le
premier venu. C'est un homme cultive, intelligent, d'un com-
merce tres agreable, dessinateur et ecrivain a ses heures
;
occupant une situation officielle elevee (avec cela rien du
" bureaucrate " dans le mauvais sens du mot). II jouit meme
a certain point de vue d'une tres honorable notoriete en Iiussie
et ailleurs ; et j'ajouterai qu'il a toujours fait profession de
s'interesser serieusement et sans fanatisme au spiritisme.
Notez aussi qu'il ne s'est jamais fait passer pour medium. II
se sera fait pmt-etre ce raisonnement qu'il finirait par etre
soupronne s'il n'operait qua des seances sans medium reconnu ;
tandis qu'il n'avait aucunement a se gener avec Sambor ou
Jan Guzik, tout ce qui se passerait pouvant etre mis sur le
compte de leur mediumnite. & eux. Ce raisonnement—a supposer
qu'il ait vraiment ete fait—e'tait tres juste en principe ; il est
facheux pour X qu'il ne l'ait tout de meme pas empeche de
se faire pincer.
Quelles raisons pouvait-il bien avoir ? Apparemment rien
que le desir anormal—presque morbide—de duper les autres,
de rire sous cape a leurs depens ;
peut-etre—quelquefois
—
d'epater un novice. II ne pouvait certes rien y gagner ni au
point de vue pecuniaire, ni a celui de la notoriete, puisque le
benefice de tous les phenomenes revenait au medium !
Cet exemple me parait hautement instructif!
J'ajouterai que les personnes qui prenaient part a nos seances
etaient invitees en partie par moi, en partie par un ami k
moi, qui est un des chercheurs les plus consciencieux et les plus
patients que je connaisse. Notre " cercle " semblait done offrir
—et offrait en effet—de serieuses garanties. Et pourtant ! . . .
Nous avons, il est vrai, fini par voir clair la-dedans, mais
d'autres auraient pu etre moins perspicaces ; et je crois que
nous-memes aurions bien pu ne nous apercevoir de rien, si X,
au lieu de nous accabler d' " apports," setait contente d'un peu
lxiv.] Les Phenomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 437
de telekinesie par ci, d'une petite materialisation par la, et avait
pris la precaution de faire " rater " plus souvent les seances
auxquelles il assistait le medium !
Que ses emules futurs en prennent bonne note !
On le voit : que de sources d'erreurs ! Et comment les
demeler sans une etude approfondie ? Certains fanatiques se
designent, il est vrai, eux-niemes ; mais il y en a d'autres, plus
dangereux, parce que plus intelligents. Les reconnaitre n'est pas
toujours chose facile. Et pour les autres categories la tache n'est
pas plus aisee. A parler strictement pour appre'cier a sa juste
valeur ion compte-rendu de phe'nomines me'dnomniques il faudrait
avant tout personnellement connaitre tous les temoins : alors seule-
ment on peut avoir la quasi-certitude qu'il ne peut s'agir la
ni de trues a la X, ni d'elucubrations de fanatiques ; et que le
compte-rendu en question ne contient pas a cote d'inexactitudes
involontaires des reticences voulues ou des exagerations inspirees
par le desir de servir la bonne cause.
(13) En dehors des cas sortant plus ou moins du commun
que je viens de citer (car quelque nombreux que scient les spirites
ultra-credules, ils ne le sont pas tous ;
quelque plaisir que
certains farceurs puissent trouver a mystifier leurs semblables,
leur nombre doit etre force'ment limite) il existe d'autres et de
tres serieuses raisons pour recuser dans le domaine du spiritisme
et des recherches psychiques bien des temoignages. Et tout
d'abord :
(13) Pour bien observer dans ce domaine il faut des aptitudes
sptcialcs et, rigoureusement parlant, un entrainement specicd.
Car l'etude de ce que Ton est convenu d'appeler les phenomenes
psychiques (ou metapsychiques) est une science, quelque soit le
point de vue auquel on se place. Elle a sa litterature, ses pro-
cedes et methodes d'investigation, sa philosophie, quelquefois
ses appareils. Elle demande—tout au moins elle devrait
demander—des notions en d'autres sciences encore : en psycho-
logie, en physiologie, en physique, en chimie. Enfin elle comporte
certainement—et peut-etre avant tout le reste—des connaissances
dans un autre domaine qui, par une ironie du sort, a de mul-
tiples points de contact avec la " Psychical Eesearch " : la presti-
digitation. (J'ai deja touche plus haut a ce cote de la
question.)
438 Comte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
Inutile d'ajouter qu'un petit nombre seulement des investi-
gateurs des phenornenes mediumniques peut satisfaire a de
telles exigences. Et pourtant je n'ai pas encore nomme la
condition qui est d'apres moi de beaucoup la plus importante
;
si importante au fait quelle suffit a elle seule, k mon avis, a
remplacer bien d'autres.
Notre dbservateur doit avant tout bien observer ! Or c'est la
une faculte innee, encore qu'elle puisse etre developpee.
II doit non seulement bien observer, mais bien decrire ce
qu'il aura constate ; bien retenir dans sa memoire les details
non seulement essentiels mais ceux-la meme qui lui semblent
superficiels ; il ne doit pas trop se laisser impressionner par
1'apparemment merveilleux ou inexplicable ; il ne doit jamais
ecrire une ligne qu'il n'ait inurement pesee ;
entin il doit etre
doue d'une impartiality a toute epreuve et faire le meme accueil
au " pour " et au " contre."
Bara avis. Oui, certes !
Et ces qualites si importantes ne se trouvent necessairement
reunies ni chez l'homme de science, fut-il le plus illustre parmi
les illustres
;
1
ni chez l'homme de lettres ou l'artiste—fut-il
une celebrite mondiale ; ni chez l'homme simplement cultive et
intelligent ; ni meme chez l'homme d'affaires, pratique et de
bon sens par excellence. Eien ne nous garantit qu'une fois
assis a la table spiritique ils ne se laissent berner comme
tant d'autres. (J'en connais ')
Pour ce qui est en particulier des homines de science, il
est permis peut-etre de douter que les etudes faites dans le
calme serein des laboratoires, dans une ambiance qui n'a rien
de commun avec celle des seances spirites, aux antipodes de
1
La science la plus indubitable est loin d'exclure toujours la credulite
—
quelquefois une credulite' a faire palir d'envie le spirite le plus "ultra." Dans
le domaine du spiritisme je citerai feu le Professeur Wagner de St Petersbourg
qui, lors de ses "experiences" avec le medium Nikolaeff mettait de la mous-
seline duns le ''cabinet" afjn de faciliter aux esprits la materialisation des
voiles dont devait se revetir la "forme" materialisee ; sur l'ordre que lui en
donnait "l'esprit" il tournait aussi le dos au cabinet (ainsi que les autres
assistants) au moment d'allumer le magnesium pour photographier la
"forme." (V. mon "Supplement" a ma traduction russe du Modern
Spiritualism de M. Podmore, pp. 190-191.). Et en dehors des recherches
psychiques, que dire de Chasles, l'illustre geometre, rassemblant durant des
annees les autographes de Marie Madeleine, de Ponce Pilate, d'autres
encore ?
lxiv.] Les Phenomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 439
tout ce qui rappelle la fraude et la simulation—soient toujours
la meilleure preparation a des recherches sur un terrain aussi
seme de pieges et de traquenards que Test celui ou ont pris
la facheuse habitude de fleurir les phenomenes mediumniques.
Je crois que dans nombre de cas un " bon observateur
"
sans etiquette sera aussi apte pour ces sortes de recherches
qu'un savant officiel.
Si je ne craignais d'etre accuse de courir apres le paradoxe
je dirais meme qu'il y sera peut-etre quelquefois plus apte.
Pourquoi ? Dame ! ne fut-ce que, parce qu'en vertu de l'adage
" Quod licet Jovi non licet bovi " il est a presumer qu'il ne
se permettra pas de petites libertes dont ne se sont pas fait
faute d'user certains savants parmi les plus eminents ; il ne se
contentera pas d'une simple enumeration des " phenomenes,"
mais nous decrira les conditions dans lesquelles il les aura
constates ; et au lieu d'affinner sans autres details que toutes
les precautions etaient prises contre la supercherie, il con-
descendra a nous les decrire exactement.
Et si jamais des critiques serieux attaquent ses experiences
et ses conclusions, notre observateur croira sans cloute de son
devoir de leur repondre d'une facon circonstanciee, au lieu de
se draper dans un dedaigneux silence ou de ne laisser tomber
de sa plume que trois ou quatre phrases qui ne refutent rien.
Mais—je ne veux pas qu'on m'accuse de rechercher le
paradoxe ; et puis—je respecte trop les savants. Mettons que
je n'ai rien dit
!
Ainsi aucun titre, aucune etiquette attaches aux noms des
experimentateurs ne peuvent nous garantir d'une fac^on certaine
la valeur veritable de leurs investigations, ni nous premunir
contre des erreurs—peut-etre meme grossieres—de leur part.
Meme la qualite de prestidigitateur n'est pas une garantie
infaillible ; la preuve c'est que certains d'entr'eux ont change
d'avis sur les phenomenes dont ils avaient ete les t^moins.
Harry Kellar, par exemple, qui a Calcutta, en 1882, avait
declare ne pouvoir expliquer l'ecriture sur ardoises d'Eglinton,
revint ensuite sur ses affirmations et emerveillait quelques
annees plus tard les membres de la commission Seybert de
rilniversite de Pennsylvanie en leur montrant du " slate-
writing " bien superieur k celui de Slade.
1
1
Annaks des Sc. Pxych., 1895, No. 6, p. 378.
440 Comte Pcrovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
En somnie :
(a) La comp6tence veritable des investigateurs des pliinomhies
me'diumnicques ne depend el'aucun signe extirieur caracUrisS ; en
memc temps elle presuppose un ensemble de faculte's plus ou moins
inne'cs—sans parler des eonnaissances acquises—qui doit nieessaire-
ment se rencontrer assez rarement. D'ou il suit rqu'une quantiU
trds restreinte seulement ele elcscriptions se rapportant aux dits
ph&nomhws doit entrer en ligne de cornpte.
(b) Le meme recit (mot pour mot /) pent avoir une valeur
quasi-ddcisive si c'est A qui le fait et pent n'en avoir aueune s il
Smanc de B.
(14) Mais de nouvelles reserves, entrainant d'autres elimina-
tions, sont encore necessaires. C'est qu'on a voulu demontrer
que la on ces sortes d'experiences dependent de ce que les
inembres de la Societe des recherches psychiques appellent
" observation continue
;
" d'un effort de l'attention devant
embrasser une periode de temps tant soit peu prolongee—elles
sont entachees, pour ainsi dire, d'un vice primordial. II a ete
prouve—on du moins on a essaye de prouver—que l'attention ne
pouvait suffire a la tache qu'elle s'imposait par exemple a une
seance d' " ecriture directe sur ardoises." II devait necessaire-
ment s'y passer une serie d'incidents qui lui c'chapperaient
;
ou qu'elle percevrait inexactement ; ou dont elle intervertirait
retrospectivement l'ordre ; et c'est dans ces omissions, dans ces
interversions, dans ces interpolations que se trouverait l'expli-
cation naturelle de faits a premiere vue incomprehensibles.
Les experiences classiques de S. J. Davey ont confirrae sous
ce rapport les conclusions aprioriques de Hodgson basees sur
une etude approfondie et une analyse serine des comptes-rendus
des seances d'Eglinton.1
Tout en me ralliant en somme h ces conclusions je crois
qu'il ne faut pas les pousser trop loin ; du reste je ne ferai
sous ce rapport qu'imiter ces memes membres de la " Society
for Psychical Research " qui ont tres sagement consenti a
experimenter avec Eusapia alors que l'authenticite des pheno-
menes de cette derniere depend uniquement du degn/ d'atten-
tion qu'on apporte a controler ses mains et ses pieds. En
1
Proceedings of the S.P.R., Vol. IV., pp. 387-495. Hodgson a revele plus
tarcl (Proceedings of the S.P.R., Vol. VIII., pp. 253-310) les methodes de
Davey.
lxiv.] Les Phenomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 441
outre, quelque faillible que soit le temoignage humain—comme
c'est, en derniere analyse, de lui que tout depend ici bas-—force
nous est bien de ne pas trop le disqualifier dans le domaine
que se sont adjuge les mediums. Ensuite je ne vois pas
trop ce que Ton pourra toujours mettre a sa place. L'ingeniosite
humaine—surtout agencee dans un but pen louable !
—etant
veritablement sans bornes, qui me dit qu'un experimentum
cruris qui nous semble absolument exclure la m'cessite de la
" continuous observation " aujourd'hui, ne sera pas, s'il reussit,
proclame nul et non avenu demain ? Les conditions inclividuelles
d'une experience mediumnique joueront toujours un role capital ;
en revanche, comme je i'ai deja dit, il importe avant tout
d'etre fixe sur la personnalite des experimentateurs ; c'est par
la qu'il faudrait commencer.
N'exagerons done pas outre mesure l'importance—reellement
grande—de 1'oeuvre de Hodgson et de Davey ; surtout ne nous
en servons pas trop sou vent comme d'une fin de non-recevoir
;
mais admettons cependant qu'ils out demontre la faillibilite
frequente de l'observation humaine en general pour certaines
categories de faits mediumniques.
VoiJa done encore une circonstance h envisager tres serieuse-
ment.
Une conclusion s'impose. Voici celle a laquelle provisoire-
ment je m'arrete :
Je crois que l'ensemble des objections que j'ai indiquees,
toutes convergeant au meme point, pese d'un poids assez lourd
pour inspirer des doutes legitimes quant a la securite de la
barque qui transporte vers des destinees inconnues le medium a
effets physiques et sa fortune. II nous faut jeter du lest ! II
nous faut en d'autres termes conceder aux sceptiques que /"
r6alit4 de certains phinomen.es physiques, loin, d'etre prouvte, ne
repose sur aucun fondement serieux. C'est d'apres moi le cas
des " apports," du passage de la matiere a travers la matiere
;
tres probablement aussi de la materialisation de formes humaines,
de la photographie spirite ; sans doute aussi de l'ecriture directe.
En revanche je considere toujours comme importantes et
probantes certaines observations sur les mouvements de tables
sans contact (experiences du Comte de Gasparin ; du professeur
Thury ; d'un des sous-comites de la Societe Dialectique de
Londres) ; celles de M. le Docteur Dariex sur le renversement
442 Gomte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
spontane des chaises de son cabinet de travail
;
1
peut-etre
aussi certaines experiences sur les Invitations de tables avec
Eusapia.'2
Je range entre les deux categories quelques phenomenes de
D. D. Home (d'autres-—en tres petit nombre—rentreront plutot
dans la seconde). II y en a qui paraissent decidement bien
enigmatiques (surtout certains cas d' " incombustibility " partagee
parfois par d'autres personnes que lui-meme ; aussi quelques
cas de Invitation et—a un degre moindre—de transports
d'objets et meme peut-Stre d'apparitions de " mains "). Par rap-
port k ceux-la je prefere rester pour le moment sur l'expectative.
Je tiens tout de meme a faire remarquer que certains cotes
negatifs des temoignages se rapportant aux phenomenes medium-
niques sont particulierement intensifies clans le cas de Home.
Exception faite pour Crookes, peut-etre pour Lord Adare et un
petit nombre d'autres noms, nous n'avons que tres peu de r£cits
emanant de temoins pouvant faire autorite. La clientele de
Home etait, il est vrai, des plus " choisies " mondainement
parlant ; mais quelque peu democrate que je sois dans l'ame, je
suis loin de considerer un nom sonore et un titre aristocratique
comme offrant dans le cas present quelque garantie. N'en
deplaise k la brillante compagnie dans laquelle ne cessait
d'evoluer le mysterieux ecossais, je pencherais presque pour
la supposition contraire. Les relations de Home avec sa
tres distinguee clientele etaient k n'en pas douter telles que tres
souvent—le plus souvent peut-etre—non seulement il n'avait a
apprehender aucune surprise desagreable, mais pouvait imposer
telles conditions qu'il voulait—meme se mouvoir en liberte dans
la chambre. Et de ce qu'il lui est arrive de dire k Sir W.
Crookes " au commencement de leur connaissance " : "William,
aujourd'hui je veux que vous vous comportiez envers moi
comme si j'etais un prestidigitateur reconnu" 3
—il est permis de
conclure justement que la plupart du temps on ne le con-
siderait pas comme tel—c'est-a-dire, qu'on le laissait agir plus
cm moins a sa guise. II etait, parait-il, d'un grand charme
1
Annates den Sciences Psychiques, 1S92, No. 4.
2
C'est avec plaisir que je constate que je suis sur ce dernier point du meme
avis qu'un sceptique comme M. Dorr {Journal of the S.P.B., avril 1910,
p. -270).
Journal of the S.P.B., 1894, pp. 344, 345.
lxiv.] Les Phenomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 443
personnel. La confiance qu'il inspirait a un grand nombre de
ses amis etait entiere, et il en comptait de fort zeles. Oeux-
la pouvaient-ils etre de bons temoins ? La reponse est pour
le moins douteuse !
Leur attitude etait, somme toute, assez naturelle, et si nous
sommes tentes de n'accepter leurs recits que sous benefice
d'inventaire, il n'en doit rien rejaillir, pour la plupart d'entr'eux,
ni sur leur honorabilite, ni—tres probablement—sur leur
intelligence. Moins excusable certes est l'attitude du monde
savant de ce temps-la, qui sauf un nombre d'exceptions infime,
a prefere tout bonnement ignorer Home. A-t-il toutefois
perdu par la une occasion unique et qui ne se presentera peut-
etre jamais ? C'est somme toute improbable. Si les pMnomhies
physiques clu spiritisme existent, un autre Home finira par svrgir;
et s'il n'en surgit pas, il faudra bien conclure que lui aussi
n'etait qu'un simple prestidigitateur.
1
Suspendons done—-quant a lui—notre jugement.
Ah certes, un nouveau Home, s'il se presentait a l'heure
actuelle, n'aurait pas a se plaindre d'etre neglige par la science
onicielle. Ce serait plutot le contraire. On se l'arracherait
!
Mais voila : malheureusement, plus la science y met de la
bonne volonte, plus les " bons " mediums se font rares.
J'acheve ces pages sous l'impression d'experiences d'aviation
auxquelles j'ai eu la chance d'assister. Voila encore une fois
l'apparemment miraculeux realise—et, ma foi, pas trop mal.
Decidement le merveilleux scientifique n'a rien a envier au
merveilleux spiritique—et aussi religieux. Les envolees des
Vedrines, des Conneau, des Grabam White et des Efimow valent
bien les " levitations " de Home—et ineme celles de St. Joseph
de Copertino ;
comme du reste les rayons Eontgen traversent
les corps opaques bien plus surement que la clairvoyance de la
somnambule la plus extra-lucide ; comme la telegraphie sans fil
vaut bien comme precision et siirete d'information la tele-
pathie —revetue de l'estampille ecclesiastique ou simplement
laique. II y a loin du grand jour de la science triomphante
a la penombre des sanctuaires, et a l'obscurite ou se complaisent
esprits et mediums. La science peut errer longtemps ; faire
1
Je rappellerai a ce propos que Home ne produisait en fait de "phenomenes"
ni apports, ni " le passage de la matiere a travers la inatiere."
444 Comte Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
bien des fois fausse route ; bruler aujourd'hui ce qu'elle adorait
hier et adorera peut-etre demain : mais une fois qu'elle a
atteint le but qu'elle s'etait propose—quelle richesse de resultats !
quelle surabondance de preuves ! quels riots de lumiere ! C'est
bien autre chose, ce me semble, que les agissements d'esprits
plus ou moins materialises mais toujours timores derriere le
rideau du " cabinet " mediumnique ; ou que les manifestations
hesitantes et insaisissables des entites ineffablement augustes
qui president au merveilleux religieux.
Tout conipte fait je commence a croire que c'est plutot le
merveilleux scientifique qui merite notre admiration et nos
sympathies.
Post Script cjm.
On le voit, je n'ai pas range parmi les causes d'erreur
enumerees plus haut une dont il a ete pourtant souvent fait
etat : 1'hallucination collective. Je persiste a croire qu'alors
qu'elle a contre elle un faisceau de preuves peremptoires, elle
ne repose que sur des presomptions —ou pire ; et tout en
trouvant assez frappants certains recits de performances
fakiriennes publics au cours de ces dernieres annees, je main-
tiens que c'est aux adeptes de cette theorie qu'incombe Yonus pro-
handi, et que jusqu'a present rien n'a ete fait sous ce rapport.1
Je me refuse done jusqu'a nouvel ordre a la prendre en con-
sideration.
Mais je n'irai pas jusqu'a nier que ce ne soit dans une
forme inusitee de la suggestion, sexcrgant sur une seule
personne ct sur un seul sens a la fois, qu'il faille chercher
l'explication de certains incidents particulierement frappants
ayant eu lieu a certaines seances. Je me suis assez souvent
etendu a ce propos sur les " experiences de chaises " faites
avec le defunt Sambor pour ne pas revenir la-dessus. Mais
1
J'appelle "faisceau de preuves peremptoires" tout l'ensemble des experiences
mediumniques ayant laisse des traces permanentes : ardoises couvertes d'ecri-
ture, photographies de formes d' " esprits " visibles ou invisibles, mouvements
sans contacts ou levitations de tables enregistres graphiquement, "apports," et
ainsi de suite. Par les mots: " ou pire," je fais allusion au cas bien connu
(Journal S.P.E., Vol. V. pp. 84-86) oil une histoire de fakirs photographies au
cours de la representation (sans que la plaque sensible ait rien enregistre^ s'est
trouvde etre invented de toutes pieces. Pour les recits de performances faki-
riennes auxquels je fais allusion, voir Journal S.P.R., novembre 1904 et fevrier
1905.
lxiv.] Les Phe'nomenes Physiques du Spiritisme. 445
actuellement je ne suis pas eloigne d'admettre que quelques
observations faites avec Eusapia Ealladino peuvent avoir la
meme origine. II s'agit d'apparitions de mains et " d'attouche-
ments " ne pouvant s'expliquer par une simple substitution
des mains du medium.
II me semble a l'heure actuelle extrOmement douteux que
la main soi-disant materialised ait ete jamais vue en meme
temps que les cleux means d'Eusapia. Cela est certain en tous
cas pour les experiences dont nous possedons des comptes-
rendus stenographiques : celles de 1908 a Naples et celles
entreprises sous les auspices de l'lnstitut Psychologique de
Paris. Pour les experiences anterieures pareille chose a
pu Gtre accidentellement affirmed.
1
Mais—ainsi que j'ai eu
l'occasion de le montrer ailleurs
2
—les conditions des seances
d'Eusapia sont eminemment propres a engendrer dans l'esprit
des assistants des erreurs de memoire quant aux circonstances
exactes de tel ou tel incident. On ne peut done attacher
grande importance a des affirmations isolees de ce genre (a
supposer qu'il s'en rencontre beaucoup, ce dont je doute fort).
Mon impression actuelle—e'est que lorsque les assistants voient
la main " materialised " une des mains d'Eusapia au moins est
toujours recouverte par le rideau (sur la table). Aux experi-
mentateurs de l'avenir a, me prouver que j'ai tort.
Pour les " attouchements " (a travers le rideau) la chose
parait, je l'avoue, moins evidente a premiere vue, mais je crois
que si nous serrons de pres les comptes-rendus stenographiques
(pour les autres il faut, je le repete, faire une part tres large
aux erreurs d'observation et surtout de memoire) nous con-
staterons k peu pres la meme chose. La aussi bien souvent,
sinon toujours, une des mains du me'dium au moins est
recouverte par le rideau et invisible. Et quand il y a—bien rare-
ment—derogation apparente a cette regie, e'est que les pieds du
medium n'etaient pas bien controles (comme cela me semble
avoir ete presque indubitablement le cas pour l'experience de
M. Baggally a la onzieme des seances de 1908 a Naples).
3
Somme toute l'hypothese que ces apparitions de mains
" materialisees " et ces contacts etaient produits par la main
1
Annates des Sciences Psychiques, 1897, No. 1., p. 4.
2
Proceedings S.P.B. Part LXIL, pp. 61-63.
3
Proceedings S.P.B., Part LIX., pp. 552, 553.
44<
;
Gomte Perovsky-Petrovo-SoLovovo. [part
d'Eusapia elle-meme (celle que le rideau recouvrait) liberee
(alors qu'une substitution etait hors de question) a la suite
d'une hallucination tactile provoqu^e par le medium chez le
controleur
1
me semble a l'heure actuelle devoir etre envisagee
serieusement.
Et tant que des phenomenes de ce genre n'auront pas ete
observes alors que les deux mains d'JEusapict seront au moment
meme nettcment visibles sur la table (et scs pieds contrdles d'une
fagon ne prStant a aucun doute) nous ne sommes pas tenus de
recourir a l'hypothese d'une " materialisation."
1
Ou plutot : le midium provoque chez le contrdleur—mentalement et peut-etre
inconsciemment
—
un itat d'esprit dans leqael pareille liberation pourra passer
inapernie. Je prefere cette formule.
lxiv.] A priori Argument against Physical Phenomena. 447
IV.
ON THE A PRIORI ARGUMENT AGAINST
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA.
By SIR OLIVER LODGE.
Theee seems to be a tendency in some quarters to emphasise
the improbability of all abnormal physical phenomena—an
improbability which certainly looms large before every
physicist—and to oppose the extreme unlikelihood of the
occurrence of such things against every testimony and all
evidence of a positive kind in their favour.
Up to a point this attitude is legitimate and necessary, but
there comes a time when wisdom lies rather in considering
whether our ordinary experience of nature, and our customary
human powers, are a sufficiently comprehensive guide, and
whether we can imagine any enlarged powers, of not too
outrageous a nature, such as could be supposed capable of
achieving some of the results.
The first hypothesis which every one who is driven in this
direction naturally makes is to suppose that the faculties
belonging to an individual are not all known, and that it is
conceivable that force may be exerted and sensations
experienced beyond the known periphery of the bodily
organism. The truth of such extension of faculty must be
examined, for, so far as I know, there is nothing to negative it,
but it has certainly not been definitely proved. Moreover,
among the asserted occurrences of a supernormal nature there
are some which cannot reasonably be explained by any such
hypothesis, however it be stretched—not at least if the supposed
extended faculty is to be of the same general nature as those
with which we are familiar within the limits of the body
itself.
448 Sir Oliver Lodge. [paet
The movements and other phenomena that have to be
explained frecpuently exhibit intelligence—an intelligence some-
times beyond, or, at any rate, differing from, that of any person
present—even though it is not of a high, and may occasionally
be of a mischievous, kind.
Now, in the domain of intelligent phenomena, pure and
simple, automatic writing may be considered pre-eminent ; and
the evidence which is accumulating under this head is undoubtedly
tending in the direction of substantiating the claim—a claim
made by the writings themselves—that they are partly clue to
selection and control exercised by the surviving portion of
individuals who not loner ago lived on the earth.
Let us take this as a working hypothesis, for a moment,
and trace its results. There is not the slightest necessity, and
as far as I know there is no extensive claim, for attributing
merely physical phenomena to the direct agency of departed
human beings. There is no reason to suppose that their
powers of acting on matter have been enlarged or revolu-
tionised : rather it would appear probable that such mechanical
powers as were possessed in the body have now ceased. The
idea that physical phenomena are directly due to deceased
persons has led, and will probably always lead, to cheap and
easy retort and ridicule.
That, however, is no argument. In certain cases there does
appear to be a connexion, though it may be indirect. Some
of the simpler physical phenomena, such as raps, seem designed
to call attention and add emphasis to what is being otherwise
communicated ;
though the source of the messages is still an
open question. If it should turn out that great psychic
activity or emotion on the other side occasionally results in
physical as well as in mental phenomena, as a kind of overflow
of energy — perhaps unconscious and unintended, like stam-
mering — I should not be altogether surprised. And if once
the possibility of any such physical action, however trivial, is
admitted, a door is opened which will not readily be closed.
But that is not the lesson which I wish now to draw from
the hypothetical existence and activity of departed human
beings. The moral that I would draw is more like this
:
If intelligences akin to humanity are in any way at work,
in an order of being beyond our present senses and outside
lxiv.] A priori Argument against Physical Phenomena. 449
our present scope, is it likely that they are the only beings
that thus exist ?
It is certainly far from the case here and now.
A reader of terrestrial history, living on another planet,
might readily conceive the idea that the earth was inhabited
solely by human beings, though he would observe that
reference was occasionally made to creatures such as horses
and cattle as useful for labour or for food ; but how little
could he appreciate of the facts known to a Zoologist
—
how far he would be from imagining the extraordinary wealth
of terrestrial life, some of it of the most curious and fantastic
kind, among which we live. He could imagine less even than
the ordinary uninstructed person knows of the myriads of
creation. Our experience here certainly leads us to assume
that, where there is life at all, there is likely to be an immense
variety and complexity of life ; so if the evidence ever con-
strains us to extend human existence, or an existence akin to
human, into what is popularly spoken of as " another world,"
then we ought to make the generalisation, based on our
experience here, that not humanity alone but many other
orders of being, some higher, some lower, may exist and
interact in those unknown surroundings.
Is such a hypothesis legitimate ? It is premature as yet
to make it, but I foresee a time when we shall be driven to
something like it ;
and, if there is any truth in it, a multitude
of phenomena which now appear weird and strange, or frankly
impossible, will receive what then may seem their simple and
natural explanation. The lawless and the capricious can only
be so to our present understanding, and only appear so
because we have abstracted and mentally partitioned off a
certain small region of the Universe and decided to treat it
for scientific purposes as if it were the whole.
That is exactly what we do in a laboratory : we exclude
disturbing influences as much as possible ; and those which
we cannot exclude we first reduce to a minimum, and then
either take into account by calculation or else ignore as being
demonstrably insignificant in amount. That is our customary
process ;
and, of course, we sometimes make mistakes. The
history of science is full of instances where the ignored is
found ultimately to be of importance. "Whereupon unexplained
450 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
discrepancies, or what had been called discordances between
theory and fact, become in the light of fuller knowledge
resolved and explained.
A trace of radioactivity, before radioactivity was allowed for
;
the impact of stray electric waves, before such things were
expected ; the pressure of light in interplanetary space or a
vacuum bulb, before the time of Clerk Maxwell or Crookes ;
the complication of a spider's web in a balance case which had
been supposed closed to alien influence ;
—all these, no less than
the proverbial bull in a china shop, have before now produced
strange happenings which seemed inexplicable until the per-
turbing cause itself became known.
And it would not be unnatural, though it could hardly be
said to be wise, for the head of the laboratory, to whom such
events were reported, to profess disbelief in them; on the
ground that it was more likely for observers to be careless or
for testimony to err than for such outrageous eccentricities
in the order of nature to be real.
But it may be said that if ever for a moment we allow
ourselves to contemplate the possible existence and activity of
another order of being, we are making a wild speculation and
opening the door to a region so unknown as to be useless and
confusing. Yes, and that is one good reason why we do not
open the door ;
or, at least, are not willing to open it very
wide.
Progress in science is made by proceeding slowly and gradually
from the known to the unknown—not by postulating any
mysterious agency that can be imagined and letting it work
its hypothetical will. That was done in old times truly, when,
for instance, an angel was supposed to control the movement
of each planet and guide it on its course ; it is also done
sometimes by illiterate persons who attribute particular actions
to the Deity—not indirectly and ultimately, in the way that
all religious people assume, but directly and immediately as
if He were a clumsy artificer poking a finger into the works.
But those were not the ages of science, nor is satisfaction
with vague unknown possibilities the atmosphere of science.
In science all the entrances to unknown causes must be
jealously guarded, and new agencies must be only let in one
at a time as they are really needed.
lxiv.] A priori Argument against Physical Phenomena. 451
In recent times several new agencies have been admitted
—
new elements, new vibrations, new forces,—all outside our
unaided senses, and, therefore, all unknown fifty years ago.
But in what sense were they new ? Manifestly only in a
subjective sense. Throughout the world's history they have
existed and done their work. Argon and helium and radium,
electrons and X-rays and electric waves, have really been
active all the time ; and phagocytes have been attacking the
microbes of disease, and bacilli have been contributing to the
fertility of the soil, and bacteria have been slaying their
thousands, all through human history ;
just as certainly as
that the heart was pumping and the blood circulating in the
heroes of antiquity, however little the owners of the blood-
vessels were aware of the fact.
But all these things, it will be said, are in the line of
human knowledge, they fit in with what was previously
known, they were surmised and then verified by human intel-
ligence,—their recognition is not like opening the door to the
unlicensed activity of a group of creatures of whose nature
and properties we know absolutely nothing.
Well, let us look at that contention for a little while.
Socrates spoke of his Daemon, Joan of Arc of her Voices,
Saints have told of their direct inspiration, Poets have
assured us that their best work comes from outside them-
selves ; —so we must admit, without trenching on the ground
of religion, that activities of a kind higher than human have
been testified to on a basis of direct experience.
But this is very different from the physical phenomena
which at present are under discussion. Most true, and the
testimony for these things is of a less high and notable order,
—but it exists nevertheless, and I desire to urge that the
kind of things asserted are not beyond the capacity of a
group of imaginary beings which science for its own sake has
imagined the possibility of, and whose powers it has delimited
and defined.
The power of human beings as we know them, so far as
it relates to the world of matter, is limited to moving masses
of matter of visible and tangible size. No other thing can
man do in the material region. He acts on it by his
muscles, and by his muscles alone. All else is done by the
452 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
properties of matter itself. Man can put a seed into the
ground and cover it with soil and water,—the resulting plant
is not his achievement. Man can build a machine of glass and
brass, and by turning a handle can evoke an electric spark,
—
but the spark is not man's production. Whatever can result
from the movement and arrangement of matter is indirectly
the result of man's activity, and beyond that he can achieve
nothing.
But if he had the power of dealing with individual mole-
cules, instead of with masses of matter,—if he could see and
trace and handle and control the motions of the atoms them-
selves,—or if a being existed with senses and powers analogous
to our own, and like ours perfectly finite and limited,—only
different in the sense of being so acute and rapid that things
moving with the speed of bullets and things invisible in the
highest-power microscope became tangible and tractable,—then
other things could be done which to us with our present senses
and muscles would seem impossible, and which certainly would
in the strict sense be super-, or it might be infra-, human. It is
well known that Clerk Maxwell imagined such an order of
beings for the purpose of showing how the second law of
thermodynamics might be evaded ; and Lord Kelvin—to whom
few things could be more distasteful than being quoted in
support of my present contention, and to his shade I apologise
—went a step further and enunciated a whole category of
things which " Maxwell's demons " could achieve, subject to all
the perfectly defined physical laws and processes with which
we are already acquainted.
Myers enters into some detail concerning the relation of
this conception to many asserted physical phenomena. Nothing
more is necessary than a power of dealing with molecules as
we deal with masses of matter ; no law of motion—as we call
it—need be upset, the conservation of energy would hold un-
disputed sway, gravitation and all the other forces would be as
potent as ever; and yet what would seem miraculous to un-
initiated human beings would be capable of achievement.
The idea is worked out, with just the right attitude of
humour and semi-sarcasm appropriate to the novelty of the
idea and to the apparent fancifulness of its basis, in F. W. H.
Myers' Human Personality, Vol. II. pp. 530-534.
LXiv.j A priori Argument against Physical Phenomena. 453
I remember when he was writing that part of his book,
and the talks we had on it. I remember his asking me what
sort of reality could by any conceivability be attributed to
Maxwell's demons, and what sort of acts they could accomplish
if they in any kind of sense existed. I referred him to Lord
Kelvin's brilliant lecture on the subject, of which an abstract
appears in Proc. Hoy. hist. Vol. IX., Feb. 1879,—under the
title " The Sorting Demon of Maxwell,"—and likewise in his
"Popular Addresses," Vol. I.; and I was interested in the
singular felicity of the use which Myers made of the idea.
Do I, then, seriously contend that we must postulate such
creatures in order to account for asserted physical and chemical
phenomena of a novel kind ? I do not. But I do maintain
that the existence of such power has been imagined by physicists
themselves, for the purposes of ordinary physics,—especially
perhaps, for the region where physics interlocks with biology,
—
not at all with the object of aiding our special investigations
;
with entire ignorance perhaps—indeed with active dislike in
one case—of the subjects which are dealt with by our Society.
Hence I hold that if testimony as to facts of this order
ever becomes strong enough to demand ideas of this kind for
their elucidation, there will be nothing outrageous or hyper-
fanciful in the conception, nor anything illegitimate in such a
hypothesis, when it is forced upon us. We shall not make it
unless driven to it by facts, and facts have not yet driven us
to it ; but if and when they do, I for one shall take the line
not of denying the facts as grotesquely impossible and mani-
festly absurd—however much one is sometimes tempted to say
this now—but I shall hope to examine them to see whether,
by some such extension of human or other power as Maxwell
and Kelvin have conceived, we may not be led a step on into
our understanding of a larger Nature. We may perhaps thus
find that the physical phenomena and the intellectual phenomena
are more closely allied than we had imagined ; that they are
allied there, indeed, somewhat as they are allied here ; and that
one class is a reasonable, or at any rate a real, supplement to
the other.
One set of facts may be of the heroic order, and another
set of the trivial, the domestic, the casual order,—and no
man is a hero to his valet ; but whether we attend to the
454 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
commonplace actions of a great man or not, such actions are
undoubtedly performed. To suppose that great poetry, for
instance, ever came into the world without any concomitant of
ordinary and what we call " low " humanity, is to suppose a
monstrosity. And those who are even now opening the door
to a demonstration of intelligence from beyond the veil may
find—will find as I believe—that they are admitting, along
with the intelligence, a mass of supplementary concomitant
activity, which will have to be reckoned with, classified, and
understood. And I venture to risk the prediction that the
testimony to this physical material activity, low though it
may be, and however much it be kept in its proper subordi-
nate place, and however critical the attitude which may
rightly have to be taken with respect to it, can with wisdom
be neither ignored nor denied.
I write this article not as a protest but as a counter-
balancing presentation,—erring, perhaps, on the positive or
speculative side as much as some may think Count Solovovo's
article lags on the negative or sceptical side. I gather that
his desire, and that of the more stringently critical of the
investigators and recorders of the Society—indeed the desire
of us all—is to improve the evidence and gradually make it
irrefragable. And I further gather that they consider it
possible to achieve this ; in the first place, by stimulating
experimenters to greater care and exactitude of observation
;
and in the second place, by actually bringing pressure to bear
on whatever intelligence may be supposed responsible for these
obscure phenomena, so that the conditions under which they
occur may by practice and effort be gradually improved.
LXIV.] Emergence of a Latent Memory under Hypnosis. 455
V.
A CASE OF EMERGENCE OF A LATENT MEMORY
UNDER HYPNOSIS.
By G. LOWES DICKINSON.
This paper deals with a series of sittings for hypnotic
experiments held during April, May, and June, 1906.1
The person hypnotised was a young lady whom I shall
call Miss C. She is not a professional medium, but the
daughter of a clergyman, with a good general education ;
not a student, but interested in psychical and theosophical
questions, and conversant with literature bearing on such
subjects. The doctor who hypnotised her, and whom I
shall call Dr. G., considers her perfectly normal, free
from any symptoms of hysteria or other nervous disease.
To an ordinary observer, like myself, she appears a simple,
straightforward character, with a strong sense of humour. It
seems worth while to insist upon these points because the
case would lose all interest for psychical research if the
hypothesis of fraud were entertained. It is, of course, im-
possible to disprove fraud. I can only say that those who
were present at the sittings regard that hypothesis as the least
probable that can be put forward. Besides the lady herself
and Dr. G., there were present at the sittings her brother, Mr.
C, and Mr. Woolley, a Fellow of King's College, Cambridge, who
took notes. I was present myself at several, but not at all the
sittings. This paper is based on the notes taken at the time.
These notes, however, not being taken in shorthand, though
1
Mr. Dickinson's account of this case was read at a meeting of the Society
held in July, 1906, and would have been published sooner but that the MS.
was accidentally mislaid by one of the experimenters, and has only recently
been found again.
—
Ed.
456 G. Loives Dickinson. [part
they are accurate, are necessarily brief, and do not give an
adequate impression of the vivid and dramatic character of
the proceedings. These assumed a dialogue form, Dr. G. con-
versing with the hypnotised subject and drawing her out, but
taking care not to suggest trains of ideas himself. A con-
siderable number of sittings were held, and the general pro-
cedure was as follows :
—
The lady, whom I shall call for convenience the subject,
as soon as she was hypnotised described herself as passing out
of her body. She would sometimes, according to her account,
pause just outside it both in starting and in returning, and
would then say that she saw her body, was standing upon it,
etc. But this only for a moment, so that we never got her
satisfactorily to describe the room or things in it while she
purported to be in this posture. She almost immediately
" went up," as she described it. And " up " meant a very
remarkable and complicated world, her account of which was
quite coherent and consistent throughout the sittings. It con-
sisted of a number of different " planes," one, as she said,
above another, in which are stored up not only everything
that ever has happened or will happen, but all thoughts,
dreams, and imaginations. To begin with, she usually went
straight to what she called the " blue." It was, she said,
from and in this plane that she derived the " force " to move
and observe in these upper regions. Her account was that
she " got blue " from Dr. G-. originally, and his " blue " was
apparently necessary for her support throughout. But also she
derived force from this blue plane, and when she was tired
could always refresh and restore herself by returning to it and
sinking into it. She did not commonly " see things " in the
blue ; she had to go for that into other planes. But the
"blue" had the peculiar property that she could tell, when
she was in it, whether what she had seen elsewhere was real
or no. She also got from this plane her metaphysical ideas.
Above the blue was the " white," a dazzling plane into which
she could not penetrate. Other planes to which she referred
were the " thought plane, " " mind plane," " dream plane,"
" plane of feelings." There was also the plane where there
were real people, with which we shall here be mainly con-
cerned ; and a plane in which she found her past lives.
lxtv.] Emergence of a Latent Memory under Hypnosis. 457
While, however, this complicated world was always described
in terms of planes and of colours, the subject insisted that
these were only metaphors. There was really, she said, no
time and no space where she went. All the planes were
really somehow one. And she had great difficulty in convey-
ing through language the experiences she received. " There
are no words up here," she said, " and so when you try to
bring it back you give it any words that come into your head
on waking." And again, " everywhere is really the same plane,
and when I'm up here I'm in my body too." Again, " on
different planes you get different answers to the same question.
They're all parts of the truth." Again, " everything is all
thought really. Things aren't really coloured. They only make
one feel like it." " Other people may see the same things and
describe them differently ; the things added to what you are
yourself make what you see." Again, " I can't tell where
things are. Just the same if they are close or far away.
Can't get used to it."
In this curious world there were many obstacles to the
discovery of objective truth. Thus, if the subject thought of
anything, she immediately saw it. " If I want to see anything,
it is there at once, just as real as if I hadn't made it, so I
mustn't want to see things." Again, she will sometimes get
into some one else's dream. Thus on one occasion she gave
us a picture of a landscape, and told us afterwards, after
returning to the " blue," that some one was dreaming it,
" some one up there called Monica." Monica, she said, was
" wrapped up in her own plane, and doesn't want to meet any
one," so we were unable to pursue that branch of the subject.
On another occasion she saw " grey-blue mist, moving snakes
in it, not really snakes. Look like snakes. Arms coming
through the mist. Oh nothing really. I got into a dream."
We were naturally more interested in what purported to be
real things and real persons. In the earlier sittings the
subject was much disturbed by a lady she met up there who,
she said, oughtn't to be there at all, didn't know her way
about, and was always worrying her for advice, which she
didn't take. This lady she called at first Malka, but finally
informed us that her real name was Eose Weston, that she
lived near Merthyr Tydvil, and that she was in a trance.
458 G. Lowes Dickinson. [part
Going up to the " blue " one day she remarked, with real
delight :
" The dark woman has gone. She woke up !
" But
later on Malka turned up again in the same vague condition.
" She wants me to show her round. She doesn't know about
anything." Later she met another lady also in a trance,
whose name she gave us, but unfortunately not her address.
This lady, she said, would go mad as the result of her trances.
She got her to promise to write to Dr. G., but the promise
has not been fulfilled. The most interesting person, however,
whom the subject met, and the immediate occasion of this
paper, was a lady who lived in the reign of Kichard the
Second. As this whole episode is very curious, I propose to
describe it at some length.
At the beginning of one of the sittings, the subject began
as follows :
" Standing beside myself. Can't stop here now.
Got to a different place. Lots of people. Eeal people. They
have been alive. I don't know where it is. Never been
there before. Perhaps 100 years ago." She then went to
the " blue " to observe this place from there, and having
satisfied herself that it was real, went back to it. She then
met and fell into conversation with a lady whom she con-
tinued to visit during the several following sittings. This
lady gave her name as Blanche Poynings. As presented to
us she was a lady of very distinct character, a great gossip,
taken up exclusively with herself and her circle of friends
and acquaintances, which was a very distinguished one. She
was a great friend of Maud, Countess of Salisbury, and much
of her talk was about that lady and her husband, the Earl.
The Countess, she said, had been married three times, and
she gave the names of her former husbands,—Aubrey, and
Sir Alan de Buxhall. She gave the names of her children
by the Earl, and of her stepson, Alan de Buxhall, her own
maiden name, Frances, and the names of the Earl of Salisbury's
brothers. The Earl, Blanche said, was a cultivated man, a
poet. Not that her standard of cultivation was high, for she
thought it a wonderful thing that the Countess could write
her own name. As to the Earl's poems, she could not quote
us any, as " she never remembered that sort of thing." She
remembered, however, and described with much vigour, how
the Earl, who was a Lollard, threw the images out of his
t
lxiv.] Emergence of a Latent Memory under Hypnosis. 459
chapel, and especially an image of Saint Catherine. This image,
when they were removing it, fell on one of the men and
made his nose bleed. They were very frightened, said Blanche,
because they thought Saint Catherine was after them. " We
didn't really believe it," she said, " but still we felt rather
uncomfortable." The image was thrown into a ditch ;
but
picked up by a man who repainted it and put it up in his
bakehouse.
A number of other facts were given about the Earl
of Salisbury, such as his family name, Montacute, his title
as Lord of the Isle of Man, and the name of one of his
manors, Bisham, to which they used to ride from London.
Blanche's own maiden name, de Mowbray, was given, and
the name of the man she married after Poynings's death, Sir
John Worth. Also the fact that she was expelled from
court, together with Dame de Molyneux, by Arnold, one of
the Lords Appellant. We were also introduced to Joan, mother
of Richard the Second, formerly known as the " Fair Maid
of Kent," whose fatness and good nature appeared to have
much impressed and delighted Blanche. Her son by her first
marriage, John Holland, was also referred to, and the story
told how his squire was killed by " some one else's " squire,
whereupon John Holland, meeting this " some one else," killed
him, remarking " Your squire killed my squire whom I loved."
Other historical personages introduced were the kings Richard II.,
Henry IV., Richard's two queens, Ann of Orleans and
Isabelle of France, and Aumerle, for whom Blanche expressed
great dislike. The subject accounted for this by the state-
ment that Blanche had been engaged to marry him, but that
he had afterwards married some one else. " She says he was
the worst of the lot, but she can't find much against him."
In addition to these distinguished people, Blanche gave informa-
tion about one Ralph Turval, and his wife Ellen Newland,
a waiting woman of the Countess of Salisbury.
She was also full of information about the costume of the
period. " She used to wear brocaded velvet, trimmed with
ermine, and a high-peaked cap of minever. She wore blue velvet,
embroidered with gold. Men wore shoes with long points
which were chained to their knees. They had long hair cut
straight across the forehead." She described the three kinds
2g
460 G. Lowes Dickinson. [part
of bread, simmel. wastel and cotchet, eaten by different classes,
and gave some account of her way of life. Her favourite
dish was lampreys stewed in oil. They always had a doctor
in every house. He used to bleed them for everything. Often
the chaplain was the doctor. " She used to have ague, and
they bled for that. When she had smallpox, they bled her
every third day, and put on cold water compresses, and nearly
starved her. They gave her bitter medicine. She thinks it
was dandelion." Her time seems to have been spent mainly
in conversation and needlework, but she refers to occasional
journeys, as to Bisham and to " Stepany " to see the may-
hedges in spring.
We were naturally anxious to know what Blanche looked
like, and how she communicated with Miss C. To the former
question the answer was rather curious. When asked what
Blanche wore, we were told at first " she wears only her blue
mist." " What does she look like ?
" " She has white hair, is
tall, with dark eyes. But she looks like that because she was
like that when she died. She can look any age." We asked to
know how she looked at the age of eight. She was then
described as having " long brown hair ;
long dress and sleeves,
with grey fur round the edge." Also as carrying " what she
thinks is a doll. But really it's only a block of wood. They
hadn't got any proper toys then. They made their own." To
the question what language Blanche talked, we were told she
didn't talk, but only communicated thoughts, so we got no
specimen of the English of that time. Blanche, we were
informed, was very much surprised to find she had been dead
so long. Speaking of death, she said " she was very surprised
when she was first dead, but she soon got over it. She just
went to sleep and woke up dead." We asked what she had
been doing up there all these years, and were told she had
been doing nothing much. " She has a lot to find out before
she gets anywhere else. She keeps on learning things without
knowing it. She thought she knew everything there was to
be known, but she has just found out she does not." Blanche,
apparently, had had a lonely time. Anyhow she was particularly
pleased to find some one to talk to, and was always described
as being " on the look out " when Miss C. went to visit her.
Such, in brief summary, is the principal information obtained
lxiv.] Emergence of a Latent Memory under Hypnosis. 461
from Blanche. Now as to its objective truth. We none of
us knew anything about the reign of Richard II., nor whether
there was an Earl of Salisbury at that time, and we were quite
unable, at the first appearance of Blanche, to check any of her
information. I took, however, an early opportunity of testing
the statements made. I found that the main facts about the
Earl and Countess of Salisbury were true. Encouraged by this,
I followed up, so far as I could, all the statements of names,
relationships and events. I looked up the chronicles and rum-
maged in peerages and charters, and was able in almost
every case to verify the truth of Blanche's assertions. This
interested and puzzled me. Miss C. assured me, and I believed
her, that she had never studied the period. And in any case
some of the facts given were not such as even a student of
the period would naturally come across. Blanche Poynings
herself, for example, was a quite unimportant person, only
referred to by name, by one or two chroniclers, as one of the
ladies in attendance on the Queen. The most likely explana-
tion was that the facts narrated were contained in a historical
novel. But the only novel dealing with the period which
Miss C. could remember reading was one entitled John Standish,
and a reference to this showed that it was not the source of
the information she gave us. I clung, however, to the hypothesis
that a novel must be the explanation, though I am bound to
confess that as more and more facts came out, as these almost
invariably proved to be correct, as far as I could test them,
and as they were in some cases obscure genealogical data such
as it seemed unlikely would be embodied in a work of fiction,
I came at last to think it possible that Miss C. was really com-
municating with the departed Blanche Poynings. The mystery,
however, was finally explained in a rather curious way.
I went to tea with Miss C. Her aunt was present and
her brother. We began talking about planchette. Miss C.
said that she could draw, with planchette, faces which were
faces whichever way one looked at them, a feat which she
could not perform by conscious effort. I expressed a curiosity
to see these faces, and planchette was produced. The faces
were not particularly interesting. But we went on to converse
with planchette in the ordinary way, eliciting at first the usual
irrelevant nonsense. Presently, however, it was suggested that
462 G. Lowes Dickinson. [part
we should see whether Blanche would communicate. Blanche
was immediately on the spot, and began by reproaching Miss C.
for not having been to see her lately. I quote now from the
notes made afterwards by Mr. Woolley from the original answers
written by planchette, the sentences in round brackets being
the questions and remarks we addressed to it at the time.
Miller. (Who are you?) Mr. Miller. (Are you Mr. Miller next
door ?) No. (When were you alive ?) Richard II. (Did you know
Blanche Poynings?) Yes. (What was she like?) A middle-aged
lady. (What was the name of her fourth husband ?) John Wilshere.
[Blanche begins.] Why did you not come back ? Come to-night. I
want to talk. He [J. W.] is bothering. I haven't seen him for 500
years. [Contest between Blanche and John Wilshere] (Let him
come and talk.) (Why did he do that
1
?) He can't write. (You
must write for him). ([To J. W.] What is she really like ?) She is
listening. (Can Poynings write ?) He was born. He is alive again.
(What is his name ?) John Andrews. (Where does he live ?) Cam-
bridge. (What does he do ?) He mends roads. (Can you tell us
any more about John Wilshere?) He is damned. (Give us the
names of all your husbands.)
1.
2. Poynings.
3. Worth.
4. Wilshere.
(How can we confirm what you are telling us?) Read his will.
(Whose will?) Wilshere's. He died first. (Where is it ?) Museum.
(What part?) On a parchment. (How can we get at it?) Ask the
man. (Any particular man?) No. Ask E. Holt. (Who is E. Holt?)
An antiquarian. (AVhere is he ?) Dead. There is a book. (Where
is it?) I don't know where it is. Mrs. Holt. (What has she to do
with it ?) Ask her. (Do you know where she lives ?) No. Wrote
a book. (What about?) About all of them. All the people are in
it. (What else?) I am there. (What else is it about?) Maud.
(Is what it says about you good?) Not interesting enough. Countess
Maud by Emily Holt. (Why didn't you tell me that before ?) I
would have told you, but you went away.
On the name of this novel being mentioned, Miss C. said
at once that she believed there was a novel with that
title, and that she had read it. This was confirmed by her
aunt. But neither of them could remember anything about
Lxrv.] Emergence of a Latent Memory under Hypnosis. 463
the book, not even the period with which it dealt, nor whether
it contained any mention of Blanche Poynings. I took an
early opportunity of investigating the point, discovered the
book in question, and discovered in it every person and every
fact (with one or two trifling exceptions) which had been
referred to in the supposed interviews with Blanche Poynings.
The whole thing had been an elaborate rearrangement by Miss
C.'s subconsciousness of data given in a book she had com-
pletely forgotten. At a later sitting (June 10th, 1906), Miss
C, in her hypnotic state, was asked about the novel, and
made an attempt of a kind which I fancy to be characteristic
of subconscious states to get out of the difficulty. I quote
from the record of this sitting
:
(Can you see yourself young 1)
Yes.
(Can you see your aunt reading a book, Countess Maud 1)
Yes ; blue book, with gold line across name of it.
[My copy is red.]
(What is it about?)
Ellen Turval, and the Earl and Countess of Salisbury.
(How old were you 1)
Twelve.
(Did you read it yourself?)
I looked at it, and painted a picture in the beginning.
(Did you read the Appendix 1
?)
No.
(Did your aunt 1)
No.
(What was it about
1
?)
The people in the book. I used to turn over the pages. I
didn't read it, because it was dull. Blanche Poynings was in the
book •
not much about her.
(How much did you get from Blanche Poynings —how much
from the book 1)
Nearly all the events from the book, but not her character. . . .
There was a real person called Blanche Poynings that I met, and
I think her name started the memory, and I got the two mixed up.
On this it may be remarked that Miss C. must have read
the Appendix, as some of the genealogical facts come from it.
As to the character of Blanche, what she says is quite true,
464 G. Lowes Dickinson. [part
for this lady, who in the novel is nothing if not pious and
discreet, became in the hands of Miss C.'s subconscious self a
garrulous and flippant gossip. And this brings me to a point
which seems worth noting in the whole episode. Though Miss
C. got her facts from the novel, she made up (presumably on
the basis of miscellaneous theosophic reading) a quite new
setting. She selected as her interviewer in this imaginary
world a subordinate character, not the heroine of the book
(who is the Countess Maud). And she introduced the data, not
in the order or connection in which they occur in the book,
but, most naturally and skilfully, as they might actually come
out haphazard in a conversation. Her subconscious self showed
in fact remarkable invention and dramatic power (as is often
the case with dream-selves) ; so that if we had not
happened to light upon the source of the information given
through Blanche Poynings, it might have seemed a plausible
view (failing any invincible a priori scepticism) that Miss C.
really did visit a real world and hold conversations with real
people. As it is, the discovery of the source of the Blanche
Poynings episode throws discredit on everything else, and
especially on the elaborate details about her past lives with
which Miss C.'s subconscious self also favoured us.
Appendix.
I give below a few extracts from the detailed record of the
sittings to illustrate the line of thought of the hypnotic per-
sonality :
April 29, 1906.
I got straight into blue to-night. You told me to last time, so I
was obliged to.
I can't tell if what I see are really what I see now or what I saw
a long time ago. Everything looks as if I was just seeing it.
Can't tell where things are. Just the same if they are close or
far away. Can't get used to it.
Don't know where I am, too dark.
Got back into blue now. I went out because I wanted to see
things. If I want to see anything it is there at once, just as real
as if I hadn't made it, so I mustn't want to see things, because it's
no good going to see things that aren't really there. (Try and go
to your own, the real, plane again.)
lxiv.] Emergence of a Latent Memory under Hypnosis. 465
I can't try to go to the real one. I must just drift down by
accident. Why is it when I'm right up here I can talk with my
body? I'm not anywhere near it. (Go into blue and tell me.)
It's because everywhere is really the same place and when I'm
up here I'm in my body too. I can't get my body up here, but I
can get all the rest of me down to my body. When I get right
into blue I forget all about my body and I can't quite see why.
Everything like that finds its own answer if you think about it once.
It's no good going on thinking, because you can't think harder than
you can think. On different planes you get different answers to
the same question. All parts of the truth.
That silly woman wants me to shew her about again. Why
doesn't she find herself? I want to go and help her. She doesn't
know where she is. She says she's been here a long time and can't
find anybody. She doesn't do what I tell her, perhaps she can't. Her
name is Malka. She's been trying to see things without knowing
the proper way. She wants to get back. She doesn't know much.
Stupid of her to come when she doesn't know anything. She came
by herself. She doesn't know her own name and she can't find her
other half. It's rather ridiculous, isn't it? I must go down and see
things. I can't go up into the white, because I couldn't get back.
(How do you hear me?) You're up here too. I don't hear your
voice, only understand your thought. I don't really see things, only
understand. I don't think or feel either. When I go from one
plane to another I don't really go. It's like dissolving into another.
I can't tell you things exactly, because there are lots of things there
are no words for. Sometimes when I'm coming out to tell you
things I forget them on the way. I can't forget them really, you
know. They're all in the back of my head. (What sort of things?)
All blank. When I try to think of them it makes me feel as if
I was sinking deeper. It's stupid to use words. It's much better
here, because you can't make a mistake in what you're saying.
Pink spirit again. Been waiting for me. Spirits that have never
been incarnate are pink. It hasn't got a proper plane of its own.
Everything is all thought really. The pink spirit is my own
thought. When you once do a thing you can't undo it.
Things aren't really coloured. They only make one feel like it.
Other people may see the same things and describe them differently.
The things, added to what you are yourself, make what you see.
When I haven't got enough blue I keep getting down on to my
own thought plane and I can't tell whether things are real or not.
466 G. Lowes Dickinson. [part
It's no good trying to see things on the earth, because you can't
tell whether they're real or not.
If I stop in the blue I never find anything. When I go outside
I may see false things, but when I find out I know them next time.
It makes me tired to be in the blue for long.
Name of Malka is Rose Weston. She is up there in a trance.
Her body is in Wales. South Wales, small house in hills. Her
husband is English. Her maiden name was Davis. She is 47. She
goes into trances and can't help it. She has no business up there.
Every one has different names up there. The nearest town is
LLAN .
Not very south Wales. Inland. She used to live at Llandudno.
That's where the Llan came from. Not there now. Begins with
MEKTHYR T . I don't believe she can spell it herself. She
seems to think she is doing a lot of good by being up here. Quite
a mistake. Tired of her, not even interesting. She won't go. She
doesn't really want to. She likes poking about.
3rd May.
Standing beside myself, can't stop here now. Got to a different place.
Lot of people. Real people. They have been alive. I don't know
where it is. Never been there before. Perhaps 100 years ago. I went to
blue and looked at it from there. Going to see it again. Woman there.
Been dead a long time, since 1399. Name Blanche Poynings.
The dark woman has gone. She's woke up. I want to find out
where things that you imagine come from, because nothing comes
from nothing.
I get on to a plane where those questions come up without answers.
Up here your thoughts are just as real as the things you've done
(i.e. in Blue plane).
You can't get any higher without being dead.
These are only reflections. Both blue and white are difficult to
describe, because they take an impression from you. Nothing is
anything in itself, but it impresses you as if you were seeing it.
I want to see real things.
You can't come here when you are awake, because you would be
in two places at once. When you are awake you are conscious of
space and time. When you lose yourself and these limitations which
only exist because you know about them, you get here. You could
train yourself to get here when you are asleep by making up your
mind. Some people can put themselves into a trance and come
lxiv.] Emergence of a Latent Memory under Hypnosis. 467
here. They bring back memories. Everything is recorded here
somewhere, but it isn't always easy to find. If you go by yourself
and aren't very strong, you get caught in the first will current that
there is and are helpless. You must practise and train by minimizing
the body and strengthening the will. Live by yourself and think of
nothing but going there ; but you may get stuck there. The only
thing that's good for everybody is to strengthen their will. Thinking
is good because it makes a kind of atmosphere round you. You
must think about something and you might as well think about this.
Many people don't know how to think, and stop a long time in the
first stage where you go directly you die. First you have to learn
how to think and how little you know : then how to distinguish
between true and false. You can learn both in the body.
You may meet the same people in successive incarnations if you
are very fond of them and on the same level. You can always find
any one up there. Hunt up their impressions where they've been.
The impressions are as real as the people. I couldn't find any one
I didn't know, because I shouldn't recognize their impressions.
They might send a message by me. They sometimes hunt
about for some one to take a message down. Live people are so
dense, it is very difficult for the dead people to get a message
understood. Some of them are mischievous and play tricks. Death
makes no difference. It's only leaving your body behind. The
body is something to live in and it conveys impressions to your
mind and teaches you. And unless you've had limitations for some
time, you don't realise what it is to be without them.
June 3, 1906.
(Remember about Poynings ? Has she anything fresh 1) I'll go
and ask her. She's really there. (Go and see her and then to
blue.) She's a real person but I put her there. I saw about her
somewhere. She keeps talking, saying the same silly things. I came
across her because I had seen about her before. She must be a real
person or I shouldn't see her here. What I heard about her wasn't
so important as what she tells me about herself. Going to see her
again. She's really there. She seems sort of two people when in
blue, one that I have heard about and one part that's real. I
meant to ask her something. She says she can't see people on
earth at all and can't communicate unless they come up here. She
says it's all true what she told me. She wants to know why I
have been away so long.
4<;s M. A. Bayfield. [part
SUPPLEMENT.
EEVIEW.
Esprits et Mediums, Melanges de Mttapsychigue et de Psychologie, by
Th. FLOURNOY, Professeur a la Faculte des Sciences de 1' Uni-
versity de Geneve. Geneve, Librairie Kiindig : Paris, Librairie
Fischbacher (royal 8vo, pp. 561, 7 fr. 50).
This latest work from Professor Flournoy's hand is not less interest-
ing than those which have preceded it, and is at the same time
extremely valuable by reason of the large mass of material which
it contains. It will, indeed, be found to form an admirable book
of reference, of great service to any one who is interested in the
various departments of psychical research. The author's pen has
lost nothing of its characteristic eloquence, and he shows us once
more how incomparable a medium for psychical analysis is the
French language in the hands of one who is at once a literary
expert and a master of the subject.
The book is, in sum, a detailed exposition, supported by voluminous
evidence, of M. Flournoy's conclusions concerning such physical and
psychical phenomena as had come to his knowledge up to the
time of writing, and in particular concerning the great question of
experimental communication with discarnate or unincarnate spirits.
As to the possible achievement of this last he professes himself to
be quite open to conviction (for he is definitely a " Spiritualist," 1
) )
but at present unconvinced.
The following quotation from the Preface will give a sufficiently
clear indication of the author's position :
"Les faits que j'ai pu etudier d'un peu pres m'ont tous laisse
1
M. Flournoy distinguishes between " Spiritualists " (Spiritualistes), i.e. those
who believe that the soul of man survives the death of the body, and
"Spiritists" (Spirites), those who believe in the reality of the alleged experi-
mental communications with spirits. This distinction is observed in this review.
LXIV.] Review. 469
l'impression qu'en depit de certaines apparences superficielles, . . .
c'est se tromper lourdement que d'attribuer aux Esprits des
morts, aux desincarnes, comme on les appelle, les curieux pheno-
menes que presentent les mediums.
" La plupart de ces phenomenes s'expliquent facilement et
sans r6sidu par des processus inherents aux mediums eux-
memes et a leur entourage. L'etat de passivite ou de laisser-
aller, l'abdication de la personnalite normale, le relachement
du controle volontaire sur les mouvements musculaires et les
associations d'idees, —toute cette disposition psycho-physiologique
speciale oil le sujet se place dans l'attente et le desir de com-
muniquer avec les trepasses, favorise chez-lui la dissociation
mentale et une sorte de regression infantile, de rechute a une
phase inferieure d'evolution psychique, oil son imagination
puerile se met tout naturellement a jouer au desincarne, dont
l'idee la hante, en utilisant pour ses roles les ressources de la
subconscience (complexus emotifs, souvenirs latents, tendances
instinctives ordinairement comprimees, etc.)."
The volume is divided into two Parts, of which the first has a
curious history. In 1898, M. Flournoy, having become interested
in matters psychical, addressed to the members of the Soctitt des
Etudes Psychiques (a spiritist society, of which he was not himself a
member), and to some others, a lengthy and elaborate questionnaire
concerning their psychical experiences, their conclusions as to these,
and other relevant matters. His hope was that he might discover
among the answers some good evidence of spirit intervention. The
replies received were 72 in number, and many of them of considerable
length ; but none contained such convincing proofs as he desired.
He then published in the Revue Philosophique (fevrier, 1899) an
article embodying the conclusions to which he had been led by his
investigations —conclusions which were altogether unfavourable to
the claims of the spiritists. He naturally did not publish the whole
dossier of replies, and the failure to do so then or subsequently
brought down on his head a storm of reproaches from spiritist
circles ; he was accused of wilfully suppressing much valuable evi-
dence that told against his own views. In the end, M. Flournoy
decided that honour required him to print without selection the
whole mass of these replies. He has accordingly given them to us
in the present volume (of which they fill the first 202 pages in
small print), together with some valuable observations upon them
and a restatement of his conclusions.
470 M. A. Bayfield. [part
The replies themselves will be found to possess considerable interest
—until they weary by their bulk and, to some extent, by their
sameness. They contain accounts of a good number of remarkable
phenomena, veridical dreams, etc., apparently well attested and
deserving of permanent record ; but what strikes one most forcibly
in the perusal is that the writers, almost without exception, seem
to have no knowledge whatever of the telepathic powers of the
human personality. True statements received through trance mediums
or automatic writing are credited without hesitation to the spirits
of deceased persons, while false ones are assigned, with equal
ndiveU, to malicious spirits. The following is an abridged account of
one instructive case which M. Flournoy discusses at length on
pp. 276 ff.
A certain M. Til (teacher of book-keeping, aged 48), a man
in excellent health and of a genial and kindly nature, attempted
automatic writing, and at once succeeded. A continuance of
the writing on the following days greatly excited him ; he was
obsessed by grapho-motor impulses, even at night, and would
write in the air with his finger if he had no pencil. On the
fourth day, in answer to questions about the careers of his
children, the script made vague and disquieting insinuations
against his son Edouard (who was employed in a business office),
and ended with the formal accusation that Edouard had stolen
his employer's cigarettes, and received a letter of dismissal.
Further script, obtained the same afternoon, urged M. Til to
go at once to see his son's employer. He went, but the employer
was out. The chief clerk, however, gave an excellent report
of the young man. While the clerk was speaking, M. Til's
finger wrote in the air, " Je suis navre de la duplicite de cet
homme." The employer then arrives, and completely reassures
the distressed father as to his son's conduct, but had hardly
done so when M. Til's finger wrote, "Je t'ai trompe, Michel,
pardonne-moi
!
"
This case donne a penser. Not a few of us have hitherto been
the more disposed to accept as genuine various spirit impersonations
and messages which have come under our notice because we found
it hard to believe the subliminal self capable of such positively
cruel deceptions as must, in the alternative, be laid to its charge in
certain cases. But in this instance we find M. Til's subliminal self
—
for there is no ground for supposing we are concerned with any
external influence whatever—pouring forth, with all the devilry of
LXIV.] Revietv. 471
a "Sally Beauchamp," a series of circumstantial lies specially calcu-
lated to wound the father in perhaps his tenderest point ;
—" any-
thing to give pain," as Michael Finsbury said. And when at last
the game is up, it makes an airy admission of guilt, with no hint
either of shame or regret. My own experience furnishes a parallel
of similar effrontery. In the course of some table-tilting experiments
made by Miss Verrall and myself, the table, which had professed to
be inspired by " the sub. of both,'' told us a short story, with
names, addresses, etc., which was easily discovered to be false. When
pressed to justify this at a subsequent sitting, it coolly replied,
"When I do not know, I draw upon my imagination." One may
attempt to minimise the importance of M. Til's case by saying
that it finds its analogy in the absurdities and villainies of dreams,
in which the moral sense and the normal control of the will are
in abeyance, but by what criterion can we exclude from the same
category any of our automatic scripts, or any of the impersonations
and communications of the entranced personalities of Mrs. Piper and
Mrs. Thompson ? No less than in our own cases M. Til's script
exhibits purpose and design, and the purpose is inexcusably naughty.
The conclusion seems to be that we can no longer set a limit to the
possible vagaries of the subliminal self ; it is largely irresponsible
and is apparently capable de tout !
The Second Part of the volume is occupied with " Observations
diverses." There is an introductory chapter on "Science et Me'ta-
jisychique," in which the author discusses incidentally Professor
Richet's experiences at the Villa Carmen in Algiers, and the storm
raised in the scientific world by his temerity in publishing them. A
highly appreciative chapter is devoted to "F. W. H. Myers et la Psychohgie
subliminale." While he has nothing but admiration for Myers's great
and illuminating synthesis, M. Flournoy is at present unable to
follow him in his conviction that he had held communication with
the spirit world.
"II faut bien distinguer, clans l'ceuvre de Myers, la creation
de la psychologie subliminale, et le systeme philosophico-religieux
qu'il pretendait en tirer. . . .
" Si les decouvertes futures viennent a confirmer sa these de
l'intervention empiriquement verifiable des desincarnes dans la
trame physique ou psychologique de notre monde phenomenal,
alors son nom s'inscrira au livre d'or des grands initiateurs, et,
joint a ceux de Copernic et de Darwin, il
y compl^tera la triade
472 M. A. Bayfield. [part
des genies ayant le plus profondement revolutionne la pensee
scientifique dans l'ordre cosmologique, biologique, psychologique."
If the contrary should happen, continues M. Flournoy, —if
one should have taken for "des revelations d'outre-tombe
ce qui n'etait en realite que jeux enfantins, ou plaisanteries
macabres, de consciences subliminales tres incarnees et plus
ou moins perverties ;
si, en un mot, il fallait definitivement
renoncer, non point a la survivance (qui est une toute autre
affaire), mais a la demonstration scientifique de la survivance,
alors ce serait l'effondrement du but vers lequel Myers avait
fait converger tous ses efforts, et l'idee dominante de sa carriere
n'aurait ete qu'une utopie.
" Mais n'oublions pas que, dans ce cas encore, son ceuvre pro-
prement scientifique, bien loin de se trouver ruinee, subsisterait
intacte, et meme d'une solidite d'autant plus evidente que c'est
precisement en s'appuyant sur elle qu'on aurait fini par tirer
les choses au clair."
Valuable and interesting chapters follow, on " Des Esprits trompeurs,"
"Des Esprits bienfaisants," " Cryptomndsie," and " Le Reve pro-
phdtique de Mine. Buscarlet." This dream is of an extraordinary
nature, and as it is probably new to readers of our Proceedings, I
append an abridged account of it here, omitting much, but giving
the essential and verified points.
Mme. Buscarlet returned to Geneva in August, 1883, after
being for three years governess to the two little daughters of
Mme. Moratief at Kasan in Russia. At Kasan she had made the
acquaintance of two friends (amongst others) of Mme. Moratief
;
these were Mile. Olga Popoi and Mme. Nitchinof. Mme.
Nitchinof was headmistress of the Insiitut Imperial at Kasan,
—
1
a school which Mme. Moratief's daughters began to attend
after Mme. Buscarlet's departure, —and was very intimate with
Mme. Moratief. On Dec. 22, 1883 (Dec. 10, O.S.) Mme. Buscarlet
wrote a letter to Mme. Moratief, but apparently did not post
it for two days, for M. Flournoy, —who has seen both the
letter and its envelope—states that the latter bears the Geneva
post-mark of Dec. 24, and (together with other Russian post-
marks) that of " Kasan 20. xii. 83." Thus, according to the
Russian calendar (O.S.), it left Geneva on Dec. 12, and reached
Kasan on Dec. 20, taking eight days for the journey. The letter,
which is written in French, opens with about a page of Christ-
LXIV.] Review. 473
mas greetings, and then goes on as follows :
—" Cette nuit, j'ai
fait un drole de reve, que je veux vous raconter, non que j'y
attache une importance quelconque, mais seulement parce que
c'est drole. Vous et moi etions sur un chemin, dans la cam-
pagne, lorsque passa devant nous une voiture d'ou sortit une
voix qui vous appela. Arrivees pres de la voiture, nous vimes
Mile. Olga Popoi 1
couchee en travers, vetue de blanc avec
un bonnet garni de rubans jaunes. 2
Elle vous dit : Je vous ai
appelie pour vous dire que Mme. Nitchinof quitte Vlnstitut le 17.
Puis la voiture continua de rouler. Que les reves sont parfois
burlesques !
" The remaining two pages of the letter deal with
other subjects.
Now for what happened at Kasan. In a letter dated Kasan,
Dec. 20 [O.S.]—the day on which the Geneva letter arrived
—
M. Moratief wrote to Mme. Buscarlet that he and his wife had
dined at Mme. Nitchinof's house on the 13th [i.e. the day
after the posting of Mme. B.'s letter]. After dinner Mme. N.
felt unwell, but a doctor, who arrived immediately, diagnosed
nothing more than "une simple et legere angine." On the
14th and 15th the doctors (three in number) found nothing
alarming, and only on the morning of the 16th did scarlet fever
declare itself. [There appears to have been also diphtheria.]
At 5.0 p.m. of that day the patient could hardly speak, and she
died at 11.45 p.m. the same night. For fear of infection, the
body was removed from the school to a neighbouring chapel
at 2.0 a.m. on the 17th.
There are also letters from two other people living at Kasan
which confirm these facts.
Thus the dream is exactly fulfilled, and the use of the peculiar
word quitte is seen to be precisely adapted to the circumstances.
There was no question of Mme. N.'s dismissal or of her resigna-
tion of her post. She had been established at Kasan for many
years, with all her children, and never left it—nor was likely
to leave it —during the Christmas holidays. M. Flournoy has
1
In 1901 —when M. Flournoy interviewed her—Mme. Buscarlet was alto-
gether unable to explain the intrusion of Mile. Popoi dans cette galere ; she
could not recall that this lady (who appears to have been alive at the time
of the dream) was in any way concerned with the actual occurrences.
2
Mme. B. had seen in Russia the corpse of a lady similarly dressed. The
cap was white, as it was also in the dream, according to Mme. B.'s verbal
statement to M. Flournoy.
474 M. A. Bayfield. [part
investigated the case thoroughly, and is convinced that there
is in it neither collusion nor fraud. He would explain the
dream as a telepathic communication [through Mile. Popo'i?]
from Mme. Nitchinof herself: her subliminal consciousness was
fully aware, as early as Dec. 9 (O.S.) of all that was to happen in
this strange tragedy, even to the extraordinary detail of the
body's immediate removal in the early hours of the 17th, some
two hours after death. This may be so, —or it may not ; but
one certainty, at any rate, emerges from this remarkable case,
and that is, that a mortal (be it Mme. Buscarlet or both she
and Mme. Nitchinof) may have prophetic knowledge—a thing
which, in more important connexions, some have found reason
to doubt.
M. Flournoy next turns to physical phenomena. A chapter is
given to Eusapia Palladino, and another to other mediums. Of the
genuineness of some physical phenomena—and he has himself wit-
nessed many—he has no doubt, and he offers theories of the possible
methods of their production.
Of Eusapia he writes :
—
" En ce qui me concerne, je dois dire que les ph6nomenes palla-
diniens—si etranges qu'ils paraissent an premier abord et si
inadmissibles qu'ils soient forcement pour qui n'en a pas vu
lui-meme ou n'est pas an courant de la litterature du sujet
—
sont aujourd'hui hors de doute a mes yeux (autant qu'une
question de fait peut l'etre), tant est considerable le poids des
preuves qu'ils ont en leur faveur."
Among the matters treated in the remainder of the book, reference
is made to the mediumship of Mrs. Piper—which M. Flournoy
recognises to be of a truly remarkable character—and to the
cross-correspondences, but both subjects are treated with disappoint-
ing brevity. In each case spirit-intervention is rejected as " not
proven." Those, however, who lean to the spiritistic view of Mrs.
Piper's impersonations and utterances (and the cross-correspondences
are closely bound up with these) will feel satisfaction in finding
that when M. Flournoy attempts to formulate a telepathic theory,
he falters and speaks in a tone of uncertainty not to be found else-
where in the book. Certainly one who, like myself, is torn both
ways in a state of absolute indecision is not much helped by the
following suggestion :
LXIV.] Review. 475
[How are we to explain the impersonations and the knowledge
shown of the deceased person, if it is not by his actual inter-
vention ?]
" A moins cependant (il faut penser a tout) que
le sosie partiel du defunt, que l'un des assistants aurait transmis
telepathiquement a Mme. Piper, ne se fut ensuite complete
graduellement chez celle-ci, en attirant a lui, par quelque
obscure affinite psychologique, les autres sosies fragmentaires
epars chez d'autres personnes."
We miss here the sure touch that we find elsewhere in the volume
;
and we miss it, as I think, because M. Flournoy is fully alive to the
crucial difficulty of the telepathic hypothesis, —viz. that it seems to
demand the assumption of an incredible selective power as part of
the telepathic faculty. Apparently the medium's mind must be
able to range the world, and pick out of the million memories of
one selected individual just the memory or memories required.
" Mais il y a des faits plus complexes, oil il faudrait admettre
une telepathie active et selective, par laquelle l'imagination hyp-
noide de Mme. Piper s'en irait choisir, chez beaucoup de vivants
presents ou absents, les souvenirs, concernant precisement tel
desincarne, et les reunirait de facon a reconstituer une image
totale plus complete qu'aucune des images partielles qu'il a
laissees chez les diverses personnes de sa connaissance."
With regard to the cross-correspondences in particular, the author's
last words—coloured, I fear, with a faint tinge of irony—are these :
—
" Souhaitons que Myers ou d'autres Esprits, s'ils sont vraiment
en jeu en tout cela, nous revelent bientot le moyen d'eliminer
de leurs apparentes manifestations Taction combinee de l'imagina-
tion subliminale, dont on n'a que trop souvent deja constate la
malice, et de la telepathie des vivants, dont on ne connait pas
du tout les limites. Et en attendant, laissons la porte ouverte
a toutes les possibilites de l'avenir !
"
The last published Part of our Proceedings (LXIII.) had not been
issued when M. Flournoy's book appeared, and he was therefore
unacquainted with its contents. It would be interesting to learn
whether they have in any degree modified his judgement. Some of
these newly published incidents are certainly of a very remarkable
character, and have —it must be confessed —so seriously increased
the difficulties of the telepathic hypothesis that, if I may speak for
myself, the point at issue has now come to be this : —is it more
476 M. A. Bayfield. [part lxiv.]
reasonable to attribute the production of certain phenomena solely
to the subliminal self, making an assumption as to its powers which
really goes beyond the evidence,—or to assign some share in the
phenomena to the intervention of discarnate spirits, to which
much of the evidence seems most naturally to point 1 When the
matter is stated thus, the position of one who remains provisionally
a " telepathist " seems somewhat paradoxical, but future research
might prove it to have been justified. Agreement between the
holders of the two opposed views may, however, never be reached
;
for conviction, one way or the other, will probably not be attained
by the reasoning powers alone, and the belief which supplies a
felt need is commonly the one which we embrace. This, indeed,
M. Flournoy has found to be frequently the case with convinced
spiritists. Though the evidence for spirit communication is still,
as he resolutely maintains, inadequate, and though they have not
examined the evidence critically for themselves, many spiritists
believe that proof of such communication exists somewhere, and they
adopt spiritism as a faith because it gives them a desired assurance
of that future life to which they instinctively look forward.
On the other hand, even though " Science " should to-morrow
stamp the spiritist view with its official approval, what would this
approval be worth ? It would only show that on the authority of a
sufficient number of responsible thinking men this theory might be
generally adopted as being for the moment and according to present
knowledge the one which best accounted for the observed facts.
Absolute certainty would be as far off as ever, for time might reverse
the verdict. It would all still be a matter of faith ; and a bare belief
in the soul's survival of the body's dissolution would rest on evidence
in no way superior (to say the least) to the credentials of the Christian
Faith, which—if I may say it here without indiscretion—modern
psychical research has, in my own humble judgement, only
strengthened.
M. A. Bayfield.
FORMER PRESIDENTS OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., -----
Professor Henry Sidgwick, ------
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., -
Professor William James, Harvard, U.S.A.,
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., ------
Frederic W. H. Myers, -------
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., -
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., -----
Professor Charles Richet,- - - -
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, -
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, - - - - -
H. Arthur Smith, - -
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOE 1911.
1885-1887.
1888-1892.
1893.
1894-1895.
1896-1899.
1900.
1901-1903.
1904.
1905.
1906-1907.
1908-1909.
1910.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Rev. Canon W. Boyd Car-
penter, D.D.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S.
COUNCIL
W. W. Baggally.
The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
The Earl of Crawford and Bal
CARRES, K.T., F.R.S.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
The Rev. A. T. Fryer.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, M.Sc, M.B.
PRESIDENT.
Andrew Lang, D.Litt.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
George B. Dorr.
John R. Hollond.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., D.Sc.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.
J. G. Piddington.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
:
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Litt.D.
H. Arthur Smith.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
Y. J. Woolley.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
HON. TREASURER.
H. Arthur Smith, 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
HON. SECRETARIES.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 1 Grange Terrace, Cambridge.
The Hon. Everard Feilding, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
RESEARCH OFFICER AND EDITOR.
Miss Alice Johnson, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
SECRETARY AND S UB-EDITOR,
Miss I. Newton, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
ASSISTANT RESEARCH OFFICER.
Miss H. de G. Verrall, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
HON. SECRETARY FOR RUSSIA.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, 5 Panteleimonovskaia, St. Petersburg.
AGENT FOR AMERICA.
The W. B. Clarke Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
2H
478 Members and Associates.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
December, 1911.
President—Andrew Lang, D.Litt.
Vice-Presidents .
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., 4 Carlton Gardens,
London, S.W.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., 6 De Vesci Terrace, Kingstown,
Co. Dublin.
The Rev. Canon W. Boyd-Carpenter, D.D., The Cloisters, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., 7 Kensington Park Gardens,
London, W.
George B. Dorr, 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
John R. Hollond, 41 Princes Gate, London, S.W.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, 519 West 149th Street, New York City.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., The University, Birmingham.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., D. Sc., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
Honorary Members.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., 6 De Vesci Terrace, Kingstown,.
Co. Dublin.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., 7 Kensington Park Gardens,
London, W.
Madame Curie, Faculte des Sciences de Paris, Laboratoire de
Physique Generale, 12 rue Cuvier, Paris.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, F.R.S., Holm Leigh, West Road, Cam-
bridge .
Alfred Russel Wallace, O.M., F.R.S., Broadstone, Wimborne, Dorset.
Members and Associates. 479
Corresponding Members.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa 906, Rio Janeiro.
Professor H. Beaunis, Villa Printemps, Le Cannet (Alpes Mari-
times), France.
Professor H. Bergson, Villa Montmorency, 18 Avenue des Tilleuls,
Paris.
Professor Bernheim, Hopital Civil, Nancy, France.
Professor H. P. Bowditch, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
President Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York,
U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex, 6 Rue du Bellay, Paris.
Dr. Max Dessoir, 31 Goltz Strasse, Berlin, W.
Professor Th. Flournoy, The University, Geneva.
Professor Dr. Freud, Berggasse 19, Vienna, Austria.
President Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Mrs. William James, 95 Irving Street, Cambridge, Mass, U.S.A.
Professor Pierre Janet, 54 Rue de Varenne, VIIe
, Paris.
Dr. Wm. Romaine Newbold, Ph.D., Univ. of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Dr. Morton Prince, 458 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Th. Ribot, Office of the Revue Philosophique, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15 Rue de l'Universite, Paris.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 2 Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Honorary Associates.
Alrutz, Dr. Sydney, Upsala, Sweden.
Bayfield, Rev. M. A., The Rectory, Hertingfordbury, Hertford.
Edmunds, Miss L., Wood River Junction, R.I., U.S.A.
Eeden, Frederik van, M.D., Walden, Bussum, Holland.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Regio Institute Tecnico e Nautico,
Venice.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., St. James' Vicarage, Walthamstow, London, N.E.
Grubb, Edward, 3 George Street, Croydon, Surrey.
Ochorowicz, Dr. J., Wista, Silesia.
Reed, Miss E. M., 2 Gledhow Gardens, S. Kensington, London, W.
Robertson, Miss N., 2 Westlea Terrace, Buxted, Sussex.
Sage, M., 33 Rue de Coulmiers, XIVe
Arrt., Paris.
480 Members and Associates.
Members and Associates.
An asterisk is prefixed to the names of Members.
Abbott, E. J. W., Moabund Tea Co., Moabund, Gatonga, Assam,
India.
Abernethy, Mrs., 10 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Acland-Hood, Rev. R., Rodsall, Sliackleford, nr. Godalming, Surrey.
Adamowska, Madame S., 163 Walnut Street, Brookline, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Adams, Mrs., 4 Brookside, Cambridge.
Adamson, Rev. H., P.O. Box 241, Ckristchurch, New Zealand.
Adderley, Hon. and Rev. James, Saltley, Birmingham.
Addison, Miss Ina, c/o Mrs. H. J. Wilson, 12 Cheyne Court,
London, S.W.
Agelasto, Michael A., Box 485, Norfolk, Va., U.S.A.
Albree, John, Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Alexander, Professor S., Victoria University, Manchester.
Allan, Percy, M.D., Crogdene, Croham Road, South Croydon,
Surrey.
Allen, B. M., 14 Gainsborough Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Allen, George B., Free Chase, Warninglid, Sussex.
Allen, Professor H. J., The Presidency College, Madras, India.
Allen, William, M.B., 4 Newton Terrace, Charing Cross, Glasgow.
Alston, Mrs. Rowland, Turvey Abbey, Turvey, Beds.
Ames, Miss Evelyn, 355 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Anderson, Mrs., Brackenboro', Bramhall, Cheshire.
Anderson, Major A. T., R.F.A., 55a Dilkusha, U,P., India.
Anderson, F., Medical Director, U.S. Naval Examining Board,
Navy Yard, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Anderson, Miss Ruth, 14 Coleherne Court, Earl's Court, London,
S.W.
*Antrobus, Miss Lily, 69 Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
Archer, Basil, Highfield, The Chase, Coulsden, Surrey.
Armitstead, G. H.
Armstrong, Charles W., Caixa 196, S. Paulo, Brazil.
Arnold, Major Ernest C, Junior United Service Club, London, S.W.
Askew, Claude, Botches, Wivelsfield Green, Sussex.
Askew, Mrs. Claude, Botches, Wivelsfield Green, Sussex.
Aspinwall, Rev. C. F., Tregenna, Decoy Road, Newton Abbot, Devon.
*Assheton-Smith, Lady, Vaynol, Bangor, N. Wales.
Members and Associates. 481
*Astley, H. D., Benham-Valence, Newbury, Berks.
Astley, Miss, Cowrie Haven, Poundstock, nr. Bude, N. Cornwall.
*Astor, William Waldorf, Cliveden, near Maidenhead.
Atkinson, Mrs., 224 Hereford Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Atwater, Horace G., Norfolk, St. Lawrence Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
*Auden, Harold A., 13 Bronghton Drive, Grassendale, Liverpool.
* Austen, Harold W. C, M.D., 2 Freeland Road, Ealing, London, W.
Bacon, Mrs. Sewell, Highground, Waterford Rd., Oxton, Cheshire.
""Baggally, Wortley W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
Baggally, Mrs. W. W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
Baikie, W. S., Southend, Stromness, Orkney Islands.
*Bailey, Cyril, Balliol College, Oxford.
Bailey, Hon. Mabel, Hay Castle, Hay, by Hereford.
Baker, Alfred L., Lake Forest, Illinois, U.S.A.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, 161 Westbourne Grove, London, W.
Baker, Miss Mabel, St. John's Schools, Eton, Windsor.
*Balfour, Miss, 4 Carlton Gardens, London, S.W.
*Balfour, Right Hon. A. J., M.P., F.R.S., 4 Carlton Gardens,
London, S.W.
Balfour, F. C. C, 32 Addison Road, Kensington, London, W.
*Balfour, Right Hon. G. W., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Ballard, Rev. Frank, D.D., Langbar, Harrogate.
*Bancroft, Miss M., Haddonfield Training School, Haddonfield,
N.J., U.S.A.
Barclay, Rev. Charles W., The Vicarage, Hertford Heath, Hertford.
^Barclay, Edwyn, 10 Vicarage Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
*Barker, Mrs. C. F., 3942 Ellis Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Barkley, Dr. M., Box 162, Carlyle, 111., U.S.A.
Barkworth, Mrs., Nash Court, Marnhull, Dorset.
Barlow, Miss Jane, D.Litt., The Cottage, Raheny, Co. Dublin.
*Barlow, Rev. J. W., The Cottage, Raheny, Co. Dublin.
*Barnes, C. T., P.O. Box 1199, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Barnes, Rev. Walter W., 92 Warwick Gardens, Kensington,
London, W.
Barnett, Burgess, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London, E.C.
Barritt, E. H., J. P., Warrior House, 26 Beaconsfield Avenue,
Colchester.
Barrows, Miss, Hampton School, Malvern P.O., Jamaica, B.W.I.
Barrows, C. M., 1121 Nelson Ave., New York City, U.S.A.
Baruch, Edgar, Rooms 805-6 Wright & Callender Building, Los
Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
482 Members and Associates.
*Batchelor, E., I.C.S., Bilaspur, Central Provinces, India.
Bath, Hubert, 7d Grove End Road, St. John's Wood, London, N.W.
"*Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring, Herts.
*Bayley, Weston D., M.D., 1524 Chesnut Street, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
Baynes, W. E. C, Turf Club, Cairo, Egypt,
Bean, Rev. Edwin, The School House, Brentwood, Essex.
*Beattie, Ivor Hamilton, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
^'Bedford, Adeline Duchess of, Chenies, Rickmansworth.
Beeching, Miss Nelly, The Priory, Tonbridge.
*Behrens, Captain Clive, Swinton Grange, Malton, Yorks.
Behrens, Noel Edward.
Belaribi, Mrs., Bartlands, Holt Heath, Worcestershire.
*Bell, Miss A. E., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W.
Bell, Miss Alison H., 11 St. Luke's Road, Westbourne Park, London, W.
Bennett, Ernest N., Hertford College, Oxford.
Benson, Miss A. M., M.D., Cama Hospital, Bombay, India.
*Benson, Mrs., Tremans, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
Benson, Arthur C, C.V.O., The Old Lodge, Magdalene College,
Cambridge.
Bentham, Mrs., 30 Lexham Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Benton, Dr. J. R., Gainesville, Florida, U.S.A.
*Berens, Rev. Randolph, 14 Princes Gardens, London, S.W.
*Berens, Mrs. Richard, Marlings Hall, Chislehurst.
Bergen, Axel von, Abbey Road, Darlington, Durham.
*Bergheim, John S., Belsize Court, Belsize Park, London, N.W.
Berry, Mrs. Arthur, Meadowside, Grantchester Meadows, Cam-
bridge.
*Berry, Mrs. F. M. Dickinson, M.D., 21 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Best, Mrs., Merifield, Exmouth, Devon.
Best, Robert, 146 Hamstead Road, Handsworth, Birmingham.
Bethell, Mrs., 23 Shooters Hill Road, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131 Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9 Rutland Gate, London, S.W.
Bevan, Rev. W. O., Richmond Hill, Galle, Ceylon.
*Beveridge, Erskine, LL.D., St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Beverley, Mrs., Nascot Lodge, Watford, Herts.
Bickersteth, Miss E. F., West Lodge, Ripon.
Bicknell, Clarence, Villa Rosa, Bordighera, Italy.
Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge.
*Bigg, Miss Louisa, 2 York Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Members and Associates. 483
*Binney, Rev. Maximilian F. B., The Vicarage, Richmond, Surrey.
Birley, Miss Florence H., Goldsmiths' College, New Cross, London, S.E.
Bishop, Edward Thomas, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
Blackburn, E. M., Little Thakeham, Pulborough, Sussex.
Blackburne, F. E. I., Hazel Hall, Gomshall, Surrey.
Blacklock, Miss C, 52 Lower Sloane Street, London, S.W.
Blackmail, J. F., R.N., 47 Grafton Road, Acton, London, W.
Blackwood, Miss.
Blane, Miss Edith H., Winkfield Cottage, Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Blathwayt, W., Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
*Bligh, Stanley M., 28 Grosvenor Road, Westminster, London, S.W.
Blodgett, Mrs. C, 272 Walnut Street, Holyoke, Mass., U.S.A.
Bloemfontein, The Right Rev. the Bishop of, Bishop's Lodge,
Bloemfontein, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Bloxsome, C. H., The Croft House, Fairford, Gloucestershire.
Bodley, Mrs., 41 Gloucester Place, Portman Square, London, W.
Bois, H. G., c/o Messrs. J. M. Robertson & Co., Colombo, Ceylon.
*Bond, Frederick Bligh, 16 Brook Street, Bath.
Boothroyd, A. E., 12 Temple Fortune Lane, Hampstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W.
Both-Hendriksen, Miss Louise, 150 Lefferts Place, Brooklyn, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
Bouwens, B. G., East-Moor House, Harpenden, Herts.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., rue Maze, St. Martin's, Guernsey.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., Careys, Brockenhurst, Hants.
-*Bowditch, C. P., 28 State Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Bowen, Miss Anna C, 210 E. Main Street, Batavia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Bower, James Garton, Junr., Earlham House, Norwich.
Bowley, Miss S. M., 29 Croftdown Road, Highgate Road, London, N.W.
Box, Alfred Marshall, Woodlands, Magrath Avenue, Cambridge.
Boys, Major R. H. H., D.S.O., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16 Charing
Cross, London, S.W.
Bozzano, E., Salita Emanuele Cavallo, N. 92, Genoa.
Brabrook, Sir Edward W., C.B., 178 Bedford Hill, Balham,
London, S.W.
^Bradley, Miss A. A., Hingham, Mass., U.S.A.
*Bradley, Arthur C, Newport, New Hampshire, U.S.A.
Bradley, Professor A. C, 9 Edwardes Square, Kensington,
London, W.
Bradley, F. H., Merton College, Oxford.
Bramly, Mrs. Jennings, Castel di Poggio, Fiesole, Italy.
484 Members and Associates.
Bramston, Miss M., Kingshot, St. Cross, Winchester.
*Bramwell, J. Milne, M.B., 17 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Brandreth, Henry S., Haddon House, Weybridge.
*Brandt, Rudolph E., 4 Fenchurch Avenue, London, E.G.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brazier-Creagh, Mrs., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W.
Brewster, Bertram, 39 Woodville Gardens, Ealing, London, W.
Briantchaninoff, Alexandre N., 11 Grand Monetnaia, St. Peters-
burg, Russia.
Bristowe, The Hon. Mr. Justice, Supreme Court, Pretoria, South
Africa.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A.
Brooke, Colonel C. K., Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W.
Brooke, Miss Emma F., 30 Carlingford Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W.
Brooke, E. G. de C, Brushford, Dulverton, Devonshire.
*Brooke, Lady, Colebrooke, Brookeborough,Co. Fei*managh, Ireland.
*Brookes-Smith, Mrs., The Lodge, Hurst Green, Sussex.
Brooks, George L., 903 West Copper Ave., Albuquerque, N.M.,
U.S.A.
*Brown, B. G., 46 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W.
Brown, Dr. Gustavus R., 900 14th Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Brown, Miss May, 62 Carlisle Mansions, Westminster, London, S.W.
Brown, Mrs. Robert, Tankerville, Boscombe, Hants.
Browne, Professor Edward G., M.B., Pembroke College, Cam-
bridge.
Browne, J. Stark, The Red House, Mount Avenue, Ealing,
London, W.
Browning, Oscar, 31 Dorset Road, Bexhill.
Brownrigg, Lady, 55 Zaimsku Cho, Azabu, Tokio, Japan.
Bruce, James, Craik, Sask., Canada.
Brunwin, A. D., M.D., Haverings, Rayne, Braintree, Essex.
Brush, W. Franklin, 500 5th Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Bryan, C. A. Douglas, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Spa House, Humber-
stone Road, Leicester.
Bryce, Miss Kathleen, 15 Campden Hill Square, London, W.
Bryden, F. W. A., M.R.C.S., The Priory, Godalming, Surrey.
Bryson, Archibald, Nenthoxme, Ayr.
*Bubb, Henry, J. P., Ullenwood, near Cheltenham.
Buchanan, A. G., F.R.C.S., 75 Warwick Square, London, S.W.
Members and Associates. 485
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Buller, Professor A. H. Reginald, University of Manitoba, Winni-
peg, Canada.
*Bulley, Mrs. Arthur, Ness, Neston, Cheshire.
Bullock, A. H., 24 Goldsmith Avenue, Acton, London, W.
*Bullough, Edward, 6 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
*Bullough, Mrs. Edward, 6 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Burghard, Mrs., 86 Harley Street, London, W.
Burnham, Mrs., Staindrop Lodge, Chapeltown, Sheffield.
Burns, Nesbitt, M.B., The Lodge, Highbridge, Somerset.
Bury, Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
Bury, Mrs. Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
*Bushell, Rev. W. D., Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Butcher, W. Deane, M.R.C.S., Holyrood, Cleveland Road, Ealing,
London, W.
*Butler, Mrs.
Butler, Mrs. Charles, Syon House, East Budleigh, Devon.
*Butt, Lady, 9 Albert Hall Mansions, Kensington Gore, London,
S.W.
Buttemer, Robert Wm., St. Mary's, Godalming, Surrey.
Butterworth, Miss A. M., The Bungalow, West Kirby, Cheshire.
Cade, F. J., Mosborough, The Park, Cheltenham.
Cadell, Mrs. Lewis, Brae Lodge, Murrayfield, Edinburgh.
Cadenas, Delgado F., Caracas, Venezuela, S. America.
Calderon, George Leslie, Heathland Lodge, Hampstead Heath,
London, N.W.
^Campbell, Lady Archibald, Coombe Hill Farm, Kingston-on-
Thames, Surrey.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ormidale, Colintraive, Argyllshire.
Campbell, Mrs., Arduaine, Lochgilphead, N.B.
Campbell, Captain N. D. H., 7th Dragoon Guards, Trimulgherry,
Deccan, India.
Campbell, Rev. R. J., King's Weigh House Parsonage, Thomas
Street, Grosvenor Square, London, W.
Campbell-Lang, Miss, c/o Professor Brunton, LL.B., 180 Hope
Street, Glasgow.
Candler, H. A. W., 37 Commercial Road, London, E.
Capper, Thomas, Hasheton, Mill Hill, London, N.W.
Capron, Mrs. Cynthia J., 340 S. Galena Avenue, Freeport, 111.,
U.S.A.
486 Members and Associates.
Carey, Mrs. A. A., 50 Fayerweather Street, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Carlisle, Mrs. A. M., 12 Hyde Park Place, London, W.
Carnahan, Charles Tingley, 951 Logan Avenue, Denver, Colo.,
U.S.A.
"^Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13 Berkeley Square, London, W.
Carnsew, Miss Rosamund, Burton Common, Petworth, Sussex.
Carpenter, Mrs., Withleigh, Shoot-up-Hill, Brondesbury, London,
N.W.
Carpenter, Miss A. C, 40 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Carr, Lucien, 163 Brattle Street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Carrington, Hereward, 130 West 34th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
"-Carter, Mrs., The Anchorage, Northchurch, nr. Berkhampsted.
Case, Miss A. J., 26 Denning Road, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Casey, Hon. J. J., C.M.G., K.C., Ibrickane, Acland Street, St.
Kilda, Melbourne, Australia.
Cassatt, Miss Mary, 10 Rue de Marignan, Paris.
Cathels, Rev. David, The Manse, Hawick, Scotland.
Gather, Miss A. S., York House, 3 Bedford Place, Russell Square,
London, W.C.
Cautley, Mrs. R. K.
*Cave, Charles, J. P., Ditcham Park, Petersfield, Hants.
*Cave, Lady, Stoneleigh House, Clifton Park, Bristol.
Cayley, H. S., Box 128, Vancouver, B.C., Canada.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Alford House, Alford, Somerset.
"
:
'Chambers, John, Mokopeka, Hastings, Hawkes Bay, New
Zealand.
Chance, Clinton F., Lawnside, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Charlton, Miss Frances M., 23 Kensington Square, London, W.
Chase, G. N., Beaumont, Calif., U.S.A.
Chatterjee, A. K., Deputy Magistrate and Collector, P.O. Comilla,
District Tippura, India.
Chattock, Professor Arthur P., 24 Royal York Crescent, Clifton,
Bristol.
Cheney, Dr. Frederick E., 126 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
Cheyne, C. A., c/o Arthur Lomax, Esq., Heilbron, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Childe-Pemberton, Miss A. H., 12 Portman Street, Portman
Square, London, W.
Members and Associates. 487
Childers, Miss F. I., Cranbourne Grange, Wonston, Micheldever,
Hants.
Childers, Miss S. R., 12 Sloane Terrace Mansions, Sloane Street,
London, S.W.
Chitty, Hubert, M.B., F.R.C.S., etc., Royal Infirmary, Bristol.
Chubb, Mrs. C. A., Oldfield, Parkside Avenue, Wimbledon
Common, London, S.W.
Clapham, Mrs. H. H., 267 South 8th Street, San Jose, Calif.,
U.S.A.
Clapham, J. H., King's College, Cambridge.
Clapp, Mrs. Emma A., 5310 Lexington Avenue, Chicago, 111.,
U.S.A.
Clapp, James, Cromwell Lodge, Feltham, Middlesex.
Clarke, Ronald Stanley, Trobridge House, Crediton, Devon.
*Clavering, Miss, New County Club, 21 Hanover Square, London, W.
*Clawson, G. W.
Clive, Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Closson, Miss Olivia T., 1359 Columbia Road, Washington, D.C.,
U.S.A.
Coates, C. J., The Thornton Woollen Mill Co., St. Petersburg.
Cochrane, Miss Jessie, 34a Via Porta Pinciana, Rome, Italy.
Cockle, Rev. Francis T., The Rectory, Swinford, Co. Mayo, Ireland.
Coe, Miss M. A., 96 Chestnut Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Coggin, Rev. F. E., White Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
Coghill, Colonel Kendal, C.B., Castle Townshend, nr. Skibbereen,
Co. Cork, Ireland.
*Coit, Stanton, Ph.D., 30 Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
*Cole, Arthur, 36 Baldry Gardens, Streatkam, London, S.W.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Collison, Harry, 1 Temple Gardens, London, E.C.
Colquhoun, Daniel, M.D., High Street, Duneclin, New Zealand.
Colthurst, George O., The Castle, Blarney, Co. Cork, Ireland.
Compton, Lady Alwyne, 7 Balfour Place, London, W.
Connor, Rev. David, The Knowe Manse, Bewcastle, East Cumber-
land.
^Constable, F. C, Wick Court, near Bristol.
Conway, Lady, Allington Castle, Maidstone, Kent.
Cook, Mrs. Frank H., Barnett Hill, Wonersh, Guildford, Surrey.
Cooke, Miss Mabel, Dana Hall School, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Cooper, Rev. F. W., Prestwich Rectory, Manchester.
Cooper, Rear- Admiral P. H., Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
488 Members and Associates.
*Cooper, Sir W. E., CLE., Hume Towers, Bournemouth.
Copland, Howard, Villa Copland, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Corry, Miss Lucy, Rosenheim, Croydon, Surrey.
Cort van der Linden, P. W. A., Councillor of State, Groenhove,
The Hague.
Cotesworth, Miss Lilias E., 45 Westminster Mansions, Great Smith
Street, London, S.W.
Cotterell, Miss Alice, 1g Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W.
Coupland, W. C, D.Sc, 33 Pembroke Crescent, Hove, Brighton.
Courtairld, George, Junr., The Waver, Wethersfield, Braintree,
Essex.
Courtauld, R. M., M.B., Halesowen, Hills Road, Cambridge.
*Cowan, W. H., The Crow's Nest, Fairwarp, Uckfield, Sussex.
Cowell, Miss Marion A., 2 Westbourne Square, London, W.
Cox, Mrs. Rowland, 310 West 7th Street, Plainfield, N.J., U.S.A.
Coxe, The Hon. Mr. Justice Henry R. H., c/o Messrs. Grindlay
& Co., 54 Parliament Street, London, S.W.
Coxeter, Harold, 34 Holland Park Rd., Kensington, London, W.
Coxon, Mrs. George S., Craigleith, Cheltenham.
Cozens, J. C, Brigus, Conception Bay, Newfoundland.
Craige, Wm. C, 409 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Crane, Rev. W. M., Ph.D., Richmond, Berkshire County, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Crawford and Balcarres, The Earl of, K.T., F.R.S., 2 Cavendish
Square, London, W.
Crawford, W. C, 1 Lockharton Gardens, Colinton Road, Edinburgh.
Critchley, W. A. Paget, 15 Parkside, Albert Gate, London, S.W.
Crook, A. H., Queen's College, Hong Kong.
*Crookes, Lady, 7 Kensington Park Gardens, London, W.
*Crooks, Miss Marianne, Achintorlie, Norwood, South Australia.
Crouch, H. N., AdditionalJudicial Commissioner of Sind, Karachi,
Sincl, India.
Cunard, Cyril G., The Manor House, Notgrove, Gloucestershire.
Cunningham, Colonel D.D., F.R.S., Tormount, Torquay, Devon.
Currie, Mrs., Warders, 10 Crescent Road, Wimbledon, London,
S.W.
Curtis, Atherton, 17 rue Notre Dame des Champs, Paris, France.
*Curtois, Miss Margaret A., 10 Barton Street, Westminster, Lon-
don, S.W.
Curwen, Mrs., Horncop, Heversham, Milnthorpe, Westmoreland.
Members and Associates. 489
Dakin, W. R., M.D., F.R.C.P., 8 Grosvenor Street, London, W.
Dale, Alan, 110 St. Nicholas Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
*Dale, J. Gilbert, 31 Warwick Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Dallas, Miss H. A., Innisfail, North End Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W.
*Dalton, J. H. C, M.D., The Plot, Adams Road, Cambridge.
Damant, Mrs. H. C, Lammas, Cowes, Isle of Wight.
Daniell, Mrs. Averell.
Danzas, Mile. Julia, 26 Moika, St. Petersburg.
Darbyshire, Rev. H. S., St. Margaret's Vicarage, Methley, Leeds.
D'Arcy, Rev. G. J. A., The Vicarage, Worksop, Notts.
Darton, Hugh, Beninghoe, Hertford.
*Davidson, J. Mackenzie, M.B., CM., 76 Portland Place, London, W.
Davies, Benjamin, Wilford, Chase Green Avenue, Enfield, Middle-
sex.
Davies, Mrs. G. R., c/o Miss E. M. Reynolds, 44 Egerton Crescent,
London, S.W.
Davies, Mrs., The Goodwyns, East Cosham, Hants.
*Davis, Charles, 29 Gloucester Place, Portman Square, London, W.
Davis, Mrs., 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Davis, Thomas Henry, Trelinda, St. Merryn, Padstow.
Davison, Miss Annie, Albemarle Club, 37 Dover Street, London, W.
Dawes, Miss E. A. S., Heathlands, Weybridge, Surrey.
Dawson, Lt. -Colonel Henry P., Hartlington, Biirnsall, Skipton.
Dawson, Miles M.
Day, Rev. Dr. E. H., Newton House, Belmont, Hereford.
Day, Miss Mabel K., Gershom, Reigate, Surrey.
*Dayton, Mrs. Elizabeth, Box 258, South Kaukauna, Wisconsin,
U.S.A.
Dearmer, Rev. Percy, St. Mary's Vicarage, Primrose Hill, London,
N.W.
Delanne, Gabriel, 40 Boulevard Exelmans, Paris.
Delap, Alfred D., Rosslare Harbour, Kilrane, Wexford.
De Lissa, Mrs. F., Bittacy House, Mill Hill, London, N:W.
Demming, Benj. W., 1518 State Street, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Denovan, Wm., Ventura Avenue, Ventura, Cal., U.S.A.
Densham, William, c/o M. W. T. Co., Ltd., 9 Hall Street, Chelms-
ford, Essex.
Derby, Dr. Hasket, 352 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Despard, Mrs., 2 Currie Street, Nine Elms, London. S.W.
Deverell, Francis, 8e Portman Mansions, Baker Street, London, W.
490 Members and Associates.
Devitt, Mrs. J. A., Oskaloosa, Iowa, U.S.A.
*Dewar, Rev. Peter, The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, Scotland.
Dhru, B. L., LL.B., Camp Baroda, Bombay, India.
Dickie, H. Elford, British Vice-Consulate, Kertch, Crimea, Russia.
Dickinson, Miss, Trebrea Lodge, Tintagel, Cornwall.
Dickinson, Miss A. J., 3a Clareville Grove, London, S.W., and
Poultry Court, Painswick, Gloucestershire.
Dickinson, G. Lowes, King's College, Cambridge.
Dicksee, Frank, A.R.A., Greville House, 3 Greville Place, St.
John's Wood, London, N.W.
Dill, J. F. Gordon, M.B., 6 Brunswick Place, Brighton.
*Dixon, Edward T., The Hard, Hythe, Southampton.
Dixon, Hugh N., 17 St. Matthew's Parade, Northampton.
Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, LL.B., Litt.D., 2 South Park
Terrace, Hillhead, Glasgow, W.
Doan, Professor F. C, 911 Grove Street, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Dobbie, A. W., Gawler Place, Adelaide, South Australia.
*Dodge, Miss Mary H., Warwick House, St. James's, London, S.W.
Dodge, Miss Theodora, Chipping Campden, Gloucestershire.
Doherty, J. J., LL.D., 29 Grosvenor Place, Rathmines, Co. Dublin.
Donne, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Holt & Co., 3 Whitehall Place, London,
S.W.
Dorr, George B., 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Dougall, Miss Lily, East Undercliff, Exmouth.
Douglas, Mrs., 4 Campden House Road, Kensington, London, W.
Douglas, Mrs. Charles, Auchlochan, Lesmahagow, Lanarkshire.
Douglas, Rev. Dr. G. W., Tuxedo Park, Orange County, New
York, U.S.A.
*Douglas-Pennant, Hon. Violet, 9 Cromwell Place, London, S.W.
Dowson, Mrs. W. E., Felixstowe, The Park, Nottingham.
*Doyle, Sir A. Conan, M.D., Windlesham, Crowborough, Sussex.
Doyle, Theodore, M.D., 1001 East 15th Street, Kansas City, Mo.,
U.S.A.
Drake, Mrs. A. J., 24 Bennington Street, Newton, Mass., U.S.A.
*Drew, Professor Eric, Brightnell, Cathedral, Madras, India.
Drew, Ringrose C, 8 Grove Park, Rathmines, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Drewry, Mrs. George, c/o S. Hicks, J. P., Rostherne, Upper
Colwyn Bay, N. Wales.
Duane, Russell, c/o Messrs. Brown, Shipley & Co., 123 Pall Mall,
London, S.W.
Members and Associates. 491
Duff, Miss H. A., 27 Chester Street, London, S.W.
Duggin, Mrs. Chas., 25 East 38th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Dulley, Rev. B., St. Peter's Clergy House, London Docks, E.
*Duncan, Harold M., Fairlawn, Weybridge, Surrey.
*Duncan, Mrs., Earlston, Epsom Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Dutton, Miss A., Somerdon, Sidmouth, Devon.
Dyce, Capt. Cecil, 69 Linden Gardens, Bayswater, London, W.
Dyson, Rev. W. H., Edgerton, 1a Weld Road, Birkdale, Southport.
Edelsten, Colonel John A., Heathercliffe, Frodsharn, Cheshire.
*Edge, Selwyn Francis, 14 New Burlington Street, Regent Street,
London, W.
Edie, H. S. Ker, c/o Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son, Ludgate Circus,
London, E.C.
*Elder, Frederick, 21 Cleveland Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Eldred, Fleet-Paymaster E. H., R.N., St. Ann's, Grove Road
South, Southsea, Hants.
Elliot, Miss A. I. M., Women's University Settlement, 44 Nelson
Square, Blackfriars Road, London, S.E.
Elliot, Gilbert C, Hull Place, Deal, Kent.
Elliot, Mrs. Gilbert, Kasr el Nuzha, Cairo, Egypt.
Elliott, E. T., Hawarden, Iowa, U.S.A.
Elliott, Captain W. R., Sherbrooke, Quebec.
Ellis, Herbert, 120 Regent Road, Leicester.
Emmerson, Robert, M.D., Calle Victoria 714, Chihuahua, Chih.,
Mexico
.
Emmet, Rev. C. W., West Hendred Vicarage, Steventon, Berks.
Engall, John S., 62 Goldsmith Avenue, Acton, London, W.
Eno, H. L., Princeton, New Jersey, U.S.A.
*Eno, J. C, Wood Hall, Dulwich, London, S.E.
Entee, Professor B. A., Samaldas College, Bhavnagar, India.
Evans, Frank Gwynne, The Tower House, Woodchester, Stroud.
Evans, W. A., The Brackley, Stoneygate Avenue, Leicester.
*Fabbri, Alessandro, 11 East 62nd Str., New York City, U.S.A.
*Fabbri, Ernesto G., 11 East 62nd Str., New York City, U.S.A.
*Farrer, The Dowager Lady, Idlerocks, Stone, Staffordshire.
*Farrington, Ernest A., M.D., Haddonfield, N.J., U.S.A.
Faulkner, W. B., 52 South Molton Street, London, W.
*Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5 John Street, Mayfair, London, W.
Felton, Rev. W., St. John's Vicarage, Walsall, Staffs.
Ferenczi, Dr. Sandor, Erzsebet-Korut 54, Budapest, VII.,
Hungary.
492 Members and Associates.
Field, Allan B., P.O. Box 274, East Liberty Station, Pittsburg,
Pa., U.S.A.
Fillmer, Horatio R., 52 Ship Street, Brighton.
Finch, H. Wynne, The Manor House, Stokesley, R.S.O., Yorks.
Flake, Mrs. Albert, 611 Fifth Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
*Fleetwood-Hesketh, C. H., Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham,
Rutlandshire.
Fliigel, J. C, Cravenhurst, Reigate, Surrey.
Foote, Geo. W., 34 Bull Street, Newport, R.I., U.S.A.
Ford, Miss Emily S., 44 Glebe Place, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Forman, Colonel R.H.,A.M.S.,c/o Messrs. Holt & Co., 3 White-
hall Place, London, S.W.
Forrester, Mrs., Tullibody House, Cambus, by Stirling, N.B.
Fortescue, Miss Frances, c/o M. Fortescue Esq., The Grange,
Ipplepen, Newton Abbot, S. Devon.
*Foster, Rev. J. Edgar, Lindsey Vicarage, Ipswich.
Fotheringham, W. B., 24 Teville Road, Worthing.
Fournier d'Albe, E. E.
*Fox, Mrs., Fawe Park, Keswick.
Francis, Arthur, P. O. Kelowna, British Columbia.
*Francis, Mrs. Francis, Palace House, Beaulieu, Hants.
Frankland, F. W., 4 Upper Bedford Place, Russell Square, Lon-
don, W.C.
Frankland, Mrs. F. W., 4 Upper Bedford Place, Russell Square,
London, W.C.
Franklin, Hon. Mrs. E. L., 50 Porchester Terrace, London, W.
Freas, W. R., 1632 N. 12th Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Belgrave Mansions, Grosvenor
Gardens, London, S.W.
'Frith, Mrs., Swynnerton Rectory, Stone, Staffordshire.
*Frost, Miss Annie, Carnelloe Cottage, Zennor, nr. St. Ives, Corn-
wall.
Fry, Miss Agnes, Failand House, Failand, near Bristol.
-Fry, Lewis George, Stonycroft, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Funk, Dr. I. K., 195 Washington Park, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
Gaff, T. T., 1520 20th Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Gantz, Mrs., The Rectory, Norton-in-Hales, Market Drayton.
Gardiner, Professor H. N., 23 Crafts Avenue, Northampton,
Mass., U.S.A.
Gardner, Harold E., 9 Cook Street, Liverpool.
*Gaskell, Mrs. J. B., Roseleigh, Woolton, Liverpool.
Members and Associates. 493
*Gayer, Gustav A., Ph.D., 131 West 63rd Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Gearn, Dr. George C, 2545 Front Street, San Diego, Cal., U.S.A.
Gehring, J. G., M.D., Bethel, Maine, U.S.A.
*Geikie, Sir Archibald, D.C.L., F.R.S., Shepherd's Down, Hasle-
mere, Surrey.
*George, Mrs., Cottage-on-the-Links, Hindhead, Haslemere, Surrey.
George, Walter C., Wayside, St. James Avenue, Beckenham,
Kent.
Ghose, Babu Moti Lai, Ananda Chatterjee's Lane, Calcutta,
India.
Gibson, Miss Winifred, 108 Alexandra Road, St. John's Wood,
London, N.W.
Giddings, Miss H. M., 810-11 New England Building, Cleveland,
Ohio, U.S.A.
Gidney, A. R., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Gillard, Mrs., Heinerweg 3, Wiesbaden, Germany.
Gittermann, Rudolph C, Odessa, Rtissia.
*Goldschmidt, Mrs. Beni de, 16 Wilton Street, Grosvenor Place,
London, S.W.
Goldstein, Dr. phil. J., Rossdorferstrasse 81, Darmstadt, Germany.
Gooch, G. P., South Villa, Campden Hill Road, London, W.
Goodall, Charles Henry, Lucknow Avenue, Nottingham.
Goodhart, Rev. Charles A., Lambourne Rectory, Romford, Essex.
Goore, Albert, Rose Mount, Meadvale, Redhill, Surrey.
Gordon, Mrs. J. L. R., c/o Messrs. King, King & Co., Bombay,
India.
Gover, J. M., LL.D., 5 New Square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Gower, John H., Mus. Doc. (Oxon.), 23 Steele Block, Denver,
Colo., U.S.A.
Graham, Mrs. Perceval Gore, Ghezireh, Cairo, Egypt.
Graham, J. W., Dalton Hall, Victoria Park, Manchester.
*Grant-Suttie, H. F., Royal Horse Artillery, Rawal Pindi, India.
Graveson, Miss C, Goldsmiths' College, New Cross, London, S.E.
Gray, Rev. Arthur Romeyn, Church Missions House, 281 Fourth
Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Gray, Mrs. John C, 176 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Green, Mrs. Alan B., Hogarth House, Bushey Heath, Herts.
Greene, Mrs. Bertram, 382 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Greene, J. G., 34 Stiles Street, Elizabeth, New Jersey, U.S.A.
2i
4! >4 Members and Associates.
Green-Thompson, Mrs., Bridekirk, Cockermoutk, Cumberland.
Greet, Mrs., Caens Wood, Weybridge, Surrey.
Greeves, Rev. F. B., Cudworth Vicarage, Barnsley, Yorkshire.
Greg, Miss Mary S., 19 Kensington Gate, London, W.
Grenfell, Mrs., 2 Morton Crescent, Exmouth, S. Devon.
Grew, Mrs. Joseph Clark, Matthaiskirchstrasse 6, Berlin, Germany.
*Grey, R. C, Oaklands, West Wellow, Romsey, Hants.
Gribble, Miss F. M., 32 Chester Terrace, Regent's Park, London,
N.W.
Griffith, Rev. R. G., Riversley, Bakewell, Derbyshire.
*Grignon, Miss A. E., 24 Melrose Avenue, Cricklewood, London, N.W.
*Grimshaw, Mrs., 109 Cromwell Road, London, S.W.
Gripper, Mrs. Harold, 11 Eliot Vale, Blackheath, Kent.
Grosvenor, Hon. Mrs. R. C, Morrisburne House, Woking, Surrey.
Grottendieck, W. G., Schenk Straat 150, The Hague.
*Grubbe, Hubert H., Southwold, Suffolk.
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 Netherhall Gardens, South Hampstead, London,
N.W.
Hackett, James T., 95 King William Street, Adelaide, Australia.
Haemmerle, Madame, 3 Square du Croisie, Paris XV, France.
*Haig, Mrs. G. Ogilvy, 65 Brook Street, Grosvenor Square, Lon-
don, W.
Halkett, Miss Katherine E.
*Hall, Mrs. Basil, 31 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
*Hall, J. P., Gorse Bank, Werneth, Oldham.
Hall, Wilfred, 9 Priors Terrace, Tynemouth, Northumberland.
Hallett, Henry Hiram, Bridge House, Taunton.
Halls, Robert, 34 Royal Avenue, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Hamar-Nemespann, La Baronne de, Hohe Warte 50, Vienna XIX,
Austria.
*Hambro, Mrs. Eric, 70 Princes Gate, London, S.W.
Hamilton, Col. G. Rowan, Killyleagh Castle, Co. Down, Ireland.
Hamilton, James, Heversham School, Milnthorpe, Westmoreland.
Hamilton, J. J., 80 Woodland Rise, Muswell Hill, London, N.
Hamilton, W. Bernard.
Hamilton-Hoare, Miss Sybil H., 96 Ebury Street, Chester Square,
London, S.W.
Hammond, Miss Winifred B., 386 East 51st Street, Portland,
Oregon, U.S.A.
Handcock, Dr. Charles L., J. P., Ashburton, New Zealand.
Hankow, The Right Rev. the Bishop of, Hankow, China.
Members and Associates. 495
Hansard, Mrs., 24 Chelsea Gardens, London, S.W.
Hanson, H. P., Box 39, R.F.D. Route No. 5, Harlan, Iowa, U.S.A.
Hanson, Mrs., 7 Canning Place, Kensington, London, W.
Hardeman, Miss Frances E., Westfield, Sefton Park, Liverpool.
Hardie, Miss Mabel, M.B., Candello, 577 Finchley Road, London, N.W.
Harding, Miss A. K., c/o Nevett & Co., 21 Park Road, Crouch
End, London, N.
Hare, Cyril Lockhart, Abbotsholme, Dunstable, Bedfordshire.
Hargreaves, Miss, 115 Clarence Gate Gardens, Regent's Park,
London, N.W.
Harris, Alan Campbell, Staufenberg Str. 28, Annaberg, Baden-
Baden, Germany.
Harris, Capt. C. S., 90 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
*Harris, Mrs. H. Percy, 98 Gloucester Terrace, London, W.
*Harris, Hon. J., East India United Service Club, 16 St. James's
Square, London, S.W.
Harrison, Rev. Arthur S., 28 Eastgate, Stafford.
Harrison, H. Leeds, M.B., 104 Marine Parade, Worthing.
Harrison, Miss Jane E., Newnham College, Cambridge.
*Hart, Colonel H. H., R.E., c/o Messrs. King, King & Co.,
Bombay, India.
Hart, Lieut. -General Sir Reginald Clare, V.C., K.C.B., K.C.V.O.,
United Service Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W.
*Hartness, James, Springfield, Vermont, U.S.A.
Hartshorn, Miss Cornelia, Milton P.O., Mass., U.S.A.
Hartshorne, Charles H., 35 South Willow Street, Montclair, N.J.,
U.S.A.
Haslam, Mrs. F. W., Sainte Barbe, Christchurch, Canterbury,
New Zealand.
Haslehurst, E. W., 72 Burnt Ash Hill, Lee, London, S.E.
Hastie, Miss, c/o Messrs. Street, 30 Cornhill, London, E.C.
Hastings, Rev. J. H., The Manor House, Halton, Lancaster.
Hauxhurst, Mrs. W., c/o Messrs. Brown, Shipley & Co., 123 Pall
Mall, London, S.W.
Hawarden, The Viscountess, 18 Chelsea Court, London, S.W.
Hawkins, E. F., Villa des Troenes, Livry (S. et O.), France.
Hawkins, H. P., M.D., F.R.C.P., 56 Portland Place, London, W.
Hayes, Rev. Joseph W., West Thurrock Vicarage, Grays, Essex.
Haynes, Henry W., 239 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Head, Miss Alice L., 26 Leinster Square, London, W.
*Heard, G. H., Cheniston, Highfield Lane, Southampton
496 Members and Associates.
Heath, George H., 277 Brockley Road, London, S.E.
Heaton, Guy, 51 West Cliff Road, Bournemouth.
*Helmsley, Viscount, Nawton Tower, Nawton, Yorks.
Henderson, J. J., Mill Cottage, Bonhard, Perth.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, The Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street,
London, W.
Henly, Mrs. Albert W., Gwydyr House, Bromley, Kent.
Henrici, Jacob, 6126 Penn. Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1 Argyll Villas, Cheltenham.
Herbert-Smith, Miss Evelyn E., Raymead, Park Road, Watford,
Herts.
Herschel, Colonel John, Royal Engineers, Slough, Bucks.
Hessel, Miss K. A., 14 Waterlow Court, Hamjjstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W.
Heymans, Prof. G., Ubbo-Emmiussingel 2, Groningen, Holland.
Heysinger, Dr. Isaac W., 1521 Poplar Street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Hielle, Robert, xix/1 Karl-Ludwig Str. 62, Vienna.
Higbee, Colonel George H., Burlington, Iowa, U.S.A.
Hildyard, F. W., 77a Lexham Gardens, London, S.W.
Hill, J. Arthur, Wensley Bank, Thornton, Bradford.
Hill, Mrs. John Howard, 272 State Street, Portland, Maine,
U.S.A.
*Hillard, Miss Mary R., Westover School, Middlebury, Conn., U.S.A.
Himes, Prof. Charles F., 170 W. Louther Street, Carlisle, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Hinkle, Beatrice M., M.D., 110 Madison Ave., New York City,
U.S.A.
Hinton, Mrs. Howard, East Dene, 26 Tyson Road, Forest Hill,
London, S.E.
Hoare, F. H., 67 Fitzjohn's Avenue, London, N.W.
Hoare, Mrs. Henry, 20 Montagu Street, Portman Square, London, W.
Hockliffe, Mrs. Ernest, Springdale, Uppingham.
Hodding, Miss, 2 The Avenue, Bedford Park, London, W.
Hoernle, Professor R. F. Alfred, 8 Northmoor Road, Oxford.
*Hogg, Sir Frederick Russell, Oriental Club, Hanover Square,
London, W.
*Hogg, Henry R., 2 Vicarage Gate, Kensington, London, W.
Holland, Miss, 1a Holland Park, London, W.
Hollander, Bernard, M.D., L.R.C.P., 57 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Hollins, Mrs., 24 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Members and Associates. 497
Hollins, Mrs. A. E., 3 Maid's Causeway, Cambridge.
*Hollond, John R., 41 Princes Gate, London, S.W.
Holme, Strachan, Bridgewater Offices, Walkden, Manchester.
Holms, Mrs. Douglas, 16 South Street, Thurloe Square, London,
S.W.
*Holt, Henry, 34 West 33rd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Holt-White, Mrs., Pavington, Yelverton, Devon.
Homan, C. H., 24 Oscarsgade, Christiania, Norway.
*Home, Mrs. Robert, b/78 Porfcsdown Road, Maida Vale, London, W.
Hoppin, J. C, 1527 18th Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Horn, W. J., Woldingham, Surrey.
Horridge, Miss J. G., 43 Alexandra Road, Southport.
Horton, W. Claude, 81 Church Road, Hove, Sussex.
*Hoskins, Edmond J., M.D., Hammam Chambers, 76 Jermyn
Street, London, S.W.
Hotchkin, Mrs., The Dower House, Woodhall Spa, Lincolnshire.
*Hough, Joseph Fairhurst, Lowood Cottage, Moor Park, Great
Crosby, Liverpool.
Houston, James, 1 Hereford Mansions, Hereford Road, Bayswater,
London, W.
Howden, Mrs., 11 Eton Terrace, Edinburgh.
Howson, Richard, M.I.C.E., 5 Southfield Terrace, Middlesbrough,
Yorkshire
.
Hubbell, Geo. Allen, Ph.D., Cumberland Gap, Tennessee, Lincoln
Memorial University, U.S.A.
Hubbell, G. G., 1101 State Street, Erie, Pa., U.S.A.
Hude, Mrs. Anna, Ph.D., Anker Heegaards Gade 1, Copenhagen
B., Denmark.
*Hudleston, R. W., 68 Parliament Hill, London, N.W.
Hudson, Morris, Aldersey Croft, Guildford.
Hughes, Major H. M., Swiss Cottage, Birchington-on-Sea, Thanet,
Kent.
*Hull, Mrs. Carrie G., 112 Academy Street, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
Hume-Rothery, J. TL, The Pines, Tivoli, Cheltenham.
Humphrey, Miss Ola.
Hunt, Guy W., Southport, Queensland, Australia.
*Hunt, Mrs. Warwick, 12 Lansdowne Road, Holland Park, London W.
Huntingford, Miss, Exeter Lodge, Bournemouth.
Hutchinson, F. W. H., Grove Lawns, St. Albans, Herts.
Hutton, E. Charles F., 5 Chuxxh Street, Cape Town, South Africa.
498 Members and Associates.
*Hyslop, Professor J. H., 519 West 149th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Imamura, Prof. Shinkichi, Clinic for Psychiatry, Imperial Uni-
versity, Kioto, Japan.
Ingalls, Mrs. Joseph A., Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Ingham, Charles B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingham, Percy B., Merchant Taylors' School, London, E.C.
Innes, Miss H. K., Raemoir, Banchory, Scotland.
Ireland, Gordon, 32 Nassau Str., New York City, U.S.A.
*Izod, C. H., 7 Malwood Road, Balham Hill, London, S.W.
Jacks, L. P., 28 Holywell, Oxford.
Jackson, Mrs., 44 Park Street, Calcutta, India.
James, Mrs., The Elms, Selly Oak, Birmingham.
"-"Jameson, David, New Castle, Pa., U.S.A.
-Janson, E. W., 11 Eaton Mansions, Eaton Square, London, S.W.
Jaye, William R., Springwood Lodge, Oakfield Road, Clapton,
London, N.E.
*Jeakes, Rev. Prebendary, 4 Cornwall Terrace, Regent's Park,
London, N.W.
Jenkinson, W. E., Highthorn, King Cross Road, Halifax.
Johnson, Miss Alice, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Johnson, Charles R., 340 Main Street, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Johnston, R. F., Weihaiwei, China.
*Jones, Miss Constance, Girton College, Cambridge.
*Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., Cardfields, Hatfield Peverel, Essex.
Jones, Lady, Cardfields, Hatfield Peverel, Essex.
Jones, Miss Lilian I., 120 Maida Vale, London, W.
Josling, Lieut. -Colonel C. L., Junior United Service Club, London,
S.W.
*Judah, Noble B., 2701 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Judd, Mrs. Sylvestre Dwight, 164 Summer Street, Maiden, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Kaleta, Georg, Sigmund-Haffnergasse 18/ III, Salzburg, Austria.
Keene, The Most Rev. J. B., D.D., Bishop of Meath, Navan,
Co. Meath.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, The Hut, Holmwood, Dorking.
"""Kellogg, Spencer, Junr., 221 Linwood Avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
*Kelso, Captain, R.N., Horkesley Park, Colchester, Essex.
Kenway, Mrs., Mendip View, Winscombe, Somerset.
Ker, Miss, 1 Windsor Terrace, Glasgow, W.
Members and Associates. 499
*Kerr, George, M.B., 6 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Kerr-Clark, Lady, Moore Abbey, Monasterevan, Ireland.
Ketkar, N. G., Amraoti, Berar, India.
*Kevill-Davies, George, East Cavalry Barracks, Aldershot, Hants.
Kielgast, Svend, c/o Messrs. Erslev & Hasselbalch, 26 Kobmager-
gade, Copenhagen K., Denmark.
Kilroe, E. G., Jubbulpore, Central Provinces, India.
Kirkwood, J. H. M., M.P., 62 Sloane Street, London, S.W.
*Kittel, T. B., Vane House, Hampstead, London, N.W.
*Klinckowstroem, Count Carl, Elisabethstrasse 40, Munich, Bavaria.
Knight, Charles N., 36 Kensington Park Road, London, W.
Knoller, Richard, 1 Riemerstrasse 8, Vienna.
Kothen, Baron Axel von, 27 Mikealsgaten, Helsingfors, Finland.
Krebs, Rev. Stanley L., Swarthmore, Pa., U.S.A.
Kress, Miss Anne, Lock Haven, Pa., U.S.A.
Kwang, Sim Boon, 73 Scott's Road, Singapore, S.S.
Lach-Szyrma, Rev. W. S., Barkingside Vicarage, Ilford, Essex.
~*Lacon, Mrs. Sidney, Ormesby Hall, Great Yarmouth, Norfolk.
*Laain, Mrs. Louis E., Ellslloyd, Lake Forest, 111., U.S.A.
Lafone, A. W., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
Laing, R. M., Boys' High School, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Lamb, Charles George, 77 Glisson Road, Cambridge.
Lambert, Miss Ada R., c/o Miss Lambert, Ivy Cottage, Newick,
Sussex.
Lane, Miss E . Abbott, 131 East 21st Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Lane-Poole, Professor Stanley, Litt.D., Donganstown Castle,
Wicklow, Ireland.
"*Lang, Andrew, 1 Marloes Road, London, W., and Alleyne House,
St. Andrews, Scotland.
Larken, E. P., Authors' Club, 2 Whitehall Court, London, S.W.
Latham, Miss Edith, 3 Avenue Bugeaud, Paris.
Latshaw, Allen, 3414 Sansom Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Lauritzen, Severin, Holte, Denmark.
Layman, Alfred, M.D., 1630 North 18th Street, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
Leadam, Isaac S., 21 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
Leaf, Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Miss Ellen, 6 Airlie Gardens, Campden Hill, London, W.
Leaf, Miss E. M., 4 Barton Street, Westminster, London, S.W.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough, Wilts.
*Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., 6 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
500 Members and Associates.
Leaf, Mrs. Walter, 6 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. H., Cazenovia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Lee, Rev. A. H. E., 156 Albany Street, London, N.W.
Lee, Blewett, 1 Park Row, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Lee, Mrs. Henry Thomas, 414 West Adams Street, Los Angeles,
Cal., U.S.A.
Lee, L. G. H., Kingswood, Raunds, near Wellingborough.
*Lees, Robert James, Craigmore, Ilfracombe.
*Legg, W. A., 18 The Avenue, Brondesbury, London, N.W.
Leggatt, Edward O. Every, I.C.S., Saharanpur, U.P., India.
*Leigh, Mrs. Gerard.
*Leigh, Lord, Stoneleigh Abbey, Kenilworth, Warwickshire.
Leigh, W. Austen, Hartiield, Roehampton, London, S.W.
Lenon, J. W., Kiamara Estate, Nairobi, British East Africa.
Leon, Mrs. Philip, 4m Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W.
Leonard, Thomas, 223 W. School Lane, Germantown, Phila-
delphia, Pa., U.S.A.
*Leslie-Melville, Mrs. A. B., 51 Hans Road, London, S.W.
Lewin, Rev. C. H., St. Barnabas Vicarage, North Rockhampton,
Queensland, Australia.
Lewis, David J., House of Representatives U.S., Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Lewis, Francis B., Box 5, Maraisburg, Transvaal, South Africa.
Librarian, Public Library of Adelaide, Australia.
Librarian, Adelbert College of Western Reserve University, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Birmingham Public Libraries, Reference Department,
Ratcliff Place, Birmingham.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, etc., Church Street, Brighton.
Librarian, Cambridge Public Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, City Library Association, Springfield, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Colorado Springs, Colo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of the District of Columbia, Washing-
ton, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian (Hon.) of the Constitutional Club, Northumberland
Avenue, London, W.C.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore,
Md., U.S.A.
Members and Associates. 501
Librarian, Grosvenor Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.G.
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich., U.S.A.
Librarian, Harvard College Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial Street, Leeds.
Librarian, Library Association, Portland, Oregon, U.S.A.
Librarian, Meadville Theological School, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Mercantile Library, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Minneapolis Athenaeum, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Newberry Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, Public Library, New Bridge Street, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, New Hampshire State Library, Concord, N.H., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of New South Wales, c/o Messrs.
Truslove & Hanson, 153 Oxford Street, London, W.
Librarian, New York Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Ohio State Library, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Seattle Public Library, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.
Librarian, Somerville Public Library, Somerville, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 106 New Bond Street, London, W.
Librarian, The University, Aberdeen.
Librarian, Bibliotheque Victor Cousin, L'Universite de Paris.
Librarian, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Librarian, Vancouver Medical Association Library, 633 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C., Canada.
Librarian, Victoria Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Dr. Williams's Library, Gordon Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Free Public Library, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Yale University Library, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
Livingstone, Rev. W. O., 355 Greenwood Avenue, Kankakee, 111.,
U.S.A.
*Llewellin, Mrs. W., Upton House, nr. Poole, Dorset.
Lloyd, Brig. -General Francis.
Lloyd, Judge Frank T., Camden, N.J., U.S.A.
.-)0-2
Members and Associates.
Lloyd, Rev. John, 509 Hartwell Avenue, Waukesha, Wisconsin,
U.S.A.
Lloyd, Miss Julia, Farm, Sparkbrook, Birmingham.
*Lockhart, Lady, 187 Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
*Lodge, Sir Oliver, F.R.S., Mariemont, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Lodge, Robert, Compton Wood, 28 Carlisle Road, Eastbourne.
Loewenstein, Amtsrichter Dr., Klosterstern 5, Hamburg, Germany.
Lomax, Arthur, Heilbron, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Lombardi, C, 2331 Leconte Avenue, Berkeley, Cal., U.S.A., and
c/o The Dallas News, Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
Long, George E., Box D., Jersey City, N.J., U.S.A.
Lonsada, Duchesse de, 4 Lancaster Street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Lubbock, Mrs. Geoffrey, Greenhill, Sutton-Veny, Wiltshire.
Luke, James, Box No. 183, G.P.O., Calcutta.
Lumsden, Miss K. M., 17 Richmondhill Place, Aberdeen.
Lyall, Sir Charles James, 82 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W.
*Lyall, Edward, Barton, R.S.O., Darlington.
Lyell, D., 407 Lake of the Woods Building, St. John Street,
Montreal, Canada.
Lyon, Miss C. C, Ashcroft, Prestwood, Great Missenden, Bucks.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Alfred, 16 Great College Street, Westminster,
London, S.W.
Macdonald, Prof. Duncan Black, Hartford Theological Seminary,
Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Macdonald, Lieut. -Colonel F., Resident in Nepal, India.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B., 47 Seymour Street, Portman
Square, London, W.
Macdonald, Mrs., Dun Erin, Chalfont St. Peter, Bucks.
Macfarlane, Mrs., 74 Finnart Street, Greenock, N.B.
MacGregor, Arthur C, 8 Longford Terrace, Monkstown, Co. Dublin.
Mackintosh, R. D., M.B., The Bungalow, Mortlake, Surrey.
Macklin, Miss Helen E., 141 Inverness Terrace, London, W.
Macnaughtan, Miss, 61 Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
MacVeagh, Lincoln, 52 Plympton Street, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Madocks, Major H. J., 1a Ovington Square, London, S.W.
Mainwaring, Mrs., 11 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W.
Mallet, Miss A. V., Anlaby House, 25 Highbury New Park,
London, N.
Mallet, Louis, 182 Ebury Street, London, S. W.
Mander, Charles A., The Mount, Wolverhampton, Staffs.
Members and Associates. 503
*Mander, Geoffrey Le Mesurier, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
Mangin, Marcel, 102 Rue Erlanger, Paris.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, Temple Ewell Vicarage, Dover.
Mansell, Andrew Evans, Mount Vernon, Melton Mowbray, Tasmania.
*Mansfield, Mrs. Richard, The Grange, New London, Conn., U.S.A.
Mantell, Colonel A. M., Chesters, Sydney Road, Guildford.
Marks, Mrs. Claude, 15 Hanover Square, London, W.
Marsh, Edward H., 3 Gray's Inn Place, London, W.C.
Marshall, Mrs. F., 36 Drayton Court, London, S.W.
Marshall, William Cecil, Tweenways, Hindhead, Haslemere.
Marston, Charles, J. P., Afcot, Compton, nr. Wolverhampton.
*Marston, Commander G. M., R.N., Park Lodge, Albert Gate,
Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Marten, Miss A. R., 78 Vanbrugh Park, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Martin, Miss Florence R., 65 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury.
Martin, Thomas Beecham, Wanstead College, South Woodford,
London, N.E.
Martineau, Alfred Edward.
Maskell, Miss E. M., 21 Thornsett Road, Anerley, London, S.E.
Mason, Miss M. H., 5 Vincent Square Mansions, Westminster,
London, S.W.
Massey, Hon. Mary, 80 Royal Hospital Road, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Mather, Rev. Herbert, 13 Grosvenor Road, East Grinstead, Sussex.
*Mathews, Mrs., 15 Stanley Gardens, London, W.
Mattiesen, Emil, Ph.D., Witzleben Str. 3, Charlottenburg, Berlin,
Germany.
Mavrogordato, John N., 52 Queen's Gate Gardens, London, S.W.
Maxim, Sir Hiram S., Ryecotes, Dulwich Common, London, S.E.
Maxwell, Dr. Joseph, 6 Rue Villaret-de-Joyeuse, Paris.
*Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart., 48 Belgrave Square, London, S.W.
Mayor, R. G., 11 Campden Hill Square, Kensington, London, W.
M'Adam, D. J., Jr., Ph.D., Leonard Hall, S. Bethlehem, Penna.,
U.S.A.
M'Alpine, Robert, Balclutha, Greenock, N.B.
M'Clellan, Mrs. Clara D., Briarcliff Manor, New York City, U.S. A.
M'Clure, Henry, M.D., 30 Portland Court, Portland Place,
London, W.
M'Connel, H. W., M.B., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
M'Cormick, Alfred, Rooksley, Simla, Punjab, India.
504 Members and Associates.
M'Dougall, Dugald W., c/o R. J. Turnbull & Co., 4 Lloyds
Avenue, London, E.C.
*M'Dougall, Isaac S., The Ox-chard, off Arthog Road, Hale, Cheshire.
M'Dougall, William, M.Sc, M.B., Woodsend, Foxcombe Hill, nr.
Oxford.
M'Keever, Buell, 3900 Lake Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
M'Kellar, Miss J. L., c/o National Bank of Australasia, 123
Bishopsgate Street Within, London, E.C.
M'Lean, Mrs., 186 St. James's Court, Buckingham Gate, London,
S.W.
Meek, Maximilian de, Russian Consulate, Leipzig, Germany.
Meebold, Alfred, Heidenheim, Wurtemberg, Germany.
Megson, Albert, Fern Villa, Headlands, Ossett, Yorks.
Mehrji, Munchershaw Hormusji, M.D., 3 Batlivala Villa, Sleater
Road, Bombay, India.
Mellone, Rev. Sydney Herbert, D.Sc, 10 Hartington Gardens,
Edinburgh.
Merwin, Miss Mary F., 668 Hancock Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
Metcalfe, Mrs. G. R., The Aberdeen, St. Paul, Minnesota, U.S.A.
Meyer, Rev. F. B., Regent's Park Chapel, Park Square East,
London, N.W.
*Micklethwait, Richard K.
Milburn, Rev. R. Gordon, Bishop's College, Calcutta, India.
*Miles, Miss, 59 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W.
*Millard, Mrs. Almira B., 2505 Farnam Str., Omaha, Neb., U.S.A.
Millard, Charles Killick, M.D., D.Sc, Gilroes, Leicester.
*Miller, Prof. Dickinson S., Columbia University, New York, U.S.A.
^Miller, Miss Elizabeth L., 80 Craiglea Drive, Edinburgh.
Milne, A. M. Lees, Ribbesford House, Bewdley, Worcestershire.
*Mirlees, W. J., 11 Cranmer Road, Cambridge.
Mistri, Jeejeebhoy P., Jamsetjee Nesserwanjee Petit Institute,
Hornby Road, Bombay, India.
Mitchell, Sidney J., c/o D. Mitchell & Co., Box 77, G.P.O., Newcastle,
N.S.W., Australia.
Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, nr. Tonbridge.
Moggridge, Miss Edith, Stanfield House, High Street, Hampstead,
London, N.W.
*Money-Coutts, Francis Burdett.
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes, Co.
Limerick.
Members and Associates. 505
Montgomery, Mrs. W. H., Byways, Exmouth, Devon.
Moor, Lady, 89 Linden Gardens, Kensington, London, W., and
Ladbroke, Chine Crescent, West Cliff, Bournemouth.
Moore, Prof. Franklin, M.D., Syrian Protestant College, Beirut,
Syria.
Moore, Major H. G. A., Army and Navy Club, London, S.W.
*Moore, Admiral W. Usborne, 8 Western Parade, Southsea.
Morison, Mrs. Miller, 4 Randolph Cliff, Edinburgh, and Morison
House, Hetland, Ruthwell, N.B.
Morley, Edwin W., Andover, Ashtobula County, Ohio, U.S.A.
Morries, J. M., Gogar House, Stirling, N.B.
Morton, Mrs. F. N., 73 West La Crosse Avenue, Lansdowne, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Moses, E. J., c/o Messrs. E. D. Sassoon & Co., 2 Rampart Row,
Bombay.
*Moss-Cockle, Mrs., 26 Hertford Street, Mayfair, London, W.
Moultrie, Miss A. J. C, 11 Burstock Road, Putney, London, S.W.
Mower, Mrs. George, Winona, Lovelace Road, Surbiton, Surrey.
Muirhead, Professor J. H., 1 York Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Miiller, Fraulein A., 78 Vanbrugh Park, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Munro, Hugh F., 1740 Germantown Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
*Murray, Donald, Mildmay Park Works, Mildmay Avenue, London, N.
*Murray, Professor Gilbert, LL.D., 82 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Murton, Miss Josephine, c/o C. Holmes, Court Street, Faversham,
Kent.
Myers, Professor Charles S., M.D., Galewood Tower, Great Shel-
ford, Cambs.
*Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
*Myers, L. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Myers, W. Wykeham, M.B., H.B.M.'s Consular Agency, Pagoda
Anchorage, China.
Nash, Joseph, The White House, Somerleyton, Lowestoft.
Neate, P. J.
Neeld, A. D., 10 Bradford Avenue, Crafton, Pittsburg, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Neild, Miss Maria, 83 Victoria Street, Westminster, London, S.W.
Neustadter, Louis W., 3501 Jackson Street, San Francisco, Cal.,
U.S.A.
*Newcastle, The Duke of, Clumber, Worksop, Notts.
Newill, George E., Guadalupe Mine, Inde, Durango, Mexico.
Members and Associates.
*Newmann, Oscar P., 84 Newman Street, London, W.
Newton, Miss I., 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, D.D., Garden City, Long Island, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
•Nicoll, Mrs. De Lancey, 23 East 39th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Nicolson, Right Hon. Sir Arthur, Bart., G.C.B., etc., Foreign
Office, Downing Street, London, S.W.
*Nisbet, E. T., 13 Beverley Terrace, Cullercoats, Northumberland.
*Niven, Mrs. Graham, The Golden Farm, Cirencester, Gloucester-
shire.
Noel, Miss Frances, 40 Beaufort Mansions, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Noel-Cox., H. L., M.D., Elcove, Elms Avenue, Eastbourne.
*Norris, Professor Richard, M.D., F.R.S.E., The Laboratory,
Yardley Fields, Yardley, Birmingham.
Northcote, Rev. H., 17 Rue Simoneau, Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.
Nutter, Miss H. G., Beechcroft, The Avenue, Cambridge.
Oates, R. Crosbie, Moyallen, Ness Holt, nr. Neston, Cheshire.
*Odell, L. E., Casa Central Florida 864, Buenos Aires, Argentine
Republic.
Odell, S. W., 202 Boston Building, Pasadena, Cal., U.S.A.
Ogilvie, Mrs. Robert, c/o R. G. Ross, 11 Hill Street, Edinburgh.
Ogle, Captain N., 67th Punjabis, Multan, Punjab, India.
Oldham, G. F., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Rostrevor, Langton Green,
Tunbridge Wells.
O'Leary, Miss Katherine W., 44 Campden Hill Square, London,
W.
Oliver, Mrs., 26 Brunswick Terrace, Brighton.
*01ivier, Sir Sydney, K.C.M.G., King's House, Jamaica, B.W.I.
Oman, Professor Charles W. C, Frewin Hall, Oxford.
Onslow, Lady, Chevin Bank, Duffield, Derbyshire.
*Onslow, Hon. TL, Clandon Park, Guildford.
Osborne, Miss H., 2 Northcote Mansions, Heath Street, Hamp-
stead, London, N.W.
*Owen, A. S., Keble College, Oxford.
Pack Beresford, Denis R., Fenagh House, Bagenalstown, Co.
Carlow.
Pagan, Miss C, Marston Lodge, Harrow.
Paget, Sir Arthur, 9 King's Bench Walk, Temple, London, E.C.
Paine, Mrs. W., 37 Westminster Palace Gardens, London, S.W.
Paley, Mrs., Ampton Hall, Bury St. Edmunds.
Parke, Roderick J., 179 Cottingham Street, Toronto, Canada.
Members and Associates. 507
Parker, Sir Gilbert, D.C.L., M.P., 20 Carlton House Terrace,
London, S.W.
*Parkin, John, Blaithwaite, Carlisle.
Parkin, Mrs., The Mount, Sheffield.
*Parsons, J. Denham, 58 St. Oswald's Road, West Brompton,
London, S.W.
Parsons, 1ST. M., 22 Barkston Gardens, London, S.W.
Pask, A. F., 50 Bensham Manor Road, Thornton Heath, Surrey.
*Passingkam, Mrs., Berrow House, nr. Ledbury, Hereford.
Patel, F. J., L.R.C.P., 3 Church Gate Street, Bombay.
Paterson, Miss Mary N., 3 Devonshire Terrace, Ventnor, Isle of
Wight.
Paul, J. Rodman, 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Payne, Ernest, 10 Wellington Court, Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Pease, Mrs. J. R., Hesslewood, Hessle, Yorks.
Peckham, Miss Ella, 246 Gano Street, Providence, R.I., U.S.A.
Peckham, Orville, First National Bank, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Pedley, Charles Herbert, Dee Lodge, Chester.
Penha, Alfred de la, Long Wall House, Oxford.
Penha, Paul de la.
Pennington, Mrs. Henry, Silverthorne, King's Ride, Camberley,
Surrey.
Penny, W. R., Office of the Chief Railway Storekeeper, Cape
Town, South Africa.
Percival, Mrs., 1 Chesham Street, Belgrave Square, London, S.W.
*Perdicaris, Ion, Shandon, Tunbridge Wells.
*Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, Teneriffe, Canary Isles.
Perkins, Miss S. R., c/o Dr. Perkins, 8 Mansfield Street, London, W.
*Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, The Count, 5 Panteleimonovskaia, St.
Petersburg.
Perowne, Miss Edith, 11 Harvey Road, Cambridge.
Perry, Sir E. Cooper, M.D., Superintendent's House, Guy's
Hospital, London, S.E.
Perry, Thos. S., c/o Perier & Cie, 59 rue de Province, Paris.
Peters, Mrs. F. A., 362 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Philipse, Miss Margaret Gouverneur, 142 West 71st Street, New
York City, U.S.A.
*Phillimore, Mrs., Battler's Green, Letchmore Heath, Hex'ts.
*Pickering, J. F., Camden Ridge, Chislehurst, Kent.
Pickering, J. W., D.Sc, Sundridge, Russell Hill, Purley, Surrey.
*Piddington, J. G., Holy Well, Hook Heath, Woking, Surrey.
r,o,s Members and Associates.
*Piercy, Major B. H., Marchwiel Hall, Wrexham, and Villa Piercy,
Sardinia.
Pigou, Professor Arthur Cecil, King's College, Cambridge.
*Pilcher, Giles T., Treryn, Frith Hill, Godalming, Surrey.
Pinchot, Mrs. Amos, 1021 Park Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Pinchot, Gifford, 1615 R.I. Avenue, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Piper, John E., LL.B., 10 Herondale Avenue, Wandsworth
Common, London, S.W.
Pithapuram, The Rajah of, Pithapuram, Godavari Dist., Madras
Presidency, India.
*Pitt, St. George Lane Fox, 48 Glebe Place, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Plowden, Mrs., Strachur Park, Loch Fyne Side, Argyllshire.
Plumer-Willson, Mrs. W., 20 Laurence Road, Hove, Brighton.
Pogson Smith, Mrs. E., Bourkes, Blackball Rd., Oxford.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs. C. B., 14 West Halkin Street, London, S.W.
Pontifex, Dudley, 73 Alleyn Park, West Dulwich, London, S.E.
Pope, George H., 60 Banbury Road, Oxford.
*Pope, Miss Theodate, Hillstead, Farmington, Conn., U.S.A.
Popoff, General James, Sosnitza, Gov. Chernigow, Russia.
Porter, Miss Agatha, M.D., 18 Kensington Park Road, Notting
Hill, London, W.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch,
Hants.
Post, Mrs. Wm., St. Lucie, Fla., and Buckhannon, W. Va., U.S.A.
*Potter, John Wilson, 219 Ashley Gardens, London, S.W.
Powell, C. Berkeley, J. P., 283 Metcalfe Street, Ottawa, Canada.
Powles, Lewis Charles, The Highlands, Rye, Sussex.
*Pring, C. H., 278 Old Kent Road, London, S.E.
Pumphrey, Mrs., Hindley Hall, Stocksfield-on-Tyne.
Putnam, Miss Irene, Bennington, Vt., U.S.A.
Pym, Mrs. Guy, 35 Cranley Gardens, South Kensington, London,
S.W.
Pym, Leslie Ruthven, Alnwick, Northumberland.
Quackenbos, John D., M.D., 331 West 28th Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
Quincy, Josiah P., 82 Charles Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Woodstock, Ulster Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
Rae, James, Villa Laurel, San Jacopo, Livorno, Italy.
Raggett, Mrs., 70 Maida Vale, London, W.
Raikes, E. B., Drayton Old Lodge, Norwich.
Members and Associates. 509
Raikes, Mrs., Beomonds, Chertsey, Surrey.
*Raines, Lady, 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Raj, Des, Pasrur, Dist. Sialkot, Punjab, India.
Ramsden, Miss, Bulstrode, Gerrard's Cross, Bucks.
Ransom, Francis, Ckilterns, Hitchin, Herts.
Ransom, Frank H., 137 Main Street, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Ransom, H. B., 28 Belsize Park Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Raper, R. W., Trinity College, Oxford.
*Rashdall, Rev. Hastings, New College, Oxford.
*Rashleigh, John C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okekampton.
Reade, Herbert V., 32 Palace Gardens Terrace, Kensington,
London, W.
*Reckett, Miss Juliet E., 20 Dulwich Wood Park, Upper Norwood,
London, S.E.
*Rendall, Rev. Dr. G. H., Dedham House, Dedham, Essex.
Rice, Mrs. David Hall, 2 Wellington Terrace, Brookline, Mass. ;
U.S.A.
Richardson, Frederick W., County Analyst's Office, Hustlergate,
Bradford.
*Ridley, Henry N., F.R.S., C.M.G., Singapore, S.S.
*Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham Gardens, London, N.W.
Ridley, The Viscountess, 10 Carlton House Terrace, London,
S.W.
Ritchie, Thomas, J. P., Overstrand Lodge, Cromer, Norfolk.
Ritchie, Mrs., 33 Cadogan Place, London, S.W.
Ritter, Miss, 7 Park Place, St. James's, London, S.W.
Riviere, Mrs. Evelyn, 10 Nottingham Terrace, York Gate, London,
N.W.
*Robbins, Miss A. M., Room 138, State House, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Robbins, G. M'L., Titusville, Fla., U.S.A.
Robeck, Miss Geraldine de, St. David's House, Naas, Ireland.
Roberts, Mrs. Hugh, 53 F.O. Quarters, Europa, Gibraltar.
Roberts, Lady, Bryngwenallt, Abergele, N. Wales.
Roberts, R. Nevill, 29 Finchley Road, London, N.W.
Roberts, W. M., Bar Harbor, Maine, U.S.A.
Robertson, Mrs. J. G., 90 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W.
Robinson, George R., 31 James Street, Liverpool.
Robinson, Nelson L., 381 Central Park West, New York City,
U.S.A.
Rodakiewicz, Dr. Erla, Bernbrunngasse 17, Hietzing, Vienna, Austria.
510 Members and Associates.
Roe, Miss Jessie T., 33 Nightingale Place, Woolwich, London, S.E.
Rogers, Edmund J. A., M.D., CM., 222 West Colfax Avenue,
Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
*Rogers, George F., M.D., 4 King's Parade, Cambridge.
Rogers, T. Percival, Henleaze Park, Westbury-on-Trym,
Gloucestershire.
Rolleston, Mrs., Glasshouse, Shinrone, King's Co., Ireland.
Rolleston, T. W., Ardeevin, Christchurch Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W.
Rose, Mrs. Guy, Giverny, par Vernon, Eure, France.
Rosenberger, James, Sellersville, Bucks Co., Pa., U.S.A.
*Rothschild, Mrs. Leopold de, 5 Hamilton Place, London, W.
Roy, Gunga N., Deputy Magistrate, Barisal, East Bengal, India.
*Riicker, Sir A. W., F.R.S., 19 Gledhow Gardens, London, S.W.
Rundle, Miss M. G., Varese, Burghley Road, Wimbledon, London,
S.W.
Russell, George M., Caixa 304, Manaos, Brazil.
Ryan, Mrs., The New York Sun, 1 Arundel Street, Strand,
London, W.C.
Ryves, Miss Evangeline, Clovelly, Banstead Road, Ewell, Surrey.
Sadgrove, W. Arthur, Clonarel, Foxley Lane, Purley, Surrey.
St. Davids, The Lady, 3 Richmond Terrace, Whitehall, London, S.W.
St. Hill, Mrs., Thimble, Littlewick Green, Berks.
*Salm unci Dyck, H.S.H. Christine, Princess of, 9 Queen's Gate,
London, S.W., and Schloss Neu-Cilly, nr. Cilli, Styria,
Austria.
Samaldas, Hon. Lalubai, 99 Apollo Street, Fort, Bombay, India.
Sampson, Colonel Dudley, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Hayward's Heath.
Sanderson, W. R., Via Nomentana, 58, Rome, Italy.
*Sandford, Miss Alice, 33 Hertford Street, Mayfair, London, W.
Saunders, Miss E. R., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Saunders, W. E., Riovista, Torresdale, Pa., U.S.A.
*Savage, Rev. M. J., D.D., 1867 Crawford Road, Cleveland, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Savill, Mrs., M.D., 66 Harley Street, London, W.
Sayer, Miss Ettie, M.B., 35 Upper Brook Street, London, W.
*Scatcherd, Miss F. R., Ringmore House, Quarry Road, Hastings.
*Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Schmidt, Julius, 582 Woolwich Road, Charlton, London, S.E.
Schoeller, W. R., Ph.D., c/o Messrs. C. Simeons & Co., 17 Wilson
Street, Finsbury, London, E.G.
Members and Associates.
Sckofield, S. Robert, M.B., 1 Phillimore Gardens, Kensington,
London, W.
Schofield, Mrs., 1 Phillimore Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Schreiner, Miss Julia, 56 Eaton Square, London, S.W.
Schuster, Miss, Cottenkam House, Wimbledon, London, S.W.
Scott, Rev. D. D., The Manse, Onehunga, Auckland, New Zealand.
*Scott, Capt. G. B., 27th Punjabis, Alipore, Calcutta, India.
*Scott, Sydney C., 92 Westbourne Terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Scott, W. Sibbald, M.B., Tke Lymes, Ellesmere, Salop.
*Scott-Gatty, Sir Alfred S., K.C.V.O., F.S.A., Garter King of
Arms, Wendover Lodge, Welwyn, Herts.
Scott-Moncrieff, W. G., J. P., Edgemoor, Lanark, Scotland.
Scripps, Thomas Cecil, 13 Woronzow Road, London, N.W.
Searle, Rev. George M., St. Paul's Church, 415 West 59th Street,
New York City, U.S.A.
Sedgwick, Mrs. H. D., 120 E. 22nd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Senathi Raja, E. S. W., LL.B., The Grange, Trivandrum, India.
Seymour, Admiral of the Fleet Sir E. H.,"o.M., G.C.B., G.C.V.O.,
Queen Anne's Mansions, St. James's Park, London, S.W.
Shackleford, Hon. Thomas M., Tallahassee, Florida, U.S.A.
Shaddick, W. Harris, Lyndhurst, 99 Montague Road, Leytonstone,
London, N.E.
Shadwell, Miss Blanche, 21 Nottingham Place, London, W.
Shakespear, Mrs., 12 Brunswick Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Shand, Alexander F., 1 Edwardes Place, Kensington, London, W.
*Shaw, Rev. Sir Charles J. Monson, Bart., The Rectory, Adisham,
Kent.
Shaw, Mrs. W. N., 10 Moreton Gardens, London, S.W.
Sheets, J. C. (c/o Cincinnati Sanatorium, College Hill), Station
K., Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Sheldon, A. F., Rockefeller, 111., U.S.A.
*Shewan, R. G., c/o Shewan, Tomes & Co., Hong Kong, China.
*Shirley, Ralph, 164 Aldersgate Street, London, E.C.
*Shove, Miss E., M.B., 30 York Street Chambers, Bryanston
Square, London, W.
Shuttleworth, Miss C. J., 10 Cottesmore Gardens, Kensington,
London, W.
*Sidgwick, Arthur, LL.D., 64 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 25 Collingham Road, London, S.W.
*Siclgwick, Mrs. H., 1 Grange Terrace, Cambridge.
Sidgwick, Miss Rose, 64 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
512 Members and Associates.
Siegel, Louis.
Siegel, Mrs. Henry, 51 Avenue Malakoff, Paris, France.
Silver, Mrs., 24 Victoria Square, London, S.W.
*Simpson, Commander H. V., R.N., Kylintra, Portrude Park,
Weybridge, Surrey.
Singh, Amar, Hoskiarpur, Punjab, India.
Sivudu, R. Venkata, The College, Gunt.ur, Madras Presidency,
India.
Skeffington, J. B., LL.D., 21 Crumlin Road, Belfast.
Skipwith, Mrs., 1 Culford Gardens, Sloane Square, London, S.W.
Skipwith, Mrs., 13 Montagu Square, London, W.
Sloggett, Surgeon-General A. T., C.M.G., C.B., P.M.O. 6th
Division, Poona, India.
Small, Mrs. William, 9l Hyde Park Mansions, London, W.
Smith, Adolphe, 12 Crookham Road, Fulham, London, S.W.
Smith, Miss Beatrice E., Lea, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
*Smith, Rev. Ernest F., 153 Banbury Road, Oxford.
Smith, Ernest S., Les Algues, Saint-Jean-de-Luz, France.
Smith, G. Albert, Laboratory Lodge, Roman Crescent, Southwick,
Brighton.
Smith, George M., Custom House, Lowestoft.
*Smith, Henry Arthur, 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
Smith, Sir H. Babington, C.B., 121 St. James's Court, Bucking-
ham Gate, London, S.W.
*Smith, Rev. Richard, The Manse, Melrose Gardens, West Ken-
sington Park, London, W.
Smith, Rev. Sidney M., Hebden Bridge Vicarage, Yorkshire.
*Smith, Mrs. W. Easton, 26 N. Main Street, Waterbury, Conn.,
U.S.A.
Smith, Wm. Hawley, 2039 Knoxville Avenue, Peoria, 111., U.S.A.
Smith, William P., Crestline, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Smithson, Mrs., 42 Tilehouse Street, Hitchin, Herts.
Snape, Mrs., St. Bees, Beachy Head Road, Eastbourne.
*Snow, Chester A., 710 8th Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Snyder, Irving T., Willow Grange, Littleton, Colorado, U.S.A.
Sparrow, G. W. S., Albrighton Hall, near Shrewsbury.
*Speer, Charlton T., Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
Spencer, Major C. G., R.A.M.C., Dudley Cottage, Fulford, York.
Spens, William, King's College, Cambridge.
Spicer, Mrs. W. T. Holmes, c/o Messrs. Baring Bros. & Co., 8
Bishopsgate Street, London, E.C.
Members and Associates. 513
Spielmann, Miss E. M., 38 Gloucester Square, London, W.
*Sproston, S., Junr., Elm House, Nantwich, Cheshire.
Sproston, W. Manning, Ardingly College, Hayward's Heath,
Sussex.
Stansfeld, Rex, 17 Spencer Road, North Side, Wandsworth
Common, London, S.W.
Stanton, Rev. Horace C, Ph.D., D.D., Clifton Springs, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
Stapleton, Mrs., Rembrandt Hotel, S. Kensington, London, W.
*Stapley, Sir Richard, 33 Bloomsbury Square, London, W.C.
Statkowski, Miss Tamara.
Stawell, Miss F. M., 44 Westbourne Park Villas, London, W.
*Steel, Mrs., Talgarth Hall, Machynlleth, Montgomeryshire.
Stephens, Mrs., 41 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W.
Stephenson, Guy, 41 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W.
Stephenson, H. H., 16 Brinkley Road, Worcester Park, Surrey.
Stevenson, Mrs., Wingrove, Moorend Park Road, Cheltenham.
Stewart, Miss M. A., Artillery Mansions, 75 Victoria Street,
London, S.W.
Stewart, Mrs. C. A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stewart, Herbert L., Ill University Street, Belfast.
Stewart, J., P.O. Dept., Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Stocker, Miss M. I., The Croft, Woodridings, Hatch End,
Middlesex.
Stoehr, Miss, Downend, Hindhead, Surrey.
Stokes, Dr. Henry N., 1443 Q. Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.,
U.S.A.
*Stokes, J. N. P., 118 East 22nd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Stout, Professor George F., Craigard, St. Andrews, N.B.
Strachan, W. M., Strood Park, Horsham, Sussex.
Strachey, Charles, Colonial Office, Downing Street, London,
S.W.
Strachey, J. B., 67 Belsize Park Gardens, Hampstead, London,
N.W.
*Strachey, John St. Loe, Spectator Office, 1 Wellington Street,
Strand, London, W.C.
Strain, Miss E. H., Cassillis House, Maybole, Ayrshire.
Stratton, F. J. M., Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
Strauss, E. A., M.P., 49 Grosvenor Square, London, W.
Street, Mrs. W. P. R., 10 Mackenzie Avenue, Rosedale, Toronto,
Canada.
514 Members and Associates.
Strong, Rev. Charles, D.D., 67 Avoca Street, S.Y., Melbourne,
Australia.
*Strutt, Hon. Richard, Rayleigh House, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Stuart, A. I., 24. Marlborough Rd., Southport.
Stuart, Mrs., Gloucester House, Lansdown, Cheltenham.
Stuart-Prince, Major C, c/o Messrs. Grindlay, Groom & Co.,
Bombay, India.
*Sturdy, Edward T., 6 St. John's Wood Park, London, N.W.
Sturge, Miss M. Carta, Cranbourne Grange, Wonston, Micheldever,
Hants.
*Suffern, Ernest S., 165 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
Sulman, H. L., 31 The Avenue, Brondesbury Park, London, N.W.
Sutton, Lady, 49 Lexham Gardens, London, W.
Swainson, Miss F. J., Stonecross, Kendal.
Swainson, Miss M., 7e Oxford & Cambridge Mansions, London, W.
*Swayne, Mrs. Noah Haynes, Junr., 153 Mill Creek Rd., Ardmore,
Pa., U.S.A.
Sweetlancl, Mrs. Gifford, San Francisco, San Lorenzo, Alameda
County, Calif., U.S.A.
Szentirmay de Darvasto, B. M. J. de, Consulate for Austria-
Hungary, Roustschuk, Bulgaria.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., Lismullen, Arthur Road, Wimbledon Park,
Surrey.
Tanner, Ernest, Hotel Curzon, Brighton.
Taplin, A. Betts, L.R.C.P., Norwood, Ivanhoe Road, Sefton Park,
Liverpool.
Taylor, Miss E. Waring, 7e Oxford and Cambridge Mansions,
London, W.
*Taylor, H. Dennis, Stancliffe, Mount Villas, York.
Tebb, Mrs. , Rede Hall, nr. Burstow, by Horley, Surrey.
Temple, Reginald W.
Theophilus, Mrs., 165 Westbourne Grove, Bayswater, London, W.
Thomas, Rev. CD., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
Thomas, Miss Edith J., Mynydd Ednyfed, Criccieth, N. Wales.
Thomas, Ernest Seymour, Turf Club, Cairo, Egypt.
Thomas, Dr. George P., 2113 North 7th Street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
*Thomas, J. W., Overdale, Shortlands, Kent.
*Thomas, Seymour P., 211 Cliveden Avenue, Germantown, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Thompson, Edwin, 25 Sefton Drive, Liverpool.
Members and Associates. 515
Thompson, Matthew William, Salters Hall, Sudbury, Suffolk.
Thompson, Mrs. Rosalie, 90 Newman Street, London, W.
*Thomson, Edward J., Western Club, Glasgow.
Thorburn, Rev. T. J., LL.D., The Bungalow, St. Helen's Down,
Hastings.
Thornhill, Miss H., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W.
Thornley, Rev. Alfred, Hughenden, Coppice Road, Nottingham.
Thornley, Miss F. J., 36 Downleaze, Stoke Bishop, Bristol.
Thornton, W. M., D.Sc, Durham College of Science, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
Thurn and Taxis, H.I.H. The Princess Alexander of, Lautschin,
Nimburg, Bohemia, Austria.
Townesend, Mrs., Trevine, Boley Hill, Rochester, Kent.
Trafford, Mrs. Galfrid de, Queensberry House, Richmond.
*Trotter, Mrs., Standerwick Court, Frome, Somersetshire.
Truell, Robert Holt Stuart, West Mount, Dover College, Dover.
Tschistiakoff, P. A., Arbate (maison Tolstoy), Moscow, Russia.
Tucker, James W., Cooperstown, N.Y., U.S.A.,
*Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 88 Park Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, W.
Tudor, Owen S., Friday's Hill, Haslemere, Surrey.
Turner, Herbert B., c/o Brown, Shipley & Co., 123 Pall Mall,
London, S.W.
Turner, Sidney, 20 Minster Road, Cricklewood, London, N.W.
Tyler, Professor C. M., The Oaks, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
*Tyrone, The O'Neill de, 59 rua das Flores, Lisbon, Portugal.
Tyrrell, G. N., The Lodge, Alderminster, Stratford-on-Avon.
Unwin, Mrs., Homestead, Bushey Heath, Herts.
Van Deren, H. S., Nashville, Tenn., U.S.A.
Van Meter, Solomon L., Hutchison, Kentucky, U.S.A.
*Van Norden, Rev. Charles, D.D., LL.D., East Auburn, Placer
Co., Cal., U.S.A.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 1 Van Breestraat, Amsterdam,
Holland.
*Verney-Cave, Hon. Mrs., Stanford-on-Avon, Rugby.
*Verrall, Mrs. A. W., 5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss H. de G., 5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss M. E., The Lydd, West Hoathly, Sussex.
Villamarina, Her Excellency the Marchesa di, Palazzo Regina
Margherita, Rome.
Vincent, W. James, M.B., Wadsley Asylum, Sheffield.
516 Members and Associates.
Von der Heydt, Baron, 48 Green Street, Park Lane, London, W.
Wakefield, Mrs., 70 Belsize Park Gardens, Hampstead, London,
N.W.
Wakeley, Mrs. Charles, 6218 Ingleside Avenue, Chicago, 111.,
U.S.A.
Walker, Miss Madeline J., 107 Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
Walker, Mrs., 28 St. Andrew's Mansions, Dorset Street, London, W.
*Walker, P. L. E., 7th Hussars, Hounslow, Middlesex.
*Walker-Munro, L., R.N., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
Walker-Munro, Mrs., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
*Wallace, Abraham, M.D., 39 Harley Street, London, W.
Walsh, Correa M., Belleport, Long Island, N.Y., U.S.A.
Walton, J. P., Hill House, Halesworth, Suffolk.
Wanderley, F. M., Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil.
*Ward, The Count, G.C.V.V., 54 and 55 London Wall, London,
B.C.
Ward, Hon. Kathleen, Aughnacloy, Killiney, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Warndorfer, A., Elisabetstrasse 23, Baden, nr. Vienna.
Warner, Miss E., 42 Albany Villas, Hove, Sussex.
Warren, Mrs. Fiske, 8 Mount Vernon Place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Warren, R. N., 45 Bloomsbury Square, London, W.C.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 50 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W.
*Warwick, Countess of, Warwick Castle, Warwick.
Wastell, Mrs., The Rowans, Crowborough, Sussex.
Waterlow, Sydney, Hillyfields, Rye, Sussex.
Watson, Mrs. Milne, 39 Eccleston Square, London, S.W.
Weaver, Miss Sarah, 15 Blagden Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Webber, Mrs. Felix, The Croft, Shillingstone, Dorset.
* Weinberg, Harry J., North Road, The Park, Nottingham.
Welch, Thomas G., The Oaks, Blakebrook, Kidderminster.
*Wells, E. P., The Limes, 94 Larkhall Rise, Clapham, London,
S.W.
West, Arthur B., 100 Franklin Street, Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
*Westcott, W. Wynn, M.B., J. P., 396 Camden Road, London, N.
Western, F. J., c/o The Librarian, Forman Christian College,
Lahore, India.
*Westlake, Ernest, Fordingbridge, Salisbury.
Westropp, A. S. A., East India United Service Club, 16 St.
James's Square, London, S.W.
Wheeler, C. Bickersteth, 7 St. Stephen's Crescent, Bayswater,
London, W.
Members and Associates. 517
Wheeler, Mrs. Mary K., 1133 Grand View Avenue, Boulder, Colo.,
U.S.A.
*Whetham, W. C. D., F.R.S., Upwater Lodge, Cambridge.
Whinyates, Miss Amy O., 15 Sloane Gardens, Sloane Square,
London, S.W.
Whipple, L. E., 10 East 66th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Whishaw, R. W., North West House, Duntrune Terrace, Broughty
Ferry, N.B.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malntano, Palermo, Sicily.
*White, F. R. M., R.N., Copyhold, Fernhurst, Sussex.
White, Dr. Gordon, 610* Church St., Nashville, Tenn., U.S.A.
*Whitehead, Miss Mercia D., St. Mary's, Trumpington, Cambridge.
Whitehead, Rev. John, 57 Dana Street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Whiting, J. Markby, Ashford House, Wimbledon Common,
London, S.W.
Whitmore, Mrs., 28 Milner St., Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
Whiton, Rev. J. M., Ph.D., 287 Fourth Avenue, New York City,
U.S.A.
*Whittemore, Mrs. Julia S., Naugatuck, Conn., U.S.A.
*Wiener, Captain Clarence, Ewell Castle, Surrey.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone, Kent.
*Wigg, E. Neale, The Moss, Clendon Road, Toorak, Melbourne,
Australia.
Wight, Edward, M.R.C.S., 9 Regency Square, Brighton.
Wilkins, Mrs., 8 Rostrevor Terrace, Rathgar, nr. Dublin.
*Wilkins, C. F., Lower Division, Eastern Jumna Canal, Delhi,
India.
Willett, Mrs., St. Andrew's Lodge, Seaford, Sussex.
Williams, A. C. Redshawe, 52 King William Street, London, E.C.
*Williams, Mrs. Glynne, 7 Berkeley House, Hay Hill, London, W.
Williams, J. E., Plumb Opera House, Streator, 111., U.S.A.
Williams, Mrs. S. R., 12 Lome Rd., Oxton, Cheshire.
Williamson, Mrs., The Croft, Didsbury, Manchester.
Willis, Mrs., c/o Mrs. Barbar, New Street, Killarney, Co. Kerry,
Ireland.
Willis, Grant B., 434 North M'Kinley Avenue, Canton, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Willock, Mrs. C. J., 16 Warwick Square, London, S.W.
Wilson, Rev. Alexander, The Manse, Ythanwells, Insch, Aberdeen-
shire.
Wilson, Mrs. Arthur, 150 Whitehall Court, London, S.W.
Wilson, Charles J., 17 Pembroke Park, Dublin, Ireland.
518 Members and Associates
Wilson, Mrs. C. Stuart, c/o Major C. S. Wilson, R.E., Kasr el
Nil, Cairo, Egypt.
Wilson, Miss E. M., Hotel Beau Sejour, Chateau D'Oex, Switzer-
land.
Wilson, Mrs. H. J., 12 Cheyne Court, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Wilson, Herbert W., Cornholme, Garston, Liverpool.
Wilson, Miss M. A., Hotel Beau Sejour, Chateau D'Oex, Switzer-
land.
Wingate, D. C.
*Wingfield, H. E., M.D., 44 Welbeck Street, London, W.
Winslow, L. Forbes, M.B., LL.D., 57 Devonshire Street, Portland
Place, London, W.
Winslow, Mrs. Forbes, 57 Devonshire Street, Portland Place,
London, W.
Witherby, Arthur George, Newtown Grange, Newbury, Berks.
*Wolf, Francisco Eugene de, c/o Banque de Montreux, Montreux,
Switzerland.
*Wood, R. H., c/o Messx-s. Smith, Wood & Co., 3 and 4 Lime Street
Square, London, E.C.
Woodhull, Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire.
*Woods, Miss Alice, 3 North Mansions, Burton Road, Kilburn,
London, N.W.
Woods, Mrs., The Master's House, Temple, London, E.C.
*Wooldridge, IT. B., 168 Marylebone Road, London, N.W.
Woollett, Lieut. -Colonel W. Charles, 4 The Ridges, Farnboro',
Hants.
Woolley, V. J., 48 Lissenden Mansions, Lissenden Gardens,
London, N.W.
*Worsfolcl, Mrs. Basil, Romden Place, Smarden, Kent.
Wrangell, Baron Cyrille, 9 Schpalernaia, St. Petersburg.
Wrchovszky, Wilhelm, Kronprinz Rudolf Str. 12, Vienna.
Wriford, Mrs., 21 Bullingham Mansions, Kensington, London, W.
*Wright, Maurice B., M.D., 17 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Wyke, Mrs. Wilberforce, Arundel House, Beaumont, Jersey, C.I.
Wyllys, Miss R., 18 Louisburg Square, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Wyndham-Quin, The Lady Emily, 12 William Street, Lowndes
Square, London, S.W.
Yandell, Miss Maud, c/o Brown, Shipley & Co., 123 Pall Mall,
London, S.W.
Yaroschenko, Madame, La Cava, Bordighera, Italy.
Members and Associates. 519
Young, G. P., Burnside Cottage, Colston, Bisbopbriggs, Glasgow.
*Young, Sir William L., Bart., 35 Lower Seymour Street, Portman
Square, London, W.
Younghusband, Sir Francis, 3 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W.
Yssel de Scbepper, Mr. Justice, Eendracbtstraat 27b, Rotterdam.
Zagury, Leon, 12 Emanuel Avenue, Acton, London, W.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX to VOL. XXV.
(PARTS LXIL—LXIV. AND APPENDIX).
191 I .
A.
A., Miss, Case of, reference to 73
Abt Yogler. See Browning, Hope and Star.
Aeneid (Book I.) Incidents - -
160, 234, 235
„ (Book VI.) Cross-Correspondence
121-23, 131-146, 151-58, 161-163, 165, 178-190, 191-193, 200
See also Lethe and Lethe-Dorr Incident.
Aeschylus, Prometheus Vinctus, Script references to - - 258, 259
Ajax and Goethe Incident - - - 166-169
„ Prayer of - - 166
All Souls College Song, Script reference to - - 251
Alternations of Personality, Long-continued Cases. (See " Beauchamp,
the Misses," X., Felida, and Sanders, the Rev. C. B.
American Series of Sittings with Eusapia Palladino, reference to
57, 59, 61, 69, 413
Anaxagoras (Lethe Incident) - ... 149,192,205
Anchises (Sibyl Incident) - - 121, 131-146, 152-158, 178, 180-184, 192
Annates des Sciences Psychiqties, references to
419, 420, 434, 439, 442, 445 (foot-notes)
Apports, Alleged Phenomena of - 415, 416, 420-423, 426
Arabian Nights. See Door ( = Dorr) and Key, and Lethe-Dorr Episode.
Arithmetical Prodigies, references to - - - 74
Arnold, Matthew, Script references to Empedocles on Etna - - 242
„ „ „ Requiescat 149, 160, 192, 204, 205
parts lxil-lxiv.] Index to Vol. XXV. 521
Arrow, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - 81 (foot-note)
„ as a symbol of Cross-Correspondence - 193-6, 254, 300
Aksakow, Alex. N., Animisme et Spiritisme, by, references to
415 (foot-note), 418 (foot-note), 421, 422 (foot-note)
„ „ Divulgations, by - - - 434 (foot-note)
Atlantic Monthly Case (Massachusetts Disturbances) - - 395
Automatic Writing (Miscellaneous) - - 73, 461-462, 470, 471
See also the Scripts of "Mrs. Forbes," "Mrs. Holland," The
Mac Script, Mrs. and Miss Verrall, Mrs. Willett, and the
Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper.
duTos ovpavus aKUfUov Incident, reference to - 305
Ave Roma Immortalis, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - 54
B.
Baggally, W. W., Note on the Report of Further Sittings with
Eusapia Palladino, by the Hon. E. Feilding and W. Marriott - 69
Bailey, C, Alleged Mediumship of, refere D ces to 413, 423, 426
Balfour, The Et. Hon. G. W., On Professor Pigou's Criticism of Cross-
Correspondences - - - 38, 219, 220
Barrett, Professor W. F., F.E.S., on Poltergeists, Old and New - - 377
n ,. „ Close connection with Telekinetic
Phenomena with Mediums 410-411
,, „ General Conclusions - 410-412
„ „ Researches in the Phenomena of Dowsing,
by, reference to - - - - - 365
Bayfield, The Rev. M. A.—
On Cross-Correspondences - - 77-89, 291, 475-76
„ „ Imaginary Cross-Correspondence, as bearing on - 84-88
„ Subliminal Self and - - 83, 84, 291, 475-76
„ Reviews : Esprits et Mediums, by Professor Th. Flournoy - 468
The Newer Spiritualism, by Frank Podmore - 70
" Bealings Bells " Case, reference to - - - 395, 396
" Beauchamp, The Misses," Case of, reference to - - 72, 471
"Bees and Lilies" Incident - - 128, 129, 137, 163, 165, 247, 248
Benson, A. O, Script references to The Phoenix - - - 263, 268
„ „ „ „ Note on, by - 268 (foot-note)
Bergson, Professor H., Psychology of, references to - - 14, 31, 34
Birds and Turkeys, Cross-Correspondence - 222, 228, 250, 285
Blake, W., Script references to So?igs of Innocence - - - 273
Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, references to 341, 342, 345, 346, 351
Brackett, Materialised Apparitions, by, reference to - - 418 (foot-note)
Bramwell, Dr. Milne, Hypnotic Experiments of, reference to - 73, 347
Bristow, John, Report on the Swanland Disturbances, reference to - 408
522 Index to Vol. XXV. [parts
Brooke, Stopford, History of Early English Literature, reference to
268 (foot-note)
Browning R. See Hope and Star Cross-Correspondence.
„ Aristophanes' Apology and Euripides Cross-Corre-
spondence, reference to - - 280, 281
,, Script references to Pauline - 257
Pippa Passes - - - 242, 243
Rabbi ben Ezra - 306-319
,, ,, possible connection between and Omar
Khayyam - - - 318-319
„ „ Source of the "Cup" Correspondence,
Mrs. A. W. Verrall on - - - 304-319
„ Tocca ta of Galuppi - - 229, 234
Buscarlet, Mme., Case of - - 472
C.
C. Miss, Hypnotic Experiments with - - - 455
Carancini, F., Alleged Mediumship of, reference to - - 413
Carmichael, Alexander, Carmina Gadelica, reference to
266 (foot-note), 267 (foot-note)
Carrick, Mary. See the Pealing Bells Case.
Carrington, Hereward, The Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, by,
reference to - - - - 425 (foot-note)
Celestial Halcyon Days, Cross-Correspondence, reference to 305 (foot-note)
Ceyx, Story of (Lethe Incident), references to 80, 81 (foot-note), 121, 177, 179
Charades, possible Cross-Correspondence - - 301
Charon and Styx; Cross-Correspondence - 223, 227, 228, 273, 274
Charonic Staircase. See Charon and Styx Cross-Correspondence.
Church, Professor Alfred, Stories from Virgil, by, reference to
135, 136, 143, 172, 190, 191-192
dough, A. H., Script reference to Poem of - - 302
Cobbe, Frances Power, The Peak of Darien by, references to
141 (foot-note), 146, 147
Coleridge, S. T., Script reference to KvHa Khan - - - 336
Comics, Cross-Correspondence - - 220, 223, 253, 272, 285
Confirmation, Cross-Correspondence - - - 223, 226, 261
Conjurors and the Physical Phenomena of Mediums, Count Perovsky-
Petrovo-Solovovo on - - - 425-28
Controls, Hypnotic. See " Poynings, Blanche."
Convolvulus and Shell, Cross -Correspondence 222, 226, 229, 230
Cook, Miss Florence, Alleged Mediumship of, reference to
415, 421 (foot-note), 423, 430
Corrales, Ofelia, Alleged Mediumship of - 413
Cours de Litterature Celtique, reference to - - 267 (foot-note)
Crookes, Sir William, Researches of - 415, 418 (footnote), 420, 423, 442
lxii.-LXIV.] Index to Vol, XXV 523
Cross-Correspondence, Experiments in
Balfour, Hon. G. W., on - 38
Bayfield, Eev. M. A., on - - 77-89, 291, 475, 476
,, Johnson, Miss Alice, on - -
79, 82, 218
,,
Lang, A., on - - 373-376
Lodge, Sir Oliver, on 38, 113, 293
Pigon, Prof. A. C, on - 38, 291
Podmore, F., on - - 77-89, 291
„ Verrall, Mrs. A. W., on - 176, 304, 320
See also Dorr, G. B., and Piddington, J. G. (Series of 1908).
Cross-Correspondence, Chance Coincidence and - 221, 374, 375
,,
Chronological Tables of
191, 192, 203, 222-3, 228, 329, 330
„ Imaginary, by the Eev. M. A. Bayfield - - 84-88
,, Indications of the Presence of a Third Intelli-
gence, question of 50-54, 77-82, 126-128, 131 (foot-
note), 135, 141, 151-164, 166-169, 193-217, 250, 283,
293-98, 313-319, 320-337, 448
„ Identity of the Intelligence, question of 77-89, 132
(foot-note), 150, 151, 175, 197-198,214-217,219, 235-
236, 250, 294, 297, 298, 305, 324 (foot-note), 374, 448
,, Knowledge of the Subject-matter on the part
of Automatists or Sitters, question of 52-54, 79,
81, 132, 135, 142-43, 146, 164-169, 172-175, 176-193,
195, 196 (foot-note), 198, 200, 202 (foot-note), 204, 205,
209-217, 228, 267, 273-274, 280-81, 290, 305, 320-37
„ Phrases and Symbols indicating 217, 254, 262, 298, 300
Subliminal Self and 83, 88, 172, 173, 291-92, 475-76
,, Telepathy, Incidents suggestive of 77-89, 163, 164,
219, 247, 248, 252, 283, 290-91, 293, 305
See also the Scripts of "Mrs. Forbes," " Mrs. Holland," Mrs. and Miss
Verrall, and Mrs. Willett, the Mac Script, and the Trance Pheno-
mena of Mrs. Piper.
Cup, Cross-Correspondence - - 105, 304
„ Note on, by Mrs. A. W. Verrall - - 304
„ Rabbi ben Ezra considered as the source of 313-319
Cyclops, Centaurs, etc., allusions to 277, 280, 281
Cyclops and Hercules, Cross-Correspondence
223, 227, 228, 272 (foot-note), 279
I).
Daffodils, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - -
305
Dale Tower (Georgia) Disturbances - - - 404
Dante's Lethe, references to ------ - 214-216
Dariex, M., Experiments in Physical Phenomena, reference to - 441, 442
524 Index to Vol. XXV. [PARTS
Davenport, R. B., Death-blow to Spiritualism, reference to - 417 (foot-note)
Davey, S. J., Experiments in Slate-Writing, references to 106, 426, 440, 441
Davies, Emma. See The Wem Disturbances.
Davis, W. S., Report on Sittings with Eusapia Palladino, reference to
57, 59, 61
Dawn. See "The One-Horse Dawn" Experiment.
Derrygonnelly Disturbances, the ... - 390
Devereux, Owen, Evidence as to the Enniscorthy Disturbances - - 385
Diamond Island Incident ------ - 293
Diana, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - 105
Dickinson, G. Lowes, A Case of Emergence of a Latent Memory under
Hypnosis, by--- ...... 455
Didier, Alexis, Case of, reference to - - 76
Divining Rod. See Dowsing Experiments.
Documentary Evidence, Contemporary, Extant - 115, 116, 472, 473
Donaldson, Theatre of the Greeks, reference to - - 273, 274
Door ( = Dorr) and Key and Lethe-Dorr Cross-Correspondence
121-30, 191, 193-204, 219, 222, 226, 229, 234, 239, 250, 285
„ Summary of 203
Dorr, G. B., Sittings with Mrs. Piper : series of 1908 ; chief refer-
ences to 80, 84, 95, 104-105,' 116, 120, 121, 150-156, 158-166, 176-217,
218-229, 231-237, 245, 251-53, 258, 260-62, 264, 269, 272, 273, 276, 279,
299-301, 317
See also Door ( = Dorr) and Key and Lethe-Dorr, Cross-Corre-
spondence, and the Willett Script.
Doves. See Golden Bough (Doves and).
Dowsing, Barrett, Prof. W. F., on, reference to - - - 365
Dreams, Mental Activity during, Poem composed in - - 268 (foot-note)
See also Premonitions and Telepathy.
Dublin University Magazine, The Demons of Derrygonnelly, Prof. W. F.
Barrett on, in, ----- - - 390
Dufferin, Lady, Script reference to song by, The Bay of Dublin 263 (foot-note)
E.
Echo and Narcissus, Cross-Correspondence
160, 222, 226, 228, 231, 232, 244, 245, 253, 271, 285, 286
Eheu fugaces, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - 236
Eglinton, W., Alleged Mediumship of - - 439, 440
Ellis, Professor Robinson, The Tenth Declamation of (Pseudo) Quin-
tilian, by, Review of, by F. C. S. Schiller - - - - 361
Elongation and Contraction of Mediums alleged (D. D. Home) - 75, 422
Enniseortliy Disturbances, the - - - 380
Euripides, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - 52, 280, 281
Eurydice. See Orpheus and Eurydice.
LXII.-LXIV.] Index to Vol. XXV. 525
Exile and Moore, Cross-Correspondence
149, 155, 156, 186, 209, 210, 212, 223, 262, 264, 265, 269-271, 286
F.
Fat, Mrs. Eva, Alleged Mediumship of, reference to - 418 (foot-note)
Fechner, Panpsychic View of the Universe, reference to - - - 27
Feilding, the Hon. Everard, and W. Marriott, Report on a Further
Series of Sittings with Eusapia Palla-
dino at Naples 57
Baggally, W. W., Note on - - - 69
„ ,, Control, the Question of
57, 58, 60-63, 64-67, 69
„ „ Detailed Account of the Table-Lifting
Incident - 63, 64, 65-67
„ „ Fraud, Question of 58, 59, 61
,, „ Negative Conclusions, - 58, 59
„ ,,
Petrovo-Solovovo, Count Perovsky,
Statement and Note by 59, 64
„ ,, Countess Solovovo, Note by - - 65
„ „ „ Comment on, by Miss Alice Johnson 67
„ „ Previous Series of Sittings, reference to
373, 420, 427, 445, 446
Fire Test, Alleged Phenomena of ... 75;
422, 442
Firth, J. P>., The Minstrelsy of Isis, edited by, reference to - - 251
FitzGerald, E., Translation of Omar Khayyam, Script reference to - 262
„ Cup, Cross-Correspondence and - - 306, 313-319
See also Door { = Dorr) and Key, Cross-Correspondence.
Flavicomata Incident - .... 149, 160-163, 192
Flournoy, Professor Th., Esprits et Mediums by, Review by the Rev.
M. A. Bayfield - - - - - - 468
Forbes (Talbot) Control .... ... 199, 201
" Forbes, Mrs.," Door and Key, Cross-Correspondence
191, 193, 199-204, 222, 250
Fox-Jencken, Mrs., Alleged Mediumship of 415 (foot-note), 416, 417, 419
Fox-Kane, Mrs., Alleged Mediumship of - - - 416, 417, 419
Freer. See Goodrich-Freer, Miss A.
Freud, Professor S., Methods of Psycho-Analysis, reference to - 347-349
G.
G., Dr., Hypnotise experiments of - - ... 455
Ganymede Incident -------- 149, 160, 192
Gasparin, Comte de, Researches of, reference to - ... 441
Gautier, Theophile, The Hugo- Gautier-Mo ateaaeken Cross-Corre-
spondence, Mrs. A. W. Verrall 011 320-337
2l
526 Index to Vol. XXV. [parts
Gilbert, Dr. and Mrs., Evidence as to the Portland (Oregon) Dis-
turbances 398, 400, 401
Glanvil, Joseph, Saducismus Triumphatus, reference to
380, 403 (foot-note), 409, 410
Goethe, Script references to Mignon's Song ------ 279
Goethe and Ajax Incident - - 166-169
Golden Bough, Doves and, Incident
123, 133, 136-140, 145, 146, 162, 179, 180, 184-187, 191
Goodrich-Freer, Miss A., Crystal Gazing by, reference to - - - 372
Gray's Bard, Script references to 335 (foot-note)
Gregory, Lady, A Book of Saints and Wonders, reference to 267 (foot-note)
Gurney-Control, the, through " Mrs. Forbes " - - - 199, 201
Mrs. Verrall - - 109
Mrs. Willett - - 116, 128, 129, 165
Guzik, Jan, Alleged Medhuiiship of - - 421, 435, 436
H.
Haggi Babba. See Door { = Dorr) and Lethe-Dorr Cross-Correspondence.
Haigh, Attic Theatre, reference to - - ... 273, 274
Hall, Dr. Stanley, Studies in Spiritism, by Dr. A. Tanner, with an
Introduction by
—
„ Beview of, by A. Lang 90
„ „ Mrs. H. Sidgwick ------ 102
Hallucination, Collective
,, An Adventure (Petit Trianon) considered from the
point of view of 353-360
,, and Suggestion as an explanation of the Telekinetic
Phenomena of Eusapia Palladino
58, 60, 61, 63, 67-69, 74-75, 444-446
,, „ Miss Alice Johnson on - - - - 67
Hallucinations, Census of, references to - - - - 371, 372
Hanna, Bev. T. C, A Case of Secondary Personality, reference to - 344
Hegel, Philosophy of, reference to ------- 35
Heine, Lorelei, Script reference to ... 255
Henley, W. E., Echoes, Script references to - - - - - - 233
Hercules Furens, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - 280-281
Hercules (and Cyclops), Cross-Correspondence - - 223, 227, 279-282
Hibbert Journal, Articles on Psychical Besearch in, references to 51, 52
Hodgson, Control, Mrs. Piper's 77, 89, 91-101, 103, 243, 298-299, 309, 310r
312, 318, 331
„ Dramatic Character of - - - - 77, 299
" Holland, Mrs.," The Automatic Script of—
„ Johnson, Miss Alice, Third Beport on 218-303
,, „ ' Appendices - - ... 293-303
LXII.-LXIV.] Index to Vol. XXV. 527
"Holland, Mrs.," Johnson, Miss Alice, On chance-coincidence, question of 221
„ Classical Allusions in her Script 228, 248, 267
,, ,, Diamond Island Incident - 293
„ Cross-Correspondences, L\...f references, Chrono-
logical Lists of - - 191,192,222,223,228
„ (with " Mrs. Forbes :
') - - 191,193,197-204
,, ,, ( ,, the Mac Script)
191, 193, 197-204, 207, 234-239, 250
„ ( „ Mrs. Piper) 52-54, 206, 207, 222, 223, 228, 231-
236, 250-252, 253-282, 285, 286, 304, 307-318
„ ( „ Mrs. and Miss Verrall) - 52-54,191,193,197-
204, 206-209, 218-221, 222, 223, 229, 234, 239,
250, 253, 256, 259, 261, 263, 264, 269, 273, 279,
285, 286, 304-307
„ ( „ Mrs. Willett) 191-193, 197-204, 206-209, 222
223, 231-234, 250, 264-269
„ Cup, Cross-Correspondence, Note on, by Mrs. A. W.
Verrall - - - - - - - - 304
,, Door ( = Dorr) and Key, Cross-Correspondence
191, 193, 197-204
Holmes, Jerome, Evidence as to the Portland (Oregon) Disturbances - 401
Home, D. D., Alleged Mediumship of, references to
5, 74, 75, 415, 420, 422, 428, 430, 442
Homer, Script references to
148-149, 153-158, 166, 188-190, 192, 210, 238 (foot-note)
Hope, Star, and Browning, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - 77, 78, 311
Horace Ode Question, references to
136 (foot-note), 148-162, 179, 181, 185-190, 191
„ „ „ in Willett Script 148-162,185-190,191
Housrnan, A. E., A Shropshire Lad, Script reference to 263
Hughes, F. S., Report on the Weni Disturbances, reference to - - 402
Hugo, Victor, Poem of, Cross-Correspondence of 255, 320
„ A correction and an addition to, by Mrs. A. W. Verrall - 320
„ Gautier and Montenaeken, connection with - - - 321, 337
„ Chronological Table -------- 329
Huxley, Professor T. H, Case recorded by - 73
Hyacinthus (Lethe Incident), reference to - - - - - - 160
Hypnotism, Phenomena of
,, Consciousness during - - - 456-457
„ Hypnoidal State of Sidis, the - ... 338-352
,. „ Amnesia - - - 340-342, 344
„ „ Memory, Revivals of 344, 348
„ „ Reserve Energy, Theory of - 349-352
„ „ Suggestion and ----- S39, 345
„ „ Therapeutic Aspects of - - - - 338-352
528 Index to Vol. XXV. [parts
•>
>!
Hypnotism, Memory, Revivals of 348, 455-467
„ Personality in the Light of, Hypnotic Controls
72, 73, 458, 463, 464
„ „ „ Dramatic Character of 463-464
Therapeutic Aspects of 348
See also Hypnoidal State above.
,, Time-Reactions in Hypnosis ------ 73
I.
Identity. See Cross-Correspondence, and the Gurney, Hodgson,
Myers, and Sidgwick Controls.
Imaginary Cross-Correspondences, Construction of 84-88
In Valle Reducta, Script references to - - 123, 136, 137, 191, 193
Iris (Lethe Incident), reference to - - - - - 81 (foot-note)
,J.
Jambs, Professor William (and Frank Podmore)—Commemorative
Address on, by H. Arthur Smith - - - 1
„ In Memory of, by W. M'Dougall 11
,, As Philosopher, by Professor J. H. Muirhead 30
,,
Piper, Mrs., Investigation into the Phenomena of, by - - 16, 20
„ Work in Psychical Research - - - - - 12, 15-29
Janet, Dr. Pierre, Les Nivroses et les Ide'es Fixes, reference to - - 372
Johnson, Miss Alice
—
Comments on the Countess Solovovo's Note on a Seance with
Eusapia Palladino ------- 67
,, Hallucination and Illusion as an explanation of supposed
Telekinetic Phenomena ------- 67-69
„ Sittings with Mrs. Piper, reference to 313
„ Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script
Appendices ------- 293-303
Introduction - - - - - - - 218
„ Chance Coincidence, Question of - - - - - 221
„ Classical Allusions in the Script ----- 226
„ Cross-Correspondences - 229-282
List of - 222, 223, 228
„ Principle of Selection in the 282
„ Telepathy, possible, from Investigators 219, 221, 224, 225
„ Third Intelligence and - ... 283-293
„ Verrall, Mrs., Subliminal Self of, and Cross-Corre-
spondence 291, 292
„ The Willett Script, on 115, 221, 240, 244-246, 248, 266,270,286,290,301
Journal of Abnormal Psychology, references to
343 (foot-note), 346 (foot-note), 348 (foot-note)
Journal of the American S. P. R., Investigation of the Portland (Oregon)
Disturbances 398-402
LXII.-LXIV ]
Index to Vol. XXV. 529
K.
Keats, Script references to
Epitaph of, Writ in Water - - - -150,156,192,212,213
Ode on Melancholy 130, 241, 282
„ Ode to a Nightingale 129 (foot-note), 148, 156, 158, 160, 163, 192,
204-209
,, Sonnet on first looking into Chap-man's Homer
124, 141, 142, 143, 146, 147, 191, 336, 337
Kellar, H., Sitting with Eglinton 439
Kelvin, Lord, Scientific Researches of, references to - - - 452, 453
Key (and Door), Cross-Correspondence. See Door.
L.
Lamont, Miss, and Miss Morison, An Adventure by, Review of - - 353
Lang, Andrew, on Cross-Correspondences ----- 373-76
„ Open Letter to Dr. Stanley Hall, by ----- 90
„ Sidgwick, Mrs. H., on 102
„ on Mrs. Piper 90-101, 102
„ on Poltergeist Phenomena ----- 370, 371, 380
„ Presidential Address, 1911 364
„ Psychical Experiences of Men of Genius 368-369
„ The "Work of the Society and its
Critics 364-373
Latin Message, Mr. Piddington's, references to - 77, 78, 82, 260, 261, 286
Laurel Wreath, Cross-Correspondence, reference to 315
Laus Deo, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - 306
Lethe-Dorr Episode, in the Willett Script - 116, 120-130
„ Door ( = Dorr) and Key Cross-Correspondence
191, 193-204, 219, 222, 226, 229, 250, 285
Lethe Incident, the (Mrs. Piper), references to 80, 81, 116, 120, 121,
122-175, 176-217, 221, 222, 223, 241, 290
„ Cross-Correspondences in the Willett Script 122-175,
176-217, 221-223, 246, 290
„ See also Allusions in the Scripts of Mrs. Holland
and Mrs. and Miss Verrall.
„ Lodge, Sir Oliver, on - 113-175
„ Verrall, Mrs. A. W., on - - - 176-217
Lethean Poppies, reference to - - 163
Levitations, Alleged, of Saints ------- 370, 443
See also Telekinesis.
Library, Cross-Correspondence, reference to ----- 306
Light in the West, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - 52, 286, 304
Lilies. See Bees and Lilies, and Sesame and Lilies.
530 Index to Vol. XXV. [parts
Literary and Classical Allusions in Automatic Scripts
—
,, Evidence of Classical Scholarship and Cross-Correspondence
(Willett Script), Sir Oliver Lodge on - - - - 113
„ Mrs. A. W. Verrall on - - - - 176
See also the Scripts of " Mrs. Holland," Mrs. and Miss Verrall,
the Mac Script, and the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper.
Lodge, Sir Oliver, On the a priori Argument against Physical
Phenomena ------- 447
„ „ Diamond Island Incident, on the - - 294-298
„ „ Evidence of Classical Scholarship and Cross-Cor-
respondence in some New Automatic
Writings 113, 244, 245 (foot-note),
270 (foot-note), 337 (foot-note)
„ „ ,, Appendices - ... 142, 146
„ „ ,, Introduction- - 113
,, ,, „ Concerning the Scripts of Feb. 4 and
Feb. 10, 1910 - - - 120, 147
„ ,, „ Lethe-Dorr Episode - - - 120-130
„ „ „ Lethe and Knowledge of other Scrhpts - 158
„ „ „ Lethe and the Will to Live - - 131-140
,, ,, ,, Non-Evidential Statements - - - 169
„ „ „ Normal Explanation, discussion of - 172
,, „ ,,
Scholarship, Evidence for ... 164
„ ,, Reply to Professor A. C. Pigou's Criticism of
Cross-Correspondences ----- 38, 44
„ „ Sittings with Mrs. Piper, references to 106, 107, 331
Longfellow, Script references to
Hymn to Night - - - 302
The Old Clock on the Stairs (further details) - - 298, 299
Luminous Appearances in the presence of Mediums - - - - 425
Lux Ube, Cross-Correspondence ------- 299, 300
M.
Mac Script, The—
„ Cross-Correspondence (with Mrs. Holland, Mrs. Piper, Mrs.
and Miss Verrall, and Mrs. Willett) 137, 142, 191, 193-204,
207, 212, 222, 223, 234, 236, 239, 250, 254, 264, 269, 270, 320
„ Door and Key, Cross-Correspondence - - 191, 193-204, 250
„ The Hugo-Gautier and Montenaelcen Cross-Correspondence 320-330
Malherbe, Script references to poem by 328, 334
Manuscript Play Incident, reference to - - 109
Marcellus, Script references to - - - - 136-139, 144, 145, 191, 193
March, Elwin. See The Portland (Oregon) Disturbances.
Marriott, W., and Feilding, the Hon. Everard—Report on a Further
Series of Sittings with Eusapia Palladino at Naples 57
Maskelyne, J. N., Modern Spiritualism, reference to - - 417 (foot-note)
Massey, C. O, Report on the Wem Disturbances, reference to - - 402
LXII.-LXIV.] Index to Vol. XXV. 531
Materialisations, Alleged Phenomena of - - 414, 415, 418-422, 425, 432
(foot-note), 442, 445
Maxwell, Clerk, reference to the Writings of - - 452, 453
M'Dougall, W., In Memory of William James, by - - - - 11
"Meditation" Incident (The Hugo-Oautier and Montenaeken Cross-
Correspondence) -------- 323, 324, 331
Medusa's Head, Cross-Correspondence - ... 223, 228, 276
Meetings of the Society, General - 363
Members and Associates, List of ------- 478
Mercury, Cross-Correspondence - - - 223, 227, 238, 262, 263
Miles, Miss Clarissa (and Miss H. Eamsden)
Thought-Transference Experiments, bearing of, on '^Cross-
Correspondence 39-42, 44, 45, 54
Milton, Script references to Comus - - 220, 223, 229 (foot-note), 253
„ „ Lycidas 300 (foot note)
Mitchell, T. W., M.D., The Hypnoidal State of Sidis - - 338
Mompesson, Mr. See The Drummer of Tedworth Disturbances.
Monck, "Dr.," Alleged Mediumship of, references to - - 415 (foot-note)
Montenaeken, Leon de, Poem by, and The Victor Hugo Cross-
Correspondence, a Correction and Addition to, by Mrs.
A. W. Verrall - - - 320
„ ,,
Gautier, Connection with - - 320-334
Moore, T. See Exile and Moore, Cross-Correspondence.
Moratief, M., Case confirmed by ------- 473
Morison, Miss, and Miss Lamont, An Adventure by, Review of - - 353
Morozow, Luba, Alleged Mediumship of ----- * 435
Morpheus. See Lethe and the Lethe-Willett Incident.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, reference to the Experiences of 6, 76, 415, 416,
422, 426
Muirhead, Dr. Alexander, Note on the Diamond Island Experiments
in Wireless Telegraph -------- 294, 295
Muirhead, Professor J. H., William James as Philosopher 30
Murphy, N. J., Evidence as to the Enniscorthy Distm-bances 380, 385, 387
Myers, F. W. H., Script References to and Reminiscences of the Writings of
„ Classical Essays 131,134-36,139,140,153,154,155,
157, 172, 192, 210
,, ,, Fragments of Prose and Poetry 155, 210 (foot-note),
250, 265, 270, 307
„ „ Renewal of Youth 132, 140
„ .Si!. Paul - - - - .
- - - - 140
„ „ Science and a Future Life - 178,211
„ ,, Special Poems, Immortality - - 154, 161
,, ,, ,, To Tennyson - 133
„ „ „ Stanzas on Mr. Watts' Collected
Works 155, 192, 265, 270, 271
532 Index to Vol. XXV. [parts
Myers, F.W.H., Theory of the Subliminal Consciousness, references to
25, 70-72, 288, 369, 471, 472
Myers-Control, the, Communications through " Mrs. Holland "
218-303, 304-307
„ „ Mrs. Piper 77-83, 88, 89, 116,
117, 120, 121, 127, 130, 132,
152, 154-156, 159-164, 176-
217, 304-319, 323, 331-334
„ „ „ Mrs. and Miss Verrall 77-89,
136 (foot-note), 155,165,166,
180, 182-217, 219, 222, 223,
229, 234, 239, 250, 253, 255,
256, 258, 259, 261, 263, 264,
269, 272, 273, 279, 304-319,
320-337
Mrs. Willett 113-175, 176-217,
231, 233, 234, 239, 250, 264,
269
„ Comparison of, through different Automatists 78-80, 118, 119
„ Dramatic Character of the Impersonation
174-175, 290-293, 374
N.
Nicolaeff, Alleged Mediumship of - 438 (foot-uote)
Nightingale, Cross-Correspondence 124, 129, 156-160, 191, 192, 204-206, 208-
209, 222, 229, 231-233, 244, 245, 271, 285, 286
O.
Ochorowicz, Dr., Sittings with Miss S. Tomczyk, reference to - 419-420
„ „ „ Eusapia Palladino, reference to - - 420
Officers and Council for 1911 477
Omar Khayyam. See Cup, Cross-Correspondence, and Door ( = Dorr)
and Key, Cross-Correspondence.
" One-Horse Dawn " Experiment, Further Discussion of
„ Balfour, Et. Hon. G. W., on 42-56
„ Pigou, Prof. A. C, on 42-56
„ Verrall, Mrs. A. W., an Additional Note on - - - - 109
Orpheus and Eurydice. See Exile, Cross-Correspondence.
Ovid, Script references to
„ Fasti - - - 247, 248, 290
„ Metamorphoses 121, 149, 156, 160, 177-181, 192, 210, 211, 228, 238,
246-250
P.
Pacific Monthly, The Portland (Oregon) Disturbances 398
LXII.-LXIV.] Index to Vol. XXV. 533
Palladino, Eusapia, Physical Phenomena of 57, 75, 367, 373, 413, 415-417,
420, 427, 434 (foot-note), 445, 446, 474
n „ Eeport on a further Series of Sittings at Naples
with, by the Hon. E. Feilding and W.
Marriott ------- 57
Notes on, by W. W. Baggally - - -69
„ „ „ Miss Alice Johnson ----- 67
„ „ „ Count and Countess Eerovsky-Fetrovo-
Solovovo ------ 59;
64
„ „ Podmore, F., on - ----- 75
Passage of Matter through Matter (Apports, Eing-Test, etc.), alleged
414, 415, 416, 420, 423, 424, 426, 443 (foot-note), 444
Peak in Darien, Script references to 124, 141-3, 146, 147, 191, 336, 337
Peel, Sir E,, Case recorded by, reference to - ... 353
Personality, Problems of - - - 23-29, 70-74, 76, 344, 374
„ Professor W. James on ------- 23-29
„ Multiple - - - - - - - 72, 76, 344
Petrovo-Solovovo, Count Perovsky, on the Phenomena of Eusapia
Palladino 59, 64-67, 413, 415-417, 420, 427, 434 (foot-note), 445, 446
,, Les Phe'nomknes Physiques de Spiritisme : Quelques Dijfi-
culte's, by - - - - - -413
„ ,, Hallucination and Illusion - 444
„ a priori Improbability, Question of - - - 414
„ „ Sitters, the Education of 431
„ Eeport on Further Sittings with Eusapia FalladiDO at Naples.
Statement and Notes by 59, 64
„ „ Countess Solovovo, Notes on the Seance of Nov.
28, 1910, by - 65
„ „ ,, Comment on by Miss Alice Johnson - 67
Phoenix, The. See Exile, Cross-Correspondence.
Fhrases and Symbols indicating Cross-Correspondence 217, 254,262,298,300
Physical Phenomena. See Poltergeists and Telekinesis.
See also Apports, Fire-test, Materialisations,
Passage of Matter through Matter, and
Slate Writing.
,, Feilding, the Hon. E., on - - - - 57
„ Lodge, Sir Oliver, on 447
„ Eetrovo-Solovovo, Count Perovsky, on 59, 64, 413
Piddington, J. C, Concordant Automatisms, reference to, - 51, 77-79, 104,
105, 212 (foot-note), 304, 306, 307-318
„ „ the Series with G. B. Dorr, 1908, chief references to
80-84, 91 (foot-note), 95, 104-105, 116, 120, 121, 150-
156, 158-166, 176-217, 218-229, 231-237,245, 251-253,
258, 260-262, 264, 269, 272-273, 276, 279, 299-301, 317
See also Cross-Correspondences in the Willett Script.
534 Index to Vol. XXV. [parts
Pigou, Professor A. C, Eeferences to his Criticism of Cross-Correspond-
ences, 38, 88, 291
„ „ Balfour, Et. Hon. G. W., on - - - - 38
Pilgrim Fathers. See Birds and Turkeys, Cross-Correspondence.
Piper, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of 52-54, 76-82, 90-101, 102-107, 113-175,
176-217, 222-301, 304, 307-318, 373-376, 474-476
„ „ Hall, Dr. Stanley, on - - 90-101
„ „ Lang, Andrew, on - ... 90-101
,, „ Tanner, Dr. Amy, on ----- - 102-107
,, ,,
Cross-Correspondences
—
„ (with " Mrs. Holland ") 52-54, 206, 207, 222, 223, 228,
231-236, 250-252, 253-282, 285, 286, 304, 307-318
„ „ „ (with the Mac Script) 222,223,234,236,239,264,269
„ „ „ (with Mrs. and Miss Verrall) 52-54, 77-89, 104-105,
222, 223, 229, 234, 239, 253, 255, 256, 258, 259, 261,
263, 264, 269, 273, 279, 299-303, 304, 305-317, 323,
331-334
„ (with Mrs. Willett) 113-175,176-217,222,223,231,
233, 234, 239, 264, 269
See also Door ( = Dorr) and Key and Lethe-Dorr Cross-Correspondence.
Plato, Script references o
„ Phaedo 205
„ Republic - - - .... 200, 201
„ Timaeus 260
Plunkett, Thomas, Evidence as to the Derrygon nelly Disturbances 391, 394
Pluto. See Lethe-Willett Incidents and Proserpine, Cross-Correspondence.
Podmore, Frank (and William James)
—
„ ,, Commemorative Address on, by H. Arthur Smith - 1
„
'
,, on Cross-Correspondences - - - 77-81, 89, 291
„ „ and Psychical Research, by Mrs. Henry Sidgwick - 5
„ ,, Modern Spiritualism by, references to
41 5, 422-423, 438 (foot-note)
„ „ The Newer Spiritualism, Review by the Rev. M. A.
Bayfield 70
,, ,, on Poltergeist Phenomena - 379
,, ,, Studies in Psychical Research, references to - - 413
Poe, E. A., Script references to Poem of - - - - 273
Pollard, A. W., Odes from the Greek Dramatists, reference to - - 281
Poltergeists, Old and New, by Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. - 370, 377
„ „ General Disturbances - - 370, 380-412
Bells ..... 378, 395-397
„ „ Sounds - - 378, 383, 384, 387,~388, 390-404
„ „ Stone throwing, etc. - 378, 391, 392, 406-408
„ „ Witchcraft Trials - - 403
Pope, Miss Theodate, Sittings with Mrs. Piper, reference to
221, 231, 233, 272, 299
LX1I.-LXIV.] Index to Vol. XXV. 535
Portland, Oregon, Disturbances, the - - 397
Poynings, Blanche," A Hypnotic " Control " - - 458-467
Premonitions, Dreams - ------- 372-374
Presidential Address (1911), by Andrew Lang ----- 364
Probabilities, Calculus of, in Psychical Research- - 107, 108
Prometheus, Cross-Correspondence - - - 223, 227, 255, 261, 286
Proserpine, Cross-Correspondence 206, 207, 220, 222, 225, 226, 227, 234,
239, 271, 286
Psalm cxxxvii., Script refereuces to
—
Waters of Babylon - - - 149, 192, 209, 265, 271
Psychical Research, Frank Podmore and, by Mrs. H. Sidgwick - 5
Psychology, Work of Professor William James in
—
„ M'Dougall, W., on ... - 11
„ Muirhead, Prof. J. H., on - - 30
Psychotherapy, Dr. T. W. Mitchell on the Hypnoidal State of Sidis - 338
R,
R., Miss, Case recorded by, reference to 105
Raines, T. Hart, M.D., Report on the Dale Tower Disturbances - 404
Ramsden, Miss Hermione, and Miss C. Miles, Thought-Transference
Experiments, bearing of, on Cross-Correspondences - 39-42, 44, 45, 54
Randall, J. W., Statement as to the Enniscorthy Disturbances - - 387
" Rector," Trance Personality of Mrs. Piper 308, 310, 312, 315
Rennison, Rev. Canon, Evidence as to the Enniscorthy Disturbances - 390
Reviews - - - 70, 90, 102, 353, 361, 468
Richet, Professor Charles, Experiments of, reference to - - 366, 471
River of Forgetfulness. See Lethe and the Willett Script.
Rothe, Miss Anna, Alleged Mediumship of ... - 423, 426
Rossetti, C. G., Script reference to Poem of ----- 303
Russell, Mr. and Mrs. J., Sittings with Mrs. Piper, reference to 307, 309, 310
S.
Sage, M., Notes on a supposed Psychical experience, An Adventure
354, 357-360
Sambor, Alleged Mediumship of, references to 60, 424, 428 (foot-note),
436, 444
Sanders, Rev. C. B., A Case of Secondary Personality, reference to - 76
Sawyer, Mr. and Mrs., Evidence as to the Portland (Oregon) Dis-
turbances 398, 399
Schiller, F. C. S.—
Review of " The Tenth Declamation of (Pseudo) Quintilian," 361
Scott, Sir W., Lay of the Last Minstrel, Script references to
325, 327 (foot-note), 335, 336
Sea, Rolling Waves and The Voyage, Cross-Correspondence- - 301-303
536 Index to Vol. XXV. [parts
Selection as a Factor in the Production of Scripts - 128, 129, 217, 282
Selwyn Text Incident, reference to ------ - 298
Sesame and Lilies, Cross-Correspondence, references to 54, 83, 84, 194-196,
199, 200, 202, 216, 219, 220, 222, 227 (foot-note), 250, 253, 256, 285
Sevens, Cross-Correspondence, references to - 81, 82, 196, 218, 219, 298
„ „ A Further Detail in - - - - 298
Seybert Commission on Spiritualism, reference to 417, 426 (foot-note), 439
Shakespeare, Script references to
„ Hamlet 234, 263 (foot-notes)
„ Henry V. 293 (foot-note)
„ Love's Labour's Lost 279 (foot-note)
„ Macbeth - - 302 (foot-note)
„ Much Ado about Nothing ------- 261
„ Othello - - - 261
„ Romeo and Juliet - 243, 244, 249
„ The Tempest - 243, 247 (foot-note), 248, 249, 254
„ Troilus and Cressida - 248, 249
„ Winter's Tale ... - 243, 247 (foot-note), 248, 249
Sharp, William (Fiona Macleod), reference to Writings of - 267 (foot-note)
Shelley, The Skylark, Cross-Correspondence - 220, 223, 234, 262, 263, 272
„ Script references to Adonais (Nightingale Cross-Correspon-
dence) 124, 156-160, 191, 192, 204, 206, 208, 209, 244, 245,
271, 285, 286
Ode to West Wind - 204, 213
Queen Mob - 150, 156, 157
„ Prometheus Unbound - - - - 227, 255, 259, 261
Skylark, Shelley's, Cross-Correspondence - - 220, 223, 234, 262, 263, 272
Sibyl Incident, references to - -
.
121, 131-146, 149, 161, 185, 192
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry
—
„ Frank Podmore and Psychical Research, by - - - - 5
Value of his Work as a Critic 8-10
„ Review of Studies in Spiritism by A. E. Tanner, Ph.D., by - 102
„ Sittings with Mrs. Piper, reference to - - 309,310,312,313
Sidgwick-Control, The
—
„ Through the Mac Script 194
„ „ Mrs. and Miss Verrall - - - 109,196,270
Sidis, Dr. Boris, The Hypnoidal State of, Dr. T. W. Mitchell on - 338
„ „ Psychology of Suggestion by, reference to 340 (foot-note), 341
„ „ Studies in Psychopathology by, reference to - - 341
„ „ Therapeutic Value of the Hypnoidal State by,
reference to- - -- -- -- 341
Simpson, M. G., Note on the Diamond Island Experiments in Wire-
less Telegraphy - 295, 296
Slade, " Dr." Henry, Alleged Mediumship of, references to - 6, 424, 439
Slate-writing Phenomena, alleged 6, 425, 439-441
LXII.-LXIV.] Index to Vol. XXV.
Slave, better to slave, Script references to - - - 149, 188, 189, 192, 210
Sleep and Death, Script references to - - - 149, 150, 192, 210, 240, 245
Smith, H. Arthur, Commemorative Address on Frank Podmore and
William James - -- -- -- -- - |
Spiritual Tales : St. Bride of the Isles, reference to - - 266 (foot-note)
Spiritualism, Physical Phenomena. See Telekinesis.
See also under Classes of Phenomena and Names of Mediums.
St. Augustine, Script references to Coyifessions of - - 324 (foot-note)
St. Bride's Day, Script references to - - 263, 266, 267
St. Dunstan, Alleged Levitation of - 370
St. Joseph of Copertino, Alleged Levitation of - - - - 443
Star. See Hope, Star, and Browning.
Steeple, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - - - - - 220
Stevenson, P. L., Script references to Our Lady of the Snows 255 (foot-note)
Sti-inged Instruments, Cross-Correspondence - 325, 335
Styx. See Charon.
Subliminal Consciousness. See Myers, F. W. H.
Subliminal Self
—
„ As the Agent in Cross-Correspondence - 83-88, 172-173, 291, 475
„ Dramatic Powers of 291, 461-464
„ Moral Aspects of - - - 461-464, 470, 471
Suggestion without Hypnosis - 339, 347
Swanland Disturbances, reference to - - - - - - - 408
Swinburne, Algernon, Script references to
„ Atalanta in Calydon - - - - 206,227,240,245
„ Garden of Proserpine 149, 192, 206, 227, 229 (foot-note), 239, 240, 245
„ Hymn of Man - 182
„ Itylus - 192, 206, 245
„ Memorial Verses to The'ophile Oautier - - - 324 (foot-note)
„ Super Flumina Babylonis - 149, 192, 209, 271
Triumph of Time - - - - - - - 149, 168
T.
Tanner, Miss A. E., Ph.D., Studies in Spiritism, with an Introduction
by G. Stanley Hall, Eeview by Mrs. H. Sidgwick - - - 102
„ „ „ Lang, A., on - - 90, 372-375
Tavern Club Motto (Piper-Hodgson), a further detail - 298, 299
Telekinesis, Alleged
—
Levitations, Complete, of Table in the presence of Eusapia
Palladino 58, 64-67, 68
„ Minor objects - 57-69, 415, 420-422, 424, 442
„ of Mediums ----- 75, 422, 442
See also Levitation of Saints, alleged instances.
Telepathy
—
Professor A. C. Pigou on a Telepathic explanation of Cross-
Correspondences ----- - - 38-56
538 Index to Vol. XXV. [parts
Telepathy
—
Dr. Amy Tanner on ... 107, 108
See also Cross-Correspondences.
Telepathy, Experimenta at a distance
The Eanisden-Miles Experiments as bearing on Cross-
Correspondences 39-42, 44, 45, 54
Telepathy, Spontaneous
Dreams 472-474
,, Hallucinations ------- 105
Tennyson, Scr pt references to
Demeter and Persephone - - 211, 235, 236, 239-242, 246, 250
„ In Memoriam - 140, 156, 157, 191, 211, 239 (footnote), 240-
„ Passing of Arthur - ------ 300 (footnote)'
„ To Virgil ----- 135, 139, 185, 191, 210
Thanatos, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - - - 52, 53, 136
Thatcher, Mr., Investigation of the Portland (Oregon) Disturbances 398-402
Thompson, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of, reference to - - - - 76
Thorpe, Bridget, Statement as to the Enniscorthy Disturbances - - 386
Thury, Professor, Experiments of 441
Til, M., Case recorded by -------- 470
Time and Eternity : Prometheus, Cross-Correspondence
223, 255, 256, 258, 259, 286
Time-Reactions in Hypnosis -------- 73
Tomczyk, Miss Stanislawa, Alleged Mediumship of, reference to 419, 420
Trailing, Cross-Correspondence - ..... 301-303
Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper
„ Automatist's Knowledge of Subject-matter - 228, 280 (foot-note)
„ Conditions of Consciousness and Hearing during - 91-101, 102, 103
„ Mistakes and Confusions - 332, 333
Troy and Joy, Cross-Correspondence, reference to 264
U.
Ulysses, Script references to - - 148, 152, 192, 204
V.
Vaughan, Henry, Script reference to Poem by 256
Verrall, Dr. A. W.
„ Telepathic Experiments of (The One-Horse Dawn)
Balfour, Rt. Hon. G. W., on - - 42-52
Prof. A. C. Pigou on - ... 42-52
Verrall, Mrs. A. W., on - - 109'
Verrall, Miss H. de G.—
Automatic writing, an experiment iu - - - - 471
,,
Cross-Correspondences
(with "Mrs. Forbes") - - - -193-204,222,250
( „ "Mrs. Holland") 193-204, 222-223, 229, 234, 239,
250, 253, 255, 256, 263, 264, 269, 273, 279-
LXII.-LXIV.] Index to Vol. XXV. 539
Verrall, Miss H. de G., Cross-Correspondences
„ (with Mac Script) 114, 193-204, 222, 234, 239, 253, 264,
269, 320-330
( „ Mrs. Piper) 222, 223, 234, 239, 253, 255, 257, 263,
264, 269, 273, 279, 299-303, 331
( „ Mrs. Verrall) 114, 193-204, 222, 223, 234, 253, 255,
259, 261, 320-330, 335-337
( „ Mrs. Willett) 114, 130, 136-139, 142, 144, 153, 155,
157, 159, 183-188, 191, 192, 209, 210, 212,
213, 234, 239. 250, 264, 269, 336, 337
,* Script of March 16, 1908
(" Victor Hugo " Cross-correspondence), a correction and an
addition to, by Mrs. A. W. Verrall - - - 320
Verrall, Mrs. A. W.—
Cross-Correspondences
(with " Mrs. Forbes ") - - 193-204, 222, 250
( „ "Mrs. Holland") 193-204, 222-223, 234, 250, 253,
255, 256, 261, 298
( „ the Mac Script) 193-204, 234, 250, 253, 323-329,
335-337
( „ Mrs. Piper) 52-54, 77-89, 104-105, 193-204, 222, 223,
234, 239, 250, 255, 256, 261, 304-319, 323, 331-334
( „ Miss Verrall) 114, 193-204, 222, 223, 234, 253, 255,
259, 261, 320-330, 335-337
„ ( „ Mrs. Willett) 114, 138 (foot-notes), 159-162, 191, 192,
193-204, 222, 234, 250, 264, 269
„ Classical Review Article, connexion with the Holland Script
163, 245, 247, 248
„ Miss VerralFs Script of March 16, 1908, a correction and an
addition, by 320
„ Note on the Cross-Correspondence, Cup, by - - - - 304
„ Notes on Mrs. Willett's Script of February, 1910
132 (foot-note) 136, 142, 153, 154, 176-217
History of the Period, March, 1908, to March, 1910 177
Sources and Correspondences of Phrases in the Script 190
Table of ------ 191,192
„ " The One Horse Dawn," Additional Note on the Experiment 109
,, Subliminal Self of, and Cross-Correspondence - 83-88, 291, 292
See also Door { = Dorr) and Key, Cross-Correspondence.
Vienna Disturbances, the - - - - 406
Virgil, Aeneid, Incidents (Book I.), Script references to - 160, 234, 235
(Book VI.)
121-123, 131-146, 151-158, 161-163, 165, 178-190, 193, 200
„ Georgics, Script reference to - - - 265 (foot-note), 266, 270
See also Lethe and Lethe-Dorr, Cross-Correspondence.
540 Index to Vol. XXV. [parts lxii.-lxiv.]
w.
Wagner, Professor, Sittings with Nicolaeff, references to 438 (foot-note)
Warndorfer, A., Eeport of the Vienna Disturbances - 406
Waters of Babylon. See Exile, Cross-Correspondence.
Watts, G. F., Stanzas on the Collected Works of, by F. W. H. Myers,
Script references to - - - - 155, 170, 192, 265
„ Pictures by, Script references to - - 155, 192, 265, 271
Wellington, Duke of, Case recorded by, reference to - - - 368, 369
Wem Disturbances, the, reference to - - - - - - - 402
Wharton, Edith, Men and Ghosts, reference to 325 (foot-note), 326, 330, 334
Wilde, Oscar, Burden ofltys, Script references to 206, 227, 229 (foot-note), 231
Will to Live, Lethe and - - - -131-140, 154 (foot-note), 170-191
Willis, H. A., Case recorded in the Atlantic Monthly (Massachusetts
Disturbances) - - -------- 395
Willett, Mrs.—
The Automatic Scripts of
„ Johnson, Miss Alice, on
115, 221, 240, 244-246, 248, 266, 270, 286, 290, 301
,, Lodge, Sir Oliver, on 113-175
Verrall, Mrs. A. W., on - ... 176-217
,,
Knowledge of Literary and Classical Allusion in her
Script, Question of
124, 132, 135, 142-169, 172-175, 176-217, 248
„ Scholarship and Supernormal Knowledge, Evidence
for ------- - 147-169
,, Sources and Correspondences of Phrases in 190,191-217
Cross-Correspondences
—
(with Mrs. Holland) 191, 193, 197-204, 206-209, 222, 223,
231-334, 250, 264-269
(with Mrs. Piper) 113-175, 176-217, 221, 222, 223, 231, 233,
234, 239, 264, 269
(with Mrs. and Miss Verrall) 114 (footnote), 130, 132,
136-139, 142, 144, 153, 155, 162, 165, 166, 183-188, 191,
192, 193-204, 209, 210, 212, 213, 222, 223, 234, 250,
264, 269, 336, 337
See also Lethe Incident, and Lethe-Dorr and Door ( = Dorr) and
Key, Cross-Correspondence.
Wordsworth, The Exclusion, Script reference to - - 230 (foot-note)
,, / wandered lonely as a Cloud ------ 305
Worksop Disturbances, reference to - - - - - - - 379
X.
X, Felida, Case of, reference to - 72
Z.
Zimmerl, John, Poltergeist Disturbances at the Workshop of - 406-408
Zollner, Professor, Experiments of, reference to - - - - 422, 424
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
Part LXII. Vol. XXV. March, 1911. Price 2s. net.
CONTENTS.
I. Commemorative Address : William James and Frank Podmcre. By
H. Arthur Smith, . • •
...
II. Frank Podmore and Psychical Research. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
III. In. Memory of William James. By W. M'Dougall, .
IV. William James as Philosopher. By Professor J. .H. Muirhead, .
V. Professor Pigou on Cross-Correspondences. By the Right Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour,
VI. Report on a Further Series of Sittings with Eusapia Palladino at
Naples :
I.
1
General Report. By the Hon. Everard Feilding
and W. Marriott, .
•
II. Statement by Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo,
III. Detailed Account of the Table-lifting Incident,
IV. Comments on the Above. By Alice Johnson,
V. Note on the Report. By W. W. Baggally, .
Supplement :
Reviews: .
" _.
'
_
"
Mr. F. Podmore's " The Newer Spiritualism." By the Rev. M. A.
Bayfield, . .
." • • • •
•
Open Letter to Dr. Stanley Hall. From Andrew Lang, .
Dr. Tanner's " Studies in Spiritism." By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
"The One-Horse Dawn" : Additional Note on an Experiment described
in Proc. Vol. XX. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall,
1
5
11
30
38
57
59
63
67
69
70
90
102
109
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings -
in papers pw
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
KOBBET MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED,
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW.
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON: FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW: JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vincent Street.
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-2S Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved.
The Society for Psychical Research.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1911.
PRESIDENT.
Andrew Lang.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S. Professor J
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, D. Sc. , LL. D. ,F. R. S.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
The Rt. Rev. the Bishop of Ripon.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
COUNCIL.
W. W. Baggally.
The Right Eon. Gerald W. Balfour.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
The Earl of Crawford and Bal-
CARRES, K.T., F.R.S:
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
The Rev. A. T. Fryer.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, M.Sc, M.B,
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.
J. G. Piddington.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
F. C, S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
H. Arthur Smith.
Lieut. -Col. G. L. Le M. Taylor.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
V. J. WOOLLEY.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - - - - .
- - 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., - 1885-1887.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, 1888-1892.
The Eight Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., - - - 1893.
Professor William James, 1894-1895.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., ,r 1896-1899.
Frederic W. H. Myers, 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., ------- 1901-1903.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., - - - - - 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, 1905.
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, - - - - 1906-1907.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 1908-1909.
H. Arthur Smith, - - 1910.
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the various subjects which
are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Society, or
from others. Communications to be addressed to the Secretary,
Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
The Rooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday,
when they close at 1.30 p.m.
Proceedings of
The Society for Psychical Research.
Principal Contents of Parts LVII.-LXI.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.]
Part LVII. —October, 1908. PricelOs. net. page
I. Presidential Address. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, . . . 1
II. A Series of Concordant Automatisms. By J. G. Piddington, . 19
III. An Incident in Mrs. Piper's Trance. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, . 417
Part LVIIL —June, 1909. Price 6s. net.
I. Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. By Professor W. James."
Part I., . . . . . .
Part II., . . . . . . . .30
II. Note on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control in England in 1906-7. By
Mrs. H. Sidgwick and J. G. Piddington, . . . 122
III. Report on some Trance Communications received chiefly through
Mrs. Piper. By Sir Oliver Lodge.
Table of Contents,
Introduction, ....
Chapter I. Explanatory and Historical,
,, II. The Gurney Control, .
,, . III. The Isaac Thompson Case,
IV. The Myers Control, .
,, V. Messages obtained through Miss Rawson,
,, VI. Messages from the Myers and Hodgson Controls of
Mrs. Piper, Autumn, 1906,
,, VII. The Myers and Hodgson Controls of Mrs. Piper
Spring, 1907, . .
'
,, VIII. The Joseph Marble Series,
,, IX. Supplementary Remarks,
IV. Psychical Research and Survival after Bodily Death. By Pro
fessor A. C. Pigou,
127
128
130
140
162
198
219
226
248
255
280
286
Part LIX. —November, 1909. Price 6s. net.
General Meeting, . . . . . . . . 305
Introductory Note to the " Report on Sittings with Eusapia Palladino," . 306
Report on a Series of Sittings with Eusapia Palladino. By the Hon.
Everard Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and Hereward
Carrington.
Table of Contents, ....... 309
I. Introduction, ....... 310
II. General Account of the Sittings, ..... 321
III. Detailed Report, ....... 345
IV. Individual Conclusions of the Investigators, . . . 555
Supplement.
M. Courtier's Report on the Experiments with Eusapia Palladino at
the Paris Institut General Psychologique. By Count Perovsky-
Petrovo-Solovovo, ...... 570
Index to Vol. XXIII., . . . . . . . 590
Proceedings of the Society.
—
Continued.
PAGE
Part LX.—March, 1910. Price 6s. net.
General Meeting, . . . . ,. » . 1
Supplementary Notes on the First Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. By
Alice Johnson, . . . . . .. 2
Supplementary Notes on "A Series of Concordant Automatisms." By J.
G. BlDDINGTON, •. . ,., . ...... , . .
'.
11
Further Experiments with Mrs. Piper in 1908 :
Introduction. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mrs. A. W. Verrall,
and J. G. Piddington, . . . . . .31
I. Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance. By
Mrs. A. W. Verrall, . . . . 39
II. Three Incidents from the Sittings : Lethe ; The Sibyl ; The
Horace Ode Question. By J. G. Piddington, . . 86
III. Cross-Correspondences between Mrs. Piper and Other Auto-
matists. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, . . . 170
Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. By Alice Johnson, . . 201
A New Group of Experimenters. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, .. . 264
Sequel to the " Sesame and Lilies " Incident. By Alice Johnson, . 319
Postscript to the Lethe Incident. By J. G. Piddington, . . . 327
Part EXT. —August; 1910. Price 6s. net.
General Meeting, . . . . . . . . .329
Presidential Address. By H. Arthur Smith, . ... . 330
Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. By Helen de G.
Verrall :
Introduction, . ., . . . . . . 351
Detailed Record of Sittings, . . . . . 355
Supplement.
I. Some Recent Developments in Psychotherapy. By T. W.
Mitchell, M.D., . . . . . .665
II. Review
:
Mr. Frank Podmore's "Mesmerism and Christian
Science." By T. W. Mitchell, M.D., . . 687
Appendix to Part LXI. —November, 1910. Price Is. net.
Officers and Council for 1910, ...... 699
List of Members and Associates, . . . . . . 700
Index to Vol. XXIV., . . ,
. . . . . 741
Bound Copies of Volumes I. -XXIV. of the . Society's Proceedings, or any
Part separately, can be obtained through any Bookseller, from Mr. Francis
Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London, W., as above.
Members and Associates can obtain bound copies of volumes, or separate Parts,
at half-price, as below, on application to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. Or, in America, to The W. B.
Clarke Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
Vol. I. (Parts i.-iv.) pp. 336. 5s. Vol. XIII. (Pts. xxxii.-xxxm.)pp.653.6s.
II. ( „ v.-vn.) pp. 340. 5s. |
,, XIV. ( ,, xxxiv. -xxxv.) pp. 436. 5s.
XV. ( ,, xxxvi. -xl.) pp. 522. 6s.
XVI. (Part xli. ) pp. 650. 6s.
XVII. (Pacts XLii.-XLV.)pp. 468.
6s. 3d.
XVIII. ( ,, xlvi.-xlix. )pp. 548. 7s.
XIX. (,, L.-Lii.)pp. 508. 6s. 6d.
XX. (Part Lin.) pp. 444. 6s.
XXI. (Pts. liv.-lvi.) pp. 5S4. 6s.
XXII. (Part cm.') pp. 445. 6s.
XXIII. (Pts. lviii.-lix. ) pp. 602. 7s.
III. (
IV. (
v.(
VI. (
VII. (
VIII. (
IX. (
X.fPart
v.-vu. ) pp. 340. ;>s.
vin.-ix. ) pp. 500. 5s.
x.-xi.) pp. 605. 4s.
xii. -xiv.) pp. 606. 5s.
xv. -xvii. ) pp. 707. 5s.
xvin. -xx.) pp. 442. 4s.
xxi. -xxiii.) pp. 647. 5s.
xxiv. -xxv.) pp. 407. 4s.
xxvi.) pp. 466. 4s.
XI. (Pts.xxvu.-xxiX. )pp. Ii37. 5s.
XII. ( ,, xxx.-xxxi.)pp. 391. 4s.
Vol. XXIV. (Parts LX.-Lxi.) pp. 757. 7s.
Cloth-lettered Covers for binding most of the Volumes, price Is. each.
The Society also issues a Monthly Journal for Private Circulation
among Members and Associates only.
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, .Glasgow.
