{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1946__proskauer___dead_do_not_talk.pdf","mytitle":"Dead Do Not Talk","mylang":"de"}
THE DEAD
DO MOT TALK
Julien J. Proskauer
HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS
NEW YORK AND LONDON
hfWWIMlMMMMMMMftm
THE DEAD
DO NOT TALK
kWMMMMftWVWVWMvvvvvvvvvvvwvvvvvvvvmv^
Books by the same author
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
PUZZLES FOR EVERYONE
HOW'D JA DO THAT?
what'll YOU HAVE?
SUCKERS ALL
•
SPOOK CROOKS
RADIO REVELRY
ROAD TO BETTER PICTURES
FUN AT COCKTAIL TIME
MORE FUN AT COCKTAIL TIME
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
Copyright, 1946, by Harper & Brothers
Printed in the United States of America
All rights in this book are reserved.
No part of the book may be reproduced in any manner
whatsoever without written permission except in the case
of brief quotations embodied in critical articles and
reviews. For information address Harper & Brothers
FIRST EDITION
I-V
fife.
Dedicated to my grandchildren
Susan Patricia and Thomas Arthur Garson
in the hope that when they grow up
Spiritism will be a thing of the past
MJ295576
CONTENTS
THANK YOUI ix
INTRODUCTION xi
I. SPIRITS LIKE JEWELS 1
II. PSYCHIC REVELATIONS— AND WHERE
THEY COME FROM 9
III. WAR DEAD PHOTO FRAUD to
IV. MAIL ORDER MYSTICS 34
V. UNFINISHED HOUSES AND SPOOKS 46
VI. SPIRIT MOTORS . 54
VII. SPOOKS AND SPIRITS (LIQUID) 66
VIII. WORKING A HOSTILE TOWN 71
EX. SPIRIT POST OFFICE 83
X. ECTOPLASM IS BUNK 90
XI. APPORTS MAKE MONEY 99
XII. HOW TO TRAP MEDIUMS >»S
XIII. HELEN VICTORIA DUNCAN »3«
XIV. HAUNTED HOUSES 139
XV. "INSIDE OF SPIRITISM" »55
XVI. CASE HISTORIES 173
XVII. CONCLUSION >93
-
197
INDEX
THANK YOU!
Grateful thanks are herewith extended to the vast
army of professional and amateur magicians throughout
the world who have sent the author newspaper clips
and stories relating to charlatans, fortunetellers and
spook crooks, and who in many cases revealed to him
methods used by these frauds.
Harry Blackstone, America's No. 1 magician, has been
of invaluable service in supplying information. Walter
B. Gibson, editor of Conjurors' Magazine, the pro
fessional magicians' monthly, is hereby thanked for his
editorial services and access to his vast library of liter
ature on "spirits."
To Judge Jonah J. Goldstein, New York State Gen
eral Sessions Court, who has called in the author for
expert testimony when cases of spirit mediums and
fortunetellers were before him, public acknowledgment
is made for his impartial, judicial and just rulings
through which the vicious motives behind many spook
frauds were laid bare, and the guilty sent to prison.
Special credit is also given to Popular Science mag
azine for its fearless exposes of the methods used by
spook crooks in its November, 1944, issue which brought
acclaim from authorities everywhere. Credit is also given
Miss Rose Mackenberg, former confidential investigator
•
ix •
THANK YOU I
for the late Harry Houdini, who willingly co-operated
in supplying information to Popular Science and this
writer relative to the modus operandi of many charl
atans. Credit, too, to Mrs. Mary Sullivan, in charge of
New York City policewomen, who has never failed to
aid the credulous and superstitious and to prosecute the
spook crooks who would mulct them.
To Reverend Father Francis Xavier Flanagan, S.J.,
to others of the Catholic clergy, the Protestant ministers
of all faiths and to rabbis everywhere, all of whom have
preached "neither let there be any found among you
who consulteth soothsayers . . . nor let there be anyone
that consulteth pythonic spirits, or fortune tellers, or
that seeketh the truth from the dead. ..." (Deut. 18: 10-
12 [Douay]), my heartfelt thanks for their earnest co
operation and sincere efforts to convince their parish
ioners "The Dead Do Not Talk!"
x
INTRODUCTION
This book, while it is a definite expression of my
dismay at the public's widespread indulgence of fraud
in the field of the supernormal, is meant as a warning
to those who hope to communicate with discarnate
beings through the aid of a professional go-between.
The men and women whom you will meet in this
book are spiritists, some of a fascinating and almost
hypnotic attraction. Many burglars, however, who are
now behind bars, are upright citizens when compared
with the "spook crooks" described in this volume.
Spook crooks is the name I have given fake spirit
mediums, fortunetellers, and self-styled seers, who,
through the practice of some material method, defraud
the credulous and the superstitious. Claiming the spe
cial gifts of supersensitivity to the unseen, and the
annihilation of both space and time, they offer the
bereaved contact with the spirit world.
Please do not think that this book is the protest of a
closed mind on the subject. Nothing could be further
from the fact. Scientific research into psychic phe
nomena, which is motivated by a genuine and disinter
ested desire to add to man's knowledge of himself and
his destiny, has my respect.
My first contact with "spiritism," I discovered, was
•
xi •
INTRODUCTION
with the profitable and bogus side of it. This was in
1915, when I appeared as a magician at Germania Hall,
New Rochelle, New York. During the performance, I
did a slate stunt wherein the name of a chosen card
appeared on slates held by someone in the audience,
and which had been previously shown to be blank.
Immediately after the show, a rather heavy-set indi
vidual approached me and asked if I had had any ex
perience with spirit- mediums. Of course I had not, but
I bluffed in order to learn what was on the man's mind.
He led the talk to a discussion of psychic powers. Al
though he obviously knew that the slate effect was
nothing but a normal bit of magician's skill, or mis
direction, he ended by offering me twenty-five dollars to
teach him how to use the slates. I had paid two dollars
for the slates (and instructions with the secret), at
Clyde Powers Magic Shop, which was then next to
Hammerstein's Victoria Theatre on Forty-second Street,
near Seventh Avenue. To a high school boy, a profit of
twenty-three dollars from a "fellow magician" was
something worth while, so we made the deal. It was not
until later, when I discussed the episode with friends
who were professional magicians, that I realized the use
to which those slates would be put. The late Theo
Hardeen, brother of Houdini, told me exactly why I
had made such a profit, for he, as well as Houdini, knew
the tricks of the fake spirit mediums.
From that time on, my interest in the methods of the
fakers was intense, but my career as a researcher into
their racket was interrupted by the Mexican fracas and
World War I. After the war, I returned to the news
•
xii •
INTRODUCTION
paper profession and did some magic on the side. It was
while I was city editor of the Canton, Ohio, Daily
News (1920) that I again met Honest John Kelly, the
famous gambler, an old friend of mine. He reawakened
my interest in spiritism by telling me of some of the
new rackets that had sprung up because of the deaths
in the armed forces (1916-1918), and the boys who were
"Missing in Action."
Harry Houdini played Cleveland at this time, and I
went to see him. I told him of the few experiences with
mediums that I had managed to have when I first
entered the newspaper field, before the wars had stopped
me, and he told me of some of his observations of their
methods. Houdini, at that time, was well on his way to
becoming the greatest "ghost breaker" of all time. I
determined to follow in his footsteps.
From then until 1931, I kept a complete diary and
record of all mediums with whom I came in contact,
carefully listing their various systems and practices.
- When the Parent Assembly of the Society of American
Magicians, an organization of legitimate entertainers,
decided to start a campaign against fake spirit mediums,
fortunetellers, and others claiming supernatural powers,
I was appointed chairman of its committee. This com
mittee delved into all records kept on false seers on
which it could lay its hands. Particular attention was
paid to material in the secret diaries of Houdini, the
late national president of the Society of American
Magicians. These diaries were lent to me by the late
Bernard M. L. Ernst, then president of the Parent
Assembly. The case histories unearthed were published
•
xiii •
INTRODUCTION
in a book called Spook Crooks (A. L. Burt Co., 1932).
This present volume takes up where that book left off.
The reader may wonder why I, although past national
president of the Society of American Magicians, and
successor in that office to Houdini, Thurston, Hardeen,
and other great names in magic, have taken upon myself,
without scientific training, the hunting down of these
vicious fakers.
The answer is simple. Who is in a better position to
know the tricks used by these charlatans than a man
who has followed magic for more than forty years, and
who is definitely able to devote a great deal of his time
to the study of the methods used by the spook crook?
The reader can understand that the magician is bound
to be the natural foe of the spirit fakers who adapt for
their nefarious uses, apparatus built for legitimate enter
tainment purposes.
I am a firm believer in freedom of speech, and free
dom of religion—fortunately guaranteed to all of us by
our Constitution. Therefore, there is every reason why
I am among those who insist that people who have made
the core of their own religious faith a strong belief in
the intercommunication of the living and the dead,
should declare it.
If they, through some personal experience, are con
vinced that they have received direct evidence of spirit
phenomena, they should, naturally, also state that. But,
on the other hand, although I feel I have not closed my
mind to the possibility of such phenomena, I, personally,
have no evidence which could prove that the dead can
communicate with the living in any manner whatsoever,
•
xiv •
INTRODUCTION
through raps, through spirit mediums, or through signs
—nor have I ever seen or heard a true believer in spirit
ism give advice in what stocks to buy, how to invest
money, how to cure an ill, prescribe medicine, or in
any single way do anything that a priest, minister, or
rabbi would not do. It follows, then, does it not, that
the activities I just mentioned must be confined only to
the bogus "believers"?
I must, as a result of my own studies, unqualifiedly
state that the futures of individuals are not predictable
by any means whatsoever. Furthermore, I state that all
predictions of the future made by spirit mediums,
astrologers, fortunetellers, numerologists, mind readers,
or what-have-you, have been, and are, conscious chi
canery, and that the predictions are for the vilest of
purposes—that of obtaining money from the credulous.
It is no disgrace to be credulous, but it can be un
fortunate when parasites are abroad in the land. Faith
is a natural thing for us Americans . . . that is why
Europeans call us the greatest sucker nation. We are
still unsophisticated enough as a people to tell the truth
—therefore, we believe almost anything we are told.
That is why a man a thousand miles from a race track can
sell a tip on a horse for a hundred dollars to some
unsuspecting person. The spook crooks know this.
These parasites are dangerous. Shrewd, hard, and un
scrupulous, these people possess minds capable of keen
observation, and often collect their information through
sharp analysis of the ways of their anxious clients. They
have constructed a pattern of typical human frailties,
with their attendant emotional reactions to stock
•
xv •
INTRODUCTION
"treatments," and almost hypnotic suggestions. These
fakers know the percentage of successful "guesses" pos
sible for group units of five, ten, twenty, or even more,
clients. There is a so-called spirit church one flight up
in mid-town New York where the "reverend" hits six
out of ten people with the right answer.
If credulity were limited to certain uninformed groups
of us, and we could count on our men of science to be
immune, their reports on their scientific research into
spirit phenomena would carry more weight. Their
motives, as I have said, I respect. I also admire their in
dustry. Many scholars of integrity and serious and care
ful mind have given their full time to psychical re
search, I do not want to quarrel with their findings. But
I cannot wholly and unquestioningly accept them, for I
know that for all their erudition, they know nothing of
sleight of hand, palming, misdirection, or audience
psychology.
Even while testing persons purporting to produce
psychic phenomena in their science laboratories under
controlled conditions, many of them do not know what
to look for, or how to control conditions to guard
against subtle, and often practiced, trickery. Fortunately,
among my friends are many noted scientists, some in
physics, and others in sciences closely allied, whom I
am rapidly educating to recognize chicanery when they
see it. Incidentally, the data on ectoplasm in this book
will amaze some of my scientific friends.
Unlike both our "laymen" and our scientists, the
spook crooks are a hundred per cent skeptic. While
their clients are considering them genuine, and while
•
xvi •
INTRODUCTION
their investigators withhold doubts concerning their
alleged "powers" until they have proved them frauds,
this predatory group picks up the secrets of magic, on
the one hand, and imitates the effects recorded by the
scientists as nearly as possible on the other, so that their
"craft" is not even their own. Their only claim to au
thenticity is that they are genuine criminals.
As you read these case histories, I am sure you will
agree with me that communication with those of the
other world is not yet established, and that, perhaps, we
do wrong to try to disturb the sleep of those who are at
rest forever. This book contains much material which
will make you think many times before you go to an
other fortuneteller or spirit medium. Better give your
money to charity.
All of these words lead me to the title of this book,
and I repeat it here:
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
JULIEN J. PROSKAUER
New York City
xvii
THE DEAD
DO NOT TALK
1
SPIRITS LIKE JEWELS
HOW
far and how boldly a spirit medium can carry
his calling until it leads to deeper and more
serious crime is illustrated by the case of the self-styled
"Dr." Emerson Gilbert, whose contempt for the law
seems to have been stimulated by its laxity in dealing
with him.
Just a short while ago Gilbert was operating one of
the most outrageous yet lucrative swindles in the so-
called psychic business. He had a tenth floor apartment
in New York's fifties where he posed, not as a mere
medium but as a spirit healer. Since that brought him
into competition with regular physicians, Gilbert put
up the proper front by equipping his place like a
doctor's office, with assistants serving as nurses.
Most of Gilbert's patients were gullible ladies who
were ushered into an inner office where they reclined
upon an examining table, with Dr. Gilbert in attend
• 1 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
ance. Here, for a sizable fee, they were first treated to
that rarity among modern psychic phenomena, a
materialization.
It was a bizarre setting, a doctor's office transformed
into a seance room. A neat psychological twist concocted
by the subtle mind of a man who was to mark himself a
clever schemer, craftily seeking every twist and turn.
Having gained his client's confidence by disguising his
claptrap under a medical mask, Gilbert continued with
the process of warped logic, presented in convincing
style.
Lowered shades produced a sense of calm, the semi-
darkness therewith set the scene for the materialization
which was to follow, with a curtained corner of the
room serving as a cabinet. And "Dr." Gilbert, aping the
manner of a reliable medical practitioner, spoke in
terms of a "consultant" who rendered a specialist's
service in every case.
What marked Dr. Gilbert as unique was the fact that
he was not limited to the choice of contemporary spe
cialists. Having contact with the spirit world, Gilbert
could summon his consultants from there, giving his
patients an advantage that no other physician could
offer. Gilbert's choice was always a certain "Dr." Walker,
who was far superior to any mundane medical man,
because he could not only apply the methods he had
used in mortal life, but now was equipped with healing
methods that he had learned in the higher spirit plane.
Thus the first step was to materialize Dr. Walker, so
it was Gilbert's wont to retire behind the curtain and
begin his trance. Soon the breathless patient was re
• 2 •
SPIRITS LIKE JEWELS
warded when a luminous figure stepped from the cur
tain and promptly began to lay on healing hands in the
true Dr. Walker style. Afterward, the shining form
stepped back to the curtained cabinet, and, after
Walker dematerialized, Gilbert reappeared to collect
fees both for himself and his spirit specialist.
One day a new patient arranged an appointment with
the Gilbert-Walker combine and arrived with a friend
who stayed in the reception room. The lady accepted
the advice of Dr. Gilbert, but when Dr. Walker mate
rialized, it was he who received the treatment, not the
patient. The customer applied the proper medicine for
showing up a fake materialization. She grabbed the
ghost.
The commotion brought the other woman from the
reception room and, between them, they not only
brushed off Gilbert's assistants, but kept their clutch on
the materialized form of Dr. Walker, and finally got
him out of his luminous regalia. What they found under
neath was none other than Dr. Gilbert. To make it
more sorrowful for that gentleman, his captors turned
out to be two New York policewomen especially as
signed to this case.
So- Dr. Emerson Gilbert found himself in court, and
that was where I found him when I went there to aid as
a technical witness in the case.
Gilbert based his title of "Doctor" on an alleged
theological degree which gave him the right, so he
claimed, to practice what he called religious tenets of
the Society of Ethical Science Church, which he had
chartered through the Independent Spiritualist Associa-
3
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
tion of the U. S. A. He also insisted that his powers of
materialization were genuine, despite the fact that the
luminous robe worn by his spirit friend, Walker, was
produced in court and found to consist of mere mun
dane cheesecloth.
A chance was given Gilbert to prove this claim, and
he undertook a seance in his apartment under test con
ditions. He soon found that the conditions were to be
too stringent, so the seance was never completed. Gil
bert was fined fifty dollars and given a suspended sen
tence of four months.
That should have ended the career of Dr. Emerson
Gilbert and his Society of Ethical Science Church. In
fact, it did put him out of business for a time, despite
the protests of the patients who had been paying fifteen
dollars for each phony treatment and keeping both doc
tors busy. Indeed, Gilbert must have found it preferable
to leave New York, for his next run-in with the law
occurred in Pennsylvania.
There, in 1940, Emerson Gilbert was sentenced to
six months in jail for practicing "drugless therapy,"
which was another way of saying that he was back at his
old business. So Dr. Gilbert made another move.
Where this time?
Right back to New York, where the law had been
more lenient in his case. No doctor's office in the fifties
for this present venture. Dr. Gilbert had larger and
more extravagant notions. He took himself a ten-room
apartment on Riverside Drive, where he set up a fan
tastic meeting room for his Ethical Science cult, which
came along with him. He also had the effrontery to list
•
4 •
SPIRITS LIKE JEWELS
himself in the telephone book, since he expected many
out-of-town customers to be looking him up.
Dr. Walker was missing from this setup, though he
may have materialized for a few special healings in be
tween the regular meetings of the cult, which were held
twice a week for a dozen or more devotees who paid ten
dollars at each meeting. With a "take" of better than
two hundred and fifty dollars a week, Dr. Gilbert was
having little trouble paying his rent of one hundred
and seventy-five a month, and covering his other ex
penses. But the thousand a month was only his basic
income.
In the shimmery light of the meeting room, Gilbert
worked his crude old dodge of stepping out and in
again as a materialized spirit, but now he went in for
more famous personages from the other plane, includ
ing Michelangelo. Such spirits informed the believers
that they were helping Gilbert grant immortality to his
followers, and all who wore the mystic rings that Gil
bert distributed—at a price —would be eligible to re
main on earth indefinitely.
There was something of the Svengali in Gilbert.
There had to be or he wouldn't have been able to ply
his peculiar trade, retaining the same customers year
by year. Though he was operating in New York, the
reports received concerning him trickled in from other
cities, from people who mentioned that friends in those
towns came to New York often, just to consult with a
remarkable Dr. Gilbert whose psychic powers were
most amazing.
This was making Gilbert's thievery hard to detect.
•
5
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
Apparently his New York clients were scattered and dif
ficult to discover. He wasn't taking new ones locally,
unless sure they weren't the sort who would register a
complaint with the police.
It was early in 1944 when some began to gather de
tails of the new racket that Gilbert had been operating
for some time, and to crash the gate of that ten-room
sanctum offered something of a problem. Actually, the
police were also already on their way, but they were
taking nearly a year to reach Gilbert, and they were
doing it by way of Oklahoma.
Like all fakers who are getting away with fraud too
easily, Gilbert was aiming for greater and more dan
gerous ambitions, turning his lavish surroundings into
a front for something else.
Among the dupes who listened to strange voices that
spoke from the depths of a carved altar in a room
weirdly lighted was a young man named Jack Tedro
Flory. Through another believer, Gilbert managed to
place Flory as a messenger with a large Manhattan
jewelry store. It wasn't long before the voice of Michel
angelo was aiding Emerson Gilbert in persuading Flory
to obtain certain jewels necessary for the rings which the
cult members would need.
Later, Flory claimed he had been hypnotized by Gil
bert. Certain it was that the "Doctor" with the Svengali
manner had Flory under his full control. Using Flory as
a tool, Gilbert caused more than twenty thousand dol
lars worth of gems to vanish at timely intervals. He
covered his peculations so well that it took investiga
tors almost a year to unravel the case and then only
. 6 .
SPIRITS LIKE JEWELS
through a series of roundabout trails that finally un
covered Flory in Oklahoma, where he had gone in the
meanwhile.
Instead of merely peddling the stolen gems to his
dupes, Gilbert had obtained enough to fence them else
where, and, apparently, fooled the jewelers to whom
he sold them. This wouldn't have been too difficult if
Gilbert ran true to the form of most mediums, who
mulct a steady and exclusive clientele. They are always
talking wealthy weaklings into giving them valuable
family jewels—to please their relatives who are in the
"Summerland," and who like to "see" their favorite
mediums wear expensive earthly baubles. Sometimes
the spirits of the beloved say so at seances, and they have
been known to materialize and actually pluck jewelry
from their mundane relatives and give it to the me
dium I
Mediums have a habit of disposing of such gifts
through jewelers at good prices, since the transaction
is legitimate enough. So a medium of Gilbert's status
would not have excited suspicion, working through
usual channels.
However, he went too far, and is now living further
up the Hudson River than New York, and is paying no
rent on a two to four year lease of a Sing Sing apartment
which is not quite as commodious as his ten-room estab
lishment.
How long a character like Gilbert will remain im
mobilized is an unanswered question. The fact stands
that he was twice convicted of perpetrating scandalous
swindles which were accomplished as a fraud medium —
•
1
■
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
regardless of what the charges were technically termed
—yet he still managed to operate the same crooked game
in one of the cities where he had been arrested. This
had continued, with but brief interruptions, over a
period of ten years, and Gilbert was still using the title
of a sham religious organization to justify his activities —
something which should be branded as criminal in
itself.
This faker probably grossed twenty-five thousand
dollars during the year which the police spent in finally
unearthing him, when he should have been in jail
during that entire period as a heartless trader on defense
less dupes. Instead, he was finally convicted only on a
charge of possessing stolen property, a crime much less
injurious to the public weal.
The career of Emerson Gilbert is an indictment
against the laxity of legislation covering those who
profit through the credulity of the weak, and which is
as much an act of thievery as the more direct measures
which some eventually take. If thorough investigation
were made of all doubtful characters who call themselves
"spirit mediums," no doubt authorities would find many
who use their "calling" as a steppingstone to more
prosaic crime. Laws are needed to eliminate that breed
ing place of chicanery, the private seance room!
8
2
PSYCHIC REVELATIONS—AND
WHERE THEY COME FROM
1VERAL years ago I received a letter from a busi-
nessman in a small city in one of our southern
states, telling me of a most convincing session he had
had with a "spiritual scientist" in his town, and asking
me for an explanation of the uncanny way in which she
was able to tell him facts of his past life. I think his
letter and my reply deserve a place in this book:
Dear Mr. Proskauer:
Last week I had a most uncanny experience with a spirit
medium or seer and I am at a loss to explain it, although I
have never believed in that kind of thing, always figuring
that it was just a sucker trap. Let me tell you exactly what
happened to me and maybe you can shed some light on how
this woman came to know things about me that even I had
forgotten.
For several weeks I had been worried about my judgment
in a business matter involving another person, and it had
9
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
begun to prey on my mind so that I couldn't sleep, and I
had lost weight and was feeling generally "whupped down."
I didn't mention this to my wife because I didn't want to
worry her, but I did mention it to a family friend, a lady
who goes to our church. I did so without mentioning any
details, just told her that I was worried. I felt that I had to
confide in someone or lose my mind. Well, this lady recom
mended a certain Mrs. Fletcher who, she said, had helped
her in the past. Mrs. Fletcher did not advertise herself as
a "medium," exactly. In fact, she didn't advertise at all, as
far as I could learn. She has a clientele made up of some of
the most socially prominent people in the county —or so
I was told.
Anyhow, I called on this Mrs. Fletcher. She lives in one of
the old southern style mansions which have gone to seed,
and when I drove up to the portico, I couldn't see that the
present occupant had done much to restore the house. It
was just about falling apart.
When I went to the door, a colored maid let me in, never
asked my name or anything, but showed me into an ante
room off the reception hall where there was a little desk.
She gave me a printed form to fill out. It stated that I was
to write my question, fold up the paper, and keep it in my
pocket at all times. This I did. After waiting quite a while
in another and larger waiting room, I was told that Mrs.
Fletcher would see me in the garden. The colored girl took
me out there.
Mrs. Fletcher surprised me. She turned out to be a very
pretty woman of around thirty or thirty-five, with dark
hair drawn down smoothly over her ears and coiled in a
knot on her neck, very much like the old style I have seen
in tintypes of my grandmother. Her dress was some kind of
a flowered material, also old style. She was very quiet and
might have stepped right out of the 1860's.
• 10 •
PSYCHIC REVELATIONS
Now, mind you, I had not given my name, and yet she
called me by name the first words she spoke. We were sitting
in an old-fashioned summerhouse shaded by wisteria vines,
and she began to talk to me. I could swear that I never said
a word.
That woman told me the date of my birth and gave me an
astrological character analysis which fit me to a T. Then
she made some reference to the question which had brought
me to her and said that she would see it clearer by and by,
but first she wanted to get my "vibrations."
Now our city is pretty good-sized and I could swear that I
had never laid eyes on Mrs. Fletcher before. Also, I am
confident that the lady who sent me to her is honest and
would not be the kind to be "pumped" by the medium or
anyone working for her. But Mrs. Fletcher pulled these
things right out of the air.
She told me not only my name but my wife's name and
the names of our two youngsters, and gave me their ages
within three years. She told me what kind of a house I
lived in, and, not only that, but she described where I had
lived as a boy, thirty years ago. It was one of the spookiest
things I've ever run across in all my born days. She told
me how my business had gone during the past ten years,
up and down. And, in the end, she answered my question,
even stating the first name of the man involved, and
prophesied that I would profit in a certain way by the
transaction, but that the deal would involve certain dis
appointments, and this has certainly come true for I
profited by the experience, even though I did lose some
money.
Now, then, Mr. Proskauer, can you tell me how she did
it? I've thought over every way until I've just about come
to the end of my rope. I thought at first that someone must
have told her. Yet I questioned the lady who referred me
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
closely and she is not what you would call a credulous
type of "believer." She is a school teacher and has a keen,
active mind and it was just as much a mystery to her as it
is to me, for she declares that she has never so much as
mentioned my name to a soul in this connection. There was
no "leak." How did Mrs. Fletcher do it? Is it mind-reading?
Arthur M. L
This was my reply.
Dear Mr. L :
Your letter is similar to hundreds I have received in my
years as an exposer of fraudulent mediums and their shams
and rackets. However, I must say that your observation is
acute and your statement of the case is fairly accurate . . .
as accurate as it could be, since you are not trained in de
tecting this type of fraud.
I do not claim that I know how your Mrs. Fletcher did
it. However, if she will come to New York and submit to a
series of tests before a committee of my choosing, I will per
sonally pay her fare both ways, her expenses while- in New
York, and give her ten thousand dollars besides —if the
neutral committee I select decides that her psychic powers
are genuine.
All I can tell you is what she might have done to produce
the effect you described. Let us assume, for the time being,
that this is what she really did, for everything which you
described could have been learned without recourse to
telepathy or other unusual powers.
In your letter you state that you drove up to Mrs.
Fletcher's residence. Many psychics have an assistant posted
at a window to take note of the license numbers of clients'
cars. These are quickly looked up in a directory of license
numbers which gives the name of the original registrant of
the car (to whom the plates were issued).
• 12 •
PSYCHIC REVELATIONS
I take it that your car is fairly new and that you present
an appearance of prosperity. The deduction, therefore, is
that you bought the car new and that its license number is
registered in your name.
When you wrote your question on the printed form, you
probably sat at a small desk, the top of which was covered
with a harmless-looking blotting pad. You probably wrote
with a hard pencil given you by the colored maid. My in
ference here is that beneath the blotter was a piece of car
bon paper which recorded your question, and also your
date of birth. You did not state that the form had a space
at the bottom for the date of birth of the client, but this is
usual in such cases.
When Mrs. Fletcher called you by name, your astonish
ment showed her that the name gained from the auto direc
tory was correct, and while seated in the garden she may
have signaled an assistant in the house to proceed with the
routine.
Let me state here that your description of the way in
which the lady wore her hair leads me to suppose that she
is using an electric telephone unit concealed in her coiffeur.
The wire of such a device runs down through her dress,
and while seating herself in the wisteria-covered summer-
house, the lady might very well have plugged in the con
nection so that all the data on you which the assistant in
the main building discovered could be conveyed to the lady
by the concealed telephone wire and earphone under her
hair.
Psychics who work for big money make a collection of
reference works. These include current city directories and
telephone books, as well as old directories going back ten
or twenty years, and old maps of the city. In a directory is
listed your name, profession, age, and address. Naturally,
•
13
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
your children, having the same last name, appear in it near
your own name. The addresses check.
On following a name back through twenty years of direc
tories, much can be learned of a person's life. You can trace
him into marriage, can learn of the coming of children,
get the wife's name, make a guess at the grandparents'
names, look them up, find out where they lived twenty
years ago, check with the old maps and describe the street,
the landmarks, and so on.
As I said before, this may not be the way the lady in
question "read your mind," but it is one way of doing it,
which, for the psychic fakers, has "stood the test of time."
In this hidden research room, where the assistant is busy
finding data and telephoning it to the medium, are a num
ber of credit-rating books going back several years. I men
tion these only because you state that the lady told you the
state of your business and its ups and downs.
The medium in this case gave you an equivocal answer
which could have been interpreted either way. If you had
made money but lost a friend, you would still have "prof
ited in one way, but suffered a disappointment also." This
is one of the cleverly worded formulae of the occult "seer"
which the "customer" interprets to suit himself.
Mrs. Fletcher, according to your account, advised you to
call again a few days later. If you went back you probably
learned even more amazing things about your life which
the lady "could not possibly have known." Mrs. Fletcher,
if she is fraudulent, is undoubtedly a very high-class worker
and employs at least one "leg-man" (who may be a motherly
looking old woman) to "case layouts" (look over a client's
residence, "pump" children playing in the street, and even,
perhaps, enter the house on some pretext or other and talk
with the client's family).
No matter how the lady operates, the chances are that by
•
14 •
PSYCHIC REVELATIONS
this time a card bearing all the data she has uncovered
about your life, as well as facts which she drew from you,
yourself, without your knowledge, is on file in the office qt
a shyster lawyer in your city.
This index of "clients" of spirit mediums and psychic
advisors is one of the most ingenious "gimmicks" of the
profession. Its ostensible purpose is to assure the mediums
that they are dealing with "reliable and sincere" persons.
Actually, it serves as a source of information for other
mediums.
The institution of the data file is not maintained by the
lawyer out of the goodness of his heart. He is more likely
to be the "boss" of the local spook racket which has become
organized in recent years like many other rackets. Your
Mrs. Fletcher may be working for the local boss on a salary.
The penalty for quitting or rebelling or holding out on
the profits is trouble with the police, initiated from the
lawyer's office by means of a complaint filed by a confed
erate against the medium. When she is arrested, the lawyer
does not have to be notified. He is automatically on the job
to represent her.
And usually one "treatment" of this kind is enough. The
psychics, victimized in their turn, continue operating on
a salary, while the "master mind" of the racket takes his
"cut." His only service, other than providing legal talent
in the event of a "pinch," is in maintaining this reference
file of data on persons who have consulted mediums. And
a person who has been once tends to go again.
I sincerely trust that with the information contained in
this letter, you will be able to make an honest evaluation
of Mrs. Fletcher's psychic powers and view the value of her
advice and predictions accordingly.
Yours very truly,
Julien J. Proskauer
•
15
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
Note:
The setup described by our southern businessman is an
elaborate one. As a rule, the psychic's assistant operates
in an adjoining room. A concealed trap door in the
wainscoting enables him to push the information,
written on a card which is attached to a slender pole,
out where the medium can read it while seated behind
a wide desk.
In addition to the main index of data, many mediums
keep their own "obit file." This is compiled in the
following way: Every morning the medium or his assist
ant clips the obituary notices from the local paper and
pastes each one on a separate file card. Such notices
usually state ". . . He is survived by a daughter, Mrs.
John Smith, and a son, Mr. William Robinson. . . ."
These names are cross-indexed on separate cards.
The medium, if working without an assistant, secures
the name of the client either by the auto license list, as
described in the letter, or through the carbon device, or
one of its variations. The client may be left to cool his
heels in the waiting room while the spiritual advisor
does a rapid research job in the inner office and gets
enough data for a preliminary "convincer" reading.
In further sessions, of course, more details have been
gathered. This system works only for those who have
recently lost some loved one through death, but, after
all, such persons form one of the chief sources for the
spirit medium's clientele.
In discussing the sources of information employed
by psychics, it would not be fair to the reader to omit
one of the most valuable —the client himself.
. 16 •
PSYCHIC REVELATIONS
To the practitioners of the spook racket there is a
technique known as the "cold reading." This signifies
the ability to start "cold"—without any mechanical aids
or research —and tell a "sitter" events of his past and
present, with speculations on his future.
In Chapter VII of my book, Spook Crooks! (1932),
entitled "How to Become a Spirit Medium," I men
tioned the twelve divisions which, according to the
author of Guide Book to Spirit Mediumship for psychic
fakers, cover all the events in the average person's life.
For those who did not read Spook Crooks! here are
the twelve divisions mentioned and other data from the
Guide Book.
The twelve divisions cover everything in the life of the
average individual: time, personal magnetism, investments,
partnerships, best friends, obstacles, sickness to look out
for, enemies, marriages, money conditions, change in af
fairs (trips), surprises and warnings are included in the
things the fake medium must cover in his "spiel."
Taking these twelve points as a framework, the con
vincing talker can fill out the details with deductions
drawn from the sitter's appearance, and check the cor
rectness of his guesses by the client's response.
The details change according to the age and sex of
the dupe. If the medium has a chance before the meeting
opens to search the pockets of overcoats, etc., left in an
outside room, he may do so, thus getting information
that he later states the spirits told him. Not all mediums
do this, but some do, and have.
Trickery based on deception gives the nervy medium
a chance to use "stock spiels" to impress the credulous.
.
17
.
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
No matter how uneducated a faker may be, if he (or
she) has a good memory he can learn by rote the proper
things to say.
Out of a lot of ramblings about "organisms and
psychic impressions of spirit conditions" any medium
may make some statement that, while applied generally,
hits most of us many times. "Lucky statements," so im
press some dupes that they believe the faker really
has some supernatural power.
The mediums grow wonderfully sensitive to such
"hits" or "misses," and even though the customer tries
to maintain a "dead pan" expression, the experienced
reader can detect, by subde signs, when he is "hitting,"
or when he is off the track.
I am convinced that many of the miraculous stories
which come to me of persons who "never said a word
or wrote a line" and who were, nevertheless, told "amaz
ing" things about their private lives by "consulting psy
chologists" and the like, have been victims of this crafty,
but devilishly subtle art.
Just as the stage "mind reader" can find a pin hidden
in the audience by having a spectator touch his wrist
lightly, "sensing the subconscious directions imparted
through the spectator's hand," just so the "spiritual
scientists" detect right and wrong guesses in time to
remedy them, talk their way out of tight spots, reverse
themselves entirely at times, and, in the end, convince
even hardheaded businessmen and well-informed women
that there is "something to it."
There is no question but that many mediums are
sincere and believe themselves gifted with genuine
. 18 •
PSYCHIC REVELATIONS
psychic powers. The writer, as an associate member of
the American Society for Psychical Research, read care
fully the journal of that society, Psychic Research, for
years but still found nothing to change his conviction
The Dead Do Not Talk.
In this publication one finds cases that are reported
to be "genuine phenomena," yet these are in such
minority as compared with the millions of "spirit mes
sages" given in "churches" and seance rooms regularly
that before you accept as "genuine" any statements of
any medium it is wise to check the medium's standing
with approved psychic research investigators.
»9
3
WAR DEAD PHOTO FRAUD
A LREADY a new spook racket, cunningly conceived
during the grimmest days of World War II, has
begun to reap the postwar dividends foreseen by its
originators. By a "new" fraud, I mean an adaptation of
an old one, which is common in all psychic fakery, a
game in which tested devices are always preferred. But,
in this instance, something new was needed and it has
been added—or we might say, subtracted.
During the past war, a group of believers in the
psychic instituted something which, for them, was quite
novel —a series of seances conducted under test condi
tions with a sprinkling of skeptics in the audience. If
there is anything that mediums ordinarily shy from, it
is a "test" seance; indeed, all their writers and lecturers
insist that under such conditions spirits themselves
refuse to function, rather than have their authenticity
doubted.
so
WAR DEAD PHOTO FRAUD
In this instance, however, not only mediums but their
controls agreed to shatter precedent and the seances
were conducted as advertised, with definite phenomena
resulting. There were psychical phenomena, too, but
anyone who expected to see materializations, or some
thing reasonably spectacular, was headed for disap
pointment.
The tests were confined to the production of spirit
photographs, and though the conditions were somewhat
stringent, they were specified by the mediums or their
representatives. Spirit photography has always been the
safest and surest form of fraudulent spook work, because
it allows so many loopholes, and, at worst, can be allowed
to fizzle on the ground of improper conditions.
What developed at these seances was something quite
apart from the usual brand of spirit photographs. In
the course of things, sheets of sensitized paper were
handed to members of the audience, and, later, on those
sheets were found curious symbols described as being
supernormally produced, which were immediately given
another name to enrich the already overburdened
vocabulary of spiritistic double-talk.
These symbols were called "skotographs."
Now the remarkable thing about skotographs was
that they were produced without the aid of a camera,
something almost unknown in the annals of spirit
photography, though believers long preferred to have
it listed as entirely unknown, on account of Mr. Mumler
in Boston.
Mr. Mumler was the first medium ever to produce
spirit photographs, which he did immediately after the
. 21 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
Civil War. Later, when Mr. Mumler found himself
detected in fraud, he confessed that spirit photography
was the outgrowth of his finding dim images on old
plates that had not been properly cleaned. So Mr.
Mumler only needed a camera to produce a picture of
a corporeal person with the spirit form hovering in the
background, the form having been on the plate all the
while.
But that was seventy-five years ago, and nobody at
the present-day test seances connected sensitized paper
with Mr. Mumler, particularly since they had heard
nothing but good about Mr. Mumler, and the good
things never included a reference to his nasty old con
fession.
Apparently, the skotographs were "thought-forms,"
and if they could be induced upon slips of sensitized
paper, why couldn't pictures be similarly projected
upon a camera film or plate? It was necessary to test
this to discover whether the spirits were really respons
ible for what had happened, so, instead of putting the
photographic plates into the camera, they were held
up so the audience could concentrate on loved ones gone
to the Beyond.
Those plates were developed and the pictures were
found on them. Little tiny pictures, like the skotographs.
No pictures of anyone in the audience, although the
plates had been brandished in front of their faces—
just a lot of skotographs. But it proved just this. With
due concentration on the features of some loved one,
the picture of that person could be imprinted by the
• 22 •
WAR DEAD PHOTO FRAUD
spirits upon a simple sheet of sensitized paper, just as
well as a camera plate.
Always tiny, though, these personalized skotographs.
The smaller the slip of paper, the better. I wondered
about this until a year later. Then I wondered why I
had wondered at all. I know photography. I should as I
was a demonstrator for the Eastman Kodak Company
of Rochester, New York, and had traveled for almost
two years setting up camera clubs, teaching photography,
and selling the apparatus.
To me, spirit photography had never held the slight
est mystery in any form. If the man who pressed the first
electric light switch had told people that the spirits
turned on the light to make them believe him, he
wouldn't have been getting away with anything more
than did Mr. Mumler.
If spirit faces peer out of photographs, why don't
spirit voices start speaking out of phonograph records?
Maybe they will, if some smart medium reads this sug
gestion, but, so far, they haven't. It just happened that
spirit photography got started at a time when photog
raphy itself was young and regarded somewhat super-
stitiously by an unsophisticated public. Now the weight
of years of "evidence" in the form of accumulated frauds
and hoaxes has enabled spirit photography to claim a
public status. That is all.
So the skotograph twist meant nothing to me, except
maybe that the medium had been afraid to let skeptics
test his camera and had staged a trick before they
expected one to be due.
•
23
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
Until suddenly the whole purpose struck like a devas
tating cloudburst.
It happened in a small city in the Midwest where I
had stopped off during a business trip to investigate a
sudden boom in the spirit medium profession which
I had heard had struck the town. I asked a local amateur
magician —we will call him Mr. Bates —if. he knew any
thing about what was going on with the mediums. Very
grimly, Bates nodded, saying he would show me some
thing that evening.
After dinner, Bates arrived at my hotel, bringing a
locket which he said belonged to his wife. It was a cheap
locket, but quite ornate with what appeared to be an
ancient talisman engraved upon it. Opening the locket,
Bates showed me a tiny photograph of a soldier.
"Our son," he told me. "My wife usually wears this
locket, but I hurried her off to the movies tonight so she
would forget to take it."
I noticed that the photograph was slightly blurred,
and commented on the fact.
"The original couldn't have been very clear," I said,
"or it wouldn't have made such a poor reduction."
"That isn't a photograph," informed Bates. "It's
called a spookograph, or something like it."
"You mean a spirit photograph?"
"No, a spookograph. I think that's what Madame
Tosca told my wife it was."
"Mediums don't like the word spook," I argued. "It
must have been something else." Suddenly the word
shot home to me. "You don't mean a skotograph?"
"That's it!" exclaimed Bates. "The medium says that
•
24 •
WAR DEAD PHOTO FRAUD
these impressions represent a great advance in psychic
science. They are skotographs, developed through the
efforts of specially trained mediums in New York.
"Only you can't risk enlarging them, and, what's
more, they are apt to fade unless kept in one of these
talisman lockets that have been specially treated to pre
serve them." Bates was becoming grim, almost indig
nant, as he recounted this rigmarole. "The more I think
of
it,
the more
it
sounds like
a
racket. Who
is
this
Madame Tosca? Why did she come to our town to dis
turb everybody? If
I
didn't know that you know lots
about these things,
I
wouldn't know to whom to talk!"
I
just let Bates talk, and he told me more and more.
Madame Tosca had sold dozens of these skotographs at
five dollars each, and another five for the talismanic
locket. A lot of families had bought several copies of
each skotograph, and all were the pictures of war heroes
who had fallen in action.
When Bates had finished,
I
asked him
a
question:
"Have the people here received many photographs from
the boys overseas?"
"Why, yes," replied Bates. "Mostly
a
lot of snap
shots. Generally pictures of themselves that some other
G.I. has taken. They swap them around, you know."
"Do any of the snaps tally with these skotographs?"
"I don't believe so, but
I
wouldn't be sure."
I
asked Bates to find out all he could, and the next
day
I
consulted
a
local photographer to learn what he
knew about Madame Tosca and other visiting mediums.
He hadn't met any of them, but
a
few persons—all
strangers —had stopped in to ask him
if
their skoto
•
25
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
graphs could be enlarged. He'd said they could, and the
strangers had asked to see samples of his enlargements
of regular snapshots, but he hadn't received any orders.
By now I was beginning to get somewhere, and when
Bates came back that afternoon, I had an idea. Bates had
some G.I. snapshots with him, and we went over them.
In one we found a photograph of a sergeant whom
Bates knew quite well.
"That's Bill Tierney," said Bates. "He was shot down
over Holland and listed as dead, only the underground
got him out and he's safe in England. I just heard about
him from his uncle in Chicago."
"Chicago?" I queried. "Isn't this Bill's home town?"
"It was until after his parents died," Bates explained.
"Then he went to live with his uncle in Chicago. Some
of the boys from here ran into him in England. He had
his picture taken with them."
That night I went to see Madame Tosca in the hotel
suite she used as a seance parlor. I told her I was Bill
Tierney's uncle, just arrived in town. I'd been reading
a book called Many Mansions that had come from
England, telling of wonderful messages received from
departed aviators. I wondered if Tosca could bring one
through from Bill.
For five dollars I was given a trumpet seance in a
pitch-black room, and heard Bill's voice describe the
bomber crash that had resulted in his death. For another
five, Tosca produced a skotograph definitely resembling
the snapshot I had seen of Tierney, and, of course, I
bought a locket for another five.
In putting away the trumpet, Madame Tosca had
. 26 •
WAR DEAD PHOTO FRAUD
gone into another room where the telephone was. I
asked if I could make a phone call, so she bowed me
into that other room, where I closed the door. I saw the
trumpet over in a corner, but what interested me more
was a writing desk that a close look told me wasn't part
of the hotel furniture.
The desk drawer was locked, as I expected, and the
lock was a very solid one. The desk, however, was some
thing different. Its legs folded under in a jiffy, and the
whole desk fitted right into a canvas carrying case that
I found on the shelf of the closet. Once inside the
canvas, the desk resembled a suitcase for the canvas
had a handle attached.
I came from the room and was halfway to the outside
door before Madame Tosca saw that I was carrying the
suitcase, and began a wild protest.
"I couldn't get the police on the phone," I told her,
"so I'm taking this suitcase down to headquarters. Don't
worry—I'll pay for a new lock if they have to break the
one on the drawer. All we want to do is try developing
a few skotographs ourselves."
Madame Tosca wilted. The fact that I'd recognized
the desk for the portable kind that mediums carry for a
quick getaway, was enough to make her talk. She'd tell
me the whole story—if I'd let her clear town, and I
could keep the desk.
I kept the desk. It makes a good typewriter table to
carry on trips. In fact, I'm using it right now, but there's
only typewriter paper in the drawer, instead of the
sensitized sheets and a bottle of hypo solution used in
developing skotographs.
•
27
■
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
After all, Madame Tosca wasn't too much to blame.
She had simply been planted in this town as a worker
for a syndicate that was flooding the country with skoto-
graphs. It was too big a job to work alone. In fact, the
medium didn't even begin operations until the spot was
fixed.
The syndicate was gobbling up G.I. snapshots from
every possible source, checking the pictures of the indi
vidual soldiers both from the source and in the towns
where the boys came from. When Madame Tosca opened
shop in this little burg, she had all the photographs and
data cards with her, which was why she preferred to carry
her own desk.
It took about a week to build up business, and from
then on the length of a stay depended on the size of the
town. The medium's hotel bills were deductible from
the total profit, and she could keep twenty-five per cent
from then on. Tosca said she'd expected a gross take of
a hundred dollars a day, but she hadn't done that well.
She was counting on doing better in bigger towns.
"It looked better than futurescopes, though," was
Tosca's comment. "They're usually only good for pea
nuts, except for the locals who cleaned up with them
once. But I'd rather have a peck of peanuts than the
peck of trouble these skotographs got me in."
I'd forgotten all about futurescopes. They seemed too
trivial. Yet they'd been on the market for years, and
they were undoubtedly what skotographs derived from.
I remembered a supply house peddling them at three
or four dollars a thousand —little stock photographs that
. 28 .
WAR DEAD PHOTO FRAUD
developed on squares of sensitized paper when given a
drop of hypo.
Carnival fortunetellers sold them for a dime —or
maybe a quarter. Madame Tosca had been working them
as a "pitch" with a palm-reading concession, or "mitt
camp" (as she termed
it)
with a carnival that summer.
It seemed that the syndicate had been looking for just
such workers as the right people to sell the improved
futurescope, or skotograph, on
a
dollar, instead of
a
penny, basis.
Of course the futurescopes were just a gag—like the
Buddah Mystery that develops written fortunes. The
stock photos on the futurescopes were supposed to
represent the client's future husband or wife—whereas
skotographs not only carried made-to-order pictures, but
worked through an improved developing process that
was almost undetectable.
Tracing the head men of the racket through Madame
Tosca was almost impossible since she'd only dealt with
agents and collectors. Other towns were notified to
watch for such persons, but they must have been ready
for such an emergency because the only persons rounded
up were other "mediums" like Madame Tosca, all
equally ignorant, and unimportant in the general
scheme of things.
There have been, and are,
a
few spasmodic revivals
of the racket in other parts of the country, but they
appear to be no more than a salvage effort on the part
of the ring, to defray some of the cost that must have
been invested in records and salaries to field workers.
How widespread this game might have become
is
•
29
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
still a question, but it marks only a preliminary in the
history of skotographs.
When I checked with dealers who had been supplying
futurescopes in previous years, I found that they knew
nothing of the skotograph trade. Their business was
quantity production of cheap items which they termed
"novelties," and, to a degree, the simple futurescopes
came under that general head.
It had never occurred to them that such a trivial
item as a self-developing minicam photo could be built
up to a full-fledged spook racket. But it struck me that
whatever had been started on a nationwide basis must be
something already in the hands of individual mediums,
so I began to check on such.
I found several instances where mediums, instead of
taking regular spirit photos, or recommending customers
to a spirit photographer, were utilizing the wonderful
new process whereby a group of faces from the Beyond
were produced by the spirits on a photographic sheet
that never went into a camera.
But why should this supplant the old style of spirit
photographs which the gullible still accepted and which
were certainly highly convincing, since the spirit images
were often quite as large as the sitter's own picture with
which they appeared.
The answer was easy, once the clue had been discov
ered. The taboo on enlargements was the clue.
In spirit photographs, the medium simply superim
poses a picture of the person from the "other side," and,
to do this, an original of such person must be obtained.
This is comparatively easy to accomplish with the aid
•
3° •
WAR DE.AD PHOTO FRAUD
of a few good scouts and visits to the right places, par
ticularly small-town photographers.
Little snaps, however, are unsatisfactory because they
blur when enlarged. This was why the business of spirit
photography bogged down after the last war. Too many
spooky pictures showed obvious traces of being repro
ductions of snapshots taken in the trenches of France,
or somewhere behind the lines.
When mediums were called upon to produce new
and original photographs from spirit land, they couldn't
fill the requirement, and many promising cases of al
leged spirit communication fell by the wayside. With
the outbreak and continuance of World War II, the
same promise was threatened by the same eventual dis
appointment. Spirit photographs of war dead were the
strongest evidence to bring bereaved relatives into a
belief in spiritism, and, therefore, an interest in other
forms of psychic communication, but something had
to be done to bolster the lack of satisfactory pictures.
Skotographs were the answer. If mediums supplied
them instead of larger pictures, the flaws would not be
recognized. So the neglected futurescopes were adapted
to that purpose, but on a made- to-order basis. Giving
skotographs a quasi-scientific status through seances
under pretended test conditions not only produced na
tionwide publicity, but justified the use of skotographic
processes in the postwar period to come.
Even the end of the war has not stopped their use
entirely, but I am sure that the wide publicity boom-
eranged in that the sponsors of skotographs were in no
way directly responsible for the racket that cropped up
•
31
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
involving such small-fry mediums as Madame Tosca.
Too many important and wealthy people are slated for
a trimming to risk future results by playing the small
towns wholesale.
The spook business has always had its own black mar
ket, and some smart operators simply grabbed this new
idea as soon as they heard about it. Breaking up the
wholesale racket was a proper measure in itself, but it
has preserved the situation needed for the more lucra
tive retail trade.
Psychic journals have been publishing skotographs
obtained at the so-called test seances, requesting readers
to identify any faces that they recognize, and send in
names along with "earth pictures" —which is what they
call a photograph taken of an actual person, as if there
could be any other sort of photograph!
Just why should such names be wanted?
The fact
is,
those names aren't, but the names of the
senders are. Anybody who
is
foolish enough to believe
in spirit photography, even in its minicam version of
skotography,
is
A-1 timber for
a
three-ply sucker list.
And speaking of timber reminds me of something
that even the psychic journals haven't yet unearthed.
They are always publishing pictures of "spirit-guides,"
many of whom are Indians, answering to such names as
Silver Birch, Black Cloud, Red Feather, and the like.
These are sent in by amateur circles and are accepted
on sight.
One of the favorites of these publications happens to
be inhabiting the mundane plane, not in the flesh, but
in solid hardwood. He stands over on Third Avenue in
•
32
•
WAR DEAD PHOTO FRAUD
New York, one of the few survivors from the era of
cigar-store Indians. Somebody snapped a double ex
posure of this wooden Indian, and sent his picture for
publication. He's been appearing ever since as regular
filler for a psychic journal that boasts a circulation of
thirty thousand subscribers.
What are skotographs in small doses to anyone who
will swallow a wooden Indian whole?
S3
4
0
THE MAIL-ORDER MYSTICS
HERE is a man in the Midwest who says he has
1 talked with God—and he can teach you how to
talk with God, too, for a consideration. There is a man
in the Far West who will tell you—for nothing—why
God permits war, and will teach you, at a price, the
strange secrets of Tibet, which can keep you from ever
growing old. In Texas, a mail-order house sells the hid
den lore of the ancient Mayan civilization, while in
California there is a "fraternal order" which will ini
tiate you by mail into the mysteries of time and space,
the attainment of cosmic consciousness, and the secrets
of "arcane cosmogony" —one of which is that the world
is round, but that we live on the inside of it!
In eras of war and the chaotic years which follow it,
psychic frauds spring up like mushrooms, trading on
the tension, the hopes and the spiritual needs of people
who have lost loved ones, whose relatives have vanished
34
THE MAIL-ORDER MYSTICS
in war-torn countries, or who simply find the future too
terrifying to face without aid or guidance.
Admittedly, there are not enough well-equipped ad
visors in this country—or any other country —to take
care of the multitudinous problems growing out of the
war. However; there are vocational counselors, psychi
atrists, social agencies and genuine religious organiza
tions which exist to render real service to the heartsick,
the confused, and the mentally disturbed.
But before they ever get in touch with reputable
sources of advice, thousands upon thousands of Amer
ican men and women fall into the hands of the char
latans, many of whom operate by mail, exclusively. The
mail-order mystics do an annual business which makes
the "take" of the spirit mediums look like chicken feed.
The high-power salesmanship of occult piffle has be
come an annual multimillion dollar industry.
We must turn for a moment to the history of occult
ism in the Western world to better understand the
background of these cults.
The United States gave the nineteenth century the
fad of spiritualism through the toe-joint cracking "spirit
raps" of the Fox sisters in the 184o's. These girls, self-
confessed frauds in later life, were followed by Daniel
Dunglass Home, a Scotch-American adventurer, who
took the fashionable society of the fifties by storm with
his "spirit phenomena," some of which he performed
"in the full light"—that is to say, the candlelight which
illumined the salons of his day. Home, by ingenuity,
charm, and limitless brass, established himself at the
imperial court of Russia, married a Russian girl of
•
35 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
good family, and for years was the center of a storm of
controversy over whether his miracles were genuine
spirit manifestations, or the tricks of a charlatan.
Riding the wave of interest in matters ghostly, there
came from Russia to western Europe, and later to the
United States, an amazing woman of titanic energy, per
suasive words, and some unquestioned familiarity with
oriental mysticism—Helena Petrovna Blavatsky.
Born in Ekaterinoslav in 1831, she was married at
seventeen to a government official from whom she soon
separated. She spent the next ten years or so wander
ing the world and dabbling in mysticism. There is
minor evidence to show that she actually did penetrate
Tibet, but this writer spent so much time on research
of her later life, that he feels we need not go too deeply
into her earlier life.
Anyhow, in 1858 she showed up in her native Russia
and gained a sudden fame as a spirit medium. She then
transferred her activities to the United States, around
1870. In New York in 1875, she helped to found the
Theosophical Society, dedicated to "forming a univer
sal brotherhood of man, studying ancient religions, and
developing the divine powers latent in man."
Madame Blavatsky's teachings were a confusion of
what we called "American spiritualism"—Buddhism,
Brahmanism, cabalistic doctrine, and much pure Bla
vatsky. She talked in terms of "astral bodies," "pre
cipitated messages," and "mahatmas." And, propheti
cally enough, one of her major mysteries involved a use
of the mails.
On meeting a likely prospect, she would give him
•
36
•
THE MAIL-ORDER MYSTICS
advice, or make a prediction concerning his life, which
would be reinforced a few days later by a letter ad
dressed to the man by name, and, undoubtedly, mailed
weeks previous to his meeting with the madame, by
someone in India. Sceptics hinted that the madame
might very well get information about the prospective
follower and send a letter to a stooge in India, who
would copy it and sent it back, the madame arranging
meanwhile to meet the "victim" and make her prophecy
a few days before the mail from India was due to ar
rive.
Similarly, one of the favorite manifestations of the
great Blavatsky was the "astral bell"—a clear, silvery,
musical note which sounded mysteriously at certain
times during her discourses, and without any apparent
physical cause. An investigator, however, once saw a
little silver doodad fall from the folds of the madame's
garments, and caught her trying to recover it unseen.
There were no trained investigators in those days, so
this reported episode indicates crudeness on the part
of the medium.
So much for the upsurge of interest in occult science
which hit the Occident in the middle of the last cen
tury and is steaming along too gaily today in the after
math of the war.
One of the most successful operators in the game of
selling mysticism by correspondence is a gentleman
whom we can call, for convenience, Dr. Brown. Today
this individual owns a newspaper and a chain of stores
in the small town in which he lives, and from which he
sells his wares. He boasts, in his sales literature, that he
•
37
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
owns a beautiful home—complete with pipe organ —
and that he carries a large load of life insurance. Yet
his business, to which he gives a fancy name, is incor
porated as a nonprofit religious organization, and, con
sequently, is tax free. It is administered by the doctor,
his family, and a few old friends.
Let us look into his background. Starting out in his
youth as a boy-of-all-work, he soon discovered an "amaz
ing power" within him. This statement is true enough,
but I feel the "power" was the power of high-pressure
salesmanship. At this, I am convinced, he is certainly an
"adept." From clerking in a retail store, he proceeded
to sell a prominent churchman on sending him through
Bible school, and he subsequently became an ordained
minister, but quit the recognized church to found one
supporting his own brand of religion.
His advertisements have appeared in eighty-six mag
azines and seven hundred newspapers throughout this
country, according to his statements. A reader who
would like to know how he, too, can receive health,
wealth, happiness, and the good things of life by bring
ing out the Power of God Within Him, is invited to
send for the doctor's free literature. This "free" offer
is bona fide, because the seeker after the good things
will receive plenty of literature —sixty-seven separate
pieces over twenty-two weeks —before the good doctor
gives him up as a bad prospect. At least, I received that
number!
This "religion" consists of twenty lessons on how to
develop the Power of God, costing twenty-eight dollars,
with an eight dollar discount for cash. The lessons con
•
38
•
THE MAIL-ORDER MYSTICS
tain some surprising statements on what the founder
can do with his own Power. In one of his books, the
doctor tells of being able to command his pet goldfish
to come sailing through the air at his command. He was
able to talk with his dead mother, and cause his dog
to walk through two locked doors.
As for the methods by which you, too, can talk with
God—they consist of autosuggestion, backed up by the
doctor's personality in the form of phonograph records,
on one side of which are inspirational talks by the
founder, and on the other side, recordings of him play
ing his pipe organ.
The doctor has not always had the Power of God, or
he might have used it when he was dishonorably dis
charged from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police after
a serious conflict with Demon Rum, in which the doctor
was the loser.
Let us turn now to a gentleman in the West, whom
we shall call Mr. Angel (because he is anything but
that), president of the "Foundation of Psycho-Science."
He, too, is a man who has overcome many misfortunes,
only to emerge triumphant by means of his strange
faculties. By his own admission, he has learned from
the "adepts and masters of the high Himalayas, a strange
method of mind and body control that leads toward im
mense powers," including levitation and the ability to
"tread on red-hot irons without danger."
However, Mr. Angel was not able to tread without
danger on the corns of the Federal Trade Commission,
which has had him on the carpet twice in the last seven
years, charging him with false and misleading represen
•
39 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
tations. The FTC was unwilling to believe that this
"adept" was a world teacher, having a perfect mind
and a perfect body, as he claims, and that he learned
from the rishis in the Far East, knowledge theretofore
known but to them. The commission objected most
strongly to his claim that his "secret breath control"
would enable one to enjoy unfading youth of body and
mind.
Mr. Angel sells his secrets of the mysterious East
for five dollars down and two dollars a month. If the
subscriber shows no enthusiasm after the first barrage
of sales letters, free booklets, pamphlets, leaflets, appli
cation blanks, special letters containing "great news"
and other high-pressured devices, Angel comes down
to a two dollar down payment, with a thirty-day money-
back guarantee. The student is to send two dollars a
month thereafter for as long as he cares to sit with
his back straight, breathing in through one nostril and
out through the other, while repeating "affirmations"
such as:
"Now I imagine that great light at the back of my
neck. I am looking down over my beautiful spine. It
seems that I am looking at a great waterfall with the
sunshine playing on it. I see countless numbers of tiny
specks of iridescent light . . . light . . .
light . . . and I
know my whole body to be full of light."
Stripped down, this man's "secrets of the East," re
vealed to him by the rishis of Tibet, could be learned
by anyone with a day to spare who will go to the public
library and look up the subject of yoga. As for the ef
fect of genuine yogic practices, it is interesting to note
•
40 •
THE MAIL-ORDER MYSTICS
that Dr. Kovoor T. Behanan of the Yale Institute of
Human Relations came to the conclusion, after a year
of careful research with an accredited yogi in Bombay,
that yogic exercise and breathing made him "feel bet
ter."* Leaving aside the autohypnotic and mystical
aspect of yoga, it is apparently no more beneficial,
when practiced without a lifetime of devotion to it,
than any other regimen of moderate exercise and sen
sible diet.
As for Mahatma Angel's background, there is no de
nying that he spent a number of years in the Far East
as a newspaperman, and in other capacities. But the
New York City Department of Health's report on him,
(under his right name), made at the request of the
American Medical Association several years ago when
Angel was operating a School of Wisdom in New York,
described him as a "professional health itinerant and
religious vagabond."
The AMA investigated him on complaints of former
students of the "wisdom" school who complained that
the master's breathing exercises had thrown a number
of people's vertebrae out of kilter. The master moved
West, where he has continued to operate his foundation.
One of the more recent mysticism-by-mail outfits is
located in Texas. It is run by an ex-vaudeville "mind
reader." Of interest here is the fact that the brother of
the ex-master-mind operates a business elsewhere, which
is listed officially as a medium's supply house. But from
it one can buy a "luminous ghost which travels about
• Behanan, Kovoor T., yoga: A Scientific Evaluation, the Macmillan
Company, New York, 1938.
•
41 •
THE DEAD DO NOT' TALK
the seance room, and can raise either hand as a gesture
of the dead. A one-man feature, complete —$22.50."
This same concern also sells a little fountain pen
flashlight gimmick which throws ghostly pictures on the
wall of a seance room, and "will play havoc with the
nonbeliever, and deeply stir the emotions of the true
spiritualist."
The "mind-reading" brother used to operate over the
radio from Mexico, giving advice, but has now set up
shop in Texas. He is reputed to have five thousand
members paying four dollars a month each for the
"amazing wisdom that has been hidden from the mul
titude," supposedly originating in the lost Mayan civi
lization of southern Mexico and Central America. This
means a gross of twenty thousand dollars a month. And
the overhead of mysticism-by-mail is not large.
One of the oldest vendors of the "hidden knowledge"
is a self-styled "Imperator" of a mystic fraternal order
which has its headquarters in California. In 1916 this
gentleman was in New York trying to round up a group
of people whom he would instruct in the lore of Atlan
tis, the sunken continent. However, his project also
sank, and he repaired to Tampa, Florida, but did not
prosper. At last the Gold Coast claimed him, and he
has been going strong ever since.
In the free literature of his "order" there is a tract
designed to warn prospective customers from rival or
ganizations which are "not what they seem." It draws
a parallel between outfits which merely "look good"
and the structures on a movie set which seem to be
palaces from the front, but from the rear are a crude
•
42 •
THE MAIL ORDER MYSTICS
shell of lathes and plaster. Inspiration for this homily
could have been drawn from his elaborate buildings,
which show up most impressively in the photographs
used in the literature, but which, on close inspection on
the spot, prove themselves to be typical "movie set" con
structions.
The Imperator's literature is the most modest of all
the mail-order cults, and is probably the best written.
It is convincingly vague, but seems to promise such
specific benefits as "attainment" and "awakening."
The awakening comes, perhaps, after the customer
has joined the order with a five dollar initiation fee
and three dollars a month dues, and receives his les
sons. These are printed sheets, full of "symbols" and
text. One of them tells the neophyte that we live on
'
the inside of a great sphere, and gives a cross-section
map (in spite of infrared photographs, taken from air
craft, which show the curvature of the earth and prove
to the naked eye that we live on the outside. But such
elements of genuine science are blithely ignored by the
purveyors of the "inner wisdom").
The student is told that he will be instructed in a
mastery of cosmic vibrations. The way to do this, ap
parently, is to sit in a darkened room and look at a
candle. For these instructions in candle watching, the
"student" pays three dollars a month —forever, appar
ently, if he does not get disgusted and quit.
The foregoing descriptions ok four of the largest
mail-order cults in the country are not complimentary,
but are fact. Please keep in mind, also, that I believe
it is the constitutional right of these men to select,
•
43 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
create, or preach any religion or philosophy they choose.
But it is also my opinion that their advertising is mis
leading and fraudulent, their "lessons" without a shred
of scientific basis, their operators of proven shady back
grounds in many cases, and their appeal a callous one
in these days of social upset and anxiety. And that
my conclusions and opinions are correct, is found in
various Federal, state, and city reports about all four!
Their advertisements flourish in the columns of pop
ular magazines where one is also promised a myriad of
other systems and products which will make life healthy
and prosperous: "End the tobacco habit," "relieve rup
ture," "banish superfluous hair," "raise giant frogs in
your back yard" —and all to be done, "this quick, easy
way." Their advertisements do not appear in the best
and biggest magazines and newspapers.
The road to religious fulfillment is a hard one, if we
are to believe the testimony of the thousands of genu
ine mystics who have followed it. "Enlightenment" has
come to them after agony and bloody sweat. Whether
they are right or wrong, whether they have been ab
sorbed in the all-pervading soul of the universe, or have
merely hypnotized themselves, is not for us to say. But
of this I am convinced: They did not find the light
as a result of clipping a coupon and parting with several
dollars of their hard-earned cash per month for a series
of "lessons" which are nothing but a rehash of any of
a dozen popular books on occultism.
The genuine student of yoga spends years —twenty
hours a day, sometimes—in systemic discipline and
mental gymnastics. And as for the hidden lore of lost
•
44 •
THE MAIL-ORDER MYSTICS
continents and vanished civilizations, the best minds of
modern anthropology will admit that we know little
about these phases of man's early life.
You can't find happiness by mail order. In the stormy
times around us—and ahead of us—a man must fight
for mental calm, for courage, for clear thinking. There
is no "quick, easy way. ..."
45
5
UNFINISHED HOUSES—AND SPOOKS!
IET
us leave the mail-order cults and mystics and re-
_j turn to the C.O.D. spooks via the house in Cali
fornia that stands as a monument to the deceptions
practiced by fraudulent mediums, a classic of extrav
agance .and wanton waste of wealth; one that shames
even the most notorious of political grafts.
At least somebody profits heavily through ordinary
graft, but the things that spook crooks start through
their small greed often go beyond their limitations and
leave them helpless where the pay-off is concerned.
The house to which reference is made was built by
the widow of an arms manufacturer on the advice of
some smart medium who wanted to keep her in the
fold. He insisted that the ghost of persons killed by
that particular brand of firearms would arrive to occupy
and haunt the house as soon as its building was com
pleted.
.
46 •
UNFINISHED HOUSES— AND SPOOKS!
So the lady of the house decided never to complete
it. Day and night, as months blended into years, car
penters, masons, construction men, were always at work,
with architects drawing up plans to keep them con
stantly busy. Containing scores of rooms, the house
sprawled itself over several acres, and today remains a
memorial to gullibility that was thirty-eight years in
duration.
This California house is not unique. There was a
railroad built in Texas that changed its terminal city
before completion, running up huge costs for altered
plans, because the chief engineer listened to the call
of the spirits. In Vermont, a huge marble mausoleum
with a life-sized statue of its deceased occupant remains
as sad evidence of some misguided notion that such a
structure would have some bearing on the hereafter of
its builder.
There was a house in New Jersey that went to wrack
and ruin in an unfinished state, but which at least
proved that mediums sometimes could control a situa
tion. The spirits "ordained" the construction of the
house through a medium who learned later that the
builder was running out of funds, whereupon the spirits
ordered the work to stop and won their point, saving
the medium her meal ticket.
These are just large examples of the countless smaller
frauds that have been perpetrated for the best part of a
century by the manipulators of that greatest of all con
games, the spook racket.
Most people would laugh at the thought of Wall
Street being haunted, but it is, and not by the shades
•
47 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
of bulls and bears, but by the spirits of loved ones who
dwell in the private lives of grim financiers, men whose
soft spots of regret or remorse have been touched by
crafty spook fakers, whose sucker lists are based on
wealth, beginning from the top of the ladder down.
Only a few years ago, the death of a famous astrol-
ogist revealed that her clients had numbered some of
the most successful financiers. Many people, instead of
being impressed by the fact that such news proved gul
libility to be universal, took the stand that this only
proved there must be something, in astrology.
And to those who take their astrology seriously, we
can only say, don't press it too hard or you'll find it
nothing more than the springboard that will plunge you
right into the deepest of all leech ponds, where the
spook crooks spawn.
In the year 1929, a certain astrologer published his
usual set of twelve forecasts based upon the birth signs
of the purchasers. To bring the same customers back,
year after year, his annual forecasts included month
by month information on matters of business and
finance. Due to a conjunction of planets due in Septem
ber of that year, the forecast set the time as the worst
for any new investments.
It happened that the astrologer predicted the Big
Crash practically on the nose. A handful of investors
who already felt that the stock market was uncertain,
happened also to have read the forecast. Those of them
who weren't caught, actually through their own fore
sight, at least were kind enough to give the astrologer
some credit.
•
48 •
UNFINISHED HOUSES— AND SPOOKS!
So the astrologer publicized the testimonial letters
he received, and for the next several years sold his an
nual forecasts on the basis that they told when the mar
ket would come back. Only the market didn't come
back in any of those years, yet with each new forecast
the astrologer harped back to his great success of 1929
as proof that he was infallible.
It has been estimated that this astrologer sold a mini
mum of fifty thousand horoscopes annually, on a dol
lar basis, with better than ninety cents profit, which
gave him a fine income. But there is no way to estimate
how many persons followed his advice and played the
market for those annual rises that never came. The
price of the horoscope was small—the losses sustained
following it are, of course, unknown.
This illustrates the story of the California house, but
on a mass basis. In brief, the faker, after "earning" a
quick dollar, doesn't care how many thousands he
causes people to toss away, nor how many hundreds of
persons may suffer directly or indirectly. He gets his
—and gets out.
Why don't the spook crooks work their racket like
that, taking the whole profit quickly, and move some
where else?
Because the "business" is too good to ruin. It is the
greatest repeat profit maker known. Those who have
worked too boldly have met with too much inconven
ience, along with a drop in total receipts over an ex
tended period.
A crystal gazer, whom we will style Swami Zero,
proved an excellent case in point. Playing a circuit of
•
49 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
smaller theaters, Swami Zero always carried along a
horde of "stooges." They helped the act by working
as "plants," getting immediate and startling answers
to their questions and saving the situation if something
short-circuited the wiring to the earphones hidden in
the swami's turban.
They did other things, such as smashing the windows
of local jewelry stores so the swami could predict at
tempted burglaries. They stole cars from parking lots
and left them in lonely quarries so the swami could lo
cate them through spirit aid.
The regular customers often wanted psychic advice
on how to invest, so one night when a lady asked what
to do about fifty thousand dollars that she was afraid
to entrust to stock promoters who had been hounding
her, Swami Zero saw clearly in the crystal what Mrs.
R should do!
He "saw" that Mrs. R would meet two honest
stock salesmen —one dark, the other light. They would
come to her hotel at three o'clock, probably in the aft
ernoon, and the stock would have something to do with
copper. Swami Zero had been buying up a lot of defunct
copper stock to paper his rumpus room when he closed
the show for the summer, only he didn't specify that
fact.
The two stooges visited Mrs. R the next after
noon at three, and exchanged some worthless copper
shares for the fifty thousand dollars. The same day, a
man missing from town for several years, came home,
fulfilling a prediction that Swami Zero had made to
the man's sister, stating that "she would hear from her
•
5° •
UNFINISHED HOUSES^-AND SPOOKS!
brother in the next fortnight." As a result, the theater
manager extended the swami's engagement for another
week.
Before the week was up, the stock swindle was uncov
ered and the law clamped down on Swami Zero before
he could leave the state. He was summarily tried and
sentenced to a term in the state penitentiary, which was
a formidable place where no prisoner could hope to
work his way out with a file, hence the warden offered
no objections when one of the swami's grieving clients
sent him a big birthday cake that might have had a few
puny tools hidden inside it.
What the cake contained was a stick of dynamite,
with the necessary fixings. Swami Zero found his chance
and blew out a goodly portion of the prison wall while
he and his fellow prisoners were exercising in the yard.
Half the convicts were out through the gap before the
stunned guards could stop them, and Swami Zero led
the rush by such a distance that he reached a waiting
car and was away while the rest of the prisoners were
just beginning to dot the countryside.
They found out who did it after Swami Zero was safe
in Tegucigalpa. Business being poor for crystal gazers
in Honduras, Zero didn't want to stay there, so he wrote
to his lawyers in America. Back in a certain western
state, the authorities hated to pay for a new penitentiary
wall with taxpayers' funds. Through his attorneys,
Swami Zero not only denied that he had blown the wall,
but so resented the implication that he offered to foot
the repair bill, provided the entire matter —includ
•
51 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
ing the new wall—would not be called to his future
attention.
So the bill was paid by the swami's lawyers, and talk
of extradition dropped, even interstate extradition. Re
turning to the United States, Swami Zero resumed his
tour, but ever thereafter avoided one particular state
where the architecture of the penitentiary displeased
him.
In definite contrast to Swami Zero, another crystal
seer, whose selected name was something like Prince
Mystic, found it much more advisable to handle secur
ities that were legitimate, although admittedly specu
lative. He carried a complete office equipment along
with his theatrical props, and sold stock on a commis
sion basis, but only when the "spirits advised it."
What was more, Prince Mystic tried to handle stocks
that had a future, because he was counting on his clients
to invest some of -the profits in other enterprises that
registered in the depths of Mystic's crystal ball. But at
that, his status was no better than that of a bucket shop
or wildcat promoter, which made him just as great a
menace to the local financial scene.
Knowing how closely spook crooks are geared to the
financial scene, my advice to all investors tempted by
speculative offerings, is to investigate not only the finan
cial status of the men behind it, but their leanings
toward the occult.
Right now, I know of a clairvoyant who is working
on a regular salary, trying to tap spirit messages that
will produce a clue to a lost gold mine. I also knew a
man from Texas who toured the country looking for
•
58
•
UNFINISHED HOUSES— AND SPOOKS!
I
successful dowsers so that he could hire them to test
their divining rods in a search for oil wells.
Somebody has to pay the costs in such cases, and the
deluded believers who initiate a project of this sort in
variably concot some other story to tell to skeptics rather
than be ridiculed. The worst cheats are often the un
conscious cheats, which sometimes goes for clairvoyants
themselves, as well as the persons they convince.
•
53
6
SPIRIT MOTORS
MEDIUMS
have used direct and outright measures
in proposing get-rich-quick schemes that would
have astounded the famous Mr. Wallingford. One of
these, perhaps the boldest, and certainly the most re
cent, was the case of spirit motors.
The way I heard about Spirit Motors was through a
halfway believer who happened to be a good friend of
mine. Such people have a habit of meeting with half
way skeptics, something which mediums encourage, be
cause the trend of such meetings is to bring more be
lievers into the fold. Because when halfway skeptics
meet the full-fledged kind, the latter generally ridicule
all things psychic and become impatient with a man
who wavers.
My policy has always been the opposite. Through
halfway skeptics, I meet halfway believers and always
listen to their attempts to give a scientific status to me-
diumistic phenomena.
•
54 •
SPIRIT MOTORS
One of the most current of such theories is that of
"psychic force" or "od" as Bulwer Lytton once termed
it in a novel. It would account for peculiar physical
phenomena not otherwise explainable, and I have never
derided the "od" theory because it safeguards the gul
lible person who might otherwise accept the spirit
hypothesis for everything that occurs in a seance room.
So my friend, whom we will call Mr. Hathaway, came
to see me with a Story that was truly serious because of
its utter absurdity.
"Would you like to see psychic force that we dis
cussed, in use?" asked Hathaway. "You didn't deny
that there might be such a thing. You said you'd have to
see it demonstrated in order to believe it."
"That's right," I assured Hathaway, "I would like to
see it."
"Did it ever occur to you what such a demonstration
could mean?" Hathaway demanded. "Provided, of
course, that it did exist? There would be money in it,
wouldn't there?"
I made a mental addition and nodded.
"About twenty-five thousand dollars," I assured Hath
away. "That's the appropriate total of the various
awards now being offered for a scientific proof of any
thing truly psychic. Of course a smart medium could
get believers to promise to match those awards, pro
vided they were won. Believers would do it, just to
prove they are as generous as skeptics—"
Hathaway was interrupting all this with a steady
head shake. Something even bigger was in his mind and
I wanted to hear it.
"The thing would be as great as cosmic energy," he
•
55 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
declared. "In fact, I'm beginning to believe that it's
the very thing we've tapped."
"Who has tapped?" I asked.
"Professor Ironsides," Hathaway replied. "He is a
friend of Kalgore, the medium. Don't get me wrong —"
Hathaway added that very quickly—"I don't mean
that Ironsides is a believer himself. In fact, he's rather
annoyed because he can't explain the whole thing from
a strictly physical standpoint."
'
I realized I'd begun to show the skeptic's look when
I heard about the link between Ironsides and Kalgore,
so I used what I feel was a straight poker face when I
said:
"Ironsides isn't a believer, but he knows Kalgore, the
medium. That's very interesting, exactly like anything
else that doesn't make sense."
"But Ironsides didn't know Kalgore," explained
Hathaway, triumphantly. "The man who introduced
them was Albert Croydon. It took weeks for Ironsides
to get into Croydon's office and even then it was only
luck that Croydon listened."
If at this point I could give the true name of Albert
Croydon, my readers would be as amazed as I was. I
can only say that if you eliminate all but five names
from those that would occur to you as the leaders in the
financial field today, Croydon's real name would be one
of them. I have tried this on about fifty people and not
one left out the real Croydon.
Don't think, however, that I am giving you a clue
by stating that our Mr. Croydon was overboard on mat
ters psychic. He is a gentleman who has been overboard
•
56 •
SPIRIT MOTORS
quite often', without letting anybody know it. I'd heard
rumors on the psychic angle at the time, but, frankly,
I hadn't believed them. And today those rumors would
be false, because Albert Croydon threw the psychic
question overboard himself, after the episode that I am
now relating.
Right then, I introduced a question that seemed
minor to Hathaway, the type of question that believers
overlook. I should have been agog over the Croydon
matter, accepting everything on the strength of his im
portance. But the one odd note struck me, as it always
does with persons who have become experienced at un
covering psychic frauds.
"This luck that Ironsides had," I commented. "Just
what do you mean by luck?"
"It was just something about geometric symbols,"
replied Hathaway, somewhat annoyed by the unim
portance of it. "Ironsides laid a lot of plans on Croy
don's desk, and if they had been lettered or numbered,
Croydon would have thrown them back at him. But
everything was labeled with geometric symbols: squares,
circles, triangles —"
"And wavy lines?" I interrupted. "Or crosses?"
Hathaway stared, dumfounded.
"Why, yes!" he exclaimed. "How did you know—or
are you psychic, too?"
"Maybe," I conceded. "But those happen to be the
symbols that Dr. Rhine uses at Duke University when
he tries his tests in E.S.P., and it occurred to me that
Croydon might have been familiar with them."
"He probably was," admitted Hathaway with a nod.
•
57 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
"He's talked about using the profits from the Spirit
Motor to set up parapsychological laboratories in cer
tain institutions which he has already helped endow."
"Would Kalgore know whether or not such symbols
would register immediately with Croydon?"
"Kalgore certainly would. He happens to be Croy
don's consulting medium. A good man, Kalgore. He lets
you tell him your theories, while he simply helps weed
them out. He has a great mind."
I conceded mentally that Kalgore must have a great
mind, but I didn't say so. Only somebody who knew
Croydon well—as a psychic consultant like Kalgore
would—could have steered Ironsides into the office at
the right time, when his battery of secretaries were out,
or occupied. The fact that Ironsides had embellished
his drawings with E.S.P. symbols also savored of a tip-
off.
"Croydon introduced Ironsides to Kalgore," contin
ued Hathaway, "because Ironsides himself admitted
that his motor was uncanny. In trying to tap one source
of energy, he had found another that defied physical
laws."
"You've seen this motor?" I asked.
"Of course," acknowledged Hathaway. "Croydon of
fered a few of us a minority share in the motor, and
there is still an opportunity if you are interested."
Obviously, Croydon wanted partners so he could
blame them if the invention proved to be a hoax, but I
was interested just the same. I suggested, though, that
this was a case for a committee of investigators on
psychic matters, and Hathaway assured me that such
•
58 •
SPIRIT MOTORS
had been arranged. He had picked me as a possible in
vestor because I could serve on the committee too,
limiting the number of persons who would gain a pre
view of a device which might revolutionize modern
science.
Matters were soon arranged and I met both the in
vestors and the investigators at the laboratory where
Ironsides kept the invention. The machine had not
only been in operation for a month or more—during
the past week it had been watched day and night by a
crew of private detectives hired by Croydon. These
operatives reported that neither Ironsides nor Kalgore,
who was around quite often, could have adjusted or
rigged the mechanism in any possible way.
The machine itself was an odd-looking contrivance.
It consisted of a conglomeration of wheels, cogs and
sprockets, with peculiar spiral shafts and globes that
created optical illusions during their constant revolu
tions. Ironsides explained that he had constructed it
on a theoretical fourth-dimensional pattern, and showed
us diagrams from which he had worked.
Ironsides was an eccentric character with shocky hair
that seemed to add to his general excitement, but he
was coherent. He said that he had studied Zollner's
Transcendental Physics, one of the earliest books de
voted to a survey of the fourth dimension, and that he
believed it basically sound, but lacking in certain theory
which had been supplied by later researchers.
What Zollner had done in contrast to his successors,
was try to demonstrate the fourth dimension, and
Ironsides had resolved to do the same with further
59
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
knowledge at his command. He claimed that there were
realms beyond science as we knew it—that energy must
exist in such realms and that he had tried to attract it to
our sphere.
There Kalgore took over. He was a darkish man of
oriental ancestry as difficult to trace as his accent. He
spoke slowly, decisively, when he declared that these
theories fitted perfectly with those of the spirit plane,
and that Ironsides through his machine had obtained a
constant flow of the telekinetic energy so often demon
strated in the seance room when objects moved or were
apported from unexpected places.
All this while, the spirit motor was proving its own
case by its steady operation. Its parts, though numerous,
were incapable of hiding a secret power unit, and we
were free to check every detail with the plans that Iron
sides had drawn and shown to Croydon. The machine
was mounted on a sheet of glass, which, in turn, stood
upon four glass pillars that came from a platform on
the floor. There was a glass case that went over it, com
pletely isolating the contrivance, and we were told that
we could use short-wave detectors, or anything else that
might curb our doubts.
Croydon was present, and in one of the impatient
moods for which he was famous. He had decided that
the spirit motor was bona fide and worth the price
that Ironsides wanted for it. He felt bound, however,
to await the decision of the other investors and the find
ing of the committee, but he wanted them to make up
their minds at once.
A few of the investors were doubtful, but when I
• 60 •
SPIRIT MOTORS
retired with the committee I found they were skeptics
to the last man. They couldn't account for the ma
chine's continuous operation under absolute test con
ditions, but they were convinced that whatever power
ran it must come from some physical source. Finding
that source seemed a complicated matter, until it sud
denly struck us that the simpler it was, the better it
would be from the standpoint of Ironsides and Kalgore,
since the whole fraud—if it were such—lay in some
ingenious concealment of the source itself.
From that moment, we came to a quick decision that
satisfied Croydon, and yet was properly calculated to
mislead Ironsides and Kalgore into what was to prove
a false security. The committee decided that it would
need twenty-four hours in which to study the subject.
If at the end of that time it could not disprove the
theories regarding the machine, the verdict would be
in favor of the spirit motor.
All that the committee did in that twenty-four hours
was make a single phone call to the right party. Then
we adjourned until the next day.
We came to the laboratory the next afternoon to find
Croydon there with Hathaway and the other investors,
all ready to sign the necessary agreements with Iron
sides. Croydon had brought along a certified check for
one hundred thousand dollars to clinch a bargain on
what he regarded as a million dollar invention. The
others were writing out their personal checks for pro
rata shares, since they were afraid that Croydon, now
completely sold on the spirit motor, intended to monop
olize it if he could.
. 61 - •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
Kalgore was present, and I learned from Hathaway
that the medium had staged a seance the night before,
to which I was not invited, having allied myself with
the committee. Ironsides had gone to the seance and
Kalgore's spirit messages were answers to the inventor's
questions regarding improvements on his motor.
The great minds of the higher plane had long been
seeking a mortal genius capable of understanding cos
mic geometry and mechanics. Ironsides was the answer
to that want. From now on he would commune directly
with the masters and benefit through the wisdom of the
ages.
Hathaway was telling me this aside, and in all serious
ness, while the spokesman for our investigation commit
tee was reading a lengthy, but vague, report that
brought Croydon's impatience to the breaking point. It
was plain that the report was getting nowhere, and the
secret partners in the motor hoax, Kalgore and Iron
sides, were exchanging triumphant glances, not know
ing what the committee could gain by hesitating.
Something else was stalling—the spirit motor. Its fan
ciful, corrugated globes that, presumably, picked up the
power of the universe, were slackening their twirl. Big
wheels, little cogs, spiral shafts, were all slowing uni
formly.
Nobody was noticing the motor, except a few mem
bers of the committee, and when they nudged the
spokesman, he skipped to the end of the report and read
the final paragraph. w
"While unwilling to accept or endorse the hypothesis
of spirit power," the spokesman stated, "the committee
. 62 •
SPIRIT MOTORS
nevertheless concedes that the motor invented by Iron
sides is a self-demonstrable device and that should it
be functioning when this report is finally submitted,
the committee will automatically recommend its pur
chase."
Croydon accepted the signed report and turned as if
to order the shipment of his prize to his lavish office in
the skyscraper he owned. But the spirit motor was a
prize no longer! Its smooth, silent-moving parts were
coming to their final stop. Lazily, it halted, while Kal-
gore and Ironsides stared as frozen as the machine it
self.
The chairman of the investigation committee handed
Croydon a letter from Consolidated Edison stating that,
as verbally agreed by telephone, the electric power in
this area would be temporarily turned off. The time set
was the exact hour of this meeting. We had seen to it
that Ironsides hadn't received a notification.
Having cracked the riddle of the motor's source of
power, the question was how Ironsides had managed
to pipe in the juice to his isolated machine. Rather than
be brought to court on a swindle charge, the "inventor"
revealed his ingenious trick.
No wiring was necessary to the spirit motor itself.
It was simply geared to another motor, a smooth-run
ning electric device, concealed in the platform beneath
the stand that stood on the round glass posts.
One of those glass cylinders was hollow. Up through
it ran a solid glass rod, which served as a vertical drive
shaft, the lower end operated by the hidden electric
motor, the upper end being topped by a flat cogwheel
•
63 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
of sufficient diameter to cover the hole in the glass plate
through which the transparent shaft emerged.
This cog, in turn, was geared to the rest of the con
trivance, which formed an intricate circuit of mov
able parts, the twirling wheels, four in all, that ex
tended above the motor simply being side pockets, so to
speak. They didn't power the motor. It powered them.
Not only is glass invisible when seen through glass;
its motion cannot be detected when so observed. The
one hollow post with its solid core looked exactly like
the completely solid posts, even when the invisible drive
shaft was in operation.
Psychic frauds of this type are akin to the old per
petual motion schemes of years ago. They have gained
impetus because a man named Keeley, who flourished
at the turn of the century, invented some perpetual
motion contraptions that were outlawed, but never
fully exposed. Later, Keeley was attributed with psychic
powers by persons anxious to vindicate him, and spirit
ists readily took to the notion that Keeley had been a
medium because it gave them a parallel case to that of
Home, the medium who believers claim was never ex
posed.
So Ironsides was simply following an existing trend
when he teamed with Kalgore to exploit the psychic
motor. As for the random hint that gave the commit
tee its clue to the actual source of power, it was this:
One member of the committee (a member of the
Magicians' Guild) had once been asked to explain the
riddle of a ghostly apartment, where every day the elec
tric clock lost ten minutes when no one was at home,
•
64 •
SPIRIT MOTORS
yet otherwise kept perfect time. Nothing else in the
apartment was ever disturbed and the phenomenon was
uncanny.
The investigator concealed himself and watched the
clock, keeping constant tally with his watch. The only
person who came into the place was a trusted maid who
swore she had never touched that clock. The maid
spent ten minutes using a vacuum cleaner, and the
most convenient socket happened to be the one to which
the clock's extension cord was plugged.
So the maid unplugged the clock, plugged in the
vacuum cleaner, and later reversed the process. She
just wasn't familiar with electric clocks, which were
only coming into vogue at the time, hence she never
realized that she was creating a mystery which the fam
ily mentioned in hushed tones rather than lose the
services of a maid who might become skittish if she sus
pected an apartment was haunted.
Such trifling and sometimes ludicrous incidents in
the career of a psychic investigator dften become the
clues to something far larger and highly important,
as was proved in the case of the spirit motor.
•
65 •
7
SPOOKS AND SPIRITS (LIQUID)
IF
YOU attend a spirit seance and take it seriously
—as some people do—the best cure is to take a
couple of drinks afterward. You'll need them.
The best proof is the case of Geoffrey Holland. He
needed the drinks and didn't take them. Geoffrey is
still around, but ft's mostly luck that he and Jacqueline
North didn't follow the same route that dozens of people
have taken after leaving the seance room, twenty stories
straight down.
New York is a bad place to attend a spook meeting.
It's a city with too many tall buildings, and not enough
rubber sidewalks.
It happened that Geoffrey Holland had broken off
with his wife Marie. One reason was that Marie took
spiritism too seriously. There were times when she even
thought she was a medium and began seeing things that
Geoffrey couldn't. So they separated.
. 66 •
SPOOKS AND SPIRITS (LIQUID)
Now Geoffrey had a good job in a busy plant. He
was earning a high salary as a consequence. He and
Marie would have been really happy if she hadn't been
won over to the spook craze. So Geoffrey thought, until
he found himself all alone. Then he began to wonder
whether Marie was right.
There was a way for Geoffrey to find out, and, at the
same time, a way to win back his estranged wife. He'd
go to a seance on his own, and treat the results fairly
and seriously. Maybe Geoffrey could come around to
Marie's way of thinking, and they would both be happy.
So Geoffrey went to a seance.
Now there were nice people at the seance, provided
you didn't think they were nuts. They welcomed Geof
frey. He told them he worked all day, earned a good
income, but that he had problems. They sympathized
with Geoffrey and told him they were sure the medium
would give him a helpful message.
The medium's name was Madame Casaba, and she
could always be helpful if she had enough information
with which to work. Finding that Geoffrey was wor
ried and worked in a one-time war plant, she put the
two together very nicely.
Madame Casaba had the spirits tell her what bothered
Geoffrey. He was somewhat psychic or he wouldn't have
come to the seance. The gift of prophecy was his, in a
slight way, but sufficient to tell his inner self that within
the next two days something was going to happen to
somebody in his plant.
Since it was the sort of plant where something
did happen to somebody every other day, Madame Ca
.
67 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
»
saba wasn't taking much of a chance with her hap
hazard guess. However, she added, Geoffrey would be
taking a terrible chance if he went to work during the
next two days. He wouldn't want to be there when a
tragedy occurred. Perhaps the person that the spirits
meant was Geoffrey Holland himself! They cpuld tell
him, if he asked, but unfortunately, the spirits had
used up their yardage of explanations for tonight, and
wouldn't be back for a week. So the best plan was for
Geoffrey to play safe and not go to the plant for two
days.
When the seance ended, Geoffrey's new friends and
fellow dupes expected him to be quite happy, but he
wasn't. He didn't say why, but the reason was that he
really wanted to go to work, make more money, and
make up with Marie. But if he threw over the advice
of an authenticated medium, what would Marie think?
Geoffrey didn't know.
Everybody else knew what to do about Geoffrey.
They were going to have a party, so they invited him
along. They went to a suite in the Hotel Armistead,
up about the twentieth floor, and invited Geoffrey to
have a drink.
But Geoffrey Holland didn't want a drink.
Neither did Jacqueline North, another member of
the party.
They began comparing notes, Geoffrey and Jacque
line, because Jacqueline had been to see Madame Ca-
saba often. If it hadn't been for Geoffrey's taking up
so much of Madame Casaba's time tonight, Jacqueline
would have received a message, maybe—possibly from
her dead sister, Louise.
. 68 .
SPOOKS AND SPIRITS (LIQUID)
For a long while, Jacqueline insisted, Louise had
been haunting her, because Madame Casaba said so.
But Louise was earthbound, or fogbound, or whatever
it was that kept people on this plane, and simply
couldn't "come through." Meanwhile, she'd been haunt
ing Jacqueline so heavily that about the only thing
Jacqueline could do was go over to the other side—
but she hated to go alone.
That gave Geoffrey an idea. Since somebody at the
plant was scheduled for a trip to the "better world,"
maybe Geoffrey ought to be big-hearted and head there
himself. He'd be good company for Jacqueline, and
when he reached the spirit world, he could start haunt
ing his wife Marie, just the way that Louise was haunt
ing her sister, Jacqueline.
Being the only sober members of the party, Jeff and
Jackie, as everybody now was calling them, decided to
take the window route together. They were halfway
out on the twentieth story ledge with all the drunks
encouraging the idea as something that would please
the spirits, when Jackie shrieked: "Louise, here I come!"
That made Geoffrey pause. At least he should add:
"Marie, here I go." But Marie wasn't in the spirit
world, so Jeff told Jackie to wait while he phoned Marie
and gave her the news that he was going somewhere
that she could join him whenever she wanted.
That phone call home to Marie was as genuine
sounding as a doctor's pronouncement of death. Marie
qu1ckly told Jeff to wait and to .hold Jackie back, too,
because she wanted to rush over and join both in the
suicide leap. But Marie didn't actually mean it, and
the wild ride in a cab to the Hotel Armistead was
•
69 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
enough to curb her early hysteria. When she reached
the hotel suite and found Jeff and Jackie waiting on
the ledge, Marie had plenty of arguments in favor of
their prolonging their lives upon this plane.
It took one hour and a half for Marie to win her
point against the urgings of the half-drunk crowd who
wanted to see the predictions of Madame Casaba ful
filled. At last, Jeff and Jackie didn't jump.
If this story had come from a local newspaper, spirit
ists would roundly and loudly deny it. But it didn't
come from a newspaper! It came here straight from the
pages of a little trade sheet that spiritists publish for
circulation among themselves! The names have been
Actionized, and the situation dramatized, but otherwise
the facts are as stated. And now I suppose my name
will be dropped from the circulation lists!
Why did such a spiritist paper publish the story at
all?
Because Madame Casaba had to be vindicated as a
medium. She'd been wrong about the plant, but right
about her prophecy of death, because two days later,
Madame Casaba was in the subway and saw a man fall
off the platform and get killed by an arriving train.
As for Marie's hour and a half of persuasive argument,
that went to prove that she was a medium in her own
right, since she must have been under spirit control to
convince Jeff and Jackie that they shouldn't jump.
It would have been just the same if Jeff and Jackie had
jumped!
70 ■
8
WORKING A HOSTILE TOWN
THIS
is a good place to break away from concrete
"big city" case histories, and give the reader an
insight into a "spook-crook" away from his or her home
base. While writing this book, I felt there was one field
which I had not covered well, and while getting a com
plete picture of it presented some difficulties, I decided
to get a former medium to "open up," in her own
slang or argot, about "working hostile towns."
This is a difficult thing to do, for mediums will stub
bornly insist that their phenomena are genuine in the
face of the most convincing evidence to the contrary.
One dowdy old woman, when "grabbed" in a dark
seance, and held until the lights were turned on, was
found to be wrapped in gauze which had been impreg
nated by luminous paint. She affirmed that the gauze
was an "apport"* brought into the seance room by a
•
See Chapter XI.
•
71
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
mischievous spirit from a theatrical costumer's shop
across the street!
The humor of this incident is somewhat tempered by
the fact that sincere believers who were present im
mediately rose to the medium's defense and accepted
the ridiculous alibi in good faith.
There was one former medium, however, whom I
had never met, but with whom I corresponded. She
had told me a number of interesting things about me-
diumship, a subject to which she never referred as any
thing else than "the racket." I wrote her, giving her a
list of questions I felt the average reader would like
answered. Here is the answer I received:
You want to know how a spook worker operates in a
hostile town. Well, I'm the one who can tell you because
I made a specialty of towns that other workers figured were
too tough to invade. And I did it for years and never
stepped on the flypaper once. I claim there was no such
thing as a closed town —that is, closed to me.
It took me about eleven or twelve years to learn all the
angles of the racket. I started when I was sixteen, as as
sistant to an old buzzard who could hardly read and write,
but who was one of the "strongest" workers I ever saw.
I'll tell you about him later. I almost married him, too—•
but that's another story.
To begin with, if you look up the law on fortune telling,
you'll find that what the police object to is not mystical
stuff, but "pretending to foretell the future." You can start
any kind of spook church you want, and if you don't let
them catch you foretelling the future, or knocking off the
customers with stock sale dodges and such, there's nothing
they can do to you.
.
72
•
WORKING A HOSTILE TOWN
Cops operate on complaints, and unless somebody puts
in a complaint to the effect that some medium or reader
has taken him, the shamuses are not likely to close your
place unless maybe one comes in with his hand out for a
little donation on his own hook. And I've even been able
to fluff them out, believe it or not.
One can work as a "scientific life reader," "character
analyst," "handwriting analyst," "consulting psychologist,"
"Orientalist," or any other kind of an -ist as long as
she keeps away from the words "psychic," "crystal," "seer,"
and so on.
I know one high-class worker, a girl young enough to be
my daughter, who has an apartment in the same building
with a police chief. He figures she's a doc of some kind. Her
shingle says "consultant and psychologist." Well, that girl
is just as much a fortune teller as any mitt reader in a car
nival on Coney Island. Only she has built up a money-bags
business with plenty of front.
Let's say I want to start business in Jonesville, and it is
a closed town where the palm readers and mediums have
been run out recently. And let's make it real tough —let's
suppose that I'm broke and working solo. I can't talk or
write good English, so I can't go to a Y.W.C.A.—or
can I?
First thing I do is, I look around for a rooming house
where the one who keeps it is a believer or just a chump.
You may have to spend a couple of days visiting rooming
houses, but you can find one if you keep plugging. All
right, you work yourself into being trusted for the first
week's rent, and you can even be fed in the bargain,
depending on how strong you play it and how you go
over.
Next you find a hole-in-the-wall job printer and get your
self a batch of cards made something like this:
•
73
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
Rev. Ann Levet1 .
Consultant Advisor Vocational Counsellor
Member, Sp1r1t Church
She has helped thousands find their way from dark
ness into light. She can help you. Telephone
Next, you canvass the beauty parlors, particularly the
ones in the proper sections of town, where you'll get a bet
ter reception. If the boss is a man and looks grouchy, you
ask him the time and keep going. If it's a woman, you take
her to one side and start to talk. You turn on the mystery,
and you may get her as your first customer. It depends on
how good you are at the quick size-up of the "mark" and
how convincing a talker you are. Anyhow, you leave her
a stack of cards to give to her customers.
Now, mind you, I'm still assuming that you're broke.
With a little dough, you have blotters printed with a much
longer message, and you don't have much trouble spotting
these around in the beauty parlors.
The phone number is the rooming house. You go home
and wait and I'll guarantee you won't wait more than a
day before just a few hundred cards will bring you a few
customers. Satisfy them and you get more and more.
And I'm, not talking out of my hat, either. I did it just
this way once, starting with a five dollar bill, just to see if
I could do it. That town that was labelled "hostile," proved
so good that I stayed there three years. And in all that time,
I never used any advertising except word-of-mouth and a
few circular letters.
The way you work the circular letters is this: You don't
want to send them through the mail if you can help it, be
•
74
•
WORKING A HOSTILE TOWN
cause in the event of a complaint, this may bring in the
Federal men. And you don't want to stuff them in mail
boxes. What you do is slide them under doors early in the
morning.
Pick the obituary column of the local paper, make a list
of all the people who have kicked off, and then write to
those addresses. Mind you, you don't simply leave one let
ter. They can get you on that, but if you cover the whole
apartment house, or whole block, if it's a private residence,
it looks like a general circularization. It doesn't look like
you're hearse chasing. Naturally, when you work this dodge,
your sales letter bears down on the spirit angle without
actually coming out and saying so. You concentrate on
"troubles," "heartaches," and so forth.
If the town is not a hundred per cent hostile, you use
the classified ad columns in the paper. They're in the sec
tion where people look when they're hunting a job, looking
for a lost relative, etc. Or you can take small one-column
display ads on the society pages. Never more than an inch-
and-a-half, and never too strong, unless it's an "open" town,
and towns like that are full of competition.
Another good spot for advertising in a closed town is the
local theater program. You can get away with stronger copy
there than any place else and the rates are pretty low.
So far, I've only gone into where you get your customers
from. Once you've landed one, you protect yourself by
means of the receipt. I don't know if you've ever seen a
medium's receipt, but I guess you have. It's a blank which
looks like an ordinary receipt only at the top in fine print
it says something like this:
I hereby make application to Rev. for a psy
chological character reading with the full understand
ing that she makes no claim whatever to psychic or
•
75 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
supernormal powers and does not pretend to tell the
future by any system or method, and is not a fortune
teller. I further agree to accept my reading as psycho
logical truth, and my payment of the consultation fee
is to constitute evidence of its value.
Signed
Not one in twenty sees anything phony about the fact
that while they are paying the money, you keep the re
ceipt. You are talking to them while they sign it, and that's
that.
Naturally, you never let in more than one person at a
time to your inner sanctum sanctorum, and if the customer
turns out to be a woman cop, it's her word in court against
yours, even-Stephen. If you do get arrested, just ask for a
jury trial. You then don't take the risk of coming up before
a judge who is dead against the racket.
When your case comes up, you take the stand yourself,
and sit there and talk to the jury, when the time comes,
looking at it when your lawyer asks the right questions.
You stand a good chance of beating the rap, doing this,
depending, of course, on your choice of a mouthpiece, and
what he has done to soften them up for you before you .
get on the stand.
In any (except the very toughest towns) you can feed
customers into your office in lots of ways. You can lecture
on spiritualism, psychology, or any other -ology —you
hire a hall or talk some believer into lending you her
house, if it's big enough, and from a public lecture and
demonstration of occult powers you can get enough people
into your business office to cover the cost of the hall a hun
dred times over, if you don't over-reach yourself and rent
a ball park.
There's another angle I forgot to mention. Once you've
.
76 •
WORKING A HOSTILE TOWN
got them coming, you give each customer half a dozen
"come back" cards. These carry a stronger message and
offer a reading to the bearer at a cut rate. They'll come
back to you, too, if you've sold the first client solid.
Let's suppose that you've graduated from working the
racket in your rooming house, and have set up a regular
office. The best place is on the second floor over a store in a
business neighborhood, neither too high-toned, nor too run
down. You have your name—or the name you are using in
this town—lettered on the street door in small type, and
under it you just say, "consultant."
Upstairs you should have two rooms. The larger has
maybe a dozen straight-backed hard-seat chairs for the cus
tomers to wait on. If the chairs are uncomfortable, so much
the better —the more nervous the mark is, the easier she
is
.
to take.
I
keep saying "she" all the time, because the ma
jority of your business in the racket
is
women. But the men
are just as big chumps when they get as far as the waiting
room.
In the center of the room
is
a
wicker table loaded with
magazines of astrology, popular psychology, self-help digests,
and that kind of thing.
In the inner, or reading room, you have
a
small wicker
table and two chairs with wicker arms and upholstered
seats. When they get into your room and you start analyz
ing their troubles, you want them to feel
a
little more com
fortable. They attribute
it
to your soothing powers. Ac
tually, a lot
o{
it
is
just the change from
a
hard seat to a
soft one. The wicker furniture has two angles—
if
you
have to leave town quickly,
it
is
cheap and not much of
a
loss.
Also,
it
doesn't give
a
writing surface—you can go ahead
with the old carbon paper under the magazine cover to get
the chump's questions or use any other impression dodge—
•
77
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
they've got to use it because the wicker furniture can't be
used as a surface. As you can see, the people in this racket
have doped out all the angles a long time ago.
I could write a book on this subject, myself. Another
place where you can advertise safely is in the spook papers
—the ones devoted to spiritualism. They go all over the
country and the rates are pretty fair. There you can run
a good-sized ad with your picture, if that wouldn't be a
handicap to you when the cops finally catch up. The re
turn from the spook papers is slow, but it's steady if you
stay put in one town for a year or so.
Once you get set with an office, you have a lot of cus
tomers, all ready to believe that they're psychic themselves.
They all want to become mediums or healers or psychics of
some sort. You can get a lot of cash out of development
classes, or even sell mimeographed "lessons" (at several dol
lars a copy) on how to crystal gaze, how to read minds, how
to analyze their friends' character by the shape of their
features, and so on and so on.
You buy these "courses" by the gross, all printed up from
any one of a half dozen supply houses which advertise in
trade papers. In the back of each "lesson" are ads for books
on psychic subjects, spirit incense, candles and all kinds
of hokum. This gives you repeat business.
I've sold small "crystal" balls —made of glass —for ten
dollars apiece. They cost me $1.75 wholesale, but that was
without the blarney that went with the sale.
When you really start getting in the chips, you can
branch out in a number of ways. In a strange town you
sooner or later get around and mix with the folks who are
interested in "extra-sensory-perception" and "psychic re
search." You get hold of one person with a loose tongue and
you pump him, or her, for data on the others, and sell it
back to them as "tests."
If one has a husband, wife, girl friend, brother, or any-
.
78 •
WORKING A HOSTILE TOWN
body else to be trusted, you can really go to town. They
act as spotters for you, steer "marks" ("easy marks" to you)
into your office and do a lot of the running around for you.
But you've got to have somebody you can trust.
There's mighty few spook workers that will trust each
other. By and large, they're as ratty a bunch of hustlers as
you will find; will rat on each other whenever one seems
to be getting more business than another.
(Here I have omitted several paragraphs of rather
heated remarks by the writer of the letter).
Sorry to fly off the handle, but to get back to various
angles of the racket, here's one dodge they used to use as
an opener. It's as old as the hills, but it's still being used
by the cheaper workers who have an uneducated clientele.
The mark comes in and by the look on his face, you know
he's worried. You start talking about an "evil influence"
surrounding him which occasions delays, disappointments
and anxieties.
"My dear friend, let me make a scientific test. It will not
cost you a red cent, I just want to be sure. Will you kindly
pull a hair from your head? You know that evil forces can
be detected, even in so minute an object as a person's hair.
Thank you. I'll wrap it up in this slip of paper and now we
set it on fire. Ah! Look—evil, great, curling masses of it!
How it twists and writhes as the cleansing flame consumes
it!" And so on and so on.
In the paper you slip a "serpent's egg" and when the fire
touches
it,
it
uncoils in
a
wriggling, snake-like ash. It's
old, but
it
still works —in some spots, and with some
chumps. You can buy
a
"serpent's egg" at any novelty sup
ply store most anywhere.
I
got that one from the old "doc" who first broke me into
the racket. He was
a
big, white-haired old fraud, with
a
•
79
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
rumbling voice, and a very impressive manner, even if he
did murder the English language. Here's another gag he
used to work. They call it the lost husband dodge:
A woman comes to you and wants you to find her hus
band who has decamped, usually with another woman. If
the client is well fixed and broken up enough to be a push
over for this line you really can make money! You keep her
coming back and back, handing her a line and taking her
money until you sense that she's ready to quit and then
you have the spirits pull out of the air an address in a far
distant city. You tell her to write to her husband there,
and, in the meantime, you will use your powers to work
a change in him, even at this distance, and make him see
the error of his ways.
Well, she writes and she gets her letter back with a nice
little note from some lady who keeps a rooming house, say
ing that the guy has just moved. The note lets slip a couple
of things which identify the husband without a shadow
of a doubt. Back comes the client to your "Oriental Science
Parlor" for another shot of advice. You stall her some more
—as much as the traffic will bear —until she shows signs
of quitting again, and then you fish up another address and
the letter she writes comes back marked "moved."
You keep this up until you have her really hooked and
then you assure her that the third time will do the trick.
Already you've proved that you can locate the guy. Only
what she doesn't know is that these addresses are friends
of yours who have been wised up by you ahead of time.
They are the ones who send the letters back. The third
time you really "take" the customer for everything she has.
That's the time for you to move to a new town because the
letter never comes back at all. She comes to you and you
point out that the husband must have received it and
doesn't want to answer and all your powers can't persuade
. 80 •
WORKING A HOSTILE TOWN
him. Most cases she will think this over for a while and
write again —only the third address is also a friend of yours
who sends you back the letters so you know what she wrote
the husband.
You go on from there. But at this point it is a good thing
to change your town. Sometimes the woman runs for the
law or tells the whole thing to a family friend, minister,
priest or so forth. That's when the wicker furniture gets
left for the landlord to dispose of as he chooses.
The buried treasure gag is another one. You buy an old
run-down, played-out farm near town, and on it you bury
an old teapot containing some junky old jewelry and a few
coins. You get a chump who is all set up to find a buried
treasure and you "locate" it for him by your wonderful
powers. In the dead of night you take him out there and
"find" the teapot and dig it up. This is just the convincer.
For while you are getting away, out comes the "farmer"
(really a pal of yours who is in on the dodge) and lets go
with his shotgun. Well, the long and short of it is that
you build up the chump to buy the farm to get the "main
treasure." You simply sell him the place at twice what it's
worth and scram, taking the "irate farmer" with you and
leaving the victim with the property.
I know a bunch of spook workers who sold the same farm
to five different people at the same time and then ran away,
only one of them got sore on the split, and turned copper
so the whole crowd were sent over.
There's one thing you've got to remember about the
racket: there's a lot of psychic investigation business and
people making experiments and writing papers on "phe
nomena." But the boys and girls who really dish it out don't
take it seriously. To them it is just a racket. I ought to
know. I was in it long enough.
I don't care now about everybody knowing what it took
. 81 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
me so many years to find out. I'm through with the racket
for good. I hope your new book goes over big and helps
to wise up a few people. I got sick of the racket towards the
end, and sick of all the other hustlers in it. I'd like to see
them all sent over.
I would have answered your letter before, only I got into
a little fracas a while back and the warden suspended
privileges on me for two months, including letters. And
this was too big a wad to kite out.
In publishing this letter, I do so with the full per
mission of its author. I think it speaks for itself, par
ticularly its eloquent last paragraph.
88
9
THE SPIRIT POST OFFICE
E'VE seen from the last chapter that there are
Y V dozens of ways to get started in the spook busi
ness, even in a "hostile town," but here is the first ex
planation in print of one of the most thriving spook
rackets that the war years introduced, the spirit post
offices. This scheme led all other in volume business—
while it lasted. Unfortunately for the medium who used
this lucrative system to tell people their futures, he was
too busy to consult the spirits regarding his own.
The ethereal postal service somehow crossed routes
with the corporeal United States Post Office and Spook-
land's postmaster general was advised to close up shop.
Since he is still answering messages, but only those
written by visitors to his seance room, we shall refer
to him only as Dr. Query, rather than encourage curi
ous readers to attend his meetings, which have now be
come very drab indeed.
83
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
For Dr. Query has eliminated all the picturesque
from his endeavors rather than be identified with the
hocus-pocus that he used to stimulate the heavy delivery
of mail. Furthermore the complaints in the past have
made him suspicious of skeptics and whenever they in
vade his circle, the readings they receive are sparse.
Don't think that Dr. Query originated the spirit post
office. All he did was simplify it and speed its operation
through a very ingenious system. The racket proper —
or improper—had its inception as early as the Gay
Nineties and was a logical service instituted by the trav
eling mediums of that period.
Believers always sighed when their favorite medium
left town, so what was more natural than for them to
write him, enclosing a fee for him to consult the spirits
and forward the replies to the believers? That was the
way it started, but the mail-order mediums began to
be annoyed when believers wanted them to answer
questions for skeptical friends.
The skeptics always insisted upon sealing their en
velopes very tightly, often with sealing-wax stamped
with a signet, and in some cases they actually sewed
the questions inside the envelope. The spirits having
"see-all know-all" powers, were forced to answer these
questions along with the loose ones, otherwise the me
dium's reputation would suffer.
This caused the medium hours of trouble steaming
open envelopes, making bread-crumb impressions of
seals, and carefully rethreading envelopes through the
needle holes from which he cut the original threads. At
a few dollars each, the messages weren't worth the
.
84 .
THE SPIRIT POST OFFICE
bother, so the business faded and was practically for
gotten until Dr. Query came along.
Here was the great idea, which must have been Query's
own, because if the spirits had devised it, they would
have told it to other mediums long before:
Why not treat the messages that came by mail in
exactly the same fashion as those brought to the seance
room, proving the authenticity of the answers by having
the spirits produce them in the presence of human
witnesses.
There are two phases to the "question and answer"
business: one, the learning of the questions; the other,
the giving of the answers. Occasionally, both of these
are done in mystical fashion, but one phase is sufficient
to prove that spirits are involved.
For instance, a medium who calls himself a "psycho-
metrizer" will hold envelopes to his forehead and then
give an answer verbally, the mystery to his "client" being
how he discovered the contents of the envelope, hence,
reading the message (or knowing the answer) meant a
spirit relationship.
Conversely, a slate medium may let people state ques
tions verbally and then have the spirits produce it in
writing on a slate, the manifestation being the mystery.
The latter type of phenomenon appealed to Dr.
Query, but with an eye to wholesale business, he pre
ferred to have the spirits forego the old style slate writ
ing and use another from of pneumatography, styled
"independent writing."
In introducing this to his clients, Dr. Query had them
ask questions, then he wrote their initials on the backs
•
85
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
of blank cards and laid these upon a slate. Another
slate was placed on top, to produce total darkness be
tween the pair, "like a miniature spirit cabinet," he
told the victims.
When the slates were taken apart, the cards were
given back to his various clients, and on the underside
of each card was found an answer to the question, un
questionably written in pencil by a "spirit hand!"
Of course, with his regular clients, Query stepped up
the procedure by letting them write the questions and
fold the paper; but he was able to learn what was writ
ten by means of one of the usual switches the fakers use.
The answers he gave were the result of a switch, too.
All Dr. Query needed was a pair of "spirit slates" of
the old-fashioned flap variety. One of these slates has a
loose flap, matching the slate. When the two slates are
put together, the flap is allowed to fall to the other slate.
As usually used, the surface originally hidden has a chalk
message written on it, which is revealed after the flap
drops to the second slate.
But Query's adaptation consisted of hiding several
cards under the flap, all with initials and messages. The
blank cards —that is, those marked with initials only,
were placed on the flap slate. When the other slate was
added, both were turned over and the flap, in falling,
concealed the unwritten cards, those with the writing
being found in their place.
At two dollars a customer, Dr. Query was doing a
nice quick business. Five messages answered at one
sitting meant a ten-dollar turnover, with each turnover
of the slates!
. 86 •
THE SPIRIT POST OFFICE
Query varied the system occasionally by switching a
blank card for a written one before placing it between
the slates and he used this as a special demonstration
in which he put the card between two sheets of glass
which could be turned over while the card was still
between them, showing that the spirits had produced
a message under the very eyes of the spectators.
This was done in the light, so, of course, it took the
spirits longer to operate, spirits being shy creatures,
and it meant only one message at a time. What it did
was convince the sitters that the slates must be as inno
cent as the sheets of glass, so it bolstered the slate trick
'
immensely.
And it did more.
Terming his glass method a "test," Query applied
for an award offered by a scientific journal to anyone
who could produce a spirit manifestation that could
not be explained or duplicated by physical means.
Of course, Query failed to win the award, but, unfor
tunately, he wasn't exposed. The committee simply
brushed off the claim by having a competent profes
sional magician duplicate the stunt. Out of this, Dr.
Query gained national publicity of the sort that satis
fied believers and impressed halfway skeptics.
Having made his name known, Dr. Query immedi
ately began advertising that he would answer questions
that came to him by mail. All the customer had to do
was write a letter containing the question and enclose
two dollars with it. No sealed messages were necessary
because the spirits would divulge the answers during
the course of a regular seance, so the letters would have
•
87
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
to be opened in order that witnesses could check them
with the answers.
Those same witnesses, Query's own clients, would
then authenticate the fact that the answers had been
written on blank cards by the spirits, supplying affidavits
to that effect, if required. Moreover, any mail-order
customer who came to New York could attend one of
the seances and satisfy himself that all letters were
answered in the same scrupulous style as the questions
that the sitters asked.
Now; of course, Dr. Query had to open the letters
beforehand, just to make sure that each contained its
two dollars, because the spirits disregarded money and
might answer some letters free, which wouldn't be fair
to the reliable customers who enclosed the proper fee.
There were plenty of reliable customers!
At every seance, Dr. Query had slates working in
relays, piling up answer cards for the believers in the
hinterlands, while the breathless sitters tallied and
certified them, working in relays of their own, so that
the medium would get to their questions before the
meeting ended.
Such was the spirit post office and the idea took hold
like chain letters. Dr. Query was swamped with increas
ing business during a few lush months and the very fact
that his profits were still on the rise may be why he is
still at large. Dr. Query hadn't found time to get around
to working his sucker list for something bigger when
complaints began to reach the post office inspectors.
These complaints, Query's adherents claimed, were
the work of jealous mediums, probably small-town spook
• 88 .
THE SPIRIT POST OFFICE
makers who resented seeing cash leave their community
and protested because of misguided civic pride. The
clamps closed suddenly on Dr. Query, but not too hard,
because he was setting something of a precedent in
violation of the postal laws, and hadn't yet run afoul of
the more stringent regulations.
So Dr. Query closed the spirit post office, and today
he just gives the usual brand of seances for cash cus
tomers who appear in person. His clients telephone
him when they want appointments, because letters
sometimes take a singularly long while to reach him. It
may be that when Dr. Query receives too much mail,
he sends it to the post office with apologies, asking
them to open it and please return any money to any
one who sent it ... or possibly a "fraud order" is
about to be issued, so Dr. Query's mail is held up.
Whatever it is, the "doctor" no longer is postmaster
of the spirit post office! 'Cause there isn't any such
thing!
89
10
ECTOPLASM IS BUNK!
WHENEVER
gullible scientists who attend a
seance witness something that they can't explain,
they invent a name for it, along with a theory regarding
the thing itself. In so doing, they create new targets at
which mediums can aim and score a bull's-eye.
For there is nothing that a smart medium likes better
than a challenge, provided he is allowed full leeway.
And a challenge based on a delusion is the best of all.
The medium discovers what it was that the scientist
misinterpreted and cooks up an improved method of
repeating the effect. The result is always more than
satisfactory.
Ectoplasm was one of those scientific "finds" that
really boomed the psychic business. In simple terms,
ectoplasm is "ghost stuff" and it came into existence
immediately after a scientific investigator reported that
he saw a parcel of it emanating from a medium.
•
9° •
ECTOPLASM IS BUNK!
Now the curious fact is this: If spirits chose to herald
themselves in ectoplasmic style, why didn't they furnish
a few samples back in the Fox cottage where the first
modern manifestations began? Why didn't they float a
few clouds of ectoplasm out through the windows of the
cabinet in which the Davenport boys were stalling their
tests because somebody had tied them with the wrong
kind of knot? Why couldn't the Davenport brothers, up
in the town of Chittenden, produce their Indian con
trols under cover of some ectoplasmic smoke, instead
of waiting for evenings when the scene was tempered
by an abundance of standard Vermont mist?
The best answer is to consult Podmore's Modem
Spiritualism which still rates as one of the finest samples
of debunking ever written. It appeared more than fifty
years after the spook business came into vogue and
covers everything with a remarkable clarity and a
thorough index. Yet in that index the word "ectoplasm"
does not appear.
Think of it! The masters of the other plane required
a half century which included such mediums as the
famous Home, before they thought of releasing the great
wherewithal which no Grade-A medium of today could
do without.
Perhaps the prudery of the Victorian era had some
thing to do with it. Mediums of that era wore a lot of
clothes, in contrast to a modern lady, who frequently
does a complete strip before producing ectoplasm in the
center of a mixed circle.
Still, there was the time when the spirit of Katie
King shed all her shining trappings in the presence
•
91
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
of Captain Marryat's daughter, just to prove that the
materialization was real; yet Katie King didn't spice
the situation with a display of ectoplasm.
Of course, today, spiritists will claim that all through
the years, there were certain luminous phenomena that
are now known to have been "ectoplasmic manifesta
tions." Those increased in quality as flashlights gradu
ally superseded phosphorous matches and improved in
exact ratio with the development of better brands of
luminous paints. Canceling those against each other,
we come to the simple fact that the term "ectoplasm"
was coined by Professor Charles Richet, who identified
it more or less with the phenomenon of materialization,
but it was not until after the term had become well
popularized that the production of ectoplasm as a mani
festation in itself became a popular sport with mediums.
Technically, ectoplasm, or teleplasm, as it is some
times called, is a mysterious protoplasmic substance that
streams out of the bodies of mediums. This is manipu
lated by the spirits in order that they may materialize;
hence, in a sense, they use it to shape themselves into a
corporeal form. Thus a medium who would score five
points for a materialization is credited with about three
if he gets as far as the ectoplasmic stage, because, from
then on, it's mostly up to the spirit.
This is a great boon to mediums because materializa
tions are dangerous, particularly if there are skeptics
around to grab the ghost, which used to be a very popu
lar sport with my old friends, Harry Houdini, and his
brother, Theo Hardeen. Ectoplasm is easier to produce,
easier to dispose of, and, even if some of the stuff is left
.
98
.
ECTOPLASM IS BUNK!
around, it can be of a brand that will puzzle the people
who find it.
Here are some instances of ectoplasm.
A certain medium put on a seance for Harry Price,
the famous British psychic researcher in London. A
frothy substance emanated from the medium's mouth
and drooled down over his chin. After the seance, Price
defined the ectoplasm as the foam from a certain brand
of tooth paste.
A committee of which I was a member, tested the
same medium while he was living in New York. One
of our investigators took a look into the medium's
medicine cabinet before and after the seance. That
brand of tooth paste wasn't there, but a bottle of perox
ide had evaporated to the extent of a quarter inch when
marked before the seance, and checked afterward.
When Margery, the Boston medium, was giving a
seance for a group of college professors, she produced
a long stretch of ribbony substance which was defined
as ectoplasm. The professors were allowed to handle
the substance very lightly, because the slightest strain
on it might prove fatal to the medium.
One of the professors tied the ectoplasm into knots
while Margery wasn't looking. When he announced the
fact, the medium screamed, the ectoplasm vanished, and
then the medium fainted. She wasn't able to give an
other seance for three days, just to prove that tying knots
in ectoplasm could be very tough on mediums.
A clever young Italian medium announced that he
would produce ectoplasm that could be photographed
by flashlight. He did this successfully, and the stuff
•
93 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
looked very uncanny, being vapory and almost trans
parent.
In one picture, however, the medium's hand showed
through the curtains of the cabinet, holding the end of
the ectoplasm. The "stuff" was identified as the medi
um's handkerchief which he had blurred by waving
it rapidly just when he called for the flashlight shot.
An English medium named Jack Webber allowed
infrared pictures to be taken during his seances, but
always at stipulated moments. One of his manifestations
was a floating trumpet, and a photograph taken at a bad
angle revealed the trumpet floating at the end of a twisty
extension.
This was defined as an ectoplasmic rod, which made
the picture all the more remarkable. Close examination
of the photograph indicated that this was simply Web
ber's premeditated excuse in case the extension device
did show up in the picture. The ectoplasm bore a strik
ing resemblance to the usual telescopic reaching rod
used by fraudulent mediums, except that in this in
stance the reacher had been wound spirally with crepe
paper to disguise its real construction.
Mediums can buy ectoplasm by the yard from their
favorite supply houses. Of course, it comes in various
qualities, and the higher priced types are worth it, par
ticularly since they are due for tremendous improve
ments.
The value lies in the fact that the special brands are
composed of all sorts of peculiar substances. Experi
mental types of synthetic rubber, or discarded plastics,
are gobbled up by the supply houses. The more worth
•
94 •
ECTOPLASM IS BUNK!
less the stuff in commerce, the better it is for mediums.
Such scientific failures are either unknown or forgotten,
hence the substances are almost impossible to identify or
trace.
There was a medium in Chicago who staged the
slickest ectoplasmic trick that I have ever witnessed.
He was a specialist in what is called the Excelsior Rope
Tie, in which a medium's arms are crossed, each with
a rope around its wrist, and the other ends of the ropes
are brought behind the chair in which he is seated,
where they are firmly tied.
Yet, given a few moments in a cabinet with the cur
tains closed, the medium can produce remarkable mani
festations. The moment the curtains are whisked open,
he is sitting there bound as securely as before. In fact,
the ropes have to be cut from his wrists to release them.
The medium doesn't have to slip those ropes. All he
does is slide down in his chair, bring his crossed arms
over his head, turn around, and there he is, with a whole
length of rope as slack for each arm. He can then ring
bells, write on slates, rattle tambourines, blow a trum
pet, and skid back around, under and into the ropes,
while the objects are flying over the top of the cabinet,
from a toss that the medium gives them.
This medium, who called himself Dr. Heart, had
ectoplasm streaming from his mouth when the curtains
were yanked. The ectoplasm was a coil of ribbon that
was hidden in the seat of his chair. His stooges would
close the curtains and he would pack away the ectoplasm
while supposedly coming out of his trance. After that
he was cut loose from the ropes.
•
95 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
In company with two Chicago magicians and their
wives, I attended one of Dr. Heart's seances. On the
way, one of the magicians decided he knew how to fix
the medium. We all knew the Excelsior Rope Tie had
one definite weakness. Acting on that, we caught the
medium off guard.
One man slipped a rope under the medium's arm,
the other pulled this over the opposite arm so neatly that
it wasn't until his arms went tight that Dr. Heart rea
lized they were folded, instead of merely crossed. No
body can slip that tie with folded arms, and, as a result,
there were no manifestations until the stooges finally
opened the curtains.
Then, to the amazement of the magicians, they saw
that Doctor Heart had managed to produce the ecto
plasm. His chin was lowered to his chest, and the rib-
bony stuff was flowing gradually from his mouth, across
his vest and coat. This time the ectoplasm didn't dis
appear. He gasped for people to release him, and while
they did, he let the ectoplasm fall to the floor.
One of the magicians managed to get the scissors used
for cutting the rope and he snipped a chunk of ectoplasm
before the doctor collected it. When we arrived back
at our hotel, we tried to figure what the ectoplasm
really was, and the stuff really baffled us until one man
suddenly gained the same inspiration that had helped
the medium in his pinch.
It was the padding from the doctor's necktie!
Many silk ties have a cotton padding to give them
bulk. We remembered that the medium's tie had looked
very bedraggled after the seance, but we attributed it
•
96 ■
ECTOPLASM IS BUNK!
to his struggle with the rope. Now, we realized, despite
the ropes, he'd hunched the necktie up to his teeth,
worked it to the bottom, and had literally bitten out
the whole length of padding. Somewhat chewed and
gradually released, the cotton stuff had made an excel
lent emergency ectoplasm. Ingenuity worthy of a better
cause, we agreed.
Cracked down, these incidents give ectoplasm a
humorous aspect, but such is far from the usual case.
Ectoplasm has been used as the basis for some of the
most unpardonable frauds perpetrated by the phoniest
of mediums. Take, for instance, the medium whose real
name wasn't Rajah Rhomboid, though it will do because
it's as good as any other.
When he gave what he termed lectures to gatherings
of believers, the "rajah" would hush the audience by
calling for the spirit veil. An assistant would bring him
a length of broad, whitish substance that, in the low
light, had the filmy appearance of ectoplasm.
The rajah claimed that it was ectoplasm, but in a
fully materialized state, being the veil of a spirit named
Star Bright, who had dropped it in his cabinet just
before she dematerialized back into the higher realm.
He then offered his audience pieces of the veil as
souvenirs of the occasion, and counted the raised hands
before he began cutting the trophy into pieces of proper
proportions. The price of each souvenir was one dollar,
and one night I saw the rajah cut them very small,
because he sold exactly one hundred and sixty-eight.
Which was one hundred sixty-seven dollars and
ninety-two cents profit for Rajah Rhomboid, because,
•
97 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
at that time, the price of white cheesecloth was twelve
cents a yard, and the rajah only used a two foot remnant
for the thing that he called a spirit veil.
It was pitiful, the way those people accepted the advice
that went with each dollar purchase. They were told
that as long as they kept their token of the spirit world,
they would be happy, but they could expect ill luck the
moment they lost it.
Lose it they would, unless they used it as an aid to
their own psychic development. By clutching it and
staring into space, they would eventually see the spirit
of dear old Star Bright themselves. If they failed, they
must try more often; otherwise the bit of ectoplasm
would dematerialize as proof that they were unworthy.
Too much belief in ectoplasm is not conducive to a
healthy state of mind, or pocket book, the way the
rajah sells the stuff, except for the spook crook!
•
98 •
APPORTS MAKE MONEY!
ONE
of the most productive phases of the spook
racket is the apport business. Apports were men
tioned in a previous chapter, but you should know
more about them.
The term "productive" is quite suitable, because it
also defines apports. They are physical objects which
appear mysteriously in a seance room and stay there, in
contrast to ghosts, spirit hands and other uncanny
things that materialize and then evaporate.
A whole book could be written on apports alone. In
fact, some books have. Many famous mediums, including
Daniel Home, had a habit of introducing apports on
occasion, but, in those days, the phenomenon was con
sidered of a somewhat inferior sort.
Today, apports are popular among mediums because
of the huge decline in the materialization field, which
has come to be a very unsafe form of fakery. An apport
•
99 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
is tangible, easy to produce, carries the element of sur
prise, and is difficult to expose.
Nevertheless, apports can be written off completely,
because invariably they can be duplicated by natural
means, and in many instances skeptics themselves have
shown up the game by outshining mediums in the ap-
port field.
Stanch believers in the psychic will cite as super
natural the amazing cases where mediums have caused
live birds to arrive mysteriously in the darkness of the
seance room. They will ask if that can be duplicated
naturally. It can be matched, and more.
I advise such believers to go and watch Blackstone,
the greatest magician of today, when he performs his
vanishing bird cage. Not only the canary, but the cage
itself disappears from Blackstone's fingertips in a
twinkling. He duplicates this phenomenon, as the
mediums would term it, by vanishing another cage, and
its canary, while members of the audience are helping
him hold the cage.
This is far more amazing than the mere production
of objects, apport style. And where productions are con
cerned, Blackstone far exceeds the apport medium. He
produces huge bowls of goldfish on a lighted stage,
whereas the most I've ever seen an apport medium
do along that line, was cause a few live goldfish to
arrive squirming on a table in the center of a very dim
room.
The thing that amazed the sitters when the medium
produced his few pitiful squirming goldfish, was how
the fish could be alive unless they had been apported
• 100 •
APPORTS MAKE MONEY!
directly from a goldfish bowl which happened to be in
the next room. They argued that the seance had been
going on for nearly half an hour before the apport
occurred. The trick was simple: the medium filched the
goldfish from the globe beforehand. He parked them in
a small cardboard box, packed with damp cotton. In
such surroundings, goldfish can live almost as con
veniently as in their normal habitat.
Back in the early days of apports, two boys from Syra
cuse decided to show a group of believers just what could
be accomplished in that line. They went out for a drive,
found an odd looking chunk of stone so heavy that it
took the two of them to lift it. Arriving at the medium's
house, these skeptics placed their trophy in the broken
cane seat of an old porch chair and laid a broad cushion
over it. When the seance was about to start, and it was
found that more chairs were needed, the skeptics oblig
ingly brought in the porch chair, and one of them sat in
it. Just when the medium was about to deliver a few
trivial apports that he had hidden in his pockets, these
chaps got to work.
In the darkness, they lifted their chunk of rock from
its hiding place, and hoisted it above the table. One
man thumbed the cork from a small bottle of phos
phorus compound. There was a great flash of blinding
light, and, with it, the perpetrators released their stone.
Landing on the table, the stone not only smashed a slate
that was lying there, but wrecked the table, also. When
lights were put on and no hole was found in the ceiling,
it was immediately claimed that the medium had ap-
ported a portion of a living meteor. Geologists were
. 101 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
called upon to prove the origin of the stone, and the
medium, recovered from his panic, was the proudest
man in Syracuse until the perpetrators of the hoax
explained exactly how they had produced it.
Today, apports have gone strictly modern and are
fast becoming one of the most lucrative phases of the
spook racket. There is a certain medium who plays the
penthouse circuit and causes apports to appear right in
the very hands of his astonished customers. The items
that appear are precious gems and good luck stones
supplied by the spirits. They are given to the clients as
souvenirs of the occasion. He is very clever, this medium,
as clever as he was when he performed as a third-rate
magician thumbing drinks around speakeasies by doing
bar tricks. His repertoire was too limited for him to
become a table worker in the cafes and night clubs of
today, so he grew a beard and became a medium
instead.
His only trick is the old stunt of getting a person to
close his hand tightly. To illustrate what he means by
tight, he helps close the other's fist. That is when the
medium's own hand drops in the object which is later
to appear as an apport. The person's fist, having been
clenched a few times, is unable to distinguish the pres
ence of the object when it is placed there. Thus, upon
opening his hand, the victim undergoes a complete
surprise when he sees the gift from Spookland.
The so-called gems are merely synthetic products or
colored quartz that the medium identifies under fancy
names. His wonderful lucky stones are the cross shaped
"Fairy Stones" or "Storalites" which run about a dollar
• 102 •
APPORTS MAKE MONEY!
a dozen. Occasionally, this medium apports a rare gem
into the hands of some sitter. This is always the big
event of the evening. It always happens under strictly
test conditions, with a person who is sitting clear across
the table from the medium. Of course, the recipient
is a stooge who is constantly crossing the medium's
circle. The stooge has it in his hand all the time and
simply opens his fist after several other persons have
received apports. The medium gets his rare stone back
after the seance and everybody is happy. Simple though
it sounds, this is one of the most convincing demonstra
tions that I have ever seen. The tendency is for every
one to forget the medium helped them close their hands.
If they have any dim recollection of such, they are
watching for it to happen again, but by that time the
stooges are coming into the picture with a completely
baffling effect. This performance furnishes what is known
in the trade as a "fill" and I have known people to be
tipped off to the process beforehand, yet still be baffled -
when they witness it.
The most modern thing in apports that I have seen
was the demonstration of apports given by a certain
Madame Ziska, who operated from a swank apartment
in Greenwich Village. I had difficulty tracing Madame
Ziska because she changed her address even more often
than her name. Still, she had no trouble finding apart
ments during the shortage.
Madame Ziska had a perfect system. Her spirit con
trols suggested trips to Florida and other places for
certain of her clients, and she obligingly offered to look
out for people's apartments while they were away, rent
.
103
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
free, of course. But since Madame Ziska' had a- way of
finding lost objects, it was good to have her around.
The Village apartment belonged to a lady whom the
controls had sent to Florida without predicting when
she would return, and, probably by arrangement with
Madame Ziska, they picked the very time when a trans
portation shortage threatened to materialize, since this
was during the war period.
The shortage did materialize, though Ziska's controls
didn't. They weren't that kind of spirits; they special
ized in apports. Very oddly, these apports often be
longed to people in whose apartments Ziska had stayed
recently, because while there she psychometrized the
place, discovered what was missing, and later had the
spirits bring such things from wherever they might have
been loaned, or stolen. Thus Ziska's clientele followed
her along to each new place she went.
When I heard that Madame Ziska was producing
apports under strictly test conditions, I didn't take it
seriously, because mediums have their own idea of
what test conditions are. But when I attended the Vil
lage seance, I was surprised both by the setup and the
things that happened.
For a cabinet, Madame Ziska used a large Chinese
screen. The screen was of the three-fold type, and it was
set with the opening toward a corner of the room. Ziska
allowed herself to be tied in a chair, then the screen was
closed, with the apex of the triangle behind her.
In front of the broad center of the screen was a
small table, and upon it stood a glass fruit vase, which
resembled an old-fashioned flower basket, with a curved
•
104 •
APPORTS MAKE MONEY!
handle above it. Over this was placed a fairly large
napkin that draped down in front of the vase.
The front of the screen was in sight beyond the
draped vase, though the latter was quite close to the
screen. However, the proportions of the vase were small
in comparison to the screen's broad panel.
We sat and waited for manifestations to occur within
the screen, and they did—the clapping of hands, the
ringing of a bell that Ziska had taken with her. But all
these simply prefaced the apports. Suddenly, there came
a muffled clank from within the covered vase that
fronted the screen.
Immediately, the vase was uncovered and, lying in
it was a silver fountain pen, which was identified as the
property of one of the persons present.
This happened in a lighted room, and though the
illumination was not bright, the surface of the screen
could be seen at all times throughout the convincing
demonstration, proving that there could be no trick
panel. Where the apport really came from was a riddle,
though the thing savored of hocus-pocus more than the
weird.
At the second seance I attended, an ornamental paper
knife was apported into the draped vase. It, too, was
identified as a missing object. It was reasonable to sup
pose that Ziska had filched these items from apartments
where she had stayed, and was simply using this method
to restore property that people thought was lost.
But how did she get the things through that screen?
By veering away from that question, I found its
answer unexpectedly. Considering the missing objects,
•
105 .
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
themselves, I began thinking of missing people—namely,
persons who ought to be at Ziska's seances, but weren't.
I learned of a certain Mrs. Borden who had let Ziska
have her apartment, but was no longer one of the
medium's clients.
It just struck me that Madame Ziska might have been
caught thieving something from the Borden household,
so I called on Mr. Borden at his office, and found that
I had hit the reason why his wife no longer was friends
with Ziska. Something had disappeared from the place,
and when Mrs. Borden had inquired if Madame Ziska
had taken it, the medium denounced her roundly and
forbade her ever to come to another seance.
Only it wasn't a household object that was missing,
but a small roll of a new plastic cloth belonging to Mr.
Borden, who was connected with a company dealing in
such experimental research. When Borden described the
peculiar merits of this yet unmarketed material, I had
the answer that I wanted. Ziska had never met Borden,
so I took him to the next seance.
There Borden found his missing plastic cloth. It was
now the covering of Ziska's fancy screen. The merit of
the fabric was that its weave spread instead of ripping
when anything was punched through it, then that same
weave contracted back to shape.
Long, thin objects were the only kind that Ziska
apported. She had them behind the screen, pushed them
through the covering, and let them drop into the vase,
which was draped over the front, but had an open space
at the back, below the handle. Mr. Borden demonstrated
this to our satisfaction, then ripped the screen apart and
• 106 ■
APPORTS MAKE MONEY!
broke up Ziska's racket. She decamped, but soon found
another apartment, and, I understand, she is continuing
her seances, but that her controls no longer specialize
in apports.
The apport business received an impetus just prior to
World War II through the activities of a British me
dium, Jack Webber, who spiced his rope tie seances by
delivering apports. Webber was ingenious in many ways.
His seances took place in the dark, and before pro
ducing the apports, he levitated a table. Always the
table was weighed beforehand to prove that it was
too heavy for one person to hoist and toss around.
Webber was also searched to prove he had no future
apports on him.
That table was loaded with bronze statuettes and
other heavy items, all neatly concealed. As soon as the
lights were out, Webber removed the objects from the
table and stowed them on his person. He was able to
manipulate the lightened table and, for the pay-off, he
produced the missing weights in the form of apports that
further mystified the sitters.
Webber died very suddenly in 1940, and immediately
mediums in America began bringing his spirit into
their circles. This enabled them to revive all the old
rope tying tricks, and when they couldn't slip back into
their bonds, they would claim that Webber's spirit had
obligingly released them.
I attended several of these Webber circles and found
that apports were common in most of them. At once I
recognized a fine, leather-bound edition of a book on
occult India, which had a lock on it. The medium was
•
107
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
accustomed to reading from this volume before the
seance began.
However, I knew that the medium probably had two
copies of that book, because I had just received a special
price list from a supply house dealing in spook appli
ances. Two books were sold to customers, one ordinary,
the other tricked so that it opened at the binding. The
tricked book was hollow and served as an "apport car
rier" for the medium.
The medium had read from the book in the parlor
and then had taken it into the seance room, inviting us
to enter a few moments later. I noticed a closed writing
desk in the corner and decided that the medium might
have stowed the original volume there. As soon as the
lights were out, I slid over to the desk, found it un
locked, and discovered the book inside. There was still
time to switch it for the fake job lying on the table
beside the medium, and I managed the maneuver.
There were no apports that seance, and when the
lights came on, the medium looked puzzled. For all I
know, he may still be wondering how he happened to
forget to switch the solid book for the apport carrier.
A certain medium, who runs an antique business as a
front for his phonier trade of spook making, is regarded
highly by other mediums because he can supply them
with all sorts of curios that make unusual apports. He
gets high prices for these, but sometimes he sells other
antiques cheaply.
Why? Because they go to customers who also invite
him to give seances at their homes. His bargain antiques
are always cabinets and chests that have secret compart
• 108 •
APPORTS MAKE MONEY!
ments which he has uncovered. He packs these with
necessary items for a seance, gauze veils, reaching rods,
rapping devices, and fails to tell the buyer about the
secret drawer.
This medium accomplishes wonders when he goes
to the homes of his antique customers. He seldom pro
duces apports himself; too many would be connected
with his antique business. Instead, he produces raps
and winds up with materializations, much to the amaze
ment of his clientele. What is more, he allows himself
to be searched before and after his demonstration.
Lately, he has been buying back antiques, claiming
that the market is rising and that the business is so good
he has no time to give seances. The real answer is that
other mediums caught on to his stunt and have been
offering him high prices for those special antiques,
hoping to plant some with their own customers. He is
smart enough to know that such a game is through when
it gets into too many hands, because one slip-up will be
disastrous for all. So he is moving out of it, at a profit.
There was a South American medium named Senor
Bardo who made a brief visit to New York. He was
famous for apports and some of the proceedings of
psychic research societies contain marvelous accounts
of his sittings before a committee in Buenos Aires.
The senor brought with him some rare tropical birds
that he claimed to have produced or materialized during
his test seances. When I saw him give a seance in his
hotel room, the place was hung with cages containing
the living evidence of his reputed powers. Several ap
ports, mostly in the form of unusual tropical flowers,
•
109 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
arrived during Bardo's seance, but only while the room
was completely dark.
This was the only seance that I attended, because
Senor Bardo left very soon for South America, but after
his departure I learned that he had sold the birds
to a bird fancier at a high price. I went to see the pur
chaser and found that he had not yet junked the old
cages. I looked them over and discovered that they were
double-bottomed, with the lower portion neatly rigged
to drop open, deliver its contents, and spring silently
back into place.
That explained the apports. All Bardo had to do was
release one hand while a committee thought it was
controlling him, and reach for the bottom of the bird
cage. It may also explain how a large crop of smuggled
jewels, later traced to South America, appeared on the
market soon after Bardo's visit. Having met Bardo, I
doubt that he could have been the sort to bring in
those cages with the double bottoms empty, provided he
felt reasonably sure of outwitting the customs officers.
The reason for the present popularity of apports,
outside of the fact that they are safe because they leave
no direct evidence of fraud, is the fact that they are
geared so closely to the postwar spook business. Already,
odd items are landing in seance rooms that are in some
way identified with war dead whose relatives happen
to be present.
This was the same heartless fraud that was perpetrated
after World War I. Searching back through the annals
of that period, we find that many notable persons—
among them, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle —were converted
• no •
APPORTS MAKE MONEY!
to the cause of spiritualism through so-called evidence
denoting the survival of their sons who died in battle.
Handwriting purporting to be last messages on earth,
photographs of returned spirits, messages referring to
personal matters—such were the common products of
the seance room but apports were coming into favor,
too, when the emphasis on the war heroes faded.
There was a simple reason why. Spiritualism in many
of its phases, is a selfish creed. Some few believers are
interested in their loved ones, but most of them are
more concerned about themselves. As the craze leveled
off after World War I, messages from the war dead
became few and far between, but the canny mediums
didn't forget that such was the stimulating factor.
The present boom in the spirit business is not just
a repetition of the previous postwar experience. This
one is beginning where the other left off. During the
blitz days in London, messages were coming through
from R.A.F. flyers as soon as they were reported shot
down over the English Channel. Now the follow-up is
under way and apports are being personalized. Spirits
are bringing mementos from many obscure places where
war heroes perished.
Some of these spirit gifts are being faked, others are
actual war souvenirs diverted to a gross misuse. People
who cherish the few effects left by a hero missing in
action are naturally prone to accept any new memento
which they are assured belonged to the lost one.
The fraudulent mediums are gathering all such things
that they can find, making roundabout inquiries to
learn facts from servicemen who were friends of those
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
who died, and, if possible, to falsely acquire something
that actually belonged to a lost fighter. Watch the
psychic journals and in the months to come, you will
read of remarkable apports of this nature.
Why not now?
Because this heinous business is still on the build.
Trance messages, rappings, and the like, are sufficient to
convince certain people that they are in contact with
the spirit world. The spook makers are waiting for war
bonds to be cashed, holding off until they have found
which of their clients are both steady and wealthy cus
tomers before they begin to produce the more tangible
evidence, which they are still working to accumulate.
The more that can be done to debunk the apport
racket, the better, for the fakers are counting upon it
heavily to aid the swindles of tomorrow.
• 1 12 •
12
HOW TO TRAP MEDIUMS
'HE greatest hue and cry raised by the champions
baiter," as they term any skeptic who actively endeavors
to prove his claim that the manifestations of the seance
room are fraudulent.
Anyone from a heckler at a spiritistic lecture, to a
ghost grabber who invades a dark seance room, comes
under the head of a medium baiter, which allows a
great deal of leeway. Since I have operated frequently
between those two extremes, I suppose that I am a
medium baiter, too.
So, for those who wish
it,
I
shall herewith give advice
from one medium baiter to another, citing various
cases that illustrate the art, including some of my own
experiences. But first,
I
shall submit the logic of the
thing, in brief.
To anyone who has made an exhaustive study of the
against the "medium
"3
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
science of deception, as I have, the production of so-
called psychic manifestations of a physical sort, such as
slate messages, table rappings, materializations, and even
such quasi-mental demonstrations as the reading of
sealed messages, simply constitute a degraded or misused
form of parlor magic or sleight of hand.
Fraud and deceit through skill are practiced by the
expert professional gambler or the chronic pickpocket,
as well as by lesser varieties of crooks or con men. If
members of a respectable club gang up on a card cheat
and strip him of a sleeve hold-out or a dice-switching
belt, nobody ever accuses them of an ungentlemanly
action. Indeed, in the better circles, it is considered
quite the gentlemanly thing to do.
Similarly, any trap that snags a pickpocket red-handed
is praised as a boon to society at large. Such rascals
deserve such treatment. But imagine, if you can, such
characters as crooked gamblers and pickpockets claiming
that they were serving humanity and bringing hope and
happiness to the very persons they sought to rob I
The gambler might plead that he was cheating for
self-protection, the pickpocket that he was a victim of
kleptomania. From exposed mediums we hear similar
alibis. Some admit that they resorted to brief trickery,
rather than disappoint the sitters at a time when psychic
influences were low. Others concede that they may have
dealt in unconscious fraud. To say that no sane listener
would swallow such hogwash would seem a rudimentary
deduction. But I cannot go that far, because I would be
saying that no full-fledged believer in psychic phe
nomena is sane. Yet many such persons are quite sane.
•
114
•
HOW TO TRAP MEDIUMS
Nevertheless, practically all full-fledged believers
accept the premise that a thoroughly discredited medium
still may be genuine.
But why?
Simply because they are susceptible to the autohyp-
notic influence of the seance room, a thing to which the
practiced medium is immune. They can't believe that
the same darkness which holds them breathless and
fearful, is serving as a cloak for a cool, calculating decep-
tionist working under conditions so much in his favor
that the most surprising thing about the "miracles" of
the seance room is that they are so often limited to mere
raps, table jouncings, or the brush of passing hands.
As a so-called medium baiter, Houdini rated tops
because he, of all people, recognized the great psy
chological gulf between the mind that stayed calm under
stress, and the mass mentality which deludes itself
through the stimulus of its own imagination. No one
ever profited more thoroughly—yet honestly —from the
creation of audience suspense than did Houdini.
He made the wonders of the seance room seem tame,
did Houdini, when he allowed himself to be lowered,
head downward, hanging from locked stocks that en
cased his ankles, into a glass-fronted, steel-barred cell
filled with water. From the moment that a cabinet was
lowered over the cell, the audience lived through a
thousand deaths with the imprisoned Houdini, and
when, three minutes later, he whipped open the front
of the cabinet to arrive in sight, dripping wet, with the
locked cell bulking behind him, people felt that the
absolutely incredible had been accomplished.
•
"5 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
As proof of the fact that stout believers in psychic
manifestations are susceptible to that very suspense
factor, I quote from a book styled Spirit Intercourse by
J. Hewat McKenzie, who describes his impression of
Houdini's escape from the water torture cell as follows:
The last occasion on which the author, under strict test
conditions, saw Houdini demonstrate his powers of de-
materialization, was before thousands, upon the public
stage of the Grand Theatre, Islington, London. . . .
While the author stood adjacent to the tank, during the
dematerialization process, a great loss of physical energy
was felt by him, such as is usually experienced by sitters in
materializing seances, who have a good stock of vital energy,
as in such phenomena a large amount of energy is re
quired. . . .
Dematerialization is performed by methods similar in
operation to those in which the psycho-plastic essence is
drawn from the medium. . . . While in this state, Houdini
was transferred from the stage to the retiring room be
hind, and there almost instantaneously materialized. . . .
Not only was Houdini's body dematerialized, but it was
carried through the locked iron tank, thus demonstrating
the passage of matter through matter. This startling mani
festation of one of nature's profoundest miracles was prob
ably regarded by most of the audience as a very clever trick.
That is exactly what it was, a very clever trick. I know,
because I am familiar with the working method of the
actual apparatus, which was destroyed after Houdini's
death in accord with provisions in his will. Except for
the inconvenience of being lowered head foremost, the
Water Torture Escape was no more difficult to perform
• 116 •
HOW TO TRAP MEDIUMS
than Houdini's earlier escape from a padlocked milk
can filled with water.
The Milk Can Escape was already the mutual property
of Houdini and his brother, Hardeen, who continued
to perform it publicly until a few weeks before his
death at the age of sixty-nine. Only one other man ever
demonstrated this escape from the authentic Houdini-
Hardeen milk can. That man was myself.
My purpose in performing the Milk Can Escape,
which I did on several occasions, was to discover my own
reactions and analyze those of the audience. From my
experience in aviation in the days when airplanes were
literally flying crates, I more than fancied myself a cool
head, which, indeed, I must have been to counteract
the overwhelming sensation of engulfment that came
when the locks were clamped outside the milk can.
I might not have made it, that first attempt, but for
the knowledge that Jim Collins, Houdini's old assistant,
was standing outside the cabinet, ready to invade the
premises and chop a hole in the milk can with an ax to
let the water out, if I didn't show within three minutes.
That was the thing that sustained my nerve.
On subsequent occasions, when I performed the
escape, I was able to study the audience reaction. On
many faces I could see the evidence of the self-induced
strain that the suspense had wrought. It wasn't just the
amazement that grips the witness after viewing a rapid
stage illusion, but a certain stupefaction that left the
mind wide for any strange belief. I could feel that in the
case of a showman like Houdini, people would have
• 1
17
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
given him up for lost and would have accepted his reap
pearance almost as a return from the dead.
Nevertheless, there was no dematerialization in either
Houdini's case, or my own, and I hold to this sentiment:
If believers in the supernatural, like Mr. McKenzie, feel
free to credit a stage magician with a power that he dis
claims, instead of taking his word for the trickery he
admits, certainly there should be no objection to the
qualified magician visiting the seance room and
denouncing the power which the medium pretends to
possess, by seeking to expose the trickery which the
magician knows, through his own experience, must be
there.
At any rate, Houdini took that attitude, and I have
regarded that as sufficient justification for others to do
the same. Whatever frauds I uncover in the seance room,
I shall make public, despite the objections of certain
amateur magicians who, nowadays, seek to protect cer
tain of their secrets, even after mediums have appropri
ated those methods for purposes of fraud.
It was Houdini's policy to expose every fake device
of mediums, no matter what its origin, and he recog
nized full well that such mediums purposely filched
the inventions of magicians as false passports to pro
tection. Yet the very clique of magicians which today is
covering for the mediums, goes through the sham of
honoring Houdini's memory with annual magic shows.
If Houdini could return, I doubt that he would
attend one of these performances. He would be too
busy going around town finding and exposing the
• 118 •
HOW TO TRAP MEDIUMS
mediums who were privately working the same tricks
that some of the magicians were doing publicly.
It is singular that this indifference to the public weal
should have so corrupted the amateur members of the
magicraft, considering that a generation ago, such a
group staged the most startling expose of the period
when they unmasked the famous Italian medium, Eusa-
paia Palladino.
Arrived in America after a remarkable success in
Europe, Palladino was confounding skeptics and savants
alike with her famous table levitation, when a secret
committee of magicians resolved to find out just what
made the table float. Attiring themselves in black, they
crawled into the seance room unobserved and wriggled
right beneath the table. There, they found out how the
table lifted.
Palladino's footwork was responsible. She worked a
toe beneath a table leg, then hoisted it upward. She
had one hand planted flat on the table top, directly
above that leg. Her hand and foot formed what could
be styled a powerful clamp. To elevate the table further,
she tilted her foot upward on her heel, thus getting the
table several inches from the floor.
All this happened when Palladino's arms and knees
were fully controlled by investigators, making it seem
ingly impossible for the levitation to occur by physical
means until the magicians snaked to their goal and
cracked the case of Spookdom's most notorious faker.
This discovery needed something else—a proof of
that psychological factor which I have mentioned as
what might be termed the "exaggeration prone."
•
"9 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
Once proved, Palladino's fraud was checked against
the reports of eyewitnesses who had believed her mani
festations real. Not only had they overestimated the
height of the table lift, but some maintained that Palla-
dino had finished by causing the table to float inde
pendently, then fly across the room.
It was discovered that what she did was give the
table a kick as she drew away her hand, and sank back
with a convulsive spasm that allowed her foot to operate.
People gained two impressions —one of a rise, the other
of a lurch, both on' the part of the table. In many in
stances these registered as separate items which the
memory promptly disassociated, causing persons to sup
pose that the table had elevated, paused, then flown of
its own accord.
Of course believers pointed to such testimony —all
given before Palladino's exposure, and by persons who
were completely duped —as proof that she did possess
powers which had not been adequately explained by
the visiting magicians. But the facts are that Palladino's
methods, once discovered, were practiced by capable
conjurors and tried on persons unfamiliar with those
tricks. The testimony resulting from such reconstruc
tions of Palladino's seances, brought the same exagger
ated reports of a table suspended high in mid-air that
leaped later of its own accord.
This is all akin to the self-delusion of the ouija board
and the cavortings of tables in impromptu home circles.
Table tilting, one of the earliest amusements wherein
people duped themselves, is actually of the simplest
origin. Varying pressure of the hands around the table,
. 120 .
HOW TO TRAP MEDIUMS
plus unconscious relaxation, causes a subconscious
leverage that jounces the table one direction, until, after
several ups and downs, its rebound causes it to start
jumping the other direction.
Once under way, the table will behave quite madly,
even chasing people from the circle, because, as others
rise to stay with
it,
they unconsciously keep pushing
it
further on its way. They also make
it
spell out messages
by subconsciously clamping down on it,
a
thing which
can be proven by testing
it
purposely. Most people are
able to rationalize these facts, once they are called to
attention, but there
is
one phenomenon that has long
puzzled such people.
In certain home circles, people have sworn that the
jouncing table has, at times, actually lifted itself beneath
those pressing hands, and has remained entirely clear of
the floor, under conditions which precluded trickery
because
it
was
a
known fact that there were no tricksters
present.
This
is
attributable to that same hiatus or time lapse
that accompanied Palladino's table kick, plus the thing
that nullifies all home circle evidence, namely, the
reliance on the testimony of incompetent witnesses.
What happens
is
this: In the course of continuous tilt
ing, certain tables have a tendency to gain
a
rotary
motion in which they swing from one leg to the next,
instead of in the usual teeter fashion.
The effect
is
surprising, even to the trained observer.
He feels the table literally move upward beneath his
hands, and gain the effect of
a
suspension. This goes all
around the circle, and
if
one impressionable person
• 121 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
either is late in exclaiming that the table is floating, or
overestimates the duration of the phenomenon, his
experience infringes, or overlaps into that of the others.
Since they can bear witness to the same fact, they accept
the false statement as reliable, and the result is an at
tested report of a table levitation.
It is better for a would-be investigator to rely solely
upon his own impressions or those of some equally
reliable person who is working in co-operation widi
him, and this brings me to the more important phase
of psychic investigation, that of actually cracking down
the processes of the seance room, dark or light.
Mere heckling or open dispute is a poor form of
procedure because it simply discourages the very thing
the investigator seeks, a display of manifestations. Hou-
dini interrupted spook meetings on occasion, but only
when there was no other course, as when he challenged
the famous message reader, John Slater, to read the
contents of Houdini's own envelope, with a certified
check for ten thousand dollars waiting as an award for
success. The medium's ignoring of this offer was at least
a tacit confirmation of Houdini's claim that the thing
could not be done.
As for ghost grabbing, Houdini practiced it, too, but
only when he had the local authorities on hand to take
charge of the evidence. It is the right procedure for
putting an individual medium out of business or crack
ing the spook racket at a given time or place, but, unless
it is followed through, it merely discourages future
investigations, and makes it difficult for the ghost grab
ber to get into other seance rooms.
• 122 •
HOW TO TRAP MEDIUMS
I prefer a midway course that Houdini initiated, that
of subtly tricking the medium so his fraud is self-
exposed, in part or whole, and, best of all, when he can
be left totally in the dark as to the identity of the sitter
who snared him. This is even better than demanding
seances under test conditions which the medium will
either figure how to nullify, or will dodge by being out
of form on that occasion.
Houdini's famous stunt of trapping a medium un
aware was during trumpet seances. As soon as the lights
were out, Houdini would go for the trumpet, which was
standing in front of the medium, and smear it with
some lampblack that he had handy in his pocket. He
would then let the medium do all he wanted with that
trumpet, floating it in the darkness, speaking from it in
ghostly voices, and anything else. When the lights came
on, the medium would become the laughing stock of
the group, for his hands and face would be smudged
with the blacking from the trumpet.
Of course, mediums have answers for such an out
right exposure. They either attribute the face blacking
to malignant spirits that accompanied skeptics to the
seance, or they claim that the trumpet was floating and
voiced by ectoplasmic rods emanating from the medium
—that such rods, on retiring, brought back traces of
the lampblack with them, and left it on the medium's
person.
One clever English medium actually used trickery
to prove this theory when a gullible investigator was
foolish enough to accept it. The medium's body was
openly smudged with a red powder at places where
•
123
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
ectoplasm might emanate from the pores. During the
seance, raps were heard upon the wall. When the lights
were turned on, the spot on the wall was smudged with
the red stuff.
The inference was that ectoplasm had extended
through the medium's clothes and furnished the raps
and this was recorded as a scientific fact. Actually, the
medium had another supply of a red powder on a glove
hidden beneath a chair cushion. The raps were fur
nished by the medium's hand, after it was slipped into
the glove. When the glove was put away, only the traces
of the red powder remained on the wall. The medium
scored double by producing a new phenomenon and by
preparing an alibi for any future exposure of the lamp
black type.
On the other side of the ledger, there are ways of
using one medium's methods to discountenance another
member of the fold. My best achievement in this direc
tion was when I showed Prince Rajah a trick used by
Professor Psycho, but in a proxy fashion, with a boom
erang result.
Professor Psycho, as I prefer to call him, instead of
using one of his numerous aliases, was a very clever
message reader who used a billet switch. He would take
a folded slip of paper, bearing a written question, deftly
exchange it for a blank, and toss the latter into a small
fish bowl.
Now the professor's problem was to hold attention on
the phony slip, while he secretly opened the question
paper beneath the table, and read what was on it. He
held attention perfectly, because, while both his hands
.
124 .
HOW TO TRAP MEDIUMS
were still in sight, there was a puff of dazzling flame from
the fish bowl, and while the startled customer was still
rubbing his eyes, the professor had ample time to read
the purloined question.
What Psycho had was a tiny bit of potassium inside
the folded blank. As soon as the water soaked through
the paper, which was almost immediately, the chemical
reaction took place. The potassium brought hydrogen
from the water so rapidly that the gas ignited, giving the
professor his opportunity.
I remembered Psycho's trick and, in fact, rather
admired it. The stunt occurred to me when I took some
friends to see Prince Rajah, who was a message reader,
too. Only the prince didn't use a switch. He would take
a written slip that was folded twice, tear it into four
pieces, and drop those fragments into an incense burner,
watching them reduce to ashes.
In making the tear, Prince Rajah retained one por
tion of the torn slip, the quarter which happened to
be the very center. This was the part that bore the
message, because the prince always drew a circle on the
paper and told a person to write his question within it.
When the prince leaned toward the burner, his
hand stayed just behind it and his trained fingers
opened that all-important message center. There was a
light shining from a crystal ball, fitted with a bulb, and
the prince gained all the benefit of it, during this neat
operation. I say neat, because the opening of the quarter-
slip with fingers and thumb must be handled loosely, yet
without letting the slip get away from the grasp.
Now Prince Rajah did not use a bowl of water, and
•
125
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
I am not in the habit of carrying potassium in my pock
ets, but we both had the equivalents. Using a slip of
paper from a pocket pad, I wrote: "You are a fraud,"
and signed my initials, J. J. P. I showed this to my com
panions so they could identify it later.
When Prince Rajah came to my question, he tore
the paper, swiped the center with his right fingers, and
leaned forward, right hand behind the burner, while
his left fluttered the other fragments into the incense
burner. He was already opening the slip when he let
those pieces flutter.
What the prince received was an unexpected answer
to that question before he even knew its wording. A
puff of flame burst from the incense burner, practically
singeing the prince's whiskers, and, as he lurched away
with a howl, another piece of paper fluttered from his
half flung right hand. I picked it up and showed it to
him, my initialed question, which my friends identi
fied. As we said good-by to the prince, I dropped it in
the incense burner, too, and there was a smaller flare
of flame, like an echo of the former one.
That pad I carried consisted of sheets of flash paper,
a specially treated type that photographers used before
the days of flash bulbs, and which magicians have
adopted for use in certain tricks, such as vanishing a
coin from a folded piece of paper, the flash coming
when the paper is touched with a cigarette, or even a
burned match which has just been extinguished.
I did such tricks occasionally, and when Prince Rajah
suggested that customers use their own pads or note
books, if they had such, I took him at his word. The
• 126 •
HOW TO TRAP MEDIUMS
heat from the smoldering incense set off the flash paper
as effectively as Psycho's potassium worked with water.
There are two types of flash paper, slow and quick.
Mine was the quick kind and it was little wonder that
Prince Rajah lost his torn center in his excitement.
Many mediums use the "one ahead" system when
doing sealed envelope readings. Old as the phony psy
chic game itself, this stunt is still good with a company
of believers.
The medium collects envelopes containing messages.
He takes one and holds it to his head, reading off a
phony question which a stooge promptly identifies.
Opening that envelope, the medium takes out the ques
tion which he has just answered, and checks it, laying
it aside.
What he is doing is reading a bona fide question writ
ten by some stranger. He picks up the next envelope
and answers the question just read. He continues thus
right through the lot, ending with a marked envelope
containing the dummy question which he first answered
for the stooge.
My system to disconcert such fakers was to insert a
blank sheet of vivid red paper in my envelope, instead
of the white paper that the medium provided. It was
fun waiting for the pay-off. After answering someone
else's question, the medium would blandly open an en
velope to take out the question and tally it. His face
would go redder than the paper he found inside, when
he realized that his game was stopped cold.
Some mediums would bluff it out, others would
promptly call off proceedings. The question of challeng
•
127
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
ing the medium at that moment depended on the type
and size of the audience. There was no use in trying to
convince- a sizable gathering of firm believers that they
had been duped, but it was a good procedure with a
smaller group.
However, I thought my surprise was tops among the
ways and means to deal with message readers, until one
night some other skeptic's gag broke up the message
seance before mine had a chance. The medium had fin
ished reading a message for a very earnest lady, and was
opening the envelope to check her question for her,
when the thing went off with a whirr, hit the medium
in the nose, and came sailing out over the audience.
The skeptic had included an April Fool device in his
envelope, one of those whizzers that wind up with rub
ber bands and zoom away the moment the enclosing
paper is unfolded. Of course, it happened with the
wrong message, giving away the "one ahead" stunt right
in the middle of the medium's act.
There are many legitimate ways of gumming up a
fake seance, all adaptable to the particular occasion.
Mobility is the medium's chief requirement in many
cases where he is bound in a cabinet, or has persons
hold his hands. One good device is to attach a hook
to the end of a spring tape measure and secretly fasten
that hook to the medium. After the seance, you can
measure off just how far the medium traveled away
from where he was supposed to stay.
I attended a seance once where a ghost appeared and
worked a much better stunt than trying to grab the
spook. If I'd made a grab, I'd have been grabbed, be
• 128 •
HOW TO TRAP MEDIUMS
cause the medium had a pair of husky stooges flanking
me. Instead, I simply stepped on the edge of the ghost's
trailing robe as it started to move away.
Next thing, the whole seance room was in confusion.
Instead of vanishing into the cabinet, the ghost dropped
away and flattened on the floor. Somebody turned on
the lights, and we saw one of the sitters trying to stuff
a lot of luminous cheesecloth underneath his coat.
He'd simply been parading, ghost fashion, draped in
the regalia that he had brought along. Of course, the
medium disclaimed this confederate as a meddler who
had purposely tried to frame him, and the stooge ac
cepted the indictment.
One case of stepping on a trailing robe brought divi
dends in an instance which came to my attention. The
ghost never did get away, and the whole reason was
exposed when the lights came on. The ghost was the
covering of a collapsible frame that hooked to a fish-
line running down through an old-fashioned hot air
register in the floor, which would have swallowed the
whole contrivance, if an investigator hadn't broken the
line by stepping on the hem of the ghostly costume.
Whenever I attend a slate writing seance, I always
bring my own. Of course the medium won't use them,
so there is no use telling him about them. I always keep
them under my coat and let the medium use his slates.
In many instances, the medium places his slates under
a table and asks you to hold them there; or he may turn
out the lights and place a slate in your hands. Other
times, he asks that a slate or slates be examined, then
placed in the cabinet.
.
129
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
Any such opportunity enables me to exchange my
slate or slates for the medium's, according to how many
slates he uses. My slates already bear messages not too
complimentary to the medium. Sometimes that message
shows up as is, if the medium has made his switch be
fore I make mine. Other times, two messages arrive,
mine and the medium's. In those cases, he is using the
method of writing with his toes on a slate laid beneath
the table, or has released a hand from the bonds that
hold him, and scrawls his message in the dark. Single
or double, my unexpected message always brings a sud
den end to the proceedings.
The best spook party that I ever helped break up was
a materialization seance given by a Jersey clairvoyant
who had only recently developed the psychic energy
necessary for materializations. The catch was that only
the medium saw the spirits, since they were visible to
persons with clairvoyant faculties, no others.
Since this was a development class, there were others
who claimed to see the spirits, too, and the medium, a
lady of generous proportions named Madame Olga, was
quite confident that in time those who took the entire
course of lessons would be able to see the spirits also.
That time came sooner than Madame Olga antici
pated. Hardly had she called upon the spirits to mani
fest themselves than they appeared in full-fledged form,
three of them, almost surrounding her. Those spooks
didn't have time to dematerialize, because Madame
Olga beat them to it with a wild dive through a door
in back of her.
We wanted to see ghosts, three of us who had come
•
13° •
HOW TO TRAP MEDIUMS
for our second lesson in development, so we'd brought
our own. They were the kind called Instantaneous
Ghosts, listed in a catalogue of a mail-order house at
eight dollars and fifty cents each.
The catalog described them as treated with the best
Ghost-Glo paint, easy to conceal and operate. It added
that they were of unbreakable construction, and would
start a riot at any ghost gathering.
They came up to all specifications, and the unbreak
able feature proved its worth by saving us the cost of
our investment. The ghosts were about the only things
that weren't broken, when Madame Olga's steady pupils
supported her flight with a general stampede.
A bull in a china shop is nothing to a ghost in a
seance room when the spook arrives without the me
dium's invitation!
13
HELEN VICTORIA DUNCAN
IF
THE death blow to fraudulent mediumship is
ever to be struck, it is most likely to come now
through a woman like Mrs. Helen Victoria Duncan.
The believer in spiritualism is fantastically credulous,
so taken in by the crudest phenomena that fraud may
never be given its quietus.
You don't believe me? Perhaps you have never before
heard of the operations of such people as cheating me
diums. Listen to this account of Mrs. Duncan's prog
ress and see what you think then.
A native of Scotland, Mrs. Duncan held seances in
Dundee before 1929, when Dr. Montagu Rust, also of
Dundee, brought her to London to give seances for
the spiritualistic groups there. The doctor, among other
followers of this woman, was much impressed by
her manifestations. Her specialities were materializing
ghosts, producing "teleplasm" and moving objects
placed far beyond her normal reach.
•
132
•
HELEN VICTORIA DUNCAN
With this equipment of miracles, she stirred London.
Even the public in general clamored for sittings with
her at large fees—for the newspapers had given her a
great deal of space and praise. Perhaps if you had been
a citizen of London at this time and had been one of
her group, you, too, might have been impressed, for in
full light her materialized ghosts walked and talked
with her clients, which might have meant you! They
danced. They sang. Adult phantoms and ghosts of chil
dren —they were all mobile and all vociferous. At least
this was the claim.
Mrs. Duncan, being a woman of tremendous bulk,
found it easy to persuade her clients, without words,
that she herself could never imitate such nimbleness
as her spooks displayed. As for "Peggy," her little girl
ghost, how could a large female like the medium act the
part of that little image?
While producing teleplasm, Mrs. Duncan permitted
pieces of the substance to be cut off by her customers.
A soft white material, much like the boiled white of
egg, it seemed to be spontaneously produced, since it
exuded from nose or mouth or some other part of the
body in great quantity. Sheets of the stuff covered her
at times in a thin film through which one could see
the outlines of her body.
So much on the rise was her fame as a person with
genuine psychic gifts that in 1931, when she was tested
both by the London Spiritualistic Alliance and Harry
Price and his committee, and was, by both groups, pro
nounced a fraud —her believers put up a battle for
her reputation, which was epic. In spite of the com
mittee reports on evidence obtained, namely, that Mrs.
•
133
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
Duncan's teleplasm was a mixture of paper, white of
egg, and a few chemical substances messed up together,
and her ghosts made of butter cheesecloth, held together
with safety pins upon which were pasted paper doll
cut-out countenances—her friends insisted that she was
genuine. From the deluded believers one expected this.
But, and this is why I say it is hopeless to expect an
addict of spiritualistic phenomena to use reason—the
chairman of the very group of spiritualists who found
Mrs. Duncan guilty of trickery, published a statement
which I give you here:
My personal opinion is that Mrs. Duncan probably has
• what we are accustomed to regard as genuine mediumistic
faculties. . . . Her ego personality was apparently unaware
of the performance of her secondary personality, and all
that appeared as transparent fraud was due to the mis
chievous entity set free by the disintegration of her total
personality under the dominant (perhaps hypnotic) in
fluence of her husband."
This statement, I think, is an almost too magnificent
piece of rationalization.
No use to carry you painstakingly through the vari
ous tests and dialogues between her examiners and
Mrs. Duncan. One elementary, if slightly unusual fact,
emerged from the mass of details. Mrs. Duncan could
claim one talent—although a crude one. She was a
"master" regurgitator. Whatever she swallowed, she
could also "bring up." Her talent in this direction was
no mean one, for the ghosts, complete with safety pins,
were once in the depths of a most capacious stomach,
simultaneously with odds and ends of ectoplasm, and
•
!34 •
HELEN VICTORIA DUNCAN
an occasional apport. How do I know? Simple, my dear
Watson. Harry Price X-rayed Helen.
According to her husband, who finally decided to
play "Truth or Consequences" with Harry Price, Helen
had the habit of retiring about three hours before every
major seance. During that time, he said she was accus
tomed to "losing her will." He, no doubt, meant to con
vey that during a lengthy and ethereal trance she
absently-mindedly swallowed cheesecloth, gathered in
strategic places by safety pins. But one could imagine
that at this time, fully conscious and fully willful, the
corporeal Helen arranged for more capacity in her
stomach—and the garnishing thereof.
Following Mr. Duncan's statement, Miss Mary Gin-
lay—Helen's housemaid —signed one of her own. She
said she had been suspicious for some time that the
quantities of cheesecloth it was her unfortunate duty
to wash, must have been close to Mrs. Duncan's stom
ach from the evidence of her senses alone. She also
threw light upon what happened during the famous
seance, also attended by Mr. Duncan, in which Mr.
Price first proposed X-raying Mrs. Duncan. After the
medium had dashed wildly from the seance room and
had clung to the railings outside screaming hysterically
against such goings on, Miss Ginlay said she met Mr.
Duncan near his house, after the "show" was over. He
then brought forth from the pocket of his coat some
limp bundles of the familiar butter muslin and had
passed them to Miss Ginlay for laundering, saying that
during Mrs. Duncan's performance on the iron railings
she had given them to him. Here, perhaps, we should
•
135
■
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
give Helen a hand for seeing into the future. However,
not too far—for, later, Mr. Price did manage the X-ray
process.
But tests, evidence, confessions and adverse publicity,
in the spiritists' own magazine, Light, were in vain. Mrs.
Duncan's ghost ship sailed on. Her friends increased,
her defenders became savage in her behalf, committees
of the Spiritualist Groups, meeting in solemn conclave,
endorsed her genuineness. Everybody apparently liked
the cheesecloth phantoms and domestic brand ecto
plasm.
It was not until World War II, when the English
spiritists really gathered momentum in their drive to
break down the mental barriers set up by the British
mind between Here and Hereafter that the Home Gov
ernment got the wind up over the incredible number
of persons attending spiritualistic seances.
At any rate, for many reasons —the financial protec
tion of the British people, their mental health, the pre
vention of possible leakage of military secrets in the
dim seance rooms where all types of people of many
nationalities met freely and often received very cryptic
messages from the "spirits"—the government moved
against all go-betweens of the spirit world who appeared
at all suspicious. And to the police looking over the
field, Helen Duncan's ever-increasing fame must have
been quite noticeable, as, no doubt, was her former in
dictment for fraud by the Edinburgh Sheriff's Court
in 1932. Mrs. Duncan was denounced by a Miss Maule
at that time for impersonating "Peggy." The court, as
a result of the evidence of witnesses, found Helen guilty
•
136
•
HELEN VICTORIA DUNCAN
and gave her a choice of paying ten pounds, or taking
a month's imprisonment.
Mediums could be, and were being, "picked up" by
the police, charged under the Vagrancy Act, Sec. 4—
"every person pretending or professing to tell for
tunes. . . ." And, in January, 1944, it was under the
Vagrancy Act that Mrs. Duncan was brought in by
police, while giving an unadvertised seance in Ports
mouth, England. But the wording of her offense was
different. The police had found another formula dur
ing the war, i.e., "pretending to hold communications
with the spirits of deceased persons."
In a report of the proceedings against her, we learn
that she was refused bail!
For the entire year of 1944, Helen Duncan's case was
fought. She hung firmly on the horns of a large dilemma,
indeed. For, by the time her case was heard at Old
Bailey, she was no longer held merely on a charge of
fraud, but also as a witch! According to the Witch
craft Act of 1735, her sentence, in addition to impris
onment, would require her presence every quarter year
in the stocks of the market place in some town in Eng
land chosen at the time. Found guilty by the court, her
sentence was modernized to fit 1944. They omitted the
pillory, but gave her nine months' imprisonment. Her
final appeal, which was granted, that the House of Lords
"sit" on her case, meant that this noble court must con
sider evidence at the first witchcraft trial in England
for many years.
The spiritualists, naturally enough, were seething at
the turn this matter was taking. If Helen was guilty of
•
137
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
"conjuration," then all of them were—for all took part
in ceremonies aimed at inducing the materializing of
spirits —both good and evil, presumably, since the spir
it's "audience" had never had any choice in the matter,
really.
American spiritualist papers barely mentioned Mrs.
Duncan's trial, but the English press, both lay and "re
ligious," gave practically a blow by blow account of
her arrest, life in prison, personal reactions, and the
fabulous scenes at her trial. Here her accusers and her
defending counsel battled first over the meaning of
certain phrases, then over single words pertaining to
her "crime." Legal terms that belonged to a more an
cient and primitive time than ours flew around the
court: sorcery, enchantment, necromancy, witchcraft.
Definitions and descriptions whirled around Helen's
head as she sat and wept in her chair, a bewildered
woman who found herself reviled, not as a simple cheat
but as a kind of monster. One thing this trial will do—
force Helen, unless she wants to be forever branded as
a witch, to confess to the butter muslin, and desist from
further claims that she can conjure up spirits —or she
may find herself in more difficulties than she is in now,
and instead of providing matter for the present aca
demic dogfight among the lawyers over the niceties of
the word "conjuration," Helen may find herself really
looking around hopefully for a broomstick to get her
out of there!
•
138 •
14
HAUNTED HOUSES
PERSONS
who think of haunted houses in terms of
"spoof" rather than spooks, may be surprised when
I define the belief in ghostly haunts as the real funda
mental in the spirit racket. Indeed, just such a house,
the home of the Fox Sisters near Rochester, New York,
was the cradle of modern spiritism.
That house still exists. It was transported from Hyde-
ville, where it belonged, to Lily Dale, the summer col
ony where mediums and believers flock. For twenty-five
cents, a resident medium will give you a sample of the
very phenomena which made the house famous—the
raps that ushered in our present age of credulity.
The old Fox homestead is a rather inconsistent ex
ample of what a haunted house should be. The rappings
left it and traveled with the sisters when they began
their first tour. Now the raps are back again, helping
maintain the upkeep. Otherwise, the Fox house is a
•
J39 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
disappointment, since it lacks more peculiar phenom
ena.
The investigation of haunted houses is, in a sense,
the most important form of psychic research, for a self-
evident reason. Even before the Fox Sisters sprang to
fame, other flurries of spook mania had begun, invari
ably because of odd manifestations reported in old
houses. In years since, there have been dozens of such
incidents, striking enough to have originated a ghost
cult, had one not already existed under the name of
spiritism. In addition, there have been literally hun
dreds of other houses definitely listed as haunted.
To rate as strictly Grade-A, haunted homes should
furnish manifestations independent of their physical
inmates. If uncanny things happen only when certain
persons are around, the question arises which to investi
gate: the persons or the house. If we concentrate solely
on the house, we are dealing with something basic —
so basic, in fact, that the whole theory of spiritism is
ready to stand or fall with these crumbly edifices that
are as shaky as itself.
Even a gifted medium is useless without a handy
spirit. The finest radio receiving set would pick up
nothing if there were no broadcasting stations. When
haunted houses are reported as offering weird surprises
for all comers, a medium is superfluous, and, therefore,
an honest investigation is a surety. Every time independ
ent manifestations are tracked down and proved to
be something physical, a solid blow is struck against
fraud, for champions of the pseudo-supernatural regard
haunted houses as the Exhibit A of their absurd claims.
•
140
•
HAUNTED HOUSES
Having personally investigated a sizable quota of
haunted houses, and having compared notes with others
who have done the same, I can personally vouch for
two things: first, that there is not one instance of a
genuinely haunted house in these United States; second,
that the number of alleged haunts is legion, far beyond
any total that the average person would concede.
The greatest curbers of haunted house rumors are
real estate agents. Owners may flee their homes in ter
ror, or find some aversion to residing there, but put a
smart realtor on the job and the ghosts will sooner or
later evaporate. It used to be that every hamlet had
its "ha'nted house" —always the most ramshackle, dis
used, or isolated home in the town. But no longer.
Now such buildings are either torn down or re
modeled. Service stations have frequendy sprung up on
the sites of haunted houses, and I am still waiting to
hear of a ghost around a service station. But I have
visited plenty of old houses that still harbored spooks,
according to reliable testimony. The net result was that
the testimony proved other than reliable.
There was a house in Charleston, South Carolina,
that proved as baffling a case as any I have investigated.
It was an old mansion that nearly maddened its inmates
because of the weird sounds that were heard there.
The noises were creepy and indefinable, yet always re
ported similarly by successive tenants and invariably
those sounds occurred at night.
The sounds were best defined as a ghostly approach
that never arrived, and, therefore, kept increasing the
suspense of every listener. People claimed that they had
•
141 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
boldly searched the house through an entire night.
Sometimes the sounds were close —then they would
become distant. But always, they ceased at dawn,
according to the few individuals who had remained that
long.
Those nights that I spent in that Charleston mansion
came closer to convincing me that ghosts were real than
anything I have ever witnessed in a seance room. When
the ordeal finally ended with the solution of the riddle,
I was a veteran skeptic, and have been ever since. If
there were such things as ghosts, I'd rather meet them
than go through all that again.
The first rule in investigating a haunted house is to
locate the reported source—or sources —of the trouble,
and operate from there. Often, such a source is in the
cellar, attic, or some particular room*. With the Charles
ton house, the manifestations were of a peripatetic sort,
always on the move, reported here and there by various
residents. Always that ghostly creeping that shifted from
one place to another.
This demanded another type of inspection. All old
houses have individual peculiarities: thinner walls in
one part than another, chimneys where wind can whis
tle down, spots where the foundations have settled,
producing a proportionate strain on joists and beams.
Sometimes the equivalent of air shafts form between
double walls —while rat holes, squirrel nests, and other
minor items can cause complicated results.
So the thing here was to search the house for old
crannies, to be remembered later, then establish a cen
tral headquarters and operate from there, which we
•
142 •
HAUNTED HOUSES
did. Our headquarters was an upstairs parlor where we
played bridge so that the fourth man who held the
"dummy" hand would be free to make a brief round
through the house and then return to the game.
It was toward dawn when one of the group returned,
as pale as he. was eager, to tell us that he'd heard the
approaching ghost. He hadn't waited for the footsteps
to reach him, but had hurried to inform us. So we all
set out on the quest, and soon discovered why our
fourth man had been in such a hurry to rejoin us.
No words could define that creeping sound. It would
approach, then recede, but not as though it wanted to
avoid you. On the contrary, it seemed to be circling
for some new vantage point. The only thing to do was
circle away from it—then the sound would recur, al
most at one's elbow. Here, then there—faint, then
strong—those creeps would sound near cobwebbed win
dows, and along old creaky passages, where they seemed
to keep pace with anyone who trod the groaning floor
boards.
Through the safety of numbers, we outlasted the
ordeal, and when dawn arrived, the creeping sounds
ceased. That was the uncanny feature of the noises—
daylight dispelled them. We tried to blame the wind
for it, but the afternoon proved windier that the pre
vious night, yet there was no repetition of the sound.
The next night the thing occurred again. There was
some wind, but it was comparatively light. Neverthe
less, the ghostly sounds occurred at intervals, and al
ways in unexpected places. Our only theory was that
prowlers had come around to hoax us—a feeble theory,
•
143
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
but sufficient to gratify our general wish that we leave
the house and stay outside a while.
It was moonlight and the haunted house loomed like
a great monster, with surrounding trees swaying mildly,
like a host of lesser demons. We stayed outside until
dawn arrived, then we went indoors, but the ghosts were
no longer prevalent. Right then, if we had been less
experienced in such investigations, we would have cer
tified the house as haunted, -by a unanimous vote.
However, we resolved to spend another night in the
place, and all that day we studied the house, inside and
out. Toward dusk the wind was gusty, and it was then
that I noticed a contrast with the moonlight scene. I
gained the notion that I could explain the riddle if it
occurred again.
The sounds came again the next night. Nobody hesi
tated when I suggested that we all go outside. Again,
we were there in the moonlight, and I pointed out the
cause of the phenomenon. The house was flanked by
weeping willows, and their droopy boughs were press
ing against the side roofs. With every breeze, those wil
lows dragged and were responsible for the creeping
sounds that filtered through the decrepit walls.
Thus translated, the creeps were no longer fearful.
We checked them, tracked them to their source, until
they ceased soon after dawn. As daylight broadened,
we went outdoors and I pointed out why the ghosts
did not work the day shift. With the rising sun, the
willow boughs had lifted and no longer grazed the roof.
The fact that there were no creeps by day was purely
a natural phenomenon. It was only at night that the
•
144 •
HAUNTED HOUSES
willows drooped and began their weird work—at night
when the imaginative mind would attribute the creep
ing sounds to ghosts and be positive of it when daytime
produced no traces of those manifestations.
One of the most typical of modern ghost hunters was
the late Edward Saint, who made a special study of
Houdini's records and used their data to help him in
his craft. Once he debunked a haunted house in some
thing like thirty seconds flat. The house in question was
supposed to be inhabited by the ghost of an old lady
who carried a light from the back of the house to the
front, showing it at windows along the way. Every time
a car arrived at the house, the ghost made its favorite
trip, but never could be traced further.
When Saint saw this happen, he asked if the ghost
ever went from the front of the house to the back. Re
ceiving a negative reply, he said he would arrange to
back the car from the yard. The mysterious light went
to the back of the house from window to window. The
explanation was that the window panes were composed
of old-fashioned glass that was slightly wavy. They
caught the reflection of the headlights and threw them
back in a most uncanny style, running from window to
window in progression. Simple though this was, it had
baffled many people because the lights from the win
dows did not look like reflections and the old glass gave
them a bluish tint. Also, the windows were spaced just
far enough to produce the peculiar running effect, no
lights being seen at the same time at different windows.
Every old house has creaking floor boards, groaning
joists, and other peculiarities that are mistaken for
•
M5 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
ghostly manifestations, providing something approach
ing the tangible accompanies them. It was in such a
house that I first saw the famous "pool of blood" that
marked the spot where a murder had been committed,
and always reappeared on the anniversary of the crime.
Creaks were invariably heard in the house for a few
days before the pool of blood appeared. Then, one fine
morning, people would discover the blood pool near the
corner of the haunted room.
One family was bold enough to test the blood, and
found that it was not blood at all, though they were not
certain what it was. This, however, did not dispel the
mystery, because there was no reason why ghost blood
should be the same as the human variety. I must admit
that the sight rather startled me the time I saw
it,
but
I
had already heard of such
a
phenomenon and set
about to test it. The whole case cracked down to this:
Careful checking proved that the blood pool did
not always appear on the exact anniversary of the mur
der. In fact, no one remembered the exact date of the
crime, except that
it
had taken place in the spring dur
ing the rainy season. The mysterious pool was the result
of rain water that had come down between the walls,
later found its way out beneath the baseboards, and had
reached a slight depression in the floor. These facts
were ascertained by studying the baseboards, and the
use of
a
carpenter's level. The creeping sound heard in
the house occurred during the rainstorm, which
is
often
common in old houses. But sounds frequently frighten
people because they hear them so seldom. The mystery
lay in the fact that the pool did not appear until
a
•
146 •
HAUNTED HOUSES
few days after the rains were over. That was because
the walls were filled with dried leaves that had come
down through a crack in the roof. The leaves absorbed
the rain and held it, but later, it trickled down, under
neath the baseboards, and to its favorite spot in the
floor. It was from the leaves that the rain water gained
a peculiar color which made it appear to be blood.
A much less common, and little reported phenom
enon, is that of the "whistling ghost." People are accus
tomed to whistling sounds in old houses, whenever
there is a wind outdoors, because common sense tells
them that wind will find its way through various cracks.
But when the whistling is confined to a single room,
and always when the weather is very calm, the effect
becomes uncanny. Such was the case with a house in
Massachusetts which I visited especially to find the ghost
that whistled. The haunted room was on the second
floor and soon after dark the whistling began. It was
a strange kind of persistent hissing that came up to
ghostly specifications. It stopped as soon as we closed
the door, so that we were imprisoned in the haunted
room. That fact made the manifestation all the more
formidable, and was why people did not like it. Hear
ing the whistling with the door open was bad enough,
but to close it and have the sound stop, made it seem
as if the ghost had taken on a vengeful mood. This
was a real puzzler, and I stayed at the house a few days,
studying it indoors and out in order to learn the cause
of the weird noise.
Again, the season had something to do with it, but
in this case it was temperature, not the rainfall. This
•
147
'
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
was late fall, and I learned that it was about the only
time the ghost whistled. The answer was that the whis
tling was of an outward, not an inward, variety. Differ
ence in temperature between the house and the outside
air was not very great during the daytime, but at night
when the outside air turned frosty, the warmer air
within the heated house had the tendency to escape
rapidly through tiny chinks in the wall of the haunted
room. This was what produced the perpetual whistling,
except when the door was shut. Then the room failed
to receive a continued share of warm air coming up
from the floor below. As a result, the whistling ceased.
There are cases on record where houses have been
purposely haunted, though I was never in one at the
time it happened. By "haunted" I do not mean that
the house had an actual ghost. I am referring to cases
where human beings played the ghost for one purpose
or another. In the old days, one great reason why many
houses were reputed to be haunted, was because va
grants or criminals purposely furthered the legend.
As a result, the local inhabitants stayed away from
the haunted house, which, therefore, made it an excel
lent headquarters for the crew that occupied it. Any
thing in the way of mysterious lights, weird sounds
around the premises, would scare late passers-by and
further the rumor. If local ghost hunters came to go
through, the outlaw residents would naturally clank
chains, fake footsteps by thumping upward beneath the
floor, and employ any other artifices that would prop
erly scare away the amateur investigators.
There is no doubt but that small-fry crooks preferred
.
148 .
HAUNTED HOUSES
houses that had a haunted reputation, and, in such
cases, garnered local stories regarding manifestations
that occurred there, so as to duplicate them when occa
sion demanded.
This brings us to the class of hauntings known as
"poltergeist disturbances." These are supposed to be
the work of a malicious entity or supernormal force
which does not have the ability or inclination to ma
terialize or otherwise affirm itself as an individual being.
Poltergeist phenomena can, of course, include about
any extraordinary happenings, but certain of these have
been fairly well defined.
The crashing of dishes, the throwing of missiles, the
starting of fires, are generally branded as poltergeist
disturbances. These are easily—and often —faked by
persons who have reason to scare people from a house.
To vagrants and criminals can be attributed many of
the mysterious fires, either through carelessness, or need
to dispose of certain evidence of crime. Talk of such
manifestations is also a temptation for firebugs to try
their hand.
According to authorities who speak from the psychic
side of the fence, poltergeist phenomena are often in
duced by the presence of some sensitive person, who be
comes a target for naughty entity that disturbs the
house. It is a curious coincidence that these "sensitives"
often turn out to be young girls who are very much
bored with their surroundings, or who may be much
more eccentric than sensitive.
When these cases are thoroughly investigated, they
generally dwindle down to hoaxes, like the one per
•
149
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
petrated by the Fox Sisters, a hundred years ago. There
was the case of Lulu Hurst, later called the "Georgia
Magnet," whose reputed powers began when strange
noises and clatters of pebbles occurred in her presence.
Fortunately, Miss Hurst outgrew those symptoms, and
later published a complete account of how she fooled
everyone.
Today, investigation of prankish phenomena is con
ducted in hardheaded and efficient style, whether by the
authorities or psychic debunkers. This happened when
the Wild Plum Schoolhouse in North Dakota suddenly
became "hexed" in a most violent fashion, two years
ago. Lumps of coal were tossed about, fires started of
their own accord, and a mysterious hooded creature
began peering into the schoolroom. The children were
in terror, and the teacher nearly so, until due pressure
came to bear.
Then some of the children admitted enough to direct
strong questioning upon the others. They, themselves,
had played the "ghost" that scared them. They'd tossed
the coal when the teacher wasn't looking, had struck
matches unobserved, and had even brought chemicals
to the school to help the fireworks. The hooded man
was simply of their own concoction.
This case is highly deserving of permanent record,
because it ties in so conclusively with the intelligent
analysis of old-time cases that credulous persons would
still have us accept as supernormal. In the Wild Plum
hoax, we see the accumulating efforts of youthful in
genuity, as spurred by imitation. Also, the result of
•
150
•
HAUNTED HOUSES
hysteria on the part of the sponsors when their game
gets ahead of them, and, therefore, out of i1and.
It happened exactly that way with the Fox Sisters,
but they were sent away from the house when they be
came too hysterical, and by that time local imagination
was stirred to a hunt for a nonexistent ghost which had
left with its originators. In the case of the Fox Sisters,
there were only two children, equally implicated, both
too afraid of the consequences to admit the imposture,
whereas the Wild Plum incident brought in lesser par
ticipants who weakened under cross-examination, and
thus broke down the whole case.
If the Wild Plum schoolhouse had gone wild a hun
dred years ago, it would probably now be perpetuated
as a shrine representing the dawn of a new something-
or-other that would be described in far more stately
terms than the one it deserves: bunk. Yet at that, it rates
as a far more wonderful edifice than the famous Fox
Cottage, which has actually been preserved as a memo
rial by the deluded, because, item for item, the Wild
Plum goings-on were far more exciting than the mere
thumps and raps that the Fox girls faked in their home
at Hydeville, New York.
About every other year, psychic investigators head
for Nova Scotia during the poltergeist season, which
seems to be a frequent feature of that area. Always, they
find some young girl living in the midst of the phe
nomena that frightens her and mystifies the other resi
dents of the ghost-ridden house. Cold climates seem to
attract poltergeists, probably because the winters are
long and rather tiresome.
-
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
There was a poltergeist, though, in California, who
raised plenty of hob around a machine shop, tossing
loose nuts and bolts at anyone who wasn't looking. My
friend, Edward Saint, looked into that case and found
a rather erratic old lady on the premises, who seemed
as worried as everyone else.
Saint didn't watch the old lady. He just strolled
around with his arms folded, and let the missiles come
plopping past him. But, in one hand, he had palmed a
small mirror, which he tipped in the crook of his elbow
and focused in the direction from which the flying ob
jects came. He spotted the old lady chucking the as
sorted hardware, probably just for the fun of it.
There was a badly haunted house in the West where
the ghost turned out to be an old recluse who was living
in a little secret room and making raids on the pantry.
There was another down South where rats came down
the stairs with slow hops that made each landing sound
like a thumping footstep. There was a house in England
that had once been an old inn, and a forgotten tavern
sign had been stowed in a blocked-off portion of the
attic, where it creaked and groaned like a ghost every
time the wind rippled through.
I have watched windows rise in weird fashion, only
to discover that they were jarred by the ground tremors
of a passing freight train. But the best haunting on
record was that of the war worker who used to hear his
footsteps go downstairs after he came up, and listen to
himself open and close the front door.
This man, whom I shall call John Doe, because he has
requested
it,
actually called me up to tell me he was
•
152
•
HAUNTED HOUSES
haunted. I went over to New Jersey and met him out
side his house at midnight, which was the time he regu
larly came off his shift. The house was one of an old
row, and he unlocked the door and invited me to come
up to his room and listen.
The room was right at the head of the stairs, which
creaked noticeably as we ascended. He had the door
on the right, and he stopped there to unlock it. As he
did, he said, "Now listen and you'll hear me go down
stairs."
I listened and heard the very sounds he described. The
effect was surprising, for each step creaked in turn, all
the way down. Mr. Doe was gripping me excitedly, ex
citedly exclaiming in a hoarse whisper: "That's the way
it happens, night after night—every nightl And now
you'll hear the front door—"
I didn't wait to hear the front door, which was hid
den by the ceiling above the stairs. I wanted to see it,
so I started down after those footsteps. I heard the front
door open and close, but I was in time to observe that
it didn't move at all, so I hurried out in time to catch
the ghost.
He was a pretty husky ghost, a brawny war worker
who lived in the house next door to Mr. Doe. He had
a few minutes to spare, so he came up with me to assure
Mr. Doe that he wasn't haunted. The situation was this:
the man who lived next door, in a room at the head of
the stairs in the adjacent residence of the row, went to
work right after Mr. Doe came home.
The next-door neighbor didn't have an alarm clock,
and it used to disturb his reading to keep looking at his
•
153
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
watch to note the time. Through the thin wall of the
old house, which had been hastily reconstructed to
accommodate war workers, he'd heard Mr. Doe come
up the stairs and go into his room just at the time he
was supposed to leave.
So, our friend next door had gauged his own depar
ture to Mr. Doe's arrival. His were the footsteps that
went down the stairs, and the door that opened and
closed was that of the house next door.
A ridiculous case, indeed, but it is of such stuff that
ghosts are made!
154
15
THE "INSIDE" OF SPIRITISM
DURING
the war, the pages of the psychic jour
nals frequently discussed "evidential" phenomena
which had taken place in seance rooms and which were
evidence, indeed, but evidence of things going on in
this mundane sphere. If these had anything to do with
the spirit land, the connection was a very grim one.
I refer to cases particularly of trance or message me
diums who used the old "pumping" practice to bring
out facts that were most on everyone's mind, namely
matters that had to do with the war.
In England, such doings could be defined only by
the term "atrocious," for it was a common practice for
mediums to bring through messages from soldiers or
sailors who had died in the various theaters of war.
Descriptions of air battles were given in graphic detail,
as were sinkings of destroyers and cruisers.
It became a custom for many persons to go to seance
•
155 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
rooms in hope of gaining information regarding rela
tives reported as missing. Often they received facts that
were proved later, and, therefore, added to the medi
um's reputation. To skeptics like myself, who have solid
reasons for doubting the "spirit origin" of trance utter
ances, this brought up the very important question:
Where did the mediums actually get their informa
tion?
Reports of these seances eventually must have reached
the higher authorities and due investigation must also
have resulted therefrom. Since there have been no out
ward reverberations, it would not be surprising to learn
at length that one of the "hushed" phases of subversive
activity was the part played by certain mediums who,
whether wittingly or unwittingly, gave aid and com
fort to the enemy.
Nearly all believers in spiritism feel that they have
the right to treat a medium somewhat in the light of a
confessor. This right, in some instances, is argued on
religious grounds. As such, the status of that right is
jeopardized by the fact that mediums, in their turn,
claim the right to broadcast anything the spirits tell
them, in order to prove that those very spirits exist.
Thus, the whole arrangement becomes a vicious circle
that works two ways.
. Let us take some instances that appeared on the
American scene during those hectic wartime years.
There is a certain medium who has a control whose
name, for purposes of identification, we can call Jasper.
In case the reader is not familiar with the term "con
trol," and such personalities as "Jasper," the setup is
•
156 •
THE "INSIDE" OF SPIRITISM
about like this: The medium goes into a trance state—
so called —and begins to speak in a strange voice known
as the "control." Usually, this is done in the dark, so
that no one will observe that the medium's lips are mov
ing, because mediums are not good ventriloquists, or
they would be in that business instead.
Whereupon the "control," who, in this case, is "Jas
per," begins to single out persons in the group and call
them by name. Jasper says, "Is Willard here?" and Wil-
lard answers —the medium having previously ascer
tained that someone named Willard is present.
Also, the medium has checked to some extent regard
ing every person present. If a skeptic checks afterward,
he will find that everything Jasper tells a person will
be in direct ratio to what the medium has learned
about the same person.
Now, on the occasion that I mention, Jasper picked
several sitters, gave them messages, and finally concen
trated on one person, stating that he was a seafaring
man, and calling upon said person to admit it, which
he did. Next, Jasper declared that the sitter was wait
ing to take command of a new Liberty ship, which was
likewise admitted. After which came other statements,
some corroborated, some not.
The next upshot was that quite a few other people in
that same darkness learned a great deal about where the
ship captain had been, where he was likely to go, and
how soon. When they left the hall where this seance
was given, under the guise of a lecture, they were too
busy talking about how wonderful Jasper had been to
•
»57
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
notice a big government poster that read: Button your
LIP AND SAVE A SHIP.
There is another sprite spirit who answers to the
name of Pansy, and becomes loquacious —and some
times, insulting —when he speaks through the borrowed
vocal chords of his favorite medium.
On one occasion, Pansy became concerned about a
new visitor, and stated he had throat trouble—which
the visitor denied. So Pansy told the visitor to go and
see his doctor. The visitor said he already had, where
upon Pansy insisted that he'd better see another doc
tor because his own was unreliable.
To prove that he was right, Pansy began to cough
and said that he had "heard" the visitor making sounds
like that. It's really amazing the way these spirits get
around. They can service a dozen people all at once,
just the way Santa Claus used to fill all the stockings
in a neighborhood in an estimated time of three sec
onds.
In Pansy's case, the new customer admitted he'd been
making coughing sounds, but they didn't worry him.
Pansy said they would, if he kept making them too long,
so the visitor argued that he didn't expect to go on
coughing very long. Pansy said that a month would be
too long, and the customer replied that he'd be through
his coughing trouble before the month was over.
All this dialogue covered the simple fact that the
newcomer to the seance room was a war worker who
had come to the seance with a friend who was a regular
patron. The newcomer had just been transferred to a
department that was working out a new chemical proc
•
158 •
THE "INSIDE" OF SPIRITISM
ess, on the verge of its final tests. Without realizing
it,
the researcher was giving away the information that the
new process was scheduled for completion within the
month.
There
is
a
message reader who works in full light, as
though the spirits preferred
it
in his case, but the real
reason
is
that he needs the lights to read the messages
that people trustingly place upon his rostrum. He psy
chometrizes each message, answers it, and sticks
it
on
a
file hook beside him.
Of course, he uses the "one ahead" system, explained
elsewhere, and while he
is
"answering" one question,
he
is
really reading another. He
is
very practical about
it, for he boldly places each opened message right where
he can conveniently read
it
while faking with another.
Except that "bold"
is
hardly the term, because anyone
familiar with the "one ahead" system will spot
it
on
sight, no matter how clever the medium is; but the
sucker trade, not suspecting any trickery, will accept
anything.
And this medium, like all the smart ones in the busi
ness, plays for the sucker trade exclusively.
During the war, this reader was helpful with persons
who had relatives in the service. He could "see" that
they were troubled, because some person who was away
had gone still further from them. The spirits mentioned
a
"danger" that was past, but that another and graver
danger lay just ahead.
If the customer was not too certain of the coming
danger, the medium would speak of
a
"change of plans,"
and would mention that the customer "understood."
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
If this brought a nod, the medium would then empha
size what the danger might be, while watching for cor
roboration, or otherwise.
What the medium was working on, was this: He knew
that the customer was worried about a son in the Army,
and that the son had expected to go overseas. The "past
danger" referred to the transport trip, the medium
working on the assumption that the son had reached
his objective and had written home. The "new danger"
was an effort on the medium's part to learn if the sol
dier had been assigned to a combat zone. If not, the
medium simply intimated that he would be, which was
always a logical play.
Of course, in such a case, the medium threw in iden
tifying remarks, part-way descriptions of the absent per
son, and anything that could build the case. By the time
he was through, he had put on quite a convincing show.
Summing the three cases above given, we learn this:
During the war, mediums gathered information and
delivered it in detail on such subjects as shipping, war
work, and troop movements. With this, they either in
cluded or hazarded dozens of identifying points that put
just that many teeth into the subject that they broached.
What were the potential consequences?
Here is something to think over:
During that same war period, a well-known mentalist
burst into fame as a radio luminary with a program
wherein he answered questions that were on persons'
minds. This was presented as legitimate entertainment
and created a well-deserved sensation. During nearly
every program, certain questions arose which this legiti
160 •
THE "INSIDE" OF SPIRITISM
mate performer stated he could not answer further, be
cause they referred to persons engaged in military or
wartime operations.
Yet while this ruling was scrupulously invoked dur
ing a radio program that likewise disclaimed any con
nection with the supernatural, mediums all over the
country were ignoring such censorship while giving
seances which they openly misrepresented as being in
spired by the guiding forces of another world.
Such information, freely released, could sink a ship
or ruin military plans just as effectively whether it came
from sources inhabiting this world or the next.
While I am fairly convinced that certain misfortunes
of the war could be traced back to facts blabbed by me
diums, I doubt that they wreaked any greater damage
than that caused by persons who were simply too care
less at the wrong times. I say this, not to the credit of
the mediums, but simply as a matter of general analysis.
In a sense, it is to their discredit, at least to that of their
general claims. For, in substance, it means that medi
ums were so generally unreliable that enemy agents
felt they would be wasting time to depend upon the
drivel these people peddled.
Mediums prefer not to be too specific with a client.
A few points driven home are sufficient as pegs for a
lot of vague statements that are left hanging in the air
after the pegs are gone. That brings back the customer
and mediums like nothing better than a steady clientele.
Often they hold out choice plums for the person's next
visit, and if that person does not return, the informa
tion is simply written off.
. 161 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
Of course, somebody might get to the medium and
buy up his information wholesale, but mediums are
chary about accepting such offers. The bidder might
turn out to be a psychic investigator beginning a cru
sade against ethereal hokum; or, even worse, a rival
medium ready to open a shop across the way.
How this rivalry works is illustrated by the story of
the house on Fifty-ninth Street.
A wealthy believer, named Mr. Ernest, owned a nice
house on Fifty-ninth Street. He attended lectures and
readings given by a medium called Professor Marvel,
and, occasionally, went to dark-room seances, maneu
vered by a gentleman whom we shall style, Dr. Craft.
One evening, Mr. Ernest told Professor Marvel about
the house. It appeared that Mr. Ernest didn't know ex
actly what to do with the house, and felt that the spirits
ought to furnish some solution. Since Mr. Ernest owned
another house —in fact, owned lots of houses —this one
seemed superfluous.
Professor Marvel felt that the spirits should be con
sidered as something more than mere advisers. All over
the country were poor, but honest, mediums who might
want to come to New York, but were afraid that hotel
rooms would be injurious to their powers. They needed
a friendly atmosphere, and the house on Fifty-ninth
Street could provide it.
Helpfully, Professor Marvel offered to accept the tide
deed as custodian of the house. Then he would be able
to invite the out-of-town mediums to visit him, charg
ing whatever the spirits considered nominal. Thus Mr.
162 •
THE "INSIDE" OF SPIRITISM
Ernest would be famous as a man who had provided a
living monument to the cause.
It sounded so great that Mr. Ernest couldn't wait to
get it started. On the way to see his lawyer, he stopped
off to visit Dr. Graft and tell him all about
it,
since the
doctor was the sort of medium who dealt in physical
phenomena. Dr. Craft approved the idea, but saw one
objection.
What the house needed was a resident medium. Being
a
lecturer, Professor Marvel would be holding meet
ings in halls seven nights
a
week. Who would take
charge of the proceedings at the house? What would
happen
if
visiting mediums were tired from their trips,
and could not find their powers? To be
a
true memo
rial, the house would need someone who could deliver
manifestations on call, any night, every night.
Thinking this over, Mr. Ernest liked it, and imme
diately the thought struck him that Dr. Craft would be
the very man to serve as resident medium. After much
persuasion, Dr. Craft agreed, "and when Mr. Ernest
reached his lawyer's office, he said that he wanted the
deed switched to Dr. Craft, instead of Professor Marvel.
The lawyer found that this would take some time,
and, in the interim, he communicated with some of Mr.
Ernest's friends and relatives. They, in turn, began to
look into the comparative merits of Professor Marvel
and Dr. Craft, and found
it
difficult to decide which
one was worse. They talked Mr. Ernest out of the whole
proposition, and now, Professor Marvel and Dr. Craft
are not on speaking terms, not even through each
other's spirit controls.
•
163
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
The term "believer" is an apt one where the dupes
of mediums are concerned, because such people believe
almost anything. This was proved not long ago when
a group invited a trance medium named Yogi Yama to
give a series of seances featuring his pet control, Archi
medes. The only question was the price, and Yogi Yama
finally agreed to accept a reduced honorarium for his
first series of appearances.
Archimedes showed up along with the yogi, and to
help pay expenses, skeptics were invited to attend the
seances. At that, the "take" was not too good, and when
the series neared its end, the group asked Yogi Yama
to continue at the same rate. The yogi insisted that he
needed an increase, and would have to terminate his
services. He was sorry, of course, on account of Archi
medes, who liked the group immensely.
So the group announced that the next series of se
ances would be handled by a cut-rate operator named
Mahatma Pundit, who grabbed the job by a very smart
suggestion. Since the group wanted Archimedes and
Archimedes wanted to visit the group, what was the
matter with Mahatma Pundit bringing Archimedes
through?
Ordinarily, it wouldn't be right, since Archimedes
was Yama's regular control, but the group had a share
in Archimedes, too, and Pundit was sure their favorite
spirit would be on hand.
And Archimedes was—with this difference.
Yogi Yama had a voice that could go surprisingly
deep, which it always did when he invoked Archimedes.
In contrast, Mahatma Pundit was used to spirits that
•
164 .
THE "INSIDE" OF SPIRITISM
spoke in a falsetto not too far from his high tenor.
When the skeptics heard that Pundit was going to do
an Archimedes, they turned out in full force to pick
up the pieces of his broken vocal chords.
However, Mahatma Pundit had no voice trouble. He
simply let Archimedes pipe away in a tenor tone. The
skeptics were happy. Here was fraud so palpable that
even the believers would recognize it. After the seance,
one skeptic put the question: "Well, what do you think
of our new medium?"
"He was excellent," replied a believer, quite seri
ously. "His work was really inspiring. But do you know,
I was disappointed in Archimedes. His voice didn't
seem to be the same as usual."
If that had been the opinion of an ignoramus, it
would have been laughable. Unfortunately, it was the
sincere conviction of a gentleman who rates very high
in a very important profession. It definitely proves the
existence of a certain psychological factor which causes
certain people to interpret what happens in a seance
according to their wishes, and not their senses.
Mediums pick such patrons and pluck them. The
frauds and deceits that they impose upon such victims
are childish, which is preferable from the medium's
standpoint. It saves him the trouble of planning clever
tricks and enables him to concentrate on the more ef
fective work of tapping the victim's exchequer.
Shaping a friendship between the control and the
dupe is the best process, as it reduces the medium to
a role of innocent bystander. A medium will go into a
trance and let his shortcomings be discussed between
•
165
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
the control and the dupe. When he awakes, the medium
pretends he didn't know what happened:
Perhaps the medium becomes short-tempered, re
luctant about giving seances at all. The dupe discusses
this with the control, who decides through his superior
knowledge that the medium needs a vacation. So the
medium is sent to some resort, with an unlimited ex
pense account, and when the dupe visits him there, the
medium is very happy to throw a seance, at which the
control comes through and triumphantly announces:
"See? I was right!"
People have often asked me: Why are mediums such
fools as to try for some of the awards offered by scientific
societies for genuine phenomena, when the tricks they
use are so pitiful? The answer is that the mediums are
not the fools—their sponsors are.
Urged to meet a test that will prove spirit communi
cation, a medium has but one choice—he must attempt
it. Of course, he will find one excuse after another,
but when all are exhausted, he turns his ingenuity to
ward some device that will trouble the test committee,
or produce an impasse. In such a contest, anything re
sembling a draw, or even a default, is a win for the
medium.
In fact, these offers of awards, whether made by in
dividuals or scientific groups, have done more to publi
cize and further the spook racket than to curb or sup
press it. Without being too critical of all instances, I am
forced to the conclusion that much of this so-called
scientific investigation has a dash of sham itself.
The sincere, but deluded, believer in things psychic
. 166 .
THE "INSIDE" OF SPIRITISM
can be matched only by the trusting but ignorant man
who offers an award of a few thousand dollars on the
supposition that any high-grade medium would bother
about such small change, to the jeopardy of a much
more profitable repeat business.
It was a believer, Henry Seybert, who provided the
funds for the first American investigation of spirit me
diums, which took place in the eighties. The investi
gators were appointed by the University of Pennsylva
nia to function as the Seybert Commission, and, in their
report, they state that they found themselves "embar
rassed" by requests for fees, ranging up to five hundred
dollars, on the part of mediums.
Just why the commission should have expected me
diums to neglect their clients and work for nothing, is
a mystery. Perhaps they supposed that professional medi
ums would welcome a chance to prove themselves genu
ine, thereby increasing their trade. However, mediums
do not think in such terms.
The happiest medium imaginable would be one who
could convince his paying customers that all other medi
ums are fraudulent. Why? Because, if all practitioners
of the spooky art received a clean bill of health, what
would happen to a high-grade medium's gilt-edged cli
entele?
They would go to the handiest parlor medium, just
as they sometimes patronize a neighborhood movie. The
cut-rate market would begin full blast. Newcomers
would work gratis in order to accumulate worth-while
suckers for the trim.
The famous Daniel Home realized this, and one of
•
167
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
his sidelines was the exposure of other mediums. As
for the Seybert Commission, it drew in one of the Fox
Sisters, who was anxious then to expose spirit fakery,
and it also held several seances with Dr. Slade, who, at
that time, was somewhat in disrepute and needed to
stage a comeback.
Of the rest, the canniest simply gave preliminary
seances, leaving the cautious commission expressing
doubt, but unwilling to declare outright fraud, though
it might be intimated. The mediums went their way
among the gullible, proclaiming the findings of the com
mission as the equivalent of a certificate of merit, nega
tively expressed.
During the sixty years since, there have been other
investigations, sweetened by offers of awards ranging
from one thousand dollars on the nose, to thirty thou
sand dependent on various conditions and provisos that,
according to mediums, render the offers largely invalid.
These offers have been thorns among the roses of the
Summerland, but they have not halted the progress of
the spook racket. As for cash, within the past few years,
several psychic groups have been financed by believers,
involving cash considerably greater than the skeptical
committees have ever offered. When mediums need
money, they get it from their friends, not their enemies.
What worries mediums is when those friends privately
offer to match, or better, the award if the medium is
willing to try for it. Sometimes believers will pay a
medium a high price just to appear before skeptics,
gratis, submitting to their conditions in order to prove
that spirits are real.
• 168 •
THE "INSIDE" OF SPIRITISM
One medium so impressed a group of believers that
they began to attribute him with powers equaling those
of the famous Home. Unwisely, the medium let his con
trols certify this. The controls had been helping levitate
the medium in the dark, and they were now willing to
try it in the light, under absolute test conditions.
Of course, by that the medium meant his own idea of
light—a few red bulbs on the floor. As for test condi
tions, those were to be of his own choice, as had been
the regular practice with this group. When the believers
talked about when and where the levitation should be
held, the medium was confident they would want an
ordinary seance, and, therefore, let them write their own
ticket.
Unfortunately, they looked into the history of Mr.
Home and were much impressed by the story of how he
floated out one window, and into another, on the third
floor of a building. The only regrettable phase of
Home's test was the fact it had not been advertised or
prearranged. So here was the chance for these believers
to prove levitation on a master scale.
They invited their medium to float from one window
to another across the front courtyard of a New York
apartment house at a tenth story level so that a multi
tude in the street could be convinced of his great
powers.
Those great powers faded before the test was ever
attempted. The medium suffered one of his lapses—
they all have them when occasion demands —and the
controls advised a trip to the country. Since then, the
medium has never felt quite at home in the tumult of
•
169
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
the city. Noises disturb him, his powers are always
limited when he gives seances in town. He is wonderful,
though, and powerful, when he visits the various spirit
ualistic colonies where people live in cottages and
bungalows. Along with open air, he has a preference
for low altitudes.
The camps and colonies where believers assemble are
always fine for mediums. People come there largely by
invitation, or previous arrangement. Skeptics are re
strained, as all skeptics should be. Mediums work on a
semi-mutual basis, and visitors are happy because the
messages from Spookland get better, clearer, with every
subsequent seance, no matter if the client changes
mediums.
Prices are scaled at various levels and special seances
often bring special fees. Recordings are made of seances
wherein such champions of spiritism as Oliver Lodge
and Conan Doyle speak through from the spirit world.
These records are sold to believers at fancy prices, and
will be shipped anywhere, during the in-between
seasons.
Summer after summer, winter after winter, the same
reliable mediums appear at these places. This was
something not foreseen by the famous Seybert Commis*
sion when it submitted its report. In the year 1 885, the
commission felt that it had thoroughly exploded one
form of psychic manifestations, namely, spirit slate
writing, which was cracked down from every possible
angle.
The commission specifically discussed a certain
medium named Keeler, who specialized in producing
•
170
•
THE "INSIDE" OF SPIRITISM
manifestations on a curtained table while his hands
were held under cover by two members of the com
mittee. After a single seance, the commission decided
that Keeler was simply working a hand switch that
enabled him to produce those hidden manifestations.
Slate writing was Keeler's other specialty, but he never
got around to it witl> the Seybert Commission.
Satisfied that spiritism was on its way out, the com
mission closed up shop, probably expecting that Keeler's
business would dwindle rapidly. If it dwindled at all, it
wasn't as fast as the commission anticipated. Looking
through a copy of a psychic journal dated in 1943, nearly
sixty years after Keeler's visit to the Seybert Commis
sion, I find the announcement that "Keeler's Nation
wide Development Class is continuing in successful
operation," along with the statement that Keeler has
been in the slate-writing field for sixty-three years.
Checking through other records, I find that during
many of those years, Keeler's table manifestations, cur
tain and all, were a regular feature at the summer
colony, which practically became his headquarters. At
least three generations of investigators have reported
on the same old act, always as if describing something
new.
The spook business has its old reliable customs, just
as the shell game and the gold brick story constantly
remain tops in their respective fields. While investigators
go searching after new and remarkable phenomena, the
standard items continue to bring results from the
regular trade.
If you want to know why, ask your favorite medium
•
171
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
to get the answer from the spirits in writing on a pair of
slates. If the spirits won't tell, it will mean that they
regard the question as too flippant, so your next step
is to join a development class to assure them of your
sincerity.
There must be a lot of fun in these things for some
one, or the business wouldn't have kept going on for
more than sixty uninterrupted years.
17a
16
CASE HISTORIES
HOW
psychic fakers fleece their victims can best be
told by relating some case histories from the
various files—police or otherwise —that I have kept or
examined in my survey of the subject.
While some of these represent isolated instances,
others come into the category of con games that are
generally prevalent, and all are illustrative of methods
and devices commonly used by spook fakers.
In fact, the special appliances described and detailed
in these accounts are all on regular sale and are peddled
in large quantities by supply houses that cater to cus
tomers claiming occult powers. Fortunately, the ratio
of such sales to actual fleecings is comparatively low,
because most mediums merely use such apparatus as
adjuncts to seances at which the charge ranges from
fifty cents to ten dollars a head.
Nevertheless, the potential is always present and it
•
173
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
can hardly be termed good protection to the public
when the question of a small or large trimming is left
entirely to the perpetrator. Perhaps some fakers are
deterred by a dislike for running afoul of the law, but,
in the majority of cases, they find that volume business
at a low price is more profitable than single shots at a
huge return, hence they curb their operations accord
ingly.
In each case recounted here, the actual names of per
sons and places have been changed, and the descriptions
are limited to essential details of the fraud, but, in every
instance, it can be proved that the mechanical device
involved has been catalogued and sold, often at remark
ably low prices, to practically any and all customers.
At best, gold mining is a speculative business, and,
at worst, it can prove disastrous to the operator. Never
theless, the magic word "gold" attracts a great many
solid businessmen who are chary only of their inability
to double-check the claims of glib promoters who insist
that "them thar hills" are full of gold.
iWilloughby Renn was just such a businessman, and
he followed an example set by many. He fell for a game
that was a small edition of the old gold-brick swindle.
This was the "treasure finder" which consisted of a
mechanical gadget that would buzz when gold was
around, and Mr. Renn sank a chunk of cash in one be
fore he realized that it was just as apt to buzz up an iron
horseshoe as a gold nugget.
By then, Mr. Renn had heard of "diving rods" and
true to the adage of "once a sucker, always a sucker,"
•
174
•
CASE HISTORIES
he decided to look into this old-style edition of a treasure
finder. That was how he wandered into the parlor of one
Professor Savant, whose advertisement in the local news
paper spoke of the finding of hidden things.
Hearing Renn's story, Savant assured him that the
divining rod had much in its favor, and cited instances
where water had been found by persons who knew how
to handle the pointing hazel branch. Renn, himself, had
heard that diviners were often successful, but doubted
their claims of finding precious minerals as easily as
running water.
On this, Savant agreed. The whole process was de
pendent upon magnetism, the type called animal
magnetism. Some persons had
it,
others didn't. There
fore, the right thing was to develop
it
for oneself. To
help Renn accomplish this, Savant furnished him with
a
talismanic ring which he was to wear whenever he
began
a
hunt for gold.
The chary Mr. Renn thereupon talked with various
promoters and was soon convinced that he had met a
man who had
a
good buy. The promoter wouldn't
lead Renn to the mine until he put up
a
sizable deposit
and he was frank to admit that although the gold was
there, finding the vein would be
a
task in itself. Other
wise, Mr. Renn wouldn't be getting
a
bargain.
What prompted Renn to go through with
it
was the
fact that his development lessons were already panning
out. Every time he visited Savant, Renn tried the test
of passing his hands over
a
nugget of gold that Savant
laid on the table, and on several occasions the object had
actually stirred under Renn's magnetic influence.
•
175
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
And now, with the cash ready for delivery, Renn
tried a final test. To his delight, the nugget not only
stirred but turned itself around when Renn's hand
passed over it. So Savant received his final fee, the pro
moter his cash, and Renn the gold mine. At last reports,
Renn was still groping about in the darkness of an old
shaft, wearing his talsmanic ring and wondering why
his hazel rod never dipped at the same place twice.
Surely, since Renn had the proper magnetism, the gold
should declare itself!
The trouble was that Renn had no magnetism at all.
Professor Savant had duped him with a stepped-up
version of a dollar spook trick, plus a special ring worth
about the same price. The talismanic ring wasn't solid
gold, but simply iron, gold-plated, and the iron itself
was imbued with magnetism, but of a normal kind. The
ring was a disguised magnet.
As for the nugget, the term should have been plural,
for there were three of them. One was gold, the other
two weren't. They were iron, gold-washed. One was
heavy enough so that it barely responded to the pass of
the hand that wore the magnet ring. The other was light
enough to turn about when the magnet came close to it
—hence, this "nugget" was reserved for the final test.
Not connecting gold with ordinary magnetism, Renn
thought that he had acquired the supernormal kind.
Needless to say, Professor Savant was teamed with the
promoter who unloaded a chunk of rocky land on
Willoughby Renn, claiming it to be the site of a gold
mine. Five thousand dollars was the price of the gold
mine option, and Renn paid another two hundred and
c
•
176
•
CASE HISTORIES
fifty dollars for his lessons in developing magnetic pow
ers. All of which proved that Professor Savant was smart
in selling a trick that mediums usually employ simply to
prove that they have telekinetic powers, or the ability
to make objects move without touching them, the object
most generally used being a walnut containing a chunk
of iron over which the medium passes his own hand,
while personally wearing the talismanic ring.
It was easy to tell that Mrs. Tudor-Windsor lived on
Park Avenue, considering the type of dog that towed
her about that vicinity. Mrs. Tudor-Windsor was proud
of Fifi as a blue-ribbon winner, but she couldn't forget
Toto, Estelle, Chichi, and several other pets whom she
had outlived.
One day Mrs. Tudor-Windsor and Fifi saw a book in
a bookstore. It had a dog's picture on it, which was why
they noticed it, and Mrs. T-W was much intrigued when
she bought the book, read
it,
and learned that there was
a
spirit land for dogs, just like people —though the
exact location of the bowwow plane was as yet un
charted.
If
people could get messages from others who had
gone to the human Summerland, why couldn't dogs
communicate, too? Apparently all they needed was
a
medium's aid, so Mrs. T-W took Fifi to see Madame
Francine, who proved sympathetic. Madame Francine
liked dogs, particularly Fifi, and why not, considering
that Fifi was paying five dollars
a
visit?
Speaking in spirit voices, Madame Francine came
through with some occasional woofs that put Fifi on the
■
177
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
alert, but results were barren until the medium's own
control, Silver Belle, came through and talked to Mrs.
Tudor-Windsor. By that time, Madame Francine had
learned a lot about Fifi from Mrs. Tudor-Windsor, but,
of course, Silver Belle couldn't have known it.
What Silver Belle said pleased Mrs. T-W much. It
was all to the effect that Fifi was ailing, despite the
arguments of veterinarians, who all said she wasn't.
There was only one thing for Silver Belle to do, and that
was recommend another vet. She saw someone named
Dr. Claudius, and made out the name of a hotel and
the number of a room.
When Mrs. Tudor-Windsor phoned, she found that
Dr. Claudius was there. He was in New York conduct
ing special research on matters canine in order to start
a wonderful hospital, all for dogs, in the Midwest. He
met Fifi, and not only discovered that the dog had the
very ailment Mrs. Tudor-Windsor fancied, but privately
agreed with the theory that doggies had a heaven all
their own.
This, of course, was something that Mrs. T-W should
never mention, since it would hurt Claudius with his
profession. Already such opposition had arisen regarding
his dog hospital, and several persons supposed to con-,
tribute to the endowment fund had failed to do so. Dr.
Claudius showed letters from them, along with his
replies, and wound up by spreading out the plans that
the architect had drawn for the dog hospital.
Dr. Claudius left New York twenty-five thousand
dollars richer because that was the amount that Mrs.
Tudor-Windsor contributed to a hospital that never
•
178
•
CASE HISTORIES
was planned, nor would be, since Dr. Claudius wasn't a
veterinarian to begin with. Madame Francine left at
the same time, because Dr. Claudius was her husband,
and she rather liked him—particularly after he acquired
so much money.
Mrs. Tudor-Windsor began to wonder about the
hospital when she failed to receive any more letters, but,
so far, she hasn't even located the town where it was
supposed to be built. There isn't any place by that
name on the map!
People weighed down by tragedy are always in a
susceptible state, and particularly those who feel them
selves responsible for the occurrence. One such was Miss
Lorena Tibbit, a former schoolteacher who had taken
a class of children on a boat excursion that ended in a
catastrophe.
The little steamer had run aground and capsized,
with the result that five of Miss Tibbit's charges had
drowned. One person regarded her culpable. That per
son was Miss Tibbit, herself. Brooding over the tragedy,
she eventually went to see a medium named Madame
Thora, who was just the right person to establish con
tact with child spirits because her own control was the
spirit of a little girl named Bonnet Blue.
Wonderful things happened at Thora's seances,
increasing in their scope as the medium learned more
about Miss Tibbit's great sorrow. With other sitters
present, Bonnet Blue vocalized through Madame Thora,
leading the group in singing "There Are Angels All
.
179
.
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
Around," which Bonnet Blue childishly worded, "They
Is Angels All Around."
It should have occurred to Miss Tibbit and others
that Bonnet Blue wasn't just being coy, but was subject
to Madame Thora's own grammatical limitations, found
in her regular conversation, but this escaped attention
because of the phenomena that occurred. There were
angels all around—Madame Thora fairly crowded the
room with their lovely faces, which vanished and reap
peared spasmodically in the dark.
Then voices began to speak through Thora's trumpet
when it floated as mysteriously as the spirit faces, mark
ing its position by a brilliant luminous band attached to
it. But the thing that thoroughly convinced Miss Tibbit
was when the spirits of the drowned children re-enacted
the tragedy. They began speaking through the trumpet
with gurgling, choking voices that Madame Thora
couldn't have faked in any possible way.
Indeed, Madame Thora was aided and abetted by a
skeptic named Laurence Herkimer, who was a friend
of Lorena Tibbit. He came to the seance as a doubter,
hoping to rid Lorena of her fixation. Those drowning
gurgles convinced Herkimer that the medium was real,
and he pleaded with Madame Thora to help rid Miss
Tibbit of her obsession.
It worked out beautifully. Having a private fortune,
Miss Tibbit was to "adopt" the child spirits, and they,
in turn, would instruct Madame Thora to give financial
aid to unfortunate children still on the mortal plane.
This was to be done entirely in the names of the spirit
children, who would be happy at seeing their little
• 180 •
CASE HISTORIES
earthly friends gain the good things that they had
missed.
Of course, Miss Tibbit supplied the funds, and
Madame Thora took charge of their delivery, because
she wouldn't go hysterical when she heard the child
spirits gurgle. Perhaps after Thora gained their confi
dence, they would talk normally through the trumpet.
This suited Herkimer, because he wanted to marry
Lorena, and one obstacle had been her independence.
Being wealthy in his own right, Herkimer felt that his
wife wouldn't need an income, too. He believed in the
spook stuff himself, and Madame Thora gained the
happy idea that perhaps he, too, would donate some
thing to the Tibbit Fund.
Madame Thora sprang that one after about four
thousand dollars of Lorena's money had gone into the
kitty. Herkimer asked some hardheaded friends about
it, and they told him he was a dope. They figured that
between them, Herkimer and his future wife would
be trimmed of twenty-five thousand dollars if this thing
continued.
Still partly a skeptic, Herkimer listened. He finally
asked for Lorena to give a seance which would include
some other promising contributors as sitters. They
wanted the whole show, faces, voices, even gurgles. At
the climax, one of the new clients turned on the lights,
having gone unseen to the wall switch.
They found that Madame Thora was getting by with
about sixteen dollars worth of equipment. She was using
a spirit trumpet —cost five dollars —and a luminous
band—one dollar extra. These, of course, were known
. 181 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
as appliances. In addition, she had a five-dollar reaching
rod, collapsible like a fish pole, and five luminous faces
printed on flat cardboard, costing only one dollar each,
because they were the small size, to represent children.
She would hitch one of these flats to the end of the
reacher and swing it out above the sitters. Twirling the
rod made the face disappear because the back of the card
was black. She was able to handle two with the rod,
by setting them at angles. The others were operated
on the ends of slotted sticks that Madame Thora had
painted black and improvised as short reachers. Those
spooks always flickered around Thora's head and
shoulders.
The reaching rod was also used to make the trumpet
float, but it was attached to the luminous band alone,
so that people thought the trumpet was in the air, when
it wasn't. Madame Thora simply kept the trumpet and
talked through it, directing it toward the spot where
the band showed high in the dark.
But the real convincer was Thora's own specialty,
those drowning sounds. She was caught right in the
middle of her gurgles, and the whole fraud was exposed.
On the floor, Thora had what looked like a solid, cush
ioned seat, shaped like a cylinder. There were several
of these in the room, genuinely solid, except for the
special one. It was a large wastebasket, inverted and
painted to look like a seat, and cushioned on its inverted
bottom.
Inside this simple contrivance was a pail of water.
When Thora wanted gurgly voices, she lifted away the
inverted cylinder, put the big end of the trumpet in
• 182 •
CASE HISTORIES
the water, and wheezed through as she talked. It was
really like something out of this world, that sound sup
posed to represent drowning gasps!
When Horace Holliday attended seances given by
Professor Bramaputra, he went as a skeptic and came
away the same. Nevertheless, Holliday was fair-minded
and gave the professor a chance to prove the things he
claimed.
Professor Bramaputra insisted that people write
serious questions, fold them, and keep them in their
own possession. They were to concentrate solely on the
questions, and Bramaputra would supply the answers.
So that the customers could write the questions, Brama
putra handed them a small writing board with a piece
of paper attached by a spring clip at the top. They
wrote what they wanted, took off the paper, and kept it.
Other people received answers to their questions, but
Holliday felt the answers didn't mean much. The pro
fessor always talked cryptically, and Holliday took it
that he was just guessing. Of course, some people fell
for that and agreed that the answers fulfilled their
questions. But Holliday, being a keen stockbroker, put
questions that were specific.
He would write: "I am going to buy one hundred
shares of Astabula Plastic. Why?" He would also use
the names of customers and write down facts concerning
them. He would keep a steady face, give no answers
when Professor Bramaputra tried to pump him. So the
spirits never talked to Mr. Holliday.
Oddly, Holliday began missing out on some important
.
183
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
deals. He had trouble with his clients, and, in short, his
business became so wobbly that he began to hope that
the spirits would really give him some advice, hence the
stuff that he wrote on those slips was more vital than
ever.
By fortunate chance, Holliday came across a magazine
article {Popular Science, November, 1944) covering the
spook racket, and saw my name mentioned as an
authority on the subject. Also, in the article, was refer
ence to a certain device used by spook crooks. Holliday
came to my office and told me about Professor Brama-
putra. We went to see the medium, but one of his friends
recognized me and the professor never appeared from
his sanctum.
Instead, Bramaputra left, and in such a hurry that
he wasn't able to take along his clip-board, which we
found in the seance room, lying under his turban. It
was the thing that cost Bramaputra a dollar and a half,
but had cost Holliday some of his best customers, along
with an indeterminable amount of cash that ran into
thousands of dollars.
The clip-board is simply a writing board with a
paper surface—the paper being printed to resemble
wood. Under the false woodwork is a sheet of carbon
paper with a plain piece beneath. Whatever is written
on an ordinary paper, set upon the board, is transcribed
by the carbon. The medium pulls out the duplicate
sheet and learns all.
Some clip-boards cost five dollars, but Bramaputra
was using the "junior model," which is considerably
cheaper, but equally effective. He either took his clients
•
184 •
CASE HISTORIES
one by one, as on the evening we visited him, or used
several small clip-boards, one for each customer.
Of course, the professor could give wonderful answers
when he wished. In Holliday's case, he didn't want to
pass out answers, not when he saw the sort of confidential
information that Holliday was handing him in dupli
cate. Instead of amazing Holliday, the professor faked
failure. Each time Holliday left, the professor phoned
the right people and tipped them off to what he'd
learned, for a price.
How much Bramaputra got from the chiselers who
were ruining Holliday's business by calling his turns,
we never learned. But we did find out why mediums
refer to their wooden writing pad as a "clip-board." It
isn't because of the clip at the top of it. It's on account
of what the medium does to his customers.
"Delightful Visions in the Crystal" were the experi
ences promised by Dr. Clear, who, by his own testimony,
had studied the one and only Hindu system for enabling
clients to gain the power themselves.
It cost a mere two dollars for a visit, but to develop
one's own power, the price was raised to five. This,
however, was just the beginning of the "come-on" as
Mrs. Wivern was to learn.
She was a wealthy lady, Mrs. Wivern, and when Dr.
Clear delivered his two-buck visions, he solved one of
her problems. Mrs. Wivern had been unable to find a
suitable companion, so Dr. Clear sought one in the
crystal. He saw a face, but it was vague, so he suggested
•
185
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
that Mrs. Wivern try the five-dollar method and see for
herself.
It wasn't , long before Mrs. Wivern saw a face there.
She liked the looks of the woman, but wondered how
she could find her. Dr. Clear said she wouldn't have to
hunt, that the crystal revealed things in a person's own
experience, either past or future.
Sure enough, the woman with the face turned up as
one of the applicants when Mrs. Wivern advertised for
a companion. The woman's name was Miss Hildebrock,
and Mrs. Wivern called her Hildy for short. Hildy went
everywhere with Mrs. Wivern, except to see Dr. Clear,
because Hildy didn't believe in such things as crystal
gazing, which was about her only point of dispute with
Mrs. Wivern.
Despite Hildy's skepticism, Mrs. Wivern's develop
ment increased. In the crystal she saw things that Dr.
Clear didn't even know about —little flashes of places
where she'd gone with Hildy. So Mrs. Wivern paid
fifty dollars for one of Clear's fine, genuine (glass)
crystals that cost him one dollar and seventy-five cents
each, in dozen lots. She took it home, but it didn't
work.
There were two reasons for that, Dr. Clear explained.
First, his influence was helpful—second, Hildy's skep
ticism was harmful. So Mrs. Wivern kept going to see
Dr. Clear, despite Hildy's objections.
In the crystal, Mrs. Wivern saw more and more sur
prising things from the recent past. So, when the crystal
revealed an overturned automobile, she canceled a trip
that she had planned to Miami Beach. Unfortunately,
. 186 .
CASE HISTORIES
she couldn't dispose of the apartment she had rented for
the season, so she sublet it to some stranger, against
Hildy's advice.
Mrs. Wivern never collected the rent. Similarly, she
lost badly on some real estate deals, and other trans
actions by trusting persons whose faces she saw in the
crystal. Yet Mrs. Wivern felt it was her fault, not that
of the crystal, because so many real things in her own
experience kept bobbing up. She talked to Dr. Clear
about it, and he decided that the crystal visions must
be warnings, only.
That was when Perry's face suddenly appeared. Perry
was Mrs. Wivern's chauffeur and he'd proved unreliable
lately. In fact, Mrs. Wivern was prepared to give him
his notice. Along with Perry's face, Mrs. .Wivern had a
vision of an empty jewel box that she recognized as her
own. She hurried home, found the jewels gone, and
discovered one of Perry's gloves under the bureau. Hildy
remembered that Perry had been in the house a few
times, without properly explaining why.
So the arm of the law descended on poor Perry as the
perpetrator of a fifty thousand dollar jewel robbery.
Hildy advised Mrs. Wivern not to talk about the crystal
visions, because people wouldn't believe her. Dr. Clear
gave the same advice, because he felt the spirits would
prefer to keep their warning confidential.
It was Perry who did the talking, more than anyone
expected. He'd listened to a lot of Mrs. Wivern's chit
chat about the wonderful Dr. Clear. He'd driven her to
that vicinity a few times and had talked with patrons
of the neighborhood gin-mill which was Clear's part
•
187
.
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
time hangout. Perry claimed that he'd been framed, and
the police believed he might be right.
A couple of detectives watched Clear's place and saw
a veiled lady go in there. They thought they recognized
the customer —and they were right. Entering, they
nabbed her in conference with Clear over a matter of
splitting the take on some stolen jewels. The veiled lady
was Hildy, and the jewels belonged to Mrs. Wivern.
The detectives also appropriated the very nice outfit
for which Dr. Clear had paid fifty dollars. It consisted
of a crystal ball, a stand with a cut-out space just be
neath the crystal, and a little roller device that handled
a roll of small-sized film. On Hildy they found the
tiny camera that used such filrn.
Hildy was .the accomplice that Clear that planted
with Mrs. Wivern. Wherever they went, Hildy snapped
shots with the watch-sized camera. She turned the nega
tives over to Dr. Clear, who saw to it that these flashes
of Mrs. Wivern's recent past appeared in the crystal.
The glass ball magnified any picture that came into the
cut-out, and the stand had an automatic gadget that fed
them through, one by one. Hildy's picture, those of
other people, some accomplices of Clear's were inserted
whenever needed.
Of course, Hildy had taken the shot of Perry, and also
the empty jewel box —after she'd robbed it—and had
planted a glove that Perry had mislaid. The Florida
apartment was checked and it turned out that the rent
had been paid to a confederate of Clear's. The same
applied to several other deals in which Mrs. Wivern
had dropped much ca^h.
• 188 •
CASE HISTORIES
These crystal gazing outfits are still on the market,
cameras and all. There are even some good used sets
available, like Clear's, because he and Hildy are now
doing time and won't be using the device that nearly
sent the wrong man to the place where they are nowl
Predicting the future was a regular habit with a
mental master who called himself Mentalo. He would
invite people to his apartment, write things on calling
cards, then turn on the radio. When he recognized some
thing that came across the air, he would find the right
calling card, brandish it triumphantly in his hand, then
turn it over. On
it,
people would find the very thing
that had been broadcasted.
Always, Mentalo used cards supplied him by visitors,
and wrote on the blank, or reverse sides of those cards.
Of course, he never showed
a
prediction until after
it
was fulfilled. That would have shattered his mental con
fidence. But the predictions couldn't be anything but
genuine, because Mentalo only picked up the card with
one hand, hence couldn't possible change what he had
written.
Another thing Mentalo did. He would predict head
lines that were to appear in next Sunday's newspaper.
Mentalo would write these on slips of paper, seal them
in envelopes, and let persons keep them. The headlines
always proved to be correct, though Mentalo let the
people open the envelopes themselves.
However, Mentalo would never use the power for
worldly gain. He would specify what some of his pre
dictions represented, but, generally, they were unim
•
189
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
portant matters. Sometimes, though, he would let clients
give a name and Mentalo would visualize some future
happening connected with that name, which always
proved to be true. The only money that Mentalo ever
received was a lecture fee, for he always gave a talk in
connection with these demonstrations.
What Mentalo hoped to do was start classes in
prophecy, but some of his friends had a better idea. Two
of them, Lester Rondo and Roger Freed, were ardent
horse players. They had heard of an ex-jockey who gave
some terrific tips, but wouldn't listen to anything less
than bets of several thousand dollars, so he could cash
in heavily on his own commission.
So Rondo and Freed got hold of Jockey Klingley,
the tipster concerned, and he agreed to come with them
to meet Mentalo. Each thought of a different horse, in
separate races, as named by Klingley, and they asked
Mentalo to concentrate on the names they had in mind.
Mentalo named each horse correctly and gained a
curious association regarding all three. He not only
sensed that they were horses, but saw their individual
names at the top of a big board. When he realized that
he'd picked the winners for some coming races, Mentalo
became furious, ordering his false friends from the place.
This made Lester Rondo so remorseful that he refused
to place any money on those horses. He said he wanted
to square himself with Mentalo. That left the whole
opportunity wide open for Roger Freed, who took his
friend's share of the bets and handed the cash to
Klingley.
It turned out that Klingley was a great picker—of
•
19° •
CASE HISTORIES
losers. Not one of the three horses won its race. In fact,
Klingley had purposely picked longshots, and so, wisely
—in a negative way—that he didn't bother to even bet
on them, though he didn't tell that to Freed. If any had
come through, Klingley would have jumped town any
way.
As it happened, Klingley kept one-third of the cash.
The rest was split between Rondo and Mentalo. Kling
ley wasn't a former jockey, Mentalo wasn't a prophet,
and Rondo wasn't wealthy.He was just a middle-man,
working Freed for a sucker.
All of Mentalo's card-writing "predictions" were done
with a device that mediums call a "nail-writer." They
used to use it with chalk, for getting messages on slates,
but they simplified it to a bit of a pencil on the head of
a large thimble, worn on the thumb.
Mentalo wrote nothing on the calling cards at first.
After he heard what came across the radio, he picked
up the required card, and, in brandishing it, used his
hidden thumb, equipped with the nail-writer, to scrawl
what he'd just heard. That was the way with all similar
predictions.
The Sunday newspaper gag was simple. The head
lines always came from the "pre-date" section which is
made up a week or more in advance, and is shipped to
newsdealers throughout the country. Sold in other cities
ahead of the actual date, these sections can be acquired
and "predictions" made to fit with the final editions of
the New York newspapers. That was the system Men
talo used.
Roger Freed lost about fifteen thousand dollars on
•
191
•
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
his one day's betting, and he couldn't blame Mentalo.
It turned out that Mentalo had visioned those horses as
future winners, which they were—a long time in the
future. Besides, Freed had tried to use Mentalo's psychic
powers for gain, so he deserved the misfortune that he
met.
That is the opinion of Mentalo's honest friends,
including Lester Rondo, who has been forgiven and
is now back in the fold, waiting for another sucker like
Roger Freed to come along.
•
192
CONCLUSION
Though this book is ended, the story is not complete.
Thousands upon thousands of pages could be filled with
cases, heartbreaking tales in which theft is but a minor
part of the damage done. Seduction, rape, theft are
only words found in the dictionary . . . behind all
these lie death, and destruction of all many hold dear.
You have met spook crooks in this book and probably
you have found them colorful, clever and convincing.
You have noticed that their chief stock in trade is super
stition and preying on the hope that at last here is some
one who can lift the veil of the unknown and reveal
the future.
In every age the strong as well as the weak have been
easy victims of the spook crooks of every period. Yet, in
all the history of mankind there has never been such a
wave of belief in the supernatural as that which exists
today. I thought this was true in 1931 when there were
so many who were victims of these charlatans.
World War II made the 1931 estimated "take" of
spook crooks of one hundred and twenty-five million
dollars pale into insignificance. Based on today's police
records, I feel that a two hundred and fifty million
dollar 1946 income for charlatans is a modest figure.
The bearded cone-hatted diviners of the Middle Ages
•
!93 •
THE DEAD DO NOT TALK
were bungling amateurs compared to the modern seers
whom you have met in this book, so it is my sincere wish
that by now you realize—
1. Communication between the living and the dead is
not yet established.
2. There has been some inexplicable phenomena in
seance rooms. Believers in spiritism state that the
"spirits" of the departed came back and demonstrated
their return by this phenomena. Scientists say there is a
natural or material reason for whatever transpired. I
do not judge, but I do say that out of millions of "mes
sages" given by spirit mediums yearly, all that I have
ever read, or seen given to dupes, have been based on
sleight of hand of one kind or another or on use of
some magician's apparatus originally built with the
intent to entertain, not to trick an unsuspecting victim
into parting with cash.
3. The Smithsonian Institution definitely states "We
have no evidence to indicate that the futures of indi
viduals may be predicted in any manner whatsoever."
Beyond that, I say that if the future could be predicted,
why should the "gifted" fortuneteller waste time pre
dicting a stranger's future when all he would need to
do would be to take an office in the Stock Exchange
Building at 11 Wall Street, in New York City, and
successfully predict which stocks would go up and down.
Were he able to do that, it would not be necessary to
waste time giving $2.00 readings.
4. No one possesses supernatural powers of any kind
whatsoever. The messages which appear mysteriously
on slates are put there by material means, not mystic
•
194
•
CONCLUSION
powers, and at any store which sells magic apparatus,
you may buy (for a dollar up) complete information on
"How To Read Sealed Messages," which is the basis of
most of the hokum.
5. The application of sleight of hand, chemical process
or unseen manipulation, is behind every "miracle" that
I have ever seen in any seance room. Miracles are
obviously "phony" when a person is operating in a dimly
lighted loft which he terms "church."
6. No sincere spiritual church minister has ever, to my
knowledge, recommended purchase of oil stocks, gold
mines, selling of jewelry and transfer of assets because
some "spirit" so directs. The spiritualists who believe
in spiritualism as a religion are entirely different from
the "spiritists" who are for the most part only spook
crooks.
7. Astrology, numerology, palmistry, tea leaf reading,
fortunetelling by cards, or by use of any of the so-called
pseudo-sciences, are examples of false doctrines invented
to impress the credulous and superstitious.
All of which adds up to:—the dead do not talk.!
195
INDEX
American Medical Association, 41
American Society for Psychical
Research, 19
Apports, 71, 99-11 a
Archimedes, 164-165
Astrology, 48-49, 195
Bardo, Sefior, 109-110
Behanan, Dr. Kovoor T., 41
Blackstone, 100
Blavatsky, Helena Petrovija, 36-37
Cards, fortunetelling by, 195
Casaba, Madame, 67-70
Case histories, 173
"Cold reading," 17
Collins, Jim, 117
Davenport brothers, 91
Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan, 110, 170
Duncan, Helen Victoria, 132-138
Ectoplasm (See also "Teleplasm"),
90-98, 124
Ernest, Mr., 162-163
Excelsior Rope Tie, 95-96
Federal Trade Commission, 39-40
Fletcher, Mrs., 10-15
Flory, Jack Tedro, 6-7
"Foundation of Psycho-Science,"
39
Fox Sisters, 35, 91, 139-140, 150,
151, 168
FutuTescopes, 28-31
"Georgia Magnet," 150
Gilbert, Emerson, 1-8
Ginlay, Mary, 135
"Guide Book to Spirit Medium-
ship," 17
Hardeen, Theo, 92
Haunted houses, 139-154
Heart, Dr., 95-96
Holland, Geoffrey, 66-70
Holland, Marie, 66-70
Home, Daniel Dunglass, 35-36, 64,
91, 99, 167, 169
"Hostile towns," working, 71-82
Houdini, Hardeen, 117
Houdini, Harry, 92, 115-118, 122-
123
milk can escape, 117
water torture escape, 115-116
Hurst, Lulu, 150
Independent Spiritualist Associa
tion of the U.S.A., 3-4
Ironsides, Professor, 56-64
Kalgore, 56, 58-62, 64
Keeler, 170-171
Keeley, 64
King, Katie, 91-92
Levitation, 119-122, 169
"Light," 136
Lodge, Oliver, 170
London Spiritualistic Alliance, 13}
J97
INDEX
Mail-order mystics, $4-45. 83-89
Margery, 93
Marvel, Professor, 162-163
Mediums, how to trap, 113-131
Milk Can Escape, 117
"Modern Spiritualism," 91
Motors, spirit, 54-65
Mumler, Mr., 21-23
North, Jacqueline, 66, 68-70
Numerology, 195
Occultism, history of, 35-37
Olga, Madame, 130
"One ahead" system, 127-128, 159
Ouija boards, 120
Palladino, Eusapaia, 11g-121
Palmistry, 195
Pansy, 158
Photography, spirit, 21-33
Poltergeist phenomena, 149, 151-
152
"Pool of blood," 146
Post office, spirit, 83-89
Price, Harry, 93, 133, 135, 136
"Psychic Research," 19
Psychic revelations, methods used
in, 9-19
Pundit, Mahatma, 164-165
Receipt, medium's, 75-76
Rhine, Dr., 57
Richet, Professor Charles, 9*
Rust, Dr. Montagu, 132
Saint, Edward, 145, 152
Seybert, Henry, 167
Seybert Commission, 167, 168, 170,
171
Skotographs, 21-33
Slade, Dr., 168
Slater, John, 122
Smithsonian Institution, 194
Society of Ethical Science Church,
3-4
"Spirit Intercourse," 116
Spirit motors, 54-65
Spirit photography, 21-33
Spiritism, "inside" of, 155-172
"Spook Crooks!," 17
Suicide, attempted, 66-70
Table levitation, 119-122
Table tilting, 120-121
Tea leaf reading, 195
Teleplasm (See also "Ectoplasm"),
92, 133, 134
Theosophical Society, 36
Tosca, Madame, 24-29, 30
"Transcendental Physics,'* 59
Unfinished houses, 46
Walker, Dr., 2-5
War dead photo fraud, 20-33
Water Torture Escape, 115-116
Webber, Jack, 94, 107
"Whistling ghost," 147
Wild Plum Schoolhouse hoax, 150,
151
Witchcraft Act of 1735, iJT
Yama, Yogi, 164
Zero, Swami, 49-5*
Ziska, Madame, 101-107
Zollner, 59
•
198
A^^T~t~fa?"r" ■■ ii
