{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1946__loseby___witches_mediums_vagrants_and_the_law.pdf","mytitle":"Witches Mediums Vagrants And The Law","mylang":"de"}
Witehes
and the
Law
By
~. E. Loseby
Inner Temple.
Price l/·
Witches, Mediums, Vagrants
and the Law
BY
C. E. LOSEB\'
INNER TEMPLE.
PriC8 if-
Published by
SPIR11 l'AUSTS' NATIONAL UNIOS' LT1'.
f:>4A, BRIDGE STREET
MANCHESTER
Witches, Mediums, Vagrants
and the Law
BY
C. E. LOSERY
INNER TEMPLE.
/ 'ric~ l/-
P.ublish::.i !1
y
S PJRlTUAl .ISTS' N ATIONAL u~ilo~;' LTJl .
64.'\ , B R!Dt..E STREET
MANCHESTE R
.,..
FOREWORD.
In this short pamphlet I have endeavoured to demonstrate that
there never was a time-and the proposition remains true to-day-when
the Witchcraft Acts were capable of administration by machinery
dedicated to Justice.
There are many matters connected with the campaign devoted to
the persecution of "Witches" that are common knowledge. There are
others, however , which are insufficiently appreciated. As to these I
have endeavoured to supply information that is plain .
If I have elaborated quotations and references it is because I have felt
that credence would not be given to a story so fantastic unless chapter
and verse were given in every instance. In the majority of cases I have
set out the facts as shortly as I could and allowed them to speak for
themselves.
It is common knowledge that certain persons, accused of dabbling
with the supernatural in a manner that was sinister, created at one
time a grave problem . Laws were passed for the purpose of suppressing
them and stamping them out. The Courts were called upon to give
effect to the laws that were made. A result that was not anticipated
followed. Instruments dedicated to Justice brought Injustice to a fine
art.
The precise nature, however, of the charges made against persons
accused- the essence of the offences alleged- is insufficiently appre-
ciated. The same observation applies to the evidence wh ich was deemed
sufficient for the purpose of iustifying convictions.
Knowledge that is more exact has been rendered particularly
necessary by the recent effort to revive and revita lise the Acts and give
an appearance of continuity to the policy behind them.
For this purpose I have examined many of the charges actually
brought , and sum up the result of my efforts by saying that I did not
discover one that was not on the face of it r idiculous.
I am compelled to follow up superlat ive by superlat ive .
After a careful search of the records of evidence brought in support
of charges made-and that on a banging matter- I was unable to find a
line that could not fairly be described as preposterous.
As I read and examined these words one thing , in particular, im-
pressed my mind. It seemed to me that judges and Courts, who ha,·e to
administer the Law as it is and not as they might wish it to be, had by the
Acts been placed in a position that was false. Called upon to administer
laws, founded and based up.on fallacies, they were made parties to the
propping of it by evidence that was ludicrous.
Judges in the end broke down the law. It took them, however,
many years. In the intervening period Justice was prostituted, not
without the aid of the judges.
3
The matter is not one of past history or academic interest only . A
Witchcraft Act has reappeared. It has been asserted (and I think
rightly) that worked in conjunction with the Vagrancy Act, 1824, it has
the effect that no medium, however innocent, has a reasonable chance
of escaping conviction.
The words in italics should be noted.
The proposition is either true or untrue.
If judges and lawyers realized that it was true I am convinced that
they would take an effective hand in the matter. They would not argue
that in spite of the fact that it ensured the conviction of innocent people
it wa nevertheless expedie•t.
1 did not wish to break the story by reference to the Vagrancy Act,
1824. Certain observations, however, that I was at one time called
upon to make in regard to that Act help the argument I have tried to
develop. I have, therefore, included them in the Appendix which 1
nope will be read.
c. E . L OSEBY .
4
..
·WITCHES, MEDIUMS, VAGRANTS
AND THE LAW.
T.
THE DEVIL'S COMPANIONS.
Since the earliest days the alleged practice of witchcraft was regarded
as an offence punishable both in the ecclesiastical and civil courts. Ref-
erence to it can be found in penal codes as far back as the seventh century .
The history of the subject is shocking and nauseating. Responsibility
for it must be shared about equally between the Church , the Legislature,
lawyers and the Courts. Only this can be said for it that , until late in
the 19th century it was based upon a logical line of thinking.
Records , commencing with the Liber Poenitentialis of Theodore ,
Archbishop of Canterbury (668-690 A.D.) show that the treatment of it
was based upon the ecclesiastical conception of a personal Devil whose
agents, were , upon terms, made available to human beings for sinister
and criminal purposes . The Church explained and elaborated . The
Legislature enacted. The Courts gave effect to the laws and decrees laid
down.
In his excellent book, "Witch Hunting and Witch Trials." Mr.
L'Estrange Ewen quotes from laws in force in the time of King Wintraed
(690-631 A .D .) , the Confessional of Egbert, Archbishop of York (735-766
A.D .), of Edward and Guthrarn, Ethelred, William the Conqueror and
Henry I. The theory behind all of them is the same .
Under the Statute "de Heretico Comburendo," 2 Henry 5 c. 7,
witches were liable to be burnt as heretics . That traffic with the Devil
was heresy admitted of no argument.
The practice on the continent was the same . The theory b ' hind it
was the same . Dr. Kurtz, the German authority on Church .istory,
wrote:-
' 'Heresy and sorcery were regarded as correlates like two
agencies resting on and serviceable to the demoniacal powers, and
were treated in the same way as offences to be punished with torture
and the stake."
("Church History," by Professor K·iirtz,
edited by Nicholl, Vol . 2, p. 105).
It was at all times regarded as one of the gravest crimes known to the
law. It represented a working with the arch-enemy of God himself-an
alliance with evil for the purpose of evil.
The trial of Joan of Arc, 1431, well illustrates this point. She was
charged specifically with being a ''sorceress'' and ''invoker of demons.'·
5
The main efforts of her many cross-examiners and accusers were directed
to prove that her voices were infernal. She, in her defence, admitted
the fact of the voices but claimed that they were good. Joan was a
masterly advocate, and would not have volunteered this admission if it
had prejudiced her defence, placed her indeed at the mercy of her enemies.
Both she and her accusers took it for granted that the only real issue was
whether her voices were good or evil. If they were proved to be good
she went free. Had it been otherwise the a ssessors would not have
found (as they did) that
" Joan had failed to prove that the voices came from God ."
Nor would the Faculty of Theology of the University of Paris (called
upon to advise) have found
''The voices were seductive and pernicious lies proceeding from
evil and diabolic spirits such as Belia!, Satan and Behemoth.''
The burning of Joan was one of the meanest judicial murders of
history . There was not a line of honest evidence that supported the
charge made against her . Her accusers, however , were at enormous
pains to find such facts as would justify their findings . .
.For the purpose of following the operation of the W1tc?craft Acts
dunng the last two hundred years of their activity, the followmg Statutes
should be noted:
A.D . 1542
A.D . 1547
A.D. 156.)
A.D. 1604
33 Henry VIII c . 8.
l Edward VI c. 16.
5 Elizabeth c . 15 .
l James I. c . 12.
The Statute of Henry VIII was declared to be directed against
"co~jurations and witchcrafts and sorcery and enchantments."
This Act was repealed in the first year of Edward VI by an Act re-
pealing
' 'everything mentioning or in any way concerning religion or opin-
ions. ''
A respite of 15 years was broken by the Statute of E lizabeth which
re-enac~ed the death penalty .
This Act was repealed in the first year of James I but re-enacted for
the purpose of
" the_ better restrayninge of the said Offenses and more severe pun-
1shmge the same ."
The S~at~1te of James I, the only Statute prior to 1735 that need be
closely exa:mmed, read as follows·
A .D;,1604. I Jae . I. c. 12 . ·
. An Acte ag~inst Conjit.1'ation Witchcrafts and dealinge with
evitt and wicked Spirits.
Be it enacted by the King o·ur Sov 'aigne Lorde the Lordes Spirit-
1tall a11d Tem;perall and the Commons in this p'sm t Partiamenl
6
assembled, and by the aitthoritie of the same, That the Statute made
i:n fifte yeere of the Raigne of our late Sov 'aigne Ladie of most famous
and happie memorie Queen Elizabeth, intituled An Act againste
Conjurations Inchantmente and Witchcrafte, be from the Feaste of St .
Michaell the Archangell nexte cominge.Jor and concerninge all Offences
to be comitted after the same Feaste, utterlie repealed.
And for the better restrayninge the said Offenses, and more severe
punishinge the same, be it fu.rther enacted by the aforesaide, That if
any pson or persons, after the saide Feaste of Saint Michaell the
Archangell next cominge, shall use practise or exercise any Invocation
or Conj1tration of any evill and wicked Spirit, or shall consult covenant
with entertaine employ f eede or rewarde any evill and wicked Spirit to
or for any intent or pmpose; or take up any dead man woman or child
out of his or her theire grave, or any other place where the dead bodie
resteth, or theskin bone or any otherparteofany deadperson ,to be imployed
or itsed in any manner of Witchcrafte Sorcerie, Charme or Inchant-
ment; or shall practise or exercise any Witchcrafte Inchantment Charme
, r Sorcerie, wherebie any pson shalbe killed destroyed wasted consumed
pined or lamed in his or her bodie, or any parte thereof; that then everie
sitch Offendor or Offendors , their Ayders Abettors and Counsellors,
being of any the saide Offences dulie and lawfullie convicted and
attaintecr, shall siif!er pains of deathe as a Felon or Felons , and shall
lose the benefit of Charge and Sanctuarie.
James I was himself an authority and in the year 1597, as James VI
of Scotland , published a Daemonologie.
In this book he did his best to fan religious fanaticism, which in
fact required no stimulant.
He demonstrated the enormous power of demons saying t!1at they
could , inter alia, bring fire from heaven, conjure corn from one field to
another an d raise the wind . The lowest of all were
" the damned souls of departed conjurors."
He pointed out , however , that some spirits were of high class
' 'not to be spoken of idly or foolishly.' '
Five years previously he had demonstrated his willingness to give
practical assistance by setting up a commission authorised to torture
suspected witches.
''the pesonns wilfull or refusand to declare the veritie to putt to tor-
ture or sic uthir punishment to use and caus to usit as may move
them to utter the treuth .''
The Statute remained in force, keepin&al~ve a reign of terror, until
1735. The chief evil aimed at was that md1cated by the words " in-
vocations , conjurations, witchcraft sorcery .and enchantments. ' ' Such
was the fear of them, fanned and kept ahve by the teachings of the
Churches , that in general pardons in the reigns of Elizabeth, James I ,
and Charles II persons convicted of these offences were excluded from
benefit. (See 23 Elizabeth , c. 16, 21 James I , c . 35, 12 Charles II ,
c. n) .
7
Lord Chief Justice Coke, the greatest lawyer of his time, discussed
the Statute at length in his Institutes (3 Inst. c. 6 . p . 44). He had. no ,
doubt either of the wisdom of his monarch or of the fundamental piety
behind the law .
" It had been" he wrote "a great defect in government if so great
an abomination had passed with impunity.''
His definitions were precise and made clear the damage aimed at .
"A CON]UROR" said he "is he that by the holy and powerfull
name of A lmighty God invokes and conjures the Devill to consult with
him , or to do some act. ' '
"A WITCH is a person that hath conference ?fiith the Devill, to
consult with him or to do some act.''
' 'An I NCHANTER, INCANTATOR , is he or she qui carminibus
aut cantiunculis Daemonem adjurat-he or she who adjures the Devil
by rhymes or versicles.''
Coke concluded by taking the more prominent offences one by one
and discussing them.
. I . . ' 'If any person or person shall use practis~ ~r ~~ercise any
mvocation or conjuration of any evil and wicked sp1nt . .
~~re the Devil by the holy and powerful! n~mes of A!-rrng~ty
God 1
s rnvoked as hathe been said and this invocation or con1urat10n
of a wicked .spirit is felony witbo~t any other act or thing , save only
the appant1on of the spirit.
Coke was a great blackguard . His theology.' however, was as
sound as bis Jaw. It was not his fau lt if error crept m later .
II.
TORTURE.
~ersecution n~v~r reached the same pitch in England as upon the
contment, where 1t 1
s estimated that, subsequent t~ 1484 (t?e bull of
Innocent VIII), 300 ,ooo people died by torture, burm:ig, bo1lmg, hang-
ing or drownmg. Children were not spared. In his book , Daemon -
ologi~, publ~shed in 1597, Remy the French Judge says that children of
convicted witches were stripped and beaten with rods round the.Places
where the. parents were bein~ burnt alive. Remy appro".ed of th1
s form
of correction but doubted if it was sufficiently severe sayrng
"ou~ .of consideration for the public safety such children ought in
addition to be banished from the boundaries of human nature for
experience has shown that they who have fallen into the power of
the Devil can rarely be rescued except by death.''
In Scotland witches were burnt alive. In England, after 1603,
burnings were rare, death by hanging being the normal punishment.
8
In every country persecution fever varied in strength in different
parts according as religious fanaticism ran high or otherwise. The zeal
of one man was often sufficient to raise killing mania to the danger point.
Protestants were not less guilty than Catholics . In Scotland prosecu-
tions were more common, torture more subtle and acute, than in England
where incidentally persecution reached its highest levels during the
reign of Elizabeth and the Commonwealth.
WITCHCRAFT PROVED.
Coke made plain the essence of the offence . Other lawyers and
writers demonstrated how it could be proved-the evidence by which it
could be established .
To bring home to any person that he or she had been guilty of co-
operation, collusion and partnership with the Devil was not easy. The
lawyers of the time, however, were equal to the task .
It will be observed that they based their instructions and advice
upon their knowledge of the difficulties by which the Devil was circum-
scribed and beset-of the confined channels in which he and his creatures
worked and were compelled to work. It was known for example that
he was of necessity compelled to work through " familiars." Familiars
had habits that were known. They left their tracks and traces behind
them. These had but to be searched for and discovered and complicity
and guilt were proved, The exact knowledge upon which they worked
was based upon the teachings of the Church through centuries.
Examination of the records show that the evidence relied upon was
ridiculous. It demonstrated nothing and proved nothing other than
widespread folly, superstition and dark ignorance.
Behind the frenzy which throughout Europe took hundreds of
thousands of tormented , half-demented men and women to the gallows
the stake and the pot there was not a rag of evidence worthy of consider-
ation.
Mr. L 'Estrange Ewen , with great industry , has collected nearly
eight hundred indictments actually used between the years 1558 and
1700. In each and every one of them reference-directly or by implic-
ation-is made to the Devil and/or his agents. For t he purpose of
illustration four are reproduced.
1645. Essex Summer Sessions and general gaol delivery
holden at Chelmsford on 17 July, 2 1 Chas . I. Commission dated
20 June, 21 Chas . I.
640. JOYGE BOONES of Chette St. Osit h , spinster , wife of
William Boones , yeoman, on l Feb . 20. Chas . I, at Chette St.
Osith , did entertain etc . two evil spirits, one called "Jockey" and
one called "Rugge."
S.p. collu .
9
045 . EuzABETH HARVEY of Ramsay, widow, on 14 April , 2 1
Charles I , at Ramsey did entertain , etc., three evil spirits each in the
likeness of a red mouse.
: S. p. collu .
646. MARY HOCKETT of Ramsay, widow , on .\pril r4 , 21
CharJes I, did entertain three evil ~pirits each in the likeness of a
mouse, called , " Littleman ." " Prettyman." and " Dainty."
: S. p. collu.
The endorsement S. p. collu records the fate of three women-
suspend per collu- hanged by neck until dead .
The gaol delivery roll reveals that at this one Sessions thirty-three
persons were indicted for Witchcraft, four died in gaol (a common habit),
thirty-one were hanged . •
In each and every one of the indictments set out by Mr . L 'Estrange
Ewen , traffic with evil spirits is. directly or indirectly alleged . . That
was the essence of the matter. It indicated and proved traffic with the
De,·il. That, in trials, was the point on which the mind and conscience
of the Court had to be satisfied . There is a mass of evidence available
to show how it was done. Legal writers provided much of it .
COKE REINFORCED .
Michael Dalton , a Master of Chancery, editor of ' 'The Country
Justice,'' first published in 16!8 and Richard Bernard, responsible for
the Guide to Grand Jurymen in r'627 were the most illuminating. Be-
tween them they made plain the kind,of and type of evidence which took
witches to the gallows and the stake .
Writing in the ''Country Justice '' Dalton referred to witches as
"the Most .cruel,_ re:ieng~ful and bloody of all felons," but admitted
apparent difficulties m brmging home this wickedness .
They, i.e ., the Justices
''may not always expect direct evidence seeing all their works a~~
the works of darkness and no witnesses with them to accuse them .
He demonstrated , however how the absence of direct evidence
could with confidence be dispensed with.
'' I. These witches h_
ave ordinarily a familiar or spirit which appear-
eth to them; sometunes in one shape, sometimes in another, as m
the shape of a man, woman, boy, dog, cat , foal, fou l, hare, rat.
toad. etc. And to.these spirits they give names . .
2 · Therr said familiar hath some big or little teat upon their body ,
and. m so~e secret place, where he sucketh them. And besides
therr ~uck~g. the Devil leaveth other marks upon their body.
sometrrnes like a ~lue or red spot, like a flea biting . . . . .
and these the Devils marks be insensible and being pricked will not
bleed · · . . and therefore require diligent and careful
search.
IO
. These first two are main points to discover and convict these
witches ; for they fully prove that those witches have a familiar,
and made a league with the Devil."
' 'Country j 1
,£stice, " N
l ichael Dalton-
all editions, 1630-1727.
Dalton and Bernard did no more than summarise and advocate
methods and practices which in the past had proved effective .
For the purpose of demonstrating that they were based upon super-
stitions of the crudest description they have but to be set out in plain
English. ·
-The following are the most common tests of which evidence was
given . Demonstrations in open Court were given ~
Search for the Devil's mark.
This test was based upon the theory that when familiars, i.e .
Devil's agents, took on human form, the witches nourished them with
their own blood either by suckling them or giving them drops of blood .
For this purpose they, i.e., the witches were supplied with super-
numerary nipples .
Search therefore was made for marks of the kind and type described
by Dalton . Discovery of suspicious marks was a hanging matter .
The mark pointed to and proved the contact with a familiar . In-
timacy with a familiar was proof positive of a working arrangement
with the Devil . Each and every test followed the san1e l_ine of thought .
The search was normally carried out by a woman appointed by justices
of the peace or by some recognised witch finder , remunerated, incid-
entally , according to the number of convictions secured.
The Prickin~ Test.
It was known that fam iliars left behind them insensitive flesh on
the bodies of women they suckled . This could be detected by sticking
pins ihto the subject. In Newcastle-on-Tyne:
" A Scottish expert was engaged at a fee of 20s. payable for
every woman discovered and condemned . As soon as the witch-
finder arrived the magistrates sent their bellman through the town,
ringing the bell and crying, all people that would bring in any
complaint against any woman for a witch , they should be sent for
and tried by the person appointed . Thirty women were brought
into the Town Hall and stripped , and then openly had pins thrust
into their bodies."
Most of them were found guilty.
The Blood Test.
This test was based upon the theory that a person bewitched could
rid himself of sickness brought on by witchcraft by causing blood to
flow from the body of the person responsible . Any person accused was
II
therefore scratched, cut, or pricked , at the same time that the alleged
victim was observed. If recovery from sickness by the bewitched person
was simultaneous with the effusion of blood, guilt was presumed and
evidence given accordingly. -
Depositions of twenty-five witnesses against three alleged witches
before the Grand Jury at the Assizes at Leicester in September, 1717,
stated :
''But the most infallible cure was to fetch the blood of the
witches which was constantly practised and with good success but
the witches would be so stubborn that they were often forced to call
the constable to bring the assistance of a number of persons to hold
them by force to be blooded . . . . They used great pins and
such instruments for that purpose. ''
. The method was highly thought of in Scotland. Fatal results
which followed upon pricking and prodding, however , by searchers
who were unduly vigorous, robbed the gallows of its prey in too many
cases.
The Swimming Test.
Observations of this test were given in evidence at the Leicester
Assizes in 1717 in regard to above . Witnesses deposed that all the
supposed witches
" had their thumbs and great toes ty'd together & th'.'-t they were
thrown so bound into the water & that they swam like a cork or
empty baiTel tho' they strove all they could to sink.''
The approved method was to strip the victim naked and to bind
the right thumb to the left toe and the left thumb to the right toe and
thr?"':' her thus ii;ito the river or pond or river. If she floated proof
positive was obta!Iled of guilt. If she sank and/or drowned it was but
a case of a bad end to bad rubbish.
The theory behind this type of evidence and proof was explained by
James I in his "Daemonologie."
''It appears that God bath appointed for a supernatural signe
of the monstrous impietie of witches that water shall refuse to receive
them into her bosom, that have shaken off from them the sacred
water of baptism and wilfullie refused the benefit thereof. ''
Coke himself could not have been more clear.
The reactions (Jf bewitched persons.
In every edition of ''The Country Justice'' between 1630 and 1727,
Dalton made. reference to reaction tests. He pointed out that dead
bodies of_be~itched persons bled when touched by the witch responsible.
The fact md1cated the evidence to be sought.
He remmded his readers that people bewitched had a habit of
12
vomiting crooked pins, needles, nails, coals , lead , straw, hair or the
like. .
In the depositions before the Grand Jury at Leicester. in r7r7,
reference was made to damning evidence arising out of discovery of
Devil's marks, swimming tests, urine tests, in addition to that of re-
actions observed. An extract made for the benefit of Lord Parker,
Judge of Assize, stated:-
' 'One of the bewitch 'd persons vomited up a great quantity
of gravel! and dirt and thatch of a house and stones so big that it
was incredible how they could come out of any Christian mouth. ' ' -
Several of the informants deposed that
' 'they themselves had been bewitch 'd and afflicted after this manner
and besides had seen and felt great black bees to come out of their
own and other peoples noses and mouths , which bees could not be
struck down, &c. "
"Another young maiden voided.downwards-with the help of
a midwife . . . . a great number of stones of a large size. The
stones themselves were produced and shew'd as evidence . The
midwife and girl and mother all swore to the truth of the fact. "
More reliable evidence sought.
Judges were helpful. They could not , however, make bricks with-
out straw and at times , at any rate, insisted upon something capable of
being called evidence.
This difficulty led to the employment of professi0nal witch finders
to supplement the efforts of local searchers and watchers. The latter
were full of enthusiasm and zeal, but at times lacked finish.
These finders flourished particularly in Scotland . They were ,
however , widely used in England as well . They were employed by the
Town Councils or Guilds and were formally licensed . Samuel Cocwra
was licensed by the Privy Cow1cil , in r579, to search for conjurers along
the Welsh borders .
J ohn Balfoure, of Corshous (Scotland}. professed
" to discover persons,guilt ie of the crime of witchcraft by remarking
the devill 's rnarke upon some part or parts of their persons and
bodies and threisting of preins in the same,'' (r632).
Alexander Chrisholm, of Conmer (Scotland},
"tortured women by waking, hanging them up by the thombes,
burning the soles of their feet at the fyre, drawing of othirs at
horses taills and binding of them with widdies about the neck and
feet and carrying them so alongst on horseback to prison . . . .
and all of them have confest whatever they were pleased to demand
of them.' '
(Register of the Privy Council of Scotland, r632,
pp . 427' 433) .
r3
In England the most famous representatives of the profession were
l\fatthew Hopkins, who employed his own regular searcher (a woman by
the name of Goody Philips), and J ohn Stearn. Both of them crowned
their careers by writing books upon the subject that were revealing.
Hopkins, a lawyer by profession, was a rare blackguard. He
_tyled himself " Witchfinder Generali ," and upon his own showin ~
brou1?;hr to their death two hundred women denounced as witches.
It is not known how many men he disposed of. Nor can any refer-
ence be found to his partial failures when the person accused received
pun i hm nt !es than the death sentence.
He fi r t c tablished his reputation at Chelmsford Assizes in 1645.
\\'her,·, i11tcr a.li4, he secured the conviction of Elizabeth Clark, who (at
the in. tancc of Hopkins) \\'a. kept awake for three nights and therefore
confr.sPd that :h had had
''carnal knowledge with the D vii and pos essecl fam iliars who
,,.a itee! upon her. "
E Iizaheth Clarke represented but a drop in the ocean. She was one
of many.
Speaking of his triumph Hopkins recorded
"In one hundred in Essex 29 were condemned at once, 4 brought 25
miles to be hanged. ''
In 1646 Hopkins secured the hanging of an aged clergyman, by
nam~ John Lew.is, by obtaining from him a confession ~hat he ha~ sunk
a ship by magic. The confession came after persuasion . Lewis was
''swum'' in Framlingham moat and succumbed only after he had been
searched for devil 's marks, kept without sleep for several nights, and
run backwards and forwards across a room until he was breathless.
It has been already shown that in Scotland torture was officially recog-
nised as a legitimate way of obtaining confessions . In England , theore-
tically, it could only be made lawful by act of Royal Prerogative. The
records show , however, that it was openly practised.
Many confessions are recorded. Not one can be found that is not
on the face of it suspect. The style of Matthew Hopkins ean be detected
in many of them.
The evidence of young children was freely admitted and acted upon.
At Leicester Assizes in 1616 nine women were convicted upon the
evidence of one thirteen year old boy who complained that he suffered
from fit by reason of bewitchment. The women were hanged but
the fit ~o~tinued . Sir Humphrey Winch and Sir Randolf Crew were
the pres1dmg Judges. Their names should be immortalised.
, Cler:11ence.Vale of Fearing (1601), Magdalen Pircas of Panfield (1601),
h.atherme Kmge of Showeford (1626), Alan Dixon of Wivenhoe (1641) ,
usan Pm~henden, of Halden(r652), were all hanged on the evidence of
a smgl \\'Itness.
III .
THE STORM SUBSIDES.
The task of presiding over witch trials was formidable, too form-
idable indeed for the majority of judges who lacked the necessary grip
and integrity of mind .
Compelled as they were to work in an atmos.phere of fanaticism ,
hysteria and malice some excuses can be found for them. Every witch-
craft trial was the occasion for popular exitement .
In his life of Lord Keeper Guildford , Roger North wrote :
" It is seldom that a poor wretch is brought to trial but there
is at her heels a popular rage that does little less than demand her
to be put to death ; and if a judge is so clear and open as to declare
against that impious vulgar opinion the countrymen cry , 'This
judge hath no religion , for he does not believe in witches ,' and so
to show they have, some hang the poor wretches."
Writing of the trial of Susannah Edwards, Mary Trembles and
Temperance Lloyd , at Exeter Assizes , in r682 , he said :
"A less zeal in a city or kingdom hath been the overture of
defection and revolution , and if these women had been acquitted, it
was thought that the country people would have committed some
disorder .' '
Sir John Holt , Lord Chief Justice of England, l 689-17ro , was an
outstanding exception . To him indeed must be given the main credit
for bringing to an end-temporarily at least- persecutions through the
Courts.
Unlike many of his contemporaries he did not subscribe to the view
that if persons charged with witchcraft were acquitted , revealed religion
and the constitution would thereby be endangered .
Unmoved by witchcraft mania or any other mania, he strove only
to ensure that justice was done. He presided over a dozen or more
witchcraft trials and demonstrated in every case that examination of the
evidence revealed its futility. Dealing with juries drawn from districts
and areas permeated by superstition he succeeded , by a combination of
shrewdness and tre11chancy in so laying the evidence before them that the
futility of it was appreciated .
In every case a verdict of not guilty was returned.
Two or three outstanding cases are worthy of perusal. They
demonstrate , inter alia, the type of evidence seriously put forward by
the prosecution. . . .
At Guildford Assizes m 1701, Sarah Moredike appeared before hrm
char~ed with "having bewitched one Richard Hathaway who was wasted,
etc.
Hathaway and his witnesses gave evidence of a grievous condition
of things.
"By reason of bewitchment," said Hathaway, " he had been
15
unable to eat or drink for many days on end and at times was both
deaf and dumb. He had vomited pins in large quantities and had
finally established the guilt of Moredike by the blood upon her from
behind and scratched her face unfil blood flowed . He had re-
covered immediately.''
The evidence of Hathaway, supported by many witnesses, was no
more ridiculous than that which had hanged many unfortunate people.
It did not , however, have the usual effect .
The evidence was coldly examined and equally coldly explained to
the jury.
Sarah Moredike was acquitted.
Hathaway , upon the other hand, was by order of the judge detained
in gaol until such time as he could find sureties that he would appear at
the next Assizes to answer a charge that he had falsely accused Sarah
Moredike without cause or colour. ·
A great outcry followed.
It was openly asserted that iustice had miscarried and that the
Judge and Jury had been bribed. ·
Hathaway's fits became worse, and excited crowds besieged More-
dike's house clamouring for the swimming test. Hathaway became a
popu.lar h~ro an~ s~ver~l churches prayed openly fo~ his recovery. :1fe
vomited pms, this trme m the presence ofwitnesses, with greater profusion
than ever , and was unable to take food or drink for forty days.
Supported by an array of witnesses he appeared in due course before
Lord Chief Justice_ Holt ~d Jury . .
The Lord Chief Justice exhibited interest in the length of tune
during which Hathaway had survived without food or drink, and closely
examined a medical witness on the point. He asked him if all the
"devils in hell" could enable a man to fast for as long as the time sworn
to by Hathaway and his witness.
. 1:he_doctor was frankly sceptical and said so. Examination on the
pms mcident followed. Witnesses admitted that the pins thrown up
were found in Hathaway's pockets .
Hathaway was convicted and was sentenced to a short period of
time in the pillory ,.to be whipped, and to six months ' hard labour.
The example given by Holt as head of the judiciary was even more
important than his rulings . .
H_is contemporary judges soon followed his lead.
Sir John Powell and Lord Parker were the most conspicuous and were
concerned in cases which hastened the end .
. Powell presided in 1712, over the trial of Jane Wenham at Hertford
assizes, the last case m which the sentence of death for witchcraft was
pronounced.
Dean Swift has described Powell as
"an old fellow with spare grey hairs, who was the merriest old gentle-
man I,;ver saw, spoke pleasing things, and chuckled till he cried
agam.
In the Wenham case he said several pleasing things .
16
\
!
I
A Rev. Mr. Chrishall gave evidence that for the purpose of
easing Ann Thorne of fits brought on by bewitchment, he had read the
office for the visitation of the sick . The judge beamed at him and said:
''that he had heard that there were forms of Exorcism in the Roman
Liturgy, but knew not that we had any in our Church .' '
When it was testified against Wenham that she was in the habit of
flying , the judge nodded in her direction as though to encourage her and
said:
"You may. There is no law against flying ."
He failed, however to chuckfe the case out of Court. He did his
utmost. The jury , however, convicted and Powell was compelled to
pronounce the death sentence.
The judge did not rest until he had'secured a free pardon.
In 1717 the case of Jane Clarke was due to be heard at Leicester
Assizes before Lord Parker.
The case against her was typical and tremendous .
Twenty-five witnesses swore that Devil's marks had been found
on her, that when ducked she had ''swum like a cork,'' that she had
failed in the blood test, and that various bewitched persons had vomited
large quantities of metal.
The Grand jury, however, refused to return a true bill.
Lord Parker had an extract of the evidence made for his own purpose
and made full use of it in high quarters .
REPEAL.
No more attempts were made to use the Courts for the purpose of
judicial murder.
Since the days of. ~hakes_peare English judges have been past
masters of the art of k1lhng ev~dence that was ridiculous by ridicule.
What Holt, Powell and Parker succeeded in doing in the end others
could have don~ a century and a half.e~Jier . They ought not to be ac-
quitted of their share of respons1b1hty for a long period of sadistic
cruelty that was hideous and odious.
Help soon came from contemporary writers. Sir R ichard Steele,
in the Tatter, openly eulogised Holt and his methods, and himself,
ridiculed the evidence on which u:ifortunates were being convicted.
The final deathblow was admmstered by the Rev . Francis Hutchin-
son who in ''Historical Essays on Witchcraft,' ' published in 1718, made
an attack that was devastating.
Interested originally in the case of Jane Wenham , he observed the
contempt of the presiding judge and shared it. Thereafter he investi-
gated every availabl.e record and adopted the devastating met~od of
arranging the cases lil chronological order and recordmg the evidence
upon which-judges concurring-the death sentence had been pro-
nounced.
No more was necessary .
17
No reader of intelligence, even in those days, could fail to observe
that in the whole collection, there was not sufficient evidence to hang a
self-;especting dog.
The Statute of Jarnes I was repealed in 1735.
IV.
THE WITCHCRAFT ACT, 1735 .
a .
The Statute of James I was repealed in 1735-in the ninth year of
George II .
The Act was described as:-
"An Act to repeal the Statute made in the first year of King 1
James the first, intitled, An Act against Conjuration ,Witchcraft
and dealing with evil and wicked Spirits.' '
It declared as follows:-
''Be it enacted . . . . that the Statute made in the
First Year of . . . . James the First, intitled, An Act
against Conjuration, Witchcraft and dealing with evil and wicked
Spirits, shall, from the twenty-fourth day of June next, be repealed
and utterly void and of none effect. . . . .
''Be if further enacted that from the said Twenty-fourth day of
June, no Prosecution , Suit, or Proceeding, shall be commenced or
carried on against any Person or Persons for Witchcraft, Sorcery ,
Inchantment or Conjuration.''
An Offence, however, that was new, was created by the words
following:-
''For the more effectual preventing and punishing of any
pretences to such Arts or Powers as are before mentioned . . be
it further enacted
'That if any per~on or persons shall . . . . pretend to
exercISe or use any kmd of Witchcraft, Sorcery, Inchantment, or
Conjuration . . every person so offending shall, for every
such offence. suffer imprisonment . . . . stand openly on
the pillory, etc ."
The .Statute did not, in so many words, assert that witchcraft,
sorcery. mchantment and conjuration had no actuality. Such however
was implied_. It _is unthinkable that any legislature should proclaim
that traffickmg with the devil was no longer an offence but that any
claim to do so would be punished. It could not have been contemplated
that a person charged with pretending to use witchcraft could be heard
to say that she was entitled to go free because she was in fact a witch.
The good sense behind the Act seems to have been recognised even
18
by those who had assailed the previous penal laws. It was known that
in many parts of the country. there was (amongst the ignorant) a genu~e
fear of witchcraft and a belief, founded or unfounded, that there were
certain sinister persons who caused terror by their claims to demoniacal
powers.
If there were such people the Statute appears to have dealt effectively
with them. There may have been prosecutions in a few isolated cases.
They attracted, how~ver , but little public attention and did not find
their way into the reported cases.
Belief in witchcraft gradually subsided and finally died away.
When the twentieth century opened no problem arising out of it re-
mained.
b .
MEDIUMS.
In the middle of the rgth century a problem of an entirely different
type presented itself. It came this time through persons who claimed
to be in contact with forces that were good and (unlike witches and/or
believers in witches) produced evidence in support of their assertions
that was striking. Before the end of the first great war the assertions of
fact made by these people had come under scientific scrutiny with the
result that there was not a major cow1try in the world in which there were
not scientists of eminence who supported their main contentions and
assertions.
Orthodox Science, the Churches and a section of public opinion
however, frowned upon them.
The magnitude and importance of their claims exposed them to the
uspicion of imposture and brought them under the notice of the Courts.
FALLACIES.
Three cases are outstanding.
In Monck v. Hilton (1877) 2 Ex .D. 268 it was held for the first time
that mediums came within the damage of a penal Statute, not under
discussion , namely the Vagrancy Act , 1824, section 4, which makes
punishable as a rogue and a vagabond :
•'every ~erson . . . . " using any subtle craft by palmistry or
otherwt.~e to deceive and tmpose on any of his Majesty's subjects .''
It was held that mediums were per ons who used ''a subtle craft,
which was covered by the descriptive words ' 'by palmistry or otherwise.''
Jn the course of the hearing Pollock, B, laid the foundat ion for
subsequent trouble by the following references to the Witchcraft Act
which connected them with mediumship .
''There has long existed a parallel set of Statutes beginning
with 33 Henry VIII c. 8 and ending with 9 George II c. 5 where the
19
expressed object is to deal with persons using, practising , or exer-
cising any invocation or conjuration of any evil spirit.
' 'The offences dealt with by these Statutes are explained by
Lord Coke in his treatise on I J as., c. 12 and include what in more
modern days is more commrnly called witchcraft, and it is to be
observed that by these the dealing with the supernatural is itself
made an offence, apart from a.by deceiving or imposing on others .''
In truth and in fact neither Lord Coke, nor any contemporary writer,
either in the treatise quoted or in any other place, either then or at any
other time, suggested that dealing with the supernatural was itself an
offence.
Monck v . Hilton, 1877, has never been overruled and is consistently
quoted as the leading case on the subject. . . . .
In the civil case of Beatty v. London Spmtuahst Alliance, 1923
I Ch. 237, a bequest for the purposes of ''training suitable persons as
mediums'' was held to be bad on the grounds that
''the trust was not one which was or might be operated for the public
benefit. ' '
It was argued against the bequest that- it was contrary to public
policy on the grounds, inter alia, that mediumship was illegal. Counsel
said that he
"had no doubt that to practise as a medium, to claim to have com-
munication with discarnate spirits and, thereby, to console the
bereaved was an offence under the Witchcraft Act, 1735 ."
Mr. Justice Russell interrupted him to say
''That seems to be a complete answer .''
A fallacy was judicially confirmed .
THE WITCHCRAFT ACT REVITALISED.
The case R. v . Duncan, 1944, breathed new life into the Witch-
craft Act and made out of it a powerful weapon . The Act was fully
interpreted . The procedure w1der it and the rules of evidence referable
to it were established.
The case made plain that any medium pretending or claiming
to have mediumistic powers could be dealt with under it. It made
equally plain that in practice no medium, however innocent, had if
attacked a reasonable chance of escaping conviction . It demonstrated
that a Witchcraft Act had, once agai11 , forced the Courts into an im-
possible position.
But little comment on the case is necessary .
The facts speak sufficiently for themselves.
A Mrs . Duncan was indicted at the Central Criminal Court under
the Witchcraft Act, 1735. as follows:-
" That on thf' 19th January, 1944 , she pretended to exercise
2 0
or use a kind of conjuration, namely, that spirits of deceased persons
should be present in fact in the place where she then was.''
The essence of the case again~t her was that she had pretended to be
a materialising medium, a person, that is to say, through whom persons
reputed to be dead showed themselves in full physical form and in such
a way that they could be seen , touched, heard , and identified .
Such a person should be easily tested. In view of the fact that she
claimed that the spirits that came through her showed themselves in
full physical form and could be seen and touched, heard and identified,
she should be able to demonstrate the capacity claimed in such a way
that all reasonable doubt was removed. The test of unmasking an
impostor upon the other hand presented no difficulty.
Her defence removed such as there might be.
She admitted that she had made the claim or pretence alleged qver
a number of years and by way of defence said only that the claim was
true.
She asked for an opportunity to demonstrate the truth of her
assertions to the jury, and through her Counsel committed herself to the
implication that the offer was practicable. She suggested , indeed,
that to avoid possibility of error several demonstrations should be
given·.
It was plain that in this way she could prove' her innocence
beyond dispute-if she were innocent.
It was equally plain that her offer provided a means of establish-
ing her guilt beyond doubt-if it was desired to remove doubt.
The evidence was, however, held to be inadmissible and the
rejection of it was, on appeal , upheld .
The rule was established that a medium f harged under the Witch-
craft Act, 1735, with ''pretending to be a medium'' could or should
be refused the opportunity of demonstrating through his own person that
" he did not pretend."
The rule will be binding in all future cases brought under the Act .
It must be insisted that no evidence more direct, final and con-
clusive could be imagined and that a refusal to hear the accused in defence
at all could hardly shock the conscience more.
Thereafter she proffered the evidence of a group of experienced
investigators who had examined her subsequent to her arrest and
sought to speak of the result of their investigations and to prove that she
was what she claimed or pretended to be.
This evidence also was rejected .
The Lord Chief Justice commented
''If it was right to exclude the proffered evidence of a demon-
stration before the Jury, it follows that the evidence of what took
pl.ace on March 15th, rq44, in the absence of the Jury, was like-
wise properly excluded .' '
She was , rather surprisingly , allowed to call a number of witnesses
who gave evidence that she was what she claimed to he. The witnesses
21
called were in the region of fifty. It was, however , agreed that Counse 1
for the Defence had at his disposal witnesses running into hundreds
who, by agreement made in the interests of tin1e, were not called .
Amongst the witnesses was an experienced medical man Dr.
Winning, who gave evidence that he had had forty opportunities at
least for tests and had satisfied himself as to four hundred identifications,
including the case of his own mother (who.had identified herself not less
than a dozen times) , his brother, other close relations, and numerous
friends. They had spoken in many different voices, including American ,
Irish , Scotch , English, Hebrew and German. Each and every one of
them, he said, had established their identity to his satisfaction.
Witnesses from every part of the country gave corroborative evi-
dence.
Many of them had examined the phenomena fifty times or more.
Commenting upon this evidence upon appeal the Lord Chief Justice
said:-
" We find it a little difficult to see on what principle that evi-
dence was admitted in this case. . The relevant period
was the period covered by the indictment . . . . The learned
Recorder no doubt was anxious that in an unusual case some latitude
should be given, and permitted the evidence to be called, but had
he excluded it, we do not think complaint could properly have been
made. Indeed, we think it would have been rightly excluded ."
A further rule binding on all cases brought in future under the Act
was thus established .
Charged with "pretending to be a medium ," Mrs. Duncan .called
such evidence as she was allowed to call to prove that she was m fact
a medium.
The Prosecution retorted that this was evidence of good character
and let in evidence of bad character. The Jury were therefore informed
that Mrs. Duncan had previously been convicted.
She had previously been convicted of "falsely" claiming to be a
materialising medium.
It was held on appeal that evidence of the previous conviction was
rightly admitted. The Lord Chief Justice said that:-
,'the evidence was plainly admissible for the purpose of showing
that her record was not so blameless as was suggested. ' '
He pointed out that every question asked of a witness by the Defence
for the purpose of proving that Mrs. Duncan was a medium implied the
suggestion that she was a "genuine" medium.
This is of course true.
It is equally true, however, that a person charged with "pretend-
ing'' carmot defend himself except by proving that he did not ''pretend .' '
. Th~ effect of the ruling , binding on all future cases under the Act ,
1s crushmg.
It means in practice that after one failure before a hostile (and
possibly quite ignorant) magistrate a jury may be told by the Prosecution
22
-if the medium has ventured to defend himself at all-to bear in mind
always that they are dealing with a person previously convicted of
fraud.
CONCLUSION .
The ·evidence upon which witches were convicted was .regarded at
the time as being sufficient . By reason of clouded judgment great
cruelties were perpetrated and much injustice was done. The reputation
of the Courts suffered. No great cause, however, was hampered.
Mediums are in a different category. Their claims it is true are
high. So, however, were the claims of Socrates, Joan of Arc, Galvani,
Copernicus, Columbus, Galileo and Newton, who were equally dis-
credited .
If mediums are anything they are delicate instruments of some high
purpose and should not be befouled . To misunderstand them and their
end is perhaps excusable. To misuse them, to allow them carelessly
to be destroyed with all the appearance of injustice, is madness .
A PPENDIX .
EXTRACT FROM REPORT OF DEPUTATION TO THE HOME
SECRETARY RE THE VAGRANCY ACT, OCTOBER, 1942.
THE FOLLY BEHIND PRESENT DAY TREATM
ENT OF MEDIUMS.
Represen ting the Home Office:
Mr. OSBEiff PEAKE , M.P ., Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State.
Sir FRA K NEWSAM, K .B .E ., C.V.O ., M.C., Deputy Under-Secre-
tary of State .
Mr . GRAHAM HARRISON .
The Dep1
{tation :
AIR CHIEF MARSHAL LORD DOWDING, G.C.B ., G.C.V.O.,
C.M.G.
S . J. PETERS, M.A., LL .D ., M.P .
T. J. BROOKS, M.B .E .. M.P .
E . A. RADFORD , M.P .
C. E. LOSEBY, (M.P ., 1918-22), Barrister-at-Law .
A. H . L . VIGURS, President 1
J. B . MclNDOE , Treasurer and Past President Of_t~e . ,
J. M. STEWART, Past President Splf_
1tuahsts
A. J. RAFFILL , Vice-President Nat10nal
E . A. KEELING, General Secretary Union .
G. A. ELKIN, Solicitor )
D_R. S . J. PETERS , introduced the deputation and called upon
Captam Loseby to state the main case.
CAPTAIN LosEBY : I am particularly glad that you have been
reminded that a deputation from the S .N .U. was received by the Home
Secretary in the year 1930. You will find t hat Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,
Mr. Ernest Oaten, Mrs. De Crespigny , Mr. Drayton Thomas 3:nd Mr .
Hannen Swaffer , every one of them highly experienced _
people m these
matters, then spoke . They put the case , as I think, with brevity and
complete clarity and I beg of you to be good enough to read the booklet
given you by Dr. Peters.
I shall confine myself to the task of endeavouring to make plain
with p:ecision two t~ings: firstly, the law and the machinery oper8:ted
unde: it which_ we _
thmk is prejudical to the particular school of ph1lo-
soph1c and scientific thought represented here to-day ; and, secon~ly,
the steps we ask you, as representing the Home Office , to take to alleviate
some of the harm , as we think , that has occurred under it .
Now Mr. Peake, I imagine I owe the honour of being here to-day to
24
two things. I have for .a long time been a humble but industrious
student of psychic matters. I was Chairman of the Leicester Psychical
Research Society for some year.sand myself fought the case through which
and under which .they were relieved from rates upon the grounds that
they were a scientific body working of course with mediums.
More than that, I have been privileged for many years now to defend
mediums in court5of Law,and on that matter I have expressed the opinion
that spiritualistic mediums are almost completely at the mercy of any
ill-disposed person . · I know of no other group of persons similarly
penalised. I have expressed the view that it is quite idle to pay lawyers
to defend them unless a move is made in several other directions at the
same time. One most important direction is the matter of the alteration
of the law . My predecessors , I understand, advised to the same effect.
Now I think it only right and only fair to corrunence with this :
that our opposition to the Vagrancy Act , 1824, Section 4 , which is t he
main cause of the trouble, admits of no compromise. It is, in our
submission , the embodiment of ignorance, intolerance and injustice .
It must go . Those of us who either know.or think we know the facts of
the matter must not and cannot rest until it is removed in toto--thRt
particular Section- from the Statute Book . ·
All of us here realise and appreciate the difficulty of introducing
any matters which might be deemed controversial in time of War. We
think however there are many things the Home Secretary could do if
he were good enough to do so .
I should like to corrunence, and I think it is relevant , by a reference
to the Vagrancy Act as a whole. You will find it in the Volume of
Collected Statutes and Text-books under the heading of Poor Law
Administration . We do not complain of that . It is indeed some
comfort to many of us to k_
now that the Poor Law Administration is
continually reminded of our existence. •
From the first page to the last you will find that the Act breathes
the spirit of the Poor Law Administrators of t he year 1824. Upon the
day that the House of Lords and King George the Fourth of pious me111ory
gave their assent to it , Mr. Bumble was commencing his career as a
Poor Law Administrator. It was the charter under which he worked so
faithfu lly that is still in being to-day. I hope, Mr. Peake, that you
will not think that this is a cheap reference. I submit that it is a rel-
evant reference. ·
Now the material words of Section 4 are these, ''Any person
professing to tell fortunes or using any subtle means or device by palm-
istry or otherwise" commits an offence and i~ liable to punishment.
MR . PEAKE: It goes on does it not ''to deceive and impose on His
Majesty's ~ubjects?"
CAPTAlN LosEBY. Yes, and it has been held in a Court of Law that
these words are not of any importance because the mere fact of a pe:son
using "subtle means or device "-in this case to be a Spirituahst1c
medium-of itself and ipso facto, shows that the person intends to deceive.
The effect of the words has been established by judical decision . The
25
words ··by palmistry or otherwise'' cover the case of any person pro-
fessing to hold communication with departed spirits. A Spiritu~listic
medium is such a person . I refer you to the case of Monck v . Hilton.
1877, in which it was held that it was not necessary to prove fraud, as
I have stated. The allegation of itself carries with it the presumption
of fraud.
Section 4, therefore , in my submission, as judicially interpreted and
established , reads as follows: ''any _
person professing to tell fortunes or
professing to be a Spiritualistic medium commits an offence and is
liable to the penalties under this Act .''
Now here is the list of persons with whom Spiritualistic mediums
are classified. I want you to note the people int.Pr alios who are listed
and stand in the dock with those persons somE.times called sensith·es,
and not inappropriately so called . ·
No. 4. A woman deserting her bastard child .
No . 8. A person in a public place exposing indecent -prints or
exhibitions .
No. 9. A person lewdly and obscenely in a public pla1,;e exposing
his person with intent to insult a female.
No . ro. A male pe1·son who lives on the proceeds of prostitution
or in a public place importunes for immoral purposes .
Fortune-tellers and mediums come under No . II.
This is the list of people who are placed in the same category as
Spiritualistic mediums .
I am reading from the Act. I ask you, Mr. Peake, to consider for
a moment- with what is this woman charged . What is the seriousness
of the offence in Law of this person who stands in the dock charged
alongside the woman who has deserted her bastard child, and the man
who has exposed his person in a public place and the male person who
lives on prostitution, whose offence is deemed to be ejusdem generis and
such that if she is found guilty she is liable to the same handling .
She is a person who has been heard to speak no more-
(like Socrates) ''A voice not my own speaks through me .''
(like Joan of Arc) " Spirits from another world use me."
(like Luther) ''Here stand I , I can do no other.''
Let her but admit such words and she must be told by counsel
defending her that she has no defence in law. They are the words,
however, that every medium if she is honest must say . Every medium
does not say them because of the law and because every medium is not
honest .
I have said that every n:edium is at the mercy of any ill-disposed
person. I repeat that. I might have added •'and a medium is a person
who from the very .nature of things excites and must excite hostility in
the minds of certam persons. ''
Under .the Vagrancy Act, 1824, any person may arrest a professing
medium without a war~ant. A policeman refusing to arrest when
requested to do.s~ 1s htrnself liable to penalties. Is that fair to the
police? In fact 1t is the practice for the police to proceed by arrest rather
than by summons. Worse than that , in many cases the police arrest
upo~ request . I ~m. satified that many mediums are only safe from
persistent I?ersecut10n under the above powers by reason of one thing,
anc~ one th~ng only, namely that these powers given by Jaw to officious
ana unofficial people are not widely known . A veritable spate of attacks,
hO\~ever, might come at any time. They will come if mediums prove
their _
value to the community in the way we hope and think the.y will.
We come now to the trial. I have dealt with pre-trial events. I
should like to commence with a general comment which I do not like to
make but which I deem it my duty to make.
I have never been at a case in which I have dPfencled a medium in
which I have felt I have earned my fee, or in a ca£~ :n which I have not
left the \:ourt feeling depressed and rather ashamea . ,n which I have not
felt that I have been taking part in a sorry farce, in wh:ii:h I have not
felt that in the bustle and scurry of a Court of Petty Sessions, neither
has Justice been done nor has the appearance of Justice been given .
The reasons are twofold . Firstly , the muddled state of the law;
secondly, the fact that under Section 4, the right of trial by indictment
and by jury is not given.
I want to deal quite quickly with No . r. The matter of amending
the law could be dealt with simply if some member of the Government
initiated some such amendment as this; "No proceeding under this
Section shall lie against any person claiming to be a Spiritualistic
medium and proved to be acting at the time as a representative of a
recognised religious or scientific society or body.'' That would suffice .
Of course, I visualise that the onus would be on the person accused
to prove that she was acting at the time as a representative of a recog-
nised religious or scientific body when it had once been established that
she claimed to be a Spiritualistic medium .
Secondly, the fact that under Section 4, the right to.trial by jury
is not given. A one line amendment would put that right . ''Any
person charged under this Section shall be entitled to trial by jury.''
Now how do we establish that d aim? I am quite satisfied that the
present unsatisfactory trial method is due to an oversight and nothing
but an oversight . It is of course a fundamental principle of English
Law {dating back as far as the Magna Charta) that any person placed
111 grave peril on a criminal charge is entitled to trial by jury. The
extent of the trial is dogmatically fixed by the rule that any person
liable to imprisonment for more than three months is entitled to trial
by jury . A Spiritualistic medium is imperilled to a much greater.
extent than three months imprisonment. I want to leave that for the
momen t though.
Is it really true, this assertion that trial by jury ensures anything?
The answer is " It is true." Trial by jury is the on'ly known method
calculated to ensure Ju tice at every stage. It enables the accused to
examine the evidence of hostile witnesses, reduced to writing, and to
protect himself against unscrupulous evidence and surprise-a vital
point for mediums . It is the only system that enables a person in peril
to prepare his defence knowing what the evidence against him is and
ensuring that he can prepare his defence having examined it with his
27
legal adviser; it is the only ·system which ensures careful direction of the
presiding judge on the facts, the law and the admissible evidence-t.he
judge works throughout in a public court with a fierce glare upon him
the whole time and is liable to have his directions and decisions examined
by the Court of Criminal Appeal ; this form of trial carries with it the
right of appeal to the Court of Criminal Appeal, who will unhesitatingly
quash conviction if there is any irregularity proved at any stage . Is
this important ?- I say it is of vital importance .
I have a case in mind that happened only this year of a mediu'11
being destroyed.
What is the punishment that I say is greater than three months
imprisonment ? I have given you a list of the rather odious people with
whom mediums are classified . No differentiation is made between them .
For the first offence a medium is liable to t hree months imprisonment
anj to be put on a certain black-list known as the List of Rogues and
Vag1bonds . Any practising lawyer will tell you that being put upon
this list, is rather a terrible punishment. You are on the list for all
time. Whatever you do you cannot be removed from that list. At the
top of it ,-I think it is hardly an exaggeration to say this- might well
be written the words "Abandon hope all ye whose names are written
here .''
The penalty of being black-listed is such that I would undertake
to destroy any medium as a medium, however valuable to Science ,
within a short period of t ime. I say I know of one case in which a
medium this year, as a medium , has been destroyed-and through this
list.
For the second offence a person goes to trial knowing that the
Court is told as she is being tried : ' 'This is a person who has been
condemned of. using a subtle means to deceive and impose.'' For the
second offence , on conviction , the punishment is one year's imprisonment
a whipping, and her name is placed on a different black-list , namely a
list of Incorrigible Rogues . By a subtle gesture under the Vagrancy
Act, 1824, things were so manipulated that there was no right to trial
by jury in this case either.
The conviction only is established by the Court of Summary
Jurisdiction and then the person is committed to prison to await tria l
and sentence by Quarter Sessions .
. ~ f the being upon the black-list were equ ivalent to one day's
1
mpnsonment only, then the right to trial by indictment and by jury
would become automatic. I repeat my view that this is a matter of
overs igh~ only. The Legislature has overlooked a peculiar and quite
extraordmary .penalty-rather a b:irbaric and terrible penalty which is
tucked away mto an Act of Parliament passed when Charles Dickens
was a boy. .
By one of the Jaw's vagaries a medium convicted and sentenced to
imprisonment has it recorded not only that she has been sentenced to
impriso;..ment but a!so that ,~he has been found guilty of using "subtle
craft to deceive and impose, although she will not be allowed to submit
in evidence that she was in truth and in fact a genuine med ium. The
mere fact of hold0g yourself out to be a medium has been held, by the
Court of r877, of itself to prove that you are a fraud. That might do
for the year r877, but who is there who would be heard to-day to say
that from such facts such a conclusion and such a deduction is an inevi-
table and right conclusion in the year r943 .
Now, if nothing is done in the matt!!r quickly , will great harm be
done ? The answer is that great harm may be c;Ione. Not~ing: was done
b.l'. Mr . Clynes thirteen years ago and great harm was·done. It is on!)
fair to remember that the Government of that time were warned of many
dangers and apparent ly took no steps in regard to any of them
The wrongness of inactivity is made plain by a consideration of the
qualities and nature of these people under discussion-these people who
are treated by the Legislation as coming naturally under the Poor Law
Administration, who are being treated not as gifted persons of higr
potential value, but as being odious. The quality and nature of thrni
was well described by the last Deputation all of whom had mediums
under observation for many years. ,
This is how Mr. Ernest Oaten described them at the midcile of i;age 4.
He says of them :-
" Mediumship is a natural facu lty possessed by certain people. "
"They are the most valuable people you could have."
Mrs . De Crespigny at page r3 speaks of them as :-
' 'Delicately poised things called mediums. "
''Instruments through which we make our experiments.''
' 'People without whom we cannot progress. ' '
Mr. Dr.ayton Thomas , an experienced psychic investigator and
clergyman who must have worked with mediums for 20 years prior to
that date, describes them as :- ·
''indispensable instruments.''
' ' people who provide present-day evidence for the reality of life beyond
death ."
Speaking as a clergyman he says ''It is my profound conviction that one
Heaven-gifted medium is of more value than many Bishops."
I should like to add a description of my own which I base on actual
personal experience : I would describe them as' ' People who in the matter
of scientific research in all fields relating to the Cause of alleviation of
human suffering and disease have a value and importance that can
hardly be over-estimated .' '
I have coldly weighed my words in the matter of this last description
and used them after deliberation.
These are the people wl10 are treated by the Legislature as being
odious, who, in the words of Mr. Brooks to the Home Secretary in hi ·
letter of 30th June 1943, are described as people to whom fundamenta I
elementary justice is denied. It is my submission that these words are
not too severe . They are words that simply cannot be challenged.
There is one final word I must say. There is not a person in this
room \\"ho wou ld not wish to dissassociatehimselffrommeand repudiate
29
me if I were to suggest by implication or otherwise that the Home Office
had been a conscious party to injustice. No such suggestion of course
is made . The suggestion and submission is that the Home Office could
help to rectify matters .
Now for my precise proposals. These are the proposals which I
most respectfully put forward for your consideration and I prefer to do
so without argument. I attach the greatest importance to No. 4 .
4 . The Home Secretary is asked to set up a small Committee
consisting of representatives of the Home Secretary and represen-
tatives of Spiritualist and Psychic Research Organisations and
kindred bodies, to consider the Vagrancy Act, 1824, Section 4, and
the machinery provided under it in so far as it affects Spiritualistic
mediums-and to report .
If that were considered then of course it would govern all the others .
It would satisfy me personally, better than anything. Of one thing in
regard to this Committee I am sure . You would discover a surprising
consensus of opinion by the Home Office representatives and the rep-
resentatives of ourselves as to what is desirable and could be done .
You would certainly find no desire on the part of any representatives
of Spiritualistic organisations to weaken the machinery of Govem-
m'"\nt regarding fraud or chicanery. Anything in the nature of fraud
or chicanery is, of course, deadly to the Cause we are representing.
I will not argue the other points . I will but read the proposals .
I woula put No . 4 first . We ask for no more than that and I realise
myself that we can hardly expect more. The detail would obviously
have to be discussed on either side. When I said I had something in
mind to cover an amendment proposed earlier I was thinking of this .
The amendment in question would have to be considered as to whether
it could be put forward at all, as to whether it was in the best form or in
what form it could be put .
PROPOSALS HANDED IN.
1. The Home Secretary is asked to secure the amendment of
Section 4 of the Vagrancy Act, 1824, through the following amend-
ments:-
At the end of Section 4, add the words following:-
(a) No proceedings under this Secti<m shall lie against any person
claiming to be a Spiritualistic medium proved to be acting at the time
as a. servant of recognised religious or scientific society or body.
(b) Any person charged under this Section shall be liable to
Trial by Jury.
2. To advise the Police
In the matter of proceedings against Spiritualt,,tic Mediums to
proceed under the Common Law and to avoid the use of machinery
provided under the Vagrancy Act , 1824, Section 4 (and any advices
from the Home Office I have no doubt are of the greatest possible value).
30
3. To udvise the M agislracy
. To frown upon any unfair use of the Vagrancy Act , 1824, Section 4,
m so far as it relates to Spiritualistic mediums, for example , in such
cases as when fraud is alleged and there are alternative methods
provided under the above Act and under the Common Law.
4. The Home Secretary is asked to set up a small Committee consis-
ting of representatives of the Home Secretary and representatives of
Spiritualist and Psychic Research Organisations and kindred bodies, to
consider the Vagrancy Act , 1824, Section 4, and the machinery provided
under it in so far as it affects Spiritualistic mediums, and to report.
5. To move for the appointment of ·a Select Committee of Members
of Parliament to consider the Vagrancy Act, 1824 and Section 4 of the
said Act in particular . This Committee I <;ubmit should be set up as
well as the Home Office Committee. ·
Prrnted by Wadsworth&: Company , T ho H1•dal P vess , J(eighleJ .
,
..: .
