{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1946__doyle___what_does_spiritualism_actually_teach.pdf","mytitle":"What Does Spiritualism Actually Teach","mylang":"de"}
IOhaL (bosL
hu
(fadualli^ JmxJv anxL
S ta n ctl^J L ?
By
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
F I F T Y C E N T S
Published By
- - L I L Y D A L E , N E W Y OR K
DAL E N EWS, I N C .
1946
dp\| L DRE'N?
What Does
Spiritualism
Actually Teach
and Stand For?
By
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE,
M.D., LL.D.
President d’Honneur de la Federation Spirite
Internationale.
Published by
DALE NEWS, Inc., Lily Dale, N. Y.
/
u THE ST. PAUL OF SPIRITUALISM”
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
1930
f
BIOGRAPHY
°t
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's celebrated Sherlock Holmes
stories bear no trace of the supernatural. His first introduc­
tion to occult knowledge took place while he was yet a
physician at Southsea.
In the years between 1887-1888, he was invited to take
part in table turning seances at the house of a patient, General
Drayson, a teacher in the Greenwich Naval College, a keen
mathematician and a man of scholarly education. Through
the mediumship of a railway signalman apports were produced.
The phenomenon was too amazing for him and he secretly
under-rated the honesty of the medium and the intelligence
of the sitter. But his interest was aroused. He joined the
Society for Psychical Research and carried out a series of
experiments with a Mrs. Ball and satisfied himself thereby that
telepathy was a fact. As regards survival, in 1902 when he
first met Sir Oliver Lodge, he had not arrived at a definite
conclusion. But Myers’ book rrHuman Personality” made a
deep impression on his mind.
For upwards of thiry years, he continued his studies,
before, on the summit of his literary fame, and at the age
of 58, he took the decisive step and, by the publication of the
New Revelation and The Vital Message, allied himself with
the cause of Spiritualism.
The critics charged that his new faith was attributable to
his bereavement suffered during the war, but this statement
was unfounded. Speaking about it in his " History of Spir­
itualism,” Conan Doyle readily admits that the sight of a
world that was distraught with sorrow did certainly cause
him to understand that these psychic studies were of immense
practical importance and could no longer be regarded as a
mere intellectual hobby as fascinating pursuit of a novel re­
search.
[ Page 3 "
j
Keith on Spiritualism and won on points. He was president
of the London Spiritualist Alliance when Mrs. Cantlon, one
of the mediums endorsed by the Alliance, was charged with
fortune telling and when the Alliance was assessed with costs
amounting to 800 pounds, he voiced a vigorous protest in
The Times against what he considered the persecution of the
Spiritualists.
He started a drive for the modification of the fortune
telling act, and on July 1st, 1930, led a deputation to the
Home Secretary. Six days later he died.
On July 13th a big reunion was held in the Royal Albert
Hall, London. A chair was left empty for the deceased
writer, Estelle Roberts asserted that she saw clairvoyantly
Conen Doyle in the chair and transmitted a personal message
to the family which wad accepted as evidential.
Since then, numerous messages are claimed to have been
received from him through various mediums. Perhaps the
most noteworthy one was discussed by Harry Price in the
January 1931 issue of the Nash Magazine under the title "The
Return of Conan Dcsyle.” The medium was Eileen Garrett.
The conversation between Harry Price and the spirit of Conan
Doyle had many striking features.
In the address to the members of The London Spiritualist
Alliance in October 1931, Sir Oliver Lodge said of Conan
Doyle: "His methods are not mine—he regarded himself as a
missionary, a trustee of great truth which he felt bound to
share with others, whether they would receive it or whether
they would reject and ridicule it, but one cannot but admire
the completeness and self-sacrificing character of his life and
doctrines. Occasionally, I think, he lacked the wisdom of
the serpent, but the goodness of his motives must be manifest
to all.” 4
Books by Conan Doyle: The New Revelation, 1918; The
Vital Message, 1918; 'Wanderings of a Spiritualist, 1921;
The Coming of the .Fairies, 1922; Our American Adventure,
1923; Our Second American Adventure, 1923; Memories and
Adventures, 1924; Spiritualist Reader, 1924; The Land of
[ Page 5 ]
It was this realization which, from early in 1916, caused
him and his wife to devote themselves largely to this subject,
to lecture upon it in Australia, New Zealand, America and
, Canada.
"As to the charge of credulity” he declared further on
"which is invariably directed by the unreceptive against any-;
one who forms a positive opinion upon this subject, the author
can solemnly aver that in the course of his long career as an
investigator, he cannot recall one single case where it was
clearly shown that he had been mistaken upon any serious
point, or had given a certificate of honesty to a performances
which was afterwards clearly proved to be dishonest. A man
who is credulous does not take twenty years of reading and
experiment before he comes to his fixed conclusions.” -
He began his mission in 1918, and visited the principal
cities of Great Britain first, then; in 1920-21 Australia, and
New Zealand.
Early in 1922, he came to America and toured the Eastern
States, and thei following year traveled as far as California.
In 1928, he left for South Africa and in the autumn of the
same year he preached Spiritualism in the northern countries
of Europe. The loss of energy, the decline in literary output
caused by his devotion to Spiritualism, according to a friendly
estimate, meant the surrender of about $50,000 in possible
earnings from other sources.
He stood up valiantly for William Hope, the spirit photog­
rapher at the time of the 1922 scandal in which the Society
for Psychical Research was involved. He was further deeply
antagonized against this body by Theodore Besterman*s review
of Gwendolyn Kelley Hack’s "Modern Miracles' at Millesimo
Castle ” and as he believed the honor of Ernest Bozzano to
have been impugned,, he resigned his membership. The resig­
nation widened the gulf between the S.P.R. and the Spirituals
ists as 84 other members followed Conan Doyle.
At the International Spiritualists Congress held in Paris
in 1925, he was nominated Honorary President. In the same
year, he had a public discussion in London with Sir Arthur
[ Page 4 j
Misty 1926: History of Spiritualism, 1926; The Case for
Spirit Photography, 1924; Pheneas Speaks, 1927; African
Winter, 1929; Edge of the Unknown, 1930.
The Hev. /<>£# Lamond, M.D., published a biography of
Ccvww Doy/e in 1931 under the title Arthur Conan Doyle,
A Memoir.
“Encyclopedia of Psychic Science"
DOYLE ATTENDS DEDICATION
OF STEAD MEMORIAL
(See opposite page)
Spiritualists honoring W. T. Stead9
s memory, in 1923, M
on the anniversary of the “Titanic” disaster. The picture %
was taken near Central Park, New York City. To the right I
of Stead’s profile, Rev. G. Vale Owen, noted English author I
and Spiritualist; to the left of Stead’s profile, Sir Arthur ||
Conan Doyle; Lady Doyle stands to her husband’s right;
counting five to the right of center, Dean Frederick Edwards
(with hat held at side).
[ Page 6 ]
head's
Memorial
Dedicated
by
Leading
Spiritualists
This photograph, taken in Australia, is on of the few pictures evei
published of Lady Conan Doyle, who passed away June 27th, 1942
“T/,1907, ^ W
aS married t0 Sir Arthur who frequently declared;
e success which attended my work as an author was very largely
ue to my wife's wholehearted interest and en co u ra g em en t^
[ Page 8 ]
This photograph, taken in Australia, is on of the few pictures ever
published of Lady Conan Doyle, who passed away June 27th, 1942.
In 1907, she was married to Sir Arthur who frequently declared:
“Thi
due lO
'cess which attended my work as an author was very large y
Wwife s wholehearted interest and encouragement.
What DoesSpiritualism
Actually Teach
and
Stand For?
By
SIR A R T H I/R CONAN DOYLE,
M.D., LL.D.
President d’Honneur de la Federation
Spirite Internationale.
T T IS a difficult task to compress the whole argu-
^ ment for Spbitualism into a short pamphlet, but
one is so often asked for some short statement which
will cover the whole ground that one feels that it
is necessary to attempt it. I will therefore outline
that which I believe to be true, and which I am
assured represents the religious knowledge of the
future, even if for the moment it should be unpop­
ular or misunderstood.
Religion cannot always stand still, or be referred
eternally to documents thousands of years old,
many of which are far below our modern standards
of intelligence and morality. God still yearns over
the world which He has created, and He still from
time to time, as it is ready to receive it, transmits
[ Page 9 ]
to it by this or that chosen and inspired messenger
fresh knowledge by which man may know some­
thing of his destiny.
I Was Forced to a Conclusion
I believe that within the last eighty years a flood
of such knowledge has been conveyed to us, and
that we have been extraordinarily blind as to its
validity and its overwhelming importance. So con­
vinced am I of the vital nature of this psychic
knowledge, that I have been gradually forced to
the conclusion that it is the most important event
which has occurred in the world since that raising
of ethical standards which we associate with the
revered name of Jesus o f N azareth, and that on the
plane of religious knowledge as apart from ethics,
it is actually the most important event of any.
For, consider what it means if it be true. We
claim that we can break through the barrier of
death, that those who have lived in this world have
not changed either their forms or their characters,
but only their vibrations, so that instead of mani­
festing through the flesh body, which is a low and
slow vibration, they live now in an etheric body
which is on a high and fast vibration, and therefore
invisible to our ordinary mortal eyes, exactly as
many things in our daily life fail to impress our
senses because they are on too fast a vibration. I
[ Page 10]
Colors beyond the spectrum, and notes above our
compass are examples of what I mean. These etheric
bodies do not, as we learn, live in a vacuum or in
any indefinite state, but they pass from this earth
into another sphere or world, in which they have
definite duties and congenial work; in which they
have every chance of developing to the full their
own natural powers, as well as of enjoying those
things which give them natural pleasure.
There Is Nothing to Fear
We learn also that the bond of sympathy and loVe
is the one permanent thing which regulates the re­
uniting of those who have been in contact with
each other down here, and that happy reassembled
households are usual there, with all elements of
discord removed.
If this was all that we brought to mankind what
a gigantic step forward—what an enormous ad­
vance of knowledge would it represent. It is the
unknown nature of death and it's severance of all
our ties which cast a shadow upon our lives. But
if we know that all is natural, that there is nothing
to fear, and that our love ties are not broken, then
what a load is lifted.
It is strange, indeed, to think that this inestimable
gift which we bring has been so misrepresented by
[ Page 11 ]
our enemies that one would really imagine that it
was something blasphemous, or obscene which we
were forcing upon the human race. The responsi­
bility of the churches in this matter is enormous,
and it is not too much to say that the apathy and
ignorance concerning this spiritual knowledge
which is shown among many of the leaders of re­
ligion is as discreditable as it is hard to understand.
We Are Not Fanatics or Visionaries
Surely they of all men, should be the first to meet
us since we bring them actual proofs of personal
survival, and of so much else which they have them­
selves affirmed. For centuries they have been
worsted in their fight with the skeptics who very
reasonably demand proofs instead of texts. We at
last bring them those proofs, so that they can meet
the scientist upon his own ground, but instead of
recognition or gratitude, nothing but the coldest
of receptions has been accorded us.
This is not bad for us, since we stand upon our
own feet, but it is fatal for the churches which turn
away from that spiritual help and inspiration which
God’s new revelation brings with it.
Where does that spiritual help come in? It cornel
in from the fact that we can use our new powers
not only to get into touch with our own loved ones,
[ Page 1 2 1
who may perhaps be on no higher a level of char­
acter and knowledge than we are ourselves, but also,
when we are worthy, we get clear messages from
those who are in a far more spiritual condition
than ourselves, and are indeed, what under the old
dispensation would be called high angels.
From these direct communications a flood of
spiritual knowledge has come into the world, all
of it, as it seems to us, of a beautiful and rational
nature. We do not accept such statements blindly.
We are not fanatics or visionaries. We weigh the
messages with our own God-given reason, and we
admit the fact that the medium through whom
the message passes may well color it unconsciously
with his own personality and beliefs. But none the
less making every allowance for this, the messages
are so consistent and on so high a level that they
have, as it seems to us, as good a claim to be a divine
inspiration as anything which has ever reached the
world in the past.
No One Can Deny This Statement
We have many reasons for thinking that this
flood of information is truly supernormal. The first
is that it has been accompanied by a vast body of
signs which have been clearly supernormal. Much
of this evidence has been physical, consisting of
those phenomena which have been tested and con-
[ Page 13 ]
firmed by tens of thousands of hard-headed ob­
servers, including many notable men of science.
Let him who denies this statement read the evidence
carefully before he dares to repeat the denial.
Much of the evidence, too, comes from mental
phenomena, independent of the darkness of the
seance room, when great numbers of credible wit­
nesses attest that they have come in contact with
Intelligences which have been able to give them
complete tests that they are indeed those whom they
had known, and who have left this sphere.
This enormous volume of evidence, which is
recorded in hundreds of books, and thousands of
manuscripts, cannot be pooh-poohed or waved
aside. It is there, and it is a portentous fact, which
agrees closely with what we learn of the signs of
the spirit as recorded of old.
Ignorance of Facts Prevent Acceptance
This is one reason for regarding our philosophy
as supernormal. The second is that the explanation
of the true scheme of the Universe has come from
a vast number of independent sources, many of
which could by no means have been influenced by
the others, and that, with some small exceptions,
there is a truly remarkable agreement running
through them.
[Page 14]
These messages have come from children, from
uneducated people, from all sorts of sources, in­
cluding in one case for which I can answer, a con­
firmed skeptic who was made an involuntary in­
strument for writing down the truth.
u If three or four witnesses who agree can gain the
verdict of an earthly court, then why should these
thousands who have recorded the same story not
gain credence in the court of the world? This is
so obvious that it is only apathy and ignorance of
the facts which prevent its acceptance.
Consistency of Spirit Messages
But the final argument for the truth of our new
revelation is that it is the most natural, reasonable
and comforting interpretation of the facts of
human life and destiny which has ever been put
forward. It is huge, sweeping, all-explaining,
reaching out to all our difficulties, and giving ade­
quate answers.
Whence then did it come? Is it to be imagined
that the little group of uneducated people who
received the first inspirations, were themselves the
inventors of this great sweeping explanation of the
universe? Is it to be thought that a man like An­
drew Jackson Davis, who was perhaps the recipient
of as much of the new knowledge as anyone, was
1 ■
the inventor of this knowledge—he being a man
who was entirely illiterate at the time? Such ideas
are absurd. If the philosophy did not come from
external supernatural prompting, then whence did
it come?
There are then three tests. The first is the signs
which have been given to us. The second is the uni­
formity and consistency of the messages. The third
is the reasonable nature of the whole philosophy,
which it is above human wit to invent, and which
does not correspond, with any other philosophy
which preceded it. I hold that these three consid­
erations are overwhelming ones, and that we have
no excuse at all if we fail to take the matter seri­
ously.
Barrett’s “Death-Bed Vision”
Now let us look a little more carefully at what
it is that we have gained. I have already alluded
to the fact that our natural fear of death is removed.
We learn from those who have been down the path
before us, that though the illness which leads toI
death may be a severe trial, death itself is a sweet j
and pleasant languor, akin to that of the tired body
dropping to sleep, and that it is made the easier in
that the etheric eyes become clearer, while the
bodily ones fade, and that we are aware of the
[Page 16 ]
smiling faces, and of the outstretched hands of
those whom we would most love to see again.
We are assured of this by many who have passed,
and we have the clear corroboration of many death­
bed phenomena. A few of these, a very few, have
been clearly recorded in that valuable little book
"Death Bed Vision” by the late Sir William Barrett,
a man whose keen and skeptical scientific intelli­
gence was quite convinced by the facts laid before
him.
But here for a moment we must distinguish. Who
are these kindly souls who meet the quivering spirit
at the moment when it most needs help and guid­
ance? All agree that they are those who love us.
But if we have not won love how can they be there?
Who is there to meet the cruel man, the selfish man,
the man who has lived for himself alone? There
are no parasites or sycophants over there. Wealth
and temporal power are gone.
What We Are Told
As a famous spirit said bitterly to me once, "We
do not carry our cheque-books over. We have been
so busy over the things which do not matter that we
have neglected the things that do matter!” For
such people it is a bleak and lonely moment, for
they have begun to reap the harvest which they
have sown.
[Page 17]
I will revert presently to what we know of the
sad fate of such undeveloped souls, who are not the
lowly of earth, but very often those of the greatest
wealth and of the highest intelligence, who have not
used that wealth and intelligence for unselfish p u r­
poses, or have perhaps allowed their brains to grow
at the expense of their hearts. I will for the
moment follow the fortunes of what I may call the
average kindly man or woman, when released into
their etheric life.
We are told that things follow each other in a
very natural sequence. For a short period he is
congratulated and reassured by the friends around
him, and it is during that short time that his
thoughts flash back often to those that he has left,
and that he can, as so often happens, make some
sort of telepathic impression upon their minds.
Many Confused By False Standards
These visions at the time, or just after death,
make quite a literature of their own, so to that
extent we corroborate from this side what they tell
us from their own experience. Then comes a time
of rest.
This rest would appear to be of a longer or
shorter duration according to the need of the indi­
vidual. When it is over he finds the same kind
I Page 18 ]
friends by his side who will introduce him to the
glories and the duties of the new world which await
him.
I have already spoken of the natural, and if I
may use the word, homely nature of this new life.
To us the spirit body and its surroundings may
appear to be vaporous, unsubstantial things. But
that is a, misconception. If people who lived in a
world of lead looked upon our world it would seem
to be light arid vaporous.
It all depends upon the comparison between the
body and its surroundings. If these are all to scale,
then the spirit body finds the world around it just
as real and solid as we do ours. When this is real­
ized, all our difficulties about the shadowy ghost
disappear. You get a false standard if you com­
pare the things of one sphere with those of another.
You must judge their condition by their own
environment.
Life in the Spirit World
We have now got to the stage where the freed
spirit goes forth into his new life. It is inconceiv­
ably beautiful in externals and the soul is happy
with such a deep satisfying happiness as this world
cannot give.. He is with those he loves and all
j-arring elements have been removed. His home
[ Page 19 J
Doyle
I
istis
the
Pick
ford-
Fair
hanks
Studio,
Hollywood
Taken
in
the
early
I900’s,
left
to
right.
Lady
Jean
Elisabeth
Conan
Doyle
,
Sir
Arthur
Conai
Doyle
,
Mary
Pickford
and
Douglas
Fairbanks,
Miss
PickfonFs
belief
in
an
“
after-life
”
ii
clearly
portrayed
in
her
book
“Why
Not
Try
God?"
Dofie Visits the Pickford^Fairbanki Studio^MollyrioOjd
Taken in the early 1900’s,Jeft to right, Lady Jean Elizabeth ConOfL Ddyle^Sm Arthut Cangti
PgyiM ffty Pickfard.and Douglas Fairbanks* . Miss RickforSs belief in an “after-life?*!Jjr
&
; clearly portrayed in Aer hook “|Thy*&0^L-ry
has been prepared for him by the loving hands of
those who preceded him. It is just as he would
like it to be. His own tastes have in all matters
been consulted. H e finds flowers and gardens,
woods and streams, all illuminated by a golden
radiance.
Soon he is offered a choice of duties so that he
may use his natural powers in the best way. Where
he has several powers his vocation may be as hard
to find as it often is here. Thus Lester Coltman
in his posthumous description of the life beyond
had to choose between music and science, even­
tually choosing science as his study and music as
his recreation.
All Evolution Is Gradual
There, as here, facilities are provided for the
work in hand, libraries for the scholar, laboratories
for the man o f science. Temples, lecture rooms,
centers for dramatic, artistic and musical educa­
tion. A ll these matters are pushed, they declare,
far further than with us— indeed, our own devel­
opments are merely reflections from above.
For the children we read of delightful playing
fields, simple innocent pleasures, education under
the most charming conditions. A mother will
mourn the physical absence of her dead child, but
[ Page 21 ]
when she knows what we can tell her the tears
will be dried and the heart uplifted as she realizes
all that the child has gained and all that it has been
spared.
The religious sense is awakened and stimulated
by the glories which surround the newborn soul.
His love and adoration increase when it is under­
stood how infinitely kind the Creator has been, and
when the riddle of Life’s apparent injustices and
cruelties has been partially solved.
And yet it is not a life of monotonous devotion.
There, as here, they should have God in their hearts,
but life itself is a round of domestic peace, of pleas­
ure, and of useful congenial labor.
Such is the picture of the other life which we
have received from the other side — in its most
favorable aspect. Is there anything unnatural in
it?. Is it, on the face of it, improbable? All
evolution is gradual and we can well understand
that the soul cannot at once be altered by its disen­
gagement from the body. It carries with it the
same tastes and aspirations and it is reasonable,
therefore, to suppose that the means of gratifying
them is there.
Nothing Is Final
Is the artist to be cut off from his art or the
musician from his music, or the literary man from
[Page 22 ]
his expression when in each case it is the man’s very
self, and if you took it away he would indeed be
another individual? Such a supposition revolts our
reason. But if all these arts are practiced, then an
audience is also predicated, and thus one gets a
glimpse of the reality of that happy community.
Do not suppose that this semi-material heaven is
a final one.. Nothing is final. We grow and grow
through the ages. But at least it is the next step,
and it is so happy a step that we may well be satis­
fied, even if other glories await us beyond. It. is the
Compensation for the troubles of life; it is the rest
house after the journey; it is the fulfillment of
God’s promises and the Justification of all his deal­
ings with the human race.
So much for the fate of the deserving people
who are really the vast majority of the human race.
All this talk of our being naturally wicked, and
always plunged in sin, is perfect nonsense. When
one has subtracted all the sin which is due to cir­
cumstances, to environment, to heredity, the bal­
ance is not so very serious. The human race have
been far too modest about their own achievement.
Most people make a brave good fight amid all the
disabilities which have to be faced, and instead of
punishment they deserve what they get, and that
is reward and compensation.
[ Page 23 ]
Law of Compensation
But we cannot deny the existence of evil—of
real evil which is within our own control. There
is selfishness, which is the root of nearly all flaws
of character. There is cruelty, and. nothing brings
such retribution as that. Physical cruelty may be
rare, but mental cruelty—the cruelty of the bitter
speech, of the ill-natured gossip, is very common.
That brings its own punishment.
Then there is bigotry, which is really a form of
cruelty, since it is confining God’s mercy to a chos­
en few. And there is pride, which again rises from
selfishness. Surely a conceited person standing
under the arch of the milky way is the most absurd
object in nature.
Then beyond all this there is the brutish mind,
the mind which has no spirituality in it, the mind
which has been entirely engrossed in the things of
this world, successful perhaps in worldly success
but paying the price that it is sunk in the mud of
the world until it cannot disengage itself. These
are the various types which suffer in the beyond.
Purpose of Rescue Circles
We must make a distinction as to the form of
suffering. There is the person who is tied to earth
[Page 2 4 ]
by his earthly interests. He is like an aeroplane
which is too heavy to rise into the air. It lingers
upon or near the surface of that world towards
which its mind is turned. These are the earthbound
spirits, an enormous assembly, millions and millions
of them, a few here and there so near to matter
that they actually impinge upon our material senses
and are seen by us as ghosts. The miser is held by
his gold, the man of intellect by his study, the monk
by his cell, the criminal by his crime, the merchant
by his ledger.
All whose thoughts have been utterly engrossed
by the world are to be found there, many of them
unable to realize that they are dead. At our rescue
circles they ridicule the idea that they are dead. For
centuries they may remain as in some vague night­
mare. Then at last realization comes and that is
the beginning of regeneration. Those who have
read the posthumous writings of Oscar Wilde and
of Jack. London will realize the position and emo­
tions of the spirit who is conscious that he is earth-
bound.
Sympathy and Understanding
Then apart from the earthbound, the existence
of whom is testified to by the experience and tradi­
tions of all ages and nations, we have those who
[ Page 25 ]
The
Garden
Sir
Arthur
Conan
Doyle
Loved
Doyle’s
country
estate
and
garden,
Windlesham,
Crowborough,
Sussex,
England.
It
was
in
a
little
cottage
near
this
garden
that
the
Sherlock
Holmes
stories
were
written.
The Garden Sir Arthur Conan Doyle Loved
Doyle’s country estate and garden, Windlesham, Crowborough, Sussex, England. It
in a little cottage near this garden that the Sherlock Holmes stories were written.
was
have passed on into true spirit life, but who are
conscious o f their own shortcomings upon earth.
H ow low some of these may fall and how acute
their punishment m ay be is a matter upon which
we are not clearly informed.
There is reason to think that there is a lowest
stratum o f evil beings whose fate is not far differ­
ent from that of the H ell of the Scriptures, save,
indeed, that there is always at long last the hope of
amelioration o f soul and therefore of condition.
Above these are other strata of whose fate we
know more. These are heavy-hearted at the thought
o f their own failure, and their condition seems to
correspond w ith their mental and spiritual state,
so that they are for the time in dim and cloudy
places where dreary surroundings match the dreary
thoughts within. There they must linger until
sooner or later their own conscience or some m in­
istering angel comes to give them that upward help
which is the beginning of their regeneration.
It would seem to be a sad state while it lasts, but
only by sorrow and pain does chastening and
amendment come as we may see so often in our
ordinary human life. H ow intolerable often is the
human being who has known no sorrow. Only by
it does he learn sympathy and understanding.
[ Page 27 ]
Philosophy of the Spirit
So much we are told of the next stage of exis­
tence. Again I would ask, is it in any way incred­
ible or unreasonable? Is it not more reasonable,
for example, than that one should lie inert for
countless ages until some judgment should come?
Is it not also more reasonable than the idea of a
heaven of adoration, for which we are by no means
fitted, or of an endless hell, which as it did not
amend the soul, could only serve the purpose of di­
vine revenge. And yet these are the schemes of after­
life existence which so many generations have found
themselves able to accept.
The present philosophy, too, is not drawn from
witnesses long dead or from chronicles which can
never be retranslated without copious errors being
discovered, and never examined without fresh
forgeries and interpolations being suspected, but
they are messages direct to ourselves, of a far higher
morality than that of these ancient tribes, and
fortified by preternatural signs which show their
other-world origin. These high teachings profess
to come from lofty spirits who have gained wisdom
in the beyond. Their beauty and dignity bear out
the claim.
[Page 28]
Character and Behavior
If it be said that such messages cannot be proved
to be from such a source, one can only reply that
at least the proof is as clear, or even clearer, than
it has ever been in any message in the past history
of the world.
How does such teaching react upon Christianity}
It does not in any way touch upon the ethics of
Christ. I have, if I may for a moment be personal,
had more beautiful messages about the teaching and
personality of Christ from my own guide Pheneas
than I have ever had or heard of from any source.
But there is nothing narrow in such messages. There
is nothing which makes the monstrous claim that
God supports one clique of mankind against an­
other.
Always the teaching is that belief and faith are
small matters beside character and behavior, that
it is these latter which determine the place of the
soul in the beyond. Every faith, Christian or non-
Christian, has its saints and its sinners, and if a man
be kindly and gentle there is no fear for him in the
beyond whether he is or is not the member of any
recognized church on earth.
Those well-meaning folk in the Christian
churches who shrink away from this new knowl-
[Page 29]
edge because it is new, must remember that there
is outside their churches a vast assembly of men in
every country, often as earnest as themselves, who
have been so abashed by the degenerate religion
which they see, around them that they have lost all
belief either in a God or in the survival after Death.
The Philosophy of Spiritualism
It is to these people that Spiritualism has often
come as a light in the darkness. They have longed
for some firm spot of ground in the quagmire of the
faiths, where every creed had its own interpreta­
tions, and they have found that firm spot—the only
one which my foot has ever found—in the philoso­
phy of Spiritualism, which may start in a lowly at­
mosphere of puerile phenomena but leads upward
step by step in an unbroken line of experience and
reason until it reaches an elevation too rarefied for
the human mind.
Even this life extends from the hooligan to the
Saint, and can we wonder that the next presents
similar extremes all within the same system of
thought?
One cannot in a single short discourse do more
than sketch the outlines. Reading and experience
must supply the details. But I would end as I
[ Page 30 ]
began in emphasizing the extraordinary overmas­
tering importance of the matter.
Will You Take Heed?
Three great things have happened in the history
of the human race, things so permanent that the
mere rise and fall of Empires are as nothing in
comparison. The first is the idea of a single God
in the universe. The second is the idea of the unsel­
fish code of morals which may be found in many
places but which we mainly associate with Jesus
of Nazareth—a code which distinguishes man from
beast. The third is the breaking of the veil which
separates our sphere of life from the next one. It
is at this last tremendous revelation that we now
assist.
Blessed is he who is privileged to forward the
manifest work of God. But let those take heed
who resist Him, or who stand in the way of this
great comforting knowledge which His infinite
love has sent to uplift and inspire His children up­
on earth.
SVL CbdJuVL fom uL (DqijIsl
fiookiu
Available intermittently—Supply limited
THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN; In this book, are the
last written words of the famous creator of Sherlock Holmes
on the subject which had become increasingly important to
him, SPIRITUALISM (New)). _
_ $2,50
THE NEW REVELATION; The Search, The Revelation,
The Coming Life, Problems and Limitations, The Next Phase
of Life, Automatic Writing, etc. (used) ------------ $1.00
THE VITAL MESSAGE; Two Needful Readjustments, The
Dawning of The Light, The Great Argument, The Coming
World, Is It The Second Dawn? Dr. Gustav Geley’s Experi­
ments, Spirit Photography, etc. (used) ----------------- $1.00
PHENEAS SPEAKS; Direct Communications in The Fam­
ily Circle; A Striking Message from The Hereafter (used)
$2.75
THE WANDERINGS OF A SPIRITUALIST; (Illus.)
(used)________________________________ $2.75
THE HISTORY OF SPIRITUALISM; Two large volumes
profusely illustrated; Spiritualism’s greatest classic; refer­
ence books for the student (used). Price, The Set (supply
limited) _________________________________ $15.00
All books above obtainable from
DALE NEWS, Inc., Lily Dale, N. Y., U. S. A.
[ Page 32 ]
Wholesale and Retail
fijamphhtiuanjcL(BooklstSu
TRUMPET MEDIUMSHIP; How To Develop It
By CLIFFORD BIAS
Price $1.00 each
WHY RED INDIANS ARE SPIRIT GUIDES
By FREDERIC HARDING
Price 25 cents each
The Catechism of SPIRITUAL PHILOSOPHY
By W. J. COLVILLE
Price 50 cents each
THE PHILOSOPHY OF DEATH: Death Explained
By ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS
Price 50 cents each
THE BLUE ISLAND
A Vivid Account of Life in the SPIRIT WORLD
By WILLIAM T. STEAD
Through Hie hand of Estelle Stead
Price $1.50
A GUIDE TO MEDIUMSHIP
Dictated by a materialized spirit through the mediumship of
WILLIAM W. ABER
Price 50 cents
Special wholesale discounts to Spiritualist churches, societies,
Organizations and authorized booksellers.
Distributed by
Dale News, Inc., Lily Dale, N. Y.
(RsucuL
dmeAiatL Spih&iudi&t
(pohwdicaL
S2.00 a Year — $1.00 6 M
onths
SPECIMEN COPY SENT UPON REQUEST
Published by Dale News, Inc. . . Lily Dale, New York
