{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1946__clark___what_to_eat_and_when.pdf","mytitle":"What To Eat And When","mylang":"de"}
^fjat Co €at—
Unti Wfym
BY
S t a n l e y K. C l a r k , M. D., C . M., F. R. C .
ROSICRUCIAN LIBRARY
VOLUME XXI
SUPREME GRAND LODGE OF AMORC
Printing and Publishing Department
San Jose, California
Copyright, 1946
By SUPREME GRAND LODGE, A.M.O.R.C., Inc,
First Edition, June, 1946
Printed and Bound in U. S. A. by
THE R0S1CRUCIAN PRESS, LTD.
San Jose, California
DEDICATION
V
To t h e M e m o r y o f a F r i e n d
I t was through the personal invitation
and influence of the late Imperator, Dr. Harvey Spencer Lewis,
that the writer, many years ago, became a member of AMORC.
» » » From that early contact and acquaintance, as the years
passed, there developed and grew a close and abiding friendship.
From a boy I had been interested in the things that were also near
to Dr. Lewis’ heart. » » » Dr. Lewis needs not a monument
in the ordinarily accepted and understood meaning of the word. Over
a period of thirty years, he had erected for himself a usefid and
practical monument, represented by the great and growing organi­
zation of AMORC in Fforth and South America, with a member­
ship reaching scores of thousands. » » » Dr. Lewis’ interests
were as many and as diversified as his talents. Few men have been
more gifted and blessed. In his relationship with the member­
ship of AMORC he was not only interested in the intel­
lectual, metaphysical, psychic, and spiritual welfare and
growth of its members, but he was also ever concerned
for their physical well-being. » » » W ith all
of these facts in mind and knowing them to be
true, we are pleased to have this oppor­
tunity of dedicating this little boo\ to
his memory and to the cause to
which he so willingly gave all
that he possessed, even his
physical existence.
V
O
I.U
M
I!
T h e R osicrucian L ibrary
V V V
I. Rosicrucian Questions and Answers with Complete
History of the Order.
II. Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business.
III. The Mystical Life of Jesus.
IV. The Secret Doctrines of Jesus.
V. Unto Thee I Grant. . . .
(Secret Teachings of Tibet.)
VI. A Thousand Years of Yesterdays.
(A Revelation of Reincarnation.)
VII. Self Mastery and Fate with the Cycles of Life.
(A Vocational Guide.)
VIII. Rosicrucian Manual.
IX. Mystics at Prayer.
X. Behold the Sign.
(A Book of Ancient Symbolism.)
XI. Mansions of the Soul.
(The Cosmic Conception.)
XII. Lcmuria, The Lost Continent of the Pacific.
XIII. The Technique of the Master.
XIV. The Symbolic Prophecy of the Great Pyramid.
XV. The Book of Jasher.
XVI. The Technique of the Disciple.
XVII. Mental Poisoning.
XVIII Glands -Our Invisible Guardians.
XIX Along Civilization's Trail.
XX. The Word Went Forth.
XXI. What to Eat—And When.
(Other volumes will be added from time to time.
Write for complete catalogue.)
CONTENTS
V
CH APTER PAGE
In tro d u ctio n ................................................................ 9
I. Non-Physical Causes of Indigestion.................................................... 11
II. Definition of Food.................................................................................... 15
Food Chart ..........................................................................................30
III. The Truth about Vitamins ............................................................ 35
IV. The Alchemy of D igestion.................................................................... 49
V. Daily and Seasonal D i e t ..................... 55
VI. Are you Overweight—Underweight? ...............................................63
VII. Constipation and A lle rg y .................................................................... 71
VIII. Diet and Foods in D isease.................................................................... 77
IX. How the Psychic Mind AffectsD ig estio n........................................... 83
Index 102
INTRODUCTION
This book has been written especially for the members of
AMORC and their friends. It has been written because
many of you, Members of AMORC, have asked for just
such a book and the information that it contains.
Because of the nature of the Rosicrucian teachings and
the purpose of those teachings, it must be obvious that
to include in them much information, or as much as you
should know, on foods and dietetics, would tend to detract
and sidetrack your attention and interest from the mystical
light which it is the chief aim of AMORC to impart to
you.
It is the desire and hope, yea, the determined purpose of
AMORC, to assist its members and help them to grow and
develop physically, mentally, and spiritually. The knowl­
edge contained within these pages, if faithfully applied, will
help them progress on every plane. It is a regrettable fact
that not a few members, because of ill-health, and because
of poorly nourished or undernourished bodies, are unable
to devote as much time as they should to their monographs
and the exercises and practices suggested therein. Many are
unable because of physical and mental weariness to grasp
or intuitively sense the truths and lessons that are obvious
to healthy bodies and minds.
[ 9 ]
In the months and years prior to the writing of W hat
to Eat— and When, the author read the works of a number
of contemporary writers on related topics. These works in'
elude those of Doctors Martin E. Rehfuss, Albert H. Rowe,
Milton A. Bridges, S. S. Lichtman, James S. McLester,
George Graham, Hutchison, V. H. Mottram, M.A., and
some others. The works of these authorities are strongly
recommended to every student of medicine and dietetics.
The thoughts contained in W hat to Eat— and W hen
have been gleaned throughout the years and particularly
during the past eighteen years spent by the writer in the
field of gastroenterology.
This book has been written primarily for the layman,
but with the added hope that it may, in many instances,
find a useful place in the hands of the busy physician. The
reader will, however, wish to read, as well, the very ex­
cellent scientific works by the authors referred to above.
S t a n l e y K. C l a r k , M.D., F.R.C.
V V V
[ 10 ]
CHAPTER I
Non-Physical Causes of Indigestion
N Arabian, by the name of Rhaz,es (850-923), has
left to us this maxim: “When you can heal by diet
prescribe no other remedy.” It is our considered
opinion that present-day physicians should more
and more do what Rhaz,es practised and taught.
In a treatise on health, published at the famous school of
Salerno in the early part of the twelfth century, we find the
following interesting bit of rhyme:
Doctors should thus their patients' food revise.
W hat is it? W hen the meal? And what its size?
How often? Where? Lest, hy some sad mistake.
IlLsorted things should meet and trouble ma\e.
W e now know, however, that most foods can be eaten
by the vast majority of individuals, at one and the same
time, and not be incompatible. They will give rise to no
trouble as feared in this poem. Thousands of individuals
have eaten in the course of their lives, and are continuing
to eat, a great variety and mixture of foods, many of which
are difficult of digestion—some even largely indigestible—
and yet they have no subjective distress. These same indi­
viduals, and I have seen many like them, will confess or
[ 11 1
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
explain to their physician that yesterday or last week they
became ill after eating sparingly of Angel Cake and Lady’s'
Fingers. Why? Business men suffering and complaining of
indigestion for weeks and months while living at home and
eating welbprepared and nicely balanced meals, may go
away to a fishing camp or hunting lodge, eat there the
foods not too expertly prepared by one of their number,
and behold, to their surprise, all of their “indigestion” dis'
appears. Yes, it is true that some, perhaps many, will pick
up their indigestion where they left off on their return to
city, office, or business.
A young lady, a private secretary in a business office,
once asked our opinion as to the cause of her gastroim
testinal distress, and particularly the reason why she had
vomited her breakfast many hours after she had eaten it,
and even though she had not eaten any food other than her
morning meal. I asked her if she had quarrelled with her
employer. She had, and the diagnosis was made.
“Is it not strange that I have indigestion all the year
except for the few weeks while away on my summer’s
vacation?” a young man once asked the writer. He further
remarked that he always spent his vacation in the mid'
United States, and that during his absence his wife had her
vacation with friends in Canada. No, it was not strange
nor unexpected, for I instantly surmised and later learned
[ IN
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
that it was not the foods that were incompatible but man
and wife.
“You have no organic disease anywhere in your body,”
we once told a Judge of one of the American courts after
a careful study and investigation of his trouble. “Your
gastrointestinal distress is due to nervous and psychic
causes,” we informed him. And then we inquired as to why
so important and influential a citizen of the state should
be nervous in the discharge of his judicial duties. He then
stated frankly and in confidence that he never sits upon the
bench, nor presides over a court, without being subjectively
nervous and ill at ease. To us, it was manifest why he had
had indigestion for so long.
Some indiscretion in food intake may possibly lead to
indigestion which, if it persists for a few days, may cause
the individual to suspect and fear that he has a cancer.
Had not the worry and fear of an incurable disease crept
into the patient’s mind his indigestion would have gradiu
ally and soon disappeared. The cancer phobia greatly ag'
gravates and accentuates what may previously have been
mild symptoms of distress. The symptoms then become
alarming to patient and friends alike, and it is not until
after thorough investigation with X rays and otherwise
that he is convinced that he harbors no organic disease.
The patient then quickly recovers.
[ 13 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
Men have taken their own lives as a result of, or foh
lowing, great financial reverses. Others, to drown their
sorrows, have resorted to alcohol. Still others have become
depressed, harboring and nursing their worries. In this lat'
ter group indigestion soon makes its entree, and presently
the financial losses, with their attendant worries, are for'
gotten and in their place a cancer phobia rears its ugly
head. There is no cancer, of course, but it will necessitate
a good deal of investigation to convince the patient that his
distress is not due to organic disease, is not due to in'
compatible foods, but rather to wrong and inharmonious
thoughts.
Is it not apparent to the reader that it is not usually
and not frequently the kind, or even the mixture, of food
ingested that gives rise to indigestion or gastrointestinal dis'
tress but rather that it is the mental and psychic status and
life of the individual? Angel or Archangel Cake might give
you distress, although at another time, fried ham and eggs,
or even sausages, would not.
V V V
[ 14]
CHAPTER II
Definition of Food
HAT is a food? A brief definition at this time will
be in order. “A food is anything which, when ab-
sorbed into the body, chiefly and normally by way
of the alimentary tract, is capable of supplying the
body with material from which to produce heat and do
work, enabling it to grow and to repair its worn-out parts,
and finally food is that which regulates all these processes.”
It will be seen that tea and coffee do not fulfil any of these
requisites and therefore cannot be classified as foods.
An internationally known biochemist once told the
writer that he could live longer on tap water than I could
on a much advertised meat extract. He made it plain that
such a meat extract was not a food and went on to say
that it would shorten life, as compared with plain water, if
it were taken alone over a sufficient period of time. The
long and complicated protein molecules, of which the meat
extract was made, could not be broken up and utilised by
the body, and in the body's effort to split up said mole­
cules vital energies and essences would be expended with­
out results. There would be a loss rather than a gain, and
so the biochemist was correct in saying that he could live
[ I?]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
longer on tap water. But all this does not mean that meat
extracts have no value in dietetics. They do. Their chief
place and function is to stimulate the appetite and encoun
age the eating of good bread and butter, or other nourish'
ing foods.
In our bodies and therefore in our foods there should
be at least nineteen inorganic elements. The elements ah
ready isolated or recognised are: calcium, phosphorus, po'
tassium, sulphur, chlorine, sodium, magnesium, iron, man'
ganese, iodine, cobalt, silicon, aluminum, arsenic, boron,
copper, fluorine, nickel, and sine. The last nine are present
only in traces or mere traces. A complete and perfect diet
must contain adequate amounts of all of these nineteen in'
organic materials. It must also contain all the known and
unknown vitamins.
The foods we eat contain, besides the nineteen minerals
and a number of known and unknown vitamins, to be dis-
cussed later, the following chemical substances: proteins, fats,
carbohydrates (these latter consisting of sugars, starch, and
cellulose), extractives and flavoring matter, and finally
water. Not all proteins are the same, and this can also be
said with respect to fats and carbohydrates. Caseinogen,
albumin, gelatin, and gluten are all proteins, but each has
a different molecular structure.
The fats of various animal and plant foods are different
because of the nature of the fatty acids present in them.
[ 16 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
All fats have glycerin as a part of their molecular struc­
ture. A fat is composed of glycerin and acids, called fatty
acids. There may be one, two, three, or more fatty acids
combined chemically with glycerin to form a fat. Some
samples of fatty acids are: oleic acid in olive oil; butyric
acid in butter; caprylic acid in vegetable margarine; palmitic
and stearic acids in mutton fat.
The carbohydrates are composed of three elements,
namely carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. The carbohydrates
must all be changed by digestion into sugar, into mono­
saccharides, if not already in such a form, before they can
be of use to the body. There are three single or simple
sugars, all monosaccharides, into which all double sugars
or disaccharides are converted. These three simple sugars
are glucose, fructose, and galactose. Two monosaccharides
united chemically make up a disaccharide, a double sugar.
W e have already said that a double sugar, a disaccharide,
cannot be used by the body as such. It must be changed.
Cane sugar, also called sucrose, is a disaccharide. Malt
sugar, also called maltose, is likewise a disaccharide. Milk
sugar, or lactose, is another example.
And then we have polysaccharides, these being com­
posed of many monosaccharides all chemically linked to­
gether. Starch, glycogen, and dextrin are polysaccharides
and are made up of many monosaccharides. There are more
than twenty monosaccharides in starch. Of the monosac-
[ 17]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
charides, glucose and fructose are found free in nature.
Galactose is not found free. Glucose is found in fruit, in
vegetables, and in honey; fructose, in most fruits and also
in honey. Cane sugar, a disaccharide, is found in the sugar
cane, the sugar beet, in some vegetables, and in most fruits.
Starch is present in all the cereals, in peas and beans,
in potatoes, and so forth. Dextrins are formed from starch
containing foods as the result of strong dry heat, or the
action of some digestive ferment. W e find dextrin in the
crusts of bread or cakes and in certain breakfast foods.
Glycogen is a carbohydrate, a polysaccharide of animal
origin, and is found in liver, in certain fish, and in muscles
or lean meat. Besides the digestible or available carbohy­
drates to which we have just referred, there are also in
many cereals, fruits, vegetables, and pulses, indigestible or
unavailable carbohydrates, such as cellulose and pectin.
These indigestible, unavailable carbohydrates serve as rough­
age in the bowel and stimulate bowel movements. How­
ever, in an individual who possesses a spastic, irritable
colon, too much roughage can be harmful.
The fuel value of fat in the body is 9.3 calories per
gramme; the fuel value of both protein and carbohydrates
is 4.1 per gramme. Thus it will be seen that fat has more
than double the fuel value of either carbohydrate or pro­
tein. W e require all three types of food, proteins, fats, and
carbohydrates. The amounts we require will depend on
[ I S ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
many factors: (1) on age; (2) on sex; (3) on the work,
the amount and kind of work that one does. A child of
one year will require about 600 calories per day; at six
years 1500; at ten years 2000 or slightly more. A girl at
fourteen to sixteen needs about 2500 calories; while a boy
of the same age requires 3000. An adult male requires
almost one'quarter more than an adult female. Girls from
fourteen years and up require as many calories as an adult
woman. Boys from fourteen years and up need as many
calories as an adult male. Active or very active boys and
girls between the ages of fourteen and twenty probably
require even more food than most adult men and women.
It will be readily appreciated that a person doing little
or no muscular work will require many less calories than
one who is engaged during the day as a woodcutter or as
a stonemason. A young man on the college football team
may require from 5000 to 6000 calories per day; while a
tailor might be well fed and satisfied on 2500 to 3000.
Should the work one is engaged in be strenuous enough,
an intake of 8000 to 9000 calories might be necessary.
The average man’s intake is 3000 calories. The average
woman’s intake is 2500 calories. These are approximate
figures.
Growth and repair of the body need the presence of
proteins in the food. Life is impossible without protein.
Protoplasm, the physical basis of life, is largely made up
[ 1 9 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
of protein. Plants are able to build up or synthesize pro­
tein; animals, including man, cannot do this. They there­
fore must eat the plants or other animals, who already have
preyed upon plants to obtain their protein. Proteins possess
large molecules and these molecules are composed of units
called amino acids. That is to say units of amino acids
united chemically form a protein. An amino acid is not
a protein, but a number of them united together is. There
may be from two hundred to four hundred or more amino
acids in a given protein. One protein will differ from
another protein according to the number or order and ar­
rangement of its amino acids. Proteins must be digested or
broken down into their amino acids before they can be
absorbed into the body as food.
All proteins are not of equal value to the human body.
Certain amino acids are indispensable and all proteins have
not all these essential acids present. The human body has
the power to manufacture or synthesize some of the re­
quired amino acids, but to do this, certain amino acids
must be present, and this necessitates certain kinds of pro­
teins in which these indispensable amino acids are present.
The body cannot build up every kind of amino acid re­
quired. Milk and egg proteins probably head the list with
respect to value as body builders and repairers of worn-out
tissues. Meat and fish follow. Next in order comes the
[ 20]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
protein of cereals, followed by that of peas and beans, and
finally by nut proteins.
There should be some food with first-class proteins, or
proteins of the highest biological value, in the diet every
day. These can be used immediately and directly for body­
building with a minimum of expenditure of chemical energy,
and further they are used to complete and enhance the bio­
logical value of second-class proteins. The proteins that
should be eaten every day include milk, eggs, meat, fish,
and cheese. All these are first-class proteins and of the
highest biological value.
An adult male needs from 80 to 100 grammes of pro­
tein per day. From one-third to a half of this amount
should be derived from the proteins of the highest bio­
logical value already mentioned. An adult female, requiring
somewhat less than a male, would need 60 to 70 grammes
of protein per day and of this amount at least one-third to
a half should be in the form of first-class proteins. In some
types of acute and chronic nephritis, the protein intake is
restricted. If all the protein in the diet was of the first and
highest class variety, the total intake could be lower, with­
out causing harm. Poor people are apt to eat too great a
proportion of second-class proteins. The middle classes usu­
ally consume balanced amounts of each.
Altogether proteins should supply ten to twelve percent
of the total calories in the diet, and half of this amount, or
c -1:•
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
five to six percent, should be in the form of first-class pro­
teins. Boys and girls at the age of puberty require slightly
more protein than immediately before or directly after this
period in their lives. They require more protein than an
adult. Infants and children up to the age of five years re­
quire more grammes of protein per kilogram of body weight
than does a boy or girl at puberty or an adult male or
female. Boys and girls who are properly and adequately
fed will be several inches taller and many pounds heavier
than an equal number of children of similar ages who have
received a poorly balanced and inadequate diet.
If carbohydrates are omitted from the diet, and only
proteins and fats are eaten, then not only is the total
nitrogen of the protein consumed excreted but a portion
of the body’s nitrogen as well; this nitrogen deficit comes
from the protein of the muscles. Unless protein is con­
sumed along with carbohydrate in the diet, it is of no use
in repairing the wear and tear of body protein. Proteins
should be taken in small or moderate amounts throughout
the day—some with every meal, and with adequate amounts
of carbohydrates at the same meal.
There is, however, little or no danger of a healthy, nor­
mal individual eating too much protein. The Eskimos thrive
on a diet in which the proteins predominate. There is no
evidence or proof whatsoever that a high protein diet pre­
disposes to cancer. In the days of the caveman and during
[22]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
his later nomadic existence, the diet was largely protein.
Cancer is on the increase today, with a mere fraction of
protein consumed as compared with those much earlier
times in man’s history.
In choosing food for its protein content one should
know that protein is found more or less in most foods,
whether they be of animal, vegetable, fruit, or of nut origin.
W ith the exception of some nuts, which have a high pro-
tein content, animal foods rank by far the highest in the
percentage of protein, and animal proteins lead all others in
their biological value, that is, in their ability to promote
growth and repair the wear and tear of body tissues. Ab
though nuts have a high protein content, they are not easily
digestible and their protein ranks second to that of animal
foods in the body’s economy.
The daily requirement of protein is equal to or slightly
more than one gramme of protein for each two and one'
fifth pounds of body weight. This would necessitate 70 or
more grammes of protein if one weighed one hundred and
fifty-five pounds. Taking this amount then as a minimum
requirement it would be altogether wise, desirable, and
even necessary for the greatest measure of health to in'
elude about fifty percent of this amount from animal pro'
teins, including milk, eggs, cheese, meat, and fish. It must
be borne in mind, as was stated before, that carbohydrates
f 23 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
are absolutely essential each day, along with proteins,
otherwise all the protein taken is wasted.
It has already been stated that in our bodies there are
at least nineteen minerals. Nine of these are either in trace
or mere traces. Calcium, phosphorus, potassium, sulphur,
chlorine, sodium, and magnesium are present in considerable
quantity; calcium heads the list and is followed in order by
the remaining six mentioned. The amount of any one
mineral present will naturally depend on the size and
weight of the individual. The approximate, or even the
exact quantity of the ten minerals present, in more than
merely traces, is known, but it is not important to put
down these quantities here. The amounts of those minerals
occurring as traces have not, as far as we can learn, been
measured. Certainly life would be impossible without many
of these nineteen minerals, and our health and well-being
may even be greatly influenced by the nine which are
present in but traces.
All of these nineteen minerals must be taken into our
bodies by way of our food. It perhaps is not important to
know in what foods are found the mineral elements which
are present in our bodies, in trace amounts. But it is im­
portant and vital that we should be familiar with the source
of the first ten on the list. These ten are:
[ 24]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
calcium
phosphorus
potassium
sulphur
chlorine
sodium
magnesium
iron
manganese
iodine
Foods rich in calcium are:
beans malted milk
cheese maple syrup
clams milk
egg yolk molasses
figs, dried peas
gelatin salmon-bones, canned
ice cream vegetables, green
Foods rich in phosphorus are:
beans malted milk
cereals, whole-grain meats
cheese milk
chocolate, dark nuts
egg yolk peas
fish poultry
gelatin wheat germ
liver yeast, dried
[ 25 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
Foods rich in potassium are:
bananas melons
beans milk
cabbage, green molasses
cereals nuts
cocoa olives
endive parsnips
fish peas
fruits, dried potatoes (both white and sweet)
honey rutabagas
lettuce spinach
limes turnips
meats
Foods rich in sulphur are:
bacon fish
beans, dried macaroni
bran meats
bread nuts
cabbage, green onions
cauliflower oysters
cereals peas
cheese sprouts, Brussels
clams Swiss chard
cocoa water cress
eggs
[ 2 6 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
Foods rich in chlorine are:
bacon
bread
cheese
corned beef
dates
eggs
fish, canned
malted milk
meats, canned
meat juices
molasses
salted foods
sausages
Foods rich in sodium are:
beans, lima meat extracts
biscuits olives
bread oysters
butter raisins
carrots spinach
cheese water cress
clams wheat bran
egg whites
endive
wheat germ
Foods rich in magnesium are:
beans, dried molasses
cereals nuts
chocolate peas, dried
cocoa wheat bran
fruits, dried wheat germ
[27]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
Foods rich in iron are:
almonds liver
apricots molasses
beans, baked nuts, Brazil
bread, whole-wheat oatmeal
chocolate, dark parsley
cocoa peaches
coconut peanuts
currants peas
dates prunes
eggs raisins
figs, dried sardines, canned
heart sausages
kidney
Foods rich in manganese are:
beans* nuts
beet tops peas
cereals, whole-grain pineapple, fresh
cocoa turnip tops
^especially lima and baked
[ 2 8 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
Foods rich in iodine are:
agar-agar lobster
clams mushrooms
crabmcat mussels
eggs oil, fish-liver
fish roe oysters
fish, salt-water salmon
Irish moss water cress
leafy vegetables
Many foods contain one or more of the mineral ele-
ments, although no mention here has been made of them.
Any food that one eats will add to the body some portion
of one or more minerals, but if those foods listed here are
eaten (those that are particularly rich in certain minerals),
one will be assured of adequate amounts of each.
V V V
[ i
This chart has been prepared from the factual matter contained within the pages of this book. It is
intended for your convenient reference. There are, of course, many foods other than those included
in this list, which likewise contain various vitamins and inorganic elements. But this list is sufficient
and representative of the foods used in the preparation of the ordinary daily meals.
FOOD
VITAMINS TEN OF THE PRINCIPAL MINERAL ELEMENTS OF THE BODY
A
Complex
B c D E K Calcium Phosphorus Potassium Sulphur Chlorine Sodium Magnesium Iron Manganese Iodine
Agar-agar X
Alfalfa Meal X
Almonds X
Apricots X X
Bacon X X
Bananas X X X
Beans X X X X X X X X
Beans, Baked X X
Beans, Lima X X
Beets X X X
Beet Tops X X i ~T--------- X
Beef, Corned ! 1 x
Biscuits X
Bran X i X X
Bread X X X
Bread,
Whole-Grain X X
Broccoli X X X X X X
Butter X X X X
Cabbage, Raw X X X X
Cabbage, New X X X X
Cantaloupes X X
Carrots X X X
Carrot Tops X X X
Cauliflower X X X
Cereals,
Whole-Grain X X X X X X X X
Chard X X x X X
Cheese X X X X X X X
Chocolate, Dark X X X
Clams X X X X
Cocoa X X X X X
Coconut X
Corn X
Cream X X
Crab Meat X
Currants X X
Currants, Black X X
Dates X X
Eggs X X X X X X
Egg Yolks X X X X X X
Endive X X X
Figs X 1
Figs, Dried i X X
Fish Roe X
Fish, Salt-Water X X X X X X
Fruits, Dried X X
Gelatin X X
Gooseberries X
Grapefruit X X X
Haddock X
Halibut X
Heart X _
X
Herring X
Honey X
Ice Cream X
Irish Moss X
Kale X X X X x X X
VITAMINS TEN OF THE PRINCIPAL MINERAL ELEMENTS OF THE BODY
FOOD
A
Complex
B c D E K Calcium Phosphorus Potassium Sulphur Chlorine Sodium Magnesium Iron Manganese Iodine
Kidneys X X
Lemons X X X
Lettuce X X X X X X
Limes X X X
Liver X X X X
Lobster X
Loganberries X
Macaroni X
Maple Syrup X
Meat X X X X X X
Meat Extracts X X
Melons X
Milk, Whole X X X X X X
Milk, Evaporated X
Milk. Malted X X X
Molasses X X X X X X
Mushrooms X
Mussels X
Nuts X X X X X X X
Nuts, Brazil X
Oatmeal X
Oil, Cottonseed X X
Oil, Fish'Liver X X X
Oil, Olive X X
Oil, Peanut X X X
Oil, Soybean X X X
Oil, Wheat Germ X X
Olives X X
Onions X X X
Oranges X X
Oysters X X X
Papaya X
Parsley X X X X X X
Parsnips X
Peaches X X
Peanuts X X X
Peas X X X X X X X
Peas, Dried X
Pmeapole, Fresh x X
Potatoes, Sweet X X
Potatoes, Irish X X X
Poultry X
Prunes X X X
Radishes V
/\ X —
Raisins X X
Raspberries X
— —
Rutabagas X X
Salmon X X X
Salmon, Red X ! X X
Salted Foods _ _ X
Sardines, Canned X X
S a u s a g e s
... _
X X
Spinach X x x X i X X X X
Sprouts, Brussels v" X
Strawberries v \
Tomatoes X X x X
Turnips % X
Turnip Greens X
v /
X-v X X
Water Cress X V
X
X \ X X X X X X
Wheat Germ X X X X X
Yeast, Dried X X
CHAPTER III
The Truth about Vitamins
S
HE vitamins are nonmineral substances. They dif'
fer from one another in chemical nature and their
function in the body is different. They are re'
quired in small amounts for the maintenance of
normal growth and for the function of the body’s organs
and tissues.
The vitamins are called catalysts. A catalyst or a cata-
lytjer is a substance which modifies the velocity of a chemi'
cal or physical process. Now the vitamins modify and in-
fluence both the chemical and physical processes in the
body.
Our present knowledge of vitamins had its beginning in
about 1906. Certain diseases which are now known to be
due to the lack or insufficiency of specific vitamins had been
so recognised for a long time.
Beri'beri is a disease due to a deficiency of thiamin, a
part of the B complex. This disease was known in China in
2600 B.C. The cause of the disease was not, however,
known. In 1882, in Japan, beri'beri was very largely con­
trolled by altering the diet. Before this date the diet had
consisted chiefly of rice, and to the rice diet were added
[ 3? 1
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
such foods as fish, meat, vegetables, and milk. It was recog'
nized in Japan as early as 1882 that the disease beri'beri
was due to some deficiency in the food. Vitamins at this
time were not known or even suspected.
Scurvy is a disease that has been known for many cen-
turies. It is caused by the lack or deficiency of vitamin C.
It can be cured very quickly by the administration of this
vitamin in foods containing the vitamin, or by the giving
of vitamin C tablets. In 1601 the East India Company
discovered that the disease could be controlled or cured by
the juice of lemons or oranges. The curative vitamin was
not known or suspected at this time. Scurvy was prevalent
in Ireland in 1847 during a potato famine. The potato was
the chief article of diet in Ireland then as now. The potato
has a moderate amount of vitamin C, sufficient to prevent
scurvy.
For more than a century the connection of rickets with
a faulty diet was suspected. As early as 1824 cod-liver oil
was known to cure it. Rickets, a disease of infancy and
early childhood, is a common nutritional disorder. It is
caused by the lack or insufficiency of vitamin D. The dis­
ease occurs more frequently in artificially fed than in breast­
fed infants. However, the disease may be seen in the latter,
if the mother has been and is undernourished. There is
vitamin D in both human and cow’s milk, but the vitamin
D in the cow’s milk is not so well absorbed from the bowel.
[36]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
W hat is perhaps of more importance than the rather poorer
absorption of the vitamin from the cow’s milk, is the fact
that in the late fall and winter there may be no Vitamin D
whatsoever in cow’s milk.
Rickets could develop, if there were not sufficient cal­
cium and phosphorus in the diet, even in the presence of
vitamin D, but without this vitamin, calcium and phos­
phorus alone could not prevent rickets. Human and cow’s
milk both have calcium and phosphorus. There is more in
the latter, but cow’s milk must be diluted in the early weeks
and months of the infant’s life. The short ultraviolet rays
of the sun can also prevent rickets. The sun does not have
vitamin D in its rays but because of the ability of the ultra­
violet rays therein to convert precursors, such as cholesterol,
in the skin into active vitamin D, the sun can prevent and
cure rickets. This vitamin is absorbed when administered
by massage with cod-liver oil.
Vitamin D is necessary for normal bone formation and
for the normal retention of calcium and phosphorus in the
body. This vitamin, too, keeps calcium and phosphorus in
normal relations, one with the other, with respect to quan­
tity. The vitamin D requirement varies with the amount
of direct exposure to the sunlight by the individual, with
the amounts of calcium and phosphorus in the diet, and
lastly with the proportion between calcium and phosphorus
in the body. The more rapidly the child is growing, the
[ 3 7 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
more vitamin D and the more calcium and phosphorus it
will require.
W e know more about vitamin D in its relation to in­
fants and children than we know about its value in adult
people. It is probably true, however, that this vitamin is
necessary for the maintenance of normal health. It is the
writer’s opinion that millions of adults do not get a suffi­
cient amount of this D vitamin. This is particularly true
during the late fall, winter, and early spring months, and
among those millions who spend most of their lives away
from the direct sunlight, in offices, basements and sub-base­
ments, stores, great indoor factories, and among those who
sleep most of the day and work at night, and the thousands
of men who work all day long in mines and under the
ground. In the absence of much direct sunlight all the year
around, we must look to our foods, and throughout the en­
tire year consume in our diet such foods as:
butter herring
cream oil, fish-liver
egg yolks salmon
halibut
Also, though not so rich in the D vitamin, the following
foods should be incorporated in the diet:
haddock sardines
nuts
lard
milk
oil, cottonseed
oil, olive
oil, peanut
[ 3 8 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
In women, during pregnancy and lactation a considerably
greater quantity of vitamin D is necessary. During this time
it is more than probable that most women would be benefited
by a small amount of vitamin D in tablet form over and
above the quantity naturally consumed in their diet.
The time may come when the governments of the dif'
ferent countries will compel all those who sell and dis­
tribute milk for human consumption to irradiate such milk
before offering it for sale. This particularly should be done
in the wintertime, and this means from six to seven months
in a large portion of the world.
It should be pointed out by way of warning that one
can consume too much vitamin D. This will not happen
from the food intake, but could happen by one taking too
many and too concentrated pills or tablets. Medical advice
should be obtained before starting tc take this vitamin other
than in one’s food. It is, in our opinion, probable that if
adults were to get a considerably greater quantity of vita­
min D, along with the necessary amounts of calcium and
phosphorus, that there would be among them much less of
arthritic and other bony changes, and a great deal less of
arthritic pains. There would be a great improvement in
health and more useful living.
Pellagra was recognised as a disease entity as early as
1735. It was once common in southern and central Europe.
It is not unknown in parts of the United States of America.
1 39 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
Pellagra presents a variety of symptoms referable to the
skin, gastrointestinal tract, and the nervous system. It was
not until about 1912 that the disease was thought to be due
to the lack of, or a deficiency of, a vitamin. The cause of
the disease has since been found to be due to a deficiency
of a portion of the vitamin B complex, known as niacin.
To prevent and cure pellagra, niacin is required. During
the active stage of the disease and until cure is established,
the concentrated vitamin should be administered, but at all
other times it is possible to take and get sufficient of this
vitamin in one’s diet. There is a disease in some animals,
for instance, in the dog and the pig, very similar to pellagra
in man. And just as niacin can cure this disease in human
beings, so it can cure the disease in animals.
Much is known today about vitamins. Undoubtedly
there is still much to learn. Several vitamins have been
discovered and isolated. The structural formula of a num-
ber is already known. Some of them can be built up, pro-
duced chemically, or, as the chemist would say, synthe­
sized. One food may be an excellent source of one vitamin
and yet be totally devoid of another. It becomes important
then to know something of the vitamin content of the foods
we are accustomed to eat and of the foods eaten by others
in the particular land or community in which we live. Some
vitamins are destroyed by heat, while others are not; some
are water-soluble, while others are fat-soluble. Up to the
[40]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
present time, the vitamins have been chiefly labelled and
designated by the letters of the alphabet. This undoubtedly
will be done away with as more is learned about them. A t
first the B vitamin was considered by layman and chemist
alike as being just one single vitamin like A or C. But as
time passed and more was discovered and learned about
vitamin B, it became known that it was not a single vita'
min but a complex substance and at the present moment
some seventeen divisions of this vitamin have been made.
Obviously it will become absurd to continue to speak of B
vitamin or even B complex, for universal names will be
given them, which later will become known by the rank
and file of humanity as well as by the biochemist of today.
The present'known vitamin A is found in food as such,
or in the form of a precursor, such as carotene, which can
be converted into vitamin A by the body. This change
takes place in the liver. Vitamin A is soluble in fats and
fat solvents. It becomes apparent therefore when mineral
oil is used as a laxative that some and perhaps much of this
vitamin is unabsorbed, being held by the mineral oil and
later excreted. Heat has no effect on this vitamin.
The lack or insufficiency of vitamin A produces certain
eye symptoms and diseases. A marked deficiency will lead
to the inability to see in the dark, which is spoken of as
night blindness. This condition was described and written
about as early as 1500 B.C. Following the stage of night
[ 4 1 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
blindness, there develop certain diseased conditions, known
as Xerophthalmia and Keratomalacia. The night blindness
is due to the direct absence of vitamin A whereas the
Xerophthalmia and Keratomalacia are produced by bac-
terial or microbic invasion of the conjunctiva that has been
already weakened by the lack of the vitamin. If these dis­
eases are not arrested by vitamin A, then total blindness
will follow. In India there are many blind children due to
this cause. Not only is the eye affected by the absence of
vitamin A but other structures are affected as well. The
skin, the linings of the respiratory and urogenital tracts,
and even the nervous system may be involved in disease.
Vitamin A and its precursors or, in other words, its
provitamins, are found in:
apricots milk, whole
bananas oil, fish-body
butter oil, fish-liver
cantaloupes parsley
carrots peaches
cheese prunes
cream salmon, red
egg yolk tomatoes
kale turnip greens
liver vegetables, green
milk, evaporated vegetables, yellow
[42]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
and to a lesser extent in many other foods such as:
beets grapes
cereals lemons
cranberries meats
figs onions
fish potatoes
grapefruit radishes
one keeps in mind the names of the foods in which
vitamin A is found, in more or less abundance, then it will
be possible at all times to secure a sufficiency of this impor­
tant vitamin.
Vitamin B
As we have already intimated, vitamin B is not just
one vitamin. It began as such but as this manuscript goes
to press there are about seventeen known B vitamins. We
have also already stated that doubtless the B will be
dropped and names applied that will be known and ac­
cepted throughout the world. The B vitamin, unlike A
vitamin, is soluble in water and consequently much of it
enters into the water or other fluid when fruits and vege­
tables are boiled. Fruit juices are always eaten, but as
most vegetable water is thrown out much of the vitamin
is lost. If potatoes are boiled or baked in their skins, there
will be a great saving of the vitamin. Too high a tempera-
[43]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
ture will destroy part or all of vitamin B. The vitamin B
in bread is not destroyed by the baking,
Some of the foods rich in vitamin B are:
There are still other foods but these are sufficient to
keep in mind as containing some portion of the B complex.
The whole story of vitamin B is not known. All the
diseases caused by its absence are likewise not known. W e
have already referred to beri'beri and pellagra as being two
deficiency diseases; both caused by the lack or insufficiency
of one segment or division of this very complex vitamin B
substance. Beri'beri is produced by the absence of B, or
thiamin. Pellagra is produced by the lack of niacin, a part
of the B complex. Another one of the B vitamins, known
alligator pear
bananas
beans
beet tops
beets
bread, whole-wheat
cabbage, raw
carrots
cereals, whole-grain
cheese
corn
nuts
oil, cottonseed
oil, olive
oil, peanut
oil, wheat-germ
onions
peanuts
potatoes
prunes
soybeans
tomatoes
vegetables, leafy
wheat germ
yeast, dried brewer’s
egg yolk
fruits, citrus
liver
meats, particularly organ meats
such as heart and kidney
[ 4 4 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
as riboflavin, seems to be essential for normal growth. This
has been found true in experimental tests with animals.
Some patients who are given the sulfa drugs develop a
white blood cell anemia, which may occasionally become
quite serious. It has been discovered, however, that one of
the many B vitamins can prevent the onset of this unfavor'
able and worrisome complication.
W e shall not burden you with the names of all the
seventeen vitamin B substances, as it is much more impor'
tant that you should be familiar with the fact of their great
need in the diet, and that you should know several of the
foods in which the B vitamin is present in rich, or at least
in moderate, amounts. These have already been enumerated.
Vitamin C
It was mentioned in an earlier paragraph of this hook
that the absence of vitamin C leads to scurvy. This disease
used to be common, but it is rare now, for it is so easy to
cure or to prevent. There are other symptoms but we shall
merely mention a few. The individual deprived of this vita'
min develops sore, painful, and swollen gums; the teeth be'
come loose; there are pains in the joints which may become
very acute, and almost unbearable on movement; the skin
may present bruisedike areas or patches; bleeding from the
nose may occur. Vitamin C can prevent or cure all of
these symptoms.
[ 4 5 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
Some foods that are rich or high in vitamin C are:
beets oranges
broccoli papaya
cabbage, new parsley
cabbage, raw pineapple, fresh
cantaloupe potatoes, sweet
cauliflower radishes
currants, black raspberries
gooseberries spinach
grapefruit sprouts
kale strawberries, fresh
lemons tomatoes
limes turnips
loganberries water cress
onions, young
Vitamin D
W e have, we believe, said enough already in an earlier
section of this book concerning vitamin D. It would now
be well to reread that part. It is important that each of us
knows and is familiar with a number of the food sources of
this most vital and essential vitamin.
Vitamin E
This vitamin, like A and D, is fat-soluble. The knowl­
edge concerning vitamin E is not so extensive as of some
others. It is known to be essential for reproduction in cer­
tain animals. Because the vitamin is so widely distributed
[46]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
in nature, it is probable that most individuals get a suffr
cient amount. If it has anything to do with fertility and
reproduction in the human, then it is obvious that most
folk have or get sufficient.
Some sources of vitamin E are:
beans
butter
cereals, whole-grain
eggs
leafy vegetables
meat
milk
molasses
oils, all vegetable
peanuts
peas
wheat germ
Vitamin K
When vitamin K is absent, or is present in too small
amounts, our blood does not clot normally, when bleeding
for any reason occurs.
Foods rich in this vitamin are:
alfalfa-leaf meal
cabbage
carrot tops
cauliflower
egg yolk
kale
soybean oil
spinach
tomatoes
Sometimes the results are better if vitamin K is given
with vitamin C than when vitamin K is administered alone.
Vitamin K is now very frequently used, especially in surgi'
cal cases.
[47]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
To be certain that one is getting all the nineteen miner'
als along with the seventeen, or more, known vitamins, it
becomes necessary to consume daily a very wide variety of
foods. It is not just a matter of calories. It is not a ques'
tion of so much bulk or quantity to satisfy the appetite.
The sum total of the nineteen minerals and the seventeen
known vitamins must be taken in daily. This can be done
only by a very wide choice and variety of foods.
It seems that it would be conservative to state that not
less than twelve different kinds of foods, some cooked and
some raw, should be eaten every day of the week. One
should not eat the same twelve selected foods every day.
For example one might eat during any one day the fob
lowing articles of food: milk, butter, cereal, cheese, eggs,
meat in some form, potatoes, lettuce, raw cabbage, cooked
or raw carrots, oranges, and bread.
It will be observed that this list of twelve foods is not
large. One could add an additional three to six other kinds
of foods and not make the daily ration too big or cause it
to be too diversified.
V V V
[ 4 8 ]
CHAPTER IV
The Alchemy of Digestion
^TjSvj. IGESTION begins in the mouth. Here the food is
jjPJE mechanically ground by the teeth into small par-
tides, and while this process is going on, the food is
being thoroughly mixed with saliva and to some ex-
tent with mucus. Thorough chewing or mastication of the
food is important lest it may bruise or traumatize the gastro'
intestinal tract, when it is swallowed. The finer the food
is when it reaches the stomach and later the small bowel,
the more complete and thorough the digestion.
In the saliva there is a digestive ferment called jityalin
which acts upon some of the starch present, converting it
into sugar. Starch must be converted into sugar before it
can be absorbed into the blood stream and used by the body
as food.
The amount of saliva will depend largely on the appetite
and upon the manner in which the food is prepared and
presented. Everyone knows how dry the mouth becomes
when one is very thirsty. There would be then little or no
saliva to mix with, to soften and initiate the digestion of a
portion of the starch. Many folks also have observed how
quickly their saliva can disappear when they are about to
[49]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
face an audience to give an address. Plenty of saliva helps
to keep the mouth clean of food particles which otherwise
would remain between the teeth.
Digestion begins in the mouth and is continued in the
stomach. This latter organ acts as a reservoir for the food
and will hold from two to three pints. In the stomach the
food is further ground, or chymified; the temperature is
adjusted to that of the body, and possibly some of the bac'
teria is destroyed by the hydrochloric acid present. Here,
too, a partial digestion of proteins takes place. A portion
of the food begins to empty out of the stomach very shortly
after it reaches it. Some stomachs empty rapidly; this is
usually true of the obese type of person. This rapid empty'
ing of the stomach is just one of the reasons why certain
persons are and remain fat.
Individual stomachs empty in from three to nine hours.
This latter figure is fortunately rare. About a year ago we
were asked to investigate a gastrointestinal condition, pre'
senting many symptoms of distress. A thorough study of
the case revealed no organic disease, and all we found to
cause the patient’s symptoms was an extremely slow empty'
ing time—in this case, nine hours. Our advice to the pa-
tient was to eat only two meals per day, at least nine hours
apart, and with these she was instructed to take some vita'
min B complex. All of the patient’s distress disappeared.
[ }
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
The average stomach empties in from four to six hours.
The rate will depend upon the size and type of meal; upon
the amount of exercise taken during the digestive phase;
upon the shape of the stomach; and finally, the tone of its
muscular walls. An average breakfast will empty more
quickly than a full'course dinner. Fatty foods will empty
more slowly than vegetables, fruits, and cereals. A thin,
undernourished individual will have a slower emptying time
than a welhnourished or an obese person. A person who
lies down for the period between two meals is apt to have
a slower emptying time than he would if he were to do
some work or exercise. Finally, if one’s appetite is keen and
one is hungry, the stomach will empty more rapidly than it
otherwise would. Both appetite and hunger stimulate the
free flow of the gastric juices and consequently lead to
more perfect and more rapid digestion. Certain foods,
such as hot, welhflavored soups, meat extracts, and so forth,
will cause a greater quantity of gastric juice to be secreted.
Even though the soup or the meat extract have little or no
caloric or food value they do serve a good purpose in ex-
citing a more abundant gastric secretion.
There is a small amount of starch digested in the mouth
by the aid of the ptyalin in the saliva; a little more, though
less, is digested in the stomach, by the ptyalin that has been
swallowed with the food. A small amount of protein is also
digested in the stomach but, apart from these two small
[ 51 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
portions of starch and protein, the bulk of the digestion
takes place within the upper sections of the small bowel.
In the stomach the food is converted into a creamy mass
which we call chyme. It is now ready to be received by
the small intestine. When it reaches there, it is received
and mixed with eight digestive enzymes, three from the
pancreas and five from the small bowel itself. These com'
bined enzymes digest every type of food: carbohydrates,
fats, and proteins. And they can digest them just as well
when all three are there together. It is not necessary, is
not advisable, nor indeed is it wise, to consume just one
type of food at one time, even were this possible.
The major portion of the digestion occurs within the
small intestine as stated above, and also practically all the
absorption of the digested food stuffs takes place there.
Possibly four fifths of the water drunk is received into the
blood stream from the small bowel. The inorganic salts and
vitamins are also from here absorbed into the body. The
presence of vitamin D in the small bowel aids in the ab­
sorption of calcium salts. The contents of the small in­
testine remain fluid throughout. The intestine is from fif­
teen to twenty, or more, feet long. It takes from two to
four hours for the food to pass through the small bowel,
and begin its journey into and through the large bowel or
colon.
[ 52]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
There is little or no digestion in the colon. This organ
is a receptacle or reservoir for waste. The content of the
beginning of the large bowel (on the right side) is mainly
fluid, but as the undigested portion of the meal passes on'
ward towards the rectum, the bowel content becomes more
and more firm and solid by the further absorption of water
from the bowel. From the time the food is eaten until its
residue or waste reaches the rectum, about twenty to
twenty'four hours have elapsed. There are some variations
to this general rule. The waste might be there in ten or
twelve hours, or it might be delayed for more than forty'
eight hours. The rate of passage through the large intestine
is normally increased by vegetables and fruits, the coarse,
indigestible fibres stimulating, as they do, the bowel to con'
tract and drive along its contents.
The bowel should move or empty itself once a day. A
few people have a double habit in this connection. It is
rarely that three movements take place. Usually when
there are more than two movements, there is present some
abnormal condition needing or demanding correction. As
a general rule the stool should be formed when passed. The
amount of undigested or unabsorbed food in the fecal mat-
ter is small. The bulk is made up chiefly of intestinal secre'
tions and dead bacteria.
[ 5
T]
CHAPTER V
Daily and Seasonal Diet
HE custom in most parts of the world is to eat three
meals a day. In some sections locally, or even na-
tionally, a mid-forenoon and a mid-afternoon smaller
meal is also taken. As we have already pointed out,
only two meals may be desirable and required for health, or
at least necessary to bring relief from distressing symptoms.
If the meal has been light, or if the stomach has emptied
rapidly, or further, if the work done was considerable, it
would be wise to eat a second meal at an earlier hour than
one would had the previous meal been large.
All varieties of food should be eaten with every meal:
that is, carbohydrates, fats, arid proteins. Particularly is it
important that carbohydrates and proteins be eaten to­
gether. Some of this protein should be first-class or of the
highest biological value. Protective foods containing the
necessary minerals and vitamins should be consumed regu­
larly and daily. Women should eat somewhat more iron-
containing foods than men. This rule ought to apply also
to adolescent girls. If the work being done is hard, or
especially so, then carbohydrates and fats should be in­
creased rather than the proteins. If the work is hard and
[5H
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
the diet is increased, as it should be, then the vitamins BL
and C should be increased also. Pork, in the form of bacon
and ham, and whole-wheat bread are sources of Bi; and
vitamin C is found in oranges, tomatoes, grapefruit, and
so on.
The difference between the diet of a physical worker
and a mental worker is essentially one of quantity. The
laborer who does much work during the day may require
4500 to 6000 or more calories. The man who sits chiefly
at his desk may need 2700 to 3000 calories. The laborer
may need extra carbohydrates, extra fats, and an increase
of vitamins Bi and C. It is important that the mental or
brain worker receive food that is easily digested. Much of
the blood needed for the stomach, the small bowel, and for
the digestion will in his case be drawn to the brain for his
mental activities. When a diet is increased it is the carbo­
hydrates and fats that are increased; when a diet is reduced
it is the same two that are reduced. The protein is kept
fairly constant. The mental worker would then receive less
carbohydrates and less fats than his brother who is a wood­
cutter.
Old people do riot always do so but doubtless they
would be well advised to eat somewhat less than younger
and more active people. Many old people are overfed.
Much of their time is spent in easy chairs or lying down,
and consequently their daily requirements are just about
[ 56 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
half what they were some years previous; and yet they con'
sume in old age almost as much food as when they were
active.
Woman requires less food than man. Her output of
energy is less. Her basal metabolism is not so high. W e
have already pointed out that she requires more iron'con'
taining foods. She needs the same protective foods, with
their minerals and vitamins. She needs a minimum of pro'
teins and about half of these ought to be of the first'dass
variety. These have been repeatedly stressed and pointed
out. During a woman’s pregnancy and lactation period
there should be an increase of iron, calcium, phosphorus,
and vitamin D in her food.
It is the opinion of a few, but it has never been that of
the writer, that one should eat considerably less food during
the summer months. Those who believe in and follow this
practice are bound to lose weight. This may be desirable in
some instances, particularly if such a one has overeaten
during the cold or cooler weather and is as a consequence
overweight. Should your home at the moment have a tern'
perature of 60° C., you would not run to the kitchen and
consume a bowl of porridge or some ham and eggs. In'
stead of fueling yourself, you would fuel the furnace. Or
should you wake up one morning and find yourselt in a
summer climate you would not phone your grocer and ask
him to take back for resale the food you had expected to
[ 57 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
use yourself, and which now, because it was July, you
would not need. No, on the contrary you would clothe
yourself in a light summer suit, open the windows and
doors, reduce the temperature of your body by a greater
loss of heat, and then proceed to eat your normal meals.
Certainly, if you are not working as hard as is your
custom to do in cold weather, then it will necessarily follow
that you will not require and should not eat as much food
in the hot season. Granting that you are doing the same
kind and amount of work, and dressing according to the
temperature of the day or month, then your food require'
ments are essentially the same. You do not need cold salads
in the summertime any more than you need them in the
wintertime. You should have them all the year around.
And as a matter of fact, most folks, to a more or less ex'
tent, are able to and do follow this procedure. The only
time you should eat less in the summer, or in the hot sea'
son, is when you are overweight or are on your vacation,
or when for any reason you are not doing the same amount
of exercise or work.
During hot seasons or in hot climates, we should some'
what modify our diets by drinking more water, thus ern
suring a greater amount of perspiration; by eating less of
the animal proteins, which tend to increase the temperature
of the blood more than do the vegetable proteins; by eating
some of the proteins at every meal to distribute their heat'
[ 58]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
producing effects, throughout the day; and by eating easily
digested foods to conserve the blood supply, for in hot
weather both the brain and the alimentary tract are de-
prived of their normal quota of blood because of the dila-
tation of the blood vessels of the skin.
In cold weather, if it is not possible to keep the tern'
perature of the body at a normal level by the regulation of
the heat of the home or the building where one happens to
be, or by adding to the amount of the clothing worn, then
and only then does it become advisable to eat a greater
quantity of food than one naturally does in a moderate or
temperate climate. If more food is required in cold weather,
then a little extra fat should be added, as this is the most
concentrated form in which food is found and this will pre­
vent the overburdening of the stomach by the addition of
more proteins and carbohydrates, which have but half the
caloric value of fat.
If during hot weather hot fats are unappetizing then one
can usually enjoy the same quantity of fat as is necessary
by taking them in cold meats, in salads, in cream, in butter,
and ice cream.
If the day is hot and the night is cool or cold, the ani­
mal proteins consumed should be eaten at the evening meal.
The extra heat produced by this animal protein will serve
to keep the body temperature higher during the cool hours
of the night.
C 59 }
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
Insurance companies inform us that should we desire to
live long lives, we should not be much, if any, overweight.
Their records prove that obese, overweight individuals have
a shorter expectancy of life. Definitely, underweight is more
desirable than overweight, but in this direction one can go
too far. There surely is a happy medium, and an effort
should be made to attain that ideal. Particularly is it im­
portant not to be overweight in middle and old age. Just
why folks continue to overeat is difficult to understand,
when they already are obliged to come downstairs back­
wards; to employ someone to tie their shoelaces; and to
use the mirror whenever they wish to view their feet. It
is one of the great enigmas of life.
On the other hand, many people are too thin. W ith
some, being thin is due to deliberate planning. In such
cases all the arts and skill of the dressmaker cannot hide
or conceal the baneful effects of the application of free will
on the care of the body that was created beautiful and was
meant to be so preserved. Some are too thin because they
cannot get sufficient to eat; others are too thin because they
lack the knowledge to select the right kind of food. Some
are too thin because the amount of work they are obliged
to do is too great for the amount of food consumed; some
are too thin because of the presence of a wasting disease,
such as tuberculosis, hyperthyroidism or diabetes; again
others are too thin because of the lack of appetite—they do
[60]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
not eat sufficient food even when plenty of it is available;
finally, some are too thin because of organic abnormalities
within the gastrointestinal tract, which require correction.
In the defence of the fat man or the obese woman, one
should add that their adiposity is not always of their own
choosing. Sometimes it is due to a defective or underfunc'
tioning thyroid; or less frequently it is due to a defective
pituitary gland, which defect has not been compensated
for, or balanced, by an increase of thyroid activity.
V V V
[ 61 ]
CHAPTER VI
Are You Overweight—Underweight?
HOULD it become desirable to reduce the weight
in an obese individual, it would be best in most
instances to ask the aid of the family physician,
so that he might, first of all, check the glandular
system of the body. He will then help you construct a diet,
properly and thoroughly balanced, made up of proteins,
fats, and carbohydrates, containing a sufficiency of inor­
ganic elements and all the known vitamins. Such a diet
would possess, say 1000 to 1500 calories. The first thing
the physician would do would be to determine the amount
of protein that you should have. This amount would de­
pend on your ideal weight. Suppose you weighed two hun­
dred pounds and your ideal weight was one hundred and
thirty. Knowing this ideal weight, you would require one
gramme of protein for each kilogramme, roughly two and
one-fifth pounds of body weight a day. Consequently you
would need 59 grammes of protein in the day’s diet.
In making up this quantity for the day’s ration, it would
be necessary to select approximately half of the total from
the list of the first-class proteins, that is, those having a
high biological value. A gramme of protein has a caloric
[63]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
value of 4.1. Fifty-nine grammes would have a caloric
value of 241.9. Should we desire to construct an obesity
diet of 1200 calories, we would have the foundation of
our diet structure in the 241.9 calories of protein.
The next step would be to choose say half of this
amount—that is 120 calories—from the first-class proteins.
You will recall that these are the animal proteins, such as
milk, eggs, cheese, meat, and fish. The remainder could be
selected from vegetable, fruit, and nut proteins. After hav­
ing done this, we would still require 959 calories to com­
plete our goal of 1200. This amount of 959 would be
divided between fats and carbohydrates. The next step in
the calculation would be to determine the amount of carbo­
hydrates necessary. The amount should be not less than 0.6
gramme and might be as much as 1.0 gramme per kilogram
of body weight. Should we choose the latter figure then it
would be necessary to add 59 grammes of carbohydrate,
and this would give us 59x4.1, or 241.9 calories. The
caloric value of 1 gramme of protein and 1 gramme of
carbohydrate is the same, namely 4.1. These two added
together would provide 483.8 calories, thus leaving a bal­
ance of 716.2 calories to come from fats. One gramme of
fat has a caloric value of 9.3. This amount divided into
the 716.2 gives us 77, which represents the number of
grammes of fat required. Sometimes it has been necessary
[64]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
to construct a diet having a combined calorie diet well
below 1000 calories.
One should not permit oneself to reduce more than two
pounds a week at the most. W e recommend that those
who are following such a strict and restricted obesity diet
take from one to two drams of a vitamin B complex prepa-
ration, three or four times a day, choosing of course from
a well-established and well-recommended pharmaceutical
house. Your physician would be the best one to advise you
in this connection.
Sample Menu for Reducing Weight
1000 to 1200 calories
approximately.
BREAKFAST
One serving only of: one raw apple, one-half grapefruit, one orange,
one average helping of strawberries, raspberries, melon, pear, or peach.
Bread:
Butter:
Beverage:
Sugar:
one slice, white or brown
one wartime helping
colfee, tea, postum, etc.
one lump or one level teaspoon
[65]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
LUNCH
Broth or meat extract, lean meat or fish of any kind, one serving—
3 inches by 3 inches by § to 1 inch thick; or two eggs, or two to three
tablespoons of cottage cheese, or one moderate serving of macaroni
and cheese.
Vegetables: three tablespoons of any of the following:
asparagus, spinach, beets or beet greens,
celery, tomatoes, rhubarb, cauliflower, cab'
bage, string beans, turnips, carrots, squash,
onions, rutabagas, canned beans, and as
much as desired of water cress, radishes,
and lettuce
Bread:
Butter:
Fruit:
Sugar:
Beverage:
one slice of any variety
one square
one serving, either fresh or cooked
one lump or one level teaspoon only
coffee, tea, postum
DINNER
A good soup of any kind, one helping; or one egg. Green vegetable
salad, with mayonnaise or French dressing.
Bread: one slice, or two bran muffins
Butter :
Vegetables:
one square or the usual helping
three tablespoons of the same kinds of vege'
tables as those mentioned for lunch
Fruit:
Beverage:
Sugar:
one serving, raw or cooked
coffee, tea, or postum
one lump or one level teaspoon
A t 10 A. M., 3 P. M., and again 9 P. M., one glass of skimmed
milk to be drunk.
The order of lunch and dinner may be reversed.
[ 6 6 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
Underweight—What to Do
The first thing to do when underweight is to determine,
if possible, the cause. Obviously one would not get very
far towards adding to one’s weight by forced feeding if
there were present in the thin, undernourished individual
a marked or definite hyperthyroidism.
A few months ago a man came to me for medical attem
tion. He was approximately thirty'five pounds underweight.
He was tall and could have carried this extra weight with
ease; in fact, he would have been merely normal with these
additional pounds. He had been thin for years. An X ray
revealed a partial obstruction in his stomach, and instead
of the meal leaving his stomach in five to six hours, it had
not entirely left in twelve hours. The cause of the obstruc'
tion, in this instance, was due to scar tissue with contrac'
tion, following an ulcer which had healed, with scarring,
many years previously. This man was eating and digesting
just about two average adult meals a day and working hard.
Other men doing similar labor were eating and digesting
three meals or even more. Is it any wonder that he was
keeping thin and was thirty'five pounds underweight?
Medical treatment, in this particular case, with the hope
of restoring the normal stomach outlet, utterly failed.
Surgery was resorted to and a new and larger outlet pro'
duced. This man will now slowly but surely gain weight
[67]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
and will eventually reach the normal standard. W e cite
this case to illustrate why it is essential to find out first why
a person is thin or underweight.
W e will now consider one who is underweight, but who
is otherwise normal, and desires to gain five or thirty'five
additional pounds. Such a person should eat his three
regular meals; they may or may not be larger than those
to which he is accustomed; however, they should be made
up of more concentrated foods, that is, have a higher caloric
value so that the stomach may not be overburdened with
too great a bulk. The result of this would mean that he
has consumed possibly no greater quantity as bulk, but may
have taken into his body through the more concentrated
food an extra 500 calories. But this is not enough. He
should space his three regular meals five or six hours apart,
say 8.00 A.M., 1.00 Noon, and 6.30 to 7.00 P.M.
Now we must think about and plan for 1000 to 1500
additional calories. This extra food should be taken in three
or four divided portions. It should be largely composed of
a concentrated liquid, such as chocolate malted milk, with
cream or ice cream, and raw eggs added. The day’s supply
should be or could be made up at one time and kept in the
refrigerator until required. Two glasses of this very rich
liquid nourishment should be taken one and oneTalf to two
hours after each meal and again at bedtime.
[68]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
I have repeatedly seen underweight individuals gain as
much as a pound a day. Some years ago I had occasion to
follow a similar regime, and I gained twelve pounds in the
first twelve days! I do not advise such rapid increase as a
routine but this does illustrate what can be done.
Water
About two thirds of the total weight of the body is
made up of water. W ater is added to the body: (1) by
drinking, (2) by eating moist foods, and (3) by the oxidiV
ing or metabolizing of proteins, fats, and carbohydrates.
W ater is lost to the body by visible and invisible perspira'
tion from the skin; by the expired air; by the urine; and
finally by the feces. The total intake should balance the
total output. If the external temperature is high or the
exercise indulged in is strenuous, much more water is ex'
creted both by way of the skin and the lungs. Additional
water then should be drunk to make up the body's deficit.
When we perspire a great deal, we lose too great a
quantity of sodium chloride and to replace this and estab'
lish a balance we should take a little extra salt.
As a general rule it is not harmful to drink cold water
with one’s meal; in some instances it may even be helpful.
Drinking at meals probably facilitates the process of absorp-
tion. One should drink a minimum of one and one-half
[ 6 9 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
pints a day. In hot weather and during great exercise, this
amount will be naturally and voluntarily increased. If the
stomach is empty, milk will often quench a thirst better
than water. W ater is not absorbed from the stomach, but
from the small bowel chiefly. About one fifth is absorbed
into the blood stream from the large bowel.
V V V
[70]
CHAPTER VII
Constipation and Allergy
r TAKES from six to ten hours on the average for
a meal to travel from the mouth to the large bowel;
that is, until all of it is in the colon. The head of
the meal will be normally at the beginning of the
colon in from three to four hours. If the total meal has not
gone beyond the small bowel in ten hours, we say that there
is a delay, or stasis, or even partial obstruction. The head
of the meal should be in the rectum in about twenty to
twentyTour hours. It may be there a little sooner, or it
may, in some instances, be delayed by several hours. The
rate of passage through the large intestine is increased by
fruit or vegetable fibres, mainly cellulose, which is largely
indigestible. Many of the foods eaten are almost entirely
digested, thus leaving very little waste. The fecal matter
then is composed of this small residue, really digestible
foods that were not for some reason digested in transit;
there may be many dead microbes, much intestinal secre'
tions, including mucus, and finally indigestible cellulose.
Too much waste is not always desirable, especially when
the muscles of the bowel are weak or atonic.
Not a few cases of constipation are due to a spasticity
of the colon resulting from a too pronounced nervous state.
[ 7 1 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
The bowel becomes spastic or contracted in certain areas,
thus holding back or delaying the normal onward flow of the
fecal stream. Sometimes it may be necessary to add to the
meals more waste or roughage to stimulate bowel contrac'
tion. W e have said that in an atonic colon this extra bulk
may be a handicap, since the muscles may not be able to
force the waste along. Certainly in the group of cases of
constipation due to spasm or localised contraction there are
some that will be benefited by rest, relaxation, or by the
application of medical antispasmodics.
W e have known of infants who in the very early months
of their lives had already been trained to a bowebhabit
time. If this can be done in the case of infants, then surely
the cultivation and establishing of a bowehhabit time in
adults is possible. This will demand the going to the toilet
at the same hour each day, whether the desire or call to
stool seems to be present or not. Three meals and regular
meals are essential. The contractions or peristalsis of the
bowel are instituted or favored by the intake and presence
of food. The hour for going to stool should be shortly
after one of the meals. Exercise is important in the normal
function of the colon. If you doubt this, compare the per'
son who rides all day on a train, bus or motor car, with one
who sleeps until noon on a Sunday. The person who drinks
little water, unless he consumes much fruits and vegetables,
is apt to be constipated. A greatly undernourished indfi
[72]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
vidual is apt to be constipated because the muscles of the
bowel are weak and atonic; and because the abdominal
walls are too weak to give the normal assistance to the
colon within. Could each one of us look through an X-ray
fluoroscope and observe the “up and down” rhythmic move­
ments of the colon with every breath, and realize how very
important this must be in the normal function and health
of the bowel, few of us would ever have to be asked or
encouraged to practice deep breathing. Because mineral oil
may possibly prevent the absorption of some of the vita­
mins, for example A, D, and E, all being fat-soluble, it may
be wise to restrict the taking of mineral oil in cases of
constipation.
Foods that Tend to Give Rise to Excess Gas
In the Bowel
Because certain foods do, or have a tendency to, give
rise to considerable gas in the intestines is no reason why
they should always be avoided. Many, if not all, of such
foods are very valuable for their minerals, their vitamins,
their proteins, and in some instances for their carbohy­
drates. It may be well to put down the names of a number
of these foods that have a tendency to cause flatulence, but
while doing so we again repeat that they should not always
be avoided. Really, some of them should be eaten every
day, such as beans and peas that have been dried, cabbage,
[73]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
cauliflower, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cucumbers, hard'
boiled eggs, or hard-fried eggs, highly sweetened mixtures,
beer and all malt beverages, cantaloupes, watermelon, rah
sins, turnips, radishes, Swiss chard, and possibly others.
Foods Especially Helpful in
Secondary Anemia
Persons suffering from secondary anemia will find it
helpful to include in their diet such foods as beef heart,
beef kidney, beef liver, calves’ liver, lamb liver, bone-mar-
row, chicken liver and chicken gizzard, lamb kidney, pig
kidney; and fruits, such as apples, apricots, peaches, pine-
apple, prunes, strawberries, and raisins.
Allergy and Allergic Diseases
Certain individuals are hypersensitive or allergic to some
foods. In these individuals such foods produce allergic dis­
eases. The less informed do not believe the condition com­
mon, but the specialist in allergy sees in many varied symp­
toms and diseases allergic manifestations and a disease aller­
gic in origin. Perhaps he is right.
The majority of cases of food sensitiveness would appear
to occur in infants and very young children. However,
sensitiveness to food does occur in adults, so plainly at
times that any one may perceive it. One may develop
allergic symptoms from foods by inhalation, by eating, or
[ 7 4 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
drinking, and by absorption through the skin. The symp-
toms of food allergy may be few or many; they may be
mild or very severe; or they may even simulate an “acute
abdomen,” thus seeming to warrant immediate surgery.
I know of a lady who will quickly become violently ill
if flaxseed is present in the room in which she is for the
moment staying. This is allergy.
There are two foods that cause allergy in the writer:
parsnips invariably cause heartburn or pyrosis and will seem
to remain in the stomach for hours longer than they should;
the soybean will cause my lips to swell up to two or three
times their normal sice. This is allergy.
Individuals may be allergic to milk, cheese, eggs, cereals,
strawberries, or other fruits; meats, fish, nuts, and certain
vegetables.
In most instances it is scarcely up to the individual or
layman to decide whether or not he is being affected by
certain foods in an allergic sense. In most cases such an in­
dividual is not qualified to judge. W e have already inti­
mated that it may be most difficult even for the physician
to be certain.
V V V
[75]
CHAPTER VIII
Diet and Foods in Disease
N MANY, if not in most diseases, certain lists of
food are recommended as being best in the dietetic
treatment and management of the particular dis'
ease. Certain foods will be advised as being salu'
tary in cases of galbbladder disease, liver disease, stomach
ulcer, kidney disease, diabetes, colitis, etc., etc., but it is
scarcely the province of this little book to go into this field.
W e shall, however, depart from this original plan and in'
tention slightly by discussing, more or less briefly, foods in
general, in relation to the normal or diseased liver. In the
discussion which follows we are assuming that the gall
bladder is normal. However, there would not be much
change in the general advice even if the gall bladder were
diseased.
Both the normal and the diseased liver require carbohy-
drates and proteins. These are protective foods. The com-
bination of the two is valuable in counteracting certain
poisons, which would otherwise affect the liver.
A diet low in fat is desirable in liver disease. In health
the calories to be derived from fat are made up only after
adequate amounts of protein and carbohydrate are in'
eluded and accounted for.
[ 7 7 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
In the case of liver disease, one should eat less fat than
would be normal and adequate in health. To offset this
reduction in fat there would naturally be a corresponding
increase in the intake of carbohydrates and proteins.
Adequate proteins and carbohydrates tend to prevent
the deposit of excess fat in the liver. A fatty liver or one
infiltrated with fat has a lowered resistance to disease.
The protein of the body is more valuable than either
carbohydrate or fat, and the body protein, including that
of the liver, is spared and conserved by the intake of plenty
of carbohydrates.
Too little carbohydrate and protein, with excess of fat,
would lead to liver damage.
Just as protein and carbohydrates are looked upon as
protective foods for the liver, so also are the vitamins, A,
B complex, and K spoken of as protective vitamins.
From fifteen to twenty-five percent of the total calorie
intake, in cases of liver damage, is recommended to be
composed of protein and approximately three times as much
carbohydrate should be added. This leaves but a minimum
of fat to make up the total caloric requirements. A moder­
ate amount of fat makes the food or meal more palatable.
A high protein diet will bring about an increase in the
production of bile.
[78]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
Acid-Producing and Alkali-Producing Foods
Little is said in press advertisements, over the radio, or
on public billboards, about alkali-producing foods. It ap­
parently is assumed, and of course rightly so, that the pub­
lic in general have no prejudices, no lurking and smoulder­
ing fears concerning foods that have a basic or alkaline
effect when taken into the body. Whether anyone has
ever attempted to create and build up a suspicion in the
minds of men in regard to base-producing foods I do not
know, but certainly there has been a lot of nonsense broad­
casted by various channels of the supposedly harmful effects
and influences of acid-producing foods.
Let me say here that it matters not one jot or tittle, in
the average normal individual, whether any particular food
that he eats—and which may be found, after being oxidised
or metabolised, within the body, and ready, as end product,
to be excreted by way of the kidneys was classified and
labeled as acid-producing or alkali-producing in effect before
it was ingested by a hungry individual.
No one limits his diet entirely to acid-producing foods;
neither does any one consume only alkali-producing foods.
The urine will be acid on a high protein diet; it will be
alkaline if the diet contains much fruit and vegetables. On
a mixture of foods the reaction of the urine will alternate,
or is apt to do so, each day. Especially is the urine in­
clined to be acid at or during the night.
[ 7 9 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
If one were compelled to take a choice, and could have
but one class of foods, that is either acid'forming or base'
forming, then from a health point of view, the acid'forming
group would be the better. The body is better adapted to
handle acids than alkalies. It is believed that the kidney
does its best work when the urine is acid.
In a general sense all sorts and kinds of foods should be
eaten, and the thought of whether T is acid and Z is alka-
line should never enter one’s mind.
Acid'producing foods: all meats, cereals, eggs, bread,
fish, certain nuts (walnuts, peanuts), rice, peas, butter, and
one or two fruits, including prunes.
Alkali'producing foods: all vegetables, potatoes, all fruits,
with one or two exceptions, certain nuts (almonds), milk,
plain chocolate, cocoa.
Tea and Coffee
Both tea and coffee contain the alkaloid caffeine. Caf­
feine is a stimulant, affecting the nervous system and the
kidneys. It abolishes a sense of fatigue; in many, if not in
most people, it induces sleeplessness; it increases the ability
for mental and physical work.
Caffeine acts upon the nerve centers that control the
lungs and heart, and is thus both a respiratory and cardiac
stimulant. It acts directly on the kidney to increase the
output of urine. Caffeine is not habit forming.
[80]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
In certain diseases, such as gastric and duodenal ulcer,
and in gastritis, tea and coffee should be restricted or for'
bidden altogether.
Too much tea and coffee may lead to an increased and
abnormal excitability of the nervous system.
It will not suffice for health that we eat proteins, carbo'
hydrates, and fats in exact proportions and amounts; that
we consume daily necessary quantities of all the nineteen
minerals found in our bodies; that we ingest with thera'
peutic exactness all the known and unknown vitamins; that
we drink adequate quantities of water; and that we abstain
from too much stimulants whether these be the more or
less harmless tea and coffee, or beverages containing an
alcoholic content. It has been said truthfully that man does
not live by bread alone, and this universal truth will be
made clear to the reader as he reads with discernment the
chapter which follows.
V V V
[ 8 1 ]
CHAPTER IX
How the Psychic Mind Affects Digestion
(c |E [|H E first stages of the digestive process are normally
started by the pleasurable taste, smell, and sight of
food. Emotional excitement can and does greatly
interfere with the starting of the digestive process
or its normal continuation after it has been started. Not
only does the smell, the sight, and the taste of food nor
mally initiate the digestive process, but the hearing of fry'
ing steak, or the thought of fresh strawberries, lemons, or
some particular food that one greatly enjoys will be sufh-
cient to start the flow of the saliva. It is common knowh
edge that the thought, sight, smell, and even the hearing
of the cooking of food will stimulate the outflow of saliva,
but it is not so widely known that these same influences
will initiate and cause the stomach secretions to flow. These
secretions, salivary and gastric, brought about by the
thought of food, the smell, the hearing of its cooking, the
sight of it, or its pleasant taste, are spoken of as psychic
secretions. These psychic secretions begin almost immedi­
ately and continue for some time even after the food or
meal has been swallowed.
The presence of food in the stomach is not a prime con­
dition for gastric secretion. Not only does the mouth
[83]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
“water” by every form of the psychic stimuli mentioned
herein, but the stomach “waters” as well, a fact that has
been repeatedly proven. The proper starting of the diges­
tive process is conditioned by the appetite, by the satisfac­
tion of the palate, and the consequent flow of the digestive
fluids. If the food that is masticated is pleasant to the
senses it will not matter whether the food be swallowed or
not; there will be an abundant flow of gastric juice. It is
not just the act of chewing that causes the stomach to
secrete, for when one chews gutta-percha, for example,
there follows no secretion. A table well-set with pleasing,
attractive, and nourishing foods will give rise to a distinct
secretion of gastric juice in normal man. The sight of the
same foods, poorly prepared, and poorly served will fail to
bring about a like response. A grapefruit will cause a psy­
chic secretion in the mouth and stomach, but it will not do
so if presented to the same individual in a dirty, filthy con­
dition. Pleasant and agreeable odors will produce an out­
flow of saliva and gastric juice, whereas unpleasant and
offensive odors have been shown to depress these secretions.
The first digestive juices, both salivary and gastric, are
psychic in origin and nature. They are favored and influ­
enced by the pleasurable feelings which accompany the
taste, the smell and sight of the food during mastication, or
the feelings which are roused and stimulated in the antici­
pation of eating when pleasant foods are seen or smelled.
[ 8 4 ]
W H A T T O E A T - — A N D W H E N
The conditions favorable to proper digestion are nulli­
fied and abolished when unpleasant emotions such as worry,
anxiety, anger, and fear are introduced and allowed to pre-
vail. These unpleasant and harmful emotions will dry up or
inhibit the flow of both the gastric juices and the salivary
secretions.
The “ordeal of rice” as employed in India, was a prac­
tical utilisation of the knowledge that certain excitement is
capable of inhibiting the salivary flow. When several per­
sons were suspected of crime, the consecrated rice was
given to all of them to chew, and after a short interval it
was spat out upon the leaf of the sacred fig tree. If any
one spat it out dry, this was taken as proof that fear of
being discovered had stopped the secretion, and conse­
quently he was adjudged guilty.
Fear and anger will inhibit gastric secretion in man as
well as in animals. This has been experimentally proven.
If an animal is made angry after he has eaten, gastric
digestion stops. The same thing holds true in human be­
ings. A normal gastric flow or secretion, well established,
can be stopped by a psychic upset. Nor is the harmful
effect of an emotional upset fleeting in character, for it
persists long after the removal of the deleterious exciting
condition. The psychic secretion has been proven to exist
not only before eating and during the meal, but for a long
time after the swallowing of the food. Harmful emotions
[8f]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
will affect unfavorably the psychic secretions of mouth and
stomach before, during, and long after the food has been
consumed.
If a child has just experienced an outburst of passion, it
is well not to urge the taking of nourishment soon after-
wards. Food compelled to be eaten by a child as the result
of the parent’s stronger will, or of the child’s fear of being
whipped, is most likely to be vomited before the child
leaves the table.
In our work, in the field of gastroenterology, over a
period of many years, we have repeatedly observed that
psychic or emotional upsets not only suppress the salivary
secretions, the gastric juices, but also check the flow of bile.
Other observers claim that the pancreatic juice is likewise
inhibited or suppressed. Is it not apparent then to the
reader that such a suppression of all these secretions—
namely, saliva, gastric juice, pancreatic juice, and the bile
—temporarily abolishes all the means normally available
for the bringing about of chemical changes in the food
constituting its digestion?
Just as the secretory activities of the stomach are un­
favorably influenced by strong emotions, so also are the
movements of the stomach. Anger or fear in animals is
accompanied by a total abolition of the movements of the
stomach. This has been demonstrated in the case of dogs,
cats, rabbits, and guinea pigs. Just as the secretory activity
[86]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
of the stomach is affected in a similar fashion in man and
in the lower animals, so likewise gastric peristaltic waves
are stopped in men, as they are stopped in lower animals,
by worry, anxiety, and the stronger emotional states.
W e have repeatedly observed a duodenal tube lying for
hours near the pyloric canal and outlet of the stomach, and
during this time there would not be a sufficient peristaltic
action to propel the tube on into the duodenum or even to
expel the liquid given at the same time as the duodenal tube.
Fear, anxiety, and worry in the patient had completely
checked the movements of the stomach.
Pain will suppress gastric secretions and abolish the peri'
staltic contractions of the stomach. W e have repeatedly
observed the retention of food in a stomach long after it
should have been digested, following a painful accident,
such as a. fractured arm or leg. This is particularly true in
children. If an anesthetic must be administered before the
reduction of a fracture, then twice or more than the usual
time should be allowed for the emptying of the meal taken
prior to the accident.
All gastric secretion is not the result of salutary psychic
stimuli. Perhaps two thirds of it is. The remaining third
is due to a combination of factors, including the mechanical
and chemical stimuli due to the presence of food in the
stomach, and possibly a hormone stimulation resulting from
certain chemical activities in the small bowel. If it is true
[87]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
that about two thirds of the gastric secretion is the result
of favorable psychic stimuli or influences, then it is of the
utmost importance that unfavorable psychic influences be
not permitted to exert their deleterious effects immediately
before, during, and for some hours after a meal. Unfavor'
able psychic stimuli suppress and stop the flow of the gastric
juice. Such unfavorable psychic stimuli may be grouped
under the headings of anxiety, worry, fear, annoyance, and
anger.
W e have done gastric analyses in patients who have had
considerable anxiety and fear of the test and found an al­
most complete suppression of the gastric juice. W e have
repeated the same test soon after, when the fear emotion
had been removed, and found a normal gastric secretion
response.
The work of the stomach is the reduction of food to
chyme, the changing of markedly dissimilar substances into
one homogeneous mass. Anxiety and mental strain, by the
lessening or suppressing of the gastric secretion and by re­
ducing or stopping altogether the movements or peristaltic
action of the stomach, markedly delays gastric digestion and
the normal work of the stomach.
Many individuals who complain of digestive disturbances
in the upper abdomen show no X-ray evidence of disease,
and in this large group of cases the only changes which can
be demonstrated are those which have to do with the func-
[88]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
tion of the organ. It takes from four to six hours for the
stomach to complete its share of the digestive process. A
little of the starch is converted to sugar by the ptyalin of
the saliva that has been swallowed, and a small portion of
the protein is partially broken down; then the whole hete­
rogeneous mass of food is ground up, mixed with the
stomach juices, and the resulting homogeneous mixture,
or chyme, is ready to be expelled from the stomach.
Upon the completion of the active phase of the stomach
there normally follows a resting phase. This is true of
every organ in the body. When one organ is active another
organ may be resting. The active phase and the resting
phase of one organ differ greatly in length from those of
another organ. After the stomach has finished its active
phase and has started on its resting phase, the accessory
organs of digestion, such as the small bowel and the pan­
creas, continue for some time in their active period. In
disease, as well as in emotional and psychic disharmony,
there is often a disturbance in the normal sequence of the
digestive or active phase and the interdigestive or rest
periods. The digestive period may continue over into the
interdigestive period through a prolongation of the active
digestive phase and a delay in the emptying time. This may
occur in organic disease and also in psychic upsets. Severe
emotional excitement or shock can practically arrest gastric
digestion.
[89]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
High gastric acidity is the invariable finding in duodenal
ulcers, less commonly in stomach ulcers, and is usually high
in patients who are emotionally and psychically unstable.
And in both of these groups the high or hyperacidity is
caused by an abnormal tonus and sustained contraction of
the pylorus or outlet of the stomach, interfering with the
normal alkaline regurgitation from the duodenum into the
stomach. High gastric acidity does not in and of itself cause
pain or distress, but in the presence of an ulcer will cause
pain; it is part of the complex picture that one finds in a
distress the cause of which has been entirely psychic.
Emotionally or psychically unstable individuals are fre-
quent air'swallowers; they are aerophagists. This swallow'
ing of air by these nervous people gives rise to much ab'
dominal distress which can be cured only by the breaking
of the vicious habit. The aerophagist has a feeling of full'
ness, or the abdomen may actually be distended, the appe'
tite is poor, he becomes quickly filled up and satisfied upon
eating, he belches frequently or at times almost constantly
throughout the waking hours. An originally nervous and
emotionally and psychically unstable individual, because of
the added distress due to air swallowing, becomes worse.
Pylorospasm is a term used to imply a tonic contraction
of the pyloric sphincter. The pyloric sphincter is a circular'
like muscle which guards and controls the extreme outlet of
the stomach at the point where the stomach joins the duo'
[90}
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
denum or first portion of the small intestine. By far the
most common cause of spasm, or abnormal contraction of
the pylorus, leading to what is known and described as
pylorospasm, is an emotional and psychic upset which may
be classified and grouped under such headings as fear,
worry, anxiety, and anger.
Pylorospasm interferes with and stops the normal process
of emptying of the stomach into the small bowel. The delay
may be anywhere from brief seconds to minutes and hours.
One case is recorded where a pylorospasm, in a stomach
which was otherwise normal, prevented the stomach from
emptying for twenty-four hours and at the end of this time
the patient vomited the meal eaten twenty-four hours pre­
viously. The emotional upset in this instance was caused
by the sudden death of a near relative. Pylorospasm may
give rise to pain, a feeling of fullness, belching, heartburn,
nausea, vomiting, and not infrequently to headache. In an
individual with an empty stomach the usual and normal
hunger feelings and contractions will be greatly reduced
and delayed by a pylorospasm.
From twenty-five to fifty percent of the adult indi­
viduals who seek advice and help because of abdominal
trouble have their distress on a nervous basis. There is no
exaggeration in stating that in North America, and on any
one day, there would be several million people suffering
from abdominal distress due to a psychic and emotional
[9L ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
cause. The symptoms complained of by such individuals
would include: a feeling of fullness, bloating, belching, loss
of appetite, heartburn, headache, nausea, vomiting, general
abdominal pains, flatulence, and constipation, which latter
may alternate with diarrhoea.
It may be helpful and of interest to cite a number of
typical cases of pylorospasm and of indigestion of a nervous
origin that have come under the writer’s care and ob'
servation.
A hardware merchant loses $80,000 on the stock mar'
ket. He is sixty'five years of age. Perhaps because of his
age and the great difficulty anticipated in making up his
losses he begins to worry. Symptoms of indigestion quickly
make their appearance, a pylorospasm almost immediately
develops, and then in quick succession there are added pram
tically all the possible symptoms relative to the gastrointes­
tinal tract. The appetite is poor, less food is eaten and this
in turn leaves the stomach much more slowly than normal.
Insufficient food begins to cause a weight loss from the first
day. Loss of weight and undernourishment is followed by
anemia and a deficiency in vitamins.
It is interesting to recall that in this case of the hard­
ware merchant, after his many symptoms had been well
developed and had persisted for some weeks, he began to
wonder and later to fear and worry lest he might possibly
have a cancer. He had not related his symptoms and dis-
[92]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
tress to the original fear, worry, and anxiety cause. He
argued with himself that he must have a cancer for nothing
else could possibly and so quickly lead to his present situ-
ation. The cancer fear, now added to his financial worries,
was the last straw that broke the health of our patient so
completely that giving up he sought medical advice.
I shall never forget this man’s look of relief and grati-
tude when in reply to his direct question I told him, at
the time of our first interview, that I did not believe he
had a cancer. Within a few days, following a complete
and thorough survey, we physicians proved to ourselves and
to our patient that all of his symptoms and suffering were on
a nervous basis, and were due to anxiety, fear, and worry.
Some few simple medicines were prescribed, psychological
advice understandingly given, as well as suitable directions
as to his diet, and the patient was told to report back in
two weeks.
He kept his appointment to the hour and as he entered
the office he broke down into tears. Then quickly recover­
ing himself our patient said: “Every symptom and all dis­
tress for which I sought your help have disappeared, and
I have gained ten pounds in weight. I had, before coming
to you, taken the first steps to transfer all my business and
property over to my sons, believing I would not live long.
I have, during the past two weeks, given up all thought
and idea of the need of such transfer at the present and
[ 9 3 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
believe it best that my sons should still work for me as
they long have been doing. I am now perfectly well and
have no thought of dying.” The soul of this man was
manifesting to me through his words and tears.
W e were once asked to advise and prescribe for a pa-
tient who for many days had been vomiting until it was
feared that her life was in danger. She had been com'
pletely and thoroughly investigated and there was no or'
ganic reason found for her chief complaint, namely per-
sistent vomiting. She was being kept alive by intravenous
glucose. Even this method of feeding did not entirely stop
the symptoms of which she complained. Careful question'
ing on our part convinced us that the vomiting was entirely
due to an obscure emotional and psychic cause. I was urn
able to determine the exact cause but believing I was on
the right track I said: “A very complete investigation, in'
eluding X-ray studies, has been done for you and nothing
has been discovered that should cause your vomiting. Your
body is organically sound. Your vomiting is purely of a
nervous origin. You are bringing it on by and through
your own thoughts, and by and through the same method
you must stop. You alone can cure yourself. W e have
been keeping you alive for days by intravenous feedings.
The moment we stop, you begin vomiting again. This
intravenous feeding cannot and will not be continued. Un-
[94]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
less you stop vomiting you are going to die.” W ith this
I left the room.
This patient had no further intravenous feedings, no
further medication, and a meal served shortly thereafter
stayed quietly in her stomach and was apparently normally
digested. The patient continued to eat without further
symptoms or distress and soon left the hospital feeling
well.
Here is another case. A patient had had a recent ab-
dominal operation. For ten days she had been daily nour­
ished by intravenous glucose feedings. During the latter
portion of the ten-day period, she was also fed small
amounts of food by mouth, in spite of the history of
vomiting from the day of the operation up to the moment
now under discussion. She had been given some food by
mouth, for it was not believed thnt there was any organic
cause or reason why she should continue to vomit This
conclusion reached by the physician in charge agreed with
our own impressions, and our subsequent management was
as follows: W e told her that there was no reason, insofar
as her stomach or bowel or the operation recently performed
were concerned, that she should vomit at all. As she had
vomited nearly everything thus far given to her since her
operation, I asked her whether any food appealed to her or
whether she desired any particular food. She replied that
she would like some fried beefsteak. Instructions were
[ 95 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
given that a goodly portion of a tender, welHlavored sir'
loin, mediumly well cooked, be served at once. No other
food was to be offered. The instructions were carried out.
The patient ate and relished her sirloin meal; she did not
vomit and never vomited again during the remainder of her
stay in the hospital.
W e believe these two cases just cited illustrate well the
influence of thought and of the emotions on the digestion
and work of the stomach.
W e were once asked to determine the cause of vomiting
in a man who soon after eating a meal had taken a long,
rapid automobile drive. When the meal should have been
digested, he appeared to vomit most, if not all, of the meal
consumed. There was here no question of ptomain or food
poisoning, and no suspicion of organic disease. The patient
had no other symptoms apart from the vomiting, and as
soon as the food had been ejected and the patient had
rested, he felt well. W e believe there was enough of nerve
tension, anxiety, and concern in the case of this man for
his own safety, while at the wheel, and the safety of the
others who might possibly be injured through any mishap
or carelessness on his part, to produce a pylorospasm and
possibly some suppression of his digestive fluids, certainly
an almost complete cessation of the normal motility of the
stomach.
[96]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
This writer was once irritated by a commercial traveller
who, while being interviewed, persisted in pacing back and
forth across the office as we endeavored to question him. I
asked him to sit down and to tell me what made him behave
like a caged animal. He did not and would not take a
seat, but replied: “I live in constant dread and fear lest
at any moment I receive a telegram from the head office
that employs me in Chicago, asking me why I am not send­
ing in more business or dismissing me altogether for not
doing so.” His indigestion and abdominal distress were en­
tirely on a worry, anxiety, fear basis.
A man, representing big business, told me one day that
he never goes out to interview a prospective customer or
to close a deal without being keyed up, tense, and anxious,
until the business in view is completed. He had an appoint­
ment at the time with an automobile manufacturer and ex
pected and hoped to sell him more than a million dollars
worth of goods. W e found his indigestion to be entirely on
a nervous basis.
The president of an insurance company was told by the
writer that the abdominal distress and chronic indigestion
which had plagued and annoyed him for months was due
to emotional disturbances and not, as he suspected and
feared, to any organic disease. W e asked him why a man
who seemingly had so much financial security, had so high
and important a position and station in life, should allow
[ 9 7 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
fears and worries to creep into his thoughts. He replied:
“I handle and invest other people’s money and worry lest
my judgment lead to financial loss.”
Some years ago the writer was a thousand miles from
home when he received a telegram stating that his two
children were in the Isolation Hospital, critically ill with
diphtheria. The journey home was made by automobile in
less than two days. It is not difficult to imagine the fear,
the anxiety, and the worry that colored and dominated
every thought during the return journey. This writer, per­
fectly well for months previous, and apparently well dur­
ing the first day of the return journey, found it impossible
on the second day to tolerate food; the stomach, seemingly
outraged, was rejecting and projecting the food with a
force, energy and velocity, many times greater than that
exercised on its downward journey.
I once had a patient, a young man, whose wife con­
tinued to teach school after they were married. After sev­
eral years of married life there were still no children. This
couple lived in an apartment; they both worked during the
day and came home at night, weary and tired, with no
supper ready and waiting. The evening meal had to be
prepared, the house-dusting and cleaning for the day had
to be done, and preparations made for breakfast for the next
morning. A t least on one or more evenings, the week’s
washing had to be done. There was no time left for rest,
[98]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
relaxation, change, or amusement after their daily routine
of office and school, and the ever-present housekeeping
in the evenings. Restlessness, unhappiness, and discontent
gradually developed. As time went on, the husband, chafing
under the unnatural home life, began to develop nervous
indigestion. Months and years passed. The indigestion be­
came deep-seated and chronic.
W hy do I relate this story? Because it illustrates how
the thoughts and the emotions affect the digestion. This pa­
tient did not associate his distress with the quarrels, bicker­
ings, arguments, and the unpleasant and disturbing and emo­
tionally upsetting thoughts constantly present in the home.
A very complete investigation failed to show any organic
reason for this patient's many complaints. He was not a little
surprised and it took considerable argument to convince him
that all of his distress was entirely functional and due tG
nervous, psychic, and emotional causes.
How thought and the emotions affect the digestion is
illustrated frequently in the statement that one hears in
such words as: “Why is it that when I go away from my
home on a picnic or a holiday that I can eat anything and
everything on the menu or bill-of-fare and never have any
distress whatsoever, as a result? And why is it that when
at home or at the office if I eat the plainest and lightest of
foods I have distress?”
[99]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
The correct answer is simple. When at home, or at
work in the office, shop, store, or any other place, the
patient carries around with him his worries and fears,
which he feeds and nurses frequently, and the inevitable
indigestion is the natural sequence. A pleasant holiday, the
unloading of the worry, fear complex, enables the body,
and, in this case, the digestive tract, to function normally
and there is then no distress.
It is the nervous, the unnaturally emotional and worry-
ing type of individual who presents himself to his physician
complaining of ulcer symptoms. W e believe that there
would be few stomach or duodenal ulcers if all worries and
fears and other such deleterious emotions could be eradi­
cated from the human race. So often one sees an ulcer in
an individual who has just passed or is passing through a
crisis in his life. He may have suffered a financial loss in
investments, his position or work may be insecure, or he
may even have lost his means of livelihood; there may have
been sickness in his home, or death may have recently re­
moved a loved one. Besides these there are a thousand and
one other lesser causes for worries which can and may
creep in through an unguarded mental doorway. Even
many of these lesser worries will lead to ulcer formations.
The thoughts and the emotions may have a deleterious
effect on the digestion in the high, as well as in the low,
the exalted as well as in the humble, the rich as well as in
[ 1 0 0 ]
W H A T T O E A T — A N D W H E N
the poor, the learned as well as in the ignorant, the occu-
pied as well as in the idle. There is no class, strata, cast,
or division of mankind who may escape the inevitable se'
quence of distressing symptoms, once he has opened the
portals of his mind and soul and has allowed free entree to
thoughts of anxiety, worry, doubt, and fear. As truly and
as surely as do wrong thoughts and wrong emotions pro'
duce indigestion and every sort of abdominal and gastro-
intestinal distress, so surely and truly do good thoughts and
right emotions bring health, happiness, and Peace Profound.
V V V
r 101 ]
INDEX
Acidity, Gastric: 90
Acid-producing Foods: 79
Acids, Fatty: 17
Aerophagists: 90
Agar-agar: 29
Albumin: 16
Alfalfa-leaf Meal: 47
Alkali-producing Foods: 79
Allergy: 74
Alligator Pear: 44
Almonds: 28, 80
Aluminum: 16
Amino Acids: 20
Anemia: 45, 74
Anger: 85
Animal Proteins: 23, 59
Anxiety: 85
Appetite, Stimulation of: 16
Apricots: 28, 42
Arsenic: 16
Atonic Colon: 72
Bacon: 26, 27
Baked Beans: 28
Bananas: 26, 42, 44
Beans, 18, 21, 25, 26, 28, 44, 47
Beans, Baked: 28
Beans, Dried: 26, 27
Beans, Lima: 27, 28
Beets: 43, 44, 46
Beet Tops: 28, 44
Beri-beri: 35
Bile: 86
Biscuits: 27
Blindness: 42
Body Builders: 20, 21, 22
Boron: 16
Bowel Movements: 53
Bowels: 18, 71, 89
Bran: 26
V
Bread, 26, 27, 28, 44, 80
Broccoli: 46
Brussels Sprouts: 26
Butter: 17, 27, 38, 42, 47, 80
Butyric Acid: 17
Cabbage: 26, 44, 46, 47
Caffeine: 80
Calcium: 16, 25, 37
Calories: 19, 56, 64
Cancer: 22, 23
Cancer Phobia: 13, 93
Cane Sugar: 17, 18
Cantaloupe: 42, 46
Caprylic Acid: 17
Carbohydrates: 16, 17, 18, 21, 23, 77
Carbon: 17
Carotene: 41
Carrots: 27, 42, 44, 47
Caseinogen: 16
Catalyst: 35
Cauliflower: 26, 46, 47
Cellulose: 16, 18
Cereals: 18, 21, 25, 26, 27,
28, 43, 44, 47, 80
Cheese: 21, 25, 26, 27, 42, 44
Chlorine: 16, 27
Chocolate: 25, 27, 28, 80
Chyme: 52, 89
Clams: 25, 26, 27, 29
Cobalt: 16
Cocoa: 26, 27, 28, 80
Coconut: 28
Coffee: 15, 80
Colon: 18, 53, 72
Constipation: 71
Copper: 16
Corn: 44
Corned Beef: 27
Cottonseed Oil: 38, 44
[ 1 0 2 ]
INDEX— C o n tin u ed
Crabmeat: 29
Cranberries: 43
Cream: 38, 42
Currants: 28, 46
Dates: 27, 28
Dextrin: 17, 18
Diet: 55
Digestion: 49, 83
Disaccharides: 17
Diseases, Diet in: 77
Dried Beans: 26, 27
Duodenal Ulcer: 81, 90
Eggs: 20, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29,
38, 42, 44, 47, 80
Emotions: 85
Endive: 26, 27
Enzymes: 52
Fatty Acids: 17
Fats: 16, 18, 77
Fear: 85
Figs: 25, 28, 43
Fish: 18, 20, 25, 26,
27, 29, 43, 80
Fish-body Oil: 42
Fish-liver Oil: 29
Fish Roc: 29
Flatulence: 73
Fluorine: 16
Food, Definition of: 15
Fructose: 17, 18
Fruits: 18, 26, 27, 44, 80
Fuel: 18
Galactose: 17, 18
Gas: 73
Gastric Acidity: 90
Gastric Secretions: 83
Gastric Ulcer: 81
Gastritis: 81
Cclatin: 16, 25
Glucose: 17, 18
Gluten: 16
Glycerin: 17
Glycogen: 17, 18
Gooseberries: 46
Grapefruit: 43, 46
Grapes: 43
Green Vegetables: 25, 42
Haddock: 38
Halibut: 38
Heart: 28, 44
Heartburn: 75, 92
Herring: 38
Honey: 18, 26
Hydrochloric Acid: 50
Hydrogen: 17
Ice Cream: 25, 59
Indigestion: 12, 97
Inorganic Elements: 16
Intestine, Small: 52
Iodine: 16, 29
Irish Moss: 29
Iron: 16, 28
Kale: 42, 46, 47
K e r a t o m a l a c i a : 42
K i d n e y : 2 8 , 4 4
K i d n e y , : 7 9
Lactose: 17
Lard: 38
Leafy Vegetable: 29, 44, 47
Lemons: 4 3 , 4 6
Lettuce: 26
Lima Beans: 27, 28
Limes: 2 6 , 4 6
Liver: 18, 25, 28, 42
Liver, Diseased: 77
Lobster: 2 9
Loganberries: 4 6
M a c a r o n i : 26
M a g n e s i u m : 16, 27
[ 103 ]
INDEX— C on tin u ed
Malted Milk: 25, 27
Maltose: 17
Malt Sugar: 17
Manganese: 16, 28
Maple Syrup: 25
Margarine: 17
Meat: 18, 20, 25, 26, 27,
28, 43, 44, 47, 80
Meat Extract: 15, 27
Meat Juices: 27
Melons: 26, 42, 46
Milk: 20, 25, 26, 36, 37,
38, 42, 47, 80
Milk, Evaporated: 42
Mind, Psychic: 83
Milk Sugar: 17
Mineral Oil: 41, 73
Minerals: 16, 24, 25
Molasses: 25, 26, 27, 28, 47
Monosaccharides: 17
Mushrooms: 29
Mussels: 29
Mutton Fat: 17
Niacin: 40, 44
Nickel: 16
Night Blindness: 41, 42
Nuts: 21, 23, 25, 26, 27,
28, 38, 44, 80
Oatmeal: 28
Obesity: 50, 61, 63
Oil, Cottonseed: 38, 44
Oil, Fish-body: 42
Oil Fish-liver: 29, 38, 42
Oil, Mineral: 41, 73
Oil, Olive: 17, 38, 44
Oil, Peanut: 38, 44
Oil, Vegetable: 47
Oil, Wheat-germ: 44
Oleic Acid: 17
Olive Oil: 17, 38, 44
Olives: 26, 27
Onions: 26, 43, 44, 46
Oranges: 46
Overweight: 50, 61, 63
Oxygen: 17
Oysters: 26, 27, 29
Palmitic Acid: 17
Pancreas: 89
Pancreatic Juice: 86
Papaya: 46
Parsley: 28, 42, 46
Parsnips: 26, 75
Peaches: 28, 42
Peanut Oil: 38, 44
Peanuts: 28, 44, 47, 80
Peas: 18, 21, 25, 26, 27, 28, 47, 80
Pectin: 18
Pellagra: 39
Peristalsis: 72, 87
Phobia, Cancer: 13, 93
Phosphorus: 16, 25, 37
Pineapple: 28, 46
Polysaccharides: 17
Potassium: 16, 26
Potatoes: 18, 26, 43, 44, 46, 80
Poultry: 25
Pregnancy: 39, 57
Proteins: 16, 19, 20, 22, 23, 78
Proteins, Animal: 23
Proteins, Fuel Value of: 18
Protoplasm: 19
Prunes: 28, 42, 44, 80
Psychic Causes of Indigestion: 13
Psychic Mind: 83
Psychic Secretions: 83
Ptyalin: 49, 51, 89
Pyloric Sphincter: 90
Pylorospasm: 90
Pylorus: 90
Pyrosis: 75
Radishes: 43, 46
Raisins: 27, 28
[ 104]
INDEX— C o n tin u ed
Raspberries: 46
Reducing Menus: 65, 66
Rhazes: 11
Riboflavin: 45
Rice: 80
Rickets: 36
Roughage: 18, 72
Rutabagas: 26
Saliva: 49, 83
Salmon: 29, 38, 42
Salmon'bones: 25
Salted Foods: 27
Sardines: 28, 38
Sausages: 27, 28
Scurvy: 36, 45
Secretions, Gastric: 83
Secretions, Psychic: 83
Silicon: 16
Small Intestine: 52
Sodium: 16, 27
Soybeans: 44, 47
Spasticity: 71
Sphincter, Pyloric: 90
Spinach: 26, 27, 46, 47
Sprouts: 46
Sprouts, Brussels: 26
Starch: 16, 17
Stearic Acid: 17
Stimulants: 80
Stimulation of Appetite: 16
Stomach: 50, 88
Strawberries: 46
Sucrose: 17
Sugar: 16, 17
Sulfa-drug: 45
Sulphur: 16, 26
Swiss Chard: 26
Tea: 15, 80
Thiamin: 35, 44
Tomatoes: 42, 44, 46, 47
Turnips: 26, 28, 42, 46
Ulcers: 81, 100
Ultraviolet Rays: 37
Underweight: 68
Vacations: 12, 99
Vegetable Oil: 47
Vegetables: 18, 80
Vegetables, Green: 25, 42
Vegetables, Leafy: 29, 44, 47
Vegetables, Yellow: 42
Vitamins: 35
Vitamin A: 41, 42, 43, 78
Vitamin B: 35, 40, 41, 43, 78
Vitamin CL 36, 45
Vitamin D : 36, 46
Vitamin E: 46
Vitamin K: 47, 78
Water: 15, 16, 69
Water Cress: 26, 7.7, 29, 46
Weight: 63
Wheat Bran: 27
Wheat Germ: 25, 27, 44, 47
Whcat'gcrm Oil: 44
Worry: 14, 85
Xerophthalmia: 42
Yeast, Dried: 25, 44
Yellow Vegetables: 42
Zinc: 16
V V V
[ 105 ]
E xp la n a to ry
THE ROSICRU ClA N ORDER
V
Anticipating questions which may be asked by the readers
of this book, the publishers wish to announce that there is
but one universal Rosicrucian Order existing in the world
today, united in its various jurisdictions, and having one
Supreme Council in accordance with the original plan of the
ancient Rosicrucian manifestoes. The Rosicrucian Order is
not a religious or sectarian society.
This international organisation retains the ancient tradh
tions, teachings, principles, and practical helpfulness of the
Brotherhood as founded centuries ago. It is known as the
Ancient Mystical Order Rosae Crucis, which name is ab'
breviated for popular use into AMORC. The North and
South American jurisdiction of this Order maintains its
headquarters at San Jose, California, with branches distrib'
uted throughout the United States, Canada, and Mexico.
Those interested in knowing more of the history and present'
day helpful offerings of the Rosicrucians may have a free
copy of the book entitled, “The Mastery of Life,” by send'
ing a definite request to S c r ib e M. P. P., AMORC Temple,
Rosicrucian Park, San Jose, California.
[ 106]
V V V
T h e R osicrucian L ibrary
Consists of a number of unique books which are described
in the following pages, and which may be
purchased from the
PvOSICRUCIAN SUPPLY BUREAU
S a n Jo s e , C a l if o r n ia
V V V
[ =*)7 }
V o l u m e I
ROSICRUCIAN QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
W ITH COMPLETE HISTORY
OF THE ORDER
By H. S p e n c e r L e w i s , F.R.C., Ph.D.
This volume contains the first complete, authentic history of the Rosi-
crucian Order from ancient times to the present day. The history is divided
into two sections, dealing with the traditional facts and the established his-
torical facts, and is replete with interesting stories of romance, mystery, and
alluring incidents.
This book is a valuable one since it is a constant reference and guide
book. Questions that arise in your mind regarding many mystical and
occult subjects are answered in this volume.
For many centuries the strange, mysterious records of the Rosicrucians
were closed against any eyes but those of the high initiates. Even editors
of great encyclopedias were unable to secure the weird, fascinating facts of
the Rosicrucian activities in all parts of the world. Now the whole story is
outlined and it reads like a story from the land of the “Arabian Nights.”
The book also outlines answers to hundreds of questions dealing with
the history, work, teachings, benefits, and purposes of the Rosicrucian fra­
ternity. It is printed on fine paper, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in
gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.50.
V o l u m e II
ROSICRUCIAN PRINCIPLES FOR THE
HOME AND BUSINESS
By H. S p e n c e r L e w i s , F.R.C., Ph.D.
This volume contains such principles of practical Rosicrucian teachings
as are applicable to the solution of everyday problems of life in business
and in the affairs of the home. It deals exhaustively with the prevention of
ill-health, the curing of many of the common ailments, and the attainment
of peace and happiness, as well as the building up of the affairs of life that
deal with financial conditions. The book is filled with hundreds of practical
points dealing especially with the problems of the average businessman or
C 108]
person in business employ. It points out the wrong and right way for the
use of metaphysical and mystical principles in attracting business, increasing
one’s income, promoting business propositions, starting and bringing into
realization new plans and ideals, and the attainment of the highest ambitions
in life.
“Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business" is not theoretical
but strictly practical, and is in its sixth edition, having had a wide circula­
tion and universal endorsement not only among members of the organiza­
tion, who have voluntarily stated that they have greatly improved their lives
through the application of its suggestions, but among thousands of persons
outside of the organization. It has also been endorsed by business organiza­
tions and business authorities.
The book is of standard size, well-printed, bound in silk cloth, and
stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.35.
V o l u m e III
THE MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
By H . S p e n c e r L e w i s , F .R .C ., P h . D .
This is the book that thousands have been waiting for—the real Jesus
revealed at last! It was in preparation for a number of years and required
a visit to Palestine and Egypt to secure a verification of the strange facts
contained in the ancient Rosicrucian and Essene Records.
It is a full account of the birth, youth, early manhood, and later peri­
ods of Jesus’ life, containing the story of His activities in the times not
mentioned in the Gospel accounts. The facts relating to the immaculate
conception, the birth, crucifixion, resurrection, and ascension will astound
and inspire you. The book contains many mystic symbols, fully explained,
original photograpl-.s, and new portraits of Jesus.
There are over three hundred pages with seventeen large chapters, beau­
tifully printed, bound in purple silk, and stamped in gold.
Here is a book that will inspire, instruct, and guide every student of
mysticism and religion. It is one of the most talkcd-about books ever written
on the subject. Read it and be prepared for the discussions of it that you
will hear among men and women of learning.
Sent by mail, postpaid, for $2.50.
[ 109 ]
V o l u m e I V
THE SECRET DOCTRINES OF JESUS
B y H. S p e n c e r L e w i s , F.R.C., Ph.D.
Does the Bible actually contain the unadulterated words of Jesus the
Christ? Do you know that from 325 A.D. until 1870 A.D., twenty ecclesi­
astical or church council meetings were held, in which man alone decided
upon the context of the Bible? Self-appointed judges in the four Lateran
Councils expurgated and changed the sacred writings to please themselves.
The Great Master’s p e rs o n a l doctrines, of the utmost, vital importance to
every man and woman, were buried in unexplained passages and parables.
“The Secret Doctrines of Jesus,” by Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, eminent author
of “The Mystical Life of Jesus,” for the first time r e v e a ls these h id d e n
tr u th s . Startling, fascinating, this new book should be in every thinker’s
hands. It is beautifully bound, illustrated, of large size, and the price, in­
cluding postage, is only $2.50 per copy.
V o l u m e V
“U NTO THEE I GRANT . . . ”
B y S r i . R a m a t h e r i o
This is one of the rarest Oriental mystery books known. It is translated
by special permission of the Grand Lama and Disciples of the Sacred College
in the Grand Temple in Tibet.
Here is a book that was written two thousand years ago, but was hidden
in manuscript form from the eyes of the world and given only to the initi­
ates of the temples in Tibet to study privately.
Out of the mystery of the past comes this antique book containing the
rarest writings and teachings known to man with the exception of the Bible.
Hundreds of books have been written about the teachings and practices of
the Masters o f th e F ar E a st and the Adepts of Tibet, but none of them has
ever contained the secret teachings found in this book. The book is divided
into many parts, each part containing a large number of sections or divisions
and chapters.
The book deals with man’s passions, desires, weaknesses, sins, strengths,
fortitudes, ambitions and hopes. All are treated in detail with illuminating
simplicity. The book is beautifully printed and bound with stiff cover, and
contains also the strange mystic story of the expedition into Tibet to secure
this marvelous manuscript.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.35.
[ HO]
V o l u m e VI
A THOUSAND YEARS OF YESTERDAYS
By H. S p e n c e r L e w i s , F.R.C., Ph.D.
Here is a book that will tell you about the real facts of re in c a r n a tio n .
It is a story of the Soul, and explains in detail how the Soul enters the
body and how it leaves it, where it goes, and when it comes back to earth
again, and why.
The story is not just a piece of fiction, but a r e v e la tio n o f th e m y stic
la w s and principles known to the Masters of the Far East and the Orient
for many centuries, and never put into book form as a story before this
book was printed. That is why the book has been translated into so many
foreign languages and endorsed by the mystics and adepts of India, Persia,
Egypt, and Tibet.
F a sc in a tin g —A llu r in g — I n s tr u c tiv e
Those who have read the book say that they were unable to leave it
without finishing it at one sitting. The story reveals the mystic principles
taught by the Rosicrucians in regard to reincarnation as well as the spiritual
laws of the soul and the incarnations of the soul.
It is well-printed, bound with a stiff cover, and worthy of a place in
anyone’s library. Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.20.
V o l u m e V I I
SELF MASTERY AND FATE W ITH THE
CYCLES OF LIFE
B y H. S p e n c e r L e w i s , F.R.C., Ph.D.
This book is entirely different from any book ever issued in America,
dealing with the secret periods in the life of each man and woman wherein
the Cosmic forces affect our daily affairs.
The book reveals bow wc may take advantage of certain periods to
bring success, happiness, health, and prosperity into our lives, and it like'
wise points out those periods which are not favorable for many of the things
we try to accomplish. It does not deal with astrology or any system of
fortunetelling, hut presents a system long used by the Master Mystics in
Oriental lands and which is strictly scientific and demonstrable. One read'
ing of the book with its charts and tables will enable the reader to see the
[111]
course of his life at a glance. It helps everyone to eliminate “chance” and
“luck,” to cast aside “fate,” and replace these with self-mastery.
Here is a book you will use weekly to guide your affairs throughout the
years. There is no magic in its system, but it opens a vista of the cycles of
the life of each being in a remarkable manner.
Well-printed, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold to match other
volumes of the Rosicrucian Library. Price, postage prepaid, $2.3 5.
Volume VIII
ROSICRUCIAN MANUAL
B y H. S p e n c e r L e w i s , F.R.C., Ph.D.
This practical book contains not only extracts from the Constitution of
the Order of Rosicrucians, but a complete outline and explanation of all of
the customs, habits, and terminology of the Rosicrucians, with diagrams and
explanations of the symbols used in the teachings, an outline of the sub­
jects taught, a dictionary of the terms, a complete presentation of the prin­
ciples of Cosmic Consciousness, and biographical sketches of important char­
acters connected with the work. There are also special articles on the Great
White Lodge and its existence, how to attain psychic illumination, the Rosi-
crucian Code of Life with thirty laws and regulations, and a number of
portraits of prominent mystics including Master K. H., the Illustrious.
The technical matter contained in the text and in the hundred or more
diagrams makes this book a real encyclopedia of Rosicrucian explanations,
aside from the complete dictionary it contains.
The “Rosicrucian Manual” is of large size, well-printed, beautifully
bound in red silk cloth, and stamped in gold. The ninth edition has been
enlarged and improved in many ways. Price, postage prepaid, $2.50.
V o l u m e IX
MYSTICS A T PRAYER
B y M a n y C i h l a r
A u s tr ia n P h ilo s o p h e r a n d M y s tic
The first complete compilation of the famous prayers of the renowned
mystics and adepts of all ages.
The book, “Mystics at Prayer," explains in simple language the reason
of prayer, how to pray, and the Cosmic laws involved. You come to learn
the real efficacy of prayer and its full beauty dawns upon you. Whatever
your religious beliefs, this book makes your prayers the application not of
[ H2]
words, but of helpful, divine principles. You will learn the infinite power
of prayer. Prayer is man's rightful heritage. It is the direct means of man's
communion with the infinite force of divinity.
“Mystics at Prayer" is well bound, printed on art paper in two colors,
with deckled-edge pages, sent anywhere, postpaid, $1.25.
V o l u m e X
BEHOLD THE SIGN
B y R a l p h M. L e w i s , F.R.C.
What were the S a c r e d T r a d itio n s said to have been revealed to Moses
—and never spoken by the ancient Hebrews? What were the forces of
nature discovered by the Egyptian priesthood and embodied in strange sym­
bols—symbols which became the ever-living knowledge which built King
Solomon’s Temple, and which found their way into tKe secret teachings of
every century?
Regardless of the changing consciousness of man, certain signs and de­
vices have immortalized for all ages the truths which make men free. Learn
the meaning of the Anchor and Ark, the Seven-pointed Star, ancient Egyp­
tian hieroglyphs, and many o th e r age-old s e c r e t s y m b o ls.
Here is a book that also explains the origin of the various forms of the
cross, the meanings of which are often misunderstood. It further points out
the mystical beginnings of the s e c r e t sig n s used by many fraternal orders
today. This book of symbolism is fully illustrated, simply and interestingly
written. Well hound and printed. Price, postage prepaid, $1.35.
V o l u m e X I
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
B y H. S p e n c e r L e w i s , F.R.C., Ph.D.
Reincarnation! The world’s most disputed doctrine. The belief in rein­
carnation has had millions of intelligent, learned, and tolerant followers
throughout the ages. Ringing through the minds and hearts of students,
mystics, and thinkers have always been the words: “Why Are Wc Here?”
Reincarnation has been criticized by some as conflicting with sacred litera­
ture and without verification. This book reveals, however, in an astounding
[ 113 ]
m a n n e r th e m a n y facts to s u p p o rt rein c a rn a tio n . Q u o ta tio n s from em in en t
a u th o ritie s, fro m B iblical a n d S acred w o rk s su b stan tiate re in carn atio n . T h is
vo lu m e P R O V E S re in c a rn a tio n . I t places it high above m ere speculation.
T h is b o o k is w ith o u t e x ag g eratio n th e m ost com plete, in sp irin g , en lig h ten in g
b o o k ev er w ritte n o n th is su b ject. It is n o t a fiction sto ry b u t a step b y
step re v elatio n o f p ro fo u n d m ystical law s. L ook a t som e o f th ese th o u g h t-
p ro v o k in g , in trig u in g su b je cts:
T h e C o sm ic C o n c e p tio n ; T h e P e r s o n a lity o f th e S o u l; D o e s P e r so n a lity
S u r v iv e T r a n s itio n ? ; H e r e d ity a n d In h e rita n c e ; K a rm a a n d P e rso n a l E v o lu ­
tio n ; R e lig io n a n d B ib lic a l V ie w p o in ts ; C h r is tia n References; Between I n c a r­
n a tio n s; S o u ls o f A n im a ls a n d th e " U n b o r n " ; R e c o lle c tio n o f th e P a st.
T h e b o o k co n tain s o v e r th re e h u n d re d p ages, b eau tifu lly p rin te d , n eatly
b o u n d , stam p ed in gold; it w ill be a v alu ab le asset to y o u r lib rary . E co ­
nom ically p riced a t o n ly $ 2 .4 5 p e r copy, p o stag e p re p a id .
V o l u m e XII
LEMURIA—THE LOST CONTINENT
OF THE PACIFIC
B y W i s h a r S. C e r v e
Beneath the rolling, restless seas lie the mysteries of forgotten civilisa­
tions. Swept by the tides, half buried in the sands, worn away by terrific
pressure, are the remnants of a culture little known to our age of today.
Where the mighty Pacific now rolls in a majestic sweep of thousands of
miles, there was once a vast continent. This land was known as Lemuria,
and its people as Lemurians.
We pride ourselves upon the inventions, conveniences, and developments
of today. We call them modern, but these ancient and long-forgotten peo­
ple excelled us. Things we speak of as future possibilities, they knew as
everyday realities. Science has gradually pieced together the evidence of
this lost race, and in this book you will find the most astounding, en­
thralling chapters you have ever read. How these people came to be swept
from the face of the earth, except for survivors who have living descendants
today, is explained. Illustrations and explanations of their mystic symbols,
maps of the continent, and many ancient truths and laws arc contained in
this unusual book.
If you are a lover of mystery, of the unknown, the weird— read this
book. Remember, however, this book is n o t fic tio n , but based on facts, the
result of extensive research. Does civilization reach a certain height and
then retrograde? Are the culture and progress of mankind in cycles, reach-
[ 1H]
ing certain peaks, and then returning to start over again? These questions
and many more are answered in this intriguing volume. Read of the living
descendants of these people, whose expansive nation now lies at the bottom
of the Pacific. In the minds of these descendants is the knowledge of the
principles which in by-gone centuries made their forebears builders of an
astounding civilisation.
The book, “Lemuria—the Lost Continent of the Pacific,” is beautifully
bound, well-printed, and contains many illustrations. It is economically
priced at $2.40, postpaid.
V o l u m e XIII
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE MASTER
THE WAY OF COSMIC PREPARATION
B y R a y m u n d A n d r e a , F.R.C.
A g u id e to in n e r u n fo ld m e n t! T h e n ew est a n d sim plest e x p lan atio n fo r
a tta in in g th e sta te o f C osm ic C o n scio u sn ess. T o th o se w h o h av e felt th e
th ro b o f a vital p o w er w ith in , a n d w hose in n e r visio n h as at tim es glim psed
in fin ite peace an d h ap p in ess, th is b o o k is offered. I t co n v erts th e in tan g ib le
w h isp ers o f self in to fo rcefu l actio n s th a t b rin g real jo y s a n d acco m p lish ­
m en ts in life. I t is a m aste rfu l w o rk on psychic u n fo ld m e n t.
I t is w ell b o u n d in clo th , w ith d eck led a n d tin te d ed g e p ap er. S ecure
th is tre a su re fo r yourself. E co n o m ically p riced , p o sta g e p re p a id , $ 2 .0 0
V o l u m e XIV
THE SYMBOLIC PROPHECY
OF THE GREAT PYRAMID
B y H. S p e n c e r L e w i s , F.R.C., Ph.D.
The world's greatest mystery and first wonder is the Great Pyramid. It
stands as a monument to the learning and achievements of the ancients.
For centuries its secrets were closeted in stone—now they stand revealed.
Never before in a hook priced within the reach of every reader have
the history, vast wisdom, and prophecies of the Great Pyramid been given.
You will be amazed at the Pyramid’s scientific construction and at the tre-
mendous knowledge of its mysterious builders.
Who built the Great Pyramid? Why were its builders inspired to reveal
to posterity the events of the future? What is the path that the Great
r u n
Pyramid indicates lies before mankind? Within the pages of this enlighten­
ing book there are the answers to many enthralling questions. It prophesied
the World War and the great economic upheaval. Learn what it presages
for the future. You must not deprive yourself of this book.
The book is well bound with a hard cover, and contains all necessary
charts and illustrations. Price only $2.35 with postage paid.
Volume XV
THE BOOK OF JASHER
THE SACRED BOOK WITHHELD
By what right has man been denied the words of the prophets? Who
dared expunge from the Holy Bible one of its inspired messages? For cen­
turies man has labored under the delusion that there have been preserved
for him the collected books of the great teachers and disciples—yet one
has been withheld—“The Book of Jasher.”
Within the hallowed pages of the great Bible itself are references to
this lost book which have puzzled the devout and students for centuries.
As if by Divine decree, the Bible appears to cry out to mankind that its
sanctity has been violated, its truth veiled, for we find these two passages
exclaiming: “Is not this written in the Book of Jasher?”—Joshua x. 13;
"Behold, it is written in the Book of Jasher"— 2 Sam. 1. 18.
Alcuin discovered this great book of the Bible written by Jasher. He
translated it into English in 800 A.D. Later it was suppressed and then
rediscovered in 1829, and once again suppressed.
But now we bring to you an actual photographic reproduction of this
magnificent work, page for page, line for line, unexpurgated. This enlight­
ening work, bound in its original style, is priced at only $2.10 per copy,
postage paid.
V o l u m e XVI
THE TECHNIQUE OF THE DISCIPLE
B y R a y m u n d A n d r e a , F.R.C.
“The Technique of the Disciple” is a book containing a modern de­
scription of the ancient esoteric path to spiritual illumination, trod by the
masters and avatars of yore. It has long been said that Christ left, as a
great heritage to members of His secret council, a private method for guid­
ance in life, which method has been preserved until today in the secret,
occult, mystery schools.
[ 116]
Raymund Andrea, the author, reveals the method for attaining a greater
life taught in these mystery schools, which perhaps parallels the secret in­
structions of Christ to members of His council. The book is enlightening,
inspiring, and splendidly written. It is handsomely bound with a stiff board
cover and the material of the cover is woven of silk thread, and stamped in
gold. Postage is paid on shipment to you. Priced at $2.15 per copy.
Volume XVII
M ENTAL POISONING
THOUGHTS THAT ENSLAVE MINDS
B y H. S p e n c e r L e w i s , F.R.C., Ph.D.
Tortured souls. Human beings, whose self-confidence and peace of mind
have been torn to shreds by invisible darts—the evil thoughts of others.
Can envy, hate, and jealousy be projected through space from the mind of
another? Do poisoned thoughts like mysterious rays reach through the
ethereal realm to claim innocent victims? Will wishes and commands born
in hate gather momentum and like an avalanche descend upon a helpless
man or woman in a series of calamities? Must humanity remain at the
mercy of evil influences created in the minds of the vicious? Millions each
year are mentally poisoned—are you safe from this scourge? “Mental
Poisoning" is the title of a book written by Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, which
fearlessly discloses this psychological problem. It is sensational in its revela­
tions. Read it and be prepared.
This neatly bound, well-printed book will be sent to you for the nominal
price of only $1.35. It has been economically produced so it can be in the
hands oi thousands because of the benefit it will afford readers.
Order yours today. Price includes postage.
V o l u m e XVIII
GLANDS—OUR INVISIBLE GUARDIANS
B y M. W. K a p p , M.D.
You need not continue to be bound to those glandular characteristics of
your life which do not please you. These influences, through the findings
of science and the mystical principles of nature, may be adjusted. The first
essential is that of the old adage: “Know Yourself." Have revealed the
facts about the endocrine glands—know where they are located in your
body and what mental and physical functions they control. The control of
[117]
the glands can mean the control of your life. These facts, scientifically cor­
rect, with their mystical interpretation, are for the first time presented in
simple, non-technical language, in a book which everyone can enjoy and
profit by reading.
Mystics and metaphysicians have long recognized that certain external
influences and powers of a Cosmic nature could be tapped; that a Divine
energy could be drawn upon, which affects our creative ability, our per­
sonality, and our physical welfare. For centuries there has been speculation
as to what area or what organs of the body contain this medium—this con­
tact between the Divine and the physical. Now it is known that certain of
the glands are governors which speed up or slow down the influx of Cosmic
energy into the body. What this process of Divine alchemy is and how it
works is fascinatingly explained in this book of startling facts.
Dr. M. W. Kapp, long held in high esteem by the medical fraternity,
and yet having a deep insight into the mystical laws of life and their influ­
ences on the physical functioning of the body, is author of this work.
INTRODUCTION BY H. SPENCER LEWIS, F.R.C., Ph .D.
Dr. H. Spencer Lewis—first Imperator of the Rosicrucian Order
(AMORC), of North and South America, for its present cycle of activity,
and author of many works on mysticism, philosophy, and metaphysics—
wrote an important introduction to this book, in which he has highly
praised it and its author.
The book is well bound with a hard cover; price only $1.50 with
postage paid.
V o l u m e XIX
ALONG CIVILIZATION’S TRAIL
By R a l p h M. L e w i s , F.R.C.
Does the dust of the ages disclose to the probing hands and peering
eyes of the Egyptologists more than they publicly disclose? Read the mys­
terious nocturnal journey of an Egyptologist into the Valley of the Kings
—the land of the dead.
What was the strange power or faculty that Sheikh Moussa el Howie
possessed? Was it a psychic sense by which he detected and called forth
from their places of concealment venomous reptiles and insects? Let the
author reveal to you this eerie experience in an ancient temple on the Nile.
Go on an expedition with these m o d e r n m y stic s . Tread with them over the
crumbling bricks of a once mighty Babylon. Relive a life with one of the
[ H8 ]
party in the great palace of Nebuchadnezzar. Realize with him the experi­
ences of another existence.
Take part in the rituals and ceremonies of the hermetic brotherhoods of
Europe, to which the author was introduced as a candidate. Journey along
the ancient Nile. Cross absolute deserts. Investigate the sites of ancient
civilizations and the mystery schools. Read of the mystical revival of an
ancient ceremony in the King’s Chamber—in the heart of the Great Pyramid
—on the eventful day the Pyramid itself predicted.
“Along Civilization's Trail" is a book you will never forget; beautifully
bound, illustrated with unusual o rig in a l p h o to g r a p h s . I t is a book that will
be prized by mystics and students everywhere. Price, $2.40, postpaid.
V o l u m e X X
THE W ORD W EN T FORTH
B y L a u r a D e W i t t J a m e s , B.A., F.R.C.
Within the spoken word, there is an invisible language which can and
does attune each mortal with every other. Do not cries of anguish tell you
more of human suffering and pain than can any words? Does not re'
sounding, spontaneous laughter do more to cause you to realise another's
enjoyment than any words of description?
Her words were c o ld . His voice was h a rsh . His speech was clipped,
terse—a g g r a v a tin g . This one's tone was soothing, calming, in s p ir in g . You
have often made those remarks about people with whom you conversed, or
to whom you listened. Why? It was not just what they said or the mean­
ing of their words. It was the effect of their articulation, an intangible
something within the intoned sounds which left an impression upon you.
Not only can the utterances of others affect you emotionally, but your own
speech can affect your moods.
Do you know that nature has established a direct channel between the
organ of voice, the larynx, and a gland within your head? This gland is
tuned to certain vibrations of speech, and in turn stimulates or represses,
in a mysterious way, your emotions. All of these and many more secrets of
voice attunement are explained in this book, “The Word Went Forth." If
you learn the wise choice of words and speech, you can often by selfatimu'
lation change your feelings of depression and melancholy to confidence- —
even enthusiasm.
Concise, and artistically bound. Price, prepaid, $1.10.
f 119 ]
H O W TO ORDER BOOKS
If your regular book dealer does not have these books in
stock, and you do not care to wait until he secures them for
you, you may save time by sending your order direct, with
remittance or C.O.D., postage prepaid by us.
ROSICRUCIAN SUPPLY BUREAU
R o s i c r u c i a n P a r k S a n Jo s e , C a l i f o r n i a , U.S.A.
[ n o ]
