{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1946__cherenzi_lind___radiomind___partial.pdf","mytitle":"Radiomind   Partial","mylang":"de"}
) ° f
\ J u r 1/.5 J ( < w
t h e Y c t e n t Tf i c c o n q u e s t o f l i f e
a t o m i n d RADI O M I N D c o s m i n d
P i, OAt (Zhetany-Jlind
/
R A D IO M IN D
MuitQtij o f the A iin d 5 Ail<jktij M echanism
THE SCIENTIFIC
CONQUEST OF LIFE
Pr. OM CHERENZI-LIND
I
THE MULTI-MILLIONS’ SECRET POWERS
COSMIND ATOMIND
^ / ( (B osm ic ^ B o iv e r to s u r p a s s ^ /E to m ic (E n e rg y •
Abriged Course of Applied Eadiomind
Fourth Edition
Edited by THE UNIVERSAL SPIRITUAL UNION
2101 North Garfield Ave.,
Pasadena, California, U. S. A.
COPYEIGT 1937, 1941, 1946
All countries — All Eights Eeserved
M I N D
(Mindology, the Newer Psychology)
“Powers of Life are un limited, except when made
otherwise by man’
s own ignorance, displicense, and
passions”.
K. H.
We are now bordering on a new realm. Whether we
call it MIND, or SOUL, it matters little. Let us not linger
on age-old doctrines and futile theories. Let us be always
mindful of the fact that Nature is wise, and that even our
best knowledge can always stand some sort of improvement.
Regardless of what you have learnt about the mind
heretofore, you must realize that you are now entering into
the new knowledge regarding the Mind, which is far greater
and wonderful than what has ever been uttered. In fact,
it is only now that we are — as last— reaching the secrets
of the Mind, the Holy of Holies of Conscience, and the magic
treasure-vault of Vitality.
The Mind is an association of forces. The character and
combination of these will make the whole difference between
the genius and the njoron, Health or morbosity; Creativeness,
or crime; Happiness, or misery, want, limitations, and stup
idity; high rate intelligence, or sentimentalism and weakl
ings’ delusions; and noble-mindedness, or instinctive and
undignified livelihood.
r a d i o m i n d 17
T
When we say that we must VITALIZE our Mind, we
infer that we must need to energetize and readjust it.
In these troubled times of war consciousness, like at all
times when our soul is weary, sick, and deplenished of
energies after prolongued strains and great passional
outbursts and painful disilusionments, the Mind needs
revamping, and replenishment, as well as reconditioning.
This implies a general overhauling, retiming, and re
charging.
People ignore too much about this, and only too often
overlook the fact that our individual being is as much in
need of careful attention as the most perfect set of mach
inery. Our being is in fact, the most delicate mechanical
contrivance extent, and for that reason alone it deserves a
constant and painstaking upkeeps, besides all the benefits
we derive from it in forms of Health, Power, Happiness,
and Plenty.
Atinc/ SR.ea.cj/u stm en t
The same care that we give to a high
precision motor should be given to our
Mind, if not better. Our Mind needs
constant overhauling and readjustment.
If we are not overly careful in these
things, we are bound to have false
landings and tragic consequences. The
menace is constant... yet so few people
ever pay any regard to their Mind.
They don’t know what they are losing,
and much less the risks they are
incurring into.
Political and Religious organizations are too intent on
their side-issues, or rest too much on their dogmas, doctrines
and traditions. Orthodoxy is linked to eventual interests,
and sovereignty and ambition stand as their mainsprings.
However, no one seems interested in human nature itself.
Everyone exploits man in a way or another, subject him to
regimentation or servitude without ever considering man’
s
own inner needs and individual yearnings and designs. For
sure, the interests of God and the State are important, but
hardly so to the point of converting man into a toy, a serf,
or a simple, irresponsible cogwheel. The world needs to
In this process our technique must rely mainly on our
own inner mental functions, under the guidance of our
Conscience. We are not supposed to seek outside help, but
to achieve ourselves what purpose we strive for, or set
ourselves to reach. The mood to be adopted is not just a
PASSIVE one, or of expectation and faith, but an ACTIVE
one, or of dynamic creativeness.
When we indulge in Mystic Communion, we actually
contact the better forms of Universal energy (Prana), and
we thus sublimize ourselves. The very act also replenishes
us. We grow with our own efforts!
C A D I C M I N D
MAN’
S MASTERY OF COSMIC LIFE
Creative Consciousness
tinman xaculties are inalienable, being the outcome of fundamental qualities
of the Mind.
The Mind functions in the atoms as ATOMIND, and in the Cosmos as
COSMIND, because it is the foundation of all things, and also the basis of all
developments.
It matters little whether we call this Mind “ Natural Forces", “ extradi-
mentional might", or “ het erodynami csi t is the fundamental energy of life,
Some may even call it Alma Mater, or Anima Mundi, or even God, Holly Ghost
or Universal Soul. The fact is athat Life is made of the stuff oi the Mind. To
know this is to be a Powerful Healer a Son of the Sun, an Initiate, a real:
Cosmic Genius.
PSYCHOTECHNIQUE OF SELF-SUPERATION
“Truth is what you live, not
what you believe”.— K. H.
Thoughts are the channels through which we express'
our MIND POWERS. Our yearnings and hopes are “lines
of forces” which we tend over the chasms of the world like!
bridges, so that we may cross them and reach to what wej
deem as needs of our own.
But in order to be effective, the thoughts must be ourj
own. We gain nothing by simply adhering to others’creeds]
or by adopting ideas of others. We must make them ouij
own ere we may benefit through them. The reason why
most folks are not as perfect nor as happy as they should
be is because of the doctrines which they arbor are no
elaborated by and for themselves.
We must feel deeply any notion or creed which we cling
to, and be thoroughly imbibed of it so that it may be ours
and not a mere adoption. Thoughts and ideas adoptei
from others easily make slaves out of us, or we let them haun
us into bigotry and intolerance. But when we conceive ou
own ideas, and think by our own means and ken, then we an
no longer enchained to others’ designs, or to traditions an
<
conventional fetters. A notion or idea is really not our’
i
R A D I O M I N D 55
of man if he will only resort to his better self. Furthermore,
this is more than a mere doctrinal or theoretical expose; it
is an active plan for self-superation and self-enlightenment.
C/he /
naruels o f the new er ^Psychology p la c e d at
last within reach, o f the reg en era ted con scien tio u s
(Bosm ic ^A'tan ’
.
The COSMIC MAN is the one that realizes his relationship with the Universe,
and who thinks in terms of Cosmic Consciousness.
64 R A D I O M I N D
not wince nor weaken, and you will be on your way to
complete success. You will strengthen yourself as long as you
remain true to yourself, and you will discover that nothing
is really impossible to the person who is true to himself.
Remember, no change can take place even with the aid
of the greatest forces if we do not give them time enough
to pronounce themselves. We must let the forces work and
produce. Forces are like seeds; they must have time to
produce their impacts on environment, and to find an
adequate vehicle of expression. The forces we use need
to be well aligned, well concentrated, well presented, so that
they may condensate into material forms. Energy needs
time to take the shape of things which it is called upon to
represent. This is no exception to the Mind, for all
Principles work in the same manner on all the planes of
life throughout the Universe.
The above is so true that our thoughts are packs o
energy, as Planck would say. When we think, our Mind i
energetically functioning in the way and according to thf
qualities and conditions of our motives and aims.
Bear this well in mind. There is no other secret to
80 R A D I O M I N D
Intelligence, and PURUSH-PRAKRITI, or Divine Essence$
and Primeal Potentialities of Life.
If we discipline our Mind and develop it thoroughly, so
as to reach such forms of accomplishments as contemplated
in this Treatise, and specially in the present Chapter-
Lesson, we will no doubt awaken to the realization that
Cosmic Consciousness is also within our scope, and that
God-Presence is not such a sentimental or morbid religious
fancy after all. Of course all these things are factible, hut
it requires a really well cultivated and well developed Mind
to fulfill such aims of ultimate realization.
In order to draw upon the Cosmos, and absorb Universal energies (Prana),
we must assume the Mental attitude of completo nakedness, and self-diffusion
Wo must needs feel deep in ourselves that wo are ONE with the Universal Mini
and also fiction as a vehicle of superior Forces. The Mind is in its own rigK
Creative, but it is much more so when it functions Consciously.
In the face of whetever need, think, VIBPATE in accordance with the TATWAi
of the qualities which correspond to the conditions of your aims, designs, a
aspirations.
The Mind combines the TATWAS, thus becoming the ATOMIND, or basS
atomic conditions pursued. When the Mind draws on the infinite, it become
COSMIN, or cosmically generated and .qualified. (Consult the TATW
A
1
QUALITIES Table, elsewhere in this book).
t
UNIVERSAL SPIRITUAL UNION
A non-profit, cultural, and Mutualist Corporation
_ m_
WRITERS
STUDENTS
HOMEFOLKS
INTELECTUALS
ARTISTS
WORKERS
SCIENTISTS
PROFESSIONALS
WORLD CITIZENS
THE SPIRIT OF THE NEW AGE
A New Era is at at hand for those who cultivate Universal Principles, and who
dare contact higher forces and dwell in the Cosmic Realm of Truth. The New.
Humanity, biologically and psychologically regenerated, and libertated from the
age-old fetters that poison the Mind and enchain Conscience, is a Cosmocrator.
To those thus Chosen and Elected by their own rights and Merits Life unfolds in
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS. Such is the COSMIC MAN!
“ A time will come, soon enough, when human beings will at
last forget their fetishes and dogmas, and cast aside their
traditions and prejudices, and look toward a greater design of
Life, realizing that in the wondrous expanses of the Cosmos he
will find the Solution to all his petty whims and foolish problems!
Then he will be a propounder of Universal Life Unlimited
Copperated, that is to say COSMOCRACY” .
— K. II.
You are being invited to join this functional and
structural Corporation of Wholesome and Successful people,
and the New World Peace and Unity Spiritual Civilization
(Aquarius). Join Today. No matter what is your race,
sex, age, profession, calling, creed, or personal conditions:
we will help you in developing, or acquiring what you need,
yet have not, or to be what you yearn and dream to be.
86 R A D I O M I N D
Civic, Humanist, Fraternal, Religious, Cultural, Mystic,
Mutualist, Learned, and Philosophical Societies wishing to
Adhere may do so. Each pay a yearly Due of $10.00.
Individual Passive Members pay a $1.00 Fee, and
periodical Goodwill Offerings.
Individual Active Members pay a $2.00 Inscription Fee.
and $1.00 monthly Dues.
Ail Active Members are entitled to our Official Organ, a
Membership Card, the Planetaryan Pledge Scroll, a Vitami-
neral Therapy Chart, a Preventive Medicine Chart, a World
. Citizen Certificate, the MIND POWER Abridged Course of
Study, Free Lectures, participation in our Industrial and
Agricultural Cooperative Colonies throughout the world, etc.
plus our SOCIAL SECURITY SERVICE.
Furthermore, we guarantee all our Members an employ
ment enabling them to earn an honest livelihood, and be
free of ill-health, want, unhappiness, and lack of self-respect.
This Corporation is unique throughout the world.
No other organization affords its Members so many
benefits for so little contribution. Our Members arej
PARTNERS in the great NEW AGE Venture. This*
Corporation — now comprising over 135 Societies and!
Movements all over the world — is at once the best Savings!
Bank, Church Attention, Free University, Fraternal Orgaj
nization, and Mutualistic Society. This is not a RELIGIOUS!
ORGANIZATION, and it is decidedly not a profit-making!
enterprise. We are interested in HUMAN ENGINEERING.!
HUMAN WELFARE, the PARLIAMENT OF MAN and al
WORLD UNITED STATES. This is your opportunity to!
make good!
GENERAL ADDRESSES: I
UNIVERSAL SPIRITUAL UNION
Ave. Ducpetiaux 89, -161 North Garfield Ave., I
Manoir Vendome, ! Altadena. California,
Bruxelles. Belgium. i U. S. A.
UNIVERSAL SPIRITUAL UNION
Habana. Cuba. Aparlado 7,
Calle O Numero 10, Vedado, \ Girardot. Cund.. Colombia, S. -4
/
,C
THE^ COSMIC EMBASSADOR
NEW WORLD HELPER
AVATAR OF THE NEW AGE
Important book just out of press which will open our
eyes, and cause considerable rectification in thinking trends.
Those interested in knowing something about the Great
Forces that now change the world, and the direction in
which the world is actually evolving, despite all the rumble
and majesty of the great new political agencies and the
intents on revival of most religious systems, should read
this valuable contribution to the ushering in New Age.
Now that we hear so much about the atom and “atomic
energy”, and the dangers that menace world peace and
instill so much FEAR in many, we should know what the
Cosmos has to say, or to do about this humanity so bent on
warfare and incisive selfishness.
This book is highly commanded by College Professors,
Students of the Occult, and well known authors.
A New Age is ushering in, and a New Great World
Holper is now among us.
Once in every Age, a Great Avatar arises, or comes to
Enlighten, Awaken, and Guide Humanity, and we are now
assisting to one of the greatest historical moments of our
species, when the whole World is in a turmoil, world-wars
precipitate events, and great scientific advancements take
place. WHY ALL THIS?
Great Cosmic and Spiritual Forces are new active.
Read about them in this book “THE NEW GREAT WORLD
HELPER”. Price $2.50.
Pr. OM. Cherenzi-Lind.
ALL FAITHS SANCTUARY
2101 North Garfield Ave.,
Altadena, California, U. S. A.
T H E C E T H I C C E A C L C
Here is the real blue-print of the new, Spiritual
• Civilization of the future. The New Are (Aquarius) is fast
becoming of age, a new Humanity is also developing, now
as the COSMIC MAN.
The advantage of being forewarned, and enlightened
on these particulars is immense, and we recommend this
book to all sincere seekers after Truth, as well to all well-
wishers. Those who really take at heart the motives of life,
and who intend justifying their existence, should also be
well aware of the facts and precepts propounded in this
noteworthy exposition. Modern politicians and religious
know-it-all should also get a good notion of this COSMIC;
ORACLE, lest they miss the Universal Spiritual mark of Life,
'and create furthei; confusion and problems that will throw
the human species into still greater problems and evils,
wars and devillish designs.
This is a popular edition, because the author wants it
to be read by as many millions of people as possible.
Price $1.50.
T H E C C f M I C C A L L
An inspirational expose on Cosmocracy, by the 1
1
1
Maha Chohan (Spiritual Director) K. H., sometimes knowi
as THE TIBETAN.
This in an important treatise on world needs, and i
should be consulted by all earnest seakers after Truth am
sincere souls.
This is a very important expose on the grandeou
phjlosonhv of Universal Life, or UNIVERSAL LIF1
UNLIMITED COOPERATED, as provided and develops
by Nature itself.
The scientific propounding of the meaning of Life, i
as presented, a Spiritual Message of tremendous significant
and also of untold consequence for the new thinking trend
of the world, a as New Era is ushering in.
For the very first time, man is confronted with the rei j
issues of Life, without being made the play-thing of his ow
imagination, or a victim of unwarranted dogmas, speciou
traditions, and questionable orthodoxies.
Perhaps the best title for a truthful presentation f
l
Life’
s own mechanism and the inmediate consequences of
such an unquestionable and vivid Spiritual Dynamics should
be “THE HANDWRITING OF GOD ON THE BOOK OF
LIFE”, or again “THE MAGIC DIMENSION OF UNI
VERSAL TRUTH AND THE ETERNAL SPIRIT”.
We heartily recommend this book, THE COSMIC CALL.
Our COSMOGRAM SERVICE is now within reach
of everyone throughout all the world.
The COSMOGRAM SERVICE is given out to Humanity
each month, at the Full-moon, at the occasion of celebration
of the Spiritual Fire Festival, hence all the Members of the
Spiritual Kingdom, or Great White Brotherhood enter upon
Mystic Communion throughout the whole world.
These COSMOGRAMS are of vital importance to the
earnest students of Universal Life and Eternal Truth, bent
*f Spiritual Values and who are eager to have the true
Keynotes of Life during each lunar month, and progressiyely
throughout the year, considering the changing conditions
of the Cosmos at large. This is definitely a Scientific and
Spiritual forecast of Values and Forces that actively prevail
during each lunar period, and it is always important to
know them, since they mark the conditions of Life on this
earth as it proceeds along the far-flung highways of the
as yet uncharted Cosmic expanses.
Piice $3.00.
Cost of this service for the whole year, or Monthly
Biopsychological, Cosmological, and Spiritual Guidance,
$600.
We will send all our patrons a monthly resume of
valuable data concerning the Vital designs and Biodynamics
of the Cosmos, following the utterances at each Full-Moon
by the 1
1
1
. Master K. H.
Persons interested in having a “Personal Cosmograph
Chart” made, marking their qualities, needs, and other
valuable leads and suggestions, should communicate with
us at once.
The COSMOGRAM SERVICE costs $6.00 yearly.
The “Personal Cosmograph Chart” costs $300.
The COSMOGRAM SERVICE requires only the pay
ment of dues, which enables us to print and make known
the particulars.
The “Personal Cosmograph Chart” requires as much
of personal data as possible, in concise yet precise form.
This is confidential.
>
]
<
Ho
«g
.u
n
iic
if
if
pi
n
e
iff
erj
T H E C OS M I C V O I C E
Illustrated Magazine, which is the Official Organ of
the UNIVERSAL SPIRITUAL UNION in India.
It is published at intervals, and contains valuable philos
ophical data as well as important information on the
portentous system of World Reabilitation and Human
Welfare, commonly known as UNIVERSAL SPIRITUAL
UNION, also comprising a Worldwide Social Security
Service, method of Economic Assistance, Medical Prevention
Service, Cultural Orientation, and many other innovations
destined to foster Human Regeneration, and make possible
the many problems that harass the world at large.
This is a widely read publication, with world-wide
circulation.
Separate issue? may be had at our address, at 15 Cts.
each. Stamps, also to cover postage.
Nothing like it to take the pulse of the world and to
realize what the Spiritual Powers are achieving. The
Spiritual Forces are greater and mightier than all the
material and worldly forces that now prevail and mix-upn
d
and disillusion humankind.
Mav be had for the price of $1.25 Cts. monthly. At the
same rate. also. THE SPIRITUAL RENAISSANCE,
published in California.
UNIVERSAL SPIRITUAL UNION
Sarah Nelson,
P. O. Box 494, Los Angeles (53), California, U. S. Alos
ul;
n
c
ai
os
p
M
M
M
M
M
fH
'r.
'~ *
C C J M C C K A C y
Cosmocracy is the Spiritual Dynamics, or Philosphy of
Science and Science of Philosophy, based on the known
data held on Universal Principles and Natural biopsych-
ological trends.
Originally developed as a series of essays under the
caption of “Cosmosophy” in the year 1917, and finally
published in a more concise form under the more exacting
caption of COSMOCRACY, our Teaching is aimed to solve
all human problems and quandaries.
Cosmocracy may not be a perfect system of thought.
However, it is as accurate as the most perfect mathematical
logics can be. We do not profess to be God-sent, or to hold
a patent on Universal Truth, nor to be Spiritually Mandated.
We simply comply with our inner conditions, following the
dictates of our Conscience.
All persons interested in a system of thought, or way
of appreciating life should call on us, and register for any
of our many Courses of study, such as are available in
the UNIVERSAL SPIRITUAL UNION, which is the only
Corporation legally authorized and morally prepared to
spread the Truth of the New Age in its true proportions
and significance. All other Kinds of COSMOCRACY, in
different forms of presentation under the caption “Cosm
ocracy” are, consequently, spurious or ill-advised, unless
duly authorized by its originator, who has been teaching it
since the year 1919.
COSMOCRACY not only reveals the Cosmic structure
and Vital Dynamics, but also fosters the regeneration of
man, and the formation of a newer Humanity, the
Cosmic Man.
UNIVERSAL SPIRITUAL UNION
P. 0. Box 494,
Los Angeles (53), California, U. S. A.
M A H A y © G A / A B U A
The different YOGA Charts are, indeed, exposes in
PICTORIAL WISDOM. They represent the different
structural conditions of the being, and the corresponding
functional capacities. Thus, they are a departure in the
Regal Art of Truth Realizations, as well as in the practice
of Divine Healing. They prove indispensable wherever a
thorough knowledge of human nature is required, and this
is something which no one can overlook, or minimize, if
interested in the regeneration of Man and all forms of
readjustment within.
YOGA is not precisely an ancient Teaching. It belongs
U
> all the ages; but it is the Science of Life of all true Yoguis.
And as we all know, these are not plentiful. Comparatively
speaking, there is approximately seven Yoguins to each
Guru, and presently there are only three Gurus living.
These Gurus are the Mahatmas, or Chohans, Hutulktus,
Living Budhas, or Christie Presences, or Malta -Jinas.
These YOGA CHARTS make a fine adornment for
Studios, Clinics, Libraries Churches. Viharas, and Ins-,
litutes, even if we are not capable of understanding their
transcedental meaning.
y € G A
This is the most ancient School of Yoga in India, created
in the forgotten depths of time, which has always prepared
the true Yoguis under the direction and personal attention
of Gurus.
The Charts are now available to secular students and
the public at large.
These can be had at our address, and they are, namely:
TRANSCENDENTAL YOGA OF KUNDALINI
TRANSCENDENTAL YOGA OF THE CHAKRAS
TRANSCENDENTAL YOGA OF MEDITATION
TRANSCENDENTAL YOGA OF THE HUMAN
KEYBOARD.
All four can be had at the price of 810.00. including
complete information. Send orders, and P. 0. Orders, or j
Checks to:
YOGA INSTITUTE.
Ocean Park, P. 0. Box 144, California, Lk S. A. I
