{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1945__foulks___effective_prayer.pdf","mytitle":"Effective Prayer","mylang":"de"}
EFFECTUAL PRAYEJK
By
FRANCES W. FOULKS
First Edition
UNITY SCHOOL OF CHRISTIANITY
KANSAS CITY 6, MO.
1945
It may come through physical suffering, through
heartache, or through some failure to
accomplish a
great desire. It may come while one is
undergoing
great stress or strain or
temptation, or when one is
submerged in some personal grief or bereavement.
Strange as it
may seem, a great desire to enter into
close communion with the Father rarely comes first
through joy, during prosperity
and success, youth
and health; for at these times there is a certain sense
of security when one seems sufficient unto oneself.
Man usually turns to God because of some need that
he realizes neither he nor any other human being
can satisfy,
and when truly man's extremity becomes
God's opportunity.
All men travel the path from self to God by way
of prayer.
Little by little one learns to relax the
physical so that God life may enter; to let
go the
mental so that God thoughts may take possession;
to shut out sight and sound, emotion and desire,
and become still before God. No one can take these
steps
for another any more than he can eat for
another or sleep
for another. Each one must take
them for himself, at his own time, in his own way.
Through many experiences he learns the way.
Through forms and creeds, through prayers of many
words, through desires and emotions the soul finally
It may take months, years, ages, to become a
righteous man whose prayer availeth much, but
time is
nothing to the soul who has truly set out to
find the kingdom. Once the soul becomes aware of
the divine plan and his part in completing it, the
way is filled with victories, the path lighted by the
angel presence going before to make plain the way.
All trials and tribulations are swallowed up in the
victories, forgotten in the joy of the knowledge that
comes through achievement.
If the time of achievement seems long, pray. If
the way seems dark, pray. If the results seem de-
layed, pray. Morning, noon and night, pray; pray
without ceasing; pray in the night watches; pray and
faint not; pray for those who despitefully use you,
pray with the spirit and with the understanding also;
pray rejoicing; be instant in prayer. Let praise and
thanksgiving ever rise like sweet incense from the
altar of prayer in your heart. Let the joy of inner
communion open the way for you to the glory of
God, no matter what the outer appearances may be,
When this is done thete is no force in the heavens
or the earth that can keep your good from you;
for you have become one with it and it one with you,
inseparable, imperishable, eternal
Beloved, while studying these signposts along
the way to effectual prayer, may you feel the Spirit
o Jehovah resting upon you. May you be given a
"garland for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the
garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness/' May
you in thanksgiving to the Giver of gifts, break the
bread of life to many, preach the glad tidings, heal
the sick, bind up the broken hearts, open the eyes
of the blind, make the lame to leap, carry prosperity
where before there was only poverty.
"Freely ye received, freely give": freely you have
given, freely receive.
Frances W* Poulks
CONTENTS
Part One
Foreword 3
I Effectual Prayer
- 11
II Preparation
21
HI Relaxation 35
IV Concentration 51
V Meditation 63
VI The Silence 75
VII The Message 87
VIII Living the Life 97
Part Two
Meditations for the High Watch - - - 111
Spiritual Remedies for Particular Lacks - - 147
In Thy Presence
Lord, what a change within us one short hour
Spent in Thy presence will prevail to make !
What heavy burdens from our bosoms take,
What parched grounds refresh as with a shower!
We kneel, and all around us seems to lower;
We rise, and all, the distant and the near,
Stands forth in sunny outline brave and clear;
We kneel, how weak; we rise, how full of power !
Why, therefore, should we do ourselves this wrong,
Or others, that we are not always strong,
That we are ever overborne with care,
That we should ever weak or heartless be,
Anxious or troubled, when with us in prayer,
And joy and strength and courage are with Thee.
Richard C. Trench
"The supplication of a righteous man availeth much
in its working."
"If any of you lacketh wisdom, let him ask of God,
who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not."
"Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall
find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you."
"They that seek Jehovah shall not want any good
thing/'
"Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at
peace;
Thereby good shall come unto thee,"
"All things whatsoever ye pray and ask for, believe
that ye receive them, and ye shall have them,"
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Chapter I
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
M^NY
STUDENTS of Truth, when turning from
the old manner of praying and seeking a
greater knowledge of true prayer, make a
great problem of entering the silence. Indeed the
silence does seem a problem to one who has never
assumed control of his thoughts, who has never
learned the art of relaxation, of concentration, of
meditation, of being still and listening within. These
are all steps that are taken to enter the silence where
God dwells and where we hear the "still small
voice," with its words of wisdom and love, where we
contact the gifts that through eternity have been
waiting for us to become still enough and receptive
enough to receive them.
The human race, at least that part of it which
prays to God, has so long spent all the time allotted
to prayer in beseeching a faraway God for material
desires. They have prayed to a God who is near-
sighted and perhaps a little deaf, immovable on His
throne in a heaven, dealing out evil as well as good,
many times favoring the sinner in preference
to the
saint. They have talked at God, they have talked
about God, in fact they have done all the talking,
never giving the omniscient One a chance to speak
back to them to assure them of His ability and
wilLbgness to give them even more than they ask.
11
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
The Psalmist, beloved of God said: "I will hear
what God Jehovah will speak/' We have the proof
of his listening for and to God in the wonderful
messages of the Psalms. The singing of those God-
given songs restored the singer's soul, and they have
led many other hungry, homesick souls back to the
green pastures and beside the still waters, to "dwell
in the house of Jehovah ever/' To the Psalmist, lis-
tening to Jehovah, God gave a long life full of rich
living, a life physically rich, mentally rich. The ex-
perience of one human being can be the experience of
all who are willing to pay the price. The price of such
experiences as David's and Solomon's is to live the
Christ life, one step in which is to learn to pray the
prayer of faith that "availeth much in its
working."
This prayer we do not pray, because we "ask
.amiss"; we desire the gifts more than we desire the
Giver; we ask for things more often than we ask for a
knowledge of the law, and the strength and power
to use it
aright. We have only to review some of our
past prayers and their results, or even examine some
of the prayers we are saying today, to realize that
this is true.
All prayers are answered by the Father. When-
ever a prayer remains unanswered in the manifest
realm, we can be sure that somewhere there is a
closed door between us and the Giver; for every
prayer of every soul represents some need that in its
purified form, God is
seeking to push forth into
the manifest world. This loving One is ever seeking
to manifest Himself through His children as health.
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
joy, beauty, wealth. We are the only means He has
of coming into visible expression; and if each of
us abandoned himself fully to His .will, the world
would be again a Garden of Eden where man could
walk and talk with God in sweet communion. Each
day we should seek to hasten this time by establishing
in our heart the consciousness that He is
all-knowing,
all-powerful, ever present, that He does hear and
will give us the bread we crave instead of the stone
that we manifest. Only those who become quiet and
listen become still enough to hear the "still small
voice" that gives this assurance. Such an assurance
builds and strengthens faith, and it is only those who
have faith in the ability and willingness of God to
answer their prayers that are capable of receiving.
Each one of us builds his own capacity to receive.
Today we are building our capacity to receive the
answer to tomorrow's prayers. Our capacity to re-
ceive is built by faith, vision, and expectancy, and
the greatness of our faith, the height of our ex-
pectancy, the steadfastness of our vision sets the
measure. A pint measure holds only a pint, no more;
a gallon measure holds only a gallon, no more.
Some hold out a pint measure to the Giver and re-
ceive according to their faith, their vision, their ex-
pectancy. Others hold out a gallon measure and
receive accordingly also.
There are many ways in which we limit our ca-
pacity to receive an answer to our prayers. Fear,
doubt, worry always close the inlet through which
the answer would flow into visibility, for they carry
13
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
us further from the Giver instead of into His pres-
ence. The answer desired when the prayer was offered
may never be manifested, for as long as we are seek-
ing things, our desires change with the fashions, and
there is no perfect pattern for substance to follow.
Or the answer may be contorted and unrecognizable
when it does come into manifestation because of a
lack of faith and a wavering vision. Or only a portion
may come into being, or the desire may become mani-
fest in an. unfinished and incomplete state, because
our expectation has been limited. Our answers may
die a-borning because there has not been incorporated
in our consciousness the spiritual power and strength
to bring them forth. Sometimes an intense desire
voiced in prayer puts into action such a strong force
that the desire prayed for comes into being before
its time, is premature; we are not ready for it, and it
entails great sorrow and suffering. Perhaps when
the answer does come we find that we no longer de-
sire it, have no use for it, and we may have to spend
long, weary hours in prayer to erase the undesked
thing from our life.
We do well to remember always before making
our desires known to God that
"The blessing of Jehovah, it maketh rich;
And he addeth no sorrow therewith."
It is
possible for our prayers to receive an answer
in the twinkling of an eye, instantaneously, a glorified
manifestation that is astounding, because we have
asked with a faith that has given our desire into the
14
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
will of the Highest. We may rest assured that under
all conditions, irrespective of our seeming needs and
desires, lasting good will come to us when we learn
to ask that only God's good become manifest for us
and through us. We can pray, "Not my will, but
thine, be done," without the old-time fear when we
remember the words of assurance from the lips of
the Master: "Fear not, little flock; for it is your
Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom."
When a person comes to the place in growth where
he puts the desire that God's will be done in his life
before his personal desires, then the time is draw-
ing near when all the good of the kingdom is at his
command.
It is made very plain in the Holy Book, which is
the textbook and guide of all who are seeking to find
God, that prayer is answered. Isaiah, communing
with Jehovah his God in prayer, hears these assuring
words: "Jehovah's hand is not shortened, that it
cannot save; neither his ear heavy, that it cannot
hear/' Again he hears: "Then shalt thou call, and
Jehovah will answer; thou shalt cry, and he will say,
Here I am/' Yet another time when he was listening
for the "still small voice" these words came: "And it
shall come to pass that, before they call, I will an-
swer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear/'
These promises are further confirmed by the One
who best knew the Giver: "Your Father knoweth
what things ye have need of, before ye ask him/'
To Jeremiah the inner voice conveyed the same as-
surance: "Call unto me, and I will answer thee, and
15
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
show thee great things, and difficult, which thou
knowest not."
The secret of effectual prayer is revealed over and
over by the Master. He said: "God is spirit:
and
they that worship [pray to} him must worship [pray]
in spirit
and truth." To pray truly one must enter into
the God consciousness, must rise in mind to the
plane of Spirit.
If the prayers we offer are full of
requests for things, we are instead in a conscious-
ness of materiality, and we are addressing our prayers
to a false god that has no power to answer them.
Again Jesus tells us: "Except ye turn, and become as
little children, ye shall in no wise enter into the
kingdom of heaven," the spiritual realm, from
which all answers come. Looking into the face of a
little child trustfully cuddled in His arms, Jesus
once said: "To such belongeth the kingdom of heav-
en." The heart of a little child is pure, trusting,
guileless, free from criticism, doubt, fear, jealousy,
covetousness, hatred, and the materiality that fills
the hearts of most of the race as it leaves childhood
behind. Until we cleanse our heart of these errors
and seek to return to our original purity,
we need
not expect the Christ to set up His kingdom in our
heart and let its good become manifest in our life.
"Ye cannot serve God and mammon." The purest
mind that ever functioned in a human body received
expression in these words: "Blessed are the pure in
heart: for they shall see God." When our vision is
changed from material to spiritual and we become
pure enough to see the good only, then we shall be
16
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
knowing as God knows and seeing as God sees, then
will our desire be "Thou only/' and as regards the
heaven within, the kingdom of God, all things that
we need and desire will be added. This is the ful-
fillment of the Master's promise "If ye abide in
me, and my words abide in you, ask whatsoever ye
will, and it shall be done unto you." To this He
added, "Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear
much fruit," showing us that it is the will of the
Father that His glory be expressed through us and
for us on this earth plane in abundant measure.
"Much fruit" means all those things which are
needed to make our life happy and beautiful and
useful, devoid of anxious care, of hard work, of
scrimping and saving for a rainy day. Let us remem-
ber in our prayers that the will of the Highest is
always "good measure, pressed down, shaken to-
gether, running over," the "much fruit" of His
promise.
Over and over we pray, "Thy kingdom come,"
and we, the only channel through which this king-
dom can become manifest as a rose-blossom earth,
accept the dearth and the famine, the weeds and the
tares of a poverty-ridden world, and do not rise
high enough in our prayers to wipe out this condition
from our life! This condition will only change when
we learn to ask and receive as did the Way-Shower.
He had learned to pray the prayer of oneness with
the Father's will. He could say, "Father, I thank
thee that thou heardest me. And I knew that thou
hearest me always," and have instant recognition
17
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
and instant response to His need. This One says to
you and to me personally: "He that believeth on me,
the works that I do shall he do also: and greater
works than these shall he do."
As you earnestly, confidently, expectantly seek to
become that righteous man whose prayer availeth
much in its
workings, there will be developed in you
soul qualities that you have never before known
fearlessness, patience, compassion, self-control, dis-
crimination, tolerance, understanding. As you keep
the high watch, as you associate with the risen
Christ, as you abide in the secret place of the Most
High, Isaiah's prophesy shall be fulfilled for you:
'Then shall thy light break forth as the morning
{wisdom], and thy healing shall spring forth speed-
ily [health}, and thy righteousness shall go before
thee [success}; the glory of Jehovah shall be thy
rearward [protection]/'
O Thou Christ of the living God within me3
reveal to me the Father, as Thou knowest the Father,
that my faith may be strong, my vision high, my ex-
pectancy swre. Let all my desires and all my prayers
conform to the will of the Highest, that my life
may express only His glory, His beauty, His love.
18
Holy Spirit,
Truth Divine
Holy Spirit,
Truth divine,
Dawn upon this soul of mine;
Word of God and inward light,
Wake my spirit,
clear my sight.
Holy Spirit,
love divine,
Glow within this heart of mine;
Kindle every high desire,
Burn up self in Thy pure fire.
M. E. Coles
"Create in me a clean heart, God;
And renew a right spirit
within me."
"Behold, I create new heavens and a new earth; and the
former things shall not be remembered, nor come into
mind."
"Clear thou me from hidden faults."
"Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the
earth; for I am God, and there is none else/
1
"Father, glorify
thou me with thine own self with
the glory which I had with thee before the workTwas."
Chapter II
PREPARATION
TRUE
PRAYER is communion with God, and
man's thoughts must take on the spiritual
quality of God's thoughts if he would meet
the great Giver face to face and receive of Him.
The Master truly teaches this in His words "It is
easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye, than
for a rich man [one immersed in material thought]
to enter the kingdom of God/' Then to pray truly a
person must mentally unload his human desires and
emotions, that he may become holy enough to feel
the God presence, still
enough to hear the God mes-
sage, open enough to receive the God gifts.
In the case of every one of us barriers stand in
the way of our already answered prayers to pre-
vent their coming into manifestation, barriers that
we ourselves have erected and daily maintain in their
solidity and impenetrability. Some of these barriers
we know faults, habits, hurts but we have never
come to the point where we were quite willing to
give them up, we have not yet gathered spiritual
strength and courage to loose them and let them go
from our mind and life. Other barriers are more sub-
tle, more deeply established, unremembered. These
are subconscious barriers, those of which the Master
spoke when He said, "This kind goeth not out but by
prayer and fasting"; that is, by cleansing and renew-
ing, by denial and affirmation, by letting go of self
and touching the God power.
21
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Our life should be filled with good, because all
of heaven and earth was created good and given
to man for profit and enjoyment When an error
condition in our life does not respond to prayer for
its removal, we have a right to ask why: "What
is there in. nj that is keeping this good from me?"
Self-scrutiny at times, if rightly entered into, does
no harm, but continued use of it creates more error
conditions like those which we see in our search
for the cause. When we do start to seek out the
cause of any error condition, any unanswered prayer,
we should first fill our mind with love and peace,
build up faith, and enter into a realization of that
glory which we had with the Father in the begin-
ning, "before the world was." There need be no
fear in this search if we let the Presence go before
and lead the way, holding high the light that dis-
solves even as it searches out the error. There need
be no reaping of a harvest of suffering from this
search if we remember that we continually have the
ministrations of the Most High, ever ready and able
to cleanse to the uttermost, lovingly cooperating with
our every endeavor to let go of error and reach the
higher ground of the Christ consciousness. As we put
all in His hands we shall be filled with strength and
faith, courage and poise, through the presence of the
One, of whom Paul said: "We have not a high priest
that cannot be touched with the feeling of our in-
firmities ;
but one that hath been in all
points tempted
like as we are, yet without sin."
If impersonal and unprejudiced and sincere search
22
PREPARATION
is made for the cause of an unanswered prayer for
more life or love or wisdom or abundance, if we let
no excuse, no self-pity, no blame of another enter,
the cause of the inharmonious appearance will be
found, whether we recognize it or not. The forgiving
love of Jesus Christ, the love that said, "Father, for-
give them; for they know not what they do/' will
wipe out all the errors of consciousness. The love
that said, "To-day shalt thou be with me in Paradise,"
will put in action the law of re-creation, and appear-
ances will begin to change, will instantly change, if
our faith is strong and we are looking entirely to our
Father, who is
quick to give, quick to forgive.
Many are the causes that may be found in the
inner search, through our unloading of human de-
sires and emotions, this preparation to be fitted to
meet our God. Perhaps we shall discover that our
eyes have been fixed on the demonstration of things ;
instead of trusting God momently for every need we
have been going to Him only in our extremity, when
human help failed and our own endeavors came to
naught. Perhaps we have uttered selfish
prayers, ask-
ing for those things which would deprive another,
hurt another, not yet fully realizing that only the
good that man spiritually earns can come to Him.
Perhaps we go to the Giver harboring thoughts of
hatred or condemnation, forgetting the Master's
admonition to become reconciled with our brother
before approaching the altar. Perhaps we are seek-
ing our own good, with envious thoughts of another's
success and abundance; seeking freedom from debt,
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
while yet holding another in the bondage of debt to
us. Few of us seek to enter the holy place without
something in our heart that would profane the altar
of the Lord. In this we are re-enacting the sacrificial
rites of the Israelites of old: we are offering polluted
bread in our devotional. To us now, as at that time,
Jehovah says: "I have no pleasure in you . . . neither
will I accept an offering at your hand." Anything in
the heart that is un-Christlike hatred, criticism, in-
tolerance, selfishness, condemnation, injustice, im-
patience, jealousy, even anxiety and fear is like
polluted bread and must be cast out before the Christ
can take up His abode with us and do His perfect
work in us.
If one person feels any ill will toward another,
holds any unforgiveness in his heart, no matter how
great seems the cause for offense, he should cleanse
his heart with a "God bless you, I love you, and for-
give you," and this blessing should be made part
of the feeling nature before it is
dropped. It may
seem hard in the beginning. It may be only from the
lips that the words come. There will come a time
however, if we earnestly desire to feel this for-
giving love, when it will wipe out even the remem-
brance of an offense, and a great joy and a new
freedom will take its
place. In the greatest of all
prayers our Master said, "Forgive us our debts, as
we also have forgiven our debtors." He also said,
"Love your enemies"; and to Peter's query of how
often he should forgive his brother, He replied,
"Until seventy times seven," meaning until every
24
PREPARATION
offense was completely forgiven. Until we learn this
manner o forgiving we need not expect much from
our prayers, for we are lacking in that quality which
is the fulfilling of the law, that magnetic quality
which draws us to God and the good to us. The law
cannot wipe out the results of our past errors when
the heart does not contain that which is in itself
the redeeming force in man, neither can the love
of God enter an embittered heart, a hardened heart,
an unforgiving heart and manifest itself in the only
way it can, as health and joy, peace and abundance.
We need also to forgive ourselves in the same
way that we should forgive others. We may be
condemning ourselves for some past act that we call
a mistake, and grief in the heart and a constant re-
peating of the act in the mind shuts out the love
of God, which has the power to make all things
new. We should count each experience that has been
ours as a lesson in the school of life, one through
which we come to higher knowledge. It is only neces-
sary for us to pass through an experience once, and
we need not linger if we get the lesson quickly; but
as long as we cling in our mind to a past experience
it is given power to repeat itself in our life. It is made
easier to let go and forgive the errors of ourselves or
others when we remember that the forgiving love of
Jesus Christ has already cleansed the whole world
of sin, present, past,
and future, and the manifesta-
tion of it in our life only awaits our acceptance of
this and the living of a higher life. We need to
remember also that in the mind of the Father there
25
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
never has been and never will be any condemnation
and that He who is most greatly sinned against rec-
ognizes it not at all. To pray without ceasing, that is,
to look continually toward God and His sinless
heaven, is to enter into this mind also which sees no
error, therefore takes no offense and has nothing to
forgive. Who are we that we should hug to our heart
and pronounce an error that which the Father sees
not, shutting out our good and the joy of life!
The quicker we take up forgiveness on the occasion
of offense, knowing "It is already forgiven/' the
easier it will be and the less we shall have to reap
under the law. Did not the Master say, "What is that
to thee? follow thou me." Our work is not to inquire
into the failure of others to live the Truth and, by
recognizing and resisting something that they have
started into action, to do time in reaping the conse-
quences of broken law; it is rather to give all our
attention to ever advancing toward the goal of our
high calling in Christ Jesus. Such an attitude not only
makes life more joyful for us, more productive of the
good for which we pray, but it adds to the high con-
sciousness of the race and brings nearer the time
when this forgiven offense will appear no more in
the hearts of men, when man and man, nation and
nation, will live without offending one another. This
constant attitude means the accomplishment of our
part in answering that portion of the greatest of
all
prayers: "Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done,
as in heaven, so on earth."
The preparation for prayer through cleansing, has
26
PREPARATION
a denial side, a tearing down of the old structure
preparatory to the building of the new, a wiping out
of error to make way for the entrance of good. There
is another side to the preparation for prayer, that of
affirmation or constructive thinking, which carries
us into the high watch, where dwells the Lover, the
Giver, the Knower. We should never use any de-
nial or cleansing thought without immediately fol-
lowing it with a high and holy aspiration or realiza-
tion; for to leave a vacancy such as a denial makes is
to make room for other errors to enter, and perhaps
the last state will be worse than the first. There is a
higher way of cleansing, when the mind is ready
to accept it, in which no denials are necessary. If
one can turn quickly enough to God, refusing en-
trance to the mind of the error, refusing recognition
of it, and can keep the mind full of prayer and affir-
matipn of the good, the error will be as effectually
wiped out as is the impurity of a pool when a stream
of pure water is allowed to pass through it contin-
uously.
Each must conduct for himself the search for the
closed door that is
keeping his good from him, keep-
ing his prayers from being answered. When the
search is finished, no matter what is written over the
door, each will find that the real cause is a lack of
God in the heart and mind. We have not often
enough and long enough lifted pur eyes to the One
who neither slumbers nor sleeps, who keeps us from
all evil; we have not sought to dwell constantly in
"the secret place of the Most High"; we have not
27
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
turned often enough in times of pain to the Great
Physician whose touch brings wholeness; nor in
times of lack to the omnipresent Banker who con-
tinually presses out substance into every receptacle
held out to Him; nor in times of darkness and ig-
norance of the way to the great Knower who gives
of His omniscience freely to all who put their de-
pendence in Him. We have not kept the high watch
but have let our vision drop to happenings, seeing
good and evil, and bringing into our life the mani-
festation of this mixed state of consciousness. We
have called on God in another consciousness than
the God consciousness, our mind more on the gifts
than on the Giver. There is
something in our mind,
before God, and we are again the Israelites contend-
ing on Mount Carmel and with the same results:
"They . . . called on the name of Baal from morning
even until noon, saying, O Baal, hear us. But there
was no voice, nor any that answered.'* But when
like Elijah we repair the altar within and in faith
and purity of thought make our needs known,
even though the waters of negation seem to sur-
round us and overflow us, as surely as Elijah's God
burned up the wood and licked up the water as a sign
of His presence so will our God show Himself
greater than any circumstance, greater than any
condition or personality in our life.
To know God truly enough to receive is to know
that He withholds no good thing from any of His
creation, whether it be plant, animal, or man. Only in
this knowledge can we ask, believing we have al-
28
PREPARATION
ready received, and see with the God vision as al-
ready accomplished. He who created the "Very
good" still rests in this perfection and to enter
this place with Him, if only for a moment, is to start
into action something higher than the mortal knows.
All that is less than good, all those things which
bring sorrow and suffering, which leave regrets
and bitterness, have been brought into our world
through the wrong use of our power of choice. To
acknowledge that we ourselves have brought into
our world everything less than good, to forgive our-
selves for all the blame we have ever attached to
God or to others for the sorrows and sufferings that
have come to us, is a very important step in prep-
aration for prayer. Do you believe this? Can you truly
take all the blame and give to the Father the praise
and^glory for all the good of your life? To know that
God is more willing to give the good gifts than we
are to receive them, that He is continually pushing
out the good to His children through every avenue
that they open to receive it, is to begin to assume
the attitude of true prayer.
It is well always to have a fixed season and
place of prayer. God is omnipresent, we know, but
this habit of regularity seems to aid the physical
man to relax, the intellectual man to concentrate
and let the spiritual
man take full possession. To go
apart faithfully, earnestly, joyously once, twice, three
times a day as the duties of the life permit and com-
mune with the Father, is the path to the attainment
of the Christ consciousness in which there is no
29
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
separation of God and man in thought or manifesta-
tion. If Jesus Christ in His perfect conception of one-
ness with the Father found it necessary to withdraw
from the sights and sounds of materiality that surged
about Him and spend a time apart cleansing His hu-
man consciousness of these sights and sounds and re-
newing within Him the glory and power of His son-
ship, how much more should we do likewise, who
have only in a very small degree entered into that
perfect union? Just how much we need to leave
materiality behind, to still the mortal thought and
bodily emotions, to enter into the joy of the I AM,
we do not realize until we practice it and come forth
feeling that all things are made new.
If we make our time for prayer a holy time set
apart for communion with our God and are faithful
to it in mind, outer things in our life will cease to
disturb us as we dedicate it to the Father. If guests
are in the home, excuse yourself at the appointed
time and go to the regular place, if only to say: "My
Father, this time is holy unto Thee. Everything and
everybody in my world works in harmony with Thy
love/
1
When this is done you can return and enter
into the needs of the hour with renewed strength,
and enjoyment. If the telephone or the doorbell
rings during the time of silence, let it
ring a moment
while you repeat your affirmation; then attend to it.
No matter what the disturbance may be, do not re-
sist it or quarrel with it or it will continue to repeat
itself. Bless the person or thing that
interrupts, seeing
each in its
right place. When we really desire more
30
PREPARATION
than anything else a period of silent communion with
our Father and appoint and dedicate a time for this
purpose, the law by which true prayer is answered
will hold back every disturbing element, and the
mind of people who might otherwise turn to us at
this time will be given pleasant occupation else-
where. If some person continues to tread on our
sacred ground, we can operate in accord with the
law by using a thought for ourselves and him some-
thing like this one, "Father, for myself and (name) I
ask that Thy power, of love and justice be now ex-
pressed in each of our lives/' When we pray such
a prayer, the one who has been interrupting will find
some happy occupation at the time we have set
apart for worship, and this time of renewal and
communion will be left undisturbed. We have only
to test God to prove His promises, we have only to
start Godward to find the Father running to meet
us, we have only to let go of the self to find the
greatness of His presence.
Cleanse Thou me} O Spirit of love, from all
conscious and subconscious transgressions of Thy
law. Let me enter into Thy presence and see as Thou
doth see. Let me bring -forth Thy glory that the
outer may become as the within. Where Thou dwell-
est in love and purity and peace let me there dwell
also.
31
Drop Thy still dews of quietness
Till all our strivings cease;
Take from our souls the strain and stress,
And let our ordered lives confess
The beauty of Thy peace.
Breathe through the heats of our desires
Thy coolness and Thy balm;
Let sense be dumb, let flesh retire,
Speak through the earthquake, wind, and fire,
O still small voice of calm.
Selected
"Rest in Jehovah, and wait patiently for him."
'The eternal God is thy dwelling-place,
And underneath are the everlasting arms."
"Present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable
to God."
"Jehovah is in his holy temple: let all the earth keep
silence before him."
"Know ye not that ye are a temple of God, and that
the Spirit of God dwelleth in you ?"
"Ye were bought with a price: glorify God therefore
in your body."
Chapter III
RELAXATION
THE
MYSTICAL WAY of life everlasting involves
the body as well as the soul. In following our
old way of thinking we gave much attention to
prayer for the saving of the soul, but the body re-
ceived only desultory spiritual attention, and that
when it was under bondage to disease. Even then
there was little seeking or expectation of obtaining
bodily healing through prayer; for the prayer was
usually "If it be Thy will, restore me to health;
if not, give me patience, make me submissive." We
did not realize that in God's will for us there is only
health and harmony and joyful expression and that
to be restored we have but to enter into His presence
and operate in accord with His will for us. Mankind
each day is
getting farther away from the belief that
sickness and death is the dispensation of the Al-
mighty and is coming to realize that these are due
to man's ignorant or willful transgression of the law
of righteousness. Man is
coming into the deeper
knowledge that the body is
dependent on the mind
for its
perfection, that "man shall not live by bread
alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the
mouth of God." In this knowledge man seeks to open
both mind and body to the word of God so that he
may be filled with that which is
productive of life
everlasting here and now.
With this deeper understanding of the teaching
of Jesus Christ and with the example of His ministry
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
of healing before us, we when in need ask for com-
plete bodily healing, we seek expectantly, and with
faith in His presence and power we relax and rest
in this trust. We seek to follow after Him in the
spiritualization of our body, bringing it under the
complete control of the mind of God in us, so that we
may have mastery of it and direct it truly so as to
serve Him and ourselves. What pleasure is a body
that is weak, suffering, limited in a#y way? Instead
of keeping the body going according to our direc-
tion, performing the functions of life and enjoy-
ing its
pleasures, we often humor it and coddle it and
doctor it, sometimes giving our whole attention and
time to nothing but its demands, and perhaps calling
in the aid of others also. We are bound by such a body
at the expense of every other interest in life. Con-
trast with this the body that "goes and does," the
body which to its owner is the temple of the living
God, a body radiant, beautiful, vital, strong. A body
like this can be the possession of any person who
keeps his mind attuned to Spirit and his body open
and receptive, to what God-Mind contains.
"Know thyself" should be written large in our
purpose and plan, and to know ourselves we must
deal with the whole man. One of tlie mysteries of
the old religion was how God could be three persons
in one. When we come to an understanding of our
own threefold character as spirit, soul, and body, we
shall better understand the threefold character of
God as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, The trinity
of God, which is also mind, idea, manifestation, is
36
RELAXATION
continually in man's mind, and when man is at-
tuned to God, instead of relying on the limited ideas
of his own intellect, the Holy Spirit brings the Fa-
ther's idea of sonship into expression, to his good
and to the glory of his Creator. When we thus know
ourselves as the threefold creation of God and seek
to keep mind, soul, and body open and attuned to
God, we shall cease to be lopsided with sufferings, in
our spiritual, our mental, or our physical nature,
merely because this side of us is closed to His
thoughts, His love, His life. We shall find the body
obedient to, the soul eager for, this teaching, we
shall find our emotions attaining peaceful expression
under our control and the ills that through ignorance
and lack of spiritual guidance have befallen us we
shall find gradually fading from our life. All the
functions of our body and all the activities of our
life will again be controlled by the Spirit of God in
us and find expression according to His perfect pat-
tern for us.
To relax is to become open and receptive. The
body in its outer manifestation follows the mind.
Every ache or pgin or diseased condition of the
body has back of it sortie inharmonious thought,
some thought out of relation to the Creator, which
tenses it and closes it to the inflow of God life.
If we could look within the little cells of the diseased
part, we should see each as a stagnant pool, from
which the pure, clear water had been closed off, we
would see it all darkened as if its light had been
turned off. We have all seen persons in whom there
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
was still the breath of life but who looked like a house
with all its windows darkened. We have also seen
those who reminded us of a house set on a hill, illu-
mined, so vital and living were they, so filled with the
divine essence of all life, open and receptive to the
power of God in their 'body. Anyone who learns to
relax and contact Spirit, who remains in this con-
sciousness long enough, will find the flesh losing its
darkness, heaviness, impurity, coarseness, and the
beauty and purity of Spirit shining through.
A young person is more alive than an older one,
because the former has not incorporated so many
ideas of sickness and sorrow, of limitation, poverty,
and death in his consciousness, to tense the body and
disconnect it from its source. The cells of his body
are still connected with the energy or life of God
that brought them into being. The Spirit is still able
to function in the child, except at times when sur-
rounding inharmonies fill the little mind with fear
and tense the body, shutting off the inflow. If in
prayer we truly let go of the outer and enter into
the God presence, we become again as a little child
and receive of that which the Father holds for
the Son. In this attitude of mind we let the living
stream of life flow into every cell, purifying and
lighting it, giving to it its
original state of perfec-
tion.
The more often we enter in and in mind lay hold
of the perfect pattern or God idea of man the less
attention and consideration we shall need to give
to the material body. In this communion we shall
RELAXATION
touch the mystical Christ body, and Christ will give
us to eat of His substance and drink of His life.
We shall build again a spiritual body immune from
disease, which will not suffer pain or become weak
and helpless. To commune with this real 'body is to
make the outer earth garment like it. It was after
such communion that the Master was transfigured
until even His clothing glistened. It will be in some
such way that we too shall become transfigured,
transformed, renewed. Then shall we glorify God in
our body.
With a better understanding of our body we
come to that part of prayer which we call relaxation.
In the last lesson on preparation we mentally let go
of inharmonies, cleansing and forgiving. In this
lesson we let go physically so that the mental purity
that we contact in our prayer or silence may enter into
the flesh and perfect it. If the body is tensed and
cramped it is continually calling the mind away
from its devotions. To be physically at rest in medi-
tation aids in concentration, in cutting out the inter-
ference of the intellect so that the mind of God can
function more clearly. Sitting in a comfortable chair
with hands relaxed, at times with palms open in a
receptive attitude, is a great physical aid to relaxa-
tion. If any part of the body seems tense, speak
quietly but firmly to it in these words:
'
'Relax, relax,
relax, and rest in the Lord/* Speak as often as neces-
sary to secure complete relaxation, pausing a moment
between repetitions, expectantly listening within for
the tenseness to give way and peace to enter. The
39
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
body will teach us many truths concerning itself when
we let go of the strife and strain of the without and
go within to listen. At first the true message may be
drowned out by emotion, by pain, by throbbings or
jerkings; but as we patiently and calmly speak
peace to these, soothing them as we would a little
child, always acknowledging the creative life within
as doing the work, all in the temple of the living
God will become quiet and ready for Him to ex-
press His beauty, His life, His being.
Those who are prone to live at high tension in
home or business, who rush and strain to finish
the duties of the day, who are of a nervous tem-
perament, will find that they become more and more
receptive to spiritual strength, begin to walk more
quietly through the day and rest more fully and
peacefully at night, if occasionally they go through
the whole body and speak words of relaxation to
each part. When they have learned to control the
physical instead of allowing it to control them,
they will find that it will cease to be such a problem
to enter "the secret place of the Most High" and
there find renewal of mind and body. When we are
truly relaxed, we are as unconscious of the body as
we are of well-fitting clothes. The body is the clothing
of the soul and the soul is the clothing of the Spirit,
and a body so cramped that it cannot let go and
relax is closed to the beauty and life that Spirit seeks
to express in it
through the soul.
When your body begins to manifest inharmony,
instead of fearing and visioning the outcome, in-
40
RELAXATION
stead o describing and enlarging upon the symp-
toms, you then should go apart, shutting both the
door to the room and the door of the mind, and in
quietness seek to still the body. Forget all the duties
o the day, free yourself of all material things, and
surrender your self to God. The omnipresent life of
God is all about His children, as free and abundant as
the air you breathe. If you will lie flat and straight,
and speak over and over words of relaxation to the
body, especially to the part that is
manifesting in-
harmony, and if you will rest in peace and quiet-
ness, in expectancy and faith, inviting definitely the
omnipresent, omnipotent, omniscient life to come in
and take possession, then your body will be thrilled,
filled, healed. What if it does take a few hours
apart, or even a day and a night, to relax so that the
God life will have a place of entrance! Days of help-
lessness and suffering will be avoided, and a har-
mony and refreshing and renewal will come that
will increase joy and vitality as the days pass.
In learning to relax the body it is
helpful many
times to speak aloud the words of Truth that you
seek to impress on it.
Speak in quiet and peaceful yet
firm tones, expecting instant attention and prompt
obedience. Do not hurry. Rather be lary, letting the
mind follow the words to the part to which you
are speaking, and stopping there until relaxation is
felt.' Begin at the top of the head and go through
to the feet; then back to the solar plexus or heart
region, which is the central station of the body,
and there rest the mind in some holy thought or
41
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
appropriate psalm. As one learns for oneself the
correspondence between the different parts of the
physical body and the body of the Spirit, words will
form to fit the individual need, the need of the mo-
ment, and the physical body will become open to
receive and express its
original and natural perfec-
tion. Until this time comes, the following words
will be found helpful to relax the whole or certain
parts of the body:
"
Took unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of
the earth/ Listen to the message that Spirit speaks
to the flesh, and listening, perceive and obey. 'Your
redemption draweth nigh/
"
"Scalp and hair, relax, relax, relax. Let the life
and beauty and glory of the Most High crown you.
I am overshadowed by the angel of His presence,
and there is continually being poured out upon me a
shower of blessings that far exceed in number the
hairs of my head. I am open to receive them in an
ever-increasing measure of livingness/'
"Forehead, relax. You need not be tense and
wrinkled from anxiety, worry, for I put my trust in
the Lord. Thy name, O Father, written within my
heart, sets a seal in my forehead that is my pro-
tection from all evil/'
"Eyes, relax. All the muscles and nerves in and
around the eyes, relax, that physical weakness may
pass and spiritual strength and life flow in. Mine
eyes are ever toward the Lord, that I may behold
the beauty of His countenance and the riches of His
kingdom. Keep, O Lord, this
lamp of my body single,
42
RELAXATION
that I may see the good only in persons, circum-
stances, and things, and that my whole body may be
lighted with Thy glory."
"Nose, relax, relax, relax. Let the Spirit of God
in my nostrils make keen the discrimination that was
given me in the Garden, that I may choose; the good
and leave the evil. 'The breath of the Almighty
giveth me life/
"
"Mouth, relax, relax, relax. Let go of all error
words that you may be an instrument through which
the Beloved speaks.
"
'Set a watch, O Jehovah, before my mouth,
Keep the door of my lips/
Relax, all the muscles and nerves around the mouth,
that the corners may turn up and outpicture the
inner joy of the heart and the sweetness in the soul."
"Ears, relax, that all spiritual deafness may pass
from you, that you may hear the guiding and direct-
ing voice of Spirit. I am not rebellious about anything
past or present. I am meek and lowly, willing and
obedient, and my inner ear is attuned to catch the
slightest message from the omniscient Guide."
"Front brain, relax. I am not headstrong, there-
fore I do not suffer from splitting headaches. My
human intellect is merged in the divine. When I lack
wisdom I seek entrance to Thine omniscient mind, O
knower of all things, and Thou dost give to me
liberally of Thy great knowledge and infinite un-
derstanding."
"Base of the brain and spinal cord, relax, relax.
Let the peace that passeth understanding flow
43
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
through you and out from you into every center of
the body. I establish Thy tree of life in the midst of
the garden of my soul, O Jehovah, and its leaves
wither not, neither does its fruit perish or decay. Its
beauty shall be to me as an olive tree planted by the
river of waters, and the freshness that comes from
the river of life, flowing into my soul, keeps me
eternally young."
"
Vertebrae, relax. Relax to the strength center at
the small of my back. Let divine strength pour
through you into mind and body, making strong
all weak decisions, redeeming all weak sensations.
Relax, vertebrae, to the elimination center at the
tip of the spine. Let me eliminate all error from mind
and body, let all inharmonies pass into outer noth-
ingness. Thy purity, O Spirit,
cleanses every physical
weakness and makes strong every vital part of my
being. All old accumulations are eliminated from
mind and body, and I am eternally free."
"Neck, relax, relax, relax. Be an open channel
through which the river of life may flow to and fro,
in perfect circulation throughout the garden of God.
Let me not in any way, at any time, be stiff-necked,
superior, proud, but let me be poised and gracious
in a consciousness of oneness with all."
"Throat, relax, that the power center in you may
be baptized from on high. All power is given me in
mind, body, and affairs through my consciousness
of the abiding presence of Christ within my own
soul."
"Shoulders, relax and let go of all responsibilities,
44
RELAXATION
that the great Burden Bearer may draw near and lift
the load. Thou, O Christ, will sustain and uphold me,
for Thy yoke is easy, Thy burden light. In thee I
trust and find surcease from labor and rest to my
soul/'
"Arms, to the elbows, relax. Elbows, to the wrists,
relax. Wrists, to the tips of the fingers, relax. In all
that you do, do it as unto the Lord, and you shall be
swift to do good and quick to execute righteousness.
I am quiet, open, receptive, that I may be used by
the Master, and that His law of giving and re-
ceiving may be fulfilled in me/*
"Chest, relax, expand. Lungs, relax, that the in-
spiration of the Almighty may fill you. Let me breathe
in and breathe out the breath of God until I become
a living soul/'
"Stomach, relax. The providing law of God my
Father is active in me and for me, therefore I take
no anxious thought what I shall eat or what I shall
drink. I agree with my food, and it
agrees with me.
I drink of the life and eat the substance of the Christ
body. I do not worry, I am not sensitive, I do not
fear, but I rest in the bosom of the Father in peace
and joy/'
"Liver, relax and let go of the bondage imposed
on you by the criticism and condemnation of the
human intellect. I do not judge according to appear-
ances, but I do judge and am judged according to
the judgment of the righteous One."
"Abdomen, relax. Relax, all vital organs within
your walls. Let the Great Physician have His perfect
45
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
way in you. Let the Great Healer rectify all inhar-
monies. Let all physical waste be eliminated, let the
waters of life cleanse you. Thou, O Father, who art
rich in compassion and mercy, quicken Thy mercy and
compassion through me and toward me/'
"Generative organs, relax. All the thoughts of
my mind and the desires of my life are lifted up,
through the consciousness of the indwelling Christ;
and the river of life, flowing freely through me,
cleanses and renews every atom of my being. I thank
Thee, O God, for the regenerating, purifying process
now taking place in me, making me a new creature
through and through."
"Hips, relax. You are not weighted down by the
burdens of the body, neither am I weighted down by
the cares of life. Through the realization of the
presence of Christ, the great Burden Bearer, I am
eternally young and free/'
"Thighs, to the knees, relax. Thou, O Father,
hath made firm the weak knees/'
"Knees, to the ankles, relax. I am continually
upheld, because I know that underneath are the ever-
lasting arms/'
"Ankles, to the tips of the toes, relax. I walk
quietly before the Lord, therefore I am strong. The
oil of divine love lubricates all the joints of my body,
dissolves all hardness, and harmonizes mind and
body so that they can express themselves according to
the perfect pattern/'
"Feet, relax, that you may not slip from the path
of perfect expression. My understanding is now at
46
RELAXATION
one with Divine Mind. Because, O Christ, Thou
hast plucked my feet out o a net and set them on a
rock, and established my going, I mount up with
wings as the eagle, I run and am never weary, I walk
and faint not/'
*
'Heart, relax, that there may be wiped from
you all bitterness, all hardness, all hatred through
the forgiving love of Christ Jesus. Love never faileth,
neither do you, filled with the love of God, fail in
any of your functions. God is the strength of my
heart and^ each cell in my heart partakes of this
strength. I have set up Thy throne in my heart, O
King of my life, and my flesh rests in hope. My heart
continually rejoices, because I am at peace with all
mankind."
"Solar plexus, sun of my soul, light of my body,
shine out the glory of thy Creator into every part of
my being, that I may be restored to the perfect image
and likeness, to the pattern in the mount, my eternal
birthright and heritage from my Father, God/'
Here at this center, this central station, rest until
all the words have become flesh and dwell in the
different parts of the body to which they have, been
spoken. Give thanks to God. Let the inner song
of praise that the soul knows, find its way into the
droughts and hold the vision to the high watch as the
daily duties are again taken up.
When the body has become obedient to the
thought and the thought has become obedient to the
Spirit,
a "Holy Trinity" will be established, a con-
stant inner glory, that will be a halo of protection,
47
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
satisfying soul and body with its
sustaining sub-
stance. Then will accident cease to mar the body,
disease to rack it, death to claim it.
Through the
body's obedience to the Christ mind within it will
become strong, supple, immortal, the body radiant, a
fit
dwelling place for the Spirit of God, and a beau-
tiful expression of the mystical or Christ body.
My Father, my Creator, Xkou whose likeness I
am, whose image I bear, let my mind comprehend
Thy beauty and purity, my body radiate it, my life
express it, to Thy glory. May I let go of every
thought, every desire, every material possession, that
hinders this perfection from becoming my own. I am
open and receptive to the river of Thy cleansing and
renewing, and it flows through and through me, mak-
ing me a new creative in Christ Jesus, every whit
whole.
48
Peace, Power) and Plenty
Peace, power, and plenty,
Words that are heaven-born.
Say them, ye hearts that are weary,
Till hope in your soul is born.
For words are things that will lift on wings
The one that believes them true.
And whatever you will when the mind is still,
You may call to the soul of you.
Henry Victor Morgan
"Let patience have its
perfect work that ye may be
perfect and entire, lacking in nothing."
"Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you."
"Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall
not pass away/'
"My words . . . shall not return unto me void, but
it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall pros-
per in the thing whereunto I sent it."
"Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly."
"Have this mind in you, which was also in Christ
Jesus."
Chapter IV
CONCENTRATION
IN
THE JOURNEY out from God we have all be-
come Adam-minded; that is, our consciousness
has contained both good and evil, and we have
entertained as true the thoughts that have built such a
consciousness. Even after we have come to ourselves
in a country afar and have said, "I will arise and go to
my father/' and after we have truly arisen and started
on the journey back, we have to be infinitely pa-
tient with ourselves. The old thoughts have a way
sometimes of surprising us when we think we
are fairly done with them, and they seem to push
themselves forward in our mind as if to say, "Wor-
ship me." There seems to be no time when this is truer
than when we seek to enter, the holy of holies. We
then find these irrelevant thoughts trying to bombard
us. At this time we find many thoughts that need re-
deeming and lifting up, which can come about only
through our concentrating on high and holy thoughts,
giving them constant attention, holding them close in
the heart and letting our words take form from them,
our acts pattern after them. Thus we shall be brought
to a consciousness of freedom from Adam's duality.
In the old Adam state of mind we filled our
consciousness with a mass of unlovely thoughts that
have created conditions like themselves in our body
and affairs. We have concentrated, whether we call
it this or not, on thoughts of lack, limitation, ac-
cident, sickness, death. We have feared, we have
51
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
doubted, we have let our mind be shaken with
emotion, all the result of concentration, for concen-
tration is
nothing more than fixing the attention of
the mind on one thing. We have only to think for a
moment to realize that our subconscious holds a con-
glomerate thought mass, all built in by none but
our own self, and that it must be torn down and re-
built by this same self. In only one way can the con-
ditions be broken up and dissolved so that they can
produce no more, and that is by lifting up our hu-
man mind and merging it with the Christ mind.
This is
accomplished through our holding fast to
holy thoughts. We are to let go of the Adam thoughts
and take hold of the Christ thoughts, as Paul says:
"Have this mind in you, which was also in Christ
Jesus/' Concentration on one kind of thoughts, error
thoughts, has built up a consciousness of error, and
these error thoughts have been reproduced in the
life as error conditions. Emptying ourselves of these
and concentrating on higher thoughts will lift our
mind into the Christ consciousness, and this in turn
will be reproduced as harmony in body and affaiits.
First the within, then the without; first the sowing,
then the reaping. There is no other way.
Our mind is one, but is active on three levels: that
of the superconscious or Christ mind in us, in which
all
spiritual thoughts originate; that of the conscious
or human mind, which forms its
opinions and chooses
its line of action either from the superconscious or
from outer appearances and personalities, and that of
tfye subconscious mind or mental storehouse, in
52
CONCENTRATION
which is filed away all the thoughts of the conscious
mind and which seeks at some time to reproduce in
the outer these thoughts which we have given it.
Thus we see the importance of turning the attention
of the conscious mind to the superconscious and
keeping it there so that the subconscious may be given
good material and right instruction with which to
work out perfect manifestations in the life.
If there is an appearance of sickness or poverty
or inharmonious environment in our life, it is use-
less to turn without to seek the cause. It is useless to
blame people or conditions. It is useless to pray to
God to remove the appearance, for to pray truly
we must seek to rid ourselves of the cause of unhap-
piness. God will help us to do this, and a new within
will bring a changed without. Our consciousness is
built up by the thoughts that the conscious mind
has poured into the subconscious since Spirit gave it
birth and the power of choice. This does not mean
one life but many, and there are stored away many
sickness thoughts, poverty thoughts, inharmony
thoughts in the soul. Our soul knows of our birth-
right, our sonship, and when we begin to agree
with the soul and begin to claim our inheritance, the
errors are pushed out. For this reason when seeking
to change an outer condition we take spiritual
thoughts that relate to the condition we desire to
change, so that these may be built into the soul in
place of the old thoughts. We concentrate on these
holy thoughts and build them strong within. These
new thoughts which we use should not come from
53
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
the intellect but from the superconscious or Christ
mind. If we have not reached the point at which we
can receive these direct, they will be given us through
some person who has become one with Omniscience.
Perhaps a book comes into our hands that has the
cleansing word, or a person unconscious of the Fa-
ther's using him for this purpose may speak the word
that we need. We are to use these thoughts to unify
our conscious mind with the superconscious; and
at the same time these thoughts will wipe out error
ihoughts from the subconscious. Until we recognize
j.nd start this word of redemption, the Christ cannot
come into our life with His good and abide, any
more than the man Jesus could do mighty works in
His own country while the people's hearts were
closed against Him. We must make ready to receive.
Christ is always ready to give. Does He not tell us:
"Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if any man
hear my voice and open the door, I will come in to
him, and will sup with him, and he with me/' What
a wonderful promise! What an opportunity to re-
ceive the highest that can come into one's life! Yet
very few people still their mind enough to hear His
knock, very few hold open the door long enough for
Him to enter; they only let their thoughts bang back
and forth like a loose shutter in the wind. They
scatter their forces to the four ends of their universe,
as the wind scatters the dead leaves of the trees
in a storm. They concentrate on a thought or pray to
God for a few minutes, and then they spend hours
each day in thinking and living the exact opposite
54
CONCENTRATION
of that for which they have prayed. Here comes a
doubt thought and it is considered; here comes a
fear thought and "it is considered. We speak words
contrary to our prayer; and our action in disbe-
lieving that the answer is
already ours speaks louder
than our words. Thus the thing for which we prayed
is turned back to the Giver- to wait until we are open
to receive it.
The part of prayer called concentration is a
process of stilling the unruly or irrelevant thoughts
so that our mind may give all its attention to the one
thing desired. Until this is attained our prayers are
like scattered forces that have little visible result.
There is a commandment that reads: "Thou shalt
have no other gods before me." Yet when we start
to seek the silence to commune with God, which is
prayer, we are like the Israelites bowing down to
strange gods; we let all kinds of thoughts run riot
in our mind to the exclusion of our holy thoughts.
We start Godward in our mind, and immediately
there come thoughts of Johnny or Susie, or of a
neighbor, a customer, or a social event. We drift with
these thoughts for a time; then call again to mind
our holy thoughts, and in a moment, in our mind,
we are starting down to the office, or on a shopping
excursion, or planning the day's meals, or making
over a dress, or perhaps outwitting a customer or a
shop-keeper in some deal that is being considered.
Again we shake ourselves and start Godward, but
some duty of the day claims our attention. Finally we
get up and go about our work without ever approach-
55
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
ing the great white throne. We have wasted untold
mental energy and unrecallable time, which if used
in concentrated prayer would have given us peace
and power and strength sufficient for the mastery of
any task of the day.
When we are really interested in anything we
give it our whole attention. You and I have many
times become so interested in something we were
doing that we did not hear the telephone, or the
doorbell, or the call to dinner. This is the kind of
interest we need when we start Godward in prayer.
We should not call a book interesting over which
we nodded and dozed, yet sometimes when we start
to enter the silence and begin our prayer to God,
we do doze, even fall asleep. In order to reach the
Father, to speak to Him, to hear His voice we must
be as vitally interested in our activity as was Jacob
when he held onto the angel presence until the break
of day. He forgot all else; "I will not let thee go,
except thou bless me," he said, and it was through
this holding on until blessed that the great transfor-
mation from "Supplanter" to "prince with God"
came about. During some such communion, forget-
ting self, desire, everything except receiving a bless-
ing from the Lord, we also shall get error condi-
tions changed and attain perfect expression of that
to which we cling, God, the good, omnipotent. Pente-
cost came to the disciples when they were all together
in one place, engaged steadfastly in prayer. The
Holy Spirit will descend on us with great blessings
when we draw together all our forces and worship
56
CONCENTRATION
God with our whole being, with all our heart, and
with all our soul and all our mind.
We do not concentrate on or hold fast to our holy
thoughts in order to change God, for He is the same
yesterday, today, and tomorrow, always waiting to
give us that which He has prepared for us from the
beginning. It is ourselves that we seek to change
by the holding of holy thoughts. We seek to cleanse
ourselves of doubts and fears, to build up faith so
that we may be made receptive. We seek to make a
clear path to him over which our good may come
back to us. Every holy thought held fast is the fore-
runner of some good yet to be ours, which is ours
now if we are open enough to receive it.
The One who dwelt in consciousness continually
with the Father and whose prayers were answered
even as uttered said: "When thou prayest, enter into
thine inner chamber, and having shut thy door, pray
to thy Father/' The only way to close the door on
unruly thoughts is to hold a thought so holy, to
become so interested in it, that the irrelevant thoughts
will find nothing in common with it, nothing to
hold them. Then they will either go out and close
the door behind them or they will become so inter-
ested that they will be still and listen. If we resist
them and scold them they will push open the door
as fast as we close it. If we fight them they will
fight back, and the time will pass without our reach-
ing the holy of holies, without our coming into a
consciousness of the glory of God and having it
clothe us with its richness.
57
CONCENTRATION
ness, the seat of which is in the heart region, shall
have been cleansed. Then praying will find its true
place in the upper chamber or spiritual center of the
body, which is in the top of the head. We do not
need to try to take our thoughts there, for when we
are ready for the day of Pentecost and its
baptism of
power, the Spirit will descend on us and we shall be
lifted^
with it to this high place. Until that time
comes for us we are to seek to look steadfastly into
God's heaven, so that our thoughts may be of the
purest form, our words constructive and life-giving,
and the acts of our life productive of good only.
Thus shall we be confirming by signs this four-
squaring of our life, this ministry to the race con-
sciousness, and we shall know and feel the outpour-
ing of the Holy Spirit upon us.
When we take a thought for the purpose of con-
centrating upon it, we repeat it over and over until
it is fixed in our mind. We give it our undivided
attention, becoming vitally interested in it. We seek
to have it become a very part of our being; and in-
delibly written in our consciousness, it becomes one
with us and we one with it. Then will it become pow-
erful and draw to it others of its kind. It will sink
deep in the subconsciousness and with its redeeming
power reach all of the dark corners of the soul,
illumining them with that true light which belongs
to every man that comes into the world. If it seems
hard to hold to the thought until it becomes a magnet
within, it is well sometimes to practice the holding
of a thought purely a mental process for a minute,
59
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
then two minutes, then five or ten minutes, holding
it to the exclusion of every other thought. When you
can thus clarify your mind and hold your attention
upon one thought, you are attaining the ability to
concentrate that will lead to productive meditation.
Only practice, patience, and earnest desire, will give
one the true power of concentration, which is interest
and attention to the one thing that one desires to do
or be. The accomplishment of this is the sure reward
of all who repeatedly ask, earnestly seek, and pa-
tiently knock.
Let the light of Thy countenance, O Thou omni-
present One, continually be upon me, that 1 may
be stead-fast in my ptwpose of finding Thee. Let
every thought of my mind become subservient to
Thy thoughts, that my whole consciousness may be
lifted out of darkness into that glory which I had with
Thee before the world was.
60
Progress
Let there be many windows to your soul,
That all the glory of the universe
May beautify it. Not the narrow pane
Of one poor creed can catch the(
radiant rays
That shine from countless sources. Tear away
The blinds of superstition;
let the light
Pour through fair windows broad as Truth itself
And high as God. . . .
Tune your ear
To all the worldless music of the stars,
And to the voice of Nature, and your heart
Shall turn to truth and goodness, as the plant
Turns to the sun. A thousand unseen hands
Reach down to help you to their peace-crowned heights,
And all the forces of the firmament
Shall fortify your strength. Be not afraid
To thrust aside half-truths and grasp the whole,
Ella Wheeler Wilcox
"Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my
heart
Be acceptable in thy sight,
O Jehovah, my rode, and my redeemer,"
"I will pray with the spirit,
and I will pray with the
understanding also: I will sing with the spirit,
and I
will sing with the understanding also."
"Set your mind on the things that are above, not on
the things that are upon the earth."
"Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that
is exalted against the knowledge of God, and bringing
every thought into captivity
to the obedience of Christ"
"Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace,
whose mind is
stayed on thee; because he trusteth in thee."
Chapter V
MEDITATION
THE
LAW OF God is written in man's heart
more surely than it was written by the finger
of God on the tables of stone for Moses: "I
will put my law in their inward parts, and in their
heart will I write it" In the Psalms we find this
definition of the law: "Thy law is truth/
7
The I AM
or Christ within each of us is the Truth, and if we
but turn within to this law of our being and make
complete union with it, there is
nothing more needed,
for we shall find in it the fulfillment of all our needs,
the consummation of all our desires, the righting of
all our wrongs. This is what the Master sought to
reveal when He gave the two great commandments
as love of God and love of man, signifying the Christ
characteristics that potentially belong to and exist in
every man. It is this I AM or Christ within us that can
say, "I have overcome the world/' Each of us, as we
become conscious of the indwelling Christ as the
real I and are governed in all our thoughts and words
and acts by the standards of the Christ, can declare
and prove: "All authority hath been given unto me in
heaven [mind], and earth [body]/' It is through
meditation on this rulership at the throne place with-
in that the promise is fulfilled: "I will . . . show thee
great and difficult things, which thou knowest not/'
Greater and greater will be the revelations of the
omniscient Christ as we open ourselves completely
to Him and let Him have His perfect w^y with us.
63
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Greater and greater
will be our understanding and
use of the law hidden deep within our own soul as we
sink the mortal thoughts in meditations on the Most
High. The place of glory prepared
for us from the
beginning is only entered through prayer.
Heaven
is within, a place that we enter through thought.
Jehovah made many covenants with His chosen
people.
All who choose to serve Jehovah are His
chosen people and are served of Him. This is the
relation of reciprocity
that the Master sought to
reveal to His disciples
when He took a towel and
washed their feet. A covenant is an agreement, or a
promise of a blessing to be fulfilled by one party
when the other fulfills his part.
The covenant made
by Jehovah with Joshua was that if he would medi-
tate on the law day and night with the purpose of
living according to it, Jehovah God would be with
him wheresoever he went. Further, "then shalt
thou make thy way prosperous
and then shalt thou
have good success/' The promise in the 1st Psalm
to those who delight in the law of Jehovah and medi-
tate on it day and night is that whatsoever they do
shall prosper; they are likened to a well-watered,
well-nourished tree that fruits every season. The
Psalmist says that he has more understanding than all
his teachers "for thy testimonies are my meditation"
which was probably the difference between the
intellectual understanding of the teachers and the
spiritual understanding of the singer. David, be-
loved of God, whose inner meditations have sung
themselves down the ages so that all who will may
64
MEDITATION
receive from them, says, "The law of Jehovah is
perfect, restoring the soul"; and he adds, "More to
be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine
gold/' He ends this wonderful song of the 19th
Psalm with a prayer that each of us should voice
often:
"Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of
my heart
Be acceptable in thy sight,
O Jehovah, my rock, and my redeemer/'
To meditate on a subject is to give it attentive,
earnest thought with the idea of having all its mean-
ing revealed; that is, all the meaning that one is
capable of receiving at the time. Aeons of time are
needed to have revealed to us the deep mysteries of
the kingdom, the fullness of which we shall find only
when we awake in His likeness, but each moment we
give to meditation on the higher truths reveals to us
fresh glories.
At any moment, in the night watches
or in the midst of the duties of the day, in any place,
on a busy street corner, at home or in the office, alone
in the open field or deep in the woods, one can
drop all outer things, relaxing from crowded thoughts
and activities, and sink down, if for only a moment,
into a holy meditation that will bring him forth
filled with peace and strength, refreshed in mind
and body.
Isaac went out into the field at eventide to medi-
tate, and although we do not know what his medi-
tations were we are told that in lifting his eyes he
beheld his beloved. Suppose you seek to meditate in
65
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
the open, and resting relaxed in the shade of a tree,
you begin to meditate on the I AM or real self of you.
As you meditate the potentialities and powers of the
I AM begin to open to you, and in this revelation all
else is
forgotten, the floating clbuds, the rustling
leaves, the song of birds, the hum of bees, even the
creeping things. In your contemplation of your real
self and its
possibilities
when realized, you lose con-
tact with all things on the outer plane, things in which
you are usually much interested. In meditation you
are lifted up to behold your Christ self, the souPs
beloved. "I AM, I AM, I AM/' the conscious mind re-
peats over and over, until the words become alive in
the consciousness and take on their real power. They
sink deep into the subconsciousness, erasing all per-
sonality as separateness. Both lifted up, the con-
sciousness and subconsciousness become open and
receptive to the superconscious mind, and from this
high place is
poured the glory of the I AM, The
strength and power of the I AM! The love and tol-
erance and patience of the I AM! The justice of the
I AM, the real me! The wholeness and purity, the
youth and beauty of the I AM, the Christ self! The
wealth and wisdom, the courage and freedom of the
I AM, the limitless I! The I AM, true self of me, God-
created, made in God's image, after His likeness,
given power and dominion over disease and death,
over the environment, over the elements! I AM, Son
of God, created to be fruitful and replenish the
good, created to subdue all error! I AM, omnipresent,
omnipotent, omniscient Christ of God, Let me behold
66
MEDITATION
Thee as myself! At this moment, being lifted into the
superconscious realm, we behold the beloved. To us
comes the revelation that came to Peter (faith) when
he faced the question "Who say ye that I am?"
and from within came the answer: "Thou art the
Christ, the Son of the living God.'' Then do we know
beyond a doubt that this revelation of the I AM has
not come from the intellect, that flesh and blood has
not revealed this to usbut the Father within. We
become thrilled yet strong and steady with the power
of the I AM that possesses us. We become conscious
that our I AM has made union with the great "I AM
THAT I AM" and that our whole being is lifted to a
higher plane. We have discovered a new heaven and
a new earth, and ever after shall our thought and
word and act be expressed from a higher conscious-
ness of our real being. This is true meditation, and
when constantly practiced will transform us in
Christ's image from glory to glory until we awake
in His likeness. This is the part of prayer in which
we become ready for the way which leads us into the
presence of God, to wait for His message to be re-
vealed to us.
When we take a thought and meditate on it to the
exclusion of all else, this thought becomes a power
within us, a power for good or a power for evil, a
power to upbuild or a power to destroy, according
to the kind of thought it is.
Many times a day we
meditate on the things that are interesting to us. It
does not seem hard. It seems the natural thing to do.
It is said that the mystics of India become so enrapt
67
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
in their meditations that the birds build nests in
their hair. Poisonous reptiles
crawl over them and do
them no harm. Why? Because the mystics have
dropped the personal ego, which has in itself fear,
hatred, cruelty, prejudice. They have entered into
the ego that is one with all life, one with divine love,
and they are conscious of nothing else. When every
cell in the body is
taught to join the mind in its
worship of the Highest, the time will soon come
when nothing outside of us can distract or disturb
our communion with our God, and the whole man,
mind, soul, body, will then receive that which is
needed to make him perfect, complete, powerful.
Concentration and meditation, when rightly
practiced, do for our mental self what mastication
and digestion do for the physical self: they give
nourishment and growth. Concentration may be lik-
ened to chewing the food, preparing it; meditation to
digesting it, using it. Concentration, like masti-
cation, comes under our conscious control and, if
rightly done, leads to powerful meditation, even
as thorough mastication of food prepares the way
for good digestion. A wise choice of thought is as
necessary as a wise choice of food; then comes the
wise use of it. Watch the butterfly and the bee we
recognize the difference between productive and un-
productive meditation. As in the case of the bee,
when we give ourselves fully to our meditation we
receive that which is for our own growth as well
as a blessing to others. In the first case, like the
butterfly, we flit from one thought to another, giving
68
MEDITATION
nothing to our meditation, receiving nothing for
ourselves or for others.
In true meditation one becomes joined with the
Giver, contact is made with the source of all good,
and such faith and harmony and peace is established
in mind that through it the body and affairs are
opened to receive. One holy thought meditated upon
becomes a mighty magnet and draws to it other
holy thoughts, which in their unity become so pow-
erful that all opposition, danger, sickness, poverty,
and inharmony are swept before them. The promise is
that one shall chase a thousand and two shall put
ten thousand to flight. Only in spiritual thought is
this possible. Suppose that, so believing, you have
a premonition of evil, or think you are in danger, or
you fear persons or things; you will then immediately
turn to Omnipotence and meditate on the power of
the One mighty to save, on His love and His promise
to rush to the rescue of all who call on Him, believ-
ing. As you meditate you become lost to fear and
enter into unity with His love and power and
strength. You will feel His presence infolding you,
and while you are in this realization, any hand that
may be lifted against, you will drop helpless and any
danger pointing toward you will be turned aside.
To hold fast to the angel presence is to be led out
of dangers, to be held out of the way of all evil, no
matter what the seeming circumstance, condition, or
appearance may be.
Premonitions and warnings come that we may
learn to hide ourselves in Omnipresence, where noth^-
69
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
ing of error nature can penetrate. Thought is the
channel through which all fear enters, concentration
or holding the fear thought leads to meditation on it,
and all kinds of fear thoughts flock in to possess us.
This gives the thought power and strength to pro-
ject itself in our world. It is the inner picture or film
that takes on big proportions in our world if we let
it become definite enough in the mind to become ac-
tive in the life. Sometimes a tiny thought of fear is
given so much attention in concentration and medi-
tation that it becomes an obsession, a difficult expe-
rience to deal with for the one who has encountered
it, which may entail much mental and bodily suffer-
ing unless he knows how to take the Christ, in vision
and thought and word, as the leaders, and hold to
Him only. By changing the thought of fear instantly
before entering upon concentration and meditation
and by giving high attention to the inner lordship, the
I AM, we become identified with the power that is
quick to dissolve error, and as we rest in this con-
sciousness fear with its
power is taken from us. Noth-
ing can enter our world except it find access through a
thought of something similar that is already present
in our mental world. Nothing can stay in our world
unless it remains somewhere in our thoughts, and
thoughts are meditations even prayers. Many times
we really pray for a thing we do not desire by holding
it in our mind in fear, holding it fast in worry, all
the time begging and beseeching God to take it
away, while we ourselves will not let it
go. We
need to watch the fear and worry meditations and,
70
MEDITATION
when going to our Father for a need, put them far
away, taking for meditation a thought that will leave
the appearance far behind and make us to feel and
see and know only God.
In deep meditation on a holy thought the intellect
retires, reasoning ceases, the emotions are stilled, the
body forgotten. Even the thought with which the
meditation started becomes absorbed in the other
holy thoughts that it has attracted, as they flow in
to possess us. It is but a step from this high attention
to the one Presence and Power in the universe to
the silence, the home of the soul; only a step into a
four-dimensional or spiritual world where there is
neither time nor space, personality nor place, where
one waits for nought but for God to make Himself
known.
Let the flaming sword of Thy presence, O God,
ever guard the door of my mind, that only holy
thoughts may take up their abode in me. Let Thy pure
creations continually fill me, mind, soul, and body,
until I am lifted into an abiding consciousness of my
Christ self.
71
Chnstus
Let us, then, labor for an inward stillness,
An inward stillness and an inner healing;
That perfect silence where the lips and heart
Are still, and we no longer entertain
Our own imperfect thoughts and vain opinions,
But God alone speaks in us, and we wait
In singleness of heart, that we may know
His will, and in the silence of our spirits,
That we may do His will, and do that only!
Long-fellow
"Let thy soul tread softly in thee
As a saint in heaven unshod,
For to be alone in silence,
Is to be alone with God."
"Be still, and know that I am God."
"Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace."
"My soul, wait thou in silence for God only;
For my expectation is from him."
"Jehovah hath heard my supplication;
Jehovah will receive my prayer."
"In thy presence is fulness of joy;
In thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore."
"Wait for Jehovah:
Be strong, and let thy heart take courage ;
Yea, wait thou for Jehovah."
Chapter VI
THE SILENCE
IN
OUR TEXTBOOK the Bible it is recorded of the
time of Samuel: "The word of Jehovah was
precious in those days; there was no frequent
vision." Yet in one place the 'lamp of God was not
yet gone out/' In the temple (secret place) the child
Samuel ('
'Heard of God") ministered (waited) be-
fore Jehovah. There in the silence of the holy place
the boy learned, even as each of us must learn, the
attitude of mind that says:
"
Speak, Jehovah, for
thy servant heareth." He learned, even as each of us
must learn, to still the self and wait and listen ex-
pectantly for God to speak. As Samuel received a
message direct from Jehovah when he had learned
to listen toward God, so shall we receive when we
have made ourselves ready. Before this meeting with
God in the night watches Samuel knew only how to
turn to Eli (Eli: "foster son" or intellect)
for guid-
ance and instruction. Two calls came from his God
before he understood, but once he had recognized
and heard the voice of God? nothing else satisfied
him. The intellect in its
proper place took instruc-
tion and was guided by intuition, the inner voice, for
after asking and listening to the message that was
given to Samuel in the night watches Eli (intellect)
said: "It is Jehovah: let him do what seemeth him
good/' Because he continued to seek from the only
true source and was guided in all things by the One
who spoke to him from the holy place,
"Samuel
75
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
grew, and Jehovah was with him/' Through Samuel
Jehovah again appeared in Shiloh and made His
teaching known so powerfully that none o His words
were allowed to "fall to the ground." Samuel be-
came the foremost figure of his age, a great prophet,
serving God and being used by Him, always in close
enough touch to hear and to be, as his name implies,
"heard of God/'
Many times it seems to us that we are living in
an age similar to that of the boy Samuel and that
the spoken or revealed word of Jehovah is
precious
(rare) because there is no frequent vision (looking
Godward). The experience of Samuel is the ex-
perience of every soul, when on its way back to the
Father's house it hears His voice, perhaps first un-
recognized; then waiting expectantly, listening, he
says as did Samuel: "Speak; for thy servant heareth."
There is no mystery about God speaking to man,
there should be no infrequency of it; for man was
created to walk and talk with God in sweet com-
munion, in the garden of his soul. To anyone high or
low, rich or poor, great or small who turns ex-
pectantly to the Father, asking earnestly and looking
to Him only, there will come an answer if he is still
enough. At any moment when there is a need, at
high noon or midnight, in the crowd of a busy thor-
oughfare, or when alone far from civilization, in a
consciousness of "Thou, LORD only" any man can
turn to the kingdom within him for his answer. Shut
away from conflict, from doubt and fear>t he can
there "rest in Jehovah, and wait patiently for him."
76
THE SILENCE
From this inmost God and high God, which is one,
will come the answer to any question, the supply for
any need. We need only practice stillness, with our
mind turned Godward, to experience such a calm,
such a peace, such a joy that we recognize it is God's
presence and wait eagerly for Him to speak. When
the ear is opened Godward it shall hear, for the
promise is "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and
ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you/'
The silence is not inertia, not a drifting into
something we know not about. It is true our body is
relaxed, but it is alive and ready to act; our intellect
is stilled, but it is alert and ready to be used. Through
concentration and meditation on holy thoughts the
mind is cleansed, and in a degree at least there is es-
tablished within us the same mind that was in Christ
Jesus, the mind that does know and can say, "I and
the Father are one/' Then we are ready to speak
meaningly, and understandingly, and expectantly:
"Speak, Jehovah; for thy servant heareth." These
words are not to be directed to a presence without,
apart, somewhere unknown, but to a living, vital, un-
derstandable presence within, as much a part of us
as the germ of life is a part of the seed. We need to
remember the Master's last prayer to His father-
God for His followers: "that they may be one, even
as we are one; I in them, and thou in me, that they
may be perfected into one/' We need to get a deeper
realization of the indwelling Christ, for it is here
within that we make union with the Giver; it is
here within that we meet the Great Physician; it is
77
Jtr JF JbC^I U AJL JPKAYJtiR
here within that healing comes to us. It is here within
that we sense a knower; it is here within that a voice
gives us guidance, omniscient wisdom to use. When
we recognize that whatever we need is within our-
selves, with the Christ, and when we turn here for
our need to be fulfilled, the outer will take form
according to the perfect pattern that the Christ holds.
This perfection has been potentially ours always, but
it is made plain to us at some time when we are
waiting silent before the Creator, and when we be-
come open and receptive it becomes in reality ours to
have and to hold always.
When we come to the point in consciousness when
we can say within ourselves,
*
'Speak Jehovah/
1
we
shall expectantly await the answer as a little child
waits for the food which he has asked and which he
knows the parent will give him. The Master tells us
that our Father is much more willing to give than is
an earthly parent, but even God cannot give to those
who come to Him with a consciousness closed by
doubt and fear closed through begging and plead-
ing for the things that He is ever offering with out-
stretched hand any more than a mother can give
her child the bread and jam for which he has asked,
if the child begs with his hands closed tight and held
behind him. We should think this queer in a child,
yet many grown people go to God asking in the
same way. This is the method of a chattering mind
which thinks idle thoughts and speaks meaningless
words during prayer. A person in the silence must
consciously cut out all noises, even the rattle of his
78
THE SILENCE
thoughts and the murmur of his words, no matter
how pleasing these sounding brasses and clanging
cymbals may be to his intellect, if he would receive
the great message the omniscient mind of God has
for him. "Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for
the place whereon thou standest is holy ground"
is as surely meant for us when we are seeking to
enter the silence as was the great message that Moses
received when God appeared to him.
All thoughts of the material we must leave be-
hind, no matter how great our needs, our desires,
when we seek to enter the silence, for the material
thought cannot find entrance to the spiritual realm.
When we seek to enter the God presence filled with
material desires, these desires close the channel
through which the Giver "presses out" His gifts,
which thus find no thoroughfare. "Thou, LORD, only"
is the password that insures entrance to the storehouse
of God, and we must use it in order to pass through
the door into His presence. Ever the voice speaks to
man, through turmoil, in his activities, his trials and
temptations, his joys and happy times. "Be still,
and know that I am God." Being still and knowing
is sufficient for anyone in any time of need, for to
know God is to know of His omnipresence, omnipo-
tence, omniscience, and that for the sake of express-
ing Him we are even as He is.
As we enter the silence we are in the thought
world. When we let our mind dwell on our desires,
we attract thoughts that are relevant in character.
These thoughts come from many minds, in many
79
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
stages of growth, and sometimes we have unpleasant
psychic (mental) experiences on the way to the si-
lence. The radio fills the air with spoken words of all
kinds. We can tune in as we choose, on the gay and
foolish program, or on the lecture, the sermon, the
concert. One thing that few of us realize is that within
each of us is an invisible faculty, which may at any
moment, unless controlled, tune in on thoughts. Our
desires may attract to us the thoughts of others who
have had like desires, and who may have used evil
means in trying to bring them to pass, and these
thoughts, if we are drifting with our desires, may en-
ter our mind and fill us with terror. We may suffer
such an emotion of fear in this mental contact that it
will be felt in our body and affairs. For this reason we
should always take such a high and holy thought that
it
may have the power to carry us quickly through
the mental realm to the great white throne. When
we hold such a thought, nothing can touch our men-
tal realm but thoughts of a similar kind, and with
this thought as a light, guide, protector, the universal
consciousness that surrounds us is cleansed for our
passage.
Sometimes on this journey within us the inner
ear is
opened so that we hear voices. In our purity of
thought we may touch a key that strikes the keynote
of some sweet song of David or wise saying of Solo-
mon. We may even pick up the words of the Lord
Christ spoken when He dwelt among men. These
come to the soul, to us, because of some need of
strength or courage for the journey within or for
80
THE SILENCE
our life in the outer. Perhaps we may hear the sweet-
tone of His loving voice saying, "Come unto me, all
ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you
rest/' Or it may be a reminder to you of the prom-
ise "If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you,
ask whatsoever ye will, and it shall be done unto
you." Blessed are we when we become well enough
attuned to Spirit to hear the teachings of the Christ,
for then shall we begin to become like Him.
On this journey within the inner vision may be
so lifted that we may see with closed eyes such
beauty of lights and colors as the open eyes have
never glimpsed even in all the pictures that the in-
visible hand has painted to remind man of the glory
of his spiritual home. The perfect rainbow, the
glorious sunset, the forest afire with autumn colors
are all pale as compared with the purity of the
colors of the spiritual realm. Or again the vision
may be of geometrical figures and shapes, all. symbols
of the harmony and order of the unseen world.
The physical may be spiritually roused during
some period of relaxation and stillness until every
part of it
glows with the warmth of spiritual con-
tact and there extends out from the redeemed body a
beauty of holiness, an aura of the brilliance of sun-
set colors, making one appear truly as a son of God;
or vibrations may shake every sleepy and darkened
cell of inactivity or disease into an expression of life,
and never again can the body function on a low plane.
Any of these or other pleasing experiences may
or may not be yours at some time when you are stand-
81
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
ing on the threshold of the silence. They are only
symbols and signs that the senses are being lifted up
into the spiritual realm, assuring you of progress to-
ward the attainment of spiritual consciousness. They
are not to be sought however, for our desire must be
for the Highest even to enter the presence of God.
If any of these signs do come, we should not seek
to linger on the threshold where we stand; but
giving thanks for this manifestation of spiritual
growth, we must seek to pass on into the greater
beauty and harmony that lies beyond, that we may no
longer see as "in a mirror, darkly; but . . . face to
face:'* "for we shall see him even as he is/*
When Elijah, fleeing in fear and jealousy, hid
himself in a cave (downward visioning), he was
commanded by the higher self to go forth and
stand on the mount (even rise above fear and jealousy
for the work of the Lord) . As he obeyed, seeking to
follow the Lord into His presence, a strong wind rent
the mountain; after the wind came an earthquake,
and after the earthquake came a fire. But he found
not Jehovah in any of these. After the phenomena
had passed, there came the "still small voice," which
Elijah recognized as Jehovah speaking. This recog-
nition caused Elijah to wrap his face in his mantle
(withdraw from the world of sense phenomena)
and stand in the entrance of the cave (open his con-
sciousness more positively toward God). Then and
then only was he free enough of desires and emotions
to receive the message from his God. It is only when
we too are lost to emotion and desire, to thinking
82
THE SILENCE
thoughts and seeing things, that we become ^one-
pointed" enough to hear the inner voice and receive
its message.
You have at some time greatly listened. Perhaps
you were alone in the deep woods and the crack of a
bough startled you, causing you to stop; and forget-
ting all else what you were seeking or where you
were going you listened intent on finding out if
there was an unknown presence near you. Perhaps
you were one of a great audience, sitting spellbound
under the words of some fluent speaker, utterly una-
ware of those who were sitting beside you, in your de-
sire to catch every word. Or you were so entranced
with the flutelike notes of some wonderful singer
that you found yourself on the very edge of your
seat in the intensity of your listening. Perhaps it was
in the night watches when you listened with your
whole being for the call of a little child or a dearly
beloved who might need you. Even more absorbed
will be your attention, your listening, your stillness,
even your alertness, when you have truly entered the
silence and are waiting to hear the message from the
Creator of your being. It is in such stillness, such
waiting before the Creator, that the tiny sapling
gathers the strength to become the mighty oak,
for strength is for all creation. It is here that the
flowers find their glorious colors and beautiful forms,
for the beauty that the Creator possesses is for all that
is His. It is here that trees blossom and blossoms
fruit and form and ripen, it is here that the green of
nature finds its clothing; for all things find their
83
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
being in God's silence. Here also is the key to our
beauty o soul, our image and likeness, our power
and dominion, our perfection. In the attitude o
waiting we are receptive, and God makes Himself
known in the form in which we are most able to re-
ceive Him. The assurance will come to us, as never
before, that we are truly sons, joint heirs with Jesus
Christ to all that the Father has. When we have en-
tered this secret place often enough and abode long
enough truly to behold the beauty of the Lord, it will
spring forth as a living message of harmony in our
life, a manifestation of wholeness, joy, abundance,
and it will so fill our universe with the glory of God
that all who cross our path or walk by our side will
glimpse the God whose expression we are. Through
the stillness of our being God will express Himself
in the manifest plane: in our body, His temple, in
our life, His activity, we shall express our likeness to
Him.
O God, my creator, my Father, let me become so
still in body and mind, so free of desire and emo-
tion, that my soul may enter Thy presence unbur-
dened. Silently I wait before Thee, Thou omnipresent
One. To receive again from Thee the glory that was
mine with Thee in the beginning before the world
was.
/ Am Free
I have found the light,
The wondrous light
That never shone on land or sea.
Christ walks with me;
The waves are still,
And I am free.
With outstretched hands
I touch the Christ.
He calms the troubled sea;
I hear His voice,
"Why fearestthou?"
And I am free !
Alice Truesdale Cable
-
"The Spirit himself beareth witness with our spirit,
that we are children of God; and if children, then heirs;
heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ/'
"Behold, I make all things new."
"I will bring the blind by a way that they know not;
in paths that they know not will I lead them; I will make
darkness light before them, and crooked places straight.
These things will I do, and I will not forsake them."
"Behold ... my chosen, in whom my soul delighteth:
I have put my Spirit upon him."
"Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory
of Jehovah is risen upon thee/'
"Concerning the work of my hands, command ye me."
Chapter VII
THE MESSAGE
No
ONE CAN tell another person what is to
come to him from the silence, what message
he will receive from the One who dwells in
the holy of holies within his own soul. No one can tell
another what he will bring back with him into his life
from the Creator of his being. Each one of us goes
to God with different needs, in different states of
consciousness, taking different steps in search of
Him. Some go in roundabout ways, some go direct,
each one preparing the path over which the message
is to come back to him. Some dare to touch only the
hem of God's garment, others go boldly to the throne
of grace and kneel at His feet. During His earthly
ministry the Master told His followers, "According to
your faith be it done unto you/' We receive accord-
ing to our capacity,
and the degree of our faith de-
termines our capacity. The Father always fills to
overflowing any vessel that one of His children holds
out to Him. He is not limited, neither does He
limit us, but we limit Him in fixing our capacity to
receive. We need to make our vessels for containing
His love greater,
we need to hold them steadier for
Him to fill, we need to see them full to overflowing,
as He would have them be. The receiving capacity
of our vessels is always in proportion to the faith we
have in the Giver's ability and willingness to give,
in proportion to the expectancy we have of receiving
that which we ask, in harmony with the vision we
87
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
have of the finished, perfected gift. He reveals Him-
self in His fullness to those who entirely empty them-
selves of personality and let Him in His own way re-
veal to them that which they should know and do to
become like Him.
When the widow whose two sons were about to
be taken for debt went to Elisha for help, he asked
her what she had in the house. She said a little oil
(her faith), and he told her to go and borrow
vessels from her neighbors (increase her expectancy
from her knowledge of God's goodness). "Borrow
not a few/' said the one who knew God. Then she
was instructed to take her sons (desires) and go
into her room (the secret place) and close the door
(wipe out doubts and fears)
and pour (give thanks)
into her vessels the increase of Jehovah. When the
vessels about her were full, which she had borrowed
according to the faith and expectancy she had of
their being filled, she asked for more vessels. But
there was none, "and the oil stayed/' As long as
there was -a vessel to receive it the oil continued to
flow, even as our good continues to flow to us ac-
cording to the amount of faith and expectancy we
have. The widow's answer was the Father's "good
measure, pressed down, shaken together, running
over"; for she had asked for enough to pay the
debt, and there was more, according to the prophet's
words, "Go, sell the oil, and pay thy debt, and live
thou and thy sons of the rest." Many times we receive
only partial answers to our prayers, and we cry, "Why
are my prayers not answered as I asked? I had faith";
88
THE MESSAGE
but we have not added to the faith the expectancy
and vision required to complete the work. We always
receive full measure, according to the measure that
we ourselves provide for the reception of our good.
If we desire to have our prayer answered in His full
and running-over measure, we must ask seeing the
work already accomplished, as the Master said: "And
all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believ-
ing, ye shall receive."
The higher the soul reaches in its
aspiration to
find God the greater will be the message, the richer
the gifts.
When we learn to pray the selfless, de-
sireless prayer, sinking our will in the will of the
Highest, assurance of the answer will be given us
not only on the inner plane, but on the outer also.
There is a covenant that we can enter into the Great
Giver: "All things that are mine are thine, and
thine are mine"; and this promise of reciprocity
will open up to us all that He is and all that He has,
and there will be that added to us that which is worth
much in the bringing forth of His kingdom.
It takes a great hunger and thirst after God,
an intense desire to be like Him, a sinking of self
and desire in the will of the Highest, to enable us
to find entrance into the most holy place and become
a high priest to go in and come out before Jehovah.
Jesus Christ, our great high priest, in whose footsteps
we seek to follow in order to reach the inner sanc-
tuary, says: "Blessed are they that hunger and
thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled/'
This filling may take place in many ways. It always
89
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
comes after some waiting in faith and expectancy
in the silence, some waiting for the Beloved of the
soul to make Himself known. It may come as an
inner glory that quickens the flesh and shines forth
in a radiance such as covered Moses when he came
down from the mount of holiness, a transfiguration
that instantly cleanses and heals all the ills of the
body. The filling may come from entering into God-
Mind, becoming one with omniscience, where all
questions are answered and all ways made plain. Per-
haps your "cup runneth over" as you sit and sup
with Him in the silence of your soul, and you are
filled with such a realization of the richness of your
Father's kingdom that the way is made open for sub-
stance to flow into your life, and every desire and
need of your life is filled full, to spare and to share.
Or you may kneel before the just judge in your desire
to forgive and be forgiven, and you are so filled with
divine love that ever after there will be manifested
toward you and from you a dissolving, redeeming
love so great that no man's mind or hand can be
lifted against you, or your mind or hand lifted against
any man. When you enter into the peace that "pass-
eth all understanding," the One who brought forth
beauty out of the waste and void and light out of
darkness will make for you all crooked places straight,
all dark places light, and your earth will blossom as a
rose. That of which we have need has a correspondent
in God's world of good holiness, substance, har-
mony, peace, love, wisdom being really what we
need and when we seek it, it will be given us in a
90
TJbiE
usable outer form. When we earnestly, prayerfully,
joyously make our search for the kingdom of God,
putting aside all else to accomplish our purpose we
shall find the kingdom, and we shall find that it
includes all the needs of mind, body, and affairs, The
promise is "Your heavenly Father knoweth that ye
have need of all these things/' and the promise goes
still further: "thy Father who seeth in secret shall
recompense thee."
Spiritual deafness will cease when we really cross
the threshold into the silence, for the inner ear will
become alert in seeking to catch the message of the
still small voice. The outer ear also may be opened
during some time of listening within for this mes-
sage so that "the deaf hear/' Many a message will
come to us when we have become still
enough to
enter the silence. It may be some great message re-
peated that the Master spoke when among men,
bearing some new meaning and usefulness for you
personally. It may be some individual message to
comfort, to lift, to strengthen, spoken to you when
the veil is lifted and you pass beyond, into the holy
of holies. Nevermore will you doubt the possibility
of meeting God and walking and talking with Him
in the secret place when once you have gone beyond
the silence and seen Him face to face, holding sweet
communion with Him in the garden of your soul.
A great tree falls in a place far from human
habitation. It makes no sound, for there is no physi-
cal ear near enough to receive its vibrations from
the air. The ear is the receiver of vibrations from
91
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
the air and reports them to the intellect. It is thus
we perceive what is called sound. In the silence we
are not dealing with the physical senses but with
spiritual senses. We are not listening for the in-
tellect but for the voice o God. The "still small
voice" speaking to us is soundless, yet conveys its
message with a clearness beyond any spoken word
of the human voice. When once this message is re-
ceived, it is written indelibly in the soul, and is even
more readable to the one receiving it than is the
largest print of a book to the physical eye. The more
often this message is rehearsed, recalled, the more
sure is the good to be got from it.
When we have learned to draw near to the
Father, who sees in secret and rewards openly, with
a heart full of faith and expectancy, we shall find
that when the way seems dark and the shadows
seem to close on us, we have only to reach out and
take up the candle of the Lord, and the way will be
illumined. If we calmly turn the question of know-
ing over to the omniscient mind of God when we
come to a crossroad in life and are puz2led and wor-
ried about the way to take, the angel of His pres-
ence will direct our path, and we shall travel the
right road, with this presence ever leading us on
into greater good. When we can submit all seeming
injustice to the just judge, when we no longer our-
selves pass judgment according to appearances, His
strong right arm will become our defense, and any
hand lifted against us will drop in helplessness. Ev-
ery lonely, homesick feeling, every craving of the
92
THE MESSAGE
soul seeking its home, a home not made with hands,
will be filled to satisfaction with His loving pres-
ence. Though family and friends forsake us, the
Christ never will, for His promise 'To, I am with
you always" is for all who will turn to Him, and
these shall always find Him near and jgn that nearness
be satisfied. When pain racks the body and we draw
near to the Great Physician until we feel His loving
touch, we shall arise and go forth renewed in mind,
soul, and body, strengthened and healed. There is an
omnipresent surgeon to whom we can submit, in the
silent place, any imperfection of the body, and who
will rectify it according to the perfect Christ body.
When bills mount up and the purse seems empty,
we have only to turn to the One whose bank is un-
limited, whose substance is for our use, and there
wait in faith, and His abundance will be "pressed
out'
1
to us. Whatever the human heart craves, what-
ever the body needs, will be given in the silence,
for whenever a cry goes from the heart Godward, He
immediately answers, "Here am I." All this and still
more unconceived good will unfold for us when we
come in and go out no more but abide in the con-
sciousness of the God presence. The inside of the
cup will be cleansed and the outside will show forth
this cleansing in the radiant beauty of the living
God, whose likeness we have become. Wherever
we go we shall rouse in others a desire for the beauty
of holiness that we express. When our inner ear is
attuned to catch His message even in the midst of our
everyday living and working and our inner eye is
93
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
trained to glimpse His perfection
even in the midst
of appearances of error and inharmony, then our
whole world will be filled with His glory. When we
sit at His feet long enough to learn of him, we shall
carry away with us His holiness, and even our pres-
ence, like the garment of the Master and the shadow
of Peter, will be harmony and healing. Signs and
wonders shall we do by stretching forth our hands
in the name of the indwelling Christ. It is in the
secret place, after we have felt the presence of the
Most High, that we shall first join in that song of
thanksgiving, started when the morning stars sang
together in praise of the Creator and His creation,
and evermore, when disappointment, discourage-
ment, and downward visioning tend to overwhelm
us, we shall remember this song which continually
sings deep within and, joining
in the anthem, be
healed.
O Thou glorious presence
ever with me, let me sit
at Thy feet until all darkness, all dimness of vision,
has passed and I see Thee as Thou art. Let me listen
until all spiritual deafness passes,
that I may hold
sweet communion with the Christ, my soul. I await
wow the fulfillment of Thyself in me, that I may ex-
press the glory of the risen Christ in my life.
Gradatum
Heaven is not reached at a single bound;
But we build the ladder by which we rise
From the lowly earth to the vaulted skies,
And we mount to its summit round by round.
/. G. Holland
By thine own soul's law learn to live;
And if men thwart thee take no heed,
And if men slight thee take no care.
Sing thou thy song and do thy deed,
Hope thou thy hope and pray thy prayer,
And claim no crown this does not give.
Selected
"If ye know these things, blessed are ye if ye do them."
"I am the way, and the truth, and the life.
"Lo, I am with you always/'
"Let us not be weary in well-doing: for in due season
we shall reap, if we faint not."
"Freely ye received, freely give."
"I was hungry, and ye gave me to eat; I was thirsty,
and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and ye took
me in; naked, and ye clothed me; I was sick, and ye visited
me; I was in prison,
and ye came unto me. . . . Inasmuch
as ye did it unto one of these my brethren, even these
least, ye did it unto me."
w
Chapter VIII
LIVING THB LIFE
"HENEVER ANYONE enters the deep silence
he loses himself in the cosmic universe and
becomes one with the cosmic Christ. At
the time of this merging of his self with the whole, he
is in a consciousness from which he can see his place
as a part of the whole and in which he can receive
his individual message. The entire man, mind, soul,
and body, is then lifted in an ecstasy that breaks forth
in songs of praise and thanksgiving, even magnifi-
cats such as come forth from a Mary soul rejoicing
in being chosen a handmaiden of the Lord.
Coming back from a deep silence, filled with its
harmony, ear still in tune with the inner message, eye
still seeing the high vision, and the whole being
thrilled from union with the Highest, we might
think it would be easy to live the Christ life. But
unless we strady ourselves after coming back to the
material plane declaring that we are poised and
balanced in Spirit
and that as sons of God we can-
not be moved from His Truth of being, and realize
this, we are apt to be thrown off our feet at the first
sight and sound of an error appearance. Praise and
thanksgiving should continue, for it has the power
to bring forth that which is
praised, and that for
which we are giving thanks attains greater power to
express itself, but we should not let it run to emo-
tion. Emotion scatters; we waste ours^Ves in it.
Poised even during deep feeling, we experience the
97
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
very strength and steadiness of the feeling holding
us. "In quietness and in confidence shall be your
strength."
Sometimes when a wonderful message has been
given us in the silence, we are content for days just
to repeat it over and over, and live in the wonder of
the inner revelation. Perhaps all at once there comes a
great and burning desire to live the message, to make
it true on the outer as well as the inner plane. Then
this great urge within will carry us forward in the
doing. A holy thought coming into a purified mind
made ready to receive it must come to fruition. This
is the "immaculate conception/' and it comes only
to those who have prepared themselves to receive
the Holy Spirit and bring forth the Christ child.
When once conceived in mind, the Christ child
grows within the soul in wisdom and stature and
meets with the favor of God and man. The growth
within us and the expression without is always in
accordance with the high watch we keep and the
life we live, which is meat and drink for the Christ
child's growth.
If a person would grow, he must live whatever
message is
given to him in the silence. Unless the
message from the Father becomes a living, vital
reality in the daily life, seeking the silence becomes
a mere pastime, a pretense, and hinders growth in-
stead of hastening it. It is as much our mission to
live any message given us as it was the mission of
Jesus Christ to live the life and die the death that He
did. There is no message too trivial to be carried out,
98
LIVING THE LIFE
for if nothing in the outer seems to result from it,
there has been built into the consciousness a willing-
ness and readiness to do as directed that will lead
to higher things. Naaman, seeking to be healed of
leprosy, was wroth because the prophet (spiritual
guidance) gave him so simple a
thing to do as to
bathe in the Jordan. He turned away, refusing to
carry out the command, but his servant (higher self)
asked him whether, if he had been given a great
thing to do, he would not do it. Naaman listened,
and when he obeyed the prophet's command, his flesh
became as the flesh of a little child, spotless, pure.
On the other hand, the prophet's servant as a result
of disobedience to the law of righteousness spoken
by the prophet to him became a leper. God does not
force anyone to do His will. He gives to each of us
free will, the right of choice, but His law is that ac-
cording as we use the gift of choice so will the mani-
festation be.
Jonah found himself in serious trouble by acting
in opposition to the inner guidance. He found he
could not place distance between himself and that
within him which always seeks to lead men aright.
He had finally not only to carry out the message but
he had to extricate himself from that walled-in
place, where his disobedience had placed him. The
Psalmist afterward expressed that which Jonah found
exceedingly true: "Whither shall I ... flee from thy
presence?
If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there:
If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, thou art there.
99
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
I I take the wings of the morning,
And dwell in the uttermost parts o the sea;
Even there shall thy hand lead me,
And thy right hand shall hold me/'
This is the wonderful truth about the inner voice
or intuition. It is always with us, no matter how
far we may stray from our inner convictions, no
matter how far from the path we may have wan-
dered, no matter how high is the wall we have built
between us and the way of righteousness. It is al-
ways waiting, ready and willing to guide us back into
the way, to hold us steady as we find the path, to
carry us forward in greater endeavor.
We each learn in some way, at some time, obedi-
ence to the higher self, that in us which is Godlike. It
is obedience to this self, no matter how trivial the
command, that prepares us to receive higher mes-
sages, that strengthens us for greater endeavor. It is
the seeking to be a workman approved of God, the
handling aright of the words of Truth, the living
on the highest level of the daily life that is worthy
of being trusted. Some of us cry out for work in the
Master's vineyard, and we wonder why it is not
given us when we are so willing to be used. We do
not give to a little child the responsibilities that be-
long to an adult. We feel that it would hamper the
development of the child, even if he were capable
of performing the work as it should be done. Neither
does the Lord of the harvest give tasks to His workers
that they are not prepared to do, for the work's sake
as well as the worker's. There is no one who knows
100
LIVING THE LIFE
the ability of any worker as does the One who is om-
nipresent,
not even the worker himself. The field
is white for the harvest, and the workers are few. The
workers willing and fitted to do the needed work of
returning to its
original perfection this God-created,
man-inharmonized universe are indeed few com-
pared with the seeming needs. This realization alone
should make each of us eager to prepare ourselves
to take part in the work of redeeming the race and
its world.
The work of redemption, of carrying these high
thoughts and visions into the outer in words and
deeds that correspond, lies first within our own
self. When we ourselves are fit, then we are per-
mitted to go to our neighbor: "Speak ye truth each
one with his neighbor." This does not mean that
in our enthusiasm for service we should seek to force
the Truth on anyone. To be perfect every rose must
be allowed to open in its own time, in its own way,
and of its own accord. We can assist in attaining
perfection by cultivating, watering, and fertilizing
it but never by forcing its
petals apart. Each person
must be given freedom to live his life as he would live
it, not as another person would have him live it:
Only in this way can he get the soul experience
needed to bring him into full-rounded manhood
in Christ, knowing the good because he has passed
that way. There are no "flowery beds of ease" to
carry us into the kingdom. Such beds are ours after
we arrive, but on the way there is great peace in
having the Presence with us, great joy in the over-
101
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
coming, and satisfaction from work well done, be-
sides the happy companionship of those traveling the
path with us.
If we would help another to arrive at our place on
the path, perhaps assist him in passing us, our mis-
sion is to carry whatever message the Spirit within
us gives, to live the life according to the high stand-
ard of life in Christ, to stand still and be willing
to wait, leaving the result to the Father of us all.
This takes courage, it takes patience, discrimination,
love, unselfishness, tolerance, obedience, steadfast-
ness, and above all it takes faith in God as Father,
healer, giver, lover, guide and protector, judge and
justice of our brother or beloved as well as of our-
selves. This takes faith in each person in the world
as being an anointed son of God, whether he knows
it or not, whether he is
expressing his sonship or not.
We need always to remember that no matter what
the higher self tells us to do, what the message is
that we receive in the silence, it is still not too hard,
even if the sense man does consider it so. The power
and strength and wisdom needed to carry the task
through to perfect completion are always given with
the message. It only takes some initiative on our part
to put them to work. Here is the story not only of
the apostles of Jesus but also of the followers of the
omnipresent Christ the command, the obedience,
the results: "Go ye into all the world, and preach the
gospel . . . And they went forth, and preached every-
where,, the Lord working with them, and confirming
the word by the signs that followed."
102
LIVING THE LIFE
If a person would have his prayers answered he
must be willing to be a channel through which the
prayers of others are answered. If he would be
healed he must be willing to be a healer of discords.
If he would have prosperity he must be willing to
give as freely as he desires to receive. He must not
only be willing to do these things, but he must prove
his willingness by doing them. If we look ourselves
squarely in the face, we shall find that many times
the things we are asking for in prayer we are not
trying to live in our life. We all know more of Truth
than we live or try to live. To be open to receive
we need to express that which we are seeking to
have expressed for us, we need to give as we would
have the Father give to us, we need to forgive as
we would be forgiven; in fact we need to practice
the Golden Rule not only toward people but toward
God also. Many a person has been healed at a time
when he forgot his own aches and pains in praying
for another's healing. Many a person has opened a
channel for riches to flow to him by giving the
widow's mite, which is not to be evaluated in terms
of its size but in terms of what is in the giver's mind;
as the Master said: "She of her want did cast in all
that she had, even all her living/' Most of us give
of our superfluity, of that which we do not need or
want, or we give because of a mental necessity to give
to God in order to be quite free in conscience. The
tithe is the Lord's rightful share, but it is from that
which we give beyond this law that we receive the
greatest joy, if
given in the Christ spirit.
103
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Sometimes a great urge, a message from the uni-
versal Mind, comes to us to give of our store to a
certain work of the Father's or to one of His chil-
dren. It may be one thing or another, perhaps a sum
of money, the exact amount being named: for the
Father knows the needs of His children, and He is
also capable of choosing the channel through which
this blessing is to flow. We recognize the message
and perhaps agree to it in our mind. Then we begin
to cut it down until finally the Lord Himself would
not recognize the assignment with which He had in-
trusted us. Perhaps we do not carry out any part of it
after the intellect, with its
reasoning and its
citing
of the contents of the pocketbook, is
through with it.
If we could only realize what we have done by our
action! A great opportunity to be a channel through
which the Father answers the prayer of another has
been lost, a great opportunity to be a messenger
from the Lord of hosts has been passed up. In not
carrying out the assignment we have closed our-
selves to some great good that was ready, waiting
for us to prove of our worthiness; for the Father
never asks us to give for Him unless we are to re-
ceive back to us forty, sixty ,
a hundredfold,
even an increase that is beyond our comprehending or
receiving until we do give for the Master's sake.
In many ways we find that God never withholds from
us the good that we crave but that we ourselves close
the door through which our good is
seeking entrance.
Whether we have consciously received a message
in our silence, it has nevertheless been given to us.
104
LIVING THE LIFE
We never turn Godward open to receive but that
the need in our mind draws forth from the Father a
fulfillment of it in the highest form in which we are
capable of receiving it. Our part is to
step forth
boldly in faith as if we were conscious of receiving.
When the time comes for the question to be an-
swered, for the conditions to be faced, for the need
to be supplied, we shall find that it is met in over-
flowing measure by our Father's love. Words will
be put in our mouth; wisdom will be given for
decisions and strength to meet the occasion, the
needed amount of money will be forthcoming. It
will all seem as natural as if the need had never ex-
isted; for even before we asked it was met, the ful-
fillment being subject only to our performing our
part in the transaction. In the silence we contact the
answer whether we are aware of it or not, and faith
and expectancy and steady vision bring it forth into
being. Truly "faith apart from works is dead."
The condition of the body and the state of the
affairs are living testimony, for all who will read, as
to the kind of prayers we are offering; they are an
outpicturmg of our acceptance of the gifts of the
great Giver. Health of the body, success and pros-
perity in the affairs, peace and harmony in the en-
vironment, freedom from accident, joy in living are
all outward manifestations in the life of those who
practice the Presence, who pray without ceasing,
who dwell in the secret place of the Most High. "The
effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth
much."
105
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Beloved, lift
up your eyes until you behold the
King in His glory, and truly you shall not have
cause to say you are sick any more, limited any more,
unhappy any more; for His beauty will become your
beauty and the beauty of your whole world.
O Thou Christ of God within me, shine forth
Thy light continually vn my path, that I may not
turn aside. Be Thou my guide every moment of
every day, that I may -follow in the footsteps of Thy
Son. Give me courage! Give me strength! Give me
fdith! Give me love and patience and tolerance! I
would follow all the way. I would cling to Thy glori-
fietd presence until I too become glorified and a
sh'mng light in Thy world. So let it be -for me, Thy
son, and -for whosoever else may seek his inheritance
of the All-Good.
106
PART II
Meditations for the High 'Watch
Spiritual Remedies for Special Needs
The Living Stream
There's never a drought in my soul, dear Lord,
Though there be a drought o'er the land.
Though the earth be parched
And the fields be dried;
Though the sky be cloudless
And the air be close,
Within me ever is a living stream,
A fountain of life that quenches all thirst.
Ho! every one that thirsteth, come and drink!
'Tis a call to all creation.
The promise to those who drink from this stream
Is that they shall never thirst again.
I drink in remembrance of Thee, dear Lord,
From the living fountain within.
I am cleansed of all doubt;
My faith is renewed.
With a lifted vision,
I see nought but Thee.
As a garden watered becomes my soul,
Fitted to give forth of Thy living stream.
I hold out the cup to a thirsty world,
To each drooping person and plant,
And all Thy creation quenches its thirst,
And all becomes living again.
Selected
Ihe Living
Stream
There's never a drought in my soul, dear Lord,
Though there be a drought o'er the land.
Though the earth be parched
And the fields be dried;
Though the sky be cloudless
And the air be dose,
Within me ever is a living stream,
A fountain of life that
quenches all thirst
Ho! every one that thirsteth, come and drink!
f
Tis a call to all creation.
The promise to those who drink from this stream
Is that they shall never thirst again.
I drink in remembrance of Thee, dear Lord,
From the living fountain within.
I am cleansed of all doubt;
My faith is renewed.
With a lifted vision,
I see nought but Thee,
As a garden watered becomes my soul,
Fitted to give forth of Thy living stream.
I hold out the
cup to a
thirsty world,
To each
drooping person and plant,
And all
Thy creation
quenches its thirst,
And all becomes living again.
Selected
The Meeting
And so I find it well to come
For deeper rest to this still room;
For here the habit of the soul
Feels less the outer world's control;
The strength of mutual purpose pleads
More earnestly our common needs;
And from the silence multiplied
By these still forms on either side,
The world that time and sense have known
Falls off and leaves us God alone.
Whittier
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
THE
SECRET OF health is in pure and harmonious
thought. The secret of happiness is in the
finding of the kingdom of heaven within.
The secret of success and prosperity is in absolute
trust in the Giver of gifts. The secret of the manifes-
tation of all the good we need and desire, is in the
high watch, the lifted vision. Our vision can only be
lifted from the sordid, the low, from sickness and
poverty and the many forms of error that seek to
hold it down, by being filled with high and holy
thoughts and by our holding fast to these until the
eye becomes swift and single to the good only.
Error thoughts are continually seeking entrance
into the mind. They are suggested by people and
conditions about us. They spring out of the sub-
conscious doubts and fears, hatreds and jealousies,
poverty and failure, all of which we have stored
away, some through the ages. They come from the
race consciousness, the combined thoughts of all peo-
ple. This is indeed a formidable array of error causes,
and it can be handled by no man alone, for it is sub-
ject only to the Christ. Error and its results are con-
tinuous in the life of everyone until he comes to that
point in his development where he is willing to re-
deem and build anew. When this process starts, man
seeks through his conscious mind to cease forming
opinions and conclusions based on appearances, turn-
ing to the superconsciousness or God-Mind for
guidance in all things. In this way not only is the good
111
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
o the present accomplished, but the subconscious-
ness is cleansed and refilled with high and holy
thoughts, old error thoughts being wiped out and
a new and higher future established. Thus the whole
man is lifted up into higher and holier living, and
an impenetrable wall or aura is built around him that
protects
him from outer errors.
Until a person becomes poised and balanced in
Spirit
he cannot always, under great stress and
strain, lift the vision alone. He may be on the way
but not yet so conscious of the indwelling Christ
that he can turn to Him for every need. His ear may
not yet be attuned to catch clearly the message from
the superconscious mind, for the intellect still rea-
sons and friends suggest, all of which distracts his
attention from listening within. His eye may not yet
be pure enough to see the good only, for appearances
seem distracting and real, and they create pictures in
the mind from which thoughts form. Until the time
comes when a person of himself can turn quickly to
God, there are always answers provided by the om-
nipresent One to meet his asking, seeking, knocking.
It is in the receiving, in answer to the asking, in the
finding through seeking, in the opening to the knock-
ing that the Father blesses man, whatever the method,
whoever the channel.
The meditations in this little book have been
given to the writer in various times of need, to be
used for herself or for someone seeking help through
her. They came not from herself but as the voice of
the Christ speaking through her, to bless and to fill
112
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
those who did "hunger and thirst after righteous-
ness." These meditations are now given to you in
order that they may be a blessing and a means of
filling many hungry and thirsty souls who are seek-
ing the righteous way in like times of need, as a
means of lifting their vision from the material to the
heavenly. Use them for yourself in time of need.
Use them for the race, sending them out into the
universal consciousness so that whosoever will may
receive, so that the whole race may be lifted into a
higher consciousness and a better expression of life.
To read a holy meditation over and over and
over again, perhaps to memorize it, is to be filled
with its holy thoughts both in the conscious and the
subconscious mind. The vision is lifted; we enter the
high watch. Fears and doubts vanish, faith is in-
creased, strength is
gathered, power prevails. That
which before seemed such a formidable giant, now
sinks into nothingness. It has been dissolved, routed,
by the change in consciousness that took place while
the words were being repeated. From this new state
of consciousness comes healing, comes success and
prosperity, comes joyful and harmonious living.
The more often one enters the secret place to
meditate on holy thoughts the more does one become
like the Christ. When a person has entered often
enough into the holy of holies and remained long
enough his mind will become so filled with its
purity
and holiness that no longer will outer -errors change
it. Then there will be no more going out and coming
in. He will have arrived! He will abide! Praise God!
113
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Meditation of the High Watch
I keep my eyes ever single toward Thee, Thou
King of Kings, Thou Lord of Lords, toward Thine
omnipotence, Thine omnipresence, Thine omnis-
cience, toward Thy love and strength, Thy beauty
and purity. I let Thy joy fill me, Thy perfection heal
me, Thy wisdom guide me, Thy substance feed me.
Because my eyes are toward Thee I see only my
lordship, my kingship, my likeness to Thee, and
this vision of my perfection takes form in my outer
world. I express my likeness to Thee in my flesh,
for I see in my body the perfection of a little child
recently come forth from Thy bosom, pure, perfect in
form and function, a Christ child. I see my strength as
the strength of a great oak that has grown tall and
broad and sturdy through always sinking its roots
deeper in Thy substance, pushing its boughs out in
Thine omnipresent life, whether the winds blow it,
the rains beat upon it, the sun scorches it. I see in my
life the glory of the flowers that draw their per-
fection of form and color from omniscience, keeping
to their pattern within, whether they are surrounded
by beauty or ugliness, whether their neighbors are
distorted or perfect. I see my supply "pressed out"
from Thy living substance, and as lavishly provided
for me as the air I breathe, as the blades of grass that
my feet touch, as the leaves that drift down on me
from the autumn trees.
Through my divine inheritance from Thee I have
power and dominion over sickness, over poverty, over
all inharmony. As a fulfillment of my sonship, I
114
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
live as Thou wouldst have me to live, unafraid, un-
daunted, victorious, trusting Thee utterly, expressing
Thy perfection in all that I do and say. I see all Thine
other children as I see myself, heirs to Thy glory, par-
takers of Thy good.
I give thanks to Thee, O Keeper of the High
Watch, for Thine omnipresence, Thine omnipotence,
Thine omniscience, always with me as my own, giving
me courage and strength and power to keep my
eyes single toward Thee, and Thy holy will express-
ing itself through me, Thy child.
A Meditation for Relaxation
Father, as I come into Thy presence I lay aside all
human likes and dislikes, all sense desires and flesh
emotions. I cease struggling after things, cease
striving. Knowing that I am Thy beloved child, I am
free from worry and anxiety. I am not fearful of
anything or anybody, for underneath and about me
are Thine everlasting arms. I forgive as I would
be forgiven, for my heart is filled with a realization
of Thy redeeming love. A greater understanding of
all life comes to me as I sink down in quietness with
Thee, My soul rests in peace and is
glad.
In this union with Thee the intellect loses its
disposition to doubt and argue. My mind is ready
to think Thy thoughts after Thee, and in this state of
mental relaxation my body receives its release from
the bondage of error thoughts. From the crown of
my head to the soles of my feet every cell and every
nerve relaxes and lets go if its tenseness. My head
115
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
eyes and ears and mouth and nostrils relaxes and
lets the God life flow in freely and fully. My limbs
relax, the bones and flesh relax, the muscles and
nerves and skin relax, all open and subject to the
renewal of their Creator. All the organs of my
body relax so that they may do their work in divine
order and harmony, performing
their perfect func-
tions in building the Christ body. The emotions are
quieted and transformed into new life that is both
soothing and thrilling. My heart is at peace with God
and man and beats in unison with the great heart of
the universe. The breath of God in my nostrils makes
me a new creature in Christ Jesus, every whit whole.
The river of life circulates freely through a renewed
and released body, cleansing every cell, and renewing
me according to the divine pattern.
As Thy spirit
of peace and love pervades my
whole being, all that was weary in me is refreshed,
all that was sick is made whole, all that was limited
is made free and full. I am recreated in mind, soul,
and body. I am released from the bondage of grave-
clothes and come forth into the glorious Christ resur-
rection!
Bless Jehovah, O my soul,
And all that is within me, bless His holy name.
New-Year Eve Meditation
The book of the passing year is
spread out before
me as I sit alone tonight. Whatever of wrong of
another toward me that has been written on its pages
I forgive and wipe out. Any wrong of mine, inten-
116
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
tional or unintentional, I myself forgive, and I open
myself to receive forgiveness from anyone whom I
may have offended. I let all hurts, all self-pity, all
selfishness, all fear, all hate, all sickness and poverty
thoughts become as water that has passed away.
The book of my life is cleansed from cover to
cover through the forgiving love of Jesus Christ. It
is therefore without spot or blemish.
I ask, my Father, that before I enter into the
new year the Spirit of the Christ may so fill
my heart
and soul that all the pages of the book throughout
the year to come may be filled only with that which I
delight to keep in the chamber of my memory and
see fulfilled in my life. Let all the spiritual joys of
the year that is
passing be increased, let all the rich
thoughts multiply, all the good sent, from me and
toward me grow. Let faith, beauty of soul, com-
passion, and love become in me as they were in the
Nazarene. Let me grow in wisdom and stature and
in favor with God and man.
At this closing of the old year I consecrate the
incoming year to Thee, and myself to Thy service.
Use me, Father, in Thy vineyard; use me, mind, soul,
and body. Use all the material goods I possess for
the setting up of Thy kingdom on earth through the
upliftment of Thy children. Let me be a peacemaker,
a healer of discords, of poverty and fear thoughts,
let me open the eyes of the blind to Thy beauty, the
ears of the deaf to Thy message. Let me point the
lame and the halt to the path wherein they can run
and not be weary, walk and faint not.
117
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Let me express only the Christ every moment of
every day the whole year through, and let the Christ
in me call forth the Christ of everyone who enters
my life or crosses my path in the time to come.
My Banker
Father, Thou art my banker. Before I came into
being Thou didst deposit to my heavenly account
with Thee an unlimited supply. Throughout the
ages there has never been any lessening of Thy gift.
Because I have not been conscious of this bountiful
provision for me I have used sparingly, even nig-
gardly, of that which Thou wouldst have me use
in abundance. I have not realized that the inflow
that Thy law establishes is
equal to my faith in the
providing law and my free use of its gifts.
O Thou great Giver, I know now that wher-
ever and whenever there has been emptiness, lack, in
my life, it has been because I have held poverty
thoughts, have seen lack, which has closed the way
to the entrance of Thy stream of substance always
flowing toward me. Now I know that Thou dost not
limit me but that every thought and word and act
that does not correspond to Thy bountiful provision
for me shuts out Thy supply from my manifest
world.
Father, let me become each day more conscious
of Thy loving care for me, Thy beloved child. Let
me realize more and more the greatness and per-
manency of Thy provision for me. Give me greater
faith and wisdom and love, that I may use freely and
118
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
wisely from Thy storehouse to satisfy every need and
desire in my life and in the lives of others of Thy
children. Let me become conscious that the more I use
in Thy name, the greater becomes my capacity to
receive.
I give thanks, O Giver of gifts, for an overflowing
measure of substance ever ready to meet my de-
mands, for the harmony and beauty and richness that
accompany the conscious use of gifts direct from
Thy hand.
Divine Love
Divine love in me is a consuming fire, utterly de-
stroying from my mind all
thoughts of hard condi-
tions, all hard thoughts toward others, and destroy-
ing also all hard thoughts of others toward me. Love
sweeps clean from my consciousness all hardness
of every kind, past, present, and future, and elim-
inates from my body consciousness all hard mani-
festations. Warts, corns, calluses, lumps, gallstones,
knots, hardened arteries are all cast out by the forgiv-
ing love of Jesus Christ accepted by me.
Divine love in me is a lubricating oil, dissolving
all criticism, hate, selfishness, condemnation, worry,
anxiety, envy, self-pity from my mind and their re-
sultant conditions from my body. In the love of God
I live, move, and have my being. Rheumatism, neuri-
tis, stiff joints, indigestion, valve weakness, all these
disappear in the sweetness that love is, that I am.
Divine love in me is a radiant light that shines
out before me, making plain my way, guiding me in
119
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
the ways of wisdom, illuminating the path for others;
a light that constantly lifts higher my consciousness,
drawing up my body organs from all fallen condi-
tions; a light that no darkness of any kind, no dis-
ease, or accident can dim; a light that gives out to
others and draws from others to me justice and right-
eous judgment.
Divine love in me is a mighty magnet that draws
from the seen and the unseen my good. Joys seek
me, friends flock to me, health and wealth make me
their home, as the Christ Spirit within attracts to me
that which is in its own likeness.
Divine love is the God spark within me through
which I express compassion, tolerance, patience to-
ward all.
I am divine love, supreme, eternal !
Meditation an Substance
I am relaxed and still. Worry, anxiety, fear, and
doubt drift off into the nothingness from which they
come. Trust enters, peace prevails. I touch the hem
of Thy garment, O Christ, and all poverty thoughts
are healed. My eyes are opened and I see substance
everywhere. It spreads out before me greater than
the expanse of the ocean and of the dry land, greater
than all the oceans and dry lands of the multitudi-
nous planets, for it is not confined, not limited, by
three dimensions. It is of the Spirit world, unlimited,
eternal. It surrounds me as the air I breathe and fills
me as the life I feel.- It is
thought for my mind, food
for my body, supply for my needs.
120
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
With infinite love the great Giver has created
substance for His child, who is I. He has given me
the power to mold from it all my desires, to fill all
my needs, the power to be a channel through which it
flows into His universe to make all waste places
fertile. Day after day, year after year, age upon age,
I and millions of others of His children have used His
substance in limited quantities, not realizing that it
was ours to use in abundance. I see it now overflow-
ing all creation. The more I use it the more it flows
to me, and still it is as if it never had been touched,
for its vastness is now comprehended only by the
mind of its Creator.
I praise and give thanks for the garment of
substance with which the Father clothes all His cre-
ations. I praise and give thanks that He clothes and
provides for me, His highest creation, His dearest
possession, measuring His good out to me with a
measure that overflows all previous ideas of opulence,
all former manifestations of abundance.
As I go back into the material world to the du-
ties of the hour I take with me this realization of
substance as my eternal birthright, my everlasting
heritage, my omnipresent possession. I hold fast to
this high vision until all my outer world manifests
this inner opulent perfection.
My Work
I thank Thee, Father, for the work that Thou
hast given me to do in Thy busy universe. I do not
seek to shirk my task; whatsoever my hand finds to do
121
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
I do to Thy glory, that it may be done and may ac-
complish the purpose for which Thou didst give it
tome.
When my work is to take a towel, as did the
Master, and serve others, then Thou dost give me
power to serve sweetly, serve well. When I need
wisdom and understanding to carry on, the knower
within gives me sufficient to meet the need of
each hour. When I labor with my hands Thy strength
is made perfect in my human weakness.
I know that as my work is finished on one plane I
shall hear Thee say, "Well done, good and faithful
servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I
will set thee over many things; enter thou into the
joy of thy lord/' I know that when the Adam con-
sciousness of earning by the sweat of the brow has
passed from me, I shall enter into the Christ con-
sciousness of speaking into manifestation all my
needs and desires. I hasten this time by doing all that
my hand finds to do as unto the Lord. I seek to make
of myself a workman that need not be ashamed, ap-
proved unto God.
'
Let me while doing my work, whatever it may be,
spare the time to be kind. Let nie be a blessing to
whoever works by my side. Let those who cross my
path go on with a lifted vision.
Let me glorify work.
Forgiveness
All things, past, present, and future, that are out
of harmony with the divine law are forgiven me by
122
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
the One who gave His life to set me free.
There is no transgression, no sin of omission, no
sin of commission that Thou, O Son of man, O Son
of God, hast not wiped out for me, in Thy "Father,
forgive them/' spoken from the cross.
Ignorance in transgression, willfulness of desire,
and all their effects have become as nothing as I enter
upon the "crossing out" with Thee, my Saviour.
Scars and wounds and hurts are made whole;
both those which I have received and those which I
have inflicted have been healed by Thy blood shed
vicariously for the healing of the nations.
All unforgiveness in me and toward me, all in-
tolerance and injustice, even that present in the lives
that I remember no more, are completely blotted out
through Thy forgiving love, O Christ of God.
I accept Thine atonement, O Lamb of God,
Messiah of the world. Through Thy redeeming love
I am washed clean, rising above all human appear-
ances, all material bondage.
Now am I resurrected from the dead in mind,
body, and affairs, and enter into the newness that
has become mine through Thee. I am a son of the
living God, the Word of God made flesh, savior of
my world.
Meditation for the Night Watches
I am alone with Thee in the darkness of the night,
but I neither need nor desire any other presence. As
I feel Thy nearness, all darkness, all dimness of vi-
sion departs, and the glory of Thy countenance shines
123
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
round about me. My soul is filled with Thy radiance,
my mind is lifted above all fear and worry, my body
is free from the bondage of pain. No more am I sad,
no more am I lonely, no more am I anxious, for I
have found perfect trust in the goodness of Thy
will for me.
I give myself and my loved ones, my all, into
Thy keeping, my beloved. I know that the morrow
will bring the solution to every problem, the an-
swer to every question,
the supply to every need.
Until then I do not need them. I need only Thee. In
Thine arms I find peace; under Thy wings I am se-
cure. I lose myself in Thy self, and in the sweetness
of this oneness with Thee I rest and rest and rest
until the coming of a new day.
The River of Life
There is forever flowing us-ward the river of
life. It issues forth from the sanctuary of God, pure,
crystal-clear, redeeming and vitalizing in its nature.
It is a fountain whose waters never fail, it is a well of
living water springing up unto eternal life. Its waters
are for the healing of the nations through the cleans-
ing and purifying of the individual. It is without
money and without price for those who thirst for
God, the living God. Those who drink of these waters
shall never thirst again.
I enter boldly into the waters of this river of life;
in confidence I lie down in the stream. I surrender
my wounds, my mental and physical pains, to its
puri-
fying and renewing action. Knowing that Thou art
124
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
with me, I pass calmly through the waters. The rivers
shall not overflow me, but when the cleansing is
finished Thy hand shall draw me forth out of many
waters.
I invite the peace of this river to enter in that
my soul may become as a watered garden. I invite its
purity to enter my mind that it may be as a city of
God made glad. I invite its tributaries to break out in
all the desert places of my life that they may blossom
as the rose, in all the waste places that they may be-
come a Garden of Eden, in all the wilderness that
it may be filled with beauty, in all the lonely places
that they may resound with melody. Everything shall
live wherever the river floweth; everything on its
banks shall be healed. My blind eyes shall be opened,
my deaf ears shall listen and hear, my lame men-
tality shall leap into livingness, and the whole shall
break forth into a song of "Glory to God in the
highest."
I am a channel of the living fountain that comes
forth from the throne of God. I give of my waters
and am never depleted, never impoverished, because
I am aware of my source. I know that he that watereth
shall be watered also, and I give myself as a channel
through which the living waters flow to all humanity.
Meditation for One Seeking a Position
There is no lack of a place for me to serve in
this great busy universe that Jehovah God created.
When it was created, I also was created, and the
Lord of Creation, created with me all my good, all
125
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
that I should need from the time I started out on my
journey from Him into experience until I returned to
Him, knowing as He knows and seeing as He sees.
Thou, O Father-Mother God, hast always provided
for me bountifully all that I would receive. Even now
Thou dost stretch out over-flowing hands to me.
There is a place prepared for me. Before I
go
forth to find this place I enter into Thy consciousness
of all good. I fill
myself with Thy glory of expres-
sion and let it shine forth from me. I recognize that I
myself am success, and that my good is seeking rue.
As I go forth to enter my place, I know that I am
about my Father's business, and that the angel of
His presence has already gone before and made plain
and successful the way.
In seeking my own I let no words of others dis-
courage me. I let no acts of others hurt me. I keep
my vision steadfast on the Giver of gifts that I may
see clearly the way that He points out to me. I
keep my ears attuned to the "still small voice" that I
may hear when He says: "This is the way, walk ye in
it."
All past thoughts of not enough pay, too hard
work, lack of knowledge, are wiped out. All careless
work, unproductive work, uninspired work is for-
given me. I know that I have that which I earn, and
I use my spiritual knowledge of true service to in-
crease my receiving capacity. I seek henceforth to
give to my work more than I earn, and the over-
flow returns to me with its
increase, even as the needle
returns to the magnet.
126
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
Right now is the time predestined from the be-
ginning for me to enter into higher work, because
now I have lifted myself above losses, above lacks,
have ceased to depend on positions, possessions, per-
sons for my substance.
I praise and give thanks, Thou Giver of gifts,
for the beauty with which Thou art filling my life,
through this new service which Thou has given me
to do. I thank Thee, Father, for service, all-absorbing,
uplifting service, where I can preach the gospel of
good will, health, peace and plenty, by the life I
live and the work I do.
Easter Meditation
Christ is risen in my soul today, and every cell
and fiber of my being enters into this resurrection. I
feel the thrill of new life as it
pulses through and
through me. I am released from bondage. I am alive
in Christ Jesus.
O Thou Son of God, I thank Thee for becoming a
son of man, for taking on bodily appearance that
Thou mightest prove to the race that flesh has no
power over Spirit. I thank Thee for Thy great love
for man, for me, which carried Thee through Geth-
semane, up Calvary, and into the tomb so that it
might count as an atonement for all who follow
Thee. Lead Thou me^on,
O Way-Shower. Let me
ever submit my will to the will of the Highest; give
me strength and courage to bear the burden up my
every Calvary; let me continually cross out the little
self until it is forever crucified; let me feel Thine all-
127
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
sufficient presence
with me as I enter the tomb of any
experience.
Let me know, Thou omnipresent Christ,
that once for all Thou hast passed through death so
that man may rise out of sin, sickness, poverty, ig-
norance, and death into the fullness of a new life of
glory.
I am not afraid of Gethsemane; it is only letting
go of the perverse
human will so that the good of
God's will for us may become manifest. I am not
afraid of calvary, for it is only an opportunity to
prove the willingness of the great Burden Bearer to
carry our burdens. I am not afraid of the cross, for I
know it is only the place in consciousness where I
give up the lesser self so that the Christ self may rule
my life. I am not afraid of the tomb, for I let it be-
come to me as the secret place of the Most High,
where I may hide whenever error approaches. There
alone with Thee, O risen One, I become so filled with
Thy peace and power, so alive to the Christ within,
so conscious of my oneness with the Father that I
can come forth into the world and say to all error:
'Touch me not; I am risen/'
The Saviour of the world is not dead; He is risen.
He walks with me, He talks with me, He directs my
way, He provides for my every need. He leads me
through the valleys to the vety mountaintops. He
shines through me so that men may see His risen
glory and follow also after Him through the valleys
and on His ascension to the heights.
Let the life in plant and tree break the bondage
of silence, let the birds join in the melody of the
128
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
resurrection, and all the creatures be glad. Let men
recognize the power of their likeness to Thee, and
lift up mind, soul, and body in an ecstacy of joy as
they join all creation in the glory song: "Christ is
risen! Earth is now redeemed!'*
Purse Blessing
I open my purse and there is
poured into it the
substance of God. I turn it
upside down and pour
out some of its contents wherewith to bless that work
of His which the Father points out to me. I use all
that I need freely but wisely. Yet my purse is never
empty. It is constantly being filled from that eternal
substance of Spirit which is without beginning,
without end. This substance overflows my purse, and
the more I use from it the larger the stream flowing
into it becomes. I thank Thee, Father, for substance
ever taking form for the use of Thy children every-
where.
Morning Meditation
I ,awake to this day, a new day, a new oppor-
tunity, born again in the night sabbath of my soul. I
arise with praises to Thee, O Creator of my being. As
I remember my likeness to Thee, my. mind and my
body sing: "Wake up, my glory, awake !"
As the glorious sun rises above the horizon and
floods my material world with its light, so the "sun
of righteousness" rises in my consciousness to fill
my soul with its
glory, with a radiance that shines
throughout my universe.
129
I thank Thee, Father, for the day spread out
before me, with its
opportunities for service to
Thee. Thy wisdom shall lead me, Thy beauty fill me,
Thy substance provide for me throughout this day
and all days to come.
While the day is yet new I give myself to Thee,
Father, with the single desire of being a channel
through which more of Thy beauty, Thy wisdom,
Thy joy, Thy love, Thy substance may flow into the
hearts and lives of Thy other children, who cross
my path or walk by my side today. Let me express
so much of Thee in my conversation and acts that
all who see and hear may recognize that Christ is my
pattern and seek too to follow after Him.
Today let me see beauty everywhere. Let me see
the Christ in my fellow men. Let me call forth the
Christ expression wherever I walk; let me call it forth
in loving kindness from man to man and from man
to God. Let me call forth peace and harmony and
joy. Let my whole world be filled with gladness, be-
cause I have today lived and walked with God.
Through Thy presence with me all that I do
this day succeeds, for whatever I undertake within
Thy will is filled with Thy wisdom and substance and
life.
For the
Homekeeper
My home is a heaven for my loved ones, for I
guard it from every enemy of happiness that seeks
to enter. Above its
portals I inscribe:
"None enter here but in love.
None leave here except in peace/'
130
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
On its walls I write:
"Christ is
omnipresent in this household.
All members of this family put their trust in Him."
I wipe out selfishness, inharmony, discontent,
worry, anxiety, fear from my heart and see each
member of the home free also from these errors,
through a realization of the Christ Spirit within. I
think and speak only in terms of plenty, for I know
that in substance there is always overflowing abun-
dance, and I fill the pantry, I fill the closets, I re-
plenish the home with furnishings from God's sub-
stance, created for my use from the beginning.
I dust out disease germs, contagion in thought,
as I dust my treasures. I stir in love and substance,
as I prepare my food. I darn and mend and sew,
realizing that robes of righteousness that never age
are gifts to those who abide in the house of the Lord.
I am not cumbered about much serving but take
time to sit at the feet of the Master and learn from
Him how to meet every situation with wisdom and
love, how to heal the sick within and without my
portals, how to receive strength for the day's duties,
how to keep sweet under all circumstances.
I send my family forth into the world surrounded
by love that protects, strength that sustains, courage
that succeeds. I welcome them home with a love that
fills them with peace and contentment.
"I can do all things through Christ which
strengthened! me," serving with gladness, being
served in turn with joy. Co-operation, kindness, and
harmony reign supreme in this household, and my
131
Jf JffcCJL UAL PRAYER
loved ones and I work together to establish the
kingdom of God on earth.
Room Blessing
I hallow this room by establishing within it the
living presence of the Christ. In His presence there is
nothing to fear. Good only abides here, and my room
is filled with its atmosphere of peace, joy, life,
health, opulence. They sing themselves into my body
and out into all my affairs. When I leave this room
the angel presence keeps watch over my treasures,
yet it
goes before me to guide and protect. When I
return the presence enters before me with peace and
love, yet it was always there. It is
Omnipresence, the
same yesterday, today, and forever, in which I live
and move and have my being. My whole world is
filled with its glory now and evermore.
The Supreme Remedy
Thou dost walk by my side, Son of God, Re-
deemer of the world, Thou art die supreme remedy
for my every lack, the cure of my every longing.
Thou art the ease for every heartache, the satisfaction
of every desire. Thou art my healer, my banker, my
guide, my all in all. There is no need in my life which
Thou dost not completely fill with Thyself.
Through every moment of every day down the
ages since I came out from Thee into expression,
Thou hast kept me. Thou keepest me still in the
hollow of Thy hand. Thy love overshadows me in
all my wanderings and guides me back into the right-
132
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
ecus way. It goes before me to make my way light; it
remains behind me to protect me; below it lifts me
up out of hard places. It plucks my feet out of the
nets of materiality and sets them on the rock of sal-
vation. Its bountiful table is always spread before
me, until my cup runneth over.
Thine all-encompassing love hath kept me back
from many stumblings, has held me back out of
many waters, has emancipated me from fear and
doubt arid worry, from sins of omission and com-
mission. Thy love is from everlasting to everlasting,
the same yesterday, today, and forever, and in it I
live and move and have my being. In it I find com-
pletion, I find peace and satisfaction.
Because Thou art through eternity the supreme
remedy for every lack in the mind, body, and affairs
of man, I hold to Thee only, and am transformed
from glory to glory into the spiritual unity with Thee
that was mine before the world was. Thou, O Christ
of God, art the way, the Truth, and the life, and
Thou hast Thy home in my soul. I give myself to
Thee as an eternal gift, and in this union I lose all
resemblance to the old Adam man, for I am a new
creature in Christ Jesus, whole, complete.
Table Blesszwg
Thou unseen Guest, increase this manifestation
of Thy living substance, as Thou didst increase the
loaves by Galilee, until every hungry need of our
mind,- body, and affairs is filled to overflowing.
Amen!
133
Child's Prayer
Father-Mother God, I thank Thee for Thy an-
gel presence keeping watch over me by night and
by day, helping me always to do right, protecting me
from all harm. I thank Thee for the Christ within that
keeps my mind pure and makes my body strong. I
thank Thee for Thy gifts of peace, health, and abun-
dance poured out to my loved ones now and ever-
more. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen !
Song of Praise and Thanksgiving
My heart is singing a song of praise and thanks-
giving to Thee, my beloved. My soul drops all sor-
row and sadness that the song's lilt may reach every
cell of my body, and my whole being be lifted up in a
chorus of gladness to Thee, my Creator, my keeper.
For the many blessings as yet unmanifest that
Thou, O Giver of gifts, hast prepared for me when I
am ready to receive them I give thanks. For the bless-
ings of today, to which I have full and free access
and which make my life happier and holier and more
productive of good, I give thanks.
I praise and give thanks for Thine omniscience,
for the wisdom and right judgment that fills my
mind and works out in my life, as I seek to be guided
by the will of the Highest.
I praise and give thanks for Thy rich substance
and the bounty with which Thou dost fill
my hands
as I hold them out in faith and expectancy to Thee.
I praise and give thanks, Thou Great Physician,
for the healing stream of life that is ever cleansing
134
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
and healing my body as I submit it to Thee for re-
newal.
I praise and give thanks for the angel of Thy
presence. Omnipresent One, a pillar of fire when the
way seems dark, a cloud of hiding when I need pro-
tection, ever omnipotent on my path back to Thee.
I praise and give thanks, O Lover of my soul,
for Thy likeness of love, even the living Christ
within me, shining from me toward others. I thank
Thee for the words and deeds that are made possible
through the tolerance and patience and justice of Thy
love in me and in Thine other children.
I thank Thee for a home whose foundation is laid
by the Master Builder, for loved ones in whom I
know dwells the Christ of God, for work that is a
joyful service to Thee. I thank Thee for blessings
manifold, for the beauties of nature, for the fellow-
ship of friends, for the opportunity to serve Thee.
I thank Thee that I am because Thou art and that
I am what I am because Thou art what Thou art. I
thank Thee for this consciousness of unity with Thee.
My soul is glad, my heart rejoices, and all that is
within me blesses Thy holy name.
A Christmas Eve Meditation
The world celebrates Thy birth, O little Babe
of Bethlehem, but I celebrate the birth of the Christ
of God in my soul. I commemorate the day when in
my consciousness I conceived the meaning of Thy
coming, when I felt my heart throb in answer to Thy
call of love,
135
From one Christmas Eve to the next Christmas
Eve I seek to incorporate into my life more of Thy
gentleness, more of Thy compassion, more of Thy
selflessness, tolerance, and patience toward all. I
seek to grow as Thou didst grow, in wisdom and
stature and in favor with God and man, that Thy
greatness may become my greatness, Thy power for
good my power for good, and that I too may become
a Christ of God, the savior of my world.
The star that shone that first Christmas Eve in
an age long gone shines as brightly tonight for all
whose inner eyes are opened to see the invisible star
that heralds the setting up of the Christ kingdom
within.
The Christ child is born again in the manger of
the heart of everyone who has prepared for His
coming, has made room for His entrance through
purification, through praise, through faith and ex-
pectancy.
The joy of the angels' songs rings as true and
clear this Christmas Eve in the souls of all who
abide in the Christ consciousness, who shepherd their
thoughts, who live in peace and good will toward
men, as it did when the angels announced to the
shepherds the birth of the Saviour of the world.
The Wise Men within us are continually search-
ing the heavens of our consciousness for the star that
proclaims the Christ birth and that signifies to us
the readiness of the soul to receive their rich gifts.
In my consciousness of unity with Thee, O om-
nipresent One, the light of the star shines in my soul
136
MEDITATIONS FOR THE HIGH WATCH
tonight, illumining all the dark places. The joy
of the angels' songs fills my heart with peace and
good will to all; the Wise Men within bring their
rich gifts with rejoicing, as I give all that I am and
all that I have to the Christ of God, born anew in my
consciousness tonight.
Glory to God in the highest! May all men come
quickly into a consciousness of the Christ love and
good will, that there may be between Him and
man, between country and country, the peace of God
that passeth understanding. Amen! Amen!
The Burden Bearer
O Thou Burden Bearer, how wonderful is Thy
promise to all that are weary and heavy laden. When
I listen I hear Thee say, "Lo, I am with you always,"
and! I believe. I hear Thee say, "Come unto me" and
"Cast all thy burden upon Jehovah/' and I accept.
Let me feel the fullness of Thy promises. Let me
cast all my burdens on Thee, knowing that as I let
them go, they are taken up by the One who knows
how to make of them the nothingness that they are.
Now as I release to Thee all the burdens of my life,
I feel my emancipation, my freedom, my lightness.
I am emancipated from hard conditions. I am free
from doubt and worry; I am lightened of all physical
and mental loads. I am a bond servant no longer,
but a glorious new creature, spreading my wings to
attain new heights of the Christ consciousness.
It is very wonderful, O Christ, to know that Thou
who didst bear the cross up Calvary for me art al-
137
ways beside me, Thou who art never weary, never dis-
couraged, never depressed, because Thou knowest
the way of life everlasting. It is very wonderful to
know that as I look to Thee and rest in Thee Thou
wilt lift from me every burden of the day. Through
my every Gethsemane, up my every Calvary, through
the tomb into the resurrection Thou art with me,
and with Thee I ascend into a consciousness of Spir-
itual unity. No longer is the path dark or the burden
heavy, no longer do I grope or sit exhausted by the
way; for Thy presence lights and lifts. Ever in the
consciousness of Thy love and power omnipresent,
I am strengthening and renewing my physical be-
ing, and all the affairs of my life are made success-
ful and easy. In Thee I find rest to my soul.
Meditation for Wisdom and Guidance
Dear Father, I come to Thee like a little child
not knowing the way. I seek the solution of problems
that I of myself am not able to work out. I have
come to the crossroads and know not the path to
take. I would have guidance beyond the human
that I may make no mistake, that I may not have to
retrace my steps, that I may take the path that leads
to joy for myself and others and to greater service to
Thee. My intellect would have me go one way, my
emotions and desires pull me in another; but I
know from past experience that none of these can
be relied upon to lead me aright. My faith is not in
them; for they do not get their knowledge from
Thy omniscience but depend on people and condi-
138
tions and circumstances to give them their leading.
My faith is in Thee, O omnipotent God, for in Thee
only is the knowledge of the way to right decision.
O Thou omniscient Mind, Thou knower of all
things past, present, and future, make known to me
Thy will. It is not my limited will that I would
have done, but Thine; for I know that in Thy will
for me is all the good that I could desire. Let the
angel of Thy presence guide me in a plain path,
in a right way, a way that corresponds to Thy will
for me. Give me strength and courage to go forward,
give me faith to follow, even though there be a cross,
even though there be a dark valley before I reach the
heights.
O send out Thy light and Thy truth,
Let them lead me,
Let them bring me unto Thy holy hill,
And to Thy tabernacles.
Bedtime Meditation
Father, I thank Thee for the activities of the day
and Thy sustaining strength to complete them. I
thank Thee for the time of rest that draws near,
when I can close the door and draw the curtain
of my mind, shutting out all the distractions and
fascinations of the material world, and receive un-
disturbed Thy ministrations, Thine instructions.
Let, O Redeemer, all wrong thoughts of the day,
my thoughts toward others, others' thoughts toward
me, be dissolved in the forgiving love of Jesus
Christ. Let all unkind words and acts be submerged
139
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
in Thy redeeming grace. Let all the cares o the day
steal away, all anxious thoughts take flight, as I
draw near to Thee, O Burden Bearer. Let my mind be
cleansed of all error, that I may be pure enough to
enter Thy presence in the hours to come. Let my
body relax so that it may be open enough to receive
Thy spiritual forces, which seek to renew and
strengthen. Let my intellect cease its thoughts so that
my mind may be alert enough to catch Thy slightest
message and to interpret truly all the dreams and
visions of the night. Let this sabbath of my soul be a
time apart with Thee, my beloved, a time of peace
and rest and renewal. Let my soul worship in Thy
house, O Lord, and as I behold Thy beauty, let its
transforming power find expression in my life, filling
all the unlovely places with Thy glory and holiness.
I know that Thou who keepest Israel neither
slumberest nor sleepest. Because of Thine omnipres-
ence the night shineth as the day and Thy song is
with me. I will now in faith and peace lay me down
to sleep, for Thou, O Father, keepest me in safety.
The angel of Thine appointing hovers over me
so that no harm may come nigh my dwelling. Un-
derneath and around me are the everlasting arms. In
Thine omnipresence I rest and rest, and my sleep
is sweet.
Meditation for Harmonizing the Elements
Father, I thank Thee for rain in its season, for
gentle winds, and merciful , clouds, for heat and
cold, all
adapted by Thy love to meeting man's
140
comfort and nature's needs. For all of these Thou
hast appointed a time so that the beauty and pro-
ductiveness of Thy creation may increase. Let nothing
hinder the harmony of the whole, but let man and
nature work together to restore the perfection of
Thy kingdom on earth.
In the beginning the Garden was created for
man. He was given it to dress and keep. Power and
dominion over all creation was his. He walked and
talked with God in the garden of his soul and knew
only the good. His world showed forth this peace
and harmony of the within. As long as he lived in this
relation to his Creator there were no droughts, no
floods, no freezing weather, no scorching heat to
disturb the beauty of his world. When he began to
see good and evil, error began to be manifested in his
world, and he was in the garden no longer.
Father, all mankind is
seeking to return to Thy
garden of peace and beauty and plenty. They are
because they are seeking their good, which is found
only in Thy garden. Let each of Thy children the
world over realize that peace must be established in
the heart, beauty in the soul, and plenty in the vision
if these are to enter and become manifest in the life.
Let us know that we must think thoughts of love
and speak words of love, that individual and national
clashes must cease, that hatred and cruelty and in-
justice must be wiped out, that greed and selfish-
ness and jealousy must be overcome, and that the
Christ of God must be enthroned in the heart before
we can again enter the Garden of Eden.
141
Father, I thank Thee for Thy love which fills
my
heart, for Thy wisdom which fills my mind, for Thy
clear vision which sees only the good. I claim my
birthright of power and dominion, realizing that
its foundation is in Thine omnipotence, omniscience,
and omnipresence. From this consciousness I now
speak peace and harmony to the elements, that all
nature may receive direct from Thy hands and ful-
fill its
purpose of beauty and productiveness, in the
name and through the power of the One who said
to the waves and winds, "Peace, be still/* and had
instant recognition and obedience. I speak to all Thy
creation: "Let the Christ harmony and peace reign
supreme in you, that it may be so in the elements."
Meditation for Prosperity
O Thou Giver of gifts, Thou all-inclusive Gift, to
Thee I bring my needs, my desires, my limitations,
my failures. To my mortal mind they seem great, but
to Thine omnipotent Mind they are nothing. I sink
my seeing in Thy seeing, and I rest from seeing
things or the lack of things. I see only Thee, and Thy
beauty and glory and opulence become mine also
in mind, body, and affairs. This good which Thou
hast prepared for me from the beginning, and which
continually seeks entrance into my world, makes itself
manifest through the door that my faith in Thy love
for me has opened.
In the realization of my sonship I claim the
promise that all Thine is mine, and I make Thee, my
Father, the promise that all mine is Thine. By this
142
tion, waits for me to cleanse the temple and let
spirit-
ual perfection fill my life.
Momentarily, through thought and word and act,
I seek to build a body temple so pure, so holy, so
harmonious that Spirit may be able to find expression
in me and through me. I seek to finish with earthiness,
that this corruptible may put on the incorruptible,
this mortal the immortal; that this flesh may be trans-
lated into pure spirit substance, which knows no pain
or weakness, no accident or death. I seek to sur-
render my emotions, my desires, to the will of the
Highest, that every cell in my body may be resur-
rected from the deadness that the senses have im-
posed upon them and become free to express the
purity and beauty of Spirit. I seek to find within
me the Christ body and to claim it as my own, that
the physical may co-ordinate with the spiritual and
become self-renewing, vital, young, beautiful, a re-
deemed body, formed after the image, patterned
after the likeness of the Creator, even the living God.
Thus do I seek to make my body a fit
dwelling
place for Thee, my beloved, a place in which Thou
delightest Let every thought be as sweet incense
on Thine altar, let every word resound as sweet
music in a heavenly choir, let kind acts and just deeds
form an inner beauty of expression and that which I
am become the holy atmosphere of Thy kingdom.
To Thee, O living God, do I dedicate my body
as Thy holy temple. My soul is
again at one with
Thee in Thy tabernacle, and it is
glad. I bid my
intellect sit at Thy feet to learn of Thee, that Thy
144
covenant between Thee and me there is
opened the
channel through which Thy wealth flows to me and
out from me, in abundant measure, to bless Thy work
and Thy workers. My storehouse and Thy store-
house are full to overflowing, for they are one.
I enter in consciousness the kingdom of God
within me, where riches abound. Here I abide, trust-
ing and resting; here I lay up rich treasures of
thought that make of me a mighty magnet drawing
good into my manifest world. Prosperity flows to
me from every direction until "my cup runneth
over/* As I open my hand, my pocketbook, my bank
account, my business, my home to the inflow of Thy
substance, each is filled with a prosperity that is
eternal, because it comes from Thee who art from
everlasting to everlasting. I enter into that peace
which brings freedom from anxious thought, be-
cause I know in whom I believe, and I know that
He who is my supply and my support will never fail
me, no matter how great my need may be.
I praise and give thanks to Thee, Thou Giver of
gifts, for Thy bountiful substance "pressed out"
to me, taking form in whatsoever I need even before
the need is manifest, in the ever-overflowing measure
of the loaves and fishes, to spare and to share.
The Temple of the Living God
My body, this house which my soul possesses, is
the dwelling place of the Most High God. In the
holy of holies within my own soul Spirit waits for
me to become conscious of its own indwelling perfec-
143
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
tion, waits for me to cleanse the temple and let
spirit-
ual perfection fill my life.
Momentarily, through thought and word and act,
I seek to build a body temple so pure, so holy, so
harmonious that Spirit may be able to find expression
in me and through me. I seek to finish with earthiness,
that this corruptible may put on the incorruptible,
this mortal the immortal ;
that this flesh may be trans-
lated into pure spirit substance, which knows no pain
or weakness, no accident or death. I seek to sur-
render my emotions, my desires, to the will of the
Highest, that every cell in my body may be resur-
rected from the deadness that the senses have im-
posed upon them and become free to express the
purity and beauty of Spirit, I seek to find within
me the Christ body and to claim it as my own, that
the physical may co-ordinate with the spiritual and
become self-renewing, vital, young, beautiful, a re-
deemed body, formed after the image, patterned
after the likeness of the Creator, even the living God.
Thus do I seek to make my body a fit
dwelling
place for Thee, my beloved, a place in which Thou
delightest. Let every thought be as sweet incense
on Thine altar, let every word resound as sweet
music in a heavenly choir, let kind acts and just deeds
form an inner beauty of expression and that which I
am become the holy atmosphere of Thy kingdom.
To Thee, O living God, do I dedicate my body
as Thy holy temple. My soul is
again at one with
Thee in Thy tabernacle, and it is
glad. I bid my
intellect sit at Thy feet to learn of Thee, that Thy
144
wisdom may be my wisdom and guide my footsteps
surely into Thy way o holiness. My eyes I dedi-
cate to the seeing of good only, seeing the Christ in
my brother, the Lord in all creation. My ears I
dedicate to listening within for Thy message, my
mouth to speaking Thy words of Truth. My brain is
Thine to use for constructive thinking and the
lifting of the race consciousness. My hands and
feet are to serve Thee and make the path of life more
glorious. In all that I do I seek to express Thee.
O living God, take this body temple and let
Thy glory express itself in it and through it,
that
it may be a shining tabernacle through which Thy
love and beauty and perfection are shown forth to
mankind as man's very own.
Meditation for Protection
My heart holds nought but love divine, nought
but peace and good will. My mind reaches out to
bless wherever a blessing may be needed, regardless
of creed or race or station. In this consciousness there
is no room for antagonism, for contagion, for ac-
cidents or terrors, for storms of the elements or emo-
tions. All my world is filled with the harmonizing,
uplifting, all-absorbing love of God.
He that keepeth me in the hollow of His hand
neither slumbers nor sleeps. The angel of His pres-
ence wields a flaming sword at the entrance to my
world, keeping back all error. The strong right arm
of Jehovah God is my defense from all evil. He that
keepeth me as the apple of His eye maketh me to
145
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
dwell in safety. He keepeth my goings-out and
comings-in. By day the cloud of His presence hides
me from harm, by night the flame of His glory dis-
solves all the terrors of darkness. In the secret place
of the Most High I dwell securely; under the shadow
of the Almighty I abide peacefully.
My Father, I give thanks to Thee for the ra-
diance of the Christ presence continually abiding in
me. Let whoever crosses my path in hatred, in hard-
ness, in injustice be healed by the image of Thyself
radiating through me. Let me be so filled with the
Christ love that anyone seeking to enter my world,
visibly or invisibly, to harm may become conscious
of a love so full, so free, so great that it satisfies
him and takes from his heart all error desire. Let him
also be lifted up into a realization of his Christ
likeness and evermore walk with Thee.
Let me, my Father, feel Thine omnipotence until
all the enemies of my household, fear and anxiety,
worry and doubt, vanish from my consciousness into
utter nothingness, to return no more. Let me sit at
Thy feet and learn of Thy loving-kindness until love
has made friends of all enemies.
To Thee, my Father-God, praise and thanksgiving
constantly rise like sweet incense from Thine altar
in my heart. For Thine omnipresence continually
leading me in paths of righteousness and ways of
peace, for Thine omniscience ever before me as a
shining light, for Thine omnipotence powerfully
dissolving the error, I momently give thanks, my
Saviour, my Redeemer.
146
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR
LACKS
EVERY
MANIFESTATION of inharmony in the body
and life has its
correspondence in the mind.
Either in the conscious mind there are
thoughts not in accord with the law of righteous-
ness fear, anxiety, intolerance, criticism, hate, jeal-
ousy, lack or in the subconscious mind there have
in the past been stored away error thoughts that are
as yet unredeemed. In order to remove the bodily
inharmony or the inharmony in the life we need to
counteract the thought or group of thoughts that is
at the root of the error appearance, and to plant in
this emptied place the good seed of righteous
thoughts that will continually increase and produce
in the body and the life the good only. If thoughts
are chosen that are pure truths, free from intellectual
conclusions and deductions, from emotions and roa-
terial desiresf nothing more is needed except to hold
them fast in the conscious mind until the subconscious
mind grasps them, and the soul realizes its freedom^
to express its Christ likeness. Then does the holy
thought come into its owti; and the power of the
word being released, it
expresses itself first in a
consciousness of peace and harmony, then in a lifting
of the feeling nature into a state of ecstacy or exul-
tation, and then in a manifestation of peaceful and
harmonious living.
All spiritual remedies dissolve errors of con-
sciousness even as a light turned on in a dark room
147
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
dissolves the darkness. They bring into conscious-
ness the light of Truth, even as a lamp brings light
into a darkened room, and the Truth of life, which
is health, joy, abundance, stands forth even as the
true character of the room stands forth when it is
revealed by the light. According as we have faith in
that which the spiritual remedy expresses
the Truth
about ourselves as sons and heirs of the Most High
God so truth will be manifested for us and in us.
If our faith is weak and wavering and we keep our
vision on the appearance, power is withheld from the
words we speak, and the change cannot manifest
itself quickly, may never manifest itself; but if our
faith is in the Great Physician and we see as already
accomplished that which we speak,
then the words
will be given freedom to express their power and
will carry us into the very presence of the divine
healer, and our release will be speedy.
The quicker one turns from an appearance of in-
harmony and dissolves it
through the use of a Truth
statement the less hold will it have on the flesh, the
less growth will it have in the life. A weed in its
early growth is easily pulled up, for it has not yet
become firmly established; but the longer it remains
the further out and deeper down does it send its
roots, making it harder to uproot and causing a
greater disturbance to the soil and surrounding
plants. To take at once, when errors are felt or seen,
a statement of Truth that denies the cause of the
appearance and affirms its
opposite, the spiritual
reality, is to enter quickly the realm of the pattern
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
in the mount, from which comes perfect expression.
Thus there is
wiped out root and branch, through
contact with the Father within who doeth the works,
that which causes the discord in the life, and it is
mastered or controlled before it has spread to other
parts
of the outer expression.
Man has the will to use, the power to choose, one
of two ways of thought activity, either the Adamic
consciousness of mixed good and evil or the pure
Christ consciousness of the spiritual reality. Only
that which is 'Very good" is of God's creation and
worthy of our consideration, our acceptance of any-
thing less than this puts us under bondage to sense
consciousness. To co-operate with the Creator in His
'Very good" is to recognize the divinity of the self,
the diseaseless, deathless, sinless self, the triumphant
Son of God with power and dominion over all error;
and to recognize this is to open the way for its mani-
festation in reality.
The spiritual
"remedies" outlined here have been
given the writer in answer to a call on the omniscient
Mind for the highest help available for others in
their time of need, in cleansing, renewing and mak-
ing them harmonious according to the perfect pattern.
They are to be used to deny the root cause of the
inharmony of the body or life, thus cleansing the
mental realm, and then to lift the mind to the purity
and faith of the Christ. They are to be used to deny
the line of thought that has caused the error appear-
ance and to affirm the spiritual reality needed to
counteract it and to build in that which the discordant
149
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
thought has hidden for the time being. Thus does
one enter the realm from which Jesus Christ func-
tioned when He spoke forgiveness of sins; when He
made the deaf to hear, the dumb to speak, the lame
to walk, the blind to see; when He restored the
fevered body, and raised up the dead into new and
vital living. In this state of consciousness all things
are possible, nothing is hard, because one has lost
consciousness of the weak and limited personal self
and become one with the miracle-working Christ of
God, He who said, "Come unto me, all ye that labor
and are heavy laden," has been given the burden of
circumstances or conditions, and you find rest unto
soul and body when He enters and does His perfect
work.
The spiritual remedies given here state the Truth,
no matter what the appearance may be, no matter
what the senses claim, no matter what others say.
Accept them in faith as from the Great Physician.
Take the prayer that fits your need. Repeat it over
and over until it is fixed in your conscious mind. Re-
peat it yet over and over until your whole being rec-
ognizes that it is the truth concerning the self, until
the very flesh vibrates to the words. Then drop the
denial portion of the prayer and hold the affirmation
until it continues to say itself subconsciously when
you are about the day's duties or asleep in your bed
at night. Then you will find the power of the word
becoming flesh to dwell with you, expressing itself
in joy and beauty, in wholeness and plenty.
As a person continually turns to the spiritual rem-
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
edy to meet each situation in his life, he will find
growing in him a fuller consciousness of the one
Presence and one Power omnipresent in his life. As
he keeps the high watch, turning always in faith
toward the Giver of gifts, claiming the Truth about
himself a$ son and heir of God, he will find his in-
heritance of that which the Father is and that which
the Father has becoming manifest here and now. As
he looks away from every error appearance,
from
pain and ache and disease, to the perfect Christ body
within, bone of His bone, flesh of His flesh, the very
life and substance of His being, he will find purity
and perfection manifesting itself in his body temple,
and he will become a new creature in Christ Jesus,
every whit whole. Then will he come into that whkh
mortal eye hath not seen, nor physical
ear heard,
neither the intellect conceived; he will come into a
consciousness of the glory that the soul had with
the Father in the beginning, when he was the delight
of the Creator, a master workman with Him in creat-
ing the good. Beloved, may this be your experience
through the use of the words below, words given
by the omniscient Mind to one whose whole desire
in life is to be of service in lifting humanity out of
suffering and sorrow, poverty
and death into its di-
vine inheritance of peace and beauty, joy and plenty,
glorious living here and now.
A Daily Self-Treatment
There is within me the perfect pattern
of a per-
fect body, even the Christ body. I constantly turn my
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
vision to this body, and that which it
expresses in
and through me makes perfect this temple of the liv-
ing God. In accordance with the pattern, my body is
strong, vital, alive all over, diseaseless and incor-
ruptible, eternally young and beautiful. Every cell is
illumined by the Christ life within. Every organ is
constantly renewing and functioning in spiritual per-
fection. Every gland is
performing that for which it
was created. The life stream flows peacefully through
me, cleansing and renewing. The breath of God in
me makes me alive all over. My whole body co-
ordinates with the Christ body to bring its inner
beauty and perfection into expression.
Now, today, I
express my God-give^ right of
power and dominion over all that opposes spiritual
perfection. Divine love and wisdom guides my every
thought and word and act. My dependence is al-
,
together on the omniscient, omnipotent, omnipresent
Christ of God in me, and everything that I under-
take is blessed into expressing exceeding great good.
I thank Thee, Father-Mother God, that Thou
hast placed in me the perfect Christ pattern, to-
gether with the power to bring it into perfect ex-
pression for .my joyful use and Thy service. Let me
express it always according to Thy highest thought of
me. Let me come again into a conscious union with
Thee. Thine is the power and the glory forever.
Spiritual Remedies
Adenoids
Child of God, no personality can limit you, re-
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES
strict you; no thought in the race consciousness can
obstruct the purpose for which you came into being.
Yon are free to express your perfect self now. Freely
and fully you breathe in and breathe out the life and
breath of God, and every part of your being is
cleansed, vitalized, renewed, and made completely
whole.
*
'Suffer the little children, and forbid them
not, to come unto me."
Anemia
I erase from my consciousness all thoughts of
lack, all fears of not having enough, all claims of
disease, all pernicious thoughts of limitation. Gone
are they into the nothingness from which they came.
God is my life, my supply, my all in all, and His love
for me expresses itself as health and strength, as
wisdom and guidance, as success and prosperity, lit-
terly I trust my Father-God to supply from His rich
substance every need of my body, every need of my
life. "In him we live, and move, and have our being."
Appendicitis
Through the love of God in me my mind is
purged of all irritable thoughts, all inflamed
thoughts. I release all congested thoughts. I erase
all unjust thoughts. There is
nothing in me that with-
holds compassion from any of God's creation. Every
part of my being is
open and receptive to the cleans-
ing, free-flowing life of Spirit; and filled with this
life, I am renewed according to the perfect God
pattern, I am whole, praise God. "God is love; and
153
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
he that abideth in love abideth in God, and God
abideth in him."
Asthma
I release from my consciousness all thoughts of
fear, of suppression, of limitation. I declare my free-
dom from conditions, from materiality, from the
race consciousness of error.
God is my life, and there is nothing else in my
life before Him. "The breath of the Almighty."
which is without beginning or end, fills my nostrils
as a cleansing vitalizing force, that recreates my whole
organism, until I again express myself in His perfect
image and likeness.
"The Spirit of God hath made me,
And the breath of the Almighty giveth me life."
Arteries
I do not believe in old age, in the lessening of
man's mental and physical powers as the years pass.
I do not believe in hard conditions, in luck, in chance.
I am not hard in my dealings with others, but seek
to show the compassion that I would myself receive.
The river of life flows from the throne of God in
my heart into every vein and capillary and artery in
my body, keeping them clean and vital, and daily
they perform their prescribed purpose in keeping
young and perfect this temple of the living God.
"In thy presence is fulness of joy;
In thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore."
154
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
Bladder
There is no weakness, no inflammation, in any
part of my body, for my body is not just flesh and
blood; it is
Spirit. Every organ and every function
in me is doing its work in divine order, according
to the purpose for which it was created, and I am
eternally strong, harmonious, alive in Christ. I ex-
press my perfect self now. "I will give unto him that
is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely/*
Blood, Cleansing of
I am forgiven and cleansed, both consciously and
subconsciously, of all impurity of thought. The holi-
ness of the Christ mind in me, purifies and vitalizes
my blood, and it flows freely, a cleansing, healing
stream of life, nourishing, upbuilding, and renewing
me in every part of my being, and I am whole. "Be-
hold, I make all things new."
i
Blood Poisoning
No poison or infection can drink up the Spirit of
life in me, neither can my life be lessened. The pure
water of the river of life flows fully and freely into
every cell in my body, cleansing, healing, vitalizing,
and restoring me to the perfect likeness of my Cre-
ator. "The law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus
made me free from the law of sin and of death."
Blood Pressure, High
I relax and let go of all life's tensions and anx-
ieties. I take firm hold of my Father-God and enter
155
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
into such complete rest in Him that all the thoughts
of my mind, the functions of my body, and the affairs
of my life become divinely ordered. "I will never
leave thee, nor forsake thee."
Boils
The love of Christ in me wipes from my mind all
impure states, all angry, boiling-over thoughts. Pure
Spirit substance fills me through and through, and
my flesh becomes as the flesh of a little child, free
from spot and blemish and shining with beauty and
purity. "Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly;
in all wisdom."
Bones, Broken, Diseased
No part of the temple of the living God, which
my body is, can be broken, or diseased, or inharmo-
nious. I submit my body to the Creator, who is able
to heal, to adjust, to restore me to the image and
likeness of Himself. Now am I perfectly whole in
every part, praise God: "I in them, and thou in me,
that they may be perfected into one."
Bronchitis
Every trace and taint of error is
wiped from my
mind and body. My breath is continually one with
and inseparable from the breath of God. I am made
free and whole in the name and through the power
.of the Christ of God, ever present in my soul. God
"giveth to all life, and breath, and all things/'
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
Burns; Bruises
Flesh in itself has no consciousness of pain,
neither does the Spirit of life in me suffer; there-
fore I am freed forever. I am immersed in the sooth-
ing, healing, harmonizing balm of the Christ pres-
ence, and my flesh exultantly turns to its Creator
and is made perfect and whole. "He hath clothed me
with the garments of salvation, he hath covered me
with the robe of righteousness."
Cancer
There is no grief or resentment hidden within
me to eat away my peace of mind. I forgive and am
forgiven, and no longer does my heart hold less than
God's good. A healing flame of divine love wipes
clean every cell in my body, and the rich substance
of Spirit renews, vitalizes, and makes me whole in
every part. The Christ body takes full possession of
my flesh body, and I am restored to the image and
likeness of my Creator, praise God! "All things
are possible to him that believeth."
Catarrh
No thoughts of impurity concerning myself or
another can dwell in the pure realm of Spirit
that is
within me. I am clean and whole through and
through, for each cell in the mucous membrane of
my body is filled with the purifying, vitalizing life
and substance of Spirit.
"Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of
my heart
157
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Be acceptable in thy sight,
O Jehovah, my rock, and my redeemer/'
Change of Life
There is no change of life in my consciousness,
for I know that life is from everlasting to everlasting,
and of God, who is eternal and changeless. I am
filled with omnipresent life in its divine complete-
ness, and it is continually cleansing, renewing,
strengthening, and forming every part of my body
into the Christ image. I am eternally young in my
likeness to God my Father, and nothing can take from
me my divine inheritance of perfection. "Let thy
lovingkindness and thy truth continually preserve
me."
Circulation
I am cleansed of every unholy thought that would
cause a break in my unity with God. The stream of
life flows in an unending, unbroken circle in me,
nourishing, upbuilding, and renewing my body, and
I am whole, complete now. "I and the Father are
one/'
Colds
I erase from my mind all negativeness, that I may
become one with the positiveness of Being. I erase
from my body all tenseness, that it may receive the
healing current. I enter the stream of God's quicken-
ing, renewing life. It flows fully and
1
freely into ev-
ery cell of my being, and I am strengthened, har-
monized, vitalized, and made every whit whole. "My
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
grace is sufficient for thee: for my power is made per-
fect in weakness/'
Constipation
I let go in my mind, releasing to Christ my Saviour
the affairs of my life, and I trust Him fully to regu-
late them all. In Him all tensing thoughts and their
resultant conditions pass from me, and the elimina-
tion of all error from mind and body is complete.
The free-flowing love of God establishes law and
order in me, and every function of my body per-
forms its perfect work. I praise God that now is my
whole being released from bondage and lifted up to
everlasting freedom of expression. "Ye shall know
the truth, and the truth shall make you free."
Corns, Calluses
There is nothing in me to harden the flesh of my
body. The love of God in me erases from my con-
sciousness every hard thought I have ever entertained
toward people or conditions. The Christ who dwell-
eth in me is adjusting and correcting and bringing
into its original purity and perfection every cell of
my flesh. The joy of the Lord fills me, my mind, body,
and affairs.
"I ... cause those that love me to inherit substance,
And ... I may fill their treasuries."
Danger
I fear no evil, no accident; for Thou, O Christ,
art within me, around me, above me, below me to
guard, to guide, and to lead me in paths of pleasant-
159
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
ness and ways of peace. "Greater is he that is in you
than he that is in the world.
11
Deafness
I cease to close myself to the will of the Highest
for me. I cease to be rebellious as regards circum-
stances and conditions. I open my inner ear to the
voice of my indwelling Christ that I may be guided
in the ways of righteousness. I am alert, ready, will-
ing to be used. I am obedient to the Christ message,
and the miracle-working power of the omnipresent
Christ touches every dark and inactive cell in my
ears, and they are resurrected into livingness, made
every whit whole. I hear, I hear, praise God. "Great
and marvellous are thy works, O Lord God/'
Debt
I wipe from my consciousness every thought of
another person's debt to me, for I hold anyone who
owes me a debt in the thought of God's rich abun-
dance and justice. My consciousness of obligation is
to love God and my fellow man, and in living accord-
ing to this consciousness I wipe out from my life
every other obligation. I am free, successful, pros-
pered. I give joyously the tithe of all that I earn to the
Giver of gifts, and He opens the doors of His rich
storehouse and pours out His good to me in His
good measure, pressed together, shaken down, and
running over..
"
Jehovah will . , . bless all the work
of thy hand, and thou shalt lend unto many nations,
and thou shalt not borrow."
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
Despondency
I will not let downward thoughts control my
mind. I am strong in the Lord, and the power of His
might brings to me a full-rounded life of joyful ex*
perience. The indwelling Christ, to whom I intrust all
my affairs, leads me to express His glory in my body,
and makes me successful in all that I undertake, even
to demonstrating the Father's overflowing measure of
rich living. I am poised and balanced in Spirit, and
nothing can move me from my faith in my own
lordship to guide me and guard me and give me
love and wisdom to express the law of righteousness
in all my activities.
"Cast thy burden upon Jehovah, and he will sustain
thee:
He will never suffer the righteous to be moved."
Diarrhea
I do not waste myself in riotous living, nor in
thought, nor irf emotion, nor in material self-seeking.
I do not allow unkind thoughts to dwell in my men-
tal realm or take form in my actions. I put my whole
being, mind, body, and affairs under the control of
the all-powerful Christ mind in me, and every part of
my body functions in divine order and harmony. I am
cleansed, healed, renewed, made every whit whole
in mind and body, praise be to God. "The prayer of
faith shall save him that is sick, and the Lord shall
raise him up."
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Dizziness
I refuse to let the sense man deviate me from
the path of Truth. I am one with absolute Princi-
ple, in which there is no variation, neither shadow
of turning. God is the one presence and one power
in my life. I keep my vision fixed steadfastly on Him,
and I am continually poised and balanced in all the
activities of mind, body, and affairs.
"God . . .
girdeth me with strength,
And maketh my way perfect."
Drug Habit; Drunkenness
I am no longer bound by sense pleasure and false
appetite. My satisfaction is in Christ my Saviour, and
in Him I am made strong, peaceful, powerful. Ever
beside me stands my Lord Christ, giving me courage
and self-mastery. Through Him I am lifted up into
joyous freedom and righteous living, and I am for-
ever satisfied. "Sin shall not have dominion over you:
for ye are not under law, but under grace/
1
Earache
I am not resistant, rebellious, obstinate. I am
the willing, obedient child of my Father-God, and I
co-operate with Him in bringing the good only into
expression. The soothing power of the Holy Spirit
infolds me and fills me. My mind is filled with
peace and good will, and my body now expresses
complete ease and harmony. "Draw nigh to God,
and he will draw nigh to you."
162
jtUJK. PARTICULAR LACKS
Ear Noises
There is no confusion in my mind, no perplexity,
no resistance to conditions. All fear and unrest and
resentment have departed far from me. I am ready
and willing for the will of God to be done in me and
through me. I put my trust in God my Father, and I
listen deep within for His guidance, and Him only
do I follow. Now is
peace and harmony established
in my ears, for the still small voice within speaks:
"Peace, be still." "The God of peace make you per-
fect in every good thing to do His will."
Eczema
All spots and all blemishes are removed from my
body, for every cell of my skin is filled with the life
and substance of Spirit. I am made strong in my
Christ likeness, and my body radiates His indwell-
ing presence. "In my flesh shall I see God."
Epilepsy
No longer can the sense man hold me in his
desires. I am purified and vitalized, I am upheld
and made free, by the consciousness of the Christ
of God in my soul. The body is obedient to the heav-
enly vision, and forever am I pure, strong, steady,
whole. "Is anything too hard for Jehovah?"
Eyes
I do not indulge in downward visioning. I do
not see as real the appearances, I join my vision with
the God vision that is too pure to behold iniquity. I
163
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
see near, and I see far; I see all things in purity and
clearness, for I see with the eyes of Spirit.
"If . . .
thine eye be single [seeing good' only], thy whole
body shall be full of light."
Failure
God cannot fail, therefore as His son I cannot
fail. I am strong, steady, wise, poised in God-Mind,
which is omniscient, omnipotent, omnipresent; and
in this mind I know all things and can do all things.
Through Christ who stregthens me I am led into my
own good and am prospered and successful in its
doing. I thank God for success, glorious success, in
carrying out that which He has given me to do.
"For it is God that worketh in you both to will and
to do of His good pleasure/'
Fainting, Prevention of
Nothing within or without can disturb my equi-
librium. I am one with God almightiness, and in Him
I am poised and balanced. I shall not be fainthearted
before conditions and circumstances; for my heart
is courageous and fearless. I am one with the Christ,
and His strength and power upholds me.
"The eternal God is thy dwelling-place,
And underneath are the everlasting arms/*
Falling
I do not submit to failure. I do not let emotions
overwhelm me. I am upright in all my dealings.
I am poised and balanced in Spirit. Spirit is like an
164
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
iron rod in the midst of me and I cannot be moved
from the Truth of my being. The angel of His pres-
ence has been given charge over me to bear me up in
His hands lest I dash my foot against a stone. "Un-
derneath are the everlasting arms/'
Fear
I am not apprehensive of evil; I do not let fear-
ful emotions drive me. I am consciously in the midst
of Omnipresence, where nothing of an error nature
can enter. The Christ of God dwelling in me guides
me and guards me and protects me. "Thou wilt keep
him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee:
because he trusteth in thee."
Feet
I do not believe that the path of life is a hard
and weary way to travel. I know that my Redeemer
liveth and ever maketh intercession for me; therefore
my path is
pleasant and my way is
peace. My feet are
firmly established on the rock of Thy covenant, O
God, and each day Thou dost make more perfect my
understanding of Thy law.
"Thy word is a lamp unto my feet,
And a light unto my path."
Fevers
I am not held in the mortal belief of contagion,
weakness. I do not give power to germs, to disease. I
am bold and courageous, because my Father-God
holds me in the hollow of His hand. My flesh rests in
peace, for every atom of my being is cleansed, healed,
165
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
renewed by the miracle-working power of Jehovah
God, which has touched me, soul, mind, and body,
into ever-lasting newness. "Let patience have its
per-
fect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, lacking
nothing."
Forgiveness
Consciously and subconsciously I am cleansed
from anger, malice, hatred, and grudges through the
forgiving love of Jesus Christ, who gave Himself
that His consciousness might be mine also. I am
such a radiant center of love that every error in me
is
wiped out, and every error thought directed' to-
ward me is
baptized with the Chist love and its
owner set free. I too am free, and with the Christ
in me I say to everything and everybody: "God bless
you! I love you and forgive you/' "Love worketh no
ill to his neighbor: love therefore is the fulfillment
of the law."
Gallstones
I let no thoughts of hardness fill
my heart, nor
do I let grief make hardened conditions in my body
consciousness. The oil of joy hath been given me for
mourning, and I open myself fully to this cleansing,
renewing stream of life. The Word that was made
flesh dwells within me, and my flesh becomes glori-
fied in His presence. I am healed in mind and body
now, and my soul rejoices in its freedom of expres-
sion. "I am Jehovah thy God, the Holy One of Israel,
thy Saviour."
166
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
Germs
In God's atmosphere, in which I live and move
and have my being, there is
nothing but life, activity.
I am established in Omnipresence and am kept as the
apple of His eye. No harm shall come nigh my
dwelling.
"A thousand shall fall at thy side,
And ten thousand at thy right hand;
But it shall not come nigh thee."
Glands
There is no part of my being, soul, mind, body,
closed to the work for which it was created. Un-
hindered, freely, and fully the stream of God life
flows through me, and every function of my body
now performs in divine order and harmony. "The
word of Christ dwell in you richly."
Goiter
I let go of all grasping thoughts; I cease reaching
out for the fulfillment of my desires. I look to the
indwelling Christ for every need of my life, and I
find complete satisfaction. Thy power, O Christ, Thy
wisdom and love, are expressed through me and for
me and from me, and I am restored to the glory I had
with Thee in the beginning. "The Father abiding in
me doeth his works/'
Grippe
Negativeness cannot grip me, fear cannot hold
me, for I am established in the all-powerful life of
167
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Jesus Christ. In Him I am made strong and harmo-
nious, in Him I am made alive through and through,
and I am now lifted up in a perfect expression of
His wholeness and purity. "Behold thou art made
whole."
Hair, Treatment for
There is no lack of life or strength in any part of
my body. The renewing, restoring, vitalizing life of
Spirit fills every cell in me, and the hair of my head
is now made perfect in quality and in quantity. "Ye
are complete in him/'
Hands, Treatment for
My hands are not restless, neither are they idle.
They are folded often in prayer, and the God of my
salvation fills them with His life and abundance. I
give my hands utterly to execute Thy love and mercy,
O Christ, and Thou dost bless them and make them
profitable unto Thee and Thy creation.
"My soul, wait thou in silence for God only;
For my expectation is from him."
Hay Fever
Every error of every day of the past is washed
from my consciousness and' has been stripped of all
power of recurrence. I live today in the glorious
presence of the Son of God, and my whole being
is filled with His purifying, vitalizing, strengthening
life. I know the truth of my being, and I am free,
praise God. "The law of the Spirit of life in Christ
168
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
Jesus made me free from the law of sin and of
death."
Headache
I am not bound in flesh ways, neither do I enter-
tain thoughts of fear and worry that disturb my men-
tal realm. In God is my supply, my health, my satis-
faction. From head to foot, I am filled with the
Christ life that makes me whole, free, alive all over.
'Thou hast anointed my head with oil;
My cup runneth over."
Heart
No longer do I allow fear, weakness, or impurity
of thought, or hatred, or unforgiveness to find lodge-
ment in my heart. I look to the Christ who dwelleth
in me, to lead me and guide me. Every cell and mus-
cle, every valve and nerve, of my heart is under the
control of the river of life that flows from the throne
of God in my heart. My heart beats in unison with
the great heart of the universe, and I am at peace
within and without.
"Search me, O God, and know my heart:
Try me, and know my thoughts ;
And see if there be any wicked way in me,
And lead me in the way everlasting."
Hemorrhage
I do not believe in losses of any kind. I do not
waste myself in mind or body. All the issues of my
life are from God, and the stream of His life flows
169
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
in an unbroken circle within me. "My life is hid
with Christ in God."
Hemorrhoids
My body is not material. It is spiritual, and my
flesh manifests the purity and wholeness of Spirit.
The free-flowing life of the Holy Spirit expresses
itself in and through me, freeing me from all bond-
age to aches and pains, and I am whole now within
and without. "Set your mind on the things that are
above, not on the things that are upon the earth."
Hysteria
I am not affected by every wind that blows, by
people's acts and opinions. I am not anxious and
fearful. I claim my birthright of power and dominion,
and the Christ within me sustains and strengthens
me in all the activities of my life. I am poised' and
balanced now in the omniscient, omnipotent God of
my being.
'The beloved of Jehovah shall dwell in safety by
him;
He covereth him all the day long/'
Indigestion
I no longer seek to live by bread alone, but I
trust the Word of God in me to sustain and
strengthen me. I do not worry and fret over circum-
stances and conditions, but I lift my vision to the
Burden Bearer and am free. I release my stomach
from all thoughts of inactivity and weakness, and
the intelligence in every cell works to establish har-
170
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
mony and perfection. Divine wisdom in me selects
my food and uses it to nourish and upbuild my body
temple. I thank Thee, Father, for the life and sub-
stance of the Christ body, which fills me and makes
this body a fit
dwelling place for Thy holy Spirit, a
body pure, young, beautiful, daily renewed accord-
ing to the pattern in the Mount. "O taste and see
that the LORD is good: blessed is the man that trusteth
in him."
Inflammation
I do not allow emotions to control me. I will not
allow anger and indignation to get the best of me.
My mind is filled
1
with peace and love, which are
reflected in my body as purity and wholeness. For-
ever am I free from that which inflames the flesh ;
for
I give myself to the blessedness of the Christ con-
sciousness that is in me, too pure to behold iniquity.
"The fruit of the Spirit are love, joy, peace, long-
suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, meekness,
self-control ; against such there is no law."
Influenza
I will not entertain fear of any kind in my thought
world. I put negativeness far from me. Resting in
the knowledge of the infolding love of God, I know
that every cell and organ of my body is filled with
the vitalizing, free-flowing life of Spirit.
Now am I
raised up in new life, strong, vital, fearless, whole.
"There shall no evil befall thee,"
Neither shall any plague come nigh thy tent."
171
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Inheritance
I can inherit nothing of error, because I am a son
of God. My birthright is power and dominion over
all lesser creations. My inheritance is God's "very
good/' I am made in His image, after His likeness,
and I
express now and forever the Christ purity and
wholeness, the Christ success and abundance given
me by my Father-Mother God. "The Spirit himself
beareth witness with our spirit, that we are children
of God."
Insanity
There is no darkness, no dimness of perception in
you, for Christ is your eternal light. You are no
longer held in bondage by error thoughts, vain im-
aginings, but are loosed and free with the freedom
of Spirit. The Christ of God in you controls your
every thought and word and act, and soul, mind,
and body co-ordinate to express your spiritual per-
fection. Now are you free, the child of God, trium-
phant over error. "If any man is in Christ, he is a
new creature: the old things are passed away; behold
they are become new/'
Injustice
My mind is freed from all unjust thoughts toward
others, and all the acts of my life express divine love
and justice. I am returned full and just compensation,
in running-over measure in all my affairs. "Let us not
be weary in well-doing: for in due season we shall
reap, if we faint not."
172
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
Insomnia
No fearful or anxious thought can disturb my
peace of mind, for I put myself in the care of God,
my Father. I am clothed safely round with the loving
care of the Father for His child. In His presence and
in communion with Him in my soul I relax and let
go of all nervousness, and I rest and rest and rest
and rest.
"In peace will I both lay me down and sleep;
For thou, Jehovah alone makest me dwell in safety."
Joints, Stiff
I erase from my mind all thoughts of criticism,
all bitterness, unforgiveness, false pride. I establish
the joy of the Lord in my mind and let it flow freely
through my being, lubricating my joints, freeing my
movements, and putting gladness into my life. I
praise God for His oil of joy, which finds expression
in me and through me and for me in His overflowing
measure.
"I rejoice always; pray without ceasing; in everything
give thanks/'
Kidney Trouble
I do not fear disease, old age, failure, poverty.
They have no place in my mind or life, because I am
eternally one with the Christ who maketh all things
new and according to the perfect pattern. Every
cell in my kidneys is in divine order and harmony,
performing the functions for which* they were cre-
ated. I am alive and radiant in the life of the Spirit.
173
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
"I will take sickness away from the midst of thee."
Lack
There is no lack in my life, for I have found the
riches of my Father's heavenly kingdom within my-
self. Within myself I contact God's invisible sub-
stance, and it fulfills the purpose for which it was
created in supplying me with its overflowing abun-
dance. I am one with God and with His everlasting,
inexhaustible, and eternal substance, and the treasury
of my inheritance is manifest now. "Give, and it shall
be given unto you; good measure, pressed down,
shaken together, running over/'
Liver
Criticism and condemnation have no place in my
consciousness. I judge not according to appearances
but judge righteous judgment. I am filled and
thrilled with infinite love and lifted up into the
joy of my Lord Christ. Spirit penetrates and inter-
penetrates every cell in my liver, freeing it to the
healthful activity of the divine purpose. Now am I
whole, pure, alive. "With what measure ye mete it
shall be measured to you again."
Losses
Spirit cannot suffer losses, and I take my true
place in Spirit. My body is one with the Christ body
and cannot lose the beauty and youth and wholeness
of Spirit. My supply comes from the Lord, my banker,
and can never be diminished. No body and no thing
can take from me that which is my divine inheritage,
174
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
for there was prepared in the beginning enough for
all of God's creation. We each claim our own and
are satisfied.
"Jehovah is a sun and a shield:
Jehovah will give grace and glory;
No good thing will he withhold from them that
walk uprightly/'
Lungs
No part of my body is closed to the free-flowing
life of Spirit.
I breathe in and I breathe out the
breath of God, and His livingness fills every cell of
my lungs, expanding them in purity, strength, and
wholeness, "[Jesus} breathed on them, and saith unto
them, Receive ye the Holy Spirit."
Malaria
No climate or condition can affect the purity of
my mental realm and body consciousness. I am free
with the freedom of Spirit,
and the life of God in
me resurrects every cell that is in darkness in its true
livingness. Now am I strong and whole, alive through
and through. "Then shall thy light break forth as
the morning, and thy healing shall spring forth
speedily."
Menses
I am not held in bondgae by pain or depression.
Every atom of weakness and impurity is washed from
mind and body. I am one with the pure life of Spirit.
Divine order and harmony is established in every
part of my body temple, and every organ and function
175
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
is
performing its
purpose in perfection and peace.
"Jehovah is the strength of my life/'
Nervous Prostration
I
put from my mind all thoughts of hard work,
overwork, injustice, all fears of limitation. Spirit can
never be exhausted in strength or supply, and I now
claim my oneness with Spirit. I open myself to the
free-flowing life of Spirit,
and every nerve in my
body receives the soothing, healing, harmonizing, in-
exhaustible life of Spirit. I am strengthened, vitalized
and made whole now by the miracle-working power
dwelling within my own soul. "The LORD ... in the
midst of thee is mighty; he will save, He will re-
joice over thee . . . with singing.
"
Nervousness
I let nothing within or without disturb my peace
of mind. I am at peace with God and my neighbor.
The love of God fills me, upholds me, guards and
guides me, and I trust Him utterly with all the affairs
of my life. I relax in this knowledge and let His
soothing, harmonizing love make my nerves strong
and whole. "Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace,
whose mind is stayed on thee; because he trusteth in
thee."
Neuralgia; Neuritis
I do not allow thoughts of lack and limitation
to tear down the vitality of my body. I do not worry
or carry in my mind anxious thoughts concerning to-
morrow. Steadfastly I face God, my Father, and trust
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
Him to supply every need of my life. The soothing,
harmonizing, free-flowing life of the Holy Spirit
touches every cell in my body, and I am made peace-
ful and' perfect in my flesh now.
'Thou openest thy hand,
And satisfiest the desire of every living thing."
Obesity
I let go of grasping thoughts, I cease clinging to
materiality, losses, thoughts of accumulation, that
the righteous law of giving and receiving may be
equalized in my body and affairs. I look unto Thee,
God, and seeing the harmony and balance of Thy
Spirit,
I am lightened of superflous materiality and
also become harmonious and balanced in Thee. I trust
the Father who knoweth my needs to provide for
me richly even before the need is manifest. I look
unto Thee, O God, and am lightened. "I will behold
thy face in righteousness:
I shall be satisfied, when
1 awake, with thy likeness."
Obsession
I do not allow morbid thoughts or dominating
personalities
to control me. There is but one Presence
and one Power in my life, and in this presence and
power I am free, strong, courageous. Now do I claim
my Christ likeness, and my whole world expresses
this rulership in my mind, which radiates in glorious
living. "Lo, I am with you always."
Old Age
I do not believe in old age, limitation, failure,
177
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
death. Momently do I renew all the faculties of mind
and body in the allness of Spirit,
and my mind is
alert and wise, my body is
strong, supple, fresh, beau-
tiful, young. Every function of my body, in touch
with its
counterpart in the Christ body, constantly
renews itself unto perfection; every cell in me is
given the power to create harmony and order in the
body, and the life and substance of Spirit fills me
through and through. I have perpetual youth in
Christ. I am one with His body, expressing His per-
fection. "In him we live, and move, and have our
being."
Pain
My body cannot suffer from conflict or distress,
for I now claim for it harmonious, perfect expres-
sion from this unity with its Creator. I open my body
consciousness to the peaceful, harmonious expres-
sion of Spirit, and my flesh is soothed and made quiet
in every part now. God's will for me is peace, and
resting in His will for me, I am satisfied. "My pres-
ence shall go with thee}
and I will give thee rest/
7
Palsy
No longer can my own fears or the fears of the
race consciousness master me. My subconscious mind
is cleansed from p,ast human failures and weakness.
The Christ of God dwells continually in me, hold-
ing me firm and steady in my consciousness of son-
ship, and my body is now poised and strong, filled'
with energy and vitality, fitted to serve the Spirit in
178
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
rich livingness. "God hath not given us the spirit of
fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound
mind/'
Paralysis
There is no lack of life anywhere in my body, for
the activity of Spirit is
complete in me, restoring
me to my original perfection in God-Mind. Now am I
resurrected in every cell of my body into vital living-
ness, a new creature in Christ Jesus, alive and har-
monious in mind and body: free, thank God. "It is
the spirit that giveth life."
Piles
I am not sensitive, neither do I let others' acts
and opinions disturb my mental world. I stand with
my indwelling Christ, and the purity and power of
His presence in me cleanses and restores to perfec-
tion every cell in my body.
"In God have I put my trust,
I will not be afraid;
What can man do unto me?"
Pleurisy; Pneumonia
Mortal thoughts cannot bind free Spirit in me. I
am one with and immersed in the Almighty stream
of God life, and its cleansing, renewing power re-
stores me to wholeness. I breathe in and breathe out
the breath of God, and I become a living soul again
expressing my birthright to perfection.
"Be filled
with the Spirit."
179
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Poisons
Nothing of a material nature can in any way
harm Spirit,
which is my real nature. The life and
substance of the Christ body fills me to the exclusion
of all like it. Now am I one with the Father within,
do doeth the works, and my body temple is now
made perfect and pure, a holy (whole) expression
of His love. "Behold, I have given you authority to
tread upon serpents and scorpions, and over all the
power of the enemy: and nothing shall in any wise
hurt you."
Poverty
I do not believe in lack, limitation, poverty, fail-
ure, and will not for one moment allow such thoughts
to enter my consciousness. I fill
my mind to overflow-
ing with
'
rich thoughts, success thoughts, and they
take form in my life. I am the son of a King, rich
beyond comparison, and all that the Father hath is
mine. Now do I claim all that I need and desire in
that running-over measure which implies enough
and to spare and share. I claim and have my own,
that which the Creator prepared for me in the be-
ginning, and I praise and give thanks for its mani-
festation as plenty, plenty, plenty. "They that seek
Jehovah shall not want any good thing/'
Prolapsus; "Fallen" Conditions
No part of my body is "fallen" or can fall from
its
rightful position in the Christ body; for I claim
now my likeness to my Creator, expressing it in har-
180
mony and order. I look up unto thee, O Thou great
Burden Bearer, and thou dost make easy and light
the burdens of the day. Thou omniscient, omnipotent
One, in Thee I am lifted up into a glorious expression
of Thyself. I praise and give thanks continuously for
the gladness of living in Thee. "I, if I be lifted up
from the earth, will draw all men unto myself/'
Proud Flesh
Nothing can become manifest in my body but
that which is of my spiritual nature, for I claim my
perfection as a child of God. The quick-flowing,
cleansing life of Spirit, expresses itself in my flesh,
and it is restored to spiritual purity and wholeness. My
flesh rests in peace. "We look not at the things which
are seen, but at the things which are not seen/'
Pyorrhea
I cleanse my mind of all negativeness, of doubts
and fears, of all thoughts that do not measure up to
the purity of the Christ standard, I establish myself
in the all-powerful mind of God, and my flesh is
obedient to the heavenly vision, God life is
purify-
ing and vitalizing every cell in my mouth, and my
gums and teeth are renewed and made perfect in the
pure life and substance of Spirit *7esus Christ
healeth thee/'
Rental or Sale of Property
I look not out for help in my need; I look within
to God for the fulfillment of my desires. Now do I
place this property which Thou hast given to me in
181
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
Thy omniscient Mind, and Thou who knowest all
things dost draw to me the one whose need will be
fulfilled in the filling of my need. I thank Thee,
Father, that in Thy love Thou hast blessed me and
prospered me, and that Thou wilt bless and prosper
the next occupant of this property, which I have
through Thee released fully to him. Let justice rule
in each of our hearts and be carried out in our deeds.
"No good thing will he withhold from them that
walk uprightly/'
Rheumatism
I let no thoughts of anxiety, criticism, or con-
demnation fill
my thought world. No sharp and bit-
ing words will I speak to hurt others. I will continu-
ously lift my vision past human frailty to Christ my
Saviour, and His forgiving love and compassion trans-
forms me into His likeness. Now am I made glad in
the strong, vital expression of my body, through the
stream of love soothingly encompassing and filling
and renewing me. "Give diligence to present thyself
approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to
be ashamed, handling aright the word of truth."
Rupture
No longer do I allow thoughts of separation of
myself and my good alienate me from my complete
lift in Christ I give myself fully to Spirit, and Spirit
is
quick and active in me to make me one and com-
plete in itself. The Creator's idea of me is now made
perfect in my mind and body, and I am strong, steady,
182
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
pure, whole. "In him [Christ} dwelleth all the ful-
ness of the Godhead 'bodily. And ye are complete
in him."
Skin
I look to the Christ of God to wipe from my con-
sciousness all eruptive, impure, inharmonious
thoughts, and to sustain me in purity and harmony.
I make union with the life and substance of Spirit,
and my flesh becomes as a little child, pure, spotless,
beautiful, radiant with life. '"They that are wise shall
shine as the brightness of the firmament."
Spinal Trouble
There is no weakness in Spirit, and I am Spirit.
I claim my birthright to spiritual and physical per-
fection, for I am a son of God. In this realization of
my inheritance of perfection,
I am strong, upright,
vital, alive through and through. The tree of life in
the midst of me bears its fruits of love and peace and
purity,
and my physical body is renewed according
to this pattern, expressing the glorious life of the
Christ body. "I am Jehovah that healeth thee." "I will
take sickness away from the midst of thee."
Solar Plexus
There is no darkness in my body temple, for in
the midst of me is the light that lighteth every man
that cometh into the world. Every dark and inactive
cell in my body is filled with the glory of the Christ
of God in me, and I radiate this healing, harmo-
183
nizing, life-giving glory to all humanity. "They that
are wise shall shine as the brightness of the firma-
ment; and they that turn many to righteousness as
the stars for ever and ever/'
Stomach Disorders
I am not impatient, antagonistic, critical, irritable;
neither am I anxious nor worried. I trust my Father-
God for every need and desire of my life, and I look
to Him to make harmonious my way. All that I eat
and all that I drink is truly from Spirit,
and Spirit's
peace and power and harmony pass with my food
into my body, nourishing, upbuilding, and renewing
me in every part. I am temperate, wise, joyful, loving,
and I continually praise and give thanks to the Giver
of gifts for the richness with which He supplies the
needs of my mind and body. "I am the living bread
which came down out of heaven: if any man eat of
this bread, he shall live for ever/'
Swollen Conditions
I am not puffed up, neither do I entertain false
pride. I am meek and humble in my Christ likeness.
The all-powerful Christ mind in me dissolves and
dissipates every error accumulation in my mind and
body, and every faculty in me, mental and physical,
co-operates with the indwelling Christ to bring me to
perfection. Now am I free, vital, whole; and my
whole being sings in praise to God for His goodness
to me now and forever. "Blessed are the meek: for
they shall inherit the earth."
184
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
Teeth
I do not believe in decay, loss, or limitation o
life. The life and substance of Spirit are ever present
in me, and I claim their use to make vital and whole
and to renew every cell in my teeth. I am sound
through and through, lifted up into the consciousness
of my oneness with the pure and holy life of my
Creator, in whose image and likeness I am continually
being renewed. "If ye are led by the Spirit, ye are
not under the law/'
Tenseness
I am not hurried or worried, for I know that my
Redeemer ever liveth to make easy my way. I shift
all my loads to the Burden Bearer, who is
willing
and able to lighten them and who walks always be-
side me. Now am I open and receptive to the sooth-
ing, quieting influence of Spirit,
and my whole body
becomes supple and relaxed and rested. I am still
before Spirit; I find peace with God, and I am re-
newed and made strong in all my being.
'
'Return unto thy rest, O my soul;
For Jehovah hath dealt bountifully with thee."
Throat: Dipthena, Tonsillitis
I am not mere flesh and blood subject to inhar-
mony, pain, disease. I am a spiritual being, and I
claim the purity of Spirit
in my flesh. The breath of
God in me cleanses, vitalizes, and heals every cell in
my throat, and I am restored to the image and like-
ness of my Creator, perfect, strong, whole. "All
185
EFFECTUAL PRAYER
authority hath been given unto me in heaven and on
earth/' in mind and body, praise God.
Tuberculosis
I am not bound by the beliefs of the race con-
sciousness, neither do I believe in heredity nor con-
tagion nor infection. I believe in God and His good
everywhere present. I give myself fully to the cleans-
ing, vitalizing force of the Spirit
of life in me that is
mighty to heal. I am eternally one with God, and His
breath in me renews every part of my being accord-
ing to the pattern in the Mount. Now am I strong,
courageous, fearless Spirit,
and the mind of om-
niscience in me makes me prosperous and successful
in all that I undertake. "As we have borne the image
of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the
heavenly."
Tumors
Nothing can find root and nourishment for
growth in my mind or body that is not of the Father's
planting. I am cleansed through and through by the
Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world.
Every cell in my body is filled with the purifying life
and the satisfying substance of Spirit. Everything in
me that is
foreign to the nature of the Son of God
is removed far from me, and I express my perfection
in Christ now, praise God !
"O Jehovah my God,
I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me."
186
SPIRITUAL REMEDIES FOR PARTICULAR LACKS
Veneral Diseases
I am freed from passion and emotion through the
purity of my indwelling Christ. I am lifted up with
Christ in God, regenerated in mind and body. The
purifying, vitalizing blood of Jesus Christ, shed for
me, now flows into every cell of my body, redeeming
me from the sins of the flesh. I am regenerated, re-
newed, harmonized through and through by the life
and substance of Spirit,
and made a new creature in
Christ Jesus, every whit whole.
Weakness
I do not hold weak, vacillating, fearful thoughts
in my mind concerning my body or any of the activi-
ties of my life. I am one with the Almighty, and His
unlimited, inexhaustible strength fills every part of
my body. My decisions are strong in wisdom, my
body is strong in energy and vigor and life, and I am
efficient in all that I do. Spirit holds me and controls
me. Spirit guides me and guards me, and I express my
divinity now.
"God is our refuge and strength,
A very present help in trouble/'
Wounds
No wounds or hurts can disturb the life that is
within me, for I am one with God life. Now does the
omnipresent life and substance of my Creator fill me
and thrill me and heal me, restoring me to His per-
fection. "I will restore health unto thee, and I will
heal thee of thy wounds, saith Jehovah."
187
(Publishers' Announcement
Effectual Prayer, by Frances W. Foulks is published by 'the
Unity School of Christianity, an independent educational
institution devoted to teaching the principles of Christianity
and the application of these principles to everyday life and
affairs. In addition to Effectual Prayer, Unity School pub-
lishes the following other books:
BEGINNING AGAIN, by Frank B. Whitney
CHRIST ENTHRONED IN MAN, by Cora Fillmore
CHRISTIAN HEALING, by Charles Fillmore
GOD A PRESENT HELP, by H. Emilie Cady
GOD is THE ANSWER, by Dana Gatlin
HAVE WE LIVED BEFORE, Ernest C. Wilson
How I USED TRUTH, by H. Emilie Cady
JESUS CHRIST HEALS, by Charles Fillmore
KNOW THYSELF, by Richard Lynch
LESSONS IN TRUTH, by H. Emilie Cady
LETTERS OF MYRTLE FILLMORE
LOVINGLY IN THE HANDS OF THE FATHER, by Evelyn Wbitell
MIGHTIER THAN CIRCUMSTANCE, by Frank B. Whitney
MYSTERIES OF GENESIS, by Charles Fillmore
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS, by Lowell Fillmore
PROSPERITY, by Charles Fillmore
THE SUNLIT WAY, by Ernest C. Wilson
TALKS ON TRUTH, by Charles Fillmore
TEACH Us TO PRAY, by Charles and Cora Fillmore
TRUTH IDEAS OF AN M. D., by Dr. C. O, Southard
THE GREAT PHYSICIAN, by Ernest C. Wilson
THE TWELVE POWERS OF MAN, by Charles Fillmore
WHAT ARE You?, by Imelda Octavia Shankltn
WHATSOEVER YE SHALL ASK, by Zelia M. Walters
WORKING WITH GOD, by Gardner Hunting
You AND YOUR CHILD, by Zelia M. Walters
You CAN BE HEALED, by Clara Palmer
These books cover so many subjects of general and vital interest
that among them you are sure to find one that meets a need of your
own or that of a friend. Beautifully bound and gilt stamped, these
lovely Unity books are priced at $1 each.
UNITY SCHOOL OF CHRISTIANITY
917 Tracy Avenue, Kansas City 6, Mo.
