{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1945__drew___101_health_horoscopes.pdf","mytitle":"101 Health Horoscopes","mylang":"de"}
101 Horoscope Series
101 HE~L\_LTH
HOROSCOPES
BY
MARION MEYER DREW
Marion Meyer Drew, Publisher
BEACON, NEW YORK
i,: . ..3 .... ~- ... ~· .:.~- .. ' ! .. · .....
THE lOlst HEALTH HOROSCOPE
JAMES E. NEIGHBORS
Born September 24th, 1896
at 9:45 P. M.
Moundville, Alabama
101
Health Horoscopes
By MARlON MEYER DREW
In bygone times no physician was accounted worthy of the
name unless he was also an astrologer; today if a medical man
is known to be interested in the subject his professional standing
suffers. Why has this change taken place? What is the matter
with astrology that causes reputable professional people to scoff
at it ?
The answers to these questions are simple. The change in
the relationship between medicine and astrology began when the
former subject developed along purely scientific lines while the
latter remained speculative and took no heed of timely progress
in kindred topics. The poor reputation of astrology at the pres-
ent time is due to the ·fact that the vast majority of those who
set themselves up as exponents of the art are not sufficiently
educated to compare and analyze problems which call for defi-
nite knowledge in more than one field of endeavor. The modern
astrologer must know more than the method of calculating the
positions of the planets. He must be able to discuss with some
intelligence the developments in other branches of science. Until
he fits himself to. do this he will not regain his former enviable
post as dignified advisor to mankind. He will be placed as an
amateur, a charlatan, an outlaw, just so long as he refuses to ad-
vance with the times.
The engineer of 1941 must acquaint himself with develop-
ments in his science which have come about in the last century.
5
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
This is true of the medical man. It is also true of the astrologer,
although the latter clings to his old methods of work and denies
that progress has been made since the days of Ptolemy and Dr.
Dee. He may not say this in so many words, but his actions
prove it. An astrologer can build up a fine reputation for him-
self by rehashing the words written five hundred years ago by
some practitioner of the times, who was good for the times, no
doubt, but who is not good enough for our times. We must
adjust our knowledge and our methods of work to this era, mak-
ing use of facts which other students have compiled for us to
investigate. Unless we do this we deserve the criticism which
is so freely directed toward us today. Medical treatments have
changed since George Washington died from mishandling by a
doctor, but few astrologers would take into consideration any new
details in the interpretation of a horoscope of our first president.
Perhaps we may have fewer discoveries to make, but as yet we
do not know enough about what has been accomplished in diverse
learning to b'e able to say whether or not this possibility is true.
Take the most necessary estimate for the reading of any
natal chart, the questiou as to whether or not the child born at
that moment will live. How many students of astrology can
speak with confidence upon the duration of life? I know that a
great many students can quote the old writers upon this subject,
but I want to ask these readers how many of them have verified
these rules by their own research, and whether or not they have
thought of the fact that modern science has done many things to
prolong life which were not guessed about when most text books
were written. I have been studying this vast subject for twenty-
four years, and I seldom find a book upon any part of astrology
which is not solely a re-wording of rules which were laid down
hundreds of years ago. Since those times we have saved many
lives through serum treatments, through surgery, through chiro-
practic and through mental control, which would have been given
up as lost even so recently as one hundred and fifty years ago.
6
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
It used to be the lot of practically every living person to
undergo a siege of small-pox; what percentage of the population
today dies from that once fatal illness? Children used to suffer
from a malady known as 'cholera infantum'. Modern methods
of feeding, together with the proper care of foods has made this
an unheard-of disorder. Diphtheria was once a shadow which
hovered over the head of every child, together with its less powerful
relative, croup. Statistics of this past year show that under the
present rate of occurrence both these scourges will in time be as
unfamiliar to us as is the Black Plague.
With changes in our manner of living we have become cog-
nizant of illnesses which were not even known by name one hun-
dred years ago, much less treated with any efficiency. Probably
a good many useful and otherwise healthy citizens died from
infantile paralysis before that disorder was recognized and a
means of overcoming its effects was found. The varieties of strepto-
coccus infection were not known; could the astrology of the past
century have told you that one of these poisons threatened you?
And even if some gifted analyst had described the condition
which might have arisen, where would you have gone for a cure?
Today you may be able to find the cure but you will not be able to
find an astrologer who can warn you of the impending difficulty.
The two subjects have not kept pace with each other. Medicine
at this time is ahead of astrology; all lovers of the star-science
will want to rectify this mishap.
In arranging material which treats so largely of physical
difficulties it will at once be seen that it is hard to avoid a nega-
tive or fatalistic attitude. This is a HEALTH book, not an
ILLNESS treatise, nevertheless some violent charts have to be
shown and, likewise, it is necessary to include some horoscopes
of people who have succumb'ed to bodily disorders. The point
should be kept clear, however, that we want to study the calcu-
lations of people who have conquered adverse conditions in their
7
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
lives, not merely to gape at the charts of remarkable persons
whose misfortunes we hope never to parallel. We want to
see, too, what makes a man or woman a devoted healer of man·
kind or a diligent and successful nurse, consequently horoscopes
of people who are not ill are included because their vocation is
that of dealing with the restoration of health. We must remember
that mental states play a great part in physical maladjustment and
that well-known records exist of cures in which no drugs or
manipulations have shared, therefore We must look for tenden-
cies which may show us that the cause of apparently serious
illness is entirely imaginery. The older astrologers who knew
nothing of the influence of the psychic planet, Neptune, cannot
.give us guidance upon these points. We have to do most of the
research in medical astrology ourselves and key the results with
factors which we of today know to exist. There is much work
to be done; I do not pretend to do more than offer suggestions
in this book.
I have beside me, as I write, several works upon this same
topic of health. One volume includes a number of examples of
people who were born with an abnormal condition existing, such
as six toes, no arms, a lacking aesophagus and the like. Now,
these are not, properly speaking, horoscopes from which construc-
tive knowledge could be drawn. They are remarkable, yes, and
the charts of the forebears of these chiidren might aid in a study
of heredity as shown in the horoscope, but such is not the prov-
ince of this book. I offer no calculations for dog-headed boys
or Siamese twin girls. The conditions which resulted in the
birth of monsters such as these are to be found in the horoscopes
of the parents; perhaps at some time in the future fellow students
will be able to amass a sufficient number of examples so that
others can form judgements upon them and interpret charts cor-
rectly which show the tendency toward abnormal children. I
do not attempt to do this.
8
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
Another book upon health conditions allots certain diseases
to various zodiacal signs. If this were a tenable theory then
all those born with the Sun in the sign Aries would suff.er from
complaints of the head, those with the Sun in the sign Taurus
would experience difficulties of the throat, and so on. This is
not true. Some people whose charts show several other bits of
evidence may live up to these hard and fast birthdate rules, but
no one can slice the body up in definite strips and go on to relate
that such portions will be the seat of illness during life. Such a
procedure is simply not according to the scientific attitude toward
the subject; look about your own family and draw your own
conclusions. It would be very nice for everyone if the matter
were as easy as all this, but the fact remains that, aside from a
few general principles, each chart must be decided upon its own
merits, or lack of them. If you will think back you will remem-
ber that it was said that God geometrizes; nothing was said to
the effect that God generalizes. Geometry is an exact science,
and so is astrology.
I therefore begin the important subject of prediction of
health from the horoscope b}'. the assertion that the student must,
first of all, be able to recognize the approximate span of life of the
native. He must then be able to distinguish between a chart
subject to accident, or to serious illness, and one which may show
a weak constitution but at the same time possess the ability to sur-
vive attacks upon his strength. After these two basic points have
been mastered it is possible that the astrologer who possesses a
real attraction toward the medical branch of the subject will be
able to suggest waxs and means of avoiding difficult times and cir-
cumstances to those subject to them. This, however, should not
be attempted after reading over a list of disorders 'ruled' by
zodiacal signs. I cannot imagine any more dangerous procedure
than this, and I do not Wonder that physicians generally feel that
the average run of astrologers are a bunch of crackpots.
9
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
Let us begin with this question of life and death. It is a
deeper subject than the purely physical manifestation of bodily
action. The reader may have noticed that I used the word
'approximate' when speaking of the time of death; this is because
the philosophical angle must be considered as well as the material.
Our very earthy teaching of the present day will tell one immedi-
ately that 'death' takes place when the subject ceases to breathe,
just as 'life' begins when he first inhales our air, but to some people
a cessation of physical action can be the end of all enjoyment,
while to others it is a release from the limitations of this sphere.
We do not have to decide this point or teach any new attitude to
those who consult us; we must, however, avoid the mistake of
thinking that a so-called 'malefic' configuration will show us the
time or condition of death. Death is not always a misfortune,
although modem teaching tends to give us this point of view.
There is an immense contradiction here, however, for we are
definitely told how much better a life awaits us in the Hereafter.
Which belief are we to hold? Perhaps for the time being it will
be a more simple matter to concentrate upon physical energy, and
estimate its strength. When we have arrived at some facility
in such judgements we can progress to the next step, that of
balancing the material and the spiritual forces in existence. Un-
der our present-day conditions it is admittedly much easier to
foresee bodily activity than to calculate the time-limit of soul
force.
We must also make a distinction between the horoscopes of
those who possess little inner strength and those who, although
physically robust, are prevented by outside circumstances from
living out the full span of existence. Undoubtedly they do
live a definite life-cycle, but according to a materialistic phil-
osophy they are not classed as expending their entire energy or vi-
tality. We cannot determine in a work of this size just what
might be the causes of such distinctions, but they are there, and,
if possible we must learn to recognize them. Do not think for a
10
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
moment that I set myself up as a final authority upon such points
in an astrological chart; I am only one of many who ponder upon
the mysteries of such things. My reason for arranging data
upon these subjects is to stimulate further investigation, not to say
in effect that my own small efforts in each line should be taken as
the final word upon any topic. It is quite likely that I would
make as many mistakes in the analysis of Health Horoscopes as
would any of my newest readers; I am chiefly concerned with the
fact that each one of us should compare some adequate data and
then take his findings as a foundation for a greater work.
A number of the horoscopes quoted in this book have been
printed before. It would be impossible to find examples of
every subject treated which had never previously attracted the
attention of watchful astrologers. There will be noted a good
many examples which have b'een examined by older writers. I
quote these because they are valuable for study and may not be
available to all new students. I remember that when I began the
study of astrology I could find no charts upon which to test my
newly-acquired information-largely because I did not know
where to look for them, it is true-but this is probably the
case with many others. When I began to study I was not quite
sure of my own ability to set up reliable charts for some time,
and this again was an obstacle in my way. Then, too, I had not
the money to buy a complete file of ephemerides, consequently I
was unable to make calculations for people born a hundred years
before my time or fifty years later than I. While the list of
charts in this b'ook is not a full record of every physical condition
there will still be found a good many examples of general health
conditions which can be studied in the light of medical research of
our own times. It will be necessary for the specialist in this
branch of astrology to make further research in each division, but
the general student can gain a fair idea of basic laws after a
careful comparison of the cases quoted. In no chapter have I
11
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
made any attempt to select material which will emphasize pre-
conceived ideas of my own along some definite lines. The
horoscopes used have, without exception, been taken because they
show some interesting condition, and grouped because of this fact.
After grouping them, and also after the elimination of many oth-
ers which might have been included had space permitted it, they
have been printed regardless of other considerations.
It will be noticed that I have made my divisions very wide
in scope. This is partly because I have no theory of health or
its opposite to offer and wish merely to bring together charts
which show a prominent characteristic of the life. I do not
doubt that I will b'ring together horoscopes which seem similar in
nature but which, upon analysis, will reveal different causes of
apparently related difficulties. The student should notice such
by-paths in his work and be prepared to group and re-group still
further. I am not a physician and I am not writing a book as a
doctor of medicine would. do it; I am writing an astrological sur-
vey of modern findings as they relate to the horoscope, and trusting
to the intelligence of each reader to carry on a great deal farther
than I have done. I know that those who are interested will
be able to do this.
Let me suggest a way. Medical or Health Horoscopes are
among the easiest to collect. Nearly everyone of your family
or acquaintance will be glad to tell you what ails him or her.
In fact, most of them will be hard to stop if you once start thetn
on the subject. Ask your friends and relatives about their most
dangerous illnesses, how they overcame their difficulties and the
date and duration of the seige. Be sure, of course, to ascertain
the definite birth data in each case. By keeping a loose-leaf
notebook for these examples you will soon have a b'ook of your
own upon Health Horoscopes; amplify it with examples from
these pages, and, as remarkable instances come to your attention,
fill out another leaf or two. A year or two of such study will
12
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
give you a priceless collection, and one which may prove of ines-
timable worth to other students who do not come in contact with
many people for questioning.
A good many new students of astrology feel some embarrass-
ment at asking others for intimate data, but this should be taken
as merely a form of lack of self-confidence, as indeed it is. One
rarely finds a person who is not delighted to sit down and talk
over his most private concerns with a student when he has
once been convinced that real interest in his problems is present.
It may take a little time to arrive at the point where trust is
given, but the ultimate res11lt is always the same. I often ask
perfect strangers about themselves-people I meet while taking a
short trip or even upon the street-and they always tell me, some-
times amazing things. I met one woman who later came to see
me to ask about the liability of having contracted a social disease,
and another who passed me on the street with her twin babies
came later to ask me if she was again pregnant. These were utter
strangers to whom I explained my interest in medical study
and whom I asked if they could help me by giving me any inform-
ative dates or details which they themselves might recall. So
again I say that it is the easiest thing imaginable to make a
collection of horoscopes from which to study physical welfare;
perhaps it is the best way for the new student to begin.
Provide yourself, therefore, with a durable loose leaf note-
book, muster up your courage and set out to ask questions.
You have a foundation in the charts which are calculated for your
study in this publication; add to it. If you have some friends
who are doctors or nurses ask them to obtain data for you. They
may not know how to go about this at first but they can give you
unusual details if they have an understanding of just what you
want and what you propose to do with your study. Probably
there is no branch of the work in which professional reserve
will be so necessary, but you will find that after a time you
13
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
can meet people who will allow you to talk about their dates and
birth and their illnesses without much restriction. Take your .
own doctor's chart and convince him of your seriousness. He
will prob'ably have some Scorpio or Virgo traits which will re-
spond readily to a conviction that you, too, are looking for
knowledge. At any rate, do not allow yourself to be discouraged
by a failure here or there; keep on trying. The results are
well worth the effort.
14
CHAPTER I
Duration of Li/e
While I was living in California the birth data of a newly-
born infant was telegraphed to me for a 'reading' of the life
ahead. Sadly, although I did not allow my own attitude to be
seen, I spoke of work ahead which prevented my attention being
turned to individual work at the time, but, in reality, the evidence
of premature death was so strong that I could not conscientiously
describe a future development to the fond parents. The child
lived longer than I had thought possible; he died upon his seventh
birthday.
Instances like this will occur in any astrologer's experience
and are very disturbing. It is difficult to avoid creating distrust
or anxiety if one refuses to read a chart, yet what is the proper
way of meeting such a question? I have an old friend who asks
me persistently for a reading for his son. I know that the son
will not live niore than a year or two and I put off making an
interpretation of this chart, meanwhile giving the father the
feeling that I am offended by some action of his, or that I am
perhaps just temperamental. It seems to me that every astrologer
should study carefully the subject of the duration of life before
he promises to analyze the other factors of the life, saying can-
didly to the visitor that he is not always able to make a satisfac-
tory reading of every piece of birth-data. He might have to give
up a few fees but he would gain greatly in reputation and peace of
mind, for without doubt, every inaccurate or questionable state-
ment distresses the practitioner even more than it does the quer-
ant. And so I begin this book upon -Health Horoscopes with a
group of charts which exemplify duration of life. There are
other characteristics to be seen, of course, because some of these
15
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
people have lived unusually long lives while some have died in
infancy or childhood. I have mixed them purposely, so that the
student may pick out for himself which he believes will live
to b'e one hundred years of age and which will only spend a year
or two upon earth. It should be understood at once that a sci··
entific approach to such a question as this requires more data
than I give here; the student should obtain this and compare it
with the printed information. The following examples are
valuable because they are exact both as to time and as to calcu-
lation. I do not publish a piece of astrological data which I
do not figure out and verify myself. This means that I some-
times have to omit very interesting cases which, however, are
questionable as to time of birth or other details. I think it is
more useful to spend time upon the analysis of proven material,
however, than to formulate opinions based upon information
which may be wholly wrong. I have also gone out of my way to
use both old and new examples of duration of life, so that the
mentally lazy person who wants to acquire a knowledge of this
great subject without corresponding effort cannot guess by the
birth date in every case the exact events which have followed.
The student should write out the calculation given for each
case. He is assumed to be able to do this elementary bit of
work, although he might not b'e able to calculate accurately from
the data alone. It is suggested that the number corresponding
to each case be written beside your chart wherein the planetary po-
sitions are noted; this provides a simple method of reference to
every example. A good way of studying the charts is to write
each separately, look at every point carefully, and then jot down
on a piece of paper your own interpretation of the nativity. Do
not be afraid to say what you think; too many astrologers make
pro and con statements solely because of this inability to arrive
at a decision. It is better to jump into the deep water and learn
how to swim than to spend your days wading in the puddles near
16
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
the shore. You may have some uncomfortable moments but
you will gain knowledge, and that is what you are after.
Now, with your pencil and scrap of paper in hand, look at
this first calculation. You know that it relates to the span of
life; don't waste time, therefore, in speculations about marital ·
conditions, appearance or amount of income. Such details -
may be there, but you are primarily interested in establishing-
your own ability to estimate the innate strength of an ·individual.
So begin on this :-
No. 1- Male; Sun 28 Libra, Moon 29 Capricorn, Mercury,
11 Scorpio, Venus 12 Virgo, Mars 12 Leo, Jupiter 18 Taurus Ret.,
Saturn 16 Virgo, Uranus 05 Leo, Neptune 06 Aries, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 26 Taurus, Gemini intercepted ; 11th, 08
Cancer; 12th, 11 Leo; 1st, 04 Virgo; 2nd, 25 Virgo; 3rd, 20 Libra.
To me it seems that the most important thing in this chart is
the lack of strong aspects for the Sun, inasmuch as this is the
chart of a boy and we must take the Sun as his center of vitality.
Neptune rules the eighth House, that of Death, and_we find it
placed in the eighth and Retrograde, which, of course, prevents it
from showing its best side. Saturn near the rising degree is
always dangerous, although in this chart Venus intervenes and
helps out a little. The end of life, shown by the fourth House,
has a double rulership, Mars and Jupiter, and perhaps Jupiter
might have pulled this boy through childhood if it had not been
Retrograde, but being weakened by this turn·of affairs as well as
being in square to its associate, Mars, there is little to expect from
that position. The best that we can say of this chart is
that Venus and the two good aspects of the ruler, Mercury, will
prevent death during the first seven years of life, because Venus,
Mercury and the Moon show their strongest influence before the
17
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
period of adolescence. But after he reaches the age of thirteen
to fourteen he is in danger of illness or weakness which he has
not the force to conquer.
It may be interesting to some of the group of students to
know that this is the historical chart of the young Edward VI of
England, son of Henry VIII and his wife Jane Seymour. Henry
died when Edward was somewhat over ten years of age, and
from that time on his health failed appreciably. He was never
a strong boy but received the best of care, according to the man-
ner of the age, of course. He died in July, 1552, before reach-
ing his sixteenth birthday, after having b'een in poor health for
more than a year. An interesting question arises; what do
you think was -the matter with him? Compare his horoscope
with those whose case history has been noted according to modern
methods.
No. 2-Male; Sun 28 Virgo, Moon 260 Gemini, Mer-
cury 13 Virgo, Venus 12 Leo, Mars 25 Aquarius, Jupiter 13
Sagittarius, Saturn 01 Scorpio, Uranus 19 Pisces Ret., Neptune
210 Leo.
HousEs-lOth, 22 Aries; 11th, 27 Taurus, Gemini intercep-
ted; 12th, 01 -
Cancer; 1st, 02 Leo; 2nd, 24 Leo; 3rd, 20 Virgo.
This boy was born on September 21st, 1924, at 2 :00 A. M. in
Atlanta, Georgia. The Sun, ruler of the chart, and indicator of
the masculine vitality in any chart, is without aspect. Venus is
rising and is trine to Jupiter; the Moon has left a good aspect to
Mars and is approaching a good relationship to Saturn in the
fourth House. These are the only favorable indications in the
chart.
On the other hand, the eighth House is occupied by both
Mars and Uranus, both of which hold several adverse aspects.
Count them up and make up your minds what happened to this
18
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
child. He died at the age of eight years, being crushed to death
by a truck. Note Mars and Uranus in the eighth House with
Saturn in the fourth House, the former denoting machinery and
the latter the heavy weight. I see no way of avoiding disaster in
this horoscope. And let me mention in passing that I have come
to believe that afflictions of Mars and Neptune are the most diffi-
cult to understand or to overcome. Watch them in various other
charts.
No. 3-Female; Sun 26 Gemini, Moon 130 Cancer, Mer-
cury 200 Cancer, Venus 9 Cancer, Mars 16 Virgo, Jupiter 10
Capricorn Ret., Saturn 14 Capricorn, Ret., Uranus 14 Sagittarius
Ret., Neptune 29 Gemini.
HousEs-lOth, 06 Sagittarius; 11th, 19 Sagittarius; 12th,
02 Capricorn ; 1st, 170 Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces inter-
cepted; 2nd, 10 Aries ; 3rd, 18 Taurus.
This is the horoscope of one of the daughters of the last
Czar of Russia, whose entire family was supposed to have been
assassinated in the year 1917, shortly after his abdication. At
the date of this horrihle occurrence this daughter would have
been approaching her sixteenth year. It was assumed that she
perished, but some years ago a young woman appeared in New
York City claiming to be the younger daughter of the Czar and
to have escaped the debacle which wiped out her relatives. This
chart is included for study as to the possibility of mature life;
it seems incredible. In a woman's chart the position of the
Moon indicates the ~ber of yea_u;.; and this is among the most V
afflicted hor'OsCc;pes whic!.i.l have ever studied. Even had the
murder noCtaI<en place I doubt if this girl could have reached
maturity. Note the oppositions and the placing of Uranus in the
Midheaven, squared by Mars.
19
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
No. 4-Male; Sun 02 Aries, Moon 25 Capricorn, Mercury
07 Pisces, Venus 15 Pisces, Mars 15,0 Taurus, Jupiter 28 Pisces,
Saturn 22 Gemini, Uranus 10 Virgo Ret., Neptune 10 Scorpio, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 09 Taurus; 11th, 18 Gemini; 12th, 23 Cancer;
1st, 21 Leo ; 2nd, 11 Virgo; 3rd, 06 Lib'ra.
The Sun in this chart is the center of being, also the ruler of
the life, therefore aspects to it are doubly important. The only
one is a separating conjunction with the planet Jupiter. This is
again separating from Saturn-it cannot be said at once that this is
either good or bad. What else is present? The ruler of the
fourth is Mars, in the Midheaven and sextile to Venus in the
eighth. The Moon is in the sixth and sextile to Jupiter. We can
conclude that this man will attain a ripe old age, suffer few ill-
nesses and die peacefully. The horoscope is that of Kaiser Wil-
helm I of Germany, under whose rule the separate German states
were amalgamated by aid of Prince Bismarck. The Kaiser lived
from the year 1797 until 1888, a span of life which is considered
exceptional even at this time and was still more unusual in the
past century.
No. 5-Male; Sun 16 Cancer, Moon 23 Gemini, Mercury
290 Cancer, Venus 01 Virgo, Mars 06 Libra, Jupiter 10,0 Libra,
Saturn 04,0 Sagittarius, Uranus 16 Pisces, Neptune 12 Aquarius.
HousEs-lOth, 15 Capricorn; 11th, 07 Aquarius; 12th, 10
Pisces; 1st, 27 Aries, Taurus intercepted; 2nd, 02 Gemini; 3rd,
23 Gemini.
Most striking about this calculation is the presence of the
planet of limitation, Saturn, in the eighth House. Without
strengthening aspects this might cause premature death, but note
that it is in good relationship to both Mars and Jupiter who
occupy the sixth House, that of health, and that Mars rules the
chart. This man was probably not robust at any time but could
20
.'
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCO P ES
bring great powers of resistance to the . fore whenever it was
necessary. Moreover, his Sun was in the fourth House, trine
to Uranus, so that outside conditions did not injure him in any
way. Perhaps it would be interesting to know that this is the
horoscope of John D. Rockefeller, who lived to be 97 years of
age.
No. 6---Male; Sun 29 Pisces, Moon 02 Aquarius, Mercury
10 Pisces, Venus 12 Aquarius, Mars 05 Sagittarius, Jupiter 27
Taurus, Saturn 26 Sagittarius, Uranus 19 Scorpio Ret., Neptune
11 Sagittarius, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 13 Aquarius; 11th, 12 Pisces; 12th, 26 Aries,
Taurus intercepted; 1st, 18 Gemini; 2nd, 06 Cancer; 3rd, 23
Cancer.
In regard to this nativity, it seems worthy of note that of nine
planetary positions, five, including the ruler, are in mutable signs-
always less vital than either the cardinal or fixed group, and·that
Neptune is directly opposed to the rising degree, in square aspect
to Mercury. No planets occupied favorab'le positions, although
two malefics were placed in the sixth House, in the sign Sagit-
tarius, a vital sign. It appears to me that this subject suffered
from tuberculosis, probably affecting his lungs, although that
might not have been recognized at the time. History says that
he 'died in a weakened condition at the age of ten years ; this is
the chart of the young son of Napoleon. I doubt if he could
have lived, even under the most painstaking care.
No. 7-Female; Sun 17 Capricorn, Moon 13 Capricorn, Mer-
cury 24 Sagittarius, Venus 25 Capricorn, Mars 18_0 Libra, Jupi-
ter 04 Virgo Ret., Saturn 07 Capricorn, Uranus 14 Libra, Neptune
17 Scorpio.
HousEs-lOth, 10 Cancer; 11th, 18 Leo; 12th, 16 Virgo; 1st
08, Libra; 2nd, 01 Scorpio ; 3rd, 29 Scorpio, Sagittarius intercep-
=-· ted.
21
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
This young girl died before she reached the age of fifteen
years. The adverse elements in the chart are quite obvious and
overpowering.
No. 8-Female; Sun 18 Cancer, Moon 02 Taurus, Mercury
10 Leo, Venus 20 Cancer, Mars 00 Sagittarius, Jupiter 20 Leo,
Saturn 08 Virgo, Uranus OS Pisces, Ret., Neptune 10 Leo.
HousEs-lOth, 23 Aquarius; 11th, 24 Pisces, Aries inter-
cepted ; 12th, 06 Taurus; 1st, 17_% Gemini; 2nd, 09 Cancer; 3rd,
29 Cancer.
If you can decipher this chart in regard to tenure of life you
will b'e doing well, for it is very confusing. Of course, Saturn
occupies the Fourth House, which is always troublesome, par-
ticularly when poorly aspected, and here there is an opposition
from Uranus. But the Moon is trine to Saturn and sextile to
Uranus, consequently many of the outside influences which come
about from Uranian and Saturnine afflictions may not be present
in this nativity. The ruler of the life is Mercury, in almost
exact conjunction with Neptune. and by stretching the _
boundary
lines of the square aspect We might possibly contend that the
Moon was within these degrees. Evidently we must conclude
that when the ruler of the eighth House is placed in the fourth
and afflicted therein, untoward events will affect the length of life,
for this child was kidnapped and murdered while on her way
to school. Her date of birth was July 10th, 1920, at 2 :30 A. M.,
near Indianapolis, Ind., and her murder took place at about 8 :30
A. M. on February 11th, 1931. The deception shown by the
planet Neptune indicates that she was persuaded to follow some
person with malefic aspects strong at birth.
22
CHAPTER II
The Sun and the Moon
Any treatise upon medical astrology will fall short of its
purpose if it bases its material upon the scheme adopted by those
who specialize in medicine or who follow the purely materialistic
mode of thought. The physician, able as he may be, is limited
to the study of the dead body; the astrologer must consider
the living entity. The_physician adapts his findings to those who
come to him in illness, but the astrologer can study those who
are blessed with perfect health and compare his subjects with
later examples of persons who may or may not be alive when
he looks at their horoscopes. At any rate, he cannot bind him-
self by the rule of Medicine, which consists only of a knowledge
of anatomy plus various healing methods. He must recognize
the presence of Life-and no physician can tell the questioner
what Life truly is.
And then when it comes to the Soul-the doctor is lost.
He used to deny that there was any such thing. Now he is not
quite so sure. - The astrologer knows that Life 'and the Soul
must enter the body before we can say that we are examining a
human being. Therefore any book upon Medical Astrology
must begin with a consideration of the things which make us
Man; we must see the place in our cosmos of the primal human
functions. ..
I know that at this point the student of prenatal conditions
will tell me that I should begin with the moment of conception.
There are various times suggested for the start of Life-the mo-
ment when coition takes place, the moment of fertilization of the
ovum, and others. I know nothing about these topics, and I
doubt if we can determine any of them accurately with our pres-
23
1 0 1 HEA LTH HOROSCOPES
ent knowledge. The individual has no memory of a pre-natal
existence, although he knows that observation is sure of such ex-
perience. I believe that we will have to wait for further de-
velopment before we can understand this mystery. All we can
be sure of just now is the fact that at a certain time we began to
breathe, and that is taken as the correct time for which a horo-
scope is calculated. The conditions which surround us in our
pre-natal life are shown in our bodily state and our appearance at
that moment of birth, but why this is so I doubt if anyone can
say. Doctors with whom I have discussed various cases often
say that the time of birth is retarded or hastened artificially, and
give this an argument against the astrological viewpoint. But
I say, although they do not always agree with me, that the body
and soul coalesce at the moment of first breath, and the fact that
outside factors have influenced this simply means that for some
reason the entity needed that particular experience. Neither
one of us can explain this process, however.
The primary factors in Life, as we take it in humanity
found upon the Earth, are the body and the non-material factor
called variously the 'soul,' the 'psyche,' the 'will to live' and so on.
Obviously there is something which enters a child's physical struc-
ture at the time of birth which causes him to desire-perhaps
subconsciously-to function as a living human. Sometimes a
perfect body is born which never joins the ranks of living mor-
tals. Here is a case:-
No. 9-Sun 11 Aries, Moon 05 Virgo, Mercury 14 Aries,
Ret., Venus 010 Pisces, Mars 06 Capricorn, Jupiter 21 Pisces,
Saturn 19 Aries, Uranus 15 Taurus, Neptune 21 Virgo, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 11 Pisces; 11th, 15 Aries; 12th, 27 Taurus ;
1st, 04 Cancer; 2nd, 24 Cancer; 3rd, 15 Leo.
This was a male child, alive when labor began, but dead
when born. A study of the chart would scarcely indicate that
life was impossible, but the ruler of the chart is the Moon, rather
24
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
weakly placed, although plenty of people live with more afflic-
tions than this. However, this infant was infected with syphilis
at birth-Neptune Ret. in the fourth house and directly opposed
by Jupiter-and Mars, the ruler of the house of health, was on the
western horizon. If the child had been minus that Neptune
affliction it would have lived, and the physician in charge of the
case agreed with me in this analysis. Under the conditions shown,
it was not given a chance to function; a life was wasted.
No. 10-Sun 13 Taurus, Moon 080 Libra, Mercury 030
Gemini, Venus 270 Aries, Mars 23 Taurus, Jupiter 23,% Sagit-
tarius, Saturn 19,% Pisces, Neptune 14 Virgo, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 10 Aquarius; 11th, 10 Pisces; 12th, 14 Aries;
1st, 19 Taurus; 2nd, 18 Gemini; 3rd, 14 Cancer.
This is the horoscope of the first born of a group of sep-
tuplets-seven at one birth-born to a Nicaraguan woman from
May 3rd to 6th, at varying times, in 1936. The last three sur-
vived birth; the first four were reported dead at birth. I believe
that this child may have been born alive, but the square aspects
between Saturn, Jupiter and Nepfone were strong enough to over-
come vitality when the planet Mars came to the Horizon. The
ruler of the eighth house badly aspected in the house is always
dangerous, but not necessarily fatal. Mars upon the Ascend-
ant was the factor here; it points to outside conditions which the
native must meet. The Sun, Moon, Mercury and Venus are all
active in infancy, late~ the outer ring of planets comes into
strength. Probably a careful watch over this child would have
saved its life-for a time. Compare its chart with that of the
last-born of the septuplets, which calculation follows.
No. ll-Sun-16 Taurus, Moon 20 Scorpio, Mercury 07
Gemini, Venus 02 Taurus, Mars 25 Taurus, Jupiter 23 Sagit-
tarius, Ret., Saturn 20 Pisces, Uranus 06 Taurus, Neptune 14
Virgo.
25
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
HousEs-lOth, 04 Virgo; 11th, 06 Libra; 12th, 06 Scorpio;
1st, 043/:! Sagittarius; 2nd 03 Capricorn; 3rd, 03 Aquarius.
This child was reported to have survived birth long enough
for baptism and a certain record of its existence. Do you think
it could live after the Moon passed the opposition of Mars and
progressed toward the squares of Saturn and Neptune? It is
my opinion that a three-day span of life was all that was vouch-
safed to this entity. Unfortunately we have no further know-
ledge of these children. For those who wish to set up the
figures for birth the record reads : "First birth at 6 A. M. on
May 3rd; second on May 4th, 4 :00 A. M. ; two other children born
dead; fifth birth at 4 :30 A. M., May 4th; sixth birth at 8 :00
A. M., May 5th, and seventh at 7 :30 P. M., on May 6th." The
location of birth was near 12 degrees North and 84 degrees West.
Local time has been used for these ·calculations.
Doctors teli me that multiple births such as these just re-
corded are found to occur in families which have a record of
high fertility, never to come as the first-born of a family. This
is true in the case of the famous Dionne Quintuplets (see 101
Headline Horoscopes) and i11 the case of the five children born
to an Indian woman, of which, unfortunately, no birth record
was kept. Twins do not conform to this rule; in other words,
while a group of children born at one birth always has older
brothers and sisters, twins may often be the oldest children of
a family. Females predominate in multiple births, while the
presence of both sexes in such a case is definite evidence that two
separa,te couceptions took place. I often stop mothers who are
wheeling twins and ask about them; usually I am overwhelmed
with information given joyously. New students should not
hesitate to tell women why they want to know about the children,
and the results will be most interesting.
26
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
No. 12-19 Sagittarius, Sun, Moon 04 Virgo, Mercury 07
Capricorn, Venus 22 Scorpio, Mars, 16Yz Leo, Jupiter 18 Cancer,
Ret., Saturn 11 Capricorn, Uranus llYz Aries, Neptune 06 Virgo,
Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 21 Capricorn; 11th, 16 Aquarius; 12th, 19
Pisces, Aries intercepted; 1st, 07Yz Taurus ; 2nd, 08 Gemini; 3rd,
00 Cancer.
These were unusually handsome little girls with curling red
hair-Venus, the ruler, in a Mars sign. The first birth took place
at 2 :15 P. M., December 11th, 1930, New York City, while the
second followed it closely at 2 :25 P.M. While there are some
difficult aspects in these charts, the strong relationship between
the Sun and Mars and the Moon and Mercury point toward in-
nate vitality.
No. 13-Sun 03Yz Pisces, Moon 15 Taurus, Mercury, 19
Aquarius, Venus, 19 Capricorn, Mars 28Yz Cancer, Ret., Jupiter
10Yz Cancer, Ret., Saturn 20 Capricorn, Uranus 13 Aries, Nep-
tune 04Yz Virgo, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 18 Gemini, 02 Cancer; 11th, 22 Cancer, 06
Leo; 12th, 23 Leo, 06 Virgo; 1st, 19Yz Virgo, Ol Yz Libra; 2nd, 15
Libra, 28 Libra; 3rd, 15 Scorpio, 28 Scorpio.
This was evidently a case where the twins were not identical,
that is, not the result of the fertilization of a single ovum,but where
the,birth followed two distinct conceptions. The father of these
twin boys was placed in jail for theft within five months of their
birth. I doubt if he served a full term-although Venus in con-
junction with Saturn is not the most benefic aspect for paternity.
Nevertheless, it does not bring about lasting disgrace. No further
history of these children is available, but house positions in these
charts disclose negative influences. Health is good b'ecause of
27
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
the good aspects to both Sun and Moon, even if these do show
obstacles in the circumstances of the life in both cases. Set up
these charts separately and compare them.
No. 14-Sun 25 Gemini, Moon 010 Pisces, Mercury 03 Ge-
mini, Venus 130 Taurus, Mars 280 Libra, Jupiter 26 Leo, Saturn
02 Aquarius, Ret., Uranus 03 Aquarius, Neptune 28 Aries.
HousEs-lOth, 23-30 Gemini; 11th, 26 Cancer-04 Leo ;
12th, 01-04 Virgo; 1st, 20-29 Virgo; 2nd, 18-26 Libra; 3rd, 16-
23 Scorpio.
These were premature infants born nearly one-half hour
apart, with an identical sign risjng, but with varying positions of
the planets and cusps. I take it that they are identical twins,
but that their lives have followed differing channels. At the
period of their birth the subject of the care of premature children
had not received scientific study, and the fact that these children
survived is due, no doub't, to the powerful Sun, Mars and Jupiter
aspects. The affliction of the Moon doubtless caused their illness
at birth, but the ruler trine to both Uranus and Saturn gave in-
creasing strength in later years. These women are both of literary
tastes, although neither is professionally occupied with writing.
No. 15-Sun 21 Pisces, Moon, 10 Pisces, Mercury 09
Pisces, Venus 01 Taurus, Mars 290 Scorpio, Jupiter, 210 Capri-
corn, Saturn 24 plus Pisces, Uranus 07 Taurus, Neptune 170
Virgo, Ret.
HousEs-10th, 04 Cancer; 11th, 07 Leo; 12th, 08 Virgo ;
1st, 030 Libra; 2nd, 00 Scorpio; 3rd, 00 Sagittarius.
This is the horoscope of the smallest living child to have
been born in Manhattan, a little girl, born March 11th, 1937, at
7 :05 P. M., who lived thirty-six hours. The inability to cling
to life was shown by the affliction of the ruler, but the heredity
28
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
was good, and the Moon's position was strong enough to enab'le
her to make a struggle for existence. She undoubtedly suc-
cumbed to the passage of the Moon from the conjunction with
Saturn to the opposition to the Ascendant. The child was pre-
mature and if she could have been born with normal correlation
between the bod)'" and soul she might have reached maturity.
It seems to me that infantile grasp upon life is shown by
the interrelation between the Sun, Moon and ruler, or Ascendant.
Those who have some strong positions survive, while those who
lack connection between these points die, even though their bodies
seem perfect. I am not claiming to put forth any new doctrine
when I say this, but I do wish to emphasize what older and wiser
students have said and to show this principle in my examples.
These, however, have not in any case been chosen to show such
a point, but have been taken at random from many examples
placed before me.
29
CHAPTER III
Mercury
When I began to ask physicians for data upon medical
tases I also asked them what they considered the most important
functions of the human body. I had a theory that I might
begin with the Sun, ruling the heart, then go on to the Moon,
ruling the digestive apparatus, and so on. But I was quickly
stopped in this plan. I was told by b'rilliant men that the place
of supreme importance after the actual formation of the body
itself-the interaction of the Sun and Moon-was given to the
function of breath and the rulership of the muscles by the invol-
untary nervous system. I was thrilled, for here were my two
Mercurial activities stressed by people who did not even know
about them, but, who, nevertheless, set me right when I began
to attribute erroneous orders to my scheme.
Consequently, after the formation of the body and the devel-
opment of the spirit, the next subject of importance is the Mer-
curial area. We must breathe; likewise, we must be able to
do such elementary things as to contract and dilate the heart,
one of the involuntary nervous activities. We can see our
astrological scheme working out at this point, for, after beginning
with the Sun and Moon, or Leo and Cancer, in places of equal
importance, we then take up the functions of Virgo and Gemini.
I have placed Leo first, but I really think that our earthly
existence begins with Cancer-the soul resting upon the water.
I am not trying to write a text book or I might expand this idea;
I am merely presenting cases for the perusal of fellow students.
An important distinction in nervous activities is at once
disclosed because Mercury is shown to rule only bodily 'nervous'
30
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
order and disorder. The mentality, seemingly a part of the
nervous system, is linked up to it through the second planetary
group, specifically the planet Uranus, which corresponds to Mer-
cury. The undeveloped child, or the being who lacks muscular
control, will have some weakness of the Mercurial points, but the
definitely insane person will show afflictions of Uranian position
or aspects. The two are often combined, but they are not neces-
sarily so combined; the murderer may be absolutely healthy, or
the epileptic may be a famous writer. The mind and the nerves
are usually confused b_y: the average layman. A short study of
astrology points out a great difference here.
No. 16-Sun 23 Virgo, Moon 08 Scorpio, Mercury 09 Libra,
Venus 29,% Libra, Mars 10,% Scorpio, Jupiter 03 Capricorn,
Saturn 10 Capricorn, Uranus 13 Sagittarius, Neptune 01,% Can-
cer.
HousEs-lOth, 11 Sagittarius; 11th, 02 Capricorn; 12th, 25
Capricorn; 1st, 28 Aquarius, Pisces intercepted; 2nd, 15 Aries;
3rd, 18 Taurus.
It is a marvel that this child lived, for the afflication of the
Moon in the eighth house, together with Mercury in the same
position and square to Saturn while the Sun opposes the Ascend-
ant make a heavy burden. However, this male child lived-
at least to manhood, for my history of him stops at the age of
twenty-eight years-although he is a hopeless invalid and utterly
deficient in intellect. He is an utter imbecile; he cannot learn
to perfor!TI the simplest routine.
No. 17-Sun 03 Capricorn, Moon OS Cancer, Mercury 14,%
Sagittarius, Venus 01,% Aquarius, Mars 24 Pisces, Jupiter OOYz
Aries, Saturn 24,% Aries, Uranus 18 Taurus, Ret., Neptune
25,% Virgo.
31
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
HousEs-lOth, 26 Scorpio; 11th, 18 Sagittarius; 12th, 08
Capricorn; 1st, 04 Aquarius; 2nd, 21 Pisces; 3rd, 29 Aries.
This child did not breathe for over three hours after phy-
sical birth. Artificial respiration finally induced breath and the
child was alive at the date of writing (1940). It is a male in-
fant, otherwise in good condition. Is the delayed breathing due
to the opposition of Sun and Moon? I do not hold to the theory
that Pluto influences the health of an individual, yet in this
case Pluto directly opposed the Ascendant.
No. 18-Sun OS Taurus, Moon 11 Taurus, Mercury 24,0
Aries, Venus 09 Gemini, Mars 02 Cancer, Jupiter 02 Cancer,
Saturn 04 Scorpio, Ret., Uranus 18,0 Scorpio, Ret., Neptune 14
Gemini.
HousEs-lOth, 11 Gemini; 11th, 18 Cancer; 12th, 20 Leo;
1st, 15,0 Virgo; 2nd, 08 Libra; 3rd, 06 Scorpio.
This man died at the age of thirty-four of pulmonary tuber-
culosis, although his male twin, born twenty minutes later,
survived. While this is a rather detailed chart for $tudy, never-
theless the causes of his malady appear plainly. So many mer-
curial rulerships with Mercury itself in the eighth house show a
tendency toward difficulty with the lungs.
No. 19-Sun 14 Pisces, Moon 00,0 Pisces, Mercury 29,0
Aquarius, Venus 25 Aries, Mars 29 Sagittarius, Jupiter 08
Sagittarius, Saturn 02 Scorpio, Ret., Uranus 17 Pisces, Neptune
18 Leo, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 25 Gemini; 11th, 29 Cancer, Leo intercepted;
12th, 00 Virgo; 1st, 26 Virgo; 2nd, 21 Libra; 3rd, 21 Scorpio.
This is a female who has suffered from epileptic attacks since
early childhood. The Moon and Mercury are in conjunction,
32
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
strongly aspected by Mars and Saturn, hence this child lived.
The chronic disease is shown by four planets placed in the sixth
house, one of them the ruler,- with the Sun disposed of by
Neptune, and Neptune disposed of by the Sun. The position of
Mars in the fourth house does not show favorable hereditary
conditions, particularly when the ruler of the fourth, even though
it be Jupiter, is receiving a square from the Moon.
No. 20-Sun 13 Pisces, Moon 28 Capricorn, Mercury 17
Pisces, Venus 23,0 Aries, Mars 06 Pisces, Jupiter 14,0 Leo,
Ret., Saturn 01 Aquarius, Uranus 17 Aries, Neptune 06,0 Virgo,
Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 06 Scorpio; 11th, 29 Scorpio; 12th, 18 Sagit-
tarius ; 1st, 08 Capricorn; 2nd, 21 Aquarius, Pisces Intercepted;
3rd, 05 Aries.
This boy has a congenital weakness of the heart-a valvular
condition which was discovered when he was about four years of
age. He cannot walk to school, nor play everyday games. He
is quite well when kept in what will come to seem a form of
seclusion. Will he live? He has two normal older brothers,
and his mother is well. His father shows a slight tendency to-
ward tub'erculosis-again a Mercurial affliction.
This chart shows a group in Pisces afflicted this time by an
opposition of Neptune. The conjunction of the Moon with
Saturn is bad ; so is the Retrograde position of Neptune in the
eighth. The solar return chart for his early years brought
out the dubious condition of his health; what will happen when
he experiences the square of Saturn to Sun and Mercury?
No. 21-Sun 12 Virgo, Moon 07,0 Virgo, Mercury 00
Virgo, Venus 26,0 Virgo, Mars 29 Virgo, Jupiter 18,0 Aries,
Saturn 28,0 Aries, Uranus 09,0 Virgo, Neptune 14 Taurus, Ret.
33
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
HousEs-lOth, 05 Cancer; 11th, 11 Leo; 12th, 10 Virgo;
1st, 04 Libra; 2nd, 28 Lib'ra; 3rd, 29 Scorpio, Sagittarius inter-
cepted.
This is a female nativity. It is easy to see what happened
in this case. The child was an utter imbecile, but doubtless
lived, although it must have been confined to an institution.
No. 22-Sun 16 Gemini, Moon 16 Virgo, Mercury 11
Gemini, Venus 03 Gemini, Mars 08 Gemini, Jupiter 10 Scorpio,
Ret., Saturn 18Yz Sagittarius, Ret., Uranus 20 Pisces, Neptune
15 Aquarius, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 00 Capricorn; 11th, 18 Capricorn; 12th,
13 Aquarius, Pisces intercepted; 1st 01 Aries; 2nd, 17 Taurus;
3rd, 11 Gemini.
This woman went insane after her husb'and died. The
question which will arise in every student's mind is "Was she
ever truly sane?" Four planets in Gemini in the third house,
opposed by Saturn and squared by the Moon do not show mental
balance, particularly as Mercury is the ruler of her solar sign
while Mars governs the entire chart, both included in the
afflicted group. It may interest some readers to know that this
is the nativity of the ex-Empress Carlotta of Mexico, whose
husband, Maximilian, was assassinated. It is interesting to note
how the position of Saturn in the ninth house brought out the
latent violence of this mentality.
No. 23-Sun 19 Aquarius, Moon 07 Capricorn, Mercury
06 Pisces, Venus 26 Capricorn, Mars 27Yz Leo, Ret., Jupiter
12 Aries, Saturn 15 Sagittarius, Uranus 14 Cancer, Ret., Nep-
tune 15 Aries.
HousEs-lOth, 28 Taurus, Gemini intercepted; 11th, 06
Cancer; 12th, 09 Leo; 1st, 06 Virgo; 2nd, 27 Virgo; 3rd, 24
Libra.
34
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
I have no further history upon this case except that it is that
of an imbecile male child. Mercury is directly opposed to the
ascendant, while the conjunction of Jupiter and Neptune in the
eighth is squared by Uranus and the Moon-the latter in op-
position. I cannot believe that the child lived very long.
No. 24--Sun 18 Gemini, Moon 22 Aquarius, Mercury 060
Gemini, Venus 00 Leo, Mars 00 Aries, Jupiter 12 Pisces, Saturn
14 Aries, Uranus 000 Virgo, Neptune 11 Taurus.
HousEs-lOth, 19 Aquarius; 11th, 18 Pisces; 12th, 29
Aries, Taurus intercepted; 1st, 1'3 Gemini; 2nd, 05 Cancer; 3rd,
25 Cancer.
This lady has suffered throughout her life from attacks of
epilepsy. It is interesting to note that she has a twin brother,
b'orn about forty minutes earlier than herself. who is perfectly
normal. Both have received fine educations, being the children
of a clergyman, and the brother has been active in educational
work. The position of Mercury is weak in this chart, and it is
possible that she was born a few minutes earlier than the time
given, thus placing Mercury directly upon the Ascendant. Epi-
lepsy is supposed to be a 'lunar' disease, but this chart is the only
one in my collection which shows a definite afflication to the
Moon-this in the hereditary fourth house-which agrees with
the old rules. Medical research points to an ill adjustment of
muscular control as the source of this trouble, .brought out in
later life by some nervous pressure. It has nothing to do with
higher mental affliction; note the following:
No. 25-Sun 23 Cancer, Moon 18 Libra, Mercury 05 Can-
cer, Venus 26 Cancer, Mars 14 Gemini, Jupiter 26 Virgo,
Saturn 19 Taurus, Uranus 07 Capricorn, Neptune 17 Virgo.
35
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
HousEs-10th, 05 Capricorn; 11th, 27 Capricorn; 12th, 25
Aquarius, Pisces intercepted; 1st 09,0 Aries; 2nd, 18 Taurus;
3rd, 14 Gemini.
This is the chart of one of the most brilliant, handsome and
successful men who ever lived. Students who take an interest
in old-time charts may recognise his horoscope, for this was pub-
lished in a German periodical some years ago. The Sun is
in conjunction with Venus and sextile to Jupiter, while the
Moon was in Lib'ra and trine to Mars. This would account
for his astounding masculine beauty. But-and it's a big BUT
-Mars was squared to Neptune in the sixth, and Mercury op-
posed Uranus, which was at the Midheaven, consequently,
although this man was among the most learned and successful of
his time, he died from the effects of dissipation at the age of
thirty-two. · Yes, it is the chart of Alexander the Great. In
spite of congenital difficulty he might have been more than a
flash across history; as it was, he allowed Mars, on the cusp of
the fourth and ruling his eighth, to destroy all he had wrought.
No one, however, has ever questioned his power of intellect.
No. 26--Sun 13 Gemini, Moon 10 Capricorn, Mercury 26
Gemini, Venus 29 Gemini, Mars 07 Aries, Jupiter 22 Aries,
Saturn 27 Gemini, Uranus 05 Capricorn, Ret., Neptune 28,0
Gemini.
HousEs-10th, 09 Aries; 11th, 18 Taurus, Gemini inter-
cepted; 12th, 00 Cancer; 1st, 03 Leo; 2nd, 19 Leo; 3rd, 10 Virgo.
Mercury, Venus, Saturn and Neptune all in conjunction in
the sign Gemini-what do you think of him? Yes, he was in-
sane. Never very violently mad, but recognized by those
about him as needing special care. Unfortunately he was so
placed that his mental trouble could influence people who bear
great responsibilties today, for this is the horoscope of King
36
1 0 1 BEALTH HOROSCOPES
George III of England-king when the American Revolution
was fought-and from him are descended many of the reigning
monarchs of today.
No. 27-Sun 08Yz Sagittarius, Moon 07 Aquarius, Mer-
cury 27 Sagittarius, Venus 04 Scorpio, Mars 19 Pisces, Jupiter
26 Sagittarius, Saturn 09 Scorpio, Uranus 17,% Pisces, Nep-
tune 22Yz Leo.
HousEs-10th, 16 Libra; 11th, 13 Scorpio; 12th, 04 Sag-
ittarius; 1st, 23,Y:; Sagittarius, Capricorn intercepted; 2nd, 00
Aquarius; 3rd, 11 Pisces.
This boy is classified as a moron. He has attained the
mental age of eight years and can be expected to develop no
further. His grandfather was a physician and his mother is
a 'career' woman, successful in her work. I have advised in-
stitutional care for this boy, since I think that his twelfth house
planet might be trained so that he could find a measure of hap-
piness in life; so far, however, he is allowed to roam at will.
He will probably not be dangerous to others, but it is pitiful
that he is not given some way of learning simple services
through which he might make himself useful and happy.
No. 28-Sun 22 Capricorn, Moon 15 Capricorn, Mercury
10 Capricorn, Venus 09 Sagittarius, Mars 16,Y:; Scorpio, Jupi-
ter 04 Cancer, Ret., Saturn 11,Y:; Pisces, Uranus 09Yz Capricorn,
Neptune 11 Cancer, Ret.
HousEs-10th, 17 Pisces; 11th, 24 Aries, Taurus inter-
cepted; 12th, 09 Gemini; 1st, 17,% Cancer; 2nd, 03 Leo; 3rd, 22
Leo.
This boy, with four planets in Capricorn, contracted an ill-
ness which brought on a twitching of the knees known as 'St.
,. Vitus' Dance'. The Moon, ruler of the chart, opposes the As-
37
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
cendant from the sixth while Mercury bears the same relation-
ship to Neptune in the twelfth. The child is as yet unharmed by
his siege with this disease, but note the weak lunar position.
When Saturn transits Cancer there will be trouble for him.
No. 29-Sun 03 Gemini, Moon 200 Capricorn, Mercury 07
Gemini, Venus 180 Aries, Mars 090 Pisces, Jupiter 11 Gemini,
Saturn 19 Libra, Ret., Uranus 120, Ret., Scorpio, Neptune 13
Gemini.
HousEs-lOth, 00 Sagittarius; 11th, 18 Sagittarius; 12th,
06 Capricorn; 1st, 27 Capricorn, Aquarius intercepted; 2nd, 26
Pisces, Aries intercepted ; 3rd, 06 Taurus.
This case is quoted from a classic upon extraordinary births
and can be expected to show remarkable characteristics from
an astrological angle. The child was a moron, apparently of
good disposition, but unable to learn simple procedures of life.
The Sun, Mercury, Jupiter and Neptune in conjunction in
the mental house, which ruled the fourth, seem to show a his-
tory of some forebears who were deficient in intellect. This
is particularly marked since Mars squares the group, while
Saturn, ruler of the chart, is retrograde and afflicted. This
chart was not chosen as an example of mental deficiency but
simply noted down with the others.
No. 30-Sun 100 Scorpio, Moon 210 Sagittarius, Mercury
22 Libra, Venus 040 Scorpio, Mars 06 Virgo, Jupiter 09 Aquar-
ius, Saturn 22 Capricorn, Uranus 19 Sagittarius, Neptune 030
Cancer, Re:t.
HousEs-10th, 10 Pisces; 11th, 14 Aries; 12th, 25 Tau-
rus, Gemini intercepted; 1st, 02 Cancer; 2nd, 22 Cancer; 3rd,
14 Leo.
This woman, with Moon and Uranus in Sagittarius in the
house of Heath, is first of all a cripple through accident. Her
38
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
spine and hips are affected. Secondly she suffers from "spas-
modic fits"- is this an epileptic condition? Mercury sqµar~
to Saturn, which is in exact conjunction with the cusp of the
eighth house, would indicate some serious nervous · a~liction.
Neptune on the Ascendant is very unfortunate as regards her
future condition; it shows no resistance to disease or misfortune.
The only thing which has saved her has been the strong aspect
between the ruling Moon and Mercury. ·
No. 31- Sun 01 Sagittarius, Moon 11 Pisces, Mercury -14
Sagittarius, Ret., Venus 11 Sagittarius, Ret., Mars 150 Libra,
Jupiter 10 Cancer, Ret., Saturn 080 Pisces, Uranus 060 Scor-
pio, Neptune 12 Cancer, Ret.
HousEs- 10th, 10 Aquarius; 11th, 19 Pisces, Aries inter-
cepted ; 12th, 00 Taurus ; 1st, 14 Gemini; 2nd, 06 Canoer; 3rd,
26 Cancer.
This man has been confined to mental institutions several
times during his life. Mercury, ruler of the chart, directly op-
poses his Ascendant, and is tied to a square with the Moon and
Saturn. The ruler of the sixth house, Mars, is the only thing
that keeps him going, for everything else in the chart is afflicted.
The fact that Uranus occupies his eighth house and is opposed by
Jupiter and Neptune will bring about a violent or sudden death
under some unusual circumstances.
No. 32-Sun 24 Aries, Moon 070 Aries, Mercury 12 Tau-
rus, Venus 02 Aries, Mars 06 Taurus, Jupiter 11 Aries, Saturn
19 Aquarius, Uranus 00 Capricorn, Ret., Neptune 030 Cancer.
HousEs-lOth, 14 Capricorn; 11th, 07 Aquarius ; 12th, 09
Pisces; 1st, 25 Aries, Taurus intercepted; 2nd, 00 Gemini;
3rd, 23 Gemini.
This male infant was born with a closed aesophagus and
died ten days after birth from the effects of an illness which
39
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
affected his throat and weakened breathing apparatus. The
student who gave this birth-data wondered what indications of
malformation and early death were present in the chart. They
seem evident. The ruler is Mars, placed in Taurus and in
conjunction with Mercury, while Moon and Venus are squared
by both Uranus and Neptune. Mercury rules the sixth house
and is in conjunction with the ruler of the eighth House; four
planets in Aries point to congestion in the head, while a few
minutes difflerence in recorded time of birth would place
Taurus upon the Ascendant. Naturally, a hereditary, or pre-
natal chart, would show more specific detail, but the early death
seems fairly easy to forecast.
No. 33~Sun 11 Capricorn, Moon 06 Leo, Mercury 08
Capricorn, Venus 04 Capricorn, Mars 02 Capricorn, Jupiter 26
Libra, Saturn 12 Scorpio, Uranus 00 Capricorn, Neptune 14,0
Aries.
HousEs-lOth, 29 Libra; 11th, 23 Scorpio; 12th, 14 Sagit-
tarius; 1st, 04 Capricorn; 2nd, 14 Aquarius; 3rd, 25 Pisces.
Five planets in Capricorn is not so good, particularly when
Neptune is square to the last of the group. The Moon, too, is
just past the opposition to Uranus, and yet this man was one
of the most brilliant men of his time, of all times, in fact,
and known to everyone who ever went to High School. It is
the horoscope of Marcus Tullius Cicero, the great Roman states-
man and orator. What saved him from early death?
Well, I think he must always have suffered from that
concentration of forces in Capricorn, probably feeling it most in
gall bladder or liver trouble. Then, too, he had a slight tend-
ency toward a tubercular condition-Mercury ruling sixth-
40
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
but the ruler of the chart placed in the tenth and in sextile to
the Sun doubtless pulled him through. I'll bet he grumbled and
complained a lot! I can understand his invectives against
Rome's enemies a little better now that I have looked at his chart.
No. 34-Sun 24 Leo, Moon 29 Cancer, Mercury 05Yz Leo,
Venus 02Yz Libra, Mars 230 Cancer, Jupiter 00 Scorpio, Saturn
00 Leo, Uranus 10 Libra, Neptune 00 Gemini.
HousEs-10th, 20 Cancer; 11th, 27 Leo; 12th, 26 Virgo;
1st, 18Yz Libra; 2nd, 15 Scorpio; 3rd, 17 Sagittarius.
This man died in early middle-life in a foreign country
of tuberculosis. The Moon is conjunction Saturn and square to
Jupiter while Venus, which rules the eighth house, is joined with
Uranus. Otherwise there are some strong positions in this
chart ; if the Sun had been free from an approaching square to
Neptune in the eighth he might have lived. The difficult house
positions would have been worked out in his distressing public
position. He lost fortune, friends and rank, for he was the
ex-Emperor Karl of Austria, whose widow, Zita, now lives in
the United States. It is an interesting chart, albeit an unfortu-
nate nativity.
No. 35-Sun 19 Cancer, Moon 21 Scorpio, Mercury 07Yz
Leo, Venus 030 Gemini, Mars 12 Scorpio, Jupiter 28 Taurus,
Saturn 02 Pisces, Ret., Uranus 010 Capricorn, Ret., Neptune 08
Cancer.
HousEs-lOth, 04 Pisces; 11th, 08 Aries; 12th, 27 Taurus,
Gemini intercepted; 1st, 090 Cancer; 2nd, 25 Cancer; 3rd, 11
Leo.
This young man died in early life from a complication of
of diseases, the exact cause never mentioned. He was of royal
blood and had been a victim of some of the difficulties which
beset those who live in lofty places. I cannot say that he was
41
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
insane, but the square of Mercury to Mars was not strong, par-
ticularly when combined with Neptune exactly upon the Ascend-
ant. The latter planet also received an opposition from Uranus
in the sixth house, and it is probable that, had this young man lived,
he would have suffered from nervous or mental disease. The
horoscope is that of Prince John Charles, youngest son of King ·
George V, a descendant of Queen Victoria, who, you will re-
member, was the inheritor of a weakened mental tendency from
King George III.
No. 36---Sun 100 Leo, Moon 25 Virgo, Mercury 10 Leo,
Ret., Venus 26 Cancer, Mars 25 Virgo, Jupiter 05~ Pisces, Ret.,
Saturn 170 Scorpio, Uranus 100 Cancer, Neptune 15 Aries,
Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 09 Sagittarius; 11th, 27 Sagittarius; 12th,
16 Capricorn; 1st, 11Yi Aquarius, Pisces intercepted ; 2nd, 12
Aries; 3rd, 17 Taurus.
This is one of the notable men in British politics. He
has been ousted from his former responsibilities but still bears
a widely-known name. Jupiter rising, of course, brought him
into public position, but the setting Sun and Mercury approach-
ing a square with Saturn pushed him out when stress was placed
upon him. He is almost certain to die of heart failure, although
I have seen no comments upon his health in any publications.
The Moon with Mars in Virgo gives him a tendency to overeat
or to suffer from indigestion which would affect his heart.
It seems apparent as we look over these Mercury charts
that the mutable signs are weak, particularly when the Moon
is in poor relationship, or in the sign Capricorn where it gathers
no strength. I have not given enough examples for the forma-
tion of definite standards, but tendencies can be seen, and the
student can then go on to compile his own cases, knowing that he
has some few facts with which to compare them.
42
CHAPTER IV
Venus
When we come to the so-called 'benefic' planets, Venus and
Jupiter, it is often hard to find data upon which to work
for health indications. Venus, however, does definitely rule the
throat, causing, under affliction, ailments of the tissues and
glands. Venus likewise governs the kidneys and female repro-
ductive organs; it has to do with the composition of the blood-
stream, as apart from disorders of circulation. The latter are
connected with Jupiter, and with the Sun when pre-natal con-
ditions are examined. The skin is a Venus area and probably
most of the tissues of the body ; the muscles are a Mars region.
A strange connection has shown itself in this study of
health horoscopes between the planet Venus and the special
sensory organs. We hear, see, taste, smell and ·touch almost
at birth. But these functions are not necessary to life. Crea-
tures breathe and continue to exist without any use of the spe-
cial senses. Here is one:-
No. 37-Sun 14 Virgo, Moon 28 Taurus, Mercury 27 Leo,
Venus 08 Libra, Ret., Mars 23 Taurus, Jupiter 07 Pisces, Ret.,
Saturn 14 Arjes, Ret., Uranus OS Virgo, Neptune 12 Taurus.
HousEs-lOth, 12 Cancer ; 11th, 17 Leo; 12th, 17 Virgo; 1st
08 Libra; 2nd, 04 Scorpio; 3rd, OS Sagittarius.
This was the scion of a noble family of England. The boy
was born without sight, hearing or speech, and during his life of
twenty-three years was not known to have possessed taste or
smell. Since his means of expression were so deficient it is
43
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
not surpnsmg to find that he was considered an imbecile, but
this chart shows the Sun and Mercury fairly well-placed. He
lacked expression; he did not fack mental control.
The position of Venus, ruler of the chart, in a Retrograde
position upon the Ascendant and opposed by Saturn, also Retro-
grade, is, to me a far more important point in this chart than
the aspect of Mercury. The Moon, Mars and Neptune were
also all placed in a Venusian sign in the eighth house. Death
must have come as a welcome release to this unfortunate being.
No. 38-Sun 00 Scorpio, Moon 21 Scorpio, Mercury 09 Scor-
pio, Venus 16,% Virgo, Mars 21 Aquarius, Jupiter 18,% Aries,
Ret., Saturn 06,% Libra, Uranus 06 Scorpio, Neptune 11
Gemini., Ret.
HousEs-lOth, OS Scorpio; 11th, 28 Scorpio; 12th, 19 Sagit-
tarius; 1st, 08,% Capricorn; 2nd, 20 Aquarius, Pisces inter-
cepted; 3rd, 01 Aries.
This woman has been a chronic sufferer from skin dis-
orders since birth, caused by deficiencies in the blood-stream.
She also shows tendencies toward kidney trouble and weaken-
ing of the female organs. · The chart shows glandular trouble
as the seat of her difficulties; probably she can be helped by
dietary treatment. Operation would be the wrong thing for
her-note the square of Moon and Mars. Venus is weak, but
I think she can live her allotted span of life.
No. 39-Sun 22 Pisces, Moon 20 Aquarius, Mercury 01
Pisces, Venus 07 Pisces, Mars 07 Capricorn, Jupiter 01 Capri-
corn, Saturn 12 Pisces, Uranus 21,% Leo, Neptune 03,% Taurus.
HousEs-lOth, 01 Pisces; 11th, 03 Aries; 12th, 09 Tau-
rus; 1st, 14 Gemini; 2nd, 07 Cancer; 3rd, 04 IJeo.
44
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
This is the horoscope of a woman who died after a third
miscarriage, internal hemorrhage being given as the immedi-
ate cause. Her ruler, Mercury, is in conjunction with Venus,
which ~!so conjoins Saturn at the Midheaven, all b'eing in Pisces,
a very fluid sign. Saturn is given an extra force by ruling the
eighth house, which contains Mars. This chart is quoted from
1,001 Notable Nativities, and is a remarkable example of its
• type. It should be set up and studied in detail.
No. 40-Sun 01 Taurus, Moon 15 Aries, Mercury 08
Aries, Venus 15 Gemini, Mars 06.Yz Aries, Jupiter 00 Aries,
Saturn 04.Yz Sagittarius, Ret., Uranus 09 Cancer, Neptune 15
Aries.
HousEs-10th, 26 Aquarius; 11th, 28 Pisces, Aries inter-
cepted; 12th, 09 Taurus; 1st, 21 Gemini; 2nd, 12 Cancer; 3rd, 02
Leo.
This woman is well over seventy years of age and has never
experienced a serious illness in her life. She has had severe
attacks of swelling of the glands of the throat, but no chronic
disturbances. At seventy-two years of age she had two wisdom
teeth extracted; her remaining teeth are in perfect condition. Her
chart is included for contrast with some of the afflicted horo-
scopes which make up the larger part of this work.
No. 41-Sun 29 Pisces, Moon 01 .Yz Sagittarius, Mercury
29 Pisces, Venus 26 Aries, Mars OS Aquarius, Jupiter 14 Scor-
pio, Ret., Saturn 04.Yz Taurus, Uranus 28.Yz Capricorn, Neptune
19 Cancer, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 27 Sagittarius; 11th, 21 Capricorn; 12th, 18
Aquarius; 1st, 25 Pisces, Aries intercepted ; 2nd, 04 Taurus; 3rd,
03 Gemini.
This young woman is a prostitute, suffering from the phy-
sical and mental disorders which accompany this mode of life.
45
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
Her horoscope shows Venus in the first house in a Mars sign,
approaching a conjunction with Saturn and squared by Uranus.
Neptune, Retrograde, in the fourth house shows some distur-
bance in her mental scheme of things, while Jupiter in the
eighth, which squares this position, enhances the difficulty. I
would interpret thjs as ultimate suicide, or death through dissi-
pation. It seems as if she might have developed good qualities
of her Sun and Mercury in good aspect to Uranus, but she chose
to live under malefic influences.
No. 42-Sun 04 Capricorn, Moon 11 Capricorn, Mercury
12y,! Sagittarius, Venus 10 Capricorn, Mars 01 y,! Aquarius,
Ret., Saturn 20 Cancer, Ret., Jupiter Oly,! Scorpio, Uranus 12
Libra, Neptune 25y,! Taurus.
HousEs-lOth, 04 Cancer; 11th, 09 Leo; 12th, 09 Virgo;
1st, 03 L1bra; 2nd, 28 Libra; 3rd, 29 Scorpio, Sagittarius inter-
cepted.
This man, an histor.ic figure in Mid-European developments,
died from atrophy of the kidneys. Note the ruler, Venus, con-
junction the Sun and Moon at the cusp of the fourth house and
in Capricorn, squared by Uranus in Libra in the first house.
Atrophy, which is a gradual wasting process, would seem to be
shown by Neptune in the eighth house in the Venusian sign,
Taurus, while the ruler of the eighth, Mars, was in square to
Jupiter in Scorpio. This is not a dif-ficult figure, although it is
a complex one; it holds so many indications of Venusian dis-
orders. The man, by the way, was General Gombos, leader of
Hungarian activities. . He died on October 6th, 1937.
No. 43-Sun 26 Libra, Moon 04 Sagittarius, Mercury 18y,!
Scorpio, Venus 21 Virgo, Mars 03 Virgo, Jupiter 12 Scorpio,
Saturn 06 Leo, Uranus 14 Libra, Neptune 29y,! Taurus, Ret.
46
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
HousEs-10th, 21 Virgo; 11th, 22 Libra; 12th, 18 Scorpio;
1st, 06 Sagittarius; 2nd, 09 Capricorn; 3rd, 17 Aquarius.
This is the chart of a man who has been for a number of
years a writer upon· political and economic subjects. He has
also engaged in publicity and advertising, although he never
enjoyed this particularly, his ambition being to write a novel. In
1921 he suffered an attack of neurasthenia, with a strong desire
to commit suicide-a common symptom in an illness of this na~
ture. He recovered, but has since that time been subject to.
nervous disorders. He has never written his books-but he has
not committed suicide, either._ What is the key to this peculiar
emotional strain?
It is evident that this difficulty arose in the emotions-
Venus-or in the adaptation of the higher emotional activities
-Neptune-to everyday life. The sixth house and the tenth
show the cross-current in his nature. Probably the angular
position of Uranus gave him the ability to 'write commercial
literature, but with Venus so strongly placed there was always
a longing for an expression of an ideal, something not found in
advertising copy. He won't kill himself. The trine of Saturn
to his Moon is too strong; he just plays with the drama he finds
in this thought. He is now a little older than the average age
for the writing of a successful first novel, but he will not be phy-
sically well until he rids himself of his emotional load and says
what he really thinks.
It must be noted in looking over the horoscope of this
man that there are few afflictions to be found. The man is not
ill, as we commonly interpret the word. His physical diffi-
culties are purely the result of his lack of mental and emotional
expression. He is temperamentally a very active and impulsive
person, but in comparing this calculation with those made for
cases of definite insanity the student will see at once the markedly
few resemblances between the two types. The native says that
47
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
he still fears that he will commit suicide, but I tell him to take
a vacation and write as much sentimental fiction as he can think
of; he will then forget all about his own melodrama. It is a
shame that this splendid, respectable citizen did not indulge in
a few schoolboy escapades .
in his earlier years. Such outbursts
would have saved him time and money after reaching maturity.
No. 44-Sun 07 Leo, Moon 23 Cancer, Mercury 27 Cancer,
Venus 10 Leo, Mars 00 Scorpio, Jupiter 09 Aries, Saturn 03
Cancer, Uranus 25 Taurus, Neptune 20 Pisces.
HousEs-lOth, 27 Virgo; 11th, 21 Libra; 12th, 12 Scorpio;
1st, 27.0 Scorpio, Sagittarius intercepted; 2nd, 00 Capricorn; 3rd,
13 Aquarius.
This is the chart of a British statesman who died recently
from the effects of diabetes. Contrary to many opinions re-
garding this disorder I find it to be the result of a Venusian diffi-
culty-'sugar', plus the weakened kidneys. The Sun with
Venus in this horoscope show the tendency toward the burning
up of the Venusian faculties under any physical strain, but the
actual cause of death was probably directly traceable to the posi-
tion of Saturn, Moon, Mercury, Sun and Venus all in the eighth
house.
No. 45-Sun 28.0 Cancer, Moon 17 Virgo, Mercury 26.0
Cancer, Venus 06.0 Virgo, Mars 00 Sagittarius, Jupiter 08.0
Aquarius, Ret., Saturn 02,% Virgo, Uranus 23 Libra. Neptune
06 Gemini.
HousEs-lOth, 06 Taurus; 11th, 12 Gemini; 12th, 16 Can-
cer; 1st, 15,% Leo; 2nd, 07 Virgo; 3rd, 04 Libra.
After some years of poor health this woman discovered that
she was suffering from diabetes. The Sun is conjunction Venus,
square to Mars; Neptune rules the eighth house and is also
48
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
square to this configuration. It is in good relationship to Jupiter,
and if the native would follow her dietary rules strictly she could
live many years, but she ta~es an infantile delight in stealing a
piece o'f cake from the larder or indulging in ice cream soda.
This is a chart which shows a balance between fate and free-
will; which will win out?
No. 46---Sun 29_% Gemini, Moon 20_% Pisces, Mercury 08
Gemini, Venus 15_% Taurus, Mars 19_% Leo, Jupiter 04_% Virgo,
Saturn 25 Scorpio, Ret., Uranus 26 Scorpio, Ret., Neptune 19
Gemini.
HousEs-lOth, 15 Sagittarius; 11th, 06 Capricorn; 12th, 29
Capricorn, Aquarius intercepted; 1st, 02 Pisces; 2nd, 20 Aries;
3rd, 22 Taurus.
This woman has a chronic kidney complaint yet is one of
the most energetic and ambitious people I have ever seen.
She is typically Piscean in appearance, in spite of the Sun and
ruler placed in Gemini. Afflictions to Gemini have caused her
to lose the first joint of one finger; her many water signs cause
her also to be rather overweight. Saturn in conjunction with
Uranus, both Retrograde and b'oth ruling the sixth house, cannot
be fortunate for health should she contract any definite local
infection. The reason for her usual state of well-b'eing is
the fact that the square of Venus to Mars is limited to her second
and ninth houses.
No. 47-Sun 13 Pisces, Moon 22 Aries, Mercury 29 Aquari-
us, Venus 06 Aries, Mars 23 Capricorn, Saturn 03 Taurus, Jupi-
ter 15 Scorpio, Ret., Uranus 28 Capricorn, Neptune 19 Cancer,
Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 02 Cancer; 11th, 03 Leo; 12th, 04 Virgo;
1st, 02 Libra; 2nd, 00 Scorpio; 3rd, 00 Sagittarius.
49
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
I am unable to name the cause of this young woman's death
at an early age, buf most students of astrology will figure the
situation out for themselves if they consider carefully the oppo-
sition of Venus to the Ascendant and the conjunction of the
rulers of the fifth and eighth houses in square to the Moon. A
close associate of hers committed suicide after a short acquaint-
ance; the reason was never made public, but friends of both per-
sons attributed this act to his grief when he learned of her phy-
sical condition. Unfortunately the good aspects of the Sun in.
this chart were not enough to overcome the piling-up of adverse
aspects in the fateful portion of the chart.
50
CHAPTER V
Mars
The action of Mars is easy to see in the affairs of daily life,
and equally easy to set aside when problems of health are con-
sidered, yet Mars, of itself, is not a force which can be said
to bestow 'health' upon us. It usually tends toward accident,
sudden disaster, high temperature, pain and infection. Of course,
it has its own provinces of the b'ody where its force is seen more
quickly than in other regions, and these include the muscles, the
male sex organs, the excretory system and the tissues of the body
most responsive to irritations or inflammation. Surgical treatment
is invariably shown by a Mars aspect, although sometimes a
severe disorder which might have been helped by an operation is
likewise shown by Mars, even though the entire order of the
aspect is not carried out.
Mars, however, can be equally helpful to us. It should not
be considered as an invariable malefic. Mars gives energy and
muscular strength. It builds up resistance to disease, and it
can ward off attacks of illness, partic.ularly of an epidemic nature,
although Mars is a planet which is shown at its best in middle
life, and which does not always benefit infants or elderly people.
We must remember that we are now looking at the effects of
planets outside the ring of the Earth-hitherto we have b'een
concerned with the Sun, Moon, Mercury and Venus-all between
ourselves and the Sun. Now we balance the effects of outside
conditions, and Mars is the first of these. Violence is typical
of Mars, and our first difficulties in human life were probably
those which resulted from accident or violence. Let us look at
some.
51
1 0 1 HEALTH H 0 .R 0 S C 0 P E S
No. 48- Sun 19 Leo, Moon 250 Libra, Mercury 15 Virgo,
Venus 08 Cancer, Mars 01_0 Sagittarius, Jupiter 19 Capricorn,
Ret., Saturn 040 Aries, Ret., Uranus "
14 Taurus, Neptune 17y~
Virgo.
HousEs-10th, 10 Capricorn; 11th, 03 Aquarius; 12th, 03
Pisces;· 1st, 21y.? Aries; 2nd, 28 Taurus; 3rd, 21 Gemini.
As might have been expected from the fact that Mars ruled
the first and eighth houses of this chart and was placed in the
eighth in the sign Sagittarius, which tends toward accidents, this
male child died shortly after birth. The opposition of the .
Moon, ruling the fourth house, to the Ascendant, may point out
the details of this horrible disaster. He was strangled by his ·
mother shortly after birth; separate existence was an absolute
fact, however. This infant would have been ingenious and in-
ventive had he b'een allowed to live-Mercury, Uranus and Nep-
tune in good relationship with Jupiter approaching to strengthen
the trine. The case was taken from a report given.by the French
magazine "Demain", and the exact hour of birth was August
11th, 1937, at 10:08 p. m.
No. 49-Sun 18 Leo, Moon 090 Sagittarius, Mercury 29
Cancer, Venus 19 Cancer, Mars 260 Aries, Jupiter 28 Gemini,
Saturn 20_0 Libra, Uranus 11_0 Scorpio, Neptune 15 Gemini.
HousEs-lOth, 03 Aries; 11th, 09 Taurus; 12th, 18 Gemini;
1st, 21 Cancer; 2nd, 12 Leo; 3rd, 05 Virgo.
If you can figure this horoscope out to its conclusion you
need no further suggestions from me-I will be glad to get them
from you ! This is the chart o~ a brilliant young motion picture
directo:i: who smashed his car and himself to bits a few years
ago. I do not think that this was an inevitable act of fate in
his life-it could have been avoided. It seems to me that the
configuration responsible for this disaster was the Mercury-Mars
52
\
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
square combined with the dissipation shown by the Moon in the
fifth house in opposition to Neptune. The Moon, too, was in Sagit-
tarius, where we always have to expect accidents or broken limbs
for her. To be sure, Uranus ruled the eighth house, but it
held no strong aspects. He could have restrained the fifth house
tendencies which brought about death.
No. SO-Sun 26 Aries, Moon 16 Leo, Mercury 13 Aries,
Venus 10 Pisces, Mars 22 Aries, Jupiter 13_0 Aquarius, Saturn
270 Capricorn, Uranus 21 Sagittarius; Ret., Neptune 29 Gemini.
HousEs-lOth, 06 Gemini; 11th, 10 Cancer; 12th, 12 Leo;
1st, 09 Virgo; 2nd, 03 Libra; 3rd, 03 Scorpio.
, This is one of the most violent charts I have on file. It is
the figure for the birth of Mrs. Nancy Titterton, who was cruelly
assaulted, then strangled and left to die in her bath-tub a few
years back. Most of our students will remember the case. The
Sun, Mercury and Mars in conjunction in the eighth house, ap-
proaching a square to Saturn, indicated her death, while the
fifth house gave a clue to the cause. While it is stretcbing a
point to make this interpretation, still I think the clue to the bath-
room disposal of her body is to be found in the Moon in the
twelfth where it is governed by the badly aspected Sun.
No. 51-Sun 27 Taurus, Moon 21 Pisces, Mercury 27 Tau-
rus, Venus 210 Gemini, Mars 080 Leo, Jupiter 21 Aquarius,
Saturn 18 Gemini, Uranus 110 Aquarius, Ret., Neptune 26 Can-
cer.
HousEs-lOth, 08 Libra; 11th, 06 Scorpio; 12th, 28 Scor-
pio; 1st, 18 Sagittarius; 2nd, 23 Capricorn, Aquarius intercepted;
3rd, 02 Pisces.
This girl was killed when not quite sixteen years of age in
an automobile crash. The entire chart is fatalistic. The opposi-
53
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
tion of Venus and Saturn to the Ascendant is unfortunate, to-
gether with the placing of Mars in the eighth house in opposi-
tion to Uranus. The Sun and Mercury are square to the ruler
while the Moon is square to the Ascendant and the descending
conjunction. Mars and Neptune are not in conjunction in the
eighth house, but their combined force therein warns me of dan-
ger. These two planets together form the most difficult force in
the entire category of aspects and positions. If such a thing
can be said, I would remark that this girl was 'fated' to some
terrible catastrophy. Study this chart well.
No. 52-Sun 03 Gemini, Moon 21 Gemini, Mercury 27
Gemini, Venus 13Yz Gemini, Mars 29 Cancer, Jupiter 02 Aquar-
ius, Ret., Saturn 24 Cancer, Uranus 14 Cancer, Neptune 00
Aries.
HousEs-10th, 09 Libra; 11th, 04 Scorpio; 12th, 23 Scor-
pio; 1st, 15 Sagittarius; 2nd, 10 Capricorn, Aquarius intercepted;
3rd, 01 Pisces.
This young man was beheaded during one of the blood purges
which were customary in Europe during the Middle Ages. Note
four planets in the eighth house, including the ruler and Mars,
together with the Sun, Moon, Mercury and Venus all placed in
opposition to the Ascendant, which, by the way, was the violent
Sagittarius. Do not form the opinion that just because you
have this sign rising you are bound to perish miserably, but if
you have it strongly occupied, no matter how well it may be
aspected, you may expect accidents and sudden physical difficul-
ties. Compare the chart of Winston Churchill (101 Headline
Horoscopes) for this tendency. He dislocated his shoulder as
a young man and has suffered from the results of this accident
all his life. Another relative of his has broken her nose three
times, dislocated her shoulder and fell down a cliff when she
was seven, breaking the back of her head so that a scar still
shows. Yes, she's a Sagittarian-she's myself.
54
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCO P ES
No. 53-Sun 23 Scorpio, Moon 02,0 Scorpio, Mercury 07
Scorpio, Ret., Venus 11 Sagittarius, Ret., Mars 02 Sagittarius,
Saturn 01,0 Cancer, Ret., Jupiter 15 Aquarius, Uranus 08 Aquari-
us, Neptune 00,0 Leo, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 18 Taurus; 11th, 23 Gemini ; 12th, 26 Cancer;
1st, 24 Leo; 2nd, 17 Virgo; 3rd, 15 Libra.
This is another girl victim of careless and speedy automobile
driving. · A bunch of young people coming home from a party,
and someone gives 'way to that desire to 'show off'. Several
people were injured in this accident and this young woman was
killed-just sixteen. The chart is a difficult one for the interpre-
tation of accident and sudden death. The Sun rules the figure
and is square to the Ascendant, while the Moon and Mercury are
square to Uranus, but plenty of people live long and useful lives
with afflictions equal to these. Venus and Mars in conjunction
and trine to Neptune may bring in that difficult Neptunian influ-
ence, which also has a 'waning square to Moon and Mercury.
This is an example of purely directional influence bringing about
death, for I doubt if anyone would read the outcome of this life
from the nativity.
No. 54-Sun 24,0 Scorpio, Moon 14,0 Pisces, Mercury 12
Sagittarius, Venus 10,0 Capricorn, Mars 04 Virgo, Jupiter 00
Libra, Saturn 08 Cancer Ret., Uranus 06 Libra, Neptune 24 Tau-
rus, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 12 Aquarius; 11th, 09 Pisces; 12th, 24 Aries,
Taurus intercepted; 1st, 18 Gemini ; 2nd, 05 Cancer ; 3rd, 22
Cancer.
This man was executed for a double murder. The more
I study criminal charts the more convinced I am that without
exception the man who commits murder js insane. Legal defi-
nitions of the word are not exact; we must consider psychological
55
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
conditions. Perhaps the mere fact of violent death in this case
is not enough to cause it to be included in the medical Mars
group, for the chart shows indications of unstable mentality, but
I have put it down for the sake of study. It is a highly interesting
chart, particularly when one remembers that the ruler is in the
violent Sagittarius and that a slight alteration in the recorded
time of birth might have placed it in direct opposition to the
Ascendant. ·
No. 55-Sun 21 Aries, Moon 080 Sagittarius, Mercury
22 Aries, Venus 00 Aries, Mars 07 Taurus, Jupiter 240 Sagit-
tarius, Saturn 170 Pisces, Uranus OS Taurus, Neptune 140
Virgo, Ret.
HousEs-10th, 07 Scorpio; 11th, 01 Sagittarius; 12th, 21
Sagittarius; 1st, 12 Capricorn; 2nd, 24 Aquarius, Pisces inter-
cepted; 3rd, 06 Aries.
This male infant was born to a girl of seventeen in secrecy
in her bathroom. She threw it from the roof of the apartment
house immediately after birth, but the autopsy disclosed that it
had had a separate existence. Death was plainly due to violence.
Neptune and Saturn are the trouble makers here, with the Moon
adding violence.
No. 56-Sun 210 Aries; Moon 09 Taurus, Mercury 09,0
Taurus, Venus 06 Pisces, Mars 15 Virgo, Ret., Jupiter 10 Gem-
ini, Saturn 070 Leo, Uranus 27 Aquarius, Neptune 04 Leo, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 20 Sagittarius; 11th, 11 Capricorn; 12th, 06
Aquarius; 1st, 11 Pisces; 2nd, 28 Aries; 3rd, 28 Taurus.
This is the chart of a young chap who murdered a school-
girl when he was about eighteen years of age. Such shocking
details were present that the testimony was suppressed, and while
the lad was sentenced to the electric chair, I believe that he was
56
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
later committed to an institution for the insane. The chart,
however, shows v.
iolence. I consider him a typical case of
dementia praecox, shown by the well-placed Sun and dis-
organized lunar aspects, the two fighting for expression. In
this example the delinquent was allowed to range at large until he
com.mitted a crime.
No. 57-Sun 12 Scorpio, Moon 17 Cancer, Mercury 29
Scorpio, Venus 00 Libra, Mars 23 Taurus, Ret., Saturn 10 Aries,
Ret., Jupiter 03 Pisces, Uranus 08 Virgo, Neptune 100 Taurus,
Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 12 Pisces; 11th, 16 Aries; 12th, 25 Taurus,
Gemini intercepted; 1st, 010 Cancer; 2nd, 23 Cancer; 3rd, iS
Leo.
Probably a good many of you know the horoscope of this
man for it is the chart of the great comedian, Will Rogers, who
died in an airplane crash. There is difficulty shown in this
chart because of the ruler of the eighth placed in the tenth house,
but apparently no will to die nor tendency towards violence such
as we find in charts of mental defectives. I am inclined to
think that the combination of Wiley Post's chart with Will's
temporary aspects were the cause of death. For those who wish
to compare the two charts, the birth data of Wiley Post, the
aviator who was flying the ship at the time of the crash, is given
as November 22nd, 1898, at 11 :00 A. M., Grand Saline, Texas.
No. 58-Sun 08 Aries, Moon 15 Aquarius, Mercury 030
Aries, Venus 15 Taurus, Mars 03 Cancer, Jupiter 010, Ret.,
Virgo, Saturn 000, Sagittarius, Ret., Uranus 29 Scorpio, Ret.,
Neptune 18 Gemini.
HousEs-lOth, 03 Aquarius; 11th, 00 Pisces; 12th, 08 Aries;
1st, 260 Taurus; 2nd, 22 Gemini; 3rd, 12 Cancer.
57
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
This man was a famous aviator. He crashed while be-
ginning a 'safety' test during the night of August 26th, 1938.
Saturn seems to cause trouble for flyers, particularly if there is
an additional aspect between Mars and Mercury which hin-
ders travel. Saturn is heavy; perhaps people with strong
saturnine influences should stay on the ground.
No. 59-Sun 0231,; Leo, Moon 12 Gemini, Mercury 13 Leo,
Venus 18 Gemini, Mars 10 Virgo, Jupiter 10 Virgo, Saturn 24
Scorpio, Ret., Uranus 25 Scorpio, Ret., Neptune 2131,; Gemini.
HousEs-lOth, 23 Capricorn; 11th, 18 Aquarius; 12th, 23
Pisces, Aries intercepted; 1st, 10 Taurus; 2nd, 10 Gemini; 3rd,
02 Cancer.
And here is our last- airplane crash-that of Amelia Earhart.
This is the attested birth data given out by the lady herself. Other
dates are wrong. The chart shows afflictions to the Moon and
Jupiter from Mars. The date of her disappearance was July
3rd, 1937; this might show some directional influence. A casual
study of airplane fatalities does not indicate violent death, how-
ever. We need more data upon this subject.
58
CHAPTER VI
Jupiter
This great expansive force of the universe is not ordinarily
imagined as a cause of illness or mental trouble. Indeed, the
action of Jupiter is toward health and growth, so that it counter-
acts any difficulties brought about by adverse aspects from other
planets. In unfortunate cases, however, there may be some-
thing which prevents the characteristic Jupiterian tendency, then
we find mal-nutrition, tumors or cellular growths, which are
simply a speeding-up of normal progress, and high blood pressure V
-the expansive fl.ow forced into circulation too quickly. Apoplexy
is a typical Jupiterian disorder; the blood forms too solid a clot.
Conversely, a lack of Jupiterian solidity can give rise to the seri-
ous constitutional difficulty known as Haemophilia, in which the
blood does not stop fl.owing under difficulty, no clot being formed.
The parts of the body most responsive to ]upiterian aspects
are, aside from the blood-stream, the liver, heart, spine and feet.
Probably the solar plexus is Jupiterian, but so little nerve re-
action can be traced to this planet that it is hard to judge defi-
nitely.
No. 60-Sun 20 Aries, Moon 22_0 Libra, Mercury 23 Virgo,
Venus 04 Taurus, Mars 20 Cancer, Jupiter 17 Aquarius, Saturn
14 Gemini, Uranus 11 Aquarius, Neptune 25_0 Cancer.
HousEs-lOth, 05 Taurus; 11th, 11 Gemini; 12th, 15 Can-
cer; 1st, 15 Leo; 2nd, 06 Virgo; 3rd, 03 Libra.
This infant girl died when less than four years of age, the
immediate cause of death being undetermined. She was ill for
59
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPE S
a few days, convulsions were a symptom of her disease, and then
her heart stopped beating. The doctor may have a name for
this ; the astrologer sees the indication of her trouble in the op-
position of Jupiter and Uranus to her Ascendant. The Sun and
Moon also were squared by Neptune. It seems possible that
she fell a victim to infantile paralysis; Mars in conjunction with
Neptune is always dangerous.
No. 61-Sun 09 Virgo, Moon 26_0 Libra,· Mercury 28_0
Virgo, Venus 18 Virgo, Ret., Mars 21 Scorpio, Jupiter 17 Taurus,
Saturn 06_0 Pisces, Ret., Uranus 02 Taurus, Ret., Neptune 14
Virgo.
HousEs-10th, 18 Taurus; 11th, 23 Gemini; 12th, 26 Cancer ;
1st, 25 Leo; 2nd, 18 Virgo; 3rd, 15 Libra.
The cause of death here was clot of blood formed upon the
brain, the underlying condition seeming to be the opposition of
the group in Virgo by Saturn. However, the conjunction of
Jupiter and Mars is directly opposed to the Midheaven and in
Scorpio, where Mars overcomes any Jupiterian assistance to a
great extent. While the Moon does not rule any strong house
in this chart, nevertheless the Moon is always powerful in the
horoscopes of female children, and here it opposes Uranus. This
would account for the sudden stoppage of circulation when we
combine this force with the suppressed Jupiter.
No. 62-Sun 22 Sagittar~us, Moon 14 Leo, Mercury 00 Leo,
Venus 29_0 Virgo, Mars 07 Leo, Jupiter 01 Libra, Saturn 27
Virgo, Uranus 16 Virgo, Neptune 01 Taurus.
HousEs-lOth, 15 Libra; 11th, 11 Scorpio; 12th, 02 Sagit-
tarius; 1st, 22 Sagittarius; 2nd, 29 Capricorn, Aquarius inter-
cepted ; 3rd, 10 Pisces.
60
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
This is the chart of the Emperor Nero, whose date and time
of birth are known exactly. Much of the legendary horror of
the myths about Nero is known to be false, b'ut it is true that he
gave way to dissipation and finally died a suicide. Jupiter is the
ruler of his horoscope, placed in the ninth house and sextile to
Mars and Mercury; he was not a psychopathic case. The Sun
in Sagittarius, however, is on the Ascendant and is square to
both Venus and Saturn, hence his lack of self-discipline. The
Jupiterian tendency to excess is shown very clearly in this case.
No. 63-Sun 19 Leo, Moon 02 Virgo, Mercury 15 Virgo,
Venus 29 Leo, Mars 28 Cancer, Jupiter 00 Taurus, Saturn 17,0
Aquarius, Ret., Uranus 26 Sagittarius, Neptune 07 Cancer.
HousEs-lOth, 26 Leo; 11th, 28 Virgo; 12th, 21 Libra; 1st,
07 Scorpio; 2nd, 06 Sagittarius; 3rd, 12 Capricorn.
This is the chart of the little Czarevitch, assassinated in 1917
at about the age of twelve years. He suffered from congenital
Haemophilia, which would have caused his death under accident
at almost any period of his life. I have looked and looked at this
figure, and fail to see indications of assault causing death; I
can, however, see the constitutional difficulty. That presents itself
in the position of Jupiter in the sixth, squared by Mars, ruler
of the chart, in the ninth, while the Sun is in opposition to
Saturn. Moon and Venus are trine to Jupiter, hence he had a
chance to live. Will some really good astrologer write and tell
me what indications of violent death are present in this horo-
scope?
No. 64--Sun 19 Taurus, Moon 27,0 Aries, Mercury 030
Taurus, Venus 150 Aries, Mars 15 Capricorn, Jupiter 080
Cancer, Saturn 2431:! Pisces, Uranus 120 Capricorn, Neptune
1031:! Cancer.
61
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
HousEs-lOth, 29 Taurus, Gemini intercepted; 11th, 04
Cancer; 12th, 06 Leo; 1st, 04.Virgo; 2nd, 27 Virgo; 3rd, 26 Libra.
This is another haemophiliac-the eldest son of the former
King of Spain. He is dead now, so let us speak only of his
disease. It was inherited through the mother's side of the
family, from the evident tendency in Queen Victoria's progeny
to transmit this condition. His two brothers also suffered from it.
Jupiter conjunction with Neptune and opposed by a conjunction
of Uranus and Saturn seems astrological evidence. Fifth and
eleventh houses so badly afflicted seem to have brought about the
specific circumstances which gave an opportunity for the con-
stitutional defect to gain full sway. This is a sad horoscope.
No. 65-Sun 03 Pisces, Moon 25Yz Cancer, Mercury 17
Aquarius, Venus 14_0 Aquarius, Ret., Mars 01 Libra, Jupiter
02Yz Gemini, Saturn 09Yz Leo, Ret., Uranus 24 Aquarius, Nep-
tune OS Leo, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 03 Sagittarius; 11th, 25 Sagittarius; 12th,
17 Capricorn; 1st, 15 Aquarius, Pisces intercepted; 2nd, 01 Aries ;
3rd, 07 Taurus.
This is the configuration for the birthtime of Robert Wad-
low, the tallest man on record. He died at the age of twenty-
two from blood poisoning caused by braces which injured his
feet. He was so heavy that his feet and ankles could not sup-
port him, consequently he was forced to 'wear mechanical de-
vices. The ruler here is Uranus, close to the Ascendant but
not aspected. The Sun is square to Jupiter, which rules the
tenth and is placed on the cusp of the fourth house where it
aspects Mars .
in the eighth. The conjunction of Saturn and
Neptune opposes the Ascendant, but in good relationship to
Jupiter, hence he lived for some years. The chart is worthy
of study.
62
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
No. 66-Sun 170 Aquarius, Moon 290 Scorpio, Mercury
29 Capricorn, Ret., Venus 25 Capricorn, Mars 15 Sagittarius,
Jupiter 26 Sagittarius, Saturn 08 Pisces, Uranus 23 Leo, Ret.,
Neptune 020 Taurus.
HousEs-lOth, 04 Scorpio; 11th, 26 Scorpio; 12th, 14 Sag-
ittarius; 1st, 02 Capricorn; 2nd, 12 Aquarius, Pisces intercepted;
3rd, 02 Aries.
This woman died from apoplexy at the age of sixty-one.
The aspects at the time were not distinctly bad, although Jupiter
was stationary at the time in opposition to the natal Uranus.
When she was eighteen she lost the sight of her left eye, Mars
having progressed to a conjunction with the natal Jupiter and the
transits of several major planets being adverse. While this is
not a Jupiterian chart at first glance, nevertheless the physical
difficulties have occurred under Jupiterian influences.
No. 67-Sun 17 Sagittarius, Moon 03 Sagittarius, Mercury
28 Scorpio, Venus 11 Capricorn, Mars 13 Pisces, Jupiter 29 Pis-
ces, Saturn 25 Aries, Ret., Uranus 19 Taurus Ret., Neptune 250
Virgo.
HousEs-lOth, 18 Capricorn; 11th, 12 Aquarius; 12th, 15
Pisces, Aries intercepted; 1st, 020 Taurus; 2nd, 04 Gemini; 3rd,
27 Gemini.
The Sun and Moon are both placed in the Jupiterian sign of
Sagittarius, my reason for including this chart in the benefic's
group. The figure is that of an abnormal child, b'rought into the
world by Caesarian birth, and living eleven days. This infant
was born without a neck, the shoulder blades also being absent.
Feeding was accomplished by an artificial tube.
The position of the Sun and Moon, together with Jupiter in
opposition to Neptune in the sixth, seems the indication of short
63
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
life. While it would be absurd to say that every child with
Uranus in Taurus has an abnormal structure of the neck, still
this sign does rule the throat and neck, w.ith Sagittarius being
very definitely linked with misshapen shoulders and collar-bones.
No. 68-Sun 150 Sagittarius, Ivloon 02 Cancer, Mercury
03 Sagittarius, Ret., Venus 290 Libra, Mars 040 Libra, Jupiter
18 Leo, Ret., Saturn 110 Virgo, Uranus 28 Aquarius, eptune
11 Leo, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 010 Libra; 11th, 02 Scorpio; 12th, 23 Scor-
pio; 1st, 13 Sagittarius; 2nd, 17 Capricorn; 3rd, 25 Aquarius,
Pisces intercepted.
This is the chart of a young man who has suffered severely
from pleurisy. This seems to be a Jupiterian disease, particularly
when Mars is strong, as in this horoscope. Since Jupiter responds
to well-ordered living, the placing of this planet in the eighth
house is not necessarily fatal, even though Neptune is present
also, as is seen here. The native needs exercise, the proper
dietary care and a methodical routine of life; probably he can-
not stand excitement or dissipation.
64
CHAPTER VII
Saturn
The great Malefic, whose influence we treat in this chapter,
was supposed to be the cause of all death when earlier text-
books were written. But death is not always unfortunate, and so
Saturn, who causes suffering and privation, is not always to be
found as the arbiter of the end of life. In a healthful person
Saturn governs the bony structure of the body, the teeth and
probably the fingernails. Inasmuch as this planet's action is
slowing and resistant, we find that Saturn causes obstructions,
colds, acid conditions and such hardening processes as can be
seen in the ailment known as 'hardening' of the arteries. Saturn
does not rule the arteries, but his action delays their normal
function. The aspects of Saturn can be taken as indicative of
illness wherever found, particularly when afflicting the Sun or
Moon, but they do not necessarily cause death. They show a
point which should be strengthened ; the sign occupied giving
more details as to portions of the body which may be affected.
No. 69-Sun 25,0 Sagittarius, Moon 23 Pisces, Mercury 26
Sagittarius, Venus 09 Sagittarius, Ret., Mars 24 Sagittarius,
Saturn 20 Taurus, Ret., Jupiter 260 Gemini, Ret., Uranus 23
Virgo, Neptune 16,0 Taurus.
HousEs-lOth, 16 Virgo; 11th, 17 Libra; 12th, 11 Scorpio;
1st, 01 Sagittarius; 2nd, 03 Capricorn; 3rd, 09 Aquarius.
This is the chart of a physician who died as a result of
blood infection resulting from the condition of his teeth. He
realized his own difficulty but would do nothing to prevent the
bad results which he could see and advise wisely in the cases
65
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
of others. His horoscope shows such strong resistance- the
four planets rising in Sagittarius-that with ordinary care he
could have prevented premature death. But the square of the
Moon and the opposition of Jupiter probably made him stubborn,
so that the conjunction of Saturn and Neptune in Taurus could
come into effect under poor temporary .conditions, and then his
throat and blood would be affected. The specific cause of death
was apoplexy, but the internal poisoning had preceded this by
some years.
No. 70-Sun 12 Aries, Moon 15 Capricorn, Mercury 22
Aries, Venus 000 Pisces, Mars 18 Taurus, Jupiter 06 Pisces,
Saturn 110 Virgo, Ret., Uranus 00 Scorpio, Ret., Neptune 05
Gemini.
HousEs~lOth, 02 Scorpio; 11th, 27 Scorpio; 12th, 18 Sag-
ittarius; 1st, 08 Capricorn; 2nd, 19 Aquarius, Pisces intercepted ;
3rd, 01 A:ries.
This case and the two which follow are those of three
members of one family whose jaw-bones have been so badly out
of alignment that operation has been necessary. This is the
father; the two following are his daughters. In early life his
teeth were affected by poison gas used during the first World War.
Saturn is the ruler of the chart, placed in the eighth house and
badly aspected. Afflictions to Saturn from Jupiter or Neptune
seem to show immediately in the condition of the teeth.
No. 71-Sun 13 Capricorn, Moon 15 Sagittarius, Mercury
29 Capricorn, Ret., Venus 11 Aquarius, Mars 20 Scorpio, Jupiter
09 Sagittarius, Saturn 01 Scorpio, Uranus 14 Pisces, Neptune 20
Leo, Ret.
HousEs-IOth, 05 Scorpio; 11th, 29 Scorpio; 12th, 19 Sag-
ittarius; 1st, 090 Capricorn ; 2nd, 21 Aquarius, Pisces inter-
cepted; 3rd, 03 Aries.
66
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
This young girl is affected by a mal-adjustment of her jaws,
but due to rising Venus, the defect does not detract from her
appearance. Were it not for the rising Sun and Mercury in
Capricorn with the ruler at the Midheaven she would probably
have escaped the congenital malformation. Aspects are all rather
good, and she may experience no further distress.
No. 72-Sun 2731;! Taurus, Moon 21 Leo, Mercury 09 Tau-
rus, Venus 130 Aries, Mars 11 Pisces, Jupiter 26 Aquarius,
Saturn 22 Scorpio, Ret., Uranus 2831;! Pisces, Neptune 22 Leo.
HousEs-lOth, 09 Scorpio; 11th, 02 Sagittarius ; 12th, 22
Sagittarius; 1st, 13 Capricorn; 2nd, 27 Aquarius ; 3rd, 08 Pisces.
This girl was quite badly affected by the inherited defect
of the jaw structure, being unable to masticate solid food
properly. Her appearance was affected, Venus being square to
the Ascendant. Her ruler is in the Midheaven, square to the
conjunction of the Moon and Neptune ; this seems generally diffi-
cult for health.
No. 73- Sun 20 Capricorn, Moon 00 Aries, Mercury 09
Aquarius, Venus 21 Aquarius, Mars 20 Aquarius, Jupiter 02
Aries, Saturn 09, Capricorn, Uranus 20 Aries, Neptune 13 Leo,
Ret.
HousEs- lOth, 02 Scorpio; 11th, 24 Scorpio; 12th, 14 Sagit-
tarius; 1st, 08 Capricorn; 2nd, 16 Aquarius; 3rd, 29 Pisces,
Aries intercepted.
Here is another historic chart-that of one of the most no-
torious of the Popes of the Middle Ages, Alexander VI, about
whose life and death a widely advertised book has just appeared.
He was the first of the well=
known Borgia family. In reading
about him it must be remembered that he was a Spaniard holding
67
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
high office in a foreign country where great jealousy was rife,
and care must also be taken to avoid judging acts common in his
time by standards of life today. He had a large family of
illegitimate children. This seems terrible to us, but it was
not .uncommon in the fifteenth century; judge him by that
standard. He misused the wealth and power of his office in
order to advance his sons and daughters, but many men will
sacrifice a great deal in order to do this same thing. The most
persistent legend about Alexander VI is that he died from
poison which he had prepared for a guest and which was given
to the Pope himself by a servant, either voluntarily or not. This
story seems to fit all the known details of his death. Do you
think it fits his horoscope? At any rate, he is certainly a man
worth a little time for study.
No. 74-Sun 08 Capricorn, Moon 190 Taurus, Mercury 28
Capricorn, Venus 25 Scorpio, Mars 14 Aquarius, Jupiter 170
Pisces, Saturn 08 Aquarius, Uranus 260 Sagittarius, Neptune
040 Cancer, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 25 Scorpio; 11th, 17 Sagittarius; 12th, 07
Capricorn ; 1st, 020 Aquarius; 2nd, 19 Pisces; 3rd, 28 Aries.
This woman is afflicted by a tumor of the brain, which pre-
cludes all activity in her life and which will prove the means
of death unless she should fall a victim to some acute disorder.
She has suffered for many years with no sign of improvement
whatsoever, although at times she is able to recognize those
closest to her. She probably was born a few minutes earlier
than the stated time of birth_:.__enough earlier so that Mercury
in Capricorn would be exactly upon the Ascendant, but this is
not the point under discussion. The malady would appear
68
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
to be Neptunian, but the strong saturnine aspects place it in the
group under this latter planet. Probably the position of
Venus is her grasp upon life; she is a sweet-looking person. Her
father was a physician; would operation for her disorder have
b·een of benefit?
No. 75- Sun 26Yz Capricorn, Moon 12 Taurus, Mercury,
11 Aquarius, Ret., Venus 13 Sagittarius, Mars 22 Sagittarius,
Jupiter 23 Scorpio, Saturn 18 Libra, Uranus 22 Gemini, Ret.,
Neptune 03Yz Aries.
HousEs-lOth, 09 Leo; 11th, 12 Virgo; 12th, 10 Libra; 1st,
03 Scorpio; 2nd, 01 Sagittarius; 3rd, 04 Capricorn.
The subject of this chart is extremely Saturnine !n all ex-
pression, otherwise I would place it among the Jupiterian charts,
for he weighs nearly 300 lbs. and seems to belong there by activi-
ties. He is a lawyer who has been prominent in politics; at
the age of 76 he still manages large estates. He suffers from
lumbago, biliousness and difficulties with his teeth-all Saturn-
ine afflictions. Saturn is well-placed in his chart, hence none
of these things can be called serious. Hardening of the arteries
has begun, however, and this again is Saturnine. He lives alone
in a small apartment although he owns a large estate-Capri-
corn love of solitude. He refused to accept the nomination for
Senator at one time because a man distasteful to him, whose
policies he did not approve, was running for the position of Gov-
ernor. This again is the Saturnine idealism at its best, although
difficult for others to understand.
No. 76-Sun 23 Leo, Moon 28 Capricorn, Mercury 06 Leo,
Venus 07 Cancer, Mars 12 Virgo, Jupiter 15 Scorpio, Saturn
26 Cancer, Uranus 11Yz Taurus, Ret., Neptune 07 Virgo.
69
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOP ES
HousE&---10th, 20 Cancer ; 11th, 24 Leo ; 12th, 23 Virgo ;
1st, 17 Ubra; 2nd, 14 Scorpio; 3rd, 16 Sagittarius.
This is accepted as the nativity of Napoleon, although it
must be confessed immediately that there is some question about
it. Early records of his life state that he was born with
the Sun in Aquarius. This chart is placed here because Herr
Hitler believes that his own birth data parallels that of the great
Corporal, and they do both possess Saturn at the Midheaven in
Cancer. This position did not b'ring Napoleon a very happy life;
perhaps Hitler will go the same way.
70
CHAPTER VIII
Uranus
With the resume of Saturnine effects in the horoscope in the
last chapter we finished the group which centered directly upon
the physical body. We passed the "barrier of the Heavens'',
as Saturn was called in some old writer's manuscript. Uranus
begins for us a second round of influences which center in the
nervous system, but which are not necessarily malformations of
the physical nerves. I am inclined to think that the Uranian in-
fluence is to be traced through a study of the Hindu nerve-
centers. A doctor of my acquaintance who has been interested
in the effort I have been making to place astrology more in
step with modern medicine has said that while Mercury may gov-
ern perception, Uranus governs apperception. We find that the
undeveloped child is afflicted by Mercury, but the .child afflicted
by Uranus may be unusually clever, failing at some later time to
coordinate his gifts with his responsibilities.
Well, this is a very difficult question. I leave it to you to
solve; it cannot be done in a work of this size. Certainly, how-
ever, we should collect data upon Uranian cases, separting them
from the Neptunian examples with which they are often con-
fused. Remember that Uranus is not necessarily a malefic
force; it is more often an indication of outside circumstances
which hamper normal expression in some way. The Uranian
person is active; the Neptunian will submit to ·disaster.
No. 77-Sun 29 Gemini, Moon 15 Capricorn, Mercury 01
Cancer~ Ret., Venus 20 Gemini, Mars 10.Y:Z Libra, Jupiter 07 Aries,
Saturn 03 Cancer, .Uranus 23 Taurus, Neptune 200 Pisces.
71
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
HousEs-lOth, 12 Cancer ; 11th, 15 Leo ; 12th, Virgo; 1st, 10
Libra; 2nd, 07 Scorpio ; 3rd, 08 Sagittarius.
Perhaps this is not truly an Uranian chart, but what else
can one call it? Set it up and study it out and see how abso-
lutely Uranus colored every phase of existence. The man was
a printer-a good one. As many people know of his printing
as ever knew of Gutenberg or any of the other famous typeset-
ters. Maybe the chart is known to many students, but I did
not know it when I found it. I simply knew that it was the
nativity of a man who lived actively, loved beauty and died
tragically. It is the horoscope of Elbert Hubbard. He per-
ished when the great steamer Lusitania Was torpedoed off the
Irish coast during the first World War. Look at Uranus in
the eighth house, and then count the points which can be con-
sidered in square from various angles of the chart. Note par-
ticularly the Moon at the very depth of the figure in its sign of
greatest weakness, also the difficulties with ninth house interests.
Breathing is affected-Venus and Neptune-while Uranus gave
a fighting spirit. This is a sad picture; nevertheless, study it
for its many important aspects.
No. 78-Sun 23 Aquarius, Moon 08 Capricorn, Mercury 20
Aquarius, Venus 07 Pisces, Mars 01 Capricorn, Jupiter 07
Gemini, Saturn 02 Pisces, Uranus 12 Aries, Neptune 28 Aquarius.
HousEs-lOth, 13Leo;11th, 16Virgo ; 12th, 13Libra;1st,
05 Scorpio ; 2nd, 04 Sagittarius ; 3rd, 07 Capricorn.
Everyone, of course, will know this chart-that of Thomas
Edison. He was a truly Uranian ma~ in both mind and body,
consequently we can expect to find the planet prominent some- .
where in his horoscope. It governs his solar sign-'disposes'
of the Sun, as the older writers used to say, meaning that
much of the planetary force was to be found in the solar posi-
72
1 0 l HEALTH HOROSCOPES
tion. With Uranus in exact opposition to the Ascendant it is
not surprising that he suffered from some unusual and unpre-
ventable disability. We all know that he was totally deaf. This,
however, never b'othered him as he used to say it kept him from
hearing much of the nonsense that others were forced to listen to
daily. Also, some of his most useful inventions were those
which improved apparatus for hearing, although these may not
be as well-known as his more spectacular feats.
No. 79-Sun 02Yz Taurus, Moon 07 Scorpio, Mercury 09Yz
Taurus, Venus 24 Pisces, Mars 01Yz Aries, Jupiter 28 Gemini,
Saturn 26 Taurus, Uranus 20 Virgo, Ret., Neptune 18 Taurus.
HousEs-lOth, 29 Gemini, Cancer intercepted; 11th, 04
Leo; 12th, 04 Virgo ; 1st, 29 Virgo; 2nd, 25 Libra; 3rd, 25 Scor-
pio.
This woman has survived shocking automobile accidents,
the nervous strain of which would be enough to kill some less
vital persons. She should not travel because of her malefic
ninth house conditions, but if she insists upon doing so she will
probably pull through still more sudden disasters. The ruler of her
sixth in trine to Uranus has helped her greatly, but Uranus is
too close to the Ascendant for complete safety.
No. 80-Sun 06Yz Capricorn, Moon 17Yz Capricorn, Mer-
cury 17 Capricorn, Venus 16 Aquarius, Mars 16 Aquarius, Jupi-
ter 01 Aries, Saturn 11 Cancer, Uranus 210 Taurus, Ret., Nep-
tune 18 Pisces.
HousEs-10th, 23 Cancer; 11th, 26 Leo; 12th, 25 Virgo; 1st,
21 Lib'ra; 2nd, 18 Scorpio; 3rd, 20 Sagittarius.
· This is the chart of Woodrow Wilson, a figure doubtless known
to a great many students before this reading. It is remarkable
because of the position of Uranus in the eighth with its square to
73
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
Venus and Mars, the first being the ruler of his first and eighth
houses. He could not help his sudden death from paralysis; it
was bound to occur. He has been criticized for his trip to
Europe to further his ideal of the League of Nations, but this
did not cause his death. The demise is seen in the U ranian
aspects, and yet these aspects did not show in any other way
in his life. He was not Uranian in temperament, certainly, the
Saturnine qualities expressing him perfectly, but the end of life
-the fourth house-was the home of Uranus, and it came there
from its position in the sphere of death.
No. 81-Sun 21 Cancer, Moon 02 Libra, Mercury 09 Leo,
Venus 18 Gemini, Mars 04 Libra, Jupiter 00 Cancer, Saturn 140
Leo, Uranus 27 Aquarius, Ret., Neptune 06 ~eo.
HousEs-lOth, 16 Taurus; 11th, 21 Gemini; 12th, 25 Cancer ;
1st, 23 Leo; 2nd, 16 Virgo; 3rd, 13 Libra.
Here we have the birth picture of a young man who has
lived under outside conditions which would kill most people
within a few weeks' time. He is the first infantile paralysis
patient to live in an 'iron long', and he has spent many years
there. He can now attend the movies or visit his home for a
short time, but must always return to his cage. Uranus opposes
the Ascendant, but rules no vital portion of the chart. The
position of four planets in the twelfth house points to his life in
retreat, and Pisces, ruling the eighth, governed by Neptune
in the twelfth, shows the death taking place there.
No. 82-Sun 00 Capricorn, Moon 08 Scorpio, Mercury 16
Sagittarius, Ret., Venus 17 Sagittarius, Mars 26 Aquarius, Jupiter
28 Taurus, Ret., Saturn 28 Aquarius, Uranus 04 Capricorn, Nep-
tune 09 Cancer, Ret.
74
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
HousEs-lOth, OS Virgo; 11th, 07 Libra; 12th, 02 Scorpio;
1st, 20 Scorpjo; 2nd, 23 Sagittarius ; 3rd, 29 Capricorn.
Here is another infantile paralysis victim, this young woman
having suffered from the disease when two years of age. She
limps slightly, but walks and even dances gaily. Both this case
and the preceding one seem to feel no depression from their afflic-
tion. Uranus is evidently a stimulant, not a depressive mental
factor like Neptune. Here, too, the Ascendant is opposed at
birth, this time by Jupiter. The general aspects in this chart are
fairly strong, however, and the normal term of life will be met.
No. 83-Sun 12 Taurus, Moon 27 Aquarius, Mercury 23
Taurus, Ret., Venus 06 Aries, Mars 08 Gemini, Jupiter 11_0 Pis-
ces, Saturn 10_0 Virgo, Ret., Uranus 29 Libra, Ret., Neptune 06
Gemini.
HousEs-lOth, 03 Sagittarius; 11th, 24 Sagittarius; 12th, 15
Capricorn; 1st, 12 Aquarius, Pisces intercepted; 2nd, 02 Aries;
3rd, 08 Taurus.
This is a tragic case. The first of this woman's two
sons died in early childhood, cause not determined; the second is
listed in this book as Health Horoscope No. 91. He is defi-
nitely insane. The mother, a beautiful and well-educated woman,
knows that something is wrung somewhere, but I have not the
heart to question her about her family background as shown in
her fourth house and the chances of her own innocent share in the
misfortunes of her children. Her ruler is Uranus, placed in
the eighth, where he will emphasize the occurrences in this life
which end in death. The Moon in good aspect to Uranus shows
the superior mentality of the woman herself; her daughter is
likewise an unusually brilliant girl. And by the way, do you
75
l 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
notice that twenty-seventh degree of Aquarius in these afflicted
charts ? This same degree in Taurus and Scorpio is supposed
to show severe illness ; in Aquarius it appears to be equally
malefic.
No. 84-Sun 02 Aquarius, Moon 25 Cancer, Mercury 19
Capricorn, Venus 25 Aquarius, Mars 12 Cancer, Ret., Jupiter 17
Gemini, Ret., Saturn 28 Aquarius, Uranus 28 Cancer, Neptune
20 Libra.
HousEs-lOth, 29 Aquarius, Pisces intercepted; 11th, 02
Aries; 12th, 19 Taurus ; 1st, 04 Cancer; 2nd, 19 Cancer; 3rd, 08
Leo.
This is another well-known chart; these Uranus people have
a way of attracting attention to their doings. A study of this
figure will clear away some misunderstanding of this individual,
who was so widely condemned throughout his life. It is the
nativity of Lord Byron, crippled at birth, talented beyond all
description, and yet dying unhappily before he had even reached
adult manhood, as we would think of him today. Uranus ruled
the ninth and tenth houses, placed in conjunction with the
Moon in the second. Neptune ruled the Midheaven and was
placed in the fifth house, squared by Mercury and Mars from
angles; this seems to me to account for much personal maladjust-
ment, both physical and mental. His death, by drowning, seems
to have come about because of the opposition in Cancer to Mer-
cury placed directly upon his eighth house cusp.
No. 85-Sun 25 Scorpio, Moon 26 Cancer, Mercury 14 Sagit-
tarius, Venus 03 Scorpio, Mars 29 Capricorn, Jupiter 02 Gemini,
Ret., Saturn 26 Aquarius, Uranus 02 Capricorn, Neptune 10
Cancer, Ret.
76
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
HousEs-lOth, 27 Capricorn; 11th, 16 Aquarius; 12th, 28
Pisces, Aries and Taurus intercepted; 1st, 160Gemini; 2nd, 01
Cancer ; 3rd, 14 Cancer.
Do not think this calculation is cock-eyed; it is simply that it
is a figure for the latitude and longitude of Stockholm, Sweden,
and the cusp signs vary greatly from the districts which are more
familiar to most students in the temperate zones. The chart is
that of Queen Astrid of Belgium, who was killed a few years
ago in an automobile crash. "A short life and ·a merry one" k '
was the motto for this young Woman, although no one could
envy her natal positions of planets upon the cusps of important
houses. The position of Uranus upon the eighth house cusp is
indicative of the sudden fatal accident. Why did her husband
live through this crash? Compare the Queen's chart with that
of King Leopold of Belgium in 101 Headline Horoscopes.
No. 86-Sun 17 Aries, Moon 23 Scorpio, Mercury 00 Aries,
Ret., Venus 280 Taurus, Mars 00 Cancer, Jupiter 13 Aries,
Saturn 23 Virgo, Ret., Uranus 210 Aquarius, Neptune 29 Capri-
corn.
HousEs-lOth, 19 Aquarius; 11th, 18 Pisces; 12th, 07 Tau-
rus, Aries intercepted ; 1st, 27 Gemini ; 2nd, 13 Cancer; 3rd, 29
Cancer.
This woman was crushed to death beneath the wheels of a
train in a crowded station. The data has b'een published pre- ti
vious to this appearance, but it is such a remarkable example of
the action of Uranus that I felt it must be included, even if
already known. Note the ruler, Sun, Venus and Jupiter all un-
able to expand because of twelfth house afflictions, then see how
Uranus at the Mid-heaven brought notoriety to this poor soul.
The rising Mars enhanced the difficulties.
77
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
No. 87-Sun 19 Aquarius, Moon 27 Cancer, Mercury 25
Capricorn, Venus 06 Capricorn, Mars 26.Yz Capricorn, Jupiter
00.Yz Aquarius, Saturn 17 Pisces, Uranus 23.Yz Sagittarius, Nep-
tune 28 Sagittarius.
HousEs-10th, 11Yz Sagittarius ; 11th, 00 Capricorn; 12th,
19 Capricorn; 1st, 16.Yz Aquarius, Pisces intercepted; 2nd, ·18
Aries; 3rd, 21 Taurus.
This man was distinctly Aquarian and Uranian in all his
acts and thoughts. His ruler was Uranus, placed in the tenth
house and in conjunction with Neptune; his intercepted sign gave
double strength to this feature of his chart, while he also had
\ Saturn in Pisces in the Ascendant. He was a brilliant writer
and highly esteemed critic, but subject to periodic attacks of in-
sanity. This is the chart of John Ruskin. He was not 'crazy',
but 'was affected mentally at intervals by stress centering upon the
three higher factors.
No. 88-Sun 19 Aries, Moon 06 Taurus, Mercury 22 Pisces,
Venus 04.Yz Gemini, Mars OS Gemini, Jupiter 21 Aries, Saturn
02.Yz Taurus, Uranus 20 Taurus, Neptune 23.Yz Virgo, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 29 Scorpio; 11th, 21 Sagittarius; 12th, 11
Capricorn; 1st, 07 Aquarius; 2nd, 24 Pisces, Aries intercepted;
3rd, 03 Taurus.
This is a difficult chart to interpret, since it is both a death
and a would-be life figure. It is calculated for the time of a
Caesarian operation in which both the mother and the infant
died. Uranus rules the figure; Venus and Mercury rule the
eighth house. They are the afflicted points in the chart, for the
Uranian influence seems favorab'le. Perhaps the sudden and vio-
lent method was· the only possible way of saving the life, but was
resorted to too late.
78
CHAPTER IX
Neptune
The influence of this planet in our solar system is so un-
material that it is difficult to trace physical disabilities to its
force. It is certainly an irritant in th~ emotional field, when
afflicted, and, since it lacks the electric quality of Uranus when
in a problem, one must expect to find mental states in which de-
pression and escapism are present governed by it. It tends
toward fluid states, and in the material field this gives us our
tie-up with suicide-particularly by drowning-and dipsomania.
While the Uranian can reason things out, the Neptunian gives in
to his woes. Neither can be called 'insane' unless other elements
enter the chart, but both can easily become 'unbalanced', or 'psy-
chopathic' cases. With additional affliction, of course, the Nep-
tunian will show every outward sign of mania; actually his
trouble consists in his difficulty in adapting himself to the more
practical methods of .those about him. Neptune is also directly
connected with the ductless glands of the body.
No. 89-Sun 20 Pisces, Moon 14 Pisces, Mercury 08.Yz Aries,
Venus 18 Aquarius, Mars 12.Yz Gemini, Jupiter 24 Pisces, Saturn
15 Aries, Uranus 06.Yz Virgo, Ret., Neptune 10 Taurus.
HousEs-lOth, 19 Sagittarius; 11th, 10 Capricorn; 12th, 04
Aquarius; 1st, 09Yz Pisces; 2nd, 26 Aries; 3rd, 26 Taurus.
This man was an expert in the manufacture of gas and all
allied chemicals. He began to drink to.excess, then, whether as a
result of this or not, he contracted cancer of the aesophagus.'
This necessitated artificial feeding, and he died quickly. The pres-
ence of Sun, Moon and Jupiter in Pisces in the Ascendant seems
79
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
the key to this death, while Uranus opposing the ascending degree
may show the mechanical devjces used in feeding (Virgo). The
ruler, Neptune, is placed in the sign traditionally governing the
throat. While I would hesitate to diagnose the details of this
illness from the study of one single chart, I may say for myself
that I told the man's wife of his impending death from an illness
of some chronic nature while she was still ignorant of the fact
that he was even suffering from any malady. He died when
Saturn was stationary in Pisces in ·opposition to Neptune in
Virgo in the year 1936.
No. 90-Sun 12 Aquarius, Moon 20 Aquarius, Mercury 000
Pisces, Venus 28 Pisces, Mars 170 Pisces, Jupiter 2Jt_Sagittarius,
Saturn 17 LeO';' Ret., Uranus 22 Libra, Ret., Neptune 220
Taurus, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 04 Leo; 11th, 07 Virgo; 12th, 06 Libra; 1st,
00 Scorpio; 2nd, 29 Scorpio; 3rd, 29 Sagittarius, Capricorn in-
tercepted. - -
This woman is an example of the habitual alcoholic; is the
habit in this case a psychopathic activity? I am inclined to
think not, although Mercury rules the ninth and is square to
Neptune and in Pisces. The ruler-Mars-in Pisces and in the
fifth seems to point to a craving for amusement or activity which
life has not granted her. However, two brothers have suffered
from dipsomania, and this fact must be considered. The Sun
opposes Saturn which rules the third house. The parents in
this case were honest, hard-working people.
No. 91-Sun 01 Gemini, Moon 280 Gemini, Mercury 22
Taurus, Ret., Venus 08 Gemini, Mars 13 Taurus, Jupiter 210
Taurus, Saturn 260 Cancer, Uranus 24 Aquarius, Neptune 020
Leo.
80
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
HousEs-lOth, 20 Cancer; 11th, 25 Leo; 12th, 24 Virgo;
1st, 17 Libra; 2nd, 15 Scorpio; 3rd, 16 Sagittarius.
This young man is what is known as a 'split' personality-
formerly called Schizoid, or classified as suffering from dementia
praecox. He is normal and sweet-tempered during a large part
of the time, but if attention is relaxed and he is allowed freedom
of action he immediately becomes drunk and both quarrelsome
and violent. He has been in several private institutions for a
number of years and the specialists say that nothing can be done
for him. Under the influence of liquor he exhibits a great
hatred for his father and threatens his life. I have suggested
that he be removed as far as possible from his home (fourth
house) so as to strengthen the Moon in the ninth with its bene-
fits from travel. The mother (No. 83) hesitates to do this,
although money is not lacking. If his dislike of the father is
allowed to grow (Saturn in 10th house) it may cause serious
trouble.
No. 92-Sun 24 Pisces, Moon 05 Aries, Mercury 26,%
Aquarius, Venus 09,0 Pisces, Mars 16 Leo, Ret., Jupiter 19
Aries, Saturn 17 Sagittarius, Uranus 13,0 Cancer, Neptune 16
Aries.
HousEs-lOth, 12 Aquarius; 11th, 09 Pisces; 12th, 25 Aries,
Taurus intercepted; lst, 21 Gemini; 2nd, 07 Cancer; 3rd, 23
Cancer.
This is a well-known birthdate, that of the famous composer
Chopin, probably the most truly articulate Neptunian on record
so far. His life was not a long nor a happy one, and his music
is the outstanding fact of his existence. The strongly tenanted
eleventh house gives this wide audience, while the benefic aspects
to Neptune must have been the source of his undying melodies.
Mars and Neptune, even when in favorable relationship, are diffi-
81
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
cult to blend in with ordinary life, but in this chart there are
present also the favorable rays of Jupiter and .Saturn. The
mental result is heard in the music, but the physical result was an
actual burning up of the bodily tissues; no one could withstand
such a concentration of force.
No. 93-Sun 18 Sagittarius, Moon 22 Gemini, Mercury 04Yz
Capricorn, Venus 01Yz Sagittarius, Mars 12Yz Sagittarius, Jupi-
ter 07 Libra, Saturn 05 Sagittarius, Uranus OOYz Sagittarius,
Neptune 20 Gemini, Ret.
HousEs-lOth, 05 Scorpio; 11th, 00 Sagittarius; 12th, 20
Sagittarius; 1st, 11 Capricorn, 2nd, 22 Aquarius, Pisces inter-
cepted; 3rd, 03 Aries.
This young man was found dead at the age of twenty-two,
completely dressed in women's wear on board the family motor~
boat, with a wire about his neck which would indicate death by
strangulation. Emotional strain is shown here by the conjunc~
tion of Venus with Uranus and Saturn, while the opposition
of the Sun to the conjunction of the Moon and Neptune placed
upon the cusps of the sixth and twelfth houses added an ele-
ment of tragedy. Probab'ly the lad would have lived under his
Neptunian affliction if he had not possessed the strong group in
Sagittarius, but the action and strength of this sign led him to
decide to make an end to a condition which he believed hopeless.
Mars can be said here to approach the opposition to Neptune;
this is always disastrous.
No. 94--Sun 20 Gemini, Moon 04 Libra, Mercury 05 Gemini,
Venus 07Yz Taurus, Mars 08Yz Scorpio, Ret., Jupiter 22 Taurus,
Saturn 03 Pisces, Uranus 03 Capricorn, Ret., Neptune 07 Cancer.
HousEs- lOth, 07 Taurus; 11th, 13 Gemini; 12th, 17 .Can-
cer; 1st 17 Leo; 2nd, 08 Virgo; 3rd, 04 Libra.
82
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
This is the correct horoscope of young Loeb, co-murderer of
little Bobbie Franks, who was killed in prison in 1936 by a fel-
low convict who pied self defense as an excuse for his deed.
Loeb was supposed to have been making improper advances to
him at the time. This chart is so heavily afflicted that almost
anything could be believed of its possessor. Neptune opposed
by Uranus and squared by the Moon indicate abnormal tenden- V
cies, while the opposition of Venus to Mars adds cruelty, the fixed
signs showing, according to some readers, the lustful side to the
emotions.
No. 95-Sun 17 Sagittarius, Moon 04Yz Gemini, Mercury
23 Scorpio, Venus 08Yz Scorpio, Mars 05 Virgo, Jupiter 20
Sagittarius, Saturn 04Yz Capricorn, Uranus 13 Sagittarius, Nep-
tune 28 Gemini.
HousEs-lOth, 10 Virgo; 11th, 26 Libra; 12th, 17 Scorpio;
1st, 04Yz Sagittarius; 2nd, 08 Capricorn; 3rd, 20 Aquarius.
Representative Marion Zionchek, who terminated a spec-
tacular career in Congress by committing suicide at the age of
thirty-five. Mr. Zionchek was born on Decemb'er 5th, 1900, at
05 :00 A. M., Lat. 48 N. and Long. 73 East. I have calcu-
lated the figure for local time ; the data was given to me by the
family of the native at the time of his death in August, 1936.
Jupiter rules this chart and is opposing Neptune; this is
doubtless the most powerful indication of self-destruction in the
chart, although the position of the Moon merits attention. In-
asmuch as this lunar aspect might be changed by a variation in
the time factor, I do not give it first place. The Moon, how-
ever, rules the eighth house and is in violent relation to Mars,
both placed in mental signs. I am convinced that Mr. Zionchek
was really unbalanced for some time before his death and that
he was bound to bring physical injury upon himself sooner or
later. He acted in a very erratic manner for several months.
83
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
A, psychoanalyist could have told that he was mentally affected,
and might have preserved his life, but his actions were taken by
the newspapers as public clowning, and no serious attempt was
made to cure him. Apparently there was no illness or misfor-
tune to cause his act; it was a simple case of inability to cope
with reality in the outside world.
No. 96:-:---Sun._12 Virgo, Moon 10)1;? Virgo, Mercury 05)1;?
Libra, Venus 12)1;? Leo, Mars 27 Cancer, Jupiter 05 Sagittarius,
Saturn~ Sagittarius, Uranus 09 Sagittarius, Neptune 3J Gemini.
HousEs-10th, 08 Pisces; 11th, 12..Aries; 12th, 24 ~rus;
1st, 02)1;? Cancer; 2nd, 22 Cancer; 3rd, 13 Leo.
This is the natal chart of a Lesbian-a woman who prefers
the emotional companionship of other women to the attentions of
men. It is hard to find examples of these cases, for women do
not show the unrestricted emotional reaction which is common
with men, and when such a woman can be found she does not
always know her definite time of birth. This woman, however,
discovered in her thirties just what it was that distressed her so
much in ordinary society and since that time has indulged in
female society exclusively, with 'devotions' and peculiar be-
haviour with her closest friends. Every astrologer will meet
with one or two of these people within the course of a few years,
and if the data were collected we might be able to trace some pat-
tern of thought common to all cases.
No. 97-Sun 24 Aries, Moon 13 Leo, Mercury 07)1;? Taurus,
Ret., Venus 13 Taurus, Mars 24 Scorpio, Ret., Jupiter 08)1;? Tau-
rus, Saturn 00 Pisces, Uranus 04 Capricorn, Ret., Neptune 05Yi
Cancer.
HousEs-lOth, 05 Capricorn; 11th, 27 Capricorn; 12th, 25
Aquarius, Pisces intercepted; 1st, 10 Aries; 2nd, 19 Taurus; 3rd,
14 Gemini.
84
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
This is the nativity of Patricia Maguire, who was stricken
with sleeping sickness in 1931 and remained in the coma or state
of lethargy characteristic of the disease until her death in 1938.
The first and eighth houses are ruled by Mars, placed in the eighth,
and squared to Saturn. Uranus and Neptune rule the twelfth
and are in opposition upon the angles. The girl's tenure of life
is shown by her favorable group in Taurus which is in good
aspect to these two imponderable forces. She lived in a 'dream'
or a state of remoteness from daily life-twelfth house influence,
and eventually died when the Ascendant was afflicted.
No. 98- Sun 06 Leo, Moon 21,0 Scorpio, Mercury 26
Leo, Ret., Venus 16 Virgo, Mars 01 Leo, Jupiter 29,0 Gemini,
Saturn 14 Pisces, Ret., Uranus 05 Capricorn, Ret., Neptune 11
Cancer.
HousEs-lOth, 29 Sagittarius; 11th, 20 Capricorn; 12th, 16
Aquarius; 1st, 28 Pisces, Aries intercepted; 2nd, 11 Taurus; 3rd,
08 Gemini.
This is as characteristic a Neptune chart as one could find
anywhere. It is the horoscope of Thelma Todd, who was a suc-
cessful comedienne in the movies a few years ago, and then died
mysteriously in her automobile through the effects of carbon
monoxide gas. The ruler is Neptune, influenced by Mars, and
placed in the fourth house, that of the end of things. ·Neptune
has fairly good aspects to both Venus and Saturn, but is opposed
by Uranus in the tenth. Mars is in conjunction with the Sun-
activity and resistance. The eighth is ruled by Mars, but
occupied by the Moon. It was said that Miss Todd committed
suicide, but this chart shows too much will power for such an
act.. Uranus and Mars are too strong. She undoubtedly died
85
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
an involuntary and violent death, but it was the result of accident,
perhaps of dissipation. (Jupiter opposing the tenth cusp) . Com-
pare this chart with the following two figures.
No. 99-Sun 03;/z Aries, Moon 03 Aries, Mercury 29 Pis-
ces, Ret., Venus 00 Taurus, Mars 11 Aries, Jupier 04 Scorpio,
Ret., Saturn 15Yz Cancer; Uranus 11 Libra, Neptune 26 Taurus.
HousEs-lOth, 19th Capricorn; 11th, 13 Aquarius; 12th, 17
Pisces, Aries intercepted; 1st, 04 Taurus; 2nd, 05 Gemini; 3rd, 28
Gemini.
This man was a comedian, well-known in his day, who fol-
lowed moral by-paths and finally put an end to his earthly exist-
ence. He has four planets in the twelfth house, including the
ruler, Venus. Jupiter, which rules the eighth and ninth, di-
rectly opposes the Ascendant. Neptune, governing the twelfth,
is placed in the rising house. This is the chart of Roscoe
Arbuckle-'Fatty' Arbuckle, they used to call him. I believe
that he became very despondent, could not rise above his afflicted
aspects and positions, and thus took the supposedly 'easiest'
way out. This chart does not show the same type of emotional
reaction to be found in that of Miss Todd.
No. 100-Sun 13;/z Gemini, Moon 16Yz Scorpio, Mercury
08Yz Gemini, Venus 11 Cancer, Mars 25Yz Gemini, Jupiter 17Yz
Gemini, Saturn 14Yz Pisces, Uranus 07Yz Capricorn, Neptune 09
Cancer.
HousEs-lOth, 18 Virgo; 11th, 18 Libra; 12th, 12 Scorpio;
1st, 02Yz Sagittarius; 2nd, 04 Capricorn; 3rd, 11 Aquarius.
This is a man who definitely committed suicide through the
escape of carbon monoxide fumes in his car. He was not quite
86
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCO P ES
twenty years old at the time of his death. This person had
determination enough to end his life, but lacked emotional resist-
ence (Venus conjunction Neptune and opposing Uranus). The
afflicted ruler of the chart- Jupiter- bound between the Sun
and Mars and square to Saturn seems to indicate troubles which
others were forcing upon him. This death could not be consid-
ered accidental from any points stressed in the chart. At the
time of his death Jupiter was stationary upon the natal position
of Neptune while Uranus had come to the square to this point.
I feel sure that he felt himself unable to cope with conditions
which had arisen about him, whether or not he was the cause of
them.
87
CHAPTER X
In Closing
This started out to be about health, but it has developed into
a collection of data about illness. Perhaps we can only arrive
at the former through persistent study of the latter. And
so I conclude with the lOlst case, which forms my introductory
illustration. I do not attempt to classify it; it is too difficult.
I wish every reader of this list of horo~copes would study it
thoroughly b'efore going on to read my description of the young
man's life. Study it, form yciur own opinion about it, and jot it
down on paper. Then compare it with the events of the life
and see how far away from the truth you were. Perhaps this
wording frightens you and I should have told you to see how
near to the truth you might have arrived. There are many tal-
ented students who hesitate to make an interpretation because of
this very lack of self-confidence- please do not let any phras~
of mine deter you from definite conclusions of your own.
Now, having completed your study of this lOlst chart, let's
take it up together. It is that of a prominent surgeon, a special-
ist in eye, ear, nose and throat work. As you can tell by the
positions of the slower planets in the signs, he could not have
been born so very many years ago.
First, the Sun, Moon, Venus and Mercury are all in Venusian
signs, and he has received great affection and admiration from his
patients. Why did he specialize in his particular field? Was it
because of this Venusian tendency? Venus has much to do with
the senses. The Moon in Taurus is strong, even though it ap-
88
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOPES
proaches an opposition to Saturn in the sixth house. Then look
at Mars and Neptune in conjunction on his Ascendant. What have
I suggested about that so often? It's violent; look out for it
whenever you see it, no matter how healthy or respectable your
consultant may be.
Saturn and Uranus in Scorpio in the sixth are not so good.
We can expect something of a chronic nature and affecting the
health generally from this. It approaches the square of Jupiter,
but it is very distant. Jupiter is probably to be taken as an in-
dividual factor in this chart.
So, sum up. What do you think of this man who made a
success in his difficult field of work? He operated daily upon
all sorts of unusual physical conditions, yet with all his know-
ledge, he waited until one month before the time and then went
to a hospital and died himself-yes, of cancer of the throat.
He must have known of his own illness, but he did nothing about
it. He did not even speak of it to a fellow physician. Per- .
haps there was nothing to be done for him; again, the rulership
of Saturn and Neptune over his eighth house may have made
him prefer to die. He left many grieving people who depended
upon him, but his clients, governed by Mars, were also under
that sway of Neptune. There may have been a mystery. At
any rate, it will never be solved now.
I have learned a great deal from preparing these charts for
student analysis. I have no desire to be a doctor, but I feel
that in some future time physicians will again turn to astrology
for help in their work. Then I might be of service; I already
have a cancer research specialist interested in the light which this
subject can throw upon his field of work. Medical men are hard
89
1 0 1 HEALTH HOROSCOP E S
to work with-the~ tend to be too materialistic-but that may
be only my personal reaction. Certainly every student should
collect data, collect data, COLLECT DATA. When we have
enough cases we can form worthwhile opinions.
[T HE END]
90
