{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1945__clymer___divine_alchemy____embargoed.pdf","mytitle":"Divine Alchemy","mylang":"de"}
THE
DIVINE ALCHEMY
of
IMPERIAL EULIS
Esoteric, yet Practical, Instructions for the Transmutation of the
Baser Metals (Man's Gross Passions) into the Pure
and Shining Gold (the Illuminated
Soul) of the Alchemists.
The Randolphian Physician's Legacy to Mankind,
and ASGILL'S.Rules.
Instructions in the Single and Double Breast Drill of the Initiates.
By R. SWINBURNE CLYMER, M.D.
Supreme Grand Master, La Federation Universelle des
Ordres, Societes et Fraternites des Initites,· Supreme
Grand Master of the. Triple Order; Brotherhood,
Temple and Fraternity of the Rose Cross of the Conti-
nents of North, South and Central America; Grand
Hierar.ch of High Priests, Order of the Magi and
Priests and Princes of Melchi:~;adek of the Universe,
etc., by order of Colonous P.
For Students Only
Printed but not published
by
PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING COMPANY
QUAKBRTOWN1 PENNSYLVANIA
• J
RECORD NUMBER .S~ Z
This book is strictly confidential and is for·
warded in· accordance with the terms of Contract
•. -~ '1
Number.......~·- · ·· · ··"-'··:.: · ···' executed by the student.
This book is to be returned during his lifetime
or upon his demise by his heirs, executors, admin·
istrators or other persons selected for that purpose.
The title to this book at all times remains with
the Fraternity. This book cannot be sold or dis·
posed of to others. Any purchaser thereof, or
person to whom possession is given, is subject to
the terms of the contract between the student and
the Fraternity, prohibiting its transfer and requir·
ing its return to the Fraternity.
..
FOREWORD TO FIFTH EDITION
HIS work is devoted strictly to the esoteric and is
limited to inner students of the Great Work.
Despite its circumvented field, it has passed
through four editions and is not in need of a
lengthy foreword. However, great happenings
have come to pass since the issue of the last edition and it is well to
give some little thought to what has passed, and at the same time
glimpse into the future.
The esoteric has for tts effort the upliftment of man's spiritual
nature. Nevertheless, ·it is deeply concerned with the material or
mundane nature because the spiritual is dependent upon the mate-
rial as a vehicle for its manifestation.
The Law of Hermes:
"As below, so above, and as above, so below,"
and again
"As in the inner, so in the outer."
This gives us the key to the Law that the inner has need of the
outer and that whatever is potent for construction is equally potent
for destruction. There is but one substance. In Biblical lore, this
substance is termed the "seed." 1
In this seed is the essence of all that is. Once this is understood,
and man becomes conscious of the explosive and destructive nature
of this invisible something, which to him is a mystery, he will be
more careful of his acts, i.e., in the use he makes of this "seed" or
the "one" substance. .
1
In the material there is a "seed" or explosive substance, as so well
demonstrated in the Atomic Bomb. In man there also is a combined
material-spiritual "seed" as potent spiritually as the atoms from which
the Atomic Bomb is made. ·
x FOREWORD TO FIFTH EDITION
•
FOREWORD TO FIFTH EDITION xi
The writers of many of the books of the Bible were Initiates and
had full knowledge of the mystery. Later on came the Alchemists,
also Initiates, only to be scoffed at, and often persecuted. Time
has vindicated both.
Paracelsus, called the "great charlatan," is now recognized as
the "great Physician," while late discoveries, the splitting of the
atom and the freeing of its power, prove transmutation, and that
the nature of substances can be changed and the hidden forces
released.
So great is this hidden force in the as yet unknown substances of
the Alchemists that through its use not only cities, but the uni-
verse itself, may be destroyed. This is the "seed" in the material
substances; it is the BELOW of Hermes; and just as there is this
potent "seed" hidden deeply in the material, in the BELOW, so like-
wise there is a hidden force or potency within that other "Seed"
within man which, in a proper medium, produces man, while if
elevated, raised up, i.e., made free, creates in that material man a
power and a force making him a world savior, a son of God, an
Avatar.
All these mighty things are foreshadowed in the Scriptural text ;
glossed over, sneered at by the profane; misunderstood and ignored
by those who would he saintly, or sought to be obtained by faith
alone and without doing the works of "my father" so necessary to
prove that faith.
Of the misuse of this mighty "seed" we refer to Leviticus 20:2:
"Again, thou shalt say to the children of Israel, Whosoever
he be of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that so-
journ in Israel, that giveth any of his seed unto Molech; he
shall surely be put to death."
This has reference to the misuse, the ungodly, the unholy use of
the "seed," i.e., giving the seed to Molech, meaning the loss of
seed as a "result of carnal acts, whatever the nat~re of those acts.
xii FOREWORD TO FIFTH EDITION
FOREWORD TO FIFTH EDITION xiii
Whoever shall do this shall be put to "death." That is, he shall
die as a result. He, by his own acts, destroying himself, both body
and Soul. ·
This is doubly debasing, because, like Onan, he not only befouls
himself, but he likewise robs, or withholds from the woman that
which is her need, and which, to be at her best, she must needs
build into her body. This is the unholy, degraded use of the crea-
tive act; the destruction of the mighty spiritual atom that has the
power, correctly directed, to raise the mortal body unto Immor-
tality, man into a god; and the "Lord saw that man had become
like unto the gods."
We lay aside the .esoteric concept and take up that of the 'Al-
chemical secret; the means and method whereby the spiritual atom
is released and wisely directed, just as scientists release, husband
and direct the mighty atom in material substance, and we have a
saga instead of a sordid story, and at the same time the solution of
the mystery of the Nazarene's birth, the forthcoming of the Avatar
of Nazareth and_the savior of the past age.
"And when he had removed him [Benjamin], he raised up
unto them David to be their king; to whom also he gave testi-
mony, and said, I have found David the son of Jesse, a man
after mine heart, which shall fulfill all my Will.
"OF THIS MAN'S (David's] SEED HATH Goo ACCORDING
TO HIS PROMISE RAISED UNTO ISRAEL A SAVIOR, ].ESUS."
(Capitals ours. )-Acts 13: 22, 23.
In· both instances it is the "seed" of Israel. · By one act the
"seed" is degraded in the manner of its release. This brings death
to all who ignore the Law. In the other it is,the seed of "one,"
David, whose thoughts and feelings are after God and who is
willing, aye, anxious, to keep God's Law. David, who refuses to
defile himself, or defraud another, and this seed, like the Alchem-
ist's Red Lion, being placed into the proper vessel, brings forth
xiv FOREWORD TO FIFTH EDITION
FOREWORD TO FIFTH EDITION xv
the Nazarene, the great Lawgiver, the Savior, or UPLIFTER of
mankind, just as the scientist-Alchemist splits the little atom or
"seed" in material substances, and releases its power to either save
or destroy nations and earths.
The theme of the esoteric in sex is twofold: (a) correctly di-
recting both the "seed" itself and potential forces for the uplift-
ment and physical well-being of the individual and true success in
life; and (b) for the awakening and lifting up of the sleeping Soul
within, so that it may, like the Nazarene, become a son of God, a
mighty, spiritualized atom in the upliftment and saving of a new
race. It is here necessary to recognize that the greater portion of
the old race signed their own death warrant by defying the Law of
God, thereby digging their own grave by their carnal practices.
"Render unto Caesar that which belongs to Caesar," i.e., the
body, without abuse and without defrauding, "and unto God [the
Soul] that which belongs to God," in no instance debasing or
being guilty of fraud.
The Law commands right use; not misuse or non-use, both of
which are death. •
"Beverly Hall"
Quakertown, Pa.
August 7, 1945.
Sincerely given,
R. SWINBURNE CLYMER.. •
xvi FOREWORD TO FIFTH EDITION
\
THE IMAGINATION
God's Greatest Gift to His Creation, Man
ITHOUT imagination man would still dwell in
caves as he did eons ago. It was in his imagina-
tion that man first saw he might construct a
habitation more suitable for himself and his
fainily; a home more convenient and offering
greater proteCtion. True, his first effort was crude and, in modern
views, highly unsatisfactory, but it was a beginning. No sooner
had he finished with his first effort than he saw, again in his imagi-
nation, where improvements were possible, so step by step he
advanced until in time the mighty pyramids and temples of ancient
Egypt, structures not since duplicated, were the result; first, in his
imagination and then by his active efforts.
Step by step, in harmony with the Hermetic Law:
"As above, so below;
As below, so above;
As in the outer, so in the inner;
As in the inner, so in the outer,"
man became conscious of a need within himself. This need the
imagination could not bring into outer manifestation; IT HAD TO
BE IN MAN's FEELINGS and thus did his affectionate nature, then
his Love nature, develop, until finally, in that same Egypt, MAN
WAS ABLE TO SPEAK WITH Gon. In proof whereof, does not Bib-
lical lore tell us that Moses spoke with God through the medium
of the BURNING BUSH?
"And the angel of the Lord appeared to him (Moses) in a
flame of fire out of the midst of a bush; and he looked, and,
2 DIVINE ALCHEMY
...
'''"
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 3
behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not con-
sumed."-Exodus 3: 2. See also Acts 7: 30-33.
Then, after man had so greatly achieved, came the deluge; not
of/by Water, but as the RESULT OF THE REACTION OF MAN'S
WICKEDNESSj BECAUSE HE TURNED AWAY FROM ALL THE GOOD
HB HAD ACHIEVED; FROM THE ABOVE TO THE BELOW. The
spirit or Light of the Soul, the "Fire in the bush," was forgotten
in the satisfying of the flesh, and in the satiation of the passions,
and thus Egypt, in all her glory of material and spiritual great-
ness, fell; fell as the result of the evils of man, just as she had
been built up by the goodness of man.
This also is a great Hermetic Law, but out of the destruction
will come a new world. There will be those left who had foreseen
that which was to be and these prepared themselves for the new
time that was to come.
This New Age is upon us, as is so clearly indicated by the
mighty destruction of the past thirty years. Through beastliness.
and brutality, through a repetition of what happened in ancient
Egypt, the greater part of mankind has foresworn the right to god-
hood and must pass on to be known no more. These numerous ones,
who might be engaged in preparing the way for the Lord, i.e., ful-
filling the Law, are laying much to waste; they are unconscious of
the fact that in doing this, they are bringing upon themselves their
own destruction and, in doing so, preparing the way for the
greater power and mightier achie'lJements of those who see the
Light and willingly follow it.
As it is "above," i.e., under God or his Law, so is it "below,"
under Nature. The two are in harmony. It is the ABUSE that
brings about the inharmony. If he who seeks the WAY and the
TRUTH is sincere, Nature will open her heart to him a~d he will
be able to read that which at first appears to be deeply hidden.
Well has a Hermetist, now unknown to us, written:
"Nature has a way of concealing and of revealing. She tells
4 DIVINE ALCHEMY
'•
•
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 5
half her story out in the sunshine in a loud voice, and the other
half in whispers underground.
"She is coy like a coquet, yet stern like a judge. She excites
curiosity in the student, and dread in the debauchee.
"She holds the man of science to her breast, but is dumb to the
seeker of mere pleasure. She scorns the victim of priestcraft, and
repudiates the supernatural. The Sage takes his cue from his
mother; like Nature, he conceals and he reveals. He who would
see other than the smiling, scowling face of Hermes must search
the dark places by the light of his own candle. Hermes locks the
gates between the outer and the inner Temple; and only he enters
the latter who has the password and the key.
"Philosophy brings life. She is beautiful-sh.e carries a cup in
her hand-it is gold ; she begs you to drink and live. She is your
handmaiden-the cup is pure metal-the drink is.the elixir-life.
As man, you are mortal; you have stood in the sunshine so long
that you are blind. As man, you are drunk with a drop of pure
life; you have listened so long to the seas that you are deaf.
Philosophy brings you the cup and you drink, and you open your
eyes; she waits and you listen to her.
"Open the windows and breathe the fresh air. Open the win-
dows and look at the sky. Open the windows and feel the soft
rain. But breathe--breathe--breathe full ·to the chest-whatever
you do, 'breathe. .
"You burn with desire and you thrill; then dip in the blood of
yourself and write on the parchment a scroll, and read in the let-
ters the words, and read in the words the command, and in the
command the design, and in the design the beginning and the end ;
and living you read, and reading you live, and cease to be mortal,
but soar as a god.
"If ever the Bush is on Fire, hearken for the language (the
voice) and hear. Something is speaking-listen and listen-Some-
thing is shining-the Bush is on {ire.
6 DIVINE ALCHEMY
..
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 7
"Youth climbs up' the ladder of his hopes and scans the pros-
pect; he expects to do everything, to conquer everything; he levels
mountains of opposition in his own mind. He figures on becoming
king of opportunity and creating it at his own bidding. Notice
him ten years later, sitting at the foot of the ladder, still dream-
ing his dreams. He has spent his Summers and Winters, his
Springs and his Autumns, in dabblings.
"Start out with yourself and follow the leaf on the wave of
your sea. Follow-follow-concentrate and follow, by the blind
faith of science, some sign in yourself till its value be disclosed. Be
like the dog that gives chase, and is bound to be in at the death or
the capture.
"We tell you now, at the very beginning of the study of phi-
losophy, that you must have two kinds of faith-the one absolute
and the other secondary and changeable-and also concentration,
without which it is useless to go on.
"To cultivate concentration you must love. Cultivate that bull-
dog tenacity to hold on to a thing till you know what it is, once
you have decided to grapple with it.
"Imagination is man's greatest friend and his greatest enemy.
If you control your imagination, it will serve you; and no artist
can paint pictures as beautiful as she can. Conimand her to sketch
the sea, the sky, the unseen and the seen wonders of earth and
heaven, and she will produce instantaneous results. She will deco-
rate your castle for you and place you in it; she will create an
interior environment that will so overpower your Soul that crude
0\.tter surroundings will cease to trouble you ; your Imagination is
the 'Woman (Soul} clothed with the sun (Light).'
"Imagination controlled by the Will is the one thing to be
desired. Involuntary imagination, that creature, which like a
snake slips into your Sanctuary in the dark and conceals itself to
coil and sting when you are ·totally unable to combat it, is to be
abhorred and dreaded. Not that he is forever ugly-the serpent
8 DIVINE ALCHEMY
'
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 9
has an unrivalled grace, and is a marvel in color-not that, but he
is unreliable, treacherous and poisonous; he may not sting, but if
he does, the antidote is hard to find. Worse than that, he is eter-
nally reproducing himself; he brings forth a brood, or rather, like
the worm, the more you divide him, the more alive he becomes,
each piece of him in turn maturing and reproducing.
"Take your imagination (and your desires) in hand, and hold
it as you would a pair of fine horses; do not let it break, but pull
the bit even though it foams and writhes. To have your imagina-
tion run away with you is to have it bring you up anywhere, either
throwing you on the rocks or landing you in the gutter.
"The Sage can free his mind either of unpleasant memories or
of undesired imagination by an effort of pure Will or by a sub-
stitution (which last is a transmutation). It is just as easy tei sub-
stitute one (form of) imagination for another as one memory for
another.
"The power to conjure (bring forth by the Will) is a ready
power and easy to handle; ghosts, hobgoblins, saints, and sinners
will come at a wave of the Magic Wand, and if you did but know
it, at another wave, they will disappear.
"Death! When you die you will grow so cold that you will for-
get to breathe-your brain will be frozen hard-your lungs will
turn to ice-you will even forget to tltink, to love. But wait! Phi-
losophy, garbed in the robes of eternal facts, will watch the tomb
for three long days, till the butterfly breaks the cocoon; till the
seed bursts open its husks; till the stone is rolled away; till the
Christie Soul comes forth.
"When death touches you and the wind blows cold, your Muse
stands firm. She wraps you in her cloak and lays you out. She
braces herself against death as a single Will defies the universe.
She faces Arctic winds. She sets her teeth, and for three days chal-
lenges hell. Out upon her leaps the devil of the Inferno. She
stands fast. Calmly you sleep on-as calmly as the plants sleep
under the snow.
10 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 11
"Your Muse calls upon heaven to help her-the saints-the
cherubs--the seraphs-the angels--the archangels-God. She
dares with her eyes the terrible glitter of the Dog Star. She shifts
her gaze to the awful flash of Arcturus. She appeals to the maj-
esty of Orion. She draws on the fires of the Pleiades. She sum-
mons the combined· forces of Hercules. She faces heaven. Her
Soul drinks at the firmainent-:and you sleep on.
"When the Sage of Athens drank the hemlock, his Muse shud-
dered, but stood firm. When the heart of the Nazarene broke be-
cause they would not listen to him, his Muse wept but lived on.
When death meets you, your Mu_
se shall conquer hell,. and' face
the eternal fires. Be faithful and fear not.
"You may follow churchanity to the yawning grave, you may
suck the breast of Buddhism dry, and yet miss the Magic of the
Muse-an Aphrodite poising on the foam of the sea.
"The Magician can subtract glamour from the heart of things;
he can manipulate combinations; he can balance on foam. Out of
himself comes a Magnetism that envelopes and transforms environ-
ments. As love turns hell into heaven, so the Magician plays at
his Art.
"Magic never goes naked. She is as real as the Soul of woman,
but she drapes herself in the robes of Isis. Her eyes look at you
through the veil of her hair, her limbs gleam out from the meshc:s ·
of a net-she has the art of a spider, she catches and holds, but
unlike the spider she never devours you.
-"Mystery and Magic are related. The half-known transfixes
you-its spell pierces you like the glance of a wise man's eye. The
mystery of the moon is in Magic-the side which you wonder
about is the side that charms. If the Sateliites turned, Love's
dream would vanish.
"We heal;' strange rumors of (fictitious} Adepts in Thibet and
the Fakirs in India. We have read fairy tales about the wonder-
working of Mahomet. We are familiar with the accounts of the
,
12 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 13
birth of Guatama, and the Magic of Moses (and we are beguiled
by the fantastic tales of fanatic-maddened minds of a Christ
o,bsessing a colored' boy for the saving of a white race which seeks
no saving)•· In the face of all, we would tell you that all this is
the mere blowing of a soap-bubble compared with the mystery' of
the seed or the passion of the plant (and the Soul of man).
"Would you know the Art of Magic (and recognize your
Muse) ? Would you disco,ver the Magician in yourself and wake
him out of his sleep? Turn within, far back, away from things
seen by the natural eye; and the long-lashed lids of a spirit's orbs
will unloose--when, lo, the land of dreams, the realm of memories
stored by the ages in you. ·
"But look yet again, still further back, in the magic region of
ice and snow and stress and storm, when the world, like a cold
corpse, lay wrapped in her icy shroud, you, you~ were there. Or
into those tropic regions where strange plants grew, watered by
mists, heated by a seething immense sun-you were there. Or, if
your eyes weary with wonder, and the fringed lids drop, listen.
Hearken with the ears of a spirit-backward-down the aeons of
time. Listen to the·crashes of avalanches o£ the terrible ice period,
when chaos roared as the captain shouted in a storm at sea. Listen
to the strange notes of a long lost bird which lived in the days of
a terrible sun. Listen to the vpice that spoke to you, ere the Naza-
rene traveled the banks of Galilee, or Caesar mastered the spirit
of ·Rome."
This is the voice of the Soul. The Voice of the Fire in the
Burning Bush that spoke to Moses. If you listen, it will also
speak to you.
14 DIVINE ALCHEMY
\
ASGILL'S RULES
A Physician's Legacy to Mankind
says: "He who begins with his wife by a
!"""'~e~ rape is a lost man." Not force, but Love (and
all the word implies), is the key with which to
unlock·the gates to the kingdom of true delight
(heaven). It is next to impossible that the wife
can ·love her husband after a forceful attempt, even though, before,
she was willing to comply. I make this statement after a wide
medical practice of more than forty years.
Most men not only begin married life like beasts of the field,
but keep it up, until hatred, horror and disgust either results in
disease and life-long invalidism for the woman, or brings on evils
from which eyery true man shrinks. Still, we must be fair to the
human male animal. Though this statement is true, the fact re-
mains that men generally, nay, universally, are not intentionally
guilty. They are ignorant of the method of procedure; they would
take the "kingdom of heaven" by storm, rather than open the gates
by slow degree-by fondling, caressing, cqaxing, and thus gradu-
ally eliminating the nerve tension which is natural to the virgin
state. Men follow the brute instinct because, not having been in-
structed in the right way, they have no other guide to lead them.
Young people love well before they are married. It is an ideal ·
love and, except for the perfectly natural creative desires, a love
of heart and Soul. U~fortunately, custom becomes a law to most
men because they have been governed by it for so many centuries.
It has led them to believe that marriage gives right of ownership
and the power to comman~. They are ignorant of the fact that
while this may be essentially true, there is a safe and sane way to
take possession ; one leading to infinite pleasure and happiness,
16 DIVINE ALCHEMY
'·
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 17
just as there is a brutish and inhuman way, to result in disease,
misery and unhappiness; unfortunately, this latter is the almost
universal practice. While the woman, if she loves, is most willing
to be possessed, the man is ignorant of the proper way to approach.
It is here where we find the beginning of misery (and all the word
implies) in the wedded life of most people.
Love, however unselfish and pure it may be between the most
innocent youth and maiden, gives birth to passion. Passion, on
her side, ~rouses a desire to be possessed; on his side it seeks the
way to possession. This is all as it should be, as both God and
Nature intended but-without a knowledge of the mysteries un-
derlying the way of sex-the man has only animal instinct to guide
him. Though the act in itself is animal (procreative) in its nature,
the method must be ·that of the angels (gods) ; otherwise pain,
disillusionment, misery, and shame result and life thenceforth must
naturally be unhappy.
The woman may love, "but not have been prepared mentally or
physically to accept the fruits of love. She must be "made ready
for the groom," with infinite pains by endearments, fondling and a
gradual working up to the climax of the embrace. This is the only
normal (divine) mode of procedure. The first approach and con-
summation is the most difficult; thereafter the method should be
of the same nature to bring about the same desirable results, but
the way having once been opened, the same difficulties are not
encountered.
The first Marriage Rite must not be forced. It dare not be the
result of violence. He who enters the race must be prepared to
lay siege to the citadel of divine desire, and by the finesse of his
procedure, win willing compliance, and, having won her consent,
proceed with patience and tenderness.
The unhappiness of nine-tenths of married life is due to the ruin
brought about through the ignorance displayed and the method
employed by the "lord and master" on the wedding night. Instead
of "lifting the veil" and beholding the beautiful and desirable and
IS DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE 'SCIENCE 19
spreading a halo round about the bridal bed, he foolishly and
roughly tears away the curtain and is confronted by horror, shame
and disgust ; these will remain as long as the twain live as one,
unless he is wise and truly in love and with infinite pains rebuilds
the structure he so foolishly demolished.
Equally foolish, though in a different manner, the woman be-
lieves the man to be brutal, unrefined and wholly unworthy of
her love, when, in fact, his animal approach and action are the
result of ignorance. Both are in error; all due to improper train-
ing (or entire lack of training) by parents equally uninstructed in
the realms of love and its fulfillment.
The youth and maiden should under no circumstances enter
wedlock unless they are willing to accept the fruits of the culmina-
tion of their love. To do so is to debase love, and no human crea-
ture can successfully do this without reaping the full penalty. We
speak with authority only for those on the esoteric path; for others
if they are willing to accept the Way, the Truth, the Life. There-
fore, it is a Law that the Marriage Rite degrades those who
attempt its consummation primarily for the personal gratification
of lust.
In this modern age circumstances may be such that non-increase
of family is an essential. In all instances where this is true, it is
necessary to be guided by natural law. The risk of conception is
never greater than coition following the return from a journey;
temporary absence; after the make-up following an unpleasantness;
a "spat," or downright quarrel. The reaction in all these instances
creates not only greater· affectional emotions and pro-creative en-
ergy, but also a peculiar increasing likelihood to the risk of con-
ception.
The now generally recognized most dangerous {fertile) period
for coitus is between the twelfth and sixteenth day PRIOR to the
expected onset of the next menstrual cycle and it is necessary to
stress the necessity of the use of the douche during this period,
20 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 21
Prior to and after coitus.2 Relative to the use of contraceptives,
this decision must be left for the family physician.
It is to be emphasized that there is no certain, safe rule; women
differ as much one from the other in this respect as they do in
nature and temperament. The rule is general; not specific.
It is likewise necessary to be emphatic in stating that the fruits
of marriage are children. No married couple should evade this
responsibility and source of happiness unless there is a genuine
reason for it. If they fail to fulfill this duty to themselves and God
they also evade the natural and Divine Law, and cannot fully
enjoy the happiness resulting from the fulfillment of Love and its
responsibilities.
Many women, wise in their ways, are conscious of the time
when the ovum passes from the uterus. Almost all women, if
they are patient and observing, may master the art. From the time
the ovum passes, conception is impossible until 'the next ovum passes
from the ovaries to the Fallopian tubes, which usually occurs
within the period of 48 hours before the catamenial period.
Those desiring an offspring should be guided, first: by the
greater desire and affectional display of the woman after purifica-
tion, because at that time the love nature and procreative desire is
at its highest ebb and approach is most welcome, consequently most
generally resulting in stronger, healthier, and more noble-minded
children; and, secondly: duripg the twelfth to sixteenth day,prior
to the expected onset of the next menstrual period. Those who
have long desired children with disappointing results should select
these periods for the Rite and, in addition, follow the method of
• The most satisfactory antiseptic that can be used either as a douche,
for an enema or colonic appears to be a combination of Permanganate of
Potassium and brown (natural) sugar. The method of preparation is
to take the desired amount of fairly warm water, add crystals of the
Permanganate slowly and dissolve until the water is a deep purple, then
add a tablespoonful of the brown sugar to each quart of water and it is
ready for use. Alchemically this is the only substance that will free
natural oxygen when coming into contact with the mucous membrane,
and does not destroy the sensitiveness u so many preparations do.
22 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 23
procedure now so generally successful; the pre-coital use of physio-
logical glucose douches.
All Nature works by contraries (the Law of action and RE-
action). The bitter winds of Winter followed by sunny days of
Summer; the thunderstorm follows the calm days of Spring, Sum-
mer and Fall; death following biri:h. Just as the atmosphere is
clearer, healthier, more!' magnetic and vital after an electrical
storm, so both men and women are more virile, loving and recep-
iive after an emotional storm; taking for granted that, during the
readjustments that follow the unpleasantness, all differences are
cast aside wd that all recriminations have been readily forgiven
and forgotten. In no sense is this to be accepted as an incentive
for the causation of an unpleasantness of any nature for the sake
of creating emotional storms and their reactions.
There are, roughly speaking, three classes of men: Of the three,
two types are common ; the third is, as yet, rare.
There are those who truly love their sweethearts and wives,
who hold love too sacred a passion to be marred by any unpleas-
antness and consequently rather admit themselves wrong, even
when right, than hurt the feelings (selfish sensibilities) of the
loved one. This is supposed to be Christ-like; it proves, neverthe-
less, to be the death of·the love the woman holds for such a one.
Irrespective of how refined she may be or how great in character,
woman, unconsciously or consciously, desires a masterful man; the
overshadowing male, one ·who will not recede one iota from his
standpoint when·in the right, and who, firmly but kindly, demands
that his rights sliall be respected. The man who loves and who is
wise in his love is the one who holds the eternal love of the true
woman. Here let it be said in passing that, in this respect, life is
•beco~ing more difficult, due to the f!lct that very often the woman
is the actual bread earner, and no man, however great of Soul, can
be fully a man when he feels that he is materially indebted to a
woman, because his self-respect is gradually destroyed.
24 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 25
The second class comprises the type of men who never admit
themselves in the wrong-feeling that by so doing they would
indicate a weakness, although in fact there is no greater strength
than willingly to admit the wrong when in error, and who are
likewise foolish enough not to culminate an unpleasantness or
downright quarrel by endearment and reconciliation.
Between these two classes is.a small third. Experience has taught
these men that, to be at their best, they must possess the love of a
good woman, and by their keen observation of the mistakes made
by the other two classes they have gained wisdom; consequently,
they demand respect when in the right, fight if necessary, but are
wise enough to restore and establish a kindly feeling after any
unpleasantness. These are true·men, loving and loved in return.
It is a Law that, while woman seeks the love of nian, she
equally desires a man, not a weakling. He who thinks he can bind
her love to himself by giving in to all her wishes, whether she be
right or wrong, will gradually cause her to become disgusted with
him and despise him, irrespective of how virtuous ile may be or
how noble of heart. ·
Mental, moral, physical and domestic trouble; mental, mag-
netiCo-vital exhaustion are preventable between couples if, as soon
as they become aware of it, they will for a certain time sleep apart,
have good ventilation, never sleep in day-w~rn underclothes, and
if each will magnetize the other at the seven magnetic centers oj
being: sides, spine, throat, head, breast and ~ver tile pit o£ the
stomach. This magnetization process can best be accomplished all
in one operation, i.e., during the conjugal act-the Marriage Rite.
No man should ever approach a woman, coitus intent, unless he
is also sufficiently affectional; loves her truly, and.there is a desire
to caress, fondle and kiss her, before, during an~after the Mar•
riage Rite. It should be one long kiss and caress all through the
duration of the final orgasmonal exchange of the Rite. If this is
done, then each will charge. the other with renewed life, there
26 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 27
being an exchange of magnetic-electric force, and neither loss nor
weakness can result from the act. The exchange taking place be-
tween the two will establish equilibrium in their respective beings.
As a general rule, superior (virile) men, whatever their rank or
calling, are attractive to women. Therefore such men-always
very passionate-have great need of watchfulness and prayer.
Matthew 26: 41. What woman, possessing a rare jewel, should
not willingly, gladly, carefully guard it against the encroachment
of the many "thieves and robbers" in feminine form all too ready
and willing to steal it from her?
The glory of man is his manhood (prepotency-virility). The
stronger a man's vital forces, the greater will be his. attractiveness
to woman. Also, in like ratio, the greater the possibility of his
making a success in apy undertaking. Therefore, it behooves all
men to arrange a plan of life which will increase their virile pow-
.ers and at the same time establish control over these forces so that
nothing be done which brings shame upon true manhood.
The true nature of any woman will be quickly changed for the
worse by the pigginess and private brutality of any man with whom
she associates. The arguinent "can't a man do as he likes with his
own?".requires a positive NO, even though ownership in marriage
were granted, which it is not.
On the other hand, the unreasonableness, unjustness and sus-
picion of woman has been the direct means o£ ruining the charac-
ter of millions of the noblest men who have ever walked the earth.
No man can be at his best, when he constantly is denied his rea-
sonable requests. The very nature of his virile forces is such that
constant circula~ion is essential if they are to remain healthy and
potent. ·Only tpe reasonable indulgence in the Marriage Rite in
its full perfection can maintain this normalcy.
The virile forces of man are like the waters of a stream or
spring. If the water be dammed up so that there no longer exists
an outlet and consequently constant circulation, the waters become
.-
, •
28 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 29
stagnant, foul and poisonous. Although there is no like fluidic
response in the woman during the Marriage Rite, there is a nerve
release which has a soothing, restful, healthy and satisfying influ-
ence on her entire system. Manhood and womanhood are quickly
destroyed when, in one or the other, a willing and joyful response
is lacking during the Rite.
As to what comprises a "reasonable demand," no set rule is
possible, as men and women differ greatly in their natures and
desires. It is, however, a universal Law that the greater the har-
mony existing between two people, the stronger will be the virility,
and the more frequently (within reason and according to the mu·
tual reaction following the Rite) will be felt the desire for the
consummation of the Marriage Rite, and the resultant gain be an
increase in health, strength, power and beauty. .
When, as so frequently happens, the husband's private conduct,
unreasonable demands and· display of ignorance concerning sex
generally, have estranged the love which is so dear, precious and
desirable to every true, genuine man, there is but one way to resur-
rect it and that is by forbearance, self-restraint, care, gentleness,
and renewal of the procedure followed in first winning the loved
one. It is best to eat only when one is hungry. Why then force a
Feast, unwelcome to her, unless she be first enhungered by meth-
ods wise and harmless? If she is not in sympathy with her hus-
band at this time, but is forced to compliance, it will mean death
to her affection for him, in time, if not at once; it is a poor, fool·
ish bird that knowingly ruins its own nest. Yet how many human
birds do just that!
It would be erroneous to maintain that man, foolish as he gen·
erally is relati;e to ma~ters of sex, is alone the cause of the mis-
understanding and misery so universal in our homes. In all too
many instances, it is actually the ignorance, prudishness, self-
centeredness and lack of cooperation on the part of the wife which
are the chief cause of trouble.
30 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 31
Girls nearing womanhood are not enlightened relative to the
wide field of activity of the creative function. Less than two hun-
dred years ago, even by many of the clergy, women were gener-
ally believed to be Soulless, and that sex for them had but two
functions: First, the procreation of the race and, second, man's
pleasure and satisfaction. Thus we find even in this day that many
women think of themselves as nothing more than the plaything of
men, ·in a game in which they are not to tllke any active part in so
far as their own pleasure, satisfaction and welfare are concerned.
Another class entertains the equally erroneous idea that the crea-
tive function vested in her is not for any pleasure on her part, but
for the mere personal gratification of her husband.
Still others sincerely believe that it is both sinful and shameful
for woman to even think of exercising the most important part of
the being God created for her in any other manner than for the
satisfaction of man and the procreation of the race.
Only in rare il}stances has woman been taught, or ·by her own
initiative learned, that the creative power means vastly more than
the mere possibility of creating a new temple for a living Soul,
important as that is. ·She has yet to learn that these forces and
their vehicle may be•used righteously in every department of life
and are the dynamic potency for the establishment of· joy, happi-
ness, peace, health and success. The most righteous and most per-
fect use of the creative power in this direction, however, necessi-
tates true affection and harmony between two persons and a full
knowledge of what is to be accomplished.
Women are slaves, not so much to men as to their own gross
ignorance and, in all too many instances, pure selfishness. How
long will it be before t~ey will face the truth without shame, false
modesty and cold callousness, and become wise to the fact that
strength, beauty, power ruW divinity may be wrought through the
correct application of the· divine powers conferred upon them by
a wise Creator?
32 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
THE ANSAIRETH MYSTERY*
A New Re11elation of Sex
!OM. "God and Nature marry the sexes; man,
custom and the State unite individuals. The for-
mer marriages are never failures; those married
thus being laws unto themselves and, God being
unable to make mistakes, these need little to
guide them. The second class of marriages are seldom any-
thing but failures, at least within the area of Occidental
civilization. The parties to such unions need all possible
light to guide them away from the icy shores and sunken
rocks upon which myriads are continually being wrecked, to
the safe grounds of conjugal happiness."
It is easy to find the reason why those whom God has joined are
·seldom failures and are free from the continuous misunderstand-
ing, discontent and the resultant misery that are the portion of
other classes. These are drawn together and held by love. They
have an affection for each other which embraces fellowship, friend-
ship, companiortship, mutual respect and consideration for each
other. Lov~ is the great guide, director and restrainer. It is the
softener of passion; Love does ·not demand that which Love is
unwilling to give; Love does not refuse that w'hich it has to offer.
Love offers aU it possesses, because its greatest jo,y·is in conferring
pleasure. The mother loving her child .is never happier than when
serving that child. The husband loving his wife is never more a
man than when offering a benefit to her; and the wife loving her
husband is at her best when serving him. In Love, a bond (part-
nership) is formed and based on unselfishness. In Love, woman
• So named after the Mysteries of a Syrian . Priesthood among whom
·.Dr. P. B. Randolph lived and was Initiated; the Mysteries of which he
brou~ht to America and taught in Imperial Eulis. '
34 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 35
offers, not boldly, brazenly, ignobly or uncharmingly, but with the
grace of angels; man accepts the offer prayerfully and never thinks
of abusing the confidence so placed in him.
Civil marriages are a necessary bond and not to be set aside.
To ignore the ceremony would make the modem wol"ld a charnel
house of uncontrolled lust; but in addition, and as part of such
marriage, men should be taught the Sacred Laws governing the
creative act and learn to be governed by these laws. The marriage
ceremony, contrary to the almost universal belief, does not confer
any rights or privileges not already established under the Laws
governing acts of Love. It is here that the first errors are made;
whe{e married misery has its beginning. Men generally believe
that the marriage ceremony can make right that which is not sanc-
tioned by Love. This is often a fatal error. The Marriage Rite
becomes ignoble, often to the degree of prostitution or fornication,
despite all ceremonies, if Love or affection are not the ince1rlive of
the request and compliance of the creative or exalting act. Thus
it is true that God must first marry, i.e., unite-DRAW THB TWAIN
TOOBTHER-and then the ceremonial should legalize the union for
the protection, i.e., legitimization of the possible offspring.
Reciprocity is the one law governing the marital relationship.
When this is recognized and accepted, and governs the act, it is
certain to bring joy, happiness and contentment in married ~ife.
Just as sex is essential to the fulfillment of the creative act and is
sanctioned by the Laws.of heaven, so is sex the chain that either
binds two people together and leac!.s them to Immortalization, or
degrades them body and Soul; ultimately destroys them. It all
depends upon whether Love does, or does not, unite them.
"We are.. triplicate beings--body, spirit and Soul. Our loves
and passions may be of either on~, two, or the three of these.
"If our love is only of the Soul, then it is too·fine and ethereal
for this ·gross, lower world, and is useless for all pra<;tical purposes.
"If our love is of the spirit only, it is too vague, unsubstantial,
unthoughtful ~d physically unsatisfactory.
36 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 37
"If our love is of the body only (and it usually is), then lust is
rampant, with hell all around, and crime swelters in the air. ·
"If our love is of the Soul and spirit only, then we are bereft of
the power to become energies in the world, because we lack the
material force either to make our mark on each other and on the
world; or to give good physico-vital constitutions to our offspring;
"If our love .is of the Soul and body, we are isolated from the
rest of mankind and are lone pilgrims all the way along.
"If our love is of spirit and body only, we are extreme-either
all transcendental affection or downright animal passionists.
"It is only when our l~ves are triplicate that we fulfill our true
mission and realize the supreme joys of existence."
. Neither man nor woman has the moral or spiritual right to
enter marriage unless his or her love is of this triplicate nature.
Irrespective of whether there is a union sanctioned by church or
State, if this threefold bond is lacking, there is no marriage in the
sight of God or under the Divine Law and it is little less than a
form of legalized .or sanctioned prostitution; fine, or gross, elevat-
ing or degrading, to the degree that the union is moral or immoral.
It is to be accepted as a fact that in the vast majority of mar-
riages, the contracting parties really believe themselves in love
with each other, and there is therefore no reason why, both will-
ing, they should not gradually grow into the threefold union.
llowever, there is always the serpent or destroyer of happiness
in the possible Garden of Eden, in the form of gross ignorance
relative to all that has to do with the marital·relationship.
On the man's side this ignorance manifests by selfish, untimely,
unnatural or too frequent, or perhaps too seldom demands. Not
requests, bear in mind, but DEMANDS NOT JUSTIFIED BY PRIOR
BEHAVIOR.
It is true the ceremony seemingly confers upon him the right to
demand. Nevertheless, he should be sufficiently wise to know that
no man has a right to demand compliances (not even animals do
38 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 39
this) unless, as is all too frequently the case, by one means or an-
other, he has BOUGHT AND PAID FOR HIS MATE.
On her side, ignorance on how to meet his advances, when to
comply and when to refuse and, above all, the MANNER OF RB·
FUSAL WHEN IT IS NECESSARY TO DO S01 all too frequently lead
her into a horror that is hell, and her marriage is wrecked on the
shoals which end in the destruction of even a semblance of con-
jugal happiness.
If, in these matters of ·mutual interests, man were as ."wise as
serpents and harmless as doves,'! as all men will be some day, he
would gently ignore her first refusals and set about to win her to
compliance by fondling, caresses and all the actions which are a
part of the Art of Love, and failing in this, kindly and generously
forget all about it, remembering the fighting man's maxim: "He
who fights and runs will. live to fight another day." He who tries
and fails, then accepts his lade of success with a smile and waits
for a more opportune time, is certain to succeed and to receive the
full appreciation of his mate for his kindly consideration instead
of brutally forcing upon her that which she was not in the mood
to enjoy.
The marital office and function is threefold: (1) material, i.e.,
.physical-mental, (2) spiritual and (3) mystic. Present humanity
knows all too much of the first, very little of the second and prac-
tically nothing of the third. ·
Only the Ansaiteth Secret Arcanum fully contains the mystery.
This Fraternity alone; establishes the fact that the marital function
is unquestionably the highest, holiest (when of the whole b&ing)
and most important in tbe life of ~an and woman, but likewise
the most wretchedly abused of all activities engaged in by homo-
genus. Its office is so vital t~ the welfare of the race and to the
obedience of Divine Commands, that we of the Ansaireth hold the
following axioms as cardinal and indisputable:
"He who is pelvically diseased or unsound, is not a true man
40 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
••
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 41
while he remains thus ill; his Soul is necessarily barred from the
heaven whither all Souls repair during sound sleep and his Im-
mortality is not certain until he is restored to health. Women
everywhere are subject to the identical law and its penalty.
"We hold that any over-passionate, inconsiderate, uncontrolled
male human is not fully a man because of his lack of sane judg-
ment when under the dominion of his passion, and that such a
husband necessarily ultimately succeeds in destroying the best wife
ever given by Allah to the son of man.
"An over-passionate woman can easily destroy and ruin any man
on earth, totally unfitting him for combat with the world and its
affairs. Such women are rare in these days, more so in the Occi-
dent than in the Orient. Th~ contrary is, unfortunately, also true,
and many otherwise fine women, because of their frigidity, ruin
hordes of the best men by the resultant sex starvation. The overly-
passionat~ woman, if honest, loyal, sincere and governed by love, is
by far preferable to the coldly natured one; for it is within her
power to confer health, strength, success, and even help in his
Immortalization, if this be her desire.
"Childten, rightly considered and wisely 'requested' are the
gifts of Allah. They never come unless the message is sent for
them and the means provided during the wife's lunar season.• Con-
sequently, wise is he and she if they will learn to obey the Laws
already inculcated. Contraceptives now generally in use are all too
frequently ineffective even in instances where their use is honeStly
justified, consequently Nature and Art should be combined in this
important matter. ·
· "Ghouls and fools think to avoid disaster through the self-
murderous habit of the incompletion of the conjugal act. THERE
IS NO MORE DESTRUCTIVE OR SOUL DEORADINO ACT IN WHICH
MAN CAN INDULGE. Coitus interruptus, whatever name it is given,
is degradingon mind, spirit and Soul. This folly, of which only
• See llsgill's Rules, present volume.
' 42 DIVINE ALCHEMY
. .
•
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE
humans are guilty, ultimately begets hatred, disease of bladder
and brain, nerves and Soul in him, and a corresponding host of
evils in his partner; and WHY?
"Because it is not merely suicidal and unnatural and wholly
contrary to the creative laws, but it is also a fraud against the
woman, EVEN THOUGH SHE REQUESTS OR DEMANDS IT, and any
attempt to throw away, i.e., cast aside that which God has given
mali for an express, a threefold, purpose: (1) progeny; (2)- an
interchange, exchange, and balance between the two engaged ; and
(3) SPIRITUALIZATION, is certain to degrade and destroy. Any
effort to annul the Law and its reae!tion evokes a terrible penalty.
"Among. the direct results are, first of all, (a) hatred for each
other, though both may not be guilty; (b) seeking for the com-
panionship of those of the opposite sex into whose eyes they can
look without shame; (c) adultery; (d) broken homes, and (e)
diseases such as dyspepsia, insanity, paralysis, impotence on his
side; uterine, vaginal and ovarian inflammation, ulcers, leucor-
rhea and prolapsus and a host of like ills on her side; disgust and,
in many instances, murderous hate on both sides., though, as said,
both are ·not equally guilty."
A young man and woman enter wedlock. Both are to all in-
tents and purposes in love with each other; both appear to be all
that could be desired mentally and physically. But gradually and
within a comparatively short time a change in both is easily notice-
able. Instead of continuing happy and youthful and manifesting
the bloom of youth that should follow the "wedding of the twain,"
they begin to age physically; they are no longer buoyant and happy;
their eyes are dull and moody; the mind is less alert. The Love that
previously was easily apparent to all seems to have given way to
repulsion.
Why is this so? 'How can this thing be?
All of it has come about and is the result of an attempt to evade
Nature's and God's Law. In their ignorance or evil desires they
44 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 45
think they can defraud God and Nature, while actually they sim-
ply succeed in defrauding themselves. Instead of "blessing" each
other with the "exquisite Elixir of Life" and bringing upon them-
selves a deeper love, a greater happiness, stronger health and more
vitality, they "cast this aside upon the rubbish heap" and are as
guilty as Onan of Biblical times.
The seed that should be used in the creation of new homes for
Souls; to confer blessings upon.each other; to bring about a more
abiding love, to be an incentive to great· and noble action, to make
of each other what they really might be, is, in the Biblical phrase,
"cast upon the ground," and becomes the old serpent of Eve,
which caused her the loss of the Garden of Eden. That old ser-
pent creeping upon its belly is the cause of all 9f man's evils and
misery.
Defrauded of the very essence of her being which would mean
health, vitality, mental well-being and Soul-uplifting, she remains
unsatisfied, internally burning as though a fire were raging (and
truly there is-a destructive fire) and the result, as already stated,
is hell generally, and contempt, disgust and repulsion specifically.
Where there is a lack of the exchange of the vital fluids, health
and happiness are impossible, and this lack is present always where
the great evil Onanism is practiced, because it is a fraud, against
God, the Creator, himself.
Why is this act, i.e.,·why is this sin so great?
Onanism is not merely asolitary vice. It is equally Onanism if,
as mentioned in Genesis 38: 9, there is incompletion ofthe act to
the degree that there is a withdrawal or separation between the
the twain before there has been an exchange of the vital (life-
giving) fluids, essences, and forces generated by the act and the
resultant "casting of the seed upon the ground"; these seeds to
become serpents that "creep upon their belly," bringing evil upon
those guilty, for did not this act so displease the LoRD that he
slew him (Onan)? That is to say, that by this act, if continued,
46 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
•
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 47
every man ultimately SLAYS HIMSELF BOTH BODY AND SOUL, and
the woman who demands or permits it is equally guilty.
But are not those equally guilty who actually complete the mari-
tal embrace according to the Law and then, because of righteous
necessity, employ some undestructive means to prevent the natural
consequence of the act, i.e., conception?
Only to a degree. The first and greatest intent and purpose of
the' act has been accomplished, that is, the·love embrace and the
exchange of the electric, magnetic, lEtheric fluids and forces.
The second intent, i.e., conception, is defeated. This, being due
to honest necessity, is not as great an evil as it would be if the
woman's life were endangered, or if additional children would
possibly not have the care necessary to make of them healthy, nat-
ural, normal and successful citizens. It is the eternal choice be-
tween two evils, of which the lesser is to be chosen.
Referring once again to the sin of which it is written: "The
Soul that sinneth, it shall die."-Ezekiel 18: 20. There is good
reason why this explanation is true and why the Biblical writers so
frequently referred to it; The one phase of this sin has had fair
consideration, but there is a deeper, an Arcane, meaning which is
seldom given the consideration it deserves because of the vast rami-
fications of the destructive habits among both the wed and the
unwed.
One certain thing was given to man which made him equal,
though IN A MUCH LESSER DEGREE, with God. This is the ~
!lYe fire. wherewith and whereby he becomes in the natural world
that which God is in the ~piritual world, i.e., A CREATOR. In the
heavens, or the spiritual world, i.e., in the ABOVE of Hermes, God
creates Souls~ In the natural world, the BELOW of Hermes, man ·
creates bodies for these Souls. They are co-creators, one dependent
upon the other.
The Arcane is this: The same substance, i.e., the CREATIVE FIRE
~hich man employs in the creation of a new body for the inception
48 DIVINE ALCHEMY
• ..
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 49
of a Soul, is THB IDENTICAL.SUBSTANCE, POWER, FORCB, BNERGY1}
or call it what you will, which man MUST ULTIMATELY USB IN ~<
AWAKENING, BUILDING AND BRINGING INTO CONSCIOUSNESS HIS
OWN SLBBPING SOUL. ·
The more abuse of this power, energy or force, i.e., THE FIRB
HE RECEIVED FROM HEAVEN, THE LESS OF THIS FIRE HE WILL
HAVE TO BUILD THAT SOUL AND THE POORER WILL BE THE SOUL;
If he continues this abuse, whether by direct Onan practices such
as solitary vice, Coitus interruptus or in any other of the numerous
practices, UNTIL THERE ARE NO MORE SEEDS LEFT, i.e., until he is
truly impotent (though he may still be competent), then THERE IS
NO MORE CREATIVE FIRE LEFT IN HIS BEING TO BRING THE SOUL
INTO ·CONSCIOUSNESS,· BECAUSE HE HAS DRAWN UPON AND, BY
ABUSE, DESTROYED EVERY VESTIGE OF THE SOULUAL FORCES, AND
THAT.SOUL, BY HIS DESTRUCTIVE EVIL ACTS, IS DESTROYED.
As stated in El'ekiel 18: 20: "THE SouL THAT SINNETH, IT
SHALL DIE," AND HAVING SO SINNED, IT IS NO LONGER EXISTENTj
IT Is DEAD; THB CREATIVE (Goo) POWER xs A THING o:F THE
PAST, IMPOTENCY HAS SET IN AND WITH IT THE DECAY THAT IS
DEATH BEYOND THE POSSIBILITY OF RESURRECTION.
The great irreparable evil or sin is the misuse and abuse of the) +---
Creative Soul Fire, until it has become non-existent. This is the)
sin against the Holy Ghost which is unforgivable; because there is
no longer anything left to forgive or to resurrect.
In Proverbs 6: 32, we are told of another sin which is capable of
bringing cl"estruction upon the Soul:
"But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh
understanding: he that doeth it destroyeth his own Soul."
Here we have the positive statement that he who commits an
unforgivable evil long enough does DESTROY HIS SouL.
However, no one would intimate that the adultery itself de·
strays the Soul even though it is an evil act. It is the method
usually pursued in adultery, because of the need of self-protection j
,
so DIVIN:E: ALCHEMY
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 51
that is the greater evil. This method of protection is in the form
of Onanism, the old sin of Eden, the "casting of the seed upon the
ground," bringing into being the old serpent upon its belly, and if'
this is continued for a sufficient length of time, it destroys the
Creative, GoD POWERS; the HoLY GHOST or F~RES from which
the Soul must be built, and without which it MUST DIE THB
DEATH THAT KNOWS NO RESURRECTION.
In the Ansaireth Brotherhood anyone suspected of this spiritual
crime was tried and if proven guilty by a method all their own
was put to the death.
The conjugal act or Marriage Rite, if indulged in normally,
naturally, and maccordance with the Law, will result in health
and strength, greater love and ultimate Immortality.
"Too few husbands respect the modesty of their wives, forget
(possibly never knew) that silks and drapery, perfumes, beautiful
trifles, are powerful adjuncts; they have not been taught that it is
impossible for a wife to love her husband unless she is won, not
forced to·compliance ; that he can never hold her Soul and she can
never be made to realize the natural, God-intended joy of the
conjugal association, except by those affectional and magnetical
caresses and endearments which suggest themselves to the wise
husband. Above all, let none become careless of modesty; for who-
ever cannot blush is lost."
Men are as sensitive in their love natures as are women•. It
should always be carefully remembered that, with a few excep-
tions, when a man marries a woman, he does so because of his love
for her and sees in her his ideals of womanhood realized.
One vital truth of utmost importance to a woman's happiness
has seldom been taught to her and she becomes possessed of the
knowledge when too late to be of. service. Whomsoever a man
loves, whomsoever he holds most dear, he, in his heart, seeks to
protect, yet at the same time ~esires to feast his eyes upon her form
and embrace ; there is neither shame nor immodesty in this. It is a
52 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 53
normal, natural reaction and, within reason, should be so. ac-
cepted by the woman of his choice.
Man, due to his ignorMce, is to a greater or lesst;r degree a
brute, and, as such, he proceeds to obtain desirable things in the
wrong manner; while the woman, desiring to be possessed as much
as he seeks to possess her, ignorant as he, is incapable of guiding
him in the right course; frequently refuses his requests altogether;
thereby disappointing him; hurting his feelings; because he is un-
aware {)£ the reason for the refusal, and it is here where married
hell has its beginning.
It is unquestionably true that every normal man who is really
in love with his wife is anxious to view her form. And why
should he not? Did God create her face in glory and her form in
shame, or all of her being in his own image? Where then is the shame
of his desire? Only to the ~nclean in mind all things appear defiled.
It is in this ignorance where much of human misery has its
beginning. She ·is modest as becomes woman; regrettable, she is
also ignorant because she has not been instructed in the difference
between true and false modesty; nor that there is a "time and
place for all things," a time to be coy and yet yield; a time when
the form should not be uncovered lest there be evil done.
Man, mated to one whom he loves, yet continuously denied the
pleasure of viewing the things he loves, gradually loses interest,
and as a result is liable to seek far afield for that denied him at ·
- home; \and she, .poor mate, ignorant of the needs of his natural,
normal desires and requirements, mourns and weeps for that which
is lost to her, but might easily have been held by her against all
the world.
There is not a normal creature known as man, healthy and
virjle, clean of mind and normal of habits, who does not at times
desire to behold the form of woman in the garb in which she was
born. He does not~ most decidedly not, desire that any woman
shall undrape herself before him, because then all interest will be
54 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
\
•
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 55
lost; but he does seek, when in the right mood, to do this for him-
self and enjoys it most when it is apparently contrary to her
wishes, but when her protestations are not too vehement.
The full man prefers to "fight" for and win his "rights," rather
than have the "enemy" surrender too easily to his wishes. This is
part of his nature. To fight is his right. To conquer is his pleas-
ure. Man, unrestricted in his desires, soon tires of that which is
too readily obtained. There are exceptions to the rule in this as in
all else; we speak of man generally.
It is well to remember that true modesty refuses only that which
is in itself shameful, or is liable to bring shame upon those who
indulge in such an act or commit such a deed. God did not blush
nor cover his face when he .created the human form and first
looked upon it. On the contrary; HB THOUGHT IT FAIR AND GOOD
-. TO LOOK UPON.
It is only after men and women are guilty of indulging in prac-
tices that .are unnatural, therefore shameful, that they can no
longer look upon the human form without blushing, and they, not
God, consider the uncovered form other than beautiful. "There is
a lime and place for everything" is the Law, and he who is wise
will not trespass where he is not wanted.
"The t~ frequent exercise of any power, quality, or faculty is
ruinous (because weakening)." This is especially true of mar-
riage relationships which are productive only of two results:
· Heaven or Hell. For the true,and holy Rite is ascentive, leading
to health, h~ppiness, delight, longevity, graciousness, celestial and
glorious joy; or, on the other hand, is descentive, leading to the low-
est depths of social, moral and domeftic hell, and the sad rocks on
which many a Soul is wreck~d.
To recapitulate the Laws: "The Soul that sinnet~, it shall die":
"But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh
understanding: he that doeth it destroyeth his own Soul."-
Proverbs 6: 32.
•
56 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
•
..
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 57
Here is one of the reasons why:
"And Onan knew that the seed should not be his; and it
came to pass, when he went in unto his brother's wife, thai
he spilled it [the seed] upon the ground> lest he should give
seed to his brother.
"AND THE THING HE DID DISPLEASED THE LoRD: WHERE-
FORB HE SLEW HIM ALSO."-Genesis 38: 9, 10.
The sin is in the abomination of the act of destroying) by casting
aside> the creative Fire which the Lord gave to man, making man
co-creator with him; in the fraud practiced on the partner or asso-
ciate; i~ the act of cheating by withholding the··exchange, and in
self-pollution. Onanism is not only, as so many have foolishly
taught, solitary vice; but in the creative act, IN WHATSOEVER
MANNER PRACTICED, which as a result, culminates by "casting the
seed upon the ground."
This "casting the seed upon the ground" creates the serpent of
death "creeping on its belly," when it should be an exchange of a
greater degree of life. It is "Onanism" to destroy the Fires of the
Holy Ghost by an unhallowed act. These Fires are only to bel_....
used for the creation of a new being, the RECREATION of those ...
already born and, finally, the Immortalization of the Soul by __..
means of bringing it into Consciousness through the lifting up of ...--
the creative force and fransmuting it into the Fires from heaven
in the baptism of the Soul by the Holy Ghost.
,
58 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
ESOTERIC
Unveiling the Mystery of Love
HE preservation, rejuvenation, intensification and
sanctification (note this last) of love between
man and woman always did; and forever will,
invariably and primarily depend upon the per-
fection, i.e., the completeness, both physically
and spirit,.ually, of their conjunction; in plainer words, upon the
fullness and thproughness of the conjugal union, in each case and
upon both sides.
"The vast majority of civilized men of the white race have
little or no endurance or 'staying' qualities or powers.
"This is usually, nay, almost universally, caused by one or two
things: THEIR LOVE IS NOT DEEP ENOUGH TO COMMAND THEIR
ENTIRE ATTENTION. Or they are overly anxious about affairs out- .
side of the act; both of which are depressing, therefore depleting
to strength and power."
In fairness to most men, it can be said that they love their
mates, even deeply and ·divinely. The all too numerous demands
upon their mental faculties, the business responsibilities, or the
constant requirements of the family, do not permit sufficient free-
dom of mind to give the entire thought, desire and attention to the
love feast of the moment. As a consequence, the mind is not cen-
tered, the desire is only at the half-way mark, there is diffusion of
the forces, with the result that an otherwise pleasant and highly
desirable duty is but half-well performed and shame, weakness
and ·u.ncertainty follow what should be a divinely sanctioned act
of devotion.
To be truly masculine, man must be the lover and devote his
entire thought, attention and effort to the worsh'ip of the moment.
60 DIVINE ALCHEMY
t
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 61
He must forget business and all else and devote his entire nature
to the "labor of Love," so that manhood and the full strength of
manhood will be reborn with each engagement ·of the Marriage
Rite. Only under these conditions can it become a "Sacred"
Rite; one from which pride, not shame, is born.
"The majority of men are sexually morbid. This is often the
result of prostatic inflammation, irregular or too long denied union,
physical' weakness of some nature, frequent Coitus interruptus, that
most deadly and most sinful of all acts, or some other difficulty,
causing what should be a love journey to be spasmodically ended
without giving satisfaction to either, and long before the woman
~as fairly started on her journey to pleasureland.
"In all too numerous instances the weak 'he' is all too much
like the water turtle which comes on land to spawn, and before
entrance is achieved, all·rigidity ceases and poor 'she' is wholly
deprived of even a semblance of marital union, yet compelled to
endure all the legitimate and illegitimate penalties and pains con-
sequent upon infracted naturallaws.1
"If by purely legitimate methods, at which not even aSeraph or
angel could blush, and to which none but gross savages could
object, the female is not brought to the natural sexive demise, the
full and perfect orgasm, all the love in her may become curdled
and sour, and her love for 'guilty' him will appreciably diminish,
soon to die entirely.
"When her love decreases from such a cause, he is an idiot who
expects true wifeliness from her hands. Then she whose delicate
Soul should be awakened to the keenest symphonies instead of
being blasted is exceedingly liable to be attracted by the gust of
love blowing her way from other directions than the legitimate
' With the present science of Physiol.:.gical and Endocrinic developed as ,
it is, there is no longer any excuse for man to remain weak and incapable
of fulfilling his duty as a man and a husband, unless as a result of abuse
or disease, the creative laboratory within himself has been destroyed.
62 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 63
nuptial or conjugal apartments. For which infraction, if she wav-
ers, who is to blame?
"No man has a right to regard woman as a mere nervo-mag-
netico-vital machine for him to command and use for his pleasure.
She is a magnificent instrument capable of eyolving such celestial
music as will tingle the nerves of an archangel, bringing delight-
ful and Soul-Awakening harmony to the finest nervous system in
the universe; provided, of course, she has full and complete co-
operation in her labors of love.
"The sexive weakness of the average American male is a by-
word among the other peoples of the world who are fully con-
versant with the ART of Love.
"There is no need for this. The man of the West has the
capability, the capacity and the possibility of becoming as MANLY
in his Love and creative nature as any male human on earth.
"His weakness in most instances is due to the several factors
already mentioned; to his too great devotion to business; his impa-
tience; the habit of bolting his food instead of making a ceremony
of dining; the consumption of denatured, devitalized foodstuffs
wholly lacking in the elements necessary for the maintenance of
vitality and potency, and the woeful lack of concentration, per-
mitting all the affairs of his daily life to influence his mind even
in the midst of duties which should be sacred to him as a man, a
husband and a potential father.
"All of these evils may more or less readily be eliminated if he
so desires. If he is unwilling to comply with the Laws of Nature,
if he is satisfied _to remain a weakling and only one-third man, then
he should not bemoan his loss if the love he might~ave had as
wholly his own is transferred upon someone who is more a man.
"The true and perfect conjugal union absolutely requires that
the mouth of the uterus be bathed in and by the husband's prostatic
lymph and ejected seminal fluid every time the twain know each
other. Unless their mutual acids and alkalies, generated then and
64 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 65
there at the highest emotional moment, meet, mingle, blend and
fuse, the electro-magnetic exchange is impossible and the union is
not perfect.
"The imperfect union produces a reaction that is ultimately
fatal to health, is death to love and peace; produces a loathing and
repulsion for each other on both sides, and the measure of Soul-
fusio~, which is part of the perfect union, is most effectually
reduced, if not finally wholly destroyed. Herein is the beginning
of much of the present domestic horror and unfaithfulness on the
side of the one too long abused.
"What a fool is he, and how suicidal, who goes where he is not
wanted-blindly brutal, and to the funeral of his own joy and
happiness-not realizing her inability to give true pleasure be-
cause she experiences none herself (for pleasure is born by giving
pleasure) !
"How exceedingly senseless he is, or rather it, who insists upon
inflicting horror, himself realizing only a mechanical union, utterly
devoid of magnetic flow, which, while harming her, is certain to
land him on the sterile shores of impotence, and to beget spermatic
disorders which medical and erotic science may not be able to
remove!
"Unless the woman also is fired with passion (aroused by light
caresses, fondling, and the final undraping, all of which may re-
quire time and patience on his part, but which is well worth while),
she remains cold, unmoved (and the lochia so essential to true
union refuses t~ flow), because she has _
not been reached-seeing
that such a union is merely mechanical, instead of nervous, electric,
chemical, magnetic, and Soulful ~raised to the plane of the Soul,
the highest form of worship), as it ought to be.
"The vaginal parietes, with their countless ducts, are sealed by
the voluntary and involuntary power of her Will; he commits
Onanism, and she fails to exude the natural lymph of the organ-
ism involved; the male organ is unable to absorb the strange Vivific
66 DIVINE ALCHEMY'
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 67
Life-Fire, and the tingling joy that results from contact with, and
being bathed by, that precious alkaline lochia.
"Every man who has known woman can remember some union
more joyous than others. The reason for the failures was that he
had not fully aroused his partner to full desire and the lymph,
lochia and Passion-Fire could not be released as freely as if she
had been fully impassioned."
When affection is ~ot deep and not strong enough to be an in-
centive for both parties ·to love, pet, caress and kiss each other for
a period before the union is engaged in, she is seldom fully pre-
pared and weakness follows t\le embrace because the nervous-vital
fluids of the two cannot blend and there is not a perfect exchange.
Instead of harmony, a feeling of ease and a fullness of satisfac-
tion, there will be a feeling of shock; a sensation of tightness, a
"burning up," and the gradual depletion of the strength of both
parties.
Where affectional affinity on both sides is strong and deep
enough to consciously cause them to pet, caress, fondle and kiss
each.other before they engage in the conjugal act, and to continue
this as much as possible, the nervous-vital, electric-magnetic, acid-
alkaline (a:'in a live battery) will blend with exultant power and
energy. Under these conditions there will be a full exchange be·
tween the two, a feeling of renewed strength, greater power, and
deeper affection for each other. There will likewise be improved
health, greater strength of character and purpose, a peace which
will be an incentive to constructive activity, and a feeling of youth
otherwise impossible.
In proportion to the strength of the spiritual love or affection
between the twain, so will be the electric-magnetic exchange, the
blending of the two-as-one for the moment and consequent spirit-
ual and physical benefit to both.
This degree of affection may be increased to the point where
there will be a perfect love. The union can be almost limitless in
68 DIVINE ALCHEMY
l
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 69
its sco~e a~d endurance; without any :Weakness, or the ·repulsion
toward one another as is so frequently true; but, instead, ·a
greater happiness, a deeper joy, more lasting contentment. This in
turn can produce a strength and state of health not otherwise
possible. Such a perfect act leads the Soul of both toward God and
the Divine Consciousness.
Jlice versa: Man's weakness will be in proportion to the lack of
afiection and love in the heart of man for the woman. This we;Uc-
ness will increase until, finally, as happens all too frequently, the
man merely tolerates the woman for the satisfaction he momen-
tarily derives from. their crude relationship. Such a purely spas-
modic and unsatisfactory crisis, if continued, will weaken and
finally destroy him, while creating a lasting disgust and even
hatred in her heart for him.
It is true that a man may have reached a state of almost com-
plete incompetency/ but through the patient love and understand-
ing of a good woman, he may gradually regain his strength and
become once more a creator of the specie.
In reverse, and this concerns women universally, it has been
demonstrated almost conclusively that chronic Leucorrhea, the
"whites" or /leur a/bus, so universal among women, are due, with
rare exception, either to the fact that her sexive desires have been
aroused to the highest degree and but partially satisfied for one
reason or another; or in the case of the unmarried, to desire which
for apparent reason must be left uncompensated. In either in-
stance, it is the_non-consummation of an aroused passion.
Long investigation and experience have clearly indicated that in
all too many instances where there is some form of ovarian, uterine
or vaginal weakness or disease, the husband of such sufferer all
too frequently sought only his own satisfaction.
• We use the term "incompetency'' for the weakness or inability in man
to fulfill his proper duties as a husband i impotency or the inability to be
a creator of his kind.
70 -DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 71
This is usually due to his own weakness or ignorance, or per-
haps to her prudery, and she, having been raised to the highest
degree of excitement, was then disappointed, mentally and physi-
cally, and left in a state bordering on a burning, internal fever,
if not downright hysteria; disgusted, mortified, nerves afire and in
the depth of hades;which condition, oft repeated, gave birth to the
various disorders commonly called "female trouble."
Experience has shown equally that if during the early stages
these sufferers are carefully instructed in the art of love, are told
how to arouse their own desires, educated in the proper methods
for bringing about the orgasm in themselves, they are able to com-
pensate for the weakness of those inaptly called men_:_their hus-
bands. It is necessary to make certain that the uterus be bathed in
the nervo-vital fluids so essential to normal well-being, thereby
avoiding the degrading, destructive, demoralizing congestion of
their creative organism and the resultant physical weakness and
mental hates.
But-and here is the sorrowful part of this whole matter-there
can ·be no real happiness for such women. Why not? Simply be-
cause, even though the physical needs of the woman are satisfied,
there being no deep love in the heart of the man, nor any desire
that she should share fully with him, the nervo-vital fluid from
him is not charged with the life-Fire which only deep affection or
love can give to it and which alone is capable of reaching the heart
·of woman as surely as the rays of the sun reach the heart of the
rose.
The one and only remedy is for the man to be awakened to his
duty, to find and remove the cause of his weakness, to seek for the
thing lacking in himself and supply it, and to consider first of all
the well-being of the woman at his side. Thus will he grow into
strength and manhood.
Know this: Lust originates in congestion, or inflammation of the
organs; affectionate passion or true desire, that which is prayer,
72 DIVINE ALCHEMY
I
,.
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 73
takes its rise in the heart and Soul. Gratification of lust is ruinous,
beastly (like unto the animals), utterly non-human and diabolic,
because it is destructive to man.
Consummation of the love-prayer is the most supreme bliss, the
most Holy Rite, that the composite human creature--composed of
body, mind, spirit and Soul-is capable of enduring. It is heavenly,
because it is from above, and in it all power, transcendental and
divine, niay be found; it will lead man and woman to happiness
and godliness, in fact, toward Godhood, because through the
Sacred Rite, when perfect, man loses his beastiality, his desire for
evil, and draws to himself the pres of the heavens, which will and
must eventually end in complete regeneration.
"The true conditions of unions are absolutely, unqualifiedly
essential to perfect health and joy, and are necessary to the mystic
power hereinafter described ; but neither can be had, or realized,
in their absence, or if the wife fails to actualize the normal or-
gasm-a thing which wives in these days very rarely do, as a con-
sequence of which the vagina, ovaries and the uterus become dis-
ordered, inflamed, congested; and congested sexual organs will
transform an angel into its opposite 8 quicker than anything else
• Due to the extensively erroneous inculcations that all intercourse
should cease directly after a woman is enciente, many men, in their gross
ignorance, take it for granted that this is actually correct. They are also
fully aware that if they show their wives affection and caress them, they
(the men) would be unable to control themselves, consequently they avoid
all show of affection.
These wom.en, at least most of them, being normal and natural in every
respect, affectionate and loving in their nature, now desire caresses and
the conjugal act possibly more than before. This being denie!i them,
their longings create congestions, and as a result these loving wives
become vixen-like in their attitude and action.
The result is unhappiness in the home. One accuses the other. The
'!tsband, doing nothing at all, feels that he is the abused one, while, as a
matter of fact, he is really the guilty one.
The Law is: The desire of the woman, mother-to-be, is to govern,
and it is the duty of the husband to approach his wife, to try to arouse
her to desire; succeeding, to be the loving husband; failing, to cease for
the time being.
74 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
THE ARCANE SCIENC:E 75
on earth c:xcept well-founded jealousy-the King Devil of the
household ; and the coldness, despair and hatred thus begotten are
speedily fatal to any sort of domestic ~appiness.
It is unwise to accept the conclusion that husbands, alone and
universally so, are the cause of domestic unhappiness. The brutish-
,.ness and ignorance of men, as already pointed out, may· be the
direct cause of much of the misery, weakness and unhappiness from
which women suffer, but just so, in ratio, may the thoughtlessness,
prudishness, unreasonableness, selfishness, not to mention down·
right coldness in women, cause men to suffer, to become callous
and weak, and destroy their capability and creativeness.
If she, because of ignorance, selfishness, coldness or other causes
not due to illness or indisposition, continuously refuses his reason-
able and legitimate requests; or, if complying, she does so only
because of his demands and fails to fully physically and affection-
ately cooperate, she may in time cause his life-stream, virile forces
and creative vive to become stagnant, diseased, morbid and .de-
structive, instead of health creative; and gradualty turn the best
natured human creature into a human devil whose every thought
be morbid, evil and debasing, and the worst of it is, neither he nor
she may be conscious of the parts they are playing in the drama of
degradation and destruction.
The thoughtlessness or coldness of a woman, even though she
be "good" in every respect, can drive many a home-loving husbap.d
into an immoral life. If she listlessly complies with his requests
but does not herself wholeheartedly enter into the play of love by ·
allowing herself to be fully impassioned, and thus fails to charge
herself and the Lochia she will release with the desire of love,
kindness and affection, then this vital-magnetic fluid, which in
itself contains the.potency to confer life and strength, contentment
and energy, becomes more of a poison than of a life giver.
This not alone affects his physical being, but his mind and Soul
as well. If .it does not slowly destroy all that is good in him, it
76 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 77
will gradually and unconsciously turn him away from her and to
other women, who all too willingly, in part or whole, give him
that which his wedded spouse either !=Ould not or would not give
him, due to her coldness or ignorance.
In the Arcanum of. Sex it is taught that a true woman, fully
conscious of her power, may, if she so will, restore love for her in
the most unfaithful husband, provided he still approaches her for
the marriage embrace, if she, before and during the embrace,
charges her Vivific forces with love and desire to hold him to her
and to recover his affection for her.
Whether or not a wife who has lost the love of her husband for
one cause or another should make such an effort depends entirely
on her own completeness of love for the husband and the keenness
of her desire for his return to her.
Women have sacrificed empires and their Soul to gain the love
of man; surely then it is worth while to hold in abeyance and for-
get the self for a little while in order to win back the affection of a
loved one.
In this respect, woman has a weapon which ·man does not and
cannot possess. It is man who seeks and approaches the woman;
it is her privilege to refuse or to comply with his request. It is sel-
dom that the unfaithful wife approaches the husband with such a
request, because once slie proves· unfaithful she has ceased to love,
and having ceased to love, the embrace becomes abhorrent. It may
be said that almost universally the woman will invent every possi-
ble excuse to avoid having sexual intercourse with the man she no
longer loves.
In Eulis it is written:
"Understand me-an humble professor of sexual common sense
and honesty-when I say, in simile: Two boats start together for
the same port; one is rather slow-generally the one called Sarah
Jane, while the other is much too fast.
78 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 79
"Well, he's a poor captain who insists upon sailing away from
his companion, reaching 'port alone and discharging cargo be£ore
the other is anywhere in sight. 'But, my good God I' says Captain
He, 'how am I to prevent it? She's so slow, and I'm so fast.'
"Why, you poor fool, haven't you a Will? I£ not, then ·it is time
that you developed one, and above all else, have yourself cured.'
"Evidently there is a serious disease or weakness lurking some-
where, and you cannot become a Master of White Magic unless
you are sexually healthy and strong. Remember that she who goes
with you has equal (in fact, prior} rights with yoursel£; unless
you grant these rights to her, she'll (come to) hate you for your
mean, contemptible, piggish, one~sided selfishness (in short, your
weakness and ignorance of the actual need of a full, real woman),
and disappointment is the least of the wholly bad results that
follow.''
·Experience, man's best teacher, has taught us that in all too
many instances it is not alone the ignorance and weakness of man
that brings about such serious results; nor because he does not
really love his wife, even though it is freely admitted that such
lack of love or affection would naturally cause a premature and
spaSmodic crisis.
What, then, is the cause of so much misery and misunderstand-
ing, not to mention misdirection of potential energy?
Is it not beca~se for centuries women have been either unin-
structed oi: misinstructed?
Most women live under the deadening impression that it is only
man's Divine right to make the approach and that she must not,
dare not, show any signs of desire or excitement, or display any
emotion of real enjoymen~, otherwise she may be considered, possi-
•The courses of instruction. and training comprising The Arcanum of
Sex are complete in this respect and will be the means of developing the
Will, strengthening the system and removing the cause of the weakness,
unless it is due to the inertia of certain ductless glands, in which case
specific endocrines are indicated.
80 DIVINE ALCHEMY '
\ ·
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 81
bly damned, as imll)odest, lacking in true womanhood, a disgrace
to motherhood and to be shunned ; that only the paid woman is
given this right and freedom of natural ilction.
This is a damnable, a degrading and destructive teaching that
leads to sorrow, misery and damnation, if logically followed to the ·
end, leading to the ruin of her health, her joy of life and her desire
for life.
The Divine truth is that she has just as much, just as perfect, a
l"ight to approach, to incite and to enjoy, as the best man living.
In truth, more so, because it is she who risks the most, she who
sacrifices most. Why ·then should she be forbidden the initiative,
the full enjoyment of the ultimate consummationf It is she who,
if approached and embraced rightly, confers life and youth upon
him. The deeper her feeling and the greater her excitement, the
more potent will be the Re-Vivific Force she exchanges with him
for the Magnetico-Electric energy in his power to confer upon
her, to the welfare of both.
Throughout all ages it has been the truly passionate women,
THOSE WHO DID NOT HESITATB TO TAKB THE INITIATIVE, who
have been the makers of.history; though these, admittedly, did not
always use their potential powers wisely.
Let mothers instruct their daughters in the truth of their true
estate; that they are not to consider themselves mere reproducerg·
of the race; to be'denied all legitimate pleasures while their hus·
bands seek women who are wise fot their physical pleasures. lncul·
cate the basic truth that they have a perfect and legitimate right to
full, .passionate expression, the full joy of the embrace, and an
even greater right to take the initiative than has the man; that
they should arouse passion, feel the full degree of the intensity of
emotion, fearlessly and lovingly meeting the man face to face in
every instance. This is not immodesty, but true womanhood in the
highest sense of the term.
Woman offers her all when she truly loves. Therefore, what .
82 DIVINE ALCHEMY
.,
\
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 83
reason is there that she should not possess the right to do as her
nature dictates, as God and Nature's Law incite her?
There is but one ~.:eason why this has been so: The false teach-
ings of church and state which have been prevalent for ages past
until they have become actually a race belief.
Obedience to these false and destructive teachings has made her
a weak, cold machine-; a chattel, at the mercy of men, near-men,
and downright brutes, instead of a Glorious, Brilliant, Desirable
Flower in the Garden of the Gods.
Esoterically speaking, the Arcanum states:
"Some Aspirants and Neophytes desire to obtain and attain
mystic power through this regal road of sex. They long for that
grand mental force which will enable them to scan the Mysteries
and sweep the floors of the Sldereal and Spheral Spaces, but are
impatient of methods.
"Let all these .know, once and for all, that the doors are shut
to all save the. (patient and) obedient; the efforts to obtain mental
intensity need never be attempted unless the Law-its Law-is
scrupulously observed, because no real magic (Magnetic) power
can, or will, descend into the Soul· of either, except in the mighty
moment-the orgasmal instant of both, not one alone; for then,
and then only, do the Mystic Doors of the Soul open to the spaces.
"Darwin and his followers are mistaken: The immortal Soul
of man is not, never was, developed from any stage of monkeyhood;
they who affirm it libel God Almighty.
"The eternal spark within us 5 was created by -Allah-God
Himself-billions of years ago; and finds a human (vehicle) body
only when sex passion opens tlze Mystic Doors for it to enter and
•This Spark scintillates most strongly and illuminates moat deeply at
the moment the loving she brings to her feet the loving he in their mutual
infiltration of Soul, in the sexive commingling of both; that intense
moment in which the woman proves herself superior to man, i.e., during
the mutual demise.
84 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
I
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 85 .
become man-through the Spaces, and through the Spaces back
again to Allah-God, no longer as merely a drop of an Infinite
Ocean, but as a being in the heavenly Hierarchies.
"What does this demandf That every he should never forget
his fealty to a loving woman but always remember who and what
she really is, the Gem of God's Auroral Crown, the most beauti-
ful of the beautiful, the Precious Jewel in God;s Oriental Garden
of Roses {all despite the fact that for long periods she is wholly
human and frequently manifests the nature of her lesser creatures).
"What is the Law? The grosser he should ever be considerate
and gentle to and with woman; always and forever respecting her
true modesty; never doing anything that would shame her; never
fierce, never brutal, never in a hurry, but should always restrain
all impetuosity. When he desires to view that perfect handiwork
of God, the ideal human form, he should first win her over; never
do that which may shock her or cause her to blush. It is only thus
that he can retain her respect and affection, and not become sati-
ated through his brutishness.
"Yet man must be on his guard: There are long periods .when
she is contrary, self-willed, wholly without reason and it is during
these periods when he must show his strength, leave her to herself
and refus·e to share her moods. The true woman loves the strong
man-he. who is capable of commanding her to obedience in duties
and acts when contrary moods govern her.
"The modern fables of th~ 'sheiks' are not without truth or
reason but founded on solid facts. He who would possess a full
woman mu;t combine the lover and the sheik in his na}ure and be
wise enough to know when to manifest the one or the other. Truly
the wisdom of a Solomon is needed, and it behooves us to voice
Solomon's prayer: 'Oh, Lord, give thou me wisdom.'
"Admittedly, many of the most splendid human beings have
resulted from haste, hurry, and the terrific fears a~d terrors of
discovery-results of stolen interviews. This is to be accounted
86 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 87
for in the fact that they were conceived in love and deep passion,
and with the consent of the woman, because she was deeply
enamored-so much so that she gave her whole being her love and
considered it a small sacrifice.
"For this reason, it has been said and with ample proof, that
bastards are superior. However, there is no reason why marriage
should not produce equally fine specimens of humanity; on the
contrary, it ought to produce finer, because less angular offspring.
This can only be realized when wisdom takes the place of igno-
rance regarding the sacredness of the Rite, and when love is the
key that unlocks the doors to Holy Passion.
"No man should dare demand coverture of an unwilling woman,
never until by endearments, caresses, love-fondling and affection-
not affectations-he has brought her to the passional mood. He
must, in all this holy matter, be just, else will he assuredly reap
bountiful crops of hatred, smothered and dissembled, but hatred
still; and that, too, of the worst sort, because it is magnetic, there·
fore constitutional. Any woman on earth can effectually damn
any man who is with her sexually, provided he has not the knowl-
edge and skill to render this curse inoperative.
"Neglect by the man to bring his wife to the orgasm, either
before, with, or after his own, constitutes a defective, selfish, infa·
mous, and infernal fraud. Whatever woman is capable of menstrua-
tion is also capable of all her nature implies, and it is her divine right
to experience it. Yet, it is regrettable that not more than one woman
in fifty ever realizes that which is her due. The grand· mass of
womankind go to their graves (even though having mothered
babies) without ever tasting the slightest joy in that most mys-
terio~s and sacred Rite, though this is peculiarly her dueI Why?
Whoily owing to the universal ignorance and hog-itude. of those
who pass for, but seldom are, husbands in any real sense of that
prostituted term; judging by the revelations and appearances of
wives generally, the majority of their 'lords' and 'masters' know
88 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 89
little, care less, and are unwilling to cultivate the grand passion in
their wives."
Exceptions must, of course, be made to this as in all other human
relationships; it is not always the fault of the husband that the
wife has no real pleasure during the sacred Rite. In fact, in many
instances, it is directly her fault. Her affections are all too fre-
quently controlled by erroneous race-beliefs, which lead her to be
governed by the paralyzing thought that it is immodest, un-.
womanly, or even positively evil for her to permit herself to be
impassioned and to enjoy to the full the embraces of her husband.
To give free rein to her desires, or even to allow her desires to
b.ecome aroused, would (for her) constitute a moral sin. How
many countless thousand women have lived in the dread of this
false belief and as a result ruined body and Soul, their own and
their husbands' happiness, it is impossible to say; and no one will
ever know how great is the number of those who are yet shackled
slaves to such erroneous teachings.
Trained in the Sacred Schools and instructed in the Mysteries
of Sex and its Revelations, I, early·in my medical practice, had a
sound basis to work from.6 Therefore, instead of following a
stereotyped form in questioning women patients, which never led
to the real cause of their ailments, I have always endeavored to
find the underlying reason for their physical weaknesses and
mental turmoil.
Thus, for example, I give consultation to a woman, well-born
and refined of nature, wedded to a man whom any woman might
easily love, yet she is living wholly .out of harmony with him, a
nervous wreck, constantly ailing and wholly lacking in the joys
of life. Why? Because she has been taught by her church that it
is sinfully wrong for a woman ever to show passion; that the
' If I speak thus personally, it is because it is easier to explain a basic
truth which concerns, and is for the welfare of millions born and yet to
be born.
90 ' DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 91
embrace of her husband must be endured though it is a disgusting
affair.
Furthermore, she confides in me, with many blushings, that her
husband is fond of the beautiful in nature, that to him her
form appears as no less than divine; though he would he guilty of
nothing that might cause an ~gel to blush, nevertheless, never
would she, for an instant, allow him to view her as God and Na-
ture had created her. Thus, though he continues to love his wife,
he is becoming thoroughly disgusted with her beliefs and her
' refusals, resulting in inharmony, physical weakness- and mental
torture for both.
Slowly and with infinite patience, this lady is taught the right
and wrong of human relationships; what her duties are, not only
to her husband, but primarily to herself. The most difficult part is
to teach her that she must slowly, gradually, with many half-
refusals, permit herself to be won over, granting him those de-
sires which are natural and normal. Thus we leave the case for a
little while, when one fine day, who should visit us but a sparkling,
happy, healthy little lady I With blushes, not of shame, but of
joyfulness, she confides to us that at last she is at peace and con-
tented; healthy and free from fears, and that her greatest happi-
ness is in the fact that her husband tells her that "she is the dear-
est, sweetest, most beautiful lady living."
Thus, a little common sense, free from groundless superstition
of the age, has saved the disruption of a family, the breaking of
hearts, and has brought happiness to two people, preventing a good
man from seeking elsewhere than his own home for his pleasure
and satisfaction.
"Wherever you see a rich, joyvissant beauty and power of a
girl or boy, wherever you see forces of genius, you may rest as-
sured that the mother conceived when first impassioned and the
sacred Rite fully completed. On the contrary, whenever you see
genuine meanness, 'moral turpentine,' as Mrs. Malaprop says;
whenever you see a .lean, mean, scrawny, Soul-wizened, white-
92 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 93
livered, trickish gr.ab-all-ish and generally an accursed person, you
may safely wager your life that such a being was begotten by force
or a passionless, sickly, used-up, never-awakened wife, and you
will never lose a single bet.
"The average husband's wife is full of aches, pains, wrinkles,
gray hair, long before her time; fallen womb, diseased and in-
flamed ovaries, Leucorrhea. A great many of them are thoroughly
inoculated with syphilis by their lords, and the doctors hide it, as
well as their ignorance, and call it Fleur Albus; besides which,
the usual husband approaches his victim,· as cattle their fodder, for
all the world as if she had neither Soul, sense, feeling, womanhood
delicacy, nor human rights.
"At the beginning and without any effort to arouse her, he pro-
ceeds to possess her, to satisfy his desire and ends with a grunt of
'there,' instead of a loving, grateful hug and kiss to show his appre-
ciation, and in a few minutes he is snoring away like any other hog
(nasty word, but the only fitting one).
"She, poor Soul, sobs her life away and literally burns up, and
wonders how long she is to remain in that particular section of hell.
·"It is this kind of a 'duty' that the church has hammered into
her mind for nearly 2,000 years. He, a poor, ignorant and self-
destroying fool, never thinks to try to change her coldness to
warmth; her seeming indifference to chaste and holy desire; nor
knows he aught of the meaning or the use of gentleness, per-
suasive caresses, continued kindness, or of deliberate effort. He
utterly forgets (if he really ever knew it} that it is his solemn
duty to wait for her-even if it should require six months-till he
wins the Soul and its passions as well as her compliance with 'duty
and obedience' of the mysterious and glorious being called his wife;
God's profoundest miracle, wherein bodies for God's Souls are
formed and brought forth with great agony and infinite patience.
"The things that are here said of men may be said with equal
truthfulness of women who, born in hate, perhaps from a drunken
94 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
•
.. .
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 95
or unloved· father, have absolutely no love-passion and, lacking
this, cannot bestow upon man his needs.
"The generative syste;, of beasts, all animal nature bela~ man,
allies itself to external nature,· but that of man allies itself to the
Eternal, internal, and supernal, or Mystic, nature at one and the
same time. It is Triplicate 6., therefore belongs to the Spaces,
Powers, Energies, Forces, Principles, Potencies and Hierarchies
of the entire ab}olute Universe,· and not only allies, but unites the
race therewith; wherefore ensexment IS Prayer; for all Nature,
Space, Power, God, centers in that Mystic Rite in which a Soul
may become Incarnate-a mighty Soul, capable of balancing the
universe in its mind and weighing the world in its scales.
"It is time that great effort be made toward purifying sex mat-
ters, and uplifting them from tlie filth and ignorance of barbaric
ages, and civilized dirt; hence this Text.
"Man, the chief work of Nature, allied to all that is, the central
figure upon which all forces play, and the copulative union being
· the crowning act of his being, it follows that his moment of great-
est power is that in which Love unlooses the Doors of the Soul.
All of man's energies are at that time in the highest and deepest
action, whence it is ordained that they who, during true copula-
tion, unitedly Will a thing {when both participators Love deeply
in the full meaning of that word}, and its mutual ending possess
the Key to all possible and legitimate knowledge, the mighty Wand
of White Magic. Through their action they may defy disease,
keep death itself at bay, regain lost youth and wasted power, chal-
lenge permanent defeat, gain all good ends, reach the ultimate
Spaces, commune with the highest Seraphs, bathe in the crystal
seas of God's infinite Love and be, in truth, Sons and Daughters
of the Ineffable Lord of Glory.
"Soul-seeds (Atomonads) exist in the Ether surrounding this
world.
"The germs of all possible knowledge also reside there.
96 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 97
"All absolute Power, Knowledge, Energy, Force, exist in this
Ether 7
and tSe Sakwalas, or Spiritual Spheres.
"None of these spring up from within us hut are all reachable
by ~s. They flow into us in our highest moments (after we have
prepared ourselves and our forces-the /Eth sphere and fire within
ourselves). dll or any knowledge or power which the human·
brain is capable of comprehending can be drawn to it, if ~lied,
wished, desired and commanded, as and when aforesaid; it or they
enter the Soul only at the moment,the very instant, of the Holy,
full, mutual and pure orgasm, or ejection of the three fluids and
two auras, i.e., prostatic, seminal, and female lymph, or Lochia,
and the dual magnetism evolved, and which, in its rush. from one
Soul to the other, is the cause of a bliss of w hiC'/z no language is
adequate to give a description.
"In the orgasmal moment there is no middle ground,· we either
rise toward heaven, or descend hellward. At its final, we are
either better or worse than before- generally worse, because of
our halfness,· for in that moment do the Soul-seeds, germs of
knowledge, aye, knowledge itself, and also Magic power descend
to, and find lodgment in our Souls, the Mystic Doors of which
are then instantly opened and as suddenly closed again.
"If, before and during that instant, we invite the non-good by
our thoughts, desires and feeling;, wil will assuudly find its way
to the Soul, and be locked within tis Secret Crypts, only to blaze
out and manifest itself whev. we least expect it.
~'If we Will a~d p~ay for the 'goo.d, then the evil angels must
stand aside, and the constructive and elevating becomes inclosed
within the· meshes of our Souls. I! we wish for powe1·, then the
germs of that power take root in the soil of our Souls. She who is
7 These mysteries have been taught in America by our Fraternity since
1858. We have been laughed at, scorned, and even called charlatans. The
discovery of radio has fully vindicated us and will further show that
there exists in the ether greater forces and powers than we have ever
claimed, or others dreamed possible.
98 DIVINE ALCHEMY
~.
•
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 99
wise and gives her all to the one she truly loves will hold her own
Soul open to his love at that Sacred moment, and will be able to
claim that love, and no power in the universe, can take it, or
. withhold it, from her.
"It was for this reason that Moses forbade sexual incompletes
to enter upon great duties or within the Inner Sanctuaries of the
Temple, and why Oriental nations banned all such. It is certain ·
that he or she who is impotent, except from injuries or years is not
a man or a woman in the true sens~ of the word, but only an
apparition-solid, certainly, yet an apparition still; for uterine
power, ovarian force, vaginal energy in woman, and their corre-
spondents in the male, ar~ the only passports to ·the Divine Regions
of Soul Power, mental· alertness and physical potency.
"The ejective moment, therefore, is the most Divine and tre-
mendously important in the human 'career as an independent en-
tity; for· not only may we launch Genius, Power, Beauty, or
deformity, crime, idiocy, shame on the world's sea of life, in the
person of the children we may then call into being, but we may
likewise plunge our own Souls deep into Hell's horrid slime, or
else mount the azure skies and contemplate associate gods,· for
then the mystic Soul swings wide its golden gates, opens its portals
to the whole vast Universe. Through them come trooping either
angels of Light or grizzly presences from the dark corners of the
Spaces. Therefore, human conjugation is either ascentive and
ennobling or descentive and downright degrading; wherefore I
proclaim: ·
"True sex power is- God power.
"He or she who, by, in, or through it, truly wishes, yearns, prays
and craves, and continues to do so during each succeeding Rite,
with Will, in full faith, will contract great good, favor, energy,
power, quality, force or ability of whatsoever grade, degree, nature,
or kind desired and possible to any human being, as also Love,
self-command, retentive power, Magnetic presence, or any other
100 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 101
achievable state--beginning the mental work before, continuing it
during, and decreeing it at Love's culmination and demise-that
coveted boon will come as certainly as the Soul is true to itself.
But accursed of himself is he who leaveth her before her joy, as
well ·as his own, is complete; for no power can come to either one
alone unless one of the twain refuses to engage in the work.'
"The test of fitness, fullness, capacity, energy, manhood, force,
power, ability, and latent possibility of any man, is the terseness,
non-inflammatory state, compactness and retentive force of the
prostate gland and testes. If these be diseased, loose, too easily
excited, pendant, non-solid, he is not in a fit state of mind, body,
Will, ner~es, affection or Soul, either to generate his kind, make
love, accept it, or do anything else of a manly nature; his first
duty is to coJ,Tect the weakness.9
"The test of fitness in a woman is her responsive power, her
womanly fullness, tenderness, and full health, which make life a
perpetual joy. If a woman's heart is filled, her body respected and
glorified as a thing of beauty, her love returned, her Soul appre-
ciated, she will have little need of the physician's service, but will
bid the multitudinous ills which now depress her an exceedingly
lasting and fond farewell.
"Why?
·"Because she will not then be compelled to exert all her power
to prevent herself from running and screaming at the top of her
voice under the infernal spell of nervous excitement; besides, she
will know that her power over him who covers her is immense,
and, if she chooses to assert it, absolutely awful; as they will dem-
onstrate who shall hereafter teach Sex Science and the three un-
• This has reference to the many instances where one or the other has
no interest whatever in etheric, spiritual or Soulual affairs, being solely
concerned with mundane activities. These will later be instructed in the
Sing[e Breast Drill.
• A world-wide practice of more than forty·five years has clearly demon·
strated that these weaknesses can be eliminated by means of proper
endocrine and associate treatments.
102 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 103
derlying principles--Volantia, Posism and Decretism 10-which
cannot be taught in this work.
"There are persons in this section of the 'civilized area' of the
earth who cannot imagine anything of Magical power or Mag-
netic ability in the human Soul, either active or latent, nor indeed
any other superior p~wer or energy at all other than such as find
their field or use in heaping up wealth through the diabolic magic
of rascality on 'change,' in trade and elsewhere, or in seeking to
gratify tastes brutal at their bases, and lusts foul enough to shame
the .devil.
"In view of the extraordinary revelations concerning ·sex made
herein, the wise ones alluded to above, may, probably will inquire:
'Canst thou minister to a mind diseased?' I reply, 'Yes.' By teach-
ing that mind the nature and principles of its own immortal pow-
ers, and the rules that govern their growth-not otherwise. For
centuries, we have known what the world is just finding out; that
all the multiple hells on earth originate in trouble, unease, of t"'he
____
love, affections and passions, or amatory sections of human nature;
and that heaven cannot come till Shiloh does--in other words,
knowledge positive of the hidden regions of the mighty world
called man. Hence this partial lifting of the veil between us and
the people of the contirtents. Men fail and die through feebleness
of Will. Women perish from too much passion, none at all, or
absolute, cruellove:starvation. This we are trying to correct. Shall
we succeed?
"The list of powers attainable by the human being numbers
hundreds of distinct energies, nearly totally unknown to civilized
Christiandoni., which is far more familiar with destroying than
with building up the fabric of human Happiness.
"There should be established in this land, for adults--in brain
as well as years-a school of sexual science, in which all revealed
•• These secrets can only be taught to those who have attained the First
Degree (through Soul growth-not ceremonial~) of the Great Work.
104 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 105
herein and immeasurably more should be taught. A school should
be opened wherein people are taught the mysteries of their own
Immortal being, and the amazing difference between love and lu~t,
and the laws that govern them. As it is, ·we must wait; and, at
best, we can only instruct those few· who are ready in the Sub-
lime Principles which underlie the whole superstructure, thus fit-
ting these to teach others.
"Truth, not falsehood, ever brightly shines. The power sought
will never avail a degraded individual. Time and means in:such
cases are merely wasted.
''Conjl}gal.love, like all other positive forces, never stands still.
It either increases or diminishes. Husbands and wives both injure
and mar it by heedlessness.
"Morning embraces, not too frequent, are prolific of nobler
joys, health, satisfaction and, still better, offspring, than night
embraces.
"She who yields to a libertine is certain to be despised by him.
He who patronizes a harlot is worse than a beast; and both are
unworthy of the forms they bear; no other creature sins against
fellow creatures as humans do against each other. Whoever yields
to passion not based in love or deep affection is not only a fool but
a slow ~ui~ide; Love passi~n builds up the human Soul, whereas
mere lust absolutely wastes the Soul.
"Every one guilty. of the folly knows this. from exp,erience; for
a debauchee lessens the entire volume of power. Whoever is false
to a true and loving wife or husband contracts the malaria of hell;
and is sure to carry home the subtle poison and lay the broad
foundation of domestic damnation. Let husbands and wives re-
member that what 'cannot be had at home will be found else-
where.' This is the Law: Sexual faith and purity are the price of
power, just as love is tne sole basis of Immortality. The Alchemist
_
_ may use but the one vessel undefiled.
"Both husbands and wives will grant as a boon, when either
106 DIVINE ALCHEMY
.
.._.
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 107
.
would ·refuse to accord a Rite claimed as a right. Nothing is lost
but everything may be gained by the persuasive mood. He comes
too near who comes to be denied. Insistence is brutality. Ask in
love-be sure to show it; if you are true, she will be sure to know
it. Caress, fondle and coax, but do not command. Slow paces last
the longest. Unless there is mutuality, a little but growing hell is
kindled.
"Govern yourself, then yo~ may rule a kingdom, and finally
your mate.
"Nothing but love can keep a man faithful, and that not always,
unless he finds greater solace (peace and harmony) at home than
abroad. That is just it. Men too often do not, and that is her
fault ; and unless he does, she is never certain of him.
"The true woman must love-must have love and be loved-
in all its true meaning and full expression. She should have and
exercise it at home; but if she may not have it there, she is liable
to seek it elsewhere. He who imagines he can keep her true, in
heart, at least, without loving her right along and right straight
from his to her Soul, is an egotist, a fool and worse. Love is sel-
doni lost. It is killed gradually or outright. It seldom returns,
but may be won by faith, assiduity and genuine manhood.
"An idle wife (or girl) may be successfully tempted; so may a
dressy one, or one fond of flattery. For such to be tempted is to
fall. She will forget everything but a slight to her love-not pas-
sion-but a man will forget a slight to his love, but never a sin
against his conjugal rights.
"No man can tempt a real, normal, healthy woman against the
man she loves,· and who, to her knowledge, loves her in return.
"Neither marriage nor custom gives man ownership, but equal-
ity; proprietorship means despair to her, dishonor to him.
"A woman in love can be wholly trusted; this is not always
true of a man."
108 DIVINE ALCHEMY
...
THE DIVINE WORK
THE BREAST DRILL ARCANUM
ALCHEMY: Substitution, Transmutation, Change
NY ignoble passion or evil habit to which the
human organism is subject may be held in abey-
ance, conquered or turned into channels of con-
structiveness, provided some stronger desire,
passion, motive or ideal can be substituted in
the mental vision.
To illustrate : A young man has formed the habit of associating
with vicious companions, frequenting taverns and other low types
of places, and/ or reading undesirable literature. If you succeed
in introducing him into the company of cleaner associates, give
him an opportunity to forget his former habits by having him
spend his evenings in refined circles, among congenial companions, .
and allow his literary, con-
structive or musical abilities· full scope,
then in the satisfaction of the better way, in the thought that not
only is he now llaving a much "better" time than formerly, but
that he also possesses the priceless jewel of a clean conscience, the
old desires and habits will gradually die out and remain as but a
faint memory. With the new ideas and ideals filling his thoughts,
the old life and its attendant evil will be discontinued as an evil
part of his life because he has become conscious of a better mode of
living.
Or again: The drunkard may have fallen into his undesirable
habit, not because he deliberately sought to get drunk, but due to
the fact that intoxicating liquors gave him a greater satisfaction
tl1an anything else of which he had a knowledge. What, then,
will free him of this habit?
He can free himself from the negative habit by substituting
110 DIVINE ALCHEMY
.
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 111
other ideas, desires or passions which are stronger than imbibing
strong drink and becoming drunk.
Does any man desire to be a drunkard·? Does any man wish to
be a slave? Does man choose to be deprived of his reason and the
respect and confidence of his fellow men?
Certainly not I
He indulges and suffers because he must be deeply interested or
influenced by something, whatever that something may be, and the
moment a stronger force, desire or higher ideal is conceived and
accepted by his mind, he will, if truly a man and not a' patho-
logical case, grasp it as a drowning man is said to grasp at a straw.
Suppose we offer the habitual wine-bibber a new and original-
to him-"drink," one which will create within him an exhilaration
equal to that of alcohol but without the former disagreeable and
debasing aftermath. Would he ever permit himself to again come
under its control? Most assuredly not, unless, of course, as already
stated, he is a pathological case. Then a far different procedure
is necessary.
Sex passion, ungoverned and misdirected, the type known to
mankind generally, is the fountain of "fire water," from which all
the world is continually sipping in one form or another. If in-
dulged in with incessant regularity, its hour of satisfaction often
brings weeks or perhaps months of suffering, pain and attendant
sorrow.
Sex, as at present generally understood, is Nature's smooth,
steep, inclining plane, leading down into .sheets of water reflecting
beautiful and attractive hues. Step into it this way and you glide
e~er so smoothly,, silently and quickly toward the shimmering
cataracts below. Alas, at the plunge the "eyes are opened"; the
beautiful hues in the rapids below are not there. THEY WERE
REFLECTED FRO.M ABOVE. The waters are poisonous. While th_e
descent was ever so easily and quickly made, the return journey
will be over rough and rugged paths.
•
112 DIVINE ALCHEMY
·.
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 113
Nature laughs at your ready acceptance of that WHICH AP-
PEARS TO BE. Your plunge into the mucky pool broke the surface
into a thousand pretty ripples much as does the stone the little lad
throws into the water of a pool and which amused him so greatly
that he does it time and again. ·
The incident is always amusing to Nature, for she, wise Dame,
knows only too well that your action is the result of a carnal urge
from within yourself, an action craftily incited by herself. She will
suggest a repetition just as soon as the water is again smooth and
alluring.
Nature, ·as IS HER DUTY, exerts her greatest endeavors in the
direction of pleasing, amusing and, at the same time, PERPETUAT-
ING HERSELF. NATURE IS CONCERNED ONLY WITH SUPPLYING
BODIES FOR RETURNING SOULS, BOTH GOOD AND BAD, NO MATTER
WHAT THE METHOD. She employs every known artifice to keep
alive within you that desire which induces you to create physical,
"natural" beings. Having achieved her end in this respect and
exhausted your life in ungoverned, misdirected efforts to find. hap-
piness and satisfaction, she passes on to likewise influence others,
with never a regret so fa~ as you are concerned. Nature never per-
mits herself to be burdened with pangs of conscience; this she
leaves to her victims.
Nature continually struggles to force you to bo~ before her
throne in sex. Men generally recognize the Law of Nature in its
narrow, purely physical expression, but YOU, as a seeker of the
"highest," musi: learn to know it as the FIRE oF THE SouL, TO BB
RESURRECTED, RAISED UP, as did Moses the Serpent in the wilder-
ness, both being of like nature, and joined with, by, and to the
FIRES FROM ON HIGH.
To the sexive passion, urged on by Nature, we owe our earthly
existence. It is sex which has given us this most marvelous mode of
expression, this privilege of attaining to Immortalization ·while
still on earth and in the flesh. Nature, through sex, has shown us,
•
114 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 115
because of our ignorance and blindness, HELL AND ALL THAT TERM
INCLUDES• The acceptance of the Divine Guidance of God
through sex-SEX RAISED UP AND EXALTED--shall now disclose
heaven and the life that is eternal.
The wise man listens to Nature, then subjugates and brings her
into the service of his higher self and for a specific purpose.
This can~ot be done by stifling, ignoring or suppre'!fing
desire, nor by refusing to comply with the call; the longing
mothered by Nature. .d. living body and a living corpse have
nothing in common. By stifling passion, the urge of the crea-
tive nature, man becomes a living corpse. We can accomplish
the great and glorious work only by recognizing the just and
righteous demands of Nature by following the methods of the
Alchemists. Nature must have her "pound of flesh," not by
means of unnatural methods and unholy practices, but
through nobler expressions and the exaltation of the activities
of life.
Sex passion exercised in the narrow limits of th! purely local
expression is an evil; a curse; destructive; the ORIGINAL SIN. Never-
theless, despite this truth, we must possess sex passion; deep and
of long life, or we are no more than living corpses.
Care for it, husband it, and consider it your most precious pos·
session, but thenceforth the expression must be. by way of the
Throne of God, The Great Center, where the Divine Law gov-
erns. Its expression must be under the control of. reason, the incen-
tive to Love or deep affection. This is the union ·of Love and wis-
dom with passion; the three as one; the Trinity of Holy Creation.
Through the Arcanum of Sex, the method .of sex raised to the
..:.
breast, a new motive in life is _Qerceived; a new ideal will be pre-
Sented and-:_~rii!!!Y}!t~ st~~i~;, b~£~~!~~ol~~L.l'~-~~9.~.A.!SJ~YSI!!~4J
in which the old and narrow lusts are swallowed up by the new.
How is this accomplished?
The method dates back to.the time when the first Initiate trans-
•
•
116 ··• ·· DIVINE ALCHEMY
7
THE ARCANE SCIENCE c-;17)
...._
__
....
muted passion into a spiritual quality and thereby entered into the
Greater Mystery. -= ----~---- .
Select a time eaci.L£...
~ when it will be possible to be l£!:~­
...!~.2~.!!l.•~~~C:!.l'.El?,~: Never lose sight of the fact that you
are engaging in a holy, an IMMORTALIZING WORK. Sit in the
silence for a few minutes in which to collect y;;-ur thoughts
and desires and center them on a specific purpose: THE PUR-
POSE OF RAISING THE CARNAL SEX FORCES TO THE THRONE IN
- - - - - -............._.....__ __,.,_,,._~.----~.........~--.-'·--.4-••..,....... '-"'!'::"·-
·=-· ...·-·....--::o:· -- ----~---·---:~- . . _,. -- -
THE BREAST.
Begin by breathing deeply, rhythmically, but without force
or great effort.
As you inhale, hol.4•.JltJLthou~.h_~_Jh~~--Y..'?~ .!!-.~~---P-~-~!~~
THESE FORCES TO THE THRONE OF GoD -~ND_
t:~NS_M:J1...!!~9.
THEM INTO A. HOL_!,_!~~IZING FIRE IN WH!.,£,!1_E__99!f:.
TAINED NEW LIFE AND ALL THAT IS DESIRABLE.
-'-'" ......,.,,,•.,,...,.... ~•-.·-·---....~"'-"''~•--••w·~~~-..-
...,,..,.,,__.,..._,_"""""" ..,...,...__,......~,....,,_ '• .,.,..,-- •
Hold the breath for a few moments and then exhale with
the thought: J\S.J..~R.!::£!l!.Y}.l_.~2~-~l!.~I.--~J.9..!.Y~..T<:> .O.!J.I.lj:!l-!·
} Throughout this effort there must be an entire absence of(
lany carnal desire and there shou-ld be no fe-eling
__ of the awaken~
rJng of the creative center. ~-~ .Y.<?Y..~-E.~()~E . CONSCIOUS OF
~;...E!.s.!_!tE~~.P.!.~£9~
...:m~Y.!L:r.JJ:~.PR.!~~ .A.T. <>.~_c.li.
Gradually, slowly, and as you progress in this method of
the renewal of life, yoU.will become conscious of the raised
vibratory forces by a feeling of warmth rising upward, BUT
WITHOUT ANY PASSION CONSCIOUSNESS.
As you feel this warmth, direct these creative forces to the
digestive center or solar plexus with the thought that this
function will constantly become stronger, more active and
more health giving; then direct it tothe breasu:_~!?-!!!r_for the
purification of all your thoughts and desires, and for bringing
to life the fires of the Soul upon the throne.
This center yo'!_ do NOT attempt;_!~vi:_~al!~:_, nor do you \
.....,_____
.~- . . _ ,j
..
118 .. ·--·:.· DIVINE ALCHEMY
,
....
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 119
guess at its location j YOU GIVE IT NO THOUGHT WHATEVER,
otherwise you delay the development of Soul consciousness.
WHEN YOU HAVE SPIRITUALLY GROWN SUFFICIENTLY YOU
wiiL'"ia"MAi>E"vcoNs{;ioi'is··o;--y:()!!i].9.iii:· " .. ... ........•... . . .....
A_~..IQu progr!!~. in_JhiL1!1?!~.l...X..q!l.r..J~k>.2..4.~'!iU...q~<:!?.'!!C:
charged with greater __life, xour min<L~!!...P~<:2.1P...!!~.P.1..9~!!E:..
tive. You ~ill-~<:2!!!~~ciouJ~-~.J>..~'Y~£f!l.~,J!!!.!:!~~Y.J__!>_~~
anf~4..fu.t~!l!!~.!_l!_a!_.~s_tiY.LU!:...~~.4..~~~~'!.~'!.?,!!~ .~M! .9pen .~P.. to
.1'2.?~--- In the beginning your practice should total no longer
than three minutes4 but this exercise may gradually be pro-
longed to ten minutes. /
Again you are warned that you cannot consummate the Great
Work and at the same time starve the Love emotion. Nature has
just and righteous demands.. The Great Master commanded:
"Render unto Caesar [the body] that which belongs to the Caesar,
and unto God [the spirit or Soul] that which belongs to God."
The physical self has just demands, because through it we func-
tionand have.our being, but in the granting of these demands we
must be ever watchful; "watch ye and pray," being the command,
that the spiritual part of yourself, the Soul, also is fully considered.
. He who attempts to save his own Soul at the expense of an-
other shall thereby lose that which he seeks to save. The Law is:
"He who shall lose his life to save another will gain greater life."
Therefore, those who seek the Path and who are married, must
consider their mate, and these must follow a different method, i.e.,
practice the Double Breast Drill. · '
The Llrcanum does NOT proscribe embraces between opposite~
sexes, but strongly advises the discontinuance of the expenditure of
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _,_.......~..-"'""'-"'·"' ........._.,,,_.._o;.-.-.,...,~_...,.,_-,_.~--~~-"',""''-··'···
the creative forces, resulting in nerve depletion, which must follow
if THE UNION BETWEEN THE TWO IS NOT FULL, COMPLETE AND J
CONSUMMATED IN LOVE OR DEEP AFFECTION1 WITH THE INTE- (_
RIOR THOUGHT 6F SOMETHING DIFFERENT AND GREATER THAN _J
THE MERE SATISFACTION IN CONSUMMATION.
120 DIVINE ALCHEMY
II
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 121
Sex, and its expression, is both the body's chemist and Alchemist;
it is a marvelous builder. Through sex is generated an inestimable
force !!nd power, but sex cannot direct this force or power. This]
power must he directed by the enlightened and exalted mind, and ·
in time the Soul will become the Master Magician in this work.
Sex becomes the Master Alchemist, the wise and unbelievable
builder, only when firmly directed and governed by a wisdom
awakened within the "inner self," the "Sanctum Sanctorum."
Your exalted, awakened mind must direct, guide and govern; as
you do this every function and faculty of your being will respond
and quicken you with a renewal of life.
T.ht.~Y~- wil!_ brig_h._
te.!l with a new light, the muscles gain in
firmness and strength, and the entire form will gradually be re··
!!!_<!_deled and per.fecte_4___~i!~.~!!!~~!!'Y· Th~.-~9.1_1!!!l.l!.e.4...@.c:lJ~~­
j'tellige!!_~--~~~~!~. _
to raise the s~x forces is capable of vlvi~yiQg the
(e~!!.r.~ bein~, x:e.newing; it in its entirety. .
Awaken fully this idea; bring yourself into a consciousness of it.
Desire a far deeper and more comprehensive view of Sex as the
CREATIVE FORCES; forces creative in every activity of life; mental,
physical and spiritual. In the trinity of being alone is power.
Hold the greater ideal before you. Cultivate habits of repose
and silent persistence in the one great desire. Bear in mind, so a$ (
to avoid impatience, that the "vile body" mentioned in Philippians (
III: 21 cannot possibly be changed in a brief period unless there is (
I
an ALL·CONSUMING1 ALL-INCLUSIVE DESIRE TO BRING THIS ABOUT~)
Sensual th6ughts, carnal habits and circumstances of birth all
have decreed that the body be vile. Change all this by deliberate
effort. Reverse the delusive opinion which has held the millions in
slavery. Reverse your habits and the practices engendered by un-
·controlled Na.ture. Prove to both Nature and God that Nature
may he a co-worker and helpmeet with the spiritual forces within
and the Lord above; and no longer the incentive only of acts
which are followed by death and destruction.
122 DIVINE ALCHEMY
TI:IE ARCANE SCIENCE 123
Patiently and with purpose and with a strong Will, proceed
with the ~ of r~l.ding your body that "it may be fashioned
like unto His glorious body according to the working whereby He
is able to subdue all things unto Himself," i.e., according to the
spirit that is holy and all-existing•
.!'.~~~!i.<:~___r_c:_~ula!_lx_.!?_;__A.!~!l..~~-!.C?~--~~:__euri?_<?~~-~J..!.~.iEi. !he \
sex forces. Cultivate the desire for the f~.!! seir~L.~e_l!!iza;ion_(>f
ili.ft;!_!ltive_lJ.f!..J!L!i'!...P!:.!.f!.f.!.:..••Such a r:~~~za!i_~~-~il)_~f.~K..r.~u a
~1-~~~-;~s~fr-j~~~-i~~~-~f~;:;;-~~~:~-1~;!~ifl't~~~!-~~o~~~~t!~­
-~~--;~:-th~ -i>f~~t4~~iii.;?Ebif.dh~94 :~"ir~:. ·--- -- -...-·--
-----..-- -
First attempts are futile and avail not at all. Persistence__
;md
regularitr alone bring about desired results. Center the mind
always up-on th~b;;;-a-;;;rst~~"itglydesfr~;r.-;~, Will intensely that
the lower forces shall be drawn upward and in this process be
:r.!~~M.Y!Jl!>....ttr!..<?.., X!Y.!J.Y.l~P,.,_.f.~~!!, instead, as formerly, being
"cast upon the ground" as a result of carnal practices for selfish
satisfaction.
J~. to this, \!!iC<f !.I,lOrning_c!!!fu practiced as follows
will help much: .
Stand perfectly erect or, if desired, lie flat upon your back,
! · and _
crq_ss the han4l...l!P.QJl.._th~.b.n:asts with the ends of the
.
}
1 fingers gently pressing upon the center of each. Now draw
in the breath slowly, holding the thought that all life is being
1 drawn into the lungs to charge the blood with the renewal of
/ the vivifying fire. Hold the breath a few moments, then
\
f_ exhale with the thought that t~-~---spiri_Le>.U9.~~--~b~JL4c:~<;e!ld
~on all.:. Do NOT force the lungs, be at ease, repeat three or
four times to begin with, but gradually increase as you feel
the need: All of these practices are for the single of both sexes.
The method for the married. d.iff<a"li but slightly. The married
should first carefully study the Ansarieth Mystery already taught,
so that intercourse hereafter will never again be for mere pleasure
124' DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 125
only. In every instance the thoughts must first be held on love
and affection and be secondary on the pleasure and satisfaction fol-
lowing the consummation, although the resulting pleasure is
neither unnatural nor forbidden. .It is well always to realize the
Law: "Render unto Caesar that which belongs to Caesar, and to
God that which belongs to God," and nowhere else is this more
important than in the creative act, which may launch a Soul into
earthly activity.
Here. is the method to be followed by the married:
The procedure for the Double Breast Drill is much like
·that of the Drill for the single, as already taught, with this
exception: The Drill takes place during the Marriage Rite;
the Rite is practiced as ordinarily, but instead of the mind,
thoughts and desires being centered solely on the pleasure of
the act, the thoughts and desires are for a specific purpose,
such as health, achievement of a certain purpose, spiritual
development. The brl!athing should be easy, but rhythmic.
While drawing in the breath, the thought must be centered
on some special purpose or desire (such as spiritual develop-
ment and Soul Illumination); then a short period of holding
the breath as long as is comfortable, all the while keeping the
mind centered on the particular desire.
During the exhalation (expelling the breath) the thought
of health, happiness and love is held for the partner. These
thoughts are held with especial intensity during the mutual
crisis. The thoughts should be so forcefully centered that
they will constitute a decree or an edict so powerful that the
unseen forces will gladly extend every possible aid mbringing
about the fulfillment of every desire based on Divine Law.
Full pleasure and the desire for mutual satisfaction, relaxation
and exchange of forces, as previously taught, are a legitimate part
of the Sacred Rite and not to be ignored.
But what if the wedded partner is not in harmony with the
126 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 127
· Great Work or Ideal? THIS DOES NOT IN THE LEAST INTERFERE.
D~ thy part well and all will be well. FEEL AND ACT, PROCEED
AND CONCLUDE AS THOUGH THERE WERE PERFECT HARMONY.
Remember the reply of the Great Master to one who complained
to him of the acts of others: "What isJhat to thee, tollo,w th.2.uw-
Wil!F".JJJJ.t i.e., YOU fulfill the Law and all will be well irrespective of
what another may or may not do• .
If your heart is right, if you do your part, then the result-
REACTION-will be as it should be.
Inter-communion, once establishe<J, will increase in strength as
the Drill is continued from time to time.
This is the Law of the bquble Breast Drill.
Always hold in mind the real incentive-that of Jl!lidinJJ. pte lije
fjrm.HP,War:d.witb- t1z?iJU~rw:-ilJigp,; the desire to become
helpful ; the broadening of your field of .~t;rvist.!m2~g._m..~ and
the upliftment of all with whom you come in contac:s,.
Proceed not with the idea that there shall be leSs force in the
Creative Center-rather cultivate greater power and fuller control
over it. Be master over yourself and you will become master over
all things. Consistently cultivate the..£!.e!l.ili:.s.J.2!.S..~<!..&!.f,U!:.
This is the process of the transmutation of Base Metals into the
pure and shining "gold" of the Soul. It is the Art of Divine
~-~.."""'..:.:...."\:.:••-•~
~
128 DIVINE ALCHEMY
ALCHEMY
En Passant
THE Aspirant be faithful in his practice, then
sooner or later he must expect reactions, the
Law itself being .11ction and RE-.11 ction. For a
time the gross desires will assert themselves in a
more or lim exaggerated form. It is at this
period that he must rely on the inherent power of his lofty desires
and the efficacy of the Will to lift up all things. The lofty thought
and desire must be held so firmly in mind that, irrespective of how
strong.the carnal desire may become, he will be the master,.because
in the control of these forces is the redemption,· redemption ·being
neither more nor less than salvation, and salvation being the
greater or higher life.
Unless this is successfully accomplished, the lower nature may
temporarily gain the upper hand and ~he work already accom-
plished will then need be redone. However, if there is a strong
faith in the power developed by the effort thus far made; if we
feel deeply within ourselves that everything is contained in this
/ fountain of life and youth within,· if we hold the thought and the
.r/ imagination on high, i.e., UPWARDS, and see ourselves as the chil-
dren of the Cosmic Father, the instruments of the Law to help in
His work, we shall soon realize with certain knowledge that this
inner potential force, as it is awakened and comes into conscious-
ness, is part of the Divine Fire, the Flame which ·will ultimately
bring about Immortalization.
Passion's right must be recognized but in a legitimate manner.
Nothing is gained, but much may be lost, by unwise denial. We
must bear in mind that even the Great Master said, "There is a
time and season for all things." Eccl. III: 1-8. Until that time
130 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 131
comes we must control and conserve wisely. Correct use is the
Law, and the Law is Life. Wrong use and non-use are death.
In the breathing, whether this be in the Single or the Double,
i.e., Wedded Drill, hold closely in mind the mantram taught for
that purpose. As you follow this work in the right spirit, you will
ultimately come to realize that the union of the sexive, i.e., the
creative principle on the spiritual plane, is active on both the mate-
rial and spiritual planes at the same time, if the instructions are
correctly followed, i.e., in the spirit of the Work.
In the Double Drill, pleasure results on the physical plane and,
at times, a new being is brought into existence, while on the Soul-
ual plane there must be an exaltation; spiritual, refining, elevating
and uplifting toward perfection. It is well to keep in mind the
great Law of Hermes: "As above,· so below; as below, so above/' ·
In the Single Drill, there is an equal, or even a greater uplifting .,.--·.. -
2!..!he e~ir~ ~~ing._f!!!E~~thsJ>..hr~~!l..!::'...P~ -------
The lack of pleasure during the Single Drill is compensated for _.,..--·
by a greater and deeper exaltatio~:
In both instances the REaction is in proportion to the inner,
spiritual desire, the Law of Compensation being a Balance. How-
ever, we are now dealing with the problems of the Double Drill,
the Single Drill being a comparatively simple matter, but requir-
ing greater self control, while the Double Drill has its many com-
plications, depending for its success on time, moods, harmony,
agreement and many other things.
As our spiritual love and feelings become stronger, the carnal
and gross desires diminish degree by degree. In this process, the ·
creative forces or powers .then become stronger and more virile,
unless these have been intensely strong before, in which case there
is need for a more rapid transmutation of these potencies into the
love of the heart and the deeper desires of the Soul.
Temptations in such instances may become frequent and strong
and there is greater need for the purification of the mind and the
132 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 133
upliftment of the thoughts. Above all, there is need for great
caution that the love for the one co-operating with us does not
imperceptibly change into purely carnal desire and result in weak-
ness and degradation. We must be eager to cultivate a deeper and
purer affection, thereby gaining greater strength to not only resist
the undesirable, but replace it with spiritual powers, thereby ulti-
mately becoming as one of the gods--man's true destiny.
It is on the creative plane that the transmutation must have its
beginning, because here only is to be found the Fire of Life, the
principle that is basic to all power, and this must be raised by the
exalted desire and an effort of the 1Pill. ·
When we meet a man who has purified, exalted and raised .the
creative desire and energy, and still remains in full possession of
manhood and competency, we also meet a man in whom the Chris-
tos has been brought back to life. It has been well said by the
Great Master: "If I [the Christ in men] be raised up, all men
will be raised unto me."
One who has entered upon the Great Work·but is not entirely
certain of the steps to follow writes:
"Paschal Beverly Randolph, in his -fnsaireth Mystery, re_.
fers to union of man and woman, and while he no doubt
meant to convey the secret of sex union for specific purposes
and in an orderly and, sacred manner, I feel that when he
mentions 'woman,' he does not mean woman in the physical.
He says: '-flways remain with the woman until she has
reached the orgasm and there is completion of the rite: It
appears to me he means that once we have undertaken the
Mystic work, we must continue with the inner purification
and development until we have accomplished the desired
end."
This conclusion is at least partly in error. Dr. Randolph meant
exactly what he wrote. His writings are always plain and to the
point. He gave to the true seekers of the esote!ic, in easily under-
134 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 135
stood terms, just what he himself had been taugh.t by the Masters
before him and what his own many years of experience as a physi-
cian and teacher had confirmed. ·
At the same time, he also clearly indicated that when once an
Acolyte has entered the Path and undertaken the accomplishment
of the Great Work, he must continue to pursue it faithfully and
consistently, without doubt or impatience, until success is achieved.
It is, admittedly, far better for one to continue in the purely carnal
mode of life than to commence with the Great Work and then,
because of lack of deep interest, to permit himself to "fall by the
wayside."· The t?,enalty to bc;.,P!~2.~ who siiJ.,s~aru:ej~ l
. ( far less sever~.....th!L<i.h!.!!U!~~~-h8.!l_~~J;!!.~~.!~J-~~-~' ~<·
r
'7 knows better. and knowing, begins to sin anew: .)
~- .
/ The normal, natural co-habitation of man and woman,
,- called by us the "Marriage Rite/' is not a sin,· has never
been, can never be, and is not to be viewed as such. It is no
more a sin than partaking of a meal for the purpose of for-
tifying the body, provided, of course, the twain love each
other or have a deep affection for one another and, in addi-
tion, direct the forces for the exchange of the Electro-Mag-
netic Fires to the upbuilding of the physical, mental and Soul-
ual beings which compose man and woman, and not merely
for the sake of the pl~asure the act affords. The embrace -
--dare not be for the MERE pleasure or to watte the creative - -
- forces, which in all too many instances is an act of pure
Onanism, draining the body of both vital and spiritual forces
and ending in death. The act must be for the purpose of ex-
changing, transmuting, raising up these forces and for the
mutual lifting up and bringing Light to each other.
The Breast Drill, properly performed, leads to all this and
more. The sole object of both the Single and Double Drill has the
Ideal accomplishment in view. The Drills are the means of gr(!W·
ing in strength physically, and in Light and Power spiritually.
136 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 137
[:
When the Acolyte has learn~d to deliberately and conscious!; .Jfi:::
work to this end, he has' also learned the method for creating;
within himself, thelElixjr qf Life/
In the righteous union where both participants understand the
.Mystery, or where one fully understands it and the other loves
deeply enough to be acquiescent, the creation of the all-power is
possible. In such a sacred union there can be no sin because there
is no loss. In such a union neither of the two indulges for the sake .
of pleasure alone, but to give expression to their mutual affection
and that they may draw down upon themselves the love, Fire and
life forces from heaven itself, the while they raise up the creative
forces to the inner center.
In such a union all weakness is forgotten, to a degree pleasure is ·
set aside, but love, wisdom and strength are drawn in. This, in
truth, is the Sacred Rite. Through it all things become possible.
Such a union is not material-physical, but spiritual-ideal, because
in its very nature it is exalting and refining.
Admittedly, both the actors in the love drama must be in har-
mony and at least one, preferably the male, should be fully con-
versant with the whole of the Mystery, that there may be full,
complete, mutual exchange between the twain, and, as it has been
truly said, in "fair exchange there can be no robbery," therefore
no sin.
There is no other means for the development of the physical and
perfect Electro-Magnetic power peculiar to man alone. There is,
of course, the possibility of evil in that frequently gross desire may
usurp spiritual· longing and idealism. Such a union would be far
... from perfect and frequently result in weakness. Love, idealism,
is the Red Powder of the Alchemists and it alone must be the
incitant.
"It appears to me," writes one not fully initiat~d in the Mys-
tery, "that there is' really no waste in the orgasm, such as we
understand it. In the various fluids of the body are the hidden
138 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 139
(ires; and, if we know how to make use of these, we can then hold
the force instead of permitting it to pass from us. For instance,
could we not, by the power of the Will, hold back the vital force
and retain lt?"
To an almost identical question, though phrased differently, one
of the Masters of the Age answers: "That's it, cheat the woman;
but suppose in doing SO you CHEAT YOURSELF THB MOST."
The Master was correctI In withholding, aye, even in trying to
withhold the fire of the seed, YO!J cheat the woman, but more than
this, you cheat yourself still more. Unless you release all that you
possess, THERB CAN BB NO EXCHANGE; YOU CHEATED HER AND
FORCED HER TO CHBAT YOU j IT COULD NOT BE OTHERWISE, and
the result is weakness and degradation to both. This is exactly
what occurs when the Law of Moses, "cast not thy seed upon the
ground," is ignored, except that, in addition, there is defilement
such as takes place in Onanism.
The very desire of exchanging the creative function solely for
satisfaction and at the same time taking advantage of the partner
who may be willing to give all, is treason to her; it is damnable,
and brings about damnation because of the fact that the released
seed, not being returnable to its source, passes through a process of
degeneration, NOT REgeneration, and becomes a poison in the sys-
tem of one who so degrades himself ·by an attempt to defraud
another.
One questions: "Why should not the venous blood retain the
life principle instead of carrying it off? Is the race belief then
utterly wrong on this question? If man can, by the potency of his
Will, redeem himself and change the dross in this manner, what
is to prevent woman from changing her blood in like manner?"
This is possible and actually takes place in the Single Drill made
necessary because of lack pf marriage, but in the married, it is, as
stated by the Master just quoted: "Spiritual Sodomy and more
disastrous than the physical crime which is known by that term."
140 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 141
Relative to the part that the breath plays in the Great Work, it
is noted by close attention (during the Breast Drill) that we
unconsciously breathe more deeply, inhale more of the finer ether,
or .lEth, and place ourselves in union with the Universal .lEth
Force and the ideals and images held therein. This occurs whether
we practice the Single or Double Breast Drill, both being a proc-
ess of LIFTING UP AND BNTHR.ONING,. though actually this is done
more so during the Double Drill due to the fact that then the
desire is more intense because of the passion with which it is asso-
ciated at the moment.
This is clearly indicated in a statement made by one who is
engaged in the Great Work: "Sometimes when I meditate and
breathe d~eply but easily, this life or sex force becomes intense, as
made manifest by the vibrations raised. I then think and Will
that this force be lifted up and at the same time hold the desire for
knowledge of the Higher Life. This brings about a feeling and
emotion of great Love and of good ~ill toward all."
The experience of still another in the Single Drill is stated in a
few words: "Of one thing I am certain; m~ health is marxelous.;
until I began the breathing exercises, I was very tired by evening;
would be too exhausted to do anything but rest. Now and for
many weeks past, I have heen tireless; and I feel as well as when I
was a young girl, and that was VBR.Y WELL indeed. Rest assured
all instructions wiH. be followed."
Sex activity is merely one expression of the Divine Law. Noth-
ing can be created on any plane without the activity of this Law
in one of its phases; without the copulation of what we term the
spiritual forces manifesting through material forms. We say
"spiritual" because the power on any plane is the feminine of mat-
ter, a spiritual force on the Mother-side of God; receptive and
then reproductive•. Thus, when we are of clean mind and thought
and correctly understand it, sex is the divine expression for
creation.
142 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 143
There is nothing obscene or vile about it, except that our carnal
minds and degraded actions make it so, and because we are so long
accustomed to look upon it from the animal and lust viewpoint.
To the true and noble minded man and woman sex is glorious and
even the right of the Immortal gods. To the pure in heart, there
is no evil, not even in sex.
"There is an Universal Creative Eliergy, which men call God.
This energy in its expression or manifestation appears to man as a .
dual power or force but in.reality there is but one force at work."
In man, the highest expression of this energy, call it wisdom or
love, as you will, appears to be the inner invisible force which ani-
mates him. This animation pr life comes from the substance taken
into his body in the way of food and drink, and the breath. But he
could not long exist if this inner force did not meet or come ·into
contact with its other self, or, as we choose to call it, its other half,
or c~unterpart. The perfect "man" or "woman" (in embryo)
found in the· Spermatoza is after all only "congealed air," per-
fected through certain of Nature's processes and ready to go on its
round of progress as soon as it meets its other completing part.
This being true, we must seek for the Secret of the Alchemists in -··
~the breath.
During concentration, we are unaware that we are breathing.
That is, if we meditate deeply or if concentration is as it should.
be, the breath comes slowly and deeply, and there is a rush of air
into the lungs. It is at this inrush that the subtle .lEth is absorbed
out of the indrawn air by the vivified neives, and at such times
there is a possibility of feeling dizzy, or even a state of coma may
result, indicating that the exercise has been overdone. This should
be carefully guarded against for the greatest benefits.
. During.co
.rrect breathing exercises, the old breath. is completely j
forcsd ,Q,Y,I: of the lungs and there is an inrush of fresh ait, The
/ '
secret lies in this: When the lungs are emptied of the air for a few
seconds and a new breath is taken, this new breath seems to be
-1' . • .• '
144 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE .SCIENCE 145
starting from the creatifJe center, and be drawin u as it were,
al the Vit forces toward the center (the Solar plexus) of the
body. Here the Vivific Fire meets with the lEth Fire coming in.
Here the Son and the Father become as one. This is the Mystery~
The average man, knowing nothing at all about these mysteries
of life, breathes indifferently and, aside from this, does not charge
his mental forces with the ideals or images of that which he seeks
to accomplish. He, due to his ignorance, must depend upon Nature
to·do all the work for him.
The Wise Men of·old, the Alchemists and true Ro~icrucians
(those Neophytes who had been taught, trained and passed through
an inner development); were fully aware of the power that the
imagination has on the mental creations, and also of the potency
of the conscious breath. For this reason they hedged in their phi-
losophy with so much of what may be termed religion. That is,
they clothed it with all that is beautiful, ideal and uplifting,
because they fully understood the action of the human mind and
the workings of Nature.
This is what was meant by the reported saying of the Nazarene:
"An'd I, i£ I be lifted up from the earth [the physical,
mortal, carnal], will draw all men unto me."-St. John
XII : 32.
In order to do the Work properly, the mind must be controlled
and elevated (lifted up). This can be done most easily when the
breath is under guard of the Soul. No man can direct the elements
until he is first able to control the Breath, as in the Breath we
find all the elements which we know under the terms: Fire, Earth,
Air and Water.
It is essential that the Aspirant shall first purify mind and
heart. W~re it possible to gain the power sought without this ex-
altation of the carnal and before man's desires have 'been raised tQ
146 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 147
pure and noble ideals, it would be employed by them to the detri·
mcmt of themselves and their fellow men.
The Will is the great lever for the accomplishment of this
Work. When the object is for the welfare of the real self and for
others, a true fellowship for all, the l'l"eophyte will ultimately
accomplish this aim. Otherwise not.
148 . DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE LAWS GOVERNING
THE SACRED ACTIVITIES OF SEX
HE Laws are here taught in short, pointed, easily
understood paragraphs. Acolytes will do well to
study them carefuily, memorize them in spirit,
and by governing themselves accordingly avoid
many sorrowful and perhaps costly experiences.
1. Sex, in all the word implies-, is not to be weakened, repressed
or destroyed. To do so is to make man an eunuch, because in time
it will wholly destroy his manhood, and, as the word implies, his
capacity to be a Creator. Sex is a gift from God and Nature; the
manner of its use will result in either degradation or salvation,
i.e., REgeneration.
2. The Sex function in all its activities is to be raised to a higher
plane than that generally understood by the mass. Sex is to be
controlled and directed so that its every influence on·the body and
Soul is for a good purpose. The sex function, being located at
the center of man's being, is to be no more ignored than any of the
other important physical functions. Sex is Triplicate; it is to be
employed in (a) REgeneration, (b) exchange of forces for recon-
struction, and (c) to bring about the New Birth.
3. The first step is to guard against the loss of the creative
principles due to any and every cause. The frequent and con-
tinued loss, whether by abuse, misuse or by any other means, ends
in death of spirit and Soul. It was this that Moses had in mind
when he commanded the Israelites: "Cast not thy seed upon the
ground."
4. Sex potency 'and the desire it creates is neither unholy nor
debasing, but this desire must be controlled and wisely directed at
all times and under all conditions and circumstances, so that losses
do not result.
150 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 151
5. To "kill out" desire is not taught by this or any other truly
Arcane school. "Thou shalt not kill" can aptly be applied here
because to kill sex desire is to kill the power of creation. Without
sex there could be no creation. It is des~rable that greater sex
potency and deeper power be developed, but these must be directed
into the proper channels that there may be an abundance of vital
and creative energy in the body for use in building that "temple
not made with hands," building our own Soul and a place for it,
by transmuting this sex energy and creative force into the Fires
of the Soul itself.
6. It is essential that these creative forces be so raised that,
through their constructive activity within, the New Birth may take
place and ultimately the Illuminated Soul become manifest.
7. Those ·students of the Arcane who, through some mistaken
idea.or as a result of erroneous instructions, have "killed out" sex-
ual potency, and who ignorantly presume themselves to be on a
high plane of development because of this absence of desire, sooner
or later will awaken to the fact that not only are they far beneath
tift supposed plane, but·that there is even an actual possibility of
having destroyed the means whereby they might have reached the
hoped-for degree of spirituality.
8. The great Law is: The more of sex potency a man or woman
possesses and the more perfect the control, the greater may become
the Soulual powers. and his or her possibilities along every con-
ceivable avenue of creative work.
9. With this in mind, effort should be made to develop an in-
tense determination to restore full power and healthfulness to the
creative function with which God has endowed every normal man
and woman, and to direct it correctly. Without this potency, one
is merely a tool in the clutches of the forces and unable to make
progress in the Great Work.
10. Before us is a letter from one who has been a loyal student
for a considerable length of time and formerly belonged to an
152 DIVINE ALCHEMY
..
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 153
organization active ostensibly for the purpose of teaching the truth
and leading its members to a realization of the spiritual self within.
We quote the letter in full because by means of it a number of
errors can be correct-ed:
"In the Question Department of a magazine published br
an organization claiming to be Arcane and Initiatory and
having a wide circulation, I have come across the following
'question and answer. The whole might be read and pass~d
as one does any other item, but for the fact that it is claimed
to be a Rosicrucian doctrine. If I mistake not, the answer to
the question is a perversion of all that the true Rosicrucians
teach:
"0uestion:I read in your philosophy that the unforgiv,ble
sin, that against the Holy Ghost, is the abuse of the creative
sex force. Are you not taking great responsibility in promul-
gating such a theory in view of the fact that modern neurol-
ogy is finding that the suppression which you require is caus-
ing serious nervous troubles ; also in view of the fact that the
orthodox church people regard the sin against the Holy Ghost
as the most terrible thing possible, and therefore your teach-
ings on the subject might bring despair to thousands of sensi-
tive Souls? ·ua~e you any way of proving your theory?
"..1.nswer: Answering the second part of your question first,
we would say that we regard the Rosicrucian doctrine on this
subject as a very comforting qve instead of one that would
bring despair, for the reason that it teaches that the sin
against toe Holy Ghost (namely the abuse of the creative
force) is unforgivable only in the sense that it must be ex-
plained by living in an impaired body u.ntil such time as -
enough of the creative force has been generated and conserved
to build a better body. Therefore, the penalty for the un-
forgivable sin is only a temporary affair, and this fact should
154 DIVINE ALCHEMY
\
'
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 155
serve to bring relief··to the minds of thousands, inst~ad of
despair." '
Our Reply: If something is unforgiVable, how, we ask, in the
name of God and all that is holy, can it be hut a temporary affair?
Do true students seek for a sop to ease their guilty conscience,
or do they want the "truth which makes men free?"
Is he not Satan in disguise who teaches the seeker that an act'
which is destructive of both body and Soul, if continued, has
merely temporary effects?
Is it not like telling a man that burning a building down to the
ground is but a temporary affair which is self-restorative?
Greater evil than this there can be none than to teach a man
·that an act which is destructive of his entire Triplicate being-
body, mind and Soul, and condemned as eternally unforgivable-
. is only a temporary affair and, after all, does not matter much.
If the UNFORGIVABLE-i.e., the WORST that man can commit_:_
is only temporary in its effect, why not freely commit all other
· sins, since the effect and the results of them are even less lasting?
The True Rosicrucians never taught that the Unforgivable Sin
is not the sin against the Holy Ghost, i.e., the Holy, Creative, or
Illuminating Fire. The sin which is the act or indulgence in that
which is against the Law of Moses, "casting the seea upon the
ground," is, in the finale, the Unforgivable Sin.
In every exercise or indulgence of the creative function, which
is neither for generation, rior REgeneration, nor for the exchange
without loss for reconstruction, a certain portion of the creative
fire is cast out, Biblically speaking:."upon the ground."
This is the process, the manner, of committing the Unforgivable
Sin. If man has been guilty of this degrading and destructive act,
but qiscontinues it before "all his substance is wasted," again using
a Biblical term, and he still possesses the ability to create more of
the Seed or "substance," he can rebuild himself and he is not under
the penalty of the Unforgivable Sin. .
156 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 157
However, if he continues in this ignoble (destructive) habit,
until finally he has "wasted all his substance," and the creative
organism is no longer capable of continuing its Alchemical work
of creating "seed" in which is contained the Fire of life, he HAS
committed the Unforgivable Sin. In wasting all his "substance,"
he no longer retains any ·part of the Creative energy. The fir.e
within this energy or medium for the seed is essential in the build-
ing of the Soul, and Bringing it into Consciousness. In destroying
the ability to create further seed, the essence of the Soul itself has
been destroyed. It is this essence which, when RAISED UP and
brought into Consciousness, is the Holy Ghost. Consequently the
Holy Ghost in that man has been destroyed, and that Soul which
has sinned is destroyed, not by God, but by him who committed
the act.
He, man, the actor, has destroyed his spiritual self by casting it
"upon the ground," and this is the serpent creeping on its belly in
the dust which SHOULD HAVE BEEN RAISED UP after the manner
Moses did in the wilderness. That which is destroyed cannot be
resun:ected. Unforgivable means unretrievable, non-undo-able,
non-resurrectable.
The term Holy Ghost is a synonym for the Ineffable Light
which belongs to the Soul. Without this Light the Soul is in
darkness, beneath the stone in the tomb, unresurrected. This
sleeping Soul can obtain its Light only by transmuting the fire
which is in the seed, or in the laboratory where the seed is made;
in Biblical terms, the loins.
The writer of the answer to the correspondent, ignorant of the
Arcanum hidden in esotericism, and untrained in truly Rosicru-
cian principles, confuses the health of the- body with the loss of the
Soul. Any practice which affects the health adversely is a sin,
because its effect is destructive; but only those practices which
gradually waste the substances, forces and energies of which the
Soul must be built are sins against the Holy Ghost.
158 • · . DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 159
The Unforgivable Sin has finally been committed when the prac-
tices have continued to the ultimate, so that rebuilding the Al-
chemical Laboratory within man, wherein are "created" the seed
of both creation and REcreation, is no longer possible. Man,
though within the age of cre~tive ability, is then no longer capable
of being a ·co-creator with God or the Universal Creator .whose
assistant he is. When this process of "wasting" has been continued
to the· finale, there is then no remedy in either earth or heaven to
retrieve its ability, for the Soul itself has been destroyed as a result
of gradual disintegration, i.e., by "casting the seed upon the
ground." The Mosaic command is absolute. Neither the church
nor the Arcane organization has the power, authority or ability to
set the edict aside, unless it. is possible to first restore the ability
and energy destroyed, and the Rose Cross makes no such claim.
11. The establishment of normal activity at the creative center
of man's being, the Will power to guide the life forces and direct
them in divine ways, will insure speedy entrance through the gates
that open into a world of absolute freedom from human and·carnal
limitations.
12. The practical methods for the restoration of health and
activity to the creative function must be employed only by such as
need it. Those in full possession of their strength-though it is
admitted there are very few-should make no attempt to appiy
such methods, as they might result in greater harm than the bene-
fits made possible.
13. The Method: First, warm (not hot) water baths, as well
as sun baths when possible, tpen gentle massage of the surrounding
muscles and cords. Orientals recognize an9 teach that the most
powerful remedy for such weakness is the gentle massage of the
male generative organism by the wife while the husband is doing
his part in preparing her by caresses and fondling for the Mar-
riage Rite. Only debased minds see evil in this.
14. The muscles and cords between and at the sides of the
160 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 161
lower limbs may be rendered vigorous and healthy by massage artd
exercise. Place the feet somewhat apart, allow the body to slowly
descend, then gradually and steadily resume the erect position.
Continue this for five minutes at a time.
15. After retiring, lie flat upon the back and breathe deeply and
evenly, causing the abdomen to rise and fall with regularity, throw-
ing vital force into the digestive and reproductive organism. It is
essential that you hold in mind not only that you are creating new
forces but alsothat you are drawing these forces into the organisms
which are to be rebuilt.
16. If this be.done, then the entire being may gradually be re-
built and yourself thereby prepared for more advanced work. This
is possible only through a gradual change fr()m the old life to the
new, and through the proce~s of inner growth.
17. If it happens that lewd thoughts are awakened in the mind,
then the drills and exercises should be immediately discontinued
for the time being and not again attempted until the following .
day or night. These exercises must be free from all carnal thoughts
and will be in a very short time if you refuse to permit the mind to
dwell on such thaughts, and substitute the Mantrams previously
taught herein. Any practice of this nature should be limited to
five minutes at any given time.
·.18. Always bear in mind that you are building the foundation
of a Great Work, a Divine accomplishmeilt; unless the basic
work is as nearly perfect as possible, no great structure (temple)
can be reared thereon.
19. The man or woman sexually weak likewise lacks, in the
same proportion, magnetic strength or virile power. Virility de-
pends wholly upon sexuality-a sex potency that is under proper
control and at all times wisely directed.
20. Obedience to the Divine Law which governs the·creative
center not only implies greater virility and more vital force, but
....
162
DIVIN~ ALCHEMY·
· THE ARCANE SCIENCE 163.
also a more perfect balance in body and mind, and consequentlY. a
greater possibility for Soul growth and finally Mastership.
21. To the woman it insures less discomfort during the men-
strual period, less loss, yet greater purification, and thus greater
capacity to enjoy life in all its fullness. To the man it assures less
involuntary loss of vital substance, greater firmness in purpose and
a deeper desire and power to accomplish.
22. 'To the single, the directions must naturally be different
from those given to the mated; for circumstan<;es and conditions
are vastly different though the Law is the same.
23. The Mosaic inculcation, which is ba5ed upon absolute Law:
"Thou shalt not.cast thy seed·upon the ground," governs both the
·married and the unmarried. The application of principles is dif-
ferent, as taught in the "Single"··a.nd "Double" Breast Drill. .
24. The Neophyte whose mate refuses to comply with his normal
requests for the Marriage Rite for one reason or another and who
cannot be won to compliance by love or affection, should practice
the Single Brea~t Drill and direct the creative forces for the building
of the Great Temple as a fit habitation for the Illuminated Soul.
25. To be able to do this successfully, great care must be exer-
cised in the selection of the food consumed. Articles of diet which
give the maximum ~f strength, with the minimum of sexual desire,
should be selected.1
Careful attention to bathing, the breathing of
plenty of fresh ~r and ~ great deal of physical exercise·are essen-
tial. Involuntary losses may occur even then, but these are ·the
result of Nature's efforts to protect the Aspirant, and the loss of
the seed prevented by the power of the awakened Will. Hold the
thought before going to sleep that, whatev_
er may happen, the seed
shall not leave the body. The WiU acts as the "keeper of the
Gate,." preventing loss of the spirit of the essence. .
26. While practicing these breathing exercises and drawing in
1
See "Diet) a Key to Iiealth." Philosophical Publishing· Company,
Quakertown, Penna.
/
164 DIVINE AtC1IEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 165
of deep inhalations, hold in mind the ONE DESIRE which you have
determined to bring into manifestation, and that you are drawing
up to the Great Center of your being the fire resident in the Crea-
tive Center of your being.
27. In the beginning, this breathing exercise should not be for
a period longer than five minutes. The time may gradually be
increa~ed. Longest period of practice. should not be more than ten '
minutes.
28. If you are sincere, regular in your practice, free from doubt
and have fullness of faith, then the fires from the Creative Center
will be drawn up to the Great Cent~r where transmutation takes
place. Here these fires become the Divine Fire burning upon the
Altar of the Soul·within the Immortal temple; the source of ~wer
and Wisdom to the Neophyte.
29. This method of development should be continued until the
Acolyte has gained the mastery of his being: his physical desires,
his thoughts and his aspirations, unless in the meantime he receives
other and more advanced instructions.
30. No Acolyte should attempt to follow Arcane or esoteric
inculcations without guidance. In all things possessing power there
is danger in misuse or ignorant use. These instructions are given
only to a limited few under a vow of secrecy and all who legiti-
mately obtain these teachings know the source to which they may
.appeal for guidance.
31. ·The sincere student must always bear in mind that the
Divine Creator has given him nothing-neither any part of his
body nor any potency of. that body-which was not intended to be
exercised by man for some good and noble purpose. This applies
especially to the creative functions of his being.
32. All things that were made were called into being for right
use. Nothing that exists is for either wrong use or non-use. In
wrong application there is destruction; in non-use there are decay,
degeneration, imbecility and weakness. In the ultimate, the result
~IVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 167
of one is as destructive as the other. The constant repression of
any power or force, and especially of the creative function, will
give birth to a vic~.
33. It may be necessary for a time not to use or apply many
things in the possession of man because circumstances prohibit him
from making the right application of themJ or the intended use.
in such an instance the Law opens other avenues to permit man
to exercise his creative ability in some other direction for the
time being.
34. The greater pa~t of the foregoing instructions have in mind
the guidance of those not married. Consideration will now be
given those more or less harmoniously mated. If the recommended
suggestions are followed, they will not only help to free men and
women from many of the .ills to which the flesh is heir, but also
bring about a deeper sense of peace, a happiness and contentment
previously unknown.
35. l\1oreover, they will give husband and wife greater power
to endure the misfortunes of life, and enable them to call into the
world children healthy in body, mind and Soul-children who will
become powers in the world, and prove a blessing to their pro-
genitors and their fellow beings at large.
36. Much of the misery rampant in the world today is directly
traceable to the abuse of the creative function in one form or an-
other. All the crimes in the world at the present time had their
beginning in the wrong use of the sex; for the "casting of the seed
upon the ground" is at once the beginning of all sin-the first or
original sin-and the end of existence of that being.
37. The instructions applicable to those who are married- do not
differ materially from those given to the unmated, with the ex-
ception that in place of conservation and self-transmutation the
Law of Exchange must be accepted and applied.
38. When the Marriage· Rite is made the medium for both
pleasure and exchange, the proper time should be chosen. Should
168 DIVINE ALCHEMY
I
'
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 169
a child-temple for an incarnating Soul-be desired, then the
instructions given in a previous chapter should be faithfully
followed. A woman aroused' to full desire and strength will be
able to become the mother of healthy and energetic children.
39. In every such instance the woman should be fully impas-
sioned by previous caresses and it should be her keen desire that a
child result from the embrace.
· 40. To apply the potency ·of the Marriage Rite for the develop-
ment of Soul powers, it is essential that the husband and wife be
harmonious at least in their desire for mutual embrace. If the
woman cannot be aroused to actual desire, the accomplishment of
the Great Work is not possible and should not be undertaken.
41. During the Rite, they should both practice deep breathing,
fixing the mind upon the object or goal previously agreed upon.
They should then hold the thought or the image of their desire in
mind. While full pleasure is not forbidden and not considered un-
nobling, it must be secondary, the ·object sought having first
considerafion.
42. The Mosaic Law must be absolutely obeyed-that is, the
Rite must be concluded by both parties so that no seed be lost.
When conception does not take place, then the mucous mem-
branes of the vagina will entirely absorb the chism and its semen
and the.woman will gain health and strength thereby. Even should
conception take place, but one Spermatozoon out of millions im-
pregnates the ovum, while the rest give their lives for the success-
ful one's strength.
43. If the image of the object sought is held in mind, if the
deep breathing is practiced throughout the Rite and the potency
of the thought properly concentrated, then at the conclusion or
crisis of the Rite there will be between the two concerned a perfect
exchange of potential power heretofore wholly unknown and un_.
experienced.
44. Moreover, through this same power, the husband is able to
170 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 171
bring health to his mate, or she to her husband, as the need may be.
45. Whatever desire is agreed upon between the two, it must be
continued during each succeeding Rite until the successful aecom-
plishment of the desire, irrespective of ·the weeks or months re·
quired. Under no circumstances should awork be commenced ·and
then discontinued for some other desire, unless there is a good and
sensible reason for so doing.
46. Choose carefully the work you ·wish to accomplish, or that
which you desire to become; then concentrate on it to the exclu-
sion of all else.
47. The desire of a husband and wife need not be identical so
long as they are not antagonistic to each other. It is, however,
essential that they agree to disagree in so far as the specific object
of their effort is concerned, and then work in harmony.
48. Generally, it is best that specific days should be selected for
the purpose in mind. This may be every second night, twice a
week, once a week, every two weeks, depending entirely upon age;
inclination and virility. However, reason dictates that a hard and
fast rule is not best or even possible, as too many factors enter into
the consideration. Under unfavorable conditions, whatever the
reason, the Rite will prove highly unsatisfactory and possibly
weakening, or result in disharmony. Choose the time wisely, and
when the selected time is agreeable to both parties, the most favor•
able results may l:le expected.
49. The Work should be undertaken in the evening after retir-
ing. There are exceptions here as elsewhere and many may prefer
the morning hours. The Rite should be discontinued two days
b~fore the expected appearance of the menstrual flow.
50. It is not to be presumed that the Double Drill or Marriage
Rite is only for one purpose. It is the Pathway to many achieve-
ments: Soul Development and Illumination, Love and Wisdom,
Spiritualization and the attainment of knowledge. But under no
circumstances may the student exercise it for any selfish purpose;
172 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE. ARCANE SCIENCE 173
to do so is to be destroyed by the Sacred Fire. The Rider Hag-
gard story of "She" is symbolic of the misuse or destructive use of
this "fire."-.
51. Marriage is in itself the sacred association of two people.
To most people it is an institution for convenience and as such is
quickly destructive to all that .is best in them. The first thing to
be expected is the appearance of children. He or she who marries
and then expresses the hope that there will be no children for the
first year or two thereby admits that the bonded association was
not for Love or any divine purpose, but to permit them to indulge
in what is in spirit nothing less than licensed prostitution. The
woman who truly loves seeks to become a mother, will not, under
favorable conditions, avoid becoming one. Those not prepared for,
not desiring parentage, should reniain single. ·
52. It frequently happens that a single man enrolls for instruc•
tions in the Arcane Science with a special object in view, such, for
instance, as higher Soul development and Soul Illumination, or
some other lofty and righteous purpose, with no thought whatever
of marriage; but, before the attainment of the goal in view, he
finds love in the heart for some worthy woman and desires to mate.
53. If the one sought for a mate be in harmony with him and
his aspirations there is no reason whatever why he should not
marry and continue the Work as before. It is, of course, essential
that there be a complete understanding between them before mar-
riage and that her interest be sufficiently deep that she also become
conversant with the Divine Laws and, in working in harmony
with her husband, benefit herself.
54. The change from the Single to the Double Breast Drill will
not in any way interfere with his pr~gress in the Work, but, on
the contrary, will enhance the possibility of fuU success.
55. It frequently has happened that those mated engaged in the
Great Work for some special purpose; then for one reason or an-
other the serpent of inharmony came between them and it was
174 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 175
impossible for them to continue in the Work via the Marriage Rite.
56. Whenever there is such an interference with this manner of
following the Great Work, and there is a sincere desire on the part
of one or the other to continue, the Single Breast Drill is to be
substituted for the Double Breast Drill.
57. Admittediy it is more difficult to discontinue the Double
Drill and substitute the Single Drill than.vice versa, but the sin-
cere student will do it willingly and soon becomes conscious of the
fact that he has actually lost nothing through this necessary change.
Where the desire is clean and willing, the heart will be able to
dictate the path to follow.
58. There are instances in which a married man or woman
enters the Path in higher development but where the mate is not
at all in harmony with an exalted mode of life, yet where, for vari-
<;~us reasons, it appears necessary for the student to perform his
duties as husband or wife in order to hold together the family ties.
59. In ·such instances, sacrifices must be made. The Acolyte
need not even let it be known that he or she is interested or en-
gaged in other than the ordinary duties of life and, as occasion re-
quires, be faithful to the duties of husband or wife. However,
while performing the Marriage Rite, he or she must consistently
and faithfully hold in view the goal to be reached, forgetting, in a -
sense, the act itself; though not to an extent that this would in any
degree cause sexual weakness or dissatisfaction.
60. Doing this is far from easy and may not always be pleas-
ant. Moreover, more time may be necessary for the accomplish-
ment of the work in hand. However, if the heart be clean and the
demands met with patience and in love, the results will always be
beneficial.
61. The Acolyte, having previously entered the Path, might
sever the family ties, but in most instances nothing would be
gained by doing so. It is far better to comply with the Law of
non-resistance, in patience and without resentment or repugnance,
176 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 177
and trust in full faith that the Law of Compensation will find the
solution of the problem. Under all conditions, the results will be
according to the state of mind and heart which governs the
Neophyte.
62. The Law governing the Divine Passion is manifold and may
be directed through many avenues of effort and achievement.
63. For instance, the Acolyte may be a man whose wife is suf-
fering from some weakness for which, seemingly, there is no relief.
If he can arouse her to full desire and willing and loving com-
pliance, and if he will center his mind on bringing about a cure,
and hold this object in mind during the. Rite, bathing the ut~rus
with the fully charged vital fluids and she absorbs these through
the action of the mw;:ous membranes, relief wili ultimately follow.
He need not even inform her of what he proposes to do, though
that would be of immense value and create a state of expectancy,
p1·ovided, of course, it would not create antagonism. Always be it
rememlbered the desire of the mate must be fully aroused and the
embrace be in affection and completed in every detail.
64. Throughout the foregoing pages three great Laws govern-
ing the Divine power of sex have been inculcated. In the pages to
follow, it is necessary that we call the Neophyte's attention to a
careful consideration of several very important. matters which are
concerned with the application and the results of the Laws and
practice'.
65. It must never be forgotten that the Marriage Rite-Double
Drill-is the most absolutely sacred and at the same time the most
powerful method for the development of the inner forces because
it deals with the primary and fundamentals underlying all of life.
Admittedly, like all potencies, it is dangerous to the unclean heart
and lustful mind.
66. In this, as in all the activities of life, a common-sense view
must govern the embrace and the practice at no time carried to
178 DIVINE ALCHEMY
I
' THE ARCANE SCIENCE 179
.·excess, otherwise the ends in view are defeated by the unreason-
ableness o£ the application of otherwise potent methods.
67. It is necessary for the Acolyte to realize that in the begin-
ning it may not be possible for him t~ retain all of the forces of
life. There will, of necessity, be some losses; it is impossible, ex-
cept in a few instances, for a man to make a radical change in his
life and be able to press onward without any reactions. Nature
does not work that way. In this, the Acolyte's virility naturally is
the governing factor. ·
68. However, it is certain that if the Laws are obeyed, the one
on the Path will be able from the beginning to conserve a suffi-
cient amount of the ~ita/ principle to assure a perfect and natural
growth-one that will gradually lead him into perfect manhood
(or womanhood, as the case may be) and then develop within him-
, self a personification of the Christos, the aim and the end of all
true development which ends in Initiation.
69. It is likewise true that a sufficient amount of the flital prin-
ciple will be conserved to gradually free him from illness and
weakness of every description, the power to bring success to him
and the ability to reach Soul Consciousness and finally Illumination.
70. Here, again, reason must govern. The Neophyte ml!st not
become so narrow ·in his views as to believe that the Single Drill
or the Marriage Rite alone will be potent enough to accomplish
all this for him if he refuses to obey the rest of the Divine Laws•.
These Drills when faithfully practiced in conjunction with correct
breathing, bathing, a wise selection of food for his sustenance,
and sufficient exercise, will assuredly do all this and more.
71. If one were to obey the Laws faithfully, and correctly func-
tion in the Marriage Rite, yet disobey the ·laws governing diet, he
would fail for the reason that physically we become what we eat.
If he selects foods lacking in the qualities which build vital power,
he would soon be minus the vital forces which he must draw up
180 DIVINE A~CHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 181
to the Altar of the temple within and there transmute into the
/ires which will build and Illuminate the Soul.
72. To those who practice the Single Breast Drill (due to the
40 fact that they are not mated), it is necessary to call attention to
the fact that if there is at any time an involuntary loss, they should
not become fearful, discouraged or consult charlatans who profit
on groundless fears. Nature will gradually strengthen all the
organs and cells; and, when these becol,lle strong through being
rebuilt, losses will no longer occur or. at the worst, very rarely,
.. and in each instance the seed may be retained by the effort of the
Will as already instructed. So long as there is any slight weak-
ness, it may actually be necessary to the individual's well-being
that they do occur; just as it may be.necessary to have an overflow
of water over the walls of a large dam to prevent the weight of the
waters from breaking down the walls entirely and thereby doing
great damage.
73. The mated who practice the Double Drill or Marriage
Rite fairly regularly will not be troubled by.losses because in their
case there is relief through the mutual exchange of the vital forces
and a complete rest of the nervous system which always follows
constructive indulgence.
74. Above all else, irrespective of the procedure, whether by
means of the Single Drill or the Double Drill, it is essential that
all evil passions and gross desires be eradicated from the mind and
heart.
75. Only love and affection should be in the heart ·during any
of the Drills of sex; only as love and affection govern the action
does the work become Divine. Physical pleasure, as already indi-
cated, is not forbidden, but when gross passion alone reigns, the
devil (destructive forces) holds sway and the results must be
accordingly.
76. If the Acolyte will obey the spirit and letter of the Law
thus far taught him, if his thoughts and desires are held to a lofty
182 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 183
goal, then all power may be his ;.he will be prepared to proceed
with higher and more individualized methods for th~ attainment
of Soul Illumination and Initiation.
77. Exercises, concentration,·drills, bathing, dieting, and sacred
worship at the Shrine of the Divine Creator-all these, though
noble and essential, will not avail if the ·Neophyte does not be-
come the King of the Seat of Life. It is here where the fuel for
the creation of the Sacred Fire burns. It is here where creation
begins and from whence Immortalization must proceed.
As an Acolyte, do not get the idea that it is possible to change
your whole mode of thought, desire and activities of life within a
day. ·Time and e"ffort are required. 'If you are imbued with a
strong desire to overcome, if your efforts are in the right direc-
tion, if you will follow the dictates of the Laws of Life as you
master them, you will gradually free yourself from misconceptions
and your body from irritating forces so that there will no longer be
an unnatural urge toward the activities which bring about weak-
ness and death. Instead, a longing, an aspiration, will be born in
your consciousness which will prompt you towards the Path that
leads to life and IQJmortality.
79. If at times you make mistakes, if you are frequently unable
to completely carry out any part of the Work, do not permit your-
self to become discouraged. Above all, do not. become impatient;
impatience, in the Great Work, is destructive, therefore a cardinal
sin. Bear in mind always that you are actually a part of the Uni-
versal Creator, of the one God, and if the desire be pure and ex-
alted, you will gradually become that which you seek to be, and
come into possession of the power which is in harmony with God-
the Creative Law. Let this thought always sustain you and urge
you forward. Try to make every effort a lever that will lift you
higher and higher upon the scales of both evolution and conscious
development.
80. In this evolution and development differ. Through evolu-
. .
184 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 185
tion we grow upwards only as Nature forces us, just as she directs
all existing things. ·By conscious self-development we are ·no
longer the tool of Nature, but through our own self-effort we work
in harmony with Nature. In this manner, by deliberate self-effort,
we accomplish in a single lifetime more than in ages and many
incarnations through evolution aione.
81. The Divine Path thus far outlined does not ask of you the
impossible; does not even de,;:nand that you deny yourself anything
good ~r desirable, but only that right use be made of all things. It
is an exposition of the Natural life which the normal man should
actually seek to live and which alone will help him to become
Godlike.
82. If the Neophyte will dedicate his life and direct his actions
to the One God, the Infinite Creator and Giver of Life; in other
words, to the Law, there is not even a chance of failure. Natu-
rally, at times there may be _reactions due to the operation of
Karma; but efr!en these reactions will be the means of helping him
upwards to something more profound and higher.
83. To attain to infinite power-the ability to meet and con-
quer disease and weakness of the body, poverty, failure in a desired
undertaking, success in sincere endeavor-the Acolyte must draw
strength from the source of life. This he cannot do unless there is
a reserve from which to draw, and there can be no reserve so long
as he lives the carnal, untransmuted life.
84. You have herein been instructed in the various methods for
the transmutation of the gross into the pure and shining gold. It is
your privilege to enter still furt~er into the Great Work. Remem-
ber, however, that once you enter this Path and mode of living,
you dare not give it up or prove recreant to your ideals lest it
create an eternal conflict between the carnal and the spiritual and
there be no peace for you. The Nazarene indicated this in his
parable of putting the hand to the plowshare. Luke 9: 62.
85. Let this plan of life become your natural mode of life. Since
186 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 187
nothing good and lasting is denied you, it is only in the beginning
that you may find it difficult. As you continue in this life you will
gradually grow into true Manhood, into the Soul-man, which cul-
minates in Godhood, just as the ordinary man grows into weakness
and senility by living the old worldly life.
86. These instructions. have nothing in common with psychism
as usually understood. They do not teach the student to enter
into a negative state and be controlled by astral (earth-bound)
beings. On the contrary, they positively prohibit this and indicate
a certain plan of development through the means of correct breath-
ing, constructive concentration, and the transmutation of the
essen&es of life into the /ires qf the Soul which eventually bring
about Soul Illumination.
87. This Initiation, for such it is, will make man akin to the
gods. It is the method which will enable him to be one with the
gods, and is referred to in Genesis of the Scriptural. writings.
"For God doth know that in the days ye eat (partake
thereof--so live] thereof, then your eyes shall be opened
[you will see clearly-gain wisdom], and ye shall be as gods,
knowing good and evil."-Genesis 3: 5.
'
188 DIVINE ALCHEMY
OCCULT LAWS ANCIENTLY TAUGHT
ODERN man, considering himself both intellectu-
ally enlightened and a me.mber of an advanced
civilization, is apt to smile at the ignorance of
ancient peoples, thus openly displaying his ow-n
lack of understanding concerning the two most
important factors in making of life all that it should be.
1. What are these two fundamentals? NuTRITION and REPRO-
DUCTION.
Both were formerly accepted as a matter of course with neither
thought nor planning. Basically, man is what he eats. The An-
cients, at least in that period known as the Golden Age, made of
every meal a fine art, a sacrament and a social hour.
Both religious thought and medical art, in the not very remote
pas~, openly sneered in contempt at such statements. Now, due to
the persistent and consistent promulgation of these ideas by the
Rose Cross and Eulis, these opinions are accepted as facts by church
and medicine. Ministers preach on the subject from their pulpits.
Medical men fill their magazines and newspapers with articles on
the influence of food on health and well-being.
There are still countless numbers who deny that food has any
great influence on either health or spiritual well-being, but these
are mostly from the mass and even these admit that man cannot
live without food and that it is therefore a first essential.
While food is admittedly the basic fact in man's.life, a necessity
before he is conscious of sex life and after he is no longer compe-
tent, sex is primarily the means of bring!?g _~!f. into_E~!E$: Sex
is therefore vital to man'~ existence and should receive much
greater and deeper consid~-;;ty;;;-t:b";;:;-;rt-p-~;;~t.H;;~ -~gai~.. the
ancientpeopl~-·;fth~ ·~nlfght~~-~d-;ge;·;er;f~-wiser than we of
190 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 191
today. They made sex an art, a sacrament and a religious expres-
sion of the highest order.
Food, the need for the satisfaction of the physical man, and
sex, the requisite of body and Soul in the reproduction of the race
and the Immoitalization of that race, are, we repeat, the two most
important factors in the life of man while domiciled here on earth
and should be given the deepest consideration and study. The
question of food is not in place here,1 but full consideration will be
given to sex from the'standpoint of well-being and spiritualization.
2. In the exercise of the sex function neither man nor woman
should be conscious of any weakness as a result of engaging in the
embrace. On the contrary, there should be a feeling of strength, a
buoyancy, and power not noticed before. The degree of the
resultant exalted feeling will depend entirely upon the prepara-
tion before the Rite is engaged in, and the feeling in the hearts of
each while so engaged. There should always be a protracted period
of preparation before the Rite, except in instances where the male
is of an age where he would become incompetent if too much time
were given to this part of the Rite. There are other exceptions,
such as where· the woman becomes thoroughly impassioned in a
shorter period of time and also when, by one means or another,
she clearly indicates her readiness.
3. The preparation. Magnetization and polarization should
consist in the gradual stimuli:z."ation of the various sensitive nerve
centers, such as gently stroking the breasts; the pits under the
arms; the navel; in some instances the knees, and, where a woman
is not readily aroused to full desire, the clitoris. It should be re-
membered that every woman is a Law unto herself. That which
will please one woman will offend another; but always there is a
salient point of approach, as every woman when fully impassioned
~. 1 See 4 'Diet, a Way to Health," for full instruction. This book was t0:;
leader in arousing both the public and the medical profession to the impor-
. -' . tance of diet in health and well-beil)g.
~./ '·
192 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 193
will confess. The man who is possessed of a little forethought and
wisdom will, by repeated effort, ascertain the most sensitive cen-
ters of his mate, not, however, neglecting the other centers, lest
these become dormant in feeling. In the normal, healthy woman,
all things being favorable, the stimulation of the (one or more)
centers will arouse the amative centers and awaken her to a keen
desire for the Marriage Rite.
4. There should be no clothing between the bodies .of the tw·o
who worship at the creative and recreative shrine. In defiance of the
sneers and horrified protests of prudes and those sexually and
therefore Soulfully, cold, we say that this is the only holy and
righteous method of exercising the Rite. As proof of this state-
ment, we proclaim the fact that God did not c1·eate man or woman
with clothing to cover them. The more thoroughly man (and this
includes woman) cleanses his heart and mind, therefore his
thoughts and desires, the more fully he will come to reverence the
approach of the time when man and woman manifest externally
the two in one, the consummation of holy and sacred wedlock.
5. The sacredness and desirability of the Rite is not-as all but
the very few have thought it to be-in the climax, but in the close
embrace, the fondling and the kissing that must be part of the Rite
from the beginning of the exercise up to and during the climax.
It iii during this period that the divinity or the brutality of man is
brought to the fore.. Like Absinthe, the embrace iri the conjugal
union will bring forward the best, or the worst, in man.
6. A thorough course for both education and preparation would
be a blessing to the average woman, because her information and
instruction have been based on the destructive error that her form
is not to be seen by man, that it is vulgar for her lover-husband to
undress and prepare her for the wedding-bed, and that she dare
not indicate or express desire or pleasure. Damnable beliefs in the
sight of the enlightened man and God 1 God certainly had neither
shame nor horror when He created the reproductive organism
194 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 195
and looked upon His handiwork (man and woman) and saw that
it was beautiful. To some women it is undoubtedly obnoxious in
the beginning for their husbands to fondle or gently massage their
breasts or other parts of their bodies. Many women who have had .
a life of unhappiness have expressed themselves as being filled with
a "feeling of horror," when contemplating this activity, but ques-
tioning elicited the fact that this was due to the erroneous instruc-
tions, or lack of instructions, they had received before marriage.
When the Law and the reason, the intent and purpose, were fully
explained to them, they quickly overcame the feeling of what they
thought was shame, and thereafter expectantly looked forward to
the all too short period of preparation for the Marriage Rite.
7. One part of the pre-nuptial preparation must never be neg-
lected: that of affectional display. This is a most essential part in
the awakening of the desire in woman. In this connection it is
well to offer a· warning which is all too frequently neglected by
writers on the subject. Frequently objection to indulgence in the
·Rite is due to the repulsive odor from the mouth with which so
many men and women suffer, unknowingly. These foul odors may
be due to indigestion, malassimilation, tobacco, alcoholic drinks,
poor teeth and various other causes too numerous to mention.
Make certain that the reason for this form of repulsion does not
exist by thoroughly cleansing the mouth with some good·antiseptic.
It is well to do this nightly, so that there be no offense at any time.
The ancients, including the wise Solomon, sang continually of the
breath of roses and the smell of fine attar, and they knew only too
well what they were singing about. Go thou, oh man, and emulate
the ancients and thou shalt be well repaid for thy effort.
8. If there is a sense of shame in the mind of either the man or
the woman as a result of disrobing, being disrobed, or the caresses
thus far mentioned, then one of several things may be the cause:
Woeful ignorance of God's and Nature's Laws; "coldness· in
heart and Soul," erroneous teachings which have created an inner
196 DIVINE ALCHEMY
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 197
complex, or worst of all and most difficult to overcome, lack of real
Love or affec#on. True Love knows no -shame in natural and
sacred indulgence and takes delight in obeying all the Laws .of
affection and consummation. Remember this :
9. A primary reason for weakness and nervousness following
the Rite is the lack of preparation prior·to indulgence. This also
gives birth to marital dissatisfaction and even downright hate of
one for the other. In this respect, man is usually most guilty. This
results from being unaware that he is a sexual animal, and, while
in his prime, requires no other preparation than that his passions
be aroused by a carnal feeling or the sight of a desired object.
Woman, on the contrary,. except in exceptional instances, is not a
sexual animal; but is at heart maternal, i.e., motherly and a_ffec-
tionate. Her effort is to hold the man she loves to her heart by any
means in her power. This, her primary instinct, must, before or
during each embrace, be changed into desire by means of caresses
and fondling which, however, should never, except in rare in-
stances, begin with the creative center, hut always with the breasts
-the mothering center-unless otherwise indicated by experience
-and gradually progress to the genital center.
10. Never embrace an unwilling or unprepared woman. It is
poison to the system and death to the Soul. Randolph wrote: "He
comes too near who comes to be denied." In other words, do not
command or demand. Prepare your way and then you will be
invited and be made welcome, not by words, perhaps, but by signs
which speak louder and more unerringly than words possibly could.
11. The preparation may require 5 to 30 minutes. Be willing
to devote that much, or even more time,.to this phase of the Rite.
You will find it well worth your time. It is possible, aye, due to
the American weakness as a result of haste in all things, both
sacred and profane, that the man be weak, and that when he be-
gins the caresses, his full desires be so aroused that weakness fol-
lows. There are three methods to overcome this:
198 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 199
First, think of something interesting, forcing your mind-
thoughts and desires-to concentrate on the subject or object
until just prior to the beginning of the Rite. Practice in this
will make perfect and gradually develop a strength un-
thought of before. It is well to have an understanding with
the mate.
Second, allow the first weakness to pass away and con-
tinue the fondling and caresses until the second strength
appears.
Third, and probably the best method in most instances, the
wife should be the active partner for the time being and· until
strength returns and manhood is reestablished.
12. Remember that I am speaking to you as an honest physician
to his patient whom he would save from much sorrow; a loving and
wise father to his son; a Priest to his parishioner whom he would
save from the penalty of erroneous beliefs and delusions which lead
to sorrow, suffering and possibly the death of both body and Soul.'
We repeat the admonition: Whatever else you do, avoid charlatans
whose every effort is to make you believe that weakness and a pre-
mature climax is always a sign of decay and impotence and must be
treated at great expense.
13. The Biblical saying: "Go to the ant, thou sluggard" could
profitably be copied with benefit by almost all members of the human
race. Men would profit greatly by watching the mating of the
denizens of the animal world, especially those of the bird kingdom.
Watch the bird or the dove, see them bill and coo for a long time;
then, as the proper time approaches, watch the bird sing in his loud-
est and most beautiful tone while he mates. Thus it should be with
man and must be if he would be truly man. The coaxing, the pet-
ting, the fondling and finally the kiss of love as the Rite is consum-
'The instructions are based on forty-five years of medical experience in
constant practice and as a ministering Priest in the August Fraternity con·
suited by men and women from every section of the world.
200 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 201
mated in its ultimate and highest form, and, be it remembered, the
fondling and caresses might well be continued throughout the Rite.
14. Nervousness, ill-health, female weaknesses should not pre-
vent the woman from, indulging in or from thoroughly and f1,1lly
enjoying the Rite. As a matter of fact, these weaknesses should be
made a reason for the embrace because if she becomes fully polarized
and magnetized, if the Rite is completed, and if the uterus and vagina
are fully bathed in the seminal fluids, it will soothe and calm her
nervous system; send the blood into the weakened or diseased parts;.
heal them, and will establish an equilibrium-which is real health-
and she may be delivered from many of her ailments; for even can·
cers and tumors have been known to disappear under this process.
Is it not written in Biblical lore that no less an authority than God
has caused it to be written that Love is the beginning, the aim and
the end of all things, for God is Love and Love is God, and in Love
are all things possible? Does God, God's Law, or Nature lie?
• Think well'before you sneer or condemn that which is written here.
15. Fear is .one of the potent factors that must here be given
consideration. Fear is a destroyer. it destroys health, happiness,
and even the fruits of Love. Fear of pregnancy is today the most
potent factor in marital unhappiness, nervous breakdown, neurosis
and many other forms of illness. Any woman who, throughout the
marital Rite, is fearful of conceiving will gain neither benefit nor
satisfaction from the Rite and ~ill make life a hell for her husband,
frequently driving him to other women for satisfaction. This fear
is wholly unnecessary and may, where truly justified, be avoided
by following instructions already herein given.
· 16. The foulest, most destructive and most defrauding of all
teachings so universally promulgated today is that of the non-com-
pletion of the Marital Rite. This inculcates the idea that there
should be no orgasm on the part of the male, the Climax avoided,
except for the purpose of propagation. In other words, this teaching
erroneously suggests that the woman should be fully aroused as
202 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 203
heretofore and herein advocated, the mating begun, and the twain
remain together for as long as possible, or desire indicates, .but part
without the full consummation 'of the Rite.
This coitus interruptus in time inflames the prostate of the male
and leaves the female with an inflamed uterus, jangling nerves and
a vixen temper. The promulgators of these delusive and destruc-
tive teachings admit that at first this is most difficult and does leave
both unsatisfied (and it has been frequently admitted to us by both
parties that, had they the opportunity, they willingly would have
indulged to satisfaction with almost anyone else), but they claim
that gradually there is less feeling (less reaction by all the natural
forces against the fraud) and that in time all feeling will ~lie out
while together, and they exultantly point to this fact as a proof of
the correctness of the practice.
What actually occurs is, that, as a result of shock after shock, all
the vital forces in the system of both are burned up and impotency,
prostatitis, ovarian inflammation, disgust and general neurosis re-
sult, and finally the Soul itself is destroyed by this foul practice. It
is the most degrading form of Onanism because it is also a gross
fraud on what may be an innocent partner. .
17. If there is any weakness on the part of the man it is practical
that during the period of preparation there be conversation on
esthetic subjects such as music, flowers, the arts or other ennobling
topics. This is not only exalting to the mind and Soul, but it per-
mits the man to keep his thoughts from his. weakness.
It is essential. that the conversation never drifts to anything that
is unpleasant or that may arouse the grosser passions such as hate,
malice, jealousy, or brutal feeling, because these are destructive
and weakening.
18. Under present conditions and because of much misinfor-
mation, the vast majority of women are possessed of neither de-
sire for, nor any feeling of, ecstasy during the Marriage Rite
after they have passed the.period of Menopause or Change of Life.
204 DIVINE ALCHEMY
....
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 205
If they but knew the truth, they would recognize that it is then
that woman may know her greatest degree of pleasure; the fullness
.of satisfaction, and the utmost benefit for the reason that all fear
of undesired pregnancy is removed.
It is only necessary THAT SHE SHALL NOT PERMIT HERSELF TO
FALL VICTIM TO THE INERTIA USUALLY A PART OF THE CHANGE;
THAT SHE NOT ONLY KEEP HER DESIRES ACTIVE, BUT THAT, IN
ADDITION, SHE FORCE HERSELF TO FORGET ALL ELSE, AND AT FRE-
QUENT INTERVALS INDULGE IN THE MARRIAGE RITE. If this
be done, then once she is through with the change, the desire, the
capability and the sense of enjoyment will remain with her during
all her life. Admittedly, in many instances, because of the bondage
of race belief, or erroneous instructions, a constant effort on her
part may be necessary, but this is well worth while if she is to
remain a full woman for the rest of her days.
19. In uncountable instances we find that man and wife have
lived happily for many years and raised a large family successfully,
yet.after the Menopause inharmony gradually develops; he seeks
other matings and there may follow disruption of the family ties.
Usually both are ignorant of the cause. He could not, if he would,
explain why he is repelled from the marriage bed which has so
long been both harmonious and satisfactory to him, nor why he
seeks in other quarters for that something which is missing. The
whole secret is in the fact that his mate is no longer arousable,
consequently is unable to exchange the vital magnetic forces with
him. After each Rite there is a greater feeling of dissatisfaction,
while at the same time and, under the circumstances, anormal
attraction develops for women who are still capable of making the
"xchange with him. At home there is a repulsion-though this is
unconscious; abroad there is an attraction-alsoatfirstunconscious.
·20. Another fallacious idea universally common is that only the
man should be active. There is no hard and fast rule; tempera-
ment, capacity and capability must govern. However, where the
206 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 207
woman is not easily aroused, while the man is more or'less weak,
the woman should be the active party throughout the Rite while
the man is passive and thereby conserves his .strength. On the
contrary, if the man is of full strength and the woman readily
satisfied, it is he who should be the active partner and she the
passive one. It must be accepted as fact and truth that the woman
has as much right to be active, even intensely so, as has the man,
and the entire Rite is to be governed by the relative strength' of
the mating pair. Activity does not make the act less holy unless it
weakens either party or shortens.the duration of the Rite so that
complete satisfaction is not possible by both parties concerned.
DIVINE ALCHEMY
BOOK THE SECOND
Further Instructions irz tlze Great Arcanum
This is the Path to the Ki1zg's Highway. It is both narrow and
thorny _
but, by faith and a steady purpose of mind, it may be mtered
and the Golden Goal Attained.
208 DIVINE ALCHEMY
'
210 DIVINE ALCHEMY
THE MYSTERIES
LoYe Sex Initiation
RUE Initiation is the transmutation of the physi-
cal body by efforts consciously made and based
on faith and belief (usually termed religion)
only in so far as this induces action. The exal-
tation and transfiguration of the Soul is the re-
sult of the purification _of sex, and- the Illumination and Deifica-
tion of the Soul through contact with the Universal Conscious-
ness. This process accomplishes the REgeneration of the whole
man, which is the true object of all Transcendental philosophy,
and the only safe basis of practical Magic. All operations at-
tempted by the vulgar and the undeveloped, in other words, by
unregenerated persons [those untrained], are either dangerous or
unsuccessful, or, as in the case of Black Magic, of a dark and
abominable nature.
"Contemplation and quietism are Keys to this mysterious proc-
ess, which has been carried to its highest point by the Initiates-
l\1asters; and is described by Roger Bacon as the modification of
the body of Alchemy."-Vaughan, in Magical Writings.
When the physical self, which includes all but the Soul in man,
has become transmuted by means of exalted desires and the raising
of the creative Fire through Love, the Soul Flame becomes active
and Consciousness is the result. True Love, not alone for a person,
but for all of being, is the key to the At-One-ment with the Uni-
versal or Cosmic Love, or God, and with the Law itself. As we
become one with this Universal or Cosmic Love, and permit, aye,
encourage, the Law to govern our activities, we steadily advance
on the P~th leading to Initiation and membership in the Great
·white Brotherhood of. Hierarchial Order.
212 DIVINE ALCHEMY
This, at present, is only for the few, because the great mass have
no such desire, and certainly no great Love for other than the
things they can see, feel and enjoy or profit by,
_ ~ex is the great st';lmblini block for th~ Neophyte, as als?. t.2~
( ih~ rest of mankind. This is the serpent of Biblical lore, which,
correctly underst;'d, must be lifted up. Moses, the Great Law-
giver, gave an example to his people and showed them how they
might be saved. THIS MYSTERY MUST BE ESOTERICALLY UNDER·
STOOD AND FOLLOWED THROUGH IN THE RIGHT SPIRIT.
"""...·
-
(
M~n cannot become. ~Egenerated so long as he plays with the
creatzve process and abzlzty.
No one· will be exalted and lifted up so long as he permits his
thoughts and desires to drag him down into the mud and mire of
sensuality; this being the serpent creeping on its belly in the dust
· . (degradation of sense).
This is the Neophyte's great problem and must be faced squarely
and conquered. To become REgenerated, i.e., Ye ~ust be born
again, not of water, but of spirit, by means of the water. It is
essential that the thoughts and the.feelings be raised to the highest
. and noblest plane. This is possible only by means of persistent
self-effort and a keen desire to free the self from all that is debasing.
. ~The Breast Drills are a means toward this end and must be
-(' . ~:acticed both in the letter and the spirit; nothing added to, nor
· subtracted therefrom. Sex is the "Devil's bridge/' over which all
must pass successfully or be destroyed, i.e., die the mortal death.
There is nothing vile in sex itself; on the contrary, the creative
function IS God's workshop; but the Soul must never be dragged / .v
down to its level. Instead, sex must be raised up to the Plf!n!....~f¥ ·
the Soul, and may not be exercised for the mere gratification of
the senses, otherwise man falls, even as did his parents before him.
(
To attain to the highest estate,· man must be perfectly sexed;
/ . dare not be either diseased procreatively or be impotent; otherwise
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 213
there will be lacking the forces and energies so essential as agents
in the Great Work.
Without a healthy creative organism, man is a weakling and the
attainment of Divine Wisdom demands manhood. Without this
he will possess neither the strength nor the courage to surmount
the obstacles met along the Way. The Neophyte must recognize
the oneness of God in all things. He must become conscious of
the Universal Love-Fire principle of which sex, i.e., creative en-
ergy, is the foundation of all power and reali~e that without this
nothing could exist. The more fully he realizes divinity in crea-
tive ability and raises himself above the purely lust-and-passion
stage, the sooner will he be able to reach the At-One-ment, or the
Soul's Attainment. This \s Initiation.1
'A warning is in order. Many Neophytes make good progress in the
Great Work, but after reaching a certain stage of Inner development, and
before they have actually been able to make conscious contact with the
Hierarchies, they sometimes become possessed by the idea that they are
able to travel the Path of Initiation alone, and unwilling to further obey
their instructor.
The Acolyte entering the Path and taking upon himself the sacred vow
must be willing to place himself under the guidance and protection of a
Master-Teacher for such a time as may be necessary to develop suffi-
ciently to attain to the first or second degree (in the authentic Rose Cross
there are but three degrees, the Exalted Third being the last), and made
conscious contact with one of the Hierarchies. ·
If the Neophyte fails in his obedience, he will most assuredly be un-
successful in reaching Soul Illumination. This in turn is certain to result
in regret and sorrow, as is so well illustrated in the story of the Neo-
phyte Glyndon of the Lord Bulwer Lytton novel, Zanoni.
Thomas Vaughan, in his Magical Writings, also warns of this:
"When this New Birth (Consciousness) has been accomplished, the
Magus is placed in communication with the Creative Forces. The Uni-
verse and the avenues of Spiritual Perception, which are narrow, diffi-
cult and full of barriers to the psychologist of today, are then freely
thrown open for oolimited exploration, and the initiated.epopt may pro-
ceed to the Invocation .of the Celestial Intelligencies, and to the assertion
of intellectual dominion over the Hierarchies of elementary beings.
"The depths and heights of his own Immortal nature are also reve,led
to him, and from the pinnacles of his spiritual life he may soal' mto
ecstatic yet conscious [during his waking state] communication with God
[the Law] Himself.
214 DIVINE ALCHEMY
~The secret, subtle se~_!.i:!..i.~!!..!.«:a..U_!.Y._!~.~--fu~!..!?..r th~_s;:~n~?..IJ
f ...-- ~'lf..Soul ~~!!t--!~.~~~.. J~_c;_IJl:!!.'!l.~~-a..~!?.n. Considering Nature in all of
her operations, we are forced to the conclusion that nothing which
exists could exist without this fire. This, then, is the fire of the
true Rosicrucians, and in all times has been sung and written about.
All geniuses have pictured this divine force in music, art, and
even in words. In the human organism we must look for the
wonderful changes that are brought about by this force. How
could the food that we eat be changed (burned up-transmuted)
into those wonderful essences and these again into· the emotions of
love, hatred, kindly feeling, malice, etc., without a hidden power
within it?
One may say that this is due to the mind, but mind is contingent
on the brain and the brain cannot exist without a regular supply
of the food that rebuilds its cells. This hidden force is at once
constructive and destructive. It becomes the creator, destroyer or
"On the physical plane he may perform, by the adaptation of natural
laws, many prodigies which seem to the uninitiated observer in defiance
of all law; he may endow [charge] innert substances with the potency
of his individual Will, and this is the philosophical principle of Talis-
manic Magic; he can search all hearts and read destinies; perceive events
happening at remote distances, and can impart to suitable objects and
subjects a portion of·his own prerogatives!'
Unfortunately, Neophytes of the present day, and more especially those
of the western world, dislike intensely to obey and often refuse to do so
· unless ·there is no other way to be found.
No sooner does the Acolyte glimpse a few of the underlying truths of
the Mysteries than he will challenge: "If there be anything more, if there
exists such Hierarchies, then prove it to me," forgetful of the fact that he
himself must unveil these mysteries, and that this is impossible until he is
fully prepared and has proven himself. worthy.
If the deeper mysteries were not safely hidden from the unworthy and
profane, there could exist no such thing as the Occult,, the term in itself
implying THAT WHICH IS ,U~~~
Man can know the truth only after he has prepared himself to recog-
nize the truth. ~~~CE CREAT~,j IT IS THE TERROR STANDING AT
THE THRESHOLD, permtttmg entrance only to those worthy and fully
prepared.
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 215
preserver according to the impulse imparted by the desire (in-
nately a form of Love), and even this desire is a form of Fire.
~Watch then the Flame,· it will appear in a triangular form, __
- Pyramidal, and this is the symbol of Aspiration resulting in
exaltation. Let your desire be toward th~ Light, the source
of all. Herein is the Great Mystery.
Thus in all Nature do we .find this Fire, this Solar Ray (in
man, the Soul ·Ray), from the mineral even to the highest expres-
sion or manifestation of divine creation. This Fire is the Soul of
things. For this reason, lights are used in all true religious cere-
monies, in order to draw the attention of the communicants to the
true source of life and power.
The destructi¥e principle in this fire was known among the
ancients as Saturn, i.e., Satan, but this same Saturn can be made
to become the true Mercury, the potent Redeemer-the Christos,
by the power of Desire which is Love. The four letters of the
Word itself symbolize the four elements: Fire, Air, Earth and
Water, and are only a modification, in division, of the one great
force. This Fire, when truly understood, is the Elixir of Life,
the Royal Essence. In religious symbolism it is pictured as God-
Father, Son and Holy Ghost. The Mercury of the Alchemists is
at once all three.
This Fire is the beginning of all things and, like everything in
Nature, it appears under a dual aspect: The Spiritual Fire and the
fire in Nature. These two forming a true union, creation results
now as ever before. There is nothing existing without this fire
and, due to this truth, the Ancients used fire as the symbol through
which to worship the Universal or Cosmic Father, the one Crea-
tor and Sustainer of all of humanity. All of the Greater Mys-
teries of Antiquity were based on this principle, portrayed as male
and female, the Adam and Eve of Primitive Masonry and the
Jachin and Boaz of modern Masonry.
216 DIVINE ALCHEMY
We see this fire (life, light, heat) principal in operation all
about us. It is manifest in the growth of everything; in the sea·
sons of the year; in the Spring in its ascendancy, in the Fall in
its descendancy; going down that it may arise again; in the vapors of
the air; in the clouds; in the flowers and the frui~s. All life is a
continual process of reproduction. When Reproduction ceases, life
begins to wane and soon ends in sleep, only to reawaken and be
reborn in the properly prepared individual.
· The Ancient so-called Fire Worshippers had the true basic idea
even though modern churchmen, in their gross ignorance, dub them
as "heathens,"wholly unaware that their own religious systems
and their inculcations were born from these ancient systems, but
have lost much ~f their esoteric (life-wisdom-giving) knowledge.2
Absolutely nothing can exist without this life-giving principle we
. know as fire. From the smallest atom of matter to the largest sun,
. from the most subtle perfume to the highest form of the rose, so
symbolic of the Conscious or God-found Soul, to the most de-
structive cyclone, there is nothing but this one hidden divine fire.
The results ofany given activity depends entirely upon the form
this potential energy takes.
Everything in existence is the result of the intermingling of the
two major forces, or rather, of the one ·great force manifesting
under two aspects, i.e., duality. Sex is the Law, even though we
call it the CREATIVE EXPRESSION. Whatever the appearance under
this Law may manifest, and especially when under the exercise of
the creative function of man and woman, it is the expression of
Divinity and consequently Holy (whole-the two-in-one, or, as-
one). It should be reverenced by man and must be made holy if
he would save himself.
It is undoubtedly difficult for modern man, accustome!l as he is
to look upon things with a sensual and mortal·vision, to recognize, _
'See "Philosophy of Fire/' Philosophical Publishing Company, Quaker-
town,Pa.
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 217
in the creative organism and conjugal relations between man and
woman, anything good or Holy-or ever to admit, as did wise
Solomon, that here we find the Holy of Holies, the Sanctum Sanc-
torum. Solomon knew these truths and built the Temple-for the
Altar-in the ~. Sex is divine, majestic, noble and sublime; the
great wisdom and love of the Creator (creative Law) are here
~hown beyond any cavil to all who are willing to learn·.
To the "pure in heart all things are [appear as] pure." When
man can once more look at the creative ·exercise from this point
of view, he has advanced a great way toward overcoming all temp-
tations to indulge in sexual congress for .lustful purposes only, as
has been his habit.
This mysterious force, debased and sneered at, which yet rules
all, is alluded to in Alchemical writings as the "agent," and the
substance on any plane on which it acts, as the "patient." It is
man's dut}r and work to be able to control this force and transmute
·it into the highest possible potency, rather than to waste it in the
usual fashion, that of the libertine.
If we are in a darkened room and gaze at some imaginary spot,
we shall soon behold the appearance of a Light. Since there is no
light within the confines of the room, what we see must come from
within ourselves-it cannot possibly come from without, since we '
see only the objective with our physical eyes. This light that we
see is the fire that is within us. It is likewise the fire in Nature,
pictured under Saturn, which becomes Mercury, the Christos,
when the creative energy is raised to the A !tar of the Soul. God
never dwells in the darkness-to us-but in reality, in eternal
light.
The fire within us (the Soul) becomes visible to us-objectified
-because we could not comprehend this light by any other means.
By the firm and steadfast Will this fire is brought up and be-
comes objective, and the more we are able to subdue any extrane-
ous thoughts belonging to the sense world, the better and greater
218 DIVINE ALCHEMY
"
will the Light appear. This is indicative of how careful we should
be to entertain only pure ahd noble Ideals-for our imaginftion is
the Womb of all things. Just so far as we are· capable of forming
the ideal and holding it by the potency of our Will, will the Ideal
ultimately become objectified.
This light is the subjective become objective. It )s the "woman
[Soul] clothed with the Sun." By earnest and sincere endeavor
and holy aspiration, the Imagination can bring into manifestation
the highest Ideals and.people a world of its own, more real-to the
Soul-than many of the people whom we meet. The inner self,
the Soul, is the source of this marvelous operation; it is the Great
Unknown, the power we call "God," because we have no better
term for it. This power, after all, is substance-for God is. We
are made of this divine substance but unless we become conscious
of this fact and cease to· abuse it, we shall be unable to direct this
potentiality. This inner potency or creative ability is the "pearl
which is hidd·en among the rubbish of the Temple." Cleanse the
temple and you will find the "jewel."
If we become conscious of the source we must elevate, i.e.,
draw it up, by the power of the Will. Yet, the true inward vital
Spark is not in need of being lifted up. In itself it is Divine. The
work necessary is 'to transmute our own gross and carnal passions,
our selfishness and brutishness under which the Spark of Divinity
lies buried. As to the Grand Passion itself, the more we have of
this Creative Fire, the more pronounced may be our work, pro-
vided we direct it with a Master's hand and Will'. Frequently, in
our efforts, it may become necessary for us to summon all our
strength to overcome weaknesses and gross desires; but as we
grow in fineness, strength and understanding, the mind and heart
will become me~k, replacing arrogance and self-righteousness; and
then we will begin to recognize the boundless and infinite wisdom
and love of God and his Law concerning even the smallest and
most despised of his creations.
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 219
The light within is the Light that lighteth every man who ever
came into the world. It is the living Word; and every man has
this Word, in whom this Light, this "Son [part] of God" becomes
manifest. It is the divine self of every man, the divine Etheteal
counterpart without any infirmities, because these latter belong
only to the earthly form, the physical man. This divinity in man
is not a personality but may be brought into individualization in
the man who becomes conscious of his divine inheritance; yet, this
Ethereal being remains in its essence impersonal, a living entity1
incorruptible arid Immortal. · •
This is the Great Mystery before which the iritellett, reasoning
from particulars to manifestations on the lower plane, stands hope-
lessly confounded, but which the Soul, whose inner perceptions
have been awakened, beholds with wonder and awe. Only ·that
which is Infinite and Immortal in man is able to comprehend In-
finitude and Immortali.ty. So long as the wavering intellect doubts
the existence of God or fails to recognize the Law, it cannot become
Soul Conscious and Immortalized.
The Red Rose of the Rosicrucians symbolizes the ''creative
(male) principle" acting upon the White, receptive and reproduc-
tive (female) principle; the blood of the Red Lion upon the gl-u-
tenous matter of the White Eagle. .
The shape of the rose is symbolic of the heart, the mythical seat of
the emotions. In the measure that man succeeds in freeing himself
from sensuality, the Soul will manifest the spirit of Love; the
Christie spirit of being.
The Neophyte must succeed in realizing that giving way to his
passions, such as unjust and excessive anger, hate, malice, jealousy
and like evils, depletes and, at the same time, poisons his whole
being. Hate, fear, malice, resentment, jealousy and others of like
nature are the base passions; destructive, evil forces that bring
about the ruin and finally destroy those who give way to them.
If human creatures ~ere unable to live up to the Ideals as taught
220 ..DIVINE ALCHEMY
by the Master-Teacher of ~azareth, there would be no benefit in
the study of these beautiful truths. Theory alone has no value. ·
To benefit, man must practice the highest truths and the most
fundamental principles and MAKE THEM HIS OWN. By using these
principles IN ALL ACTIONS, they become interwoven with the very
fibers of his being; being built into his entire self, so that finally he
may manifest these Ideals and their potential benefits to himself
and others; thus, and thus alone, can he become an Initiate.
The Acolyte should make no attempt to kill, i.e., destroy or
eliminate, the creative force and ability. On the contrary, every
effort should be made to strengthen and conserve, master, hold
under control, and direct these forces to the final accomplishment
of the Work in hand. Love must be at the foundation. As these
creative forces, if weak or dormant, are revived, as they will be
under training, they must be 1·aised up, drawn toward and upon,
the inner altar, and there transmuted into love, affection, spiritual
power and· the .lEtheric Fires. This is the transmutation of the
carnal, animal man into the/an Archangel-it is the Alchemists'
secret made manifest.
The Lotus, whose home is in the Nile, and the Lily of Solomon,
handed down to us from the most ancient of days as symbolic of
the exalted life, draw their life, power and beauty from the slime
and filth in which their roots are planted by living true to
their nature, and, by th!! aid of the sun, transmute this filth into
fragrance and beauty beyond compare.
In like manner must man, within whom is the Tree of Life, the
symbolic Rose and Fleur de Lis, draw his sustenance from things
earthly; the food he ingests, the liquids he drinks, the air he
breathes, and transmute these, in the laboratory of his body, into
the secretions for the building of his body and the awakening of
his Soul.
The most wonderful and mysterious of all forces within him is
the "seed" wherein is the life of future generations .and the Fire
THE ARCANE SCIENCE . 221
which alone can give Light to the Soul, and wherewith is built the
fabled Tree of Life, the Mysterious Rose brought to bloom and
the Lily forced to give up its treasures.
Through generation, this "seed" is brought into manifestation
in the physical world. In REgeneration, it is drawn upward-"If
I be lifted up"-and transmuted so as to become the spiritual· self,
the Soul. The transmuting power is on the plane of Love or affec-
tion. This is the UPLIFTING power, the Christie energy. There-
fore, it is of paramo\,\nt importance that the Acolyte retain, accept
for generation and exchange, and transmute the seminal fluid if
his aspirations are toward the highest, the Immortal. The true
Alchemist is only the medium through whom the Divine functions;
all his works require watchfulness and constant prayer (aspira-
tion); and for this reason the Master-Teacher commanded:
"Watch ye and pray."
The Rosicrucian Rose symbolizes the heart of the Christos; the
five petals of the flower forming a Pentagram, or PERFECT MAN.
The utmost point or petal may be interpreted as the redeemed, RE-
generated Neophyte, the lower self having been purified and
through this process is developed the Tree of Life-lmmortaliza-
tion.8
As man studies deeply and practices the mystic philosophy, his
heart will open and his love will go out to those even who are not
8 The Rose symbolizes the Tree of Life and the Cross within the Rose,
the seed, is Love. In reading "Epic of Hades," and having in mind this
thought of the Rose, I feel that Persephone expresses my idea better than
I can.
Says Persephone to Adonis: "Till, when I grew hungered, ere yet an-
other form I saw; along the silent alleys journeying and leafless groves,
a fair and mystic tree rose like a heart in shape, and mid its leaves one
golden mystic fruit with a fair seed hid in it. This, with childish hands,
I took and ate, and straight I knew the tree was Life, and the fruit
Death, and the hid seed was Love.
"Ah, sweet strange fruit I the which if any taste they may no longer
keep their lives of old or their own selves unchanged but some weird
· change and subtle Alchemy comes which transmutes the blood and
moulds the spirit of God~ and men in some magical form,"-A Neophyte.
222 DIVINE ALCHEMY
in sympathy with him or with things spiritual, because he perceives
the divinity in all things. He forgives, yet does not condone the
evil acts of his fellow man. To his mind comes the saying of
Buddha: "To know all is to forgive all." He seeks the cause,
rather than judges the effect.
Nothing can exist without God (the Law). Should the God
(Love) principle be taken out of anything, it would cease to exist.
It has been said that no man exists, however see;Dingly bad, but
that there is some good in his heart. For this reason, the Initiate
forgives all and forgets the wrong, knowing that sooner or later all
men must reach perfection or destroy themselves in the process.
The Word of the Masters is the Fire become,Divine. On the
lowest or physical plane of activity, this·fire is the Life or fire in
Nature which continually changes or transmutes the lower into a
higher state. On the central plane, it is intelligence, desire and
passion, while on the highest plane it is the Love which is God.
The Neophyte must, during the process of Initiation, GROW
INTO Co~sciousness, and become fully aware of this Divine force
·within himself, and by intense, ennobled desire, draw all forces
'upward to the Altar upon the Throne within. Self, as such be-
comes sanctified and he has the knowledge that he is part of the
universal whole.
Unless we come into the realization that God, or that which we
call God, is in everything and everywhere, and permit our kindly
feelirig to go out unselfishly to all living things and recognize the
Divinity in all, even though it is deeply hidden and.asleep, we
should not expect to be able to enter the higher realms.
·Selfishness seeks to benefit the self alone, and against the best
interests of all· others. It is the curse from which humanity has
always suffered and man's effort could profitably be devoted to
.eliminate this scourge on mankind and replace it with something
better.
( The Neophyte will not progress rapidly until he learns to~
. THE ARCANE SCIENCE 223
wit!Jiu._~ the _lEth fires, Occultly termed the Universal)
Substance. This must be inhaled by.f<:l!;l:~StW.~.!!liQg of the .lEtheric\
forces and retained by the Magnetic thought, through an effort od
the Will. Herein is where the Great Secret is hidden. The (
Neophyte must absorb the Fire of God into his body through)
correct breathing and then retain it by means of the Mantram that>
is part of the breathing. -~
Q.urin$ the retei!_~~~J._t_!l_e. _b.!.~~~~. the £reative forces are ~D
w .ftgm__the c~e C!<,.'llS,Land mingled with the .lEth Firesin the
indrawn breath. All of this is then transmuted into the .lEtheric
energy and the vibrations raised to the center of Light to give life
to the Soul-the Spiritual self. IF THE DESIRE IS__!~!~N.SE.
~!f AND FREE ENOUGH F~~;E SE~.J..~!!2E_q_l:l_!..<?.F .~!lX
IN THE GROSS SENSE IS OVERCOME, AND MAN ATTAINS TO MASTERY
---...-.............__ ·~ - ................. _
... __ ..............~, •· -····
-· ..... ... . ...
INSTEAD OF REMAININ~J!J!~AV_!.
The conclusion of this Great Work is the Magnum Opus of the
Alchemists. PhilQsophically, this is the crucifixion. The successful
accomplishment of the operation results in the ascension-the going
upward into the realm of Soul.
The animal nature within man (every man) must be subdued
and ch~nged (transmuted) before he is able to read the riddle of
the Sphinx. This is actually t.he finding of the Christ.
. As we proceed_
_!~ brea~~~-il1:..~!-~i!..~~-~!...!E~-~!!l-e_.t.im.~draw
up our forces, a great work is accomplished if the practice is
approached with- -Ju-e--re-;~1--;;~~e ail<Cin t~-;~--·R~~~its . ~·~;; ~ot b;
immediately noticeabfe--;·z;;;~l/,; La~_. is th~t--~~_e_re.!!1!1!1. be_
f!. result
fro!!!_ _~!l.!!.L!ffort and this result is _according to the nature of the
effort.
The dross and the lower tendencies of man become changed
through the power of the Will whicft underlies the desire. The
divine, hidden substance from the higher and the lower planes or
realms meet and mingle, and from the union results the birth of
the Ne1V Man-the REgenerate Man-Manisis. .
.. ..
•
224 DIVINE ALCHEMY
Here we find the two E's in "Eve," representing the· two waters
of the Mosaic.teachings-and "the spirit of God was hovering over
"the face of the waters." This spirit of God still hovers over the
waters in order to create new men-the Illuminated of the coming
Manistic Dispensation.
Here, also, we have (in the successful accomplishment) the
duplication of Moses lifting up the Serpent, and an explanation of
the saying of the Master-Teacher: "If I be lifted up, I will draw
all unto me."
[
- The true marriage, symbolized by the marriage of Canaan, is
the union of the human and the Divine.- Here we find the spirit
of God, through the activity of the breath, uniting itself to the
substance hidden in the sea of semen, which is the Seed.
This is the union of fire and water and is explained by "Unless
~ man is born of the spirit and of water: he cannot enter the
kingdom of Heaven"-.ili~2£irit dw~llin_K.~!!.-~I?reath (the finest
recognizable lEth) and t.h~ater.~_..P.ri!!K...!!l.s...~eminal flyjd (the
highest substance) ; chemically, the union of the acid and the
alkali. From this union, or marriage, results;a new life, or a
refining of life, symbolized as Mercury..,of the Alchemists-i.e.,
the G.h!ist.
This resulting force has also been known as magnetism, and for
this reason the Rosicrucians were at one time known as the
"Magnetists." This force is in reality the true magnetic substance,
the power of attraction, namely, the Divine Love. It is the secret
of ·the A)chemists, "the Magician." •
The new birth (rebirth) is life. While all life is divine, that is,
·from God, yet we have it in our power to overcome by our Will
all sensuous and earthly feelings, so that this new life will ascend
to its own source undefiled.
/ The more our mind is attracted to and lives in the sensual, the
1
! more we retard the progress of the Soul. Not only that, we pro-
\ long the very life of the lower t~encies and we give these forces
I
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 225
an opportunity to renew themselves. It is of utmost importance to '··)
keep the sex life free and undefiled, because the true union is the )
marriage of spirit and matter, body and Soul.
By having the mind dwe~l on the beauties of the spiritual life,
we gain ,the ascendancy ~ver the lower forces, and in due time the
Soul becomes paramount over all else and will be the governing
p~wer.
It is here where the Will becomes the master;. having gained
dominion over the body, the physical ·desires· and the self, it unites
the Will ..yith God's Will an~ man becomes the servant of the
Most High, i.e., the Law.
If the Breast- Drill be faithfully practiced with due reverence..
and humiiity, we soon shall feel the. heat of the fire and a new life
coursing through our veins; as said in Z~CJJWII.i, "_!!1e_s.C?ul_be_
gins t_o
fc;~Lf!!.e.?t~''
This .lEtheric Fire, by many known ·in its less vital life form as
Magnetism, is the theme of all true philosophy; as it is of the
Mosaic teachings, for did not Moses see and hear God in the fire
of the burning bush? It is for this reason that the Nazarene is
always pictured as wearing loose clothing, similar to a woman's,
a custom followed by the Priesthood.
This is to indicate to the Aspirant that within the human body
there is generated a force which should be left unhampered by the
life we live and the clothing we wear. These forc~s have been in
all ages personified as Deities. IJ_i~~e.!J. ~l.!.~!. !h.~.~~QQQY.t.L§.QOJI!d
U_l}g~J:?J~!!-.d..~!..~b~..?~g;i~!_l_in{; .that he_m_
\lst J.JU rify ~imself from all
selfishness if he would attain to the knowledge of this, his higher
·!ii~hJ~~1~l~g~~~~~~fs~~:~;I:~s~~~~:~~~,~~~~~~~~cs~~~~na;;~~a~)
tion of them, eventually become his own destroyer. '
The whole secret of all true religions lies buried in this mystery.
This subtle, divine power which we find in the sex nature is also
what the Cabalists knew by the name of "Adoni," t.e., God of
'
#
226 DIVINE ALCHEMY
Light. It is the Lion of the Tribe of Judah, through whom only
fallen men may be redeemed.
In order to accomplish the Great Work, we must be able to
divorce ourselves from the sense world. The sense world, being
our limited, personal self attached to earthly things by ties of pas-
sion or hatred or by any other unworthy link, becomes the Dweller
on the Threshold, that same terror which appeared to Glyndon in
B·ulwer Lytton's story, so that it was necessary for him to immerse
his whole being in the excitement of the sensual world in order to
forget himself.
This lesson teaches us th!!J.L'Y~IH~tk!K~..Jht:. .~~lfisl!.J~lt
and b«!_<:2!!}.~-~~E~~!~!!!!l.cal_~dh~.divin~..Yoic~-~g!!QU!l~k_e_i!~!t
hear<!__tC!_ll!: We must learn that there is but one life, one spirit,
and that we are part of it. When we recognize that this great
invisible Love-power within can, on the physical plane, create
human beings and people the world, it should open our eyes that
on the higher plane we may see this same power as a builder.
As on the physical plane children are the result of the union of
the two opposite sides of the divine power, so in the higher realm,
'thought, desire and Love will bring about a union of these prin-
ciples and the corresponding resultant materialization.
There are ma~y grades between the physical and the finest
1Etherial essences which compose the Soul. This great substance,
out of which all have come, is known to the school of Alchemists
' and Rosicrucians as the Sea of .!Eth, and to_ar_Q~.!i~-1!~~-Y..i!~U~~thi.s
/ire is the first effort of the.!~~e Neophyte.
When the sun shines upon a lake or other body of water in
the Summer time, there arises a vapor, which sometimes becomes
visible as a white cloud. Although this becomes dispersed and
invisible, yet the forces constituting it remain and change into other
more refined forces. So in the human organism, the essences arising
from the digestion of food and the action of the invisible /ire drawn
in through the breath· produce something analogous, although we
..
THE ARCANE SCIENCE. 227
may not be aware of it until we study and medit_ate upon the
prospect of transmutation.
In the Cabala, the "orifice of the Genital member" is called
•:yod"-to teach us that it is here where the vital force is wasted
and expended foolishly, if not actually criminally, by the majority
of mankind, and it is here indeed where we must apply our Will to
stem the tide, if we would become REgenerated and redeemed.
The seed is the outer gross envelope of the hidden spiritual fire,
and we find that throughout all Nature there is no creation possible
without the union of the two principles. The position of the ~fm$...
_g:Qssed Q.!L!he br~~~~ and ~V~ . thQ.~gh~_9.f..~J~.1YiUK _
qp.Jrom the
creative organisn:L remind us of the descending triangle of king
Solomon's Seal, and the ascending triangle would then extend from
the kidneys to the brain. The center between the interlaced triangle
.is the Sanctum Sanctorum. ·
The whole of the Bible is one grand song dealing with this won-
drous force, this hidden /ire. Man himself is the book "sealed with
Seven Seals." He is the Liber; bound with the Seals, and when he
has redeemed himself, the seals of his passion broken, and the
Christos-his Soul-has risen within him, then and not till then
is he truly Liber, that is, free-without any bonds.
If man were only willing to "learn to know himself," and hav~~
faith in the power of the Love which is of the Soul, his inner eyes
would quickly be opened and he would recognize himself as a
spiritual being and ~e able to ac~.!!!PJ~s-~-'!:OI~-h~ .~i.d..~o~_pxeyj_- \
ously consider as a pgssibil!tY.: _
___-
He cannot, however, expect to have his spiritual eyes open~d
unless he is willing to become truly humble, and see in everything
the beauty of life and the justice of the Law. ·
The vital Spark, the potency or fire of the divinity, is pictured
in the Scriptural narrative under a thoutand different names. We
find it in Genesis and all through the Bible as the Serpent. On the
• r
228 DIVINE ALCHEMY
lower, sensual plane it is the Destroyer, while on the higher plane
it is known a~ Love and divine Wisdom.
It is this serpent that man must raise if he would attain perfec-
tion. The seed is implanted in all of us; but, through ignorance
and a wrong mode of life, it is obliterated from our consciousness
in all but its gross aspects.
The physical body of man, the creative organism and the seed
are but instruments and veils for the true, invisible, divine Sub-
stance. If we can send our best thoughts within ourselves while
"practicing," it will be like the influence of the stars on the physical
world.
Out of this Substance everything was, and still is, created. In it
all is inherent, and it must follow as a logical sequence that, by the
proper understanding and attitude, we should be able to call forth
its highest essence. This is the Mystery. ,
In the highest Work we are dealing continually with the Creative
Fire, for the secret of everything, as well as ali power, lies in the
..
"seed." God (the creative Law) planted within everything the
power to :aeproduce itself, i.e., so far as the physical world is con-
•
cerned. ·God and Nature, though powerful in their respective realm•
can work or manifest only through physical vehicles. Man is the
means to carry the "seed" and the seed is the vessel for the Sacred
Fire, by means of which alone the Soul may be built and become a
Conscious Individuality. •
Man is made in the image of his Creator, whatever you may wish
to call that Creator, and it is in the "seed" where this image must
be found, for the seed of man reproduces man. To manifest the true
Image, man must become ~ spirituaiized being. He must become able
to create in other than physical realms, by using his seed to carry this
force, through the medium of his Imagination, and united with his
Will, and by .the power of Love.
In our Work we must extract the Fire, the lEtherial force, from
the physical media in which it is secreted ; and, as we draw it up to
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 229
the middle chamber-the Garden wherein all things grow-we must
· then bring to bear upon it the image of the thing desired, with all
our latent power, and thus bring about its manifestation.
Man must be careful ~ever to wish for or imagine anything that
..!!!.l!.J!..l!.~detrimentgl or harm&JJ.J_t!!!:iETh;-;:-b;r;g;Tf.;;:;~k.;~··
to the consciousness that all power is centered within us and that~
~~n direct this..e.ow!:_t.E_.Willj we shall soon grow in wisdom and
in power-but we must ~ot forget that it is .!!2l OJ!.[ PQ:W.~t; not
man's, but God's (a part of the Creative Law), and make use of it
in a spirit of hum!!i.!Y:·
There can be no life without fire. We find fire in all things that
live. Even water is not without its fire, for does not the seed, which
is life, and therefore a pure fire, float in water? That which
appears to us as different elements is in reality one and the same
thing in various forms of manifestation. There is no opposition in
the elements as we suppose; the various parts _of these manifesta·
tions are held together by a strong bond. This bond in human
relationship would be Love. It is the Law of Attraction, and we
call it Nature.
As the different elements are in reality one, and as man is com-
posed of ali of these elements, he is one and the same with these
elements and this we call God. But manj~__1!!1Lf911§£i.Q"Hl!....9J.. _l)i~
diy~!!:l:':L!l.I!~--:w_i_~l.~!!9~......b! ..'!~.!i!_
_
_
t~-~i~~LI}!!!!te__in__pJ!!l~~!!.. _
has
~~i~~4__; now he is but man, whereas he may be a god. ·
This then is the riddle of the Sphinx and the Pyramid. The
Pyramid represents the divine Fire, which constantly ascends and
wherein is the only true transmuting power. The Sphinx indicates
the as yet unknown, the nature of animal, man and the Soul. All
of these having primarily the same source, they must be refined-
transmuted-by the hidden force.
Again, the Sphinx symbolizes that in man, the animal and the
divine may be equilibrated-the end of the Great Work. The
Pyramid symbolizes that. the power of the hidden, divine Fire,
•
230 DIVINE ALCHEMY
being the transmuter, !!l.!IJ:.i>2~~~!!t.U.ree-!£j1Lt~,..Y~i!C:J}!mtelf
with either the divine or the d~troye!:
"In it is life, and life is the light of man."-St. John. Truly the
light (within the Soul) is the great and marveious agent of God,
and holy writ informs us that God caused Himself to be called by
the appellation of Light, or Fire, since it is said that God is light,
and that He dwells in darkness. Light-God-cannot become vis-
ible to us save in the particles of lEth; this lEth can become visible
to us only through t,hs_r~£f.~.e..~.L9.iJh~-~r~.!lJ:.ivei~ces ;ind a reflec-
tion of these forces by means of the Arcanum of Light and Fire
Drill.
Life results from the union of true principles and i~ is this life
which must be drawn up. This is the Vau of the Hebrew alphabet,
the Lover between the twO women, w~ C:I:_J!_~~C<;J_!!1.£l_is~ _
ngtbi.p__gjn
this Work _!lnless we come into_!he co~~ou~of the ~ivine spjri~
withip. If we do this, then all things become possible, otherwise
all may be lost.
The inner fire must not be allowed to cool, but must be kept
steadily burning and constantly replenished. This we may do by
i~.~:n~!!.tbiqg ,Jh.~--~-ili~i~.Jh:~s. which, uniting with the nerve
energies by the desire and Will of man, become manifested.
Once having found the Sulphur and Mercury of the Alchemists,.
we must use their Salt. This is intense, purified Desire, and is the
drawing magnet. This must be unwavering. It is the bond that
binds the high and the low, the spiritual and the material. "Ye are
the salt of the earth." Why? Because humanity is the link between
heaven and earth.
As we grow into Consciousness we shall also be able to live in
that Consciousness. ~e ar~_on,th.~f..~!~.!!P.~~!.~~~ "God becomes/'
wrote Von Helmont. This is true. All is evolution and develop-
ment. As we become receptifJe without being negatifJe, and master
the lower,~? in_ !i!!_!l!.~~~'!!.:~-~ill/EL~iJL~~.!!~!E!'!~~'!J!l~P.!..4.i71_-.~~:­
Man, in his search for the real, for God, has nearly always
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 231
sought "up in the clouds" and hence has looked at Divinity through
the wrong end of the telescope; at a distant God, all the while! God
was near. Others have groveled down on the earth, like the serpent
on its belly, downright materialists. Neither can find Hinl'; He is
within_- and in between.
He who has been seeking God in the air must come down and
combine his metaphysics with his knowledge of physical laws and
this will help him to recognize that the body is truly "the temple of
the Living God."
Everything comes from-is part of-Nature, Mother Earth,
and in the measure that we separate the true and lasting from the
temporal, or transmute the temporal into the eternal, shall we be
able to draw from the lesser the greater-all for which we have
need.
At first, is it difficult to comprehend truth in this light. Earth
has been considered as nothing but dirt. "Can anything good come
out of Nazareth?" In reality, the spirit of God is in all, in every-
thing,. and there is nothing low except as man makes it so. The
Christos (creative Law) performs miracles daily within our organ-
ism but we do not see them. We are blind to the Mysteries. It
is only as we become truly humble and sincere that we may hope to
gain wisdom and see as with eyes clearly.
Man is. truly the "G. A."-the Great Athanor. He is the
crucible in which God and Nature transmute the crude--r~ugh­
Ashlar into the polished Ashlar. Man~crucible is in his conscience,
in which all his lower ideas and emotions must be purified until
he can see the good in everything.
All true Magic depends on Soul Development and deals with
the within. As we breathe in life and also draw up .from below at
!he same tim!:.t..~~.Jo.~-~=~(th.i~-~~~~.~~~~~?j~(~~g~~~. ~hich fo;~ -
Kin~J2..1Eon's: ~~~~~ Through the interlacing of these forces from
above and below (spirit and matter, the light and dark triangle),
new life springs into being. The Intermediate space (the Solar
232 DIVINE ALCHEMY
Plexus) is the altar for the sacrifice, and the fire kindled there
belongs to the· Soul.
Man could not think and reason if it were not for this hidden,
inner fire. In religion, God is always pictured to believers as a
trinity:
God, the Father-Fire, or/and Love.
God, "Son or Word"-Light.
God, Holy Ghost, or Air (in motion)-Spirit (which also is
a fire).
There can be no motion without heat and no heat without com·
bustion, and combustion is a fire. This fire is not the visible
brightness we call by this name but is the invisible, primordial
matter out of which spring all things.
This fire is in all matter-in every morsel of food we eat, in the
water we drink and the air we breathe. It.is this which is the life-
giver and the builder. It is Saturn, the lowest, farthest removed
from the sun; and this-as man refines himself-becomes Mercury,
or the Christ-the Light that dwelleth in darkness. This fire, as
we meet it in all religious ceremonies and in all monuments, sym-
bolizes the generative power. Hence, the Phallus and Yoni are
everywhere met with as symbolizing the creative power-not the
physical force but the invisible, divine /ire which represents God
the Creator. This was the secret of the early forms of Fire
Worship. ·
The fire which symbolizes God as dwelling·in matter or dark-
ness is pictured all through the Biblical narratives-"the bush'that
burned with /ire," as it appeared to Moses. The bush is man.
Jacob's ladder is the Alchemical· Transmutation-the gradual
ascending of the gross until it leads up.into the divine realm-the
changing of dross into gold-of the mortal into an angel-a god.
In the Genesis of Moses, we read that God said: "Let there be
light." According to this, God dwells in darkness, as the Rosi-
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 233
crucians ·have always taught, and his command, "Let there be
Light," indicates that the Light was the result of H~s Will.
The lesser fire (fire in nature) is Will or Love in its outer
manifestation. When this fire is drawn up and united with the
celestial Fil·e,··it becomes celestial Love; and then, instead of a
destroyer, it becomes the savior, a Preserver.
The body of man is not only filled with fire but it is also sur-
rounded by fire. There is fire in his saliva, which is the first water;
and fire in the urine, which is the last water. The "loins" of
Biblical lore are the laboratories of the seed for procreation, and
hence a truly creative fire dwells there.
The creative organism is the great sacred temple wherein the
hidden fire is (or should be) eternally burning and from there
angels ascend and devils descend. "Hell" is the result of the crea-
tion of an outer darkness when the vital essence is ~xpelled through
purely carnal intercourse.
Fire is motion, life and heat; and, through this heat, Will,
desire, digestion and other phases of the great transmutation are
carried on. The fire continually tends upward and purifies, but on
the physical plane it appears as a destroyer. In reality, however,
it is the REgenerator, the Savior. Physical fire is the last phase of
physical matter passing off to another plane of activity. As fire
changes all that it consumes into gasses and other forces, so do the
bodily secretions, acids (fires), transmute (digest or consume) the
food into atomic form, these becoming living entities and, when
enveloped by the breath (holy spirit in the lungs), become the
builders of body and Soul.
It is here that man becomes the Savior of the lower "races"-
the gross desires and passions. In the degree of our enlightened
knowledge and the desire to rise up to the highest, do we raise and
impress upon these forces the true light. That is, we gather these
entities into the Soul. As we press forward in our existence, we
come to know that we are evolving towards a higher goal-God.
236 DIVINE ALCHEMY
• The fire plays its most important part at the center of the body;
the· stomach-digestive organism, liver, kidneys and sexual organ-
ism. And in the six centers: head or brain, heart (breast), stomach,
liver, kidneys and creative organism; and the Great Center-the
seat of the Soul-(Sol-Sun), Manisis, the Soul or Inner Man,
which is the sun of man's organism. All the food we eat and the
air we breathe is Solar (sun) energy, which ultimately mingles
with, and becomes one, the Soul in man.
The idea is the Seed, or the Soul, of-things. God's idea or Image .-
in man is the Soul. We have God, or Soul, and body or matter.
Between these stands the "I," the ego. It is for the "1," the self,
to choose to go down and remain with the animals or unite itself
to the Soul and become At-One with the Divinity.
Just in proportion as we are able to translate our senses or the
reports of the senses, do we make our choice; for things are only
·what they seem to be "to the senses that use them," and here is the
i portance of the secret of the Breast Drill. If we, through tlt_c;.
Drill, can transmute the sensations of the sex function, and redirect
the feelings so that consciousness of them is partly lost in the
nobler desire, we shall learn to look u·pon sex as something vastly
different from what we formerly thought it to be; and, instead of
considering the sex functions as ·purely animal, we shall come to
respect them and recognize their wonderful work as instruments
necessary to and part of our unfoldment.
Two things confront us: God and matter; yet matter without
God is not. Out of God have come two things: force and matter,
interchangeable term. For God we substitute Will; and for Will,
force and matter in action; this constitutes the visible universe.
But even back of the Will we find the idea; and when we wish or
Will anything, we must have a clear conception of what we wish
to Will.
This Will, persistently held to one particular pointfor idea,
sooner or later will bring the idea into objective form and thus a
•
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 237
reality to the senses just. as previously it wM a reality .only to the
Soul.
Sex potency is Soul power-God power unrefined as yet. The
va~ious elements entering into. this statehave all ~~e-f~~m one
substance and have advanced through evolution by degrees, slowly,
imperceptibly, through aeons of time, unt.il they were endowed with
visible life.
On our plane, the "opi)osites" show themselves through sex
and are attracted toward c!'.lch other by an irresistible power (in
normal persons) variously termed love, attraction, fascination,
affection. This is the Law of God and.of Evolution.
The "opposites" are brought together to bring them again, by
degrees, under the Law of Unity. In this attraction, the animal
life experiences a sensation, an ecstasy, which it cannot explain; and
even on the human plane, this sensation is attributed to the power
resident in matter. It is due to this sensation that men and women
are drawn together and they call it love. A careful analysis
would indicate that ordinarily it is not Love but a state of self love,
and this is shown by the fact that the embrace is not usually sought
for tlze purpose of elevating, or pleasing, or helpi~g a11other, but
solely and purely to gratify the senses of the self-one's own senses.
Hence it is only a selfish, animal function although, when carried
on to its legitimate sphere on the physical plane, it is the means of
the propagation of the specie. The sensation, ho;\rever, is not due
to the physical alone-it is also a Soul experience. It is the climax
of the higher fire passing out of its pent-up prison. It is actually
an explosion. What of the force, the el~ents that compose all
this sensation-what becomes of these? In generation, when con-
ception occurs, the divine spiritual forces which should be in
activity, combining the masculine and feminine potencies, build a
new temple for a Divine Ray, a Soul.
The sensation then is a Soul force. So also is ·wm. The sensa-
tion experienced during the con~ugal act is resident in the mind.
238 DIVINE ALCHEMY
From time· immemorial, through all our environments, sensation ·
has been the incentive to action. Sensation has been our light on
the physical plane and we inherit this idea and this feeling from
our progenitors.
We grow up in our animal propensities; we hear this thing, see
it, feel it, and we forget all our surroundings and' our interests
and our real duty, simply to be under the influence of what-this
sensation? No!! !-under the influence of our preconceived idea
of the thing and nothing else. An idea holds us in.bondage and we
remain slaves.
We cannot accomplish much as long as the mind is filled with
images and ideas dealing with the sensual life. The God in man,
the true uplifting power; cannot raise man if he chooses to stay in
~~~ .
To be able to center ourselves is the great requirement. This
must be accomplished through Will power, and the Will then
turned into Love or affection; for no great work is possible unless
the heart is wholly devoted to it.
Here is where we "return to the Father" and wherein true
power resides. This power once attained must be directed so as to
be a blessing to others and not be selfishly used. In our world_:_
g.u..r_.\>_QQ.x::-~!,Pust become Jord and master, and the creativ_!!
function must be brought_under th,L.direction of t~§.cn!L.!i.!lJi
_become REgenerated. Thus we become Redeeme4_Mc:_n-_!(os!:
cruciaps-Manisis.
Since Will-the creative faculty-is from God, it behooves us
·to cultivate it and to make it strong, pure and powerful. The
old inborn thoughts of self, sex and sensation must give way. As
we build new thoughts and hold them continually before the
mental vision ; as we steadily cling to the concept that we are
created in the Image of God and may be Immortal· beings, if we
will overcome the mortal sensual mind and its ideas, we are in due
time certain to reap the harvest according to the sowing.
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 239
Our thoughts cannot return to us void. This is the awful1 the
divtnely and unsftaJE.f!JY.J~iJ!l!fU;"_E~~!:';~f_!hL~l!~~·~LQ<?.i!P~~~;.·
tion1_ Equilib~i~-~--~-I!~_!!C(!. If the thoughts have been revenge-
ful, malicious or covetous, and have brought sorrow and suffering
to others, then as we havr:__
_!!!.!f!f.!f!_ed __!!.nt£___Ether:!...!.!!...J!:!jll._.iL.k~
measured unt_D_..!!!: Our thoughts 1!I.
e._
_
.Q.I!r.~5=hildren. They will
guide and sustain or cr~stroy -~s. -· ... -----~~------ ·....
The Work requires time. It cannot be accomplished in a week
or a month. We inhale the lEth during the Drills and when in
~eep_med~~-t_i<?-;.-Thi~-.-by d~gr~~;, ~h~~g~;··th~ -ti~i~~~~{!ji~-~~i~.
and necessarily requires time. In the~~~~.nd~ai!:~-~!~t1!-i!!~d.
an that IS, or WAS, or ever will be. The vital fluid contained
herein is the Alchemist'; Me~ry, the essences arising from the
good (that which is eternal), having passed through the various
stages of purification, until they have become the spirit of the
semen or seed.
If the seed of all things is congealed air, then likewise the seed
of man also is congealed air and is the image, or idea of God,
since God created man and made man IN HIS LIKENESS and at the
same time a co-creator with Himself. The action of Mercury on
Sulphur, i.e., the influence of the i~ward breath acting upon the
essence of the vital forces coming from ·the food, is raised by the
p~s~~E_e__
~~~~~~~~~!_!:-h.o!.d..~~ _th_(!_
_
~.r.~il.th..!!Ll!l.edi~a~ion; and this
gives birth to the Fire which builds the Soul.
There is in reality no difference between matter and spirit;
between God and man. M.~r:-~~ theJ~s~r_
_go_
4.· God is in man and
the two are inseparable except through sin (destructive action).
To live in this consciousness is man's highest privilege. .Jn th_s_
exact image in which w_!...E.~b~_f:!]-!!"'t~g-~ghs~ ~jllJ~~-.QlJr live~, _
our
happiness or our misery. At first we may only vaguely see things
in this ligh·t;--'b-;;t·-~fP;Eti~y!lJlll.y_.J.lliJ!td.!!a....o~ an.x.Jlllif!fL.:W.i.l!.Pt!:d
must objectih' it, so that gradual.!Y.. 5.h.'=..~~r!.La..~~}:l!l_4. _1.!~_\Y_ill be,
240 DIVINE ALCHEMY
our world as ~~-~~...!Y.~kcz,E, and in this way we actually
become the £Iltl~f_QY..L_c!~.Hinic: ··
When once in the full consciousness of this vast power, and im-
bued with the idea of true love, and a determination not to employ
our knowledge for aught but good, m<~~-~C.QJr,tes.J.he_M.a!i.t.l!~·
Difficult Problems
Esoteric Laws Governing Them ·
t ..,:· .':·-
·.
URlNG forty-five years of practice·.as a ..specialist
in several branches of medicine, a~'d as a teacher
of Esoteric Science and the Sacre4ness of Sex, I
have been con.fronted by maQy extremely diffi-
cult problems. . .
One of the most frequent problems in sex relationship is illus-
trated by the following extract from the letter of a sincere seeker
after righteousness, who earnestly sought to live within the Divine
Law. Similar passages might be quoted from hundreds, perhaps
thousands, of other letters received within these many years. The
answers usually made to such questions by many who possess little
or no knowledge of either sex laws, psychology or of Endocrinology,
have wrought havoc in ·countless thousands of homes, breaking up
family ties and bringing sorrow to unnumbered children, much of
which might have been avoided by a sane approach to an admittedly
intricate problem.
Quoting from. the letter: .
"I have long been deeply interested in your teachings as
they pertain to the higher Occult and the Divine Law and
the living of a life to harmonize with the teachings of ·one
Jesus, a Magi of old; but my husband, of whom I have ·
thought the world, has turned out to be ,worthless, is often
drunk, frequently abuses me, and makes demands upon me
which seem unjust. When I am forced to comply with th~se
demands, I become nauseated and thoroughly disgusted. In
fact, at times· it seems that I must either scream or try to
strangle him. These feelings are not aroused in me because I
\
242 DIVI NE ALCHEMY
hate him, for I do not, but because intercourse with him is
repugnant to me, knowing that his demands are not made
with love.
"I have been advised by the ......... Society, an Associa-
tion making claim to be both spiritual and Christ.ian, to leave
him; but, having children who would suffer disgrace, I do
not want to do this; now what am I to do?"
Here is a condition which is identical with that ex1stmg in
millions of homes throughout the land. I assuredly do not feel
that this good, though highly neurotic, lady, probably made so by
her own violent reaction to requests for conjugal relationship which
she now abhon, should leave her husband and break up the family
until every possible effort has been made to adjust and harmonize
their relationship, irrespective of w hat any ignorant and irresponsi-
ble person, or any society supposedly laboring for human welfare,
may say or teach. There is a sane, sensible method this lady may
follow with success in redeeming her husband and bring about the
happiness of the entire family. Therefore my reply is as follows:
" By no means leave your husband until every effort has
been made to re-establish harmony. ELIMINATE THE V]lRY
THOUGHT OF IT BECAUSE THIS THOUGHT CREATES A POISON
HARMFUL TO YOU AND AN INFLUENCE WHICH YOUR HUS-
BA;.JD FEELS, AND WHICH MAY CREATE AN IRRITATION, CAUS-
ING HIM TO DO THINGS HE OTHERWISE WOULD NOT CONSIDER.
You may have an idea that other wives do not have similar
experiences; in this you would be deeply mistaken. More-
over, should you leave him and break up your home, you
certainly would not care to spend your days in loneliness; how
then do you know that running away from your problem
would not DRAW TO YOURSELF SOME FAR WORSE CONDITION,
though possibly of a different nature. In my long experience
I have known all too many such actual instances. If this
should happen to you, what would be your gain?
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 2+3
"Your husband is undoubtedly ncting according to w hat
he believes his right. -Most men today are ignorant relative
to all the important Laws governing co-habitation and what
is involved in the act as a whole. A philosopher once said: 'All
men are liars.' He might have said with equal truth: 'All
men AND women are ignorant of sex matters though it is the
most important single activity in the life of man.'
"Is it not true that you entered the marital relationship
with him under the vow of 'for better or for worse?' While
many of our moderns claim this has no religious significance,
it cannot be denied that a man's or woman's honor is no greater
than his or her respect for a sacred obligation. To break such
a vow, any obligation, if it can be avoided, is to set into motion
the Law of Retribution.
" Because you actually have the worst of a had bargain
offers you neither right nor excuse to ignore your obligation,
unless in the finale it carrilot he avoided. The right procedure
is to try to find a method whereby the evil can be corrected.
" B.efore you married this man he apparently met with your
ideas of what a man should be. Is it therefore possible that
you, perhaps unconsciously, were the cause for his gradual
change? Is it possible that because of frequent 'turning of
the back,' i.e., frequent refusals without explanations, he con-
ceive-
d the idea that you did not care for him, and that being
married to you, he may now demand that which formerly
was lightly requested by him?
"Are you aware that when you state that he makes demands
that 'seem unjust' to you, he may think he is perfectly in the
right, UNLESS YOU PROVE TO HIM BY LOGICAL EXPLANATION
THAT HE IS IN THE WRONG?
"Is it not possible that such refusals, he not knowing the
reason, may cause him to seek satisfaction in drink?
"Are you aware that the mind and nervous system of even a
244 DIVINE ALCHEMY
coarse man is so delicate that the feeling of nausea and dis-
gust on the part of his wife, while in congress with him, may
create a feeling of ·aversion in him, a resentment that is deep
and cruel, though he is unaware of the cause, and that this may
send him to alcohol or some other form of physical-mental
satisfaction, while at the same TIME IT CREATES A POISON IN
YOUR SYSTEM WHICH IS SELF-DESTRUCTIVE?
"Do you fail to realize that having married you, under all
the laws of church and state he is justified in feeling that he
has a perfect right to make these requests, within reason of
course, and that if refused, he has a right to demand?
''Has it occurred to you that his unthoughtful action to-
ward you may have started in ignorance, that possibly he .has
never been taught that a woman, eve~ a man's.own wife,
should be won, and not forced?
"Is it not possible that in his ignorance he feels you would
be offended if he were to fondle and caress you for the purpose
of awakening a desire in you before his approach?
"Is IT POSSIBLE THAT BY SOME ·ACTION, SOME CURT RE·
FUSAL OF SUCH AN APPROACH, YOU GAVE HIM GOOD CAUSE
TO THINK so?
"Is it not possible that in this same ignorance he may think
you would feei aggrieved, insulted, or be shamed, if he ap-
proached you in any manner but with a 'now'? 1
"Remember that by implication at least, by church and
state, man has been led to believe that sex in woman 'is a
thing to play with ; that she has no feeling~, or if she does,
must not show it by any manner of expression. True, this is
a darimable and inexcusable understanding of an act which
inay call a body into being and draw a Soul into it.
"First of all in your search for a solution, and as a wise
beginning, analyze yourself thoroughly and see if you have
been doing your full duty toward.your husband; if you have
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 245
been willing to be a sweetheart as well as the mother of his
children. Find out if you are not physically unstrung and
your reactions unnatural. Watch yourself "and see if you
withdraw within your~elf when he approaches you. Get wis-
dom and win happiness. Find out by test if an accidentally .ex-
posed breast or thigh at thep proper time will not win a re·
~ponse. Remember that such 'accidental' exposures have
brought kings and princes to their knees.
"When approached, FORGET ALL YOUR AVERSIONS AND
LOOK FOR AND EXPECT THE BEST, COMPLY WILLINGLY, ·HAV·
JNG PREPARED YOURSELF BY METHODS HEREIN TAUGHT AND
FOR AN EXPRESS PURPOSE, and watch his surprise as well as
the REACTIONS WITHIN YOURSELF BECAUSE OF THE 'sacri-
fice' on your part and the exchange of magqetic forces as the
result.
"The plan here advocated may be a test and require much
self-control, but it will prove tWo things: If you enter into
the real spirit it will either draw your husband to you and
bring happiness into the family, or the spirit of goodness will
repel him so that he will not approach you for that which he
has not won, and, in addition, IT WILL PROVE WHETHER OR
NOT YOU ARB A PROPER CANDIDATE FOR THE HIGHER LIFE
IN THAT IT WILL DEMAND THE SELF-CONTROL AND THE RE·
SPONSE NECESSARY FOR THE GREAT WORK.
"Moreover, this~ at ftrst sacrifice on your part, will result
in the transmutation of the gross and base passions within
yourself into the fine gold which .you claim you are seeking.
"When your husb~nd-approaches you with his request, try,
and the watchword is always TRY, by all your arts, to induce
him to revert to ;the days of his courtship; to ca,;:ess and to
awaken desire in ·you so that you will be ready, aye, eager, to
respond. Yes, I do say 'ready and eager' to .respond, because
as a married woman and one possessed of fairly good health,
246 DIVINE ALCHEMY
it is your duty, a sacred obligation as a woman and wife, to
permit yourself to be awakened to desire and TO HELP IN THE
AWAKENING PROCESS. You can readily help yourself in this
effort by at first permitting your mind to dwell more on the
object in view than on the act itself, and I s~y to you that if
your husband is not a brute, and is moderate in the frequency
of his requests, you cannot lose, but will be certain to gain
much, both physically and spiritually, by a righteous, marital
relationship followed throughout in· the manner indicated.
"If there are good reasons why you should not comply,
such as too frequent approaches, or not feeling physically
right, try to prevent the consummation of the Rite by calmly
reasoning with him, but never by curt ·refusal. Hundreds of
men have confessed to me that when their wives refuse for
no apparent reason and turn about and fall asleep, it arouses
a demon in the~ and they take by force that which they would
gladly relinquish if reason had been shown in the denial.
"If you find that kind words and all your arts will not
change him, then, without any feeling, any repugnance, and
with nothing but kindly feelings, comply with his demands,
and now for the final test: Make every effort to arouse your
own feelings so that the Rite will be full, complete and with
perfect exchange, and you will KNOW a feeling of satisfaction
and benefit heretofore thought impossible.
"For the time being, live as though you fully loved your
mate and were pleased that he had sought you. In a degree,
. make the Rite secondary.and charge your mentality andSoul
with the idea of the transmutation that is taking place. In
other words, hold the thought and the desire exactly as you
would were you the most beloved woman on earth and he the
cleanest, noblest and most loving of men. You may so sur-
. prise and charm him that he will be awakened to his Manhood
and you will reap the lasting benefits.
THE ARCANE SCIENCE 247
"I know full well that this is not an easy matter. I realize
that it requires courage and a strong Will power. But that
which is most important is: It can be done, and the results,
brought about by the Law of Compensation, will more than
justify every effort necessary.
,
"At each additional request, comply in the same manner and
in the same spirit; with the deep cksire that the transmutation
shall take place.
"Gradually, you will come to realize that it is no longer
a sacrifice on your part, because you are coming into the full
recognition that you are simply paying a price for the results
accruing to you, and we all, irrespective of our position or
station in life, must do that sooner or later. Everything in
life worth having must be paid for in one way or another.
"Moreover, you will slowly become conscious of something
else. Either the requests of your husband will become less
and leSi frequent, or the!e will be a great change in his nature
for the better; and in that case, he will gradually become the
man you desire him to be. You will find that, through a
sacrifice willingly made on your part, you will be reimbursed
in health, strength and power, and a freedom that you had
not dared dream of-an unshackling gained, not at the ex-
pense of another, but·honestly earned.". .
Another problem the true physician and sincere teacher and
guide all too frequently meets with is the complaint of women that
it is not possible for them to live an ennobling life, cannot follow
arcane instructions and at the same time fulfill the obligations im-
posed upon them as wives, all because of the brutishness of
husbands; that were they free from this "bondage" they would be
well and happy, and able to attain their true position in life.
In all too many instances, in fact, in most of them, gaining such
freedom by law either results in a more undesirable relationship
with another of the genus homo, or the discontinuation of every
248 DIVINE ALCHEMY
effort to improve herself and her position in life. The complaint
was nothing more than an excuse to be free from, or sidestep, the
assumed responsibilities.
Because we have given our consideration solely to women is no
indication whatever that many men, all too great a number, do
not have occasion to contend with similar conditions. The circum-
stances as a whole are far different, because when a woman no
longer has love or affection for her husband, she seldom displays
any desire for his embraces, but, on the contrary, does everything
in her power to avoid them.
Many times there may exist a decided coldness between two
people who actually love each other, due to the fact that he, the
husband, is ignorant of the part he is to play as a lover, and she,
equally ignorant, interprets this as lack of, or loss of, affection
on his part. To i~lustrate this we here quote from another letter
received from one seeking help, and who, we are happy to say,
because of her willingness to follow instructions, regained the love
and re-established the pre-marital atmosphere in the home:
"During our courtship days my husband was more or less
reserved, but I took it for granted that this was due to his
inborn respect for all women and his love for me.
"After marriage, some of his shyness and exclusiveness wore
off, though at all times he showed great respect for my
modesty and would not knowingly intrude; there were other
times when he caressed and fondled me, though always with
reserve.
"I am assured that my husband loves me, but why c~nnot he
show his affection as every true and full-blooded woman cares
to have her husband manifest his love-:-to be frank, by caress-
ing, fondling and coaxing. As your experience must ·have
taught you, every woman will say 'no' just to have her loved
one coax her into compliance. Every woman will close her
THE ARCANE SCIENCE
door in the face .of a dear one so as to have hiin open it; un~
consciously, of course, at the opportune time, for where is.
there a woman .to devoid of feeling that she does not actually
want her form admiredf.
"Love is a great, beau~iful, puls~ting reality, but woman is
human and has her vanities. .Caresses, coaxing, fondling, ad-
miration, and even a little bit of real roughness at times, are
real food to her body, her mind and her Soul." • -
There, my friend, is ·the secret, if you 'would hold your :wife as
a sweetheart. Master it and do not forget that the woman you,
married may be part angel, but lest you forget, I would remihd' ·
you there is much of the woman about her. Treat hir as ~you WOJ,lld
a sweetheart, if you dared, a~d you will hot have cause to reg~et it.
•
' ..
