{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1944__purnell___the_comforter_mothers_book____v5.pdf","mytitle":"The Comforter Mothers Book","mylang":"de"}
The Book of Heaven
5th
COMFORTER
of the
Mother's Book
(The Pint Book of the Visitation by a Woman sinoe Joanna dropped her pen.)
PREFACE.
BELOVEDS, this the Book of Heaven, the 5th Comforter,
"The Mother's Book, the Woman's Writings" is handed
to you with the humble desire that it may comfort you and
drive away all clouds of doubt and confusion that may have
assailed your mind.
The harvest season is a time of great rushing to and
fro and knowledge increased, but the heart must be set on
God and His holy presence, Shiloh Immanuel, which has been
especially granted unto Israel that they may set their house
in order and sweep for the "lost piece" —obedience to the
Law of the Spirit of Life—which will set you free from the
law of sin and death.
Search the Word of God for yourselves and see these
things are according to the Law and to the Testimony, and
be ye prepared for that great and notable day of the Lord
which we are now living in—the day of crucifixion and
regeneration that we may qualify as the many Brethren of
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
There is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am
His servant.
Published by
The Israelite House of David
Aa Re-organized by Mary Purnetl.
CITY OF DAVID
Box 177
Benton Harbor, Michigan
Bentley Historical
Library
University of Michigan
MARY
of the
CITY OF DAVID
Nov. 13, 1939.
THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
INTRODUCTION
THE Second Child, Shiloh Immanuel, comes forth male and
female, and upon Mount Zion you shall behold the Im
mortal Son of man, and with Him a virgin Woman clothed
with the Sun, having the twelve stars upon her head, as it
is described in Revelations. And He held in His hand His
Immortal Bride. And a voice was heard to utter, "This is
My beloved Bride." And from them shall come forth the
Immortal Sons of God, the 144,000, the precious stones for
that immortal building. And they shall all differ one from
another, no two stones alike in the building, because of their
conception and birth, coming forth likeunto the Lord himself.
Therefore the divine Father did at the same time, as a
wonderful Globe of Glory, overshadow the Bridegroom and
His Bride. Then we can hear the voice saying, "This shall
be the Paradisical earth replenished with Virgin Wisdom
bringing forth offspring, which shall be called the Church
of the Firstborn and be named Jehovah, "I AM that I AM,"
The Lord of righteousness is their clothing. After this,
Wisdom said to Her faithful followers: "Ye must pass into
this Mountain," namely the holy Mount Zion, so ye shall be
come capable of the same glory with these, proving you have
been highly favored and given to be as a chief pillar of sup
port to this new Immortal Church that has been so long
promised. Wisdom then can say to Her faithful ones, "Now
hast thou seen the Virgin Church" that is not only glorious
within, but also glorious without, being clear as the sun,
fair as the moon, and wonderful as an army with banners.
Dear beloved Israel! This is the mountain of the Lord's
House which shall be established for His majesty and glory
over the whole earth, of which a mighty shout was heard in
the heavens above, and the Angels sounding their trumpets,
rejoicing that the marriage of the Lamb has come. And
the Bride was glorified with the self-same glory as Himself.
And it was said unto Me: "Seal not up the prophecy of
this Book, for that time is approaching near for its fulfill
ment." But stand you and all your faithful watchers that
are looking for this blessed hour and glorious appearing of
this wonderful day and fulfillment of the prophecies of the
divine ages. And the Holy Ghost shall not fail to complete
and finish the work, as has been foretold, which has been
directed by the prayers of the Saints to the Father.
Israel have found the Spirit of Wisdom to open up the
Oracle to reveal the deep and weighty things which be
5TH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK
longeth to our peace, entreating all Israel to ever have that
Living Faith, and doubt not concerning the glory which we
shall receive upon this Mount. It was upon this Mount where
Jesus took Moses and Elias and everything was transfigured
before them. And Jesus said: "Tell this vision to no man
until the Son of man be risen." And what was it they saw?
It was the spiritual body of Jesus that appeared to Mary after
He arose from the dead. And He also fell in company with
the two disciples who were on their way from Jerusalem to
Emmaus, and Jesus walked along with them and asked about
the talk they were having so earnestly. And they replied,
"Are you a stranger? Have you not heard of all the things
which have been taking place in these days?" And Jesus
said, "What things?" as though He did not know. They
proceeded to tell about the crucifixion and said, "We trusted
that it was He who was to restore Israel, and besides, this
is the third day since all this happened." And when they
arrived at their home they turned in, and Jesus made as if
He were going further, and they were constrained to ask
Him in.
And they did not know Jesus until they got within the
door —which means to say, the door of that Immortal Spirit
opened up their understanding and they saw it was the Mast
er. As they said: "Did not our hearts burn within us as
He talked with us by the way?" And so it is now under the
voice of Shiloh Immanuel, who is revealing the secrets of
heaven unto the Israel of God, thus entering into the resur
rected Word of life, which causes a great rejoicing in our
hearts as He talks to us by the way, giving us the authority
and command to sound forth the mighty Trumpet o'er all
the earth, and publish the everlasting Gospel, proclaiming
this the twelfth and last hour, the acceptable time for all
to be brought in.
Therefore, if the mighty Trump of Gabriel wakes those
sleeping souls, how much more the Living?—and this beauti
ful Message of peace, love and good-will unto all that enter
into the New-born Seventh Church, who have passed the
fiery furnace through the power of I AM that I AM. And
these are to be all moulded and put into place, proving them
selves to be the Immortal Stones, ready and prepared for
His Immortal building, thus gaining the prize that they have
been long waiting for, thus entering into that path that I
have not yet described, which I will bring unto thee.
So this blessed Virgin Mother takes sons and daughters
by the hand and leads them on gently in this wonderful path
THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
of life, until we arrive safely into that haven of rest And
She holds in Her hands the Golden Key which opens up the
two-leaved gates, and with Her we pass through safely, it
being a path all of Golden Oil, which represents the virtue of
that one Immortal Spirit. Then you can hear the voice say
ing: "Put off your shoes, for this is holy ground." Therefore
none that walk the broad way which leadeth to woe and
misery can set their foot here. But now unto you, ye faithful
ones, it shall be given thee to dip your feet into this Golden
Oil, which will give you the understanding likeunto our
ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ.
The New Life in you shall grow as the trees of Lebanon,
and we shall behold on the other side of this walk there was
a row of olive trees, and to every tree was an Angel to guard
the way, having all flaming swords in their hands, and the
olives continually dropping the same Golden Oil. Sq She
shall still lead us on until we come to Her mighty Mountain,
which is to be the top glory of all Mountains, being the holy
Mount Zion wherein the Immortal Sons of God shall be seen.
Love and mercy have met together, righteousness and peace
have kissed each other. For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel, and I am His servant, for which cause I was
born into this world that I might be a living witness to the
fulfillment of His promises.
PEACE
The Book of Heaven
5th
COMFORTER
of the
Mother's Book
*******
SECRETS OF HEAVEN
BLESSED be God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our
redeemer, who has given His Seventh Church this day to
see and experience the beginning of these wonderful things,
and to feel the power of the holy Spirit's returning again in
a few faithful members, who have borne this Testimony
and are still bearing
it,
which
is
always new and never grows
old, likeunto Jacob, who served seven additional years for
Rachel, and the time seemed short because of the great love
he had for her; and so
it
will be with a true Israelite—the
time will seem so short because of the love we have for our
ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore we are publishing these glad tidings of Etern
al Life and sending them to the ends of the earth, believing
with all our hearts that He is faithful and true to perform
all His promises, and that He is ready now to assist those
that truly believe in Him, as He was to assist all of His
divine prophets, and also to deliver Daniel from the lion's den,
and the three Hebrew children that were cast into the fiery
furnace, and the fourth appeared also, likeunto the Son of
man, and delivered them. These were left on record as
clouds of witnesses for us to follow. Therefore consider and
receive
it
as a charge and a command, knowing that the
promised time has now come wherein God will anoint you by
pouring out His holy Spirit upon you to make you pure
priests and kings of the heavenly order, that you may be
come nursing Fathers and nursing Mothers to His Seventh
Church.
2 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
By this hopeful divine experience will be a divine and
perfect regeneration for the bringing in of the new created
glory, whereby the Tabernacle of God will descend in great
splendor and glory upon the earth, which is the fullness of all
blessings to come upon all nations. And in this divine time
I stand in my lot, according to the counsel and decree of Him
who will fulfil all prophecies past and present, which is our
ascended Master, our beloved Brother who chose twelve
disciples and one was a devil, namely Judas, who had the
most zeal of all His disciples, who betrayed His Lord and
Master into the hands of the enemy.
Wherefore having this example set before us, let us ever
be cautious to guard ourselves against this wild and furious
beast, which is the devil. Therefore our ascended Master,
our beloved Brother, bowed His head in meekness through
His longsuffering and patience toward evil-doers. He stud
ied to conquer His adversaries with love, and to bring them
over to Him by kind offers and through His sweet counsel
which He had taken with them; or by "presents," as Jacob
did to his brother Esau. And did not Jesus make Judas a
present by pouring out His blood upon the cross to save his
soul? let it be in the first or final resurrection.
Well, you might say : What was the present that Jacob
made to Esau? Jacob representing Mount Zion, made like-
unto Jesus the Firstborn, and Esau representing the Aliens,
wherein they shall seek Mount Zion and say: "We will eat
our own bread and wear our own apparel, only let us be
called by Thy name." And this is the present. Mount Zion
will grant them their mortal life for a thousand years, and
then they will be made like Enoch and Elijah—their own
spirits put within their bodies.
Kindness, sweet kindness is a great virtue, through the
justice, wisdom and goodness of God, knowing that the
Master whom he serves—if he be faithful —will not fail to
meet him upon the Mount to reveal unto him the secrets of
heaven —the deep and divine mysteries revealed, which the
world cannot give, nor in the least envy those who possess
them, but preferring others before themselves, knowing all
that enter into this divine and holy place are worthy, or they
would not have entered in.
They shall bear up unitedly the banner of Love, with
understanding of the light alone, even the first Ensign, the
Standard of God, which they shall bear in the sight of all
nations in such majesty, light and glory, and accompanied
with such renewed power and amazing wonder of the Holy
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 3
Ghost, with such invisible forces and prevailing of truth in
the demonstration of the Spirit, and in the great Sunlight of
divine Wisdom, breaking forth in its lustre and beauty, re
vealing all secret mysteries, both temporal and of an eternal
nature as shall effectually convince the world, not only of
Truth, but of the boundless and beautiful redemption worked
out by the true Sons of God.
And the first one was our ascended Master, the Lord
Jesus, so that His Gospel shall now be not only published,
but be received and submitted to all nations, tongues and
languages. So at the name of Jesus Christ every knee shall
bow; the heathen now being actually given Him by God for
an inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for a
possession, confessing Him to be Christ the Lord, their
ascended Master.
For these are the Trumps which are to go forth, and
will continue to do so, waxing louder and louder, for the
rousing and awakening of the sleeping world, and especially
the lukewarm—being "neither cold nor hot," but being luke
warm I will spue them out of My mouth. For the Spirit of
God is now returning and has sent forth His witnesses,
though at first as infants—babes, but yet Brothers and
Sisters, wherein they shall be made manifest through the
power of the holy Spirit which is now calling, and it will not
give over calling and crying with a loud voice until it shall
make those who have any feeling of goodness and of the love
of God —even ashamed of their coldness and backwardness to
meet it ; and still it had existed in them and it softened their
hearts unto a holy regret and grief for the unkind and rough
treatment which many of the servants of God went through,
suffering for the Kingdom's sake, ever bearing with all pat
ience, gentleness and kindness, to obtain the Life of heaven,
that holy Life that Adam lost; proving themselves to be a
true Spirit of Jesus Christ, returning good for evil, love for
hate, ever forbearing and suffering at the hand of the op
pressor, yet doing good, and still meekly; ever pointing them
out the golden path of Eternal Life; notwithstanding ever
yielding themselves to the will of God.
Such shall receive the happy estate, the highest honor
in the triune Kingdom of eternal love and happiness; a beaut
iful witness that the holy Spirit has returned again to the
Seventh Church after breaking open the Seals. Such as the
Master has called have now gone forth, chiefly to those that
are of the head Shepherds and pastors of the flock of Christ,
who are most capable through the power of Shiloh Immanuel
4 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
to look out and discern the day of their Visitation, that they
may behold with joy that the fields are already white unto
the harvest; and they themselves being anointed by the true
Spirit of God to be sent forth as Angel-reapers.
And experience is the more full and blessed effect of
their ministry and labors of love. Happy are they who shall
be early engaged in this beautiful Vineyard of God, who shall
enjoy all divine blessings. Therefore let the true laborers
in this beautiful harvest go forth, and let truth and judgment
go before them unto victory. So let Thy Kingdom come, and
Thy will be done even here upon earth as it was done in
heaven. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel.
and I am His servant.
•#5\
HEAD AND HEART
IT IS written by the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, through the
Seventh and Last Messenger, "I have sealed the House of
Israel with seven seals unto Myself." All Israel will come
unto the Seventh and sign the Covenant of Life and receive
Shiloh Immanuel, the Seventh whom I have sent. Therefore
they will be sealed with seven seals of My Word, which shall
be stamped into their forehead and My Law of Life written
in their hearts, which shall be kept in them by the mighty
Shiloh. As it is written, "He that signs the Covenant of
Life, Shiloh has come unto them for to do it for them and
take away their blood, so they become a fit vessel for the
holy Spirit to dwell in. Even as MY Word was received by
them, so by it they are sealed for My redemption.
Therefore the Lord is putting all things in order that He
might have a true temple —a flesh and bone body, all lit with
the Spirit of the Holy Ghost, paved with fiery stones of love;
for the support of which house or body He will send forth
until He Himself shall appear in person, such pillars as shall
be tried as gold, and powerful as the fire; and being so, made
meet for the Master's use, wherein the hidden and deep
secrets of Wisdom shall be brought forth into manifestation
as builders upon this mighty foundation.
Therefore a cry is heard from all longing hearts of love,
and yet with a very joyful approaching in giving Him thanks
for His divine mercy. And through the mighty Shiloh Im
manuel we call with great power all the holy Angels that
stand before God, that they altogether, of the Spirits of Just
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 5
men made perfect, should assist me in adoring, honoring,
praising, magnifying and giving thanks to the mighty I AM
that I AM, the most holy and divine Being, the Creator
of us all, whose Words are so sensible, because of His great
grace; giving victory and liberty of Spirit, wherein I now find
myself so much overcome with joy, seeing the path of Life
leading me on to my deliverance.
And down deep in my heart, I call out to the mighty
One, as the Angels did in heaven, for the deliverance of all
Israel who are in company with me, back to the Eden of
Paradise, praying that I might be wholly His own, as MY
Saviour and Redeemer who has purchased me with His
precious blood, for to be His own; who was nailed upon the
. cross on Calvary ; who laid down His mortal life to save His
Bride from corruption and death —our blessed Ascended
MASTER, the Lord Jesus Christ —wherein I receive all this
living beauty and heavenly joy, longing to be like Him in all
I say or do. For my heart's desire is to be a living and ex
perienced witness, in returning back to that land from whence
I came; ever seeking to set forth heavenly examples likeunto
our Lord and Master, who was our waymark and pattern —
not only for myself but for all of the brethren—all that run
with me, pressing forward to the glorious mark of the high
calling in Christ Jesus.
Therefore this should be powerful and divine encourage
ment and confirmation of their hope and confidence, that
they may not be discouraged, but may firmly believe the
prize set before us is attainable in this flesh and bone body
when made Immortal; and shall certainly be attained by
those that abide faithful, going on continually and delighting
in their labors of love for the Kingdom of Peace to be est
ablished. And when we are sealed and anointed with the
Holy Ghost in a great and a special manner, we must also
do as our Lord did when in this world, and before the God
of the earth witness and proclaim the Truth of the Kingdom
of God—and this, as He hath done, for a time of three years
—then we shall enter into our Immortal bodies.
Oh awake Thou that sleepeth, for Christ —who from all
eternity has been espoused to His Bride, namely the 144,000
—shall give thee Light. Therefore dear beloved Israel begin
to search and dig in thine own field for this Pearl of Eternity
that lieth hidden IN it. It cannot cost thee too much, nor
canst thou buy it too dear, for it is ALL. And when thou
hast found it, thou wilt know that all thou hast sold or given
away for it is a mere nothing, as a bubble upon the water.
6 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
But I will show you what the Pearl of Eternity i3:
First, it is the light and Spirit of God within thee, which ha3
hitherto done thee but little good, because the desire of thy
heart has been after the light and spirit of this world; be
cause the heart and passions have turned their attentions to
the poor concerns of this life, and therefore thou art a
stranger to the divine things of heaven, the riches of eter
nity within thee.
For God is not, cannot be truly found by any worship
pers but those who worship Him in spirit and in truth, so
this light and Spirit, though always within us, is not —can
not—be found or enjoyed by those whose whole spirit is not
turned to it. And the reason that so many persons, who
seem well effected to religion but with little progress therein,
is because religion lies only in their head, but something else
has their heart. But on the other hand, a true Israelite,
who is seeking to be an Israelite indeed without guile, through
the mighty Shiloh Immanuel they enter with all their heart
into this most holy Faith, having their eyes always
upon it, doing everything in view of it, trying everything by
the truth of love; nothing but for the sake of it wherever
thou goest, whatever thou doest at home or abroad, in the
field or at church— do all in desire of union with Christ in
His' holy Temple, and the longing desire of our heart to be
One with our ascended Master. It will soon put a stop to
all the vanity of life, and nothing will be permitted to enter
into thine heart or proceed from it but what comes from God
and returns to God. Thou wilt soon be bound in the chains
of holy affinity and desires. Thy mouth will have a watch
set upon it. Thy ears would willingly hear nothing that does
not pertain to God, nor thy eyes be open but to see and find
occasion of doing good.
In a word, when this Faith has got both thy Head and
thy Heart, it will then be with thee as it was with the faith
ful one who found the Pearl of Great Price. It will make
thee glad to sell all thou hast to buy it.
O Father, Son and Holy Ghost!
One God in power Three,
Brings back the land that Adam lost.
And all the faithful Free.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I
am His servant.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 7
GIVE ATTENTION TO PRESENCE OF GOD.
AND there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a Woman
clothed with the Sun, and the moon under Her feet, and
upon Her head a Crown of twelve Stars. (Rev. 12:1.) She
is the Pearl of Eternity. She is also the Church or temple of
God within thee, the consecrated place of divine worship,
where alone thou canst worship God in spirit and in truth:
in spirit because thy spirit is that alone in thee which can
unite and cleave unto God and receive the workings of His
divine Spirit upon thee because of this holy divine Spirit,
which is truth in reality; wherein our holy service of this
inward temple which is in the midst of it, is the fountain of
living water; wherein, Oh Israel! thou must drink of it and
live forever. There the divine Supper of the Lamb is kept;
the bread that cometh down from heaven, wherein we may
eat thereof and not die.
And every day will be Sunday to thee, and wherever
thou goest thou wilt have a holy divine Church, and an altar
along with thee, proving thou hast given thine whole heart
in obedience to this great light and Spirit of God to do only
His will, to love only in His love; to be wise only in His
Wisdom. Then it is, every thing thou doest is a Song of
Praise, and the business of our life is a conforming to God's
will on earth, as Angels do in heaven.
Therefore dear beloved Israel! Pray without ceasing,
that is, to have the desire in thine heart to do the whole will
of God, desiring nothing else but to be made likeunto Him,
which is to have humility, and meekness, and always willing
to prefer thy brothers and sisters before thyself, always
desiring to do God's will and seeking only His honor, wherein
we ask that the lame may walk and the blind may see, show
ing our willingness to have Christ our Saviour; viewing all
things by the truth of His love; giving up all pleasures of
the old world for the sake of it. And wherever thou goest,
and whatever thou doest at home or abroad, do all in desire
of union with Christ.
Wherein we can say the Lord has risen within us by the
demonstration of His hidden life, and being in the hands of
God it matters not what they do, or suffer for Him, and in
union with His will for this is to be their divine business.
Therefore they must not be terrified at the cherub which
guards the passage, but must valiantly break through in the
victorious name of Jesus Christ, whereby the precious DOOR
OF PEARLS will be made to fly open, and agree unto this
8 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
divine plantation where their Beloved has gone down to see
the fruit of the valley, who will there eat His honey-comb
with His Spouse and Sister, and will drink His milk with the
Virgins of the Bridechamber that have followed Him fully
in the process of their regeneration, and have trimmed their
lamps, filling them from the Seven Fountain Lamps that
burn perpetually before the throne of God.
Therefore if anyone shall faithfully practise and give
their whole attention to the presence of God, he shall be sure
to hear and understand that heavenly call which has already
now begun to go forth over the whole earth through the
Messengers He has sent from time to time. And the greatest
of all was His Seventh and Last Messenger, who came in the
name of Shiloh Immanuel, who brought forth the Virgin Law
that will take us back to the Eden of Paradise.
And thrice blessed are all those who are found in Obed
ience to this Law of life, for they shall have a name written
upon the foundation of the New Jerusalem, and pillars in that
temple which descends from heaven. For these proved them
selves faithful in fighting the Lord's battle, thus bringing
Him to reign over all the earth, that all kingdoms may serve
Him as He appears in His saints.
It is written in Isaiah 49-1: "Listen, Oh Isles unto Me;
and harken ye people from far: The Lord hath called Me
from the womb; from the bowels of my mother hath He made
mention of My name."
Therefore all that resist and overcome are to be those
that came forth out of the calm, serene and quiet ocean of
God's love. For the holy Army, the 144,000, shall bear the
name of God upon their foreheads; the sealed name of His
eternal Word shall be upon their hearts, and they shall have
the flaming sword of His Spirit, whereby they shall put all
to flight. "One shall chase a thousand and two shall put ten
thousand to flight." .
Therefore be wise and understand that we are on that
strait and narrow path of life that takes us back safely to
that land from whence we came. Therefore the temple-body
of Christ will be builded and the Spiritual Stones will be
joined together until the holy Family of God is completed.
Therefore it is in this growth and increase that God is justi
fied in this abounding dispensation, revealing revelations of
His_ mind, which reveals the secrets of heaven, which the
Saints of the Most High have never reached into, so as to
reign over the earth. Therefore let it be made known that
it has been kept back until this, the twelfth and last hour.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 9
They have not been drinking in that holy divine Spirit
so as to have it their daily portion, it cannot be denied. But
some that have drunk deep thereof, have not been able to
maintain it as a constant flowing Spring. But behold! a cry
has come forth from the mighty head Prince and King to
let them know that now is the great day of the feast of the
Tabernacle, wherein the wonderful power of the Holy Ghost
is given freely, to be given forth, and emptied into the sanct
uary vessels according to this fore-ordination and pre
destination, who now upon such a free and generous call
draw it, wherein they will throw off every weight and what
soever of these earthly things they do cleave to and unshackle
their feet.
For it is a time that doth require all haste, for the mild
summer from heaven is now breaking forth in which their
flight may be easy and pleasant, for the winds and the gates
of the Spirits do warmly blow, to draw up from all that is
earthly. And truly they can say, "Farewell, old world, fare
well!" And skip and leap! ye lambs who are anointed for
this heavenly Fold, and be no longer supplanted of your
right, who to the Christ-like Spirit doth belong.
Therefore behold in the Spirit and you will see the ever
lasting Pearly Gates fly open, where in the paved walks you
will be kindly greeted with the divine Shepherd's kiss. For
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His
servant.
RACHEL'S CHILDREN RETURNING
BEHOLD the Chariot of Israel has been rolling through
this time of Visitation and My Ark is now resting, that
My people may enter in. And hark ye! it is a divine call to
prepare and fit ourselves against the great time of trouble
that is coming upon the earth —the greatest that ever has
been —but if we are faithful and obedient to this wonderful
Call, the mighty Shiloh Immanuel will protect us, though
thousands may fall by thy side, and ten thousand at thy
right hand, yet it shall not come nigh thee, because thou art
in the Ark of Safety—Zion and Jerusalem above. The alarm
has been given for the Ingathering of His chosen people
Israel, wherein they are admitted into this divine Roll that is
already opened in heaven to fight this great battle, and all
that conquer are to wear a crown of victory.
10 THE EOOK OF HEAVEN
All Israel should be interested in joining themselves
with this Army in order to partake of the promised Jubilee,
and the many, many blessings concerning the promises —the
mighty power of Faith, the blessed fruits of love, joining
in conversation with the divine Spirits in this golden path
on our way to Paradise—separating ourselves from the earth
and drinking out of the divine Cup, which is the Spirit of
divine understanding and fountain of Wisdom, and the light
of knowledge conversing with the holy Royal Spirit in union
with the Court of the Prince of Peace; very near the Door,
carried on by an invisible power, and not by the arms of
flesh. God is no respecter of persons, but that whosoever
fears Him and seeks to do His will is accepted by Him; and
that out of all the tribes, professions and religions that are
at this day over the whole world, He will gather to Himself
a holy and peculiar people, to be as the first-fruits likeunto
His Son.
Therefore the promise of the Father concerning the
gifts of the holy Spirit was never determined as to place or
time, but that it was extended universally to as many as
should believe throughout all ages. The Spirit bloweth
where it listeth and it is not controlled by the wisdom nor
power of man.
The regeneration of man is the works of the Spirit, and
that man might not only cease from the activity of his own
will, but seek to become willing for the divine workings of the
Spirit. Now, in this process of regeneration to become like
unto our blessed Jesus Christ, as the great example, there
are several degrees or steps to the Kingdom of God, that this
Kingdom consists of perfect righteousness, peace and joy in
the Holy Ghost, and in this regeneration of the whole man,
spirit, soul and body.
This Kingdom shall encompass the uttermost ends of
the earth by the virtue of the latter Adam, a quickening
Spirit, the Lord from heaven, that not only justice, but also
the mercy of God is over all His works. And Jesus Christ,
as He is heir of all things, will lose nothing that belongs to
Him, nor that the Father has given Him. Therefore of His
Kingdom there shall be no end. But all creatures, whether
in heaven or in earth, or under the earth, shall be made to
submit themselves to Him and bow the knee. Therefore that
which is sent forth is as in His name, and He will not suffer
judgment to be wrested out of His hands, for the work of
every person shall shortly be made manifest, and the day is
at hand which shall declare it by the revelation of fire, where
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 11
in the children of the Kingdom shall be purified in the fir3t
place. There will be found among all these, some hay and
stubble to be burned up, yet the precious materials will here
by suffer no loss, but will appear so much the more radiant.
And all that are established upon this foundation of the
Rock Christ —who ceases not—still following His true Israel
in the wilderness, shall abide in the furnace and overcome the
flames; and should establish all Israel in that living Faith,
and teach us to be sober in judging. In speaking of that
fiery baptism whereby all iniquity shall be consumed and the
righteous shall shine as the Son in the Kingdom of our
heavenly Father: All must be tried by fire, whosoever de
sires to return to Paradise. All must pass through the flames
and come out without the smell of fire upon their garments.
And in the midst of it there is a fountain of Living Water,
from which thou mayest drink and live forever. There the
holy supper of the Lamb is kept, that Bread that cometh
down from heaven, that giveth life to His chosen ones, which
is the true nourishment.
All is done in real experience in the living sanctuary,
showing forth the works of God. There's the birth, the life
and suffering, the death, resurrection and ascension of Christ
our Redeemer, and only by a few remembered, but inwardly
found and enjoyed as the real estate of the resurrected soul
that He received upon the cross and then appeared to Mary.
And let it be understood, when our blood is cleansed we
drink His blood, for we are then blood of His blood, wil
lingly drinking of the cup that He drank of, which is, giving
up our mortal life—not as Jesus did upon the cross —but by
the Holy Mother of Zion resting upon us as She rested upon
Jesus at the river Jordan; wherein He was begotten of the
Father and conceived by the Mother. The power of that
Holy Virgin Mother around about you is like flames of fire,
both by day and by night, watching over that Golden Seed
which will cause the blood to be made flesh.
When this Child is delivered, then we become bone of
His bone and flesh of His flesh, and Spirit of His Spirit. Then
we can sing praises, singing God's will is done on earth as
angels do in heaven; having a desire of doing God's will and
seeking only His honor; to have our temples formed and
begotten in thine heart, is to have this holy salvation from
Christ. As it is written, Be pure as I am pure, and holy as
I am holy, making the lame to walk and the blind to see.
Have not we great reasons to rejoice that Christ Jesus
is our Saviour? Therefore, ever striving to nourish and
12 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
cherish that Seed of Life in this, the twelfth and last hour,
the wonderful quickening of the Spirit of God has come to be
our guide and leader.
Then away in the robes of her Faith she flies,
Bright as an angel of life;
And she bounds from the yoke of worldly joys,
From a world of care and strife.
While she stands in the Faith of her spotless One,
Why shine all her garments so bright?
'Tis an Israelite maid that the race doth rim,
Confirmed in Jerusalem's light.
She has left far behind a sinful land,
That land her forefathers trod;
And signed life's Book with her beautiful hand,
To walk in the Laws of her God!
Then away! then away! and blest be thy flight,
And do no longer delay;
For behind thee thou leavest death's shady night ,
Then Away! Away! Away!
Her lot's with a Few whose ways are divine,
To whom God's promises are given;
She's graft to the Branch of the ever living Vine,
"Descending from God out of Heaven!"
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I
am His servant.
^-r-'V^-_--
THE WHITE HORSE OF POWER
AND I saw heaven open, and behold a white Horse, and He
that sat upon him was called Faithful and True. And in
righteousness He doth judge and make war. His eyes were
as flames of fire, and on His head were many crowns; and
He had a name written that no man knoweth, save he that
receiveth it. And He blows the Trumpet to SOUND THE
ALARM! giving the divine warning to GATHER TOGETH
ER from all parts, and out of all nations and tribes whereso
ever they have been scattered and hidden.
For as it is a Spiritual War, so none but those who are
lovingly and patiently waiting, who have great zeal for the
approaching and coming of the Lord's Kingdom, in which
they are engaged deeply, will fight the battle. And let
it be understood, there will be no calling of persons out
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK ia
wardly to appear, but the true and faithful Ones are called
to meet together in one Spirit, and from the center of the
heart, sending forth all divine and powerful prayers that
shall overcome the great usurper—namely satan, who has
usurped authority over things that were not his own, which
by divine right belong to our ascended Master, the Lord
Jesus Christ.
But hark ye! There is a heavenly call and summons
in this wonderful day and time that is now approaching
for the great battle to appear, wherein every one of His
chosen flock must be dwelling in the power of the Holy
Ghost, knowing that the Kingdom must be taken all by
Spiritual force; not fearing or fainting, but every one must
realize down deep in their hearts that our ascended Master,
the Lord Jesus Christ, is General and Leader, who has never
lost a battle.
Therefore victory, sweet victory is ours! —removing the
diadem and taking off the crown and giving it unto Him
whose right it is to reign. This is the Spirit of David, that
will not fear to meet the great goliath that has put on the
armor of defiance, disregarding the Spirit of Faith because
there is nothing of a visible strength that doth appear. But
out of the unseen bag will fly the slingstones of power
that shall cause this great goliath to reel and fall.
"
This is
the only way to gain the Kingdom, as David did, through
true and unbounded Faith as a precedent to encourage such
as shall be numbered in this great battle in this beautiful
Golden Age, which is not to cease or stop until it has made
way for the great Immortal reign of Christ, wherein we shall
enter into our rest, sweet rest from the powers of satan in
great splendor and glory, in more abundant peace and plenty;
wherein the eternal Virgin Mother, the Holy Breath of God
shall reveal unto Her children the secrets of heaven, which
will give them wisdom and understanding of all things.
And there is nothing more required than to wait and
watch at the pearly Gates until the Key of David shall be
given to those who hold out faithful and true. There may
be at present some delay, but I bid thee grow not weary, for
it shall be in God's own divine time, and blessed are those
who endure to the end. A thousand degrees of blessings
will come upon those who have received the Mark of the
true Seventh Church, and .through the divine and loving
Golden Chain uniting them all together to abide and bear
up until the hour of temptation be overpast, so they may
enter into the possession of the divine loving reign which
14 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
will first open and begin from the first gathering, which may
be so small ; but ever remember the words of the Lord Jesus
Christ, "Where two or three are gathered together in My
name, there I shall be in their midst."
It shall be as a stone cut out of a mountain without
hands, that shall make all other mountains to melt and bow
before it, and worship at the feet of Him who is the great
divine Shepherd of the little flock; whose pleasure it will be
to make them joint heirs to possess with Him the same King
dom and glory which the Father hath given Him. Therefore
dear beloved Israel pray in the Spirit with Her who is in that
love and unity that burnetii eternally in the burning bush
wherein Christ's humility shall rest —ever known to be in the
same fellowship with Christ.
Therefore victory! Victory to them who can sit upon
the white Horse of power, which signifies your body, proving
you have that living Faith which will make all dark clouds
to fly away. Therefore I want to speak a few words to the
brothers and sisters who have silver gray hair: Just rem
ember the walk of Enoch, and ever remember and understand
from the time and date in which you were born into My
Spirit it will teach you wisdom, strength and power, which
is to have its increase. For remember, when you dwell in
the Spirit Christ, you are the young man, and when a sister
dwells in Jerusalem above, she is the young woman.
Therefore when the ascended Master suffers the grain
of faith to be under the grinding mill you must not think
much to have your faith ground down, tried and proven, thus
holding out through the proving hour wherein no failure
shall be of the seven rewards promised to the seven over-
comers. Therefore these words are sounding loud! So be
on the watch, that you lose not your crown, but be numbered
among the conquering, worthy to take your place with Christ
and sit with Him upon His Throne.
Therefore dear beloved Israel ! This mighty and wonder
ful work is before us, going through the regeneration in
male or female is the works of the Spirit, which means to
give up their own will and become wholly Obedient to the
ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ.
There are several degrees and so many steps to the
Kingdom of God, and this Kingdom consists of peace and
joy in the Holy Ghost, and in the regeneration of the whole
man, spirit, soul and body. And this Kingdom shall encom
pass the utmost ends of the earth, by virtue of the everlast
ing decree, as He is the latter Adam, the quickening Spirit,
r '
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 15
the Lord from heaven. And He will lose nothing that is His
right, or that the Father has given Him.
Therefore of His Kingdom there shall be no end. But
all creatures, whether in heaven or in earth, or under the
earth, shall be made to submit themselves to Him and bow
the knee. And the time of restitution is now beginning,
and there is a Voice that is heard crying that the "Kingdom
of heaven upon earth is at hand!" And He will not suffer
judgment to be wrested out of His hands, for the work of
every person shall shortly be made manifest. And the day
is at hand which shall declare it by a revelation of fire,
wherein the children of the Kingdom shall be purified.
But amongst all these there will be some hay and stubble
to be burned up. Yet the precious material—the body which
is prepared —will hereby suffer no loss, but will appear so
much more radiant, and all that are established upon the
Rock Christ, who cease not still to follow the true Israel in
the wilderness, shall abide in the furnace and overcome the
flames.
Therefore all must be tried by fire who so desire to
return to Paradise. All must pass through the flames, if
it be John the beloved whom the Lord Jesus Christ so dearly
loved, as to say concerning him to Peter, "If I will that he
tarry till Icome, what is that to thee? Follow thou Me." There
is only One who could not feel this fire, for She is the "Lord
Our Righteousness." So let us everyone seek to prepare
ourselves according to the words of our Lord and Master,
and be on the watch, that that Day overtake us not unaware,
and to hold out in this warfare of Faith and Love without
wavering ; and especially take care that we judge not, that we
be not judged, but let us leave judgment to whom judgment
belongs, who in righteousness doth judge and make war.
And out of His mouth goeth a sharp sword, with which
He will smite the nations and rule them with a rod of iron—
whosoever refuses to submit to His Golden Sceptre. It is
hoped that what is here delivered may be excitement to some,
yea! to many, to prepare themselves accordingly to love the
Lord Jesus Christ and to believe the promises of His coming;
to live the life of faith, according to the pattern on the
Mountain, and to love one another even as He hath loved us;
that so the beauty of the Seventh Church may break forth,
and the glory of the New Jerusalem may shine out in the
Spirit and name of the Everlasting Father, that all nations
may go up together to the House of the Lord, and that this
Nation in particular may be the Garden of Paradise. For
16 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His
servant.
it ace—■
t_y*
DWELL IN THE BODY OF LIGHT.
IN THIS, the day of His heavenly Visitation, we call for all
who desire the Kingdom of Christ to be established upon
earth to investigate the teachings that are written in The
Star of Bethlehem, the Living Roll of Life. In so doing they
will assuredly find the things which belong to their peace.
For the children of the Just shall be gathered together, tried,
proven and sealed.
r_ And as the visible Paradise was separated from the gross
part of the world, so let it be understood in the Garden of
God enclosed—as Adam went out of Paradise into the world
—how in the restoration he is returning back again through
the union with the Spirit of Christ, and all those who abide
in this place they enter into their freedom and glorious
liberty.
And after one arrives to this divine place, there will be
no turning their eye off from the Tree of life, being out of
all danger, being established, rooted and grounded so firmly
into the tree of life that nothing can shake or disturb, be
cause they dwell in a Walled City, being Christ and Jerusalem
above, wherein no harm can come to them that are this far
advanced, as they accept the mighty Godly powers which will
be poured down as a rushing wind, and warm, penetrating
showers which will cause everything to flourish and grow
in this beautiful land of freedom, in token of Christ's presence
returning and restoring, thus bringing His elect to perfection
and endowing them with various powers and gifts that the
Apostles were endowed with, and in His Name healing the
sick and clothing them with the Spirit of prophecy, which
will show things both present and future, and also the heal
ing balm that shall be sent forth from the internal Word.
But it is not done at the will of the creature, but by that
Living Faith in the oily pool that is brought forth by the
Angels of the Covenant; then virtue may be brought for the
cure of all mortal diseases, as the faith of the patient, upon
whom the cure may be performed. For "As thy faith is, so
be it unto thee." .
For in this wonderful day of . Visitation the Words of
wisdom through the mighty revelation that shall open up
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 17
what has been shut up and sealed from the knowledge of
any—without it be such as are set apart upon the ministra
tion of the Spirit to wait—to whom it shall be given to know
the deep mysteries that are needful in this golden age, for
help and direction to the builders upon this foundation, who
have a call through the mighty I AM to work in harmony in
preparing this foundation "whose builder and maker is God;"
through His eternal love to carry on and not stop until the
top Stone be made as a covering that shall appear in the
Triune God, the holy Father, the Holy Virgin Immortal
Mother and the divine Son,—our ascended Master "in whom
the Father was well pleased," who prepared His own Paradise
for a habitation land of all spiritual, fruitful and blessed
Stones, which gives ease and rest, sweet rest from the powers
of satan, through the Living Faith which is that golden coin
that bears the inscription, "The Lord God omnipotent here
doth reign over all the world."
Therefore as Joshua had the commission and power
given him after he had brought the tribes of Israel over
Jordan, to divide to each their lot of inheritance —so the
great Jehovah —Jesus Christ by His Father's request has
brought a select and chosen number into this love-paved
land, where each one has their portion divided for them after
a spiritual manner, "according as their works shall be,"
through the counsel of the Trinity as the persons are found
high or low in their growth, according to their work—some
one portion, others two-fold or three-fold, and others
proceeding until they arrive to a seven-fold portion, which full
portion belongs principally to the Holy Anointed, namely,
the Bride, the 144,000. These have been sorely tried and have
come forth as the pure gold.
Dear beloved Israel ! this is a wonderful and divine Faith.
In it is a secret which has not in any age of time been reveal
ed but through Jesus Christ, our ascended Master, who dwelt
in the fullness of the Godhead and said to His Disciples:
"I have many things to say unto thee, but you cannot re
ceive it now," and this mystery lay in Him concealed —yea!
the Triune power has lain hid until the sounding of the
Seventh —the mighty Gabriel's Trump, who will reveal and
bring out all hidden mysteries. Therefore a word to the
Wise—I mean to those who have entered into the Spirit of
Wisdom—who shall understand and appreciate the children
of Wisdom's Kingdom, where birth-line from the genealogy
of Judah to whom the sceptre of government and ruler shall
after a Paradisical manner be renewed; all being recovered
IS THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
again by Him who is the Firstborn from the dead. As He
said, "Behold! I was dead and I am alive for evermore, and
holdeth the keys of hell and of death," that wonderful power
for the upholding and maintaining of that glorious reign
here upon earth which shall be enacted by the faithful and
worthy Saints who shall represent Christ, who shall entrust
the Sceptre of His dominions in their hands until the time of
restitution of all things, making ready for His appearing in
His glorified person.
Though it may seem strange and wonderful to those who
are in their natural temporal state at present, yet by the
holy Union it is to be verified —144,000 linked in One. There
fore there is such an overturning coming on as will bring
forth a new time such as has not yet been, which will little
by little out of the heavens spread, and break forth until the
whole shall be brightened by this day-break of rising sun
light through those saints who dwell in the body of light,
ready and prepared for the marvelous reign of Christ in
His saints, that is to set its footing upon the earth —
taking that ancient prophecy of Rev.5:10: "And thou hast
made us unto our God kings and priests: and we shall reign
on the earth," which agrees with the latter prophecies that
have been brought forth as renewed witnesses and testimony
of Jesus Christ.
Therefore we must search into the deep things of God
and all foregoing wisdom wherein those hidden treasures of
knowledge doth lie, making known the mind and counsel of
God as to things past, present and future, which the saints
of the Most High have never yet reached into, so as to reign
over the earth. But they become ministering spirits, back
to the heirs of redemption.
And this brings forcibly to my mind John the beloved
on the lonely Isle of Patmos; an Angel appeared to him and
he was about to fall down and worship the Angel, but that
humble angel said to him, "See thou do it not, for I am of thy
fellow-servants and of thy brethren; worship God." And it
was written that this angel had ministered to a body four
thousand years before, which must have been Enoch in the
first dispensation, and had also come to minister to John.
Therefore let it be understood, these ministering angels in
this Visitation are working earnestly, knowing that when
Israel is made Immortal they will receive their eighty-fold
glory next to the sun.
Therefore behold! a cry has come forth from the mighty
Archangel Gabriel to reveal unto them that now is the great
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 19
day of the feast of the Tabernacle, wherein the mighty power
of the Holy Ghost is here for all who are ready and prepared
for the clothing that Jesus Christ received at the river
Jordan.
O Israel! the King's business requires haste! for the
mild summertime from the heavens is now breaking forth,
wherein their ascension in the Spirit will take place, wherein
you shall receive heavenly communications that will draw
you up by the golden chain of truth to the very Throne of
God. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and
I am His servant.
MIGHTY INVISIBLE ARMY
AND I saw Heaven open, and behold a white Horse, and He
that sat upon Him was called faithful and true, and in
righteousness He doth judge and make war. "And the armies
which were in heaven followed Him upon white horses, cloth
ed in fine linen, white and clean."—Rev.19; 11, 14.
Then harken Oh Israel to the call and summons from the
mighty Shiloh Immanuel to fight this great battle in the
power and might of the conquering Spirit which shall go on
conquering and to conquer, until the victory is won under
the banner of Christ the great General for His Kingdom
that has been so long expected upon the earth. And His
promises cannot fail. Therefore His true Elect Will not
grow weary on this wonderful journey, but will arrive
safely to the Eden of Paradise, proving that they belong to
that mighty invisible Army, and shall fight valiantly till
they have overcome and gained that possession which does
rightly belong to Him, our ascended Master the Lord Jesus
Christ.
Therefore many are called but few are chosen. Many
have put on the armor and put it off again before they had
gained the victory, being liable to faint or grow weary in
meeting with so strong and hard a contest from that wicked
prince and power of the air. But listen to that still small
voice saying: "Be of good cheer," for our ascended Master
the Lord Jesus Christ has sent forth His loyal, true soldiers,
who always stand loyal and true to the union of the Godhead.
And these are the number, namely the 144,000, who shall
come forth and shall be clothed with the fiery breath of the
Holy Ghost, who will heal the sick, open the eyes of the blind
20 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
and raise the dead, for Jesus said: "The works that I da
shall ye do also." And the words that shall be engraved
upon their breast is the "Eternal Word," that has gained the
victory. And the Royal Standard shall be lifted up so high
and powerful that it will cast a dread upon all nations.
Oh blessed and highly beloved shall all those be that
shall offer and enlist themselves under the mighty ascended
Master to be His loyal soldiers to fight this wonderful battle,
proving themselves that they have been brought up and
qualified in Wisdom's school. "In this New World I have
gained my knowledge, yet I never went to college," but was
taught in the divine School of the Prophets, which gives you
that Wisdom which is more precious than the gold weight
of Ophir.
Therefore when Israel are willing to obey and follow the
rules of their Captain and leader, our ascended Master the
Lord Jesus Christ, His divine warnings are to be qualified
with love and kindness ; not to provoke nor hurt each other, all
agreeing on this one point, to fight for their Lord and Master.
And those that are found in this Spirit shall not want, but
be endowed with power whereby they shall prevail, as they
have overcome all the evil that is within them, fulfilling that
prophecy wherein the Nations shall be subdued under them
with an iron rod through the power of the mighty God,
the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, who has come
to gather His Israel from wheresoever they have been scat
tered. And it cannot come forth and appear until they are
awakened by this mighty Trump that shall sound in their
inward ear, whereby they will harken to this wonderful
call and gird on their spiritual armor, and they shall know
that place where MY Spirit rests, where they shall meet
all together and pitch their tent upon the Rock of Strength
so divine and glorious that all Nations' hearts shall melt
before them; not by outward might or strength, but by the
Spirit of the great Jehovah shall all be made to fall under
the mighty power and eternal strength of the eternal Ark
which brings sweet deliverance.
Therefore dear beloved Israel! ever abide and hold out
faithful in this wonderful battle, and obtain a crown in His
peaceable Kingdom wherein your covenant with death shall
be disannulled. If not, how could they come to reign as
Kings upon the earth? Therefore they shall not lose their
reward, for they shall enter into their joy and eternal hap
piness, proving they are in the wonderful hand of the ascend
ed Master in order to return again with Him in His Immortal
5TH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 21
glory to begin the reign anew with Him upon the earth.
Therefore they will be His chosen number endowed with
the Spirit of prophecy whereby they should know and under
stand all things, both present and future, and will be pro
spered no difference in what way the enemy turns. And the
anointed ones of the tribes who went with Him to war were
strengthened, directed and encouraged by the holy Angels
from the heavens above, after they had offered themselves as
willing helpers in the great battle of the Lord against the
powers of darkness —not by might nor by power, but by that
holy weapon, the hammer of faith. And as satan had to
become a servant to our ascended Master the Lord Jesus
Christ, so he has to become a servant to His chosen Elect.
Then the triumphant song of victory as we march on our
journey under the banner of Shiloh Immanuel the conquering
Prince, shall still go on until we enter into that holy land
likeunto our ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who
entered after being made Immortal, wherein the land of
Paradise shall be found wherein so many ages have come and
gone, and He could not be found until His holy Bride was
prepared, wherein our ascended Master gave His body to be
crucified upon the cross to save His Bride from corruption
and death, namely the 144,000 who have proved their Living
Faith in this Immortal race.
Therefore many who have not done the work will try to
enter this gate, but they will find to their own sorrow the
gate is locked up by that Golden Key that opens only to the
believers in whom the divine love of God works so high as
to cast out all fear. Therefore behold your King cometh —
your King of glory with His heavenly armies that shall
join the anointed, namely, the 144,000 here upon earth, to
take vengeance upon all those who have usurped authority
thinking they are taking the kingdom in their exalted way—
thinking they can take the Kingdom from Him whose right
it is to reign with His Saints here upon earth. But none
of this chosen Army shall to the visible eye appear, yet in
the mountain of the Lord they shall be seen, from whence
the covering shall be drawn away.
Then! as Elias' servant they shall see this holy place.
And the enemy shall be smitten on this hand and on that
hand, and all shall be blinded and not find the way to see the
blessed Holy City and camp of the living God, wherein the
song of triumphant victory shall be sung, for the battle is
fought and the victory won. For there is no God .
in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
22 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
THE SHEPHERDS OF PEACE
"THOSE who are of the truth, they will hear His voice call-
ing: "Come! Israel, to Me!" Therefore, dear beloved
Israel let us ever harken to that voice of Shiloh Immanuel
who has come to gather up the castaway Stones that belong
to the ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ. This Temple
or body cannot be complete until the last Stone or body of
the 144,000 be gathered.
His mighty and great work has been entrusted to Thee,
Oh spotless Virgin of Israel, by the great I AM that I AM.
Did not He humble thee and suffer thee to hunger that He
might feed thee with manna which thou knewest not of,
that He might make thee understand that man doth not live
by bread alone, but by every Word that proceedeth from the
mouth of God? For a spirit of Faith is all necessary for the
accomplishment of such mighty things. Therefore may we
ever keep our minds fixed in prayer constantly for this gift,
that we might have our thoughts and mind firmly fixed,
patiently waiting to enter into the baptism of the Holy Ghost
by the great Sunlight that is given us to see and understand
the deep mysteries of eternal life that were written in the
Book of Life, upon which there has been a fast Seal, but now
the Lamb of God is in Spirit come to break it open, that we
may read and know the great Immortal Ones.
But His elect ones must wait with patience, remember
ing that when the great and mighty change was to be
brought here upon earth, it was to be done still by Angels
that descended from heaven, as is mentioned in Revelation,
which was written by John the divine, the beloved of the
Lord. Therefore Oh Israel rejoice! knowing that the Spirits
of the Just are upon the earth, who through the mighty
Shiloh Immanuel will do the work, they being the beginning
of the New Creation. And through this mighty conquering
power they will lay the foundation for the transparent City,
which will bring the great overturn of all nations.
But this cannot come into effect until the Angels of time
have ascended and again descended, as having obtained the
divine power from Christ their Head to act as His representa
tives in this world, showing a God-head commission, beyond
and above all words and testimonies, by signs and deeds of
wonders; all of which are reserved until the elect Angels do
ascend to receive the mighty divine power from the holy
Trinity.
Praises to the God of Israel ! this is the finishing mystery
5TH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'3 BOOK 23
that all Israel have looked for with longing eyes, that the
divine and apostolic state might be restored through the
divine and holy love of God, wherein the New Jerusalem will
open and descend. As John the divine said: "I saw the Holy
City, the New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of
heaven, prepared as a Bride adorned for her husband."
Therefore dear beloved Israel let us rejoice that we be
long to the beloved City, which is controlled by the saints of
the Most High, who are established and fixed upon a Rock
immovable. For as the heavens have received our ascended
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ out of visible sight, so will it
be with the ascended Angels until they be confirmed like-
unto our Lord in their flesh and bone Immortal bodies. So be
of good cheer, for we receive from the Words of this Visita
tion a good assurance, if bodily death should overtake one
while upon the ascending Ladder, there will be a wonderful
advantage, that the way will be opened by Christ the Lord
for such as die in the Faith —that Faith proving that their
spirit was begotten but not the body, and the Faith is left
with that spirit, and they become a ministering spirit to the
heirs of redemption. And the God of Israel will open a way
for their spirit to be received at Mount Zion in the presence
of the Lord—the eighty-fold glory, next to the sun.
Therefore the Incorruptible Bride must go to their place
before Israel can be made Immortal. And they are in comp
any with the holy patriarchs, prophets and apostles before
hand gathered.
Therefore slack not thy work, but press forward on thy
journey, for there is everything to gain and nothing to lose.
Therefore let us all run in this wonderful race, and One
receiveth the prize, namely the 144,000 twice-told.
For here comes in the very redemption of the visible
body, which shall not die, but be changed, and this mortal
body shall be swallowed up in Immortality, thus proving
ourselves to be the legitimate heirs to His divine Kingdom,
bone of His bone and flesh of His flesh, proving ourselves
to be living witnesses to the promises of God, which brings
forcibly to my mind the words of Peter when he said: "We
ate and drank with Him after He arose from the dead."
Oh ye Spirits of the Just who have a pure Christ mind
to meet in harmony up on this ascending Ladder, where one
saint may call to another through the attractive power of
love to go up together. Oh how we do long to find those who
are so highly raised in the Spirit of the mind, that will agree
to run and hold out in this heavenly race with us, till we
24 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
reach perfection. And our prayer to the God of Israel is
to bring them into manifestation and knowledge of each other
as a cluster of grapes, that we all may be filled with the
wine of the Spirit, ready to be passed out for the cheering
of the weak and faint that are also members of this body
of Jesus Christ, which yet remain in humble suffering life,
crushed down under sin.
Therefore the question might be asked, How can you
understand the way of it without the Angel of light and
Truth comes and reveals it unto thee? telling you to prepare
for your ascension, that you might be received out of all
mortal sight after the manner of our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ? The answer is that you are given to know there is
an ascension in Spirit for to make discovery of what lies
hidden and concealed in mysteries which have not yet been
understood; which brings forcibly to my mind the words of
the Apostle Paul, who was caught up to the third heaven and
heard mysteries which were not lawful to be revealed in the
Outer Court, for this was concerning Christ and His Bride.
Therefore through the resurrected Word of life descend
ing from on high into the lowly, meek and pure in heart.
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God."
Therefore He seeketh such to worship Him in spirit and in
truth of this Living Roll of Life, with the interpretation of
that which has been given, and sealed until the appointed
time of God. And now He sets His hand the Second Time
to recover the remnant of His people Israel as the dew-drops
after the shower has passed over.
Lo ! He comes in the name of Shiloh to gather the grapes
which remain hanging on the Vine, which satan cannot pluck
off. These will He gather for the Seed of Immortal Life for
the world to come, and a quick work will He now make upon
the earth and cut it short in righteousness.
Therefore dear beloved Israel! He is to be our life,
and we are to live His life and keep both law and gospel, that
is, the Law of the Spirit of life that is found in the Gospel.
Therefore no man shall ever receive the helpmate until he
receives the Spirit to keep the Royal Law of Christ in virgin
purity, for it is the only Law that will take you back to the
Eden of Paradise. For there is no God in all the earth but
in Israel and I am His servant.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE* MOTHERS BOOK 25
SUNLIGHT OF OUR DARLING MOTHER
IN THIS, the day of God's holy Visitation to His chosen
people Israel, which is a great day of rejoicing to those who
can see and realize the wonderful hour, yea, the Twelfth and
Last Hour, wherein His wonderful work shall be complete —
Yea, it makes my heart leap for joy and gladness, knowing
it is the same Message of eternal life that was preached by
our beloved ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, near
two thousand years ago under that great sunlight that shone
in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. But
in this the time of His Second Coming under the voice of the
Seventh and Last Messenger, the true Israel of God accept
this great Sunlight with rejoicing and gladness of heart,
through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, who pours forth His
divine love and blessings as the dew from heaven to His
chosen people Israel, which gives them that love in their
hearts to prefer their brothers and sisters before themselves,
thus possessing harmony, sweet harmony; thus joining in
praises and thanksgiving for the great Sunlight that is shin
ing amongst the brethren, teaching them the divine wisdom
of God.
And Wisdom is justified of Her children, who stand
willing and ready to assist them under this great Sunlight,
the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, giving them the precious out
pouring of His holy Spirit, which will bring them to one mind
and one thought, and nothing can be hidden from them, for
our spirit with that holy Spirit has come together, the same
as Jesus and His Father agreed together. And then they
can ask whatsoever they will, and it shall be done.
'And dear beloved Israel! it is my wish that they might
all come into that sweet unity of Spirit which would bring
heaven on earth from the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, who
stands ever ready to open the door of your heart, that you
might be able to understand the deep mysteries of God by
that Spirit of truth which will lead and direct you in the way
of all truth. Then the mighty Sunlight, wisdom and power
of the mighty Shiloh presence will fill your mind with the
words of eternal life ; which is living on the bread of Angels,
wherein no evil power can harm ; filling our New World with
that harmony, happiness and perfection which every heart
so much craves.
Therefore, dear beloved Israel! can you have a small
conception of the truth which I have just spoken? There
fore may the Living God fill your hearts with joy and glad
26 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
ness while working earnestly in His vineyard for His King
dom of Peace to be established here upon earth, through the
mighty Shiloh Immanuel. And if you will harken and obey
it, it will bring you to the Trinity of the Godhead, the Father,
Mother and Son; the Trinity of action is everywhere in life,
if understood. Therefore today the mighty understanding
is before you in this knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ.
And how could anyone oppose this great Sunlight
brought forth by the Seventh and Last Messenger, and
which all Israel have been praying and calling for throughout
these many years? Why condemn it now, when it has come
forth to bless Israel ? But in spite of all rejection it shall do
its precious work. Already many who have condemned the
Seventh and Last Messenger are seeing their mistake. It
is not the Messenger they condemn, but the great Sunlight
which is sent from the heavens above, that they are condemn
ing. Remember that the Messengers are the bearers of this
Light, the mighty eternal Light which is the freedom of
everyone on earth who will apply it and stand firmly by it in
the presence of those who do not accept it—those who are
just depriving themselves of this great freedom.
For it is through that holy Spirit that we gain our per
fection and joy Christ would so gladly give. Therefore dear
Israel, you know it is your application of this great Law of
Life which is a release unto your body, and gives you health
and perfection. If you cannot make so small an attempt to
free yourself and stand by it, how can you expect to be set
free?
Therefore beloved Israel! the Truth is the great Sun
light which had to come through the Seventh and Last Mes
senger. It had to come through those who were pure enough
to carry the light. Their long preparation made it possible
to bring happiness and joy to the true Israel of God, but the
Messengers have been wise in holding guard over everything,
that the foundation might be firm and strong to go on—on
and on—until all Israel some day know His great presence
and all that it means to them for their freedom. All should
understand that it is the light within you that draws you
to the light —the understanding of your precious Shiloh
Immanuel. Surely you must realize you would not have been
here if the Light had not drawn you.
Oh dear Israel! think of the Lord Jesus Christ who per
formed miracles in opening the eyes of the blind, healing the
sick and raising the dead. And "The thing that has been,
shall be, and God requireth the thing that is past." Oh how
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 27
wonderful it will be when all Israel realize the mighty truth,
and enter into its great experience of power and light.
Beloved ones, just realize how fortunate you are that your
light has expanded to allow you to accept that which is so
humble, yet it is so powerful and mighty in its action. It is
the assistance of the ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ,
who is the Light of the World, which will compel everyone
some day to accept and crown Him Lord of all.
And ever remember, when the man-fearing spirit is
taken away, then you will do the work. Doubt and fear are
the two doors that must be opened and held open by the
acknowledgement of the one great God presence, the mighty
I AM. Do you not see how this is illustrated in the Open
Door, which came forth here in the City of David? You
must pass through them into the glory and praises of the
"I AM that I AM," which means victory unto Immortality —
Jife the goal of all Israel, wherein peace and hap
piness shall dwell.
ASCEND INTO THE MOUNT OF OLIVES
O1
JH YE Spirits of the Just who have been called and chosen
for this glorious and grand work! ever remember, the
Father has many things in reserve to be given by the Second
Child of His bosom. Seek Him and despise not prophesy-
ings, for it is the testimony of Jesus Christ, which testimony
we must have. And it shall be given little by little as it can
be received. And it shall be given to those who keep the
Word of His patience, and follow on, and are faithful to the
Spirit of truth, the Living Child, which shall lead and guide
you in the way of all truth and show you things to come.
These things have I spoken unto you that your joy
might remain in you, and that your joy might be full because
of the Comforter, the Spirit of truth, the Living Child which
proceedeth from the Father, and this day beareth witness
of both the Father and the Son. And you also shall bear
witness, that is, you who have been with Him (Michael,)
from the beginning; and shall now be with Him and bear
witness of the Truth, and the Truth shall set you Free!
Therefore how wonderful it is through the holy Spirit
we can understand these wonderful Truths and enter into it
through great experience of power and this great Sunlight.
What great reasons have we to rejoice that we are this far
2« THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
on our journey, and through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel
we can understand the deep secrets of Wisdom, that shall
be brought forth into manifestation, as builders upon this
mighty foundation, which shall reach to the four quarters of
the earth, and on either side of which are three Gates —
making twelve Gates —all beautiful and transparent, which
signifies the opening of the ministry which has been for ages
and ages shut up, and which shall rise again out of the divine
Root of God in great honor and glory.
And as our ascended Master in His humble and meek
state did ordain and call twelve Disciples, that they might
be witnesses of His mighty works and deeds, as He was the
Son of God and Saviour of mankind, therefore let it be under
stood that He will now also elect and appoint twelve meek
and humble persons as foundation builders, who shall stand
each one to his Gate, instructed with the Key thereof, to
lock out and open as they please.
Therefore this also signifies the Twelve Gates, which
renews the calling of the Twelve Tribes out of all nations,
which are also to be sealed with the Triune Deity—the
Father, Mother and Son. And great and marvelous wonders
will be when this Jerusalem consists of such pure and bright
Spirits as shall appear completely joined together. This
shall be the beloved City where we may all one clothing wear
as our Immortal Robes.
Therefore let us all be of good cheer and not complain
to our Lord concerning our vile body. Can you not hear His
voice saying: "Fear not, nor be dismayed, seeing it is but
for a limited time that thou bearest this mortal life ; seeing
I Myself did not despise it for your sake. For ought not I
to have suffered all these things and entered into My glory?"
So in like manner you are not to think it any impossibility,
but that you may the same perfection arrive to, gradually,
as a holy Seed which is cast into a new-created heart. For
this holy Seed shall come from its budding to blossoming, as
its root is from the holy One. So it shall show itself as a
complete body according to eternal nature transplanted in
the Paradisical Land, by which the outward birth of depraved
nature will die in its own root.
Therefore this is a secret which has not in any age of
time been revealed, although in Christ the fullness of the God
head; yet this mystery lay in Him concealed until the Spirits
of the Just came upon the earth, and also this Triune Power
lay hid. But behold! an alarm has sounded from the
heavens above! wherein the children of Wisdom shall hear
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 28
and understand that the birth line doth run from the geneal
ogy of Judah, to whom the sceptre of government shall
descend to rule, after a divine manner to be rewarded- all
being recovered again by Him who is the firstborn from the
dead, who now is in the new Immortal state, with divine
power for the upholding and maintaining of that glorious
reign here upon earth by such faithful, divine and worthy
Saints as shall represent Christ, who will entrust the sceptre
of His dominion in their hands until the time of restitution
of all things, making ready for His appearing in His glorified
body ; although it may seem strange and too wonderful, that
none will be able only those who are endowed with the Spirit
of the Holy Ghost that revealeth all things to the Spirits of
the Just, wherein all things will be brought to their rem
embrance. And those who are not in this divine Spirit of
truth—one could be made Immortal by their side and they
would not know it.
Therefore Oh Israel Awake! Awake and do not be
found asleep at the Open Door in this twelfth and last
hour, but ever seek to enter into the sevenfold cleansing pool,
ready and prepared to receive the baptism of the Holy Ghost
mingled with fire from heaven, wherein we can sit in heaven
ly places with Christ and have all our conversations there,
and have nothing more to do with the evil state of things
below. For the Angels of the resurrection are now only for
high communion and fellowship with the Trinity, and those
of their own spiritual raised order, who have been taught in
the School of the Prophets, wherein we are taught wisdom
and understanding, ready and prepared for the Holy Ghost
to descend the second time upon the New Jerusalem, receiv
ing power from the Most High to do the divine work pleasing
to our ascended Master, which none can be capable of but
such as are separated and redeemed out of the earth.
The Apostles were commanded of the Lord Jesus Christ
when He intended to pour forth the Holy Ghost, which they
cordially received the first-fruits of, but now where shall we
find a separation wholly in one accord and united in love
together? waiting for the residue of the Spirit to do the
greater work of God in this earth, which has lain so long
barren from bringing forth this kind, fruitful power.
Therefore it is necessary to gather in Spirit and ascend to
gether into the Mount of Olives, apart from all worldly at
tractions, waiting until the mighty power of the Holy Ghost
descends for the encouragement and support of the believers,
on the part of God Himself. For only the True Vine can
30 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
produce Living Branches whose seed is in itself. For there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
^*'
PEARLS OF ETERNITY.
DEAR ISRAEL! Let it be remembered, before you came
to earth you dwelt in spirit around the throne of God,
and you engaged in war against satan in heaven. If you
stood with the Archangel Michael then, you shall receive and
dwell in your body (a temple) made Immortal as a reward
for so doing. But they who did not stand with this Arch
angel Michael will die; they cannot follow the teachings of
this Visitation.
Therefore if you stood with Him, you were taught all
the things I am now teaching you before you came down to
take a body. And all of this is being brought to your rem
embrance. If you stood with this Archangel Michael, you
are sure to follow on in this Visitation under the voice of the
Seventh and Last Messenger.
And the triune Trinity is likeunto our home below. The
home above consists of Father, Mother and Son, for as the
earthly so is the heavenly. And also, you will understand,
the man is not without the woman in the Lord. As Jesus
was the manifestation of the Father, as spoken of as the
Bridegroom—so Shiloh is the manifestation of the Mother,
called the Bride, male-and-female
"For I, John, saw the holy City, the New Jerusalem
coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a Bride
adorned for Her Husband." Rev. 21-2. Therefore awake to
the call which announces the birth of the Golden Age! the
New World called the Kingdom of God on earth. Therefore
we firmly believe the prize set before us is attainable in the
flesh and bone body, and shall certainly be attained by them
that abide faithfully and go on continually and diligently in
their divine Abraham Faith —wherein I was directed to the
11th chapter of Revelation; and when we are sealed and
anointed with the Holy Ghost in a greater spiritual measure,
we must also do as heretofore our ascended Master did in
this world, and before the God of the earth witness and
proclaim the truth of the Kingdom of God, who was full
of wisdom and power, laying the foundation in order to
restore the virgin nature and Godlike simplicity.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 31
It is not to be said what Wisdom cannot do, as it is in
marriage union with God in great divine power, going forth
clothed in the seamless Robe, doing marvelous things by way
of regeneration of this old creation that now lieth in dark
ness and confusion, which must fall as the day of Wisdom
cometh to be manifested.
And who shall be able to stand when She opens up Her
divine power of eternal nature?—wherein all shall be set at
work to clothe the old face of things with a new spring of
unfading glory. Oh there is a great day of need for this
day of Wisdom, so that the old corrupt figures may pass
away, for which many prophets have we had from Christ
the Lord, in so many ages past, as signified by the beloved
John, testifying of the great desolation that must come upon
the great city of Babylon, wherein all the worldly merchand
ise which has been carried on—Oh! what a sudden destruc
tion shall come upon it in one hour!—when the mighty Angel
of God's wisdom shall descend, having great power to burn
and consume; shaking the earthly frames of things, at which
the children of Wisdom shall not be dismayed, but rejoice to
see this long-expected day, through which all shall be govern
ed by the Spirit and revelations. This cannot be understood,
only by those who have been caught up as out of the earthly
body; as it is mentioned by Paul, to know something of it
beforehand, as he "was caught up to the third heaven and
heard words unlawful to be uttered in the outer court," for
this was concerning Christ and His Bride.
And what he heard was the Virgin Law of Life, and
Paul taught it, but out of season. For you will remember
he said: "Those that are married, let them live as though
they were not married." Therefore all those who have
entered into the resurrected Word of Life can see, in the
light of God's eye they can behold goodness, purity and holi
ness. This is a broad, open sight that changes from glory
to glory. This it was that dawned upon the Apostle in part,
having known something of this glory when he was caught
up into the third heaven, pressing so after the resurrection
to be in that body in which he might be no more absent from
the Lord, for in this sense he speaketh of 2 Cor. 5-7.
We live by Faith and not by sight, although Faith is the
great moving wheel which brings us into the resurrected
Word of life, as its divine work is in the power of God. And
when it has done its work—having received the end of our
Faith, this is the resurrection of our spirit, soul and body.
The Living Faith is a translation where we do see eye to eye,
32 . .. THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
and hear as we are heard, and know as we are known; feel
ing the wonderful power and sweetness of the power of God,
without the least shadow of fear or sorrow; wherein He will
quicken the slow speed of His own flock, who will give forth.
the Spirit in great abundance for the finishing of this great
mystery, which will bring the highest wonder and praise.
Let all consider and set hands upon the Eagle's rising
body, which is the Lord, our only life. Of these things you
ask for an answer, whether or no there be any of this age
that can give proof of such a resurrection? We shall not
decide that, but hope and believe what is not yet made mani
fest. It is sufficient that Christ the Firstborn is risen in His
Immortal body, for us to follow.
Now, the question might be asked, What are we to be
raised into? Is it not to sit in heavenly places with Christ
and to have all our conversations there? and have nothing
more to do with the evil state of things below ? But there is
a resurrection and ascension, as our ascended Master did
show us in His Immortal Body, who went in and out forty
days before He ascended far above all heavens, wherein He
closed the Door of Immortality until the sounding of the
Seventh and Last Messenger, which opened a Door in heaven,
and will not be closed until the 144,000 enter in, who will be
faithful and true, fighting under the banner of Shiloh Im-
manuel, wherein the battle shall be fought and the victory
won, and the Kingdom delivered over unto God the Father,
who shall be all in all, and satan in nothing, thus entering
into the Eden of Paradise, wherein love shall flow from heart
to heart, and the voices of angels shall be heard welcoming
them into this beautiful land of bliss. For there is no God in
all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
GOLDEN GRAIN.
THIS beautiful Rose of Sharon represented Jesus in His
mortal life. The ground from whence it sprang was pure,
which was His pure divine body. The leaves of this pure
Rose was to the number Twelve, each leaf being distinguish
ed by a different color, according to the original color of the
rainbow; no two Stones alike, all according to their concep
tion and birth. These were seen about the holy Throne.
And in the middle of this divine Rose grew a golden Seed
5TH COMFORTER OF THE. MOTHERS BOOK 33
which sent forth a pure, sweet odor, and it attracted down
the power and virtue from the heavens above, wherein there
were many flaming eyes shining upon this golden Seed to
cherish it.
And this divine Seed of God will multiply such living
plants, namely the body made anew, ready and prepared to
: enter into the Eden of Paradise restored again by Him that
can never be changed, because there is no possibility that the
powers of darkness could disobey the everlasting Father's
commands.
There came forth a sweet, soft, warm gale which was
sent by the power of the holy One, that made this golden
divine Seed to fly and scatter itself abroad upon this en
closed Garden. As it is written, A garden enclosed is my
sister, my spouse; a spring shut up, a fountain sealed, (Song
of Sol. 4-12,) sealed to those who are to die, but unsealed to
those who are to live, wherein they shall be endowed with the
Spirit of the Holy Ghost to see and understand the secrets
of heaven that are now being revealed by the Spirit of Truth,
pointing out the golden path of life eternal. And some now
are beginning to put forth the fruits of that divine Spirit,
showing forth the golden Seed from the beautiful Rose of
Sharon, which represents our humble Jesus in His mortal
life, which has been inwardly sown; being but weak as yet,
but being nourished by the living flames of love, shall be
brought to perfection, for it is impossible to beat and keep
down holy and perfect things from springing up to the honor
and glory of God.
For this divine Seed and birth has a right to recover
what was in Adam lost. Love-bands of Faith do with Me
stand. Therefore we can be assured that the record which
was in heaven cannot be changed, which was designed by the
unchangeable counsel of the Trinity, the Father, Mother and
Son; and the Son being our ascended Master the Lord Jesus
Christ who made Himself manifest in His mortal life, paying
the full price of our redemption. He has opened that Gate
whereby we may return to that beautiful Eden of Paradise
from whence we came, for the Spirits of the Just were never
driven out of Paradise. Their lives were hid with Christ in
God, and at the appointed time of the Father they were sent
to earth to take bodies. And when the Father wants one to
come to the City of David, He sends that Immortal Spirit to
draw him, for how can any man come unto Me except the
Father who sent Me draw him ? And if they are drawn, it is
a proof they were worthy, or they would not have been
34 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
drawn; wherein they dwell in that happiness and joy which.
belongs to the divine life, which is such a pure climate and
heavenly air wherein we can breathe the breath of Life, for
no death can enter there.
For the Tree of Life doth openly stand without any
guards upon it, for none are capable of feeding on this Tree
but such as are faithful and true, who shall have their tents
pitched near unto their divine Shepherd. The tents they
dwell in is that holy Spirit, and here they are no longer turn
ed aside from the flock of His companions, neither need they
to say: "Oh Thou beloved, tell us where Thou feedest, and
where Thou keepest Thy flock at noonday?" because Thou
hast sent Thy divine Messenger, not only to give us intelli
gence, but to lead and bring us up to our rest, sweet rest in
Him, making us partakers of the same glory which Thou
hadst prepared for us in Thyself before the foundation of
the world.
Now the question may be asked, When will the divine
principle be made manifest? In answer: They are such as
have a peculiar and high degree of Faith to set themselves
apart, proving themselves to be of this divine fruit, proving
they are separated and redeemed out of the earth; proving
they are greatly favored of the Most High God, who will
assist them with all the power and wisdom which shall be
revealed unto them, and clothe them with that beautiful
heavenly Garment, with a golden chain of divine honor about
their necks, going forth proclaiming: "Arise and shine ! Thy
light has come. Thy sons and daughters shall be gathered
Home." This is the answer by the Spirit of truth and pro
phecy. The time is near, even at our doors, for the first
divine Seed from the Holy Ghost has been sown, and are still
being sown in the new refined Earth. There are some of
them laying still, unobserved, while others are putting forth
but yet young and tender, such as have weathered out all
storms and shakings and have stood their ground. These
are those that come near, proving that they are in great
divine favor with the holy One, showing forth a Godlike
Spirit, showing forth the Nazarite purity, a Nazarite indeed
in whom there is no guile; wherein they shall be accompan
ied with all commanding powers that shall not fail to spring
from the Godhead rooted within; and shall stand in these
Golden Days to judge the earth and to bind down the powers
of darkness.
And these divine prophecies must be fulfilled, "for the
6TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 35
tittle of My Word shall pass away till all is fulfilled." And
all those who are found faithful and true to the union of the
Godhead, are the beloved brothers and sisters who are born
out of the womb of the eternal love and wisdom; being the
darling Mother of Zion, making them the joint heirs to our
ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, who was the First
born of these many brethren that were to come, namely the
144,000 who shall enter into their happiness and endless joy,
walking among the fiery stones that shall devour the briars
and thorns that stand in the way to oppose them.
And all those that have that golden Grain of eternal
Life sown within them, if any attraction of the old world
appears which would delay its coming forth, let them take
care to dig and part away what has imprisoned that Golden
Grain, that it may put forth and increase its growth until
you are made Immortal, thus arriving back safely to the
Father's House. For there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel, and I am His servant.
HOLY BIRTH NEAR REVEALING!
I ENTREAT all Israel to harken unto the voice of Jesus
Christ when He said: "Behold! I now stand at the door
and knock, and if any man open the door within himself, I
will come in and sup with him, and he with Me." And again
He said, "I am the door, the way, the truth and the life" —
which is the Spirit and Life of this Visitation.
The Door is opened by the unsealing of the mysteries —
an open Vision. But I would say, Are the sealed doors open
in your case ? Do you hear His knock ? And do you hear His
voice from heaven, saying: "I have a fountain of righteous
ness encircled around with springs of Wisdom." And from
the great fountain and springs of Wisdom they all drank;
and as Jesus said, "Drink and thirst no more" —which mean-
eth the raising up of the temple of the Holy Ghost, the living
Stones of fire which have been separated and prepared, and
are now being called together by the harmonious sounds from
the seven Spirits of God.
Let them hear the sweet voice and come with singing
into the Temple, for He will bless His people, yea, even with
the peace of Jerusalem wilt Thou bless them, Praise His holy
name! The proud and the haughty have forgotten the day
of Visitation. Thou wilt put down the mighty from their
36 THE BOOK OP HEAVEN '■
thrones, and wilt exalt the humble and meek. Yea! Thou
shalt exalt and establish them. Do you not hear the voice
saying: "Unseal the living testimony wherein new and fresh
things will be revealed?"
And inasmuch as there are holy seekers and loving in
quirers, therefore My Spirit is at hand to open Seal after
Seal, until the whole mystery of a total and full redemption
shall be understood. Hark ye! The voice did a second time
cry out, saying: "Ye that have an ear to hear what the
Spirit saith—make clear the way and remove all stumbling
blocks out of the way, for the Lord whom you have waited
for is drawing near, to be revealed after a wonderful and
amazing manner.
Therefore as doves at the window looking toward Jeru
salem Oh ye chosen Ones! assemble and wait in unity of pure
love, praying in the Holy Ghost and going forth to multiply
abundantly. So shall the Kingdom upon this earth spread,
as living plants of righteousness in My own likeness. And
behold Myself in their Immortal Bodies, wherein My joy
shall be full. I am your Immanuel, your Tree of Life to bring
you forth Immortal, thus restoring back to you your Im
mortal inheritance. These are not my words, but the Words
of the Holy Virgin Mother of Zion.
Therefore do you not hear the voice a third time, crying
out, "Blow the trumpet! and proclaim the beginning of the
golden reign of our ascended Master upon the earth, to pitch
His throne in virgin minds, into which the honey-dew shall
fall to keep them from all famine and drought, for that
fountain of life now stands open to refresh every true travel
er on his way to the New Jerusalem, the City of God. And
there are many true travelers on this golden path of Eternal
Life. And I must say the number is 144,000 twice-told,
wherein they shall be joined together in pure virgin love, thus
being presented as one Holy Bride, without the least spot or
blemish.
So will it also be in the making up of the Anointed
Seventh Church—likeunto the Spirit of David, who came
from Abraham, the Spirit of faith, love and meekness, as a
type of clear perfection. And let it be remembered that
David in his ministry was secretly hid away by the Prophets
of the Lord, and for a considerable time was not admitted,
Saul keeping up his reign and David not regarded in the
least, nor looking upon in that capacity.
But the counsel of the Lord cannot by man be over
thrown, for the election upon the holy Seed shall forever
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 37
Stand. And God shall bring it forth as a rising sun, upon
which shall be no cloud of the fall. Therefore John prophe
sied of a virgin Woman, of a pure Spirit and of a bright sun
like body, all impregnated with the Holy Ghost, that shall
bring forth the Firstborn, that will multiply and increase
unto a body as shall be filled with the spiritual power and
temple glory of the Lamb of God. This is the Church that
shall be called "The Lord our righteousness," because God
himself will dwell there and sign them with the Mark of His
own name, and adorn them with miraculous gifts and power
beyond whatsoever yet has been; whereby all nations shall
be brought in, so that the increase of His Kingdom will be
great. • ■
Therefore the Living Stones have been heretofore un
observed, not realizing whom they had in their midst; perse
cuted and buffeted by the powers of darkness holding them
under the bondage of Pharaoh. But all of these things shall
fall flat by Zion's everlasting Trump, for the holy unity
among these new-born Spirits shall be all and in all. And one
thing more I shall say through the mighty Shiloh, the con
quering Prince: —This divine Holy Birth is near to be reveal
ed ! And hark ye ! when this holy One, the seed of Abraham
do groan, travail and cry, knowing themselves to be in
Pharaoh's land under hard servitude both in body and mind,
this is a certain forerunner and token that the Lamb of God
will raise up the Seventh and Last Messenger like unto Him
self, who shall save and deliver His people.
These are the glad tidings which the Spirit of Christ
does bring to you, His scattered flock, wheresoever dispersed
and scattered abroad in all nations. The holy One is calling
out to all the Churches, "Come out of her MY people, that
you be not partakers of her sins," that ye might be gathered
to the Church of Mount Zion. Until that time, let everyone
be on the watch-tower in their own temple until the holy
breath and power doth call them together, for which cause
the Seven Angels from before the Throne are going forth
to all parts of the earth, to and fro, calling them to enter
into the temple of Wisdom—all Her children and all that will
come under Her discipline is now to be performed by the
mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace,
according to the original pattern which Moses did view upon
the Mount with God, as he went personally up somewhere
to a place that is unknown, which came down into the secret
depth of the mind, and so described first the Holy City, then
the beautiful Temple and Altar with all those holy appoint-
38 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
ments that are required, which are all prepared for the child
ren of Zion. And there we behold the great stars, which is
commonly called the "Milky Way," which represented the
holy and divine Path of the Angels, as dear beloved Ben
jamin so often pointed out to me. Behold, I will do a new
thing upon the earth, wherein God will form a New Church
wherein He will delight Himself and rejoice.
My true and faithful Bride
In glory now appears;
I made Her like Myself,
See Mother! Helpmate dear,
In wisdom here put down My Law,
That all in union now may draw.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I
am His servant.
K/ttt
THE MIGHTY FOUNTAIN.
r>EAR beloved! You are now called upon the platform of
life, which is laid down by the Lamb of God, and the last
Seal is now opened. As there are seven Seals and seven
Keys, it is necessary to have them all in order to have free
access to the building of the great City. Therefore Shiloh
Immanuel has foretold you by all the former Messengers that
you had to pass the Seventh according to MY Word, and
those who have not the Seventh Key to the seventh cannot
pass the Queen of the City. She is in the Door with Her
Husband, who is the Door, the way, the truth and the life.
And whosoever believeth in the Spiritual work of the
Living Child, it shall do the work for them, and set every
true Israelite free from the bondage of corruption and bring
them into the law of liberty. As it is written, "If the Truth
shall set you free, you shall be free indeed." Hark Ye! It
is those who shall be sealed unto Myself with the seven
Seals of My Spirit. And these are the ones that God will
send out, that shall be after His own heart. And the mighty
Spirit of Shiloh Immanuel, male and female, will pick the
Stones for the laying of the mighty foundation, and also
supporting in its progress; as Abraham and Sarah were
a type of that which should be brought forth and made man
ifest in the last age of the world, according to all the pro
phecies that were pointing still to the glory of Mount Zion,
that have always been expected to be revealed in every age
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 39
since Christ. Immediately after Christ ascended it was look
ed for and believed in, wherein the Apostles gathered several
branches relating to such a Church in their day.
Therefore Oh Israel! ought not we to rejoice that we
were born to see these days? wherein that perfect temple
of spirit, soul and body dwells. According to the divine
promises that that holy Spirit has given, He will establish
the Virgin Seventh Church, that shall be as the Firstborn
out of Wisdom's womb, of which Sarah was a type, who by
faith conceived Him by whom came the great increase as to
the making up of the visible Church of holy believers, where
in Jesus was born of the Virgin Mary; in which human
prophecies were despised.
Then He came to His own and was neither received nor
owned by them, but now, in and from the Spirit of faith there
will be brought forth as from the dead, a new offspring from
a Virgin generation, altogether after the purifying nature
of Faith, unto whom Christ will personally appear the Second
Time, a body being for that purpose ready and prepared. He
that readeth, let him understand!
And let it be understood, it is but a fruitless expectation
to believe the Lord will appear from heaven before the
Church Bride is found ready to receive Him. Therefore the
approaching day is near in which He is moving His wonderful
wheels for the finishing of that mystery, the foundation of
which must first be laid in human property—meaning their
bodies, who doth now reveal the great things by His Spirit,
proving they are the Firstborn of Wisdom. For a Mother
there must be of this Virgin Church, that will appear with
out evil upon the Mount of Holiness, whose increase will be
as great as what did spring out of the loins of Abraham.
That prophecy is yet to be fulfilled and accomplished
which the beloved John saw, (Rev.7,) where the twelve tribes
were first to be sealed before the Angels could burn or de
stroy the earth. And as it is written, the number out of
every tribe was 12,000, which summed up make the 144,000
who with our ascended Master shall stand upon Mount Zion.
From whence let all be convinced that there is not to be
found such a church as beareth these characters, that are
ready and prepared for Sealing.
Therefore it is time to Awake! Awake out of thy sleep!
and examine yourselves, and to see how far you are on this
journey. Therefore of Faith, Truth and Purity shall the
New Covenant be established in the anointed of God, knowing
the day is dawning upon us. Therefore open the windows of
40 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
thy mind and let it in, for then it will nourish in the Lord of
glory who hath said: "Behold! I come to reign in divine love
and glory."
So all who this Message shall hear, cry out with one
heart, "Let Thy Kingdom come in peace, joy and happiness,
knowing that it doth come from the mighty Shiloh Im-
manuel, who has set up His standard in majesty and power
to silence all flesh and to banish from His Throne all false
and treacherous spirits that are trying to deceive and tear
down the wonderful works of God —but to none avail. For
the Spirits of the Just cannot be deceived, for they do know
and understand perfectly what is from the true ingrafted
Word of Wisdom. For they know their own true Root, and
there they are abiding as the Lord hath said: These are
the Branches of righteousness, springing from the Tree of
Life that is in the midst of the Paradise of God, whereby we
shall be distinguished from all those that grow from other
'
roots. For they have that wonderful discernment to detect
satan in all of his evil ways.
And through this mighty Spirit of Shiloh Immanuel,
they will go forth generating and multiplying continually,
until all of the ancient prophecies relating to it be fulfilled,
and the Eternal Covenant established with the Spirits of the
Just, who are the holy Seed of God ; for from the root and
line of Jesus shall the Virgin Branch spring up and spread
forth itself to an innumerable increase.
And do you not hear the cry from the heavens above
saying: "Oh Thou who art travailing to bring forth the
holy Birth which has been so long a time staid in the place
of breaking forth. Oh rejoice in this that thou shalt see
Immortal Sons and Daughters who are born of the Holy
Mother of Zion, wherein this wonderful work shall be ac
complished; no more as infants but now coming forth in full
growth of stature. Yea! this wonderful nation shall be born
in one day. Now lift up thy head and rejoice! and that one
day is the holy Sabbath of rest for one thousand years, bring
ing■ forth a generation to the honor and glory of God, to
live through all ages and eternity.
Oh ! how strange and amazing will these wonderful births
be—going forth to do the greater work than was done on the
day of Pentecost. Therefore it may be asked concerning the
Prophecies speaking of a New Creation, and the passing of
the old, when the mysteries will begin to work? This is the .
answer: In this, the twelfth and last hour, the Acceptable
Day, and the true sign is already given, the forerunner has
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 41
already come to lead you into the cleansing Pool of Life,
that henceforth we may expect the baptism fire of the Holy
Ghost—a fixed power that may never more depart until it
has swallowed up sin and death in victory.
And as many as are numbered in the Book of life shall
bow to this New Creation in praises and gratitude to our
ascended Master, who has brought us safely to His beautiful
Kingdom of peace, where sorrow and sadness is a thing of
the past.
Come! Strive for MY Kingdom,
Our blessings your own;
From Father and Mother.
To whom all belongs:
In fulness receive us,
We'll make you all Free;
For Shiloh and Jesus,
With Mother makes "Three."
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I
am His servant.
THE TWELVE STONES.
fXH ISRAEL, Awake! Awake! seeing that the morning has
dawned in the fourth watch of the hour, and the Sun has
arisen, even the Son of righteousness, calling now for the
last time: "Hark ye to the mighty sound of this Trump."
The time of Sun-rising has come. And forseeing through
the eye of divine Wisdom what a wonderful time is approach
ing—the great and notable day of the Lord—it brings in
many great revolutions and changes in order to bring in the
Kingdom that shall have such firm establishment as to admit
no changes.
And the alarm has gone forth to stand in readiness to
fight the great battle. And all those who hold out faithful
to that Living Faith, through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel,
therefore through this great Sunlight it is easily seen what
a pleasant, peaceable and joyable state of life is dawning,
wherein the New World doth appear; not of outward lands,
houses, pomp and splendor, but is pure, holy, divine and
spiritual, which is prepared for each one to enjoy. For God
himself will raise up tabernacles for our spirit and body to
dwell in, which no earthly power can add to, or diminish. .
. All refreshing and delightful tastings in abundance. from
the spiritual Rock shall flow. No mortalcan of this divine
42 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
Fruit taste or know, for it is the fruits of that Immortal
Spirit which clothes us in that Immortal clothing, which
brings joy and contentment through one eternal day. And
these royal Robes will suit and agree with the royal Family
of the Triune Deity, the Father, Mother and Son, for through
these three the mighty work is done; the three golden links
all linked in One.
And all of His true Elect who have passed through sor
row, making their sacrifice likeunto Abraham, laying it all
upon His sacred altar, making a clean-cut of all things per
taining to the old world, being faithful and obedient, believing
with all their hearts that the Immortal breath of the Triune
Deity will breathe upon us and give that Immortal breath that
we might live with our ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ
throughout all ages and eternity, filling up the vacancy with
a noble and highly graduated generation by passing through
the womb of our Holy Mother of Wisdom, all of which
spiritual births are hidden; dwelling in the womb of the
Immortal Mother to be brought forth, entering into the Eden
garden together, where we may all one clothing wear as our
Immortal Robe as may suit with our ascended Master the
Lord Jesus Christ —the same Immortal Robe that He wore,
wherein the Rose of Sharon shall come from its budding to
its blossoming. As its roots are from the Holy One, so it
will show itself as a complete body according to His eternal
nature; it being replanted in the paradisical land by which
the outward birth of sinful nature shall sink away and be a
thing of the past in this new-created world under the bright
Star of Bethlehem, wherein the precious Lamb shall be the
glory of it. This is represented by the rose, yea! the Rose
of Sharon, which signifies the twelve foundations with their
sparkling colors, which also signifies the twelve gates, which
means the calling of the twelve tribes, who shall come at the
call of the divine Master, for they know His voice.
Referring also to the apostolic number that are all to
be sealed with the beautiful Rose of Sharon springing from
the golden stalk. And the great and marvelous wonder will
be when this Jerusalem consists of pure, bright and holy
Spirits which shall appear complete together, which shall
dwell together in love, peace and happiness through one
eternal day. This shall be the beloved City. Though the
vile and disobedient may try to enter, they cannot find
the way. They cannot come through the three-fold circle
which is so divine and glorious, as it will destroy and consume
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 43
all that work against it, which comes as a hammer from
heaven to all the unbelievers.
And we do testify and declare that this Rose of Sharon
is now at this time budding forth. Therefore blow the
mighty trump to awake and raise up the Seed that has lain
buried for some time in the paradisical ground, and also
among the desolate wilderness that lieth without. For this
is the set time wherein the Seventh Angel doth sound His
mighty Trump. And if it wakes the sleeping souls, how much
more the Living shall hear!
So as a lily puts forth and springs in that faith that
shall multiply the blessings of unknown treasures —and that
beautiful white Lily was our ascended Master in His Immortal
body, the Firstborn of these many brethren that were to
come and enter into the Spirit of the Holy Ghost of power,
to carry the sceptre, rule and Government over all that is in
union with Christ, who is their Prince of life, who talks with
the Alpha-and-Omega name, that shall make the inhabitants
of the earth to know that His Jerusalem Bride shall sit with
Him upon His throne and reign till all those that have refused
Obedience to His name shall be constrained to come and
worship before His and Her feet.
He shall also give into the hands of such as He shall
approve, a rod of strength dipped in that golden, circle, by
which they shall sprinkle and receive the baptism of the
Holy Ghost mingled with fire from heaven, wherein they shall
receive the same divine power for a witness in which the
Spirit of God and glory of God doth go forth to touch and
heal, with that love that answers to that divine Name by
way of preparation and order for this to be accomplished in
this very time.
A Royal Command from Shiloh Immanuel has gone forth
to sort out the Stones to lay the foundation for this Immortal
building. And its name shall be called the Holy City of
Zion, of which the twelve Apostles were laid as the founda
tion, because of that Seed that was within their loins; Jesus
Christ being the precious corner Stone for this Immortal
Building, wherein many generations have passed wherein the
weary pilgrims have watched with longing eyes all along
the line, as Daniel for so many numbers of weeks, after which
he found a strengthening power guiding him up, and several
bright clouds encompassed him, out of which he saw several
persons as appeared to be the number Twelve, representing
the twelve Apostles that had each in one hand a golden reed
44 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN . .
to measure out the length and breadth .upon which this
mighty foundation was to stand. Thus the Temple of Christ
will be builded, and the Immortal Stones will be joined to
gether, which will show forth the wonderful power of God
made manifest by the twelve foundation Stones that are
spoken of in Revelations 21:19.
First is the JASPER, which denotes the creating Word
of light, multiplying itself to a seven-fold degree of light,
which swallowed up the darkness which divides from the
light.
Second is the SAPPHIRE, which signifies Truth, which
never could be tainted or adulterated; which will dispel all
misunderstanding of things.
Third is the CHALCEDONY, which has the crown of
victory, dominion and glory, as the top Stone or greatest of
wonders, returning all in praises to the founder of this glory,
the Triune Trinity, the Father, Mother and Son, for through
these three the work is done.
Fourth is the EMERALD, the flowing fountain of ever
lasting righteousness, and opening up the fountain of all
endless treasures.
Fifth is the SARDONYX, which is triumph, joy and
delight, flowing from that fountain which gives pleasure
forevermore; which swallows up all sorrows and sighings.
Sixth is the SARDIUS, which attracts the virtue from
the Lord Jesus Christ, by which fears and doubtings are
Seventh is the CHRYSOLYTE DIAMOND, the founda
tion stone—the princely Wisdom sparkling forth in all its
beauty.
Eighth is the BERYL, which is meek and is of an even
temperature, of a Spirit all mild and kind.
Ninth is the TOPAZ, which bears the motto of Peace,
all mild and kind, that will not admit of any jars or warrings.
This is the virtuous stone that makes up all breaches and
heals all wounds.
Tenth is the CHRYSOPRASUS, which is invincible forti
tude and strength, that overrules all contradiction and
opposing powers, that nothing remains.
Eleventh is the JACINTH, multiplying and manifest
ing itself as burning gold sending forth a ruby luster; which
expels all anger and wrath.
Twelfth is the AMETHYST, which is impartiality of
justice and judgment, that cannot be biased or corrupted;
judging all causes and weighing all matters in the balance of
5TH COMFORTER OF THE _MOTHER'S BOOK 45
equity..
Praise ye the Lord all ye His Saints that We have
arrived to the golden age, wherein the secrets of heaven are
now being revealed through the mighty conquering Prince,
Shiloh Immanuel, God-with-us. And I am His servant.
THE SEVENTH SEAL.
"I considered all the Living that walk under the Sun, with
the Second Child that shall stand up in His stead"—to
whom Jesus Christ, the Lion of the Tribe of Judah, unseals
the seventh Seal for the true children of the life of the body,
which is the Spirit of the Living God in Jesus Christ our
Lord.
And listen to His beautiful words when He said: "If My
Word abide in you, and you in Me, ask whatsoever you will
and it shall be done unto you." If two or three agree as
touching that life of heaven, through the fiery cleansing
Law it shall be done, for the Just shall live by Faith and the
testimony of Jesus Christ. This is the Spirit of prophecy,
showing better things to come, which was fulfilled in the
Lord Jesus Christ in whom the Oracle was made flesh—a true
Jew, and an Israelite in whom there is no guile. And He was
our waymark and pattern to go by.
Then harken Oh Israel! for unto you the great Sunlight
has shown. Let not dark clouds pass over you, but be ye
wise in this our day to follow the Spirit, the bright sunlight
which has arisen amongst you. Oh Israel there is hid in thee
those that have a true and a righteous Mission, proceeding
from the Rock Christ, giving out the waters of Eternal Life
wherein you can be prepared and sanctified by this water of
life, so that ye may receive the Holy Ghost and be a witness
of His power.
Hear and harken in the Spirit! Oh harken! I plead with
thee and you will hear the Seventh Trump sounding from
the Seven Spirits that are before the Throne, telling you the
mysteries of time are now finishing, and the everlasting
Gospel of love is opening, and that the heavens are ready to
roll down to open their glory upon the earth that the inhabit
ants thereof may no longer lie burdened in the dark shades
of evil life over thee.
Oh City of David! the almighty Angel doth fly with this
thundering cry, saying: "Do not despise prophesyings, and
46 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN :
be careful that you do not cry down the Ark of the Living
Testimony in which the Spirit as a flowing stream must re
new Paradise upon the earth." And this warning is given to
all, and what I say unto you I say unto all—BE ON THE
WATCH! and shake your earthly dust away, which is your
unbelief. And beware of the spirit of unbelief, for it cruci
fied our blessed ascended Master upon the cross, wherein it
was said that Christ Himself as the Firstborn from the dead
was glorified in His Immortal Body and ascended far above
all heavens.
And in His divine Court He has reserved for His chosen
anointed Ones a greater mystery, which is yet to be made
known through the mighty Triune God, the Father, Mother
and Son! wherein His virgin Wisdom, with Her offspring in
this the twelfth and last hour shall be opened through the
pleasure and will of God our Father, who shall dwell in the
midst of these mild and pure spirits, pointing out the divine
unity, happiness and glory that they shall enjoy in His New
World, wherein all His acts and power do go forth in a most
powerful stillness, the mighty One operating through them;
neither can they do otherwise, it being unchangeably fixed
in the moving power of the Holy Ghost.
Therefore no true Israelite who is walking in this golden
path of Eternal Life will take glory or honor unto himself,
but will ascribe all to their ascended Master the Lord Jesus
Christ, in whom we serve the fountain of honor and the
origin of whatever is glorious. He cannot be overpowered
or tempted to do anything which is contrary to His Father's
will, but will wait patiently for the call of His Master, that so
he might honor instead of dishonoring Him. And this also
teaches him to weigh his words in the balance of the holy
Sanctuary. He avoids all manner of praises from man. He
cannot be puffed up in his own wisdom, but his heart's desire
is to dwell in the wisdom of God his Father, and he cannot be
blown up as a bladder with the vanities and pomp of the
world, for he is still more honorable and resigned to the
divine Will of his Father. He being a strict observer of the
eternal Law of order, which Law is the rule of all virtue,
having this Law within his heart and his conversation is
heavenly as he goes on step by step up the ascending ladder
until he arrives safely to the holy Throne of His divine
Father, wherein he receives heavenly communications, where
in he descends back to earth in spirit to deliver the secreta
of heaven to his beloved brethren.
Like unto Enoch who was taken away by two Angels,
r ''_
OTfi COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 47
up into the third heaven, and was shown many wonderful
things; then the Angels said to Enoch, "We have been with
you a long time." And the Angels disappeared and Enoch
didn't know what to do. And he fell on his knees in prayer
to his God, and the great Angel Gabriel appeared to him and
said, "Enoch, be of good cheer, I will take thee before the
face of the Lord." And the Lord said to Enoch, "The Angels
of the Lord have shown you all things, now return back for
thirty days and tell thy children of all the things that thou
hast seen." And this was just before the flood.
And the Angel of the Lord brought Enoch back. And it
will be remembered that Enoch left Methuselah his son, in
his bedroom on watch, and when he returned he found
Methuselah still on the watch. And I wonder how many will
be on the watch? This is the point I want to make: The
Seventh Messenger of this Visitation was caught up to the
third heaven and received divine communications that are
written in The Star of Bethlehem and delivered it to his
brethren, telling them of the great time of trouble that was
coming upon the earth. And I wonder how many have rem
embered His words? —thus preparing themselves for His
return.
Therefore a true Israelite seeketh not his own private
interest—never showing forth a spirit of selfishness or fail
ing to prefer his brothers and sisters before himself. But
on the other hand, a true Israelite in spirit and in truth will
do good to others and everything to advance the honor and
interest of his Master, who will meet and face many mis
representations from the unthankful natural race of man
kind. But he lives above the snares and frowns of a sin-
cursed world, ever seeking to dwell in the company of the
holy Angel, and all of the good and great men made perfect
likeunto Enoch, Elijah and Esdras, with their own spirit
being put within them.
And Jesus Christ our ascended Master became God-man,
the fulness of the Godhead put within Him who was the
Firstborn of these many brethren, namely the 144,000 who
are upon the earth ; who by the aid of that one Immortal
Spirit will walk the strait and narrow way of this golden
path that leads them back to the Eden of Paradise.
And those true and faithful ones are ever willing to bear
all things that are permitted to come upon them. They ever
remember the counsel of that good-natured Israelite who
charges His people to never take up a vessel by the left
handle when he could hold it by the right. Left hand is the
48 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
negative, and right hand the affirmative. So a true Israelite
will always consider how all things must be handled. He
sits not as a critic upon the failures of others, but ever seeks
to give them a kind word, encouraging them on the strait
and narrow path.
I'm in My Father's glory here,
The Second Branch of Second Birth ;
I never was brought forth before,
As Shiloh, King■ upon the earth!
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I
am His servant.
INWARD ASCENSION BY GOD'S LOVE.
£)H YE favored Israel! the elect Seed and spirits of the
Just, being the generations of the heavens, must be re
stored; and being mortal, having been subjected to vanity
unwillingly, ye are called the "creature" which shall be deliv
ered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty
of the children of God, wherein Paradise shall be restored;
it being the New Heaven and the New Earth which is what
Jesus alluded to when He said: "I go to prepare a place for
you," and this place is a prepared body to inherit the earth.
Therefore He said also: "I will come again and take up My
abode with you," and "I am with you and shall be in you."
Therefore when our body is prepared He will rest upon
us the same as He did on Jesus at the river Jordan. And
when this mortal puts on Immortality He will be in us, and
we shall be in Him— (1 John 3-2) —having received the end
of our Faith, which is the resurrection of spirit, soul and
body. Therefore quicken your pace! Can you not see the
dawning of this perfect day is upon us? Therefore, "Blow
ye the trumpet, and sound the alarm in My holy Mountain"
saith the Lord, wherein the spirits of the Just shall hear and
understand to make haste and come to that place where My
Spirit now rests, and with a heart full of love and rejoicing,
longing for the appearance of the mighty Shiloh Immanuel,
that they with one heart in pure unity and accord may sit
in heavenly places with Christ, and to have all our conversa
tions there and have nothing more to do with the powers of
darkness below.
For. the Angels of the resurrected Word of life are■ now
only for high communion and fellowship with, the* Trinity,
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 49
and those of their own spiritual raised order. They cannot
associate with creatures of low degree who remain in the
powers of darkness, nor walk among the dead, nor defile
themselves while they go in and out among those who are
seeking to be prepared for their ascension. For there is a
fixed time between resurrection and ascension, as with our
Lord Jesus Christ who ascended far above all heavens, He
taking care in secreting Himself from being touched —even
His beloved Mary must stand off at this time —lest she should
detain Him from His ascension, all of which deportment of our
Lord is for our example, to be very cautious what to touch,
taste or handle of things which belong to the fallen world.
Therefore let us behold Enoch's walk with God, who
made a clean cut from the old Satanic world, and he had the
sign within that he pleased the Father. For he was ready
and prepared for his ascension, and who is waiting now in
Paradise until the Sons of God are made manifest upon the
earth.
This is a state of life wholly peculiar to those who are
born again of water and of the Spirit. For it is not to be
expected that others can so live altogether untouched in the
affairs of this mortal life, but those who are specially called
out of the world to receive His holy Anointing, thus becom
ing priests, prophets and Messengers, to live and act in such
a special way of consecrations, different from others that
are not assigned to this holy separation; although with Moses
it might be desired that the whole heritage of God were
ordained prophets, and prepared for a higher and heavenly
service, which we do hope in time shall be wrought out by
the mighty hand of the holy One, who will first begin with
them who freely can make a clean cut with the old world,
and give up for a holy dedication, as it is expected for all
who are of this high calling and profession. I must say it is
great, it is worthy and exceedingly joyous—receiving honor
able blessings, proving themselves to be His living witnes
ses, declaring that the Lord has indeed risen in them. And
where a doubting spirit is that this is the Truth, they are
able to show the divine Mark for evidence.
But you might ask, Where are they? —that we may not
be deceived in them. First, we may know them by their
wonderful understanding, being educated in the School of the
Prophets, going in and out as Strangers, no longer dwelling
upon the earth— their home is properly with the Lord; and
can with their invisible spirit andbody pass through a higher
degree, so spiritually graduated by the birth of the resur
SO THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
rected Word of Life, like unto Christ Himself, who did appear
in His flesh and bone body after His resurrection and did
eat common food with His disciples to prove all this can be
obtained by a pure and holy life, for they get so much of
God's nature into them that they are strengthened until they
bring forth unto manifestation in the way of fruitful powers,
acting God's great wisdom upon this earth, wherein they
always do keep the ladder of ascension steady in their eye,
knowing that their stay is not to be long before they will be
brought before the holy Throne of God, as being thus quali
fied they do stand in all readiness for their ascension, wherein
the heavens do open and the bright clouds break as the open
gate for ascension to receive the spirit, soul and body. It
is now to be parted from the earth and carried up to have
conversation with the holy Trinity.
But how shall it be discerned when you do ascend? In
answer to this: No gross earthly eye that looks at things
according to the outward appearance can indeed discern the
Lord's body which is put on for ascension. No one can be in
the divine understanding but such as are in the great Sun
light. Others are not to see it or know it until they come
to descend into the tabernacle-body of the Holy Ghost; then
they shall be confessed and owned by them who were doubt
ful and unbelieving. But, Blessed are those who know them
selves in it and are received "out of sight," to be very much
with Jesus Christ their Lord.
How is it, you will say, to be "out of sight" and yet in
sight amongst the Brethren? Let it be understood that the
soul and spirit is in the secret, divine body —which was
shown by Jesus Christ who appeared first to Mary in a
spiritual body, while Christ took the flesh and bone body and
appeared to His Disciples in the upper room. We cannot
find words to explain what love, joys and embraces do
divinely pass between the Lord Christ and the Ascended
Ones; no measuring out of any heights or lengths and bread
ths of love which is enjoyed here in the highest circles of
eternal life. It may be well and truly said, "It passeth all
understandings."
But this it not all. There is yet much more to be done
and conferred by the Father of ascended spirits whom the
Lord Christ presented unto Him and saith: "Behold and
see them whom Thou hast given Me are come up after Me,
being no more of the world than I am. Therefore Oh Father
confer upon them what Thou hast done upon Me." And in
the presence of the Supreme Glory seemed all well pleased
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 51
to behold the effects of Christ's travel through death and
sorrow—thus to save and redeem.
Upon all this then, there was a council held jointly by
the holy Trinity. All agreed in One as to what divine gifts
were to be conferred with all those promised rewards which
do belong to the conquerors, for the encouragement for the
rest of the Elect flock to pursue their ascension also in this
the twelfth and last hour, wherein all the divine promises
of God shall be fulfilled. Angels, Archangels will celebrate
that day. For under the voice of the Seventh and Last
Messenger this mighty work shall be complete. For there is
no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
ANGEL OF LIGHT AND LIFE.
I ET THIS joyful news be known to all Israel— that the
great Angel of light and life has again descended with
the Trump of God and has rolled the great stone away, that
the Living may now come forth at the sound of His voice.
And like the dry bones of the open valley, by this open
Vision and at the prophesying of the Son of man, Gabriel,
the Archangel of light and understanding, they arise from the
Adamic sleep and stand upon their feet, by which deliverance
shall be brought to the whole earth who will accept deliver
ance and enter into the Door of light, life and truth. And
for this cause and to this end the Spirit of Paradise has re
turned, and with all the ministering spirits to the heirs of
redemption, that they might be made ready.
Therefore the Bridegroom in His glory cannot fail sud
denly to appear, and the voice of the mighty Shiloh Immanuel
is calling to all the faithful disciples to watch and wait in
Jerusalem, the Holy City of Peace, until they be endowed
with that holy Spirit, for as My Father sent Me, so send I
you. Therefore be ye faithful watchers until the break of
day, watching with hope and expectation for the fulfillment
of the prophecies. And their reply is: "Behold, we see in
the heavens the ministering angels with their trumpets in
their hands that are sounding that there is a joyful Jubilee
at hand, giving us the words of consolation —"Fear not!
faint not! but hold out patiently for the redeeming power
which is moving and breaking forth, and the crown of dia
dem is descending, guarded by the heavenly host of Angels.
to be put upon the first overcomers, proving they have put
52 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
on the shield of Faith and are in company with us in the
flaming oracles of love.
Therefore the watch-word is from the Lord Jesus Christ :
"No other commandment do I put upon you but that you
hold fast in the bonds of love and unity, until I come to
clothe you with power, strength and glory." With these
words of counsel, dear Israel, quicken up your Faith to that
glorious Mountain where I will not fail to meet thee, who
are one in My Spirit. Have I not sent thee the Seventh and
last Messenger by the name of Shiloh Immanuel, in mani
festation of Myself, who brought forth the fiery cleansing
Law to purify and cleanse thy blood? which had hitherto
been kept secret, the only Law that will take you back to the
Eden of Paradise, thus giving you knowledge of His heavenly
Kingdom.
Therefore He will call and anoint some as He did Moses,
to receive counsel and command to be as God's agent, to
perform. All that is revealed to them shall be from the
mouth of the holy One—Christ the Lord speaking through
them, this being the day and hour for those who are found
worthy to be commissioned for such divine work and office,
yea the office of the Lord, wherein Angels will minister to
them and point out the true and living way; thus being in
possession of the rod of power, proving they are a mouth
piece for God to speak through, bringing to pass what had
passed away in former ages by the way of revelations and
miracles.
For it is required by the Lord himself that there should
be an expectation of something greater yet, that has been
hidden in the manifold wisdom of God to be brought forth
under the voice of the Seventh and last Messenger Shiloh
Immanuel, the Conquering Prince, whose reign shall be
divine and glorious in His Kingdom with His Saints as they
stand in union with the Godhead, the Father, Mother and
Son, the Triune Trinity.
Oh blessed and happy are those who are thus called and
chosen, who are to stand in prepared readiness to entertain
and receive the first opening of what has so long been con
cealed from the world, and what will happen in this the
twelfth and last hour. For the end of a century cometh,
therefore the warning call is to all, for the Spirit and the
Bride say "COME!" and whosoever will may come and par
take of the waters of life freely.
For we expect and believe with all our hearts that the
Lord will appear in great power in His Kingdom, which shall
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 53
prevail and over-power all the kingdoms of this world, which
shall be fulfilled in His holy Watchers who have held out
through Abraham's faith till they arrived to the watch-gate
of Paradise. Therefore I want to tell all Israel there is a
blessed and wonderful time approaching according to the
prophecy record of the dominion, coming to the oppressed
daughter of Zion; these being quickened up by the alarm of
the divine ministering spirits as this wonderful day grows
clearer and brighter, drawing them until they readily offer
themselves to come up to this watch-tower; expecting some
miraculous things to happen —but seeing things did not come
up to their expectation they began to faint and grow weary
in their minds, saying in themselves: "Why should we wait
for the Lord any longer, for we may spend our days and
nothing of Zion's full redemption see? as many ages have
run out their time hitherto, and so may we; therefore we may
take our liberty to draw off from such a strong attention and
take up and be satisfied with what we have hitherto attain
ed." Drawing off from the watch-tower—Oh thou of little
faith! You ran well for a while, what did hinder thee?
Such will reel to and fro when they see faithful Israel
made Immortal. For it will be as impossible for these faith
ful ones to give up their Faith as for a man to drink the sea
dry at one drink. And they shall go through this golden
Gate, proving they are precious Stones, showing themselves
to their fellow-brethren that they have gained the prize for
which they waited so patiently. As it is written, "After you
have done the work, ye have need of patience to wait for the
fulfillment of the promise." And by being obedient to the
watchful call through this gate, it never shall be closed
against them, but they shall go in and out and renew their
strength and power from the flowing Rock, wherein they will
be able to perform mighty miracles through the power of the
mighty Shiloh Immanuel, wherein a great change and over
turn of all nations shall be effected, so that the mighty
ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, shall set His foot
here upon earth, representing Himself in His worthy over-
comers, they standing in great favor with the holy One in
proving themselves to be faithful and true through that
divine love of God that reveals all great mysteries and to
strengthen the hands of the fearful and feeble, that they may
be strong and persevere and hold out through the proving
hour. Then you shall hear His voice saying: "Come! ye
blessed of My Father and enter into thy kingdom that I have
prepared for you from the foundation of the world."
54 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
Take your place and sit down with Christ upon His
Throne, which is the reward for thee. Tea! and Amen!
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I
am His servant.
l^T
INWARD BODY OF CHRIST.
/\H ISRAEL! the voice is sounding down the line, "Give Me
thine heart and I will give you My Spirit," thus proving
the desire of thy heart is to be one with Christ, which will
soon put a stop to all vanity, envy and jealousy, wherein
nothing will be permitted to enter into thy heart or proceed
from it but what comes from God and returns to God. Then
you will soon be bound in the chains of holy affinity, and
desire that thy mouth might have a holy watch set upon
it, wherein thy ears would not willingly hear anything that
does not pertain to God, but thine eye through that Immortal
Eye be opened to see and find a willingness of doing good.
In a word, when this Faith has got both thy head
and thy heart, it will then be with thee as it was with our
ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who found the pearl
of great price. It will make thee glad and rejoice to sell all
thou hast to obtain it, thus proving that the light and Spirit
of God by the holy One, has again been restored to redeem
the spirit, soul and body, thus taking us back to that land
from whence we came.
And with that living Faith—we are trusting in it—know
ing it is the secrets of heaven being revealed. And in the
midst of it is the fountain of living water of which thou may-
est drink and live eternally. There the supper of the Lord is
kept; therefore the bread that cometh down from heaven
that giveth life to the New World. For every day will
be Sunday to thee, and wheresoever thou goest, to this
mountain or that mountain, every place will be to thee as
the New Jerusalem, the gates of heaven. For thou shalt have
the Church and altar with thee when God has all He should
have of thine heart, proving you have made a clean cut of
all evil, wherein you have made Obedience to the light and
Spirit of God within thee, to do only His will, to live in His
love, to be wise only in His wisdom. Then you can sing that
eternal song of Praise, and all the business of thy life is in
accordance with God's will on earth, as with the angels in
heaven.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 55
For we have that longing desire to be made like our
ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, thus entering into
humility, meekness and love, which causes us to make self-
denial, and ever having that desire of doing God's will and
seeking only His honor, wherein divine wisdom and heavenly
love can and will grow up in thee. If thou, Oh Israel will
give true attention to God's presence, then you shall always
stand upon the Rock Christ immovable, wherein we shall
have a birth in us to live in the love, in the patience, humi
lity and meekness of Christ. Then the celestial transparent,
Spiritual body of an Angel is continually forming itself,
growing within us until it comes to the fulness of the stature
of Christ Jesus. This is the true eating of the flesh, and
drinking the blood of Christ, which will become our body of
glory through all eternity.
Let it be understood through our natural reason and
outward senses, while we are in Adam's bodily flesh we know
nothing of the inward body of Christ, yet it is just as surely
that we have the love, the patience, meekness and humility
of Christ. For where the true Spirit of Christ is, there is
His true spiritual body for us to dwell in, which is the Im
mortal Pearl of eternity, which is also the Church or temple
of God within thee; the consecrated place of divine worship
where alone thou canst worship God in Spirit and in truth,
because that holy Spirit is within thee which can unite and
cleave unto God our Father and receive the work of His divine
Spirit upon us, "for of ourselves we can do nothing," but
through that holy Immortal Spirit all mysteries are revealed
to His Elect, who are spiritual and will understand the voice
of that holy One who is calling them back to the Eden of
Paradise.
And let it be remembered, every step we take, every inch
of our road is to be made up of denials, denying ourselves;
because all our redemption consists in regaining that first
life of heaven which Adam lost in Paradise. Therefore the
one single work of redemption is the one single work of
regeneration, for we must follow the Son of man through the
regeneration to obtain the life of God, or the birth of heaven.
Thus saith the ascended Master our pattern and waymark.
Therefore if any man will be My disciple, "let him deny
himself of his evil life and take up his daily cross and follow
Me."
And again, "unless a man be born again" from Above
of water and the Spirit, he cannot see nor enter into the
Kingdom of God. Therefore the living Faith comes by hear.
56 THE EOOK OF HEAVEN
ing, and hearing comes by the Word of God, therefore He
has chosen a standard-bearer Of the Word and a people He
prepares, and unstops the ears of the people to hear, and
opens their eyes to see. Therefore it is written, "How can we
hear without a preacher?" And how can they preach except
they be sent?
Now, if these things do not come in order as God has
designed according to His Word, then we would have no need
of a teacher, and if we have no need of the Messenger then
we would have no need of the twelve, the twenty-four and
the seventy preachers. Some want it their own way, saying
we have no need to be taught, thus doing away with the
Message and the Messenger or Interpreter, one among a
thousand, that they be kept from going down into the pit.
Then if you do away with the order of God's plan and have
no leader in earth, why was it so in heaven ? If it was needed
in heaven to have leaders and officers, so much the more in
earth in the flesh. So we believe it would be better to lay
aside our wisdom and accept God's wisdom, for it is surely
better and shall stand while the wisdom of the wise shall
perish, and the understanding of your prudent men shall
come to naught.
Therefore let all become willing to submit to the Law
of the Spirit of life; they being the spirits of the Just kept
back till the last, they are willing to do the work likeunto
their ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, and gain their
eternal freedom over sin, death, hell and the grave, thus
returning back to the Eden of Paradise, standing living wit
nesses to the fulfillment of the promises of God. For there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am his servant,
and for this cause was I born, to be a witness unto the Truth.
ROYAL SEED AND FREEDOM.
THE LAST prayer made by Jesus to the Father must now
be fulfilled, which was for the Union of Israel, that we
may all be One through the Truth sent unto us. My Word
is truth, spirit and life. For this cause the voice of the
Trumpet is given, that we may all be One and stand loyal to
the truth as is found in The Star of Bethlehem, in unity with_
Michael, the Spirit of Jesus.
Therefore the Spirit of the living God is calling for loyal
soldiers who will stand in ranks with. the head Archangel in
5TH COMFORTER OF THE_ MOTHER'S BOOK 57
spirit and in truth to fight this great battle in power and
might of the Spirit, which shall go on conquering and to
conquer under the Christ the great General, for His Kingdom
that has been so long promised upon the earth to come,
wherein the beast and the dragon have had so long a reign.
But praise to the God of Israel! the day and hour is here for
him to be cast out of the earth as he was cast out of heaven.
Therefore behold your mighty Shiloh Immanuel cometh!
the King of glory giving His true faithful soldiers strength
to fight this great battle —taking vengeance upon all those
who have usurped the dominion and Kingdom from Him
whose right it is in His Saints to reign. None of these mighty
ones shall to the visible eye appear —yet in the mountain of
the Lord they shall be seen, from whence the face of cover
ing shall be drawn away. Then as Elisha's servant they
shall see this holy place all filled and covered with golden
chariots of power, going forth in the Holy Ghost power that
shall smite on this hand and on that hand; so that the
enemies shall be blinded, wherein they failed to find their
way into this holy City—the camp of the living God to whom
a new song of triumphant victory shall be given.
The battle is won,
The Kingdom of our God has come!
And behold the everlasting Gates are opened, where a
free passage for the overcomer shall be—where they shall sit
down and rest in the possession of the glorious and rich
treasures, as it is the beginning of the New Jerusalem; all
of which is encouraging us to go on and fight the Lord's
battle.
Therefore the mighty Trump from the heavenly world is
sounding to gather them together out of all nations, bring
ing them to Zion, wherein they are united in the holy Spirit,
wherein they all stand upon immovable ground in their due
rank and order, carrying on in a spiritual and a divine way;
not fearing to leave all that is temporal and earthly for the
love they have for their ascended Master. And their great
desire is to see Him exalted in His Kingdom in His divine
reign and dominion upon the earth, that they with Him and
He with them shall unite in those divine pleasures that shall
know no end. Yea! the everlasting Sun giving it light in a
seven-fold degree, until an overcoming should be, first in each
one within ourselves.
Therefore there will be no occassion for anyone to say:
"How came you here?—knowing that they were worthy or
58 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
they never could have entered this most holy place. Think
not that here you are to stop or stand, for the measuring
line stretched out upon you still is to lead you deeper, wherein
your true rest you shall find by holding your New Jerusalem
Mother, who shall give you the Christ mind, for you have
overcome and are found worthy; whereby a peaceable habi
tation shall be known, so that the noise of warrings and roar
ing of cannon shall not disturb thy peace.
For we shall hear a sweet heavenly voice saying: The
circle of peace is upon this holy Mountain, wherein they may
listen in all seriousness and calmness until the tabernacle
of God shall come down, and therefore mightily and power
fully to act in order to accomplish the holy dominion and
reign in the appearing of the Lord Jesus Christ —He that was
dead is alive again!
Therefore dear beloved Israel We shall put no other
burden upon you but that you hold fast the words of My
counsel —which is: To abide and not step aside until you hie
endowed with all those heavenly powers as this present oc
casion doth require. Then shall you know you are in this
holy Circle, into which neither the dragon nor any of bis
fallen angels shall be able to enter this holy Place; for their
eyes are closed in darkness, never to be opened again.
Therefore I want to say: Blessed are those who are
found watching and waiting until the Lord shall appear in
full power of the Godhead, to glorify His own Kingdom.
For He has the divine power to reign above all kingdoms of
the world. Even so, Come Lord Jesus, and make good all
those Thy faithful sayings, to the joy and praise of both the
Jerusalem above and of that beneath ; of that which we wait
for in all Obedience, that Thy will be done in earth as it was
done in heaven.
Therefore, "nothing more required" is but that you rest
in the bosom of your darling virgin Mother, there drawing
out the nourishing Spirit of Life: so shall you become an
Israelite indeed in whom there is no guile —thus being found
worthy to entertain your glorified ascended Master with His
holy Virgin that has been touched with those fiery sparks of
your love—who have prevailed in their ascension to operate
with you in unity and power of the Spirit for help and aid,
as seeing the great need we have for such divine strength and
assistance.
For it is plain to be seen it is now as it was in the days
of Esther and Mordecai, which do represent the Royal Seed
and freeborn of the New Jerusalem Mother, who are scatter
STH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 59
ed here and there as captives in the Babylonish land, against
which many plots and conspiracies have been hatched to
break and cut us off, that we may be no more a peculiar
people upon the earth—even exiled the Seventh and Last
Messenger that His voice be not heard amongst them any
more. And praise to the God of Israel! will not the Twelve
bring in a verdict of not-guilty —before the Supreme Judge?
And then He shall return to us in great joy, and they that
hated Him shall be ashamed. And we shall hear His voice
saying: "And for My vesture they did cast lots" —the one
who had worked night and day for their deliverance, but
they heeded it not.
But be of good cheer! He shall return and be revealed
in flames of fire, and those that have been faithful and true
He will meet with a smiling countenance, and we shall hear
His voice saying: "Be not afraid, it is I!" Therefore let us
rejoice and be exceedingly glad that we are in the twelfth
and last hour, wherein ail things shall be accomplished to
His honor and glory. For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel, and I am His servant.
SPIRITUAL BIRTH DECREE.
jN THIS the twelfth and last hour the Trumpet is sounding,
which is the Trump of God, the Lord himself with the
voice of an Archangel and with the Trump of God, and this
is the Trumpet of eternal life, the testimony of Jesus Christ.
He is nigh thee, even in thy mouth; and said: "I will speak
in you and walk in you," etc. And this Angel Messenger
was seen by John flying in the midst of heaven, having the
everlasting Gospel to preach to them that dwelleth upon the
earth. And the meek by it shall inherit the earth, proving
that they have kept the Law of life, and they shall not die,
thus being prepared to return back to the Eden of Paradise.
And it is to be remembered, it will begin as it was in
the first Paradise, by male and female. And blessed are
those that shall stand in their lot in this new Golden Age.
Therefore take notice as to the manner of generation, it is
all truly spiritual —"Holiness unto God" ! as the Holy Ghost,
the divine Mother shall go forth to overshadow and give
conception in such as are chosen to bring forth, like unto
Jesus Christ at the river Jordan—begotten of the Immortal
Father, conceived of the Immortal divine Mother, and born
60 THE BOOK OP HEAVEN
of Her in Immortality, being a man and yet a Child—that is,
'
the Spiritual Child put within, likeunto Jesus Christ, for in
Him dwelt the fulness of the Godhead.
In this blessed day that is now dawning upon us, while
the Government and the authorities will be so confused as
has never yet been known since the beginning of time, it
means the third overturn of all nations. For the tide must
turn and the satanic powers and kingdoms must give way
to the Virgin who has brought forth the Firstborn Son that
shall rule with a rod of iron over all opposing nations crush
ed and brought under, while others shall see and submit to
Christ's glorious and divine reign, willing to be admitted as
subjects to this Kingdom and dominion that is given to the
Saints of the Most High.
The divine power will be so great and marvelous as shall
invite all, as it is written: "The Spirit and the Bride say:
Come! and whosoever will may come and partake of the
waters of life freely." Therefore there is a gate of Paradise
that shall be open, and all those who can show the mark
of the Holy Ghost, proving they have been born of the
divine Mother of Wisdom, may enter. But let it be under
stood, these do first rise as a child and yet a man, and grow
up as Jesus himself did in wisdom and power, this being the
time of their ministry ; they cannot suddenly rush to the full
possession of their inheritance, but as Just Spirits they will
be brought up and served according to their high spiritual
birth degree. As Moses was brought up in all the learning
of Egypt as the son of Pharaoh's daughter, so shall these
heavenly-born children be taught discipline and instruction
in all the divine arts in the royal courts of God their Father,
and the Jerusalem their divine Mother; from which many
may look for great miracles and wonders after the manner
of Moses and the Prophets and the Apostles, and that in a
degree more wonderful and glorious than all that has been
heretofore, because it will be the manifestation of the great
day of Christ setting up His Kingdom and reigning here upon
the earth over all nations and kindreds, which never yet has
been.
But their prophecies heretofore are now at hand to be
fulfilled. God has chosen the poor of this world, and the
meek and the weak and foolish things to confound the wise
and the people that are mighty, so that not many wise men
after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called;
which brings forcibly to my mind the words of Jesus when
He said: "I thank Thee, Lord of heaven, that Thou hast
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 61
hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast re
vealed them unto babes," the babes for the new Kingdom
that now is to be established; who now must grow in wisdom
under our ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who was
graduated from the school of the Prophets; yea, all the
ancient prophets as with Moses and Samuel, and all that
were from the foundation of the world, even to Christ's time,
who took golden vials and poured forth the precious oint
ments upon their heads that runs down to the skirts of their
garments; of which it was said: "These are the Anointed
of the Lord," that shall bear witness and declare what is to
be made manifest in this new Golden Age, by those who are
called and chosen, that shall revive the ancient miracles
through the power of the Holy Ghost, wherein they shall see
the King of Mount Zion stretch out the golden cord that will
draw them up to sit with Him upon His Throne which He
has prepared for them that they might arise from one glory
to another, and they shall behold the pearly gates of the
New Jerusalem, which shall fly open and with joy receive
those who had been anointed by the holy One. And they
shall grow up in a perfect state, covering them all over with
His divine nature, which is our dearly beloved ascended
Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who was full of divine wisdom
and power. And His Elect, the spirits of the Just being
merciful and of a meek nature, they will join in one spirit
with Him, thus becoming "spirit of His Spirit and flesh of His
flesh," for in Him the Word was made flesh.
Therefore, Blessed are those that are the firstfniits that
go forth to enlighten and bear rule over all the dangerous
places that are not yet ingrafted into the true Vine. And
the great love of God sends His Angels to watch over them,
lest they dash their foot against a stone. Therefore when
this great power is felt all over the earth, there will be a
great increase, so that the princes and kings of the earth
shall behold, thereby to promote the reign of Christ and to
throw their crowns at His feet. For kings' crowns shall clink
upon the ground. Praise ye the Lord, all ye His Saints!
Therefore a Solomon's spirit shall rise again, whereby
many, many hands will be busy, building up such a temple
as shall never be made desolate. Oh ye spirits of the Just!
hold fast that no one take thy crown. And ever remember,
there is strength and wisdom when dwelling in the Oracle of
the living God, and He who gave the Oracle then gives it
now. But let it ever be remembered, it takes the latter
Adam, a quickening Spirit, the Lord from heaven, and a
62' THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
latter Eve, a woman clothed with that holy Mother of Zion,
to accomplish this wonderful and mighty work, for of our
own selves we can do nothing.
But hark ye ! there is an awakening time in which those
that lie as in a dead sleep shall hear the thunders roll to awake
them out of sleep, but some will awake when too late. But
Oh ye spirits of the Just who are on the watch, who desire
to see the Kingdom of Christ established here upon the
earth, who are pleading with the people to investigate the
writings of the Seventh and Last Messenger which are writ
ten in the beautiful Star of Bethlehem, the Living Roll of
Life. For He came with the Seventh Key, the Key of David
to unlock the third and last watch. And now in the fourth
watch of the hour, Israel shall awake at the sound of this
Trump of God to gather around the Standard, which is the
revealed Words of Life under this great Sunlight of God's
holy Visitation.
My Ark is now resting that My people Israel may enter in.
Therefore let them prepare a robe, even the double robe of
righteousness, that they may be able to stand before Him,
for He shall stand upon the top of a table, even the table
and testimony of Jesus Christ, in the midst of My people,
that they might go forth with divine power, without guile,
fully realizing one greater than Noah is here, restoring to
His people a new world, wherein righteousness shall dwell,
which will bring joy and gladness wherein the glorified Christ
is saying: "Those are My Elect in whom I will be glorified."
The long-sealed Fountains are broken open. The ever
lasting mountains (which are Law and Gospel) dropping
down the power of the Holy Ghost. Come! all ye who have
labored and not fainted and have kept your Faith till this
day. You are those that are to be fed, and likeunto Joseph
in Egypt, you shall give out of these heavenly stores to the
hungry and thirsty and especially to those who are in a
divine hunger, that they might be found worthy and able to
partake of the same divine glory as you, fulfilling the words
of Jesus Christ when He said: "I drink no more of the fruit
of the Vine till I drink it anew with you in My Father's
Kingdom." Now these chosen ones embrace their Lord and
Bridegroom, who are called continually to His spiritual feast.
Dear beloved Israel! for you great tilings are prepared in
the New Jerusalem. We shall eat and drink at one table,
yea! the table of Zion. For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel, and I am His servant.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 63
THE HOLY PATH TO ASCENSION.
fXH YE Sons and Daughters of the free Woman! Prepare
to meet thy God. Make strait thy path, for Jehovah com-
eth to redeem His people, thus preparing them to stand
before the Ark of God's moving power in which His Kingdom
shall be established, which is so strong and powerful, which
penetrates so deeply in thine heart, thus purifying thee with
the oil of the Holy Ghost, which gives you a virtuous healing
life which feeds us from the pure crystal River proceeding
from the Throne of God, which River doth encompass this
Tree of Life, wherein no more death or curse shall be known,
but all swallowed up in victory according to the vision that
John the beloved saw —how that this Tree grew in the midst
and on either side of the River —signifying it to be of the
holy Trinity in their divine virtues, springing up for a feed
ing life of spirit, soul and body, which reaches to their ascen
sion.
Therefore all that has been opened and revealed of the
wonderful process of this Tree of Life, which was manifested
in His firstborn Son, was thus left on record in holy Writ
to encourage His true Elect to press forward and be ready
to pass through all of these degrees, through the mighty
Shiloh Immanuel, knowing that the powers of darkness can
not keep down any who are on this path of life to their ascen
sion —the same holy Gate that our ascended Master passed
through, and doth cause it to stand open for all that have
good-will and eternal love to come up after Him, for there
are to be 144,000 twice-told. Through the mighty conquering
Shiloh Immanuel they will have that living Faith. They
will stand steadfast upon that Rock Christ immovable, where
in they can see the breaking forth as the light of a new day.
And by the great Alpha and Omega it is testified that
what by His Spirit hath been revealed, is to encourage those
that stood loyal and true to the Union of the Godhead, and
the reward for them is Immortality —which cannot fail.
Therefore it being now the very time wherein our ex
pectation grows great to bring forth all the heirs of the
heavenly promises which have been made, therefore we shall
enter into that eternal Covenant of Life, wherein a new heart
and another Spirit —in which God's own eternal and pure
nature will be restored —so as to abolish the very root-
essence of sin.
But let it be understood, no natural or unbelieving
person could reach or understand this wonderful knowledge,
64 THE. BOOK OF HEAVEN .
which is only given through and by the holy One. None can
understand, only those who are rooted and ascended into the
birth of the Holy Ghost, which is firmly established and un
changeable, wherein a new life will go forth, and we our
selves shall find when the Lord from heaven shall descend
for to bring our ascension. He will forever maintain His
wonderful and eternal power over all principalities in His
holy reign, putting all things under which have exalted them
selves above Him. This is the decree of our great ascended
Master, our Lord and King, wherein His true Elect shall
stand for the ruling sceptre of the holy Lamb of God, to take
all power into His own hands to manage and rule in right
eousness in His peaceable Kingdom, of which there shall be
no end. This is the great and mighty overturn which is right
at our doors.
Therefore accept now this wonderful day of God, which
is as a fire, and molten heat shall come upon the old heavens
and earth, not only to shake but to dissolve them. Such a
signal change will be effected through the fiery baptising
cloud in which the Holy Ghost shall descend the second time
upon the New Jerusalem, to those who are called and fixed to
mind no other things but ascension, to receive power from
the Most High, for to do the work of glorification which none
can be capable of but such as are separated and redeemed
out of the earth.
The Apostles were commanded of the Lord Jesus Christ
when He intended to pour forth the Holy Ghost, of which
they accepted, receiving the first-fruits of it. But now where
will we find a wholly separated people if it is not in the City
of David? —who are working as one family in unity and love
together, waiting for the residue of the Spirit to do the great
er work of God in this the twelfth and last hour, who have
assembled themselves to gather unto the Mount of Olives,
apart from all foolish and frivolous things, for such are all
vanity and vexation of spirit.
Therefore we are waiting and longing for the mighty
power of the Holy Ghost to break forth in power and great
glory, that we may show ourselves to our brethren who are
yet in the old world of suffering and woe, inviting them to
come out from their bondage and suffering life. And the
true Elect will hear the voice and will accept it with gladness
of heart, proving they have been seeking the morning watch,
looking for the East Gate to open, which hath been the six
working days of man's labor, which is to cease when the
great Prince of the Sanctuary shall rise and ascend in us to
5TH COMFORTER OF' THE MOTHER'S BOOK 65
enter into the Most Holy and inward court, which is that one
prepared Sabbath where we come to rest from all our works,
that the Holy Ghost may act and do all in the most holy
place as an offering which is well pleasing to the Father, who
accepts such worship only as is performed by the most holy
Spirit.
But nothing will or can hold out or abide but what is
brought up through the divine measure of God the Holy
Ghost. Therefore this Golden Reed is given to be our meas
ure for the 144,000, until the living water from under the
threshold of the sanctuary do rise as an impassable river
to drown all that is dross and earthly, so that nothing may
live there but what is of a God-head appearance.
Therefore dear beloved Israel, let us go on to pursue
that for which the living hope has begotten in us, not looking
back to anything belonging to the fallen world, which could
make no one perfect. But to all the faithful travelers on
this path of life, let us ever seek to be in divine favor of the
holy Trinity, who revealeth unto us the secrets of heaven;
this being the amazing wonder which is left for the Holy
Ghost to bring about, which will be given to His Elect
through a mighty spirit of Faith, for which they must be
cast into a new mold, fitted out for the Spirit of Wisdom,
which will be found in the believing and waiting ones.
Let none imagine this will fall upon any suddenly, but
they will have a foregoing work for it, and know a great
change in their soul-inward-parts, which is all necessary,
that through the cleansing work there should be a getting
through to make ready for this last and great baptism of the
Holy Ghost into the pure nature of the Deity—thus becoming
likeunto Jesus the firstborn, our ascended Master, our way-
mark and pattern, wherein the Morning Stars shall sing to
gether, and the Sons of God shall shout for joy. For there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
LOVE-FLAMES OF ASCENSION.
"pHE Little Book of Life is open for you, that you by the
the light of it might see how to change thy garment and
be clothed with the double robe of Righteousness—the white
wedding garment —ready to enter into the marriage of the
Lamb where the water is turned into wine, which means the
cleansing of our blood.
66 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
And on this journey we will meet with many travelers
who have resolved in God's power not to grow weary or
faint until they reach the top step of this ascending ladder r
that we together may be comforted, supporting each other
while on this wonderful journey, ever seeking to put on our
snowy white raiment, that we might be found worthy to sit
down to the great royal supper of the Lamb, wherein our
joy will be so great. And as a Bridegroom, He will come
forth Himself to serve us with the New Wine of the King
dom that will prepare us for the great things that are to be
brought forth through a wonderful manifestation, which
things are now upon the working-wheel. Truly it is a "wheel
within a wheel, all terminating in good."
And all who are faithful and true, God will honor them
as His faithful stewards, being entrusted with the great
secrets of His Kingdom, through wisdom and counsel of the
Most High ; and others also which may in time come forth to
reveal yet more wonderful and hidden things that have been
under a seal that shall be broken up, for there is a ripe age
coming on that they may be ready and waiting for their
anointing, that they might be classed with the higher-gradu
ated Spirits, in which they would be known as a friend and
servant to the Lord Jesus Christ, and so will all full members
that wait for that great day of His appearing in His saints.
Therefore the Spirit of wisdom, revelation and prophecy
that has been shed abroad abundantly to declare many great
and wonderful mysteries in this golden age, has shown also
by the same Spirit —thus making golden steps to the ascend
ed mountain —how that the ascended and glorified are again
to descend, to show and declare unto their fellow-saints what
dowry they have by the Holy Ghost in meekness and love to
serve their Lord and Master. This is a secret written in the
Book of Life upon which there hath been a fast seal, but
now the Holy Lamb of God in spirit comes to break it open,
that we may read and know the great royalty —the Son of
the living God in His divine meekness hath redeemed us to
enjoy His beautiful reign here upon the earth.
Therefore when any great and mighty changes are to
be made upon the earth, it is to be done still by Angels
that descended from heaven, which is mentioned in John the
divine's revelation. Rev. 18-1, and 20-1. These are the
angels which the mighty God will employ in replenishing a
New Creation, who have come down with the Gospel power
to lay the foundation for the holy Mount Zion. And it could
never be expected that this great overturn and change upon
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 67
this confused state of things that are now standing should
be effected until an Angel shall ascend and again descend, as
having obtained the divine power from Christ their head,
therefore by signs and wonders, all of which are reserved
until the Elect Angels do ascend to receive a mighty empow
ering from the holy Trinity.
This is the finishing mystery that we have waited and
looked for that the divine Apostolic state of creation may be
restored, wherein the New Jerusalem will open and descend;
then shall the holy Priestly Kingdom be revealed, and its
Government be known and managed by the saints of the
Most High who, after their ascension must have some space
of time for their installment and fixation in the power and
gift of the Holy Ghost, that they may not come and pass
away again as formerly they did, but be established and
founded upon the Rock immovable.
For as the heavens have received the Lord Jesus Christ
out of sight, so will it be with these ascended Angels until
they be confirmed and made known in their flesh and bone
body —dwelling with the ascended Sons of God in the highest
order of Paradise.
Therefore dear beloved Israel! Ever pursue onward,
for nothing shall be lost, as the land is now in sight. Now
here comes in the very redemption of spirit, soul and body,
for this earth has gone through her change, and this mortal
is swallowed up of immortality. Even so let thy mighty
hand, Oh God of Israel, be upon Thy ascended Angels, which
are thy chariots, which with all swiftness do move as driven
on by a whirlwind of Thy Spirit. Let our eye be fixed steadily
until we arrive safely to the New Jerusalem, the City of God,
as we have a cloud of witnesses that have given their testi
mony of the wonderful power of the Holy Ghost, of which
they have felt ; whereby the same process may be carried on,
according to the New Birth formed in anyone, so as they may
experience a growth until they come to the last degree of it,
as they desire to reach the high mark, to the top-ladder of
Ascension.
Therefore let us observe that they first descend into the
valley of meekness and breaking from their own will, thus
becoming as a child-like spirit; offering themselves volun
tarily to the leadings of that holy divine Spirit that will open
the treasures so deep in God to be brought forth; because
there is a new School of the Prophets governed by the Wis
dom of God. As soon as they are born into Christ they are
taken care of, for to be brought up in that divine method of
68 : THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
the holy teaching that may qualify and make them meet
for a translation for a new state of living; which is entering
into that faith that consists of various degrees, approaching
to the Spirit of Wisdom, for to open the mysteries thereof
that lieth hid therein.
This is the ground-work that Wisdom's Disciples must
first set their foot upon, digging deep here until they find
this golden grain, which when once found causes great rejoic
ing. There is not to be a rest until you enter into the furnace
for a further progress and trial, at which let none be dismay
ed, for the reigning of this fire consists of the devouring
love-flames, which the pure eternal breath from God does
maintain until the White Stone shall be formed into a sub
stantial body, wherefrom the power of the Holy One may
go forth to renew the ancient deeds of the Holy Ghost. This
is the Unity of the Living Faith that is set before us to arrive
to—then no need of being concerned for what is in the world
under the powers of darkness.
Oh! who would not be willing to belong to this Divine
School of the holy Prophets? until they have obtained the
divine understanding of our ascended Master the Lord Jesus
Christ, who overcame all temporal and earthly things. For
surely there is nothing that can be a greater motive than this,
for holy ones that are born again to be willing to submit
themselves under Her pure discipline, sinking away from their
own understandings, that they may be filled up to the brim
with a pure wheat of the field, which will give a virtuous
power and strength and such sharpness of understanding
that they shall take out one lesson after another.
Thus they will find on their way many sweet, pleasant
flowers growing on either side of the road, and these give
forth their sweet odors that they may be refreshed and not
be tired and faint, but keeping up their Enoch's-walk with
God in that path of eternal Life. Therefore—
My Father "Word" was clothed in flesh,
And for mankind on Calvary slain;
I'm Shiloh "Word" new-born again,
That in all hearts must rule and reign.
According to My heavenly will,
New songs of praise I here reveal.
Drink deep of this, My "Living Well,"
My "Word," My power, and Spirits' seal!
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and
I am His servant.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 69
THE CLEANSING POOL.
"TO HIM that overcometh shall inherit all things. Therefore
it is to all who are willing to lay down the evil of their
mortal life, offering it up as a burnt offering upon Christ's
sacred altar, thus becoming a living sacrifice for a greater
joy and glory, which will bring forth a great and happy
encouragement to press forward and onward through the
mighty Shiloh Immanuel, who gives us strength and power
to make a sacrifice of all evil, thus entering into the Seventh
Cleansing Pool.
Therefore the Spirit of wisdom, revelation and prophecy
has been sent abroad abundantly to declare many great and
wonderful mysteries, wherein the Spirit of truth is now re
vealing all, for "He doeth nothing but what He revealeth
unto His servants the prophets." so that it will not be said
any more: "What is your hope in your ascended Master?
What is it that He will endow you with more than others?"
That is not to be accounted small, but very great, because
such Spirits divinely espoused to Him shall not want, because
of being of that royal heavenly Family; who feed upon the
"hidden manna" which is hid in the midst of the Paradise
of God. And they are adorned with rich clothing—the double
robe of righteousness —with rich jewels, for they are the
Jewels in the Heart of God, ready and prepared for their
ascension; who are in disguise to the fallen world, yet they
have their conversation in heaven and dwelling in God above.
This is not all they are in election to obtain. As they
grow up in wisdom they stand in divine favor with the holy
One. They shall not only be as the King's Daughter all
glorious within, but showing it outwardly also, by having
command and dominion. Therefore in this Family of Faith
no scarcity shall be known, but while others are hungry they
shall be fed; while others are not bearing they shall be fruit
ful. The curse for them shall be rolled away, and the endless
blessings shall be multiplied upon them out of the everlasting
Mountain where treasures unknown to them shall be in
abundance.
Therefore in order hitherto for the encouragement and
support of the believers and waiting pilgrims for such a
blessed Day, we do see many glorious and grand things re
presenting the New Kingdom. This was fulfilled in Christ
the head, and the bright body of saints that were constituted
to keep the records of the faithful ones who are sending
up their prayers, longing for His appearance and Kingdom;
70 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
dated in time from the beginning of the first Century—the
first Century after His ascension and so onward, still ap
proaching nearer and nearer; so their Faith has run up so
high as to reach their accomplishment that their Faith be
made good.
No doubt these faithful pilgrims searched into the Roll
where times' number was not finished, which was brought
in by them, that the time was at hand wherein all those that
would enter into the resurrected Word of Life were ordained
for the ascension, who were so qualified and endowed with
the great sunlight which brought forth such glorious in
fluence, which must have hung in the middle between heaven
and earth; the mighty hand of the holy One, sent as a ladder
unto them, which divided them from all earthly things, that
nothing might touch or hinder their Spiritual ascension.
For the business into which they are called cannot admit
any of their temporal affairs with them. This I have ex
perienced through the ministering Angels that have been
sent unto me. For it was with them as it was with Moses
when he entered into the cloud to speak with God. For His
great spiritual business is to be put upon such as are separat
ed and anointed of this high priestly order. And they must
wholly dwell in patience and waiting to hear and receive
from the Holy One, His divine Message to make report of
what they have seen and heard, that there may be no longer a
famine for want of the essentially speaking Word immediately
opening itself.
We have had the record of the Living Word, which is
suited to the age and dispensations foregoing; which also
are still to have their usefulness, for their prophecies must
have their time of fulfilling; and knowledge of the divine
mysteries must have its unveiling, which are too deep to be
fathomed only by those that dwell in the Spirit of the Holy
Ghost that revealeth all things which they have seen and
heard within the Holy Place, that it may cause a great and
Third Overturn of the kingdoms of this world, which have long
lain under the beast and dragon's reign, longing for deliver
ance and redemption, out of which these ministering angels
shall have liberty to ascend and descend to bring down order
and to be exercised in those powers that will prove how Christ
the Lord is opening the reign of His Kingdom here on earth,
by such noble and faithful Ones who have overcome all the
mountains of the powers of darkness, and the strong tides
and tempest.
Therefore hear and understand ! all ye Nations and
5TH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 71
Kingdoms. Take notice and observe —such among you a3
God will—that God will choose for himself—such to be
ascending and ministering Spirits, knowing it is a wonderful
time wherein God will prepare for himself a heavenly and
divine place wherein He will sound the Horn. that is to be
filled with the pure air and flame of the Holy Ghost.
Therefore it is His will that all of these Spirits of the
Just be gathered into one place; likeunto Elijah, whose flam
ing chariot must descend to bring down renewed power from
the heavens, whereby this Spirit of prophecy —that is, mighty
things that relate to the New Creation—are now opening
for the Kingdom within, which shall be the diadem and
crown.
For behold.' Shiloh the Prince of Peace is born.
Shiloh is come to reign—our King.
Blow! Blow the trumpet and sound the Horn;
From pole to pole the news let ring.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and
I am His servant.
ASCENDING LADDER.
P£
J3SUS CHRIST said to the Father: "All that Thou hast
given Me have I kept, and none of them are lost but the
son of perdition," that the Scriptures be fulfilled. And let it
be understood that son of perdition is the evil in every man.
And behold! in this day of His heavenly Visitation we see
those who were given to Jesus Christ are now coming to walk
the strait and narrow path, that the Father might do the
work in them as He did for His firstborn Son, and cause our
hearts to burn within us as He talks with us by the way on
our journey to the New Jerusalem, the City of God.
Then let them behold and realize the travel of our as
cended Master, through death and sorrow, to save His Bride
from corruption and death. And let us behold the council
held by the holy Trinity, all agreeing in One as to what divine
and perfect gifts are to be conferred with all those precious
promises of reward which do belong to the overcomers, for
the encouragements for the rest of the Elect flock to pursue
and be ready for their ascension also, thus climbing the
ascending ladder step by step until we arrive to perfection.
Likeunto Joseph, who was in prison—the Angel of the Lord
appeared unto him and taught him the seventy languages
in one night's time, which raised him up next to the king.
72 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
He was sorely persecuted by his own brethren, for it was
when they had full and plenty that they sold their brother.
And when they asked Joseph whose son he was, he was
ashamed to tell them because it would make his brethren
look so little.
Oh! what a beautiful character was Joseph, for in his
loins was that precious Seed of Jesus; whereupon a cry goes
forth from a woman whose son Elisha raised to life in time
of death and famine, who sojourned in a strange land; and
she also cried unto the King to have her house and land
restored again, whom the Prophets raised from the dead,
bringing him to life. Thus it is with the castaway Stones
who have been banished from their heavenly inheritance
until the voice of the mighty Archangel Gabriel spoke
through the Seventh Messenger, calling unto them to return
and be ready and prepared for their mighty ascension, like-
unto their ascended Master who set the example through
the strait and narrow path, for them to return back to the
Eden of Paradise, wherein they shall behold the Tree of
Life; and a command from heaven above to feed upon this
precious Tree of life likeunto our ascended Master, wherein
the Word was made flesh and dwelt amongst us in His trans
parent Immortal Body, which He received from His holy
virgin Immortal Mother. And He was the Firstborn of these
many brethren who were to walk in the same narrow path,
namely, His Bride the 144,000, who shall be taught in the
school of Wisdom to understand the heavenly language;
which language is, in the corrupt nature, now quite lost, and
can only be restored in the ascension, proving they are cloth
ed with that holy Virgin Wisdom which doth highly excel
and outwit all the craft of satan, and delivering them from
the breast of the fallen Eve.
For this precious Wisdom shall be restored again, which
gives everlasting unchangable holy righteousness as a beau
tiful white robe that covers from head to foot, no more spot
of earthly life to fall upon it. And this heavenly joy, likeunto
the sweetness of the dew which lies always upon the branches
of this Tree—the precious ascended Master—never departs.
Therefore fear not! It is I who ever watch over My
true Elect in this strait and narrow way with that Godly
love which has no bounds, lengths nor depth. It is some
thing you cannot sell nor buy, it being the divine wisdom of
God, and cannot be understood only by those who are faith
ful and true, who stood loyal and true to the union of the
Godhead in the great battle that was fought in heaven in the
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 73
spiritual realm, and their reward is life eternal. And by
their fruits ye shall know them, for they dwell in that sparkl
ing power of love that they receive from the holy One, prov
ing that they have gained their eternal freedom. And what
ever they say or do, it will be in unity and strength of the
Holy Ghost. They will be meek, tender and merciful, prov
ing they have God's divine nature and goodness.
Therefore there is a precious balm in Gilead in Israel-^_
and why is not the health of _My people restored? The
answer is—because of the clouds of unbelief which keep
them from being linked up to the very Throne of God. For
when yOu enter into this living Faith you can ask whatsoever
you will and it shall be done, for His promises cannot fail.
For it is the hidden gold mine, where there will be no need
of !
digging or laboring of either body or mind. There will
be no occasion to say: What shall we eat or drink ? or where
with shall we be clothed? For all things will be supplied
from God's flowing eternal fountain of all precious stones,
that will bring forth eternal riches and honor which cannot
be degraded or plucked away from the ascended, likeunto
our ascended Master.
Likeunto a ship, they will sail with outspread banners of
victory, floating upon the beautiful river of life, ever dwelling
in the Ark of God's moving power, in which His Kingdom
shall be established under the wonderful protection of this
Tree of life.
Therefore Oh Israel let us rejoice, seeing the breaking
forth as the light of a New Day, and by the great Alpha
and Omega it is testified that by the power of the Holy Ghost
it will draw upon the hearts and spirits of those who are born
again, that will take them back to days of youth, this being
now the very day and hour wherein all these things shall be
accomplished.
Therefore let it be remembered, there will never be a
day likeunto this wherein the holy Virgin Mother of Zion is
giving the true heirs their Immortal Inheritance. For how
could there be a son brought forth without a Mother ? There
fore the Holy Ghost will descend the Second Time from the
New Jerusalem, giving them power from the Most High
to do the work, that the Word might be made flesh within
them who are separated and waiting patiently for the residue
of the Spirit to do the greater work of God in this earth,
which has lain so long barren from bringing forth fruits of
His divine power.
Therefore He is causing them to assemble together in
74 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
spirit and ascend together to the Mount of Olives, as apart
from all worldly things, thus waiting patiently until the divine
power of the Holy Ghost breaks forth in power and great
glory, that we may show ourselves to the brethren who are
yet in the old world of suffering and woe—to invite them out
of their Egyptian bondage, wherein their suffering and sor
row shall come to an end; who then shall of these glad tidings
first bring.
But in such close and earnest seekers that have set the
early morning watch, looking for the East Gate to open,
wherein the great Prince of the Sanctuary shall arise in us
to enter into the Most Holy Place—the blessed Sabbath of
Rest, to rest from the powers of satan, thus offering our
bodies as a living sacrifice, which is well pleasing to the Fath
er. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and
I am His servant.
THE SEAMLESS GARMENT.
"THE Lord Jesus Christ said: "Except you eat My flesh and
drink My blood, you have no life in you." Therefore
let it be understood when we read the Word and digest it
with a Divine understanding, we partake of the Immortal
body of Jesus Christ, for in Him the Word was made flesh;
wherein we enter the Seventh Cleansing Pool, where Christ
the Lord first moved to purchase a full and a perfect cure to
heal all sickness; for which I am commissioned as both serv
ant and friend to My Lord, our heavenly Bridegroom, to invite
you to the great Supper of God and the Lamb.
The Royal Table is here furnished for all who have the
beautiful Wedding Garment—the seamless Garment that
Jesus wore. Behold and see !—Christ the Lord presents Him
self in a paradisical body and saith to His Elect: "Here I
give My rising body as more powerful, strong, and pleasant
to feed upon." What a divine lesson is this—the Marriage
Feast, where the water is turned into wine!
And by the Governor of the feast you are most earn
estly called upon to eat of this transparent body, which is
so instructive, so sweet and so divine! for it reveals the
secrets of Heaven. And what a joy it is to God the Father
to see His table set with Angels' food —the bread of heaven,
that they feed upon for their ascension. Is it any wonder
Jesus said to His disciples: "I have meat to eat ye know
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK .75
not of." And Oh! with Him we may go up to worship in the
New Jerusalem, to hold the Holy Feast of the Tabernacle
with all high celebration of praises from the ascended ones,
which cannot be satisfied but to feed upon the glorified Body,
which fills with all the fulness of God, which flows strongly
unto those whose bodies are here prepared.
Oh! what can be expected in that great day when the
holy Trinity shall descend to celebrate the marriage with
the Lamb and Bride! What joy and glory are now renewed,
for here appears the glorified person of Christ, who appears
to His ascended ones, saying: "These are they in whom I
will be glorified." The long-sealed fountain is broken open,
the everlasting Mountain drops down the power of the Holy
Ghost, saying: "Come! all of you who have labored and not
fainted, and have kept up your Faith until this day. You
are those that are to be fed and nourished with all the choice
and precious fruits of the Tree of life; and are ordained to
be those Josephs that shall give out of these heavenly Stores
all things that you stand in need of."
Your bread and your water is sure; the heavenly Bread
of the Kingdom and the water of eternal Life, that ye shall
drink and thirst no more. And ye shall also be enriched and
partake of the same glory with Me, the Lord Jesus Christ.
This is the Lord Jesus Christ's own prophecy, and now re
newed by His Spirit and is sure to be fulfilled in those that
shall advance unto all these degrees.
For the Day Star, the glorious Star of Bethlehem, hath
appeared unto me, and would not have me to conceal those
divine heavenly mysteries that I have been taught by the
holy One. He has well assured me that there is a Bright
Star that from heaven shall descend, and shall establish all
these weighty truths revealed, and fasten them with a Golden
Nail which shall not be moved away.
It is also made known that His divine Ray will pass over
some and glide away without making any impression. They
heard the Voice but heeded it not. And Oh! what loss to
them it will be by slighting and neglecting this divine and
wonderful invitation. The Lord will leave such to take what
they will not care to find, their eyes being heavy with sleep,
not realizing what things are prepared in the New Jerusalem
for those who are found on the watch, wherein the ascended
Master will meet them with a smiling countenance and preg-
nate them with the power of the Holy Ghost to go forth for
the replenishing of the New Heaven and New Earth.
So now ye may plainly see here, suitable provisions for
76 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
every sort, every degree, according to their calling and elec
tion in God, for they hold communion in One Body Christ, to
gether in pure affinity and love; wherein the mighty Angels
do come forth filled with the Love-oil of the Holy Ghost
to pour forth everywhere, so that the Lord Christ's anointed
Body may come bone to His bone, and member to His memb-
ber, for which we shall not cease in our prayers daily for the
holy Trinity to hasten the true Elect, namely the 144,000 to
gather into this Unity, to be linked with golden links together
which will bind satan down for a thousand years, wherein
peace and harmony shall reign in such chosen vessels as God
will honor as His faithful Stewards; being intrusted with the
great secrets of His Kingdom ; wherein all shall be taught of
God, as being only filled with God, which is His Word speak
ing through them, which will beget a new and heavenly
generation that will multiply itself over the face of the whole
earth, which will make the old world to vanish and sink
away. This is the Bridal Church that Christ will make ready
for His appearing; and until this is accomplished He cannot
come down in His visible and personal glory for the solemn
izing of this eternal Marriage which will be the joy and
praise —which will not be only of the earth, but also of the
Heavens, which shall be both united as into One; wherein
this Angel Messenger has gone forth proclaiming that we
are now in the dawn of this wonderful Day, and that the
Virgin Wisdom hath Her representatives here upon the earth,
that do travail in the greatness of the Godhead strength for
the bringing forth of these mighty births that shall subdue
all nations under them, so that the kingdoms of this world
may become One, all-pure and a powerful Kingdom in which
Christ and His Bride shall rule and reign.
Therefore the Spirit and the Bride say, Come! and
whosoever will may come and partake of the water of Life
freely. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and
I am His servant.
s^sr
GOLDEN RIVER OF LIFE.
I WILL gather you one by one, Oh ye children of Israel! and
bring you to Zion, thus preparing them to become one
family of God. But let it be understood, this is a divine
principle that opens itself individually, and that everyone
may have Paradise opened within him and become himself
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK ■77
a Paradise watered from the Golden River of Life; being a
builder, and laying the foundation first of his own Wall,
proving that he has that Seed within him of Eternal Life;
showing forth the fruits that will lead up into Immortality;
giving forth its increase, which is a witness that the ground
was prepared, namely the body, which is the property of the
spiritual part, which can dart into another as swift as a
thought, and for one Spirit to be essentially presented and
united to another.
THIS IS A GREAT MYSTERY, and has been little
understood; of this wonderful affinity that one spirit may
have with the other, though they be in different parts of the
earth. But it may be asked, What is the benefit of our spirit
passing to another, and what proof can be brought forth that
proves it? Here is the answer: The great Apostle spoke
about "being absent in body but present in spirit." And
if the spirits being gathered together, meet with them to
determine spiritual things, it is as one having obtained more
deeply the divine spiritual discernment. Alio, the spirit of
Elijah went along with his servant, and actually saw what
he had done. This is experienced more or less, according to
the degree of the Spirit poured forth; so that much help
and strengthening —being in Unity with each other—may
be maintained by the divine communication of the Spirit.
Hereby in a true sympathy they have a real feeling of
each other; also of the freedom and joy that penetrates the
heart through the power of the Holy Ghost, which none can
understand or perceive but those who are in this Holy Spirit.
And thus the temple body of Christ will be built, and the
spiritual Stones will be joined together ; and convenience shall
be found to join God's Holy Family together in one accord to
worship God, who have given up themselves for this great
and glorious divine work.
The cast-away Stones that lay yet scattered in different
nations will have a call to come to the holy Temple, that they
may come and be brought up as the children of the disciples
of the heavenly Wisdom, seeing that our divine Father stands
more particularly charged for His own family, knowing what
things are needful for them and bestowing upon them the
principal gift, which is Faith in Him —the Key that opens
the unknown deep mysteries where all treasures shall be
delivered into the hands of Faith, which must be divine and
steady, never wavering, looking upward with a fixed eye,
not divided between two principles.
. Then will it be experienced' as it was by the Patriarchs
78 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
and Prophets of old, who were encompassed with blessings
on the right hand and on the left, not knowing which way
they would be brought in; perfect Faith in the everlasting
fountain that unseals the deep things of heaven.
It is little known or considered what Faith may extend
to, in relation to all temporal and Spiritual blessings, for the
temporal sets forth the spiritual in their times and seasons ;
which will be when such a generation shall rise up as are
born into a more refined and spiritual part of the divine;
growing up and taught in the School of Pentecost, in the
Gospel Faith, which is the kernel seed from whence may
grow the spiritual body that answers to the express image of
Christ after His resurrection, and which also appeared to the
disciples in the upper room in a flesh and bone body, and
afterwards ascended into Paradise—the prepared Mansion
for all such as are quickened into the same resurrected life
with Him, who shall be as He was—parted from this visible
world so mysteriously and spiritually. He will gather them
up into Himself, that they may live after the same divine
manner, as He has opened the Gate whereby we may return to
that land from whence we came, as we belong to that same
Paradisical Life, which is such a pure climate and heavenly
air, which is that heavenly Immortal breath of Life wherein
death cannot enter there; because the Tree of Life doth stand
open, without any guards upon it, for none are capable of
feeding upon this Tree but such as are faithful and true,
believing with all their heart that every living plant My
heavenly Father hath planted shall not be rooted up, but
come to perfection in a flesh and bone body, the holy Spirit
dwelling within; who shall live and reign with our blessed
ascended Master throughout one eternal day; they having
their tents pitched near their divine Shepherd, encompassing
His throne of glory.
Herein shall be no inquiry, for here they are no longer
turned aside from the flock of His company, neither need
they say: "Oh! our Beloved, tell us where Thou feedest?
and where Thou keepest Thy flock to rest at noonday," be
cause Thou hast sent Thy divine Messenger, not only to give
us intelligence but to lead and bring us up to our divine rest
in Thee, making us partake of the same glory, which Thou
hast prepared for us in Thyself before the foundation of the
world.
Now, the question might be asked about this Paradi
sical principle to be made manifest—in whom will it be? In
. answer, they are such as are peculiar and have a high degree
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 78 :
of Faith to set themselves apart for it; keeping steadily in,
a watchful position, which has been known already by some,
both in ages past and also present, that it has not been with
out effect, but they have witnessed the operation of the Spirit
of the Holy Ghost.
And as Joshua had the commission and power given him
after he had brought the Tribes of Israel over Jordan, to
divide each their lot of inheritance, so the great Joshua, the
Lord Jesus Christ by conquest has brought a selected and
chosen number into this love-power, wherein peace, happiness
and contentment shall forever reign throughout one eternal
day.
This brings forcibly to my mind the words of the Sixth
Messenger when he said: "There is an irresistible affinity
between the spirits of the Just." And why shouldn't there be?
—when they dwell in that one Immortal Spirit—the One
Family of God who have fought the battle bravely, and
through the power of Jehovah we have gained the victory
over sin, death, hell and the grave. For there is no God in all
the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
WISDOM'S DOWRY.
OEHOLD! I am He who was, and is, and is to come, and
is to be revealed. And the world say I am dead and
will not return. But tell Israel, I am alive! and the Bride
is alive to give unto them. He that hath an ear to hear, let
him hear what the Spirit saith unto the Seventh Church.
And all who want to hear My voice must come into this
Seventh Church, for it is the Church of Immortality.
Therefore I will open the Visitation of My Revelations,
which I have given unto My former servants the prophets.
I will no more speak in parables, but I will show you plainly,
wherein the Scripture shall be open clearly to your view as
though you saw the bright noonday sun; and that the world
may know that thou hast seen Me; showing that the holy
Spirit of God is now returning and has sent forth His wit
nesses, though at first as infants—a man and yet a Child,
being taught by the divine Mother of Wisdom, which shall
be made manifest to those who are called and chosen, who
have received it, who will show forth all mildness, forbear
ance, gentleness and kindness ; showing forth the Godly love,
the true Spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ, returning good for
8b ■THE' BOO&C OF' HEAVEN '
eVil, love for hate, always being forbearing, yielding them
selves to the will of God.
At last the flinty heart may dissolve, and the rough
Esau may be brought to weep upon the neck of Jacob, and
Joseph be acknowledged and owned by his cruel brethren.
For this is the wonderful day of the manifestations of love.
It is the manifestation of the love of God, wherein the mighty
power shall prevail, wherein envy and jealousy shall be a
thing of the past. Harmony, sweet harmony, justice and lov
ing kindness shall prevail, showing forth the fruits of the
Spirit, fulfilling the words of Jesus when He said: "Love ye
one another as I have loved you."
Therefore out of the mouth of babes— and yet a man—
shall His praises be sent forth in great rejoicing in the Spirit
of the Holy Ghost. Therefore each one may have a Paradise
opened within them, thus becoming a living plant of the holy
Zion, watered from the golden River; being a builder, thus
laying the foundation, proving themselves to be a Seed of
the eternal Godhead, begotten of the Father, conceived of
the Mother, and carried by Her until the appointed time of
the Father, then brought forth by the virgin Mother into
Immortality, thus receiving His Immortal inheritance, bone
of His bone and flesh of His flesh. And thus the temple, or
body of Christ will be builded and the Immortal Stones will
be joined together through the fulness of the Godhead, bring
ing forth its own increase with the pure virgin-humanity
which is Christ in us, wherein all fruitful gifts and power
of the Holy Ghost must assuredly be brought forth, which
will come in greater power than in the days of Pentecost;
not only in part, but in its fulness, which shall be great
and powerful.
And as the Apostles had power to transfer the Holy
Ghost by laying on of hands, so it will be renewed through
those that are now the first who have entered into the resur
rected Word of Life with Christ, who shall produce births
of the Holy Ghost, who are impregnated with that Holy
Spirit. They shall be known, wherein they do bear that
new and hidden Name that gives them a right to possess
and inherit the true Virgin-Wisdom's dowry, which is al
mighty and eternal power from the Father and the Son,
managed by the Holy Ghost. This is divine and instructive,
which moves in that part which is Immortal. For out of
this divine Root of the Deity it will give this wonderful divine
character, proving who they are that have their dwelling in
the heart of Christ, out of whose fountain-heart doth flow an
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 81
increasing river of oil that does empty itself into such hearts
as do> lie near to His heart—the precious heart of our ascend
ed Master, the Lord Jesus Christ.
From out of this clear crystal running stream that opens
from the Godhead— deep is the mystery so wonderfully
divine —there arise seven lamps, which are the seven Spirits
proceeding from the Throne of the mighty I AM, which are
appointed to attend and be guards upon the holy Watchers,
who now upon this Faith's tower do steadily stand. These
Seven Spirits are to be as flying eyes, sent forth unto all parts
of the creation for. to watch and discover what the powers
are moving and doing, and so accordingly to shut and bind
up what may be of evil consequence and hindrance to the
bringing forth of the weighty matters relating to Christ's
Second Appearing in His Kingdom; and on the other hand
to set at liberty that which may answer to the heavenly
Kingdom, that the same who bear record in heaven may also
bear record on earth —the glorious time for which, by these
Seven Spirits is foreseen to be at hand, and therefore call up
to such a faith as may turn the new moving wheel, in order
to bring about that great change so long expected and hoped
for—referring to a new Foundation through the mighty
Shiloh Immanuel, which shall be a mighty Saviour and
Deliverer, furnished and replenished by the seven powers
of the Holy Ghost; for the divine wisdom which shall
open a way for God to set His own mark and seal
as at first, by giving forth the Spirit of prophecy and
revelation; and thereupon to follow the fulfillment of whatso
ever has referred to the establishment of the New Jerusalem
state, as that Bride that has put on such divine gifts and
powers as will suit and agree with the mighty Triune Deity.
And to all who are made ready and prepared, the Bridegroom
in His glory cannot fail to suddenly appear to those who are
waiting and watching in the inner court of the Sanctuary
with unwavering faith.
Oh blessed and happy are those thus called and chosen
to stand in all prepared readiness to understand and receive
the first opening of what has been so long hidden and sealed
from the world. So I entreat each and every one to hold
out faithful in this proving hour, wherein these words to me
sound aloud! So Watch! that you may not lose your crown,
but ever call on your mighty Shiloh Immanuel, that you
might be numbered with the worthy, to take your place
and sit with Christ upon His Throne—the reward for those
who are faithful and true.
82 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
Therefore I will try the Virgin of the House of Israel,
and I will clothe her with a change of raiment, saith the
Lord, to keep her from the heat and from the cold. And He
will cause the heavens to open, and Immortality shall de
scend and finish man in My image and likeness. Then shall
the Branch be glorious and a vessel of honor. Then My
Sons and Daughters shall know My ways, for the Son will
keep nothing from the Father, nor the Father from the Son,
for they are One.
Then remember, Oh Israel that the day of Visitation has
come, and I will leave thee for a few days, and then I will
return with ten thousands of My Saints, for the end of a
Century cometh! and My Spirit shall not always strive with
man. So dear beloved Israel ever seek to enter in while the
Door standeth open for the third and last time. So rejoice
and be exceedingly glad that you are under the voice of the
Seventh and Last Messenger who brought forth the beauti
ful "Star of Bethlehem," the Living Roll of Life, which will
make you Immortal if you live in strict obedience to its
teaching. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel,
and I am His servant.
ARCHANGEL GABRIEL.
AND I SAW the Seven Angels which stood before God, and
to them were given seven Trumpets—Rev. 8-2 —which
signified the seven Spirits before the throne of God and the
Lamb, giving no rest night or day until the mighty Angel
shall go forth, fulfilling the words of John the divine when
he testified and said: "I saw an Angel flying in the midst
of heaven, having the everlasting Gospel to preach to them
that dwelleth upon the earth." And every man and woman
that dwells in that Immortal Spirit is that Angel that doeth
the preaching.
K■ Therefore it says: Be not forgetful to entertain strang
ers, for thereby some have entertained Angels unawares;
wherein He has given them commission, power and authority
to sound this mighty alarm for the gathering in and making
up of a true Seven-fold Church, who are as yet scattered
throughout all nations, to the uttermost ends of the earth.
Therefore let the true laborers in the harvest go forth
—even the Messengers of Thy Kingdom; and let truth and
judgment go before them unto victory.' For He left His
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 83
divine love with His disciples to be divided amongst the
brethren. Can you not hear His voice saying: "Be of good
cheer; Doubt not! for I am with thee always," which are
the words of our ascended Master, who has sent the Other
Comforter to lead and guide us in the way of all truth and
show us things to come, by opening up the windows of
heaven, that the waters of Life from thence may flow for
the cure of all that have been poisoned by the powers of
darkness. And this is to be the forerunner to make way for
the new created world, wherein shall dwell happiness and
peace, wherein some footsteps are already taken. And from
thence it will proceed and increase until it comes to the
seventh thousand year Sabbath of rest.
And in this twelfth and last hour wonderful revelations
will descend from our Head Shepherd, our ascended Master,
which brings His beloved Israel out of all confusion; and
coming under the glorious reign and peaceable government
of Zion's Kingdom, where no strife or contention is known,
but where truth and righteousness and love are the only
ruling law.
Therefore this is the cry in the inward heavens of the
mind: Be no longer silent nor slack to go forth to declare
and make known such further revelations to the call of the
Seventh Church which belongs to this Golden Age, wherein
the great and mighty Angel of the covenant has descended.
Therefore was not this Angel the mighty Archangel
Gabriel? who gave the eternal Covenant of life through the
Seventh and Last Messenger, who will not suffer His flock
who are to make up the Seventh Church to lay slumbering
in their idleness any longer. And therefore He has commiss
ioned His Angels to go forth to blow their trump, to awake
such as have a Name to live and are yet spiritually dead,
because this Eternal Life has not been fully accepted and
entertained by them, not seeing or realizing the love of the
great eternal Father so strong and divine, which burned in
the heart of His beloved Son, bringing forth the living, spark
ling power which is shown so divine through the Holy Ghost,
to enlighten and inspire where the powers of darkness and
deadness had overspread.
But His divine love shall overtake and bring them back
into that land from whence they came. And by His wonder
ful outstretched arm this gathering will be according to His
divine Will, "for I will gather you one by one, Oh ye children
of Is'ael, and bring you to Zion," to make up the Virgin
Chinch of the Firstborn Fruit that makes up the beginning
84 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
of the New Creation, which will be so glorious, so beautiful,
and so amazing that it puts a stop to all confusion.
For there is a hovering and overshadowing wing that
gives strength both to see, hear and understand this great
Visitation as they are quickened into the birth of love, which
is the fulfillment of the whole Law, which is already begin
ning to break forth, which is the light of One day, but this
One will be multiplied until it begins to be the Light of
Seven Days, and then our Son of glory shall never set, nor
the Spirit withdraw itself as it did in the Apostles' day which
was only in part, but now in its fulness. "For when that
which is perfect is come, that which is in part shall be done
away," wherein we shall receive all divine blessings under the
banner of the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, the Conquering
Prince.
Therefore through this living faith and hope it maketh
the true Seventh Church, which will endure and suffer all
things in His Master's cause and for His sake, and always
expecting Him to come quickly, for He will never delay, but
will appear in His own divine time. And all who keep the
word of His patience and will remember to hold fast to that
which Thou hast that no man take thy crown, shall know
Him. But all other names shall fail and be burned up, there
fore these shall abide in the name of the Seventh Church,
for it shall endure forever. It shall be continued as long as
the Son, and all men shall call Him the blessed of the Lord,
for He is head of the Church and Saviour of the body.
These are the marks that are given to a faithful traveler
on His way to the heavenly City. Therefore it is the strong
Archangel Michael who, having taken out His mortal heart
and left, as it were, a flaming coal in the room which burns
continually, with such desire for the good of all His brethren,
that is, of all mankind—let it be understood, this was our
ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who poured out His
mortal heart, which was the blood, and received an Immortal
heart in His Immortal body; for in Him dwelt the fulness of
the Godhead.
And that mighty counselor, the Everlasting Father, the
Prince of Peace is here and is readv to assist those that truly
believe in Him, as He assisted all those that were worthy and
honest in heart, namely: Enoch, Elijah, Esdras and all of
the ascended Masters who are left as a cloud of witnesses for
us to follow in full faith that we are to be delivered from the
bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the Sons of
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 85
God, Jesus being the firstborn of these many Brethren that
were to come.
Therefore let us enjoy it together with His secret bless-.
ings, rather than offer it to such as would trample it under
their feet. Wherefore a true Israelite will forbear and keep
all things in his heart that are not to be communicated to
any but the Wise, according to the express command and
divine Order of Christ Himself, and His own practice, who
held secret communications with the Holy Mother and the
Apostles, and indeed of all the Prophets, wise men and scribes
in the kingdom of all ages. "For the secret of the Lord is
with them that fear Him." For there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
HE DWELLETH WITH THEE.
"THE ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, said: "I am
the vine, ye are the branches." John 15-5. He used
those words to teach us that the New Birth that we are to
receive is by the Virgin Mother, Jerusalem above. And we
must have the same relationship with Him that was between
Him and His true disciples, and the same as there is between
the Vine and its branches. He does the work in us which the
vine does for its branches. There cannot be branches till
the birth of (he vine is brought forth in them. And the
birth of the Vine must be brought forth in the branches,
which is a proof that we must be born again of the Holy
Mother of Zion, which gives us our Immortal inheritance.
And it is also written that "Christ in us is our hope
of glory." Therefore Christ formed in us, living and
growing and raising His own life and Spirit in us is our only
salvation. This brings forcibly to my mind concerning the
woman at Jacob's well. Christ said: "If thou hadst known
the gift of God and who it is that talketh with thee, thou
wouldst have asked of Him and He would have given thee
living water." How sad it is to think of this woman who
stood so near this gift of God, from whom she might have
had this living water if only she had had the Living Faith
to have asked for it.
Therefore dear Israel! this happiness is thine, for this
holy ascended Master is the gift of God to thee, as sure
as thou art born. But hast thou let the sin of doubt blind
thine eyes, that thou hast never yet known Him? Art thou
86 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
wandering from Him as the prodigal from his Father's house?
Yet He is still with thee, as He is the gift of God to thee; and
if thou wilt turn to Him and ask of Him, He has living water
for thee. Dear beloved Israel! consider the treasure thou
hast within thee—the Saviour of the world—the eternal
Word of God lieth hid in thee as a spark of the divine nature
which is to overcome sin and death within thee, and re
generate the life of heaven, which will bring eternal happiness
and joy.
And thy pure heart will find its Saviour, its God within
itself. But to those whose eyes are blinded with unbelief,
thou seeth, heareth and feeleth nothing of God because thou
seeketh for Him abroad with an outward eye. Thou seeketh
for Him in books, which bringeth controversy among the
brethren, which shows very plainly they do not see eye to eye.
But in this controversy and confusion thou wilt not find Him
till thou hast first found Him in thy heart. And I tell thee
for a truth, thou wilt never seek Him in vain, for He dwel-
leth in the seat of His light and holy Spirit. For this turn
ing to this great Sunlight which puts out all other lights,
is the only true turning unto God. There is no other way
of finding Him but in that place where He dwelleth with
thee by the name of I AM that I AM.
But hark ye! Who is it that is willing to overcome all
evil and the very appearance of evil through the power of
the Holy Ghost ? For great and glorious shall be your eternal
happiness, fully realizing we have left all of the old world
behind us, going on step by step onward and upward on the
blessed ascending Ladder. Therefore, blessed are those that
are able to receive and practice it daily and hourly. There
will be no loss; for as the evil dies, the fresh and divine life
will spring, hungering and thirsting to drink of that living
water, that we might drink and thirst no more ; having that
living hope of the redemption of the body like unto our as
cended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, who appeared in His
flesh and bone body after He arose from the dead, who was in
possession of the highest graduated life of faith in which He
pleased the Father.
And did not His Father embrace Him and say, "This is
My beloved Son in whom I am well pleased?" He being the
Firstborn of the Immortal Mother of the 144,000, the true
Israel of God, standing with our ascended Master upon Mount
Zion. Yea! the desert shall rejoice and bloom as a rose. It
shall blossom abundantly and rejoice, even with joy and
singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 87
excellency of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory
of the Lord and the excellency of our God. Isa.35;l,2. So
let us lift up our heads and rejoice foreseeing what a wonder
ful time is approaching in this, the twelfth and last hour
which will reveal many hidden revelations, thus revealing
things which have been kept secret from the foundation of
the world, for He doeth nothing but what He revealeth His
secrets unto His servants the prophets.
And there shall be many divine changes to bring in His
Kingdom, that will have such a firm foundation that it will
need no changes thereafter. And the warning has gone forth
that has been given by his Messengers from time to time.
And the call has been made for the Spirits of the Just to
come to the place where My Spirit now rests, ready to fight
the Lord's battle, that the decision may be given to those
loyal heirs that shall hold out in the fight of faith with that
Covenant bow, with the arrow which pierces through the
seven heads and ten horned beast of whom it is said: "They
will be able to make war with it." But let it be understood,
"One shall chase a thousand, and two shall put ten thousand
to flight," proving they have mounted upon the white horse
of divine purity and brightness, wherein their strength shall
be to put down all the powers of darkness, that the holy
Family of God might all be gathered together and live in
peace and holiness unto Him, wherein the great conquerors
and overcomers are to be the true royal soldiers, fighting
under the banner of Shiloh Immanuel.
And they shall have the name of God written upon their
foreheads, and the sealed name of the eternal Word upon
their hearts, and they shall gird on the flaming sword of the
Spirit whereby they shall put all to flight, for the battle shall
be fought and the victory won. Praise ye the Lord all ye
His Saints! for that Immortal Day is fast dawning upon us.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am
His servant.
GLORIOUS RESTITUTION.
JtyjY DEAR beloved Israel! Ye spirits of the Just! What
more joyful tidings can come to us than this beautiful
"Golden Age" that shall do away with all those ages wherein
death and sin have reigned with all sorrow, lamentation and
bitter weeping, ever since the creation of this old world?
88
'
THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
But as we are now under the voice of the Sevehth and Last
Messenger, who has brought forth the Law of Life, it will
bring forth life eternal if kept in spirit and in truth, wherein.
it will make all things anew, thus bringing back the Day
that is past, bringing about the glorious restitution.
As there was neither sin nor confusion in the former
cycle, so it must be again when the Hour of God's judgments
shall have come to pass; then a final sentence against all
the powers of darkness. Then God's anointed Israel (and
that "Anointed" means the power of the Holy Ghost,) —His
New Creation—cannot be■ disturbed nor tormented. This
is the prophecy throughout eternity which will be known, and
eternal rejoicing as a fore-runner of this blessed Jubilee,
the Seventh Trump of the everlasting Gospel of love, peace
and rejoicing to every creature for in My Father's house are
many mansions, and every mansion shall be filled full of
His glory in flesh and out of the flesh. "In flesh," in a flesh
and bone body made Immortal, is the Redeemed, the 100-fold;
and out of the flesh are those who have died in the faith of
Immortality, which is the 80-fold glory, next to the Sun.
And this glorious Gospel is not a bare sound to be heard only
with ears. It is the holy Spirit that enters in and gives the
power of the resurrected Word of life.
The question might_ be asked, When will this marvelous
resurrection be?—It is now with the Elect of God, if you can
receive it; which will bring favor and friendship with our
God and creator again. Now in answer to this, as to the
time, it is known only to God in the secret cabinet of His
Council; only it is this far revealed unto His Israel, that it
will be at the finishing of the great mysteries wherein the
Sons of God will be made manifest here upon earth, and also
when generations according to fleshly birth shall cease in this
world, then this great redemption will be complete, and High
Priest officers shall be at an end, for the battle is fought and
the victory won, and Jesus Christ the Son of the Living God
delivers the Kingdom back over to God His Father, and God
is all and in all, sanctifying Himself in all of His New Creation,
which will mount to a perpetual endless joy and pleasure,
that will fill the New World with voices and instruments of
praises to the holy Trinity in their unity, as it was from the
beginning.
Therefore dear beloved Israel ! I have given you a true
and simple account of what, in my Spiritual travels, I have
seen and heard the words fall from the lips of the Sevehth
and Last Messenger, by being admitted into that heavenly
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 89
court at certain times and seasons. And this shall be a living
testimony to the spiritually-minded furthermore to judge, for
none other can receive or fathom out the deep Wisdom of
God. Therefore this is for those who have entered into the
resurrected Word of life that is written in the beautiful
Star of Bethlehem; —those true hearts who do not grieve
the Holy Spirit away from them, but rejoice greatly in the
brightness of its rising with an open heart and mind to
receive this most valuable and precious gift, which is the
divine intelligence of God's mind, and the breaking open of
the sealed treasures, which is more precious than the gold
weight of Ophir. And this will be understood by a true Spirit
of sound judgment and a discernment that can of themselves
give a proof that they here live and do walk in Christ's
Spirit, and that you may know where your anointing is
poured forth, "for by their fruits ye shall know them."
Hark Ye! it will be a fore-runner of Christ the Lord's
drawing near and that the end of a Century is upon us, but
nevertheless there is a spirit of truth according to Christ's
divine promise, that will "lead and guide us in the way of
all truth, and show us things to come." This being the fulness
of time, our ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ will
show Himself plainly in great power, constantly flowing, from
which the New Creation must bud out in fresh glory, and all
of the old must fade and die away.
And can you not hear His voice saying: "I will yet
choose disciples upon the earth again, who shall know Me
in My inward Spiritual form as in former days I was known
in My visible Immortal body." But now I have come to
appear and walk upon invisible earth, and none but the spirits
of the Just can understand My speech or see My Immortal
shape. And to My chosen disciples I will appear. And behold
I am the Alpha and Omega to call together such names that
are found in the Living Roll—one by one—144,000 twice-
told, the chosen number made manifest of this most holy
Priesthood.
Blessed are they that shall be the first foundation pillars
hereof, so saith "Yea!" and Amen! For this will be the
Virgin Church upon which no spot nor wrinkle shall be found.
Therefore the voice of the holy Angel, the Son of God asked
knowledge, and from the table of Heaven, understanding.
And you shall not fear those who trouble you, for restoration
shall be yours. A bright light shall shine around you, and
the voice of an Archangel shall be heard from the trumpet
sound of lightning, and the life of Israel having been poor,
90 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN■ '
but rich in faith and heirs of the Kingdom by an inheritance,
and after proving it by faith and works shall shine like the
luminaries of heaven, the Light of the World.
The Archangel Gabriel is the third voice and yet the
Seventh. As Enoch the Seventh from Adam said: the First
Voice was that of Michael, and He spoke of the first and
last. Gabriel is the Third Voice of this third prophetic day,
the third heaven of this dispensation and yet the Seventh
because Gabriel is set over Paradise, as described by Enoch ;
that is the Seventh day, the Sabbath of Eden rest, and who
presides over all that is powerful; and was heard praying
and petitioning for those who dwell upon the earth.
So dear Israel! be of good cheer, as we are under the
Voice of the Seventh that will finish the work and bring in
the glorious reign of the Eden of Paradise. Therefore there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
THE GOLDEN MIST.
w
|ARK YE to the voice of the Seventh Trump, and stand
upon your feet —your understanding. You shall now
come together bone to bone. Therefore the Lord's table is
spread before everyone who has the wedding garment of
purity, and he shall partake of the bread of life, the true
sacrament of the Lord, which is partaking of the Immortal
body of the ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, for in
Him the Word was made flesh, thus proving Himself to be
the holy Paradisical Plant, planted by God's own hand, never
to be rooted up.
For every plant which my heavenly Father hath not
planted shall be rooted up. But let it be understood, all those
that stood with Michael in the great battle and cast satan
from the heavens to the earth, they cannot be plucked up
nor die, for their reward is Immortality that was promised
by God, who cannot lie, before the world began. And this is
the day of His heavenly Visitation under the voice of the
mighty Shiloh Immanuel, the Conquering Prince who has
come to rule and reign over all the earth.
Therefore behold the beautiful Star of Wisdom has cast
forth her beautiful light, wherein it is clearly seen what a
pleasant, peaceful and joyful state of life is here for the
inhabitants of the New Earth, which does not consist of out
ward lands, houses, pomp and worldly pleasures, but it is
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 91'
pure, holy, divine and spiritual, which is given to each one 'to
enjoy. For when they meet together their conversation is
heavenly and divine; ever seeking to be caught up into the
heavens above and receive communications from the holy
One, the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, who is ready to point out
and show us the strait and narrow way back to the Eden of
Paradise.
And on this beautiful narrow way we feast on Angel's
food, which is so refreshing and delightful, tastings in abund
ance from the spiritual Rock which is ever flowing. No
mortal can of this divine fruit taste or know, who do not
belong to this heavenly country. For robes must suit and
agree with this Royal Court and family of the Triune Deity.
This all belongs to the inward and spiritual Immortal body,
which will correspond with the powers in unity of this Para
disical world made by Christ their ascended Master, to go in
and out and feed upon the Rose of Sharon's pasture, which
is ever new and fresh and never grows old, because there is
a golden mist which waters it every moment. And foras
much as they are clothed upon with the seamless coat of
purity and love and the beautiful anointing oil is ever about
them, therefore nothing shall hinder nor stop the divine cur
rent of Abraham's blessings which pours down from the
heavens above, from the very presence of God among His
holy separated fold.
So it shall be made manifest that all divine favors shall
be thrust in upon them, even by those that are without. For
they shall receive the divine showers of blessings, with such
returns as shall far exceed all that this outward world to
them can extend. Thus the divine Seventh Messenger has
faithfully given forth out of Wisdom and said: If Israel
will only live up to what is written in the beautiful Star of
Bethlehem they will be made Immortal. And these precious
Words that fell from his lips, I treasure so much. I speak
these words to encourage the dear little flock I love so well,
hoping and trusting they will be transplanted out of this wild,
barren, cursed earth, to become a springing plant in this
Paradisical ground,where they may come to inherit all things.
I bring these things before your eyes to encourage and
hasten those who are of the Elect number that must fill up
the holy Circle wherein the Rose of Sharon doth bloom. So
hasten! there is no time to delay, but speed and make your
flight as doves away! which is the voice in me that crieth
to you all, who still remains and intercedes for you as for
myself, that we all may become one holy Family of God;
92; '
t : THE BOOK OF HEAVEN :
likeunto the beautiful roses always springing and giving_
forth their delicious odor, each leaf being distinguished by
their different colors according to their original colors in
harmony with the Rainbow seen about the Throne of the
Lamb. And in the middle of the rose grew a golden-colored
Seed, which sends forth such strong perfumes and odor that
it attracts down the virtue and power from that heavenly
world, appearing as so many flaming eyes, directing their
beams upon it to cherish it. This brings forcibly to my mind
a beautiful vision which a sister saw of Benjamin : she said
his eyes were as flames of fire.
Dear beloved Israel ! I am telling you of this wonderful
day that is dawning upon us. Oh will you all be ready for that
wonderful notable day? And if you are not ready, it will be
too late! for remember, the Lord's business requires haste.
This brings forcibly to my mind our labors of love in the
Lord's Vineyard. And dear beloved Israel I want to tell you,
on Saturday night just before the twelfth of March, Benjamin
came to me in spirit, and these are the words He said:
"Forty-four years; and Thou hast been faithful."
Therefore these very Words sent forth a mighty call to
those who are seeking to that Spirit of Wisdom to under
stand the resurrected Word of Life. Then hasten to put
on the wings of an eagle, so as to mount up and fly away.
For it is now the break of day, and the Sun is shining upon
us—the great Spirit of Wisdom who has known the ascension
after this kind in spirit to make a divine report of what they
have seen and heard, in this the twelfth and last hour, for a
more divine drawing and invitation, that there may be no
more famine for want of hearing the resurrected Word. Im
mortality opens wide Her gates. We have received the record
of the resurrected Word which is to be brought forth. For the
old prophets must have their time of fulfillment, which teach
es us knowledge of the divine mysteries which must have its
unveiling, which are too deep to be understood by the natural
wise ones. And therefore it has been kept in reserve for
those who have chosen these weighty treasures; giving us
wisdom and understanding to gain the "Lost Paradise,"
wherein we will be able to converse with the ministering
angels bringing divine messages from the very Throne.
And it is through them we gain the victory, as Paul
said: "They could not be made perfect without us." For
these ministering angels shall see and hear within this holy
place, wherein they shall make such a true and just report
which shall cause a great turn and an overturn of all wicked
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 93
ness, that the Kingdom of Peace might be established by the
mighty Shiloh Immanuel, the Conquering Prince, wherein we
can sing that beautiful song that was sung at Jesus' birth,
"Peace on earth and good will toward all men." For there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEATF t S*l
THE GUARDIAN ANGEL.
r\EAR beloved Israel—God's Favored Few. Ever seek to
dwell in that great Sunlight which is an open Door of God
before you, which no man can shut. Yea! it is the fulfillment
of all the writings of God's Messengers of this Visitation.
But one might walk beside an ascended Master for years
and not know it, and could not know it until the power of
the Holy Ghost revealed it unto him. Therefore when you
have that eternal love of God in your heart, you are living
in that beautiful Robe of God which causes our hearts to
burn within us, while our guarding Angel talks and explains
the secrets of heaven.
Yea! It is the Golden Key that opens up all hidden
mysteries, which is our eternal life. Methinks I hear the
voice of the guarding Angel saying : "Get you ready ! Tarry
not!" The Sons of God are going to be made manifest here
upon this earth. But methinks I hear you saying: When
shall it be? The answer hitherto from the Spirit of Truth
and Prophecy is, The time thereof is present. Therefore
the first sparks from the Holy Ghost are sown, and still are
sowing in the new refined earth, some lying still, some un
observed, while others are putting forth but yet young and
tender, being yet under a more fruitful and thriving climate,
because of that Immortal Spirit that accompanies them, in
such as have withstood all storms and shaking and have
stood their ground. These are they that come near and shall
be the first beautiful white lillies—which means to say the
Immortal Bodies who shall wear that Immortal Crown, which
will produce births of a Godlike Spirit and nature that shall
go forth in the Nazarite purity, as shall be accompanied with
all commanding power that shall not fail to spring from
the Godhead —the Root of God within —who shall stand in
this Golden Age to judge the earth and to bind down the
oppressors of it.
For the prophecies must be fulfilled. I will make thine
officers "PEACE," who shall execute righteousness. Such
94 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN ..
shall be the divine wisdom for government in His first ripe
and growing-up infants for His Kingdom. These are they
who are born out of the womb of Eternal Love, Wisdom's
royal offspring, to which the name of Seventh Church
doth rightly belong, so they cannot admit any jar or
discord, for their body is all made up of that perfect love
that casteth out all enmity, thus putting forth their Gifts
according to their measures and growth.
The growth of one body does not grudge the higher
growth of another body. The higher advanced do not seek
that which is weaker and lower in its ministry, but all
appear in that lovely valley of meekness and humility as
from one Eternal Root of God, growing up together, becoming
the beauty and glory of Unity, for in Unity there is strength,
and powers that so manifest themselves amongst the beauti
ful Roses of Sharon.
Let it be understood that Jesus Christ in His mortal life
was the Rose of Sharon, and when made Immortal He was
the beautiful white lily, altogether lovely; which shows forth
the beauty and glory of Unity, for in Unity there is strength,
avoiding all contest or strife with any, knowing that the evil
seed thereof breeds and nourishes all bitter enmity one
against another.
Therefore dear beloved Israel let us through the power
of our ascended Master go on to draw out of the Rock—the
Rock Christ —the milk and the butter, and the Honey forth
coming. The milk is the Law; the butter is the Gospel; and
the Honey forthcoming is Immortality; which makes us:
mild and sweet and of a peaceable spirit, according to the
prophecy which has declared: "Behold how good and pleas
ant a thing it is for brethren to dwell in unity."
Oh blessed are those that shall herein excel in showing
forth the beautiful resemblance of the Rose of Sharon, like-
unto our Lord and Master. Therefore come away! and
understand the spiritual call this day for who would not of
this number be, of the beautiful Rose of Sharon? who shall
bear the Immortal Fruit that belongs to the New World,
wherein peace and endless joy shall be your portion; walking
among the fiery Stones that shall burn and devour the briers
and thorns that stand in the way to oppose them.
All those who have this precious golden Grain within
them, yet being bid away in the earth (their bodies,) are
striving to overcome all the contrary winds of the raging
sea which are trying to delay them in coming forth. These
are the words of counsel—that they take care to dig and
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 95
part away what has imprisoned that precious golden Grain,
that it might put forth its head for increase and growth.
For all those who have cut their way through—having
such a longing and thirst that may draw down the heavenly
mist and dew, overspreading them with a presence of endless
love, pleasure and joy, that blessed place where the Saints
in eternity do enjoy, understanding all divine wisdom,
prophecy and revelations —they are as dark gathering clouds
upon the center of light, and strong enclosure to keep the
spirit from passing into that holy place where the Trinity
and all the holy Angels do attend God's Throne ; that no soul
or spirit can come to have a plain open view of a glorified
and Heavenly Throne.
For all those who have not this divine Spirit, they lie
as in a deep sleep during the time that it is in broad open
sight of such express glory. Thus it was with Daniel, Paul
and John: they were struck out of their senses while the
vision lasted upon them. So it has likewise been in these
golden Days, that there have been witnesses that when the
Lord had any special revelation to give forth through His
chosen Instrument, there were always those that doubted,
proving they did not have a pure, discerning Spirit from God
to understand the deep revelations. But to the true Elect,
the spirits of the Just who stood loyal and true to the Union
of the Godhead in the great battle in casting satan from the
heavens to the earth—the reward for them is Immortality!
I, Jesus, Lord, your ransom bring,
That made "New Heavens and Earth."
See! Shilob —born from Woman Queen,
Secures your Second Birth.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I
am His servant.
SPIRITS OF THE JUST.
TTHE Word of life has been sealed and Wisdom took her
flight to dwell with the Sons of God. But in this the time
of the Spirits Of the Just and Day of Visitation, Wisdom is
now being restored and faith shall flourish, and corruption
be overcome. And the pathway of life is found, in which
there is no death. And the Day that has passed returns
with rejoicing and delight. The Son of righteousness arises
upon us with healing in His wings.
96 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
Praise to the God of Israel! the Day of Paradise is re
turning, and in its cycle of time. And the Day-Star has
arisen, the more sure Word of prophecy according to His
Eternal Covenant, put within our hearts and stamped upon
our minds —this sealing of the forehead —the Lord's mark,
which is the most divine and holy, and the most necessary
exercise in the spiritual life or warfare, when we realize and
feel the presence of God; and to consecrate ourselves to His
divine company, speaking humbly and lovingly in communion
with Him at all times, every moment without rule or mea
sure, especially in the time of temptation and of suffering.
Truly, truly, Sorrow, sweet Sorrow is God's Angel. From the
mountain of suffering comes forth the richest spiritual bless
ings, and from the prickly thorn comes forth the beautiful
Rose, yea! the Rose of Sharon.
Therefore we must labor gently, quietly and lovingly
with God. We must pray to Him to accept our labors in His
beautiful Vineyard, and give us wisdom and knowledge to
ask of Him aright and worship Him in the very center of
our hearts, adoring Him inwardly, praising Him and giving
Him thanks. And all of these things are to be done by the
Living Faith, believing of a truth that God's eye is in our
hearts and seeth whatever comes to pass, wherein we are
shown by that Spirit of truth that leadeth in the way of all
truth and shows us things to come.
Therefore by that holy One we communicate with Christ
in silence, by having our conversation in the heavens pre
paring us for the battle in such a manner as seems almost
impossible, especially to those who have not been in like
manner exercised while passing through the fiery furnace
seven times heated, wherein every true loyal soldier must
pass through. And these loyal ones shall obtain the Garden
of Roses, in the Garden of Eden, as they did hold out faithful
under the banner of the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, wherein
they can say the Lord is risen in them, for they have the
mark—they have that hidden Living Immortal Life within
them; and they being in the hands of God, it matters not
what they do, or suffer for Him in union with His will,
fully realizing the guarding Angel is with them through this
narrow path of life, in the victorious name of the mighty
conquering Prince, Shiloh Immanuel, wherein the precious
door of Pearls will be made to fly open, and they shall behold
this beautiful divine plantation where the Beloved has gone
down to see the fruits of the valley, who will there eat His
honey-comb with His spouse and sister, and will drink His
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 97
'wine and milk with the virgins of the Bride-chamber, who
liave followed Him fully in the process of regeneration and
have trimmed their lamps, filling them from the seven
fountain lamps that burn continually before the Throne of
the holy One, in which He has thus with all plainness and
simplicity expressed in declaring how to worship God in
Spirit —that it is to worship Him in meekness and a humble,
adoring spirit in the very center of our heart.
If any one shall fully practice this holy experience and
attention to the presence of God in his heart, he shall be
sure to hear and understand that heavenly call and Divine
summons that is now beginning to go forth over the whole
earth, by witnesses rising up in all parts of the world, pro
claiming the entrance of Christ in the restitution of the spirit,
soul and body. And thrice blessed is he that shall be obedient
to this Call, for he shall have his name written upon the
foundation of the New Jerusalem, and a pillar in that temple
which descends from heaven.
These are they that shall fight the battle of the Lamb
and bring Him to reign on and over all the earth, so that all
kingdoms and nations shall serve Him as appearing in His
Saints. Isa. 19; 1-19-20. Therefore He puts on righteousness
as a breastplate, and an helmet of salvation upon His head,
and He puts on the garment of vengeance for clothing, and
is clad with zeal as a cloak; when the enemy shall come in
like a flood, the Spirit of the Lord shall lift up a Standard
against him, and the Redeemed shall come to Zion. Eph.6: 12,
13, 14. "We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against
principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the dark
ness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.
Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye
may be able to withstand the evil day, and having done
all, to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with
truth." Be not afraid or dismayed by reason of these great
multitudes, for the battle is not yours but God's. You need
not to fight in it yourselves, only set yourselves firm and im
movable, and see the salvation of the Lord. And behold the
great salvation and glory which is about to be revealed in
this, the twelfth and last hour! wherein Wisdom reveals
mysteries and unseals the tomb and delivers Her children.
She is light, life and Immortality. Envy hath no fellowship
with Her. Light and darkness hath no communion.
Wisdom is the work of all things. In Her is the under
standing spirit. Holy, for She is the breath and power of
God, and pure influence flowing from the Almighty, and no
98 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
defiled thing can enter Her, for She is the brightness of His
eternal light, and the image of His goodness. God loves them
that dwell with Wisdom. She is more beautiful than the sun
and all the order of the stars. Yea ! the Lord himself loveth
Her. She is a virtuous crown of eternal life. The way of
holiness is Her path, and She is within the strait gate of
the Holy City of the great King of glory, the precious pearl
of eternity is also the Church, a temple of God within thee,
a consecrated place of divine worship, where alone thou
canst worship God in spirit and in truth. "In spirit" means
thy spirit alone in thee, which can unite and cleave unto God
and receive the workings of His divine Spirit upon thee in
divine truth. It is the fountain of Living Water, of which
thou mayest drink and live forever. There the supper of
our ascended Master is kept, the bread that cometh down
from heaven, that giveth life to the world.
Oh dear beloved Israel no longer delay, for the watch
hour is now passing away. Open wide the gate and give free
passage to enter the blessed Land, wherein the everlasting
Rock doth stand, consisting of all the sparkling stones. So
rejoice and be glad that God is now making you to be one of
the Living Stones for His Immortal City. For there is no■
God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
CHOSEN VESSELS.
o« HOUSE of Israel! happy are ye if ye receive this rod
and be ruled by it, that ye may live and not die. Come
let us live as brothers and sisters in spirit and in truth, and
dwell in unity of the Spirit and in the bonds of peace.
"United we stand !" so let us be united and worship and obey
the Father and Mother of all Israel! And the voice was
heard saying, Unseal the living testimony wherein new and
fresh things will be revealed.
For inasmuch as there is an earnest seeking and honest
inquiry by the true Elect of God, realizing it is at hand for
all deep mysteries to be unsealed, until the whole mystery of
redemption shall be understood, then do you not hear the
voice of the Angel crying out, saying: "Ye that have an
ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith!"
Therefore let us ever seek to that one Immortal Spirit
to remove all stumbling blocks out of the way, for the Lord
whom ye have long waited for is drawing near to be revealed
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 99
in a wonderful manner. So let the faithful flock be assembled
and wait in unity of pure love, praying in the Holy Ghost
to be ready and prepared to preach the resurrection of the
Second Child, as His disciples preached the resurrection of
the First, "For the thing that has been shall be, and God
requireth the thing which is past," which will draw all Israel
together. For they shall come rejoicing by fifties, hundreds
and thousands, who shall enter into the Spirit and do the
work for His Kingdom of Peace to be established, thus be
coming as our ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore blow the Trumpet and proclaim the beginning
of His reign who has come to establish His throne in virgin
minds into which the honey dew shall fall, to keep them from
all things that would defile. Praise God! for the fountain
of life now stands open to refresh and cherish every plant
that is planted by God's own hand, thus gathering up the
castaway stones, bringing them to Mount Zion by the sound
of the Seventh Trumpet which is now blowing, which will knit
them in the pure unity of the Virgin love for this holy Seventh
Virgin Church, that they may be presented as one holy Bride
without the least spot or blemish, by the beloved Bridegroom
to His Father, who shall deliver His people Israel and bring
them on to victory to the Eden of Paradise.
Therefore His birth of power will be first brought forth
in some chosen vessel or vessels, as Moses, Joshua and Aaron
were types, anointed to be head and leaders unto the rest, to
bring them into the promised land; so likewise the Lord has
expressly revealed by the mighty Shiloh Immanuel that there
shall again be raised up head powers, such as are to be in
great divine favor with the Trinity, whose dread and fear
shall fall upon all nations.
For the Spirit of King David, who hath received from
Abraham the spirit of faith, love and meekness, as a type
of true perfection, which though it be no good but lieth in
secret and hid, yet the holy One will bring Him forth and
prove to all unbelievers that He is the blossoming root to
lae much greater than Solomon's day; who will bring forth
blessed offspring whose training is by the holy One, which
shall lift them up to the Throne where no more types or
shadows or forms shall be, for all that kind shall flee away
and die. No corrupt ones shall stand with the Lamb on
Mount Zion.
For His Elect will be the Seventh, anointed for His Sev
enth Church, that no other form but God and the Lamb shall
be therein seen or understood. It is evident the great myst
100 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
ery is to be revealed in this the day of His heavenly
Visitation in this twelfth and last hour. And it will be re
membered that David, in secret hid away by the prophet of
the Lord, and yet though an outward possessor of the King
dom for a considerable time, was not admitted. Saul kept
up his kingdom, and David was not regarded until the ap
pointed time, for God's ways are not man's ways.
For the holy Seed shall forever stand, and God shall
bring it forth as the Rising Sun, upon which shall be no
clouds of unbelief. And by the holy Spirit it was revealed
how this Seventh Church would be gathered, which should
proceed as stars in the right hand of the true Shepherd, our
ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ. And this was typified
by a virgin woman that brought forth Jesus Christ's body as
the Rock upon which the apostolic Church was built. So
likewise, according to John's prophecy, a virgin woman is
designed of a pure spirit and of a healthy like body, all
impregnated with the Holy Ghost, which was Joanna the
Mother of the Visitation, who brought forth the holy Birth,
which was Shiloh Immanuel male and female, which was
caught up to God and His Throne until a body was prepared,
which was the Seventh Messenger, the Holy Trump of God.
Therefore this Church shall be called, "The Lord our right
eousness," because God himself will take up His Abode there
and sign them with that mark of His own name, and adorn
them with divine gifts and power beyond whatever yet has
been, whereby all nations shall be brought in, so that the
increase of His divine Kingdom shall be very great. And all
those churches that are built up with stones and mortar
shall fall flat to the ground, "and not one stone will be left
standing upon another," by Zion's everlasting Seventh
Trump.
For the holy Union must among these new-born spirits
be all and in all. And this is the holy Church that the God
of Israel is the Head of, and saviour of the body. Therefore
it lieth hid at the present time in the womb of the Morning
Sun, the virgin Spirit that is overshadowed with the Holy
Ghost. Oh! happy are ye who shall be found worthy to
be called out of the old world of darkness, wherein wars are
fast approaching —the third overturn of all nations. Come
Ye! while the Door standeth open for the third and last time.
And those who are not ready and prepared, they will
cry for the rocks and mountains to fall upon them and hide
them from the face of the Lamb, for the great day of the
Lord has come, and who shall be able to stand? And ever
5TH COMFORTER OF THE; MOTHER'S BOOK 101
remember, there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and
I am His servant.
JACOB'S LADDER.
f\UR beloved ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ said,
"I have told you earthly things and you believe it not;
how shall ye believe if I tell you of Heavenly things?"
And listen to His beautiful words when He said, "No man
hath ascended up to heaven save He that cometh down from
heaven, even the Son of man which is in heaven." He—that
is, His Spirit —as an Archangel, and like the spirits of the
Just came from the upper heavens; but while He was in His
mortal life He remained on the earth, but was in heaven
because of that Spirit of God, which was Christ and the
Spiritual Mother Jerusalem above, therefore He was in
heaven.
After He was born Immortal, then He could ascend, and
come and go as the wind. And He did ascend up into heaven
where He came from; and so will His Elect spirits of the
Just, that is, can come and go as the wind, can be caught
up and can return. And our beloved ascended Master, the
Lord Jesus Christ, said: "Where I go ye cannot come."
He meant those who rejected Him. And also He said: "I
am from above and ye are from beneath." And yet He said:
"If I go away I will come again and receive you unto Myself,
that where I am, there shall ye be also." He addressed dif
ferent classes at different times. Therefore we must rightly
divide. The spirits of the Just were around Him, and as it
is written, "Angels ministered to Him."
And in the beginning of His divine ministry He said:
"Hereafter ye shall see angels descending upon the Son of
man." It was to the spirits of the Just that He said:
"I am with you always, even unto the end of the
world," for they in spirit followed Him, for He was their
leader and they sang at His birth, even at His first birth; and
how much more at His second birth! And as it is writ
ten—He, Christ —shall reign with them on the earth,
which will be one thousand years of peace on earth and good
will to men. And that is what they were singing about;
that is, the Morning Stars sang together and .the Sons of
God shouted for joy. And to these He said: "I am with
you and shall be in you." And when He is in them, that
constitutes the New Birth. But He said even to His disciples,
102 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
"It is not for you to know the times and the seasons that the
Lord has put in His own power." And to sit upon His right
hand and His left, He said: "Is not Mine to give, but it shall
be given to them for whom it is prepared of My Father."
And during His second birth, great times both in heaven
and on earth with men and with Angels; and great is the
battle between the two powers. And the devil even had the
disciples blinded after crucifying and killing this precious
One upon the cross. And you may notice: "They knew Him.
not" when they saw Him, and could not believe it until He
proved it to them. But hark ye! The spirits of the Just
knew and ministered to Him. Who else could? The blind
could not. And the great Angel descended and rolled the
great stone away. The Spirits of just men were at work.
Elias was made perfect; that is, as a perfect man, his
own spirit put within him. Notice, not God-man. And on
the mount of Transfiguration Moses and Elias appeared and
were seen with Jesus by three witnesses, Peter, James and
John. And Jesus was transfigured on the Mount, showing
what would be fulfilled afterwards in living resurrection.
And at the resurrection of His body these two men, Moses
and Elias were seen; the one at His head and the other at
His feet. Now remember the proof, that it was Moses and
Elias on the Mount, witnesses of His resurrection. And
furthermore, at His ascension above five hundred, and these
two, Moses and Elias were seen and heard, and in shining
white said: "Why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This
same Jesus shall so come in like manner as ye have seen Him
go."
Now we must use the key here, that no Scripture is of a
private interpretation, as all Scripture in its fulfillment
centers around about, and was fulfilled in Jesus, and is to be
in His Elect in this great Visitation in the time of the end.
Another key, The thing that has been shall be, and God
requireth the thing that is past. Jesus did come in like man
ner and was seen. Acts 1; 3-11. Still, after the Apostles
had seen Him come and appear in like manner, also expressly
spoke of the great Visitation; and after the day of pentecost,
still pointing down to the great day of Visitation and the
"great and notable day of the Lord" in the great day of pre
paration. And now again, let us look at the other side of it
concerning Jesus, the pattern and waymark, and who had at
first a natural birth, and so must all have; and as it were,
climbing up Jacob's ladder from the first step, up to the top,
thus entering into a fountain of Wisdom.
5TH COMFORTER1 OF THE' MOTHER'S BOOK 103
And let it be remembered, the "Gifts and calling of God
are without repentance; for repentance is hid from His eyes."
Instead of repentance, fruits shall flow in the golden harvest
and vineyard of the Lord. And all the righteous shall be
come angels with terrestrial bodies of flesh and bone Im
mortal. In those days the holy One shall be exalted and
the earth shall rejoice, and the Elect 144,000 shall inhabit it,
for "The meek shall inherit the earth and possess all things."
Therefore the Rainbow sign of the Covenant is a beauti
ful figure in every way. It appears by mist and sunshine
and pertaining to the latter rain (reign) of His Visitation
and the glory of the Sun. And I will place a sign in the
heavens in answer to the upper heavens, and the Covenant is
with the Elect of God; and the sign shall be a faithful wit
ness between Me and them forever. And this Covenant was
revealed in Jesus, the Lord of Spirits, a faithful witness be
tween God and the Elect ones, and to them to whom the
promise was made. And a New Covenant will I make with
the house of Israel after those days, because the Covenant of
Life could not come into effect until after the days of the
old world expired; the time being shortened for the Elect's
sake because the Gentiles trampled it under foot until their
fulness.
Therefore dear beloved Israel, who dwell in heaven by
the Visitation under the voice of Shiloh Immanuel, the con
quering Prince who shall rule and reign in righteousness.
And the old world shall vanish away, and the New World
comes in as a bud unfolds and blooms in beauty, and which
fadeth not away, for the desert shall bloom in roses, and the
earth shall yield her seven-fold.
Therefore dear beloved Israel! let us be on the watch in
this the twelfth and last hour, for you will be sorely tried to
prove on what side you stand. If you stood with the union
of the Godhead in heaven, you will stand with Him here, for
reprobate delusions and false prophets always follow the
genuine. And since the fallen angels reprobated the secrets
of heaven and became traitors to God, they speak great
swelling words and even will call down fire. But believe it
not, for they are only the god of the ,dead. Therefore dear
beloved Israel ! let it not be said of you while the Seventh and
Last Messenger is dwelling upon the Mount: "You have
made a golden calf and are worshipping a false god."
Oh who could be so blind, after reading The Star of
Bethlehem, The Living Roll of Life! and then be sidetracked,
thus keeping them from entering the Open Door. I say these
104 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
words in the way of warning to the little flock I love so welL
But ever remember, dear Ones, those who are in the Spirit
of truth cannot be led astray, not any more than Jesus was
when here upon earth, when they took Him upon the pinnacle
and said to Him: "Jump off! Angels will bear Thee up!"
And Jesus said: "It is written, Thou shalt not tempt the
Lord thy God." And they went so far as to say, if Jesus
would fall down and worship him (satan,) the kingdoms of
the whole world should be His. And listen to His answer:
"Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt
thou serve."
Oh! what a beautiful pattern and waymark was our
beloved ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, who fought
the battle and gained His eternal freedom, and pointed out
the pure holy way for His brethren to follow. Therefore He
left His love to be divided amongst the brethren. "My peace
I leave with thee." Praise ye the Lord, all ye His Saints!
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am
His servant.
VICTORY AND FREEDOM.
{YH
ISRAEL, Awake! Awake! and be not found asleep at
the Open Door, under the voice of the mighty Archangel
Gabriel that will awake those sleeping souls. And the voice
of God will be heard saying: "Oh spirit, return to thy soul !"
and they will come forth in their spiritual bodies. And Oh
dear Israel if His voice awakens the dead, how much more
the living, to put on Immortality? Therefore I entreat each
and every one to be on the watch both by day and by night,
ever seeking for the pure mind of Christ, that will cause the
pure love of God to flow through your veins and purify thy
body, making it a fit habitation for that holy Spirit to dwell
in.
God is love, and love is God,
Which will build the body anew;
Love will grant it unto you,
thus having your body ready and prepared for your ascen
sion like unto the Lord Jesus Christ, as He was the firstborn
of these many brethren that were to come. And to become
like Him we must walk in His footsteps, for He was our
beautiful example to go by, which will lead you gently back
5TH COMFORTER OF THE _MOTHER'S BOOK 105
to the Eden of Paradise, wherein you shall hear the voice
of glorified Saints rejoicing that you have gained your
victory and freedom; and praising God that their work in
ministering to the Sons of God is not in vain. For they can
behold the fruits of their labor, through the mighty Shiloh
Immanuel. Oh! for that day wherein righteousness shall
cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. Then blessed
Israel can congregate together and sing in praises to the
God of Israel for their freedom from under the bondage of
Pharaoh, who has long held them in bondage. Methinks I
can hear the voices glorifying God for sending them the great
sunlight which lit up the narrow way that led them back to
the Eden of Paradise. Saints shall see it and rejoice.
Therefore, dear beloved Israel, you are so privileged in
coming to the point where you can hold your attention from
the very depths of your heart, through your mighty Shiloh
Immanuel, entering into your birthright, the Kingdom of God
on earth. It is then you begin to understand and feel the
full power of the Messenger's Word, who has pointed out the
way so beautiful and plain, giving you the Covenants of
Eternal Life, which cannot fail in strict obedience to His
voice; who pled with you so earnestly to leave off the ways
of the world and live the pure life which is "Holiness-unto-
Him," that your names might be written with a golden pen
in His beautiful Book of Life; wherein you shall hear the
voice of God calling out, "Well done, thou good and faithful
servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things, now I
will make thee ruler over many things; enter into the joys
of thy Lord." As My Father gave Me My inheritance, so
I, Jesus Christ, give My inheritance to the Branch, and it
shall bud and blossom and nil the earth with His Immortal
fruit in this, the twelfth and last hour.
Dear beloved Israel! Rejoice that you have been chosen
to come forth in the glory of your mighty Shiloh Immanuel,
and longing for our New World to be flooded with the great
sunlight that will enlighten everyone from the least to the
greatest. None shall say: "Know ye the Lord?" for all
shall know and understand that their blessings have been
poured down from the heavens above, which causes such a
great rejoicing that they have received their long-looked-for
reprieve over sin, death, hell and the grave, through the
mighty I AM that I AM; so privileged in becoming a pillar
of the great sunlight—the same great sunlight that shone in
the days of Jesus Christ, but the darkness comprehended it
not. But in this, the day of His Second Coming, wherein the
106 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN :v
spirits of the Just are all upon the earth, they will now glad
ly come at the call of the Master to that place where My
Spirit shall rest, and enter into the great sunlight that teach
es them the Law of life. "Keep My Law and thou shalt live."
Therefore, dear beloved Israel, can you not realize your
great privilege in being blest with the great sunlight? which
prepares your body to be begotten of the Father and conceiv
ed of the Mother, namely Jerusalem above, thus entering in
as Jesus did at the river Jordan. And through the power of
this holy Spirit, He healed the sick, He opened the eyes of
the blind, and raised the dead, and at the appointed time of
the Father She brings them forth Immortal, the life of the
Mother being in the Child, which is Spirit and not blood;
proving Her the Holy Mother of Zion, who brings the Sons
of God to birth. She is the Holy Breath of God, and God
himself loves Her, for She is the apple of His eye.
Therefore I entreat all to be on the watch, and be care
ful what you say about the Mother, for She is the female
Spirit in the Godhead. And all sins will be forgiven, except
sinning against the Holy Ghost, which shall not he forgiven
in this world nor in the world to come, which is the Millen
nium. Jesus the firstborn loved Her, for when they came out
preferring great honor on the virgin Mary, saying: "Blessed
is the womb that bare Thee," then Jesus said: "More blessed
is the womb that never bare, and the paps which never
gave suck," which was His darling Mother Jerusalem above,
who has come from Paradise to bring forth Her Sons and
Daughters to birth; for how could sons and daughters be
brought forth without a mother?
And She is now searching out the Stones to build up the
walls of the Immortal City, wherein peace and happiness shall
reign throughout one eternal day. Therefore the Spirit and
the Bride say: Come! and whosoever will may come, and
partake of the waters of life freely, thus entering into the
beautiful Sabbath of rest that yet remaineth for the people
of God. Love and mercy have met together, righteousness
and peace have kissed each other, for there is no God in all
the earth but in Israel, and I AM His servant.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 107
YOUR LIFE IS THE LOST PIECE.
I ENTREAT thee, Oh Israel to give ear, and harken unto the
voice of Shiloh Immanuel, the Living Child, the Spirit of
truth which will lead you in the way of all truth, which is
the testimony of Jesus Christ, who has lifted up His Stand
ard once more for the Seventh and last time. Come, let us
feast at Joseph's (or Jesus') table, and partake of the Living
Bread which cometh down from heaven. Oh rejoice with
me, for the lost piece is found, and the ascended Master, the
Lord Jesus Christ maketh Himself known to His Israel
through the Second Child, the Branch, Shiloh Immanuel,
who holdeth the Sceptre —God-with-us. And unto Him shall
the gathering of the people be, to be prepared and united
together by the union of that holy Spirit, and dwell together
in sweet bonds of peace, while satan rages with envy because
of the Living Child. And all who hold with satan shall fall
backwards in desolation and woe, as did the Jews for re
jecting Jesus the firstborn.
Therefore a man's foes shall be they of his own house.
No wonder Jesus Christ said: "When I come, shall I find
faith upon the earth ?" Oh who shall declare His generation ?
And remember the watchers who made three visits to the
tomb, and yet they did not witness His arising. And so it is
written: Remember the watchers who were found asleep to
the wonderful fulfillment of His Word. But marvel not, for
it is only seen by the eye of faith.- Yet they shall see Him
after He is arisen, when the seals are knocked off their eyes.
For what is man or woman without the wisdom of God?
Therefore, a child when it is born cannot have knowledge,
it must grow into it by experience; and yet it cannot be by
self-experience.
Wisdom is a precious gift of God, given to the child by
degrees of light, the wonderful hand of God leading them on
step by step up into the temple of Wisdom, thus leading
them along with His wonderful hand into the garden of
Paradise of the New Jerusalem, where the Tree of Life shall
be unsealed to the children of Wisdom, thus entering into the
Holy Place likeunto Jesus; when He was clothed upon at the
river Jordan He dwelt in the Holy Place, and when made
Immortal He entered into the Holy of Holies. For in Him
dwelt the fulness of the Godhead.
Oh let us rejoice and praise God that we have now
arrived to the day and hour to be tested and tried, for we
know not what manner of spirit we are of until we be proven.
108 . • THE BOOK OF HEAVEIf.
And during this hour of suffering satan is permitted to come
with many of his delusions in the same way as he came to
Jesus the firstborn. And think of this oily serpent saying to
Jesus: "If you will fall down and worship me, I will give
you my kingdom." Jesus did not question the fact of him
giving Him his kingdom, for it was satan's kingdom, and
Jesus did not want it. For well did Jesus know of his craft,
that he was trying to get bodies for his fallen spirits, and
well did satan know that Jesus was the Son of God. And if
he, satan, could have overcome Him in his slick, oily way and
caused Him to fall to the temptation which was woman, that
would only have given Jesus an Alien life, then satan could
have had bodies for his fallen spirits. Then satan could
have set up his kingdom in rebellion.
Then behold our wise and noble Leader, the Lord Jesus
Christ: that heavenly Spirit that always accompanied Him
could not be deceived. Therefore Jesus spoke plainly to him
and said: "The prince of this world cometh and hath noth
ing in Me." Therefore he had made a miserable failure in
trying to take away the key of knowledge from our Master,
which will enter into the Tree of Life. For knowledge is the
key which opens the door and admits the Sons of God to the
Tree of Life. And we do rejoice to know that the children of
Wisdom will not be deceived by the craft of satan, for as
they stood with the Union of the Godhead in heaven, so will
they stand here upon earth. Therefore Oh Israel awake!
Awake to thy high calling in Christ Jesus, and ever seek to
have perfect faith in the God of Israel, which is the conquer
ing power.
Hope is the open Door, and remember He has set before
thee an open Door. And when you have that living Faith in
your heart, you have nothing to fear, for this is a proof you
are dwelling in the mighty Shiloh Immanuel who reveals all
things, thus showing you things to come.
Dear beloved Israel! These are greetings from the
mighty Shiloh Immanuel, who has come from the heavens
above to rule and reign and to put down all evil, and the very
appearance of evil, preparing His people for His peaceable
Kingdom upon earth in this the twelfth and last hour, under
the great sunlight lighting up our pathway, that we might
land safely and dwell with the Sons of God, proving you
have fought the battle and gained the victory, thus enter
ing into your eternal happiness, thus standing a living wit
ness to the fulfillment of the Father's Word that was given
by Him, who cannot lie, before the world was.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE . MOTHER'S BOOK 109
Oh Israel lift up your heads and rejoice, for your
redemption draweth nigh. Arid the Angels in heaven are
rejoicing in seeing the fulfillment of the Father's Word to
the Sons of God, Jesus being the firstborn of these many
brethren that were to come, who is our pattern and waymark,
who was given to us for this cycle of time; who was given
all power in heaven and in earth and holdeth the keys of hell
and of death. And when He made His last ascension from
the earth, He ascended far above all heavens, thus entering
into Immortality. Therefore He closed the Door of Im
mortality until the sounding of the Seventh Trump, which
opened the door of Immortality in heaven. And it will stand
open until 144,000 twice-told enter in.
Oh how blessed was the voice of the Seventh, who
brought forth the Virgin Law of Christ, thus pointing out
clearly the pure holy way, yea! "Holiness unto God," which
is the beautiful Law of life that will lead us along gently
into the Eden of Paradise. Then we shall behold the ascend
ed Masters dwelling in that Holy Ring, waiting in Paradise
until the Sons of God are made manifest upon the earth.
Oh Israel awake! Awake and keep your mind fixed
firmly upon the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, the conquering
Prince. Pay no attention to the side-lights that are permit
ted to come along to test you, to try and turn you out of the
strait and narrow path. For satan is greatly wroth, knowing
he hath but a short time, for well he knows when the Sons
of God are united as One, it will make the chain that will
bind him down for one thousand years, then peace and
harmony upon this earth shall dwell.
Oh come beloved brothers and sisters, let us join hands
in unity and love to put down everything that is contrary to
the holy One of Israel, that He might clothe us with the
seamless coat that Jesus wore. So, dear beloved Ones who
are under this great sunlight that puts out all other lights,
let us rejoice and sing out praise to the God of Israel that we
were born to see these days under the voice of the Seventh
and Last Trump, yea the Trump of Gabriel. And if His
mighty voice awakes those sleeping souls, how much more
the living, the 144,000? which brings forcibly to my mind the
words that were spoken concerning Jesus: —"It was exped
ient for one man to die, that the whole nation perish not."
That one man was Jesus, and the "whole nation that perish
not" is the 144,000. Therefore I say, There is no God in all
■the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
110 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
THE TRUMP OF GABRIEL.
UE THAT hath an ear to hear, let him harken strictly to
the Trump of Gabriel who is now calling His Israel to
gether. And through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel they
shall hear His voice and gather themselves together and
enter into the Spirit of truth, which will enable them to
deliver the words of eternal life. Hark ye! They will not
be led by a strange voice, nor sidetracked by the transformer
lucifer.
Therefore Oh Israel, the time is here for the battle as
was fought by Jesus Christ our Lord. For satan has come
against us in battle by his transformed teachings. Therefore
I entreat thee to put on the whole armor and take up the two-
edged sword of His Spirit, as did our Lord and Master. And
all who are so favored to be given the Spirit of truth which
is found in the beautiful Star of Bethlehem need not fear.
And ever remember, if a man or woman leave the Visitation
they are numbered with the dead, for they are dead to the
Spirit of truth. So "let the dead bury their dead and follow
thou Me!"
Therefore dear Israel! fear not nor falter on thy way,
for God has sent His band of Angels that watches over thee
night and day, longing to give you the Crown of Life, the
glory of heaven. Let all of the true ones know and under
stand that the Father will give them eternal life, the beauti
ful crown of His blessed Kingdom. And His Son Shiloh,
male and female, whom the God of Israel has sent, is' the
beginning of His New Creation, the Almighty God, the Ever
lasting Father, the Prince of Peace.
Therefore let not your hearts fail you in this battle, for
blessed is he or she who endureth to the end, they shall
inherit the Kingdom of Peace, for His Word is the Truth.
So fear not ye sons and daughters of the Living God, but
stand steadfast to the end. Ever remember, He will bless
thee as true followers of our ascended Master, the Lord Jesus
Christ, who has been guided by the Immortal Spirit of truth,
who shall not go to the grave, nor will His flesh see cor
ruption.
For God's Word of eternal life shall not fail nor fall to
the ground, but be made life within us. And dear beloved
Israel ever remember, if we bear the testimony we shall
suffer as Jesus suffered, and this is suffering for the King
dom's sake. But I tell you in His name, ye shall receive life
Immortal, a hundred fold unto Immortality. And in bearing
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 111
the testimony of Jesus Christ, it being the Spirit that speak-
eth through you which makes satan roar in anger, accusing
you of making yourself out to be God, as he did Jesus the
firstborn. And through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel you
will understand how Jesus was the root and offspring of
David, the bright and the Morning Star; the Root being
Christ, called the offspring because of the Seed of Jesus be
ing in David's loins; the bright and Morning Star because of
there being no evil in His blood.
Now the question might be asked: Seeing Jesus had no
earthly Father, why was He called the Son of man ? Because
of that Seed of Jesus being in David's loins. Therefore dear
Israel ever seek to be found in obedience to your high calling,
coming up step by step into the temple of Wisdom, for
Wisdom is justified of Her children, for Her children will
dwell in unity, working under the banner of the mighty
Shiloh Immanuel for the establishment of His Kingdom; eat
and enjoy the fruits of our labor, thus willing to do whatso
ever our hands find to do in this beautiful Vineyard of God;
likeunto Paul, who labored with his hands that he be charge
able to none.
Therefore dear Israel let us sing out our thanks and
praises to the God of Israel for sending the Lion of the tribe
of Judah, who prevailed above His brethren, into whose hands
was given all power both in heaven and on earth. And be
hold! He giveth it unto the Second Child, the Branch, in
grafting Him, it being the golden sceptre of truth which has
caused the great enmity to arise against the anointed of God.
But in an unexpected moment He shall arise as one out Of
sleep and declare to fallen angels, men and devils that He is
the Husband of the Branch.
Therefore Oh Israel awake ! Awake to righteousness
and sin not, for the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God
is eternal life. Oh who is like unto the Woman whom God
has chosen? for with Her the truth is found. Has not the
God of heaven visited the Woman and opened up the Visita
tion ? which was to come according to His promises, that the
Seed of the Woman namely, the spirits of the Just, should
bruise the serpent's head. For behold! from Her Seed God
raised up His firstborn Son. And was not a remnant of Her
Seed sent forth in His disciples, which was mixed with Satan
ic man's seed? And did they not preach the kingdom of
heaven in a mixed form? to be rightly divided by the Spirits
of the Just. And in His appointed time did He not visit
112 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
Joanna, who brought forth the spiritual Visitation, and has
He not sent forth His Messengers according to His Word to
prepare the way before Him, so that He could come the
Second Time without sin unto salvation ?
Therefore let all Israel through the mighty Shiloh Im-
manuel prepare for that holy One to lead you in the way of
all truth and show you things to come; going on step by
step up into the temple of Wisdom by that Spirit of truth
that God has given them through the Messengers, which He
has sent from time to time that they might have the Seventh
Key to unlock the Seal of His Word. And all who reject
part of it, they become scorpions against God's work; for
they are neither hot nor cold. Therefore the Lord will spue
them out of His mouth, they having not the Spirit of truth
which the God of Israel has sent unto them.
And remember they have been called to this great Visita
tion of Truth, and have now turned back in denying their first
confidence, which proves them to be the foolish virgins who
had oil but did not follow the Spirit wheresoever it leadeth.
Therefore they will have no excuse, for the Open Door was
set before them and they refused to go in by harkening to
the transformed lucifer, the anointed cherub who is permit
ted to come to the City of David to prove God's creation.
And he had to be anointed with brightness to do his work.
We write these words to the Little Flock we love so
well, that they might be on the watch, and call continually
on the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, the conquering Prince, who
will prove and test every Stone, and give them a "New Name
that no man knoweth save he that receiveth it," namely, the
Word of God, thus giving them their eternal freedom, thus
clothing them with the double robe of righteousness. And
their voices shall be heard ringing out praises to the God of
Israel who has redeemed them and brought them safely to
His Eden of Paradise, proving they have gained their vict
ory over sin, death, hell and the grave. And the voice of
God will ring out in thunder tones saying: "Come, ye bles
sed of My Father!" "Ye have been faithful over a few things,
now I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter into
the joys of thy Lord."
Therefore let it be ever remembered, there is no God in
all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
IfACI
5TH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 113
THE HOLY OF HOLIES.
"10 I COME! in the volume of the Book it is written of Me,
to do Thy will Oh God, and a body hast Thou prepared
Me." And through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel it would
be impossible to do anything contrary to God's commands,
and through walking in strict obedience it will give us our
victory over sin, death, hell and the grave, like unto our
ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, then we can rejoice
and say: "The prince of this world cometh and hath nothing
in me."
Then we shall be found worthy to partake of the Tree
of Life, proving we are a branch from the true Vine Christ,
thus becoming likeunto our beloved Brother the Lord Jesus
Christ. And with joy He holds them in His embrace, for ye
are found with the mind of Christ so divine, which gives you
energy and wisdom which cannot be destroyed, but perfect
life that is ever flowing through your mind and body, which
will turn you back to days of youth. Then sorrow and sad
ness will be a thing of the past, for we have reached the goal
at last, through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, who opens the
Door that no man can shut, under the voice of the Seventh
Angel which came down from heaven clothed with a cloud,
and a rainbow on His head, and His face as it were the sun,
and His feet as pillars of fire; who had in His hand a Little
Book Open. This was the Angel of light, the Spirit of Jesus
from whom proceedeth the Spirit of truth, which has been
revealed to the Messengers of this Visitation through the
mighty God presence.
And His feet of understanding were as pillars of fire;
and from whose lips proceedeth the Law of Life. And His
coming was as the lightning which shone from the east unto
the west, through the mighty "I AM;" and as the ascended
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ who was our waymark and
pattern. And to become like Him we must walk the same
narrow path, with the Law on one side and with the Gospel on
the other, which is the golden Key that will open the two-
leaved gates into the transparent City, wherein peace and
happiness shall forever abide ; holding the reins of the mighty
power of God within ourselves through the mighty Shiloh
Immanuel wherein there is no fear, for "Perfect love casteth
out all fear."
And His divine promises we can claim as our own, know
ing the body is the temple of the living God, which was shown
forth in our beloved ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ,
114 THE BbOK OF HEAVEN
'
:
who is our waymark and pattern to go by. And let us ever
seek the golden Key which He left with His true Elect, that
will unlock and show them the mystery of eternal life that
has been kept a secret since the days of Jesus Christ, and
through the mighty God presence leads us back in safety
to the Father's House, wherein He is gathering His people
and preparing them to enter into Immortality before the Door
is closed, and before they hear the Angel saying: "Time
shall be no longer."
Dear beloved Israel, how my heart does rejoice as we
have arrived this far on our journey under the great sunlight
that will shine upon His true Elect throughout one eternal
day, through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel. Oh beloved
Israel ! let us rejoice that the hour is at hand that the "fifty
must be searched out," then ye shall behold Israel coming
from all lands by fifties, hundreds and thousands. Then
there shall be great rejoicing in the camps of Israel, and
their voices shall be heard ringing out saying: "Welcome
Home!" ye chosen few whom God has blessed through His
wonderful protection ; blessed in having His Immortal Angels
watching over us both by day and by night; blessed in being
clothed with His seamless Coat of purity and love through
the mighty Shiloh Immanuel.
Dear beloved Israel ! Do you realize the wonderful bles
sing to be numbered with the one family of God, all faithfully
working in His vineyard, bringing in His golden sheaves?
And dear Israel can you realize the happiness and joy when
the Master has paid you the one hundred fold. Immortality?
Then you stand a living witness to the fulfillment of His
promises. Oh who could grow weary on this wonderful
journey when there is everything to gain and nothing to lose?
Oh beloved Israel! How I would love to lift you up
through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel and cause you to see
the great glory God has in store for those who love Him,
with that holy love of God that never fails, that will gently
lead you back into the Garden, the Paradise of the New
Jerusalem where the Tree of Life will be unsealed to the
children of Wisdom, who will be able to receive the things
of the Holy Place, which leads into the holy of Holies,through
the mighty Shiloh Immanuel.
So dear beloved Israel, let us awake and lay hold of the
resurrected Word of life, that we might be found worthy to
eat of the hidden manna which is hid in the midst of the
Paradise of God. Let us render obedience to whatsoever He
saith unto us. For the words of grace and truth which
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK U5
flowed_ from His lips, they are Spirit and they are life. Let
us be found with Him at the marriage feast, having the
wedding garment of purity that we may see the first miracle
—water turned into wine —and drink of the best wine of the
Kingdom reserved for the last, for us who are kept back
until the 1,335 days in which the Marriage of the Lamb is to
take place, that we may drink it anew with Him in the
Kingdom of God.
The Seals are unloosed and the fountain is open. The
Key of the City of David is found and the Book is open.
The Virgin Bride has made Herself ready by the Law of
Christ and all are invited to the marriage of the Lamb. The
Door is open but you must show your pass-word, which is
the Word of Life. Come and receive a new name that no
man knoweth save he that receiveth it, and His Name is the
Word of God. Come and receive this mark, which is an in
ward mark, containing the Covenant, which must be written
in your heart and stamped upon your mind, which is the
resurrected Word of Life. Behold! He comes down in the
garden of His Bride. The flowers appear upon the earth.
The singing of the birds has come, denoting the Springtime
of Resurrection.
The great and notable day of the Lord, and His table is
set before everyone who has the wedding garment of purity,
and he shall partake of the bread of life, the true sacrament
of the Lord, worthily unto Immortality; begotten of the
Father, conceived of the Mother and carried by Her until
the appointed time of the Father. She brings them forth
Immortal likeunto Jesus the firstborn. For how could the
Son of God be brought forth without the darling Mother of
Zion? For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and
I am His servant.
IMMORTAL MOTHER IN ISRAEL.
0Ei
CAR beloved Israel: How encouraging to realize and
know "If God be for us, who can be against us?" prov
ing that we are the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, and
my prayer to the God of Israel is to follow the Spirit which
inspired the Messengers of this Visitation, for I know this
causes the work to go forward, although the Messenger has
taken His departure. But ever remember, through that Im
116 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN*
mortal Spirit the work will go on for the Ingathering of
God's Elect people, which is the most tangible part of God's
plan for the human mind to take hold of.
And in their earnestness to be doing something, it has
been over-looked by many that the Ingathering of Israel is
the result of a great work and not the beginning of it. For
there is a secret and hidden spiritual work for the preparat
ion which leads up to it, and had to be accomplished before
an Israelite could be gathered into that Immortal City.
And as a Virgin Mother in the flesh brought forth Jesus
the Firstborn —so a Virgin Woman after the Spirit is chosen
of God to bring forth the Firstborn after the Spirit There
must be a Mother in Israel to bring down Jerusalem above,
and all who attempt to gather Israel before this chosen
Woman's work is complete, they will find that they cannot
progress on their journey without Her. Oh Israel let us rejoice
knowing that we belong to that Immortal Mother Jerusalem
above, who has come down to bring forth Her Sons and
daughters to establish Christ's peaceable Kingdom here upon
earth. And this wonderful work will quickly develop into
the Ingathering of Israel in the standing up of the Chosen
Woman of God for the deliverance of Her people Israel.
Let it be remembered that Jesus Christ is the King of
Israel, and the next great event is the coming forth of the
Queen, namely Jerusalem above, before there can be a Prince
in the flesh. Who is this coming forth leaning upon Her
Beloved? the Beloved being Christ and Jerusalem above.
Man has had two thousand years to find eternal life, but let
it lie remembered, without the Helpmate that God promised
from the beginning they will all go to the grave. Let it be
remembered, Jesus found this helpmate who helped Him
over all His difficulties. But during this long period of time
the woman has kept silent. Like Jacob when he went out
to meet his brother Esau, he put his beloved Rachel last of
all, which was typical of the woman being kept back until
the appointed time of God.
But it has been man's mistake to keep her back, for they
must remember they cannot arise up from the fall to an Im
mortal life without Her. And let it be remembered, the Holy
One, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of
Peace will bless the work of every heart and hand that is
helping Her to arise, that She might bring down Jerusalem
above. Then a woman in Jerusalem will be the glory of the
man' in Christ. Therefore Jerusalem has come down to bring
Her Children to an Immortal birth. Arid let it be remembered
5TH COMFORTER OF THE. MOTHER'S BOOK 117
that a female body must be prepared for Her, even as a male
body (Jesus) was prepared to bring down Christ.
Therefore blessed, thrice-blessed is the woman who pre
vails with God to keep her Immortal Sister with her to the
end of this journey. By this ye shall know the Mother
Queen of Israel, who will drive away the evil and set man
back from whence he fell—who prove themselves to be faith
ful and true in holding up Her hands. It is God's decree,
and every Israelite will bow to it and give themselves no rest
day nor night until the Peaceable Kingdom of God be est
ablished, thus making Jerusalem a praise in all the earth.
This is indeed a marvelous work for those who love the
ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, to be engaged in, in
this the twelfth and last hour. It has been preached to this
generation by His humble Messengers whom He has sent
from time to time, to prepare a place for Christ's Kingdom
to be established here upon the earth. And now behold the
Woman whom God has sent, which causes satan to roar in
envy, knowing he hath but a short time. Therefore dear
beloved Israel that within itself proves this is the work of
God. And all the true Israel of God will accept the establish
ment of Jerusalem upon the earth.
And I am longing, yes, longing to tell those that are re
jecting the Jerusalem Mother above—when She is rejected,
mercy for the life of the body is forever closed. But to the
faithful ones proving themselves to be loyal and true, they
will harken to the voice of the Bridegroom and Bride, who
are now offering Immortality by accepting the Bride, namely
Jerusalem above to become the Mother of the Immortal race.
Therefore we must be born again, begotten of the Immortal
Father and born of the Immortal Mother. That which is
spiritual is of the Spirit, and that which is of the flesh is flesh.
Israel will possess both —the new Heavens being put within
the New Earth—the body made anew. Jerusalem above
joins Jerusalem below as the Immortal Mother in Israel,
which is now to be made manifest upon the earth. And then
Israel shall be gathered one by one, by the New Birth.
O ye favored Sons and Daughters of Israel who have
stood loyal and true and held fast to your first confidence,
whom God will justify, and those He justifies He also glori
fies. Therefore dear beloved Israel could you not watch with
Me one hour? which the Disciples failed to do. And I entreat
thee to forget not that holy Spirit which has now come to
waken you out of sleep and give you sweet deliverance from
the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the
118 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
children of God, that your mortal body might put on Im
mortality.
This brings forcibly to my mind the days of Jesus,
wherein the Father gave the world a great sign when He
brought forth His firstborn Son, who was clothed upon at
the river Jordan. And the seed of heaven was sown within
Him. And the Holy Mother Jerusalem carried Him until the
appointed time of the Father, and then She brought Him
forth in Immortality, bone of His bone and flesh of His flesh,
and Spirit of His Spirit.
Then did not God fulfil His promises to them which were
given by Christ through the prophets of old? In this day
and hour of His Second Coming has He not sent that Spirit
of truth, that Other Comforter to Israel, to lead and guide
in the way of all truth?—whose name is Shiloh Immanuel,
God With Us! He holdeth the Sceptre, and unto Him shall
the gathering of the people be. And He will seal every true
heart, thus receiving them unto Himself, thus bringing them
into possession of His riches in heaven and earth.
Therefore dear Israel let us ever remember that Eternal
Covenant that the Father has made with His chosen people
Israel and signed it with the precious blood of Jesus His
firstborn Son. For through Him all things will be brought
back to the Father. So let us ever seek to do all things to
His honor and glory. If you have dark days do not be dis
couraged, for if you do not have a taste of the bitter how
can you appreciate the sweet? For the true Seed of Israel
is a Seed that cannot be destroyed.
So let us sing out praises to The Star of Bethlehem that
has arisen in our hearts, which is to Israel a token by day
and a pillar of fire by night. Oh how sweet and refreshing
are the words of that Immortal Spirit which will stand
through one eternal day, for the true soldiers of the Lord
Jesus Christ shall follow them and they shall gain honor
in every land where they've been put to shame. And I will
open the windows of heaven, saith the Lord, and shower down
My blessings upon them, for I am He who was, and is, and
is to come, and is to be revealed. And the world will say
I am dead, and will not return, but tell Israel I am alive, and
the Bride is alive to give unto them the Words of Eternal
Life. He that hath an ear to hear, let him hear and under
stand the marvelous work of God.
Therefore dear Israel let us ever seek to put on the
whole armor of God and turn the battle to the gates. Ever
remember, it is the holy Spirit that will do the work for
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 119
Israel. That bright and burning light will never grow dim,
for the veil will be drawn back from their eyes.
Jesus' blood was pure, and when the blood of Israel is
cleansed then they are washed in His blood; blood of His
blood, and flesh of His flesh. When this is accomplished they
shall enter in as Jesus did at the river Jordan, which will
prepare them to eat His flesh and drink His blood, He being
a seed to the sower and bread to the eater. He proved He
was a seed to the sower when He appeared to Mary in a
.spiritual body, showing that all who were sown in the grave
should come forth either in the first or final resurrection.
For all souls are Mine, saith the Lord. It also proved He
was bread to the eater when He appeared to His disciples
in the upper room in His flesh and bone body. For in Him
the Word was made flesh. Peter testified of Him when he
said: "We ate and drank with Him after He arose from the
dead."
Therefore beloved Israel have we not great reasons to
rejoice knowing that we have the God of Israel to fight for
us? For He said: "Son stand still till I fight the battle,"
proving they are walking in the footsteps of our Lord and
Master. The light of that Immortal Spirit will guide them
to the camp—and that camp is the Spirit of Christ, which
will protect them from all harm and will give them sweet
Words of comfort in the terrible hour of persecution and
suffering, and make a way for their deliverance.
Call upon Him and He will hear thee. To those who
keep the Lord's secret, He will make known to them of His
coming as He did to Noah. For there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
WOMAN IN JERUSALEM.
IYEAR beloved Israel! Let us rejoice and be exceedingly
glad, knowing that that Immortal Spirit shall descend
from heaven and rest upon all Israel in one body, for the
144,000 are espoused to their Husband the Lord Jesus Christ,
and they shall sing the song of Moses and the Lamb, He
being the substance of Moses in spirit and in truth, which
shall be made alive in His Bride as it was in Me, the Bride
groom of both heaven and earth.
Rejoice and sing Oh Israel, for that Immortal Spirit
shall dwell within you, which will cause the heavens to ring
because of the Bridegroom's voice. That Immortal Spirit
120 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
shall rest upon every bone of Israel as the dew from heaven,
and joy and gladness shall be felt in every heart. But Oh
remember the red dragon who is howling and casting forth
floods of lies in trying to destroy the woman's work —but
to none avail. But his head shall be bruised under their
feet through the mighty God of Peace. And it will be woe
unto them who have not the mark, it being the holy Spirit
that will rest upon them likeunto Jesus at the river Jordan.
And all who obey the Woman in Jerusalem and submit
to Her Law, which is the Law of Her Husband Christ, they
then shall live and they shall not die. Therefore Oh Israel
awake! Awake from thy sleep and get you ready at the
sound of the Seventh and Last Trump. Israel have nothing
to fear, for through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel they will
conquer every foe by His living words of life. They shall
keep the secret of their strength and overcome the strong
enemies of God under the protection of His holy Spirit, for
it overshadows us with its wings, which gives us strength
to fight every battle. And through this Living Faith they
shall see and understand that God the Father has sent His
Son upon the earth, Shiloh Immanuel. Therefore be ye ready
to go with Him to Jerusalem and build the City which God
the Father has long promised in His Word.
Therefore Oh Israel ever remember, when you are cloth
ed upon with that Immortal Spirit you are begotten of God
because He keepeth you. It is then that satan is bound to
serve that Spirit that is with you. No one can be born of
God but He who is begotten of God, and He being in that
Spirit of God which is Paradise. As it is written: "Satan
shall be subject to those whom God has endowed with pow
er." Did not Jesus the firstborn prove this power? And we
are now in the day and the Twelfth and Last Hour, wherein
Israel will keep the Law of Life as Jesus kept it.
Therefore Oh Israel quicken up your pace while the
golden opportunity is set before you and He is still calling;
and the time is about up when His pleadings will cease. But
all of the faithful ones who have followed after Him in faith
fulness and holiness unto Him, these are the ones who shall
establish His blessed Kingdom here upon earth, and they
shall be filled with His holiness and He will reward His faith
ful ones, for they have stood loyal to the Ones He has sent—
the Son of man.
And He will subdue all authority and power in the divine
name of His holy Father, that His Kingdom might be estab
lished to the uttermost parts of the earth. I tell you these
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 121
are the blessed ones who believe with all their hearts in His
Visitation for the establishment of God's Kingdom. He has
made them anew by His Word being made flesh in them.
They shall not pass away, but remain upon the earth in His
glory and bliss, for His work shall not cease till all is ac
complished. He is not a man to repent of all the judgments
that He permits to come upon all the earth, but He is a God
to make an end of all evil and crown His chosen with eternal
life. They have been fed by the bread of heaven and have
become as our blessed Saviour the Lord Jesus Christ, who
holdeth the key of hell and of death; who has the power to
shut and none can open. All the people on the earth shall
know Him from the least to the greatest, for they shall be
One in Spirit and serve the God of Israel with one accord in
holiness.
He shall dwell amongst them and they shall behold His
glory likeunto the first-begotten Son of God, full of grace
and truth and His wonderful love which never faileth, for
it is the Word made flesh. And they stand living witnesses
to the truth of His Word, for these are faithful and true,
crowned with His glory and honor throughout all ages and
eternity for their faithfulness to Him. For there is no God
in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
GREATEST MYSTERY— IMMORTALITY.
A BEAUTIFUL plant that came from the garden of Eden,
planted by God's own hand, which cannot be plucked up
and never fade nor die, for its descent is from on high,
which is the Lord, the Quickening Spirit from eternity—this
glorious plant that has put forth itself distinct from the
outward nature, was brought forth by His Virgin Mother,
and His name is the Lord Jesus Christ, whose Spirit was
qualified with meekness and love, so very sweet and mild that
it fed the soul to that degree that it feels no other life but
the Spirit of the Holy Ghost—that is the root which feeds
the pure Christ mind with a certain kind of heavenly virtue,
which brings forth a blushing youthful freshness always.
Therefore here lies the greatest of all mysteries —that
under the Covenant, which means to say the holy Spirit in
an Immortal human form—such a glorious anointed One
that here lives and moves, as having the fiery sparkling eyes
that reacheth unto the heavens above—there we view and
122 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
see the heavenly Family of our own kind, it being that Spirit,
pure and separated from this gross earth which is full of
misery and woe, thus being made Immortal, proving our
selves worthy to be with Christ the Head, and with His body
of Saints who are in the highest of glory; joining in the
heavenly conversation which is springing up from one eternal
Root, thus being joined in couples together in love's golden
chain of everlasting unity.
Therefore it is given to me to understand such Saints
which are yet in the body (as yet unknown to the world,)
they are Spiritual, and when together their conversation is
heavenly and divine. But that part must be silent until they
receive the baptism of the Holy Ghost mingled with fire from
heaven, thus being able to receive the heavenly communion
from the holy One from the heavens above. But it must be
understood they must be highly graduated from the School
of the Prophets, which gives them the heavenly privilege
to come up hither to this heavenly Court.
Therefore every Spirit of the Just who stood with the
union of the Godhead, they are joined to it and are invited to
this heavenly place, which will cause a great separation here
in the camps of Israel when they are made Immortal. They
then can say: "Where I go ye cannot come," —meaning, in
their Immortal body. Those who, being under the voice of
the Seventh and Last Messenger heeded not the warning,
and those who have railed upon this heavenly Visitation can
not be a servant to the Redeemed. Therefore I say, not only
to one but to all, BE ON THE WATCH! that you are not
found asleep at the Open Door.
Dear beloved Israel! I can give no other directions than
what I myself have been taught in, when in company with the
Seventh and Last Messenger which was holy, pure and true;
and my heart's desire is to put these pure and holy things
into practice, wherein I have found this secret path or way
wherein my spirit may enter and abide in the tabernacle of
God's delightful presence, which is as a foregoing pledge of
what I am hoping and expecting to take up in my body when
made Immortal.
Therefore that I might encourage all holy-minded ones
who are such lovers of this light of Christ, it means to lay
aside all vexation and worldly matters that are encumbering
and weighty upon the mind. Take in nothing that is not
absolutely necessary. Be content with little of the world, that
thou mayest have much more of God. And if in possession
of plenty of these outward tilings, be sure to give a proof
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 123
of thy living faith, in God by giving them all up as an offering
to help along in the Vineyard of the Lord. For if you give
God your heart in spirit and in truth, He will give you His
holy Spirit, which is more than silver and gold, houses or
land. And you will bless the God of Israel that you have the
golden opportunity to show forth your living faith in God the
Father in supporting such as God has endowed and filled
with the Spirit of wisdom, revelation and prophecy, which
fills your heart and gives you words to join in this heavenly
conversation in talking over the fulfillment, that the will
of God here on earth be done as it was in heaven, and echo
to the Saints in the upper heavens in love, praise and adoring,
paying all homage and worship to God and the Lamb.
Therefore I have so often spoken to the Brothers and
Sisters that if they could only come to harmony, sweet har
mony, if that their conversation could be brought together
in a perfect accord and union of the Spirit, a great witness
would be given to it, and mighty things would succeed in
their willingness to take up that pure Spirit of life which
hitherto has been stifled and choked by the earthly conver
sations, for that only causes "vanity and vexation of spirit,"
which cannot be edifying to those who are seeking to walk
day by day in the footprints of our Lord and Master. Seeing
that the God of Israel has given them such liberty and com
mand of their own time, let us highly prize it and make sure
to ourselves the prize of the Kingdom. For that blessed
Treasure may go along with us into the heavenly Immortal
World —our bodies made anew to the honor and glory of God,
wherein they must leave all behind that belongs to this old
world because they are chosen out of it.
Therefore the spirit of Christ gives this advice and
counsel: To take heed lest the cares for the bodily part do
eat out the life and grieve the holy Spirit of all its
Spiritual feedings, losing all benefits of conversing in heavenly
places. Therefore be watchful, and suffer not the outward
to jostle out the inward. Therefore I say unto each and
every one: Put not one grain of faith into the stock of out
ward things. And if you are found in Obedience, the bles
sings of increase shall come to thee, for the just shall live,
both temporally and spiritually, by this Faith.
Did not Jesus Christ feed the multitude from five loaves
and two fishes? And Oh! this perfect lily faith —which means
the Immortal body of the Lord Jesus Christ —when on the
shores of Galilee He fried fish, thus cooking breakfast for
the Disciples who were on the watch for Him. . Oh, how meek
124 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
and lowly was our Lord and Master! so this lily faith, which
has risen up to free itself from the twisting strings which
have bound it. Therefore Solomon in all His glory shall not
be compared unto this sprouting lily-day of the Heirs of
Faith.
Therefore blessed are those who are born into this Faith.
They need not be troubled for any temporal things, for all
blessings in abundance will be brought in. Therefore labor
not so much for the manna, but rather for the white Stone
of pure Faith that fed many thousands with bread. There
fore take no thought of what to eat or drink, or wherewith
to be clothed. The Lord knoweth that by the Spirit and
power of Faith there shall be a support and supply of all
necessary things. But it may be said: This kind of Faith
has not yet been made manifest save in our Lord and Master
—proving that there has been such a Faith, and shall most
assuredly be revived again —in those, His Elect. "For the
works that I do shall ye do also." They will not bind the
lily of faith down, for they have that great desire to be well
acquainted with a life in God and therein rest—sweet rest
from the powers of satan, taking all care to clear away from
their heart and mind the bondage of corruption and enter
into the glorious liberty of the Sons of God, thus entering
into the Spirit of the Holy Ghost, which blows away the dust
of unbelief that defiles the temple, our body.
As fast as this puddle-matter defiles the body —so im
mediately draw a bath for thyself in the springing pool where-
from the water of life doth bubble up. For that is our
healing and it is near us, that we might keep our hearts all
pure and clear, reserved to be the most Holy Sanctuary for
the Holy Spirit to minister to, thus making ready a holy
separate place for God and Christ to manifest themselves
in us.
Upon this account was the Holy Ghost promised and
also given, to prepare and make strait the way eternally for
Christ, His spiritual humanity to be taken up in a pure mind,
as John the Baptist was a forerunner to prepare and declare
Him to be the Lamb of God to take away the sins of the
world, that by John's ministry, repentance unto life might
be given. Therefore where this holy Spirit abides to refine
and purge the floor of the heart—this is the office of the
Spirit. And how we ought to rejoice and praise this ascended
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ! for such a valuable gift from
the mighty Father. Praise Him, for by Him and through Him
we have all knowledge and intelligence from our Father's
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER' S BOOK \Z*
House, and all of that holy Family. We would never have
known anything of that state of Eternal Life without His
darling Son to show us the strait and narrow way.
Therefore the Spirits of the Just will keep their minds
vacant from all evil for such a Comforter to abide with them
who can tell us of things yet to come at the present time,
and through eternity. And this He doth and will do still
for those who live and delight in His company; the blessed
ascended Master who doth reveal unto us concerning the
upper heavens, will strongly hold us and wind up our minds
to His very Throne, revealing unto us the secrets of heaven.
Therefore watch and pray! and keep upon your guard
always, this being such a glorious and high privilege to
receive of this Spirit, which is brought out of God's treasury
of things new and old. Therefore it is very rarely that any
is able to obtain and retain this precious and holy Anointing
whereby we come to know the secrets and the deep things
of God. Therefore there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel, and I am His servant.
THE SPOUSE OF GOD.
IN THIS the third dispensation and the twelfth and last
hour the Seventh Angel the true Trumpet is sounding,
wherein the righteous gathering of Eagle Spirits (which are
mighty and strong) will wing themselves up to the throne
of God, wherein all dark clouds and shadows shall disappear
and the great Sunlight shall come forth at once to be seen
throughout the whole world. And through the Immortal
Door they will fly to their everlasting Sabbath of rest. Even
so! let us be found waiting for the blessed and glorious
appearing of our ascended Master and Saviour the Lord Jesus
Christ, wherein mortal shall be swallowed up in Immortality.
"Even so, come quickly!" saith the Spirit of the Bride, who
is making Herself ready to come to the marriage supper of
the Lamb, wherein the faithful pilgrims will greatly rejoice
that they have arrived safely, rejoicing in the Spirit of the
Holy Ghost, which is our darling Mother of Zion, who
through the sins of the fallen world withdrew and went to
dwell with the Sons of God. But now She has returned
in this third dispensation which belongs to Her, to bring
forth the Sons of God, as She is the Spouse of God, and She
will gather Her Elect as a hen gathers Her brood under
12$ THE BOOK OF HEAVEN '
Her wings. For hark ye Oh Israel, the day and hour is here
wherein the Seventh and true Trump is sounding, which
opens a Door in heaven wherein the Immortal Mother has
returned.
Therefore I entreat all to be on the Watch, and remem
ber, a man may speak against the Father and the Son and be
forgiven, but if he sins against the Holy Ghost he cannot be
forgiven in this world nor in the world to come, which is
the Millennium. Therefore a Woman is now being inspired
to plead God's promises, which cannot fail to those who are
faithful and true.
Therefore let not the powers of darkness buffet you out
of your rights, and ever remember you have protection in
this Holy Spirit who neither slumbers nor sleeps, who watch
es over you both by day and by night. So let it put you
upon an earnest seeking and ever striving to give a true
watchful service, wherein that Spirit of truth will lead you
along gently until you are Sealed or have this witness-Seal
that shall agree with the record in heaven and the Scripture-
record here upon the earth, whereby you will be settled and
established upon a sure foundation in this shaking and peri
lous time, wherein as it is said in Daniel: "Many shall run
to and fro," "Lo here!" and "Lo there," by which many
will be sorely tried. But to your tents, Oh Israel! and that
tent is that one Immortal Spirit.
Therefore my prayer is that each and every one of you
be upon the watch tower, and be careful that you let not any
of this worldly stuff make you fall into a deadly and danger
ous sleep. But ever seek to be a wrestling Jacob that you
might become a prevailing Israelite. So gird up your loins
closely and keep yourself unspotted from the world. And
the precious promise of God is: "Ye shall eat of the Tree
of life," ever dwelling in the pure love of God, thus becoming
likeunto the latter Adam, a quickening Spirit, the Lord from
heaven, in which we are raised out of the fall and quickened
into the Spirit, whereby we come to partake of unity, purity,
wisdom, power and glory with Him.
Therefore take notice! Such as come up to this pure
holiness shall find themselves likeunto the translated Enoch.
They will keep their walk with God, in which path of light
they may behold the holy Angels who are guiding them
along up to this wonderful seat of glory, and also the heavenly
train of Saints, all appearing in glittering garments, who fol
low Christ their Head all in order, in one degree, rejoicing
with Him by whom they_ have overcome and gained_ eternal_
5TH COMFORTER OP THE_ MOTHER'S BOOK .127
Victory over all the world, and now to reign with Christ their
mighty Lord and King.
Oh how pleasant it will be to see unity, love and harmony
from the highest to the lowest degree of these glorified
Saints, all with crowns and breast-plates set all with stones
that sparkle out with sparks of fire —these all next to the
glorified person of Christ, and in the golden tent which is the
Spirit, and the Temple which is the body when made Im
mortal, thus dwelling in the holy Place, which brings great
rejoicing because we have arrived safely to the Rock Christ,
with that wisdom to act and do after the manner of God, thus
being subject always to the Law of Life, thus entering into
the Kingdom of Peace. And there we shall behold the Saints
who are delighted in their office and service in helping the
faithful ones who are striving so earnestly to reach the
Rock Christ, thus showing forth their ministry of love, as
did Enoch and Abraham, John, the Apostles, and Paul with
others of their order that had golden vials given to them to
pour forth for anointing and healing. And Peter after the
day of Pentecost was powerful. He was given the key that
harmonized many mysteries, and the power of the Holy Ghost
was so strong upon him that he raised the dead—and they
only saw in part and prophesied in part. But when that
which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be
done away.
Therefore as we are in the twelfth and last hour in this
heavenly Visitation under the voice of the Seventh, the per
fect thing has come through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel.
And the call is being sent out to all Israel wherever they be,
to come to the City of David for the cleansing fountain is
now open. So come! and be washed in the Seventh Pool
which purifies, thus making you ready to be numbered in
the family of God wherein satan's head shall be bruised,
even as Christ's heel was bruised upon the cross, which
signified that they rejected His divine healing because they
chose Barabbas instead of the Lord Jesus Christ, the divine
healer, the great Physician.
But He promised to return, and in fulfillment of His
promise He has sent the Second Child who was to stand up
in His stead, the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, the conquering
Prince, wherein the restoration shall set in and God himself
will wipe away the tears from every eye. The desert shall
bloom as a rose, and the earth —that is the body —which the
Lord hath blest under the voice of the Seventh Messenger
128 :1HE BOOk OF HEAVfetf "•
with a new revelation of the coming redemption of the body
from the power of death.
Now a mortal man and woman cannot produce anything
but their own kind. But hark ye ! God and woman —namely
the Virgin Mary in her pure estate was overshadowed by
the power of the Holy Ghost and brought forth Jesus, namely
God-man. And He at His appointed time will bring forth
through the woman, but by a mystery which it has not
entered into the heart of man to comprehend. And when
this is accomplished, he will be a man and yet a Child who
will prove that Christ is in them by their works; and these
works will be the "greater" work of which Jesus spoke, and
greater works than these shall ye do.
But remember, it takes the power of the holy Spirit to
work as Jesus worked. This shall be accomplished by a
prepared people and by means of a strange act on the part
of God himself, for only the true Vine can produce a Living
Branch whose seed is in itself, and to such seed alone sown
by the God-man Immortal. Therefore whosoever is born of
God doth not commit sin for his seed (the Immortal seed)
remaineth in him after it is sown in him by the divine act.
And he cannot sin because he is born of God —because of
that Immortal Seed which remaineth in him.
Therefore as the Father hath life in himself, so hath He
given it to His Son to have life in Himself. And He, the Son,
hath power to give the same Life, a virtuous substance which
is a true Sacrament in fulfillment of the words of Jesus
when He said. "Except ye eat My flesh and drink My
blood, ye have no life in you," for in Him the Word was
made flesh while He was still here upon the earth.
Therefore the time has come now under the voice of the
Seventh that life can be obtained by those who are called and
chosen, for they will do the work that the Father has given
them to do, for this will be done in a prepared people. Let
it be understood that the mystery is revealed to a prepared
people, but it is guarded on all hands by the sword which
turns every way to protect the Tree of Life.
So dear beloved Israel, the day and the hour is here.
The work is beginning and the secret is with the Elect of God
who have entered into the truth. And remember, the truth
was found with the woman through the wisdom of the divine
Mother, who is the Bride of the God-man wherein the divine
Life was sown. Now, the truth of the divine Motherhood is
set forth plainly in The Star of Bethlehem, the Living Roll
of Life. And let it be understood those who gain the victory
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 129
of Immortality of the body, it will be gained through Her
and by the Immortal man Christ Jesus. For those who ac
cept the divine Motherhood it will prove that they stood with
the union of the Godhead in heaven, for without this divine
Mother you cannot find your way to the Eden of Paradise.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am
His servant.
PILLARS OF HEAVEN.
QH ISRAEL harken to the call. Come out from the world
and be ye separate. Ever remember, the chariot wheels
of Israel have been rolling all through this time of Visita
tion, and His Ark is now resting that His people Israel may
enter in, in this the twelfth and last hour wherein we behold
the Triune Eye, namely the Father, Mother and Son; the
Father with the eternal wisdom, and the Son dwelling in the
Holy Spirit in whom has been treasured up that which is
now to be opened and revealed to the Elect of God concern
ing the great hidden mysteries to be brought forth and under
stood by the spirits of the Just, who are upon the earth.
For in whatsoever heart and mind this Holy Dove shall
find entrance and a welcome, it shall be as the heavenly Court
wherein the divine wisdom shall unfold the deep secrets, as
we see the day approaching and His chosen Ones are hunger
ing and thirsting to know and understand, knowing it will be
revealed by the Immortal Triune Eye, the Father, Mother
and Son. And there we shall see those who are qualified,
who have stood firm as the pillars of heaven, will now be
placed as the foundation of this Immortal building. And
there shall be no length of days, as it was with the patri
archs before the flood, even to Methuselah's years.
Therefore Oh Israel! let us all sing out praises for this
golden age, for it is a witness that Christ has set His foot
to reign upon the earth and His Spirit made manifest in His
Immortal body, as He has espoused to Himself His Bride,
namely the 144,000. And this you do not expect to see until
the Lord God Jehovah himself shall appear; the Son, the
Lord Jesus Christ gave Himself as the bread of life. John
6:50. This is the bread which cometh down from heaven,
that a man may eat thereof and not die. If any man eat of
this bread he shall live forever. John 6:51. Now, you may
Say, What kind of eating must this be? The very divine
130 ■ ,. ■XHE BOOK OF, HEAVEN_ . :... ,
Virgin Spirit of Christ, the Tree of life drawn unto our. body
by the strong attraction of faith and love, the eternal love
of God; having the eye of faith upon the Resurrection.
Mark, there is a deep communication likewise of His Resur
rection and what brought His body forth. It was the Im
mortal soul that He received from His divine Mother Jeru
salem above. And this was accomplished at the river Jordan,
begotten of the Father, conceived of the Mother and born of
Her in Immortality. And He was the Firstborn of the
144,000.
All shall be forced to acknowledge that these are the
anointed Ones, as bearing the Royal priestly mark of their
God and King, upon them the heavenly power shall descend.
As it is written, the gift should descend upon such as were
prepared Stones for the building of the New Jerusalem, the
City wherein will reign the mighty God and King. The root
of pure speech must proceed from the pure heart of the
Triune Deity, without a sound of a voice whereby in this
internal stillness God communes with His Elect; because
our spirit with His Spirit comes together, then we
are begotten of Christ as Jesus was begotten. Then we can
receive communications from the very throne of God, which
will carry such a fiery flaming power wherein we can under
stand the same divine language, thus opening up the mystery
that has been shut up for so long. This blessed day of His
heavenly Visitation we understand to open up all the healing
pools, that the body might be cleansed and prepared, thus
entering into the continual rising springs of this water of
life, wherein everything shall be healed and gain eternal
life according to that Scripture. Ezek.47.
This river of Life must never cease to run, for it is the
Gift of healing in Elijah's spirit wherein he had that living
Faith that gave him his ascension. In the following century
of the Apostles it was revealed to them to convey virtue out
of themselves for healing, which they could not command at
all times, for then they would have conquered all sickness
and death in themselves. But when this mighty Gift shall be
restored again, which is now in this the twelfth and last
hour wherein the great evil of sin will be taken out of the
way, so the suffering must cease.
For those who live in the New World shall not complain
they are sick. Therefore those who are called and chosen
shall be strong pillars to bear up the mount of Holiness upon
which shall be written: "Shiloh Immanuel, the Conquering
Prince, to live and reign here." Those who are under His
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 131
reign, they will be able to rise and go forth as lightning upon
the earth, likeunto our ascended Master the Lord Jesus
Christ.
Therefore Oh ye Spirits of the Just who are upon the
earth, let us ever seek to walk in strict obedience before the
holy One. He is the only One that can establish our names
among the redeemed, and will preserve thee through all the
wars and desolation that is coming upon the earth. He will
establish His holy Seed in righteousness and cause us to
become likeunto Jesus Christ, His Firstborn. Therefore this
lioly seed shall go forth, thus becoming a spring of righteous
ness of holy men and women wherein the holy One hath
been numbered. And He also has sent His holy Angels to
watch over them while they are journeying back to the Eden
of Paradise.
Oh this glorious Message from the heavens above!
bringing the glad tidings to the whole house of Israel in
fulfillment of the promises that the holy One has made unto
them from the beginning of time. And in this, the twelfth
and last hour, all of the divine promises that He has spoken
shall be fulfilled in His faithful and true Elect and they shall
be filled with joy and gladness which words cannot express,
when they realize that they have been called and chosen and
prepared to be brought forth by the Holy Mother of Zion,
likeunto a beautiful white rose, yea! the Rose of Sharon, and
also likeunto the beautiful white lily, which is altogether
lovely.
Dear beloved Israel! I am telling you of things yet to
be fulfilled here upon this earth. So hustle up and get you
ready! There is no time to lose. The chariot wheels of
Israel are rolling along. Therefore this divine life is likeunto
the walk of Enoch, it is so hidden and unknown save to the
spiritual Pilgrims who understand by the Law of Life, they
can return back to that land from whence they came, through
that noble and divine walk with God wherein you will meet
with those who are kind and humble, showing forth the fruits
of the Spirit, ever ready to speak of the fulfillment of the
promises of God.
And Oh what a noble company, whose hearts are filled
with the words of eternal life. Can you not hear the voice
of the Angel saying, "Thou art the offspring who are born
for righteousness, and righteousness has rested upon thee?"
And the ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ will not for
sake thee, but He will walk and talk with you from the
heavens above. Therefore hark ye! the traveling tent of
132 ?HE B.pOK OF HEAVEN
which I have given thee, meaning that Immortal Spirit that
will teach you and give you an opportunity to know before
hand the riches and pleasant things of this heavenly Country
to think upon, thus filling you with that divine wisdom to
understand all the deep things that the Seventh and Last
Messenger has spoken unto thee.
For He has sent His Messenger before your face, which
is the Spirit of refining fire to purify and make you ready for
His double robe of righteousness, that you might enter into
the great marriage of the Lamb. Angels, Archangels will
celebrate that day! Therefore the great power of the Holy
Ghost will be poured upon all those who are looking for this
blessed hope and most glorious reign of Christ. Therefore it
behooves all Israel to be prepared and ready for their
ministry. As Jesus said, "As My Father sent Me, so send
I you," which means a great outpouring of the Holy Ghost,
wherein their words shall go forth as balls of fire until all
Israel are gathered to that place where My Spirit shall rest.
Therefore, how can any man come unto Me except the
Father who sent Me draw him! through that great power
of the holy Trinity, agreeing all in unity for the restoration
and bringing in of the cast-away Stones, and also bringing
back again unto themselves whatsoever of Spiritual under
standing was scattered and divided from them, as we have
arrived to the fullness of time, yea ! the twelfth and last hour
wherein comes the fulfillment of all prophecy. And it will
be made manifest by a wonderful, amazing power to all of
God's Elect; being the great and wonderful day of the Lord,
bringing such great power of the Spirit of holiness —Holiness
unto God, which will bring great joy and gladness with filling
springs of blessings from our God and the Lamb, thus
dwelling in the Immortal life wherein you may be tested and
pronounced the firstfruits of the full golden harvest— the
full ear in the corn.
Therefore I do hope and pray with all power of prayer,
that what has been given by the holy Spirit of Immortality,
may be received and entertained as the golden oil proceeding
from the pure Olive Tree, that the anointed Ones of the Lord
may increase for the blessed Kingdom here upon the earth,
the seven Seals broken open by the divine revelations through
the mighty SHILOH IMMANUEL which we have in our
possession, the beautiful STAR OF BETHLEHEM, the Living
Roll of life. And to all who accept it in Spirit and in truth,
Shiloh has come unto them wherein the holy Anointing is
poured forth in abundance, that they may be so strong with
5TH COMFORTER OF THE' MOTHER'S BOOK 133
that pure grain and golden seed, that many sowers may go
forth to sow it everywhere.
Oh how I have wished, and how much would it be my
joy to know such powerful sowers in this the twelfth and last
hour, that they may bring forth the pure white lily crop,
which means the holy Spirit with whom Christ our Kingly
Shepherd may walk and feed. Then He will be no more a
Stranger to His flock here upon earth, but being well known
to be our divine feeding pasture continually. Therefore go
forth with your anointed shield, and with your body filled
with the oil of the Spirit. Spare not to sound your trumpet
of the Spirit that it may gather them in from the uttermost
parts of the earth, that they may both see and know and
partake of this beautiful Star of Bethlehem, the Living Roll
of Life. Let it raise first in your hearts, for God saith:
"Give me your heart and I will give you My Spirit," and that
holy Spirit will do the work for you and crown you with
love, joy and peace, under the voice of the mighty Shiloh
Immanuel, the full Gospel power from the seven-fold pool
in which they are purified, thus receiving the baptism of
the Holy Ghost mingled with fire from heaven. Therefore
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His
servant.
WINDOWS OF HEAVEN OPENED.
f^EAR beloved Israel! As we are in the twelfth and last
hour wherein the end of a Century cometh —and except
those days were shortened there would be no flesh saved—
therefore let us Praise God for the Lion of the Tribe of
Judah, who prevailed above His brethren and into whose
hands was given all power both in heaven and in earth ! And
behold! He giveth it to the Second Child, the Branch, it
being the golden Sceptre of truth, which has caused great
enmity to arise against the anointed of God.
But in an unexpected moment the Son of man shall
appear and declare to fallen angels, men and devils that He
is the Husband of the Branch, which will cause a great
rejoicing in the camps of Israel with those who have been
faithful and true to their high calling in Christ Jesus, wherein
Peace shall be declared, which will bring heaven, sweet heaven
in the camps of Israel, when we can break bread from house
to house and eat in singleness of heart, and the great love
of God flowing from heart to heart.
134 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
No wonder James, the Sixth Messenger said: "Beloved,
me thinks you will weep when the war is over." No doubt
when we enter into our glory it will be so great we will think,
if we only had our journey to go over again we would walk
closer to God than ever. Oh ! to be like our ascended Master
the Lord Jesus Christ, who had holy communion with His
Father, and was filled with raptures of glory and light, yea ! a
Visitation from the God of heaven, which will fill every
Israelite's heart to overflowing. They shall have the know
ledge of all the deep mysteries of God, for He has taken great
pleasure in visiting His Elect by His heavenly glorified
ministering spirits, as well as by the still, small voice. These
are they that have that living Faith to believe with all their
hearts in His heavenly Visitation, which enables them to
carry the glorious Message of eternal life. For through His
great love and mercy He has sent His invitation to all, so
none will have any excuse while the door standeth open for
the third and the last time.
And we hear His voice calling out, Awake! Awake and
put on the whole armor of God to fight the battle, that the
chain of His love that has so, long encompassed us about be
not broken. And dear beloved Israel! when we look back
to the days of Enoch, who walked with God for three hundred
years and was not, for God took him alive, spirit, soul and
body —remember he is now waiting in Paradise until the Sons
of God are made manifest upon the earth.
But in this the day and hour of His Visitation, Israel will
make a long time a short time, for a quick work will He make
upon the earth and cut it short in righteousness. And His
Israel shall enter the sweet haven of rest, sweet rest from the
powers of satan. And mine eyes do long to see those days
when righteousness shall cover the earth as the waters cover
the sea. None shall say, "Know ye the Lord?" for all shall
know Him from the least to the greatest.
Therefore may the living God ever watch over you and
keep you through all trials and temptations that satan may
be permitted to bring before you, that you may be numbered
amongst those who have overcome the world, the devil and
the flesh, thus entering in as Jesus did at the river Jordan,
clothed upon with the fullness of the Spirit, with the beautiful
wedding garment, ready to enter into the beautiful marriage
of the Lamb, proving yourselves to be the spirits of the Just
who will always stand for the Union of the Godhead as
before, although it pierces us to the heart when persecution
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHERS BOOK 135
arises amongst the brethren ; but it is as necessary as Judas
was to play his part.
And as satan was represented in Judas, let us remember
our noble leader the Lord Jesus Christ who chose twelve,
and one was a devil. So he became Jesus' enemy before he
did ours. So let us sing out praises to the God of Israel that
the battle is now on, and we will be accused falsely by an
unbelieving world, but will finally put all these false accusers
to shame. Therefore my prayer to the God of Israel is: Let
not my heart fail me to fight this battle, knowing that God's
wonderful hand is with me to bear me up. Oh ! may we ever
trust in Him with an unwavering faith, that we might return
back to the land from whence we came.
For he that eateth and digesteth the wonderful words
of life, shall have the sayings of Jesus fulfilled in him. "If
My Word abide in you, and you in Me, ask whatsoever you
will and it shall be done." Praise God! the silence in heaven
shall be broken by the loosing of your tongue, that you might
speak as the Master, the Lord Jesus Christ who spoke by
the Spirit of truth as one having authority, and not like the
scribes and pharisees.
And there shall be a great rejoicing in Israel in the
wonderful truth of the Covenant of life. And the battle
shall be fought with few in number, like unto Gideon's army.
Praise God! it makes my heart leap for joy to see and under
stand the Seventh and Last Messenger closes the door of
hell and opens the windows of heaven. For this is the Last
Covenant that He will make with His people Israel for a
thousand years.
But to all who dwell in that Immortal Spirit, they are in
safety, for it will cause the body to grow and flourish like
the trees of Lebanon. And in the great time of tempest the
hiding place for us will be in His bosom,_ for they are as God
because the Spirit of God is with them. Then peace shall
flow as a river, and the holy Spirit shall descend like a mighty
stream, and these shall send forth the fruits of that Immortal
Spirit. "For by their fruits ye shall know them."
Therefore dear beloved Israel, isn't it grand and glorious
to realize within our hearts that we have a call to come to
Jerusalem, the City of God? Methinks I hear the voice of
Jesus saying: "Come to Jerusalem and I will show you the
place where I suffered." And I tell you for a truth, all Israel
will find out that place, for it is through the deepest sorrow
and suffering that we receive the richest spiritual blessings
from God. I tell you for a truth this Is the_ strait and'narrow
136 • THE BOOK OF HEAVEN ...
way that our Master trod, with the Law on one side and the/
Gospel on the other, and these are the two roads leading
into the City. The Immortal Spirit is the Key to the Gates,
and he that follows on shall know all mysteries, for every
curtain of the Scriptures shall now be drawn back, and every
mystery made known unto His chosen Israel. For the
promise is, He will anoint their eyes that they might see, and
give them a circumcised heart that they might understand.
But let it be remembered that those who put on Im
mortality will have suffered in this mortal life, and like unto
Jesus they shall be able to say: "Ought not I to have
suffered all these things and entered into my glory?" This
brings forcibly to my mind this noble one, the Lord Jesus
Christ, when in the garden of Gethsemane He had two swords
given Him, and no one was found to use them as the time had
not come, and His own arm brought forth His salvation.
Now these two swords represent Law and Gospel, and at this
the time of His Second Coming His soldiers will be armed
with the two-edged sword, and fight the battle and gain the
victory, and establish the beautiful Kingdom of Peace here
upon earth.
And the very planet we walk upon today shall become
one of the heavens; the New Heaven descending into the
New Earth, namely the body made anew. Then behold!
Peace is declared and the voice of man and the voice of God
have become One; they dwelling in the Spirit of the Holy
Ghost will slay all evil, and I tell you the enemies will fall
before them as the enemies of God, the prophets of Baal
fell before Elijah, and He would not suffer his feet to be
taken off the planet until His work was finished; and so
shall it be with the Israel of God: they will remain upon the
earth and bind satan down for a thousand years. For there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am his servant.
ASCEND INTO PERFECTION.
/")H beloved brothers and sisters in the most Holy Faith f
^^Can we comprehend what we owe to our beloved ascended
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, because of His great love in
bringing this great sunlight of freedom to all of His chosen
people Israel? This beautiful Covenant that He has given
will give us eternal life if we will only harken to the still
5TH COMFOR1ER, OP THE; MOTHER'S BOOK 137
small Voice telling us what to do, which will be pleasing to
the MIGHTY GOD PRESENCE, Shiloh Immanuel.
For the great ascended Master is doing His mighty work,
which will prove every Stone for His transparent building.
And dear beloved brothers and sisters, while the Stones are
now being searched out I plead with you to lift your heart
up to the mighty God presence ! Oh can you comprehend that
we are now in the twelfth and last hour, wherein His work
shall be accomplished? Oh beloved brothers and sisters, how
I long to lift you into the presence of the mighty Shiloh
Immanuel where you suddenly become aware of all beauty
and perfection, clothed with that Immortal Spirit that will
reveal all hidden mysteries and give us the understanding of
our beloved ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ.
It is then you will realize fully the need of harmony in order
to allow the mighty God presence, Shiloh Immanuel to assist
you.
And you are responsible for your New World. You have
the great Sunlight before you. Use it for your victory and
freedom. And dear beloved Israel ! Can you imagine how
great my love is for you? who have been ready and willing
to accept the instructions I have brought forth unto you.
Oh! can you imagine my joy at having found a good
Brother, the Lord Jesus Christ! who left the example so
long ago, yet mankind turned away because that knowledge
was transformed into falsehood and they chose Barabbas, a
murderer, to rule over them instead of the Lord Jesus Christ.
But praise God ! In this the time of His Second Coming
He will reveal all that was spoken unto His servants the
Prophets, unto His beloved Israel who stand faithful and true
to the union of the Godhead. And how quickly will they
accept the great sunlight that has now appeared in the golden
days of His heavenly Visitation. Dear beloved Israel! May
your hearts ever be humble before the mighty God presence
Shiloh Immanuel, proving you are on your strait and narrow
path, homeward to the New Jerusalem, the City of God.
You today have not fully become aware of the freedom in
whose doorway you stand so nigh. Step through that Door
way and begin to experience all we have been endeavoring
to convey to you. My joy and gratitude are boundless to you
for your loyalty, your sincerity and earnestness and deter
mination to have the light, to have the freedom which the
knowledge of your mighty God brings to you, which fills
your hearts in finding its reward in freedom, in happiness.
Truly! Truly "Contentment with Godliness is great gain!"'
138 THE BOOK OF' HEAVEN _-
No matter how frail your human form, no matter how
humble you feel in the earnest call to the mighty God
Presence, Shiloh Immanuel, God-with-us—Remember! The
end of a Century is at hand, the glorification of the earth and
of mankind is at hand. Oh ! dear ones, are you not privileged
to be born to see these days? Therefore you can believe
me when I tell you, these wonderful truths have not been
known for many centuries. Then may it give you courage
and strength to call upon your mighty God presence, Shiloh
Immanuel, God-with-us, male and female.
Therefore let us completely forget everything except
the great sunlight which is in our hearts —the Light which
alone comes from the PRESENCE, the source of all light
in the universe. Then you have for the time being become
the fullness of the Light. As our precious Jesus said, long
ago: "I am the fullness of that great Light," but Jesus said
it when He came forth after receiving the assistance from
God his Father, in which all of His glory was revealed and
made clear.
Therefore we call forth from our presence the fullness of
the power of light which brings you into the New World. You
may seem to be moving in the same old world, but yet you
are not. You are moving in the world of the great sunlight,
of the Visitation of Israel, which is the full power which
brings perfection to your life. As soon as you can acknow
ledge and accept in your feelings that all you are calling forth
is the power of the great sunlight which knows no opposing,
that moment you are entering into the fullness of the per
fection of life.
If you find yourself slipping back into your old habits,
which is very dishonoring to your calling, just stop and call
on the Law of Forgiveness and say: "Mighty God presence,
Shiloh Immanuel!" —It is then you stand guarded; and see
that you do not that again. May I remind you beloved Ones,
in so great a love of what has been done for Israel and all
that is yet to be done, pur heart calls must ascend to the
Heavens above for Harmony! Do you not remember dear
beloved Benjamin, the Seventh and Last Messenger who
pleaded for harmony? —for in harmony there is strength.
God has pleaded through all the Seven Angels or Mes
sengers to bring .forth a harmonious condition, but He had
to wait and wait. Then through the loving Obedience of the.
Messenger, He was able to point _them to various . points
wherein the great- SUNLIGHT_ would appear. Therefore. do
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 139
not grow weary on your journey and be found asleep at the
open Door, but reach up and cling close to the mighty Shiloh
Immanuel, who will guide your footsteps onward and clothe
you with that seamless garment of purity and love.
And the thrill of the great SUNLIGHT passing through
us makes us feel as if we were ready to float into the air,
which will bring happiness beyond words to express, thus
feeling the marvelous power of these blessed ascended Mast
ers. And yet they are so humble, so meek and so lowly.
The beloved Master, the Lord Jesus Christ who has so
patiently and lovingly guided and instructed His Israel of
this great Sunlight through nearly two thousand years, His
work shall bring its reward, for it is nobly done. Are there
any willing to bear witness that they are ready to enter this
great Sunlight which will bring peace and happiness through
one eternal day? with that Godly love within our hearts,
truly divine likeunto our blessed ascended Master, who was
so full of divine grace and love, which builds up our physical
body. Therefore the first and greatest outpouring of our love
belongs always to our own individual flames of God —the
mighty Law of Life within us : which enables us to acknow
ledge our own existence and source of all life. When we say
"I AM" —in those words is all of God, which is our own
spirit given by Him, which is that Immortal Spirit which
causes us to live and not die.
Therefore dear beloved Israel! If you will enter into
this great sunlight, it will prepare your body to enter into
the beautiful chamber of the Holy One, wherein all things
shall be revealed unto thee. And through this great know
ledge, all Israel shall be appointed back to their respective
tribes, which will cause a great rejoicing in the camps of
Israel.
Oh how marvelous are these days in this the twelfth
and last hour, wherein that great divine Love will flow from
heart to heart. And the greatest of all is to behold the Sons
of God walking here upon earth, for it has become one of the
Heavens, for satan is bound for one thousand years.
Therefore dear beloved—hustle up. Time waits on no
one. And remember, the divine Voice is pleading, yes!
pleading for you while the Door stands open for the third
and Last Time. For there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel, and I am His servant.
fMCl '"1
140 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
CROWN TO THE FAITHFUL.
I^EAR beloved Israel! Ye spirits of the Just, let us rejoice
for we have heard the voice of the Father. Be ye faith
ful to that Voice, and the promise is: Ye shall wear the
crown. He is a God which cannot lie, for He will not leave
thee nor forsake thee until His glory fills the whole earth.
Then He shall abide always with you. Ye shall sit down
with Him on His throne in His Kingdom, and His glory shall
have no end.
Therefore what is man or woman without the Spirit of
God to preach His coming the Second Time without sin
unto salvation ? And His true laborers of His vineyard shall
be preachers, and crowned with that holy power of God.
Heaven shall be their throne, and the earth shall be their
footstool through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel. And the
whole world must bow to them and acknowledge them to be
King of kings and Lord of lords. And as His throne is
above, so shall it be upon the earth, and He shall reign in
righteousness and in peace. For has He not sworn in His
holiness that He would fulfil His promises in redeeming
the earth and in giving it rest?
Therefore behold Jesus His firstborn Son! and in Him
the Word was made flesh, which was the beginning of His
New Creation. Oh Israel! Hark ye to His voice, who is
full of grace and truth —His beloved Son in whom He is
well pleased. His Israel, the spirits of the Just will do His
holy will. And His Father is pleased to give them His King
dom and the uttermost parts of the earth for their possess
ion. Oh can you not hear His voice saying: Oh man, why
can you not hear My voice?" Then I would ask, How can
you expect God to hear your cry and bless you unless you
hear His voice and keep His Law of Life?
And remember, "My sheep know My voice, and follow
Me," saith the Lord, and I will give them eternal life, and
none can pluck them out of My hand. But many will not
hear His voice, as He is crying out in thunder tones, but
look upon Him as a deceiver, not understanding that He is
the true Shepherd. Therefore if they continue in unbelief,
then when He has subdued all evil power and He is seated
upon His Throrte in His glory, they will be found among the
goats at His left hand, He saying: "Depart from Me, ye
workers of iniquity, I never knew you."
But unto His true sheep, who. have heard His voice and
obeyed and followed on, wherein. His glory shall shine as
the sun in the meridian, they shall receive eternal life. Be
5TH COMF6RTER OB* THE MOTHERS BOOK 141
hold! He doth now arise to shake the earth, and not only
the earth but also heaven, that all that cannot be shaken
might remain. For they will not bestow their honor upon
any man or woman, but trample all their pride and haughti
ness into the dust. But as a potter's vessel is broken in
pieces, so shall all haughtiness and rebellion be broken in
pieces.
But Oh dear Israel! who are faithful to your high call
ing in Christ Jesus, God will put the words of Wisdom in
thy mouth, and confound the wisdom of the world. And all
those who have taken accusation against the Lord shall
perish, and the chaff of fools shall end in folly.
For behold the end is at hand. He has come like a thief
upon all those who mock at His coming, for He has already
come and they know it not, and His hand is stretched out
against all those who believe not His holy Visitation which
is now given. Well do we know that none will believe save
the Israel of God. And their gold shall never become dim,
and their breasts being the Law and Gospel, shall never lose
their lustre. Through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel their
glory shall never depart from them, and their voices shall be
heard throughout the earth and His blessed Kingdom of
peace shall be established.
Therefore as the pen is made sharp to write with, so
has the Lord sharpened His sickle to execute His judgment
upon all who have forgotten His great love and mercy. Did
not the God of Israel speak through His Son Jesus Christ at
Jerusalem? And did they not reject His loving pleadings?
But My Spirit will not always plead with man. Yea! but
He is the first and last to fulfil all His words. What a pre
cious thought that He will bind satan! and come and reign
with His people Israel for one thousand years; for He is the
First and Last, the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the
end. And He will fulfil all His promises that He has made
to man. His glorious Throne shall be throughout all ages
and eternity, and His dominion shall not be destroyed.
He gave His life to those who despise Him. But is
not your life with Him? for without Him, the mighty God
presence Shiloh Immanuel you could not breathe. Does He
not send His rain upon the Just and the unjust? and does
He not give the fruit of the earth in its seasons? If He
would withdraw His blessings what would you do ? But
hark ye! His loving kindness will soon come to an end.
And if He would say: "This night thy soul is required of
thee," is it not done and thy life ended?
142 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
And let it be remembered, it was when they were in
the midst of plenty that they sold their brother into Egypt.
And what a noble character was He! He was ashamed to
tell the people whose Son he was, because it would make
his brethren look so little for the cruel way they had treated
him. But they were only servants, for if they had been in
the Spirit of truth they would not have treated their brother
so cruelly. But He that watched over Joseph was greater
than all. They meant it for evil, but God permitted it all
for good. So shall it be in this the time of His Second Com
ing. All they do against the Israel of God they do it for
evil, but God permits it for our own good.
The God that we serve will deliver us all in His own
time, for the promise is: "I will never leave thee nor for
sake thee." His loving Eye is ever watching over His peo
ple, and His years have no end, and His days are from ever
lasting to everlasting. Praise ye the Lord all ye His Saints!
knowing that Israel are the offspring of Him who created
them for His honor and glory. And it makes my heart re
joice to know that His Israel will be found among the faith
ful ones in this the time of His Second Coming. Do you not
hear His voice? "Awake thou that sleepeth, and arise
from the dead!" Come out from under the fall that was
caused by sin and Christ shall give thee life, the more
abundant life, that your joy might be full, and your happi
ness endure as the pillars of heaven, which cannot be moved.
Oh hear Him calling His sheep. He is the good Shepherd
and He calleth for you. He has come to seek that which was
lost, namely the Ten Tribes that were lost among the Gent
iles, that He might rejoice with you, and that He with His
holy Angels might rejoice together in His mansion of eternal
love.
Therefore dear beloved Israel, rejoice ! for I tell you your
redemption draweth nigh, for the God of heaven will come
speedily for your deliverance, for as I delivered Isaac so
shall I deliver thee Oh My people Israel! He is God, and
there is no other, and His arm only can deliver you. There
fore it shall strike like a hammer from heaven, that they
might know that His Word is true. For there is no God in
all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
5TH COMFORTER OF. THE MOTHER'S BOOK 143
THE VICTORY OF LOVE.
l^EAR beloved Israel: How thankful we ought to be that
we are in possession of the writings of the Seventh and
Last Messenger, whose words are now being unfolded in
thunder tones like unto a rainbow of sparkling light, reveal
ing to the Israel of God the beautiful Law of Life, the might
iest victory of God's love that the earth has ever known;
the mighty eternal Light of God that never fails. Oh Israel
ever seek to be a child of this great sunlight—the light of
love, supplied by the light of protection and ever sustained
by the Light. Yea! healed by the Light through the mighty
ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ.
"I am the resurrection and the life" in this great sun
light that is now made manifest, that we might be prepared
to return quickly! for a quick work will the Lord make upon
the earth and cut it short in righteousness. Oh mighty
beloved Shiloh! We adore Thy presence! Make us compre
hend perfectly all the ascended Masters' knowledge, and
cause us to remember it eternally, and show us the perfect
thing to do always and make us do it perfectly, and cause
every word we speak to be to the honor and glory of God,
charged with the power of the naming sunlight to illum
inate the conscience of every one in this New World, and
all who come here in the future. Oh charge us and our
beloved Israel with the ascended Master's Love, and pour
it through us with the power of the great sunlight, to expand
with such irresistible force that all unlike itself shall be
consumed, perfection made manifest and all set free where-
ever we move, and to all whom our thoughts are directed,
in the fullest perfection the world has ever known.
We call to Thee, Oh God! The mighty God presence,
Shiloh Immanuel is calling to all Israel to take command of
our mind and body, which produces perfection and holy
dominion. Let no one betray the trust that the ascended
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ has given us to fulfil. Thou
art present! Hold thou our hands, go before us, clear the
way, make all things harmonious, prosperous, successful
and perfect. .
We charge you our beloved Israel, as we plead to you
in pur mantle of His light and love, within which is all power :
Your mighty victory shall be made manifest every hour to
the glory of God and the ascended Ones, forever. Qh
Israel! seek for this great sunlight. Prove all things, that
great good may be accomplished in this shortened time. Oh
144 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
precious Shiloh Immanuel ! prepare all. and make all worthy
to partake of this mighty outpouring of divine love and heal
ing power, clothing us with the invisible robe so pure, so
true, so strong, so worth-while, that everything in it will
bring us joy unspeakable, and freedom eternal, proving
that we are the generation for the New World, helping to
hold the light and win the victory and gain our freedom.
Therefore dear beloved Israel! Be of good cheer! Ye
are the jewels in the heart of God. There that great sunlight
will descend into the earth, consuming all selfishness from the
planet. But Israel themselves must reach up and make the
call for that light, the Mighty God presence, Shiloh Imman
uel, God-with-us.
Oh Israel! God loves you, for ye are the salt of the
earth, and we hold you forever in that great light, Christ and
Jerusalem above, which will bring forth such perfection as
has never been since the days of our ascended Master, the
Lord Jesus Christ when He was here upon earth.
Oh Israel, Awake! Awake! Take hold of your sceptre
of dominion, which produces perfection, and hold it eternally.
The victory of the century is at hand —the fulfillment of the
promises of God that never fail, but remain immovable. This
blessed humility and love, and our Light of the mighty God
presence Shiloh Immanuel, is great enough to lift you into
the Light once again, and so shall you be free. And we do
give praises and thanks that God answers us through the
mighty sunlight, the mighty Angel host coming forth to
bring perfection on earth.
And this is why for centuries and centuries man has
felt within his heart that such activities were possible where
by conditions on the earth might be governed through
harmony instead of battling of any kind. Up to this time it
has been a battle between man and the powers of darkness
imposed on mankind. Therefore through the power of this
Divine Love, harmony is the greatest axis of the universe.
This is the way that Israel expects to gain this great victory
—through the LAW OF LIFE, which is—preferring your
brothers and sisters before yourself, and—pray for them
that despitefully use you, and so fulfil the Law of Christ,
which never fails.
Oh Israel! Understand the simplicity of this great Law
of Life and use it, and then stand by it until you receive
the fulfillment of its power; that is what you want
to do. And dear beloved brothers and sisters here in
the City of David, may I congratulate you for the firm
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 145
stand that you have taken for the beloved Messengers of
this Visitation, who were sent from the Throne of God as
bright and burning lights on the strait and narrow way, and
also your wonderful work that you have done here in the
Lord's Vineyard. And no matter how great the pressure has
been, nothing has been able to change it. Therefore I con
gratulate you on the ability to stand untouched by the
inharmony about you.
So, dear beloved Ones, never grow weary of love and
kindness. It is a wonderful thing to be kind, to be grateful,
to be reverent, to be humble. It is one of the greatest things
in the universe, proving that you understand the Law of
Life, which will cleanse and purify the body, ready to be
clothed upon as Jesus was at the river Jordan, wherein the
great power of God will be made manifest here upon earth,
which will heal the sick, open the eyes of the blind and raise
the dead.
Therefore dear beloved Israel! All of you who are
familiar with this work have come to realize how true it is,
and just remember the law of complete victory is through
your heart, and just think! that even 150 years ago this
could not nave been done, no more than anything in the
world; because they were under the old dispensation of the
carnal law.
And in this the day of His heavenly Visitation, under
the voice of the Seventh and last Messenger we are entering
into our freedom through our application of the Law of Life.
Do you understand what the Lily of the Valley means? —
It is the Immortal Body of the ascended Master the Lord
Jesus Christ, for in Him dwelt the fullness of the Godhead, and
He was altogether lovely. And when He made His last as
cension, He ascended far above all Heavens, which was the
Spirit of Immortality. There is no God in all the earth but
in Israel and I am His servant.
SHILOH— CHRIST— THE GREAT I AM.
O1!
Israel! how blessed are ye to have thine eyes anointed
to see and understand the voice of the beloved ascended
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, and having come to the knowl
edge to begin to cry out to the holy One as the angels did
m heaven. And they are given the power in His. name to
cast satan from the heavens to the earth through the mighty
146
' '
ftiE BOOfe OF HEAVEN
God' presence; the ascended Master who has fought the
battle and gained the Victory, and is here to show us the way.
And all who are willing and obedient, they will be clothed
With that heavenly and divine Spirit and they will set an
example to the whole world; and wherever they go, the
blessings of God will follow, proving they have the divine
nature from the mighty God presence Shiloh Immanuel,
which makes them a blazing light.
And yet they might not understand the mighty God
presence which beats their heart in joy and love for the
brethren, proving they have passed from death unto life.
And all those who have that Living Faith to believe it are
thus feeling the power from the heavens above. Then you
are able to be a witness that Shiloh Immanuel is upon the
earth. And Oh! what a glorious privilege to feel the sign
within that you have pleased the Father in being faithful
workers in His vineyard, in this the twelfth and last hour.
And dear beloved Israel ever remember, when you dwell
in that one Immortal Spirit you can speak with power and
authority through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, which is
the Open Door that no man can shut. And that divine power
of God is here, ready for all Israel to enter into, that they
might go forth to heal the sick and open the eyes of the blind
and raise the dead. Therefore listen to the voice of the
ascended Master: "The works that I do shall ye do also,
and greater works than these shall ye do" through the mighty
Shiloh Immanuel, bringing all things to your remembrance
whatsoever I have said unto thee.
For this mighty I AM appeared to Moses in the burning
bush, and this mighty I AM presence will teach you wisdom,
for wisdom is justified of Her children ; then no more "babes in
Christ in swaddling clothes," but a Master presence, growing
in the full stature of the man Christ. Therefore this wonderful
wisdom of God teaches us the divine way to perfection, the
same narrow path that our ascended Master the Lord Jesus
Christ walked. So I entreat thee Oh Israel to ever seek to
walk in His footsteps, for there is no God in all the earth but
in Israel, and He alone is the only example to go by, for He
has gained the victory. And now He is pointing out the
way so clearly to His Brethren through the mighty Shiloh
Immanuel, for "Unto Him shall the gathering of the people
he," and by no other, wherein the power is given but only
from God above. "For I considered all the living that walk
under the sun with the Second Child that shall staid lip in
His stead." ;
" ' ' ' ' '■ " ' '"' ' '
' ■■ 5TH COMFORTER OF THE ..MOTHER'S BOOK 147
. Therefore let no side-light deceive you and turn you out
of the true and living way. But if you are in the Spirit of
truth you cannot be deceived, for it leads and guides you in
the way of all truth and shows you things to come. So dear
beloved Israel ! ever seek to stay in the chariot that is rolling
along so swiftly in this, the twelfth and last hour under the
great sunlight that puts out all other lights, leading you to
Jerusalem the Immortal City of God, wherein we can hear the
voices of glorified saints singing out praises to the God of
Israel, who has redeemed us and brought us safely to His
realms of happiness and eternal love, that shall dwell within
us through one eternal day.
Therefore who would grow weary on this wonderful
journey of life eternal? And I want to tell you dear Israel!
when you enter into this mighty Spirit, Shiloh Immanuel, it
will settle all your difficulties, no matter what way they might
come, for "If God is for us, who can be against us?" And
ever remember, the conquering Prince has come to rule and
reign! thus bringing in our New World, which has been
promised to the true Israel of God from the beginning of
time. Centuries and centuries have rolled along and the
great love of God has sent His Messengers all the way along
the line, pointing out the way; and the greatest of all, He
has sent His beloved ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ,
who revives the hope of Israel that was preached to them
by Enoch and Elijah.
Therefore the Vision was for an appointed time, and at
the end "it should speak and not lie; though it tarry wait
for it, it will surely come." And all Israel will understand there
were Seven Messengers to sound and they have already
sounded. And the greatest of these was the Seventh, who
brought forth the Virgin Law of Christ, which is the only
Law that will take thee back to the Eden of Paradise. And
He told us of all things that would happen during His absence,
and we now behold them being fulfilled right before our
very eyes. And all things' that have been spoken by the
Messengers of this Visitation shall be fulfilled.
This brings forcibly to my mind how God has made
Himself known to His faithful Messengers. He also appeared
to faithful Abraham and the prophets by the name of I AM
that I AM; and He also appeared to Moses in the burning
bush; and He also appeared to the Disciples by the name of
Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living God. And in this, the
day of His heavenly Visitation, He has appeared to the Israel
148 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
of God by the name of Shiloh Immanuel, the Conquering
Prince, male and female.
Therefore dear beloved Israel! if thou desire wisdom,
keep the commandments. The fear of the Lord is the be
ginning of wisdom, and to continue this pursuit for wisdom,
light, life and Immortality, and never grow cold nor luke
warm, lest He spue thee out of His mouth. The fear of the
Lord is wisdom and instruction, and faith and meekness are
His delight. We must bring wisdom to dwell with us through
Godly fear and obedience, love and charity, a heart delighting
in the wisdom and understanding of God manifest in the flesh.
Mercy and love have met together. Righteousness and peace
have kissed each other! Therefore love Him and rejoice
in the day of Visitation. And if you come to serve the Lord,
prepare thyself for temptation in this the day of preparation
and trial, as gold is tried in the fire that you may be able to
separate from the dross, ready to be moulded and stamped
into the express image of God and likeness of His firstborn.
They that put their trust in Him shall understand the truth.
And they that are faithful in love shall abide with Him.
So Jesus said, "I will take up My abode with you."
Therefore wisdom shall be restored and faith shall flourish,
and corruption shall be overcome, and the pathway of life
is found in which there is no death, and the day that is past
returns with rejoicing and delight. The sun of righteousness
arises upon thee with healing in His wings. The day of
Paradise is returning— and in its cycle of time. And the
Day Star has arisen as a perfect sign according to His
everlasting Covenant that is to be written upon our hearts
and stamped upon our minds. This sealing in the forehead
is the Lord's mark. And so in this Visitation of time it was
said: "Hold the four winds until the servants of our God
are sealed in Their foreheads." For there is no God in all
•
the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
CROWN OF SUNLIGHT.
"DLESSED are they that hunger and thirst after righteous
ness, for they shall be filled" through the mighty God
presence Shiloh Immanuel, revealing the heavenly gifts and
divine interpretations. And let it be understood that every
true Israelite has a work to do in this glorious path of life,
if they wish to become like our ascended Master the Lord
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 149
Jesus Christ. He has taught us so plainly the way, showing
us plainly how He raised His flesh and bone body through
strict obedience to His Father through the mighty presence,
Shiloh Immanuel, which will bring great joy and happiness in
following the great sunlight of the new world, in this the
twelfth and last hour.
O Israel awake! Awake as we are now in the dawn of
that Immortal Day wherein all prophecies are being fulfilled
under this great sunlight, which brings happiness and freedom
in the acknowledgement of the mighty God presence, Shiloh
Immanuel, which will clothe us with that Immortal garment
of purity and love, filling our hearts with joy and great glad
ness, knowing that our redemption draweth nigh under the
great sunlight that has dawned upon us, revealing unto us
the great Law of life, which teaches us to become Master
over our own body, by that wonderful light that is sent from
the heavens above, which will cause every true Israelite who
stood with the union of the Godhead in heaven, to stand with
Him here and fight the battle bravely until the victory is won
through the mighty God presence, Shiloh Immanuel, which
will fill our New World with love, joy and happiness, wherein
love will flow from heart to heart. Yea! we shall hear the
voices of glorified Saints welcome us into that Immortal bliss;
who have watched over us and helped us on our journey,
longing to see the day and hour that the Sons of God
will be made manifest here upon the earth; knowing when
Israel is made Immortal it will bring forth their glory, the
eighty-fold next to the Sun. Then those that dwell in their
Immortal Body can go out in their spiritual body and co-
mingle with those of the eighty-fold and talk with them face
to face, with that joy that no man can take from them.
Likeunto Jesus, they can go out in a flesh-and-bone body or
a spiritual body; which brings forcibly to my mind these
beautiful words: —
Go when the morning shineth,
. ■; Go when the noon is bright;
Go when the eve declineth,
Go in the hush of night.
Go with pure minds and feelings,
Flinging evil thoughts afar;
And in thy chamber kneeling
Bow in secret prayer.
Remember all who love thee,
! And who are loved by thee,
And pray for those who hate thee,
If any such there be,
150 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
becoming like the meek and lowly Jesus, who prayed for them
who condemned Him to be crucified upon the cross. Can you
not hear His sweet voice saying: "Father forgive them, they
know not what they do!" And Oh dear beloved Israel, when
you arrive this far on your journey, remember you are not
very far from the Kingdom, wherein the heavenly host will be
rejoicing to see the prodigals returning Home. For the
Father has met them and put shoes upon their feet, typical
of the understanding of Jesus Christ; and the double robe
of righteousness; and they have arrived safely to the Father's
house, thus becoming one of the transparent Stones in His
Immortal building. For he that overcometh shall inherit all
things, thus entering into the inheritance of your Immortal
birthright —the Kingdom of God here upon the earth.
Oh for that day my eyes do long to see, wherein every
one shall know the Lord, even from the least to the greatest.
Dear beloved Israel! let it be remembered that Jesus Christ
is the King of Israel, and the next great event is the coming
forth of the Queen, namely Jerusalem above, before there
can be a Prince in the flesh. Who is this coming leaning
upon Her Beloved? the Beloved being Christ and Jerusalem
above. Man has had near two thousand years since Jesus
the firstborn, to find eternal life. But let it be remembered,
without this Helpmate that God promised from the beginning,
they will go to the grave. Let it be understood that Jesus
found this Helpmate, who helped Him over all His difficulties.
But during this long period of time the Woman has kept.
silent. Like Jacob, who went out to meet his brother Esau,
he put his beloved Rachel last of all, which was typical of
the woman being kept back until the appointed time of God.
Therefore now, it being God's appointed time, it will be man's
mistake to keep her back, for they must remember they
cannot arise from the fall to Immortal life without Her. And
the God of Israel will bless the work of every heart and hand
that is helping Her to arise, that She might bring down
Jerusalem above. Then a woman in Jerusalem will be the
glory of man in Christ.
So rejoice! Jerusalem has come down to bring Her
children to the Immortal birth. And let it be understood
that a female body must be prepared for Her, even as a male
body was prepared which was the body of Jesus, to bring
down Christ. Let it be remembered, it has been preached to
this generation to prepare a.place for Christ's Kingdom to be
established here upon earth. And now behold the Woman
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 151
whom .God has sent, which causes satan to roar in envy,
knowing he hath but a short time. . .'■_,•..-
And dear beloved Israel ! That within itself proves that
it is the work of God, and all the true Israel of God will
accept the establishing of Jerusalem above upon this earth.
I am longing, yes, longing to tell them —when She is rejected,
mercy for the life of the body is forever closed. For when
you touch the Holy Mother of Zion, you touch the apple of
God's eye, for the Lord Himself loveth Her. And why
wouldn't He? when She brings His Immortal Sons to birth.
For how could there be a son without a mother? Praise
ye the Lord, all ye His saints! For there is no God in all
the earth but in Israel, and I AM His servant.
THE CITY PAVED WITH LOVE.
oH ISRAEL! let us sing out with a loud voice, with our
hearts overflowing with love, good-will, grace and peace
from God our Father of the whole creation, and His dear
beloved Son the first-begotten of the New Creation; and of
the Comforter that doth reveal and open up the great mys
teries and the love of the Father and of the Son, and of
the eternal Wisdom—to the Seventh Church.
Be no longer silent or slack to go forth to declare and
make known the further revelations through the voice of the
mighty Archangel Gabriel, this being the great and notable
day of the Lord. And to those who have the inward ear
to hear, let them hear wherein the mighty Angel of the
Eternal Covenant is calling out in a loud voice: Oh Israel,
Awake ! Awake and put on the whole armor of God, for the
mighty battle is before thee, but fear not, faint not, for
I am with thee, who has never lost a battle; and victory,
sweet victory is ours because the love of the eternal Father
is so strong and' powerful, which was shown forth in His
beloved Son who worked by the power of the holy Ghost
to enlighten and inspire wherever the clouds of darkness
and deadness had overspread, wherein His love and kindness
has overtaken us to bring back the castaway Stones to their
own native country and land, yea! the land of the free.
And by a mighty and outstretched arm this gathering
will be accomplished to His honor and glory. For His true
loyal soldiers that ever stand with the union of the Godhead
152 fHE BOOK OF HEAVEN'
are on the earth, and wherever they be they will hear and
recognize their welcome call and come with great rejoicing.
For how can any man come unto Me except the Father who
sent Me draw him to that place where My Spirit shall rest?
And Oh Israel! through that Immortal Eye can you not
see the heavens above opening? —giving us the sight to see
and behold the great Immortal King encompassed with my
riads of Angels that are chosen to be the Virgin Church?
And let it be understood that every man or woman that
dwells in that Immortal Spirit is that Angel that makes up
the beginning of the New Creation of God, wherein dwelleth
righteousness, love, joy and peace.
Praise God ! there is a hovering and overshadowing wing
present that gives strength both to see, hear and understand
this great Visitation that reveals the secrets of heaven —
such as: that a Jerusalem was to be prepared upon the
earth. And the question might be asked: What way and
manner shall such a redemption be worked out here in this
lower world? The answer is: As there was a flood that
drowned the old world, wherein were all the abominations
and rebellion of sin, and only eight souls entered into the
Ark of safety—so now it is promised that a New Thing is
God about to do, wherein He will open the windows of heaven
and break up the evil deeds below, thus making a way so
the Waters of Life from thence may flow!
And by the wonderful outstretched arm of Jehovah this
Ingathering of His chosen people Israel comes by His wisdom
and wonderful ways of the Alpha and Omega, wherein the
mighty heavens are opening, giving us that inward Eye to
behold the Immortal King encompassed with myriads of
angels that represent the Virgin Church, the firstborn fruits
that make up the beginning of the New Creation wherein the
Waters of Life do flow, which is the healing virtue, which is
the cure for all that has been infected by the powers of satan.
Therefore all this is to be the fore-runner to make a way
for the New Created world. Praise God some footsteps are
already taken which will increase until it comes to the seventh
thousand year, wherein we shall enter into our beautiful
Sabbath of rest, sweet rest from the powers of satan. And
dear beloved Israel as we are in the twelfth and last hour,
great and wonderful revelations will be, and are already
beginning by that heavenly Spirit breaking forth, which
is yet but the light of one day; but this "one" shall multiply
until it becomes as the Light of Seven Days. For it is writ
ten: "It shall be from one to four, and from four to twelve,
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 153
and from twelve to twenty-four, and twenty-four to seventy,
and by seventy He shall overcome!" Then our Sun of Glory
shall never set, but shine through one eternal day, Wherein
we shall see the most glorious restitution which is accom
plished by the Alpha and Omega, wherein He will bring
Himself forth in His Bridal Church that shall be all complete
without a spot or blemish, as the precious White Stone upon
which was written, "The Lord our Righteousness," wherein
Jehovah dwells as in His own glorious City—His holy divine
Virgin Church, which shall be more divine and glorious,
likeunto our divine Master in His glorified body; for when
He appeareth we shall be like Him—His beloved Bride, the
144,000, the precious Immortal Stones for His transparent
building.
Praise ye the Lord all ye His saints! The sower has
already gone forth that has cast unto the earth living
sparks of light, in order to begin that great harvest that
must bring forth the golden sheaves that shall be offered on
the flaming altar, where nothing can suffer loss but the straw
and chaff hanging about them. Praise God for these golden
days which have dawned upon us! and still breaking for the
Spirit of judgment and burning to pass through, thus puri
fying the inward floor in man and woman's nature, thus
making them the refined Stones for His Immortal building,
according to the Scripture that a "man shall be as the gold
weight of Ophir."
But at the beginning of this, they will meet up with many
temptations and delusions as Benjamin often told me, of
every hue, dip and dye, which would deceive the very Elect
if possible. But he cannot deceive the Bride, namely the
144,000. He cannot deceive them any more than he could
our ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, for that Spirit
of truth that accompanies them cannot be deceived.
For they shall flourish like the grass of the earth. Psa.
92; 12. So out of the stem and root of Jesse shall a mighty
increase be, till the City shall all be builded of precious stones
that shall send forth the sparkling radiancy, proving they
have gained that lost virgin purity likeunto the Rose of
Sharon mingled with the beautiful White Lily.
But likeunto our ascended Master the Firstborn, they
must be begotten of the Father and conceived of the Holy
Virgin Mother and carried by Her until the appointed time
of the Father, thus bringing them forth into Immortality. But
this holy walk with God is so strict that only a few there are
that can pass through it. But do not let it be counted im
354 • '
THE BOOK OF HEAVEtf
possible, for Christ the Lord will be both the way and the
Door of entrance, wherein He will lead us gently until we
arrive safely to our Father's house. But I would ask, When
are we in safety? When we are made Immortal, thus obtain
ing our eternal freedom. For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel, and I am His servant.
n VI a *
VIRGIN LAW CLEANSES.
IYEAR beloved Israel: In this the twelfth and last hour,
the ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, calls you to
victory and freedom under the great sunlight of His heavenly
Visitation by His holy Spirit. And this divine Message has
seven parts, for seven Messengers were to sound, being the
seven great Lights to light us on our way to the New Jeru
salem, the City of God. And the twelve sermons are as
the twelve Apostles of the Lamb, which will be found in the
volume of Truth.
And behold, God has now sent His Seventh and Last
Messenger to His people Israel, in this the day and last hour
of His wonderful Visitation wherein Israel is to be made
Immortal. But we would ask : By what law is it to be done?
It is by the Law of Life. "Keep My Law and thou shalt live."
It will do the work if kept in spirit and in truth, because it
is a command from the Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore I entreat each and every one to obey, for this
is the voice of the Second Child■ who is chosen by the God
of Israel to stand up in His stead, who came at the appoint
ed time with the testimony of Jesus Christ for the deliverance
of His people Israel. But think not that I have come to
destroy the Law or the Prophets, but to fulfil it in righteous
ness. "For in the way of righteousness there is life, and in
the pathway thereof there is no death." It finds harmony,
sweet harmony with the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Therefore
the Law and the Gospel are joined as in the life of Jesus
Christ, as He was made by the righteousness of the Law
and not by the law of a carnal commandment; and brought
forth the glorious Gospel of life and Immortality by which
we must be made in His image and likeness, He being the
firstborn Son of God.
Therefore these deep mysteries were sealed with seven
Seals, and heaven was searched and none were found worthy
to open the Book and loosen the Seals, save the Lion of the
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 15.5
Tribe of Judah; Jesus being from the tribe of Judah, who
held the sceptre of law and prevailed with God His Father
to open the Book and loosen the Seals thereof. But He
closed it again, fulfilling the prophecy: "Seal the law and
the testimony among My disciples," and which remained
sealed until this, the time of His heavenly Visitation wherein
He has sent His Messengers from time to time with the Keys
to unloose the seals one by one, in their order.
Therefore He has now sent His Seventh and Last Mes
senger, yea! the Son of man who cometh with the Seventh
Key to open and interpret the deep mysteries of heaven. So
let us sing and rejoice that He will now make that eternal
Covenant with His Israel that never shall be broken.
Oh sing for joy, ye morning Stars! And shout for joy
ye Sons of God, ye faithful few who receiveth the Seventh
Key to unlock the Seven Seals by keeping the secrets of
heaven, yea! unto Immortality. Rejoice and be glad, for His
sheep know His voice and will come at the sound of His
call; seeing that the Seventh Church is in the seed of the
Woman handed down, and they are now upon the earth
waiting and longing to hear the call to come to that place
where My Spirit now rests; this being the day that they
have long looked for with weeping and longing eyes, as the
Bride looketh for the Bridegroom's return, that we might
be gathered unto Shiloh the Branch, to be prepared for the
great Marriage of the Lamb, which will now appear.
And all Israel are invited to this noble wedding, by which
all shall become one family, that Israel might Live and not
die; which fulfills the words of the prophets: "When Israel
was a child I loved him," and "Out of Egypt have I called
My Son." It will be remembered that Joseph was sold into
Egypt, the land of the fall, and within his loins was the
Seed of Jesus, who was bought and sold in Joseph, who suf
fered the pangs of the fall for his brother Adam, with whom
he held sweet counsel together; and He, Jesus, suffered for
our sake and put off His brother's clothing—the scarlet
robe —which was His blood; and He put on the robe of a
King that was prepared by His Father. And now behold
Him sitting down with His Father on His ThrOne, that His
Israel might overcome as He overcame, and sit down with
Him on His Throne.
Oh ye sons and daughters of Israel: Hark ye unto Him
whom I have sent unto you, that ye all may be One, even as
My Father and I are one. As I have prepared a place for
you, Lo I come to receive you unto Myself, that where I am
156 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN ■
there ye shall be also. Now come My love, My fair one, and
go with Me, and point out the strait and narrow way that
leads over the seven mountains, under the voice of the Sev
enth and Last, who has come with the full Interpretation
which shall direct His Israel on the strait path of life in
which our Master trod. This will be the proof that they are
following Him by keeping His Law of Life.
Has not the holy One of Israel sent His Messengers from
time to time, as Standard-bearers of this great Light which
was given to them? Did He not send the mighty Archangel
Gabriel who stands in the presence of the Lord? who an
nounced the conception and birth of Jesus. And did not the
Angel appear to Joseph, telling him to keep Mary a virgin?
And behold! He has now appeared in this the time of His
Second Coming under the voice of the Second Child that shall
stand up in His stead. And has not the same Spirit Shiloh
Immanuel brought forth the holy Virgin Law of Christ?
And hark ye to His voice. Is He not telling you in thunder
tones to keep His Virgin Law? It is the only Law that will
cleanse and purify the blood; it being the full Interpretation
and the completeness of the Message by the Branch, male
and female, the beginning of His New Creation. And it
shall be from one to four, and from four to twelve, and from
twelve to twenty-four, and from twenty-four to Seventy,
which shall give deliverance to the whole earth.
And behold Oh Israel! we are now in the very hour
wherein the New Life will be given to the Woman, which
means to say Jerusalem above resting upon the woman
below; as Jesus said: "I send My Mother to My mother,"
who is the whole house of Israel. And the New Jerusalem
shall be builded. Then rejoice Oh ye nations! seeing that
ye are able to finish the building, seeing he who started the
building had no strength to finish it. Why was it? Because
they kept not the Law of Life, therefore he had no strength
to finish the building; so He had to put it into the hands of
Shiloh Immanuel, the mighty God, the everlasting Father,
the Prince of Peace, who shall complete and finish the build
ing. For unto Shiloh shall the gathering of the people be.
Therefore there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and
I am His servant.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK i57
BESIDE STILL WATERS.
*FO THE beloved sons and daughters of the living God who
are today upon the earth, and who will hear and recognize
the voice of the Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, because they
came from the upper Heaven, from the place that Jesus
came from.
And let it be remembered, He came and He went, and
He has come again to receive us unto Himself. He has come
again with that great sunlight which shone in darkness, and
the darkness comprehends it not—the mighty God presence
Shiloh Immanuel —that where He is, in His coming, there
we may be also, and inherit the Promised Land —namely our
bodies; for the meek shall inherit the earth, and shall reign
with Him on the earth, and Christ within them, the great
Spirit of the New Creation, the New Heaven and the New
Earth.
So it is written that man is called earth and land ; that
is the Promised Land. So it says: "Hear the words of the
Lord, Oh earth! earth! earth! Rejoice Oh land!" Yet
through the great persecution by satan all will and must be
proven; but the spirits of the Just cannot be deceived, for
they realize and know He is that "Living Bread that cometh
down from heaven," which is Christ the Creator, and which
was the Bread that Jesus ate and proved the Immortal Life
of His body —the Tree of Life Immortal.
Therefore He said: Seek not for the bread that perish-
eth, but seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His righteous
ness, and all things will be added unto you. Why should
not God the Creator be first? —and all things shall be added
unto you in the Sabbath, the New World to come; all
things restored in perfection and glory. And His mortal
life which was blood, was the great sacrifice upon the cross,
and the holy Angels watched over that precious body and He
arose again Immortal.
And dear beloved Israel! to see this clearly you must
see the Life of the Body as He showed forth for us, and
He substituted the bread and wine in figure, and to be in
remembrance until He comes. And as it is written: "He
has returned in the Word to be made alive in us;" as in the
beginning was the Word, and which was with God; that is,
Christ in the Creation, for He said: "Let us make man in
our image and after our likeness."
And referring to Jesus for this cycle it says : "And the
Word took upon itself flesh" in Jesus. And now again by
158 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
the same Word we must eat and digest it until it be made
Immortal in us, namely the 144,000. Therefore dear Israel
let the precious words that fell from His lips be remember
ed: "If any man thirst, let him come unto Me and drink."
And again He said: "To drink of this water that I shall give,
ye shall never thirst again; but the water that I shall give
shall be in you a well of living water," His Spirit in us Im
mortal. And He also said: "He that sent Me is with Me."
Therefore it makes it plain that as God is a consuming fire,
it was Christ who worked by the Father in the Creation,
and Jesus was the greater part of the creation, for He was
and is that great creation of Life and Immortality, and is
to come in this New World which He worked to finish by
Christ. So Jesus said : "He that seeth Me seeth the Father."
Therefore Oh Israel! Are we not blest to be in the
dawn of that Immortal Day? which cannot be seen only by
Abraham's faith, that is, the Second Sight of the Inward
Eye. And all these things were shown by transfiguration
going before.
Now, concerning the Father and Christ that Jesus spoke
so much about, which we have by the testimony of the
Apostles who were quickened by that Spirit at Pentecost,
whereby all things were brought to their remembrance,
whatsoever was spoken and done by Jesus and His Christ:
bear in mind, He was part of the Creation as I have shown,
in the brightness of His glory and the express image of His
person by whom He created the world, and with Jesus who
was there in the world, by whom the world was made.
Therefore dear Israel, I hope you will broaden out and
see Christ in all things, as we are now in the Twelfth and
Last Hour, under the voice of the Seventh and Last Mes
senger, who brought forth the Virgin Law of Life in the
beautiful "Star of Bethlehem, which shall be seen by the
wise men of Israel of the East, who shall see "The Star" and
be led by it. And all shall be gathered and united by the
Child to the union of the Godhead, in the United States of
America; unto US-ward, in the Land of the Free.
All who believe in the Messengers believe in God who has
sent Thee unto them. Now let thy doubting spirits depart.
Light opens the seals by His great sunlight, by which we are
able to pass all difficulties, having believed in the Seven fore
going Messengers, to declare unto the Seventh Church, "Let
My voice be heard," and be not afraid of them, for I have
given Thee seven Stars that shall bear witness that I have
sent Thee unto them. Now let thy doubting spirits depart.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 159
Obey My Spirit and remember, the Seventh came on due
time to finish the mystery and raise man from the fall, that
they might rejoice and praise God throughout eternity. For
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His
servant.
PARADISE REGAINED.
I'N UNITY there is strength. And when all Israel have
arrived to the place where they can prefer their brothers
and Sisters before themselves, it will prove they are held in
the embrace of the I AM that I AM, Shiloh Immanuel, that
causes you to have that same love in your heart that Jesus
had through His trials and rejection, when He said: "Father,
forgive them, they know not what they do!" as He realized
and knew that they dwell in the powers of darkness. There
fore we must hate the sin with all our heart, but still the
sinner love ; which will bring rejoicing in the camps of Israel,
which will prove that we are dwelling in the great Sunlight,
which will purify and cleanse our blood, thus making us
ready to enter in as Jesus did at the river Jordan, begotten
of the Father and conceived of the Jerusalem Mother above,
and carried by Her until the appointed time of the Father,
to be brought forth Immortal; having the life of the Mother
within them, which is Spirit and not blood, thus joining
hands with the ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore Oh virgins of Israel: I call for ye, I long for
ye to come forth dressed in robes of white. I, Jesus Christ,
have prepared the robes for you. Come! put them on, that
I may rejoice over thee in the day of My wedding feast,
wherein the great Sunlight shall appear, which is the inter
pretation of all mysteries. For when the eye is single our
whole body is full of light. So when we see eye to eye there
will be no more parables. So, as Israel were scattered to
the four winds of heaven —being the four Spirits, which is
Zion and Jerusalem on the male, and Zion and Jerusalem on
the female —in this the time of His Second Coming He is
calling them together as a hen doth her brood, to close in
to the shelter of His Spirit. "A bundle of myrrh is My
Beloved; in My bed shall He lie all night between My
breasts." The myrrh represents the Immortal Spirit, the
Mother of Immortality; the two breasts represent Law and
Gospel.
360 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN ...
And the question might be asked: Where is Abraham's
bosom? And who is it? The answer is—that Immortal
Spirit, which gives the Eternal Covenant which cannot be
broken. As it is written: Thou Israel, art My servant Jacob
whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham My friend.
Therefore dear Israel! let us enter into our closet and
shut the door, that no one can hear thee but God and thy
self. It is then He will spread His wings over thee as a hen
spreadeth her wings over her young; and all those that are
found in that Immortal Spirit —then will that mountain,
which is death, be removed —for they will have no confidence
in arms of flesh, for they will prove themselves to be the
salt of the earth, and they shall Live, saith the Lord, they
shall not die ! This is spoken of as a figure, having salt within
ourselves, which is that Living Faith which puts our trust
in the strong arm of God, thus proving ourselves to be of
His sheep who hear the voice of the good Shepherd. Then
if the candle be lit, which is our understanding and we serve
it, then we have found the Peace, the Lost Peace. Then Oh
Israel, let us be an example to the world, as Jesus was to
His disciples.
Now, when the land of Israel is sown with the pure seed
of Christ, will it not bring forth fruit? Yes—an hundred
fold—by having our mind and heart on Him and His prom
ises, thus living by the truth; the truth shall deliver us,
Jesus Christ being the pure Oil which is to be poured upon
the house of Israel. And when this is accomplished the
Israel of God will be clothed upon by that Immortal Spirit
and afterwards put within like unto our Lord and Master.
Praise to His holy name! who has sent His holy Spirit to
help His people Israel, and the words that it shall give shall
polish the Stones and they shall be ready for the transparent
building.
He, the Lord Jesus Christ has sent His Angels from
His throne to keep back the enemy, for the Lord God
Jehovah has sworn and declared that satan shall not touch
one of His sealed. Oh ye favored Few! whose eyes have
been anointed to see and understand that the Lord God
Jehovah has now come to reveal all hidden mysteries, that
His chosen people Israel might be made perfect God-men,
three in one, and one in three.
Dear beloved brothers and sisters! Listen to Jesus'
beautiful words when He said: "I go to prepare a place
for you, that where I am, there ye may be also," meaning
His Israel, the 144,000 should also dwell in an Immortal body
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHERS BOOK 161
like unto Himself. For His commandments are a lamp, and
His virgin Law is light, and those who keep the oil which is
that holy Spirit, their bodies shall never see corruption; a
proof of which is Enoch, the seventh from Adam, who walk
ed with God three hundred years and was not, for God took
him, that he might not see death.
Therefore to him that worketh, his reward is the body,
being the House. He is first as Jesus was in His mortal life,
who was clothed upon at the river Jordan, which is the par
tial redemption. And in God's promised time he will receive
an hundred fold, proving that that Immortal Spirit dwelleth
around and about them both by day and by night, and it
shall refine them until they are brighter than gold, though
it be seven times refined. And I, the Lord Jesus Christ,
have even sent Shiloh Immanuel unto you, and He shall stand
with a drawn sword, and kings shall fall before Him as of
old, for I am God, and beside Me there is no other.
The Graft of Me is that Immortal Spirit. It shall rest
first upon the Second Child and do the work, and testify of
Me, the Father. And after the blood is made flesh, the
Spirit will take the same temple for a possession and live in
it, then shall the whole House of Israel live by the Spirit,
being ONE, the 144,000 being made alive by the one Graft,
and that Graft being the Wife of the living God, being three
persons —yet one God. For by the Father, Mother and Son
this mighty work was done, the figure three all linked in One!
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am
His servant.
THE PRINCE OF LOVE.
o«.YE spirits of the Just, rejoice ! we are now in the dawn
of that Immortal Day wherein the power of God will be
made manifest upon the earth, for the tide must turn and
the satanic powers and kingdoms must give way to the
Jerusalem Mother above, who has brought forth the Second
Child Shiloh Immanuel, the conquering Prince, male and
female, who shall rule with a rod of iron, namely love; and
all opposing nations crushed and brought under, but others
shall see and submit to this day of Christ's glorious King
dom, which is given to the Saints of the Most High.
All who are so blest to receive this wonderful anointing
will grow up as Jesus Himself did, in wisdom and strength;
162 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
this being the time of their ministry they cannot suddenly
reach to the full possession of their Immortal inheritance, but
being a spirit of the Just they will each be brought up and
served according to their high spiritual birth; as Moses was
brought up in all the learning of Egypt as the son of Phara
oh's daughter, so shall these heavenly born children be taught
and be disciplined and instructed in all the divine arts in
the royal Court of God their Father and the New Jerusalem,
their true Holy Mother.
And many will expect great miracles to be performed
after the manner of Moses and the Prophets and the Apost
les because it will be the manifestation of the great day of
Christ setting up His Kingdom and reigning here upon earth
over all nations and Kingdoms, which never yet has been.
But the prophecies heretofore are now at hand to be ful
filled. God has chosen the poor of this world, and the fool
ish things to confound the wise and the things that are
mighty, so that not many wise men after the flesh, not many
mighty, not many noble are called.
But now let it be understood, it is the good will of God
to those—as many as will—to harken and obey and go forth
in the Spirit and power of Elias to turn the hearts of the
fathers to the children, thus teaching them the wisdom of
the Just, of which the centuries of time are now repeating;
as such Shepherd God will raise up, and shall feed His flock
from a living Visitation of His own Spirit.
Therefore a healing balm from heaven is now sent down,
and this is for universal harmony, harmony and unity;
wherefore many will expect a marvelous and wonderful
change in bringing out all strife, contention and division.
For the Prince of love and peace is here to pitch His throne,
dominion and Kingdom, first invisible and spiritually in the
heart and mind, from whence will go forth such mighty in
fluence and power as shall destroy all that is destructive to
this loving Kingdom.
This is the joyful news—that our redemption draweth
nigh, in such qualified persons as have been separated and
called out of the world; as Jesus said: "Ye are not of this
world because I have chosen you out of it." And there shall
be a mighty outpouring of the Spirit of Faith, so as not to
admit any doubt, but make it pass in the strait narrow path
leading up to the glorified Jesus Christ, as He is invested
with all power united with that powerful name, Alpha and
Omega; which Faith in this great name must produce those
mighty works and deeds mentioned by our Lord after His
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 163
resurrection, as the signs that shall follow them that believe.
No need of taking thought for "this or that," which
belongs to the natural estate, for it will be given them as they
stand united with Christ their head, to possess the earth and
inherit all things. The Seventh which came by the name of
Shiloh Immanuel is putting on a transfiguration which will
be accomplished with the descent and appearing of Christ
to them in His glorified figure. By the glimpse of this glory
they are transformed into the express image of His person.
To this prepared Spouse a voice was heard saying:
"Arise and shine, for Thy light is come, Thy sons and daught
ers to bring home." And it will begin as it was in the first
Paradise, in male and female, through the restoration of
the lost eternal virgin nature. Therefore the Virgin arises
and has appeared in the midst of Israel to draw from the
upper heaven and feed upon the Tree of Life; and having
tasted of the virtue, therefore gives to Her chosen and elect
Mate; as the Tree of Life by the true eternal marriage of
male and female shall be endowed with that holy Spirit,
then comes forth the renewing of that blessed Word, where
in the change will rise and come on gradually, so from hence
a new generation shall arise and multiply here upon earth,
this being the latter Adam and the latter Eve, the beginning
of the New Creation of God.
Oh Israel, where is your faith? Why still so slow to
believe what is to be beyond all simple feelings of old age
with its infirmities? Hark ye! is there not another age that
I the Lord God of Israel have set before you? which you are
to keep your aim and eye upon from the time and date on
which you were born into My Spirit. You are not to mind
how short you are from coming up to the good old age where
in My strength and power is to have its increase through
you. You may have been humbled by others who lay upon
the bare ribs of the Ark, who are destitute of faith. But
on the other hand, all those who have that Living faith they
will go up step by step into the temple of Wisdom, likeunto
a growing lily of faith; though it stands in the midst of a
thorny ground, God shall still make it spring and live; which
brings forcibly to my mind Jesus in His mortal life was the
Rose of Sharon, but when made Immortal was likened unto
a Lily, "altogether lovely." And He was the Firstborn of
these many brethren who were yet to come. Therefore,
arise up all ye who desire to dwell in the Golden Age of
the New Life in which pain and sorrow shall be a thing of
the past. i
164 THE BOOK OP HEAVEN
Therefore we must seek to have an inward ear to hear
the Message which the Lord has expressly left for His elect,
who are watching at Wisdom's gates, having a great desire
to ascend one step higher, that we may be able to receive
that Inward Eye of the Holy Ghost; wherein the highest
wisdom is to be learned and understood, and actually pract
ised under the voice of the holy One, which will lead us back
to that land from whence we came, wherein we can view
its never fading beauty and glory, wherein the holy One will
teach us to walk in the footsteps of Jesus His firstborn Son,
who takes great delight to see the children of Paradise, know
ing that their hearts' desire is to be led by the Spirit of the
Holy Ghost, wherein our darling Mother of Zion is ever ready
to give such advice as will supplant Esau, that Jacob might
carry away the blessing.
And remember, Jacob gained the blessing by his obed
ience to his mother. And so will all Israel who work in
strict obedience to their darling Mother of Zion, She will
fill their hearts with that flaming love of God that will teach
them Wisdom to prefer their Brothers and Sisters before
themselves, and praying for those that despitefully use them,
proving themselves to be willing to join the circle of over-
comers. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel,
and I am his servant.
FLAMES OF FIRE AND LIGHT.
I ET IT be remembered the sufferings of this present world
—and even for His sake— are not to be compared with
the glory that shall be revealed. Therefore let us look once
more at our pattern and waymark, and no tongue can express
His suffering during His life of thirty-three years, to say
nothing more of His sufferings on the cross. Look at His
scourging, and as we see Him carrying His cross up Calvary's
hill. No wonder He fell under so great a cross, besides the
nails driven into His hands and into His feet, and the vinegar
and the gall placed at His lips because He said: "I thirst!"
And the sharp spear pierced into His side until the thief on
the cross was touched and cried out: "We suffer justly,
but this man has done nothing worthy of death."
Jesus was suffering for the Kingdom's sake, and the
worst of all look at satan with his power of darkness, and
when Jesus said: "My God! why hast Thou forsaken Me?"
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 165
then and there they thought to have had a great victory,
He exclaiming Himself that His God had forsaken Him. And
they raged and jeered, trying to justify themselves in what
they had done. But when they saw they could not buy
Him off and that He would not betray His God and all heaven,
then the powers of darkness blinded their eyes. And so
they had Him put to death.
But how quickly the scene changed! when the lightning
began to play around the cross, and darkness and gloom fell
upon them, all around that place. It took lightning and
thunders and an earthquake to convince them at the cross.
Then they began to say: "Truly, truly this was the Son of
God!" And the earth shook by the thunder of His power;
and more so within three days, when the great Angel descend
ed and rolled the stone away, and a great earthquake shook
the earth, and the King of glory arose triumphantly with
all power both in heaven and earth; yet mild and meek, and
said: "Ought not I to have suffered all these things and
entered into My glory?"
The Angels surrounding that place ministered to His
glory. And the great Elias and Moses appeared on the
scene and in shining white addressed the people at His
ascension into heaven. An<* they also went with Him, and
after the clouds received Him out of sight Moses and Elias
were seen no more. Notwithstanding all this, Jesus came
again as they saw Him go. And He was seen last of all in
a light above that of the sun, notwithstanding the cloud
received Him from their view. But as in Paul's testimony
the heavens must have received Him; and yet notwithstand
ing all this He was seen by John in flames of fire and light.
This is not a contradiction, because you may notice here
that when Paul saw Him and said the heavens must have
received Him, and John also saw Him in His glory and he
fell as dead, while Paul was only blinded. This appearing
to John was on a great mission for this Visitation for the
time of the end.
Let us recall a brief review of His words, "forsaken."
Jesus no doubt knew that He was not forsaken, but, as it
were, for a moment; shown in prophecy; and those words
were uttered more to give them a better chance to glory
in what they had done. And in the response of God that
they might go into a deeper condemnation, and more so in
His glorious resurrection and it was pitiful when and while
in so great agony, that Jesus looked down and saw His
mother and His disciples departing in unbelief, and all their
166
... THE book of HEAVEN
hopes gone, that they might afterwards be awakened with
the more joy. How wonderful and unsearchable are His
ways! —past finding out, from the deepest sorrow to the
greatest joy unspeakable, saying nothing more of how many
tears and how much sorrow has it caused me! and bitter
reflections; sweet sorrow and full of joy of the glory that
shall be revealed.
The spirits of the Just know that they must suffer with
Him and take up His cross and follow Him in the path of sor
row unto glory. Therefore, first a crown of thorns before a
crown of glory. It must be understood that Jesus bore the
sins of the whole world in the deepest suffering; and He being
a Spirit of love His sorrow was deep, and His agony in the
garden knowing what was before Him.
Satan came with his flickering lanterns to make it appear
that Jesus was a thief; and therefore to bear this out had
two thieves to be crucified with Him. And they felt and
feared that He would arise, and they placed guards at the
tomb, and they all fell backwards because they could not
stand, for their conscience smote them when they fully under
stood that they had crucified the Son of God.
Therefore the divine Jesus said: "A prophet is without
honor in his own house and in his own country, neither have
they honor in all the world." But our ascended Master, the
Lord Jesus Christ was not seeking honor from the old world,
neither does He in His Second Coming, nor any of the spirits
of the Just. They only seek honor from Him the Firstborn,
their pattern and waymark. And He said: They who seek
honor one of another or from the old world, they cannot
receive spiritual things. To seek honor one of another in
their old world of sin and injustice, such seek honor from
the devil. It says: Give honor to whom honor is due; and
I know of no one except Jesus Christ our Lord.
We cannot serve two masters. Therefore do not sit
astraddle of the fence. It is two different separate worlds
at war, worse than two nations at war, and it is death to try
to serve both. Therefore let us consider the difference in
the Kingdom of God and His opponents. King Herod and
Pilate were at outs until it was a case of condemning Jesus,
and on that day they made friends. The work Of Jesus was
to do the will of His Father who sent Him, and He was loyal,
just and good, and for the good of all for He said: "I came
not to condemn the world but to save it." Luke 9;56.
At the flood and just before, when God lingered and gave
them seven days more extended time for their repentance*
5TH COMFORTER OF, THE MOTHER'S BOOK 167
and when they did not, then it repented Him. And it says the
earth was inclined and turned out of its natural course. And
it says: "All the angels of power were there, preparing to
come and to open all the powers of the water under the earth.
For those Angels presided over all the waters—these Angels
being the ascended Masters.
Dear Benjamin spoke of the Book of Enoch being mar
velous. I have ventured to quote from these very briefly.
Enoch before the flood and the seventh from Adam, had a
wonderful vision of life, and he received it according to the
Scriptures; and his prophecies cover all the world and to
the end of the seventh day Sabbath of rest to come. He was
taken all over heaven and earth, and was sent to rebuke
the angels that descended upon the peak of Mt. Arnon. And
they shall be brought forth from every part of the earth
and burned in the fire; while the children of the Elect, the
righteous, shall awake from slumber, and Wisdom flourish,
and the Seven-fold doctrine given, and the gates open that
they might enter in.
And dear Israel ! you will remember, a great horse came
for Enoch, and a great multitude followed Enoch and the
white horse six days, and Enoch entreated them to leave
off following. Yet some persisted and followed and some
fell away. And on the seventh day a chariot came and Enoch
was taken away, and they could not find him in. the great
snow. Now, here we find him with the Angels at the ex
tremities of the earth before this great place was sealed,
before the flood; never to be restored till the great waters
flow back into the earth again; and not only this breadth
of the earth but the whole planet return to its Eden state
and the desert bloom in roses.
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first
heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was
no more sea because the great waters had returned back
to their respective places, and the earth renovated and made
anew; and produced similar to a hot-bed, by an upward
sweat from the ball of fire within heating the water that
surrounds it. Therefore the earth shall yield her seven-fold,
the beautiful Sabbath of Rest, sweet rest from the powers
of satan for one thousand years. Therefore there is no God
in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
168 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
ASCENDED MASTERS.
"TO BECOME like Jesus Christ, we must be in the condition
to receive His mighty outpouring of light and truth, so
powerful that all who love Him in spirit and in truth will
be able to do the things He told us all to do. No one can
do these things He did, unless he has the understanding of
the "Mighty Master," the Lord Jesus Christ. And this is
the greatest help He can ever give to all holding the confi
dence of His enfolding flames that purify our mind and
body, thus feeling it deeply with all the love of your heart,
thus receiving great joy, realizing it is Shiloh Immanuel,
God-with-us! preparing us to give the greatest help possible
for the protection of dear Israel.
Show me Oh God ! the perfect thing to do every moment,
and cause me to do all perfectly, pouring through me what
ever power and light is needed to protect our darling brothers
and sisters who are scattered abroad. Make me a perfect
channel through whom the ascended Masters—namely Enoch,
Elijah, Esdras and the greatest of all, the Lord Jesus Christ,
who ascended above all heavens —might pour forth Thy holy
Will.
Oh dear Israel, ever remember there is a great company
of the ascended Masters. Abraham in his day met three of
these ascended Masters. They were sent to destroy Sodom,
and dear old Abraham pleaded for the City, and they treated
him so humble and sweet, and said: "If you can find five,
we will spare the City," but five could not be found. So
the angels pulled Lot and part of his family out of Sodom ; he
being the salt of that City, he could not be destroyed.
These three angels ate and drank with Abraham, and
as dear Benjamin said in the Sixth Ball of Fire, that "they
had a flesh-and-bone body." And let it be remembered, when
Enoch was translated there was a great number went with
him. And dear Enoch, the Scribe of Righteousness, tested
them every day by trying to drive them back, but they said:
"Nothing but death will separate us."
My heart's desire is to be made a pillar of the ascended
Masters—active under this great sunlight, that everywhere
I move I might feel the presence of these ascended Masters,
causing this great light to blaze everywhere and consume
all that is not of this light.
Oh how I have been longing to tell all the dear Ones:
just the other morning I had a beautiful presentment of
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 133
Jesus —now, this was not in vision, but a presentment in
broad daylight: —He appeared to me bright as the Sun. And
He said: "Follow Me, I am the Light !-^-be of good cheer,
this is the beginning of the New World, and I have sent Mine
angels to watch over thee!"
Dear Israel, wherever you be make your calling daily for
this mighty I AM Shiloh Immanuel presence to send legions
and legions of light to fill our hearts with raptures of joy.
Joy and gratitude goes to our beloved Israel. Let no one be
deceived —these great prophecies of the centuries, in fact
the end of the prophecies and the fulfillment is at hand. And
from the fulfillment of the prophecies God has spoken
through man, He will establish the Kingdom of Paradise, of
Heaven upon earth.
This New Birth—born of Jerusalem above—will be swift
and powerful in its mighty manifestation, but knowing it
will bring in sweet peace and happiness and the light of truth
and understanding to mankind ; it is sufficient to make every
one rejoice. Through the great centuries of time this great
sunlight has circled around, and has come unto us like unto
a Rainbow, while everything moves forward and will continue
to move under divine order, under the banner of Shiloh Im
manuel, the mighty conquering Prince.
We recognize and feel the power of this mighty Shiloh
Immanuel. Then calmly enter into the stillness, the silence
of that mighty One, that we enter into eternal freedom, the
Law of God that was established for the freedom of those
who stood loyal and true to the Godhead, for these were
never driven out of Paradise, for their lives were hid with
Christ in God, and at his appointed time He sent them to
earth to take bodies and now they are all upon the earth
today.
When _the great Master, the Lord Jesus Christ wants
one to come to the City of David, He sends that Immortal
Spirit to draw him, for "how could any man come unto Me
except the Father who sent Me draw him?" And that within
itself proves they were worthy or they would not have been
drawn. Oh how grateful are we for this Law of life, that
comes under the direction of the ascended Masters to gather
up the castaway stones, wherein they shall see and under
stand and feel the necessity of the call from the ascended
Masters. And I am also under the direction of the ascended
Masters, and through the promise of the Holy One He has
come the Second Time. I will respond, for He leads the
mighty legions of Angels as lightning through the atmosphere
170 . THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
of earth to cleanse, purify and give the ascension to the
chosen ones of God, namely 144,000.
What a precious thought to realize this great require
ment, through the assistance of that great and mighty One,
the Lord Jesus Christ —and have begun to make your calling
for release, not only of the energy of your own, but through
the mighty Shiloh, the Prince of Peace! who has passed from
human experience into the freedom of the ascended; has
passed through everything that has been in human form
experienced. They are thoroughly able, have the authority,
having the experience and having the freedom by which
they can direct you and point the way if you will permit
them to do so.
Oh dear Israel! Please let nothing or no one cause
you to leave or doubt this great Sunlight that shone in the
days of Jesus, and the darkness comprehended it not. There
fore dear Israel! I want to call to your remembrance the
warning of the Seventh and Last Messenger of these wonder
ful days. Dear beloved Ones, let us rejoice that we are this
far on our journey. Oh! that you might have the feelings
that go forth from my heart as I speak these words to you.
It must reach within your heart and remain there. Let
me repeat again, in your faithful endeavor to serve under
this great sunlight, it will open the gates of eternal freedom,
which will clothe you with that wonderful love of God which
is stronger than death, for it overcomes death.
And they shall all come forth,
We shall see them face to face,
To take their glory on this Millennial morn;
And the brightest jewels will their crowns adorn!
Oh! happy each and every one should be,
For from the evil powers we're all set free!
For satan is bound and we have entered our rest,
And Heaven, sweet Heaven, is ours at last!
Yours for the blessed Kingdom of Peace.
H
HOLINESS UNTO GOD.
EAR and harken Oh Israel! for unto you the great
Sunlight is shining. Let not the clouds of unbelief pass
over you, but be ye wise in this the Day of Visitation to
follow. the Spirit, the bright Star of Bethlehem which has
arisen amongst you. Therefore Oh Israel you have a divine
5TH COMFOSTEBt'Of: THE 1
MOTHER'S BOOK 171
work to do in the vineyard of the Lord, through the mighty
Rock Christ, to give out the water of the Spirit in abundance.
For the cry has gone forth for Israel to be prepared and
sanctified by the waters of life, that they might receive the
Holy Ghost and be witnesses of His power.
Hear and harken in the Spirit and you will hear the Sev
enth Trump sound from the seven Spirits that are before the
Throne, telling you that the end of a Century cometh; the
heavens above are ready to descend to open their glory out
upon the earth. The inhabitants therefore may no longer
lie burdened in the dark shadows of night. And over Thee,
Oh Israel the mighty Angel doth fly, preaching the everlast
ing Gospel upon the earth, saying: Do not despise
prophesying, neither cry down the Ark of the Living Testi
mony for which the Spirit, as a flowing stream must renew
Paradise upon the earth.
Therefore through this Virgin, Wisdom (that is, the
true Mother Jerusalem above) brings forth the sons and
daughters of this New Jerusalem, who is the Queen of this
Kingdom. In the first place we shall describe Her origination,
which is from God the Triune Deity, being a virgin hid in
Him from all eternity; but as to nativity, brought forth in
due time, I shall now speak plainly. Now, this eternal Virgin
Mother that lay hid in God the Creator and heart of flaming
love, (as She was God's spouse and Bride, being Spirit of
His Spirit,) —now let it be known unto all that from this
eternal Virgin, Wisdom, a new generation of virgin spirits
shall be born to make up the glory of the New Jerusalem.
Therefore I came to give the particulars —after what
manner Wisdom's children are to be educated in the state
of their infancy, as soon as they are Spiritually born. Care
is to be taken that this holy birth draws the sustenance of
life from no other than its own virgin Mother, whose breasts
must at all times satisfy and nourish it. For according to
what kind it sucks in, of such a kind, nature and quality the
birth is, for it draws in the Spirit and life of its Mother.
Therefore watch to it! and hang not upon any strange
breasts.
These children that are brought forth by the Virgin
Mother wherein they are generated, are ever watching the
eye, when it would send them forth; they being all pure, meek
and mild spirits. These are the spirits that will subdue and
make their bodies to become all divine like their Virgin
Mother, namely Jerusalem above. These Spirits of the Just
are to do and act all in a still and silent way, and from thence
372 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN .
all power and force shall most effectually go forth. All
counterfeit actions of this kind will fall down as Dagon
before the Ark, so that no dark Magi shall be able to stand.
Therefore, here are the requirements —not to bear false
witness against thy neighbor, but to love him as thyself. But
you may say: Who is my neighbor? Dost thou not know
Him? thou that hast been so long in an habitation in the
Paradisical ground? He is even the true Samaritan Jesus,
who has poured in the restorative oil for thy healing, who
hath care of thee wholly and undertook thy cure. Then
when He saw thee wounded unto death, His eyes pitied; and
in His love He served as one having a heavenly feeling for thy
calamity and thy suffering. Therefore He was immediately
sent by the everlasting Father to rescue thee out of the
hands of the robbers that designed to kill thee, the heir of
life and glory. So here you may see who is the true worthy
Neighbor, which proves to be the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son
of the living God wherein all Israel are espoused, the 144,000.
And they are not to break the marriage espousal which
is a tie between thee and the Lord thy husband, to whom
thou art betrothed through the eternal Spirit, for it is a high
breach of the covenant of love which is established upon
the immortal promises of God the Father, and on thy seeing
this royal match was made and concluded by consent of the
everlasting Father and of Wisdom, thy Holy Mother who
•could not propose a more honorable, worthy person to unite
thy Spirit unto. Thou art required to abide most constant
and loyal to Him, and never so much as to look upon nor
entertain any other lover. It would provoke thy Lord to
jealousy, who cannot bear that thou shouldst be familiar
to talk with any other spirit. Forasmuch as the serpent is
most subtile, and seeks many ways to make a prize of thee,
watching to break the royal bonds of this intended union
which has been so long contrived by Me, which I will now see
finished —let therefore My counsel take place with thee.
Therefore there was a lamp descending from the seven
lamps before the throne and put into the hand of a person,
which did at first sight burn but dimly. Then came the
Angel of love that poured in a golden oil which sent forth a
mighty strong odor, which immediately made the lamp burn
with such a blaze—dropping flames of light into the oil—
that it caused many more lamps to spring up, which made a
good part of the earth look as a bright Heaven.
. Then was it said to me: This shall be a forerunner
whereby the foundation shall be laid for the bright Son of
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 173
righteousness to appear and shine forth in His temple body,
which is His espoused and Bride, which shall now be accomp
lished with all manner of gifts and power, much more than
has ever been known and declared, wherein this Holy Spirit
has been treasured which is now to be opened up, and
shall be revealed concerning the great things that are to be
brought forth in this, the time of the end.
For in whatever heart and mind this Holy Dove shall
find entrance —thus being received —it shall be as the
Heavenly Court and Council wherein the divine Wisdom shall
unfold. the great secrets of life eternal as we see the day
approaching. As to His elect, it will be expedient for them
to know, for they shall be qualified to be prophets, priests
and Kings; which are to be laid as the foundation for His
Immortal Kingdom to be established. They shall know no
length of days as it was with the Patriarchs before the flood,
even to Methuselah's years. This good old Golden Age will
prove that Christ has set His foot to reign upon the earth
in His Spirit made manifest in His temple body, whom He
has espoused to Himself —His Bride—immortality swallowed
up of life. This we do not expect to see until the Lord God of
glory Himself appears. The Tree of life is drawn into the
soul by the strong attraction of faith and love.
Therefore this great Ingathering will be of such as shall
be strong pillars to bear up the Mount of Holiness, for on
their garments shall be written—"Holiness Unto God."
Therefore the true counselors in Heaven foreseeing this, will
raise up such as shall be of a quick sight and sound judgment.
These are of the Holy Birth that has proceeded from Wisdom,
who is to remain in Heaven until the number of times shall
be finished, who shall come forth in the strength of the
Godhead, mighty in some persons, both male and female,
that shall be fitly qualified to bear rule and to manage the
rod of power according to that type of rod put into Moses'
hand, by which he did all of those great miracles.
Therefore all of satan's ruling power shall be put under
their feet, and Thou Oh Tower of the flock, the stronghold
of the Daughter of Zion, unto Thee shall it come, even the
first dominion; the Kingdom shall come to the Daughter of
Jerusalem. The sign of the near approaching time of the
end will be made known as a forerunner; in the holy Seed—
the Spirits of the Just—they are sensible, and it will be
revealed unto them the overturn of all nations, as it was
unto Noah. Oh blessed and highly favored shall all those
174 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
"
be that shall offer and list themselves under the great General
in this royal and holy Army under the banner of Shiloh Im-
manuel, the conquering Prince, who shall gain the victory
over sin, death, hell and the grave —then the banner of Love
over Israel shall wave! For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel, and I am His servant.
THE FLAMING BREATH.
DEAR beloved Israel! Fear not, faint not, but hold out
patiently, for the redeeming power is strongly moving and
breaking forth, and the crown of dominion is descending,
guarded by the heavenly host of Angels, to be put upon the
first overcomer. Rev.2;3. In this the twelfth and last hour
it is expedient that all Israel put on the shield of faith and be
enclosed with us in the flaming circle of love; to whom the
watchword is from the Lord—the Lord Jesus Christ —no
other commandment do I put upon you, but that ye hold fast
in the bands of love and unity until I come to clothe you with
power. Thus harkening to the words of counsel dear Israel!
draw near and increase your faith, to the Mountain where I
will not fail to meet you, and I count you One in My Spirit.
Now is the accepted time wherein the secrets of heaven
which have been hidden shall now be revealed, because the
spirits of the Just are now upon the earth. Oh blessed and
happy are those who are called and chosen and are to stand
in readiness to enter in and receive first the opening of what
has been so long sealed from the world. Therefore I entreat
each and every one not to grow weary on this journey, thus
beginning to faint. and grow weary in their minds, saying
in themselves: "Why should we wait for the Lord any
longer? for we may spend out our days and never receive the
redemption. See how many ages have rim out their time
hitherto, and so may we therefore take the liberty to draw
off from the strict attention and take up and be satisfied with
what we have."
Oh thou of little faith who will be found asleep at the
Open Door, wherein the voice of the mighty One will be heard
as the sound of many waters, saying: "No longer delay, for
the watch hour has now passed away." But WE shall hear
the voice of God to the faithful ones saying: "Open wide
the gates and give free passage to the blessed land where the
everlasting Rock doth stand, consisting of every sparkling
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 173
stone/' Out of this Rock which opens to view, were seen
going forth seven fiery streams, which did represent the
Seven Spirits made mention of in Revelation. These com
plete the full number of the Godly powers which were to be
baptized with the Holy Ghost mingled with fire from heaven.
And they will go back again out of this gate as fiery Stones
to show themselves to their fellow-brethren, that they have
obtained the prize; they waited patiently to obey the watch
ful call and it was further made known that they had made
their way through this gate, therefore it should no more be
shut to them, but they should go in and out and renew their
strength and power from this flowing Rock Christ, that they
might thereby enact the mighty wonders of the Deity. There
will be no failure of the seven rewards of the seven over-
comings.
How encouraging it is to find among us we have the
same class of people that the Messenger described: —those
who came at the call from fear of the judgments, in fact
for protection, they soon fell out, showing it was not a pure
motive. But remember, those who come with a pure motive
in obedience to the call, are proven and tested and remain
faithful, thus preparing themselves to enter the glorious
reign here upon earth, which shall be enacted by such great
and worthy Saints as shall represent Christ, who will en
trust the sceptre of His dominion into their hands till the
time of the restitution of all things, making ready for His
appearance in His glorified person which, though it may
seem strange and too wonderful for the mean and temporal
state which at present it stands in, yet by the Holy Unity
it is to be verified that there is such an overturning coming
on as will bring forth a New World which has not been,
which will little by little out of the Heavens spread and break
forth till the whole shall be brightened by the daybreak of
this rising sunlight.
And behold those Saints that dwell in the body of light!
for the divine marvelous reign of Christ in His Saints that
it is to set up its footing upon the earth, repeating that
ancient prophecy in Revelation 5-10: "And Thou hast made
us unto our God kings and priests; and we shall reign on
the earth,"—which agrees with these latter prophecies that
have been brought forth as the renewed witness and testi
mony of Jesus. And the three kinds of liquor in the Golden
Cup answers to the three-fold office and function of these
love-elders that are to be enthroned with Christ the Lord.
Therefore the flaming breath is appropriated to the
176 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
Spirit of prophecy, that searcheth into the deep fund of afl-
foreknowing wisdom wherein those hidden treasures of
knowledge do lay, making known the mind and counsel of
God as to the things past, present and to come. And al
though there has been a great relapse and sinking down of
the spirit in unbelief, the third is the holy refreshing oil
which gives the sacred sovereignty of the kingly dominion,
which the Saints of the Most High have never yet reached
unto, so as to reign over the earth. Now, it may be known
what it is that has retarded and kept back the possessing
of the Kingdom—because there has not been a drinking in
of these divine Words of the two Immortal Spirits.
Therefore dear beloved Israel, behold in the Spirit you
will see the everlasting gates of Lebanon stand open and
free, where in the paved walks of love you will be greeted
and kindly received by the ascended Master, the Lord Jesus
Christ and His beloved Bride, the Jerusalem Mother who
has here provided to entertain you by the seven overflowing
pools which water this Garden, which makes it always flow
ing and sparkling, and the continually descending showers
from the heavens above, giving marvelous feeding and re
freshing rain to the growing plants of the new and blessed
Earth in which righteousness only doth reign and abide,
thus entering into the beautiful Paradise wherein happiness
and contentment forever abide, so that each individual person
may carry their New Heaven and Earth within them, and
there they shall behold those Saints that have put on the
robes of sparkling white, for the Covenant of faith will be
firmly established and they shall live above all fear, for
the lying spirit shall be made to crouch to the Lamb's mild
nature in them.
Therefore while the loving Trumpet doth sound, let all
that have drunk only of the bitter water and have satisfied
themselves with the outward husk of the grape, but have
not tasted the sweet royal blood of it, that it might become
a fountain of life within them —let these make their pursuit
—to be transplanted from the wild and barren soil into the
fruitful land of all that is blessed, because God has promised
to feed and clothe those that are of His own family and
household. For the eternal Rock of the Spirit shall still
flow for their nourishment, for the promise is: "Your bread
and water shall be sure." For there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel, and I am His servant. _^
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 177
ORDER OF MELCHISEDEC.
I^EAR beloved Israel! Ye spirits of the Just who are seek
ing the great redemption of body, soul and spirit under
the order of Melchisedec, which means Eternal Life, the glory
of the Sun. We should rejoice to be dwelling in the Golden
Age, the New Life in which pain, sorrow, sin and death shall
not be so much as remembered, through the mighty Shiloh
Immanuel, who is leading and teaching His Israel that this
blessed new day is dawning and the Stones are being made
ready for His Immortal Building.
Therefore Oh Israel lift up your heads and rejoice, for
by those things which are coming to pass we know that our
redemption draweth nigh. As it is written : His first coming
was the manifestation of the Father, the Second Coming will
be the manifestation of the divine Mother, known in the
Scriptures as Jerusalem above, the Mother of us all—the •
Bride, the other Comforter. And let it be understood there
will be some likeunto John the divine who can testify that
this Word was also made flesh and dwelt amongst us, which
was our ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ. And it will
be impossible to gainsay the fact, because the work will
manifest the truth that She is able to impart a New Life to
the bodies of those who are willing to receive Her, even as
Jesus Christ who imparts a heavenly life to the souls who
receive Him and the holy prophets to whom have been en
trusted the setting forth of the mission of the divine Mother
and the approaching of His peaceable Kingdom upon earth.
It is a fact that the prophets expected it to be made
manifest in their day, but had to wait for its proper develop
ment in the fullness of time.
Therefore the Israel of God, the spirits of the Just will
seek deeply to that Immortal Spirit to be brought forth under
the Virgin wisdom of God, that as soon as they are born
into Christ they are taken care of, to be brought up under
the divine teachings of the holy One, making them ready
for a translation into a New World of living, through the
mighty loving flames with the pure eternal breath from God,
which doth remain until the White Stone is formed into a
substantial body, therefore showing forth the power of the
Deity, going forth to renew the mighty power of the Holy
Ghost.
This is the unity of the faith that is set before us to
arrive to. Then there is no need to be concerned about things
in the troublesome world, for these Elect Stones are gentle,
178
'
THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
:■■
meek, precious and powerful, for they harken to the lovely
voice of Wisdom, willing to submit themselves under Her
pure discipline, sinking away from their own understanding
thus walking in the path of Wisdom, for She
is
justified of
Her children; and by their divine fruit ye shall know them,
thus proving themselves to be sons and daughters of this
glorious Immortal King. And they can truly say as Jesus
said: "The prince of this world cometh and hath nothing
in Me." Therefore they shall be fed by the Tree of life when
thousands and thousands around them shall be starving,
because they harkened not to the Trumpet of warning; and
they shall also behold the Tree of life and not be able to
partake of
it
because the day of warning has passed, and
they will reel to and fro in judgment when they see Israel
made Immortal. And their voices shall be heard saying:
"Truly! truly these are the Sons and Daughters of the Liv-
•ingGod!"
Therefore Israel hasten to put on the wings of the Dove,
so ye can mount up to the very Throne of God; seeing we
are this far on our journey, thus understanding the divine
mysteries, we shall not stop here but go on to reveal and
communicate to such as desire to be fellow-travelers with
us to the holy City, the New Jerusalem. And that holy Spirit
accompanies us, pointing out and showing us clearly the
way as we go on from strength to strength
;
each one appear
ing before God in silence, knowing that the spirit of Christ
will lead us on who know well the way and have taken the
measures thereof by the measuring line that is held in the
hand of the Angel, unknown to any but the travelers who are
on the highway path of Life, wherein they have taken up
Enoch's walk, separated and translated into an Immortal
body. Enoch, by the power of God, was translated off to
another planet.
And now we come to enter in upon the way which looks
at first as the valley of Beka, which was the secret name that
was given by the holy One to the Son of man, wfych was
beautifully described in the Book of Enoch, who opened up
the flood of tears; and was this not fulfilled at His departure
until the appointed time of God. Then He shall return with
ten thousands of His Saints. Oh dear beloved brothers and
sisters, get you ready! get you ready, for there is no time
to lose. Therefore let not our fellow travelers be discouraged,
but gird up and go forward in this the twelfth and last hour,
and rejoice! because the secret name of the Son of man ia
revealed unto you. '■
r'"■T 5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 179
And day by day the great Sunlight will be more bright
and refreshing, thus proving yourself to be a prevailing
Israelite as Jacob did; then the Angel of God will meet the
weary travelers and accompany them throughout the way.
Therefore there are seven Angels, or they may be called seven
Spirits that are appointed to be the guard of these travelers
through all the dangerous ways. And how we should rejoice
that we have found them, with that holy and divine strength
throughout our journey up to this very day.
And the holy Spirit of Faith, which is the most excellent
Comforter and companion, carries us through all difficulties,
because it is the evidence of objects and things in heaven
not visibly seen. It is the living coal of flaming love. There
fore we are yet to open a more inward ear to hear that which
the Lord expressly left for His Elect, who are watching at
Wisdom's gate, from thence to ascend one step higher, that
they may be found worthy in the wonderful eye of the Holy
Ghost, where the highest wisdom is to be learned and
understood, making the preparation for a New Paradise
in its unfading beauty and glory. And therefore the latter
Adam, the quickening Spirit, the Lord from heaven ; and also
the latter Eve, the Lord our righteousness shall be seen
here in our midst. And behold saith the Lord: I will make
all things anew and the earth shall return back to its Eden
state.
Therefore it is impressed upon me to entreat all Israel
that they may so run as to obtain the highest prize, the glory
of the Sun, because it will bring forth peace, joy, contentment
and happiness wherein this Holy City shall be prepared, and
it is spoken of elsewhere as the bosom of the great Mother.
And it is the gathering place of the remnant which will be
saved in the great overturn of nations, for they dwell in the
Ark of safety which is Christ and Jerusalem above, wherein
no harm can come to them.
For when these things shall be brought to your re
membrance you will recognize them as being for you, and you
will know that the call of the Master has come to gather His
Elect from all places, from wheresoever they have been
scattered. Praise to the God of Israel! I am not sent only
to the Lost Sheep of the house of Israel, knowing that none
other will recognize the Holy voice, for the others will have
a deaf ear and cannot hear nor understand, therefore they
cannot travel on this journey with us, so it brings the great
separation.
Then let all Israel rejoice that. we were born to see these
180 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
days, ever seeking to dwell in that one Immortal Spirit
that we might be counted worthy to be numbered in
that Holy Circle, ever held in the holy Father's embrace,
wherein His wonderful power will be poured from the heavens
above, wherein they will heal the sick, and they will open
the eyes of the blind, and they will raise the dead, "For
the works that I do shall ye do, and greater works," were
the words that fell from the lips of our beloved ascended
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ. Praise ye the Lord all ye
His saints! For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel,
and I am His servant.
THE ASCENDED MASTER— JESUS.
I ONG, Oh beloved Israel have we waited for these days
under the voice of the mighty ascended Master the Lord
Jesus Christ, our pattern and waymark ; hoping that you will
realize what I say to you in this the twelfth and last hour,
wherein the glorious sunlight has dawned upon us, to lead
us on to victory. So awake! Speak with loving kindness
to each other. If you will do this you will find that perfection
entering into action. Then you will realize you are not of this
world, but God has chosen you out of it.
The mighty God presence, Shiloh Immanuel will fill
your heart with love, joy and happiness, which will enable
you to go forth and pour out your blessings and good-will
to all. It is then you have nailed back the doors of doubt
and fear, and enter into the glory of this great transparent
light, which is through that Doorway pouring forth blessings
to your dear beloved brothers and sisters scattered abroad.
And remember my beloved ones there is no excuse for anger,
and just let the love of God take its place, and when you
can harmonize your feelings you will realize great power, and
the love of God to strengthen and bless you until the whole
world seems ablaze with this great Sunlight. So if you
can accept that and stand in strict obedience, the promise is
to you —Eternal Life.
For the great desire is to see you free, wherein you
can feel the presence of the mighty I AM, whose wonderful
sunlight fills the universe. For the wonderful acknowledg
ment of the God presence, Shiloh Immanuel the Prince of
Peace, will draw the walls of light around all Israel. Oh
that they might feel with joyful heart and realize the rays
of the great sunlight going forth from the great ascended
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 1SI
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, offering you the great privilege
of calling to Him, that you might enter into the full glory
■with open arms, saying: Oh beloved ones! We love you
with a love that exceeds all else.
Then let us reach up unto the ascended Master, who will
anoint your eyes to see and understand the deep mysteries
of His Father that this is the truth Jesus taught, and the
only way in heaven or in earth by which anyone can attain
the state of the ascended Master—the Lord Jesus Christ —
through His wonderful knowledge and power.
Do not limit His mighty power through looking at your
own self, thinking you are growing old. I say this to you
present ones with silver hair—age has nothing to do with the
power of God, therefore seek to enter into this great sunlight
of the City of David. Let me say for your great strength
and encouragement : —If He raised Lazarus after he had been
dead four days, is he not able to keep you alive here on earth
if you enter into His Law of Life and walk in strict obedience
to His commands?
O beloved brothers and sisters, doubt not! as we are now
in the twelfth and last hour, and soon it will be proven who
is Israel and who is not, but the true Israel of God will rejoice
under this great ray of light and energy descending from
the mighty God presence, Shiloh Immanuel. I speak this
through my own experience. How could I speak otherwise,
when He appeared to me in His immortal body as bright as
the sun? and said: "Follow Me ; I am the light !
"
And this
beautiful experience will never be forgotten through eternity.
Oh the thrills of victory. Do you see now the beauty
of that which our Master the Lord Jesus Christ has brought
forth under the great sunlight? —pointing and directing us
to that eternal bliss? And have you not great reasons to
rejoice that your humble efforts today have not been in vain?
Oh can you not accept it fully?—which will give you strength
to become active in your life; cleansing and purifying your
body that the mighty God of Jacob might dwell within.
Oh what a revelation from the heavens above! Do you
wonder—those who are so greatly in earnest —why this
blessed ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, is using
this opportunity to direct and convey His wishes to you? and
longing for it to be set in action within you, which will bring
you victory over sin, death, hell and the grave?
Oh I rejoice so gratefully that we are in the golden days of
His Second Coming! You could never know the joy, the thrill,
as I express it. Oh! who could doubt this great power that
182 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
was testified of by all the Messengers of this Visitation, who
are looking and longing for the fulfillment, which will remove
all sadness and human limitation so we can feel the full glory
of our mighty God presence as it stands ready to pour
forth through your heart its wondrous glory.
Your heart is the heart of the mighty God presence
Shiloh Immanuel, God-with-us. There is great joy in store
for you. You might ask, in what way will He bring this
great joy? Sons of God are going to be brought forth by
the Holy Mother of Zion, for the great Master pointed out
the way. And this great sunlight is shining on His footprints,
showing you step by step up into the Temple of wisdom.
For "Wisdom is justified of Her children," and Jesus was Her
firstborn, and now there are to be 144,000 twice-told.
For Jesus the firstborn said: "I am the open Door
which no man can shut." Do you know what this really
means ? The pure love of God is the open Door, because that
love comes from your mighty God presence Shiloh Imman
uel, and through His blessed presence fills our hearts with
love. It is the open Door which no man can shut, and the
great light pours through to bless you.
But remember! "Except ye become as little children
ye cannot enter the Kingdom." Do you not see, dear Israel,
what He means by that? As you become aware of your
God presence and are able to use it in your appeal to
the mighty One, it will bring eternal youth in appear
ance as well as activity, that mankind may see the
results of the power in the presence of the mighty Shiloh
Immanuel.
Oh I rejoice in my opportunity in my humble way to
give assistance to dear Israel in this the twelfth and last
hour, knowing they will accept and rejoice. And remember,
all those who have entered into this great sunlight have
entered into the New World; as Jesus said: "I am not of
this world because My Father hath chosen Me out of it."
Dear beloved Israel! Have we not signed the petition
against the powers of darkness? And all who are honest
and true to this petition, they are under the mighty power
of God, wherein satan becomes our servant, bringing in the
glorious Millennium reign of Christ here upon earth. And
the world will marvel at the harmony of our brothers and
sisters here in the City of David, working faithfully in the
vineyard of the Lord. And they shall receive their reward—
an hundred-fold—Immortality, wherein;—
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 1^3
•The Morning Stars shall sing together, ; ■'
And the Sons of God shall shout: for joy! ■
.
that they have become living witnesses to the fulfillment of
the precious promises of God. And Angels, Archangels shall
celebrate this wonderful hour, wherein they shall behold the
return of the Son of man with ten thousand of His saints,
and death is swallowed up in victory, which brings on the
beautiful Sabbath of rest for one thousand years. Rest!
sweet rest from the powers of satan, for he is bound for the
thousand years. Then we shall congregate together and sing
that beautiful song that was sung at Jesus' birth, "Peace on
earth, and Good-will toward all men!" For there is no God
in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
GOD PRESENCE—SHILOH IMMANUEL
I CTVE praise and thanks Oh God! that I now and forever
accept and acknowledge only Thy mighty presence, Shiloh
Immanuel, for which we give praise and thanks for the
happiness and privileges under this great sunlight, the sure
pathway to open up our understanding, and this wonderful
power comes through self-control, for it is the Key which
opens the entrance to all high spheres above you, which lies
in simplicity and firmness of self-control. All should dwell
earnestly upon these great truths, that they might hear His
beloved voice and obey His mighty command for perfection
through the Eternal Law of Life which will set you free from
the law of sin and death, and hold Thy dominion within us
through the mighty God presence, Shiloh Immanuel speaking
through every heart till all hear Thy voice.
Let all the earth keep silent before It forever and be at
peace in loving, grateful, adoring obedience, and full ac
ceptance of Thy mighty presence, Shiloh Immanuel. Keep
us ever humble before Thee, and forever in the service of the
ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who sends His mighty
legion of Angels, the blessed lightning of divine love through
all the earth to cleanse and purify all that is not of the pure
Christ. Our beloved has told us that it is in obedience that
the great power is generated, and the spoken Word is then
released by that power.
Therefore let us With all our earnestness, at His Com
mand, send out the glorious news of which our beloved Master
has taught us. And I still see His beautiful appearance
184 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN .
before me and His bright shining garment; in the deepest
praises, thanks and gratitude to Him for His beautiful sun
light of love, that His power might be felt everywhere in the
universe, whose Law is just, claiming all now and for all
time that they serve only the true and living God who never
fails.
No human hand shall be raised against Her, for She is
sealed within the love of the great ascended Host forever,
the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace.
Oh send out Thy light and Thy truth, the true Christ light,
the wonderful Light of God that cannot fail, placing the feet
of Israel securely upon the pathway leading them back to
that land from whence they came.
Oh Israel! We greet and bless Thee in the name of the
mighty God presence, Shiloh Immanuel. We give our hearts'
love in praise and thanksgiving to Thee! And Oh for that
great sunlight to blaze into the heart of the earth until this
planet becomes a great golden sunlight, filling every heart
with that great happiness which opens the Door of their
understanding, so that the mighty I AM that I AM can come
forth in full power.
Oh mighty God presence Shiloh Immanuel, hold beloved
Israel in this great sunlight. Hold them close in Thy em
brace. Pill them with Thy great peace. Oh mighty Prince
of Justice! enter in and reign and bring Thy blessed King
dom of Peace that has long been promised, and let Thy
wisdom govern at all times. Therefore, bye and bye tidings
will arise from all parts of the earth that thousands are
added to the Church daily. This is the Ingathering of Israel.
Praise God! Tidings shall come from the East like the sun-
rising. The East—which is from the God of Paradise from
which this Angel came, having the Seal of the living God,
the last Seal of Life ; and He rolled the great stone from the
well's mouth and removed the stone from the sepulchre. And
by the Trinity of power He will roll the stony heart from
man, and loose the bands which bind and let him go free ; and
unseal the Tree of life which was planted east-ward in Eden.
And as the lightning shineth from the east to the west,
so shall the coming of the Son of man be! The Angel will
come from the east of the Eden of God, bringing glad tidings
of comfort and joy in the morning of the sunrising of the
east, binding the foal unto the Vine, and His ass-colt unto the
Choice Vine. And now the Master of the True Vine saith:
"Go into the village over against you and straightway you
shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her; loose them and
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 185
bring them to Me; bring the foal unto the Vine, and the colt
unto the Choice Vine. He is brought to birth. The woman of
the Law brings forth the colt and he is loosed from the
bands of the Law and made free, that he may ride into
Jerusalem; and before the mule has gone over the cities of
Israel, the Son of man shall have come.
Yours for the establishment of Christ's Peaceable
Kingdom, for there is no God in all the earth but in Israel,
and I am His servant.
PREPARE FOR ASCENSION.
ALL OF THE prophesying witnesses are of the same Spirit
of life in their order. Enoch and Elijah are witnesses
of just Men made perfect, having their own spirits put within
them, which is an Immortal body. But Jesus and the Second
Child of Immortality are God-man, witnesses of the Spirit
of life, who stand before the Lord of the whole earth, wherein
they are divine leaders, showing forth the Dove Spirit like-
unto the Spirit that lit upon Jesus in the bodily shape of a
dove, which will open up the mysteries that yet lieth so
deep in God, yet to be brought forth.
Therefore there is a divine teacher under authority and
the divine wisdom of God, that as soon as they are born unto
Christ by that divine power they are taken care of, thus
being brought up in the school of Wisdom to learn all the
deep mysteries of God, thus preparing them for their ascen
sion from mortal to Immortality through the divine love of
God, which is His pure eternal breath, until the white Stone
shall be formed into a perfect body, making them likeunto
our Lord and Master, with that eternal power that will open
the eyes of the blind, heal the sick and raise the dead.
Dear beloved Israel this is the divine unity of the Faith
that is set before us, to arrive to which is to be gentle, meek,
precious and powerful. Therefore what a deep search the
holy One doth make in this twelfth and last hour for those
who are waiting and longing to be endowed with the Spirit
of the Holy Ghost, coming down like a shower of rain, yea!
the latter rain to wash the Stones and make them ready for
the Immortal Building.
Let it be remembered, that holy Spirit will have its
birth in a peaceable habitation, proving they have gone
through the conquering life of Jesus, putting all trials and
186 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
temptations under their feet. And this will bring all Israel
to a divine harmony, which is a high perfection, wherein the
birth of power and harmony has struck. Then a wonderful
sign will the Lord give by loosing His last Seal. Let it be
remembered, there were seven Seals and every Seal had
that inward life, thus fulfilling Revelation where it speaks of
a "Stone having seven eyes," which was our ascended Master
the Lord Jesus Christ, for in Him dwelt the fulness of the
Godhead.
Therefore He has prepared a burning flame for all His
vessels to pass through to '$rove whether they be prepared
stones or not. For every Stone of this immortal Building
will be sorely tried, and all the spirits of the Just who stood
with the Union of the Godhead in heaven will come forth as
pure as gold. These are the ones that will reign with Him
upon His throne. Then we shall know His wonderful tender
care, and all visible things must be subject to this holy One
who has taken His crown of victory. And all those who have
been faithful and true as the pillars of heaven, shall wear
this crown.
Therefore the Bride, the 144,000 shall be seen walking
around wearing their Father's Crown, and that Crown is
the holy Spirit that lit upon Jesus in the bodily shape of a
dove at the river Jordan, thus giving them entrance into the
seventh Seal, and they shall be the manifestation of the
Sons of God. Therefore let it be understood, this holy divine
Virgin Mother was hid with all Her glory ever since Adam's
day, because She would not trust Herself with any mortal,
only some of Her shining rays have now and then been
shown, which have been given as the firstfruits, which is
reserved for Christ the Lord's Second Coming. What
glorious and divine things shall now be prepared as a Pen
tecostal feast, according to the royal and heavenly estate
of Jehovah's Bride. Tongue nor pen cannot tell nor explain
the wonderful things that God has in store for His children
of Wisdom to feed upon in that day. Those wonderful things
we will pass by at present. The wonderful Virgin so full
of wisdom and love is taken into God's bosom in a holy
loving embrace.
Wisdom loves discipline, for such shall be Her strong
pillars on which She will engrave Her virgin name. Oh
what a great and divine Queen of all the earth! Oh, who
has sought Thy divine favor and gained the promise? that
you might come and take up your abode with us? Oh! who
5TH COMFORTER OF Tt?E MOTHER'S BOOK J$7
shall have the mark and name of the Virgin white Stone,
by which they shall be empowered with the Spirit of the
Holy Ghost? proving they are the pure Seed of gold, which
is spiritual and invisible to the natural eyes, till the light of
life is made a living flame within the temple.
To see Me as a man only is like the disciples of Jesus,
who slept. Therefore "I am with you and shall be in you,"
thus saith the Lord of glory in the name of the mighty
Shiloh Immanuel, the mighty God, the everlasting Father,
the Prince of Peace, to lead Israel and fulfil it in them as it
was fulfilled in Jesus the firstborn of Israel, who was led by
the Spirit of life and by it He fulfilled the Law and forever
abolished death.
Therefore the begotten children of Jesus Christ are now
to be led by the Spirit, under the New Covenant in the way
of all truth and shown things to come, which will be made
alive in them who are led by it as Jesus was. And this is the
time when the refreshing showers shall come from the pres
ence of our Lord and His Christ, spoken of by the prophets
since the world began. For they shall be baptized now in the
river of Seven Streams, which are the seven Spirits of God
running into one River, where seven ways meet.
And they shall be clothed with the seamless garment,
and satan shall be withstood by My holy Spirit which shall
cover them from head to foot. And all who receive this last
Covenant of Life with the Spirit of truth, shall be able to
rightly divide. Therefore Jesus washed His disciples' feet
after girding Himself with a towel, and He said: "What I
do now thou knowest not, but thou shalt know hereafter,"
because it was sealed till the true Disciples, or the Seed should
come to whom the promise was made. The washing of the
feet was a type of the opening of their understandings to the
Law of life; and. the loins girded with the towel to give virtue
to contain the seed of truth and virtue, the virgin purity, the
Law of life.
Therefore the last prayer Jesus made to the Father
must now be fulfilled, which was for the union of Israel that
we may all be one through the truth sent unto us. My
Word is Spirit and life, now sent unto you. For this cause
the voice of the Trumpet is given, that we may all be One
and stand loyal to the truth as found in the Book, yea! The
Star of Bethlehem, in love with Michael the Spirit of Jesus;
in love and in unity with Him as before when satan was cast.
Therefore the Spirit of the living God is calling for loyal
soldiers. And let us stand in ranks with the head Archangel
188 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
in spirit and in truth.
Therefore Oh Israel I have brought forth Mine Eagle
according to the words given by John. And will ye not come
under its wings? Michael, the Spirit of Jesus will cast out
the evil. Therefore let us stand with Him and prove our
Sonship, for He is thy fellow-servant and of thy brethren,
even the Firstborn. The spirits of the Just will not allow
anything between them and their God. We wish to be made
equal with Jesus our elder Brother. Therefore worship the
Christ of the Living God, the Father and Mother.
Dear beloved Israel the time has come to gather your
selves together that ye might receive power over the nations,
and of the living stream which proceedeth from the Throne
of God and the Lamb, the living Water of Life. Oh Israel
you must learn and understand you must first be gathered
under the wings of the Eagle, which is a semblance of the
Immortal Spirit. The lion is a beast, a figure of the body;
and the eagle of the Spirit. Let us come under the Spirit,
that we might receive the body and mount up as on eagle's
wings.
Dear beloved Israel the Ark is in the land. Will ye not
gather around it and receive the Second Anointing? —the
last eternal Covenant. This is what John spoke of when he
said some would take it and in ten minutes be made Im
mortal. Therefore dear beloved Israel! happy are ye if ye
receive this rod and are ruled by it, that ye may live and not
die. Let us live as brothers and sisters in spirit and in truth,
and dwell in unity of the Spirit and in the bonds of peace.
United we stand, so let us be united and worship and obey
God the Father and Mother of all Israel, and the Spiritual
Child, the darling of His bosom, who is Captain of the host
of the Lord, and am now come. He that hath an ear to hear,
let him hear, for them He called He justified, and them He
justified He also glorified. So be of good cheer and take the
promises as your own. For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel, and I am His servant.
MANTLE-CHRIST; GOD'S PRESENCE.
QH ISRAEL! lift up your hearts and rejoice, knowing that
the ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ was our pat
tern and waymark to go by, which He left on record long
ago; which left a beautiful example for His Israel to walk.by.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 189
And in this the day of His holy Visitation they will fulfil the
example, for they will prove they stood with the union of
the Godhead, and these are the Stones for His Immortal
Building, for they stand as pillars of heaven, proving they
are not of this world because God has chosen them out of it
through the mighty God presence, Shiloh Immanuel.
And what a glorious privilege to His chosen ones, which
will bring their victory over sin, death, hell and the grave,
through the mighty God presence, giving them the secret
knowledge which was given to our ascended Master the
Lord Jesus Christ, that will heal the sick and open the eyes of
the blind, and raise the dead. Oh what a privilege to be
found worthy to walk in His footsteps ! whose voice was
heard on Galilee's shore, and His voice that subdued the
rough tempest is heard in Judea no more.
And now He has returned in His Brother to rebuke the
storms as He did before. Hark! it is the same Voice that
was heard in Judea before. And now will the tempest and
storm obey Him. In the lonely dark hours of the night they
will hear His voice pleading —Hark! all things are quiet;
therefore in this the day of His heavenly Visitation He will
show all things which are written and stand on record to be
fulfilled.
At the marriage feast of Cana of Galilee He said His
hour had not yet come, and the water pots were filled with
water before they were turned into wine, and the best wine
reserved for the last. And I tell you of a truth, His hour
was not then for the Gospel to be fulfilled. He said: "The
words that I speak unto you, they are Spirit and they are
life;" but they were not understood, but were sealed up until
the time of the end, to be revealed in this our day through
the mighty God presence, Shiloh Immanuel, the everlasting
Father, the Prince of Peace who brings His true Elect the
wonderful wisdom that will help them over all their difficult
ies, through the power of the great sunlight that is now
shining over His true Israel; that will purify and cleanse
them from everything that is contrary to the holy One, mak
ing them a fit vessel for that holy Spirit to dwell in.
And dear beloved ones, remember He shall appear to
your joy to receive His Bride unto Himself, that where He
is there ye may be also. And She shall be free from every
stain of evil and clothed with the garment of white, the wed
ding garment of Immortal Life. The children saw Her and
bowed to Her. The heavens beheld Her and gave way to
190 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
Her. The Angels saw Her and ministered to Her. Wherever
She went, wherever She flew, there Her Husband was with
Her. And this twain, the Second Child, is brought forth by
the Latter Adam and Eve, namely Christ and Jerusalem
above.
Oh beloved Israel ! let us all join hands in one holy circle
of God with all earnestness, and with one voice call out to
the holy One to send His great sunlight through every true
heart. For behold! He has arisen and broken the seals one
by one, and now in this fourth watch of His rising He has
loosed the seven Seals for the Living, by which the old
bribed keepers, or watchers shall fall as dead men. It is a
savor of life unto life, or of death unto death. The great
stone is rolled from the well's mouth. Water ye the cattle
and feed them by the Last Covenant, the Ark of His Testi
mony which is open in heaven.
And of a truth these are the days of great rejoicing to
all those who are ready and prepared to render their service
through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, for as My Father sent
Me, so send I you clothed with that Immortal Spirit that
will bring victory, sweet victory to the whole earth —speak
ing nothing but love and kindness to each other, thus enter
ing into perfection in our New World. Oh the love, the joy
that will enter every heart, which will cause them to keep
the Covenant which will be made alive in them, as the sign
of this Covenant was put in the heavens by the rainbow of
many colors, also proving He would no more destroy all flesh.
And Oh Israel how we ought to rejoice that we have
been kept back to see these days, the 1,335 days of Daniel,
when all the prophecies shall now be fulfilled in all the faith
ful ones, true to their high calling in Christ Jesus. And
dear beloved Israel if you can see it as I see it you will rise
from your sleepy condition by the mighty God presence,
Shiloh Immanuel, which will cause your heart to leap for joy
and gratitude in seeing this eternal work going on under the
great sunlight, which will sweep the earth with that wonder
ful power and manifest His glory.
Oh can you not hear the voices of the glorified Saints
welcome you on this strait and narrow way, back to that
land from whence we came ? Dear beloved ones I ask you to
be strong in the words of wisdom that the ascended Master,
the Lord Jesus Christ hath given, which is the greatest that
will be given on earth, for there is no other knowledge great
er to come forth to Israel than the knowledge of their own
God presence, which is the knowledge of your own Christ
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 191
Spirit that keeps you alive upon the earth. It is the
goal of all human pilgrimages upon the earth. And rem
ember, it is made known in all love and kindness by our
beloved ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who sends
forth the great Sunlight, and set the example.
We greet thee, we bless thee in the name of our blessed
Shiloh. We give our hearts' praise and love in thanks to
thee. Therefore dear beloved ones, think what such a serv
ice means to the Israel of God. Think what it means for you
who are a part of it. Never on earth was there ever such an
opportunity. Never on earth were Israel so blessed as they
are now, who have the opportunity to understand their
mighty presence Shiloh Immanuel and call it into action,
which gave Jesus the knowledge and understanding of all He
was to do. And through His great knowledge He could read
a person and tell them their thoughts. And He worked so
earnestly, and longed to bring forth all Israel into His glory
as the many brethren who should afterwards be revealed.
The opportunity is before you today, dear beloved Ones, and
all that He worked for shall be fulfilled in His Elect, the
144,000.
And Oh dear beloved Israel have we not had an out
pouring from the ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ,
right here in the City of David? —pointing the way so
wonderful and plain that His Kingdom of Peace shall be
established, which shall be done through this great Law of
Life by His true Elect who walk in the strait and narrow
way—it being the Law of Life.
Therefore Oh Israel be on the watch. When you see one
by the powers of darkness trying to interfere with the spread
ing of this great Sunlight by the Messengers whom God has
sent, is there any human being so foolish as to listen to any
thing less than perfection? Therefore I entreat thee to be
strong against the powers of darkness, and show to the
world that such forces have no power with you. Therefore
look the truth squarely in the face.
Beloved Ones, I do not speak the truth to make anyone
fear; but I speak the truth that each one may make a strong
effort against the powers of darkness. What a golden privi
lege to be living in this the twelfth and last hour! Therefore
dear Israel will you join me hand in hand, pouring forth love
and gratitude without limit to all the dear brothers and
sisters scattered abroad who have given their love, energy
and strength, who are working in the Vineyard for the
establishment of His peaceable Kingdom here on earth?
192 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
Therefore dear Israel! can you imagine my joy at having
the ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, appear to me
in His bright shining garment, saying: "This is the begin
ning of the New World!" Let me tell you, it is no dream,
it is a mighty reality. Therefore do you realize precious
Ones, that your mighty God presence is your Christ-self,
which is that much of God that has been given you to keep
you alive, and without it you could not live? which is
ever standing, ready to protect, to supply you with every
good thing that your heart can possibly desire. It only asks
one thing, and that is "Give Me your whole heart, and I will
clothe thee in that invisible garment of protection." Truly:
"Contentment with Godliness is great gain."
Therefore, may each one arrive in the fulness of His
mighty God presence Shiloh Immanuel, meeting the great
outpouring of that one Immortal Spirit. Yea the latter rain
which causes a great rejoicing for this great Sunlight that
lighteth every one that cometh into the world, that the hearts
of all Israel are seeking for so earnestly; that perfection of
the ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who set forth
the beautiful example of meekness and love, that all might
follow.
So today has come the fulfillment of that example which
will be fulfilled in His true Elect, who will be filled with
wisdom, grace and love; the mighty wisdom and mighty
energy which enables you to do all things perfectly under His
direction.
Therefore let us remember Elijah, who by the law of life
entered into the glorious ascension —a spirit of Just men
made perfect. And you will remember Elias followed Him
and asked for a double portion, and Elijah said: "Thou
hast asked a hard thing, nevertheless if Thou see me when
I am taken from thee, it shall be so unto thee; but if not,
it shall not be so." But it came to pass that a chariot of
fire parted them asunder; and Elias saw it and took up the
mantle of Elijah; and this mantle of the Spirit of Elijah
has been handed down the line, which is the Spirit of pro
phecy, and it was the mantle which John received as it is
written : "He came in the power and in the Spirit of Elias,"
and it was transferred to John the Beloved, who should tarry
and prophesy again. And by the Spirit of Elias he did so
in the second watch of the night, fulfilling the sayings of
old, that Elias should first come and turn the hearts of the
children to the Father —that is, to the Law of Life and the
Prophets before that great and terrible day of the Lord.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 193
And the mighty Angel which came down from heaven
clothed with a cloud, and a rainbow upon His head, was to
confirm the Covenant of Immortality, as was shown after
the destruction of the old world of the first dispensation.
As it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be in the coming
of the Son of man. Therefore as we have arrived this far
on our journey, the great Sunlight has appeared. So let all
the true Israel of God put on the whole armour of Jesus
Christ and join themselves together by this last Covenant,
which is written unto you in the Union of the Spirit, that
you might receive power.
So dear beloved brothers and sisters : Let us rejoice and
give thanks to the Giver of all things, who has sent the Angel
from the East, having the seal of the living God, the seal
and the trumpet of the living Word, which keeps the virtue
of the living Oil within ourselves, coming from the living
Child from the East, that is from the Mother of the Eden of
Paradise, which was planted eastward in Eden, which is the
rising of this great Sunlight. She came clothed with the
Sun and the moon under her feet, and a crown of twelve
stars upon her head; who brought forth the living Spiritual
Man-child. And the virgins who follow Him are not cracked
vessels, as was shown by the foregoing Messengers, for they
shall be healed and sealed unto the Lamb of the living God.
Hark ye! When the whole House of David is sealed
by this testimony, then the four winds of judgment will be
let loose and the Seven Angels with the seven vials of the
wrath of God, till satan is destroyed in the earth, in the sea,
and in the air; for the battle is now being fought and the
victory shall be won by the power of the Eternal holy One,
thus bringing peace on earth and good-will toward all men!
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am
His servant.
GRAFTED INTO THE BRANCH.
THE SCEPTRE shall not depart from Judah, nor the law
giver from between His feet until Shiloh comes, male and
female, who is the King and lawgiver that was, and yet to
come, revealing the Law of Life; proving Him to be the Man-
child which is to rule the nations with the rod of God's
power, wherein the highest wisdom shall be brought into
394 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
manifestation and replenish the earth anew, that God may
walk in the midst of it and no longer be unknown to those
who are purified and cleansed from all dross; thereby gain
ing an entrance into the New Jerusalem.
Therefore the partition walls must be broken down, that
Zion above and Zion below may be joined together, which
will bring joy and happiness untold. The divine Woman is
now seen again in the heavens, which we are to declare to our
own little flock, which brings such tidings of joy as doth far
exceed that of Gabriel to the virgin Mary, who was bles
sed among women, who was destined to be the Mother of
Jesus in His fleshly appearance. But now by this divine
virgin Mother He is brought forth in His divine Immortal
body as a mighty ruler and protector over this earth, which
is really and truly fulfilled, whatsoever was typified in Solo
mon's reign.
Oh that high and divine glory which shall proceed from
this Virgin's womb, which is blessed far above all women
upon the earth. Behold! She comes with all Her divine gifts,
wherein sorrow shall never be known. For this divine Virgin
was never disobedient nor broke faith with God, who is Her
Husband—the fruit—blessing and joy throughout this whole
generation, namely the 144,000 that are born of Her. She
shall be the Mother of the true Virgin Church wherein no
mixture of worship or false doctrine shall be found. Nothing
shall be able to prevent God's purpose, who will appear with
His Virgin in His divine body and cover Her with His vesture,
who will destroy all evil spirits and wear them out, for they
cannot endure Her virgin purity.
Therefore a separation is made, as we read that the
Woman had a place prepared for Her, which signifies the
Spirit of Faith. And all those who can receive the truth,
the call has gone forth for them to gather themselves to
gether, as the chariot wheels of Israel are rolling along and
the time is short, so that saying may be made good of Micah
4:8: "And thou, Oh tower of the flock, the strong-hold of
the daughter of Zion, unto thee shall it come, even the first
dominion; the Kingdom shall come to the daughter of Jeru
salem." Therefore do not put this time and day afar off,
because it is nigh thee, even at thy door. Ye hardly have
time to change your coat.
Therefore I entreat thee to ever seek to enter that
Spiritual habitation of mind, that you may be prepared and
have your ears open to hear the voice and sound of the
Seventh Angel that has gone forth to proclaim that the
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 195
kingdoms of this world have become the Kingdom of our
Lord and His Christ; even so let all Israel unite with Me,
their Lord in unity and love, thus showing forth the fruits of
the Spirit, for "by their fruits ye shall know them," proving
yourselves worthy to go forth to preach the everlasting
Gospel to them that dwelleth here upon the earth, inviting
them to enter into the Ark of safety.
There will be some that will be endowed with the Spirit
of the Holy Ghost, who will arise and go forth as lightning
upon the earth, receiving the divine understanding of Spirit
ual gifts, and in a special manner a gift of discerning spirits,
knowing the very thoughts and intents of the heart, as Peter
understood the thoughts and mind of Ananias and Sapphira.
The Spirit of God and the spirit of Peter came together,
which revealed unto Peter just what they had done.
And so in this same manner will these things be made
manifest again, for as the world in age grows old, so the
mystery of iniquity has waxed great by putting on and
counterfeiting —even spitting in God's face —denying His
divine power that was shown through His beloved Son when
here upon earth.
Therefore the Triune Council in heaven —the Father,
Mother and Son—foreseeing this, will raise up those who stand
firm and true to the Union of the Godhead, who shall be of
a quick sight and sound judgment, who will detect the
counterfeit whatever way it might come. Therefore the
God of Israel will see it necessary to set His own stamp
first for cleanliness and purity on those who have overcome
all of satan's works; and through the power of the Holy
Ghost they will do such wonderful miracles that none of the
false imitators shall be able to do, nor stand before
them in this Golden Age, the beginning of God's own creation
wherein His heavenly family will be united together and
live in joy, happiness and peace.
• And there will be such divine understanding given and
such a pure, holy habitation wherein they have gained the
lost Paradise, namely the body, fulfilling that Scripture which
saith : "I will make man more precious than the gold weight
of Ophir." Therefore our ascended Master the Lord Jesus
Christ, will come distinctly upon the earth to turn it into a
Paradise. This wonderful divine work is likeunto a rainbow
with its seven beautiful colors, which stood a beautiful figure
of the Covenant that He made with Noah after the flood,
when He said: "I will no more destroy all flesh," because
His Elect people the 144,000 are now upon the earth, which
396 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
are the salt of the earth that cannot be destroyed.
The secrets of the Lord are with the Prophets, a good
divine fellowship which has the fellowship of the mysteries
of life. And this is not surprising, for the Lord God doeth
nothing but He revealeth His secrets to His servants the
Prophets. Amos 3,7. And if that servant makes a mistake,
let it be remembered there are seven Prophets more than they
know of, which is the Seven Holy Spirits of God. Therefore
let it be understood that the world will only be saved for the
sake of the remnant, 144,000 twice-told, they being the salt
of the earth which will establish the Holy City. The question
might be asked, What is the Holy City? It is where the
Holy One dwells —a secret place. And this is spoken of else
where as the "bosom of the divine Mother." And it is the
gathering of the remnant which will be saved in the coming
overturn.
And He will make one new man, namely God-man.
Nothing else will prove man that he is in the image of Jesus
Christ, for He has retained His body and gained eternal
freedom, which is impossible for you to lose if you be one
who stood with Michael (Jesus Christ) to help cast satan
from the heavens to the earth. Here you will see the three
names of the three possessions: of Jesus—body; Michael—
soul; Christ —divine Spirit; and in Jesus these three are One,
making a perfect God-man.
Therefore the reason for the Lord's first coming was to
take the blame which Adam cast on God; to die in the place
of the woman whom Adam blamed as well as God; to have
His heel bruised on the cross by slaying Jesus. Satan the
officer of death, overstepped his office, for death is the wages
of sin, and Jesus was pure and wholly without sin.
Therefore as satan slew Jesus unjustly, the Lord has
inspired a mortal woman to bruise his head, thus bringing
death to an end. Therefore woman must be proven to be
what God created her to be—namely, the true Helpmate.
And woman is therefore the instrument now being used for
the redemption of man from the effects of the fall. Woman
dwelling in the divine Mother, namely Jerusalem above, is
the Tree of Life and the fountain of Living Water. Gen.
2;9. Song of Sol. Rev. 22-2.
The Branch of Me saith the Lord, was also taken from
the Woman, which shall be given to the Son of man. This
Branch is twain; the mighty Shiloh Immanuel is His name.
They shall agree with My Bride in spirit and in truth, which
shall form a trinity forever in heaven and in earth, in which
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 197
all Israel shall be gathered and live and reign with Me the
ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ on earth a thousand
years. This Branch lit according to the divine will of God in
the appointed time of the third watch given by James, which
is recorded in the sixth part of the Message in this the
(eleventh) hour, which tells us this Graft would alight before
the third watch was up. This was fulfilled at cock-crowing
on the morning of the 12th day of March, 1895. And by
this Message of the Branch all Israel shall be grafted into the
further Faith of the Lord Jesus Christ for the cleansing by
the Word, which is spirit and life. This Thou shalt cause to
become Immortal in whomsoever it is grafted.
Therefore this Book of Life is open for you, that you
by the light of it might be able to see how to change your gar
ment and be clothed with the double robe of righteousness,
the white wedding garment of the marriage of the Lamb of
God. Thus saith the Lord, "Israel shall ride on white horses,"
which is their bodies purified and made white without
blemish, as described by John the beloved in the book of
Revelation, and also in the Private Word given by John in
the second watch of the night.
Therefore Oh God of Israel give us a heart of praise to
Thy glorious name in earth as Thou didst in heaven, that
Thou hast chosen Thy Instrument for the Seventh and Last
time to sound the Trumpet of Truth, for which Thou didst
bring us into the world to testify unto the truth as it is in
Jesus Christ, unsealed by the Lion of the tribe of Judah unto
His younger Brother, unto the tribe of Benjamin for the
whole House of Israel, that they may be made One even as
we are One in the Holy Ghost, our divine Mother. For there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
THE FIRST RISING ONES.
I ET IT EVER be remembered, before we came to earth we
dwelt in spirit around the Throne of God, and we engaged
in the war against satan in heaven. If you stood with Mich
ael, the promise is you shall dwell in your Immortal body as
a reward for so doing. Those who did not stand with Michael
will die. You cannot follow the teachings of this Visitation
if you did not stand with Michael—Michael who is the Spirit
of Jesus. But if you stood with Him, you were taught all
that I am now teaching you before you came down to take
1&8 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
a body, and all this is being brought to your remembrance.
If you stood with Michael you are sure to follow on in this
Visitation.
Therefore remember: This is and has been satan's
kingdom until the Seventh Trump sounded, and under the
sounding of the Seventh Trump the kingdoms of this world
become the Kingdom of our Lord and His Christ. And except
those days were shortened no flesh could be saved. Jesus
Christ said: "How oft would I have gathered ye as a hen
gathereth her brood under her wings, and ye would not,"
showing you Israel was not gathered in the days of Jesus —
but "Unto SHILOH shall the gathering of the people be."
Therefore they must be gathered unto a place prepared,
which will be as the Ark of refuge. For the ascended Master
the Lord Jesus Christ, left this work to be accomplished by
the birth of the Second Child that was to stand up in His
stead, which will bring forth this most perfect restoration,
so that all Israel might know the tracks of Elijah through
the burning Chariot enwrapped in flames for his translation.
It will certainly fall on the Israel of God to become pregnant
by the power of the Holy Ghost, and when this Child is
delivered you are made Immortal. And this will be a proof
that Shiloh Immanuel is upon the earth.
Therefore Oh Israel! quicken up your Faith that you
may be those worthy ones to bear the Living Testimony for
Christ your Lord. This is the preparation for His wonderful
Kingdom here upon earth. This will prove that Wisdom has
been brought to birth, for "Wisdom is justified of Her child
ren." Then behold the spring of righteousness will arise for
the true washing of regeneration, then will the Holy Ghost
be renewed in great power and dominion, so it shall be known
Jehovah the Lord and mighty King liveth and reigneth here.
For this must be the forerunner of that more great and
notable day of Christ, as to His appearing in His own personal
glory.
And dear beloved laborers of the Vineyard! there is a
great and mighty work yet to be accomplished, which is the
increase in mighty power that will turn the world upside
down. Therefore nothing is more expedient for hastening
this blessed day of our Lord's appearing. All are watchers
and holy seers; through that Immortal Eye they well under
stand the sounding of the Seventh Trump will gather the
Dove spirits together to wait in love-unity, that the thousand
years' reign might have a special beginning and entrance upon
5TH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 199
that which is well prepared for the outpouring of the Holy
Ghost in power and dominion.
Therefore this will be the manner of His coming in this
the twelfth and last hour to stand upon the earth, refining
and polishing the Immortal Stones by the fire that never dies;
which fire is the Seed of God that shall multiply itself to
bring power and wisdom, that will "cover the earth as the
waters cover the sea" until all shall be made anew. This
life of Christ shall flourish and grow until their wisdom is
made perfect. Then it shall be revealed what you are to be
made heirs to, while in this golden age of time waiting
patiently for Christ's full development of power, which will
bring such gains of heavenly power which will pour down
from the heavens above and fly like lightning, that shall
reach from one nation to another, by which the dark corners
of the earth shall become light.
This is the new and living way in which our Lord Jesus
Christ will begin to manifest Himself. Therefore, hereto
let the holy anointed Ones who are on the watch for Me
wait with patience until I bid thee come up hither, for I
know thou hast searched deep to find the path of life that
few have found, because it is all Holy ground where none but
spirits of the Just that have put on their Immortal body can
ascend and keep their feet steady in this strait track which
I, through God the Father, did freely pass and so may you,
as I in you this rising body shall quicken up.
For if the Spirit of Him that raised up Jesus (i.e., His
soul) from the dead, dwell in you, then the Spirit that raised
up Christ (i.e., the body) from the dead, shall also quicken
your mortal body by His Spirit that dwelleth in you, and
shall quicken your mortal body and fashion it likeunto His
glorious body Immortal, delivered from the bondage of cor
ruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God.
And afterwards He showed an Immortal body to the two
women who held Him by the feet of understanding, which
were Mary and Joanna who are now seen in this Visitation
holding Him by the feet of understanding. Therefore when
we can realize that we are holding the feet of the ascended
Master the Lord Jesus Christ, it causes a great rejoicing to
come upon us, as if all were filled with that Holy Spirit, which
may be compared to Elijah stretching himself upon the dead
child, which was made alive thereby.
Therefore blessed are those who have arrived thus far on
their journey and can see through that Immortal Eye the
manifestations— seeing the wonderful day of the love of God
200 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
is breaking through to encompass the whole earth, and Christ
will no longer be a stranger. Has He not spoken to His
Messengers through the Spirit of the Holy Ghost? preparing
His Elect to be ready for His appearing in great power and
glory. Therefore He is absent in body but present in Spirit
to reveal all the deep mysteries of heaven, that His Elect
might see, feel and know Him as a mighty Counselor and a
mighty Comforter, that they might prepare by constantly
having Him in their heart and mind, waiting for the Love-
Star of Bethlehem to arise to lead the wise men to that place
where My Spirit now rests;wherein the mighty heavenly host
shall be heard proclaiming the glory of Christ's Kingdom.
Even so, Come! thou mighty King of glory. For Thy
Bride, the 144,000 shall be restored through die marriage
union with the mighty Lamb of God. And this holy Spirit
shall be so fully poured forth upon these first arising Ones,
bearing the mark of this holy One by being clothed upon by
that holy Spirit in the bodily shape of a dove; which time
will be when the winds of the Spirit shall rise more strongly
in the Spirit of the Holy Ghost, which brings speedily the
Kingdom of Christ to be made manifest here upon earth, in
which He will reign personally in His Saints, who are an
ointed first with such measures of the Spirit that do highly
sanctify, which do prepare for the great day of the one thous
and years' reign wherein He will turn it into a Paradise. For
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His
servant.
».**"—<. •'
PREPARED BY THE LAW OF LIFE.
I ET IT BE remembered that every word that was spoken
by our beloved ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ,
will be fulfilled, but the body must be prepared through
keeping the Law of Life, as it is written: "Keep My Law
and thou shalt live," which will purify and cleanse the body.
Then we become the land of Israel, ready to receive the
baptism of the Holy Ghost mingled with fire from heaven;
begotten of the Father and conceived of the Mother, and
carried by Her until the appointed time of the Father through
the mighty I AM presence Shiloh Immanuel. And through
the power of His divine Spirit they will heal the sick, open the
eyes of the blind, and raise the dead. And their words shall
go as balls of fire that will sink deep down in every true
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 201
heart, proving that they have stood with the union of the
Godhead when the great battle was fought, and cast Lucifer
and all that stood with him, from the heavens to the earth.
Therefore if an angel from heaven come preaching any
other doctrine save the doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ,
let him be accursed. And dear Israel! ever remember the
battle is now going on, and every Stone shall be tested and
tried in this the twelfth and last hour. But the true Israel of
God have nothing to fear, for they will be led by that Spirit
of truth which will lead them in the way of all truth and
show them things to come. They will stay in the chariot
that is rolling along, taking them back to that land from
whence they came, through the mighty God presence, prov
ing themselves to be jewels in the heart of God, thus gaining
their Immortal inheritance; thus proving they are legitimate
heirs to the will that our dear beloved ascended Master the
Lord Jesus Christ made to the Spirits of the Just. And He
will bring to their remembrance all things that I have spoken
unto you from the beginning through the mighty I AM
presence. They will prove their love and loyalty by their
obedience, for Obedience means life.
Therefore, dear beloved Israel! Under this great sun
light you have great reasons to rejoice, fully realizing that
our names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. For,
them He called He also justified, and them He justified He
also glorified. And Jesus called out and said: "O Father,
glorify Me with the glory I had with Thee before the world
was." And listen to the beautiful answer: "I have both
glorified Thee and will glorify Thee again,"—in the Bride,
namely the 144,000, the true Sons of God who shall be seen
walking here upon the earth as Jesus walked nearly two
thousand years ago.
Dear beloved Israel! Ye Spirits of the Just, we greet
thee through the mighty God presence, in unity and love
that will build up the strong walls of the transparent City
that John saw coming down from God out of heaven, pre
pared as a Bride adorned for her Husband. Oh Israel!
cheer up, for God loves you and will do the work for you,
thus saith the Lord, if you are only willing. "For I will have
a willing people in the day of My power and remember I have
the robes ready and prepared to clothe thee, in the day of My
marriage feast, for thou art My hidden gold of life—of
Life Eternal that is set before you, so near within your reach,
for Thou hast been tried and come forth as gold, which
brings power and light that brings divine wisdom and justice
202 THE, BOOK OF HEAVEN
to you, proving you are clothed with that seamless garment—
the garment that Jesus wore, which fills your heart with
charity and love, that gives you strength to pray for your
enemies, and pray for those that spitefully use you and
persecute you, thus becoming like our Lord and Master,
asking the Father to forgive them for they know not what
they do, for they are blinded by the powers of darkness.
Therefore hate the sin with all your heart, but still the
sinner love. This proves you are in the condition to fulfil
the Law of Life. And how my heart leaps for joy today,
that I have the golden opportunity through the mighty God
presence Shiloh Immanuel, to take up the mantle of love,
purity, kindness and holiness unto Him, the ascended Master
the Lord Jesus Christ, who can give us our ascension in His
own appointed time through the mighty God presence,
Shiloh Immanuel, the Mighty God, the everlasting Father,
the Prince of Peace; bringing all things to our remembrance
—the deep spiritual things which have been kept secret since
the days of Jesus, and were not to be revealed until the seven
Thunders uttered their voices, which is now sounding, and
the Seventh Seal loosed and the mystery revealed, which is
the sealed writings which are now open for the Israel of
God, pertaining to the secrets of life which are now revealed
in the last Covenant.
God has always had Messengers down the line, and Jesus
Christ is the Standard. Therefore blessed and holy is he
that keepeth My commands, for it is the seal of My eternal
Covenant, and all that prove faithful and true I will seal
them with seven Seals, and crown them with Shiloh. Oh
Israel My chosen few, ye shall have the seven Seals stamped
upon your forehead, sealed unto Me, the mighty Shiloh Im
manuel, and the precious Truth put within your heart to do
My will as it was done by Me the Lion of the tribe of Judah,
who opens the seal for you; for the time is here. In this the
twelfth and last hour He is standing up for the deliverance
of His people whose names are found in the book of Life,
sealed with seven Seals unto Myself, and received unto Myself
that where I am ye may be also; male and female, with the
Branch Christ and the Bride, for they are fed and supported
by the life of God, and ye shall be sifted with seven sieves
until all the chaff is taken out by the power of the mighty
God presence, God-with-us. For there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
3TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHERS BOOK 263
SPRINGS OF WISDOM.
JYEAR beloved Israel, let it be remembered all things work
together for good to those who love God and are so called
according to His purpose, because it is promised to the Elect,
the spirits of the Just now in this His Second Coming
who are elected, foreordained and predestinated, which
cannot be changed, for it is fixed and sealed.
So let us fix our seal that God is true and faithful con
cerning His promises; in this great Visitation in particular
the Seventh sounds in the Sixth that the Messengers fore
told of, the Seventh to come, and beginning with the Living
Branch to be grafted, and the beginning of the New Creation
of God as I have explained before, and not only this, but the
deep mysteries pertaining to God and the restoration of
Paradise to Israel. Therefore the Seventh sounds in this
the sixth day, preparatory to the seventh day Sabbath of
rest and peace.
So Jesus said: "If they would have been mindful of
the things which belong to their Peace they might have
entered in with Him in His first coming." It remains for
the spirits of the Just now in this His Second Coming. There
fore make your calling and election sure.
John saw Him in His glorified body and described Him
as a burning fire, and He had in His right hand seven stars,
which are the seven Angels of the seven churches, and all
sound in the Seventh and the mysteries to be finished and
His Elect will see THE STAR and hear HIS VOICE. And
His countenance was as the sun shining in his strength; and
John said: "When I saw him I fell at His feet as dead, and
He laid His right hand upon me, saying: "Fear not, I am
the first and the last; I am He that liveth and was dead, and
behold, I am alive forever and have the keys of hell and of
death."
The seven candlesticks and the seven stars are the seven
churches and the Seven Angels, and without contradiction
all is written for us upon whom the end of the world has
come, because the redemption is yet to be obtained and the
light of the Seven Angels is the light of this Visitation, all
working by the Spirit of truth which He said He would
send, and which is that Other Comforter which the world
cannot receive.
Therefore the mysteries which have hitherto been sealed
up are now being made known by the mighty God presence,
Shilbh Immanuel, God with us, who is searching out the
204 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN '••-
other fold, and He said He would give unto them eternal
life and they should never perish, neither shall any man
pluck them out of My hand. And therefore the Seventh
Angel sounds and is finishing the mysteries as declared by
His servants the Prophets. Rev.10-7.
After this I looked and behold a door was opened in
heaven, which is for the Elect now who will hear His voice,
that is of the Trumpet, and harden not their hearts. And
the first voice was as it were a trumpet talking with me,
which said : "Come up hither and I will show you the things
which must be hereafter," and here he saw One sitting upon
a Throne and it followed the four and twenty elders. Now
remember He said: "These are the things which shall be
hereafter," and that the Door was open in Heaven. And
as it said before, the New Creation of God; and if the door
was not open in heaven for them how could they enter into
spiritual and heavenly things? Therefore they are to be
both in heaven —that is the Spirit of this Visitation; and
also upon the earth—the beginning of the New Creation of
God on earth, and therefore enter in with Him and He with
us, like Jesus who dwelt first in the Kingdom of heaven and
then the Kingdom of heaven in Him. And as He said: "You
in Me, and I in you."
Oh Israel! Behold He now stands at the Door and
knocks, and if any man opens the door I will come in and sup
with you, and you with me. And again He said: "I am the
Door, the way, the truth and life;" which is the Spirit and
life of the Visitation. The door is open by the unsealing of
the mysteries, an Open Vision, but is it for you? Are the
sealed doors open in your case? Do you hear His knock?
And do you hear His voice? However, we do know His
sheep hear His voice and therefore the Spirits of the Just
having bodies, will enter in at the strait gate; by the Word of
His promise these were seen with white robes and golden
crowns, and out of the Throne proceeded thunder and lightn
ing and voices, and there were seven lamps of fire burning
before the Throne, which are the Seven Spirits of God; and
a sea of glass likeunto crystal.
As it is written: "I saw a pure river of water, clear
as crystal, proceeding from the Throne of God and of the
Lamb; and on either side was there the Tree of life yielding
Her fruit every month." Therefore our spirit, soul and body
should Awake! and take interest in this glorious habitation
to come, and which will come and not tarry. WE MUST
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 205
BE READY, as He said to John : Behold, I COME QUICKLY
to give unto every man as his work shall be.
Those who are faithful and true, are encircled around
with springs of Wisdom, and from the great fountain and
springs of Wisdom they all drank. And as Jesus said:
"Drink, and thirst no more." And as it is also written: I
will lead them unto fountains of Living Water, and iniquity
shall pass away like a shadow, and this Laving Faith shall
nourish and grow like a myrtle tree, all growing in grace and
knowledge, full of wisdom from the fountain and springs
of Wisdom, for Wisdom is justified of Her children. Praise
to the God of Israel! She has come to dwell with us in the
City of David wherein Her Sons and daughters shall be
brought forth. As it is written: "She dwells with the Sons
of God, bringing joy, peace and happiness, thus entering
into the beautiful Sabbath of rest, wherein love shall flow
from heart to heart, and nothing shall hurt nor destroy
in all My holy Mountain, saith the Lord. For there is no
God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
SPRINGTIME.
[YEAR BELOVED ISRAEL! Let it be remembered, when
the holy Spirit rested upon Peter he knew all things, for
the righteousness of God's holy Virgin Law cannot be deceiv
ed; and even the lies on the lips of Ananias and Sapphira
turned to dust before its virgin purity. Therefore this holy
Spirit is "The Star of Bethlehem," the Living Roll of Life
now resting upon the hearts of His Virgin Bride, the Holy
City of God, by the more sure Word of prophecy. They shall
behold My Royal Branch which I promised should grow
out of the stem of Jesse. And I will empower Him with My
Spirit the Lord, which shall rest upon Him, and I will esta
blish Him upon the throne of David, and He shall reign in
righteousness.
This is He whom I spoke of, My servant Jacob when He
said: "The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor the
law-giver from between His feet until Shiloh come; and unto
Him shall the gathering of the people be." I am the Lord,
the Husband of Israel, for all My children shall be gathered
in the name of Shiloh; and this is the name that I shall be
glorified with in gathering My children who are waiting for
206 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
this glorious Message to come, the resurrected Word of life,
through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel.
Then shall the witnesses no more prophesy clothed in
sackcloth and as under a veil in mourning, but in the Im
mortal raiment of God. Neither is the Law of God any
more trampled under foot, because all those who through
obedience receive the Immortal breath of that fiery Law,
are safe in His Immortal embrace, putting on the Immortal
Clothing of the Bride of the Lamb: One Shepherd, one
sheep-fold; one Lord, one Faith and one baptism, —yea! the
baptism of the Holy Ghost mingled with fire from heaven.
And now we can again bring harmony and hear heavenly
music, for we can behold the time of a wondrous vision near
the fulfillment, for ye know that summer is nigh ; or from the
natural birth of the Second Child November 1862, until all
the Virgins of Her Immortal Church have sprung forth from
the field as tender grass springeth out of the earth by a clear
sunshine after a rain—"Spring-time" —wherein they are
trodden under foot no longer. O beloved Israel! such a
springtime was never seen before! —all the lovely and lively
flowers of the Millennium, as the sun-rising in the morning
without clouds.
For as the rain cometh down and the snow from heaven
and returns not, but waters the earth and maketh it bring
forth and bud, that it may give seed to the sower and bread
to the eater, so shall My Word be that goeth forth out of
My mouth, "Until the day break and the shadows flee away."
And if the clock points toward the hour of nine, is not the
day already far spent? Wherefore He saith: Awake! thou
that sleepest, and arise from the dead and Christ shall give
thee light, that ye might see clearly the past, present and
future in the heavens stretched out before you like a curtain :
the pages or curtains of the "Little Book Open." Page by
page in volume deep; curtain upon curtain drawn back;
light-burst after light-burst until every Word written in My
Law and Gospel has been unfolded unto the children of the
living God.
And as Gabriel is the Interpreter, revealing the great
sunlight of God's holy Visitation, truly this is the year of
years revealing the substance of the Visitation to the Woman,
the Living Church, the Bride of the Bridegroom, to which
Israel have looked with weeping and longing eyes these
many, many years, when we shall all meet face to face in
this great Ingathering long foretold, through the mighty God
presence, Shiloh Immanuel.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 207
And when fifty are searched out in America they shall
come by fifties, hundreds and thousands, and many poor
wanderers will be coming to the great Ingathering bare
footed and in tattered clothing. But God will clothe them,
and He will give them that Immortal raiment that fadeth not
away. For has He not promised that He will never leave
thee nor forsake thee? Lo! I am with thee in every trying
hour.
Therefore, dear beloved Israel if we are of one Mother,
namely Jerusalem above, are we not all Brothers and Sisters ?
And Jesus said: "Whosoever doeth the will of My Father
which is in heaven, the same is My mother, My sister and My
brother." For that Woman who dwelleth in Jerusalem above
is that virtuous Woman. Her life is pure holiness unto God,
and She keeps Her beloved Israel in the hollow of Her hand.
Every true Israelite will know the voice of the holy Mother
of Zion, for "by the hand of a woman I will complete My
wonderful plan." For there is no God in all the earth but
in Israel, and I am His servant.
UNSEALED TREASURES.
'WfHAT MORE joyful tidings can come to us than this
beautiful Golden Age that shall do away with all other
ages wherein death and sin have reigned with all sorrow,
lamentation and bitter weeping ever since the beginning of
the old world. As we are now under the voice of the Seventh
and last Messenger who has brought forth the fiery Law
of Life, it will cleanse and purify our body from all evil and
make it a fit habitation for that holy Spirit to dwell in,
wherein it will make all things anew, thus bringing back
the Day that is past, which is the glorious Millennium reign
of Christ.
As there was neither sin nor confusion in the former
cycle, so it must be again, when the Hour of God's judgments
shall have come to pass—then a final sentence shall be passed
against all the powers of darkness. Then God's anionted
Israel will show forth the power of the Holy Ghost wherein
His New Creation will not be disturbed nor tormented. This
is the divine prophecy that shall be throughout eternity,
which will bring in eternal rejoicing as a fore-runner of this
most Holy Jubilee, yea! the Seventh Trump of the everlasting
Gospel of love, joy and peace.
208 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
And this glorious Gospel is not just a bare sound to be
heard only with the ears. It is the holy Spirit that enters
in and gives the power of the resurrected Word of Life.
The question might be asked: When will this marvelous
resurrection be? It is now with the Elect of God, if you can
receive it; which will bring forth a divine favor with our
God and Creator again. Now in answer to this as to the
time —it is known only to God in the secret chambers of
His Council, only it is this far revealed unto His Israel —
that it will be at the finishing of the great mysteries wherein
the Sons of God will be made manifest here upon earth;
and also: —when generations according to fleshly birth shall
cease in this world—then this great redemption will be com
plete. And high officers shall be at an end, for the battle
is fought and the Victory won, and Jesus Christ the Son of
the living God delivers the Kingdom back over to God His
Father, and God is all and in all in this glorious New Creation,
which will be an endless joy and pleasure that will fill the New
World with voices and instruments of sweet music, giving
praise to the holy Trinity in that divine unity as it was from
the beginning, breaking open the sealed treasures which
are more precious than the gold weight of Ophir.
And this will be understood by the Spirits of the Just,
wherein they of themselves can give a proof that they have
lived and walked in the strait and narrow path likeunto our
ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ. For by their fruits
ye shall know them. Hark ye! it will be a fore-runner of
Christ the Lord drawing near and that the end of the Century
cometh.
Therefore a bright light shall shine around you, and the
voice of an Archangel shall be heard from the Trumpet sound
of lightning. The life of Israel has been poor, but rich in
faith and heirs of the Kingdom by their Immortal inheritance.
And after proving it by faith and works they shall shine
like the luminaries of heaven. For there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
WONDER OF WONDERS.
£\H YE Spirits of the Just! let us behold Michael the head
Archangel of heaven and earth, who stands up in My
Bride. These are the words of the Seventh and Last Mes
senger for the deliverance of My people Israel. And in Her
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 209
I will show the Tree of Life, which shall fill the whole earth
with the fruits of eternal life.
Therefore I say unto you, the time has come for all to
receive a circumcised heart in Spirit and in truth to wear
My seamless coat of pure white, and be baptised in the river
of Seven Waters which shall flow into one river, the great
Fountain of Life which proceedeth from the throne of God
and the Lamb. There ye shall receive the Baptism of the
Holy Ghost mingled with fire from heaven, and that Spirit
of the Living God shall descend from heaven and rest upon
and cover you all in one body of Israel, wherein He will
breathe the breath of life that they may become Living before
Him, that thou might be grafted in Me, that we may
all be made One.
Therefore Oh thou blessed ascended Master! make us
worthy to enter into the Covenant of Life with the Trinity
and keep it in us to the glory and honor of Thy blessed name.
For happy are those who are like unto Thee before whom
the fiery Law of eternal life shall go forth, which will cleanse
and purify the body by cleansing the blood, thus taking away
the Adamic evil, and which shall go forth as a spiritual flash
of lightning. Therefore this fiery Law would proceed from
our Immortal Father and the Holy Virgin Mother, which is
the divine Law of Christ that will give life eternal. For the
spirits of the Just will prove that they are of the Melchisedec
order, which is the order of eternal life, for they are fore
ordained and predestinated for the restoration wherein all
things will be made anew, as it has been testified of through
all of the Lord's prophets who had a keen sight and soundness
of judgment; which will prove ourselves, that we are making
a great effort to be found worthy to enter into the member
ship of the most holy Virgin Church.
Therefore let not our hearts fail us to fight this battle,
because Christ the Lord will show us the way and the door
of entrance. And His promises cannot fail for He says: "I
will never leave thee nor forsake thee," but lead thee on
step by step up into the temple of Wisdom of which the Holy
Ghost hath given unto us, that we might be partakers of
the high ministry likeunto our Lord—not only to speak,
but to be in truth the very Oracles of God, for He who gave
the Oracle then gives it now. Therefore we have the know
ledge to understand that no unclean and polluted bodies shall
rest with us, for the Spirit doth let us know that no evil can
here agree with Christ in Spirit, but they must have the true
210 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
anointing that will cleanse and purify them from the gross
pollution of sin.
It is then they shall receive the baptism of the Holy
Ghost mingled with fire from heaven. This is the "wonder of
wonders" whereby God will yet manifest His anointed Ones,
by whom all things are yet to be restored. But it may be
said: True it is that such prophecies are the beginning of
the New Creation and the passing away of the old. Truly
this is the very acceptable day, and the true sign is already
given; the divine Fore-runner has already come to baptize
with the Water of Life, for all who are ready and prepared
to receive this precious gift that descends from the heavens
above through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, the conquering
Prince. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel,
and I am His servant.
HOLY CIRCLE.
I ET IT be understood, when our ascended Master the Lord
Jesus Christ made His last ascension, He ascended far
above all heavens, which is the Spirit of Immortality —the
seven Spirits embodied in one glorified body of Christ. And
He was the firstborn of the 144,000, who is our waymark
and pattern. Therefore all who desire and long for His
Second Coming let them be on the watch, thus harkening to
the voice of our True Shepherd, who is calling you forth to
make up the Holy Circle, where He may go in and out
amongst you, leading you to living fountains and refreshing
streams of eternal life; where no more drought or famine
shall ever be known, as Shiloh Immanuel has brought forth
the resurrected Words of Eternal Life, springing from the
holy Root of Christ, whereby we enter into the divine power
of the Holy Ghost, that we might receive the sealing by the
divine hand of the holy One, wherein this true Seventh
•Church shall be joined as One, crowned with the everlasting
diadem in praise and honor and glory to Him who was, and
is, and is to come. Praise ye the Lord all ye His saints!
Hear ye also, ye Nations ! for they shall come from afar,
even from the east and from the north, from the west and
from the south. And give ear, Oh ye spirits of the Just!
who were heretofore and are still the beloved of thy God.
Make haste and prepare the chariots, for there is an alarm
gone forth from the heavens. So hustle up and rest not/ but
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 211
obey this call that has gone forth for you, for this Voice is
sounding down the line from the very heavens above, and
inviting you to hasten on your journey, for this is the glory
of Solomon's rising day—for "greater than Solomon is here."
So let all Israel come! bringing their gifts with love and
joy, the offerings of myrrh, incense and of gold, and present
them to this most holy King, the Conquering Shiloh Emman
uel who is to rule all nations with righteousness and with a
Spirit of Love and meekness ; and to confound those that de
light in war by turning their swords into plowshares and
pruning hooks, and learn war no more.
I say to the North: "Give up!" and to the South: "Keep
not back !" for I shall bring My sons and daughters from afar.
The south wind shall blow a sweet gale wherein the Rose of
Sharon shall appear likeunto the days of our Lord when
here upon earth, showing that the Ark of Faith is riding
safely upon the waters without danger of any wreck, and
the mighty Prince with His ruling rod that was given to Him
by His Father, the ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ.
And the enemy shall not be able to unbind the north
winds any more, nor to teach the Nations to destroy one
another. Therefore Oh Israel Awake! and let not slumber
any longer be seen upon you, for the hour of darkness is
drawing to an end and the wonderful day is at hand which
all of our forefathers who received this Faith did expect to
see, and do yet press after that it may be fulfilled in their
offspring. Wherefore remember your first works and look
back to the days of old before you forgot your espousals, and
the love of your youth.
Remember, saith the Spirit, what was actually said con
cerning His holy Virgin Seventh Church. Let everyone who
hath an ear hear what the Spirit saith, intreating thee to re
turn to the Lord, your mighty Redeemer who will heal thee
for His name's sake. And Oh! for thee, My little Flock,
who have not been afraid to bear testimony for thy God,
neither hast thou denied the words of patience of thy ascend
ed Master, the Lord Jesus Christ: He calleth unto thee and
saith: "Lo! I stand at the Door and will reward all thy
works, and what thou hast suffered for My name's sake.
Wherefore arise and shine! all ye who have lain in the
dust, although ye have been cast out among the pots. And
yet the Angel Messenger has appeared, giving us the resur
rected Word of Life, that He might give unto you the golden
Immortal wing of a dove; the same dove that rested upon
Jesus at the river Jordan.
212 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
Then Oh Israel be ye strong, knowing that your redemp
tion is nigh if you have Abraham's faith; for it is impossible
to please God without that living faith. Ought not we to
rejoice if we are found worthy to receive a call from the God
of Abraham to you who are His offspring? although you
have been scattered and dispersed among all nations, as
branches that have for a time been broken off from the true
Root, namely Christ, your Lord and redeemer. Return now,
Oh Israel! and see how many generations have now past
over wherein you have not known the Day of Visitation.
Let not another time, or age pass over you before you con
fess the great and mighty Saving Name of your ascended
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, Oh Judah! whom you have
denied in His first appearing in the flesh here upon earth.
His grace to you doth so lovingly abound with all the
bowels of compassion, whereby forgiveness of your unbelief
may work in you a kind repentance. Therefore I charge ye
not to neglect your time any longer, that you may have your
eyes anointed by that one Immortal Spirit to understand and
know there are many prophecies to have their fulfillment for
your restoration, such as Ezek. 36-24, etc: "For I will take
you from among the heathen and gather you out of all
countries and bring you into your own land. Then will I
sprinkle clean water upon you, and I will put My Spirit with
in you."
"Therefore I will for this be inquired of by the House
of Israel to do it for them." This is the true circumcision of
the Spirit, which takes away the blindness of your minds.
Oh that the true guiding "Star of Bethlehem" may now arise
within you to prepare you for His Second Coming in His
Kingdom in great power and glory, who only waits till you
be brought into the belief to accept Him as your King and
Saviour, and acknowledge it was through the blindness of
your forefathers in rejecting their only King, who came on
time to fulfil their own Scripture. And this is to the Tribe
of Judah who is near and afar off. And our prayer is that
they may hear the voice of their true Shepherd calling, that
you might be joined as one of the Twelve Tribes and make
up one fold with them.
Why does the Voice cry out: "Awake! Awake Oh
slumbering seed of Jacob?" and make no excuse or delay;
for hereby you do not only keep back your own joy and
happiness in the peaceable Kingdom that is now in expecta
tion, but also that of the whole body besides belonging to
Christ the Head who was once manifested here upon earth
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 213
in flesh in the body of our ascended Master the Lord Jesus
Christ, and is now again to be revealed the Second Time.
And He comes in the name of Shiloh Immanuel the Conquer
ing Prince, who is to rule in righteousness and love. And
behold Oh Israel! the Golden Book of Love which is the
beautiful "Star of Bethlehem, the Living Roll of Life." And
the call has been sent out to the ends of the earth, and the
Gospel of eternal peace and goodwill does greet all Israel, that
this Book of Life might be opened within you in this twelfth
and last hour, wherein the whole earth shall be filled with the
knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea.
And all who are ready and prepared shall receive the
baptism of the Holy Ghost mingled with fire from heaven.
For behold, I come! saith the Lord, to make all things anew;
and let all Israel cry out with one voice to the mighty Shiloh
Immanuel, the conquering Prince. And with the Father's
wonderful hand He has been brought and planted here in
our midst, and the key of the wonderful Government of this
New Creation has been entrusted into His hands for this
special work to return unto you the sceptre that cannot be
taken away, proving ourselves to be King Davids in right
eousness and truth, thus bringing all things into blessed
harmony and unity; thus opening the door of liberty, that
the throne of the conquering Prince might be established in
the hearts of His anointed ones, thus establishing them
selves under the Throne of the most high God and King, to
bring in all the scattered and divided flock into one fold, to
feed upon the pasture that putteth forth the sweet scented
flowers of love. For there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel, and I am His servant.
!ik-<_y^
CHOSEN WOMAN.
QEAI
iR beloved Israel: How encouraging to realize and
know "If God be for us, who can be against us?" proving
that we are the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ; and my
prayer to the God of Israel is to follow the Spirit who in
spired the Messengers of this Visitation, for I know this
causes the work to go forward, although the Messenger
has taken his departure. But ever remember, through that
Immortal Spirit the work will go on for the Ingathering of
God's Elect people, which is the most tangible part of God's
plan for the human mind to take hold of.
214 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
And in their earnestness to be doing something, it has
been overlooked by many that the Ingathering of Israel is
the result of a great work and not the beginning of it. For
there is a secret and hidden spiritual work for the preparation
which leads up to it, and had to be accomplished before an
Israelite could be gathered into that Immortal City.
And as a Virgin Mother in the flesh brought forth Jesus
the Firstborn, so a Virgin Woman after the Spirit is chosen
of God to bring forth the Firstborn after the Spirit. There
must be a Mother in Israel to bring down Jerusalem above,
and all who attempt to gather Israel before this chosen
Woman's work is complete, they will find that they cannot
progress on their journey without Her. Oh Israel ! let us re
joice, knowing that we belong to that Immortal Mother
Jerusalem above, who has come down to bring forth Her
sons and daughters to establish Christ's peaceable Kingdom
here upon earth. And this wonderful work will quickly
develop into the Ingathering of Israel in the standing up of
the Chosen Woman of God for the deliverance of Her people
Israel.
Let it be remembered that Jesus Christ is the King of
Israel, and the next great event is the coming forth of the
Queen, namely Jerusalem above, before there can be a Prince
in the flesh. Who is this coming forth leaning upon Her
beloved ? the Beloved being Christ and Jerusalem above. Man
has had two thousand years to find eternal life, but let it be
remembered : without the Helpmate that God promised from
the beginning they will all go to the grave. Let it be rem
embered, Jesus found this helpmate, who helped Him over
all His difficulties. But during this long period of time the
woman has kept silent. Like Jacob when he went out to meet
Esau he put his beloved Rachel last of all, which was typical
of the woman being kept back until the appointed time of
God.
But it has been man's mistake to keep her back, for they
must remember they cannot arise up from the fall to an Im
mortal life without Her. And let it be remembered, the holy
One, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of
Peace will bless the work of every heart and hand that is
helping Her to arise that She might bring down Jerusalem
above. Then a woman in Jerusalem will be the glory of the
man in Christ. Therefore Jerusalem has come down to bring
Her children to an Immortal birth. And let it be remembered
that a female body must be prepared for her, even as a male
body (Jesus) was prepared to bring down Christ.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 215
Therefore blessed, thrice-blessed is the woman who pre
vails with God to keep her Immortal Sister with her to the
end of this journey. By this ye shall know the Mother
Queen of Israel who will drive away the evil and set man
back from whence he fell—who prove themselves to be faith
ful and true in holding up Her hands. It is God's decree and
every Israelite will bow to it, and give themselves no rest
day or night until the peaceable Kingdom of God be establ
ished, thus making Jerusalem a praise in all the earth.
This is indeed a marvelous work for those who love the
ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, to be engaged in,
in this the twelfth and last hour. It has been preached to
this generation by His humble Messengers whom He has sent
from time to time —to prepare a place for Christ's Kingdom
to be established here upon the earth. And now behold the
Woman whom God has sent, which causes satan to roar in
envy, knowing he hath but a short time. Therefore dear
beloved Israel that within itself proves this is the work of
God. And all the true Israel of God will accept the establish
ment of Jerusalem upon the earth.
And I am longing, yes longing to tell those that are re
jecting the Jerusalem Mother above: —when She is rejected,
mercy for the life of the body is forever closed. But to the
faithful ones proving themselves to be loyal and true, they
will harken to the voice of the Bridegroom and Bride, who
are now offering Immortality by accepting the Bride, namely
Jerusalem above to become the Mother of the Immortal race.
Therefore we must be born again, begotten of the Immortal
Father and born of the Immortal Mother. That which is
spiritual is of the Spirit, and that which is of the flesh is
flesh. But Israel will possess both —the New Heavens being
put within the New Earth—the body made anew. Jeru
salem above joins Jerusalem below as the Immortal Mother
in Israel, which is now to be made manifest upon the earth.
And then Israel shall be gathered, one by one by the New
Birth.
Oh ye favored sons and daughters of Israel who have
stood loyal and true and held fast to your first confidence,
whom God will justify, and them He justifies He also glori
fies. Therefore dear beloved Israel could you not watch with
Me one hour? which the disciples failed to do. And I en
treat thee to forget not that holy Spirit which has now come
to waken you out of sleep, and give you sweet deliverance
from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of
216 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
the children of God, that your mortal body might put on
Immortality.
This brings forcibly to my mind the days of Jesus,
wherein the Father gave the world a great sign when He
brought forth His firstborn Son, who was clothed upon at
the river Jordan. And the Seed of heaven was sown within
Him. And the Holy Mother Jerusalem carried Him until the
appointed time of the Father, and then She brought Him
forth in Immortality, bone of His bone, and flesh of His flesh,
and Spirit of His Spirit.
Then did not God fulfil His promises to them which were
given by Christ through the prophets of old? And in this
day and hour of His Second Coming has He not sent that
Spirit of truth, that Other Comforter to Israel, to lead and
guide in the way of all truth?—whose name is Shiloh Im-
manuel, God with us! He holdeth the sceptre, and unto Him
shall the gathering of the people be. And He will seal every
true heart, thus receiving them unto Himself, thus bringing
them into possession of His riches in heaven and earth.
Therefore dear Israel let us ever remember that eternal
Covenant that the Father has made with His chosen people
Israel, and signed it with the precious blood of Jesus His
firstborn Son. For through Him all things will be brought
back to the Father. So let us ever seek to do all things to
His honor and glory. If you have dark days do not be dis
couraged, for if you do not have a taste of the bitter how can
you appreciate the sweet? For the true Seed of Israel is a
Seed that cannot be destroyed.
So let us sing out praises to the Star of Bethlehem that
has arisen in our hearts, which is to Israel a token by day
and a pillar of fire by night. Oh how sweet and refreshing
are the words of that Immortal Spirit which will stand
through one eternal day, for the true soldiers of the Lord
Jesus Christ shall follow them, and they shall gain honor in
every land where they've been put to shame. And I will open
the windows of heaven, saith the Lord, and shower down My
blessings upon them, for I am He who was and is, and is to
come, and is to be revealed. And the world will say I am
dead, and will not return; but tell Israel I am alive and the
Bride is alive to give unto them the words of Eternal Life.
He that hath an ear to hear, let him hear and understand the
marvelous work of God.
Therefore dear Israel let us ever seek to put on the
whole armor of God and turn the battle to the gates. Ever
remember, it is the holy Spirit that will do the work for
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 217
Israel. That bright and burning light will never grow dim,
for the veil will be drawn back from their eyes. Jesus' blood
was pure, and when the blood of Israel is cleansed then they
are washed in His blood ; blood of His blood, and flesh of His
flesh. When this is accomplished they shall enter in as Jesus
did at the river Jordan, which will prepare them to eat His
flesh and drink His blood, He being a seed to the sower and
bread to the eater. He proved He was a seed to the sower
when He appeared to Mary in a spiritual body, showing that
all who were sown in the grave should come forth either in
the first or final resurrection. For all souls are Mine saith
the Lord. It also proved He was bread to the eater when He
appeared to His disciples in the upper room in His flesh and
bone body. For in Him the Word was made flesh. Peter
testified of Him when He said: "We ate and drank with
Him after He arose from the dead."
Therefore beloved Israel have we not great reason to
rejoice? knowing that we have the God of Israel to fight for
us? For He said: "Son, stand still till I fight the battle,"
proving they are walking in the footsteps of our Lord and
Master. The light of that.Immortal Spirit will guide them to
the camp —and that camp is the Spirit of Christ, which will
protect them from all harm and will give them sweet words
of comfort in the terrible hour of persecution and suffering,
and make a way for their deliverance.
Call upon Him and He will hear thee. To those who keep
the Lord's secret He will make known to them of His com
ing as He did to Noah. For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel, and I am His servant.
HEALING BALM
D*H
CAR beloved Israel! Let us ever behold the Angel from
the east, who has come, having the Seal of the living
God, the Seal and stamp of the living Word which keeps the
virtue of the living oil within themselves; coming from the
Living Child from the east; that is, from the Mother of the
Eden of Paradise which was planted eastward in Eden, which
is the rising of the Sun. She comes clothed with the sun,
the moon under Her feet, and a Crown of twelve stars upon
Her head; who brought forth the living Spiritual Man-child,
who is the Seventh Standard of God's Spirit of power;
which power we are looking and longing for, in order to
218 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
prepare the divine way to that Kingdom of love and
peace that must over the whole earth spread. Even so come
Lord Jesus to reign upon the earth, thus giving Thy anointed
ones power of healing by laying on of hands, by those who
are baptized by the Holy Ghost—the prepared ones who have
been waiting for it, that they may hereafter partake and be
inspired from such a virtuous fiery touch, and therefore be
so highly illuminated with the holy Spirit as to be made a
new creature in Christ Jesus.
Oh hasten the day wherein Godlike purity and power
may suddenly arise to destroy all of satan's work, thus put
ting him asunder, binding him down for a thousand years
that the holy Spirit might enter in to purify the body within;
which may come upon some more quickly by God's own hand ;
and then again by the mighty power of the Holy Ghost which
flows from Him like clear crystal water. But as the inward
power and rich virtue in the spirit of faith and prayer shall
be breathed forth, like it was with the Apostles who were
given power through His name to heal. Oh how great, how
worthy is that precious gift, being the root and spring where-
from all the mighty works both inward and outward do pro
ceed. Oh ye spirits of the Just who will see and understand
this holy anointing! The healing gift also may spring from
the Seventh Pool for the curing of all bodily infirmities. For
asmuch as the mortal form and figure which we bear, when
purified, is the temple of the Holy Ghost; and it being a
mortal body of flesh and blood, subject to purification—the
cleansing of the blood —wherein they become the land of
Israel, ready and prepared to receive the baptism of the Holy
Ghost mingled with fire from Heaven.
Therefore let it be understood : All those who have that
living faith can retain their body for this healing balm ; hav
ing love and pity for their afflicted members. Did not Jesus
Christ have love and pity for Lazarus ? And did He not raise
him from the tomb after he had been dead four days? But
let it be remembered, the Apostles themselves could not
bring it forth upon the sick, but only as the Holy Ghost
moved upon them. Neither can any that receive this pre
cious gift, but only as the Holy Ghost stirs the healing pool
within them, which causes them to be purified and come forth
as Gold, thus being a witness of what the Spirit of Christ
has done for them.
Therefore as to what is expected and required for the
preparation such as are to make up the espoused Bride of
Him the Lord Jesus Christ, therefore it is absolutely needful
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 213
that we should be furnished out with such power and gifts
as may qualify for such a divine marriage union with the
First-begotten Son, the heir of the true and Living God who
does give out freely of these five golden talents here mention
ed, that a stock of spiritual good being taken in to support
the heavenly calling, if done in the living Faith will bring in
a mighty increase, for the making of a Gift so great and large
as somewhat may agree with Him to whom we are espoused,
namely our ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, seeing
what is appointed and cut out to be the saints' business.
Therefore if you give not all willingly you cannot expect all,
namely the Pearl of great price, which is a high and noble
answer to the glorified Saints in the heavens above, who will
in this holy calling keep a record of those who are in this
strait and narrow way, and they will meet it face to face.
And I know this by my own experience, because the Lord
hath revealed it unto me.
And will it not be glorious and grand to have a perfect
record in the heavens above? and hear the voice of the
Angel saying: "Thou art worthy; enter into the joys of thy
Lord through the open Door," proving we had a pure heart
and a bright and clear understanding through this great sun
light, that God in Christ may be seen and that Christ is in
the glory of His Father, and the divine power pouring forth
from this holy Trinity, Father, Mother and Son, thus seeing
these three all in one.
Through that Immortal Eye we behold the eternal
wisdom which brings ten thousand degrees of happiness to
those who are divine and spiritual; seeing we are found
worthy to be taken up, and viewing those glorious and grand
things that God has in store for all that love Him. And those
who are dwelling around about His Throne with innumer
able Angels; Angel-spirits which once did live in mortal
bodies here upon earth, who died in the faith of Immortality
and held on to the faith as long as they had breath, and that
faith was left with their spirit; and that spirit ministers
back to the heirs of redemption; the eighty-fold glory next
to the sun, who are dressed in robes of white, working earn
estly, longing to see Israel made Immortal. No wonder it is
written : "When one falls, Angels weep," for well they under
stand when Israel is made Immortal, they will come forth
and take their glory. For when Israel is made Immortal
they will be able to go out in a spiritual body likeunto Jesus
our Lord, and meet up with those who have died in the faith
220 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
of Immortality, and talk with them face to face with that
joy that no man can take from them.
Therefore how earnestly ought Israel ever to seek to enter
into the deep mysteries of God, that their bodies might be
made Immortal, thus entering into the Kingdom of power
wherein they will be able to do miracles and wonders. There
fore we are in great need of Elijah's spirit to rise up amongst
us, that he may turn the hearts of the fathers to the child
ren and pour out the oil for healing the bleeding wounds of
war and desolation that is coming upon the earth. And
there will be no safety, only in the Ark which is Christ and
Jerusalem above.
Therefore let us consider and rejoice in the wonderful
wisdom and understanding that we are receiving from our
eternal Virgin Mother, who is very great in wisdom, majesty
and power;* who cannot but be more naturally sympathizing
with Her children who are to be brought up through this
divine teaching to the highest degree, and qualified in wisdom
likeunto their Virgin Mother, and the spiritual education to
keep them up while they are on their way to the Eden of
Paradise, thus receiving the divine power in heavenly places
from the heavenly Trinity—Father, Mother and Son, with
that eternal wisdom fully dwelling in the love of God's holy
Trinity, that they may be accepted by the holy One, for it is
His Message from the heavens above.
Oh what glorious tidings to the whole House of Israel,
namely the 144,000 twice-told, reaping the golden harvest of
their labors of love, realizing fully they are not of this world
because God has chosen them out of it, thus entering into
the New World of happiness and bliss, wherein you can hear
the voice of Angels singing out praises and rejoicing that the
prodigals have returned safely to the Father's house in their
Immortal Bodies; and they stand as faithful witnesses to the
divine promises of God, standing ready and prepared to bring
forth a generation unto God which shall live throughout
afi
ages and eternity, for they have been prepared by the birth
of the Holy Ghost, proving they fully understood the Law of
Life, which has been revealed to them by the divine Mother
of Wisdom, for Wisdom is justified of Her children. There
fore there
is
no God in all the earth but in Israel, and
I
am His
servant.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 221
THE CONQUERING PRINCE
pAITH, hope and charity! It is impossible to please God
without faith, for it is the conquering power that opens
up the doorway through the veil, giving us the secrets of
eternal life that have long been kept hid since the days of
our ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who was so holy,
so pure and so divine; who left His words on record to be
interpreted by that Spirit of truth that would lead us in the
way of all truth and show us things to come, thus pointing
out the way back to that land from whence we came, which
fills our hearts with His divine love, thus giving us Charity^-
to prefer our brothers and sisters before ourselves, thus
thinking no evil and speaking no evil of others. This is the
beauty of charity that never fails, but goes onward to victory
until we receive the Spirit of power to rule our own bodies.
This is what I call "ascended Master" —that rules and puts
down all evil that comes before thee, then you have arrived
to the place that you can say like unto Jesus Christ: "The
prince of this world cometh and hath nothing in Me."
Therefore dear Israel it is important to keep in touch
with the mighty God presence Shiloh Immanuel, who is the
conquering Prince who brings love, joy and peace in our
"Home, sweet Home.'" And everyone who will use this
mighty God presence in full determination will be blessed with
power and harmony, proving this Prince of peace is a ruler
bringing joy and happiness into our Home, sweet Home. And
dear beloved Israel, this conquering Prince is here in our
midst, testing out the Stones for His Immortal Building,
waiting and longing for obedience to be found in the camps
of Israel. And when you feel His presence, you also feel His
divine power. This mighty conquering Prince has come to
rule and reign. We give praise to this holy One, who keeps
His Israel from all pit-falls; wherein we can arise on the
wings of Jehovah into the Eden of Paradise, thus receiving
our freedom through His protecting hand leading us within
the gates, and the eternal blessings of "I AM that I AM,"
which enables you to see the great sunlight that is lighting
up the strait and narrow path, back to that beautiful land
from whence we came.
Dear beloved Israel there is no other way that you can
arrive safely to the Father's house, thus becoming like Jesus
Christ, holding sweet communion with the Father, which will
prepare you to receive your ascension likeunto Jesus Christ,
thus being within the holy circle of the ascended Masters
222 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
like unto Jesus Christ. Therefore it is written: "Be ye
perfect even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect,"
which is the prize of our high calling in Christ Jesus, knowing
that His precious promises are sure and cannot fail.
Having this in view, our hopes are brightened with the
"old year" passing out and the new coming in, the former
things passing away as we march onward and upward and
higher, striving for the adoption, to-wit the redemption of
our bodies. Therefore dear beloved Israel! how refreshing
to see interested ones springing up here and there, one of a
city and two of a family rejoicing over this wonderful Mes
sage of life, realizing that their redemption draweth nigh,
knowing that the beautiful Star of Bethlehem has once more
appeared to lead the wise men to the place where My Spirit
shall rest.
And you will remember, Jesus said: "My peace I leave
with you, My Peace I give unto you." And for a truth, the
pure joy and happiness will dawn upon all Israel as they
begin to realize the bitter is being made sweet. Therefore
may the sunbeams of light and truth ever shine around thee,
thus being protected under the great sunlight. So let us
gird up our loins with fervent zeal according to knowledge,
pressing forward with renewed energy on that strait and
narrow path which leads to Life and Immortality.
Therefore dear beloved Israel! My eyes do long to see
the day wherein you will be ready and prepared for the
baptism of the Holy Ghost mingled with fire from heaven,
thus entering into your ministry as Jesus did at the river
Jordan, and set forth a bright and burning light to this
unbelieving world, and stand a living witness for the God of
Israel that His promises have been fulfilled; and likeunto
Jesus Christ, showing forth an immortal body for His tran
sparent City which is to be established here on earth, wherein
Angels, Archangels will celebrate that day! Oh who could
grow weary on this journey of eternal life? 'Tis my meat
and my drink to do the will of Him who hath sent me. For
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His
servant.
WISDOM'S REGENERATION
*THE MIGHTY Shiloh Immanuel the Second Child, has the
Seventh Key which was given to Him by His elder Brother,
the Lion of the Tribe of Judah, who prevailed to loose the
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 223■
seven Seals thereof. The Living Child is the Key which
unlocks all mysteries. Therefore the mysteries were to be
finished when the Seventh Angel doth sound the last Trum
pet, which is the Trump of God for a resurrection in spirit,
soul and body.
God knoweth how to give the spiritual Seed a body after
its own kind, which will be found worthy to be clothed upon.
There is a secret wherein God infuses His breath after the
manner as is expressed by Ezekiel, that which gives life to
the dry bones which doth very plainly figure out, in which
figureth out the New Birth which the Lord Jesus Christ
explained to Nicodemus of the birth of the spiritual Man,
which is so deep and divine that no natural man can see how
this pure breath enters in, but it is felt; that is, a quickening
life.
So it is with the one who is born into this New Life, who
has been separated and purified ; in which the spirit, soul and
body first awake to life. It may stir but weakly, that it
may be hard for them to discern their own quickening life
because it appears to move so slowly, likeunto a beautiful
tree growing, yet all of the inward motions are working in
a right and divine order, increasing in strength from the
eternal Root and fountain of life, and all comes on daily,
growing in grace and knowledge of the divine Wisdom.
And it hath reigned to a thousand-fold advantage by
being resurrected into a new divine understanding, thus en
tering into a pure, high union with the holy Trinity, wherein
Wisdom shall in the spirit, soul and body lay Her plans in
order to the restoring of the virgin nature and God-like sim
plicity, kindness and love. Words cannot explain what
Wisdom can do, as She is in marriage union with Her God,
Her Ishi Husband' so that Her children shall not go forth
naked, but all will be clothed with power and strength to
bring forth marvelous and strange things in the way of
planting and regeneration.
All things belonging to the old world will be a thing of
the past, for in this Golden Age of Wisdom's regeneration it
shall be made manifest to prove who shall be able to stand.
When She opens Her divine power, eternal divine Wisdom
flows out —eternal divine nature of the ascended Master, the
Lord Jesus Christ, wherein all will be set at work to close all
the old face of things with new bubbling-up springs of unfad
ing glory.
Oh Wisdom! precious Wisdom! We stand in so much
need of Thee to reveal unto us Thy hidden mysteries and
224 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN .
keep us safely on Thy narrow path. Oh how we do rejoice
to see this long-expected day, that we might enter into this
most heavenly and divine life, being ready and prepared to
receive the baptism of the Holy Ghost mingled with fire from
heaven, thus communing with the holy Trinity, being so de
lightful and refreshing; having nothing else on our mind
than to become as strong pillars to hold up this divine
Holiness, this beautiful anointed Seventh Church.
Therefore, blessed are those who know themselves in the
ascended state, and are received as one out of sight to be
very much with Jesus Christ. You may say: How is it
that you "will be out of sight, and yet in sight amongst the
people?" Remember Paul was caught up to the third heaven,
and yet he was here upon the earth among the people.
Therefore dear beloved Israel! Hark ye to the voice
of the Seventh Trump and stand upon your feet of under
standing, for ye shall now come together, bone to bone, and
sinew to sinew, and have new flesh put upon your dry bones,
which is turning back to days of youth. And hark ye! the
mystery shall be finished in you when the Seventh Angel
sounds in you, for it shall sound in every man, namely the
144,000, and shake not only the earth but also Heaven, and
open the gates of the New Jerusalem, and make plain the
way that we shall take, and unseal the Tree of life to every
one who receives My New Name. Therefore the Scripture
and the writings of the Visitation show plainly that the
Seventh shall bring man into His perfect image, and that He
shall also reap the fruits thereof, because the}' are rooted and
conceived into the birth of the Holy Ghost, which is firmly
established and unchangeable, simply because it is the be
ginning of the New World.
And such a divine change shall we ourselves find when
the Lord from heaven shall descend and take dominion and
power over all the earth. This is the great and mighty
overturn. Therefore dear Israel! we of this Visitation have
long been taught to reject all of Lucifer's influence, for he
will come unto you as an Angel from heaven, but was cast
out because he rebelled against the holy One. Therefore,
take heed to this high calling which is in Christ Jesus, this
Shiloh Message to the twelve Tribes with Her 12,000 each.
The Ingathering is now going on and it shall be as in the
days of Noah—must prove faith by works and enter in, for
as in the days of Noah so shall it be in the coming of the
Son of man, and unto Shiloh shall the gathering of the people
be. And as Jesus said: "Unto the Son of man shall all
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 225
nations be gathered," and as they receive this Message it is
a call to them; as God's work calls them in order; why then
should you wait, having received this call, for those who have
not yet been called ?
This Open Book shall stand as an open Door till Israel
is sealed. Therefore Oh Israel come under the Eagle's Im
mortal wings which are now spread out for you as a hen
gathereth her brood under her wings. I have before told
you that a child should lead you to the place where My Ark
shall rest, and ye shall rest, and then I will bring forth My
Eagle. Harken unto its voice! It calls you to the place
where My Ark is resting. He that hath an ear to hear, let
him hear in this the twelfth and last hour.
They have not known where "THOU" art, yet THOU
shalt be upon the earth: THOU BENJAMIN who dwells
between His shoulders. So He, that Spirit of prophecy hath
returned and the words are fulfilled. And behold, He watered
the garden with the water of life, and if grew up and spread
its Branches over all the earth and fills the earth with the
fruits of righteousness in the glorious Millennium Sabbath
of Rest. But how is it done? By whom and by what Law?
By the Law of the Spirit of life found in the Woman of the
New World —by the woe taken away, She comes under the
head of Her Husband, Christ the Spirit of the living God,
proving Herself to be the Tree of life bringing forth after
Her own kind—trees of righteousness, the planting of the
Lord, who planted the seeds.
Is she not the resurrection and the life? Does not a
child receive its life, either mortal or Immortal from its
Mother? If she is mortal, is not the child mortal ? Was not
Jesus the seed of the Woman? And did not Jesus receive the
life of blood from His Mother ? But the Seed was pregnated
with the Spiritual life from Zion and Jerusalem, which became
the Spiritual life of the temple, taking the life of blood away,
He being the firstborn of the 144,000.
Therefore dear Israel let us ever seek to build upon the
Rock, Christ. Look unto the Seventh Church, yea the House
of Seven Pillars built upon the Rock of Prophecy. And
against this Rock the winds and the storms will beat in vain,
and the House of Wisdom's building will stand while all others
around who have builded upon a sandy foundation lie in ruins.
Therefore my prayer is—
Rock of Ages, cleft for me,
Let me hide myself in Thee!
226 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am
His servant.
THE ASCENDED STATE
I ET IT BE understood, Wisdom is glorious and never
fadeth away. Yea! She is easily seen of them that love
Her, and found of such as seek Her. Greater than Solomon
is here in this Visitation of truth. Knowledge is gained,.
Wisdom is found, understanding is the root and foundation
of the Lord's washing with pure water from the fountain of
understanding. The Tree of life is planted by the pure river
of water. Therefore seek Wisdom and you will find Her
sitting at the door. Wisdom revealeth mysteries and un-
sealeth the tomb, and delivers Her children. She is light, life
and Immortality. Envy hath no fellowship with Her. Wis
dom is the worker of all things. In Her is an understanding
spirit, having all power, overseeing all things and going
through all understandings with the holy Trinity.
Blessed thrice, are those who have arrived at the ascended
state and yet are dwelling among the mortal. It must be
understood that the soul and spirit in the secret divine body
which is put on in the resurrection is likeunto Jesus, who
first appeared to Mary in a spiritual body. And Jesus said,
"Touch Me not, for I have not yet ascended." She could not
have touched Him because her hands would have gone right
through His body. He was so highly soaring and moving as
a cherubim wheel mentioned by Ezekiel, lifted up by the
Spirit and ascending from the earth, as neither caring for
nor minding worldly things, for Christ the Lord had a most
safe airplane; and doth now make clear also for the Tree of
life to stand in full freedom without any interference.
As Adam nursed at the breast of Eve, it was that which
brought forth death, but the spirits of the Just will
nurse at the breast of their Virgin Immortal Mother unto life
eternal. And the breast of this Holy Mother is Law and
Gospel; therefore feeding upon the Tree of life, our bodies
shall enter into Immortality much higher than Adam had
at first. And through this holy Tree of life we shall make
up the number of the Bride, namely the 144,000. They will
give a deep hearing, thus understanding the divine language
that was spoken by the holy One, which has been marred and
quite lost and can only be restored in the Ascension.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 227
And on the other hand, all the disobedience, craft and
subtlety they have sucked in from the breast of fallen Eve,
whose children have herein been nursed up in a shiftless way
of worldly wisdom which showed itself in the first Adam and
Eve. And all of these must die and fall away, wherein God's
Wisdom shall be restored again, thus bringing forth the Tree
of life, the everlasting and unchangeable righteousness as a
white robe that covers from head to foot, with pleasure and
joy drawing in, as the sweetness of the dew lieth always
upon the branches of this Tree. Truly, truly this is Paradise
power which is a flowing stream of love, which has no bounds.
It runneth itself into its own family, the Bride, the 144,000
who are covered with divine love, showing forth a spirit of
kindness toward their brothers and sisters' thus preferring
their brothers and sisters before themselves. This pure
sparkling power of love we see from the holy One gives us our
eternal freedom, which causes us to stand in divine favor
with God, knowing no restraint nor bondage, for whatever
it willeth or decreeth is made good, because it moves in the
will of the Holy Ghost, and like unto the ascended Master,
the Lord Jesus Christ; they are meek, tender and merciful,
let forth as from God's own nature of goodness, wherein
many require help.
If temptations come about you and you feel cast down,
how readily is the Angel there with the healing balm which
flows from the Tree of life to heal your wounds, that you
might find rest, sweet rest. Yea! it is the eternal bank that
will never be spent out, for it is the hidden gold that the holy
Trinity spends upon and freely does receive the ascended
Ones in their company to share in their eternal gold mine,
where there will be no need of digging and laboring, neither
of body nor mind. There will be no occasion to say: "What
shall we eat or drink? or wherewith shall we be clothed?"
Therefore consider the lillies of the field, how they grow.
They toil not. And all of this kind will be supplied from God's
flowing fountain, of all precious stones that will be given such
plenty of Divine riches and honor that cannot be damaged
nor plucked away. It is as a ship that will sail with banners
of victory floating upon the beautiful river of life with joy
and gladness that they were worthy to enter into the Ark
of God's moving power, in which the glorious Kingdom of God
shall be established, wherein they shall be anointed with the
pure oil of the Holy Ghost, which sends forth a Virgin healing
life. They shall know Me in My inward Spiritual figure, as in
former times I was known in a visible humanity by a Voice ;
228 •
THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
but now I have come to appear and walk upon an invisible
earth, and none but the Spiritually minded will understand
My speech or see My transfiguration shape. To such it will
prove who are My chosen disciples.
For behold ! I am the Alpha and Omega to call together
such names as are found in the crowning number roll, one
by one, the 144,000 for the increase and manifestation of
this most holy Priesthood. Blessed are they that shall be
the first foundation pillars, for this shall be the Virgin Church
upon whom no spot nor wrinkle shall be found, being not
faulty; our ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ is the
Head of this Church, and Saviour of the body.
Praise to the God of Israel this Golden Age has dawned
upon us. There is a STAR that has arisen, namely The Star
of Bethlehem, the Living Roll of Life which shall lead the
wise men to that place where My Spirit shall rest, showing
forth it is Wisdom's day, wherein all dark clouds must
disappear; and out of the Holy Virgin's womb bright stars
of glory, beautiful as armies with banners, which shall
show forth My strength and power.
Therefore the sheep and lambs of Christ's flock will be
fed from the fresh springing pastures, where no footing has
been, and also to drink of the beautiful water of life that
is renewed daily from the fountain of the Godhead. There
fore dear Israel! let us call to our minds and consider those
many Scriptures, prophecies and promises concerning the
continuation of this gift until the very end of time, both in
the old and new Testament. John 14 ; Cor.4 ; 2d Cor.2d Chap.
Many more than these Scriptures could be called upon for
proof of the continued run of the holy Spirit throughout all
ages; Christ by His Spirit comforting us, saying: "Lo! He
would be with us to the ends of the earth." And now as
from the Lord, I do beseech you not to dim the light of the
Day Star ; yea The Star of Bethlehem. Despise not prophesy-
ings, then may the witness of Jesus rise in you to confirm
the most glorious ministration as of a burning lamp of re
velation. I am He the holy One of Israel who has sent the
Seventh and Last Messenger before your face, which is the
Spirit of refining fire to prepare for His most visible and
glorious coming in His Kingdom to make those who are
faithful and true His jewels, yea! to reign with Him on the
earth, wherein we shall behold the mighty power of the Holy
Ghost poured forth upon those who are looking for this
blessed hope and most glorious reign of Christ, wherein He
is drawing near and will take dominion and power to rule.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 229
It is certainly the pleasure of Wisdom to give thee a
kingdom, and all others whose ears are open to Her
discipline by abiding faithful, shall know how to manage as
well the Golden Sceptre of power, as the rod of iron which
means love. And rejoice and be exceedingly glad that Jesus
Christ in His Second Coming has come to reign with His
people on earth for a thousand years. And angels, Arch
angels shall celebrate that day. Then we shall sing the song
that was sung at His birth, "Peace on earth and good will
toward all men." For there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel, and I am his servant.
WORK OF RESURRECTION
rVH. BLESSED Israel! Can you realize the great work
you have before you in preparing your body for the
Spirit of God to dwell in, under this great sunlight that is
pointing out so wonderfully the way our Master trod? And
do you not hear His voice sending out the call to all nations,
telling His Israel we are truly in the day and hour wherein
all Israel can gain their freedom? And just think of our
beloved ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who worked
with such love! and pled with them at Jerusalem, saying:
"How oft would I have gathered you, and ye would not!"
But in fulfillment of His promises, He has returned the
second time to gather His people Israel by that Spirit of truth
revealing those deep mysteries that were sealed among His
disciples. And He also breathed that Immortal breath upon
them and said: "This is for a time"—meaning His true
. Elect who are today upon the earth. And when their bodies
are ready and prepared, that holy Spirit that was breathed
upon the disciples will be put within them, thus showing a
bright and burning light to this unbelieving world, who have
had nearly two thousand years since our beloved ascended
Master the Lord Jesus Christ was here upon earth, always
teaching and preaching the life of the body. But they would
not harken, but let the cares of the old world cause them to
doubt, thus growing weary on their journey toward the New
Jerusalem, the City of God.
Therefore dear Israel let not your hearts be troubled,
but be of good cheer. To fulfil both Law and Gospel I have
come, and all My own true sheep will know My voice, through
the mighty God presence Shiloh Immanuel. For there is
230 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
that sweet affinity between the spirits of the Just that was
shown forth when Jesus was walking with the two disciples
from Jerusalem to Emmaus. And they did not know Him
until they got within doors —that is, the door of that Im
mortal Spirit anointed their eyes and they saw it was Jesus.
And He broke bread and vanished out of their sight. And
they said: "Did not our hearts burn within us as He talked
with us by the way?"
Therefore it was no mystery, their eyes being opened to
see it was no vision of an angel. And they arose up the same
hour and returned back to Jerusalem, and found the eleven
assembled in the upper room, Peter with them —proving
that Peter was not one of the two. And when the two came,
some of the eleven said to the two: "The Lord has arisen
and appeared to Simon." And they began to tell how He
had appeared to them and walked with them by the way,
and how He broke bread and vanished out of their sight.
And while they were talking Jesus appeared in their midst,
the door being closed: first, with a Spiritual body and said;
"Peace be unto you," for He was a Prince of peace in His
spiritual form, but when in His Immortal body —the King
of Glory.
And while He was showing a spiritual Body and speaking
to them, Christ appeared in His Immortal body and opened
the door. And He breathed on them and said: "Receive ye
the holy Ghost!" and their eyes were opened to see the
mystery. And while He was in the room with His disciples
He said: "Peace be unto you! As My Father sent Me,
even so send I you. These beautiful words show that He had
reference to the Elect of this Visitation, when the spirits of
the Just would be sent even as Jesus was sent, who should
enter into their ministry even as He entered into His, which
was not fulfilled in the disciples of His day.
And this noble ascended Master led them out as far as
Bethany, lifted up His hands and was parted from them, and
was taken up into heaven, and they returned to Jerusalem.
Eighty days after, He appeared again, and the eleven were
within and it was then that Thomas felt of His hands and of
His side, and Jesus said: "Ye believe because ye have seen,
but more blessed are they who believe and have not seen."
More blessed are they who come unto Him by faith through
the Word.
Now, when the two women, Joanna and Mary held Him
by the feet of understanding to show the woman's work in
this Visitation, He commanded them and said: "Go tell
5TH COMFORTKR OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 231
My brethren, go ye into Galilee and there ye shall see Me."
And the disciples went away into Galilee to a mountain where
Jesus had appointed them. And dear beloved Israel let it be
remembered, Galilee represented America. Therefore it was
impressed by the Angel unto the woman, and by Jesus to
the woman also that they should tell the disciples that they
go into Galilee. Also let it be remembered, the two women
are shown to be in the work all along the line. And He ap
peared after His resurrection in a spiritual Body, which was
like the resurrection of the Spiritual Child from the womb
and caught up.
And the other woman who held His feet of understand
ing was typical of the Woman who was to finish the work.
Also, His leading Israel from Galilee to the end, a figure of
the Seventh or Son of man, who has risen with the Seventh
Key to unlock the third and last watch. The angels were
Moses and Elias in the work of the resurrection. And it is
also written that Elias shall also come in mortal flesh, fol
lowed by the Angel who descended from heaven with a count
enance like lightning, and raiment as white as snow, and was
afterward called the "Young Man" who rolled the stone from
the tomb and sat upon it under the Law of Christ, who is
the Last Covenant Messenger —the Young Man Branch.
Why did He arise in the Sabbath? Because it was the
Lord's day, neither satan nor the grave could hold Him. His
mission was to rob the grave of its victory, and abolish death
and to destroy him who has power of death, which is the
devil, and bind him down for one thousand years, bringing
peace and happiness upon the earth.
Therefore, dear beloved Israel let us ever seek to come
into one holy ring through the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, prov
ing ourselves true soldiers for the Lord Jesus Christ, as in
vision I saw the ascended Masters in one holy ring. And I
thought of Enoch, Elijah and Esdras, and had such a great
desire to see each one face to face and learn their names.
And while I was in such deep thought they spoke to me and
said: "We are waiting here in Paradise until the Sons of
God are made manifest upon the earth." And dear beloved
Israel let it be remembered, it was the voice of an Angel
that showed me the way, for I had such a desire in my heart
to learn more about the ascended Masters. And praise to
the God of Israel! I am in harmony with all of the ascended
Masters that are working with our dear beloved ascended
Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who was given all power both
in heaven and in earth, and holdeth the key of hell and of
232 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
death. Praise ye the Lord all ye His saints! For there is
no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
HIDDEN MANNA
"|_0 I COME; in the volume of the Book it is written of Me,
to do Thy will Oh God! and a body hast Thou prepared
Me." For as He was brought forth by the virgin Law of
Christ in childhood, so will the 144,000 by the same virgin
Law be brought forth in manhood, a man and yet a child—
the spiritual Man-child. They are called One because of that
Immortal Spirit of truth. These are loyal soldiers to the
union of the Godhead. They cast satan from the heavens
to the earth and all that held with him.
And praise to the God of Israel! They are here upon
the earth to cast satan from the earth as he was cast from .
heaven. For behold the Woman clothed with the sun, the
moon under Her feet, and a crown of twelve stars upon Her
head. And the promise unto Her was made, that the Seed
of the Woman—the spirits of the Just will bruise the serp
ent's head. For they have been foreordained and predestin
ated to be conformed to the image of His Son Jesus Christ,
the firstborn of His Elect, the precious Stone who was made
after the power of an endless life, after the order of Mel-
chisedec who had no beginning of days nor end of life.
And by that virgin Law of Christ no man can be de
ceived, and this was proven in the firstborn Son, for satan
offered Him the kingdoms of this world if He would fall
down and worship him. But Jesus said : Thou shalt worship
the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve. For He
loved His Father and hated iniquity.
And that beloved ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ,
said He would send the other Comforter, the Spirit of truth
which the world cannot receive, to lead you in the way of all
truth and show you things to come. And all of His Elect
will receive that Spirit of truth. Therefore it is impossible
for them to be deceived, for it is the Spirit of prophecy, the
testimony of Jesus Christ. For many spirits have gone out
into the world, and even satan himself is transformed into
an angel of light —but we are to try the spirits to see whether
they are of God or not.
Therefore dear Israel, make your calling and election
sure. If ye do these things ye shall be. blest, yea! blest with
5TH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHERS BOOK 233
the Living Roll of Life unfurled to the Israel of God, con
taining the hidden manna which is hid in the midst of the
Paradise of God, where Angels guard the way to the Tree of
Life.
Yea! a Seed springs forth by the attraction of the sun
light of God in its times and seasons, not of man, nor of
the will of the flesh, but of God. He waters the garden with
the Waters of life and it grows up and spreads its branches
over the whole earth with the fruits of righteousness, in the
glorious Millennium Sabbath of rest. You might say: How
is it done ? By whom, and by what law ? By the Law of the
Spirit of life found in the Woman of the New World, by
the woe being taken away. She comes under the Head of
Her Husband Christ the Spirit of the Living God, Zion and
Jerusalem above resting upon Zion and Jerusalem below.
Christ is with them and shall be in them. But is She not the
Tree of life, bringing forth after Her own kind, trees of
righteousness the planting of the Lord who plants the Seeds ?
And is She not the resurrection and the life?
Therefore, no wonder Jesus' divine blessings went back
double to the Woman, because He was twice born of Her.
The virgin Mary was overshadowed by the power of the
Most High and she conceived and brought forth Jesus, and
the life of the mother was in the Child, which was blood.
When He was twelve years of age, we read where He was
in the temple conversing with the lawyers and doctors and
answering their questions, insomuch that they were amazed.
And He said to His mother: "Wist ye not that I must be
about My Father's business?"
Then we hear no more about Jesus for about eighteen
years, and I believe with all my heart He was with the
ascended Masters, being taught by them, and when He was
about thirty years of age He was baptized by John in the
river Jordan, then He was begotten of the Father and con
ceived of the Jerusalem Mother above, and carried by Her
for three years, and then She brought Him forth; then the
life of the Mother was in the Child, which was Spirit and not
blood.
Oh Israel Awake! The seals of the tomb are broken.
Arise and come forth at the sound of My voice. Oh Israel!
Thou hast been told to have a good supply of oil. Thou
hast been told to see Thou hast the right oil, which pro-
ceedeth from the bowl of the seven lamps and seven pipes.
Therefore if thou hast the light of the six from the right
oil thou wilt have no trouble in climbing the seventh mount
234 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN.
ain, for the light reflects as a great sunlight on thy pathway.
Lift up your eyes to see the Star of Jacob rising over the
mountain top.
Oh Israel ! Sing in cloud as well as in sunshine in this the
twelfth and last hour, wherein the Virgins will go forth with
their lamps filled from the seven golden pipes, trimmed and
lit under the Last Covenant which is The Branch, because
this Covenant could not be given till the coming forth of
The Branch from the mighty God presence Shiloh Immanuel,
God-with-Us! For there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel, and I am His servant.
f^r
VISITATION OF CHRIST.
/VJR beloved ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, said:
"I have other sheep which are not of this fold, and I give
unto them eternal life and they shall never perish, neither
shall any man pluck them out of My hand." Nevertheless
the battle is within, as Paul decribes a law within working
against the spiritual Law of his mind. And he said: "When
I would do good, evil is present." And in this battle we must
have the Visitation strong to overcome it through the mighty
Shiloh Immanuel, which steers the boat free from obstruc
tions and from delusions which will come in many ways.
But those who have that Spirit of truth have nothing to
fear, but without it you are out at sea and you have no rud
der to direct. Even as it was said in'the beginning that they
thought they had the secrets of heaven, but they only had
enough to fool them, and so it overthrew them, by which
they left their own habitation and came down in the fall;
and so their mystery deceived them. And so it has been in
all the fallen world, and more so now in this the time of the
end.
Because of their rebellion in their exaltation God spared
them not, and said they were great in might and power.
And dear Israel let it be understood that all these things
are permitted 'to test every Stone of the building, as the
spirits of the Just are being gathered and prepared for the
Kingdom of God on earth. Therefore dear beloved Israel—
to become as our ascended Master we must suffer—that
is,
the Just for the unjust. Our ascended Master did and bore
the sins of the whole world, and we must do the work that
He did, and greater works shall ye do because
I
go unto
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 235
My Father —the Elect, which is the spirits of the Just who
•will do the work for the New Kingdom, the Paradisical
world to come.
It was called the "elect world," broad and wide, and
brought Immortal fruit. But through the fall Paradise was
lost and sin and death entered, and now it is called the old
world—and Paradise to be restored and therefore it is to
be a New Paradisical World restored to the earth. And
therefore it is called the New Heaven and the New Earth
because of Paradise restored to man; that is, Immortal Life
of body, soul and spirit redeemed, and the earth changed
and made anew for them amidst the old world and unjust
spirits who fell and lost Paradise—it is they who make a
great kick—the deceiver and the deceived will be brought
face to face in judgment.
Therefore it behooves all Israel to ever seek to dwell
in that Spirit of truth that will detect satan in all of his
transformed teachings, wherein they can say: "The prince
of this world cometh and hath nothing in Me." Satan then
becomes your servant.
Therefore behold Jesus Christ the Bridegroom! Head
of the Church and Saviour of the body. Listen to His beau
tiful words when He said: "Behold, the Bridegroom com
eth! Go ye out to meet Him!" But what would that avail
you if you have no preparation? Going out to meet Him
signifies, "Preparing Before," and be ready to meet Him.
Jesus himself had a preparation and learned obedience by
the things He suffered, and was about thirty years of age
when Christ the Spirit of God rested and abode upon Him,
and the voice of God was heard from the very Throne, say
ing: "This is My beloved Son in whom I am well pleased,"
which caused satan the devil to rage in envy; and three
times he tried to tempt Jesus and to deceive and overthrow
Him, but Jesus withstood the temptation and the Angels
ministered to Him, and He began to preach the Visitation of
Christ which abode and remained upon Him. The Word of
God through Christ was made alive in Him, and in Him was
light and life, and the light of men by the Visitation of Him.
Yet He was a light shining in darkness and the darkness
comprehended it not, and cannot except by the Visita
tion, which is that Visitation of the Spirit of truth which
leads and guides you in the way of all truth and shows you
things to come; the Spirit of truth, the voice of the Bride
groom.
And My Sheep know My Voice, and a strange voice they
236 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
will not follow. Jesus said, "Follow Me." But you cannot
unless you dwell in that Spirit of truth to lead and guide,
which is the testimony of Jesus Christ; and by this they see
eye to eye with Him, and by it walk with Him and talk with
Him. And how can two walk together except they agree?
And what good is it to agree with yourselves except you
agree with Him by the Spirit of truth ?
Now the question might be asked, Why did He speak
in proverbs and parables? It was to keep the truth secret,
the life of the body from the fallen world, because the promise
was the life of the body to His Elect. It was never sealed
to them, but only to the rebellious world. But hark ye!
Since the spirits of the Just took bodies in the evil: —born in
sin, or with the evil in the blood —it becomes like a great
light in eclipse until the eclipse passes away, and the myster
ies are unsealed and the great light breaks in upon you
until the perfect Day dawn, and the Son of righteousness
arises with healing in His wings.
The new must increase, the old must decrease, like as
it was said of John whose faith was not perfect—"Clouds
came across his vision." But by the light of the Sun it must
increase. First the Day-Star arises in our hearts, and then
the Great Sunlight which is Christ. The Morning Stars sang
together and the Sons of God shouted for joy. And can you
not hear His voice saying: "Feed My sheep?" But ye shall
not live by bread alone. Bread feeds the mortal life, but
we must have that bread from heaven. The Word must be
made alive.
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with
God, which took upon itself flesh in Jesus the firstborn, and
is to be made alive in His brethren the 144,000, who shall
enter into that one Immortal Spirit and it shall cause them to
live on Angel's food, wherein all the secrets of heaven shall
be revealed unto them, for He doeth nothing but what He
revealeth His secrets unto His servants the Prophets. And
the only true Prophet is the Spirit of Jehovah who revealeth
the secrets of heaven, which takes us back to the Eden of
Paradise.
For in this heavenly Visitation the chariot goes before
it, compared to a ship in the sea; a tempest before and a
tempest behind, fire on one side and water on the other; and
many other great and beautiful lessons wonderful to behold,
to convey the Spiritual power by the natural ; that is, . the
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 237
visible things to show forth the invisible, even the eternal
power and Godhead. For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel, and I am His servant.
THE LIGHT OF THE SEVEN ANGELS.
/"\UR dear beloved ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ
, said: "I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house
of Israel," His true Elect who are elected and foreordained
and predestinated, which cannot be changed, for it is fixed
and sealed. Therefore dearly beloved Israel! let us fix our
seal that God is true and faithful concerning His promises
in this great Visitation; and particularly the Seventh sounds
in the Sixth. That Messenger foretold of the Seventh to
come, and beginning with the Living Branch to be grafted,
and the beginning of a New Creation of God; and not only
this, but the deep mysteries given pertaining to the Kingdom
of God and the restoration of Paradise to Israel. Therefore
the Seventh also sounds in this the sixth day, preparatory
to the Seventh Day of rest and peace. And as Jesus said:
"If they had been mindful of these things which belonged
to their peace, they might have entered in" with Him in His
First Coming.
Therefore it remains for the spirits of the Just now in
this the time of His Second Coming. Therefore dear beloved
Israel ! make your calling and election sure. John saw Him in
His glorified body and described Him, a burning, flaming fire,
and He had in His right hand seven Stars, which are the
Seven Angels of the Seven Churches, and all sound in the
Seventh and the mystery to be finished. And the Elect will
see the Star and hear His voice.
And His countenance was as the sun shining in his
strength. And John said: "When I saw Him I fell at His
feet as dead." And He laid His right hand upon me, saying:
"Fear not, I am the first and the last. I am He that liveth,
and was dead; and behold I am alive for evermore and have
the keys of hell and of death." The seven candlesticks and
seven stars are the seven churches and the seven Angels, and
without controversy all is written for us upon whom the
end of the world has come; because the redemption is yet
to be obtained, and the light of the Seven Angels is the light
238 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
of this Visitation, all working by the Spirit of truth which
He said He would send, which is that Other Comforter which
the world cannot receive.
Therefore the mysteries which have hitherto been sealed
up are now being made known for the Elect of God, who are
now upon the earth, and He said He would give unto them
eternal life and they shall never perish, neither shall any
man pluck them out of My hand. Therefore the Seventh
Angel sounds and is finishing the mystery as declared by
His servants the Prophets, all pointing to this great end.
(Rev.10-7.)
And after this I looked and behold a Door was opened
in heaven, which is for His Elect who will now hear the voice
of this mighty Trumpet and harden not their hearts. And
this voice was as it were a trumpet talking to me which
said: "Come up hither and I will show thee things which
shall be hereafter." And here he saw One sitting upon a
Throne, and there followed four and twenty elders.
And dear beloved Israel remember He said: "These are
the things which shall be hereafter." And that Door was
opened in heaven, and as it was said before : This is the begin
ning of the New Creation of God. And if the Door was not
opened in heaven for them, how could they enter into Spiritual
and heavenly things? Therefore they are to be both in
heaven—the Spirit of this Visitation —and also upon earth,
the beginning of the Creation of God on earth, and therefore
enter in with Him and He with us, like Jesus who dwelt
first in the Kingdom of heaven at the river Jordan when the
Holy Spirit lit upon Him in the bodily shape of a dove, and
a voice was heard from heaven saying: "This is My beloved
Son in whom I am well pleased."
And Jesus the beloved of the Father, said : "No one hath
ascended up to heaven save He who came down from heaven,
even the Son of man which is in heaven, while He yet stood
here upon the earth. Then He entered into His divine mini
stry for three years. He healed the sick, He opened the
eyes of the blind, He raised the dead through the power of
that divine Spirit that rested upon Him.* After all those
wonderful miracles, the powers of darkness fell upon the
people and they condemned and crucified Him upon the cross.
And He poured out His precious blood, which made the
atonement for all souls. Before He was crucified He said:
"Tear down this temple and in three days I will raise it up
again," and in fulfillment of what He had said He arose
before the third day was up, and He showed Himself alive
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 239
here upon earth with the fullness of the Godhead put within,
the Firstborn of these many brethren that were yet to come.
And praise to the God of Israel, they are all upon the earth
today and they will hear His voice saying: "Behold, I now
stand at the door and knock; if any man will open the door
I will come in and sup with him and he with Me." And again
He said: "I am the door, the way, the truth and the life,"
which is the Spirit and life of this Visitation.
The door is open by the unsealing of the mysteries, an
Open Vision. But is it for you? Are the sealed doors open
in your case? Do you hear His knock, and do you hear His
voice? However, we do know His sheep hear His voice and
therefore the spirits of the Just having bodies will enter in
at the strait gate by the Words of His power. These were
seen with white robes and golden crowns, and out of the
Throne proceedeth thunder, lightning and voices.
And there were seven lamps of fire burning before the
Throne, which are the seven Spirits of God; and a sea of
glass Hkeunto crystal. And as it says in another place, "I
saw a pure river of water clear as crystal, proceeding from
the throne of God and the lamb; and on either side the Tree
of life yielding Her fruit every month.
Therefore dear beloved Israel do you not long for that
habitation ? Oh that our Spirit, soul and body should Awake
and take interest in this glorious habitation to come! which
will come and not tarry. We must be ready. And as He
said to John: "Behold I come quickly, and My reward is
with Me to give every man according as his work shall be."
Therefore dear beloved Israel let us ever seek to dwell around
the springs of Wisdom. And from the great fountain and
springs of Wisdom they all drank. And as Jesus said:
"Drink and thirst no more." It is also written: I will lead them
unto fountains of living water and they shall thirst no more."
Therefore Enoch the beloved scribe of righteousness,
the ascended Master who works in harmony with God our
Father, was shown a wonderful tree that God specially made
and reserved for the Elect; no tree in the garden like it;
most wonderful for its beauty, its smell and fruit; greatest
of all trees in all the earth; nothing even in the Garden to
compare with it, and it will come forth and need no grafting.
This tree is not that of flesh —a fruit—choice of all trees.
This angel showed Enoch most all things on earth and
the extremities of heaven, and this was before the flood,
240 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
when these things were yet intact, and which will hereafter
be restored.
I believe I have shown that there were seven Angels
Immortal, which always means to say —a body of flesh and
bone. These in those days were called Angels; not common
angels but Archangels. And while the Immortal cleared
away before the fall, these special Angels were kept in re
serve for a special work. And I may say here, at the flood
they brought it on, as the flood gates were to be open of both
heaven and earth; that is, the firmament heaven. And it
speaks of seven great cataracts which poured down from the
waters of the firmament heaven and also overflowed down
upon the earth. And in the days of Lot in Sodom, these
Angels, meaning the ascended Masters, talked with Abraham
concerning the destruction of Sodom, and said they would
go over and see. And they called down fire this time and
destroyed Sodom and all around about. The intent of this
point is to show that these great Angels or the ascended
Masters are of an Immortal life ; that is, spirits of just men
made perfect from the former cycle, and they will continue
unto the end and the establishing of God's Kingdom here
upon earth.
Now, in speaking of these Angels from the former cycle,
these are separate from the Archangel-spirits TO BE made
Immortal. Michael, Gabriel and other Angels were also
with Enoch and these are classified, some who have bodies,
and others yet to come to earth and take bodies in "this
distant period and time of the end."
Enoch went on and was shown the Garden of Righteous
ness. Why was the Garden of Eden called the Garden of
Righteousness ? Because before the fall, there were righteous
people in it, even Adam, though destined to the fall to be head
of the old world, yet he was said to be a choice Cherub, a
bright morning star of Eden until iniquity was found in him,
and was driven from the Garden because it was a garden of
righteousness. Besides this, there were the Gods and the
Tree of life in the midst.
Enoch, from the Garden of Righteousness went on and
described great, beautiful things. Also, the sun arose across
the face of the heavens ; that is, this breadth whereon the holy
City will be builded, wherein happiness shall reign throughout
one eternal day. Therefore there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel, and I am His servant.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 241
THE RANSOM.
\^LTHEN ALL Israel agree in spirit and in truth to overcome
all evil and the very appearance of evil, the pure love
of God shall flow between them, which mortal cannot measure
nor weigh, for it is the fruits of that one Immortal Spirit,
they being the pure wheat which was in the granary, for
the tares are burned with the fire of that holy Spirit, and the
water of life on the other side of the granary.
Therefore no one shall eat this fruit who has not labored
for it, for the time is here that Israel have no time to wait.
For he that asketh shall receive, and to him that knocketh,
the door of that Immortal Spirit flieth open. And the pure
love of God which fills their hearts is the attraction for them,
which draws them into the holy Spirit. Therefore if you
want to receive the divine love of the Father and the holy
Mother, keep His holy Virgin Law, for that will prove you
to be the virtuous woman who is a crown unto her husband,
length of days in her right hand, riches and honor in her left.
For the evil was found with satan in heaven before it
was placed with woman in the earth through his evil at
traction. Praise to the God of Israel! it is slain, and the
ransom which ransoms us from the power■ of the grave is
given, because we have»been faithful to His Law of life. And
so they are set apart, namely the man and the woman, to do
the work which the Father hath appointed them to do. It
shall be proven to all Israel that the land is no more barren,
but the fruits of the holy Spirit floweth out, and they will not
have to go around and tell the people who they are. No!
for the holy Spirit will testify of them. And I tell you for a
truth, these are the days that the Lord hath begun to work
to declare the whole truth to His people Israel, who will not
hold back their hearts from their God in this the time of
His second coming, wherein He will subdue all nations.
For this is the Branch which has appeared in the name
of Shiloh Immanuel. And it shall be proven I AM that I AM
hath sent Thee —even I—and there is no other God besides
Me. I kill and I make alive. I wound and I heal. Neither
is there anyone who can deliver you out of My hands. And
He lifted Up His hands to heaven, saying: "I live for ever
more."
Therefore rejoice all ye nations with My people Israel, for
they are the light of the world, a City that is set upon a
mountain, yea Mount Zion which cannot be hid. And the
Lord will avenge them of their adversary, and He will be
242 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
merciful unto them, for they through the holy Spirit shall
draw unto Him and He shall cause them to do the work
amidst all the rejection and persecution. For the pr■■ :ant
world seeth Him not, but the New World which is to come
seeth Him, for He dwelleth with them and shall be put within
their flesh and bone body, to His honor and glory likeunto our
Lord.
So in this the day of our heavenly Visitation the warning
cry of God is calling upon male and female: "Give Me thy
heart and I will give you My Spirit," and it shall give thee
the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. And
nations which have not known thee shall serve thee, for the
Lord thy God thy maker, thy Ishi Husband shall dwell with
thee. For Shiloh Immanuel the Second Child is spiritual
and is a Godly seed, which is that other Comforter which
should proceed from Jesus Christ, which He promised to send
after His departure. And His Israel the 144,000 will dwell
in it, and overcome the evil which overcame them in the old
world, and it shall do the work in them as it did in Jesus
Christ. Then it shall be put within them.
For as Jesus said: "I of My own self can do nothing."
He then ascended to His Father. And He has now come into
the world again to see who would seek the Godly Seed whom
He foreknew, that they might be conformed to His image,
that the angels might be subject to them as to Him. And all
in heaven and in earth are placed in subjection to them.
Know ye not that we shall judge angels? For Christ was
not subject to angels, but angels were subject to Him.
Praise to the God of Israel ! I tell you for a truth, this
is the latter rain wherein God is revealing the secrets of
eternal life through His latter Adam, a quickening Spirit,
the Lord from heaven, which was to be made and finished
within the sixth day, or the six thousand years. But those
days have been shortened. But I will show to all that dwel
leth upon the earth and in heaven, that the old heavens and
the old earth shall pass away with the roaring of artillery
and the clashing of arms, but Israel shall be caught up far
above the yells and groans of a sin-cursed world. But in
this the day of His heavenly Visitation the God of Israel shall
show forth His work in His New Creation by preparing the
temple for His Immortal Bride, wherein His holy Spirit shall
dwell, thus becoming a temple for the Living God.
And when He created man, He gave a Law lest he would
transgress as the angels, and He planted a pure olive tree
which was Jesus Christ, which was His firstborn-begotten
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 243
Son to show forth His immortal work, that they might all
bear fruit unto Him, yea! an hundred fold likeunto His
firstborn Son. Then harken Oh Israel! has He not spoken
of His first and second coming by the mouth of His holy
prophets? But there is but one Shepherd to rule, for we are
no more than a branch of a tree, being in Christ until Christ
be grafted into us. And then we are only a mouthpiece for
Him to speak through, for that eternal breath is the prophet.
And so God wul make us likeunto the Firstborn, who was
a mouthpiece for His Father to speak through. It is then the
stony heart of man and woman shall be taken away, and they
shall have a heart of flesh, and these shall be no more subject
to the enemy which is the serpent in the sea. For this is the
evil power which overcame the man and the woman in the
beginning. But praise to the God of Israel! the truth was
found with the woman, and she shall end the battle and over
come the man of sin. Therefore dear beloved Israel! Thou
must go through the regeneration as Jesus did. For is He
not our example, waymark and pattern? For when He has
fulfilled the regeneration He shall receive the reward, and
the reward is this: He shall receive all of the twelve tribes
back into Paradise, which He shall give them, and they
shall dwell with Him. Then is this not greater than father
or mother, husband and wife, lands or silver and gold? It
is not for any man or woman if they lose their body. But
if they lose not the faith of Immortality, though they are
separated by death, will they not possess it in their children?
showing God is just to all.
Therefore have not Israel great reasons to rejoice and
Praise God with a loud voice? seeing He has sent One for
our example who is our Shepherd, who will separate the
sheep from the goats. The goats are clean beasts, yet
they only represent the salvation of the soul. And the others
are the sheep of His pasture unto whom He said; "I am He
that was dead and behold I am alive forevermore, and have
the keys of hell and of death." Therefore He was the Prince
of Peace in His spiritual form, and when in His flesh-and-
bone body the King of glory. For there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel, and I am his servant.
244 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
THE WIDOW OF ZION.
D1
)EAR beloved Israel: These are the joyful tidings from
heaven in this the twelfth and last hour. Solomon spoke
of a woman, namely Jerusalem above, with the fruit of Her
hand She planted a vineyard, this vineyard being the whole
house of Israel. And ever remember, they will have no fear
of man nor the reproach of man, but will follow on until they
arrive to the Vine Christ. As it is written: They shall
encompass around the Saints and the beloved City, the Saints
being those who have been martyred for the Faith they
held. Jesus was the King of the Saints because He suffered
death for His Faith, and became the King of the Saints by
showing forth the resurrection of the dead. Therefore satan
cannot come against the Redeemed, for he knows he will
have to come against God himself.
Oh the wotiderful Words of life which are given by and
through the Spirit of the living God, who has caused it to
be sent to the ends of the earth. It is not the beginning of
a thing, but the ending; for when the house of Israel begins
they will know where it will end, for that Immortal Spirit
teaches us all things, which js the precious gift of God who
will prepare His Israel for His Coming, and gather them
together where they shall hear His voice and follow that
Immortal Spirit wheresoever it leadeth. And they shall
drink of that Living Water and they shall thirst no more.
Therefore the resurrected Word of God is a cloud to
some, but a pillar of fire to those who make a place for the
Living Child. Let all Israel praise God! knowing that the
work is going on which causes our hearts to burn within us
while that Immortal Spirit interprets the Word to us while
walking on our way to the New Jerusalem, the City of God.
Therefore dear beloved Israel! the door of Immortality
standeth open, and to all who hear and obey His voice that
door is open unto him, against which the gates of hell
cannot prevail. And they shall hear the Master's voice as
in the days of old, and I will be unto them as though I was
face to face, and they shall see it is I who appeared unto them
in vision, and they shall understand with their whole heart,
and the understanding of the heart shall cause the blood
which has been the life of them to become flesh, and that
Immortal Spirit shall live in them.
Let us behold Enoch and Elijah who obeyed the Law
and kept it, and are they not waiting in Paradise until the
Lord descends with a mighty shout, the voice of the Arch
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 245
angel which shall awake those sleeping souls? And the
voice of the Almighty God shall be heard saying: "O Spirit,
return to thy soul," and if His voice awakes those sleeping
souls, how much more the Living to put on Immortality?
Therefore I entreat all Israel to let no man or woman
influence you against that inward Monitor, but ever seek
to dwell in that Immortal Spirit which will make you wise
with the knowledge which will discern satan in all his crooked
ways; then no man or woman can turn you from the Living
Word of truth contained in the beautiful Star of Bethlehem
which has now arisen to lead us safely to the New Jerusalem,
the City of the Living God. It will unloose the seven Seals
which were opened to John, but closed again until this the
day and hour of His Second Coming.
Blessed and holy is he who waiteth and cometh to the
days of the Branch! Therefore the kernel and germ of
life is found in the Book to feed the children of the City of
David. Therefore dear brothers and sisters let it be remem
bered, those who reject part of this Word become scorpions
against Me, saith the Lord. They are neither hot nor. cold,
but being lukewarm I will spue them out of My mouth, for
they know not the Spirit of truth which I have sent unto
them, proving themselves to be the foolish virgins who once
received oil but did not follow the Spirit wheresoever it
leadeth. The sting of these scorpions is what you shall dread,
but the Israel of God will withdraw from them and ever seek
to the Spirit of truth, and by it they shall overcome and be
healed of the bite of the serpent.
Judas truly has manifested himself here in the City of
David. He would love to bruise the heel of understanding
in rebellion against the eternal Covenant of life, which is
their fall from the Visitation of truth, for Lucifer entered
into them and in them he is transformed into an angel of
light to deceive the Elect if possible, but Lucifer was created
a choice cherub, yet not by birth of the Jerusalem Mother;
therefore neither he nor any of his host will ever have any
true love for the Mother.
He was lifted up by reason of his brightness by the
anointing, or by the light which was given to him by which
he assumed to be a leader of all spirits. This anointing was
given to prove the creation of spirits, and also here upon
earth. Therefore when his work is finished his brightness
shall be taken away, and it was to this end that many were
chosen and anointed in Israel who were of the same spirit
as the deceitful Judas, who betrayed his Lord with a kiss.
246 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
And there were many Judases found in the old House of
David, full of envy and jealousy, proving they had an evil
heart, who betrayed and crucified the Second Child, thus
smiting the hand that fed them. But Praise God! He shall
return to our joy, and those who hated Him shall be ashamed.
And then they will realize what they have done, fully
realizing they have been like unto Lamech, having sold a
boy for a harlot, and a girl for wine. They have sold the
young boy (the Spiritual Young Man) for a harlot, even the
mother of harlots; and the girl (the wife of their youth) for
the wine of the harlot, who hath made all nations drunk with
the wine of her fornication. This is the abomination of
desolation standing in the Holy Place, or where the Holy
Place ought to be—the man of sin revealed.
For this cause there needed to be a supplanting and the
Spiritual Young Man-child given to the rightful heir, who
by it will bring forth the fruits of the Spirit unto the glory
of the heavenly Father and Mother of the Living Child. The
Law of the Spirit of truth has been given to man, and by it
the door of Immortality has been opened to man in every age.
Therefore Oh Israel Awake! Awake and remember, all who
have received the living Word of life have received Shiloh
the Branch of Christ, which has come from the Tree of life
who has brought forth the Virgin Law of Christ to prepare
their bodies for the mighty God of Jacob to dwell in, and all
who were prepared of the Father from before the foundation
of the world, for they stood against the devil and his trans
formed teaching, and these shall be found worthy in the eyes
of the Almighty God, who will establish His Kingdom here
upon earth in righteousness and in peace, wherein the Morn
ing Stars sing together and the Sons of God shout for Joy,
for the battle is fought, and praise God the victory is won!
Therefore dear beloved Israel! let us fly to Jerusalem
above and submit to Her—then the candle is lit. Does it not
say: "The Spirit of man is the candle of the Lord?" Then
when this is done his whole body is full of light —then where
is death ? Isaiah speaks of the Widow of Zion. But who is
the widow? Jerusalem above cannot be the Widow, for She
is always with Her Husband. The widow is the house of
Israel having lost her husband the devil. And all of her
children are fatherless for they have lost their father the
devil —meaning the evil of their father. Then Zion below
becomes a widow until her land is forsaken of both her kings,
for satan has been king over both Law and Gospel, yet the
Lord said He would seek her as a young man seeketh a virgin.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 247
The Scriptures show how she shall be decked, how her body
shall be transparent, that the mortal eye cannot behold Her,
for Her Husband is the Almighty —Zion above meets Zion
below.
"And I will show to the high rulers that I will conquer the
world by a Woman, and I, Jesus let Her become My Mother —
the same has become the Virgin of Israel, for She
is the Mother of all living. And to him who receiveth not the
Woman, receiveth not My Seed, for I Jesus am become the
Woman's Seed that She might be a helpmate for man. And
I will make Her stronger than the pillars of hell. Yea! I
will lighten Her as the sun lighteth the world. I will let the
Princes, Rabbis and the Kings of the earth behold Her glory
and Her light that She is lighted with."
Therefore dear beloved Israel! ever be willing and ready
to harken to the weaker vessel. God always chooses the
weak instrument to show forth His wonderful power; and
it is only a few women who will be found worthy to do this—
even as Gideon's army was small. But if the rest of the
women submit unto the ones they are put under, they will
put on Immortality and wear the glorious crown; though
she is not found worthy to fight the battle even as those who
were not found worthy to go to battle with Gideon, ate of the
spoil. So shall the women put on Immortality if they mur
mur not. Remember, their life is hid with Christ in God, and
it is to whom it is given, and He has given it to the Woman,
and a three-fold cord cannot be broken. For there is no
God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
THE ROYAL CHURCH.
ALL Hail ! with love, peace and good-will to the dear beloved
brothers and sisters in the most holy Faith, who are
called by the mighty Shiloh Immanuel to be true laborers
in this wonderful Vineyard, for the harvest is great and the
laborers are few. Therefore the mighty Shiloh Spirit of
truth shall be with thee for counsel and comfort, also to
guard thee and bring thee safely up to Me, where thou mayest
know and see by the glimpse of the mighty Shiloh and under
stand what I am doing, thus making ready in this the twelfth
and last hour wherein Mine eyes shall behold the Elect of
God, the spirits of the Just dwelling in Immortality —dwell
ing in the divine love and joy of My blessed Kingdom.
248' THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
The holy Spring of life and love shall rise so high, for
they have drunk My Spirit up, thus entering into that
fountain of life where we shall hunger and thirst no more,
for we shall be nourished and fed at the table of Zion with
the delicious fruit from the Garden of Eden, where thou
mayest have liberty of heavenly discourses with Me, your
Lord, which is weighty and powerful, which pertains unto the
New Jerusalem state.
So then Oh Spouse of Mine! after this sweet commun
ion with the holy One thou wilt fly as a spark of light to the
body —that is the body and fullness of all light. These are
the sweet Angel foods I shall leave with My espoused One
to feed upon for refreshing support till a future day shall
break through the bright realms above, which shall celebrate
the eternal marriage.
Oh feast with me, my Christ and living Head, "for I
espouse you to one husband, and that husband is Christ."
And do you not hear the voice of an Angel sounding the
trumpet of joy at this great marriage feast? The words
that came from His mouth were like honey-drops. There
fore all this which has been declared should fill your heart
with wisdom, love and kindness toward a faithful traveler
who is on his way to the City of God. It might invite and
encourage some who have not set their foot in this way to
ward the New Jerusalem the City of God. Oh ye that are
friends and lovers of this strait and narrow way longing to
be counted worthy to enter into the Courts above with God
and Christ, with the innumerable spirits pure and glorious,
which gives you wisdom, comfort and joy, bidding you to go
swiftly on in this path of life, giving you a full assurance of
all His loving assistance.
Within His dear embrace and. most glorious communi
cations all veils and bars are taken away. Therefore we shall
behold the Lord our Christ, upon this Mountain He will show
Himself and talk with thee as God did with Moses. Only
thou must put off thy shoes, because it is Holy Ground you
will walk upon, as much as to say: "Come here, all being
pure and clean! Leave all at the foot of the Mountain that
would contact the world's earthly dust"—then shall you
know, hear and see that which is so refreshing for the
feelings of all your divine wisdom so that you will say: "It
is good to be here." And so it may be permitted for so long
a time as you can abide, clothed with that transfigured robe
of the Spirit of Christ. But that will be but at certain times
and seasons, yet it will be enough to know this place is holy
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 249
ground. It is Divine. It is a. high and blessed privilege to
see and know the place and company before hand, for our
Lord Jesus Christ is ever ready to show unto the spiritual-
minded the dominions in His Kingdom, and to give a good
assurance of being joint-heirs with Him of the same glory,
as you may see. John 17 ; Rom. 8. And all this is to confirm
what in every succeeding age may be as a fresh sealed
evidence given by the most holy Spirit.
Oh ! who would not be among the number of these sealed
ones! Surely it is worth forsaking all earthly things per
taining to the old world. Therefore we may hold up these
great privileges you have had, by experience of those who
have traveled the strait and narrow way and have gained
their eternal freedom; proving if we live up to the Law of
Life "we shall live and we shall not die," which shall be made
known and manifest to the world when it is too late. There
fore this power will be furnished with somewhat of those
ancient gifts and power which went forth from the Lord
Jesus Christ and the Apostles in their day, and most assuredly
will be a forerunner of the reign of Christ upon the earth in
His Saints in drawing very near; and more mighty and
miraculous power must be given in this age to go forth like
unto our Lord and Master.
Therefore let it be understood that the great day of
Christ's appearing draweth nigh. And for this end, such
deep and inward things are revealed beforehand to make
ready His espoused Bride, that they might be found all fair
and clear without blemish, for such a Royal Church as
Christ must have prepared to entertain Him upon this earth.
Therefore to as many as are in this day big with ex
pectations of Christ appearing in His Kingdom, I would say
to all such lovers and watchers, let me remind you of that of
Paul, I.Thes.5;23; that you may be found acceptable with all
Spiritual gifts and virtue and to be found before Him blame
less, that such qualified ones might hasten His coming. For
it is not to the cry of "Lo here!" and "Lo there" that
He will appear, but it is to those who hath by His Spirit
quickened and raised up in His own inward Spiritual body —
to them He will first appear and go forth as lightning every
where —likeunto Jesus, who could appear and disappear in
His Immortal body, for His Immortal breath was His wings,
and He could appear and disappear because His Immortal
body became the Living Flying Machine in perfect safety,
wherein no harm could come. And He was the Firstborn of
144,000 who are to become likeunto our ascended Master,
250 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
the Lord Jesus Christ. For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel, and I am His servant.
THE INWARD EYE.
"f^HRIST in you is the hope of glory," but only a few
throughout all these ages realized the hope, else they
could not have died: It is written: "I in you," referring to the
redemption. Hope! blessed hope, which must be realized by
those who will prove they possess it by living a divine holy
life here upon earth. What a joyful experience to realize
the Angel of light and truth is here to lead and point out the
true and holy way, until they arrive safely to the very throne
of God, thus being anointed and overshadowed, preparing
our bodies to become a fit habitation for that holy Spirit to
dwell in. And those that receive the Graft are blest to have
that inward eye, wherein they can see and understand all
things that are permitted to come upon them, and thus be
guided to a prepared place wherein no harm can come to
them. All these things are taught in the glorious "Star of
Bethlehem" that was written by the Seventh and Last Mes
senger through the power of the mighty Archangel Gabriel.
Therefore let those who love the ascended Master the
Lord Jesus Christ, seek unto His witnesses and know that
He doeth nothing but what He seeth the Father do. So we
as true followers of the Father are ever seeking to follow
His teachings through the Prophets, guided by His great
divine hand with the influence of ereat heat which is divine
and marvelous. And can you not hear His voice saying:
"Fear not! My hand is stretched out" to encompass and
protect the birth and give life to the pregnancy, that it
might be beyond the dragon's power to slay the Spiritual
Child; for which cause I, the holy One of Israel have over
shadowed thee with My Spiritual body —the same Spiritual
body with which I appeared to Mary after I arose from the
dead, which shall bring forth according to that living Faith
which shall operate in its own divine way, which is the
greatest thing whereby the Paradisical world shall spring
forth again without toil and care. But let it be remembered!
this cannot be until such a birth be brought forth within
those that have that Living Faith to go forth with all power,
without guile or sin, for that destroys the zeal of love and
binds down the wings of faith. It is also a twisting string
to bind down the eagle—the prepared body. But Praise to
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 251
the Holy One! it is able to free itself from all the bands of
evil.
Therefore dear beloved Israel this renewed birth you must
now set your mind fully upon, for it will be to you greater
than a Noah! —that will comfort you by restoring unto you
a New World wherein righteousness and Peace shall dwell.
But let it be remembered : Jesus Christ must fully abide upon
thee until the birth in you grow ripe, for it is the Elias that
shall come in another and more perfect generation than yet
ever has been, thus preparing His Elect ones for His glorious
and grand coming from Heaven, who left this work to be
accomplished by the birth of the Holy Ghost which will bring
forth the most perfect restitution, so you, Oh Israel might
come to know Elias' track through the burning chariot for
translation.
It has already fallen upon some to bring forth this
mighty Elias in Spirit as the firstborn in Wisdom's Day, and
go before and overturn and make ready for Christ's glorious
reign which is to be here upon earth, which will establish
the New Jerusalem. For remember: Elias was to come
before that great and notable day of the Lord.
Therefore Oh Israel take heed, and renew your faith
and pray and travail mightily, that you may be counted the
worthy ones to bear a living testimony. For a great and
mighty government will be entrusted unto you when Wisdom
fully comes to birth, a much more glorious and divine state
than that of Solomon, springing up likeunto the two witnesses
being long slain in the Seed, and being long buried in the
earth so as to be forgotten by the world. But hark ye Oh
Israel! except by the rising of them in each of you, you
cannot obtain the highest glory. But on the other hand,
if you are faithful and true you will hear His sweet voice
saying: "You have been faithful over a few things, and now
I will make thee ruler over many things; enter ye into the
joys of thy Lord."
It is then that the Olive sweetness shall spring through
out of your own root. As it is written of David: "I am the
Root and offspring of David, the bright and Morning Star,"
and this will bring you to a full understanding who is your
true Helpmate. And you will quickly see and understand She
is the Holy Mother of Zion, who has returned to the earth to
bring forth Her Sons and Daughters to that Immortal birth.
And it will be proven they have followed the Lord Jesus
Christ "step by step" in this Visitation, which is a witness
that they have entered into that Eternal Covenant that never
252 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
shall be broken under the voice of the Seventh and Last
Trump, sounding for a resurrection of Spirit, soul and body:
Therefore the God of Israel knows how to give the
Spiritual Seed a body after its own kind, that it may be
suitably clothed upon. Having passed through and got over
the resurrected step in this the Twelfth and Last Hour, the
Heavens do open and the bright cloud breaks at the open
Gate for ascension to receive the spirit and soul that has put
on its rising body like our Lord and Master when He said:
"Handle me and see, for a Spirit doth not have flesh and
bone as ye see Me have" —proving He had the same identical
body, less the blood, that they had crucified Him in ; He being
the Firstborn of the 144,000 who were to follow. Him through
the regeneration.
Praise to the God of Israel ! we do see the breaking forth
of the great Sunlight in the dawn of a new day. And by
the great Alpha and Omega it is testified that, what by His
Spirit hath been revealed shall now be fulfilled in His Elect.
Therefore this is now the very time wherein our expectation
grows great for bringing forth the heir of all this heavenly
Divine and Immortal knowledge that has been promised to
His true Elect by the voice of the true and Holy One, wherein
His Elect must be rooted and established in the birth of the
Holy Ghost which is firm and unchangeable, and have a firm
and great desire to reach the high mark—to the top of the
ladder—the ascension.
And we of this holy Visitation have been taught to
reject all of satan's influence. For there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
POWER TO HEAL.
jyEj
CAR beloved Israel! Let us ever behold the Angel from
the east who has come, having the Seal of the living God,
the Seal and stamp of the living Word, which keeps the virtue
of the living oil within themselves; coming from the living
Child from the East; that is, from the Mother of the Eden
of Paradise which was planted eastward in Eden, which is
the rising of the sun. She comes clothed with the sun,
the moon under her feet, and a crown of twelve stars upon
Her head; who brought forth the living spiritual Man-child,
who is the Seventh Standard of God's Spirit of power only;
which power we are looking and longing for, in order to
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 253
prepare the divine way to that Kingdom of love and peace
that must spread over the whole earth. Even so come Lord
Jesus to reign upon the earth, thus giving thy anointed Ones
power of healing by laying on of hands, by those who are
baptized by the Holy Ghost—the prepared ones who have
been waiting for
it,
that they may hereafter partake and be
inspired from such
a
virtuous fiery touch, and therefore be
so highly illuminated with the holy Spirit as to be made a new
creature in Christ Jesus.
Therefore our blessed ascended Master has sent His
Spirit of truth to be with thee for counsel and comfort, also
to guide thee up to Him, wherein thou mayest know and see
by His divine Spirit what
I
am doing in making ready for
the present and future day, preparing us to be clothed with
the garment of Immortality. So, in spirit, come and see and
taste of the heavenly fruit of Paradise, thus entering into
the joy of My Kingdom. The glorious spring of life and love
shall rise so high as to drink My Spirit up; dwelling with
Me, wherein thou shalt never hunger or thirst any more,
but dwell in spirit with Me your Lord and Redeemer, thus
entering into liberty, sweet liberty of love divine, wherein
thou shalt fly as a spark of light to the body—that is, the
body and fullness of all light.
These are the divine words of Eternal Life that the
divine holy One has left with his espoused Bride to feed upon
for
a
refreshing support till a future day shall break through
the heavens above, wherein He shall appear with ten thous
and of His saints. So GET YOU READY! GET YOU
READY! to celebrate the Royal Feast with Christ our living
Head, and with myriads of angels with their trumpets' joyful
sound at the beautiful feast.
So send these divine Words to the ends of the earth,
telling them
it
is from the mouth of our Immanuel, our
mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Let
it
be understood that the great day of Christ's appearing
is drawing near, and for this end such deep and inward
things are revealed beforehand to make ready to be called
His espoused Bride.
Hark ye! the Trumpet is now being blown and the
call
is
now being sent all over the earth for Israel to
gather home and build the City of their King. And
while God is gathering His people, Hark! listen to the
trump of war. All nations will soon be engaged in this
great conflict, and while they are in this great time of
254 THE BpOK OF HEAVEN . . . .
trouble the true children of Abraham will hear the voice of
their God saying: "Be of good cheer, it is I." And amidst
all the roaring of artillery and the clashing of arms they
have nothing to fear, for God is with them and they are in
perfect peace, while the nobles and great will fall, and kings*
crowns will clink upon the ground.
Oh hark ye! this is the great day of God Almighty. He
is down in the valley of Jehoshaphat to plead with His
people Israel. Therefore ye children of Abraham, we warn
you all to seek earnestly to be separated from the old world
that must pass away —Christ's peaceable Kingdom be establ
ished here upon this earth. See ye the love of God! how
He pleads with His people? "As it was in the days of Noah.
so shall it be in the coming of the Son of man!"
Therefore dear brothers and sisters, just see how sound
asleep the old world is today, but on the other hand how we
do rejoice to know that God has an Elect people today upon
the earth who will keep the commandments of God and have
the faith of Jesus Christ, who will be found watching and
faithful. When He comes, they shall be His jewels to make
up His Bride. Truly it is the great time of rejoicing for
Israel, for now is the time they can lift up their heads and
rejoice, for their redemption draweth nigh.
Therefore as there was an outward "going up" to Jeru
salem to eat the feast of the passover, it was a beautiful
type of the great day of the feast which is now kept in the
New Jerusalem above, where the Lord Jesus Christ in His
spiritual humanity doth appear, keeping up solemnly that
spiritual feast with the body of His saints there, and some
times doth admit pure spirits that are yet in the body of
visible flesh, to come up for to view the beautiful order and
holy government of that holy feast. This is the true eating
of the supper of the Lamb, and drinking of the Royal Wine
of the New Testament with Christ in His Kingdom, and
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His
servant.
~<T'
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 255
REFUSE NOT CHASTENING.
FYEAR beloved Israel ! Can you not hear the voice of Shiloh
Immanuel saying: "The Seals are unloosed and the my
steries made known?" and the inward Door is open by the
Seventh Key to all who will receive it. The keys are seven,
and six keys will not admit you into the Holy Place, for they
do not fit and will not open the Seventh Seal. Therefore as
there are seven Seals and seven Keys, it is necessary to have
them all in order to have free access to the building of the
great City.
Therefore the voice of the holy One has told you through
all the former Messengers that you had to pass the Seven,
according to My Word. And those who have not the seven
Keys to the seven Seals cannot pass the Queen of the City;
She is in the Door with her Husband, who is the door, the
way, the truth and the life.
Therefore Oh House of Israel! if ye have lost the key
or any one of these keys, your corresponding Seal is not
open. And if you have not the foregoing keys to open the
outward gate or door, how can you get through the inward
door or gate ? If you have only the six foregoing keys which
I have sent unto you, how could you open the inward door?
If ye have not the Seventh key ye are without; for no other
key will open it. And by that key My people shall be brought
from under Law and Gospel into the law of liberty by the
mighty Shiloh Immanuel. For he who believes in the Spirit
ual Branch, it shall do the work for them and set every man
free from the bondage of corruption and bring them into
the glorious liberty of the children of God. As it is written :
"If the truth shall set you free ye shall be free indeed!" It
is those who have been sealed unto Myself with the Seven
seals of My Spirit. Therefore every male and female who
receive the Spiritual marriage, that is the woman dwelling
in Jerusalem above and the man in Christ which joins them
together, no man can put them asunder.
Now, the Spiritual Child that was brought forth by
Joanna was male and female, for the Second Child must be
male and female —Christ and Jerusalem above. Let it be
remembered : Jesus was born of a woman overshadowed
by the power of the Holy Ghost, and her Seed was pregnated
with that Spirit ; and it being manifested in flesh, that Spirit
ual Child grew to manhood and entered the second time into
His Mother's womb at the river Jordan. And let it be under
stood, Michael the Spirit of Jesus returned to Joanna and she
256 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
became pregnant of Him and brought forth the Spiritual
Child twain invisible.
For it is written that the Spirit shall return to the
144,000 who are to be brought forth twain. Therefore it
stands a proof that the Child was male and female, and His
name is Shiloh Immanuel, the conquering Prince who has
come to rule and reign and bring His heavenly Father's
Kingdom down —which has long been promised. Therefore
dear Israel let us rejoice that we are in the dawn of that
Immortal Day wherein all Israel shall be gathered together
under the voice of Shiloh Immanuel. All the true ones, the
spirits of the Just shall bear the mark of Jesus Christ our
beloved ascended Master; and that mark is—to be clothed
with that Immortal Spirit as Jesus was at the river Jordan.
Therefore happy shall we be
When they are three,
And they take a place
Which none of the three can say is "mine,"
Thus proving themselves to be
The Holy Trinity!
The chariot wheels of Israel have been rolling on through
this time and Visitation and My Ark is now resting, that My
people Israel may enter in. The Door is open, and whosoever
will may come. I say unto you, many who have been number
ed in Israel and departed from My Ark of Protection shall
receive the stripes which shall smart until they chew the
flesh off their arms, and their eyes shall sink back into their
heads for grief. He that cannot stand the chastening of
My rod to free him from the evil that he might be
healed by his stripes, shall receive it in the anger of My
judgment. But if we judge ourselves by the Word, we shall
not be judged and condemned with the world.
Verily I say unto you, many who have been numbered
in Israel in this great Visitation will contend in envy against
the One whom I have sent in My name, the mighty Shiloh
Immanuel with My finishing Message of love, until they
stumble in judgment to rise no more, for they refuse the
warning cry of God through His Messengers who have been
sent from time to time by His mighty Shiloh Immanuel, the
Conquering Prince. Do you not hear His voice calling:
"Come! Israel, to Me?" If ye hear His voice, harden not
your hearts. Open the door and I will come in and sup with
you and you with Me; and we shall drink out of the silver
cup of the Lord, which was given to the Second Child.
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 257
And let it be remembered, all prophesying witnesses of
the Living are of the same Spirit of life in order: Enoch,
Elijah and Esdras are witnesses of Life Immortal, Spirits
of just men made perfect. And our dear beloved ascended
Master the Lord Jesus Christ was the greatest of all. When
he made His last ascension He ascended far above all heavens,
which was the Spirit of Immortality. For in Him dwelt the
fullness of the Godhead.
Therefore we once more hear His voice saying: "Come
unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden and I will
give you rest, sweet rest from the powers of sin; which is
to him that overcometh as I have overcome, to whom I shall
grant to sit down with Me upon My Throne, as I also over
came and am set down with My Father in His Throne. To
him that overcometh shall I grant to eat of the hidden manna
which is hid in the midst of the Paradise of God.
Therefore dear beloved Israel let us rejoice, seeing that
He has sent the mighty Shiloh Immanuel to gather His
people Israel from wheresoever they have been scattered
and bring them to that place where My Spirit shall rest.
For "Unto Shiloh shall the gathering of the people be" —
in other words, How else could they be separated from the
goats? that the sheep might be put upon His right hand in
perfect obedience, and touch not the unclean thing. How
could it be as it was in the days of Noah if none would come
at the sound of the Trumpet to enter the Ark? Suppose
Noah and his household had "spiritualized" the call, and
turned it into another meaning, saying: It is not necessary
to enter the Ark. Would they not have perished with the
world? When Lot and his household were called out of
Sodom and Gomorrah, had they not obeyed the call would
they not have perished with the rest? Even his wife turned
into a pillar of salt because she looked back. No doubt she
had some one near and dear to her heart that she could not
give up, and she turned to a pillar of salt which stands as a
monument of unbelief, like Israel of old who looked back
and lusted after the flesh-pots of Egypt. And did they not
fall in the wilderness, not accepting deliverance ? who through
unbelief entered not into their rest.
Therefore let it be remembered: Paradise was lost by
disobedience and must be restored by Obedience to the Para
disical Law, which will be fulfilled in the Elect Seed. The
spirits of the Just being the generations of the heavens,
must be restored; and being mortal, having been subjected
to vanity not willingly they are called the creatures who shall
258 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious
liberty of the children of God.
Therefore it will be proven, Christ in God the first and
last, He was embodied and they were called Gods, and it is
written for the Elect Seed upon whom the end has come—
ye are Gods. (1 Cor. 10;11.) I saw a New Heaven and a
New Earth, for the first heaven and the first earth have
passed away, and behold! all things have become New; for
the Kingdom of this world has become the Kingdom of our
Lord and His Christ, and the earth shall return back to its
Eden state of bliss, in which there shall be no more death.
And that is what Jesus alluded to when He said: "I go to
prepare a place for you," and this is a prepared body to
inherit the earth. Therefore He said : "I will come again and
receive you unto Myself, that where I am there shall ye be
also;" and He also said: "I will come and take up My abode
with you." And I am with you and shall be in you. There
fore the holy Spirit must rest upon us as upon Jesus, and
when mortal puts on Immortality it shall be in us and we shall
be like Him. (I John 3;2.) And Jesus also said: Labor
and strive to enter in at the strait gate, for many shall strive
to enter in and shall not be able. When the gates are closed
against the old world, and these seven heavens and the
Seven Spirits of God as the seven burning lights are all
shining in one —behold that great Sunlight that putteth out
all other lights! I say there is no God in all the earth but
in Israel, and I am His servant. „ «n „
3. ^
r»*ct
GOLDEN SCEPTRE OF TRUTH.
o? ISRAEL have we not great reason to praise the God of
Israel in sending the Lion of the tribe of Judah who pre
vailed above His brethren? in whose hands was given all
power both in heaven and in earth, and behold! He giveth
it to the Second Child, the Branch, the Graft of Him, it being
the "Golden Sceptre of Truth" which has caused great
enmity to arise against the anointed of God. But in an
unexpected moment the Son of man shall appear and declare
to the whole house of Israel that Dan has been here in their
midst as a serpent covered with grass, with the subtlety of
the most subtle beast of the field, putting forth his forked
tongue amongst the Brethren.. He is hand in hand with
Judas among the Brethren, and from this class Israel must
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 259
suffer until they be cut off and cast out to rise no more. And
will not this be just? seeing they have mustered their forces
to follow Israel in open violence like in the days of old, until
the earth opens wide her jaws to receive them and swallow
them up. This will fulfil that which is written: As Dan
was given to the Gentiles, so likewise the enemy has been
permitted to come into the house of Israel, he being a figure
of the enemy (satan) who coveted head-rulership like that of
lucifer, which will prove every true child of God as to where
they stood. That will prove what manner of spirit they
are of. And praise God! when his work is done in Israel
the Son of man shall cast him out and the humble shall be
raised up. But if one gets out of the City he is liable to be
stoned to death. And remember, these Danites deceive and
poison as many as have not the Spirit of truth.
And Oh ye faithful ones! as we see these things of the
Danites that were foretold in "The Star of Bethlehem," take
fresh courage knowing that the time is at hand. Then Oh
Israel Awake! Awake to righteousness and sin not, for the
wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life.
Therefore, I bid thee watch and pray lest ye enter into
temptation. For did not Jesus come to His disciples three
times and found them sleeping? And then He said: "Sleep
on now and take your rest." And just think! for nearly six
thousand years they have been in that Adamic sleep that
Adam fell into at the fall. But now the voice of God . is
heard in this land crying out with a loud voice: "Awake thou
that sleepest; for behold! the Bridegroom is on His way.
Go ye out to meet Him with a good supply of oil in your
vessel, with your lamps trimmed and brightly burning,"
proving yourselves to be wise virgins not defiled with the
works of satan.
For you will remember there were five wise virgins and
five foolish. Therefore be not like the foolish virgins, but
hark ye to the voice of God, who is crying out in this the
twelfth and last hour in thunder tones: "Awake to right
eousness and sin not," for satan is doing all he can to blind
you and keep you asleep with the attractions of the old
world. He is transformed as an angel of light to deceive the
very Elect if possible, for well he knows when Israel under
stands his craft he (satan) has no chance to win them. And
well he understands that he will be cast from the earth as he
was cast from the heavens. And he knoweth he hath but a
short time, he being the same devil that rose up in the days
of Jesus, and was not satisfied until Jesus was nailed to
260 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
the cross. But the very thing they thought would end his
mission here on earth, was the very thing that raised Him
into Immortality. And so will it be now, for the thing that
has been shall be now, for God requireth the thing that is
past.
And if God be for us, who can be against us? for we know
every sword that is formed against Israel shall fall blunted
to the ground. And is it not plainly to be seen of those who
live after the carnal law, that the key of knowledge has been
taken away from them in this Visitation? And in His name
do we point out the danger of trusting to arms of flesh. And
arms of flesh are only those who live after the flesh, for
they cannot understand the things of the Spirit, for the
things pertaining to the dead letter of the Law will not admit
you to the knowledge of the holy place. And we do testify
unto you that the abomination now stands where the holy
place ought to be. And to those who are ever seeking to
live the pure life of a virgin, persecution will surely arise
from the mouth of the dragon, who would drag Israel down
to the pit. And this transformed lucifer points out the most
pleasant way of the flesh to keep up his kingdom of lust,
which is the abomination of desolation.
And just as soon as God gathered a few together, those
who would crucify the man of sin with his affections and
lust, there satan appeared also, and has overturned the faith
of some, proving they were not in the Spirit of truth, proving
themselves weak-kneed soldiers not fit for the Lord's battle,
turning back to the planes of the flesh, thus turning this
most holy Faith into another meaning. Therefore the God of
heaven is calling for true valiant soldiers to fight the great
battle and dethrone satan and cast down the great accuser
of the Brethren.
Oh ye spirits of the Just who will always stand with
the Union of the Godhead as before, although it pierces us
to the heart when persecution by the enemy arises amongst
the Brethren; but let us understand it is as necessary as
Judas was to play his part, as satan was represented in
Judas. And let us remember our noble Leader who chose
twelve disciples and one was a devil, thus proving himself to
be the son of perdition in fulfillment to what Jesus had said:
"Oh Father, all that Thou hast given Me have I kept, and
none of them are lost but the son of perdition that the
Scriptures might be fulfilled." And let it be understood that
the son of perdition is the evil in every man, and when it
is taken away by keeping the Virgin Law of life, death has
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 261
departed, for there is nothing about a man or woman to die
but the evil, then you become the land of Israel by and
through that one Immortal Spirit; and if an angel from
heaven come preaching any other doctrine let him be accurs
ed. And why is he called an angel from heaven? —because
he was once in heaven but was cast out; and no wonder it
is written that the Son of man shall dwell among scorpions.
And why shouldn't it be so ? —so that he can have experience
and know the depths of satan and understand his craft, and
also to give a strong delusion to those who have not the Spirit
of truth, that they might believe a lie and be damned because
they would not believe the truth.
Therefore let us behold our noble leader the Lord Jesus
Christ, who withstood lucifer in the hour of temptation. He
understood all of his slick, oily ways when he came pleading
the Law of Moses, and well did Jesus know that satan was
king over the law, for well did He understand that the first
Eve by the fall became a wife of satan, and daughter of
another kingdom. No wonder He said : "Woman, what have
I to do with thee?" Therefore Oh Israel to be on the safe
side, harken to the voice of the Angel that spoke to Joseph
and said: "Keep Mary a virgin until the Child is delivered."
And when is the child delivered? —when it is made Im
mortal; and this shall be the glory of Jehovah. For there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
VOICE OF AN ARCHANGEL.
IYEAR beloved Israel! Let us fully realize and rejoice,
knowing that the Seventh and last Trump is sounding,
which is the Trump of God, the Lord Himself, the voice of
the Archangel and this is the Trump of everlasting life, the
testimony of Jesus Christ. He is nigh thee, even in thy
mouth, (Rom. 10 ;8,) and said: "I will speak in you, and
walk in you," etc. And this Angel Messenger was seen by
John flying in the midst of heaven having the everlasting
Gospel to preach to them that dwelleth upon the earth. And
blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.
There were angels and messengers and prophets going
before Jesus—the great Angel Messenger Michael—the
Archangel, the Spirit of Jesus, who was the head counsel
against satan with the Angel Gabriel, even before the world
was or ever the winds of heaven blew, before the world set
262 THE BOOK OP HEAVEtf:_
in motion to whirl the winds across the deep, before the fall
and slumber of Adam's sleep.
Therefore Michael and Gabriel blew the Trumpet which
His Elect now must seek. These Archangels stood in the
presence of God before it thundered and lightned, or ever
the foundations of Paradise were laid ; the foundations being
Eden, the paradisical state of the earth, before the fair
flowers of Eden were seen, or ever the movable powers were
established ; before the world was shaken by Lucifer the
anointed cherub of Eden, once a bright and morning star of
Paradise, from whence he fell by exaltation and rebellion,
who was the man who shook kingdoms and made the world
to tremble. Notwithstanding all this, the things that are
shaken shall be removed, as God through Michael and
Gabriel will also shake the earth, and not only once more
the earth but also the heavens, that the things that are
shaken might be removed, and the things that cannot be
shaken might remain.
Before the innumerable multitude was gathered together,
Michael, and Gabriel called Son of man, were invoked before
the Lord. Michael—who was spoken of in Scripture, called
"Ancient of days;" and Gabriel, Archangel who was with Him
and called Son of man with the Ancient of days —before the
sun and signs were created, before the stars of heaven were
formed His name was invoked in the presence of the Lord,
and Gabriel who appeared to Mary with a Message concern
ing the conception of a body for Michael, who was called
Jesus. And Gabriel said: "I am He who stands in the
presence of the Lord. A virgin Message He brings for thee."
Jesus was declared by angels and spoken of by prophets,
and it was said : "Lo I come, in the volume of a book it is
written of Me, to do Thy will Oh God ; and a body hast Thou
prepared Me," which signified Michael, for which the body of
Jesus was prepared. And this was the message to Mary —
"the Holy Ghost, Mother Jerusalem shall come upon thee,
and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee, and
thou shalt bring forth a Son. And so it was said before:
"Unto us a Child is born; unto us a Son is given," made under
the Law ; not the Law of a carnal commandment, but the
Paradisical Law which was pure holiness unto God.
; . He therefore was made after the power of an endless
life, and therefore He brought life and Immortality to light
through the Gospel, for which He was condemned and cruci
fied as the ancient Scriptures foretold, and which was after
wards revealed and yea, more: the Gospel of Life given
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER' S BOOK 2^3
and sealed with His blood, to be unsealed by Gabriel, the
Son of man who was with the Ancient of Days. Jesus gave
the Gospel which brought life and Immortality to light, dur
ing His three years' ministry, it being unsealed to Him by
Christ who rested upon Him at the river Jordan. But notice
—He sealed it again with His blood and said : "It is finished."
Therefore it needs be that it be unsealed by Gabriel, the Son
of man —and no more a fountain filled with blood, and no
more death, for He who was dead is alive, and behold ! He is
alive forevermore ! And because He lives, we shall live also !
Therefore there is a fountain open in the House of David
for sin and uncleanness, a cleansing fountain by the Law of
Christ, and now unsealed, and the door of life and Immortal
ity opened by the Key of the House of David given to Gabriel
The Branch; Jesus the Root and offspring of David, the
bright and morning Star, and now the Branch springs from
the Root, called the Man-Branch who shall grow up out of
His place and build the Temple of the Lord.
It is the Second Child who now stands up in His stead
and groweth up out of His place, which. is the Branch from
the Root and offspring of David. And in that day the House
of David shall be as God. Zech. 12-8. It is the anti-type
of the child Jesus set in the midst of the disciples; the dis
ciples a figure of the Elect to come ; and of the Child in their
midst of whom He spoke when He said: "They who receive
this Child in My name receiveMe." Therefore thisChild is sent
in His name and standeth up in His stead, the Branch from
the stump which was cut down at the cross and was taken
from the earth. And the Father promised that He would
send "He" the Spirit of truth, Shiloh Immanuel, the Son of
man before whom all nations —or Israel from among all na
tions —shall be gathered. And therefore He comes with the
voice of an Archangel and the Trump of God.
Enoch, a living witness of life Immortal, the Seventh
from Adam, foretells: "I beheld the Ancient of days whose
head was white like wool;" and as described by John who
saw Jesus glorified. "The hair of His head illuminated as
the sun;" therefore described as "white like wool." And so
Enoch said : "With Him another whose countenance was full
of grace, like that of the holy Angels—meaning like one of
the Sons of God who were called holy Angels, among whom
some fell and others were taken to glorified worlds.
"Then I inquired of one of the holy Angels who went with
me and who showed me every secret thing concerning the
Son of man, who He was and whence He was, and why He
264 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
accompanied the Ancient of Days. He answered: This is
the Son of man to whom righteousness belongs, with whom
righteousness has dwelt, and who will reveal all the treasures
of that which is concealed. For the Lord has chosen Him
and His portion has surpassed all before the Lord in ever
lasting uprightness. This Son of man shall raise up kings
and the mighty from their couches, and the powerful from
their thrones, shall loose the bridles of the powerful, and
break in pieces the teeth of sinners. He shall hurl kings
from their thrones and their dominions because they will
not humble themselves before Him by whom their kingdoms
were granted them. The countenances likewise of the mighty
shall be cast down, filling them with confusion, and darkness
shall be their habitation. They shall deny the name of the
Lord, and shall expel Him from the temple in which they
assembled, and with Him the faithful who suffered in the
name of the Lord. In that hour was the name of the Son of
man invoked before the Lord, and His name in the presence
of the Ancient of days, and before the sun and signs were
created, before the stars of heaven were formed His name
was invoked in the presence of the Lord. A support shall
He be for the holy and righteous to lean upon without falling
and He shall be the light of nations. He shall be the hope of
those whose hearts are troubled. All who dwell on the earth
shall fall down and worship before Him and shall bless and
glorify Him.
"Therefore the Elect and the concealed existed in His
presence before the world was created, and forever in His
presence He existed and has revealed to the saints and to the
righteous the wisdom of the Lord of spirits. For He has
preserved the lot of the righteous because they have hated
and rejected the words of iniquity and have detested all its
works and ways. Therefore in His name His Elect shall be
preserved, and His will shall be their life."
And all the Living who walk under the sun are con
sidered with Him, to whom He has unsealed and revealed the
mysteries of the Scriptures that they may be Sealed by Him,
and with Him. Therefore this Gabriel in living visibility is
prepared and set apart for this work, and to sound the
Trumpet that Israel might be called to the great Ingathering
and restoration. This was typified at Jesus' birth by the
great Archangel Gabriel in spirit, who appeared to the shep
herds and suddenly round about Him shone a great light,
and immediately with Him there appeared a great host—the
spirits of the Just who sang: "Peace on earth and good will
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 265
toward all men." These are not my words, but the words of
that one Immortal Spirit, the mighty Shiloh Immanuel, God-
with-us! And ever remember, there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
L
DWELL IN SAFETY.
ET IT BE remembered by all Israel, and not be forgotten,
that our beloved ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ
was given unto us for this cycle, who was a bright and
burning light that put out all other lights. And all who
have the great desire to be made Immortal must walk in His
footsteps, for there is no other way under the heavens, He
being the firstborn and has gained the victory and made His
ascension far above all heavens, which is the Spirit of Im
mortality.
And He said, "I AM the door, by Me if any man enter
in he shall be saved, and go in and out and find pasture."
Therefore we have been with you for a long time with the
words of eternal life, and you have all had the golden op
portunity through the mighty I AM Shiloh Immanuel to
enter into that holy place. But we must tell you one and all
that the parting day must come, and this is the parting—
when One is made Immortal.
And the same Spirit was put within our ascended Master,
the Lord Jesus Christ, which made Him Immortal. And the
promise is : He will do the same for His Elect as He did for
Jesus His firstborn, through the mighty I AM. We must
also remember, when we are in the midst of great danger,
yet if in that Immortal Spirit Shiloh Immanuel, there is
safety. And if the City of David will walk in His command
ments, the promise is: "I will be with thee." They must
also remember that satan, the accuser of the Brethren was
the enemy of Jesus the firstborn before he was theirs—
and through all the persecution and great suffering like unto
Jesus in the garden of Gethsemane, yet through that Spirit
of Jehovah they shall fight the battle and gain the victory,
for "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God."
Therefore we see many claiming to have that love of God
for His Messengers and His work in establishing His Kingdom
here upon earth ; but through the fiery trials that await them
let them be on the watch that they do not get too far from
the Master, lest they grow cold and be found trying to warm
266 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
by Peter's fire. When the damsel came out and wanted to
know of Peter if he did not belong to those who believed
in Jesus, and because of the terrible persecution and suffer
ing, Peter denied his Lord, in fulfillment of what Jesus had
told him —"Before the cock crows thou shalt deny Me thrice."
Oh! methinks I hear His voice saying: "Peter, James and
John! My God, you too have gone!" For they had all
deserted Him in that terrible hour of suffering.
Therefore dear Israel be on the watch that you are not
found asleep at the open door in this, the day and hour of
His Second Coming without sin unto salvation. We call unto
Thee, Oh God of Israel, to give us victory over all evil, that
our bodies might be prepared for Thy holy Spirit to speak
through, that all the earth might hear Thy voice in Spirit
and in truth, for Thou hast called them out of the world and
caused them to do Thy will Oh God, that they might be a
bright and burning light unto this unbelieving world, that
they might be ready and prepared when Thou callest for
Thy Bride.
And this is a prayer Oh God of Israel: Let their bodies
be made pure and clean through the washing of Thy Word,
likeunto the body of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
We would ask Thee, Oh Father to let us not be separated in
spirit if in body, thus keeping our minds full of the Word of
life, that we might be healed from the bite of the serpent.
And when trials and persecutions of all kinds arise, Yea!
in the deepest of suffering bring Thy blessed promises of
eternal life before them like lightning, and let them fully
realize that sorrow, sweet sorrow is God's Angel. For from
the deepest suffering comes forth the richest spiritual bles
sings.
Therefore if we desire to be a true follower of our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ, we must be willing to be yoked
with Him and learn of Him, to be meek and lowly in Spirit,
hungering and thirsting after righteousness, thus approach
ing unto Him with a pure heart and mind, being willing to
take up our cross and follow Him, fully realizing we cannot
walk in His footprints and bring any of the old world with
us, seeking both by day and by night for our Covenant with
death to be disannulled.
Therefore, dear beloved Israel, what great reason we
have to rejoice, knowing that it is the same Spirit that
appeared to Abraham and the prophets when He made Him
self known by the name of "I am that I AM," and that same
Spirit also appeared unto Enoch and Elijah, and appeared
7TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER' S BOOK '267
. unto Moses; in the burning bush ; and He also appeared unto
the Apostles and the Disciples; and made Himself known by
the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God. And
in this the day of His heavenly Visitation, He has made
Himself known to the Israel of God by the name of Shiloh
Immanuel, the prince of peace.
Praise to the God of Israel! We tell you for a truth,
it is the voice of the true Shepherd of Israel giving all a
chance to accept or reject Him whom the Lord hath sent,
and I tell all those who reject, they will see their mistake
when it is too late; likeunto Judaism, who had such a great
profession of their religion in the days of our blessed Lord;
and by them rejecting the true Shepherd who had come on
time to fulfil their own Scripture, the little light they had
in them was turned into darkness, while this great light
from the Archangel Michael shone in darkness and the dark
ness comprehended it not.
Therefore the Trumpet of Jehovah is sounding, which will
cause the prison door to fly open and the prisoners of hope
set free, thus receiving' the long-looked-for reprieve over
sin, death, hell and the grave. Oh! who can measure the
depths of His mercy and love and the great knowledge of
God? Who can handle Him or who can see Him? —it can
only be in vision, which is by having a glimpse through that
Immortal Eye. This sight is only given to that man or
woman who has given unto God their heart. It is He who
gives them their understanding; makes them firm as a rock.
Therefore the God of Israel will reveal all hidden my
steries through that One whom He has chosen, and that
One is Shiloh Immanuel, wherein He is now revealing and
making known to all that fear Him and walk in the ways of
righteousness. For He will now fulfil all His promises, and
this was declared by His well beloved Son the Lord Jesus
Christ —that He would send forth the Comforter in the latter
days, and He would reprove the world of sin and show you
■
things to come.
So dear Israel be of good cheer, seeing things are having
their fulfillment. And so remember that when sin is taken
away, we are Just, and it is then we suffer for the unjust,
walling to bear all false accusations and persecutions of all
kinds spoken against you, for you shall be seven times tried
by the fiery furnace being seven times heated, for you must
remember, in this path of life there is fire on one side, and
•water on the other, and the way is so narrow that only one
can pass at one time.
268 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
*
Therefore Oh Israel fear not, neither be discouraged,
for our Captain is with us who has never lost a battle. So
victory, sweet victory is ours. So ever seek that holy Spirit,
and the veil shall be removed before thine eyes. Will not this
prove that the woman has become a true helpmate to man?
So we entreat thee Oh Israel to become wrestling Jacobs
under this great sunlight, that our bodies might become like-
unto our blessed Lord when He appeared unto His disciples
in the upper room in His flesh and bone body.
Thus saith the Spirit: Come back ye natural branches
of the pure olive Tree, that ye through the mighty God of
Jacob be grafted into your own stem; that ye might receive
life, yea! the more abundant life of spirit, soul and body.
For did not Jesus Christ say: "I give My body for bread
for the living that whosoever shall eat My flesh," —which
means to say, the pure Word of God, for in Him the Word
was made flesh—our blessed ascended Master the Lord Jesus
Christ. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel,
and I am His servant.
o
STRENGTH TO OVERCOME.
H ISRAEL! Ye Spirits of the Just lift up your heads
and rejoice, knowing that your redemption draweth nigh.
The mighty ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, is in
viting you to enter into His home of happiness and bliss,
which will lead you up step by step unto perfection, harmony
and love, which is the key that will open the two-leaved
gates into that Immortal City wherein peace, love and hap
piness reigns; wherein all humble Israel will be obedient to
their ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, for He left His
divine love to be divided amongst His brethren. For that
word Love means the fulfillment of the whole Law, for it
brings peace, happiness and contentment.
And can you not hear His voice inviting you into His
New World? And all the true Israel of God will harken to
His voice and give themselves no rest day or night until
they gain the victory over sin, death, hell and the grave.
And these divine words of life will fill you with Wisdom and
power, thus preparing you for His glorious appearing in His
beautiful garment of snow-white, and we hear His voice
saying: "Follow Me! I am the light of the world that light
ens up your pathway back to the Eden of Paradise, wherein
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 269
ye shall have perfect sight and hearing, which will cause
you to see and understand the deep mysteries of God.
So dear beloved Israel! Be of good cheer, and go on
with your heart full of love and gratitude toward your be
loved ascended Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who poured out
His blood upon the cross to save His Bride from corruption
and death. And let it be remembered : Heaven was searched
and no man was found worthy to open the Book and loose
the seal thereof but the Lion of the tribe of Judah, which was
done by this holy One, the ascended Master, the Lord Jesus
Christ who in this Visitation has sent His Seven Angels to
sound in order, and when the Seventh shall begin to sound
the mystery shall be finished as declared unto His servants
the prophets.
And dear Israel! Observe the saying of the Angel, and
He Himself after His resurrection: —"Go ye into Galilee and
there ye shall see Me," which was according to the appoint
ment made before He arose. I wish you to notice this
appointment to Judea, Samaria and Galilee, which were the
fields of His labor, and a greater part of the scattered seed
of Israel were in and around about Galilee, which represents
America in this Visitation; Samaria, England; and Judea,
Palestine; showing forth the three great places where Israel
would be gathered : First, here in America: Then, when the
work is completed which is going on now in America, they
will go to England and from England to the holy Land,
Jerusalem.
Oh beloved Israel! Get ye ready! Ye have no time to
lose. And ever put your full trust in your mighty God
presence, Shiloh Immanuel. Ever remember the words of
our beloved ascended Master: —"If I go not away the Com
forter will not come unto thee." And fifty-two days after,
He made His last ascension far above all heavens, which was
the Spirit of Immortality. Then He was able to pour forth
blessings to His beloved brothers and sisters upon the earth
from the realms of happiness and bliss, from His Father's
Throne. Then He was able to send forth His great tidings
of comfort and joy, because He proves them by His own
personal experience. And He began to speak those beautiful
words: "I am the Resurrection, and I am the Life." And
dear Israel I wish to say to you: Every true Israelite who
will send His conscious thoughts to Him, the Lord Jesus
Christ, with a desire to be raised above the yells and groans
of a sin-cursed world will receive every assistance that is
possible to be given, through the mighty God presence
270 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
Shiloh Immanuel, that they might rend the veil likeunto our
beloved Master when upon the cross and enter into the holy
circle of the ascended Masters, wherein peace and harmony
shall dwell.
Dear beloved Israel, when you have done the work
through the mighty Shiloh presence, it will enable you to
make your ascension likeunto the Lord Jesus Christ the first
born of these many brethren. And He is joyfully standing
by you, giving you strength to overcome all your difficulties.
And remember He said: "I am with you always." And dear
beloved Israel ever remember, there is but one way by which
you and the Father may become One throughout all ages
and eternity, and that is through fully believing from the
very depths of thy heart in the mighty God presence Shiloh
Immanuel, which gives you love, wisdom and power.
Therefore dear ones think deeply on these divine words,
and let it sink down deeply in thine heart, for it is your life
if you are found in obedience to the Father, for when your
Spirit and that Immortal Spirit come together you have
agreed with the Father as Jesus agreed with Him, then what
soever you ask shall be done. Therefore dear Israel I would
ask : Who has gained the mighty victory, who has been able
to raise their body likeunto the Lord Jesus Christ? who used
those divine words —The mighty God presence, Shiloh Im
manuel, your own Christ Spirit that gives you your life.
And did not our beloved ascended Master the Lord Jesus
Christ say to His disciples: "The works that I do shall ye
do also, and greater works than these shall ye do?" And
this divine power, the mighty God presence causes you to
press forward, nothing doubting, which enables you to pass
through the two-leaved Gates, for it is the golden key to
Immortality.
Now this has been proven by the ascended Master the
Lord Jesus Christ, who was given all power both in heaven
and on earth, and holdeth the keys of hell and of death. And
listen to His divine words when He said: "I set before thee
an open Door which no man can shut," referring to the
great I AM, which is the life of every man and woman upon
the earth. That much of God is given to His people, and if
they will not harken to that inward monitor but go on in
disobedience, which grieves that holy Spirit that was given
to them by the holy One, then it withdraws and goes back
to God who gave it, leaving the body lifeless and dead.
Dear beloved Israel ! Life and death are set before thee,
5TH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 2TI
choose you this day whom ye will serve. No wonder it is
written: When one falls from this Visitation, angels weep!
And did not Michael, the great Archangel, weep over Jeru
salem? saying: "How oft would I have gathered ye as a
hen gathereth her brood under her wings, but you would
not!" But Praise to the holy One, in this the time of His
Second Coming His true Israel will hear and know His voice,
and will come at His call, for: "How can any man come unto
Me except the Father who sent Me draw him?" And by
this mighty drawing they will come from the ends of the
earth and bring their all and enter into the one family of God,
wherein peace and contentment shall ever abide. For we
have the Father and Mother by our side who watch over us
night and day, for He that watches over Israel neither
slumbers nor sleeps. Praise ye the Lord all ye His Saints!
for mercy and truth have met together, righteousness and
peace have kissed each other, for there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
PEACE
272 THE BOOK OF HEAVEN
PETITION FOR THE OVERTHROW OF SATAN
TO THEE Oh Thou mighty I AM that I AM, Thou Creative
Principle and all-enfolding Love, we acknowledge and
accept Thee as the Light that never fails.
We, as Israel, hereby petition Thee Oh God, Father,
Mother and Son, and all Thy holy Angels and mighty host
of Immortal Sons, to do the work for us to overthrow the
powers of satan, all his evil influences and all his attributes
of envy, jealousy, the sin of doubt, and sins of every kind
and nature, sickness, and even thoughts of sickness, all fleshly
attractions and leaning on arms of flesh.
We petition Thee to help us to exclude all the powers
of darkness from our being, that we may serve Thee in the
beauty of holiness throughout eternity, and work diligently
to establish Thy Kingdom of love here on earth in righteous
ness and peace.
I hereby pledge myself to be on the watch night and day,
every hour and every minute, that not one thing of satan's
goods may enter my world of Light, or to stand with the evil
of others or give sympathy and encouragement to any tend
ency to keep satan's power alive.
Help us Oh God, to be mindful of that country from
whence we came, that we might "Let the evil wither in the
furrows where it grew," and return to the days of youth
and glorify Thee in this temple Thou hast entrusted to our
care.
Help us Oh God, to forget all other "isms" and con
centrate our thoughts and aspirations to be in unity and
harmony with Thy Messenger of Light for the complete
overthrow of satan in ourselves, and that Thou shouldst
be All in All, and satan in nothing.
THE LORD is on My head like a Crown, and I shall not be
without Him. They wove for Me a crown of truth, and it
caused Thy branches to bud in Me. For it is not like a with
ered crown which buddeth not; but Thou livest upon My
head, and Thou hast blossomed upon My head. Thy fruits
are full-grown and perfect; they are full of Thy salvation.
Odes of Solomon 1, 1-4.
Designed by Benjamin.
AND there appeared a great wonder in heaven, a Woman
clothed with the sun, the moon under Her feet, and upon
Her head a crown of twelve Star. Revelation 12-1.
INDEX—BOOK OF HEAVEN
Title Page
Angel of Light and Life 51
Archangel Gabriel . . 82
Ascended Master, Jesus _ 180
Ascended Masters _ 168
Ascended State _.... 226
Ascending Ladder _ _ 71
Ascend Into the Mount of Olives . 27
Ascend Into Perfection _ _ 136
Beside Still Waters _ 157
Chosen Vessels 98
Chosen Woman _ _ _ _ 213
City Paved With Love 151
Cleansing Pool
...'.
_ 69
Conquering Prince _ _ _ 221
Crown of Sunlight
i
_ 148
Crown to the Faithful _ 140
Dwell in Safety _ _ 265
Dwell in the Body of Light 16
First Rising Ones 197
Flames of Fire and Light 164
Flaming Breath 174
Give Attention to the Presence of God
1
7
Glorious Restitution _ 87
God-Presence
;
Shiloh Immanuel _ 183
Golden Grain 32
Golden Mist _ 90
Golden River of Life _
;
76
Golden Sceptre of Truth 258
Grafted Into the Branch 193
Greatest Mystery —Immortality 121
Guardian Angel 93
Head and Heart
4
Healing Balm .., 217
He Dwelleth With Thee 85
Hidden Manna _ 232
Holy Birth Near Revealing — 35
Holiness Unto God 170
Holy Circle 210
Holy of Holies _ 113
INDEX—BOOK OF HEAVEN
Holy Path of Ascension — _ - ~ 63
Immortal Mother in Israel — 115
Inward Ascension By God's Love — 48
Inward Body of Christ _ 54.
Inward Eye _ 250
Jacob's Ladder _ _ 101
Light of the Seven Angels _ ..... ...._ 237
Love Flames of Ascension _ _ 65
Mantle Christ; God's Presence _ 188
Mighty Fountain _ 38
Mighty Invisible Army _ _ _ 19
Order of Melchisedec _ 177
Paradise Regained . 159
Pearls of Eternity _ 30
Petition For the Overthrow of Satan 272
Pillars of Heaven _ _ _ _ 129
Power to Heal 252
Prepared By the Law of Life 200
Prepare For Ascension _ _ 185
Prince of Love _ 161
Rachel's Children Returning _ 9
Ransom, The 241
Refuse Not Chastening _ _ 255
Royal Church _ 247
Royal Seed and Freedom _ 56
Seamless Garment _ _ _ _ 74
Secrets of Heaven .. 1
Seventh Seal 45
Shepherds of Peace 22
Shiloh— Christ; The Great I AM 145
Spirits of the Just _ _ 95
Spiritual Birth Decree * 59
Spouse of God : _ 125
Springs of Wisdom _ _ 203
Springtime 205
Strength to Overcome 268
Sunlight of Our Darling Mother _ _ 25
Trump of Gabriel 110
Twelve Stones _ 41
7
INDEX—BOOK OF HEAVEN
Unsealed Treasures _ ....._ 207
Victory and Freedom _ 104
Victory of Love _ 143
Virgin Law Cleanses _ 154
Visitation of Christ 234
Voice of An Archangel 261
White Horse of Power 12
Widow of Zion 244
Windows of Heaven Opened _ 133
Wisdom's Dowry _ _ 79
Wisdom's Regeneration _ _ 222
Woman In Jerusalem 119
Wonder of Wonders 208
Work of Resurrection _ 229
Your Life is the Lost Piece _ 107
BOOK OF HEAVEN
THE COMFORTER
THE
Mother's Book
VOLUME FIVE
JERUSALEM ABOVE IS FREE.
THE MOTHER OF ITS ALL.
GALATTANS 4-M.
ANOTHER COMFORTER. WHOM
THE WORLD CANNOT RECEIVE.
JOHN 14-16. 17.
PEACE
Thy calling Oh Virgin Daughter of Israel, is not to depart, but to
remain on the battlefield and gather the cast away Stones.
Extracts of the Flying Roll.
He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire. Whose fan is
in His hand, and He will thoroughly purge His floor, and
gather His wheat into the garner. Matt. 3, 11-12.
In those days and at that time, I will cause the Branch of Righteous-
ness to grow up unto David; and He shall execute judgment and
righteousness in the land. In those days shall Judah be saved.
and Jerusalem shall dwell safely; and this is the name
wherewith She shall be called: "The Lord Our
Righteousness." Jeremiah 33, 15-16.
When they saw the Star they
rejoiced with exceeding
great joy.
Matthew 2-10.
