{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V27 1914-15","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v27_1914-15.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V27 1914-15","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXVII
(CONTAINING PARTS LXVIII, LXIX, LXX)
I914-I915
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
1915
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW: JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vincent Street
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2015
https://archive.org/details/proceedingsofsoc27soci
CONTENTS
PART LXVIII.
January, 1914.
PAGE
I. A Reconstruction of some " Concordant Automatisms." By
Alice Johnson.
Synopsis, .......... 1
Introduction, ......... 4
Chapter I. Cross-correspondence : " Ave Roma Immor-
talis," 11
,, II. The Theory of Cross-correspondences and the
Latin Message, ...... 24
,, III. Cross-correspondence : " Hope, Star and
Browning," ....... 28
„ IV. Cross-correspondence :
" Alexander's Tomb," 50
,, V. The avrbs ovpavbs aKu/xwi' Incident, . . 77
,, VI. Cross-correspondence :
" The Clavigers," . 127
,, VII. Some General Conclusions, . . . .143
List of Illustrations, . . . . . . . .156
II. Presidential Address. By Professor Henri Bergson.
Translated by H. Wildon Carr, D.Litt., . . . .157
Supplement : Review :
Mr. Hereward Carrington's " Personal Experiences in
Spiritualism." By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, 17(i
Thought-Transference—Experimental. By John E.
Coover, Ph.D., 186
PART LXIX.
July, 1914.
I. Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research : A Presiden-
tial Address. By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, . . .191
II. Some Recent Scripts affording Evidence of Personal
Survival. By the Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, . 221
III. Note on the Same Scripts. By the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, 244
IV. A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. By Helen de G.
Verrall, ......... 250
168817
iv Contents
PAGE
V. Experiments in Thought-Transference. By Clarissa
Miles and Hebmione Ramsden 279
VI. To Clear the Air. By the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, . . 318
VII. The History of Marthe Beraud. By Helen de G. Verrall, 333
SPECIAL MEDICAL SUPPLEMENT.
VIII. Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice. By Sidney
Wilkinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 370
IX. Some Auto-Suggested Visions as illustrating Dream-
Formation. By V. J. Woolley, M.D., . . .390
X. Pseudo -Physical Phenomena in the Case of Mr. Griin-
baum. By Alice Johnson, ..... 400
Review : Professor S. Freud's " Psychopathology of Everyday
Life " (Translated by Dr. A. A. Brill). By Constance
E. Long, M.D., 411
PART LXX.
May, 1915.
I. Some Recent Experiments in Thought -Transference. By
Helen de G. Verrall ....... 415
II. A Discussion of the Willett Scripts.
I. By Hereward Carrington, ..... 458
II. By Ivor Lloyd Tuckett, M.D., .... 466
III. By the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, 474
Review : Dr. Morton Prince's " The Unconscious, The Funda-
mentals of Human Personality, Normal and Abnormal."
By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc 492
Officers and Council for 1915, ....... 507
List of Members and Associates, ....... 508
Index to Vol. XXVIL, 548
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXVIII.
January, 1914.
I.
A RECONSTRUCTION OF SOME "CONCORDANT
AUTOMATISMS."
By ALICE JOHNSON.
SYNOPSIS.
PAGE
Introduction - 4
Correspondences between scripts cannot be compared,
with a series of experiments in telepathy, because the
latter is made up of isolated units, whereas the scripts
of a single automatist are all continuous. The methods
of interpretation that we apply to them are similar to
those generally applied to works of literature ;
examples.
The obscurities in the scripts are clue partly to their
alhisiveness and conciseness, and partly, it is suggested,
to the " author's " wish to conceal his meaning from
the " writers," in order to prevent the action of tele-
pathy between them, till his experiment is complete,
A
2 Alice Johnson. [part
Recent study has shown the meaning of much that
PAGE
was obscure in some already published scripts, and
some of the results, with a number of scripts hitherto
unpublished, are given in the present paper.
Chapter I. Cross-correspondence : " Ave Roma Im-
mortalis " - .... 11
Mrs. Verrall's scripts relating to this topic were first
interpreted as alluding to Raphael's picture of St. Leo's
meeting with Attila. It now appears that they allude
also to the Columns of Trajan and Marcus Aurelius,
a detail in the former of which was copied in Raphael's
picture. Mrs. Verrall's scripts give a bird's-eye view
of the history of Rome, to which Mrs. Holland's corre-
sponding script appropriately applies.
Chapter II. The Theory of Cross-correspondences and
the Latin Message ... - 24
Summary of the Latin Message Experiment, showing
its place in the order of events and of cross-correspon-
dences.
Chapter III. Cross-correspondence : " Hope, Star,
and Browning " - ... - 28
Mrs. Holland's contributions, hitherto unpublished, to
this case. References in her script to Professor Mait-
land. Tabular summary.
Chapter IV. Cross-correspondence : " Alexander's
Tomb " - - - 50
Discovery that this phrase in Miss Verrall's script re-
ferred to Alexander de' Medici, who was buried in one
of the two Medici tombs at Florence ; and that other
allusions to the Medici occur in other scripts, especially
through the Laurel, which was the emblem of Lorenzo
the Magnificent. Summary of facts about the Medici
and their tombs which are referred to in the scripts ;
description of the two tombs. Detailed discussion
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 3
of the scripts of Mrs. Holland, Mrs. Verrall, Mrs. Piper,
PAGE
Miss Verrall, the " Mac " family, and Mrs. Willett,
relating to this case. Chronological summary.
Chapter V. The avrog ovpavos aKVfxwv Incident - 77
General summary of the incident. Detailed report :
Mrs. Verrall's choice of a test-question to be put to
MyerSp ; references to the subject in the Piper sittings
and in the scripts of Mrs. Verrall, Miss Verrall, and
Mrs. Holland emoted and discussed. Chronological
summary.
Chapter VI. Cross-correspondence :
" The Clavigers " 127
Connected with " Ave Roma immortalis " and with
auTO? ovpavog aKu/mcov. Mrs. Verrall's scripts quoted
and analysed ; her references to Hercules and St. Peter,
the Club-bearer and Key-bearer, also to binding and
loosing, and to St. Sebastian, interpreted as alluding to
the Church of San Pietro in Vincoli. Mrs. Holland's
scripts ; her references to Leah and Rachel and Moses
interpreted as alluding to the tomb of Julius II, in the
same church. Euripidean references in Mrs. Piper's
and Mrs. Holland's scripts. Chronological summary.
Chapter VII. Some General Conclusions - 143
The scripts are a composite product, the knowledge
and mental activities of the " writers " being moulded
under the guidance of a supervising intelligence,—the
" author." Examples of cases, showing in a graduated
scale the apparent influence of the " author " as a
more and more important factor : (1) "The One-Horse
Dawn " ; the " author " faintly indicated through
the rational use made of a fact completely forgotten
by the experimenter. (2)
" Ave Roma immortalis ;
the fresh points brought forward in this paper show hi
the combination of the scripts of the two writers more
intelligent mental action and reasoning than can easily
be attributed to either writer alone. (3) The " Sevens
"
4 Alice Johnson. [part
Case ; the compounding of two separate topics in the
scripts of six writers suggests the influence of a single
" author " on all of them. In order to avoid the in-
fluence of living experimenters or of writers on the
scripts, it is necessary for the " author " to conceal his
design from them till his own experiment is complete.
One device is to allude to some specific but unfamiliar
feature of a familiar object, so that they do not recognise
the allusion. Examples : the allusions to the Columns
of Trajan and Marcus Aurelius ; to the tomb of Julius
II., and to the Medici tombs. But the " author " must
ultimately reveal his design,
—
e.g. by showing through
the script of one writer unsuspected connections between
the scripts of two other writers. Example :
" Alex-
ander's Tomb." Evidence afforded in this case by
the writers' misinterpretation of their own scripts that
the " author " had apparently succeeded in concealing
his design from them. The connection between the
scripts of two writers given hi 1907 in a third writer's
script was, in fact, not recognised till 1912, when it
was observed that the " author " had revealed it in
1910 through the script of a fourth writer. Continued
study makes it more and more difficult to explain the
mass of cross-correspondences as due to the unaided
subliminal powers of the writers.
List of Illustrations - 156
INTRODUCTION.
The increasing complexity of commentaries on the automatic
scripts of Mrs. Verrall, Mrs. Holland, Mrs. Piper, and others,
as well as some recent criticisms, suggests the desirability of
a few preliminary remarks on the nature of the phenomena
dealt with.
It has to be borne in mind that they differ in several ways
from typical experiments in telepathy between living per-
sons. In the latter case, each experiment can be counted
as successful, partially successful, or a complete failure. If,
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 5
therefore, the experiments are limited to a specified set of
objects to be guessed, such as a pack of playing-cards, it
is possible to state precisely whether the success is more
than would probably be obtained by chance, and if so, how
much more. Even if the experiments are not thus limited,
it is still possible to say how many of them have been suc-
cessful, though in that case we can only judge by general
considerations of common-sense whether the amount of success
is more than could reasonably be attributed to chance.
The coincidences between the scripts of different auto-
matists cannot be estimated as such experiments can, because
there is no way of deciding what should be regarded as the
ecpiivalent of an experiment : we cannot say that so many
experiments, or what is ecpaivalent to so many, have been
tried. Further, the coincidences obviously vary so much
in importance that their mere number can have no significance,
while the scripts also vary greatly in length and as to the
number of topics contained in each.
From these causes alone no mathematical estimate of the
amount of coincidence as compared with the amount that
might have been obtained by chance is, or can ever be,
possible in the case of the scripts. And this is one reason
why the inferences to be drawn from them cannot be stated
in a brief and explicit form.
But there is a still more fundamental difference between
experiments in telepathy and correspondences between scripts.
A typical series of experiments is composed of isolated units,
like throws of dice, when each throw is a separate matter,
complete in itself and exercising no influence whatever on
any of the other throws. On the other hand, a script repre-
sents an emergence of ideas from the automatist's subliminal
consciousness, so that it is potentially, if not actually, con-
tinuous with all the other scripts of the same automatist.
Therefore, if a script is treated by itself as an isolated unit, most
of its significance will probably be missed ;
just as the words
and actions of a hypnotised person might be completely
misunderstood by persons who were ignorant of the events
of his previous hypnotic states.
The scripts have therefore to be analysed very carefully ;
all the allusions made to any topic at different times should
6 Alice Johnson. [part
be compared together ; and when this is done, it often
happens that a passage that has seemed vague and meaningless
becomes clear and significant through the light thrown on
it by other scripts.
" Search the scriptures and the dust shall be converted
into fine gold," as the Mac script observed 1
in connection
with references to Sesame and Lilies, obviously meaning
that the same sort of careful verbal study should be applied
to the scripts that Ruskin applied to a portion of Lycidas
in the lecture Sesame ; and a few instances may be given
to show that the usual way of treating literary problems is
actually very much like our way of treating the scripts.
The three following quotations from Dante illustrate the
fact that passages, which, when isolated, appear vague or
meaningless, may throw light on one another and become
clear when put together :
(1)
" The next who followeth [in the ejebrow of the eagle], . . .
to give place to the £>astor, made himself a Greek " (Par. XX. 55).
(2)
" Then ... I saw the eagle descend down into the body
of the car [i.e. the Church], and leave it feathered with his
plumage " {Purg. XXXII. 124).
(3)
" Ah, Constantino ! to how much ill gave birth, not thy
conversion, but that dower which the first rich Father took from
thee !
" (Inf. XIX. 115).
These passages are shown to be connected by the same
kind of internal evidence that leads us to regard certain
scripts as connected, viz. by their having points in common.
Between (1) and (2) are two points in common : the Eagle
(generally representing in Dante the ideal Roman Empire)
and the Pastor or the Church. The connection between (1)
and (3) is also twofold—the "Pastor" and the "Greek" of
(1) being equivalent to the "Father" and " Constantine " of
(3). Thus (3) throws light on (1) and (2), and, when we consider
Dante's known views on the relation of Church and State,
it becomes clear that all three passages allude to the tradition
(believed by him) that Constantine transferred the capital of
the Roman Empire to Constantinople out of gratitude to
1
See Proc, Vol. XXIV., p. 307.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 7
Pope Sylvester for curing him of leprosy, and with the object
of leaving to the Pope and his successors the sovereignty
over Italy. This explains the allegory in (2), by showing
that the feathers shed by the Eagle are equivalent to the
"dower" in (3).
From the point of view of understanding the passages, it
does not, of course, matter that they are historically incor-
rect ; the only question is what Dante meant ; and it appears
that he is expressing in a brief and concise way both the
supposed facts and his own condemnation of the action
which—through its giving rise to the temporal power of
the Papacy—he believed to be at the root of most of the
evils of his time.
Similarly, it is of no consequence for the purposes of inter-
pretation whether the scripts are historically or linguistically
correct ; the only essential question is, what is the meaning
intended to be conveyed by the writing ; and this can often
be made clear by putting two or more passages together.
In the next instance, the recurrence of the same striking
phrase in two different works by the same author affords
evidence of a continuity of thought between the two occa-
sions :
(1)
" But thought's the slave of life, and life time's fool."
(Hotspur's dying sj^eech in King Henry IV., Part I.)
(2)
" Love's not Time's fool, though rosy hps and cheeks
Within his bending sickle's compass come."
{Sonnet CXVI.)
I think it can hardly be doubted that Shakespeare in this
second passage was remembering and alluding to the first,
1
just as one script may allude to a much earlier one.
Again, the combination of the same words, phrases, or
ideas—none very striking hi itself,—in two widely separated
passages of the same work is evidence of continuity of thought
1
The date of composition of the Sonnets is supposed to have spread over
a number of years, and, the one quoted being late in the series, it is probable,
though not certain, that it was written after King Henry IV. The
internal evidence afforded by a comparison of the two quotations makes
it, I think, almost certain that the second was the later one.
8 Alice Johnson. [part
between the two passages. Thus in Browning's Aristophanes'
Apology, near the beginning, we find :
" O'er this world
Extends that realm where, '
as the wise assert,'
Philemon, thou shalt see Euripides
Clearer than mortal sense perceived the man !
"
And after a great deal of intermediate matter, ineluding
the translation of a whole play of Euripides, Philemon him-
self says :
" Grant, in good sooth, our great dead, all the same,
Retain their sense, as certain wise men say,
I'd hang myself—to see Euripides !
"
Here there is no exact verbal parallelism,-—the nearest
being " as the wise assert " and " as certain wise men say "
;
but the general similarity both of words and of ideas is so
great that it seems certain that in the second passage Brown-
ing was deliberately referring back to the first.
One more instance will illustrate another important point
in our argument about scripts.
Lamb, in his poem On an infant dying as soon as born,
writes :
" Shall we say that Nature blind,
Check'd her hand, and changed her mind,
Just when she had exactly wrought
A finish'd pattern without fault ?
Could she flag, or could she the,
Or lack'd she the Promethean fire . . .
That should thy little limbs have quicken 'd ?
"
Though the central idea of this passage—the creative Pro-
methean fire—is, of course, to be found in many writers, the
fact that Lamb was especially familiar with Othello makes it,
to my mind, pretty certain that he was here borrowing from
Othello's solilocjuy before he killed Desdemona :
" Once put out thy light
Thou cunning'st pattern of excelling nature,
I know not where is that Promethean heat
That can thy light relume."
{Othello, Act V., Sc. 2.)
lxviii.] Some
-i
Concordant Automatisms." 9
There are, it will be seen, other slight resemblances between
the two passages ; but my view that Lamb derived his " Pro-
methean fire " from this rather than from other sources is
based not so much on the resemblances as on what is known of
his intimate knowledge of the play.
Similarly, we may trace fragmentary phrases in the scripts
to literary sources with which the automatists are known
to be familiar. E.g. in Mrs. Holland's script (see below,
pp. 45 and 114) I trace " the perfect strength " (March 20, 1907)
to Rossetti's Blessed Damozel ; and " a billowy cloud " (April 8,
1907) to Browning's Last Ride Together, because both these
poems are very well known to her. If the phrases had occurred
in Mrs. Piper's trance, I should feel much less confidence as to
their origin. It follows that there may be cases in which the
fact that something is within an automatisms normal knowledge
adds to the evidence for supernormal interaction hetween the
scripts of different automatists. See e.g. the composite Brown-
ing-Tennyson quotation in Mrs. Holland's script of April 8,
1907, below, p. 112.
The scripts are like the literary productions of cultivated
writers in that subjects are often alluded to, instead of being
definitely mentioned, and the allusion often implies some
literary or historical association, so that a great deal of meaning
is sometimes contained in a single short phrase. But they carry
us a step further than ordinary literary productions in this
way : for, whereas in studying a poem, such as the Divina
Commedia or Aristophanes' Apology, we often find light thrown
on one passage by (among other things) another passage in
the same poem ; in studying the scripts, we often find that
light is thrown on the script of one writer by a passage in the
script of another writer, when there has been no normal com-
munication between the two writers. In the case of the poem,
the continuity of thought is naturally to be accounted for by
its being all the work of the same author. And the continuity
of thought throughout the scripts would suggest that their
continuity is to be accounted for in a similar way,—namely,
that they too are all essentially due to the same author.
I here use the words " author " and " writer " to express
two different things. By the word " author " I mean the
10 Alice Johnson. [part
intelligence—whether one or several—behind the scripts ;
and by the word " writer " I mean the person who performs
the act of writing,—the automatist. An author may either
write his own compositions or get some one else to write
them for him. But the terms may be used without prejudice
as to what the relation of the author to the writer is, and
without implying any view as to the " author's " nature.
If the different scripts are not all essentially due to the
same " author," we must suppose that the supernormal con-
nections between them are the result of telepathy between the
writers, aided perhaps by telepathy to the writers from
the investigators in charge of the scripts. We have seen that
the scripts are obscure in the same way that literary works are
often obscure, through their allusiveness and their great con-
ciseness. But they have also special obscurities of their own,
—due, as I believe, to the " author's " deliberate intention to
prevent their being understood, so as to prevent the ideas
being transferred telcpathically from one writer to another, and
thus to afford evidence of his own independent activity. The
problem before the " author," on this hypothesis, is to express
the fragments of a cross-correspondence, distributed among the
scripts of two or more writers, in so veiled and obscure a form
that no one will guess what they mean, and yet so explicitly
that, when once the clue is found, there can be no doubt of
their meaning. 1
To combine these two conditions must
be a task of great difficulty, and one in which he may not
always succeed. But the hypothesis that this is his aim
gives, at least, a perfectly rational explanation of the nature
of the scripts.
This deliberate concealment of his meaning on the part of the
" author " is comparable with the precautions taken in experi-
ments in telepathy between two living persons, to prevent
the percipient discovering by normal means the idea which
the agent is trying to transfer to him telepathically. In this
latter case, material obstacles are used to prevent the physical
action of the senses : we put up an opaque screen or wall
between agent and percipient, or we separate them by a
great distance in space. Our " author," on the other hand,
1
The Riddle of the Sphinx is a simple but excellent instance of this
kind of enigma
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatism*."
has to prevent the mental action of telepathy between the
writers, and he does this by interposing between them the
mental barrier of the unintelligibility of the scripts.
I do not, of course, mean to assert that all the obscurities in
the scripts are due to the deliberate intention of the " author " ;
some, no doubt, may arise from his failing to convey to the
writer exactly what he wished to express. But in a great
many cases, what we took, after careful study, to be vague
and incoherent or meaningless statements have been found,
on further investigation, to have a clear and rational meaning,
which shows that there is much more intelligence behind
the scripts than for long we supposed ; and we believe that
there is still much more to be discovered in them.
The cases given in this paper relate to scripts many of
which have been published in whole or in part in earlier reports,
especially in my first report on Mrs. Holland's script in Proc,
Vol. XXI., and Mr. Piddington's paper, " A Series of Con-
cordant Automatisms," in Proc, Vol. XXII. Since some of
the most essential points were then missed for want of the
proper clues, it will be convenient to quote here again the
greater part of the scripts in question, as well as a number of
hitherto unpublished ones ; and I propose to do this as far as
possible in the chronological order of the scripts, so that the
reader may judge how one event led on to the next.
CHAPTER I.
Cross-Correspondence: " Ave Roma Immortalis."
" The destiny of the Eternal City is without doubt the con-
ception which, throughout the long roll of human history, has
come nearest to the unchangeable and the divine."
(F. W. H. Myers, Classical Essays ; Virgil, p. 152.)
" And even as it was not in truth the great ghost of Hector
only, but the whole nascent race of Rome, which bore from the
Trojan altar the hallowing fire, so it is not one Saviour only, but
the whole nascent race of man—nay, all the immeasurable progeny
and population of the heavens—which issues continually from
L2 Alice John son. [part
behind the veil of Being, and forth from the Sanctuary of the
Universe carries the ever-burning flame."
(F. W. H. Myers, Human Personality, Vol. II., p. 292.)
This ease, in which Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Holland only
were concerned, was first published in Proceedings, Vol. XXI.,
pp. 297-303. The scripts were then interpreted as alluding
to Raphael's picture of the meeting of Pope Leo I. (St. Leo)
with Attila, King of the Huns, in 452. As Attila with his
army approached Rome, the Pope went out unarmed to
persuade him to retire. In the picture, reproduced below
(Plate I.), St. Peter and St. Paul, the two chief guardian
saints of the city, are seen descending from the sky, as in
the traditional story, to reinforce the appeal of the Pope.
St. Peter carries his two keys, and also a sword in his other
hand ; St. Paul bears his usual emblem, the sword. Attila,
on the black horse in the centre, starts back in terror from
the vision.
The scripts were as follows :
{Mrs. Verrall' s Script of March 2, 190(3.)
(Drawing of bulrush) bulrushes
non tali auxilio invenies quod velis
non tali auxilio nee defensoribus istis
1
[Not with such help will you find what you want.
Not with such help, nor with those defenders of yours]
Keep the two distinct—you do not hear Avrite regularly—give
up other things.
Primus inter pares ipse non nominis immemor—cum eo frater
etsi non sanguine animo consanguineus ii ambo tibi per aliam
vocem mittent—post aliquot dies bene quod dicam comprehendere
2>otes. usque ad illud vale.
[First among his peers, himself not unmindful of his name ;
with him a brother related in feeling, though not in blood. Both
these will send a message to you through another woman. After
some days you will easily understand what I say ; till then farewell.]
Mrs. Verrall recognised the first Latin passage as being a
quotation from the Aeneid,—the words used by Hecuba
1
Virgil, Acn. II. 521.
lxviii.] Some " Con cord'an f Automatisms." L3
when she saw the aged Priam putting on his armour in the
vain hope of defending Troy against the Greeks, who had
already entered it ; but the second Latin passage' had no
meaning or association for her. She showed the script to
Dr. Verrall on the same day, and asked him who was described
as " Primus inter pares." He answered " The Pope," and he
also said that he saw a connection between the two Latin
passages, but he did not tell her what it was.
His mention of the Pope probably had some influence on
her next script, which was :
{Mrs. VerralVs Script of March 4, 1906.)
Pagan and Pope. The Stoic persecutor and the Christian.
Gregory not Basil's friend ought to be a clue but you have it not
quite right.
Pagan and Pope and Reformer all enemies as
you think
Crux significationem habet. Crucifer qui olim fertur.
[The cross has a meaning. The Cross-bearer who one day is
borne.]
The standard-bearer i.: the link.
To-morrow's news will help.
This script was also shown to Dr. Verrall on the same day,
and he said that the same intention was shown in the words
" Pagan and Pope," etc. ; but he still did not tell Mrs. Verrall
to what he thought it alluded.
The words had reminded Mrs. Verrall herself of the well-
known episode in Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, of the " Cave
where two Giants, Pope and Pagan, dwelt in old time,"
and by which " Christian went without much danger " : but
this did not account for the " Stoic persecutor," avIio, of course,
both she and Dr. Verrall saw could be no one but Marcus
Aurelius.
On the following day she wrote again :
(Mrs. VerralVs Script of March 5, 190G.)
It was the old story nothing new. You have not heard.
Clock beat with time and a bell
14 Alice Johnson. [part
what more unlikely and yet all true.
Leonis pelle sumpto claviger in scriptis iam antea bene denotatus.1
Corrigenda sunt quaedam.
[The club-bearer (or key-bearer) with the lion's skin already
well described before this in the writings. Some things are to
be corrected.]
Ask your husband he knows it well
stant hide columnae relicta Calpe
[There stand the columns where Calpe has been left.]
iam finis [That is the end.] no you have left out something
assiduo lectore columnae 2
[The columns (broken) by incessant reading]
The above three scripts having been seen by no one except
Dr. and Mrs. Verrall, and Dr. Verrall alone having inter-
preted them as referring to Raphael's picture, Mrs. Holland,
on March 7, 1906, produced a script in which the following
occurred :
3
Ave Roma immortalis. How could I make it any clearer with-
out giving her the clue ?
On March 11, 190G, Mrs. Verrall received from me a copy
of this passage and read it to Dr. Verrall. He then told her
that it applied appropriately to what he had regarded as the
subject of her own scripts, and explained that he had taken
them to refer to Raphael's picture. It is to be noted that
Mrs. Verrall's script of March 2 had said that she would
receive a word or a message from another woman, and that
" after some days you will easily understand what I say "
;
while Mrs. Holland's script of March 7 observed " How could
I make it any clearer without giving her the clue ?
"—thus
indicating a connection with the script of another auto-
matist, presumably with regard to Rome.
To most readers it might appear that a clue to these scripts
1
Mrs. Verrall's script of Feb. 13, 1903, had contained a pun on the two
meanings of the Latin claviger, " key-bearer " and " club-bearer," with
an unmistakeable allusion to the Hercules Furens of Euripides.
2
See Juvenal, Sal. I. 13.
3
For the whole of this script, see Proceedings, Vol. XXL, pp. 294-295.
lxviii.J Some
<!
GoWc'orStint Automutism-s.^-' 15
was badly wanted, and intteed:, jp£.'. jRJajT.weU in his recent
criticism of the case
'
(Pr'odeediregs, ' 'Vefc .'XX'VI.', pp. 77-80)
denies altogether their appropriateness to the picture. 1
Before
proceeding to analyse them in detail, it may be useful to
summarise briefly the history of the picture.
Raphael had been summoned to Rome by Pope Julius II.
to decorate the Vatican, etc., and when Julius II. died, in
1513, he continued to work for the next Pope, Leo X. The
four pictures in the Stanza dell' Eliodoro were painted by
him (1512-1514) to symbolise the divine help afforded to the
Church against external and internal enemies, with special
reference to the recent expulsion of the French from Italy
by those two Popes and the victory of the Papacy at the
Lateran Council of 1512-1517. Three of the four pictures 2
illustrate the supremacy of the spiritual power—in the per-
son of the Head of the Church—over the material power.
One represents Heliodorus driven out of the Temple by an
apparition of three angels (2 Maccabees, III., 24-27), sym-
bolising the expulsion of the French from the States of the
Church by Julius II. ;
another, the deliverance of St. Peter
from prison by an angel, symbolising the escape of Leo X.
(then a Cardinal) from the French in 1512, after he had been
taken prisoner by them at the battle of Ravenna ; the third
is the turning back of Attila by Leo I., with the miraculous
help of the two Apostles, symbolising the expulsion of the
French from Italy by Leo X. after the battle of Novara in
1513. The Pope in the picture is a portrait of Leo X., who
also appears in it as one of the Cardinals, since he was a
Cardinal when Raphael began to paint it.
Keeping these circumstances in mind, we may go on to
consider the scripts in detail.
1
As in several other cases, Dr. Maxwell ignores or misrepresents many
of the fundamental features. He ignores the close relationship between
Troy and Rome, which could hardly fail to be in the mind of any one
quoting from the Aeneid. He says that the application of the phrase
primus inter pares to the Pope is doubtful. This is a mistake ; the
phrase is constantly used with reference to the claims of the Papacy.
He also ignores all the circumstances connected with the painting of the
picture and what it was intended to symbolise,—to much of which the
scripts are appropriate.
2
The fourth picture is the Miraculous Mass of Bolsena
Hi « "AUee Johnson. [part
Mrs. VerrAll's' Script of March 2, 1906.
This opens, not inappropriately, with a reference to the
failure of Priam—with his merely material weapons of defence
—to guard Troy, the parent city of Rome, from the assault
of the Greeks.
" First among his peers " I take to denote Leo I., since the
phrase primus inter pares was frequently and is still used of
the Pope with reference to the primacy claimed for him as
the successor of St. Peter and Bishop of Rome.
" Not unmindful of his name " may be very appropriately
applied to Leo's conduct on this occasion, and the application
has in fact been suggested by historians. In 450 Attila had
been persuaded by St. Lupus to draw off his troops from
pillaging Troyes ; in 452 he was persuaded by St. Leo to retreat
from Rome. " The Barbarian quailed to his spell, as he had
quailed to that of Lupus of Troyes, and according to a
tradition which is not very well authenticated, he jocularly
excused his unaccustomed gentleness by saying that he knew
how to conquer men, but the lion and wolf (Leo and Lupus)
had learnt to conquer him." 1
The Pope is representative of St. Peter, and the script
seems to pass suddenly from him to St. Peter, as in a dream
one person may change into another :
" With him a brother
related in spirit though not in blood" this " him " meaning,
I think, St. Peter and the two spiritual brothers being St.
Peter and St. Paul. They might appropriately be so called,
since they worked together for the conversion of Rome, and
are said to have been confined together in the Mamertine
prison, and to have been martyred on the same day of the
year, or, according to some (e.g. St. Gregory), actually on the
same day. 2
1 Hodgkin, Italy and her Invaders, Vol. II., p. 161, quoted by Cunning-
ham, An Essay on Western Civilisation in its Economic Aspects, p. 20.
2 " The sword of St. Paul [as in Raphael's picture] is often associated
with the key of St. Peter, notably as marking in calendars the 29th of
June, the day set apart by the Church for celebrating the martyrdom
of both " {Lives and Legends of the Evangelists, Apostles, and other Early
Saints, by Mrs. Arthur Bell; London, 1901, p. 105).
LXVT.TT.] Some "Concordant Automatisms. I 7
Mrs. Verrall's Script or March 4, 1906.
" Pagan and Pope. The Stoic persecutor and the Christian."
These words were regarded by Dr. Verrall as a vague reference
to Raphael's picture (partly erroneous, because the " Stoic
Persecutor " had nothing to do with it) ; but I feel no doubt
that the phrases refer to the fact that Pope Sixtus V. in 1588
placed a statue of St. Peter (the first " Pope " of Rome) on
the top of the Column of Trajan, where a statue of the Emperor
Trajan (the " Pagan ") had once stood ; and similarly in 1580
placed a statue of St. Paul (the " Christian *')
on the Column
of Marcus Aurelius, where a statue of Marcus Aurelius (" the
Stoic Persecutor"') had originally stood.
Illustrations of these two Columns are given below (Plate II.
and Plate III.), the two Apostles being distinguished, as in
Raphael's picture, by their usual emblems of the keys and
the sword.
The Forum of Trajan 1
(built 107-113 a.d.) consisted origin-
ally of a large open space, the Forum proper, entered by the
Arch of Trajan at one end, and leading at the other into the
Basilica Ulpia, a large roofed building with colonnades all
round the inner walls. Beyond was a small quadrangular
open space, containing the Column ; on each side of which
was a building containing respectively the Greek and Latin
Libraries of the Bibliotheca Ulpia. Beyond these again was
the Temple of Trajan. The two libraries were the largest of
all the public libraries in Rome, and they were used for literary
discussions and poetical recitations up to the end of the seventh
century a.d.
The part now excavated consists only of the space sur-
rounding the Column and part of the area of the Basilica
immediately in front of it, in which some fragments of the
pillars have been arranged in rows. The bas-reliefs which run
spirally round the Column represent scenes from Trajan's
Dacian campaigns, from 101 a.d. onwards.
The original Forum, which was built by the Greek archi-
1
For a full description of the Forum, see The Remains of Ancient Borne,
by J. Henry Middleton, Vol. II., and Bom und die Campagna, von Dr. Th.
Gsell Fels (Meyers Beisebiicher).
B
IS Alice Johnson. [part
tect, Apollodorus of Damascus, was richly decorated with
sculptures and metal-work, and was the most splendid archi-
tectural achievement of Imperial Rome. During the Middle
Ages it formed an almost inexhaustible quarry for marbles used
in countless churches and palaces of Rome. A few of the
sculptural groups have been preserved through their having
been removed and built into the Arch of Constantine (312 a.d.),
and these are among the finest existing specimens of Graeco-
Roman decorative work. In one of them Trajan is seated on
a throne, below which are various standing figures whom he is
addressing, one a woman with a child. " Some such relief
as this, or perhaps the common subject of Trajan raising a
kneeling province, was probably the origin of the beautiful
story of Trajan and the widow quoted by Dante " 1
(see
below).
The Column of Marcus Aurelius stood originally in front
of the temple which was dedicated to him, and the whole was
surrounded by a peribolus forming a sort of Forum like
Trajan's, but smaller. The Column was built in imitation of
Trajan's, being of the same height and encircled in the same
manner by spiral bas-reliefs, which represent scenes in four
campaigns of Marcus Aurelius against the German tribes
north of the Danube in 167-179 a.d. It is, however, distinctly
inferior in workmanship. It stands in the middle of the present-
Piazza Colonna, which thence derives its name.
Incidentally it may be noted that a reference to " the Stoic
persecutor and the Christian " is appropriate as coming from
Myersv , since both were men for whom F. W. H. Myers had
a special admiration, as shown by his poem St. Paid and
his essay on Marcus Aurelius (Essays—Classical, pp. 177
et. seq.), in which he compares and contrasts the two men.
The story of Trajan and the widow who begged for justice
on the murderers of her son, which he delayed one of his
campaigns to grant, is twice referred to by Dante. In Purga-
torio, X. 73-9G, he describes this as one of the sculptured
scenes depicted on the marble side of the first terrace of the
Mount of Purgatory. In Paradiso, XX. (43-48, and 100-117)
Trajan " who consoled the widow for her son " appears among
1
J. H. Middleton, The, Bemains of Ancient Borne, Vol. II., p. 30, foot-
note.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 19
the six just men who constitute the eye of the Imperial Eagle.
In both cases Dante refers to the legend (repeatedly mentioned,
e.g. by Thomas Aquinas) that it was through the prayers of
Gregory that the soul of Trajan was delivered from hell,
and " returning to the flesh where it abode short space,
believed in him who had the power to aid it ; and believing
kindled into so great flame of very love, that at the second
death it was worthy to come unto this mirth.'' 1
This Gregory was Gregory the Great (Pope Gregory I.,
590-604), one of the " four Latin Fathers," and there seems
no doubt that it is to him the script alludes in saying :
" Gregory, not Basil's friend, ought to he a, clue." The Gregory
who was Basil's friend was Gregory of Nazianzus, he and
Basil being two of the " four Greek Fathers." These two
were referred to in an early script of Mrs. Verrall's, dated
March 15, 1901 (sec Proceedings, Vol. XX., pp. 142-143, and
343) ; which is probably the reason why the other Gregory
is here described in this negative way. The latter's close
connection with Trajan justifies the remark that " Gregory
ought to be a clue." In his time, much of Trajan's Forum was
still remaining in its original splendour.
" Pagan and Pope and Reformer—all enemies as you think
"
seems to be a further allusion to the same topic, implying
that it is a mistake to suppose that these personages are
necessarily enemies. The epithet "Reformer" might well
be applied to Gregory I.
" The cross has a. meaning—the cross-bearer who one day is
homer This is probably another reference to St. Peter,
who was crucified and is frecmently represented in art with
a cross.
Returning to the phrase Primus inter pares in the script of
March 2, 1906, this seems to make a link with the present
script, for it is at least as appropriate to Gregory I. as to
Leo I., if not more so. The feebleness of the Emperors at
Constantinople had led gradually to so much increase in the
power of the Pope that, by the time of Gregory I., he had
become the practical ruler of Rome, organising the national
defences and treating with barbaric invaders, while insisting
at the same time on his spiritual authority. " Gregory at
1
Paradiso, XX. 112-117 (Temple Edition, trans, by Wicksteed).
20 Alice Johnson. [part
the very least," says a recent writer in the Saturday Review, 1
" claimed to be 'primus inter pares, the supreme governor of
the Christian society . . . [But] there is no trace in these
earlier centuries of the imposing Hildebrandine [Hildebrand
= Gregory VII.] claim for the Papacy to be supreme over
all earthly jurisdictions and magistracies."
There appears then to be a general connection between the
two topics dealt with in the two scripts, namely, Raphael's
picture and the Columns, in the predominant part played by
the Pope and also by the two Apostles in both cases. In the
picture the Apostles are overawing Attila and his Huns ; on
the Columns they are triumphing over two Pagan Emperors
who persecuted the Christians.
There is also a special connection in the fact that Raphael,
who, like other cultivated men of his time, took an interest
in Roman antiquities (as shown by the introduction of the
Colosseum and other ruins into the background of his picture),
copied the scale armour of his Huns from that of the Sarmatian
soldiers on Trajan's Column. 2
My illustrations, Plate IV. and
Plate V., show this. On the Column, the horses, as Avell as
the soldiers, are clothed in scale armour, whereas Raphael, as
a painter, naturally prefers to leave his horses unclothed.
Mrs. Verrall's Script op March 5, 1906.
The facts that reference is here made to an earlier script about
a " claviger" and that in the script apparently indicated (see
p. 14) the word is used in its double sense of club-bearer and
key-bearer, with an allusion to the Hercules Furens, make it
practically certain that here too " claviger " is to be taken
in its double meaning, and as referring (among other things)
to Hercules, especially as the Pillars of Hercules are men-
tioned shortly afterwards. It also seems clear that the
" lion's skin " is intended as a double reference to Hercules,
the wearer of the lion's skin, and to another " claviger
"
(key-bearer), viz. St. Leo, who also—if our interpretation is
1
Saturday Review, Nov. 16, 1912 ; in a review of Sir Henry H. Howorth's
St. Gregory the Great.
2
This fact is stated in E. L. Seeley's Artists of the Italian Renaissance,
p. 270, and in Dr. ORell-Pels' Rom mid die Campagna, p. 577.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 2]
correct-—had been " already denoted before this in l/te scripts,"
viz. in that of March 2, 1006.
" Stant inde columnae relicta Calpe (there stand the columns
where Calpe has been left)." Mrs. Verrall tells me that " Calpe
relicta " is a phrase from Juvenal (Sat. XIV. 270). In a
passage describing the greed for gain which takes men to
sea, in spite of its perils, he says that " leaving Calpe far
behind, they will hear the sun hiss in the waters of Hercules,"
referring to a notion that if you went far enough west you
might hear the sun hiss as he sank into the sea.
Mayor's note on this passage is :
" Calpe (Gibraltar) and
Abyla on the opposite coast were known as the Pillars of
Hercules, which are often spoken of as the extreme west. . . .
Yet even this '
world's end '
the adventurer leaves far behind
him."
Thus it seems that the mention of Hercules in the script
leads ou to the " columnae " of Hercules, which in their
turn lead on to
" Assiduo lectore columnae (the columns [broken] by inces-
sant reading)." This is another phrase from Juvenal (tiat. I.
13), occurring in a description of a reader who recited or
declaimed with so much vehemence as to break the " plane-
trees, marbles and columns " of the house in which he was
reciting.
In the autumn of 1012 I told Mrs. Verrall of my interpreta-
tion of her script of March 4, 1006, as alluding to the Columns
of Trajan and Marcus Aurelius, and discussed it with her.
She then told me that Dr. Verrall and she were in Rome only
once, in March, 1802, when, among other things, they had
seen and been specially interested in Raphael's pictures in
the Vatican. Dr. Verrall had also studied Trajan's Column,
and made notes on certain obscure points in the inscription
on its base, and certain points of comparison between it and
the Column of Marcus Aurelius. Later he wrote a paper
on the subject which was read at a meeting of the Cambridge
Philological Society, but has not been published. Mrs. Verrall,
after telling me about it, found the MS., and looked through
it. She tells me that there is no mention in it of St. Peter
or St. Paul. Though she and her husband both probably
knew at the time of their visit to Rome that the statues of St .
22 Alice Johnson. [part
Peter and St. Paul had been put in the place of the original
statues at the top of these Columns, she was sure that they had
taken no interest in the fact ; and indeed when I told her of
it, she did not remember that she had ever heard it before.
It seems certain that Dr. Verrall had not detected any allusion
to the Columns in the scripts, probably because he was thinking
only of their allusions to Raphael's picture.
In his note written on March 11th, 1906, 1
he said that the
first script " did in fact instantly recall to me the picture
mentioned (doubtless only because I am specially familiar
with it) ;
" and the two later ones, in the words " Pagan,"
" Pope," " reformer," " Crucifer," " Leonis " and " Claviger
"
seemed to him to be carrying on the allusions to the picture,
though apparently mixed with erroneous or irrelevant details.
In another cross-correspondence related below, " The Clavi-
gers," we shall find Mrs. Verrall's scripts apparently influenced
again by reminiscences of this visit to Rome, and again the
points that emerge in the scripts are subsidiary details of
what she had seen, unnoticed or but little noticed by her at
the time.
Mrs. Holland's Script op March 7, 1
(
J06.
" Ave Roma immortalis. How could I make it any clearer
without giving her the clue ?
"
If we take all the allusions to Rome in Mrs. Verrall's scripts
given above and re-arrange them in the chronological order
of the events alluded to, we shall see that they give within a
very short compass a sort of bird's-eye view of the history
of Rome, though, no doubt, with many important omissions.
The scripts begin—appropriately enough—with the fall of
Troy. The reference is given in the words of Virgil. Then
we come to St. Peter and St. Paul, who introduced Christianity
into Rome ; to Trajan, the type of Roman justice, who built
the most magnificent Forum of the city ; to Marcus Aurelius,
the Stoic Philosopher ; to Pope Leo I., whose repulse of
Attila has been regarded as the first important indication
of the growing political influence of the Papacy ; to Gregory I.,
who completed the transformation of the Roman State into
1 See Proceedings, Vol. XXI., p. 299.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 23
the Roman Church. As to the two Popes for whom Raphael
painted his picture of St. Leo meeting Attila, Julius II. brought
both Michael Angelo and Raphael to Rome to adorn the
Vatican, pulled down the old Church of St. Peter's, because it
was not large enough to contain the magnificent tomb which he
had planned for himself (which tomb, by the way, forms an
essential factor in a later cross-correspondence, see below, p. 137),
and began to build the present St. Peter's. Leo X. was the
great patron of art and literature ; he founded the University
of Rome, and added largely to the art treasures of the Vatican ;
it was he also who started the sale of Indulgences, which roused
the protest of Luther, and so brought to a head the gathering
forces of the Reformation.
Finally, Sixtus V. (1585-1590), who put the statues of
St. Peter and St. Paul on the two Columns, was the Pope
chiefly responsible for the planning and rebuilding which
has given the city its modern appearance. He laid out on
the north-eastern heights a series of long straight streets,
regardless of ancient landmarks, and built a great acmeduct
for the supply of that region. Under him, the dome of St.
Peter's, planned by Michael Angelo, was completed. He
also built—for a summer residence for the Popes—the Quirinal
Palace, which was taken possession of by Victor Emanuel
in 1870, and became thenceforth the Royal Palace of Italy.
It seems then that there is much more point than was
at first apparent in the application of Mrs. Holland's phrase
" Ave Roma immortalis " to the scripts which involve this
history. The history is all implicit in the scattered items of
Mrs. Verrall's scripts, but it is latent, or, as we may say, held
in solution in them, till Mrs. Holland's " Ave Roma im-
mortalis " gives the final touch which crystallises it into
form and without which we might never have observed its
existence.
Of all the cities which now hold a first rank in the world,
Rome has the longest continuous history, and the influence
that it has exercised and still exercises over the human race
is perhaps hardly to be exaggerated. Some part of the senti-
ments associated with the name are expressed in the two
passages from the writings of F. W. H. Myers, which are quoted
24 Alice Johnson. [part
at the head of this chapter. Midway between the two might
be placed his adaptation of Virgil's line,
" So great a work it was to found the race of Rome,"
into
" So hard a matter was the birth of Man." 1
With the second passage—written towards the end of his
life 2
—may be compared the allusions in Mrs. Verrall's script
of March 5, 1906, to the voyager who has left far behind him
the pillars of Hercules and sails out into the western sea to
seek new lands and fresh adventures. This theme is further
developed in the scripts given below under the headings
" auras ovpavos uKVjuow " and " The Clavigers."
CHAPTER II,
The Theory of Cross-Correspondences and the
Latin Message.
About a month after the cross-correspondence just described
had occurred, viz. in April, 1906, the theory that cross-
correspondences were expressly designed to provide evidence
for something transcending telepathy between the minds of
the automatists was first definitely formulated, as stated in
my first report on Mrs. Holland's script (Proceedings, Vol.
XXI., p. 362, and pp. 369-391). In the autumn of the same
year Mr. Piddington and I, in view of the sittings with Mrs.
Piper which were about to be held in London, devised the
experiment of a " Latin Message " to be addressed to MyersP
in Latin. The original English version of the Message was
as follows :
We are aware of the scheme of cross-correspondences which
you are transmitting through various mediums, and we hope that
you will go on with them.
1 " The Implicit Promise of Immortality " (The Renewal of Youth and
other Poems, p. 53).
2
In March, 1899.
L XVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 25
Try also to give to A and 1> two different messages, between
which no connection is discernible. Then as soon as possible give
to C a third message which will reveal the hidden connection.
It appeared to us that if the experiment succeeded and
cross-correspondences of the desired type occurred, they
would afford almost conclusive evidence of the agency of a
mind external to those of all the automatists, and might
afford strong evidence of the identity of this mind.
The conversations with MyersP about this experiment are
recorded in detail by Mr. Piddington in Proceedings, Vol.
XXII., pp. 312-414, and a good deal of ink has since
been spilt over the secondary question of whether MyersP
had enough " Myers " in him to be able to translate the
Latin in which the Message was delivered to him. The
primary question, of course, was whether " Myers " understood
the purport of the Message 1
and could prove his understanding
to us by 'producing the kind of cross-correspondence we wanted.
My excuse for reverting to the subject now is that in Mr.
Piddington's original report and generally in the subsequent
discussion, the assumption has been made that " Hope, Star
and Browning " was the cross-correspondence especially
intended to meet our wishes, and the discussion has mostly
turned on its appropriateness to the Latin Message.
Some of the clues lately found to the real meaning of many
of the scripts, however, show that several other cases—in
particular that described below under the heading
<:
Alex-
ander's Tomb "—conform much more definitely than " Hope.
Star and Browning " to the type asked for in the Message.
Meanwhile I give the latter case first, for the sake of includ-
ing in it the contributions to the subject in Mrs. Holland's
script, which have not yet been published.
To make these intelligible, I prefix a joint chronological
summary of the Latin Message Experiment and the most
important allusions to
' ;
Hope, Star and Browning " made
in Mrs. Piper's trance, these two topics being inextricably
mingled in her case.
1 An interesting discussion of the intelligence shown by MyersF in this
experiment is to be found in Mrs. Hude's paper in Proceedings, Vol. XXVI.,
pp. 147-170.
26 Alice Johnson. [part
Mr. Piddington was in charge of all the sittings here referred
to up to March 13, 1907, inclusive, and Mrs. Sidgwick was
in charge of the later ones. Mrs. and Miss VerralFs scripts
were during this time being sent to Mr. Piddington, so that
he might test the correctness of MyersP's statements about
them. When a statement was found to be correct, he as a
rule informed MyersP of it. For these and all other details
of the case, his original report must be referred to.
As to the automatists' knowledge that the experiment of
the Latin Message was to be tried :
(a) Mrs. Verrall was fully acquainted with it.
(b) Miss Verrall must be assumed to have known some-
thing about it, since she was present at the sitting of Dec. 19,
1906, when part of the message was dictated to Mrs. Piper
in trance. 1
(c) To Mrs. Piper the subject was mentioned only while
she was in trance, and the Message was dictated in Latin to
the trance-personalities.
(d) Mrs. Holland, who was in India at the time, knew
nothing whatever about the experiment, and did not even
know till near the end of March, 1907, that Mrs. Piper had
come to England to give us sittings.
The knowledge or ignorance of the automatists about the
Latin Message had of course no bearing on the evidential
value of the cross-correspondences, but it might have had
some effect on the wording of the scripts.
Chronological Summary of the Latin Message Experiment.
During the first half of Nov., 1906, J. G. P. and A. J. com-
posed the English version of the Message.
Nov. 16 or 17, 1906. Dr. Verrall was asked to translate it
into Latin.
Nov. 26, 1906. Dr. Verrall made the translation, which was
received by J. G. P. on Nov. 27.
Dec. 17, 1906. J. G. P. dictates the first sentence of the
Message in Latin to MyersP.
Dec. 19, 24, and 31, 1906. J. G. P. continues the dictation
of the Message to MyersP.
1
See Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 316.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 27
Jan. 2, 1907. J. G. P. finishes dictating the Message to
MyerSp, who, at the end of the sitting, says " United
we stand, divided we fall."
Jan. 10, 1907. J. G. P. suggests to MyersP that, when pro-
ducing a cross-correspondence between the scripts of
Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Holland, he should add to each
script some such sign as a triangle within a circle.
Jan. 23, 1907. MyersP , a propos of the Latin Message, says
he believes he can send a message which will please
J. G. P.
Feb. 6, 1907. MyersP says he will reply to the Latin Mes-
sage as soon as he can.
Feb. 11, 1907. MyersP says Mrs. Verrall has got Hope, Star
and Browning in her script.
Feb. 11, 1907 {later in the day). J. G. P. takes Mrs. Verrall's
scripts of Jan. 23 and Jan. 28, 1907 (see below), to cor-
respond to this statement, and, reading Abt Vogler for
the first time, concludes that the line, " That out of three
sounds he frame, not a fourth sound, but a star," would
be especially appropriate to the Latin Message.
Feb. 12, 1907. J. G. P. tells MyersP that he was right in
saying Mrs. Verrall had got Star, Hope and Browning
in her script.
Feb. 26, 1907. J. G. P. asks HodgsonP to tell MyersP that
Mrs. Verrall had drawn a triangle within a circle in one
of her scripts.
Feb. 27, 1907. MyersP says that Star, Hope and Browning
is his answer to the Latin Message.
Mar. 6, 1907. MyersP says he said Bird and Paradise in
connection with the triangle and circle, and refers again
to Browning, Hope and Star.
Mar. 13, 1907. MyersP says the circle was connected with
Browning, Hope and Star, and also calls the circle a
Ring.
Mar. 20, 1907. MyersP refers again to Browning, Hope
and Star.
April 8, 1907. MyersP says that one of the other automatists
has drawn a Star and a Crescent.
May 6, 1907. MyersP says he long ago gave the word Music
in this connection.
28 Alice Johnson. [part
CHAPTER 111.
Cross-Correspondence :
" Hope, Star and Browning."
Four automatists, Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Holland, Mrs. Verrall
and Miss Verrall, were concerned in this case. The part
played by Mrs. Piper is summarised above, and the dates of
Myersp's statements should be compared with those of the
scripts of the other automatists, which are given below in
chronological order.
Mrs. Holland's scripts were, as usual, being sent from
India to me, and she knew nothing of what was being pro-
duced by the other automatists ; while Mrs. Verrall, the
only one to Avhom I gave any information about Mrs. Hol-
land's scripts, saw those here dealt with for the first time
on Feb. 19, 1907—that is, after all her own and Miss Verrall's
scripts relating to this subject had been written.
Here, as throughout this paper, some of the scripts quoted
may seem to have but a vague and dubious connection with
the topics of the cross-correspondence. But. since the references
in them appear to be continuous with the more definite and
explicit references in other or later scripts, I include the
vaguer scripts as well as the others, on the general principles
explained in my Introduction ;
for, if these vaguer scripts are
really continuous with the others, it is probable that they really
refer to the same topics.
Thus, in the following script, it would seem that the topics
arc only beginning to emerge :
(Mrs. Holland's Script of Dec. 3, 1906.)
Nowell
—" (So doth the Greater Glory dim the less " 1
liundell
—
Rundall
—
1 " Portia. How far that little candle throws his beams !
So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
Nerissa. When the moon shone, we did not see the candle.
Portia. So doth the greater glory dim the less."
(Merchant of Venice, Act V. Scene I.)
LXVTII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms" 29
Arundell—No not of Wardour—the Norfolk family—For them
a short lived joy
—
" Ah Starry hope that didst arise
But to be overcast " 1
[The rest of the script refers to another subject.]
This script gives Star and Hope in conjunction, and in the
immediate context of the first quotation occurs the -word
Moon, while in Miss Verrall's script of Feb. 3, 1007 (cpioted
below) occur " the crescent moon and the star," with draw-
ings of both ; and MyersP on April 8, 1007 (see above), stated
that through " the other light " he had drawn a star and
also a crescent 2
in connection with this cross-correspondence.
He also stated on March 6, 1907, in referring to the same
subject, that he had given " Paradise " as one of its items, 3
while Mrs. Holland's " Starry Hope " is quoted from a poem
entitled To One in Paradise, and should be compared with
" the hope that leaves the earth for the sky " in Mrs. Verralks
script of Jan. 28, 1907, given below.
It will be seen that the Moon, implicitly referred to in the
above script of Mrs. Holland's, is clearly a full, or nearly full
moon, while the Moon of Miss Verrall's and Mrs. Piper's scripts
is a Crescent. But we find in Mrs. Holland's script of March
20, 1907, below, pp. 42-46, which contains more definite
references to this cross-correspondence, that the Moon again
occurs implicitly,—that is, in the context of a quotation given
in the script, —and this time it is a Crescent Moon.
This is an instance of what has just been explained :
—since
the Moon in the second script seems clearly one of the topics
of the cross-correspondence, and since the first script appears
continuous with the second, there is reason to regard the
Moon of the first script as an item of the same cross-corre-
spondence.
1 " Ah. dream too bright to last !
Ah, starry Hope ! that didst arise
But to be overcast !
"
(E. A. Poe, To One in Paradise.)
- For full details, see Proc, Vol. XXII., p. 76.
3 For full details, see Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 72 and 339.
30 Alice Johnson. [part
The next script to be quoted is again a vague one :
(Mrs. Holland's Script of Dec. 4, 1906.)
The grey church tower 1
A very scattered family this Christmas—and yet hardly more
so than three years ago.
" Pray—if thou canst in hope—but ever pray
Though hope he weak and faint through long delay
—
Pray in the darkness if there be no light " 2
" I will be quiet and talk to you
and reason where you are wrong." 3
[The rest of the script refers to another subject.]
Here the first quotation contains the word " hope," empha-
sised by being twice repeated ; and is immediately followed
by a quotation from Browning.
The next script is one of Mrs. VerraH's, which was begun
at 12 noon on Dec. 17. 190G, immediately after Mr. Pidding-
ton in London had dictated the first sentence of the Latin
Message to Mrs. Piper in trance. Though Mrs. Verrall did
not know on what day the experiment with Mrs. Piper would
begin, she was aware that it was to be tried, and this script
seems—in part at least—to reflect her own conception of it.
But the particular symbolism employed—which, for brevity,
we may call " the music of the spheres "—became, as will
be seen, one of the main items of this cross-correspondence.
1
This phrase constitutes a possible cross-eorrespondenco with Mrs. Piper.
See Proc, Vol. XXII., p. 40.
2
Hartley Coleridge, Prayer. The words italicised are underlined in the
original script.
3
Browning, James Lee's Wife, IV. :
" I will he quiet and talk with you,
And reason why you are wrong.
You wanted my love—is that much true ?
And so I did love, so I do :
What has come of it all along ?
"
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 31
(Mrs. VerralVs Script of Dec. 17, 1906.) 1
Revolving axes
Revolving spheres the mystic music make
Revolving spheres the harmony began
Harmonious sound scarce audible to man
But Then from every several unit of the whole
Joined the majestic music of the Soul
no no
Majestic music
No—you dont see what I want—begin again.
Revolving spheres the harmony began
—
A diapason manifest to man
—
Each single unit played its several part
Discoursing symphony with god-sent art
Till the majestic music of the whole
Throbbed in pulsation : —and the throbbing Soul
Saw through the sound the burning of the flame
Felt the lost Presence—to the Presence came.
Much of the phraseology of this script is derived from two
sources (both familiar to Mrs. Verrall), viz. (1) Dryden's Song
for St. Cecilia's Day, especially the lines :
" From harmony, from heavenly harmony.
Tins universal frame began :
From harmony to harmony
Through all the compass of the notes it ran,
The diapason closing full in Man.
As from the power of sacred lays
The spheres began to move."
and (2) the translations by F. W. H. Myers of two Greek
Oracles 2
(Essays—Classical, pp. 97 and 99), especially the lines :
" 0 God ineffable, eternal Sire,
Throned on the whirling spheres, the astral fire,
1
Mr. Piddington discusses this script in Proceedings, Vol. XXII., pp.
309-311, and 328-330.
2
The first of these two oracles was found on a leaf of the manuscript
which contains Porphyry's letter to Marcella. The second was given at
Delphi to a friend of Porphyry's who enquired, " Where is now Plotinus'
soul ?
"
32 Alice Johnson. [part
Hid in whose heart thy whole creation lies,
—
The whole world's wonder mirrored in thine eyes,
—
Thee the first Number and harmonious Whole,
Form in all forms, and of all souls the Soul."
" Once by God's grace was from thine eyes unfurled
This veil that screens the immense and whirling world,
Once, while the spheres around thee in music ran,
Was very Beauty manifest to man ;
"
The metro of this latter, it will be noticed, is the same as
the metre of the script. But the script embroiders on the
ideas thence derived, adding something of its own. In par-
ticular the phrase
" the throbbing Soul
Saw through the sound the burning of the flame
"
seems, as Mr. Piddington observed in- his Report, to fore-
shadow the quotation from Abt Vogler :
" That out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound, but a
star,"
which played so important a part later in tire cross-cor-
respondence.
{Mrs. Holland'* Script of Dec. 19, 1906.)
.... Pace—Pax—it is only in appearance that the life appears
unduly brief or all too swiftly terminated in reality the wheel had
run full circle. . . .
" Into a darkness quieted by hope." 1
No—the water has a whirling sweep—but not a circular whirl-
pool like one.
1
Browning, Sordcllo, Book I.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 33
Pink may-blossom on the trees near the drive
—
Qui bien ayme tarcl oublye.
Why not that motto for the ring—it applies to both sides—. . . .
H. December 21st, don't you remember ?
M—
A white frost in January but not before
—
This script, as stated in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 219,
was produced on the day of Professor F. W. Maitland's death,
and Mrs. Verrall, to whom I showed it (on Feb. 19, 1907)
thought that some passages in it were meant to refer to him.
"It is only in appearance that the life appears unduly
brief ..." had a certain appropriateness, as he was only
56 when he died. But Mrs. Verrall attached more importance
to the words " H. December 21st, don't you remember ?
M." since it was on Dec. 21, 1906, that she heard of Pro-
fessor Maitland's death (which had occurred in the Canary
Isles), whereas on Dec. 21 of the previous year she had heard
of Dr. Hodgson's death. Further, " the pink may-blossom
on the trees near the drive " was appropriate to her house,
well known to Professor Maitland ;
while, in accordance
with the punning habits of scripts, 1
it may be supposed that
" May " (the name by which Mrs. Verrall's friends call her)
implies a connection of the script with her in two respects,
both in regard to her friend, Professor Maitland, and as con-
taining a cross-correspondence with her own script.
Some confirmation of the supposed reference here to Pro-
fessor Maitland is afforded by the facts that Mrs. Holland's
script of Oct. 17, 1906, appeared to be premonitory of his
last voyage to the Canary and of his death (see Proceedings,
Vol. XXIV., p. 217) ; and that her script of March 20, 1907
(see below, p. 42), undoubtedly refers to him, contains further
allusions to " Hope, Star and Browning " and seems closely
connected with this script of Dec. 19, 1906 ;
though on March
20, 1907, she was unaware that these earlier scripts had been
interpreted as referring to Professor Maitland.
1
Thus in Miss Verrall's scripts of Feb. 3 and 17, 1907, below, the phrase
" Song birds pipe their tune " and the allusions to the Pied Piper are clearly
references to Mrs. Piper.
C
*
34 Alice Johnson. [part
The context of the quotation in the script from Sordello 1
is as follows :
" For he is thine !
Sordello, thy forerunner, Florentine !
A herald-star I know thou didst absorb
Relentless into the consummate orb
That scared it from its right to roll along
A sempiternal path with dance and song,
Still, what if I ... .
.... launch once more
That lustre ? Dante, pacer of the shore
Where glutted hell disgorgeth filthiest gloom,
Unbitten by its whirring sulphur-spume
—
Or Avhence the grieved and obscure waters slope
Into a darkness quieted by hope ;
I would do this !
"
Here then the quotation from Browning contains the word
Hope and is taken from a passage describing Sordello under
the image of a Star, which pursued its " path with dance and
song," an allusion to " the music of the spheres."
The drawing which follows this quotation in the script,
and the next sentence, which clearly refers to the drawing,
allude, no doubt, to the " grieved and obscure waters " of the
line preceding the one quoted.
" Qui bien ayme tard oublye. Why not that motto for the
ring ? It applies to both sides." I regard this as an allusion
to the following passage from The Ring and the Book (Book I.) :
" A ring without a posy, 2
and that ring mine ?
0 lyric Love, half angel and half bird
And all a wonder and a wild desire,
1
It will be remembered that Sordello was an Italian poet—like Virgil, a
native of Mantua—whom Dante met in Purgatory.
2
In the completo edition of Browning's Poems, edited by A. Birrell (the
notes to The Ring and the Book being by F. G. Kenyon), the following foot-
note is attached to this word :
" Posy : a motto or rhyme, engraved inside
a ring."
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 35
When the first summons from the darkling earth
Reached thee amid thy chambers, blanched their blue,
And bared them of the glory—to drop down,
To toil for man, to suffer or to die,
—
This is the same voice : can thy soul know change ?
Hail then, and hearken from the realms of help !
"
" Qui bien ayme tard oublye " is of course a very appro-
priate motto for Browning's Ring, and the phrase " it applies
to both sides," if taken to mean that it applies both to heaven
and earth, fits in closely with the whole sentiment of his
half mystic and half personal appeal to " Lyric Love." It
is also very appropriate to the general gist of Abt Vogler, and
especially to these lines (Stanza IV.) :
" And the emulous heaven yearned down, made effort to
reach the earth,
As the earth had done her best, in my passion, to scale
the sky."
It will be seen that Mrs. Verrall's script of Jan. 28, 1907,
quotes both from the above passage in The Ring and the Booh
and from Abt Vogler.
{Mrs. Verrall's Script of Jan. 23, 1907.)
Justice holds the scales.
That gives the words but an anagram would be better
Tell him that— rats star tars and so on. Try this.
It has been tried before
r T a T s rearrange those five letters or again tears
stare
seam
same
and so on
Skeat takes Kate's Keats stake steak.
But the letters you should give to-night are not so many—only
three
a s t
The anagrams in this script are to be compared with those
in^Miss Verrall's script of Feb. 17, 1907, given below. The
last three letters are probably the beginning of the word
" aster," with which the next script opens.
36 Alice Johnson. [part
(Mrs. Verrall's Script of Jan. 28, 1907.)
Aster [star]
Tepee? [sign, or wonder]
the world's wonder 1
And all a wonder and a wild desire. 2
The very wings of her
A WINGED DESIRE
viroTTTepos epm [winged love]
Then there is Blake
and mocked my loss of liberty. 3
But it is all the same thing— the winged desire
e'/Qcos irodeivos [passion] the hope that leaves the earth for the
sky— Abt Vogler— for earth too hard that found itself or
lost itself—in the sky.
That is what I want—
On the earth the broken sounds
threads
In the sky the perfect arc.
1
See F. W. H. Myers, Essays—Classical, p. 97, quoted in the text above.
2
Browning, The Ring and the Book, quoted in the text above.
3 " He loves to sit and hear me sing,
Then laughing, sports and plays with me ;
Then stretches out my golden wing,
And mocks my loss of liberty."
(Blake, Song: "How sweet I roamed from field to field.")
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 37
The C major of this life
1
But your recollection is at fault
ADB is the part that unseen completes the arc.
Mr. Piddington had asked MyersP on Jan. 16, 1907 (see
summary of Latin Message above) to add to the scripts of
Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Holland some such sign as a triangle
within a circle when producing a cross-correspondence between
them. It will be noticed that this particular sign appears
in this script.
" The ivorld's wonder " is a quotation from a poem to which
Mrs. Verrall's own script of Dec. 17, 1906, alluded ; while
" all a wonder and a wild desire " is a quotation from a passage
in The Ring and the Book to which Mrs. Holland's script of
Dec. 19, 1906, as I believe, alluded (see above).
The leading idea of the script is clearly Love, or Passion,
—
emphasised, as the leading ideas are apt to be, by various
devices. The word itself occurs only twice,—both times in
its Greek form,2
—but several of the quotations turn on it,
namely :
(1)
" O lyric Love, half angel and half bird,
And all a wonder and a wild desire."
(2) The " Prince of Love " who, in Blake's song, imprisons
the lover in a cage and mocks his loss of liberty ; and (3) the
" passion that left the ground to lose itself in the sky."
The reminiscences of Abt Vogler in this script are of special
interest. In most cases the phrases are not taken direct from
the poem, but compounded out of two or more phrases in it,
so that a single sentence is ingeniously turned to express
two or more ideas, as in several other cases given in this paper.
While the number of allusions seem to point to a general
reference to the whole poem, the individual variations are all,
as I believe, intentional. I will give the original passages
1 Browning, Abt Vogler.
2
Somewhat similarly in the case of the cross-correspondence Thanatos,
Mrs. Verrall on April 29, 1907, produced a script containing four quota-
tions involving the notion of Death, but the word itself occurred once only,
as mors (see Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 299).
38 Alice Johnson. [part
in full, in the order in which they are alluded to in the
script :
(1)
" The high that proved too high, the heroic for earth too hard,
The passion that left the ground to lose itself in the sky,
Are music sent up to God. ..."
Here note that the script substitutes " hope " for " pas-
sion,"—a device probably intended, as Mr. Piddington
pointed out, to emphasise " hope " by drawing attention
to it, for no one familiar with the poem could fail to notice
the misquotation, and Mrs. Verrall, in her contemporary
notes, remarked on it.
The script too, instead of " to lose itself," has " that
found itself or lost itself,"—thus hinting at the conception of
individual persistence, as contrasted with that of absorption
into a greater whole, which is suggested by the original
phrase. 1
(2)
" But here is the finger of God, a flash of the will that can,
Existent behind all laws, that made them and, lo, they are !
And I know not if, save in this, such gift be allowed to man,
That out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound,
but a star."
(3) " On the earth the broken arcs ; in the heaven, a perfect round.'
These two passages from the poem are, I take it, repre-
sented in a highly concise and conglomerate manner in the
script by :
Aster [star] rtpas [a sign or wonder]. . . .
On the earth the broken sounds—threads
—
In the sky the perfect arc
" The finger of God " is a Biblical phrase, used in connec-
tion with something done as a sign of the power of God, e.g.,
" Then the magicians said unto Pharaoh, This is the finger
of God " {Exodus, viii. 19), referring to the plagues of Egypt ;
" If I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the
kingdom of God is come upon you " {Luke, xi. 20) ;
1
Somewhat similarly MyersP ,
quoting from Abt Vogler, attempted to
improve on his text when he said that he had " returned to breathe in the
old world which is not however better than our new "—in the sitting of
May 1, 1907 (see Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 380).
LXVIII.] Some Concordant Automatisms.
"
39
The tables of the Law given to Moses on Mount Sinai were
" written with the finger of God " {Exodus, xxxi. 18).
In the poem the Sign is the " Star " made " out of three
sounds." Mr. Piddington concluded later that Myersv had
intended to point to this sign as symbolising the Latin Message.
The odd variant given in the script of the well-known line,
-
" On the earth the broken arcs ; in the heaven a perfect round,"
has also, I think, a special meaning ; but this, with the
rough drawings that follow it, will be best discussed in con-
nection with Mrs. Holland's script of March 20, 1907, given
below, pp. 42-45.
Next in chronological order comes :
A green jerkin and hose and doublet where the song birds pipe
their tune in the early morning
therapeutikos ek exotikon [a healer from aliens]
{Miss Verrall's Script of Feb. 3, 1907.)
a monogram
the crescent moon
remember
like a thunder riven oak the grim remains
stand on the level desolation of the plains
a record for all ages of the span
which nature gives to the weak labour of a man
The word " pipe," with " a healer from aliens " is probably
meant as an allusion to the Pied Piper of Hamelin, especially
as Miss Verrall's script of Feb. 17 (given below), which, like
40 Alice Johnson. [part
this one, contains the word " star " and a drawing of a star,
refers unquestionably to that poem. " Pipe " is also in-
tended, I have little doubt, as a punning reference to Mrs.
Piper, indicating that the script contains a cross-correspondence
with hers.
There is a connection with Mrs. Verrall's script of Jan.
28, 1907, in the (apparent) allusion to a poem by Browning,
in the " Star," and in the " bird," for Mrs. Verrall had
recorded on Jan. 29 that she thought her script was an
attempt at " Bird," through the words " wings " and
* :
winged," and Abt Vogler ("Vogler" = fowler).
On Feb. 11, 1907, MyersP stated that Hope, Star and
Browning had appeared in Mrs. Verrall's script. Later in
the day Mr. Piddington, studying Mrs. Verrall's scripts, con-
cluded that those of Jan. 23 and 28 were referred to. He
communicated this success to Mrs. Verrall, who, with a view
to encouraging her daughter,1
gave her on Feb. 15 a general
description of the incident, substituting imaginary words for
the original ones. For " Star," " Planet Mars " was sub-
stituted, for " Hope " " Virtue," and for " Browning "
" Keats." Nothing was said to Miss Verrall about the script
of Jan. 23, but she was told that a five-letter anagram had
constituted part of the success on Jan. 28. Her next script
was as follows :
when she sees it
Miss Verrall had done very little automatic writing up to this date.
(Miss Verrall's Script of Feb. 17, 1907.)
androsace (?) Carthusian candelabrum
many together
that was the sign she will understand
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms.'" 4 1
diapason Sta ttmtuiv pvdfios [rhythm through all]
No arts avail
the heavenly harmony m £</»; o wkarmv [as Plato says]
the mystic three (?) [scribble]
and a star above it all
rats everywhere in Hamelin town
now do you understand Henry (?)
In regard to the anagrams in Mrs. and Miss VerralPs
scripts, a sheet of paper was discovered in August, 1907,
among Dr. Hodgson's rough notes at Boston, in which several
of them occurred. 1
Dr. Hodgson's anagrams included :
" rates, stare, tears,
aster " ;
" star, tars, rats, arts."
Mrs. Verrall's anagrams (on Jan. 23 and Jan. 28, 1907)
included :
" rats, star, tars ;
" " tears, stare, aster, teras."
Miss Verrall's anagrams (on Feb. 17, 1907) were :
" arts,
star, rats."
There are other obvious connections between Miss Ver-
rall's script of Feb. 17 and Mrs. Verrall's of Jan. 28. Miss
Verrall's star which " was the sign " is equivalent to Mrs.
Verrall's " aster Tenets." Miss Verrall has also an allusion
to Browning in the phrase " rats everywhere, in Hamelin
town " {Pied Piper). The " diapason, rhythm," and
" heavenly harmony " in this script are also to be compared
with Mrs. Verrall's script of Dec. 17, 1906, above, which, of
course, Miss Verrall had not seen.
Further, the phrases :
" No arts avail—the heavenly har-
mony—the mystic three and a star above it all," seem to point
to certain lines in Abt Vogler, especially :
" It [i.e. both painting and poetry] is all triumphant art, but
art hi obedience to laws . . .
But here [i.e. hi Music] is the finger of God, a Hash of the will
that can, . . .
That out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound, but
a star."
Thus, two of Miss Verrall's anagrams, " arts," " star,"
belong to Abt Vogler, though the reference is not given in
1
The episode is fully related in Mr. Piddington's report, Vol. XXII ,
pp. 64-GG, where a reproduction of the sheet of paper is given.
42 Alice Johnson. [part
the script ; while her third anagram " rats " is referred to
the Pied Piper.
The next script is Mrs. Holland's of March 20, 1907, which,
as shown by postmarks, was the last one she produced before
hearing in a letter from me that we were now having sittings
with Mrs. Piper in London.
{Mrs. Holland's Script of March 20, 1907.)
All last month was so grey and chill that the flowers of February
have waited until March— Hellebore and aconite are only lately
unfolded— Now comes the first flame of spring—the golden
crocus— Dearer to me than all the Italian (?) bounty—profligate
bounty—of blossoms too plentiful to seem truly those of spring
—
I begin to understand that though transmigration as ye appre-
hend it is but a partial truth—yet do we hold together as the
nucleus of stars or as the notes that form the perfect chord
—
I must wait before going on for the completion of the chord
—
or for the two remaining lives, that are as stars in my constellation.
Very unlike many of my imaginings.
A peculiarly long upper lip but the face is raised to beauty by
the eyes—large—luminous grey—and by the noble lift of the
brow above them
—
The left hand—a twisted finger.
The mist is clearing from the ground even as earth mists do
—
Be not unhappy that the stars are yet hidden— They at the
last will be revealed—but content ye now with the waft of a robe
bearing a memory with it— the print of an unforgotten foot.
Memory—ever-dwelling thought—constant faithful memory is
the true ghost-compeller On our side many remember faith-
fully but our memories need to be met by an answering memory
ere comes the perfect strength
—
Dressed in black—a large-eyed woman—long limbed—large
mouthed Avith slack voluble lips
—" How poor an instrument may
do a noble deed " 1—
1
Cleopatra. " Let him come in. What poor an instrument
May do a noble deed ! he brings me liberty."
(Referring to the Clown that brings her the basket of figs with the asp.)
Antony and Cleopatra, Act V., Scene 2.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 43
The inveterate jarring note. F (•) 6— 23— 13— No the 8th
is purposely omitted— And Memory dies without Love.
G. M-T.1
This script, though containing only one complete quota-
tion, is full of literary reminiscences in a slightly veiled form.
Thus the first paragraph refers to " the ground flame of the
crocus " (Tennyson, The Progress of Spri?ig) ; and the phrases
immediately following this are. I think, a sort of summary of
Browning's Home-Thoughts, from Abroad :
" Oh, to be in England,
Now that April's there
And though the fields look rough with hoary dew,
All will be gay when noontide wakes anew
The buttercups, the little children's dower,
—Far brighter than this gaudy melon-flower !
The second paragraph seems to contain several references
to Abt Vogler :
" Transmigration as ye apprehend it is but a partial truth
"
suggests :
" The wonderful Dead who have passed through the body and
gone
But were back once more to breathe in an old world worth
their new."
(The phrase in the script may perhaps also allude to Horace's
Ode I. 28, which refers to re-incarnation, and about which a
question had been put on Mrs. Verrall's behalf to MyersP on
Jan. 23, 1907. 2
)
" Yet do we hold together as the nucleus of stars or as the
notes that form the perfect chord. I must wait before going on
for the completion of the chord, or for the two remaining lives
that are as stars in my constellation ."
1
These are the initials of Lady Mount-Temple, who is several times men-
tioned in Mrs. Holland's early script (see Proc, Vol. XXI., pp. 208-209).
Mrs. Holland knew, from reading Human Personality, that she was an old
friend of Mr. Myers's.
2
See Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 397 et seq., and below, p. 81.
44 Alice Johnson. [part
I interpreted this immediately after reading it as an allusion
to the line :
" That out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound, but
a star."
But I now take the whole paragraph to be a sort of com-
posite reference to this and a number of other lines in Abt
Vogler, especially :
(1)
" And the emulous heaven yearned down, made effort to
reach the earth,
As the earth had done her best, in my passion, to scale the
sky."
(2) " For earth had attained to heaven, there was no more near
nor far."
(o) " I will be patient and proud, and soberly actpiiesce.
Give me the keys. I feel for the common chord again."
There are no exact verbal parallels between the poem and
the script, but both (like the Holland script of Dec. 19, 1906)
represent a communion or co-operation between heaven and
earth.
" As the nucleus of slurs or as the notes tlud form the perfect
chord " seems to be a composite allusion to the two lines :
" That out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound, but
a star
"
and
" On the earth the broken arcs ; in the heaven, a perfect
round."
I pointed out above that Mrs. Verrall's script of Jan. 28,
1907, also makes a composite reference to these very lines
in the phrases :
Aster T€/xis ....
On the earth the broken sounds
threads
In the sky the perfect arc.
It is further to be noted that both scripts seem to use
certain terms both in their musical and in their mathematical
senses. Mrs. Holland's " perfect chord " suggests both a
Lxvni.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 45
combination of notes sounded together and (through the
implicit allusion to Abt Vogler) the straight line between
the two ends of an arc of a circle. Mrs. Verrall's " broken
sounds—threads " and " the perfect arc " also point to chords
in both senses of the word.
But, while the poem speaks of a " perfect round," the
two automatists—both of whom are extremely familiar with
the poem—refer, the one to a " perfect chord " and the other
to a " perfect arc."
As if to emphasise this misquotation or adaptation of the line,
Mrs. Verrall's script (see above, p. 36), gives two geometrical
drawings, the first showing a segment of a circle with its chord
and its arc, and the second representing a complete circle,
below which is added the remark :
" A D B is the part that unseen completes the arc."
With this compare the Holland script :
" / must wait before going on for the completion of the chord,
or for the two remaining lives that are as stars in my constellation."
Abt Vogler, the optimist with a passion for personal im-
mortality, thinks only of the perfection to be attained in
heaven. In the scripts we find Abt Vogler's conception
enlarged by the thought that inspired F. W. H. Myers's poem
Venice,—that perfection is not to be attained all at once,
—
" The race of angels is the race of men ;
Their vanished light is on our vision shed,
Nor even their joy without us perfected." 1
The same idea is emphasised still more strongly in a later
passage of the same Holland script :
" Memory—ever-dwelling thought—constant faithful memory
is the true ghost-com peller. On our side many rememberfaithfully
,
but our memories need to be met by an answering memory ere
comes the perfect strength."
" The perfect strength " is, I have no doubt, an allusion to
Rossetti's Blessed Damozel, the context of the phrase in that
poem being as follows :
" The sun was gone now ; the curled moon
Was like a little feather
Fluttering far down the gulf ; and now
1
See Mr. Piddington's paper in Proceedings, Vol. XXVI., pp, 174-220.
46 Alice Johnson. [part
She spoke through the still weather.
Her voice was like the voice the stars
Had when they sang together.
'
I wish that he were come to me,
For he will come,' she said.
'
Have I not prayed in Heaven ? —on earth,
Lord, Lord, has he not pray'd ?
Are not two prayers a perfect strength ?
And shall I feel afraid ?
"'
It will be seen that several other of the leading ideas or
items of the cross-correspondence,—viz. the crescent moon,
the stars, and the music of the spheres,—are to be found in
these verses. Mrs. Holland is very familiar with this poem,
as well as with Abt Vogler, which confirms the view that her
phrase is quoted from it.
References to Professor F. W. Maitland.
In the last paragraph of the script we find :
"6—23—13— No, the 8th is purposely omitted. And
Memory dies without Love."
Substitution of letters of the alphabet for these numbers 1
gives the initials F. W. M., and " the 8th is purposely omitted
"
clearly means that they do not refer to F. W. H. M. (Myers).
F. W. M. are the initials of Prof. Maitland.
Mrs. Verrall points out. to me that the allusion to Browning's
Home-Thoughts, from Abroad (which begins " Oh, to be in
England, Now that April's there ") in the first paragraph of
this script was appropriate to Professor Maitland, since April
was the regular month for his*"return to England from the
Canaries ; also that the opening of the script of Dec. 26, 1906,
below, suggests Browning's companion poem, Home-Thoughts,
from the Sea, which describes scenery that he might pass on his
voyages to and from the Canaries, as he often went by ships
that touched at Gibraltar or Tangier, and so down the western
coast of Spain. She tells me that he was a great admirer and
constant reader of Browning. It is, therefore, interesting that
1
The full names of Richard Hodgson and Roden Noel were similarly
indicated by numbers in Mrs. Holland's script ; see Proc., Vol. XXI., pp.
304 and 320.
lxvitt.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 47
three out of the four Holland scripts alluding to him (viz.
those of Dec. 19 and 26, 1906, and March 20, 1907) refer to
poems of Browning's.
It has already been mentioned that an earlier script of Mrs.
Holland's, that of Oct. 17, 1906. had been interpreted by
Mrs. Verrall (on January 29, 1907) as premonitory of his
death, and that of Dec. 19, 1906, given above, as referring to
it. In a third script his name had been given, as follows :
(Mrs. Holland's Script of Dec. 26, 1906.)
England—Old England—Thoughts across the sea—Thalassa
1865—Not a long life—
M— M— F. W. M. Mary B.
Mary Maitson
—
Maitland— Baitson— M. B.—F. W. M.
There had seemed to be many years of work before them both
—
One to whom the dead past grew living
—
" Where History's Muse the memorial was keeping
Of all that the dark land [sic] of Destiny graves " 1
On receiving this script I wrote to Mrs. Holland, saying
that it referred to Professor Maitland and Miss Mary Bateson,
both of whom had recently died, and asking if she had seen
any newspaper notices of them. I added that Professor
Maitland's death had probably been telegraphed to India.
She replied to me on Feb. 5, 1907 :
" Professor Maitland's
death was telegraphed out here ; his name was unfamiliar to
my ignorance and I did not notice any reference to it in the
script. 2
... I saw a rather long obituary notice of Miss
Mary Bateson in the Queen."
Mary Bateson, Lecturer in History at Newnham College,
Cambridge, was Professor Maitland's most distinguished
pupil, and well known to historical scholars through numerous
articles, especially on obscure constitutional and legal problems
1 " While History's Muse the memorial was keeping
Of all that the dark hand of Destiny weaves."
(T. Moore, " While History's Muse")
- Mrs. Holland sends me the originals of her script and does not keep copies
for herself, so that her subsequent knowledge of them depends on her recol-
lection.
48 Alice Johnson. [part
connected with the history of mediaeval boroughs. The date
of her birth, 1865, was given in the article in The Queen (of
Dec. 8, 1906) referred to by Mrs. Holland, but Professor Mait-
land is not mentioned in that article.
She died on Nov. 30, 1906 ; Professor Maitland attended
her funeral at Cambridge, and the last paper he wrote was
an obituary notice of her, which appeared in The Athenceum
of Dec. 8, 1906, signed " P. W. M." On Dec. 8 he sailed for
the Canary, was taken ill on the voyage, landed on Dec. 13,
and died in the night of Dec. 19-20.
It is, of course, possible that Mrs. Holland saw this article,
as well as that in the Queen (though she only remembered
seeing the latter), and that when she read the telegraphic
announcement of Professor Maitland's death, she put the
two announcements together subliminally and so produced
the script.
At the time that I wrote to enquire about her knowledge
of Professor Maitland, I was unaware of the earlier refer-
ences to him in her script (of Oct. 17 and Dec. 19, 1906),
since these had not yet been interpreted. Consequently,
when she produced her script of Mar. 20, 1907, she knew
nothing of those earlier allusions, and therefore could have
had no normal reason for associating him with the script of
Dec. 19, 1906. Yet this latter and the script of Mar. 20,
1907, seem closely linked together through their contributions
to the cross-correspondence " Hope, Star and Browning," and
through their references to Prof. Maitland, while the phrase
" Memory dies without Love " (March 20, 1907) is very similar
to " Qui bien ayme tard oublye " (Dec. 19, 1906).
The four scripts here discussed are the only ones out of
the whole mass produced by Mrs. Holland and in my posses-
sion which contain any mention of or allusion to Professor
Maitland.
The following Table shows the dates at which the prin-
cipal topics of this cross-correspondence occurred in the
scripts of the various automatists. The round brackets indi-
cate that the topic appeared on that date in an implicit form
only,—that is, generally speaking, in the context of a quota-
tion which was given explicitly.
LXVTIT.] Som.e " Concordant Automatisms.'
II
50 Alice Johnson. [part
CHAPTER IV.
Cross-Correspondence :
" Alexander's Tomb."
Some of the scripts classified under the above heading were
published in Mr. Piddington's report (Proc, Vol. XXII.)
under the cross-correspondences " Library," " Laurel Wreath,"
and " Light in West." A re-classification has become necessary
since the discovery (in July, 1912) that the Alexander of
" Alexander's tomb " in Miss Verrall's script of March 17,
1907, was not Alexander the Great, as we had all assumed,
but Alessandro de' Medici, who was buried in one of the
two famous Medici tombs erected by Michael Angelo in the
Sagrestia Nuova of the Church of- San Lorenzo at Florence. 1
This discovery made it clear that a number of other passages
in the scripts referred to the same tombs.
The allusions in these scripts to more or less well-known
facts in the history of the Medici family will perhaps be more
easily understood if prefaced by a consecutive summary of
the facts alluded to, 2
together with a genealogical tree of the
Medici chiefly concerned, as follows :
—
Piero (il Gottoso)
b. 1416 ; d. 1469
Lorenzo (ii Magnifico)
b. 1449 ; d. L492
Giuliano
b. 1453 ; d. 1478
PlETRO
(the Unfortunate)
b. 1471 ; d. 1503
I
Lorenzo
(Duke of Urbino)
b. 1492 ; d, 1519
Giovanni
(Leo X.)
b. 1476 ; d. 1521
Giuliano
(Ducde Nemours)
b. 1479 ; d. 1516
Giulio
(Clement VII.)
7>. 1478; d. 1534
i
Alessandro
ft. 1511 : d. 1537
1
I owe this clue to a friend of mine, who has on more than one occasion
made valuable suggestions about the meaning of the scripts.
2
Most of the historical information in this section is derived from The
Medici, by Colonel G. F. Young (Second Edition; London, John Murray.
1911; two vols.). This is the only complete history of the Medici family
in existence, and, among those that I have consulted, seems to be based to
an unusual degree on original authorities and to embody the results of the
most recent researches.
LXVIII.] Rome " Concordant Automatisms." 51
The Laurel.
The Laurel, which plays so large a part in this cross-cor-
respondence, was the special emblem of Lorenzo the Magni-
ficent, derived from the play on the Latin form of his name,
Laurentius, in accordance with the punning habit of the
time. In February, 1469, when he was 19 years old, a splendid
tournament was held at Florence, to celebrate his betrothal
to Clarice Orsini. The dress worn by him on this occasion
is represented in Benozzo Gozzoli's fresco of the Magi (part
of which is reproduced in Plate VI.), where Lorenzo—the
third and youngest of the Three Kings—appears riding on
the great white horse which had been presented to him by the
King of Naples for the tournament. On the trappings of
this horse are the Medici arms, the seven balls, 1
—afterwards
reduced to six. " The device on his standard Avas a bay-
tree, one half dry and dead-looking, and the other half green,
with the motto (worked in pearls) Le temps revient, symbolising
that a time of youth and joy, after the winter of [his grand-
father] Cosimo's old age and [his father] Piero's ill-health, was
now to supervene." 2
At this tournament Lorenzo was the
victor, and the bay-tree which forms a back-ground to his face
in the fresco represents his device. A tall standard laurel is
also seen above his horse's head, and several other groups of
laurels are conspicuous in other parts of the picture.
The frescoes, painted for Piero il Gottoso on the walls
of the chapel of the Medici (Riccardi) Palace by Benozzo
Gozzoli, are the only samples now remaining in the Palace
of all the art treasures that it contained in the times of Cosimo,
Piero and Lorenzo. The Journey of the Three Kings is made
a vehicle for references to the history of the Medici, and to
all that they had done for Florence up to that time. Two
chief episodes are referred to :
(1) The Council of Florence in 1439, which had included
John VII. (John Paleologus), the last but one Emperor of
Constantinople, represented in the fresco as the second of
the Three Kings, and Joseph, the Patriarch of Constantinople,
1
The reproduction is on too small a scale to show these details, %vhich are
clear in photographs.
2
Col. Young, The Medici, Vol. I., p 160.
52 Alice Johnson. [part
represented as the First King. This Council had brought to
Florence the most learned men of the time, and so had furthered
the revival of the ancient learning which the Medici did so much
to foster. And it was in consequence of the hospitality shown
to them in 1439 that, when Constantinople was taken by the
Turks in 1453, the Greek scholars who were driven out took
refuge in Florence.
(2) The Tournament of 1469, in which the young heir
of the family had distinguished himself. Lorenzo appears,
as said above, as the Third King. Behind him is his grand-
father, Cosimo, riding a white horse, on whose trappings
are the Medici arms, and his own private crest of the three
peacock's feathers with the word Semper—the motto of the
first three Medici—above them ; next to Cosimo is his brother
Lorenzo on a mule ; in the left corner Piero il Gottoso, and
next to him his younger son Giuliano, on a- white horse with
a jewel in its forehead.
In 1475 another famous tournament took place. Lorenzo,
who was now head of the family, used the same standard
as at the previous one,—the bay-tree which had appeared
dead putting forth fresh leaves, with the motto Le temps
revient. On this occasion, his brother Giuliano was the victor,
so that the tournament was known as La Giostra di Ghdiavo
<Jp" Medici, under which title a celebrated poem on it was
composed by Politian. In this poem Politian, in allusion
to the tournament's Queen of Beauty (the beautiful Simonetta
Cattaneo), describes the birth of Venus. And Botticelli's
Birth of Venus follows closely the lines of Politian's poem,
which is adapted from one of the Homeric hymns. In the
picture (reproduced in Plate VII.) the laurel grove on the sea-
shore, which spreads out over the nymph and partly over the
head of Venus, symbolises Lorenzo, who was called by Politian
" the Laurel who sheltered the song-birds that carolled to the
Tuscan spring," in allusion partly to his own poems and partly
to his patronage of the poets of his time.
Politian on another occasion spoke of Lorenzo's great friend,
Pico della Mirandola, as "the Phoenix who rested in the Laurel."
partly, I suppose, as a pun on his name, " the bird of wonder."
When in 1512, the Medici family, who had been banished
in 1494. were recalled to Florence, the rule of the city was
LXVIII.] Some Concordant A u to mat isms. 53
at first placed in the hands of Giuliano (Due de Nemours),
third son of Lorenzo the Magnificent, and afterwards in
those of Lorenzo (Duke of Urbino), son of Pietro the Unfor-
tunate, who had died in exile, Cardinal Giovanni (afterwards
Leo X.) and his cousin Giulio directing their policy. With a
view to attaching the youthful nobles to their family, the Medici
formed two Societies, one called the Company of the Diamond,
which was headed by Giuliano, and the other called the Coni-
parry of the Branch, which was headed by Lorenzo. These
Companies gave feasts and pageants, in imitation of those
held in former years at Florence. 1
The badge of the Diamond
was derived from certain crests of the elder Medici, and the
Branch was that of the dry laurel putting forth new leaves,
which was the tournament device of Lorenzo the Magnificent.
(Of. Mrs. Verrall's script of Feb. 6, 1907, below, p. 61.) It is
important to note that the Laurel was thus the emblem of
the younger as well as of the elder Lorenzo.
In 1524 the celebrated Medici Library, founded by Cosimo
and largely added to by Piero and Lorenzo, was moved to
the building in which it is now located (in the cloisters of San
Lorenzo), which was designed and constructed by Michael
Angelo. Hence it became known as the Library of San
Lorenzo, or the Laurentian Library. (Cf. Mrs. Verrall's script
of Feb. 6, 1907.) It is described by Col. Young as " the
parent of all the great libraries of Europe." It is familiar to
classical scholars from its giving a name to well known MSS.,
in particular the Laurentian MS. of Sophocles.
The Medici family were for the third time exiled from
Florence in 1527, immediately after the sack of Rome. Two
years later, the Imperial army marched on Florence, which
surrendered after being besieged for ten months ; and in
1532, through the influence of Clement VII., Alessandro dc'
Medici was made Duke of Florence.
Alessandro, who passed for the son of the younger Lorenzo,
was actually the son of Clement VII., his mother being a
mulatto slave. From his woolly hair, thick lips and generally
negro-like appearance (see his portrait by Bronzino, repro-
duced in Plate VIII.), he was called II Moro (the Moor). (Cf.
1
See Artists of the Italian Renaissance ; translated from the Chroniclers
and arranged by E. L. Secley (Chat to and Windus, London, 1U07), p. 257.
54 Alice Johnson. [part
Piper sitting uf Feb. 20, 1907. and Mrs. Holland's script of
March 27, 1907.) The live years of his rule represent the
darkest period of Florentine history. " A historian of his
own time calls him a '
creature who would have disgraced
even the deadliest epochs of Roman villainy '; while another
describes him as '
one whose excesses were as controllable
by human reason as those of a beast of the forest.' " 1
On the night of January 5, 1537, he was murdered by
his young relative Lorenzino, of the younger branch of the
Medici family, in a room in the latter's house, adjoining the
Medici Palace. Lorenzino then fled, and the Duke's body
was discovered next evening by his own servants. His death
was kept secret, and the body was hurriedly prepared for
burial, " and on the following night was carried by a few
servants with great secrecy to the church of San Lorenzo,
and without any religious service was hurriedly placed in
the sarcophagus containing the remains of Lorenzo (Duke of
Urbino)." 2
(Cf.
Lk
Alexander's tomb " in Miss Verrall's script
of March 17, 1907.)
The New Sacristy of San Lorenzo had been originally
planned by Leo X. while on a visit to Florence in 1516, with
the intention that it should contain six tombs,—those of his
father Lorenzo and uncle Giuliano, and of the four members
of the family who were then living, namely, himself, his
brother Giuliano, his cousin Giulio (afterwards Clement VII.),
and his nephew, Lorenzo. Michael Angelo, to whom the
commission was entrusted, worked on it at intervals through
various vicissitudes of fortune, including the siege of the
city, when he was in charge of the fortifications, up to the
year 1534, when on the death of his protector, Clement VII.,
he was obliged to flee from Florence, his life being in danger
from the tyrant Alessandro. Only two of the tombs were
ever completed, namely, those of the younger Lorenzo and
the younger Giuliano. The bodies of Lorenzo the Magnifi-
cent and his brother Giuliano were originally buried in the
same tomb in the Old Sacristy of San Lorenzo. In 1559
their bodies were removed to the New Sacristy and buried
there under the statues of St. Cosmo and St. Damian, the
patron saints of their family ; but no monument was erected
1
Col. Young, The Medici, Vol. I., p. 497. 2 Op. cit., Vol. I., p. 508.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 55
to either of them. The two Medici Popes, Leo X. and
Clement VII., were buried at Rome. So the five Medici
actually buried in the New Sacristy are the two Lorenzos,
the two Giulianos, and Alessandro,—these five including the
most famous and the most infamous of the family.
The two tombs, of which illustrations are here given (Plates
IX. and X.), are :
(a) That of Lorenzo, Duke of Urbino, with the seated
statue of Lorenzo—the figure known as 11 Pensieroso (not
a portrait of the Duke)—above, helmeted, and hence " with
everlasting shadow on his face," 1
and the two recumbent
figures below, representing Dawn (the woman) and Twilight
(the man) ; otherwise called Morning and Evening.
(&) That of Giuliano, Due de Nemours, with a seated statue
of Giuliano—again not a portrait—above, and two recum-
bent figures below, representing Day (the man) and Night
(the woman). The latter is the most famous of all the statues
and the only one which has symbolic objects attached to it,
namely, the tragic mask, the owl, and the sack of poppy-
heads on which the left foot of the figure is resting.
The faces of the two men, Twilight and Day, were left
unfinished when Michael Angelo fled from Florence to escape
the vengeance of Alexander, who thus, besides being buried
in one of the tombs, was partly responsible for the present
condition of both of them.
The figures were no doubt intended to symbolise the recent
and contemporary history of Florence,—the Day referring to
the golden times of Lorenzo the Magnificent, Michael Angelo's
first patron, and the Twilight and Night the time of dark-
ness and tyranny under Alexander. The meaning of the
statue of Night is indicated in some verses written by Michael
Angelo himself (in reply to some by Giovanni Battista Strozzi 2
)
and thus translated by J. A. Symonds :
" Sweet is my sleep, but more to be mere stone,
So long as ruin and dishonour reign ;
1 Mrs. Browning, Oasa Guidi Windows.
2
La Notte che tu vedi in si dolce atti
Dormir, fu da un Angelo scolpita
In questo sasso, e perche dorme, ha vita :
Destala, se nol credi, e parleratti.
56 Alice Johnson. [part
To hear nought, to feel nought, is my great gam :
Then wake me not, speak in an under-tone." 1
The New Sacristy and its tombs are also described in
poems by Mrs. Browning, Swinburne, and Rogers, and the
statue of Night in the following sonnet by Wordsworth :
" Night speaks :
(Jrateful is Sleep, my life in stone bound fast
More grateful still : while wrong and shame shall last,
(hi me can Time no happier state bestow
Than to be left unconscious of the woe.
Ah then, lest you aAvaken me, speak low.
Grateful is Sleep, more grateful still to be
Of marble ; for while shameless wrong and woe
Prevail, 'tis best to neither hear nor see.
Then wake me not, I pray you. -Hush, speak low.
Come, gentle Sleep, Death's image though thou art,
Come share my couch, nor speedily depart ;
How sAveet thus living without life to lie,
Thus without death how sweet it is to die."
(Wordsworth, Michael Angelo in reply io the
Passage upon his statue of Night Sleeping.)
1 now proceed to give the scripts in which we find the cross-
correspondence. The phrases in the first ones are, it will be
seen, of a vague and general character. But they seem to
be continuous with and to lead up to the later more explicit
passages, and it is on this ground that I interpret them as
alluding to the Medici Tombs.
(Mrs. Holland's Script of Nov. 9, 1906.)
The shadow is very clear and black and appears almost as
weighty as the substance
—
" The best of this kind are but shadows " 2
ShadoAv-shapes— Did Margaret trace the connection back in
her analytical mind. . . .
1
The original verses are as follows
:
" Grato m'e '1 sormo, e piu l esser di sasso,
Mentre che il danno e la vergogna dura
;
Non veder, non sentir, m'e gran ventura
;
Pero non mi destar, deh ! parla basso !
"
2 Midsummer Night a Dream, Act V., Scene 1.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 57
The " shadow " here seems to be the first emergence of the
•'
Light and Shadow—Shadow and Light " of Mrs. Holland's
script of March 27, 1907, below, which I take, for reasons there
given, to refer to the statues of Day and Night on the Medici
tombs. Cf. "shadow " in Holland scripts of Nov. 28 and Dec. L 2,
1906, below, which seem to continue the topic of this script.
" Margaret " is no doubt Mrs. Verrall, Avho is frequently
so referred to in Mrs. Holland's script ; the occurrence of
the name here and in the next script seems to indicate that
a cross-correspondence with Mrs. Verrall is intended.
{Mrs. Holland's Script of Nov. 13, 1900.)
There is no place for doubt or any fear
—
" In a voice that she will know
Margaret " 1
No—no—not Percy— John
—
A wreathed garland of deserved bays 2
[sic]
Since life had grown more pale than Death
—
Waking more husht than Sleep
—
The second son
—
" There is no place for doubt or any fear " is perhaps con-
nected with the implicit reference to " human fears " in the
first line of the script of Nov. 21, 1906, below.
In this script, again, as in that just quoted, we have the
name " Margaret."
" A wreathed garland of deserved bays " is the first emer-
gence of the important topic Laurel Wreath, which connects
with the Medici, as explained above ; it is to be noted that,
as in many other cases, the most important word is emphasised
by a misquotation,—the substitution of " bays " for " praise."
" Since Life had grown more pale than Death
Waking more husht than Sleep— "
These lines (which are, I think, original) seem to combine
Symonds' and Wordsworth's versions of Michael Angelo's
verses, quoted above ;
or, in any case, to refer to the statues
on the Medici tombs.
1
Matthew Arnold, The Forsaken Merman.
2 " A wreathed garland of deserved praise,
Of praise deserved, unto Thee I give."
(George Herbert, A Wreath.)
58 Alice Johnson. [part
{Mrs. Holland's Script of Nov. 21, 1906.)
A slumber did my spirit steal 1
[sic]
Laurence
The poem of which the first line is quoted in the script
would be an apt description of the statue Night, and has
certain definite resemblances to Wordsworth's sonnet on that
statue, cpioted above. Cf. especially " Grateful is Sleep, my
life in stone bound fast " with " A slumber did my spirit seal,"
left unconscious of the woe " with " I had no human fears ;
"
and " 'Tis best to neither hear nor see " with " She neither
hears nor sees."
The name " Laurence " at the end of the script bears out
my interpretation of it as referring to the Tombs.
{Mrs. Holland's Script of Nov. 28, 1906.)
.... The, dark was not alarming—but the strangely shaped
shadows frightened her. . . .
Fin de nuit—an anagram name or rather a symbolical one
—
dawn as it were. Night's end. . . .
2
Here we have again " dark " and " shadows " which I
take to refer to the Night ; and " dawn "
—presumably a
reference to the statue of Dawn. These three words, here
italicised, are the only ones that are underlined in the whole
of the original script. The important topic Dawn is further
emphasised by the pun on it, which serves the double pur-
pose of drawing attention to the word and indicating, through
the allusion to Mrs. Piper's early " control," Phinuit, that
she is to bear a share in the cross-correspondence.
1 " A slumber did my spirit seal,
1 had no human fears ;
She seem'd a thing that could not feel
The touch of earthly years.
No motion has she now, no force ;
She neither hears nor sees ;
Roll'd round in earth's diurnal course,
With rocks, and stones, and trees."
(Wordsworth, A slumber did my spirit seal.)
2
To this Mrs. Holland added a contemporary note :
" On reading it over,
the last sentence suggests Mrs. Piper's '
Dr. Phinuit.'
"
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms.'" 59
(Mrs. Holland's Script of Dec. 12, 1906.)
The shadow and the sleep— The Dream and the Awakening. . . .
I take the first of these phrases to refer to the statue of
the sleeping Night and the second to that of the Dawn, who
is generally described as awaking from troubled dreams.
{Mrs. Verrall's Script of Dec. 24, 1906.)
* Let there be light he said and there was light 1
And the evening and the morning were the first day.*
The reference has been given before but I think not understood.
largas luminis oras [Shores full of light.]
The western fight that flooded all the room
Sic vos non vobis. ahena utitur voce non sua
Ego feci —j
—
quern Rectoreru Directorem cognoscis.
[So you not for you. He uses another voice not his own. I
have done it, whom you know as Rector the director.]
The prayer of Ajax was for fight. 2
Whereas most of Mrs. Holland's references hitherto have
been to the Shadow or the Dark (Night), Mrs. Verrall's first
contribution to the cross-correspondence lays stress on the
complementary topic of Light or Day, the word Light being
repeated several times, as is often the case with important
words in the scripts. " The evening and the morning "
probably means the Twilight and Dawn statues.
We come next to some sittings with Mrs. Piper which do
not properly belong to this series, but are only introduced
here in their chronological order, because in the course of
them the word " Wreath " was inadvertently mentioned to
Mrs. Verrall and may possibly have had some influence on
her subsequent script, although it seems clear from the con-
text that the " wreath " alluded to by Rector was a wreath
of roses, while the wreath of Mrs. Verrall's script was of Laurel.
** Between asterisks in mirror- writing.
1
Genrsis, i. 3. 2
Iliad. XVTT. 647.
60 Alice Johnson. [part
(Extract from record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on Jan. 2, 1907.)
(J. G. 1'. present alone.)
(Myers communicating) I said Wreath to Mrs. Verrall.
Wreaths.
J. G. P. A wreath—a wreath of flowers '.
Yes but plural.
Wreaths of roses in her hair entwined. . . .
(Rector communicating) I am Rector friend. . . .
I feel . . . that the word Wreaths has been received by
Mrs. Verrall.
(Extract from record of sitting -with Mrs. Piper held on Jan. 21, 1907.)
(Present, Mrs. Verrall and J. G. P.)
J. G. P. The friend [i.e. Mrs. Verrall] is here and will come and
sit by you.
(Rector communicating) thank you. We are glad to
see you again.
Miis. V. Thank you.
and hope you will be able to U.D.1
our messages better
when you are not present, [i.e. that she will get
them clearly in her script.]
Mrs. V. Yes.
We can help very much,
did you U.D. about the wreath I
Jibs. V. " the wreath " ?
did you U.D. about it ?
Mrs. V. 1 don't understand about the wreath.
J. G. P. (to Mrs. Verrall) I understand.
all right neither does our friend [i.e. J. G. P.J U.D. what
we mean now.
We will tell him later.
[Extract from record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on Jan. 23, 1907.)
(Present : J. G. P. alone.)
(Rector communicating) we are rather sorry we men-
tioned wreath before her [i.e. Mrs. Verrall] but we
did so inadvertently.
1
In the Piper script, " U.D." is used as an abbreviation for any part of
the verb " to understand."
LXVIII.] Some "Concordant Automatisms.' 61
J. G. P. It doesn't matter. Besides, when }
r
ou said I didn't
understand about " wreath," that put Mrs. Verrall
off the track, I fancy,
yes very good, as it is a very good thing to try.
we do not wish to spoil it.
R.
This shows that Rector recognised that he had made a
blunder in mentioning the word " Wreath " in Mrs. Verrall \s
presence. Cf. record of Piper sitting of March 4, 1907, below,
p. 66.
(Mrs. VerralVs Script of Feb. 6, 1907.)
Lama, and another
There is some great obstruction this morning help to remove it.
This must not occur again tell him that.
Put not your light under a bushel.1
K.O. blue riband and five pointed star
The great Library has already gone before Hugh Le Despenser
the branch that should have grown full straight
Apollo's laurel bough 2
You don't get it right but some of this is true
I think it is a jewelled dagger
three curved objects and a point
I cant see what all this means but I am told to say it to
you
1
Cf. Luke, xi. 33, and Matthew, v. 15.
s " Cut is the branch that might have grown full straight,
And burned is Apollo's laurel bough,
Tli at sometime grew within this learned man."
Marlowe, Doctor Faustvs (referring to the death
of Faustus).
62 Alice Johnson. [part
APOLLO'S LAUREL BOUGH
There is also some point in the Library
—
Put together the Library and the bough
Laureatus [laurelled]
perhaps no more than that
a laurel wreath CsA
Corona laureata [laurel crown] has some meaning here
With laureate wreath his brow serene was crowned.
No more to-day
await the better news that brings assurance with a laurel crown.
The name " Laura " means Laurel. Thus, Byron speaks
of Petrarch as
" Watering the tree which bears his lady's name
With his melodious tears." 1
As to the " great Library " and " Hugh Le Despenser,"
in a script produced by Mrs. Verrall on April 25, 1906,
occurred the names Althorp and Lord Spencer, with a refer-
ence to a Library (presumably the Althorp Library), so that
a subliminal recollection of this may have led by association
of ideas to the name "Despenser"' following the mention of
the " Library " here.
This is an instance—others are given below—where there
is evidence that the automatist attached to her script a mean-
ing which is almost provably not the meaning of the intelligence
behind the script. For later on we are told to " put together
the Library and the [laurel] bough," which is meaningless
in relation to the Althorp Library, but highly significant if
—as I hold—the Lanrentian Library is meant.
As just observed, it is conceivable that the word " Wreath "
may have been introduced into this script because it had
been mentioned to Mrs. Verrall at a Piper sitting ; but it
is clear that the Laurel and not the Wreath is the main sub-
Childe Harold's Pilgrimage, Canto IV., xxx.
LXVITT.] Some " Concordant Automatisms.' 63
ject of the script,-—the former occurring ten times (as Laura,
the branch, Apollo's laurel bough, Apollo's laurel bough,
the bough, laureatus, a laurel wreath, corona laureata, laureate
wreath, laurel crown) while the latter occurs only four times
(as a laurel wreath, corona laureata, laureate wreath, laurel
crown) after six previous mentions of the Laurel in other forms.
" The Branch " and " Apollo's laurel bough " I regard as
allusions to the Company of the Branch (of laurel) of Lorenzo,
Duke of Urbino, and the Bay-tree device of Lorenzo the
Magnificent, described above ; while the whole quotation :
" Cut is the branch that might have grown full straight
And burned is Apollo's laurel bough "
would form an appropriate epitaph for the Medici buried in
the New Sacristy.
The association of " Apollo's laurel bough " with the
Library would be especially appropriate to the Laurentian
Library (see above, p. 53) both in regard to the connection of
its name with Lorenzo and hence with the laurel, and because
its founders might by poetic or literary licence be compared
with Apollo in their patronage of the arts.
References to the Laurel were next made by Mrs. Piper
in two consecutive sittings.
On the first occasion, the passages connected with this
subject were given during the " waking-stage," when Mrs.
Piper speaks instead of writing. Her speech is then sometimes
rather indistinct and more or less incoherent, and whatever
is not intelligible is taken down as far as possible phonetically.
(Extract from record of words spoken during the waking-
stage of Mrs. Piper's trance of Feb. 26, 1907.)
Fairies. (??)
(Hand points.) George.—All right.
J. G. P. Say that again.
There is George. Whatever is it ?
Morehead.* (?)
* In his original record, Mr. Piddington, not understanding this word,
on both occasions wrote first " Moo." then wrote " r " over the second
" o," and continued the word as " Morehead.'' But in recording his
question (see top of p. 64). he spelt the word " Moorhead."
64 Alice Johnson. [part
J. 0. P.
11
Moorhead " 1
Morehead * (?) (or some such name or word)
laurel—for laurel.
J. G. P. Say that again.
for laurel. I say I gave her that for laurel.
Good-bye. (addressed apparently by Mrs. Piper to the
spirit.)
J. O. P. No, before you say good-bye ask him to repeat that.
I gave her that for laur-el. [I noted at the time that
the first syllable " laur " was clear, and the second
syllable indistinct. —J. G. P.]
J. G. P. Spell it.
Laur-el (or, " Laur-ie " ; the second syllable being again
indistinct.)
J. G. P. L—a—u. Is that right ?
Aphasia, aphasia.
Mr. Headman. H is it ? Herdman. Thurl. There's
George [i.e. George Pelham.] ....
T thought I heard some one say it was George. That's
the window. Weren't you over by the window 1
J. G. P. Do you remember what George said ?
Well, let me think. You're Mr. Piddington, aren't you ?
Something—I think he said something about—let me
see. Well, I think it was something about laurel
wreaths, lau—rel [sic] wreaths he tell her.
J. G. P. (mistaking the last three words for a proper name)
" Hetella " ?
(Irritably) He tell her. He would tell her. Oh ! you
make me so cross. . . Tell her about.
(Extract from record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on Feb. 27, 1907.)
(Present : J. G. P. alone.)
(Myers communicating) I am too [weak] to tell it to-day.
my thoughts wander.
J. 0. P. Let me say good-bye. On third after coming we meet again.
good-bye God be with you.
* See note on previous page.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." or,
J. G. P. Good-bye, and thanks again—many thanks,
listen.
J. G. P. Yes.
I gave Mrs. Verrall
laurel wreath
J. G. P. Yes, quite right ; she got it.
1
and I said Hodgson.
J. G. P. " Hodgson " ?
yes would give the next.
J. G. P. I don't know about that ; I'll look,
she may not have received it but
J. G. P. No ; but she got " laurel wreath " clearly.
I, (written while J. G. P. was speaking)
Yes I gave her that
and as the spirit of the light
Returned to its body 2
I tried to grasp it
—
Grasp the spirit so as to give it you last time.
J. G. P. I heard it quite well :
" laurel wreath."
Yes all right I go now
I cant think more my thoughts wander.
Farewell
Myers.
Thus, in these sittings, besides the statement " I gave
Mrs. Verrall laurel wreath,"' we have the name " Moorhead "
(or " Morehead ") connected with " laurel." Mr. Piddington,
being unable to attach any meaning to this, conjectured that
he might have misheard what Mrs. Piper said, and that the
word she really uttered was " laureate." 3
I feel no doubt,
however, that his record was correct (see " Alexander Moors
Head " in Mrs. Holland's script of March 27, 1907, below,
p. 70).
1
Mr. Piddington was referring to Mrs. VerralPs script of Feb. 6, 1907,
quoted above.
2
That is, during the waking-stage of Mrs. Piper's previous sitting.
3 See Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 99.
E
66 Alice Johnson. [part
The next script to be quoted is another of Mrs. Piper's :
(Extract from record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on March 4, 1907.)
(J. G. P. present alone at this point)
(Rector communicating) I wish to explain one more
thing i.e. when I gave Mrs. V. the message about
Laurel wreath I purposely said Laurel so as (hesita-
tion)
make the message clear.
J. G. P. " so as make " ?
(Hand negatives.)
J. G. P. " to make " ?
(Hand assents and writes) to make the message clear
after having mentioned wreath here. I thought it
wiser to add more to it.
J. G. P. You mean that, as you had mentioned " wreaths " here
in Mrs. Verrall's presence, you purposely added a
distinctive word to " wreath " in order to strengthen
the evidence ?
(Hand assents.)
J. G. P. Yes, I had already understood that.
thank you. Goodbye if you have nothing for me.
This completes the record of everything relating to the
mention of the word " Wreath " to Mrs. Verrall at the Piper
sitting of Jan. 21, 1907, see above, p. 60.
The next script which contributes to the cross-correspondence
is :
(Mrs. Hollands Script of March 13, 1907.)
Oh Rama—Ram 1—
Mere paper—untouched by any hope of inspiration
—
That strange and complex silence which is compact of an infinite
number of small incessant noises
—
The far shore of a very still and tideless sea
—
Poor finite ambitions, and the sorrow that if ye could but realize
it is over—finally swallowed up in the void of nothingness long
ere the tear it invokes dries upon the cheek.
1
Mrs. Holland noted on this :
" I see the script begins '
Oh Rama—Ram,'
an invocation to a Hindu deity which is a frequent street-cry here."
LXVIIT.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 07
Where birchen boughs with hazel mingle 1 —
The green book—not the blue one— the fuller version
—
two trees have been killed by the frost— but the twigs of the
old elm are thickening with buds again— The miracle of spring.
No conscious recollection, it is unreasonable to expect that
immediately.
" She knew she had waded bosom deep
Along Death's bank in the sedge of sleep "
—
But a wild gleam on a shaken shoal.
We gain the same goal through different gates. What need for
violent wail if to one it is the gate of the sea—to another a passing
in sleep—to another the long wasting—the tooth of a fell disease to
another—a few drops of sleeja—to another the crash and jar and
conflict of a railway accident— The passing is nought
—
Home again—but it is such an early Easter— Sweet of the year
has hardly begun
—
The second child—because of innocence— And for all the
sacrament of pain
—
One star in the crimson West
And the East is cold and grey
And the weary earth shall turn to her rest
At the end of the winter's Day.
How many times ere I be dead
Must I the bitterness of dying know ?
Much of this script will be dealt with below, under the
heading " avro<s ovpavo<s clkviawv" p. 106 ; but I give the
whole of it (except a short passage at the end referring to a
different topic) here, because the quotations seem to carry
on the themes of Mrs. Holland's scripts of Nov. and Dec.,
1906, above, and lead up to her script of March 27, 1907,
below, which—as will be seen—contains clear allusions to the
Medici Tombs. The quotations in this script (except the
first) are, I think, intended to suggest the Night and Day,
and Evening and Morning of the Tombs.
1 " The violet in her greenwood bower,
Where birchen boughs with hazels mingle."
(Scott, The Violet.)
08 Alice Johnson. [part
The context of the second quotation is as follows :
" The night lay deep on Rose Mary's heart,
For her swoon was death's kind counterpart
;
The dawn broke dim on Rose Mary's soul,
—
No hill-crown's heavenly aureole,
But a wild gleam on a shaken shoal.
She knew she had waded bosom-deep
Along death's bank in the sedge of sleep :
All else was lost to her clouded mind ;
Nor, looking back, could she see defin'd
O'er the dim dumb waste what lay behind."
(D. G. Rossetti, Rose Mary, Part III.)
This description is very similar to those in the earlier scripts
just mentioned, and is appropriate to the figures of the two
women, Night and Dawn, of the Tombs.
The verse in the script beginning : One star in the crimson
West is, I believe, original, though the third line is probably a
reminiscence of " And the weary Day turned to his rest
"
in Shelley's poem, To Night. It is appropriate to the man's
figure, Twilight, and also gives the word, Day, which is the
name of the other man.
The last quotation in the script is :
" My God, how many times ere I be dead
Must I the bitterness of dying know ?
"
These are the opening lines of the second of a pair of sonnets
by F. W. H. Myers, entitled respectively, " Would God it
were Evening," and " Would God it were Morning " {The
Renewal of Youth and other Poems, pp. 82-83). This, then,
gives us again, by implication, Evening and Morning.
It is to be noted that the melancholy and despondent tone
of all these literary allusions is highly appropriate to the
subject of the Tombs.
{Miss VerralVs Script of March 17, 1907.)
Alexander's tomb quinque et viginti annos post urbem conditam
[five-and-twenty years after the founding of the city]
with fire and sword to purge the altar, not without grief.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 69
laurel leaves are emblem
laurel for the victor's brow.
Say not the struggle nought availeth 1
Sesame and lilies arum lilies
when the darkens [sic] on the quiet land
scarlet tulips all in a row
" Alexander's tomb." The combination of this script with
the following one by Mrs. Holland makes it in my view certain
that the tomb meant is not—as we all supposed at the time
—that of Alexander the Great, but that of Alessandro de'
Medici, described above, p. 54.
The Latin sentence following the words " Alexander s tomb
"
has definite meaning in connection with another topic not
dealt wdth in this paper.
" Laurel leaves are emblem—Laurel for' the victor's brow."
This is especially appropriate to the bay-tree that had appeared
dead putting forth fresh leaves which, as stated above, was
the device on the standard of Lorenzo the Magnificent at the
tournament of 1469, and Lorenzo was the victor in that
tournament.
{Mrs. Holland's Script of March 27, 1907.)
Birds in the high Hall Garden 2—
Not Maud Sylvia
—
The poor right hand is so dreadfully tired at the wrist not in the
ball of the thumb
—
[The following, as far as " right way up," is in mirror-writing, and
as far as " toto dum " is written with the left hand.]
Take the left hand—only it is not your right hand that is tired.
Peter is the second one
—
But M. [?] can see [?] it right way up
Hold it to the mirror. The shining world of looking glass.
1
Clough, Say not the struggle nought availeth.
2 " Birds in the high Hall-garden
When twilight was falling,
Maud, Maud, Maud, Maud,
They were crying and calling."
(Tennyson, Maud, XII.)
TO Alice Johnson. [part
I sprained my wrist once
K.
Talem [?] uttorque [?'] surgit
absulem [?] lux toto dum [?]
Sine ab horos [?] tenebrae.
Via obscura vita lucit
And o'er the flats the singing of the sea
—
Ebbed like the thought of long forgiven wrong
—
The abiding horror to me Avas that of darkness— Let sorrow
take any other shape it will— Love and Sorrow— Sorrow and
Love—as inevitably as Light and Shadow—Shadow and Light
—
The sundial at Broadmeadows what was the motto ?
Not Jane's husband—the other one—Alexander—Moors Head
—
Antres vast and deserts idle 1—
One not easily jealous. 2
Benisshna cara
—
I give the whole of this script, 3
although much of it is, or
seems to be, incoherent, since it includes one of the most
essential links in the cross-correspondence—the name " Alex-
ander Moors Head."
" Birds in the high Hall-garden." This quotation seems to
be introduced on account of its context, the next line being
"When twilight was falling." "Twilight" is one of the
figures on " Alexander's tomb."
The Latin words are difficult to decipher, and are partially
incorrect, but there is no doubt about the words " lux
"
(light), " tenebrae " (darkness, especially the darkness of
night), and " obscura " (dark). And these ideas are em-
phasised by their repetition in the later passage of the script,
which contains the words " darkness," " Light and Shadow—
Shadow and Light." I take these words to refer to the statues
of Day and Night on the second Medici tomb.
1
Othello, Act I., Scene 3.
2
Othello, Act V., Scene 2.
;!
For Mr. Piddington's original comments on this script, see Proc., Vol.
XXII., pp. 225-227, and 261-202.
The tall mast, but this one is not at sea.
lxviii.J Some " Concordant Automatisms." 71
" Alexander Moors Head." This, combined with Mrs.
Piper's "Moorhead" (Feb. 26, 1907) and Miss Verrall's
" Alexander's tomb " (March 17, 1907) seems to prove that
the person meant is Alexander de' Medici, who, as stated
above, p. 53, from his woolly hair, thick lips and negro-like
appearance, was known as " The Moor." The quotations from
Othello which follow indicate that " Alexander Moors Head "
was the same kind of Moor as Othello, that is, not a real Moor,
but a negro, the negroes, as well as other Africans, being
commonly called Moors 1
at that time. Othello is described
in the play once as " The thick-lips " and several times as
" black " or " sooty " ; and the portraits of Alexander de'
Medici (see Plate VIII.) show his strongly marked negro
traits.
The drawings of masts at the end of the script led me at
first to interpret " Alexander Moors Head " as Dr. Alexander
Muirhead, for I took the masts to represent wireless telegraphy
apparatus, and knew that Mrs. Holland had taken some
interest in the subject of wireless telegraphy (though she
knew nothmg of it scientifically) in connection with Sir Oliver
Lodge. There had, in fact, been a punning reference to the
Lodge-Muirhead system in her script of May 15, 1906, besides
an earlier reference in her script of January 17, 1904, which
was discussed under the heading " The Diamond Island
Incident " in Proc, Vol. XXV., p. 293. The significance of
this misinterpretation is discussed in the final section of this
paper, see below, pp. 153-154.
The next script to be quoted was produced a considerable
time after the one last given. But as Mr. Piddington's report
was not published until October 19, 1908, and the automatists
here concerned were strangers to all of us, they could not have
known anything about the scripts or the cross-correspondences
discussed in that report. An account of the experiments
of these automatists, whom we call the " Mac " family, was
given in Mrs. Verrall's paper on "A New Group of Experi-
menters," in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., pp. 264-318, and certain
cross-correspondences between their script and Mrs. Holland's
were given in my " Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script,"
in Proceedings, Vol. XXV., pp. 222, 234-236, and 193-198.
1
Hence the word blackamoor.
72 Alice Johnson. [part
The only point that concerns us here is the following extract
from a script by Miss E. and Mr. A. Mac :
—
(Mac Script, Oct. 7, 1908.)
Dig a grave among the laurels
The drawing is obviously intended for a laurel wreath, and
the combination of the "grave" with "the laurels," together
with the fact that the script contains an allusion to Sesame
and Lilies (see Proc, Vol. XXIV., pp.- 291-292), and so con-
nects with Miss Verrall's of March 17, 1907, shows, I think,
that the Medici tombs are meant.
The next script to be quoted was again produced after a
long interval ; but the fact that Mrs. Willett's script during
the early part of 1910 contained a number of cross-correspond-
ences with the earlier scripts of other automatists, as related
in my Third Report on Mrs. Holland's script (Proc, Vol. XXV.,
pp. 218-293)adds considerably to the probability that the connec-
tion in this case also was supernormal, and not accidental.
At the time of producing this script, Mrs. Willett had seen
the reports on the scripts which had been already published
(i.e. up to Proc, Part LX. inclusive) but she did not know
that there had been any allusions to the Medici tombs, these
not having been made out until two years after she wrote.
(Mrs. Willett's Script of June 10, 1910.)
.... Myers The Laurentian tombs Dawn 1
Milton's Allegro and Pensive Words
Songs of Innocence and the Songs of Experience
Now he would write a third to make the triology [sic] Songs
of Completion of Fulfilment
Who Avill write these songs of Promise and Songs of Fulfilment
We sang the songs of Promise in the dim twilight of the dawn. . . .
1
Mrs. Willett noted on this at the time : "I take this as a reference to
the Medici tombs in Florence. They are in San Lorenzo."
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 73
As indicated in her note, Mrs. Willett was well acquainted
with these tombs, having stayed in Florence for some time.
But it is to be noted that the script does not use the ordinary
name, " Medici tombs," but calls them instead by a name
which is, I believe, never used,
—" The Laurentian tombs."
The intention seems to be to point to their association with
the Laurel, and so to link this script with those containing the
cross-correspondence on the Laurel, which Mrs. Willett did
not at this time know to be an emblem of Lorenzo de' Medici.
The " Dawn," " Twilight " and " Dawn " are no doubt
references to the figures so named.
" Milton's Allegro and Pensive words " is obviously an appli-
cation of the titles of Milton's two poems, L' Allegro and II
Penseroso to the statues of the two Dukes, one of whom is
commonly called by the latter title.
Finally, I quote some of Mrs. Piper's trance-utterances, in
which the combination of "Meditation" (
= 11 Pensieroso)
with " the sleeping dead " and " laurels " makes it, I think,
certain that the allusion is to the Medici tombs.
(Extract from record of Sitting with Mrs. Piper, July 8, 1910.)
(Sitters, Sir Oliver and Lady Lodge)
(Words spoken by Mrs. Piper during the waking-stage, as follows :)
Myers. Meditation
(She then whispered a verse, only a few words of which could
be heard, as follows :)
meditation . . .
sleeping dead
Laurels round
ever grow.
Meditation links it.
(On being asked to repeat, she said :)
Churchyard tree
walked with gorgeous 1
feet
about the sleeping dead.
Meditation links it
Life open peace completes the semblance
Let's stick to the old never mind the neAv.
1
From comparison with the sitting of July 10, 1910, below, it seems clear
that this word was " cautious," misheard as " gorgeous."
74 Alice Johnson. [part
{Extract from record of sitting with Mrs. Piper on July 16, 1910.)
(Sitters, Miss Johnson and Sir Oliver Lodge)
(E. H. communicating)
Meditation
O. J. L. Yes, I want to understand about that.
Connects it
O. J. L. Links it %
Yes.
O. J. L. I cannot find a poem called Meditation
Meditation conies out in Mrs. Holland's also will appear
at Mrs. W.'s. Wait for it.
O. J. L. Yes, all right, but let me ask you : Jji the waking-stage
last time Myers recited a verse of a poem, but I could
not get it down quite. Could you write the poem ?
Elegy
I'll get Myers to repeat it for me.
As through the graveyard's lone retreat
my Meditation led
Slow I walked with cautious feet
above the sleeping dead.
Meditation clinches it
O. J. L. Can you tell me if it is an original poem ?
No he quoted it.
O. J. L. Does he wish to say where he quoted it from ?
Elegy.
O. J. L. Do you mean Gray's Elegy ?
Yes 1
But Meditation will play a most interesting part
O. J. L. Yes, I understand, a C.C.
And the last two lines through both lights
Wait for them.
Times around Helen coming slowly 2
1
Note by Sir O. J. L. :
" This must bo an instance of an accepted but
erroneous suggestion."
2
These words were indistinctly written, and probably incorrectly deciphered.
Lxvm.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." To
Helen V
Wait for it wait for it
(
Waking-stage)
Come into the garden, Maud 1
As Sir Oliver Lodge observed, it is pretty clear that his
suggestion of Gray's Elegy was wrongfully adopted, for the
lines given are not, as stated, a quotation from that poem,
and neither of the words " Laurels " or " Meditation " occurs
in it. But the general resemblance in situation and sentiment
between the supposed quotation and the Elegy suggests that
some vague recollection of the latter was in the mind of MyersP .
It is worth noting that while Mrs. Holland's script of March
27, 1907, given above, quotes a line from Maud:
" Birds in the high Hall-garden,"
the next line of which is :
" When twilight was falling "
;
Mrs. Piper quotes :
" Come into the garden, Maud,"
the next line of which is :
" For the black bat, Night, has flown."
So that these two quotations may be said to give (implicitly)
between them Twilight, Night and Dawn, that is, three out of
the four figures on the Tombs.
Chronological Summary of the Cross-Correspondence
" Alexander's Tomb."
1906, Nov. 9 (Mrs. Holland's Sc.). Shadow—shadows—sha-
dow shapes Margaret
Nov. 13 (Mrs. H.'s Sc.). Margaret—A wreathed garland
of deserved bays—Death
—
Sleep.
Nov. 21 (Mrs. H.'s Sc.). A slumber did my spirit steal
Laurence
1
Tennyson, Maud, XXII.
7<i Alice Johnson. [part
1906, Nov. 28 (Mrs. H.'s Sc.). Dark—shadows—Fin de nuit
—
Dawn
Dec. 12 (Mrs. H.'s Sc.). Shadow — sleep — Dream —
Awakening
Dec. 24 (Mrs. V.'s Sc.). Light — light — Evening and
Morning—Western light
1907, Jan. 21. Mrs. Verrall, at a sitting with Mrs. Piper, is
asked by the latter " Did you understand
about the wreath ?
"
Feb. G (Mrs. V.'s Sc.). Laura—Apollo's laurel bough
—
The Library and the bough
—a laurel Avreath—Corona
laureata—laureate wreath
—
laurel' crown
Feb. 26 (Mrs. P.). Moorhead — Moorhead — Lau-
rel—laurel—laurel wreaths
Feb. 27 (Mrs. P.'s Sc.). I gave Mrs. Verrall laurel wreath
Mar. 13 (Mrs. H.'s Sc.). {Implicit) Night and Day ;
Evening and Morning
Mar. 17 (Miss V.'s Sc.). Alexander's tomb—laurel leaves
laurel for the victor's brow
Sesame and Lilies
Mar. 27 (Mrs. H.'s Sc.). Darkness—Light and Shadow
—Shadow and Light—Alex-
ander Moors Head
1908, Oct. 7 (Mac Sc.). Dig a grave among the laurels
Sesame and Lilies [implicit)
Oct. 19. Proc, Vol. XXIL, containing Mr. Piddington's
Report, published.
1910, June 10 (Mrs. W.'s Sc.). The Laurentian tombs—Dawn
—twilight—dawn
July 8 (Mrs. P.). Meditation — sleeping dead —
laurels
July 16 (Mrs. P.'s Sc.). Meditation — sleeping dead —
Meditation clinches it.
1912, July. " Alexanders tomb " identified as one of the Medici
Tombs.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 77
CHAPTER V.
The avTog ovpavos ukv/uwp INCIDENT.
" We need a summons to no houri-haunted paradise, no pas-
sionless contemplation, no monotony of prayer and praise ; but
to endless advance by endless effort, and, if need be, by endless
pain. Be it mine, then, to plunge among the unknown Destinies,
to dare and still to dare !
" (F. W. H. Myers.)
Summary of Chapter.
It may be useful to prefix to this long and complicated sec-
tion a general account of the course of events, though it must
be understood that the force of the coincidences cannot be
given in a summary, nor can they be estimated without a
detailed study.
The episode is initiated by a remark made to Mrs. Verrall
at a Piper sitting which reminds her of an early script of hers
about calm on high summits above storm. She then deter-
mines to ask Myersp what are his associations with the words
auras ovpavo? uku/jluiv (a phrase from Plotinus, meaning " The
Heaven itself waveless," prefixed to a poem on Tennyson by
Myers, and taken from a Plotinian passage describing trance
or ecstasy, which is quoted in Human Personality).
On the day after the question was put, MyersP gives (on
Jan. 30, 1907) what appears to be a paraphrase of a line in
the poem and an apparent reference to In Memoriam.
Mrs. Verrall's script (Feb. 12) refers to several of Tenny-
son's poems : Voyage of Maeldune, Merlin and The Gleam, (?),
Passing of Arthur, and Lucretius. These references relate
not to Calm only—like the Greek phrase—but to storm and
adventure, expressing the contrast between the Active and
Contemplative life which seems to be the essential topic of
this section. The poems quoted from are familiar to Mrs.
Verrall ;
but, as Mr. Piddington five years later notices, two
quotations which the script combines are derived from two
different passages in the Odyssey, which two passages he finds
to be combined, as in the script, in the Dissertationes of the
78 Alice Johnson. [part
Neo-Platonist Maximus of Tyre, a book unknown to Mrs.
Verrall, but known to F. W. H. Myers.
Mrs. Verrall's next script (Feb. 20), which refers again to
Peace and to Adventure, contains what I take to be an allusion
to Myers's poem The Renewal of Youth, which is definitely
alluded to again in her script of March 11 and in Mrs. Piper's
of March 13.
On Feb. 25, Miss Verrall's script gives expression to the
Active ideal, through a quotation from Browning's Epilogue ;
and on the same day Mrs. Verrall insists on the need for " the
help of all who labour in this cause " (meaning, no doubt,
the co-operation of several automatists) to bridge the space
between world and world.
Next day Mrs. Verrall hears of her daughter's quotation
from Browning on the day before, and her script proceeds
to enlarge on the contrast between Tennyson, " the seer who
knew " and Browning, " the fighter."
This is the only script of Mrs. Verrall's belonging to this
section, or to the subsidiary section of " The Clavigers
"
(Chapter VI., below), in which any reference to Browning
occurs, whereas every one of her scripts of this section (except
those of Feb. 20 and Mar. 4—the latter a " Claviger " script)
contains quotations from or allusions to poems by Tennyson.
Similarly, Mrs. Piper, who—it is to be noted—did not
know that the avro? ovpavos uKvfxon> question had anything
to do with Tennyson, makes no reference to Browning, but
alludes in four different sittings to In Memoriam, and in
three to Crossing the Bar, the latter being the particular poem
alluded to in Myers's poem on Tennyson.
On the other hand, Miss Verrall's single contribution to the
subject consists in a quotation from Browning.
Mrs. Holland, again, in this section and in the subsidiary
section of " The Clavigers " makes important contributions
to the subject through significant quotations from three
different poems by Browning, whereas her only reference to
Tennyson (apart from possible reminiscences of Crossing the
Bar and In Memoriam on March 13 and April 8), consists in
three words combined with one of her Browning quotations
(on April 8).
To return to the chronological order of events,—Mrs.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 79
Verrall on Feb. 26 quotes from Crossing the Bar, and refers
to Elijah on Mount Horeb and Moses on Mount Sinai, which
latter she takes afterwards to imply a verse in In Memoriam.
On March 6 she quotes from In Memoriam verses about
Calm.
On the same day Mrs. Piper refers to In Memoriam (" Arthur
Hallam "), and gives the same quotation from • Crossing the
Bar that Mrs. Verrall had given on Feb. 26.
On March 11 Mrs. Verrall refers to passages about Plato
in two poems by Myers,
—
Stanzas on Mr. Watts' Collected
Works and The Renewal of Youth, connecting these with " a
verse in Tennyson." These and previous scripts lead her
to a careful study of In Memoriam, from which she concludes
that Tennyson, like Plotinus, specially associated the calm
of external nature with the condition of ecstasy, and that
this was why F. W. H. Myers had chosen the words from
Plotinus as a motto to his poem on Tennyson.
The close parallelism between Tennyson's description and
that of Plotinus in this respect had not hitherto been noted
by writers on Tennyson ; it seemed, then, that knowledge not
possessed by Mrs. Verrall had emerged in her script.
On March 13, MyersP states (correctly) that he has given
Mrs. Verrall a message about Crossing the Bar, and refers
to In Memoriam (" Arthur Hallam ") again. He also refers
to a description of death in The Reneival of Youth.
On the same day, Mrs. Holland quotes lines about death
from another poem of Myers's in the same volume ; with other
references to different ways of dying, and the phrase " A very
still and tideless sea."
On March 18, Mrs. Holland again describes different ways of
dying.
On April 8, she again speaks of the calm of external nature
in the words :
" Peace on the great heart of the heaving sea
And on the rocks that fringe the ocean, peace."
In connection with a contrast of the Active and Contemplative
(" Leah and Rachel ") she gives a composite quotation from
Browning and Tennyson, and apparently alludes to Moses
with a quotation from Browning analogous to the Tennysonian
so Alice Johnson. [part
quotation associated with Moses in Mrs. Verrall's script of
Feb. 26.
On April 8, Mrs. Holland's script also speaks of an after-
glow in the East ; Mrs. Verrall's says " Rosy is the East,"
and in Mrs. Piper's waking-stage the phrase " Light in West "
is uttered.
In the same waking-stage Mrs. Piper speaks of " Francis "
and " Roland Les Val." This seems to be explained on April
29 by the mention of Francis of Assisi, whose experiences in
his retreat on La Verna, given to him by Roland, is shown to
be closely parallel to the experiences of Moses on Mount Sinai.
On April 29 MyersP in connection with the Greek words
also mentions other great visionaries—Swedenborg, St. Paul,
and (?) Dante and, on April 30, Socrates,—apparently with
special reference to the vision premonitory of his death.
On May 1 Mrs. Verrall's script repeats some of the topics
previously given in it. Finally, on May 6, 1907, MyersP states
that Plotinus is his " answer " to the Greek words.
Detailed Report. 1
This is one of three cases belonging to this period in which a
test-question put to Mrs. Piper's trance-personalities seemed
to be the starting-point of one or more cross-correspondences.
In one case—the " Latin Message," summarised above
—
the especial aim of the question was to elicit evidence of
the action of an intelligence independent of the minds of
all the living persons concerned,—whether automatists or
investigators.
In the other two cases
—" Horace Ode " and " avros ovpavo?
anu/j-wv
"—the question was planned by Mrs. Verrall with a
special view to obtaining evidence of the identity of the
intelligence communicating through Mrs. Piper whom we call
Myersp.
It followed from the circumstances of these experiments
that the different automatists were not all in the same position
with regard to them, as they are in spontaneous cases of
cross-correspondence.
(a) Mrs. Verrall knew that the three experiments were
1
The first report of this ease was given by Mr. Piddington in Proa, Vol.
XXII., pp. 107-171.
lxvhi.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 81
being tried, and allusions to all of them naturally appeared
in her scripts. In the case of the Latin Message, her know-
ledge of the experiment could not, of course, help her in any
way to produce the evidence desired. But in the case of
her own two questions, she knew something about what
answers would be appropriate. More knowledge of the
topics, however, seemed to be shown in her scripts than was
normally possessed by her. Further, cross-correspondences
between her scripts and those of the other automatists
occurred.
(b) To Mrs. Piper the three questions were put while she
was in trance, and they were, of course, never mentioned to
her when she was in any other condition. One question was
put to her in Latin ; another related to the meaning of a
Greek phrase (avTos ovpavo? atajficov) ; and the third, the
Horace Ode question (" Which Ode of Horace entered into
your [i.e. F. W. H. Myers's] inner life ? ") was one which
it was impossible that Mrs. Piper could have answered from
her own normal resources.
(c) Miss Verrall had some knowledge of the Latin Message
experiment (see above, p. 26), but none of the other two.
(cl) Mrs. Holland (in India) was in complete ignorance of
all the experiments.
The " Horace Ode question " was put by Mr. Piddington
to Myersp for the first time on January 23, 1907. Passages
relating to it were found hi the scripts of Mrs. Piper and of
Mrs. Verrall only,1
and have been fully described and dis-
cussed by Mr. Piddington in Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 397-407 ;
Vol. XXIV., pp. 150-169 ; and Vol. XXVI., pp. 174-220 ;
also by Mr. G. W. Balfour in Vol. XXVI., pp. 221-230.
The gist of these passages was to suggest a contrast between
the despairing view of man's destiny after death taken in
the Horace Ode and in some of F. W. H. Myers's early poems,
and the hopeful view of his later poems ; the contrast being
expressed through cross-correspondences between the scripts
of Mrs. Piper and of Mrs. Verrall.
Experiments of a kind somewhat similar to these had
been tried in earlier days with Mrs. Piper by Dr. Hodgson
1
There is also a possible reference in Mrs. Holland's script of March 20,
1907, see above, p. 43.
F
82 Alice Johnson. [part
and other investigators ; that is, they had tried to obtain
evidence of the identity of alleged communicators by asking
questions on scientific or literary topics, the answers to which
would presumably be known to the communicators, but
would be considerably beyond Mrs. Piper's normal knowledge.
No very satisfactory results had been obtained.
The present experiments were not only more successful
than previous ones in the amount of literary knowledge
shown by Myersp,1
but a new and very important element
was added in that parts of the answers to the questions were
given through other automatists besides Mrs. Piper, one at
least of whom—Mrs. Holland—knew nothing of the questions.
This result was not expected by the experimenters, and,
indeed, the whole upshot was far more complicated than
they had expected, the various topics overlapping one another
and mingling together in the scripts in a way difficult to
disentangle. These topics have been classified as far as
possible to help the reader to follow them ; but he should
bear in mind throughout that several subjects were being
treated of contemporaneously in all the scripts and that some
of them turned out to be curiously interconnected.
The Horace Ode topic has already been dealt with ex-
haustively in the Proceedings, and need not here be referred
to again. But the discovery of allusions in Mrs. Holland's
script to the avros ovpavo? ukv/xwv topics entailed a further
study of all the scripts concerned with them, in the course
of which other discoveries were made. The scripts are there-
fore given again here.
The avroi ovpavos cucv/ulmv Question.
The question was devised by Mrs. Verrall under the follow-
ing circumstances :
At a sitting with Mrs. Piper on Jan. 15. 1907, 2
Mrs. Verrall
and Mr. Piddington being present, MyersP said that he had
given Mrs. Verrall the message :
" Celestial Halcyon days."
1
Still more interesting results in this line were obtained later by Mr. Dorr
in his sittings with Mrs. Piper, March to May. 1908. See Proc, Vol. XXIV.,
pp. 31-200.
2
See Proc, Vol. XXII., p. 104.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 83
Mrs. Verrall did not remember that any such phrase had
occurred in her script, but on Jan. 22, while on her way to
another sitting with Mrs. Piper, she wrote the following :
(Mrs. VerraU's Script of Jan. 22, 1907.)
A thousand years shall roll
A thousand aeons pass
Ere the imprisoned soul
Shall see as in a glass
Darkly,1
a vision dim
Flit, phantomlike and fair,
A breath, a fairies' whim
Thro' the encircling air.
Clasp not the half-seen shade
As once Anchises' son,
Let the faint vision fade
Till all thy race be run
Then in the broader light
That floods the world super N
Clear to the sharpened sight
Hold fast the One Eterne !
Mrs. Verrall thought that the main point of this script lay
in the word " Supern," and on the following day she remem-
bered that the word " supernal " had occurred in her script
of July 3, 1903,2
which was as follows :
For her a message of peace—contemplation on high summits
—
stillness in the air. . . .
The storm and Avhirlwmd consume the blue clear space between
the worlds, but the supernal peace is undisturbed.
The last sentence seems to represent the fundamental idea
of " halcyon days,"—an interval of calm between storms.
But the main point of the script seems to be that while halcyon
days in this world are transitory, in the celestial world they
are unending. Thus, as MyersP claimed, the idea of, though
not the phrase, " celestial halcyon days," would seem to have
1
Cf. " For now we see through a glass, darkly ; but then face to face
"
(1 Cor. xiii. 12).
2
Quoted in full in Proc. Vol. XX., p. 04.
84 Alice Johnson. [part
appeared in Mrs. Verrall's script, though this might never
have been observed but for the occurrence of the word
" Supern " in her script of Jan. 22, 1907. After her sitting
with Mrs. Piper on that day, Mrs. Verrall tried to think of
some question to put to MyersP , with a view to testing if he
had access to the memories of F. W. H. Myers,—the question
of course to be one which it would seem impossible that Mrs.
Piper should answer from her own normal resources.
Mrs. Verrall thought that some Greek quotation would be
a good subject for the test-question, and on the evening of
Jan. 23, 1907, it suddenly occurred to her that the words
Kai avros ovpavbs clkv/uloov would serve the purpose. 1
These words, followed by the name of the author, Plotinus,
but by no further reference, and with no translation, occur
once in Myers's published works, namely, as the motto to a
poem " To Tennyson " in Fragments of Prose and Poetry,
p. 117. They may be translated as :
" And the very Heaven
waveless." They are taken from a passage in Plotinus'
Enneades, V. 2-3, which was translated as follows by F. W. H.
Myers in Human Personality, Vol. II., p. 291 :
The Vision which dissolves for a moment the corporeal prison-
house ;
" the flight of the One to the One."
" So let the soul that is not unworthy of that Vision contem-
plate the Great Soul ; freed from deceit and every witchery, and
collected into calm. Calmed be the body for her in that hour, and
the tumult of the flesh ;
ay, all that is about her, calm ;
calm be
the earth, the sea, the air, and let Heaven itself be still. Then let
her feel how into that silent heaven the Great Soul floweth in. . . .
And so may man's soul be sure of Vision, when suddenly she is
filled with light ; for this light is from Him and is He ; and then
surely shall one know His presence when, like a god of old time,
He entered into the house of one that calleth Him, and maketh it
full of light."
It seems clear that Mrs. Verrall's script of Jan. 22, 1907.
was largely based on a subliminal recollection of this passage.
Mrs. Verrall, having informed no one of her proposed experi-
ment, determined to put the question to MyersP at her next
1
This decision, with the reasons for it, was recorded in Mrs. Verrall's diary
of Jan. 24, 1907, quoted in full in Pror., Vol. XXIT., pp. 140-141.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 85
sitting with Mrs. Piper, on Jan. 29, 1907. In the event of
a complete answer being given, Mrs. Verrall expected :
(1) a translation into English of the words uut6$ ovpavos
aKUjuwi' ;
(2) a reference to Myers's poem on Tennyson ;
(3) a reference to Plotinus and the latter part of Human
Personality.
The question was put in the following terms :
{Extract from record of sitting with Mrs. Piper on Jan. 29,
1907.)
(Present Mrs. Verrall and Mr. Piddington.)
Mrs. V. If I say three Greek Avords, could you say what they
remind you of ?
I might grasp the words and I might not but I could try
Mks. V. Yes. You could either translate them into English, or
tell me of what they make you think.
Do what ?
Mrs. v. Tell me of what they remind you.
Oh yes, of what they remind me. But what have they to
do with our experiments ?
Mrs. V. I think you have spoken of them to me before, or some-
thing like them.
Yes.
Mrs. V. If I speak them now, you can tell me now or later what
they remind you of.
Very good.
Mrs V. avTus ovpavbs 1
aKVfjMV
Spell it.
[Mrs. V. then spelt out the words by their English lettering,
and MyerSp wrote them down in English letters, add-
ing :]
I will certainly reply if I live and I can U.D.
1
It was subsequently observed that this word had been mentioned to
Mrs. Piper in a sitting held on June 21, 1895, by Professor Newbold, who
repeated to G. P. in Greek " Our Father who art in heaven," and tried to
make him translate it, which he ultimately succeeded in doing. Sec Proc,
Vol. XIV., p. 46.
86 Alice Johnson. [part
At the next sitting, on Jan. 30, 1907, Mrs. Verrall and
Mr. Piddington were again present.
(Extract from record of sitting with Mrs. Piper on Jan. 30,
1907.)
(Present : Mr. Piddington and Mrs. Verrall.)
(Myers communicating.)
(To Mrs. V.) Noav my answer to three different questions you have
asked me shall be given to our friend while he is alone
and you are not present here
I also said something about stars
Mrs. V. What about stars ?
I said satelite [sic] and stars beam brightly
Mrs. V. Can you repeat the phrase ?
Yes similar to this—did you receive it ?
Mrs. V. I have had something about this and will look it up.
Thank you.
Mrs. V. You said you had spoken to me of Celestial Halcyon
Days. I couldn't remember it, but I have found it
now.
I told you my dear friend that my memory was better
than yours on some points
I mentioned Larches I think to you before
Laburnum
(Waking-stage)
I've been x
. . . . Horace . . . Paradise . . .
shores meet you there. I did say it
J. G. P. Say that again.
Say the words so fast Ulysses
hurries too fast for meaning. . . .
1
As usual, during the first part of the waking-stage a good many words
were inaudible. The mention of " Horace " shows that, as stated during
the sitting, the trance-personality was thinking of the questions put to
Myers,, by Mrs. Verrall.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 87
" Satellite and stars beam brightly " looks like a vague
reminiscence of the following lines from Myers's poem on
Tennyson :
" 0 closing shades that veil and droAvn
The clear-obscure of shore and tree !
0 star and planet, shimmering down
Your sombre glory on the sea !
"
Cf. " Chiaroscuro " in Mrs. Verrall's script of Feb. 20, 1907,
beloAv, p. 91, which is probably derived, from the same
passage.
The words " Larches " and " Laburnum " in the above
reminded Mrs. Verrall, 1
as they would probably remind any
reader of Tennyson, of the lines :
" When rosy plumelets tuft the larch,
And rarely pipes the mounted thrush ;
Or underneath the barren bush
Flits by the sea-blue bird of March."
(In Mem., XCI.)
and
" Laburnums, dropping-wells of fire."'
(In Mem., LXXXIII.)
The fact that " Larch " was written by MyersP not long
after he had been reminded of the phrase " Celestial halcyon
days " suggests that he was actually thinking of the verse
in In Memoriam just quoted, since this speaks of " the sea-
blue bird of March," i.e. the king-fisher, or halcyon. Cf.
" purple and sea-blue " in Mrs. Holland's script of April 8,
1907, below, p. 112.
Ulysses " may be a reference to Tennyson's poem
" Ulysses," which is closely associated with In Memoriam,
as Tennyson himself said of it :
" Ulysses was written soon after Arthur Hallam's death and
gave my feeling about the need of going forward and braving the
struggle of life perhaps more simply than anything in In
Memoriam." 2
1
Mrs. Verrall did not, of course, make any comment on these words at
the sitting.
- Tennyson : A Memoir, Vol. I., p. 19G.
88 Alice Johnson. [part
The fact that, as Mrs. Sidgwick tells me, Tennyson's Ulysses
had been mentioned to Mrs. Piper's trance-personalities by
Dr. Hodgson at one or more of his sittings with her proves that
they knew there was such a poem, and so adds to the proba-
bility that Myersp was referring to it when he said " Ulysses."
After this sitting of Jan. 30, 1907, Mrs. Verrall had no
further intercourse with Mrs. Piper of any kind until the
sitting of April 29, 1907 (see below, p. 110). One of her
own scripts is the next to be quoted :
{Mrs. VerralVs Script of Feb. 12, 1907.)
The voyage of Maeldune faery lands forlorn and noises of the
western sea.
thundering noises of the western sea.
It is about Merlin and Arthur's realm Merlin's prophetic
vision
—
'
all night long
mid thundering noises of the western sea
'
and how he would not go—the passing of Arthur.
And then the island valley of Avilion
where blows not any wind none nor ever falls the least light
—
no not that but you have the sense
there falls no rain nor snow nor any breath of wind shakes the
least leaf.
I will try to get the idea elsewhere conveyed—but it is hard
and I know I have failed before.
Why will you not put the signature %
Surely you know now that it is not you.
F.W.H.M.
" The voyage of Maeldune " probably refers to Tennyson's
poem of that name. The voyage of Maeldune, who was a
sort of Irish Ulysses, was in the western sea, " the great
ocean that has no ending," 1
and the islands he met with
might well be described as " faery lands forlorn," which is a
phrase from Keats's Ode to a Nightingale :
" The same [song] that oft-times hath
Charm'd magic casements, opening on the foam
Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn."
1
Lady Gregory, A Book of Saints and Wonders, " The Voyage of Maeldune."
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 89
It is also the title of a poem by F. W. H. Myers (see Frag-
ments of Prose and Poetry, p. 142) containing the phrases :
" that heaven-high vault serene " and " unearthly calms,"
and suggestive in general of the lines from In Memoriam (XI.),
" And in my heart, if calm at all,
If any calm, a calm despair,"
which are quoted in Mrs. Verrall's script of March 6, 1907,
see below, p. 97.
" Noises of the western sea " and the similar phrases follow-
ing it are no doubt reminiscences of
"So all day long the noise of battle roll'd
Among the mountains by the winter sea ;
"
and
" Where the moving isles of winter shock
By night, with noises of the northern sea."
(Tennyson, Morte d''Arthur and The Passing
of Arthur.)
Merlin's 'prophetic vision was interpreted by Mrs. Verrall
on March 15, 1907, as a reference to Tennyson's poem, Merlin
and The Gleam, read by her then for the first time. In the
Preface to the Memoir of Tennyson, this poem is explained
as his literary autobiography, and the lines :
" Arthur had vanish'd
I knew not whither,
The king who loved me
And cannot die ;
"
as a joint reference to King Arthur and Arthur Hallam.
The first version of The Passing of Arthur was Morte
d''Arthur, and the first draft of this was written shortly after
Arthur Hallam's death, between Sections XXX. and XXXI.
of In Memoriam.1
It is of course obvious to any student of
Tennyson that the conception he formed of King Arthur
was closely bound up in his own mind with his conception of
Arthur Hallam ; but this special connection between the
two poems was unknown to Mrs. Verrall till she read the
Memoir of Tennyson for the first time on May 18, 1907.
1
See Tennyson : A Memoir, Vol. I., p. 109.
90 Alice Johnson. [part
The next part of the script alludes to part of Arthur's fare-
well to Sir Bedivere :
^ I am going a long way . . .
To the island-valley of Avilion ;
Where falls not hail, or rain, or any snow,
Nor ever wind blows loudly."
But in Oet., 1910, Mr. Piddington noticed 1
that the words
in the script " Nor ever falls the least light " are taken from
the following passage from Tennyson's Lucretius :
" The Gods, who haunt
The lucid interspace of world and world,
Where never creeps a cloud or moves a wind,
Nor ever falls the least white star of snow,
Nor ever lowest roll of thunder moans,
Nor sound of human sorrow mounts to mar
Their sacred everlasting calm ! and such,
Not all so fine, nor so divine a calm,
Not such, nor all unlike it, man may gain
Letting his own life go."
(" The lucid interspace of world and world " is cpioted in
Mrs. Verrall's scripts of Feb. 25, 1907, and May 1, 1907, given
below, pp. 93 and 124.)
The first of these Tennysonian passages is based, as Mr. Pid-
dington observes, on Odyssey, IV. 566-568, and the second on
Odyssey, VI. 43-45, so that a reference to the two Odyssey
passages is combined in a single passage of the script. The
combination may be attributed to subliminal memory, since
Mrs. Verrall is familiar with the two passages in the Odyssey,
and with the two Tennysonian passages. Mr. Piddington,
however, discovered the same combination of the two Odyssey
passages in a single sentence of the Dissertationes (XVII. 10-11)
of the Neo-Platonic philosopher, Maximus of Tyre, in a passage
describing the conditions whereby a man while still embodied
may attain to the vision of God. (Gf. Mrs. Holland's script
of April 16, 1907, "To fly to find Euripides," and comments
on it, below, pp. 139-142.) Mrs. Verrall had never read
the Dissertationes, but a passage in F. W. H. Myers's
1
For full particulars, see Proc, Vol. XXVI., pp. 245-200.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 91
" Essay on Greek Oracles " (Essays—Classical, p. 60), shows
that Myers, who was deeply read in Neo-Platonic literature,
had at least some acquaintance with Maximus of Tyre.
There is thus a special appropriateness in this composite
reference in the script, both in connection with the auras
ovpavos cucv/utov topic and as purporting to be inspired by
Myers.
(Mrs. Verrall's Script of Feb. 20, 1907.)
Chiaroscuro
non semper possum tibi confidere hortatioiies meas. sed
ausculta.
[I camiot always confide to you my exhortations, but listen.]
There are messages for you in Monday and Wednesday's words
not on Tuesday. To-day is important. Sit still and help—it will
not come to you but to Piddington.
no the word is very difficult to give
Print it Rector.
Behind the darkening billows there is peace
Peace—and the Light that never Avas On Land or Sea [sic] 1
No not right but partly. Do not write—sit still and wait.
Behind our darkness there is light.
'
High Emprize '
adventure forth—a full sail
Argosy ' comes beetling forth '.
" Chiaroscuro " is probably a reminiscence of " the clear-
obscure of shore and tree " in the third verse of Myers's
poem on Tennyson, which seemed to be alluded to hi the
Piper sitting of Jan. 30, 1907, see above, p. 87. The word
" clear-obscure " also occurs in The Renewal of Youth (p. 223)
in a passage relating to Tintoretto's pictures.
Mr. Piddington has shown (Proc, Vol. XXVI., p. 212)
1 " The light that never was, on sea or land."
(Wordsworth, Peele Castle in a Storm.)
!>2 Alice Johnson. [part
that much of this script points to Myers's poem Venice and
relates to the Horace Ode question. It also refers explicitly
to the general topic of this section,—Peace.
The last phrases are clearly reminiscent of The Merclmnt
of Venice (Act I. Sc. 1) :
Salarino. " There where your argosies with portly sail,
Like signiors and rich burghers on the flood,
Or, as it were, the pageants of the sea,
Do overpeer the petty traffickers,
That curtsy to them, do them reverence,
As they fly by them with their woven wings.
Salanio. Believe me, Sir, had I such venture forth. ..."
The phrases selected out of this passage by the script
point again to the Adventurer, already referred to in the
script of Feb. 12, 1907 (" The voyage of Maeldune ") and so
to the contrast of Active and Contemplative that will be
seen later to form an essential factor in this cross-cor-
respondence.
Next comes a short script by Miss Verrall, who was then
at Cambridge, but knew nothing of her mother's experiment,
or of her scripts.
{Miss Verrall's Script of Feb. 25, 1907. 5.30 p.m.)
Many ties that bind
in the silence of the sleep time.1
About an hour later, Mrs. Verrall, not having seen her
daughter's script, produced the following :
{Mrs. Verrall's Script of Feb. 25, 1907. 6.45 p.m.)
Not each but all United stand —a firm knit band —but,
single, fall.
2
1
"At the midnight in the silence of the sleep-time,
When you set your fancies free,
Will they pass to where—by death, fools think, imprisoned
—
Low he lies who once so loved you, whom you loved so ?
"
(Browning, Asolando :
" Epilogue.")
2
Mrs. Verrall knew that the phrase " United we stand, divided we fall
"
had occurred in Mr. Piddington's sitting with Mrs. Piper on Jan. 2, 1907,
being apparently a reference by MyersP to the Latin Message.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 93
Test the weakest link but even that stands firm
I stretch my hand across the vaporous space, the interlunar
space 1—'twixt moon and earth,—where the gods of Lucretius quaff
their nectar.
Do you not understand ?
The lucid interspace of world and world
Well that is bridged by the thought of a friend, bridged before
for your passage, but today for the passage of any that will walk
it, not in hope but in faith.
The bridge has been built from our side, it is our thought that
builds it-—but it rests on a pier of your founding,—not yours—of
you only,—of all of yours
Non tua opera, sed omnibus adiuvantibus qui in ista causa
laborant
[not by thy help, but with the assistance of all who labour in
this cause.]
not tua [thy] but but vestra [your] he means
R
but he does not talk our language.
" Where the gods of Lucretius quaff their nectar." The
passage from Tennyson's Lucretius alluded to in this script
is quoted in full above, p. 90, in connection with the. script
of Feb. 12, 1907. But the word "nectar" does not occur
in Lucretius and the above phrase seems to be a composite
reference to that poem and a passage in The Lotos-Eaters :
2
" On the hills like Gods together, careless of mankind.
For they he beside their nectar, and the bolts are hurl'd
Far below them in the valleys. ..."
The intention is, I think, to contrast the calm of indifference
of these Gods, and the inglorious ease of the Lotos-Eaters,
both with the ecstatic calm to which Plotinus aspired, and
the " High Emprise " of the Active Adventurer.
On the following morning, Feb. 26, 1907, Miss Verrall
told her mother that she had written on the previous after-
noon a script containing the words " in the silence of the sleep-
1
Cf. airs. Verrall's script of May 1, 1907, given below, p. 124.
2
Spedding, in reviewing Tennyson's early poems in the Edinburgh for
April, 1843, says :
" The gods of the Lotos-Eaters, it is worth knowing, are
altogether Lucretian." Lucretius was published in 1868.
94 Alice Johnson. [part
time." Both she and her mother were familiar with the poem
from which this was quoted, and the information obviously
influenced Mrs. Verrall's next script, which was as follows :
(Mrs. Verrall's Script of Feb. 26, 1907.)
(Two drawings of a crown.)
S. Stephen's iron crown
But why should the Emperor wear it ? a Magyar crown. Divide
the rule
Every act on [sic] has its own use
I have tried to speak with you to-day but it was not possible.
Listen now
ch5tos ovpa i<os d.KVfiwv I think I have made him understand but
the best reference to it will be made elsewhere, not Mrs Piper at
all. I think I have got some words from the poem written down—
if not stars and satellites, another phrase will do as well. And may
there be no moaning at the bar—my Pilot face to face.1
The last poems of Tennyson and Browning should be compared.
There are references in her writing to both—Helen's I mean.
The fighter fights one last fight, but there is peace for him too
in the end—and peace for the seer who knew that after—after—the
earthquake and the fire and the wind—after, after, in the stillness
comes the voice that can be heard
No more now.
" Some words from the poem ... if not stars and satellites,
another phrase will do as well." The poem in question is
Myers's poem on Tennyson, to which Mrs. Verrall had traced
the words " Satellite and stars " in the Piper sitting of Jan.
.30, 1907, above, p. 87.
The poem is on the death of Tennyson and it alludes definitely
to his Crossing the Bar, but to no other of his poems. This,
though not the last poem composed by him, 2
is almost certainly
what the script means by " the last poem of Tennyson," and it
may fitly be so called, since he gave special directions that it
should be placed at the end of all complete editions of his
works.
It is obvious from the other references in the script that
1
Tennyson, Crossing the Bar. Cf. Piper Sitting of March 0, 1907. below.
- The last was The Silent Voices.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 95
" the seer who knew " is Tennyson, and " the fighter " Brown-
ing, as interpreted by Mrs. Verrall at the time.
The " last poem " of Browning is clearly that quoted from
in Miss Verrall's script of Feb. 25, 1907, above, namely, the
" Epilogue " in the volume entitled Asolando. which was pub-
lished on the day of his death, December 12, 1889. In this
poem he tells his friends that he wishes them to think of him
after his death as holding to the same ideals of activity and
progress that he had during life, when he
" Never turned his back but marched breast forward, . . .
Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better,
Sleep to wake."
So, he urges them, when death comes
" In the bustle of man's work-time
Greet the unseen with a cheer !
Bid him forward, breast and back as either should be,
'
Strive and thrive !
'
cry '
Speed,—fight on, fare ever
There as here !
'
"
But the phraseology of the script,
—" The fighter fights
one last fight, but there is peace for him too in the end,"
—
is derived more directly from Browning's Prospice :
" I was ever a fighter, so—one fight more,
The best and the last !
"
" And the elements' rage, the fiend-voices that rave,
Shall dwindle, shall blend,
Shall change, shall become first a peace out of pain. ..."
This reminiscence leads on not unnaturally to the " still
small voice " heard by Elijah on Mount Horeb after the
wind, the earthquake, and the fire (I. Kings, xix. 9-13).
Mrs. Verrall herself, however, did not consciously recognise
the allusion to Elijah at all, but interpreted this part of the
script at the time as referring to Moses on Mount Sinai, when
" there were thunders and lightnings and a thick cloud upon
the mount and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud. . . .
And mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the
Lord descended upon it in fire : and the smoke thereof
96 Alice Johnson. [part
ascended as the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mount
quaked greatly. And when the voice of the trumpet sounded
long and waxed louder and louder, Moses spake and God
answered him by a voice " (Exodus, xix. 16-19).
Later, when Mrs. Verrall concluded that the essential part
of the answer to her question on avros ovpavos olkv/j-wv was
to be found in the description of trance in In Memoriam,
XCV. (see below, p. 101), it seemed to her that the supposed
allusion to Moses was the first emergence in her script of
In Memoriam, the last verse of Section XCVI. being :
" But in the darkness and the cloud,
As over Sinai's peaks of old,
While Israel made their gods of gold,
Altho' the trumpet blew so loud."
This view was recorded by Mrs. Verrall on June 25, 1907.
My interpretation of Mrs. Holland's script of April 8, 1907
(see below, p. 113), as alluding to Moses, was made some
years later, and on entirely independent grounds.
Now it is clear that the wording of Mrs. Verrall's script
—
" after the earthquake and the fire and the wind, in the still-
ness comes the voice that can be heard "—is derived from
the story of Elijah rather than from that of Moses. But the
interpretation that she herself places on her script at the
time must be regarded as one of the factors in the total mental
impression, which is partially—but probably never more
than partially—expressed in the script. It must, then, be
held that the script refers to both Moses and Elijah. This
is extremely natural, considering the great similarity between
the two stories ; and considering also that Moses and Elijah
were associated together in the Transfiguration, which also
took place on a " high mountain," apart from the multitude,
and when also a voice from heaven was heard out of a cloud.1
All these associations were, of course, familiar to Mrs.
Verrall, though she did not consciously think of them at the
time. But there is another close connection between the
Old Testament histories of Moses and Elijah, of which both
she and Mr. Piddington, as well as myself, happened to be
ignorant, viz. that Mount Horeb and Mount Sinai are two
1
Matt. xvii. 1-5.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 97
different names used in different parts of the Bible for the
same mountain.
Li
It has been shown by Dillmann that the
Elohist and Deuteronomy always use the name Horeb for the
same mountain which the Jahvist and the Priestly Code call
Sinai " (Encyclopaedia Britannica : Article " Sinai "). This is
by most authorities identified with the mountain now called
St. Catherine, the name being derived from the great monastery
of St. Catherine, the most famous of the monasteries built in
early Christian times in the Sinaitic peninsula. From this
monastery a path of granite steps was constructed up to the
top of " the Mountain of the Law." .
(Mrs. Verrall's Script of March 6, 1907. 10.45 a.m.)
I have tried to tell him of the calm the heavenly and earthly
calm but I do not think it is clear. I think you would understand
if you could see the record. Tell me when you have understood.
Calm is the sea.
and in my heart if calm at all, if any calm, a calm despair. That
is only part of the answer—just as it is not the final thought, the
symphony does not close upon despair—but on harmony.
So does the poem. Wait for the last word
Tuus bene scis quis [sic] tale
scribat. Nomen non facile tibi in charta ponere
Tuus igitur pro amico interpretare.
[Yours. You know well who writes so. It is not easy to you
to put the name on paper. Yours, therefore, interpret as your
friend.]
This is the first of the scripts belonging to this topic in
which a quotation from In Memoriam occurs, though, as
stated above, Mrs. Verrall had thought that MyersP's men-
tion of " Larches " and " Laburnum " in the sitting of Jan.
30, 1907, pointed to In Memoriam. In the section here cpioted
(XI.) every stanza begins with the word " calm " :
" Calm is the morn without a sound,
Calm as to suit a calmer grief
"
" Calm and deep peace on this high wold. ..."
" Calm and still light on yon great plain. ..."
G
98 Alice Johnson. [part
" Calm and deep peace in this wide air,
These leaves that redden to the fall ;
And in my heart, if calm at all,
If any calm, a calm despair :
Calm on the seas, and silver sleep,
And waves that -sway themselves in rest,
And dead calm in that noble breast
Which heaves but with the heaving deep."
On the morning of the same day, the name " Arthur Hal-
lam " was mentioned for the first time in Mrs. Piper's trance,
as follows :
(Extract from record of sitting with Mrs. Piper on March 6, 1907,
beginning at 11.15 a.m.)
(Present : Mr. Piddington.)
Cloudless
Sky
Horizon
It was given like this
J. G. P. Yes ?
A cloudless sky beyond the Horison [sic]
(
Waking-stage)— 1
(Present : Mr. Piddington and Miss Newton.)
. . . Moaning at the bar when I put out to sea. . . . Arthur
Hallam
Arthur Hallam
Good-bye. Margaret. I'm so glad I came. . . .
There was some man—Arthur Hallam. Myers said it was
he—he about. . . .
" A cloudless sky beyond " a horizon which seems to be
represented by a straight line can hardly mean anything
else than a cloudless sky beyond the horizon of a calm sea,
so that the phrase seems to point clearly to the Plotinian
description of the elements at peace.
1
For a more detailed report, of this " waking-stage," see Proc, Vol. XXII.,
pp. 150-152.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 99
In the waking-stage is given the same quotation from Crossing
the Bar that had appeared in Mrs. Verrall's script of Feb. 26,
1907. Crossing the Bar, as mentioned above, is alluded to in
Myers's poem on Tennyson. To this quotation in the waking
stage is added a reference to hi Memoriam which was not
one of the things expected by Mrs. Verrall in an answer to
her question about avros ovpavo? aicvficov, but which was clearly
pointed to in her own script of the same day (March 6, 1907)
as part of the proper answer to the question.
The next script connected with the subject is one by Mrs.
Verrall, who had heard nothing of any references to it by
Mrs. Piper since her own sitting with the latter on Jan. 30,
1907.
(Mrs. VerraM's Script of March 11, 1907.)
With violet buds their heads were crowned
violaceae
odores [violet-coloured scents]
Violet and olive leaf purple and hoary 1
The city of the violet and olive crown.
News will come of her. of Athens
The shadow of the Parthenon. It is a message from Plato that
I want to send— It has been given elsewhere but should be com-
pleted here. It is about dim seen forms, half-seen in the evenings
gray by a boy and afterwards woven into words that last— I want
to say it again. I think there is a verse in Tennyson about it.
Plato and the shadow and the unseen or hah seen companionship
—
shapes seen in the glimpses of the moonlit heights.
To walk with Plato or some phrase like that,
with voiceless communing, and unseen Presence felt
No you dont get it right
Presences on the eternal hills
that is better
The Presence that is in the lonely hills
That is all for now wait.
The paragraph beginning " The shadow of the Parthenon
"
1
Cf. Swinburne, Erechtheus, 1. 145.
100 Alirp Johnson.. [part
seems to allude jointly to passages in two poems by F. W. H.
Myers :
(1)
" So gazed on Phidias' Warrior-maid,
Methinks, iEgina's kingly boy.1
. . .
Then as he walked, like one who dreamed,
Thro' silent highways silver-hoar.
More wonderful that city seemed,
And he diviner than before ;
—
A voice was calling, All is well
;
Clear in the vault Selene shone,
And over Plato's homestead fell
The shadow of the Parthenon." 2
(2)
" Or one from Plato's page uplifts his head,
Dazed in that mastering parley of the dead,
Till at dark curfew thro' the latticed gloom
What presence feels he in his lonely room,
Where mid the writ words of the wise he stands
Like a strange ghost in many-peopled lands." 3
" I think there is a verse in Tennyson about it —Plato and
the shadow and the unseen companionship." This seems to
be explained by the more explicit reference to the " shadows
in Plato's cave " in Mrs. Verrall's script of March 25, 1907
(see below, p. 129). In that script special stress is laid on the
distinction between the shadow and the reality represented by
it ; and the " verse in Tennyson " here mentioned is probably
In Mernoriam, XCIII., especially :
" No visual shade of some one lost,
But he, the Spirit himself, may come
Where all the nerve of sense is numb ;
Spirit to Spirit, Ghost to Ghost.
Descend, and touch, and enter ; hear
The wish too strong for words to name ;
That in this blindness of the frame
My Ghost may feel that thine is near."
1
Plato, who, according to one tradition, was born at ^Egina.
2 " Stanzas on Mr. Watts' Collected Works " (The Renewal of Youth and
other Poems, pp. 117-118).
a
The Renewal of Youth, p. 212. •
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 101
" Presences on the eternal hills, etc." These phrases seem
to be reminiscences of two Wordsworthian passages :
" The silence that is in the starry sky,
The sleep that is among the lonely hills."
(Song at the Feast of Brougham Castle.)
" For images of other worlds are there ;
Awful the light, and holy is the air.
Fitfully, and in flashes, through his soul,
Like sun-lit tempests, troubled transports roll ;
His bosom heaves, his Spirit towers amain,
Beyond the senses and then little reign.
And oft when that dread vision hath past by,
He holds with God himself communion high,
There where the peal of swelling torrents hits
The sky-roofed temple of the eternal hills."
(Descriptive Sketches taken during a Pedestrian
Tour among the Alps.)
Here we have a continuation of the topic of visions in
the solitude of mountain heights, like those of Moses and
Elijah in Mrs. Verrall's script of Feb. 26, 1907, above.
The references in her script to Tennyson, with the intro-
duction of In Memoriarn, and in particular the combination
of Plato and Tennyson as both aware of " unseen companion-
ships " in the script of March 11, 1907, led Mrs. Verrall to
believe that there must be a more definite connexion between
In Memoriarn and the passage from Plotinus than she had
hitherto recognised. She therefore re-read the poem carefully
in the light of her script, and was struck by the resemblance
in language as well as in thought between Sections XCIV.-
XCV., which describe the poet's trance and its antecedent
conditions, and the passage in Enneades V. (quoted above,
p. 84) where Plotinus describes the antecedent conditions
required for ecstasy,—Tennyson, like Plotinus demanding a
condition of calm in the external world, as well as in the
individual soul. 1
This discovery seemed to Mrs. Verrall partly at least to
1
An article on this subject was, at Professor A. C. Bradley's suggestion,
contributed by Mrs. Verrall to the Modern Language Review (Vol. II., No. 4,
July, 1907).
102 Alice Johnson. [part
explain why F. W. H. Myers had chosen the motto auros
ovpavog ukvijlwv for his poem on Tennyson, in which he wrote :
" Once more he rises ; lulled and still,
Hushed to his time the tideways roll
;
These waveless heights of evening thrill
With voyage of the summoned soul."
Mrs. Verrall had of course realised that this referred to
Tennyson's Grossing the Bar—his desire that there might
" be no moaning of the bar " when he " put out to sea "
—
and to the fulfilment of this desire at the time of his death.
But (as Mr. Piddington observed *) " a much deeper significance
attaches to the choice of the motto when it is recognised that
Tennyson himself, like Plotinus, desired conditions of external
peace before attaining in life the trance condition, in which
he felt as though he had communion with the unseen world."
There is no suggestion, either in Myers's poem or elsewhere in
his writings, that he associated the Plotinian passage with
Tennyson because of its resemblance to Sections XCIV.-
XCV. of In Memoriam, so that the script purporting to be
inspired by him gave a new and cogent explanation which
could not be derived from his own published works.
Mrs. Verrall recorded the conclusions she had come to on
these points in her diary of March 12, 1907 (which is quoted
at length in Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 145-146), and on the fol-
lowing day brought a summary of this entry with full explana-
tions and references to London, and gave it to me in a closed
envelope to be given to Mr. Piddington after his sitting with
Mrs. Piper on the morning of that day.
{Extract front record of sitting with Mrs. Piper on March 13, 1907.)
(Present, Mr. Piddington.)
(Myers communicating.)
I referred to
1
Proc, Vol. XXII., p. 123.
lxviii.'I Some " Concordant Automatisms." 103
J. G. P. Well ?
saying I had crossed it. yes did she U.D.
J. G. P. You said it to whom ?
both lights . . .
J. G. P. I have not looked yet. I purposely did not look.
[MyerSp then refers to the Latin Message and other topics.]
I saw Mrs. Verrall and gave her a sign like this
and said I have crossed it. I thought she might get a
glimpse of my U.D. of her Greek
J. G. P. I have a message from her for you, but before I give it,
will you describe in a word the thing which you said
you crossed ?
BAR
J. G. P. I see ; I understand. Now I'll give you Mrs. Verrall's
message ; and when you have got all the messages that
you have prepared off your mind, I will look at Mrs.
Verrall's script and see if they have come through.
Very good.
you remember some lines I quoted before I passed out ?
J. G. P. Well, what were they ?
I quoted my own in which I referred to Stare, etc.
If I can make you U.D. his meaning I will not enter into
detail as it takes too much light.
J. G. P. I understand. You mean " Hippocratic stare." 1
I
understand that [meaning, " I understand the reference,
though not its immediate relevancy."
Note by J. G. P.]
Yes, I also referred to this in a message to her recently 2
1
This was a phrase used by Myers in his poem, The Renewal of Youth,
see below.
2 At a sitting on Jan. 14, 1907, at which Mrs. Verrall and Mr. Piddington
were present, MyersP had said to Mrs. Verrall :
" Do you recall anything
about hyprocratic stare ? " and she had assented.
104 Alice Johnson |
PART
J. G. P. Yes, I see.
you may get that also.
[Other topics then referred to, including the Lathi Mes-
sage and " Browning, Hope and Star."]
(J. G. P. then 1
gives Mrs. Verrall's message to MyersP ; the
message being that she now knew, through information
given hi her own script since her last sitting with
Mrs. Piper on Jan. 30, 1007, why avrbs ovpavbs aKVjxwv
had certain associations for Myers ; and that she
understood the reference to Larches and Laburnum
made by MyersP at that sitting.)
Very good.
[other topics referred to]
(Hodgson communicating.)
Did Mrs. V. draw a bar. . . .
J. G. P. [After looking for the first time at Mrs. Verrall's scripts
of March 11 and 12, 1907:] She wrote: "May there
be no moaning at the bar," 2
but she didn't draw
a bar.
When I put out to sea.
J. G. P. Yes.
Why didn't you say so before
J. G. P. It was some days ago she wrote it, and 1 was looking out
for a picture.
1 am not so sure that I gave her this full impression but
I did quote those lines to her. I also quoted them to
this light 3
J. G. P. That is so. I know. . . .
For fear that you would not U.D. Bar I [drew] it for
her and said Hallam. did you get it
1
Mr. Piddington at this time had not seen Mrs. Verrall's script of March
11, 1907, and knew nothing of the conclusions she had come to about the
associations of the Greek words for F. W. H. Myers.
2
See Mrs. Verrall's script of Feb. 26, 1907, above, p. 94.
3 On March 0, 1907. See above, p. 98.
LXVin.J Some " Concordant Automatisms." 105
J. G. P. I think not. I am nearly sure not.
Arthur Hallani. ... I mean I gave it to the spirit of
this light while it was returning
J. G. P. You,did, you did.
I did that so as to connect the words with its author's
[?] individuality.
{Waking-stage)
[Various inaudible words, the only one that came out
clearly being :]
Death . . .
Yes, Faith, Hope, Charity.
I'll give it-
Reseat—resquiat
[I have little doubt that " requiescat " was meant.
—
Note by J. G. P.]
I send my love across the heavenly shore
I know— I know— Farewell
That's all they said. . . .
All the stars of all the skies to me divine
[last three words uncertain]
I say Mr. Myers is in the light. He's so handsome, and
that's a window or a door ; and I don't want to say
any more if you don't understand. They said the
grave had never any terrors for him. . . .
*'
I quoted my own [lines] in which I referred to Stare, etc."
The reference here is to a passage in Sir Oliver Lodge's paper
" In Memory of F. W. H. Myers " in Proceedings, Vol. XVII.,
pp. 1-10. Speaking of Myers's last illness, Sir Oliver wrote :
In the intervals of painful difficulty of breathing, he quoted
from one of his own poems (The Renewal of Youth. . . .) :
" Ah, Avelcome then that hour which bids thee he
In anguish of thy last mfirruity !
Welcome the toss for ease, the gasp for air,
The visage drawn, and Hippocratic stare. ..."
Death he did not dread.
Cf. in the waking-stage of this sitting :
" They said the
grave had never any terrors for hini [i.e. Myers]."
106 Alice Johnson. [part
It must be assumed that Mrs. Piper had read this paper ;
but Myersp's explicit reference to The Renewal of Youth—the
only one which I have detected in the Piper sittings—seems
worth noting, since, on the same day, March 13, 1907 (see
below), Mrs. Holland's script quoted from a poem in the same
volume, " How many times ere I be dead, Must I the bitter-
ness of dying know ?
"
The above being the last sitting with Mrs. Piper of which
Mr. Piddington was to take charge, he met Mrs. Verrall in
the afternoon, and told her of the words " Cloudless sky
beyond the horizon " given by MyersP on March 6, 1907,
and also read out to her the passages (quoted above) relevant
to ai/Tos ovpavos aKVfxwv in the sitting of March 13 ; after
which she gave him the account which she had brought
that morning of her discovery of certain special Plotinian
allusions in In Memoriam.
On the same day Mrs. Holland, in India, in complete ignor-
ance of the experiments that were going on and all the scripts
that were being produced in England, made the first refer-
ences to the topics of this cross-correspondence that I have
detected in her script, as follows :
{Mrs. Holland's Script of March 13, 1907. 12.45 p.m.)
Oh Rama—Ram
—
Mere paper—untouched by any hope of inspiration
—
That strange and complex silence which is compact of an infinite
number of small incessant noises
—
The far shore of a very still and tideless sea
—
Poor finite ambitions, and the sorrow that if ye could but realize
it is over—finally swallowed up in the void of nothingness long
ere the tear it invokes dries upon the cheek.
Where birchen boughs with hazel mingle
—
1
The green book—not the blue one—the fuller version
—
two trees have been killed by the frost—but the twigs of the
old elm are thickening with buds again—The miracle of spring.
1 " The violet in her greenwood bower,
Where birchen boughs with hazels mingle."
(Scott, The Violet.)
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms.
"
107
No conscious recollection—it is unreasonable to expect that
immediately.
" She knew she had waded bosom deep
Along Death's bank in the sedge of sleep "
—
But a wild gleam on a shaken shoal. 1
We gam the same goal through different gates. What need for
violent wail if to one it is the gate of the sea—to another a passing
in sleep—to another the long Avasting—the tooth of a fell disease
to another—a few drops of sleep—to another the crash and jar
and conflict of a railway accident—The passing is nought
—
Home again—but it is such an early Easter—Sweet of the year
has hardly begun
—
The second child—because of innocence—And for all the sacra-
ment of pain
—
One star in the crimson West
Aid the East is cold and grey
And the weary earth shall turn to her rest
At the end of the winter's day.
How many times ere I be dead
Must I the bitterness of dying know '{
This script lias already been given above, p. 66, in the
section " Alexander's Tomb," since I interpreted some of
the passages in it as alluding to the Medici Tombs, while
others belong to the present section.
" The far shore of a very still and tideless sea " with some
other phrases scattered through the script
—" the passing is
1 " The night lay deep on Rose Mary's heart,
For her swoon was death's kind counterpart ;
The dawn broke dim on Rose Mary's soul,
—
No hill-crown's heavenly aureole,
But a wild gleam on a shaken shoal.
She knew she had waded bosom-deep
Along death's bank in the sedge of sleep :
All else was lost to her clouded mind ;
Nor, looking back, could she see defin'd
O'er the dim dumb waste what lay behind."
(D. G. Rossetti, Rose Mary, Part III.)
108 Alice Johnson. [part
nought," " home again," " one star in the crimson west "
—
suggests the first two verses of Grossing the Bar :
" Sunset and evening star,
And one clear call for me !
And may there be no moaning of the bar,
When I put out to sea,
But such a tide as moving seems asleep,
Too full for sound and foam,
When that which drew from out the boundless deep
Turns again home." •
Mrs. Holland's " far shore of a very still and tideless sea
"
has also some resemblance to phrases in the scripts of other
automatists, e.g. " Calm is the sea " in Mrs. Verrall's script
of March 0, 1907 ;
" May there be no moaning at the bar
"
in Mrs. Verrall's of Feb. 26 and Mrs. Piper's of March 6, 1907 ;
and " A cloudless sky beyond the horizon " in Mrs. Piper's
of March 6, 1907.
The paragraph beginning " We gain the same goal . . .
"
describes different ways of dying, more or less analogous to
the descriptions in " the last poems of Tennyson and Brown-
ing " (see Mrs. Verrall's script of Feb. '2ii, 1907).
The verses at the end of the script were interpreted in
Chapter IV. (p. 08), for reasons there given, as alluding
to the figures of Day and Night, and Morning and Evening
on the Medici Tombs. But I believe that, just as a single
phrase in a script may combine two distinct literary allusions,
so it may refer jointly to two items in a cross-correspondence
or to two different cross-correspondences, and I think that
this is the case with these verses. The topic of East and
West given in them is resumed in Mrs. Holland's script of
April 8, 1907 (see below, p. 110), which in several other
respects, as will be seen, is closely connected with this script.
" How many times ere I be dead
Must I the bitterness of dying know ?
"
is, as already said, taken from the second of a pair of sonnets
by F. W. H. Myers, called " Would God it were Evening
"
and " Would God it were Morning " (The Renewal of Youth
LXVIIL] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 109
and other Poems, pp. 82-83). The titles of these sonnets
are taken from Deuteronomy, xxviii. 67, the conclusion of
the curses pronounced by Moses for disobedience to the Law
given on Mount Sinai.
The next script again refers to different ways of dying :
{Mrs. Holland's Script of March 18, 1907. 1.45 p.m.)
The memory of it is like a great black shadow that blots ou
half the sky—• No reference is intended here to the physical suf-
fering but the mental misery can hardly be overestimated and I
have not yet fully recovered from the horror of it— The Valley
of the Shadow 1
in soberest truth. No glib phrases or generalities
of statement can possibly apply to all after lives—any more
than they apply to all your present lives— The individual experi-
ence differs in each case and is greatly modified by the inherent
sensitiveness the individual idiosyncrasy of each one undergoing
the experience of another life— For me, my experience differed
absolutely from his— a sudden passing naturally differs from a
gradual wearing away— I groped my way slowly across the
threshold—with faltering feet and feeling hands—he was flung
across it with no consciousness of impending departure. There
is respite here from the old doctrine of inevitable compensation
otherwise I might point out that the sudden painless passing is
handicapped on the other side by a prolonged period of cloudiness
or mental inability to cope with a new environment—while the
frame that on your side of the threshold has been gnawed by the
tooth of pain—submitted to the refiner's fire—sees clearly from
the moment of the passing—has taken the first degree
Next come two scripts produced on the same day by Mrs.
Verrall and Mrs. Holland. I will quote both and then comment
on the two together.
(Mrs. Verrall's Script of April 8, 1907. 3 p.m.)
[Talbot Forbes] will tell you to-night what I said for his mother
to hear.
The words were from Maud, but you did not understand. Rosy
is the east and so on.
1 " Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death " (Psalm
xxiii. 4).
110 Alice Johnson. [part
You will find that you have written a message for Mr. Pidding-
ton which you did not understand but he did. Tell him that.
No more now—write again this evening
{Mrs. Holland's Script of April 8, 1907. 1 p.m.)
There was no real reason for his action but it would be hardly
fair to deduce cowardice from it— More probably a natural dislike
of giving pain— Under the circumstances it was excusable if not
allowable
—
Peace on the great heart of the heaving sea
—
And on the rocks that fringe the ocean peace
—
A sobbing weeping wind—that flings the rain against the window
panes like handfuls of small-shot. There is no hail it only sounds
like hail— The poor blossom buds on the plum and cherry trees
—
and alas for the fat green buds of the tulips that held such glowing
promise
The walk that leads to the kitchen garden is all different this
year— I shall miss the bold green clump and the honest round
red faces of my peonies— And the pink tinted fringed petalled
delicately scented substitutes will not be the same to me
—
Yes— those of us who are here are bound to shrink from
changes in the places we have known and loved—it impedes the
vibrations
—
Is the Paradiso mental relaxation ? I should recommend prose
—
English prose— fiction
—
The constellation of Orion
The tall spire shows above the mellow redness of the wall— Do
you remember that exquisite sky when the afterglow made the
East as beautiful and as richly coloured as the West— Martha
became as Mary—and Leah as Rachel
—
" With such a purple and sea blue grace
Love settling unawares "
—
He the strong smiter the earth compeller
—
A billowy cloud heavy with blessing—
-
The Brides Day How many years ago ? Are the bells remem-
bered ?
Mrs. Holland's " Peace on the great heart, of the heaving
sea, etc.," seems to be a reminiscence of In Memoriam, XI.
(the section quoted in Mrs. Verrall's script of March 6, 1907) :
lxviii.J Some " Concordant Automatisms." Ill
" Calm on the seas, and silver sleep,
And waves that sway themselves in rest,
And dead calm in that noble breast
Which heaves but with the heaving deep."
This phrase of Mrs. Holland's also recalls " The far shore of a
very still and tideless sea " in her script of March 13, 1907,
above, and is a still closer paraphrase of the immediate context
of cwto? ovpavo? aKVfxwv — "Calm be the earth, the sea, the
air."
" The Paradiso." This is only the third reference to
Dante 1
in the whole of Mrs. Holland's script from July,
1903, up to this date, and it is of interest because references to
Dante were for the first time appearing in the scripts of other
automatists, viz. in Mrs. Verrall's on April 3 and 6, 1907,2
and in Mrs. Piper's on April 29, 1907 (see below). At a later
period, allusions to Dante became more frequent.
" The constellation of Orion.''' In view of the clear cross-
correspondence of the next paragraph with Mrs. Verrall's
" Rosy is the east," it may be conjectured that Orion too is
" from Maud,"—a reminiscence of
" Orion's grave low down in the west."
{Maud, Part III.)
Mrs. Verrall's phrase, " Rosy is the east," alleged by her
script to come from Maud, is a misquotation from Maud,
Part I. xvii. :
" Go not, happy day,
From the shining fields,
Go not, happy day,
Till the maiden yields.
Blush from West to East,
Blush from East to West,
Till the West is East,
Blush it through the West.
1
The two previous ones occurred on March 15, 1905, and Sept. 25, 1906.
2
See Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 227-8, 237 and 262-264.
112 Alice Johnson. [part
Rosy is the West,
Rosy is the South,
Roses are her cheeks,
And a rose her mouth."
Thus " Rosy is the east " refers not, as might be supposed,
to a sunrise, but to a sunset, and so corresponds closely to
the phrase in Mrs. Holland's script of the same day, " when
the afterglow made the East as beautiful and as richly coloured
as the West." The latter, on the other hand, seems to allude
by way of contrast to the lines in the Holland script of March
13, 1907 (see above, p. 107) :
" One star in the crimson West
And the East is cold and grey."
" Martha became as Mary, and Leah as Rachel." This
sentence, with what follows, links together the topics of this
cross-correspondence with others which it will be convenient
to treat separately below (Chapter VI.) under the heading
" The Clavigers." From the point of view of the cross-
correspondence now under discussion, Martha and Mary, and
Leah and Rachel are simply two instances of the contrasted
Active and Contemplative types.
" With such a purple and sea-blue grace
Love settling unawares
"
is a miscpiotation from Browning's James Liee's Wife (V. v.),
the original being :
" With such a blue and red grace, not theirs,
—
Love settling unawares !
"
The misquotation is especially significant ; for I feel no
doubt that the substitution of
' L
purple and sea-blue " for
" blue and red " indicates a composite allusion to James
Lee's Wife and to
" the sea-blue bird of March "
in In Memoriam, XCI. This line by itself would account
only for " sea-blue " ; but in the Memoir of Tennyson (Vol.
II., p. 4), Tennyson, writing to the Duke of Argyll on this
verse, remarks :
As to " sea-blue birds " etc., defendant states that he was walk-
ng one day in March by a deep-banked brook, and under the
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 113
leafless bushes he saw the king-fisher flitting or fleeting under-
neath him, and there came into his head a fragment of an old
Greek lyric poet " aXnropfyvpos eiapos opvis," " The sea-purple or
sea-shining bird of Spring," spoken of as the halcyon.
During the first week in January, 1907, Mrs. Holland had,
as she told me in a letter dated Jan. 10th, been reading the
Memoir of Tennyson, and out of the fifteen scripts (including
the one under consideration) written since she read it, three
besides this one contain passages that are clearly to be traced
to it. It therefore seems to me practically certain that her
misquotation, " purple and sea-blue," is derived from Tenny-
son's letter just quoted.
This view is confirmed by the passage in the earlier part
of the same script, " Peace on the great heart of the heaving
sea," which would aptly describe the " halcyon days " of
spring, when the kingfisher is supposed to build its nest on
the sea.
We have here then a contribution to the central topic of
the cross-correspondence, and, in view of Mrs. Verrall's remark,
" The last poems of Tennyson and Browning should be com-
pared " (see her script of Feb. 20, 1907, above, p. 94), it is
noteworthy that it is given in the form of a composite Brown-
ing-Tennyson quotation.
" He the strong smiter—the earth compeller." I take this
to be a reference to the two most famous miracles of Moses :
(1)
" And the Lord said unto Moses, C4o on befoi'e the
people, and take with thee of the elders of Israel ; and thy
rod, wherewith thou smotest the river, take in thine hand,
and go. Behold, I will stand before thee there upon the rock
in Horeb ; and thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall
come water out of it, that the people may drink. And Moses
did so " (Exodus, xvii. 5, 6).
In the version in Numbers (xx. 11) the smiting is further
emphasised :
" Moses lifted up his hand and with his rod
he smote the rock twice : and the water came out abundantly."
(2) When at the word of Moses " the ground clave asunder
that was under [Korah, Dathan and Abiram]. And the
earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and their
houses, and all the men that appertained unto Korah, and
H
114 Alice Johnson. [part
all their goods. Tliey, and all that appertained to them,
went down alive into the pit, and the earth closed upon
them : and they perished from among the congregation
"
(Numbers, xvi. 31-33).
I base this interpretation not merely on the appropriateness
of the script phrases to these incidents, but chiefly on a special
association between the Leah and Rachel of the script and
Moses in the cross-correspondence, " The Clavigers," given
below, pp. 135-137.
" A billoxoy cloud heavy with, blessing." Cf.
" Hush ! if you saw some western cloud
All billowy-bosomed, over-bowed
By many benedictions—sun's
And moon's and evening star's at once
—
And so, you, looking and loving best,
Conscious grew, your passion drew
Cloud, sunset, moonrise, star-shine too
Down on you, near and yet more near,
Till flesh must fade, for heaven was here !
"
(Browning, The Last Bide Together.)
This verse is, I think, the origin of the phrasing of the
script. But the words are, I believe, intended to be applied
to the " thick cloud " upon Mount Sinai, which is so con-
stantly referred to in the Mosaic narrative,1
e.g. :
" And Moses went up into the mount, and a cloud covered the
mount. And the glory of the Lord abode upon mount Sinai, and
the cloud covered it six days : and the seventh day he called unto
Moses out of the midst of the cloud. And the sight of the glory
of the Lord was like devouring fire on the top of the mount in
the eyes of the children of Israel. And Moses went into the midst
of the cloud and gat him up into the mount : and Moses was in
the mount forty days and forty nights " (Exodus, xxiv. 15-18).
If this script refers, as I believe it does, to Moses, it is note-
worthy that while Mrs. Verrall's script alludes only to the
1
Another " cloud " associated with Moses, which might more aptly be
described as " heavy with blessing," was the " pillar of cloud " which was
the sign of divine protection and guidance to the Israelites throughout their
wanderings in the wilderness (Exodus, xiii. 21, etc.).
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 115
contemplative side—to his communion with God on Mount
Sinai—and connects this with a verse from Tennyson (In
Memoriam), Mrs. Holland's supplements it by laying stress
on the active side of his life,
—" He the strong smiter—the
earth compeller,"—and then goes on to point, as I think,
to the communion on Mount Sinai through a quotation from
Browning, the whole being in harmony with the idea of the
combination of the Active and Contemplative expressed in
the preceding part of the script.
(Extract from report of sitting of Mrs. Piper on April S, 1007.)
(Present, Mrs. Sidgwick only.)
E. M. R. Do you remember what the name of Imperator as given
by Mr. Stainton Moses was ?
St. Something. Ignatius.
E. M. S. " Ignatius " ?
I have been trying to give that to Mrs. Verrall also.
E. M. S. St. Ignatius. You have been trying to give it through Mrs.
Verrall ?
Yes, but it is not the name of + no I shall go over
this and see if I can recall.
E. M. S. Good.
Wasn't one Francis ?
E. M. S. Francis ?
Yes.
E. M. S. Rector said the other day his name was Francis once.1
And wasn't the other St. Something ?
E. M. S. " Saint " something ?
Yes. I will try and recall this for you
—
(
Waking-stage)
See about Roland. Les Val.
Good-bye. . . .
Light in West
I'll tell you more
If I can reach over the bar, I'll repeat this letter. . . .
1
At a sitting with Mrs. Piper on Jan. 2, 1907, Mr. Piddington only being
present, he asked Rector what his name was, and Rector answered :
" My
name is Francis, or was when I was in the body."
116 Alice Johnson. [part
The above is linked with Mrs. Holland's and Mrs. VerralFs
scripts of the same date by the phrase (in the waking-stage)
""
Light in West," combined with " If I can reach over the
bar,"—an obvious reference to Crossing the Bar.
" Francis " seems to be explained by the mention of Francis
of Assisi in the sitting of April 29, 1907, below. Whether
or not there is any justification for the apparent statement
that " Rector " represents St. Francis, the reference to Francis
in the sitting gives a meaning to the remark in the waking
stage, " See about Roland—Les- Val ;
" for I conjecture that
" Les Val " is an attempt at La Verna (otherwise called Alverna
or Alvernia), the mountain given to St. Francis by the Tuscan
noble, Roland of Chiusi di Casentino, where he received the
stigmata. The experiences of St. Francis on the Mount of
La Verna were, as explained in detail below, closely analogous
to those of Moses on Mount Sinai. It is therefore noteworthy
that he should be mentioned in a Piper sitting on the same
day that Mrs. Holland's script contained phrases which were
interpreted on other grounds as allusions to Moses.
{Extract from record of sitting with Mis. Piper on April 29,
1907.)
(Present Mrs. Verrall and A. J.)
(Myers communicating)
When I referred to the Greek words I referred to a pic-
ture also. Did you U.D. it ?
Mrs. V. Do you mean when you spoke to me you referred to a
picture ?
Yes, when you were not here
Mrs. V. I have had some references to a picture, but not, I think,
in connection with those three Greek words.
No, but I gave you some reference to it here and later I
referred to it again when you were not here
Mrs. V. Yes, wait a moment. I think I must have this clear.
May I go through it ?
Yes do.
Mrs. V. When I was last here I gave you three Greek words and
I asked fur their meaning and associations. You have
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 117
given me the meaning through this light and have given
me direct the explanation of the associations which I
did not know. You have also, so I am told, given
one association through this light. The only thing now
to complete it would be to say through this light the
name of the Greek author of those words.
[The word " author " was not at first heard and had to
be repeated.]
Oh I U.D. Author. Oh yes I did not catch it. You
mean my reference to Horace
Mrs. V. " My reference to Horace " ?
(Hand shakes) Confusion about your questions, he is
thinking of that question also. also.
Mrs. V. Yes, yes.
[after a remark about the Horace question]
I remember my reference to the Greek Avords well, this
was what brought to my mind the thought about
Sasia Saisia too bad
Mrs. V. Print it.
Francis
S i a a No you do not U.D. me R.
Mrs. V. No, I know I don't.
I said the last sentence which 1 gave you was u k u m en 1
Best to U.D. each word separately if you can and it will
be easier to U.D. him. R.
I gave it here several times and I thought you U.D. it
Mrs. V. Yes. What was it, Rector, that you gave me '{
A
message about Horace ?
Yes
Mrs. V. No, I don't think the message has been given to me about
Horace. I have no knowledge of it.
Oh yes. I think there is still some muddling wait and
I will explain
1 did not mean Horace at all he Mr. Myers means Del
Del
Borg Yes S w Borg S w Borg
1
This is no doubt intended for (Lkvuwv.
118 Alice Johnson. [part
Mrs. V. Swedenborg ?
Yes
Mrs. V. You gave me a message about Swedenborg.
Yes I did
Mrs. V. Yes, you did, and 1 found it true.
thank you now you U.D. Yea one tiling more cleared
up at last
Mrs. V. Yes.
now listen 1 referred to another character both here
and when you were alone
1 wish to go back to St. Paul
my reference to azure a blue sea
azure. . . .
look out for the words I am trying to give you now D. etc.
D. etc.
Mrs. V. Date 1 First letter is I) ?
begins with D
Mrs. V. I know the word. 1 told it to my husband yesterday.
Shall I say it %
Yes— What is it %
Mrs. V. Dante.
Y^es yes Very good indeed but not right yet keep on
and it will come.
[Later in the sitting the name " Dante " was written
after many attempts and apparently with much
difficulty.]
( Waking-stage)
All right I'm glad Inferno Myers. . . . the unknown
deity. . . . Dante's Inferno— what else matters. . . .
ai'ros I have answered—there's no Inferno here— I
want to say more—I wandered lonely as a cloud
—
Myers— Hallam— Arthur Hallam. . . .
As stated above, this was the first time that Mrs. Verrall
had seen Mrs. Piper or had any intercourse with her since
the sitting of Jan. 30, 1907. It was not unnatural, therefore,
that some confusion ensued from her not always understanding
LXVIII.J Some " Concordant Automatisms' 119
to what topic MyersP was alluding. Thus the " picture
"
mentioned by him as connected with " the Greek words
"
was almost certainly the drawings of the ' !
Bar " in the sitting
of March 13, 1907 (see above, p. 102) ; whereas when Mrs.
Verrall replied that she had had " some references to a picture,"
she meant Raphael's picture, which was one of the subjects of
the cross-correspondence " Ave Roma " (see above, p. 12).
MyerSp seems at first confused between the " Horace Ode
"
question and the " Greek words " question (both having been
put to him originally by Mrs. Verrall), but almost immedi-
ately realises that they are distinct, and spontaneously connects
with the latter " Sasia Saisia Francis S i a a." There can,
I think, be little doubt that by this St. Francis of Assisi is
meant. He then goes on—apparently in the same connection
—to refer to Swedenborg, St. Paul and " a blue sea " (which
must imply a cloudless sky) ; and to a word beginning with
D., which Mrs. Verrall suggests is Dante. In the waking
stage he mentions " the unknown deity,"—probably in refer-
ence to St. Paul's sermon at Athens {Acts, xvii. 23),—and
repeats the name " Arthur Hallam."
Swedenborg and St. Paul are spoken of in Human Person-
ality, Vol. II., p. 261, as among " the strong souls who have
claimed to feel [the transcendental ecstasy]," together with
Elijah, Plotinus, Dante, Wordsworth and Tennyson (among
others), all of whom have been referred to in the course of
this cross-correspondence. It is therefore appropriate that
MyerSp should mention them here.
St. Francis of Assisi, who, as we have seen, was probably
the Francis mentioned in the Piper sitting of April 8, 1907,
is of special interest in this connection on account of the
close parallelism between what must be regarded as the crown-
ing event of his life—the retreat on the Mount of La Verna
during which he received the stigmata—and the experiences
of Moses on Mount Sinai, 1
referred to in the scripts of Mrs.
Verrall and Mrs. Holland. The parallelism is referred to in
general terms by more than one of his early biographers, but
1
It is of course probable that the Franciscan Legend was moulded to
some extent on the Mosaic Legend, and that this accounts—at least in part—
for the resemblances between them. My argument relates only to the resem
blances, and is not affected by any question as to what caused them.
120 Alice Johnson. [part
has not, so far as I know, been worked out in detail. It may
therefore be worth while to give it more fully here.
The Mount of La Verna (otherwise called Alverna) in Tus-
cany was given to St. Francis 1
by a Tuscan noble, Roland of
Chiusi di Casentino, as a place where he and his friars might
found a solitary retreat. (See " Roland—Les Val " in the
Piper sitting of April 8, 1907.) He went there with Friars
Masseo, Angelo and Leo, accompanied by a peasant on whose
ass St. Francis rode. On their way up the mountain, the
peasant suffered greatly from thirst, and St. Francis by virtue
of his prayers caused a spring to gush out of a hard rock
where water had never been seen before or since ; as Moses
brought water out of the rock in Horeb ( = Sinai).
After they reached the place chosen for the friary, St.
Francis stayed there for a short time with the other friars.
Later he sought for a more solitary and more secret place,
in which to keep the fast of St. Michael, and a little cell was
made for him on the further side of a great chasm. Friar
Leo alone came with him to this retreat, but remained always
at a distance from him except when at certain hours he came
to bring him food. In this solitary place St. Francis spent
the forty days of the fast. Similarly, Moses was accompanied
for some way up Mount Sinai by Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, and
seventy elders ; and went on further alone with his minister
Joshua, and remained in the mount forty days and forty
nights {Exodus, xxiv.).
One night in the early part of September, Friar Leo, going
to take food to St. Francis, saw him praying in the wood.
Then he saw a flaming torch 2
come down from heaven and
rest on the head of St. Francis, and out of the flame he heard
a voice speaking in words which he could not understand,
but afterwards St. Francis told him, " God was in that flame
thou sawest, who spake to me in that vision, even as of old
He had spoken to Moses."
On the morning of Holy Cross Day (Sept. 14, 1224), before
1
The account of St. Francis here given is taken from The Little Flowers
of St. Francis, trans, by T. Okey.
2
Cf. the Pentecostal " cloven tongues like as of fire " (Acts, ii. 3), associated,
e.g. in Keble's Whitsunday hymn, with the manifestations to Moses on Mount
Sinai.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms.'' 121
dawn, St. Francis, praying, saw the vision of the Seraph
and received the stigmata. Then the whole mount of La
Verna seemed for about an hour to flame forth with so brilliant
a light that it was reported by some shepherds to the friars.
Also some muleteers, thinking the sun had risen, arose and
saddled their beasts. Then they saw that light wane and
the real sun rise.
Cf. " The sight of the glory of the Lord [upon Mount Sinai]
was like devouring fire on the top of the mount in the eyes
of the children of Israel " {Exodus, xxiv. 17).
St. Francis, having completed in solitude the forty days'
fast of St. Michael, " descended from the mountain, bearing
with him the likeness of the Crucified, engraven, not on tables
of stone or of wood by the craftsman's hand, but written on
his members of flesh by the finger of the Living God." 1
Cf.
" He gave unto Moses, when he had made an end of communing
with him upon Mount Sinai, two tables of testimony, tables
of stone, written with the finger of God " {Exodus, xxxi. 18) ;
and " And the tables were the work of God, and the writing
was the writing of God, graven upon the tables " {Exodus,
xxxii. 1G).
St. Francis is also compared by St. Bonaventura to Elijah :
" [He was] wholly set on fire by the kindling of the Seraph,
and, like the prophet, borne aloft in a chariot of fire ; where-
fore it is reasonably proven and clearly apparent from the
witness of his whole life that he came in the spirit and power
of Elias." 2
We find too that his ecstasy, like that of Plotinus, was
(according to St. Bonaventura) associated with the calm of
external nature : "In the neighbourhood of the aforesaid
Mount Alverna, before that the holy man had sojourned
there, a cloud was wont to arise from the mountain and a
fierce hailstorm to lay waste the fruits of the earth. But
after that blessed vision, to the amazement of the inhabitants,
the hail ceased, that the excellence of that heavenly appari-
tion and the virtue of the stigmata that were there imprinted
might be attested by the very face of the heavens, made
calm beyond its wont."
1
Life of St. Francis, by St. Bonaventura (trans, by Miss E. Gurney Salter).
2
Prologue to St. Bonaventura's Life.
122 Alice Johnson. [part
{Extract from record of sitting with Mrs. Piper on April 30,
1907.)
(Present : A. J. and afterwards Mrs. Verrall.)
(Myers communicating)
I promised to give my reply to the Greek words and as
soon as I saw the light departing I caught Rector and
gave it to him and he will now give it to you
A. J. Yes, do, please.
As I believe it will be a 'better proof of identity than it
would be if I gave it to Mrs. V. Do you U.D.
A. J. Yes, quite.
Well my reply to the Greek words is this They reminded
me of Homer's Illiard [sic]
[After a little general conversation between A. J. and
MyeiSp, Mrs. Verrall comes in, and Myersp repeats to
her that he has given " Homer's Illiard " to A. J. as
his reply to the Greek words. After some talk about
the Horace Ode question, etc., Myersp referred again
to the Greek words :]
You asked for author's name. It reminded me of Pa Soc
Socr tse
Mrs. V. Socrates ?
Yes— it reminded me of Homer also. I got Socratese
in my mind, and it came through your question. . . .
( Waking-stage)
(Jlad there's some one
Thanatos— Thanatos 1— Glad I'm— Thanatos— San.
arpal okim ajjpecky oan alon—akonoos—. . . .
[These words, which were written down phonetically by
A. J., were probably intended for the Greek words.]
With Thanatos of. " Moaning at the bar when I put out
to sea " in the waking stage of March 6, 1907, and " Death "
in the waking stage of March 13, 1907. The word " Thanatos
"
1
This word—the Greek for "death "—had been mentioned to and trans
lated by G. P. at some sittings held by Dr. Hodgson and Professor Newbold
in 1895 (see Proc, Vol. XIV., p. 47), so that it must be assumed that Mrs.
Piper knew what it meant.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 123
had also been mentioned in the waking stage on April 17 and
April 23, 1907, and was treated in Mr. Piddington's report 1
as a separate cross-correspondence, corresponding with " Mors,
etc.," in Mrs. Holland's script of April 16, 1907 (see below,
p. 139), and various references to Death in Mrs. Verrall's
script of April 29, 1907.
Mrs. Verrall did not at the time of this sitting see any point
in the reference to Socrates and Homer's Iliad in connection
with the Greek words. But later she remembered a passage
relating to Socrates in Human Personality, Vol. II., pp. 273-4,
as follows :
Surely even that special jDremonitiou which is sometimes spoken
of as a thing of terror,—the warning or the promise of earthly
death,—should to the wise man sound as a friendly summons, and
as a welcome home. Let him remember the Vision which came to
Socrates in the prison-house ; —then, and then only, showing in
an angel's similitude the Providence which till that hour had been
but as an impersonal and invisible Voice ; —but iioav the " fair and
white-robed woman," while friends offered escape from death, had
already spoken of better hope than this, and had given to Achilles'
words a more sacred meaning,
—" On the third day hence thou
comest to Phthia's fertile shore."
It does not seem probable that Mrs. Piper had read this
passage ; and even if she had, it is very improbable that she
would have realised that " Achilles' words " are a line from
the Iliad, no indication to that effect being given in the book.
If it was to this that MyersP referred, it fits in closely with
his other associations with ch'to? ovpavos olkv/ulcop, namely,
Crossing the Bar, and Death.
(Mrs. Verrall's Script of May 1, 1907.)
Evangel 2
then speed the word
1
See Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 295-304.
2
A probable reference to the Evangelist St. Mark, since the same word is
used in Mrs. Verrall's script of Oct. 27, 1905, in connection with St. Mark ;
and on May 13 (1907)—the date given later in this script—she produced a
script interpreted by Mr. Piddington to refer to Myers's poem Venice, in
which St. Mark is mentioned rather prominently (see Proc, Vol. XXVI.,
pp. 184 ct seq.).
124 Alice Johnson. [part
Sleep Death's twin brother 1
I stretch my hand across the gulf of time—that was said before
to you. the intervening space twixt world and world, the lucid
interspace. 2
I want you to try a special experiment. On May 13
wait for a message I cannot tell how it will reach you—but there is
some special interest in that day. Tell Helen too—she might help.
Don't ask more—a veil is best—but in the end you will understand
and find the record complete.
Try to say the eagle soaring over Plato's tomb.
(Drawing of bird with large outspread wings.)
write sloAvly for him to repeat again
v a G i t u s Wailing
kwkvtos [wailing.]
We cease and may the blessings of the Most High rest on you
all Farewell (—1~) R
" / stretch my hand . . . the lucid interspace " refers us
back to Mrs. Verrall's script of Feb. 25, 1907, see above,
p. 93, while in her script of Feb. 12, 1907 (p. 88) occurred the
words " Nor ever falls the least light . . . ", quoted from
the same passage in Lucretius.
" The eagle soaring over Plato's tomb.''' This phrase (used
of Plotinus and, of course, familiar to Mrs. Verrall) is quoted
twice in Human Personality, Vol. I., p. 120 and Vol. II., p.
201. It is also quoted in Myers's Classical Essays ;
Greek
Oracles, p. 98, just before his translation of the Oracle given
at Delphi in answer to the question " Where is now Plotinus'
soul ?
" some reminiscences of which appeared in Mrs. Ver-
rall's script of Dec. 17, 1906, see above, p. 31.
Finally, the name Plotinus was given in Mrs. Piper's trance,
as follows :
(Extract from report of sitting with Mrs. Piper on May 6, 1907.)
(Present : Mrs. Sidgwick and A. J.)
(Myers communicating)
1 " When in the down I sink my head,
Sleep, Death's twin-brother, times my breath ;
Sleep, Death's twin-brother, knows not Death,
Nor can I dream of thee as dead :
"
(Tennyson, In Mcmoriam, LXVIII.).
2 Tennyson, Lucretius.
Lxvni.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 125
Will you say to Mrs. Verrall
Plotinus
E. M. S. I will. What is that ?
My answer
E. M. S. C4ood
To autos ouranos oknmen
E. M. S. Very good indeed. She will be very glad. I believe
that is what she wanted.
Chronological Summary of the avro<; oupavo^ aKVfxwv Incident.
1907.
Jan. 15 (Mrs. P.). Statement that the message " Celestial
Halcyon days " had been given to
Mrs. V.
Jan. 22 (Mrs. V.). Script containing word " supern." Mrs.
V. is reminded by this of an early
script containing word " supernal."
Jan. 23. Mrs. V. determines to ask MyersP what are his
associations with oi'tos1
ovpavo? ciKVfjLwv.
Jan. 29. At a sitting with Mrs. Piper, Mrs. V. puts this
question to MyersP .
Jan. 30 (Mrs. P.). Satellite and stars beam brightly
(? Myers, To Tennyson) Larches and
Laburnum (? In Mem.) Ulysses
(? Tennyson's poem).
Feb. 12 (Mrs. V.). Voyage of Maeldune. Noises of the
western sea. Merlin's prophetic
vision. The Passing of Arthur.
Where blows not any wind, etc.
(Refs. to Tennyson's poems, involving,
perhaps, a ref. to Maximus of Tyre.)
Feb. 20 (Mrs. V.). Chiaroscuro (? ref. to Myers's To Tenny-
son and Renewal of Youth) Peace.
Adventure forth.
Feb. 25 (Miss V.). In the silence of the sleep-time (Brown-
ing's Epilogue).
Feb. 25 (Mrs. V.). The lucid interspace of world and world
—where the gods of Lucretius quaff
126 Alice J ohmson. [part
their nectar (Tennyson's Lucretius and
Lotos-Eaters).
Feb. 26. Mrs. V. hears of Miss V.'s quotation from Browning.
Feb. 26 (Mrs. V.). Stars and Satellites (Myers, To Tenny-
son). May there be no moaning at
the bar (Tennyson, Grossing the Bar).
The fighter fights one last fight (Brown-
ing, Epilogue and Prospice). After
the earthquake, the fire and the wind
(Moses on Sinai,—mentioned in In
Mem.,-—and Elijah on Horeb).
Mar. 6 (Mrs. V.). Calm is the sea, etc. (Tennyson, In Mem.).
Mar. 6 (Mrs. P.). Cloudless sky beyond the horizon. Moan-
ing at the bar. Arthur Hallam (Tenny-
son, Crossing the Bar and In Mem.).
Mar. 11 (Mrs. V.). The shadow of the Parthenon. Plato
—
dim-seen forms—half seen (Myers, On
Watts'
1
Works and Renewal of Youth).
A verse in Tennyson, Plato and the
shadow, etc. (Tennyson, In Mem.).
Presences on the eternal hills—the
lonely hills.
Mar. 11-12. Mrs. V. finds close parallelism between Plotinus'
view of conditions necessary for trance
and Tennyson's in In Mem., XCIV.-
xcv.
Mar. 13 (Mrs. P.). I said to Mrs. V. I had crossed the Bar
(Tennyson, Crossing the Bar). My
own lines in which I referred to Stare
(Myers, Renewal of Youth). Arthur
Hallam (In Mem.). Death.
Mar. 13 (Mrs. H.). The far shore of a very still and tideless
sea. We gain the same goal through
different gates [of death]. How many
times ere I be dead, etc. (Myers,
Sonnet in Reneival of Youth vol.).
Mar. 18 (Mrs. H.). Description of different ways of dying.
Apr. 8 (Mrs. V.). Rosy is the East (Tennyson, Maud).
Apr. 8 (Mrs. H.). Peace on the great heart of the heaving
sea, etc. The afterglow made the
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms'* 127
East as richly coloured as the West
—
Leah became as Rachel— With such a
purple and sea-blue grace, etc. (Brown-
ing, James Lee's Wife, and Tennyson,
In Mem.). The strong smiter—the
earth compeller (? Moses). A billowy
cloud (Browning, Last Ride Together).
Apr. 8 (Mrs. P.). Francis. Roland. Les Val. Light in
West. If I can reach over the Bar
(Crossing the Bar).
Apr. 29 (Mrs. P.). Sasia Saisia Francis Siaa Swedenborg
—
St. Paul—a blue sea. The unknown
deity. There's no Inferno here. Ar-
thur Hallam (In Mem.).
Apr. 30 (Mrs. P.). Greek words reminded me of Homer's
Illiard [sic] and Socrates. Thanatos.
May 1 (Mrs. V.). Sleep, Death's twin brother (In Mem.).
The lucid interspace of world and
world (Tennyson, Lucretius). The
eagle soaring over Plato's tomb (Plo-
tinus).
May 6 (Mrs. P.). Plotinus is my answer to autos ouranos
okumen [sic].
CHAPTER VI.
Cross-Correspondence : " The Clavigers."
This cross-correspondence is closely linked, as will be seen,
with the " Ave Roma immortalis " case of a year before, and
with the avTo? ovpavo? ukv/awv case that was going on con-
temporaneously. It is linked with the former through its
allusions to Hercules and St. Peter, the Club-bearer and
the Key-Bearer ; to Pope Julius II. and to Rome ; and with
the latter through its allusions to Plotinus, to East and West,
to Moses and to Leah and Rachel. But so many topics are
involved that it seemed best to treat separately, as far as
128 Alice Johnson. [part
possible, those that for convenience have been classified
under the present category.
The first two scripts, by Mrs. Verrall, are so clearly con-
nected together that I will first quote both and then comment
on the two combined.
/xaivo/xevos 6 'H/oa/vA?;? [Herakles is mad].
Hercules Furens [The mad Hercules]. Tell your husband from
me there is a passage in the Herakles not understood, about the
pillar and the tying to it. An old story lies behind that but it means
something in Euripides that A W V has not yet seen. Tell him
to look at it again—it is the passage about the pillar and the thong
—
the pillar at the foot of wh. lay the dead children. Tell your hus-
band to read that again—not to mind the mythology but to see
another point wh. will please him.
I have long wanted to say this but the words were never there
—now all the words are there and I think I have made the meaning
clear ask elsewhere for the Bound Hercules. 'Hpa/v-A?;? Xvo/xevos
[Unbound Heracles] is the sequel.
Binding and loosing Seo-juoto-i Xvtols [with fetters that may
be loosed.] not adamantine fetters 1
but fetters that link and
loose. Something about snapping his bonds in sunder. Tell
A W V he will understand.
{Mrs. Verrall's Script of March 25, 1907.)
Claviger the bearer of the Key and Club
clavem gerens trans Pontem
trans Helles pontem et insuper mare ad urbem antea Byzantineam
postea de ipsius nomine nominatam. [bearing the key (or club)
{Mrs. Verrall's Script of March 4, 1907.)
1
Cf. Aeschylus, Prometheus Vinchts, 11. <i and 64.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms.'' 129
across the Bridge across Helle's bridge and over the sea to the
city formerly Byzantine afterwards called from his own name.]
The Club and Key—East and West— look for the Eastern sign
of the Club ex pede Herculem [from the foot (you may know)
Hercules] The Hercules story comes in there and the clue is in
the Euripides play if you could only see it.
Bound to the pillar—I told you before of Sebastian, —it is the
same story of the archer and the binding to the pillar.
1 want a special message to get to you. I have tried several
times, but you have not understood. I don't know where it Avent
wrong. But let Piddington know when you get a message about
shadow,—remember the Virgilian line indignantis sub umbras 1
[to
the angry shades]. To you they are shadows—like the shadows in
Plato's cave, but they are shadows of the real.
quae cum vides bene comprehendere possis quae tibi nunc fusco
colore obdita paene obscurata videntur, et tamen in somniis ali-
cpiando UMBRARUM volitantia corpora percipis-—immo pro
corporibus animas dicere melius
—
quae tibi per somnum mentem immortalia tangunt
haec cape, quis captis non [sic] desine
[which when you see you will well understand what now hidden
with dark colour seems to you almost obscured and yet in dreams
sometimes you see the flitting bodies of SHADES—rather for bodies
it were better to say souls. The immortal things that touch your
mind in sleep, seize them and when they are seized do not cease.]
no, not that
summum adtingere [to attain the highest] comes in
It means that there and thus does this mortal put on immortality, 2
by keeping hold of the things, the true things seen in sleep. Why
could he not say that ? It seems simple enough to me.
et nos attingimus caelum [we too attain heaven]
But when so many things flit through the mind it is hard to
seize and hold only what is true. I think I have this time. Ask
if he understands.
The shadow of a shade
that is better umbrarum umbras [shades of shades]
a-Kias eiSoXov [the image of a shade] was what I wanted to get
written. Good-bye.
1
Virgil, JEneid, XII. 952, " indignata sub umbras."
2
See I. Cor. xv. 53.
I
130 Alice Johnson. [part
As to the script of March 4, 1907, the Hercules Furens
of Euripides was one of the plays included in Dr. Verrall's
studies of Euripides, but neither he nor Mrs. Verrall was able
to conjecture what particular point in the story had, as alleged
by the script, been missed by him, nor has any further light
been thrown on this since.
The latter part of the script lays stress on the contrast
between the Bound and the Unbound Heracles. In the play
the tying of Heracles to the pillar, after, in his madness, he
had killed his wife and children, is an important incident,
but there is no particular point in the untying after he recovers
his reason. " Bound and Unbound," however, naturally
suggests Prometheus, as is further indicated by the phrase
" adamantine fetters " (borrowed from the Prometheus Vinctus
of iEschylus)—fetters from which he was delivered by Heracles.
I take it, then, that the general intention of this script is to
point to the contrast of Binding and Loosing,—a topic which
is carried on and developed in the script of March 25, 1907.
This script by its opening reference to the Claviger—the
bearer of the Key and Club—refers back to Mrs. Verrall's
script of March 5, 1906 (see above, p. 20), in which the
Claviger had been interpreted by Mrs. Verrall herself as a
joint allusion to Hercules and St. Peter. It may then be taken
as certain that this script too refers to St. Peter as well as to
Hercules.
But Mr. Piddington 1
pointed out that the only Latin writer
who uses " Claviger " in the sense of
' L
Key-bearer " is Ovid,
who in Fasti, I. applies the term to the two-headed Roman
deity Janus. Janus holds in his right hand a staff and in
his left a key ; he is the door-keeper of the courts of heaven,
and with his double face is able to see the East and the West
at the same time. In the same book of the Fasti Ovid calls
Heracles " Claviger," viz. " Club-bearer."
The epithet Claviger, then, suggests three different charac-
ters, Heracles, Janus, and St. Peter. Heracles is partly
Eastern, partly Western, and his Club is one of the signs of
the Oriental elements in his mythology. Janus is a purely
1
I here summarise the comments on this script made by Mr. Piddington
in Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 253-258 ; but the reader who is interested in the
classical allusions should refer to that report for full details.
LXVHI.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 131
Western deity, but the Key with which he opens and shuts,
and his power of seeing the East and West simultaneously
are instances of various antithetical powers attributed to him.
To St. Peter, an Oriental and first bishop of the Western
Church, belongs the Power of the Keys, which admit into
or exclude from the Kingdom of Heaven, and the power of
binding and loosing. 1
Further, St. Peter, according to one tradition, was mar-
tyred on the Janiculum, the hill of Janus ; while Ovid has a
story that Heracles was the first to throw dummy figures
instead of live human beings from the Sublician Bridge into
the Tiber as sacrifices to Vulcan, this being the oldest bridge
across the Tiber, and leading straight to the Janiculum.
The words " trans pontem trans Hellespontem " seem to
involve a play on pontem and (Helles) pontum which can
allude only to Xerxes ; for it was he who built the pontem
(bridge) between Abyclos and Sestos by means of which the
Persian army crossed Helles pontum {i.e. the sea of Helle. or
the Hellespont) to Greece. The point of this allusion is probably
as another instance of the union of East and West.
" The city formerly Byzantine, afterwards called by his own
name " is of course Constantinople, to which Constantine
removed the seat of the Roman Empire after he became sole
ruler of the East and West portions of it. The Asian part
of the Empire naturally became more closely bound up with
the West through this action of Constantine 's.
The latter part of the script, beginning : "I want a special
message to get to you . . .
", is the part that is connected with
the avros ovpavos aKUfiwv incident, being no doubt founded,
at least partly, as Mrs. Verrall herself observed, on a quota-
tion from Plotinus in Human Personality (Vol. II., p. 290, on
the page preceding that from which the Plotinian passage
quoted above, p. 84, is taken) as follows :
When from that cloud encompassing of unforgetful souls some
voice is heard,—as long ago,—there needs no heroism, no sanctity,
to inspire the apostle's kiriOvfua eZs to dvaXva-ai, the desire to
1 " I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven : and whatso-
ever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven : and whatsoever
thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven " (St. Matthew, xvi. 19).
Cf. Mrs. Verrall's script of Mar. 4, 1907.
132 Alice Joh v sow. [part
lift our anchor and to sail out beyond the bar. ... "As the
soul hasteneth," says Plotinus, " to the things that are above, she
.will ever forget the more ; unless all her life on earth leave a
memory of things done well. For even here may man do well, if
he stand clear of the cares of earth. And he must stand clear of
their memories too ; so that one may rightly speak of a noble soul
as forgetting those things that arc behind. And the shade (if
Herakles, indeed, may talk of his own valour to the shades ; but
the true Herakles in the true world will deem all that of little worth ;
being transported into a more sacred place, and strenuously engag-
ing, even above his strength, in those battles in which the wise
engage."
In this passage Plotinus is alluding to Odyssey, XL 601-3,
where a distinction is drawn between the shade (e'lSwXov) of
Heracles in Hades and Heracles himself (auras') in Heaven.
Mr. Piddington points out that the same lines in the Odyssey
must have been the source of Tennyson's
" No visual shade of some one lost
But he. the Spirit himself, may come. ..."
(In Memoriam, XCIII.)
(This stanza has already been quoted in commenting on
the reference to Tennyson and Plato in Mrs. Verralks script
of March 11. 1907, see above, p. 100.)
The same words, e'lSajXov 1
and auras , are used in the same
sense in Plato's allegory of the prisoners in the cave, which
is referred to in the script of March 25, 1907.
The meaning of all the latter part of the script seems to be
that the images seen in trance or ecstasy are in themselves
unreal, but that they represent a reality :
—" like the shadows
in Plato's cave, bat they are shadows of the reed."
San Pietro in Vincoli.
Since the script of March 25, 1907, was taken by Mrs.
Verrall to refer to St. Peter as well as to Hercules, I think
there can be little doubt that the " binding and loosing
"
and " snapping his bonds in sunder " of March 4, 1907, also
1
It is interesting that the word " eidolon " was used in some early scripts
of Mrs. Holland's, commented on in my first report, Proc, Vol. XXI.,
pp. 215-218. The note on it supplied to me by Mrs. Verrall and" there
printed was not written until March, 1908.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 133
refer to St. Peter as well as to Hercules, the two scripts being
so closely connected together. The phrase " binding and
loosing " refers, I take it, to the powers attributed to the
Apostle, which were in some respects analogous to those
attributed to Hercules (e.g. in the hitter's delivery of Pro-
metheus from his bonds). " Something about snapping his
bonds in sunder " refers, I think, to the chains with which
St. Peter himself was bound in prison.
Two imprisonments of St. Peter 1
are recorded : (1) when he
was imprisoned by Herod in Jerusalem and delivered by an
angel, when " his chains fell off from his hands " and the iron
gate " opened to them of his own accord " (Acts, xii. 1-10) ;
(2) when, as asserted by some early ecclesiastical writers, he
was confined with St. Paul in the Mamertine prison at Rome
for eight or nine months up to the time of his martyrdom.
The church of San Pietro in Vincoli in Rome, to which 1
believe that special reference is made in these scripts and in
a corresponding one of Mrs. Holland's, contains as its chief
relic the chains alleged to be those with which St. Peter was
bound in the Mamertine prison.
There are a number of different legends as to the acquisi-
tion of these chains by the church. According to one version,
they were sent originally to Jerusalem, and afterwards pre-
sented by the Bishop of Jerusalem to Eudoxia, who put one
in the Basilica at Constantinople and sent the other to her
daughter, the Empress Eudoxia at Rome. The latter built
the church as a shrine for the chain. Shortly afterwards the
second chain was sent to Rome and miraculously united itself
to the first.
2
The miracle was beheld in a vision by Pope
Leo I.
3
; the day on which it occurred, August 1st, being
always afterwards kept as a festival when the sacred chain
is exhibited.
In the sacristy, where the shrine containing the chain is
kept, is a picture by Domenichino of the freeing of St. Peter
from prison, and a copy of the same picture is in the church
itself.
1
Besides the occasion when he and St. John were " put in hold " for a
single night at Jerusalem (Acts, iv. 3.)
2
Rom und die Campagna, by Dr. Th. Gesell Fels, p. 80fi.
3
See Hare's Walks in Rome, Vol. II., p. 50.
134 Alice Johnson. [part
Tins church, then, may be said to represent, as perhaps no
other church does, St. Peter Bound and Unbound, both in
the East and in the West ; which latter feature, together
with the union of the Roman chain with that from Con-
stantinople, is another instance of the combination of West
and East which we have seen to be one of the factors of the
whole complex cross-correspondence.
St. Sebastian.
" / told you before of Sebastian, it is the same story of the
archer and the binding to the pillar."
St. Sebastian is of course often represented in art as bound
to a pillar (like Hercules in the Hercules Furens) and generally
as pierced with arrows. The pillar and the arrows suggest
an association with Hercules ; but I believe that the main
intention of the script is again to point to the church of San
Pietro in Vincoli. One of the chief features of this church
is a remarkable old mosaic of St. Sebastian, described by Dr.
Gsell Eels as a unique example of the Byzantine influence
in Rome,1
and reproduced in the illustration given below
(Plate XI).
A fresco in the church ascribed to Pollajuolo represents
the translation of the body of St. Sebastian, as Depidsor
Pestilitatis, from the catacombs to the church. This occurred
during the plague of 680, when a citizen dreamt that it would
cease as soon as the body of St. Sebastian was brought into
the church and an altar erected to him. A tablet near the
altar tells the story of the plague and its cessation.
From this time onwards St. Sebastian was invoked as a
protector against the plague, and his fame gradually spread
through the whole of Europe.2
Mrs. Verrall was in Rome once only, in March, 1892, as
related above in connection with the " Ave Roma immortalis
"
cross-correspondence (see p. 21), and a note in her diary
records that she visited S. Pietro in Vincoli on March 30,
1892. When, in the autumn of 1912, I mentioned to her
1
Rom und die Campagna, p. 810.
2
See Hare's Walks in Rome, Vol. II., p. 52 ; and Mrs. Arthur Bell's Lives
and Legends of the Evangelists, Apostles and other early Saints, p. 239
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 135
that the Church contained a famous mosaic of St. Sebastian,
she remembered nothing about it. But when later I showed
her a photograph of it, she wrote :
On reflection I am sure that we must have seen the St. Sebastian
mosaic. The photograph of it brought it back to me vividly,
and we were very much interested in mosaics and went to all the
churches where there were any interesting mosaics. What I did
not and do not recall is that this mosaic was in the church of San
Pietro hi Vincoli.
(Mrs. Holland's Script of April 8, 1907.)
Is the Paradiso mental relaxation ? I should recommend prose
—English prose—fiction.
The constellation of Orion.
The tall spire shows above the mellow redness of the wall
—
Do you remember that exquisite sky when the after glow made
the East as beautiful and as richly coloured as the West— Martha
became as Mary—and Leah as Rachel
—
" With such a purple and sea blue grace
Love settling unawares "
He the strong smiter the earth compeller
A billowy cloud heavy with blessing
—
The whole of this script is given above (p. 110) in connec-
tion with aiiros oi>fjavo<s aKUfxwv, as exemplifying the contrast
or union of the East and the West, and of the Active and
Contemplative types.
The mention of Martha and Mary with Leah and Rachel
indicates that the idea at the back of the script was not the
Biblical conception of Leah and Rachel, but the mediaeval
conception of them as the Old Testament " types " cor-
responding to the New Testament Active and Contemplative
" types " of Martha and Mary. The most famous literary
expression of this idea of Leah and Rachel occurs in Dante's
Purgatorio, and the mention of the Paradiso earlier in the
script shows that the scribe had Dante in mind. Rachel is
mentioned several times in the Commedia, but Leah occurs once
136 Alice Johnson. [part
only, and then with Rachel, in the following passage (Purga-
torio, XXVII. 92- 108),
1
in which Dante describes his dream
before the dawn of the day on which he entered the Earthly
Paradise :
" sleep fell on me, sleep which oft doth know the news ere the
fact come to pass.
In the hour, methinks, when Cytherea, who seemeth ever burning
with fire of love, first beamed from the east on the mount,
meseemed to behold in a dream, a lady, young and fair, going
along a plain gathering flowers ; and singing she said :
'
Know, whoso asketh my name, that I am Leah, and go moving
my fair hands around to make me a garland.
To please me at the glass here I deck me ; but Rachel my sister
ne'er stirs from her mirror, and sitteth all day.
She is fain to behold her fair eyes, as I to deck me with my hands :
her, contemplation ;
me, action, doth satisfy.'
"
This passage gives us Leah and Rachel only ; Martha and
Mary are not mentioned in the Commedia at all, but in the
Temple Edition there is a note to this passage as follows :
[In] this third and last vision of Dante's . . . Leah and Rachel,
the Old Testament types of the Active and Contemplative Life
appear to him. ... In the New Testament the types are repre-
sented by Martha and Mary, see Convivio, IV. 17 ; 85-111.
On the other hand, Gary's Translation of Dante has the
following note on Purgatorio, XXVII. 101 :
By Leah is understood the active life as Rachel figures the con-
templative. Michel Angelo has made these allegorical personages
the subject of two statues on the monument of Julius II. in the
church of S. Pietro in Vincoli.
Conversely Dr. Gsell Pels, in speaking of the Leah and
Rachel of the tomb, 2
refers to Purgatorio, XXVII. 108. Since,
further, it is well known that Michael Angelo greatly admired
Dante, and earnestly desired to be allowed to erect a monu-
1
Temple Edition ; translation by Thomas Okey.
2
Rom und die Campagna, p. 808.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 137
meiit to him at Florence instead of labouring at the tombs
of persons in whom he took no interest, there seems little
doubt that his Leah and Rachel were intended to embody
Dante's conception of them. In any case his is the most
famous representation of them in art, as Dante's is in litera-
ture, and I believe that the script alludes to both.
If this interpretation is correct, we should expect to find
in the script some allusion to the most famous feature of the
tomb (and of the Church of San Pietro in Vincoli), namely,
the statue of Moses ; and this, I believe, is to be found (as
suggested in the previous chapter, p. 113) in the phrase " He
the strong smiter, the earth-compeller." This is a not in-
appropriate description of the Moses of the tomb, which
represents the active ruler, lawgiver, and judge, and not the
contemplative side of Moses' life. (See below, Plate XII.)
Mrs. Holland, who is unfamiliar with Dante's works, knew
nothing of the passage about Leah and Rachel in the Purgatorio.
She has never been to Rome, and consequently has not seen
Michael Angelo's Moses ; nor did she know that it is placed
between statues of Leah and Rachel until I told her of this
fact, having myself discovered it some time after Leah and
Rachel had been mentioned in her script. She had attached
no meaning to " the strong smiter, the earth-compeller."
Michael Angelo was working at this tomb at intervals for
a great part of his life, 1505-1545. It was originally ordered
in 1505 by Julius II., who, as mentioned above (see p. 23),
pulled down the old St. Peter's church, and planned and
began the present building (of San Pietro in Vaticano),
with a special view to its containing his own tomb, which
was planned on a colossal scale, with some forty statues in
marble and bronze, besides bas-reliefs and ornamental figures.
After the death of Julius II. in 1513, the work was stopped
for a time and resumed at intervals by the orders of his rela-
tions. The tomb was finally placed in San Pietro in Vincoli,
of which he had been Cardinal. Of the figures on it, Moses
is by Michael Angelo, and Leah and Rachel are either his
work, or at least designed by him and executed partly by
him and partly under his supervision. The Virgin and Child,
and the Prophet and Sibyl, above, were also designed by
Michael Angelo.
138 Alice Johnson. ("part
The two " Bound Captives " or " Slaves " now in the
Louvre were executed by Michael Angelo for the tomb, as
were the four unfinished figures now in the Grotto Buon-
talenti of the Boboli Gardens at Florence. One figure from
each of these sets is shown in Plates XIII. and XIV. They
were meant to represent the provinces conquered by the
warlike Pope Julius II.
If I am right in thinking that Mrs. Verrall's scripts of March
4 and 25, 1907, refer to this church (which, as explained above,
represents St. Peter Bound and Unbound) and to St. Peter's
powers of binding and loosing, it seems not unreasonable
to conjecture that, in the repeated phrases about binding and
persons bound to pillars, etc., which no doubt apply primarily
to Hercules and St. Sebastian, a secondary reference is intended
to these symbols of the material power not only claimed but
freely exercised by a Pope who acted as a Club-bearer rather
than a Key-bearer.
[Extract from report of sitting with Mrs. Piper on April 8, 1907.)
(Present : Mrs. Sidgwick only.)
(Myers communicating)
Do you remember euripides.
E. M. S. What is that ?
lt
Euripides " ?
1
I meant to say Harold.
E. M. S. " Harold " ?
Yes well
E. M. S. To whom did you say " Harold " ?
to Mrs. V.
An extract from a later part of the same sitting, about St.
Francis, is given above, p. 115, and the phrase " Light
in West," uttered in the waking-stage is linked with Mrs.
Holland's " the afterglow made the East as beautiful and
as richly coloured as the West " of the same date. The
mention of " Euripides " here links with Mrs. Verrall's scripts
1
Mrs. Sidgwick noted that she had no doubt of the reading but for its
apparent irrelevance, since she did not then know that the name had occurred
in Mrs. Verrall's script.
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 139
of March 4 and 25, 1907, discussed above, and with Mrs.
Holland's immediately below.
(Mrs. Holland's Script of April 16, 1907.)
Maurice. Morris. Mors.
And with that the shadow of death fell upon him and his soul
departed out of his limbs.
Leopold—Lucus [?]
Margaret
To fly to find Euripides Philemon
1 want you to understand me but 1 have so few chances to
speak—it's like waiting to take a ticket and I am always pushed
away from the pigeon hole before I can influence her mind— No
the scribe's
—
A peck of pickled pepper 1—
The first part of this script was treated by Mr. Piddington
(in Proc, Vol. XXII., p. 297) as a separate cross-correspond-
ence, connected with " Thanatos " in Mrs. Piper's trance on
Apr. 17, 23, and 30, 1907 (see above, p. 122), and with various
references to Death in Mrs. Verrall's script of April 29, 1907.
The scripts of these three automatists are no doubt closely
connected together on this point ; but the reference to Death
in Mrs. Holland's is also linked with the mention of Euripides
later in the same script, for this, as will be seen immediately,
refers especially to the death of Euripides.
Mr. Piddington, in his original comments on the latter part
of this script, 2
suggested that the combination of " Leopold
"
with " Euripides " was intended to link it with the " Euripides
"
and " Harold " of Mrs. Piper's script just quoted, Leopold and
Harold being the names of Mr. Myers's two sons.
" A peck of pickled pepper " is no doubt one of the punning
references to Mrs. Piper that are so frequent in all the scripts.
This particular one had been used by Mrs. Holland on June
13, 1906 :
" The next pick of pickled pepper will be rather
a surprising one. Mrs. Piper is becoming an Eddyite." 3
" Margaret " in the Holland script almost always means
1 " Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled pepper."
2
See Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 215-217. 3
This statement was incorrect.
140 Alice Johnson. [part
Mrs. Verrall. The two names (one explicit and the other
implicit) seem to indicate that a cross-correspondence with
both Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Piper is being aimed at.
" Lucas 1—To fly to find Euripides—Philemon." This is
a reference to Browning's Aristophanes'' Apology ; including
a Transcript from Euripides ; being the Last Adventure of
Balaustiou. The " Transcript from Euripides " is Browning's
translation of the Hercules Furens ; so that we find in this
script the fulfilment of the statement in Mrs. Verrall's script
of March 4, 1907 :
" Ask elsewhere for the Bound Hercules."
Balaustiou, the " Wild-pomegranate-flower," is " the lyric
girl " from the island of Rhodes, who saved a shipful of her
fellow-countrymen by reciting to the Sicilians the Alcestis of
Euripides, in return for which they allowed the ship that
was carrying her to take refuge in the harbour of Syracuse
from pursuing pirates. 2
This is the subject of the poem
Balaustiou''s Adventure ; including a Transcript from Euri-
pides, i.e. Browning's translation of the Alcestis. Balaustion
is therefore especially associated with the two plays of Euri-
pides dealing with the adventures of Heracles.
In the second poem she is fleeing from Athens after its
concpiest by Sparta. On the voyage she tells her fellow-
travellers, of whom the dramatist Philemon is one, how
Aristophanes with his boon-companions came to her house a
year earlier, on the night that the news of Euripides' death
reached Athens, and how she then recited the Hercules Furens,
the original tablets of which had been given to her by Euri-
pides himself, in memory of her first adventure with his other
Heracles play, as a parting gift when he left Athens.
The association of Philemon with Euripides in the script
shows that the reference is to Aristophanes'' Apology. The
phrase, " To fly to find Euripides," is derived from two pas-
sages in it : one is the opening of the final section of the poem,
the words being spoken by Balaustion :
And see if young Philemon,—sure one day
To do good service and be loved himself,
—
If he too have not made a votive verse !
1
The fourth letter of this word in the original script is doubtful ; it might
be a or u. I follow Mr. Piddington's reading of it as u.
2 The story is from Plutarch, but Balaustion is Browning's own creation.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 141
"Grant, in good sooth, our great dead, all the same,
Retain their sense, as certain Avise men say,
I'd hang myself—to see Euripides !
" 1
The other passage, which is near the beginning of the poem,
is clearly connected with this, both by its general tenor and
by the double introduction of the phrase " as the wise assert .
Here too Balaustion is addressing Philemon :
Why should despair be ? Since, distinct above
Man's wickedness and folly, flies the wind
And floats the cloud, free transport for our soul
Out of its fleshly durance dim and low,
—
Since disembodied soul anticipates
(Thought-borne as now, in rapturous unrestraint)
Above all croAvding, crystal silentness,
AboAre all noise, a silver solitude :
—
Surely, Avhere thought so bears soul, soul in time
May permanently bide, " assert the wise,"
There live in peace, there Avork in hope once more
—
0 nothing doubt, Philemon ! . . .
Belie
A
r
e—o'er falsehood, truth is surely sphered,
O'er ugliness beams beauty, o'er this Avorld
Extends that realm where, " as the wise assert,"
Philemon, thou shalt see Euripides
Clearer than mortal sense perceived the man !
With this Ave may compare the passage (quoted beloAv)
from the Dissertationes of Maximus of Tyre, in which Mr.
Piddington discovered the same combination of two passages
from the Odyssey that he found in Mrs. Verrall's script of
Feb. 12, 1907 (see above, p. 90). Mrs. Verrall, it will be
remembered, produced the combination through a composite
quotation from Tennyson's Passing of Arthur and Lucretius ;
Avhile Mrs. Holland's script gives (implicitly) a general parallel
to the Maximus passage through a quotation from BroAA'ning,
which—characteristically—speaks of work, as well as of peace,
in the future life.
Maximus (like BroAvning) speaks of the A'ision that may
1
The last three lines are a translation of lines actually written by Philemon.
His introduction into the poem is an anachronism, as ho was not born until
about 302 B.C., that is, 43 years after the death of Euripides.
142 Alice Johnson. [part
be seen for a while by the soul that is still embodied as an
anticipation of what it will look on permanently when freed
from the body (I give Mr. Piddington's paraphrase 1
of the
Dissertationes, XVII. 10-11) :
If with upright and steadfast soul a man gaze without growing
dizzy on that unsullied light, and look not back earthwards ; if
he stop his ears, and turn his sight and all his other senses inwards
upon himself ;
if, utterly unheeding of earthly cares and afflictions,
of pleasures and honours, of glory and infamy, he let himself be
led by true reason and steadfast love . . . then, as he goes thither-
wards and leaves the world behind him, always that which is in
front of him shall grow clear and brilliant, preluding, as it were,
the Godhead. So, as he travels on, he shall hear the Godhead,
and, the journey done, shall behold it face to face.
Yet his journey's goal is not the firmament of heaven, nor
such bodies as are therein, . . . but he must pass beyond these,
and overstep the firmament until he reach the real goal and its
perfect calm,
" Where neither is great winter-storm, nor is it ever wet
with rain ; but most clear air is spread about it cloudless,
and the white light floats upon it "
;
and where no fleshly affection, such as vexes the wretched soul
here below, can trouble the vision.
" Lucus " in the script no doubt means Awco?, the ruler
of Thebes, a character in the Hercules Furens. In accordance
with his habit of using the English u for the Greek v, Browning
transliterates this name as Lukos (instead of Lycus, Lykus,
or Lykos), so that the script version " Lucus," like the com-
bination of Philemon with Euripides, points to Browning's
poem rather than to the original play.
Chronological Summary of " The Clavigers."
1907.
Mar. 4 (Mrs. V.). Hercules Furens. The binding to the
pillar. Euripides. Ask elsewhere for
the Bound Hercules. Hercules Un-
bound is the sequel. Binding and
loosing.
*See Proc, Vol. XXVI., p. 240.
LXVIII.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 143
Mar. 25 (Mrs. V.). Claviger—the bearer of the Key (Peter)
and Club (Hercules). East and West.
Hercules. Sebastian (Church of S.
Pietro in Vincoli). The shadows in
Plato's cave—shadows of the real.
The true things seen in sleep. The
shadow of a shade, etc.
Apr. 8 (Mrs. H.). East and West. Leah became as Rachel
(Church of S. Pietro in Vincoli). With
such a purple and sea-blue grace, etc.
(Browning, James Lee's Wife, and
Tennyson, In Mem.). The strong
smiter—the earth coinpeller (? Moses
—
Church of S. Pietro in Vincoli). A
billowy cloud (Browning, Last Ride
Together).
Apr. 8 (Mrs. P.). Euripides—Harold.
Apr. 10 (Mrs. H.). Mors. The shadow of Death. Leopold.
Lucus. To fly to find Euripides.
Philemon (Browning, Aristophanes"
Apology, including translation of the
Hercules Furens).
CHAPTER VII.
Some General Conclusions.
Continued study of the scripts seems to make more and
more evident what we began to suspect long ago—namely,
that the part played by the " writers " is by no means a
passive one. They are not like machines in the hands of an
external operator with no will or initiative of their own ;
it seems rather that their own minds are working actively,
but under the guidance of a supervising intelligence—what I
have called above the " author.'' The result is a joint com-
position, in which, however, it sometimes seems possible to
disentangle the product of the writer from the product of the
144 Alice Johnson. [part
" author," and I propose to attempt this in regard to some of
the cases given above.
But in the first one
—" Ave Roma immortalis "—there are
hints of the influence of yet another person, namely, Dr.
Verrall ; and this may be instructively compared with " The
one-horse dawn " case in Mrs. Verrall's first Report,1
when
Dr. Verrall in 1901 made a definite attempt to convey to
her telepathically the three Greek words ixovoiruihov e? aa>,
and fragments both of the Greek words and their English
equivalents, as well as allusions to them, appeared in her
script.
The words were taken from a passage set for translation in
one of the papers in the Classical Tripos Examination of 1873,
in which Dr. Verrall had been a candidate. But among the
script references to them occurred the remark
—
Find the herb moly that will help—it is a guide tl
VTei Kai
Te'Ao? X)/\f/e/f [sic]. [Seek and you will find at last, or, Seek and
you will grasp the end.]
One of the most familiar associations in English 2
literature
with " the herb moly " is. of course,
" that- moly
Which Hermes once to wise Ulysses gave
"
in Milton's Comus, and Mrs. Verrall thought that her script
was alluding to this. Some three years later she found that
the passage containing these lines had been set as the subject
for Latin Hexameters in the same Tripos. The recollection
of this had entirely gone from Dr. VerralFs mind, so much so
that even the sight of the passage in Comus (after Mrs. Ver-
rall had made the discovery in the spring of 1005) did not
revive in him any memory of having translated it in the
Tripos.
Thus Mrs. VerralFs script had registered not only an existing
mental impression of her husband's, but also a completely
1
Proc, Vol. XX., pp. 150-107.
- Some of our foreign critics, such as Dr. Maxwell, have not always suffi-
ciently considered that phrases in the scripts which are unfamiliar to them
may at once suggest to an English reader some, to him well known, literary
association
LXVIII.] Som,e " Concordant Automatisms." 145
forgotten past impression, once closely associated with the
first.
It is conceivable that the idea of the " herb moly " came
into the script through telepathy from Dr. Arthur Myers
(who had died about 7 years before) who had been a fellow-
candidate with Dr. Verrall in the Tripos of 1873 and an inti-
mate friend of his, and to whom some parts of the script
seemed to allude. But, if this case stood alone, it would no
doubt seem more probable that Dr. Verrall had been the tele-
pathic agent both in regard to what he deliberately and con-
sciously tried to transfer (the words hovoitwXov e? aw), and
in regard to what he certainly did not consciously try to
transfer, namely, the lines from Comus which must have
been within his subliminal recollections.
In ordinary experiments in telepathy we meet occasionally
with cases where some subliminal idea of the agent's seems
to have been transferred to the percipient, though it is, I
think, very rarely one which has so completely lapsed from
memory as in this case of Dr. Verrall's. Also, what happened
in this case was something more than the mechanical repro-
duction of a lapsed impression. Not only did " the herb moly "
emerge, but it was coupled with the remark that it would
help—would be a guide. Somebody, then, not only remem-
bered " the herb moly ", but was able to reason in an intelligent
way about it. The recollection may be attributed to Dr.
Verrall's subliminal mind ; it is, I think, less easy to attri-
bute to him the power of putting together subliminally the
two impressions—one supraliminal and the other subliminal
—
and reasoning upon them in this way. The mental action
involved suggests some one with a more complete grip of the
whole circumstances than he presumably had.
Ave Roma.
In the " Ave Roma " case, there is no clear evidence that
Dr. Verrall exercised any influence at all ; we know, at least,
that he had no intention of doing so ; and from the fresh facts
as to the meaning of Mrs. Verrall's scripts adduced in this
paper, it looks as if he had had less influence on them than
was surmised at the time, and as if the action of the " author
"
K
146 Alice Johnson. [part
head been a larger factor in the whole cross-correspondence
than was represented in my first report on it.
Dr. Verrall, it appears, guessed correctly the meaning of
the first script as referring to Raphael's picture ; he did
not tell Mrs. Verrall what he had guessed, but it might be
imagined that he had telepathically influenced her next scripts.
Here, however, the " author " intervenes ; and—the first
subject having been guessed—gives her a totally different
subject for the second script, while wording it in such a way
that it might be thought to be only a continuation of the
first subject. And this was what we all originally took it
to be.
The riddle in this second script of Mrs. Verrall's answers
fairly well to the definition given at the beginning of this
paper,—something so veiled and obscure that no one guesses
its meaning at the time, and yet so explicit that when the
clue is found, there can be no doubt of the meaning.
" Pagan and Pope ; the Stoic Persecutor and the Christian ;
Gregory—not Basil's friend—ought to be a clue." Here are
two pairs of associated persons, and a fifth, somehow con-
nected with them. One only of the five persons is described
quite explicitly,—the " Stoic Persecutor," who can only be
Marcus Aurelius. " Gregory " may be one of several Gregorys,
but it is pretty clear from the whole context that he must be
a Pope, and he must have some relation to the two pairs.
Mrs. Verrall imagined at the time that there might be some
reference in the script to the Pilgrim's Progress, but did not
think that this completely explained it, since it accounted
only for the Pagan, Pope, and Christian. On the other hand,
my solution of the five persons as Trajan and St. Peter, Marcus
Aurelius and St. Paul, and Pope Gregory I., fits the script
exactly, and I think that any one who reads the whole case
can hardly doubt its correctness.
Here the facts given in the scripts are within the knowledge,
supraliminal or subliminal, not only of Dr. Verrall, but of
Mrs. Verrall ; but the special point selected for mention in
the script—the connection of the Columns with St. Peter
and St. Paul—is one so unfamiliar to them, or so unimportant
in their eyes, that neither of them recognised the allusion to
it, and when I told Mrs. Verrall of it, she could not remember
LXVIII.] Some "Concordant Automatisms.'" 147
that she had ever heard the fact before. My full discussion
of the case, however, shows that this point adds considerably
to the significance of the whole cross-correspondence by
helping to complete the rough sketch of an outline of the
history of Rome, which I take to be implied in it.
I think it is difficult to attribute either to Dr. Verrall or to
Mrs. Verrall the intention to give a thumb-nail sketch of the
history of Rome, such as can be elicited from the scripts. If
I am right in thinking that the intention is there, it must
rather be attributed to the " author."
Another essential feature in the case is the connection
with Mrs. Holland's script. The intention to make some
such connection was not in Mrs. Verrall's conscious mind,
because it was not one of the days fixed for her experiments
with Mrs. Holland. Still less was the intention in Dr. Ver-
rall's mind ; he was interested only in interpreting Mrs.
Verrall's scripts. Nevertheless, if the connection between the
scripts of the two writers had been only a simple and straight-
forward similarity in phrasing or idea, we should naturally
put it down to telepathy between them. But it is far from
being simple and straightforward. It involves not simple
reproduction, but a good deal of reasoning and intelligence.
The fresh facts adduced in this paper show that the Holland
phrase " Ave Roma immortalis " is even more appropriate
to the Verrall scripts with their summary of Roman history
than it appeared when the case was first published.
Somebody must have grasped the whole gist of those scripts,
in a way that Dr. and Mrs. Verrall certainly had not con-
sciously grasped them, to be able to make so intelligent a
summing up of them. And the Holland phrase " How could
I make it any clearer without giving her the clue ?
" shows
that somebody was reasoning about them in a way no one of
us up to that time had consciously reasoned ;
somebody saw
the advantage of their obscurity for evidential purposes as
no one of us saw it.
The Sevens Case.
Another case where there are indications of the telepathic
influence of a living person other than one of the automatists
is the much-discussed " Sevens Case " (Prnc, Vol. XXIV..
148 Alice Johnson. [PART
pp. 222-258). It will be remembered that six automatists
were concerned in this case, and that the cross-correspondence
combined in itself two main topics, one (a) coinciding with
the contents of a sealed envelope which Mr. Piddington had
planned to transmit posthumously, variations on the theme
of Seven, and the other (b) various passages from Dante having
relation to the number Seven. The second topic was unknown
to Mr. Piddington, since he was very unfamiliar with Dante's
works, and had taken no interest in them until a later date,
when allusions were beginning to be found to them in the
scripts. The combination of the Dante allusions with Seven
cannot therefore be put down even to a subliminal association
of ideas in Mr. Piddington's mind. If the Sevens appeared in
the scripts through his agency, somebody else was responsible
for introducing Dante with the sevens. Further, two of the
automatists, Miss Verrall and Mrs. Frith, alluded independently
to a certain episode in Dante which it appears had never
been known to either of them.
This case was analysed and discussed fully in my first report
of it. I there sought to show that, while in many instances
individual phrases in the scripts could be traced to some
normal source, a supernormal cause had to be premised for
the large number of coincidences between the scripts of dif-
ferent writers ; and that while some of these coincidences
might be supposed to be clue to telepathy from one person
(Mr. Piddington) and some to telepathy from another (Mrs.
Verrall), they could not all be so derived. But they were
all connected together into a coherent scheme which was
strongly suggestive of the design of a single mind, and since
there were great difficulties in the way of supposing the whole
of this scheme to be due either to Mr. Piddington or to Mrs.
Verrall, it looked as if some other rrfind—altogether outside
our circle—was at work.
I suggested that this other mind—the " author "—surveying
and selecting from the ideas normally arising in the minds of
the automatists and of Mr. Piddington. and making some
use of the play of telepathy between them, had moulded
these materials and influences for his own purposes and so
produced the cross-correspondence.
In the final part of my third report on Mrs. Holland's script
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms.'' 149
(P/'oc, Vol. XXV., pp. 282-293) the function of selection in
the production of scripts was further discussed. It was sug-
gested that the mental resources and activities of the writers
played an important, if not an essential, part in the whole
business, the main work of the " author " being to determine
which of their whole stock of ideas shall emerge in the scripts.
On this hypothesis it will be an advantage to the " author
"
to employ writers with a large and varied stock of ideas, each
with numerous literary and other associations, which will
provide him with ample material for building up various and
complicated designs by combining the scripts of different
writers. In other words, the more educated and the more
intelligent are the writers, the more opportunity is afforded
to the " author " for demonstrating his independence of them.
In the present paper, special stress is laid on the necessity
that the "'
author " is under of concealing his design from all
of us till his experiment is complete. The necessity is of
course purely for experimental purposes. The " author " is
acting, as suggested above, in the same way that an agent
in telepathic experiments acts when he conceals the object
that he is looking at from the percipient, so as to prevent the
latter from gaining a knowledge of it through the normal
sensory channels. Our " author " has to take still further
precautions to prevent the writers from acquiring knowledge
telepathically. He will then be able to go on influencing the
scripts without being interfered with by the influence of the
experimenters, or the self-suggestions of the writers.
One of the devices apparently used for purposes of con-
cealment is to allude to some minor and unfamiliar feature
of an object, instead of to a familiar one which would be
likely to reveal it at once. Thus Mrs. Verrall's phrase " Pagan
and Pope—the Stoic Persecutor and the Christian " alludes,
if my interpretation is right, to a definite fact in regard to
the Columns of Trajan and Marcus Aurelius, but a fact that
would have hardly any interest or importance in the eyes of
the great majority of people—at least, in the present day
—
who are interested in the Columns,—a fact that probably
passes altogether unnoticed by the mass of sight-seers in
Rome.
i;>o Alice Johnson. [part
Again, in referring to the tomb of -Julius II., Leah and
Rachel alone are explicitly mentioned in Mrs. Holland's script
;
Avhile the feature for which the tomb is world-renowned, the
statue of Moses, is given implicitly only. People go to see it
primarily to see Moses ; the Moses is certainly the first associa-
tion that would arise in one's mind on hearing the monu-
ment mentioned ; and the figure of Moses alone is constantly
reproduced, whereas it is very rare to find illustrations showing
more of the tomb than his single figure. Mrs. Holland, as
mentioned above, was to the best of her belief ignorant that
it was placed between figures of Leah and Rachel.
A still more striking instance is " Alexander's Tomb."
It is a fact that Alessandro de' Medici was buried in the tomb
of the younger Lorenzo ; but this is probably the first time on
record that the tomb has been described as Alexander's.
Other features of it are widely known ; the one fact that
generally drops out of sight is the one selected for mention
in the script,—and this, too, in the script of Miss Verrall who,
there is every reason to believe, was ignorant of it (see below,
p. 152).
It is a commonplace of psychology that only a selection, and
a small selection, of the sensory stimuli that reach the brain
result in conscious impressions. We notice a few items, and
a few only, of our surroundings. We notice, for instance,
those that somebody else has pointed out to us, or those that
happen to have attracted our attention when we first saw the
place and which, therefore, strike us as familiar when we see
it again. But we might fail to recognise a representation of
a known place or object if the different items in it had not the
same relative conspicuousness that they have in our idea
of it. Even a photograph often looks odd and unfamiliar,
because the sensitivity of a photographic plate is not exactly
the same as the sensitivity of the retina, apart from the fact
that there is of course no mental selection determining what
is, or what is not, prominent in a photograph.
But now let us suppose that the mental selection of percep-
tions was the reverse of what it usually is ;
suppose that all
our subliminal perceptions became supraliminal and vice
versa ;
suppose we noticed the items we had never noticed
before, and failed to notice all those we had noticed before.
Lxvm.] Some " Concordant. Automatisms." 151
Everything would then appear unfamiliar to us ; we should
not recognise anything we saw. It would be difficult to
imagine a more complete disguise.
This, I would suggest, is the sort of disguise that the " author
"'
infuses into the scripts, in the cases just mentioned, by selecting
the unfamiliar instead of the familiar items, and the disguise
was for long effective.
On the working hypothesis that the *'
author " wished to
conceal his meaning in order to prevent the writers from
helping each other telepathically, we devised the experiment
of the Latin Message. One of the cases most closely approxi-
mating to that type previously published was the one given
in my third report on Mrs. Holland, when the subject of
Prometheus bringing fire from heaven as a gift to men was
given in Mrs. Verrall's script of Sept. 23, 1908 ; the subject
of Time and Eternity was given in Miss Verrall' s of
Nov. 19, 1908; and Mrs. Holland's script of Dec. 30, 1908
(produced of course in ignorance of the two others) combined
these two separate subjects in a quotation from Shelley's
Prometheus Unbound (see Proc, Vol. XXV., pp. 255-261).
The cogency of this and similar cases, as evidence for the
agency of an " author " distinct from the writers, depends on
the greater or less difficulty of attributing the ideas to the
minds of the writers : it seems very improbable that Mrs.
Verrall associated the Prometheus of her script with Time
and Eternity, and very improbable that Miss Verrall asso-
ciated the Time and Eternity of her script with Prometheus ;
consequently it looks as if the association came into Mrs.
Holland's script from some mental source other than their
minds.
Alexander's Tomb.
The case of " Alexander's Tomb " is an almost perfect
instance of the Latin Message type ; the essential items being
distributed between the three automatists, Mrs. Piper, Miss
Verrall and Mrs. Holland, as follows :
(Mrs. Piper.) Moorhead. I gave her that for laurel.
(See p. 64.)
(Miss Verrall.) Alexander's Tomb. Laurel. (See p. 68.)
(Mrs. Holland.) Alexander Moors Head. (See p. 70.)
152 Alice Johnson. [part
Here, as suggested in the Latin Message, two different
messages, " Moorhead " and " Alexander's Tomb," between
which no connection is discernible, are given to two different
writers, Mrs. Piper and Miss Verrall ; and shortly afterwards
a third message, "Alexander Moors Head " is given to a
third writer, Mrs. Holland, which ultimately reveals the hidden
connection between the first two. The " author," it is to be
noted, has somewhat improved on our plan by getting both
the first two writers to put " Laurel " in their scripts, showing
that a connection existed between them, and that therefore
the two scripts should be compared. But, even after the
discovery that " Alexander's Tomb " was one of the Medici
tombs, it is hardly conceivable that any one would have seen
the connection between this and " Moorhead " if Mrs. Holland's
script—written, of course, in complete ignorance of the other
two—had not contained the combination " Alexander Moors
Head."
In some cases where the items of a cross-correspondence are
distributed between the scripts of several writers in such a
way as to suggest the design of an outside mind, it is possible
to surmise that the items which were absent from a writer's
script were present in her subliminal consciousness and might
have been transferred thence telepathically to the mind of
another writer. But this can hardly occur unless the writer
has some knowledge of the topic of the script. As to the
knowledge possessed by the writers in this case, I think it
may be regarded as certain that Mrs. Piper, who wrote first,
knew practically nothing of the Medici or of the Medici tombs,
and nothing at all of Alexander de' Medici. Miss Verrall,
who wrote second, makes the following statement :
I have never been to Florence, and therefore have never seen
the Medici tombs. Before my script was written I knew of their
existence, but I have no conscious recollection of ever seeing any
reproductions of them ; on this point, however, I cannot be cpiite
certain. I have never made any special study of the history of
the Medici family, and have only a vague, general knowledge
concerning it. I had never to my belief heard of Alexander
de' Medici, until Miss Johnson spoke of him to me, at the time
that she was writing her paper. I had supposed the phrase in
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 153
my script " Alexander's tomb " to refer to Alexander the Great,
merely because he is the person one thinks of first, whenever the
name is mentioned.
Helen de G. Verrall.
Mrs. Holland stayed in Florence for some months a good
many years ago and consequently knows the tombs ; but her
script about " Alexander " was written a month after Mrs.
Piper's, and ten days after Miss Verrall's, which makes it
impossible to regard her as the originator of the topic, except
on the hypothesis that she designed the cross-correspondence
subliminally, and purposely withheld her contribution to it. till
the contributions of the other automatists were completed
Further, there is, I think, internal evidence in the scripts
themselves that the writers not only failed to understand them,
but that they positively misinterpreted them. It is, indeed,
difficult to attach any meaning at all to Mrs. Piper's utterance
" Moorhead—laurel—for laurel—I say I gave her that for
laurel." This, taken alone, sounds like incoherent nonsense.
But in Miss Verrall's script " Alexander's tomb " is connected
with " laurel leaves," and " laurel for the victor's brow."
This naturally suggests Alexander the Great ; we all supposed
at the time that he was the person meant, and—since Miss
Verrall had, as she believes, never heard of Alexander de'
Medici—she too, subliminally as well as supraliminally, must
have put the same interpretation on it.
In Mrs. Holland's script, again, " Alexander Moors Head "
is connected with drawings of masts and the words " The tall
mast, but this one is not at sea." This must mean the tall
masts (150 feet high) of the Lodge-Muirhead wireless telegraphy
apparatus used in the " Diamond Island experiment " referred
to in Mrs. Holland's script of January 17, 1904 (see Proc,
Vol. XXV., pp. 293 et seq.) ; and since Sir Oliver Lodge's
experiments in wireless telegraphy had been referred to on
several other occasions in her script, once with a punning
reference to the Lodge-Muirhead system, I felt no doubt that
" Alexander Moors Head " meant Dr. Alexander Muirheacl.
I think there is strong ground for believing that this was also
the view of Mrs. Holland's subliminal self. Otherwise, why
the masts %
154 Alice Johnson. [part
But when we get a real clue to the meaning of the scripts,
we find that many phrases in them have more point than
appeared at first. Miss Verrall's " Laurel leaves are emblem "
has a special application, as I have shown, to the younger,
as well as the elder, Lorenzo de' Medici, and hence to his
tomb-fellow Alexander, but is only in a vague and general
way appropriate to Alexander the Great. In Mrs. Holland's
script, Twilight, and Light and Darkness, have a special
application to the tomb of Alexander de' Medici, but none to
Dr. Alexander Muirhead. In the same script, her quotations
from Othello (" Antres vast and deserts idle," " One not
easily jealous "), following the name " Alexander Moors Head,"
were regarded by me as an ordinary instance of association of
ideas ;
—" Moors," I imagined, had suggested Othello the
Moor. There is, however, no point in putting together Othello
and Dr. Muirhead ;
whereas there is a definite point in putting
together Othello, the Moor of Venice, and Alexander the
Moor, of Florence. It looks then as if the " author," out of
a number of associations with " Moors Head," has deliberately
and carefully selected one that fits in admirably with his
special purpose and has influenced the writer to express it,
and has then left her subliminal mind free to select another
association
—" the tall mast "—in order to show what her own
subliminal interpretation of the script is.
The Medici tombs and topics associated with them frequently
recurred in the various scripts from 1906 onwards. We had
not understood them and the " author " was, presumably,
aware of our misinterpretations and failures to understand.
Some time later, in June, 1910, he gave the main topic ex-
plicitly in Mrs. Willett's script, in the phrase " The Laurentian
tombs." No one of us, however, observed the relevance of
this to the other scripts until in July, 1912, we came upon the
fact of Alexander de' Medici's burial in one of those tombs.
It then became apparent that the " author " had in Mrs.
Willett's script given the solution of his enigma.
But the critic, if he admits the general soundness of my argu-
ment, may object that the cross-correspondences seem to be
a series of rather childish, if ingenious puzzles, amounting to
little more than a trial of wits between the " author " and
lxviii.] Some " Concordant Automatisms." 155
ourselves, and I am acutely aware that the present paper is
likely on the face of it to heighten this impression. Granting
that the " author " is trying experiments, many may be repelled
by the apparent inappropriateness of their subject-matter to
the question of survival.
In reply to this, I would urge in the first place that if the
" author " can prove his independent activity, the means he
chooses for this purpose will justify themselves. I would
next point out that, while the cross-correspondences between
the scripts of different writers seemed at first to consist merely
of verbal similarities or coincidences of topic, further study
showed that they were far more complicated and elaborate
than we had supposed, involving many more scripts and often
several different subjects ; sometimes including items of
literary or historical interest unknown to the writers whose
script furnished the cross-correspondence and characteristic
in many ways of the supposed " author," and in general more
and more difficult to explain on the hypothesis of the unaided
subliminal powers of the writers. Since this further study
has already been so fruitful, it seems not unreasonable to hope
that, if continued, it may reveal in the scripts meanings of a
deeper import than has hitherto been suspected.
These meanings will, however, only be appreciated at their
true value by persons who will take the trouble to make a
serious study of the cross-correspondences, for it is chiefly in
these that the significance of the scripts is manifested. I have
tried to show that they must be studied in much the same way
that ordinary literature is studied, since in point of fact they
are a kind of literature. But the problems involved in them
must appeal equally to the intellectual curiosity of the literary
man, of the scientist, and of the philosopher.
156 Alice Johnson [part
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
PLATES I. to V. illustrate the " Ave Roma immortalis " case, see
pp. 11-24.
Plate I. —Raphael. —Meeting of Leo and Attila.
Plate II. —Column of Trajan.
Plate III. —Column of Marcus Aurelius.
Plate IV. —Detail of Raphael's Meeting of Leo and Attila.
Plate V. —Detail of Trajan's Column.
Plates VI. to X. illustrate the " Alexander's Tomb " case, see
pp. 50-76.
Plate VI.—Benozzo Gozzoli. —The Procession of the Magi.
Plate VII.—Botticelli.—The Birth of Venus.
Plate VIII. —Bronzino. —Alessandro de' Medici.
Plate IX. —Tomb of Lorenzo, Duke of Urbino.
Plate X. —Tomb of Giuliano, Duke of Nemours.
Plates XI. to XIV. illustrate the " Clavigers" case, see pp. 127-143.
Plate XL—Mosaic of St. Sebastian.
Plate XII.—Tomb of Pope Julius II.
Plate XIII. —Michael Angelo.—A Slave.
PLATE XIV.—Michael Angelo.—A Bound Captive.
Plate II.
COLUMN OF TRAJAN.
Plate III.
COLUMN OF MARCUS AURELIUS.
Plate IV.
detail or Raphael's meeting of leo and attila.
Plate V.
DETAIL OF THE COLUMN OF TRAJAN.
Plate VIII.
Miliar! Plioto
BRONZINO. ALESSANDEO BE' MEDICI.
Plate IX.
TOMB OF LORENZO, DUKE OF URBINO.
Plate X.
TOMB OF GIULIANO, DUKE OF NEMOURS.
Plate XI.
MOSAIC OF ST. SEBASTIAN.
TOMB OF POPE JULIUS II.
Plate XIII.
MICHAEL ANGELO. A SLAVE.
Plate XIV.
MICHAEL ANGELO. A BOUND CAPTIVE.
Lxvm.J Presidential Address. 157
II.
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
Delivered on May 28th, 1913.
By Professor Henri Bergson.
Authorised Translation hy H. Wildon Carr, D.Litt.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Let me say at once how much I appreciate the great
honour you have done me in electing me President of your
Society. It is an honour I am conscious I have done nothing
to deserve. It is only by reading that I know anything of
the phenomena with which the Society deals ; I have seen
nothing myself, I have examined nothing myself. How is
it then that you have come to choose me to succeed the great
and eminent men of science and letters who have occupied
in turn the presidential chair, most of whom, while univer-
sally recognised for their knowledge and ability, have also
been men whose minds were particularly pre-occupied with
the study of these mysterious phenomena ? If a jest on such
a subject may be allowed, I might say that here is a case of
telepathy or clairvoyance ;
—you felt from afar the interest I
was taking in your researches, you perceived me, across the
two hundred and fifty miles of space which separated us,
attentively reading your Proceedings and following with keen
curiosity your work. The ingenuity, the penetration, the
patience, the tenacity you have shown in the exploration of
the terra incognita of psychical phenomena appear to me truly
admirable. But still more than the ingenuity and the pene-
L
158 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
tration, still more than the unwearying perseverance with
which you have continued your course, I admire the courage
which it required, especially during the first years, to struggle
against the prejudices of a great part of the scientific world,
and to brave the mockery which strikes fear into the boldest
breast. This is why I am proud—prouder than I can say
—
to have been elected President of the Society for Psychical
Research. I have read somewhere the story of an inferior
officer whom the chances of the battle,—the death or wounds
of his superiors,—raised to the honour of the command of
his regiment ; all his life he thought of it, all his life he talked
of it, the memory of those few hours suffused his whole exist-
ence. I am that inferior officer, and I shall always pride
myself on the happy chance which has set me—not for a few
hours, but for some months—at the head of a valiant regiment.
Whence come the prejudices which for so long a time we
all have had, and which some have still, in regard to psychical
studies ? Why is it that men of science, who consider it
quite natural that under their direction we should pursue
apparently insignificant laboratory investigations, and who
think, with good reason, that there is nothing insignificant
in science, yet manifest such repugnance towards researches
like yours, and even hesitate to regard them as scientific ?
That is the point on which I wish to speak. Far from me
is the intention of criticising their criticism for the sake of
criticising. It seems to me that in philosophy the time given
up to refutation is generally time lost. Of the many attacks
directed by so many thinkers against one another, what
remains ? Nothing, or next to nothing. That which counts,
that which lasts, is the positive truth we bring out ; the true
affirmation itself displaces the false idea, and without the
trouble of refuting any one, proves to be the best refutation.
But quite another thing is here in question than either re-
futing or criticising. I want to show that behind the pre-
judices of some, the mockery of others, there is, present and
invisible, a certain metaphysic, unconscious of itself, uncon-
scious and therefore inconsistent, unconscious and therefore
incapable of continually remodelling itself on observation and
experience as every philosophy worthy of the name must
do,—that moreover this metaphysic is natural, due to a bent
LXVIII.] Presidential Address. 159
contracted long ago by the human mind, and on that account
our whole interest is to search it out behind the criticisms
or the mockeries which conceal it, in order to put ourselves
on guard against it : we shall thus prevent it from acting on
ourselves, prevent it from raising artificial obstacles on our
own path. But before I enter on that question which is
concerned with the subject-matter of your studies, I wish
to say a word on the method you follow, a method which I
can well understand is disconcerting to a certain number of
men of science.
There is nothing more displeasing to the professional student
than to see applied to a science of the same order as his own
a method usually confined to subjects of a quite different
order. He holds to his methods as the workman to his tools.
It was William James, I think, who defined the difference
between the professional and the amateur by saying that
the latter interests himself especially in the result obtained,
the former in the way in which we obtain it. Well, the pheno-
mena with which you are occupied are undeniably of the same
kind as those which form the subject-matter of natural science,
whilst the method you follow, and that you are obliged to
follow, has often no relation with that of any of the sciences
of nature.
I say they are facts of the same kind. I mean by this
that they are subject to laws, and that they are capable of
being repeated indefinitely in time and in space. They are
not facts like those, for instance, with which the historian
deals. History does not repeat itself. The battle of Auster-
litz was fought once and it will never be fought again. It
being impossible that the same historical conditions should
ever be reproduced, the same historical fact cannot be re-
peated ; and as a law expresses necessarily that to certain
causes, always the same, there will correspond an effect, also
always the same, history strictly speaking has no bearing
on laws, but on particular facts and on the no less particular
circumstances in which they were brought to pass. The only
question here is to know if the event did really take place
at such and such a definite moment of time and at such and
such a determinate point of space, and in what way it was
brought about. On the contrary, a veridical hallucination,
—
100 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
the apparition, for instance, of a dying man to a relation or
friend hundreds of miles, it may be, separated from him,
—
is a fact which if it is real, is uncmestionably the manifestation
of a law analogous to physical, chemical and biological laws.
Suppose, let us say, that this phenomenon was due to an
influence exercised across space by the consciousness of one
of the two persons on the consciousness of the other ;
suppose,
in other words, that the two human consciousnesses were
able to communicate without visible intervention, that there
was what you call " telepathy." If telepathy is a real
fact, it is a fact that is capable of being repeated indefinitely.
I go further, if telepathy is a real fact, it is very possible
that it is operating at every moment and everywhere, but
with too little intensity to be noticed, or else it is operating
in the presence of obstacles which neutralise the effect at
the same moment that it manifests itself. We produce elec-
tricity at every moment, the atmosphere is continually elec-
trified, we move among magnetic currents, yet millions of
human beings lived for thousands of years without having
suspected the existence of electricity. It may be the same
with telepathy. But that matters little. What is indis-
putable in any case is, that if telepathy is real, it is natural,
and that whenever the day comes that we know its conditions,
it will no more be necessary to wait for a veridical hallucination
in order to obtain a telepathic effect than it is necessary for
us now, if we wish to see an electric spark, to wait until the
sky gives us a display during a thunderstorm.
Here then is a phenomenon which it would seem ought,
by reason of its nature, to be studied in the manner of a physical,
chemical or biological fact. But not at all : you are obliged
to begin with an entirely different method, one which stands
midway between that of the historian and that of the magis-
trate. Did the veridical hallucination take place in the past ?
—
You study documents, you criticise them, you write a page
of history. Is it a fact of to-day ? —You proceed to a kind
of judicial enquiry ;
you examine the witnesses, confront
them with one another, and weigh the value of their evidence.
For my part, when I bring to mind the results of the admir-
able enquiry you have conducted continually during more
than thirty years, when I think of all the precautions you
LXVIII.] Presidentia I Address
.
161
have taken to avoid error, when I see that in most of the
cases you have retained an account had been given to one
person or to more than one, often even noted down in writing
by them, before the hallucination was recognised as veridical,
when I take into account the enormous number of the facts,
and especially their resemblance, the family likeness between
them, the agreement of so many witnesses independent of
one another, all examined, their testimony weighed and sub-
mitted to criticism,—I am led to believe in telepathy, just
as I believe in the defeat of the Invincible Armada. My
belief is not the mathematical certainty that the demon-
stration of Pythagoras' theorem gives me, it is not the physical
certainty that I have of the law of the fall of bodies, but it
is at least all the certainty that we obtain in a historical
or judicial matter.
But it is just this which is disconcerting to so many minds.
They find it strange that we should have to treat historically
or judicially facts which, if they are real, surely obey laws,
and ought then it seems to be amenable to the methods of
observation and experiment used in the natural sciences.
Arrange for the fact to be produced in a laboratory, they
will receive it gladly ; till then they hold it suspect. Just
because " psychical research " cannot for the present proceed
like physics and chemistry, they conclude it is not scientific
;
and as the subject of that research has not yet taken that
simple and abstract form which opens to a fact access to the
laboratory, they are pleased to declare it unreal. Such, I
think, is the " subconscious " reasoning of some men of
science.
I discover the same feeling, the same disdain for the con-
crete, at the root of the objections that are raised against
such and such of your conclusions. I will cite only one ex-
ample. Some time ago I was at a dinner party at which
the conversation happened to turn on the phenomena which
your Society investigates, more particularly on the facts of
telepathy. There was an eminent physician present, one of
our leading men of science. After listening attentively for
some minutes, he joined in the conversation, expressing him-
self as nearly as I remember in these words :
" All that you
are saying interests me very much, but I ask you to reflect
1G2 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
before drawing a conclusion. I also myself know an extra-
ordinary fact. And of this fact I guarantee the authenticity,
for it was related to me by a lady who is very intellectual
and whose word inspires me with absolute confidence. The
husband of this lady was an officer. He was killed in the
course of an engagement. Well, at the very moment at
which the husband fell, the wife had the vision of the scene,
a clear vision, in all points conformable to the reality. You
may perhaps conclude from that, as this lady did, that it
was a case of clairvoyance or of telepathy ? . . . You will
forget one thing only, and that is that it has happened many
times that a wife has dreamed that her husband was dead
or dying when he was quite well. We notice cases in which
the vision turns out to be true, but take no count of the
others. Were we to make the full return, we should see
that the coincidence is the work of simple chance."
The conversation turned off in I know not what direction ;
there was no question of serious discussion, it was neither
the time nor the place for it. But when we left the table
a very young girl who had been listening attentively came
and said to me, " It seems to me that Doctor X. . . . argued
wrongly just now. I do not see what the fallacy in his argu-
ment was, but there must have been a fallacy." Yes, indeed,
there was a fallacy ! The young girl was right and the learned
doctor was wrong. He shut his eyes to what was concrete
in the phenomenon. He argued thus :
" When one dreams
that a relation is dead or dying, either it is true or it is false ;
either the person is actually dying or he is not dying. And
consequently, if the dream proves true, it is necessary in order
to be sure that it is not an effect of chance to compare the
number of cases in which it has proved true with the number
of cases in which it has proved false." He did not see that
the apparent force of his argument rested on the fact that
he had substituted for the description of the concrete and
living scene,—the officer falling at a given moment in a definite
spot with such and such soldiers around him,—this abstract
and dead formula :
—" The lady in dreaming was dreaming
what was true and not what was false." Ah, if we accept
this transposition into the abstract, we must then indeed
compare in abstracto the number of true cases with the number
LXVIII.] Presidential Address. 163
of false ; and we shall find perhaps that there are more false
than true and our doctor will be right.
But this abstraction consists in neglecting that which is
essential in it,—the picture, that the lady perceived, and which
was found to be identical with a scene very distant from
her. Do you suppose that a painter portraying part of a
battle on his canvas, and trusting to his fancy, could be so
well favoured by chance as to find that he had produced
the likeness of real soldiers, present that clay at a battle, in
which they had stood in the attitudes he had portrayed ?
Evidently not. The calculus of probabilities to which the
doctor made appeal would in this case show that it is im-
possible, because a scene in which definite persons take definite
attitudes is a thing unique of its kind ; because a human face,
even taken alone, is already unique of its kind; and conse-
quently each personage—much more the scene which includes
them—is decomposable into an infinity of details all inde-
pendent of one another ; so that there must have been an
infinite number of coincidences in order that chance should
make a fancied scene the exact reproduction of a real scene :
in other words, it is mathematically impossible that a picture
drawn from the painter's imagination should portray part of a
battle such as it is. Well, the lady who had the vision of a part
of a battle was in the situation of that painter ; her imagina-
tion executed a picture. If the picture was the reproduction of
a real scene it must, by every necessity, be because she was in
communication with that scene, or with a consciousness that
had the perception of it. I do not need to compare the number
of " true cases " with the number of " false cases " ; statistics
have nothing to do with it ; the unique case which is presented
to me is sufficient when I consider it with what is concrete in
it. That is why, if it had been an occasion to discuss with
the doctor, I should have said to him :
" I do not know if
the story which was told you is exact ; I do not know if the
lady of whom you speak had the vision of the actual scene
which was going on at the time far away from her ; but if
this was proved to me, if I could be sure that even the coun-
tenance of one soldier unknown by her, present at the scene,
had appeared to her such as it was in reality,—then, even if
it should be proved to me that there had been thousands of
164 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
false visions, and even though there had never been a veridical
hallucination except this one, I should hold the existence of
telepathy,—or of a cause, whatever it be, able to make us per-
ceive objects and events situated beyond the normal portal
of our senses,—to' be strictly and definitely established."
But enough on this point. I come to the deep-seated cause
which, in directing the activity of workers in science exclu-
sively in another direction, has until now retarded the pro-
gress of " psychical research."
I have heard persons interested in your works express
surprise that modern science should have so long neglected
the facts with which you deal, when it ought in virtue of its
experimental character to be interested in researches which
may some day give rise to a host of new experiences. But
we must understand what it is that we call the experimental
character of modern science. Modern science has created the
experimental method ; so much is certain ; but it does not
follow that it has enlarged the field of experience which existed
before it. Quite the contrary, it has often narrowed it ; and
moreover it is in that that its force lies.
When we read the ancient writers we are struck by seeing
how they had observed and even experimented. But they
observed by chance and in it mattered not what direction.
In what did the creation of the " experimental method "
consist ? Simply in taking certain processes of observation and
experiment which already existed, and instead of applying
them in all possible directions, making them converge on to
one single point, measurement, —the measurement of such or
such a variable magnitude of which we suspect that it may be
a function of such or such other variable magnitudes, equally
measurable.
" Law " in the modern sense of the word is rightly the
expression of a constant relation between magnitudes which
vary. Modern science is the offspring of mathematics, begotten
on the day when algebra had acquired sufficient force and
pliability to be able to enfold reality, to draw it into the net
of its calculations. First appeared astronomy and mechanics
under the essentially mathematical form that the moderns have
given them. Then was developed physics—a physics equally
mathematical. Physics gave rise to chemistry, this also being
LXVIII.] Presidentia I Address
.
1(35
founded on measurements, on comparisons of weights and
volumes. After chemistry came biology, which without doubt
has not yet taken the mathematical form and is not near
doing so, but which seeks none the less by means of physiology
to bring the laws of life under those of chemistry and physics,
—
that is to say, indirectly under those of mechanics. So that,
in short, our science always tends to the mathematical form
as to an ideal. It seems essential to it to measure, and wherever
calculation is not yet applicable, Avherever it must limit ioself
to a description or to an analysis of its object, it arranges to
set before itself only that side of the object capable of one
clay becoming measurable.
Now, it is of the essence of mental things that they do
not lend themselves to measurement. The first movement
of modern science was bound then to be to find out whether
it was not possible to substitute for the phenomena of the
mind, phenomena which are measurable, and which could be
their equivalent. We see, as a fact, that consciousness is
bound in some way or other to a brain. So modern science
seized upon the brain, took hold of the cerebral fact,—the
nature of which, indeed, we do not know, but we do know that
it must finally resolve itself into movements of molecules
and atoms, that is to say, into facts relevant to mathematics,
—and determined to consider the cerebral as the ecpiivalent
of the mental. All our mental science, all our metaphysics,
from the seventeenth century until the present day, is pene-
trated with the idea of this equivalence. We speak of thought
and of the brain indifferently ; either we consider the mental
a simple " epiphenomenon " of the cerebral, as materialism
does, or we put the mental and the cerebral on the same level,
regardhig them as two translations, in different languages,
of the same original. In short, the hypothesis that there
is a strict parallelism between the cerebral and the mental
appears eminently scientific. Instinctively, philosophy and
science tend to cast aside whatever would contradict this
hypothesis or fit ill with it. And this at first sight appears
to be the case with the facts which " psychical research
"
deals with, or at least it might be so with a good number
of them.
Well, the moment has come to consider closely this hypo-
16G Professor Henri Bergson. [part
thesis, and to see what it is worth. I will not insist on the
difficulties, the theoretical absurdities, which it raises. I have
shown elsewhere that, taken literally, it is a self-contradiction.
I add that, prima facie, it is contrary to all likelihood that
nature has indulged in the luxury of repeating purely and
simply in the language of consciousness what the cerebral
cortex accomplishes in the form of atomic or molecular move-
ment. A consciousness which is only a duplicate, which does
not intervene actively, would doubtless have long since dis-
appeared from the universe, supposing it had ever been pro-
duced. Do we not see that our actions tend to become un-
conscious in the measure and degree that habit renders them
mechanical ? But I will not insist on these theoretical con-
siderations. What I claim is that the facts, looked at without
any prepossession, neither confirm nor even suggest the
hypothesis of parallelism.
There is one function of thought, indeed,—one only,—that
experience has been able to prove is localised in a certain
region of the brain : I refer to memory, and more particularly
to the memory of words. We have not the least reason to
suppose that judgment, or reasoning, or any other faculty
of thought, in the strict sense of the word, is attached to
such or such determinate cerebral processes. But maladies
that affect the memory of words, or, as they are called, cases
of aphasia, on the contrary do correspond with definite lesions
of certain cerebral convolutions : so that it has been thought
possible to consider memory as localised in the brain, and
the visual, auditory and motor recollections of words as de-
posited inside the cortex,—veritable photographic plates which
preserve old luminous impressions, veritable phonographic
disks which are registers of sound vibrations. If, in short,
we examine narrowly all the facts alleged in favour of an
exact correspondence and of a kind of adherence of the mental
to the cerebral life (I set aside, it goes without saying, the
case of sensations and movements, for the brain is certainly a
sensori-motor organ), we see that these facts reduce them-
selves to the phenomena of memory, and it is the localisation
of aphasia, and that localisation alone, which seems to bring
a beginning of experimental proof to the support of the paral-
lelist doctrine.
LXVIII.] Presidential Address. 167
Now, a more profound study of the various cases of aphasia
shows decisively, in my opinion, the impossibility of consider-
ing the recollections as plates or as records deposited in the
brain, and the impossibility of admitting that it can really
be in the brain that recollections are preserved. I cannot
enter here into the details of the criticism that I have made
elsewhere of the current interpretation of aphasia, a criticism
which appeared paradoxical at a time when a certain con-
ception of aphasia was accepted as a dogma, but which patho-
logical anatomy has itself come forward to support in these
last few years (I refer to the works of Professor Pierre Marie
and of his pupils). I will confine myself to recalling to you
my conclusions. What appears to me to stand out clearly
from an attentive study of the facts, is that the characteristic
cerebral lesions of the various forms of aphasia do not touch
the recollections themselves, and consequently that there are
not recollections stored in such and such regions of the cerebral
cortex, which the malady would destroy. Those lesions really
make the evoking of recollections impossible or difficult ;
they
concern the mechanism of recall, and that mechanism only.
More exactly, the function of the brain in this case is to give
the mind, when it has need of such or such a recollection, the
power of obtaining from the body a certain attitude, or certain
nascent movements, which offer to the recollection sought
for an appropriate frame. If the frame is there, the recol-
lection will come of its own accord to insert itself into it.
The cerebral organ prepares the frame ; it does not furnish
the recollection. That in my view is what an attentive study
of the maladies of word-memory proves, and it is also what
the psychological analysis of memory in general would lead
us to expect.
But if we now examine the other functions of thought,
the hypothesis of a strict parallelism between the mental
life and the cerebral life is not at all what the facts most
naturally suggest to us. On the contrary, in the work
of thought hi general, as in the particular case of memory,
the brain appears to us to be charged with the task of impres-
sing on the body the movements and attitudes which act
what the mind thinks, or what the circumstances invite it
to think. I have expressed this elsewhere by saying that
168 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
the brain is an "organ of pantomime." And that is why, as
I have also said elsewhere, " If any one were able to look
inside a brain in its full activity, to follow the going and
coming of the atoms, and to interpret all that they were
doing, he would doubtless know something of what was
going on in the mind, but he would know very little.
He would know only just what can be expressed in bodily
gestures, attitudes and movements,—what the state of the
soul might contain of action in course of accomplishment or
simply nascent ; the rest would escape him. As regards the
thoughts and feelings which were being unrolled within the
consciousness, he would be in the situation of a spectator
seeing distinctly all that the actors were doing on the stage,
but not hearing a word of what they were saying." Or yet
again, he would be like a person who could only know a sym-
phony by the movements of the conductor directing the
orchestra. Indeed, the cerebral phenomena are to the mental
life just what the gestures of the conductor are to the sym-
phony : they outline the motor articulations, they do nothing
else. In other words, we should find nothing of the operations
of the mind, properly speaking, inside the brain. Except its
sensorial functions, the brain has no other part than to play
the mental life.
I recognise, however, that this " pantomime " is of primary
importance. It is by it that we insert ourselves in reality,
that we adapt ourselves to it, that we respond to the call of
circumstances by appropriate actions. If consciousness is
not a function of the brain, at least the brain maintains con-
sciousness fixed on the world in which we live ; it is the organ
of attention to life. That is why a cerebral modification,
even a slight one,—a passing intoxication by alcohol or opium,
for example, (all the more a lasting intoxication like those
which no doubt most often cause insanity,) may involve a
complete perturbation of the mental life. It is not that the
mind is there directly affected. It is not necessary to believe,
as we often do, that the poison has sought out such or such
a mechanism in the cerebral cortex which is the material
aspect of reasoning, that it has deranged this mechanism,
and that it is on that account that the patient raves. But
the effect of the lesion is that the mechanism is thrown out
LXVIII.] Presidential Address.
of gear, and thought can no longer insert itself exactly in
things. An insane person, suffering from the delusion that
he is being persecuted, can still reason very logically ; but
his reasoning is out of line with reality, outside reality,—as
we reason in a dream. To direct our thought towards action,
to bring it to prepare the act that the circumstances call
for,—it is for this that our brain is formed.
But in doing this it canalises, and also it limits, the life
of the mind. It prevents us from turning our eyes to right
and left of us, and it prevents us also as far as possible from
turning to look back ; it would have us look right before us in
the direction in which we have to go. Is this not already clear
in the operation of memory of which we have just spoken ?
Many facts seem to indicate that the past is preserved even
down to its slightest details, and that there is no real forgetting.
You know it is related that persons resuscitated after drown-
ing or hanging declare that in some few seconds they had
the panoramic vision of the totality of their past life. I
could cite other examples, for the asphyxia has nothing to
do with the phenomenon, although it has been said that it
has. An Alpine climber slipping on a precipice, a soldier
round whom all at once a hail of bullets falls, will sometimes
have the same vision.
The truth is our whole past is there always, and to perceive
it we have but to look back ;
only, we cannot and we must
not look back. We must not, because our end is to live, to
act ; and life and action look forward. We cannot, because
the cerebral mechanism is fashioned to this work,—to mark
from us the past, to let at each moment only that pass
through which can throw light on the present situation and
favour our action : it is by this very obscuring of all our
recollections, except only that which is of interest and which
our body already outlines by its " pantomime," that it recalls
this useful recollection. Now should the attention to life
grow weak for a moment (I do not mean voluntary attention,
that which depends on the individual, but an attention im-
posed on the normal man, what may be called " racial atten-
tion ") then the mind which has of force been kept till then
looking forward, lets go the tension and by that turns itself
to look back ; the totality of its past appears to it. The
170 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
panoramic vision of the past is due, then, to a sudden
disinterestedness of life produced in certain cases by the
menace of a sudden death. Until then the brain, so far
as it is the organ of memory, has been keeping the atten-
tion fixed on life, —narrowing usefully the field of mental
vision.
But what I say of memory is equally true of perception.
I will not enter here into the details of a proof that I have
given elsewhere. It will be enough if I repeat that every-
thing becomes obscure and even incomprehensible if we regard
the cerebral centres as organs capable of transforming material
vibrations into conscious states ;
that, on the contrary, all
becomes clear if we see in those centres (and in the sensory
nerve-endings with which they are connected) instruments
of selection charged with choosing, in the immense field of
our virtual perceptions, those which are to be actualised.
Leibniz said that each monad, and therefore a fortiori each
of those monads that he called spirits, carries within it the
conscious or unconscious representation of the totality of
things. I should not go so far ; but I think that we perceive
virtually many more things than we perceive actually, and
that here once more the part that our body plays is that of
shutting out from the field of our consciousness all that is
of no practical interest to us, all that does not lend itself to
our action. The sense organs, the sensory nerves, the cere-
bral centres, canalise then the influences from without, and
thus mark the various directions in which our own influence
can be exercised. But in doing so they narrow the field of
our vision of the present, just as the cerebral mechanisms
of memory limit our vision of the past. Now, just as
certain useless memories, or " dream " memories, may slip
into the field of consciousness, availing themselves of a moment
of inattention to life, may there not be around our normal
perception, a fringe of perceptions, most often unconscious,
but all ready to enter into consciousness, and in fact entering
in in certain exceptional cases or in certain predisposed sub-
jects 1 If there are perceptions of this kind, it is not only
psychology in the strict meaning of the term that they con-
cern ;
they are facts with which " psychical research " could
and ought to concern itself.
LXV1II.] Presidential Address. 171
Let us not forget, moreover, that it is space that creates
the sharp divisions, the exact distinctions. Our bodies are
external to one another in space ; and our minds, in so far
as they are attached to those bodies, are external to one an-
other. But if they are attached to the body only by a part
of themselves, we may conjecture that for the remainder of
them there is not also this sharp separation. Far am I from
thinking that personality is a simple appearance, an ephemeral
reality, or a dependence on cerebral activity ! But yet it
is very possible that between various personalities there
are continually taking place changes, analogous to the pheno-
mena of endosmosis. If such endosmosis exists, we can fore-
see that nature will have taken every precaution to neutralise
its effect, and that certain mechanisms must be specially
charged with the duty of throwing back into the unconscious
the presentations so provoked, for they would be very em-
barrassing in everyday life. One or another of these presenta-
tions might yet, however, at times pass through as contraband,
especially if the inhibiting mechanisms were functioning badly ;
and these again would be facts with which "psychical research
"
would be concerned.
The more we become accustomed to this idea of a con-
sciousness which overflows the organism, the more natural
and probable we find the hypothesis that the soul survives
the body. Were, indeed, the mental moulded exactly on to
the cerebral, were there nothing more in a human conscious-
ness than what could be read in a human brain, we might
have to admit that consciousness must share the fate of the
body and die with it. But if the facts, studied without any
prepossessions, lead us on the contrary to regard the mental
life as much more vast than the cerebral life, survival
becomes so probable that the burden of proof comes to lie
on him who denies it rather than on him who affirms it ;
for,
as I have said elsewhere, " the one and only reason we can
have for believing in an extinction of consciousness after
death is that we see the body become disorganised ; and this
reason has no longer any value, if the independence, however
partial, of consciousness in regard to the body is also a fact
of experience."
Such, briefly stated, are the conclusions to which an im-
172 Professor Henri Bergson. [fart
partial examination of the known facts leads me. That is
to say, I regard the field open to psychical research as very
vast, and even as unlimited. This new science will soon
make up the time lost. Mathematics goes back to the ancient
Greeks ;
physics has existed now for three or four hundred
years ;
chemistry dates from the eighteenth century ;
biology
is nearly as old ; but psychology dates from yesterday, and
psychical research is almost contemporary.
Must we regret the time lost ? I have sometimes asked
myself what would have happened if modern science, instead
of setting out from mathematics to turn its direction towards
mechanics, physics, and chemistry, instead of bringing all its
forces to converge on the study of matter, had begun by the
consideration of mind,—if Kepler, Galileo, and Newton, for
example, had been psychologists.
We should certainly have had a psychology of which to-day
we can form no idea, any more than before Galileo we could
have imagined what our physics would be : a psychology
that probably would have been to our present psychology
what our physics is to that of Aristotle. Foreign to every
mechanistic idea, not even conceiving the possibility of such
an explanation, science would have enquired into, instead of
dismissing a priori, facts such as those you study ;
perhaps
" psychical research would have stood out as its principal
preoccupation.
The most general laws of mental activity once discovered
(as, in fact, the tundamental laws of mechanics were dis-
covered), we should have passed from mind, properly so
called, to life : biology would have been constituted, but a
vitalist biology, quite different from ours, which would have
sought, behind the sensible forms of living beings, the inward,
invisible force of which the sensible forms are the manifesta-
tions. On this force we have to-day taken no hold just be-
cause our science of mind is still in its infancy ; and this is
why men of science are not wrong when they reproach vitalism
with being a sterile doctrine : it is sterile to-day, it will per-
haps not be so always, and it probably would not have been
so now had modern science at its origin taken things at the
other end.
Together with this vitalist biology there would have arisen
LXVIII.] Presiden tied Address. 173
a medical practice which would have sought to remedy directly
the insufficiencies of the vital force ; it would have aimed at
the cause and not at the effects, at the centre instead of at
the periphery ;
healing by suggestion might have taken forms
and proportions of which it is impossible for us to form the
least idea. So would have been founded, so would have
been developed the science of mental activity.
But when this science, following the manifestations of mind
step by step from higher to lower, passing life and living
matter, had come at last to inert matter, it would then have
stopped abruptly, surprised and dismayed. It would have
tried to apply its accustomed methods to this new object
and it would have obtained no hold on it, just as to-day the
processes of calculation and measurement have no hold on
the things of the mind. It is matter and not mind which
in this case would have been the realm of mystery.
Suppose, then, that in an unknown land—let us say America,
but an America not yet discovered by Europe—there had
been developed a science identical with our actual science,
with all its mechanical applications. It might then have
happened that from time to time some fishermen, venturing
far out from the coast of Ireland or Brittany would have seen,
far off on the horizon, an American ship moving at full speed
against the wind,—a steamship, let us say. They would have
come and told what they had seen. Would they have been
believed ? Probably not. They would have been mistrusted
just in proportion as those to whom they told the tale were
learned and imbued with a science which would have been
psychological in direction, the reverse of physics and mechanics.
And it would have been necessary to constitute a Society like
yours—but in this case a Society for Physical Research
—
which would call witnesses before it, judge and criticise their
tales, and establish the authenticity of the "Apparitions " of
steamboats. And then, as this Society would have been able
for the moment to use only this historical or critical method,
it would not have been able to overcome the scepticism of
those who would have challenged it—since it believed in
the existence of these miraculous boats—to construct one and
make it work.
This is a dream in which I indulge at times. But whenever
M
174 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
I do so, quickly indeed I wake from it and say to myself :
no, it was neither possible nor desirable that the human mind
should have followed that direction. It was not possible,
because mathematical science was already in existence at the
dawn of the modern era, and it was therefore necessary to
begin by drawing from it what it had to give for our know-
ledge of the world in which we live : we do not let go the
prey to grasp what may be only a shadow. But supposing
it had been possible, it was not desirable, even for psycho-
logical science itself, that the human mind should have applied
itself first of all to it. For though without doubt, had there
been expended on psychological science the amount of work,
of talent and of genius, which has been consecrated to the
sciences of matter, the knowledge of mind would have been
pushed very far ;
yet something would have been always
lacking, something of inestimable price and without which
all the rest would lose much of its value : the precision, the
exactness, the anxiety for proof, the habit of distinguishing
between what is simply possible or probable and what is
certain.
Do not think that these are qualities natural to intelligence.
Humanity did without them for a very long time ;
they would
perhaps never have appeared in the world at all had there
not existed formerly a small people in a corner of Greece
for whom nearly so was not enough and who invented pre-
cision. Mathematics—that creation of the Greek genius
—
was it here the effect or the cause ? I do not know ; but
undoubtedly it is by mathematics that the need of proof
has been passed on from intellect to intellect, taking more
and more place in the human mind as mathematical science,
through mechanics, has embraced an ever greater number
of the phenomena of matter.
The habit of bringing to the study of concrete reality the
same requirements of precision, of exactness, of certitude,
which are characteristic of the mathematical mind is, there-
fore, a habit we owe to the sciences of matter and that we
should never have had without them. That is why science,
had it been applied in the first instance to the things of mind,
would probably have remained uncertain and vague, how-
ever far it might have advanced ; it would, perhaps, never
LXVIII.] Presidential Address. 175
have distinguished between what is simply plausible and what
must be definitely accepted. But to-day that, thanks to the
sciences of matter, we know how to make that distinction
and possess all the qualities of mind that it implies, we can
adventure without fear into the scarcely explored domain of
psychological realities. Let us advance therein with a prudent
boldness, disencumbering ourselves of the bad metaphysics
which cramps our movements, and the science of mind will
yield results which will surpass all our hopes.
M 2
170 Count Perovsly-Pelrovo-Solovovo. [part
SUPPLEMENT.
REVIEW.
Personal Experiences in Spiritualism (including the official account
and record of the American Palladino seances). By Hereward
Carrington. (T. Werner Laurie, Ltd., Clifford's Inn, London,
n.d. Pp. 274. Price, 7s. 6d. net.)
That indefatigable enquirer, Mr. Hereward Carrington, has given
psychical researchers another valuable work. Like a former book
by the same author, The Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism,,
fraudulent and genuine, it falls into two parts. Part I. deals with the
author's personal experiences in the domain of physical " medium-
ship " with mediums other than Eusapia Palladino ; Part II. deals
exclusively with the latter. The results recorded by the author
in Part II. are chiefly positive ; in Part I. —with one doubtful ex-
ception—exclusively negative.
The. following is a brief summary of the cases and experiments
described in Part I. :
(Pp. 2-19.) The Windsor (Nova Scotia) Poltergeist. A palp-
able fraud and easily proved to have been such. Trickery con-
fessed without hesitation by all the persons concerned, with the
exception of Judge X. of the Probate Court, who was the first to
reveal the case to the world at large, and who refused to believe
in trickery, even after Mr. Carrington had sent him his report
fully stating the facts. Of course, such incidents are familiar
to us.
(Pp. 20-45.) Experiments in the Lily Dale camp. Fraud
throughout at sittings with Norman ("spirit-photography" and
slate-writing), Mrs. M'Coy and Mrs. Pemberton (" trumpet-
mediums "), Joseph Jonson, Mrs. Moss and Nichols, materialising
mediums. Note this interesting remark in connection with an
incident at a materialisation seance :
" The curtains were pulled aside and I [Mr. Carrington] put
LXVIII.] Review. 177
my face close to the opening, since it was so dark I could see nothing.
And there in the dim twilight of that seance room I beheld one
of the most ghastly, most truly terrifying faces I have ever seen.
... I regarded the face intently and it was gradually withdrawn
into the shadow of the cabinet, and the curtains pulled over it.
/ am certain that, had I been in an excited and unbalanced frame
of mind at that moment, I should have sworn that the face actually
melted, away as I looked at it. ... I can now quite easily see how
investigators can swear to the melting away of a face before their
eyes after my own experience." (Pp. 31, 32.)
Some space is then devoted to Keeler's slate-writings, which
Mr. Carrington feels bound to admit " are the most puzzling pheno-
mena of their kind " he has " ever witnessed, and justly bear out
the contention that Keeler is far and away the cleverest slate-
writing medium in America "
(p. 35). Subsequently, however,
Mr. Carrington obtained proof of his trickery also (substitution
of slates and pellets). Analysis of the contents of his slate-writing
messages at any rate shows that he—or his " guides "—will
take up any hint dropped by the sitter whether corresponding
with actual fact or not. For the sake of impartiality it should
be noted, however, that Mr. Carrington confesses he is " quite
unable to explain many stories which have been told " him " by
apparently good observers of Keeler's slate-writing." "All that
I can say is that my own sittings were certainly fraudulent, that
competent investigators unite in thinking his mediumship fraudu-
lent, and that he has been seen resorting to trickery on several
occasions "
(p. 48). I think this will be enough ground on which
to base an opinion.
Pp. 57-69 are devoted to " phenomena witnessed in private
circles
"—with equally unsatisfactory results. The following re-
marks, however, are curious :
"It is probable that most striking and peculiar manifestations
have been witnessed in this maimer, such strange phenomena
indeed that I cannot relate them in this place for fear of ridicule.
No one knows precisely what takes place in certain spiritualistic
gatherings ; but I am inclined to believe that some very strange
things happen at such times—phenomena which even the average
spiritualist is unaware of. But this is only an intuition, for which
I can offer no proof "
(p. 57).
I do not much believe in "intuition," and I think such remarks
178 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
are misplaced in a serious work. Moreover, Mr. Carrington ex-
presses himself too diplomatically. Does he believe these " very
strange things " genuine, or is he simply puzzled by them, or what ?
(Pp. 70-75.) Account of a fraudulent materialisation seance
with De Witt Hough.
(Pp. 76-94.) The Bangs sisters. Mr. Carrington's experience
corroborates that of the Rev. Stanley Krebs, who exposed their
chief method (so far as " direct writing " was concerned) in the
S.P.R. Journal, Vol. X., pp. 5-16. On the other hand their " direct
"
pictures or paintings have also been explained and duplicated,
first by Mr. David P. Abbott ; then by Mr. William Marriott (" Dr.
WUmar "), both well-known professional conjurers.
Pp. 95-124 are devoted to the so-called " great Amherst mystery,"
—a notorious Poltergeist case—again in Nova Scotia. The
occurrences in question happened in 1878 and 1879. They formed
the subject of a book by Mr. Walter Hubbell, now out of print,
bearing this title. In 1908 Mr. Hubbell revisited Amherst and
obtained from the surviving citizens of the town a document bear-
ing sixteen signatures, " which certainly has some historical value
and seems to support the authenticity of the phenomena to a great
extent "
(p. 103). Mr. Carrington also collected additional in-
formation in the shape of personal interviews with the "medium,"
Esther Cox (still living), and her sister, Mrs. Teed. He seems
on the whole to have been favourably impressed, though he cannot
help remarking (p. 120) :
" It may be objected to all this, of course, that I give the con-
firmatory evidence of only one person and that person the sister
of the medium, one who would naturally wish to shield her younger
sister against all charges of fraud or imposture."
I confess I think the objection a serious one. Still the case is
interesting ; and the. thanks of all " psychical researchers " are
due to Messrs. Hubbell and Carrington for having done so much
to improve the evidence. IF ever " Poltergeist phenomena " are
finally acknowledged to be a " fact in nature," " the great
Amherst mystery" may certainly fairly claim to be a good speci-
men of it. It all depends on the " IF " !
Part II. of the book deals with Eusapia's American seances.
Extracts from the accounts of some twenty-seven sittings are
given, many, in fact most, of these accounts being stenographic.
Some of the incidents described look interesting, and this obser-
LXVIII.] Review. 179
vation applies chiefly to the table-levitations. But on the whole
the impression produced on the reader's mind is of the vaguest
possible kind. I do not even specially refer to the undoubted
fact of Eusapia having been repeatedly caught hi the act of de-
ception. No ; but the character of the performances is unfor-
tunately such that the question of genuineness does not move
one inch further towards solution. And this is especially true
hi regard to the kind of control admitted. Conditions of control
again and again found to be unsatisfactory and unlikely ever to settle
the question are used throughout. And the margin of difference
between the probably fraudulent and the possibly genuine is so
narrow as to grow quite imperceptible. So one finally asks
oneself: Is it possible that "phenomena" so strikingly alike are
due to causes so utterly different ?
In a short paper I contributed some two or three years ago on
my personal experiments with Eusapia hi Naples (S.P.R. Proceed-
ings, Part LXIL, pp. 59-63), I called special attention to the " cabi-
net phenomena " of the famous medium from the point of view
of the unsatisfactoriness of the general conditions of control. Here
I said " matters ought to be seriously mended before we investi-
gate them further." And I am still of this opinion. The hand
control Eusapia usually admits when " cabmet " phenomena
occur " is practicaUy non-existent." " She throws every obstacle
in the way of this control. . . . She constantly changes the re-
spective position of her limbs—both feet and hands. The latter
especially are a regular perpetuum mobile. Now this circumstance
is extremely important, for, as the conditions of control are per-
petually and ceaselessly changing, illusions of memory as to the
exact conditions under which something occurred are eminently
apt to spring up."
I do not even think that the presence of a shorthand writer
will always eliminate this very important source of error.
Apart from this we have some evidence—scanty evidence, it
is true, but which ought not to be altogether neglected—tending
to show that " mediums " are occasionally able to induce in the
person controlling them (in one at a time only, I thhik) something
like a negative tactile illusion or hallucination, which enables them
to liberate one hand for a few seconds without the " controller
"
becoming aware of the circumstance. I refer especially to my
wife's account prhited in the same number of the Proceedings,
ISO Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
pp. 05-07, and, of course, to my numerous experiments in " chair-
threading " with the late Sambor. But if so, it is plain that only
those of Eusapia's cabinet phenomena should " count " in which
both her hands are visible. Are there many such on record ?
Yes, I know there are ; but were the medium's feet always satis-
factorily controlled on such occasions ? On p. 177 of his new
work, speaking of seance xv. ;
Mr. Carrington says :
" The greatest care was exercised in the control ;
yet several
striking phenomena occurred. Of these perhaps the most note-
worthy were the series of touches which occurred ... on both
controllers at the same time, when both Eusapia's hands were held
by the right controller.'''
Mr. Carrington italicises. I will also italicise :
How were the medium's feet controlled at the time ? And what
evidence is there that she did not -produce these touches with her foot ?
We want also more precise details about the alleged simultaneity
of these touches.
In view of these general remarks Mi'. Carrington will, I hope,
excuse my declining to discuss in detail the evidence he brings
forward for the genuineness of Eusapia's American sittings. I
consider that such evidence is hi her case vitiated ab ovo. I am
speaking at least of the " cabinet phenomena." As for the table
levitations, I have already mentioned that they seem to me some-
times striking and deserving in general of renewed investigation,
and this in spite of the crushing exposure in this domain also which
fell to the lot of poor E. P. in the United States.
In a " Note on the sittings held at Columbia University "
(pp.
210-222), Mr*. Carrington blames the learned investigators for not
carrying out a series of scientific tests planned by himself and
Professors Wood and Trowbridge. Seeing, however, that, accord-
ing to Mr. Carrington, these seances " were almost entirely blank,
the fourth being of such a nature as to leave on the mind of Pro-
fessor Wilson the strongest possible impression of fraud "
(p. 220),
and hi view on the other hand of E. P.'s well-known dislike to
the use of any paraphernalia not previously employed by her at
the sittings —to her misoneism hi short (to use the late Professor
Lombroso's term)—such barrenness of results, nay, even such
abstention on the part of the American scientists, does not at all
astonish me. Mr. Carrington asks :
" When such elaborate
precautions had been made, how was it that no new experiments
LXVIII.] Review. 181
were tried ? How was it that not one of the means we had devised
. . . was actually employed and put into execution ? . . . The
answer to these questions has never been forthcoming."—Well,
Mr. Carrington, I have just ventured to suggest one.
Chapter XII. (222-256) contains an elaborate " Theoretical dis-
cussion " which would be profoundly interesting and instructive,
IF (again !) we could but be sure that the phenomena are genuine !
It is true that the author assumes " that their genuine character
is proved by the records themselves." Well and good. It is
certainly a very remarkable and instructive fact that, after all
that has happened since the Naples seances of 1908, Mr. Carring-
ton should still so strongly adhere to his belief in the genuineness
of Eusapia. His opinion is entitled to the greatest consideration
and respect. But I know many psychical researchers who, with-
out being even now a priori prejudiced against " physical pheno-
mena," will think it very hard to follow him.
Let us look through a very interesting chapter nevertheless.
On p. 225 Mr. Carrington says that he was inclined to believe at
first that some of the " phenomena " were the direct result of the
medium's own will. Now he seems to think on the contrary that
" she cannot control them, far less ensure their success "
(p. 226).
" The impression made upon the majority of the sitters is that
the phenomena are due to some unrecognised force emanating
from the body of the medium, and that they are not spiritistic
in character "
(p. 227). On the other hand, " it must be acknow-
ledged that the longer any one group of experimenters sits with
Eusapia, and the more satisfactory the conditions, the more start-
ling do the phenomena become and the more indicative of an
external intelligence." On the whole "we have not advanced at all
in the comprehension of the phenomena "
(p. 229) : a satisfactory
conclusion !
On p. 230 the author discusses the question why, " when the
sitters on both sides of Eusapia are touched simultaneously, they
are touched in about the same place." The explanation Mr.
Carrington suggests is the following :
" Both sides of the medium's body are practically alike in their
anatomical structure. If, therefore, there be an externalisation
of vital force, it seems probable that this externalisation would
take place from both sides of the body {i.e. from the same nerve
ends on both sides) simultaneously, because of the correspondence
182 Count Perovsky-Pelrovo- Solovovo. [part
and sympathy between the two sides. If a nervous current origi-
nated in the brain or spinal cord, and Avas shot outward to the
periphery, it would pass along the nerve tracts on both sides, and
(granting that externalisation takes place at all) would consequently
be externalised on both sides in the same manner and about at
the same time. Upon such a theory, one wonders why simultaneous
touchings are not recorded more frequently, and it must be admitted
they are comparatively rarer (The italics are mine.)
I confess I have another explanation to offer, but perhaps some
people will think it a too simple one !
On p. 234 the question, " Why use a cabinet at all %
" is dis-
cussed. Mi'. Carrmgton states " frankly " (why does he require
particular frankness in this case?) that "a cabinet is generally
employed by mediums to facilitate fraud." But with Eusapia
the case is different :
" she does not sit inside the cabinet, but, on
the contrary, outside—a foot or more distant from the curtains
behind her, held hand and foot [?], and there is no apparent
contact or connection between her and the cabinet during a large
portion of the seance."
Against such a representation I feel bound to protest. And I
hope the reader will not object to my quoting again what I wrote
on this very subject some years ago. In discussing M. Courtier's
report in Vol. XXIII. of our Proceedings (p. 588) I said :
" To return to Eusapia : a light seance of hers with the curtain
is, I think, evidentially at least equivalent to a totally dark seance.
When first introduced this curtain was supposed to serve a reason-
able purpose : it would ensure for part of the room the necessary
condition of darkness whilst allowing the medium to remain in
full view. As a matter of fact it simply complicates matters,
hampers investigation, and generally speaking plays a part which
—with all due respect to the medium—I may be permitted to
call simply disreputable !
"
And again in a foot-note to the same page :
" It has in particular a certain way of being thrown over the
table and covering the medium's hands which may very well serve
a certain purpose, only it will not be the purpose of scientific re-
search. When its lower end is thus spread over E. P.'s hands
she will still keep on moving them, at times showing one or both,
at times concealing them again. And while this is going on,
'
phenomena '
will occur now and then, and it requires a certain
LXVIII.] Review. 183
straining of attention to note whether both hands were visible
simultaneously with such and such '
manifestations '
or not. At
times a hand will also appear between the two halves of the cur-
tain ; and as the result of all this hand-moving the sitters may
very easily be led to believe that they saw all the three hands at
once, whilst in fact they did not. At some sittings with E. P.
in St. Petersburg in the spring of 1898 I specially noticed that
this was just the case ; and yet at least one other sitter was found
to believe and assert the contrary, until I positively assured him
that he was mistaken. In the present instance, therefore, light
engenders an error for which there Mould have been no room in
the dark."
To this view I still emphatically adhere.
On pp. 235-240 Mr. Carrmgton deals with " the second great
objection to these phenomena "—darkness. Here I agree with
him a good deal. I do not think that, provided that all other
conditions are eminently satisfactory, the fact of a seance taking
place hi the dark is an insuperable objection. No : I even prefer
an honestly dark seance to some aoi-discmt "light" ones. For
I greatly value unpretentiousness. Let us have even totally dark
sittings, provided all the other conditions are strict " test-con-
ditions " (I mean this seriously) ; and wait for a real medium to
turn up. I am afraid we shall have to wait a long time.
The fact is that absence of light is by no means the only con-
dition demanded by mediums ; there are many others and
—
strange to say—all these conditions are invariably such as to facili-
tate fraud. If after all genuine phenomena exist, such a coinci-
dence is nevertheless extremely unfortunate and extraordinary.
On p. 247 Mr. Carrington describes the following incident which
he thinks " most instructive " :
" The question of '
control '
had come up, and Eusapia was
protesting that her controllers did not hold her securely enough.
She said in effect :
'
Do hold me securely, do hold me tightly, be-
cause, if you don't, I am liable to do these things niyself ; I have
a tendency to do them, and I want you to prevent that tendency
from becoming active and permitting me to produce these pheno-
mena. I beg of you, therefore, to control me securely, for I warn
you that, if you do not, I am likely to perform certain actions
automatically, when in trance, which will be interpreted as fraudu
lent.' I think this statement is most significant."
184 Count Perovsky-Petrbvq- Solovovo. [part
Has it never occurred to Mr. Carrington that it might have
occurred to E. P.—who is undoubtedly a very intelligent and
shrewd woman—that such statements of hers, if supposed by her
hearers to have been made in all earnestness, might prove very useful
in the way of exonerating her from suspicions of conscious fraud ?
There is nothing very improbable in such a supposition.
Mr. Carrington notes that " as regards personal idiosyncrasies,
it may be said that ha many respects Eusapia is entirely different
from almost every other medium. . . . For example, most mediums
can obtain better results for an individual who is more or less
'
mediumistic '
or '
psychic' Eusapia does not." " Again it is
usually believed that better results can be obtained for women
than for men . . . but Eusapia says that in her case it makes
no difference at all "
(pp. 249, 250). We have a saying in Russian
which runs thus :
" Vsiakiy molodetz—na svoi obrazetz," which may
be translated somewhat as follows :
" Every fellow acts hi his
own fashion " ; and this saying will fit the mediumistic tribe admir-
ably. The variety of the " conditions " supposed to be required
by the " phenomena " almost surpasses the variety of the pheno-
mena themselves ! Conditions alleged to be absolutely necessary
in one case are altogether wanting hi another and only partly
present hi a third one. And yet in all this boundless variety one
uniform feature is, it is true, conspicuously present throughout :
the conditions are such as the medium, not the sitter, desires.
Mi'. Carrington's book ends with an Appendix devoted to the
" need of a psychical laboratory."
It begins, on the other hand, with a Preface containing a quota-
tion from Count [sic] Aksakoff's Afiimism and Spiritism, which
may appropriately close this review. Says M. Aksakoff (pp. xi-xii):
" In the decline of life I ask myself sometimes, '
Have I in truth
done well to have devoted so much time and toil and money to
the study and the publication of facts in this domain ? Have
I not struck into a blind road ? —followed an illusive hope ? Have
I not wasted my experience, with no result to justify all my pains ?
'
Yet always I seem to hear the same reply :
'
A life on earth can
have no higher aspiration than to demonstrate the transcendental
nature of man's behig—to prove him called to a destiny loftier
than the phenomenal existence he knows.' I cannot, then, regret
that I have devoted my whole life to the pursuance of this aim ;
although it be by methods which science shuns and spurns—methods
LXVIII.] Review. 185
which I hold far trustier than any other which science has to show.
And if it be in the end my lot to have laid one stone to that temple
of the Spirit, upbuilt from century to century by men of true heart,
this will be the highest and the only recompense which ever I
strove to gam."
Mr. Carrington seems to agree entirely with this optimistic
attitude. May I add that I do so but partially ? Certainly,
the more I advance hi age, the more I am inclined to think that
the road is blind indeed and the hope illusive. I wish I had spent
the energy I have devoted to investigation hi the domain of
(Spiritism on some altogether different aim. I think the results
might have been somewhat more fruitful.
But such reflections are, perhaps, inappropriate hi a review
dealing with Psychical Research : I had therefore better stop,
not, however, without first thanking Mr. Carrington for the pleasure
a perusal of his very interesting work has afforded me.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
186 John E. Coooer, Ph.D. [part
THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE—EXPERIMENTAL.1
By John E. Coovbb, Ph.D.
(Fellow in Psychical Research, Leland Stanford Jr. University,
California.)
The question of thought-transference curiously remains open
in spite of the reports in these Proceedings and elsewhere of
decidedly favourable experimental results. It will be remem-
bered that Mrs. Henry Sidgwick found that two hypnotized
reagents 2
made, on good days, 14-1 per cent, and 11*4 per-
cent, right guesses on Lotto-Blocks, as against a probability
of P23 per cent., in 354 and 263 experiments respectively ;
3
and that Richet, from 789 successful cases out of 2927 guesses
on playing cards by eleven normal reagents, as against a
probability of 732, concluded that " suggestion mentale " is
to a small degree a common human capacity.4
Perhaps reluctance in accepting such results as final is
founded largely upon statistical facts. The 11,130 guesses
of digits, by 27 normal reagents, collected by the American
S.P.R., yielded but 10" 17 per cent, right cases as against the
probability of 10 per cent. ;
5
and Preyer showed by the records
of the Sachsische Lotterie that inductive probability removes
1
This resume covers part of the work in Psychical Research conducted in
the Department of Psychology at the Leland Stanford Jr. University, Cali-
fornia, during the year 1912-1913, which will be more fully reported else-
where. The research was endowed by Thomas Welton Stanford, of Melbourne,
Australia.
- Throughout this article, the words " experimenter " and " reagent " are
used as equivalent respectively to what in the publications of the S.P.B. are
always called " agent " and " percipient."
—
Ed.
3
Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VI. (1889-1890), pp. 128-170.
4
Richet :
" La suggestion mentale et le calcul des probabilites," Revue
Philosophique, 1884, Vol. XVIII., pp. 609-G74.
6
Proceedings of the American S.P.R., Vol. I. (1885-1889), p. 28.
LXVIII.] Thought-Transference—Experimental. 187
the basis of Richet's contention.1
Theoretical considerations,
however, also stand in the way : the psychological law of
the sensorial gateway for all impressions from the outer world
demands that facts contradictory of it shall be carefully and
repeatedly scrutinized. Evidently those successful experiments
need repetition under the control of the psychological labora-
tory.
The object of the following experimentation was (1) to
further test Richet's supposition of a common " suggestion
mentale," or to find a " norm " for normal people, (2) to
acquire in the course of experimentation statistical material
suitable for establishing a " practical " probability with which
to check the application of theoretical probability to experi-
mental results, (3) to rigorously control the experimentation
to the end of discovering among regularly varied factors the
conditions of success, and (4) to analyse the subjective pro-
cesses to the end of determining what elements of experience
contribute to certainty in making a guess, and, in the case
of success, of learning if the impression upon which a judgment
is based is in the same sense-mode as that entertained in the
mind of the experimenter.
Three series of guessing, aggregating 5000 experiments,
were made.
General Method.
The reagent sat comfortably with his back to the experi-
menter and closed his eyes to avoid visual distraction during
the interval of impression ; after each experiment he recorded
his guess, and noted introspections in a tabulated form under
the following headings : (1) Was the mind in a thoroughly
receptive mood ? (2) Imagery : (a) Kind, (b) Vividness (grade
from A to D), (c) Temporal course (occurring at beginning,
middle, end, quickly, slowly, persistent, intermittent), (d)
Spatial attributes (to the right, left, back, front, — metres) ;
(3) Certainty of guess : (a) Grade (from A to D, and use " pure
guess"), (b) Why? (if the grade is high).
Before each experiment the experimenter shook a dice-box
and determined by the spots whether the card should be
" imaged " or " not imaged," and if the former, in what way
1
Preyer, W. : Die Erkl&rung des Oedankenlesens. Leipzig : Grieben, 1880.
188 John E. Coover, Ph.D. [part
it was to be entertained in his mind ; after drawing his card
or block by chance, he gave one tap on his chair to signal
to the reagent the beginning of the experimental period of
15 to 20 seconds ; in case the material was " imaged," he
made this imagery as vivid as possible and assumed a deter-
mined attitude of will that the reagent should get the impres-
sion ; he gave two taps to signal the close of the experiment,
and after the reagent had recorded the guess he recorded the
card or block, and indicated in what kind of imagery, if in
any, it was held. From 25 to 50 guesses were made on one
day.
I. " The Feeling of being Stared at." 1
Some years ago Titchener 2
found the belief in " the feeling
of being stared at " to be common in his junior classes in
Psychology, proved it groundless in experiments in the labora-
tory, and suggested general psychological reasons for it.
With students in our beginning courses in psychology the
belief is also common :
Women. Men.
No. % No. %
78 74 68 60
77 91 61 80
44 86 51 86
55 96 65 80
Ten students who commonly experienced this feeling and
had confidence in its reliability, were chosen from a class
in general psychology for experimentation. They made 100
guesses each. Right cases varied from 43 to 56 ;
per cent,
of the grand total was 50' 2, as against a probability of 50.
The feeling was experienced in the laboratory, and judg-
ments were delivered with five degrees of certainty (decreasing
from A to " pure guess ") over which they were distributed
as follows :
A B C D " Pure Guess." Total.
Number 15 332 264 61 36 708
Per cent. Right 67 50 48-8 54-1 61 50-8
1 A more detailed report of this experiment will be found in the American
Journal of Psychology, Oct. 1013. Vol. XXTV., pp. 570-575.
2
Science, 1898, Vol. VITT., p. 895.
lxviii. ]
Thought-Transference—Experimental. 180
Analysis of introspections shows that a feeling of certainty
is contributed to the guess by (1) some attribute or content
of the imagery, such as vivid imagery of the experimenter,
staring ;
vividness, liveliness, persistence of this imagery, etc. ;
(2) Kinaesthetic sensations or images, such as an almost
irresistible impulse to turn around, uncomfortable sensations
localized at the back of the neck, feeling of the eyes drawn
toward an imaged line of connection with the experimenter,
etc. ; (3) Inferences from sound impressions resulting from the
experimenter's manipulation of the apparatus, such as the
rustle of clothing, lengthened interval before the tap, etc.
These factors make up the essential process at work when
the reagent has the " feeling of being stared at," and are
responsible for the reagent's confidence in the reliability of
the feeling.
Apart from supposed verification of the belief, therefore,
psychological ground for it consists in attributing an objective
validity to commonly experienced subjective impressions in the
form of imagery, sensations, and impulses. From this common
tendency spring Hallucinations and Motor Automatisms.
II. Guessing of Playing-Cards.
Thirty students (12 of them men), favourably inclined
toward telepathic phenomena, well representative of normal
people, taking their special work in 15 different departments
in the university and registering from 14 different States,
made 100 guesses each, with the following result :
" Not Imaged." Total
Card. Colour. No. Suit. guesses
Right cases 37 731 119 377 1454
Per cent. Right 2-5 50-3 8-2 25-6
Probability 2-5 50 10 25
" Imaged." Total
Card. Colour. No. Suit. guesses.
Right cases 42 748 157 378 1546
Per cent. Right 2-7 48-4 10-2 24-5
Probability 2-5 50 10 25
Guesses given with a high degree of certainty do not cor-
relate with Right cases, and do not occur more often in the
190 John E. Coover, Ph.D. [part Lxvni.]
" imaged " than in the " not imaged " experiments, nor does
the imagery contributing to that certainty correspond to the
kind of imagery or impression the experimenter held in his
mind ;
analysis of introspections indicated elements common
to subjective experience as responsible for the higher grades
of certainty ; but as to those elements the reagents varied :
19 depended dominantly upon visual imagery, 3 upon kin-
aesthetic, 3 upon kinaesthetic-auditory, 4 upon mixed imagery,
and 1 upon almost no imagery.
III. Guessing of Lotto-Blocks.
One reagent, trained in laboratory work and favourable
toward the telepathic hypothesis, made 1000 guesses with
the following results :
Tens Units
Whole No. Tens Units for for Trans- Total
Correct. Correct. Correct Units. Tens, posed. Guesses.
"Not Imaged" 1-18% 11-1% 9-1% 7-4% 8-0% 0-8% 502
"Imaged" 1 00 12-8 10-2 6-6 6-0 1-23 498
Probability 1-23 12-5 10 6-9 6-9 0-85
Highly graded guesses again do not correlate with Right
cases, and do not occur more frequently in the " imaged "
than in the " not imaged " experiments, nor does the imagery
correspond to the imagery or impression held in the mind of
the experimenter.
Introspections show that impressions came in four different
kinds of imagery : Visual, kinaesthetic, auditory, kinaesthetic-
auditory. The higher grades of certainty were contributed
by (1) Vividness of the imagery, (2) its early appearance,
(3) flashing out, and (4) persistence.
The research will be continued with normal people in the
hope of finding the beginnings of whatever capacities are
later found in working with " sensitives," upon whom experi-
ments are now being made.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXIX.
July, 1914.
r.
PHILOSOPHY, SCIENCE, AND PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH :
A PRESLDENTL4L ADDRESS,
Delivered on June 29th, 1914,
By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
It was with no little hesitation that I accepted the great
honour to which the Council of our Society has this year
elected me. For I am not at all sure that a philosopher
ought to be called upon to preside over a Society which has
scientific exploration for its aim, the more so when its researches
are as arduous and prolonged as ours. For the philosophic
temper seems to be contemptuous of the minute details which
count for so much in science, and impatient of the slow but
unceasing advances which constitute the normal progression
of a science. They contrast too much with the procedure of
192 F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
the speculative method, with its spectacular flights, gorgeous
guesses, and hazardous predictions, which it flatters itself
can be guaranteed by reasoning a priori. But the more I see
of philosophic interventions in scientific questions, the more
sceptical I become about their value, and the more doubtful
whether irrefragable proofs that a thing must be so render
it in the least more likely that it is so in fact. The deductive
arguments from general principles, to which philosophers
are addicted, therefore, seem to be, not only useless, but
positively mischievous. They always assume what we none
of us know, to wit, where the limits of the possible are laid
down.
But amid such doubts I take heart again when I think
of the grand succession of philosophers who have presided
over the destinies of our Society before me. Henry Sidgwick,
William James, and Henri Bergson rank with the greatest
names in the philosophy, not only of our day, but of all
time.
And they have all served us nobly. Henry Sidgwick was a
chief among our founders, our first and most essential Presi-
dent, who nursed the Society through the perils of infancy.
Well do I remember those days, though it is now over thirty
years ago, when to profess an interest in Psychical Research
meant to incur an imputation of insanity. We should hardly
have lived down the unreasoning prejudices that poisoned
the social atmosphere, had we not been guided so long by the
counsels of a man, whose genius for common-sense stood
between us and almost inevitable condemnation for cranki-
ness, and whose stainless candour shielded us against attacks
both from within and from without in the pursuit of an enter-
prise in which fraud and self deception are a perpetual danger.
To William James we owe, not only the claim which the
support of the greatest psychologist of all time has given us
upon all succeeding investigators of his science, but also the
discovery of Mrs. Piper and a number of most brilliant and
inspiring papers.
About Henri Bergson, the first metaphysician who has
radically challenged the stupid old tradition, which has come
down from the Eleatics, that time is unreal and change im-
possible, I will say nothing for the moment. You must
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 193
all have read the charming Address which delighted and
instructed us so much last year, and I mean to take up one
or two of his points later.
It is clear therefore that our Society has been most fortunate
in its philosophers. And this is the more surprising because
one does not usually associate the patronage of scientific
adventures with philosophers. When they are not '
specu-
lating '
on their own account, they seem as a rule to play for
safety, and to content themselves with ex post facto
1
reflec-
tion '
on the work of others. This conception has been classi-
cally formulated in Hegel's famous comparison of philosophy
with the owl of Minerva, which takes flight only at nightfall. 1
He meant, presumably, that it loves obscurity, gets on the
wing when the day's work is done, and pursues its prey in
the dark. I am afraid this is only too true of much philo-
sophy, and it explains why men of affairs and men of science
as heartily despise the ex post facto explanations of philoso-
phers after the event as they suspect their a priori dogmatism
before.
But it is not true of all philosophy, and was not true of
the great philosophers who have supported us, and of whom
I may claim to be not only a successor, but also in some measure
a follower. There is another and a truer philosophy, which
by way of contrast with the philosophy of the owl we may
call that of the Lark. It conceives the duty of philosophy
to be, not a priori speculation and ex post facto reflection
merely, but the preliminary exploration, which heralds man's
conquest of new realms of knowledge. So it rises above the
common clods of earth and soars carolling to the sky, pointing
out to men the upward and onward way. Or, in less poetical
language, it is possible, and at times even essential, to prepare
the way for science by ingenious guessing, and this is why
so many of the successful scientific conceptions have originated
with philosophers. I will remind you only of Anaximander's
anticipations of Darwin, of the Atomism of Democritus,
of Heraclitus's discovery of the Universal Flux, of the Stoic
doctrine of the periodical conflagrations of stellar systems,
of Descartes's adoption of the Mechanical Theory, of Berkeley's
Immaterialism, of Kant's Nebular Hypothesis. There was
1
Preface to the Philosophy of Right, s.f.
194 F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
nothing owlish about these guesses ; if they erred, it was
from excess of daring.
There is lastly the philosophy of that self-sacrificing bird
the Pelican, which does not selfishly seclude itself in the
contemplation of the eternal and immutable and indifferent,
but tries to be useful and beneficial to men. And the Pelican
is, I am proud to remember, the totem of my own College. 1
But the Pelican must follow in the wake of the Lark. For
there is need of Daring in intellectual, as in warlike, adventures,
and we particularly need the spirit of the lark, if we would
rise above our actual horizon and explore the undiscovered
country.
But in what direction is it best worth exploring at present,
and to what points can your attention be most usefully
directed ? These were, of course, questions I had to consider.
It seemed to me that in our present era of incipient exploration
of the psychic terra incognita I could best serve the cause by
discussing some problems of our proper logical equipment, and
by clearing away certain metaphysical obstructions which
beset the minds of many. I hope however you will not be
terrified by hearing that I am going to talk both logic and
metaphysics, and will not make up your minds in advance
that I am going to be unintelligible. Logic is, I know, uni-
versally respected, though no one reads it ; while those who
read metaphysics mostly do so, one feels, not to be enlightened
so much as to have their sense of the inscrutable mystery
of everything stimulated and augmented. We, however,
as scientific pioneers, must go armed with a logic that we
can use as an instrument to cut a clear path through the wilder-
ness, and must not be afraid of bogies, metaphysical, or other-
wise. Indeed it may be that by going ahead boldly we shall
not only advance our own subject but perform a notable
service both to metaphysics and to logic.
Let me start, therefore, from an important and interesting
fact to which Prof. Bergson has directed our attention.2
The evidence of psychic phenomena, which we collect, is
primarily historical, and has to be ascertained according
to the canons used by the historian and the lawyer, rather
1
Corpus Christi—though we also own to the owl.
-Proc. Vol. XXVI., p. 464 f.
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 195
than by the methods of the laboratory experimenter. Now
this profoundly true remark indicates the great gulf which
exists between our procedure and that, not only of the exact,
but also of the experimental, sciences. For you see a historical
event occurs once, and is not to be repeated. History never
repeats itself. Julius Caesar was assassinated only once,
and if we wish to know how, and how large precisely was
the rent the envious Casca made, we must get the historical
eye-witnesses to record their evidence accurately and at
once, and compare and criticize their several accounts. That
too is essentially what we have to do with our ghost stories,
etc. If we are lucky, and get hold of the story while it is still
fresh and the witnesses are still alive,—and this, I am glad
to note, we are being allowed to do much oftener than formerly
—we can proceed to strengthen our historical evidence by
applying the methods of the law-courts. We can question
our witnesses and cross-examine them to a certain extent.
But we cannot, as a rule, repeat the experience. We cannot
summon spirits from the vasty deep at will, and cinemato-
graph their performances, in order that if they do anything
we did not observe closely enough, we can make them do it
over again slowly. In short, we can experiment not at all, or
hardly at all. Consequently we cannot multiply our evidence
at will, nor crush our critics by its accumulating weight.
But worse remains to be confessed. Our evidence does
not accumulate in the strict sense at all. The longer we keep
it, the worse it gets, and that through no fault of its own.
It wastes insensibly away through the mere efflux of time,
and, so far from growing greater with the growth of interest,
our scientific capital is composed of wasting assets.
The reason is quite simple. The strength of our evidence
depended on our securing first-hand records from trustworthy
witnesses and getting them competently examined and criticized
by honourable investigators. So long as our witnesses and our
investigators are alive, therefore, they can confront the hostile
sceptic in person, and will have the support of those who
know them and believe in them. But as the original witnesses
and investigators pass away, their evidence inevitably under-
goes a serious and progressive loss in value. Coming generations
have nothing to go by but a paper record, and a record of its
196 F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
recorders. They can know neither the witnesses nor the
investigators personally, and hence the value of the evidence
may shrink incalculably. Whoever wants to disbelieve it
has merely to get up and say the witnesses were liars or lunatics.
'
Why don't these marvels happen now ? Certainly they
seem weU attested ; but what if the records were biased or
fraudulent ? Anyhow they are not up to modern scientific
standards.' Nor can any one refute him. At present even
those of us who have discovered nothing at first hand (and
their numbers are regrettably large) can yet reply '
such
insinuations are absurd ; we have known Edmund Gurney
and Henry Sidgwick and Frederic Myers and Richard Hodgson,
and William James, and they were all honourable men, in
whose integrity and intelligence we could safely put our
trust.' But will any one be able to feel this as strongly
100 or 1000 years hence ? Surely we must recognize that
however fully and carefully we record our cases now, it is
simply a question of time for them to become as inadequate
for scientific purposes and as unconvincing to our successors
as the records of similar events in the past had become to us.
In other words we must recognize it as an intrinsic limitation
of historical evidence that it can hardly ever be, and can
never remain, scientifically adequate, and that therefore
our evidence also can never be made scientifically cogent,
so long as it remains historical.
We labour, then, under a serious disability. But is it
incurable ? The answer must be, yes and no. Yes, in so
far as we continue to depend on crude evidence : for the crude
evidence is always historical, even in the sciences. All scientific
discoveries are in the first place historical events. That
Newton had the law of gravitation suggested to him by the
fall of the apple, that he made certain calculations and pre-
dicted the orbit of the moon, that his predictions failed at
first because his data were wrong, and afterwards, when
he had got hold of better ones, succeeded (approximately),
are, or are believed to be, historical facts, without which our
law of gravitation would not have come into being.1
Nor
1
Of course if some one else than Newton had subsequently propounded the
same formula, there would still have been a set of historical circumstances
conditioning the discovery.
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 197
does our recognition of it as an '
eternal ' truth exempt it
from dependence on such facts. If it is to remain '
true,'
it needs a continuous supply of historical verifications ;
its predictions must continue to come true and never fail.
If at any time a gravitating body should be observed to move
unpredictably, a question would arise about the truth of
Newton's law, and it might have to be amended. Even the
best established laws of nature, therefore, rest in fact on a
finite number of historical observations, and in the case of
laws which can be verified only with difficulty, or at long
intervals, that number is by no means large. It takes seventy-
eight years (more or less) to verify the orbit of Halley's comet,
and it would seem that at most abort forty reappearances of
this luminary are on record. The atomic weight of some
of the rarer metals has probably not been calculated more
than three or four times, and finally there are whole sciences
(like palaeontology) in which important conclusions repose
upon single historical observations as to where a bone was
found in a bed. Thus the name and fame, nay the very
existence, of Pithecanthropus erectus, the '
Missing Link,'
depend on the truthfulness and competence of Dr. Eugene
Dubois's assurance that he had found a cranium sufficiently
near a thigh bone for both to be attributed to the same
creature. In all these cases any source of error in the
historical data may radically vitiate all the beliefs that are
built upon them.
So far then our evidence does not differ from that on which
all science ultimately rests, and it is a mistake to imagine
that crude historical evidence can be dispensed with. Even
the sciences that predict most boldly and successfully rest
on historical evidence and individual witnesses, and depend
on confirmation by experience. Nor do the mathematical
sciences form a real exception. For though in their case we
seem to be free to make what assumptions we please, and to
work them out as consistently as we please, the only thing
that guarantees to our procedures any relevance or applica-
bility to the course of real events is that we should have
happened to hit upon assumptions which turn out to be service-
able idealizations of reality. However enthusiastic therefore
we may be about the exactness and apriority of pure
198 F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
mathematics, we must leave the truth of applied mathematics
essentially empirical. There is nothing in the number-system
to secure that it shall always be supplied with things that
can be numbered, nothing in any geometry to guarantee a
supply of shapes that can be treated as if they were geometrical.
Thus it is their actual application to reality which raises the
value of mathematics above that of difficult games with
imaginary counters.
Nevertheless it is not true that the sciences are wholly
dependent on truthful records of events. Their truths are
historical, but not merely historical, and herein lies the real
difference between their materials and ours. This difference
consists essentially in the extent to which the data can be
controlled. Where there is control enough to experiment,
there is always a possibility in theory, and usually in fact,
of indefinitely repeating and multiplying the evidence, on
which the truths of the sciences rest. If, therefore, there is
any dispute about the evidence, it is possible to repeat the
experiments questioned, with special attention to the doubtful
points, or, better still, to devise such new and improved forms
of them as will meet the objections urged. Thus, though the
evidence is historical and its amount may actually be small,
more can be manufactured on demand, and it is therefore
scientifically adequate.
The existence, therefore, of such experimental control
revolutionizes the logical situation. It justifies an entirely
different method of discussion and an entirely different notion
of proof. It puts '
dialectical '
disputation and logic-chopping
out of court altogether. When a doubt arises whether a pheno-
menon has been correctly observed, it is no longer necessary
to go into the pros and cons of a historical record, and to
dispute about the honesty and competence of the observers
with critics who may be bitterly prejudiced for all sorts of
reasons that are not revealed—not because a good case cannot
often be made out in their favour, but because it is no longer
worth while. It is much simpler and more satisfactory to
repeat the experiments, and so to make fresh evidence. Thus
when in the early days of wireless telegraphy the Marconi
Company first claimed to have transmitted a signal across
the Atlantic, and this claim was disputed, there did not arise
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 199
a literary controversy as to what exactly happened on this
particular occasion. The company simply went on perfecting
its apparatus until it got through so many messages of such
importance that it was no longer worth the captious critic's
while to dispute its achievement. In short, where there is
experimental control the decisive appeal is to facts, and not
to dialectical reasoning and argument, though it has taken
mankind a long time to learn this, and some philosophers
may still behave like the Aristotelians who refused to look
through telescopes, lest they should see the satellites of Jupiter
revolving round their primary and behold a visible refutation
of their master's astronomy.
It follows that in Psychical Research also we should aim,
not so much at establishing that any particular '
super-
normal '
event, say a message from the departed, did veritably
happen at a particular time, but at getting such a grasp of
the conditions of such events that they can become predictable
and '
normal.' We live in a beleaguered city that is hedged
round and beset by death : it is no great relief, even if we
can believe it, that from time to time a sporadic message should
get through the blockading lines ; what we need is to be assured
of a free line of communication with our friends without, that
will render our life the outpost of a larger scheme. That the
real '
G.P.' or Frederic Myers communicated through Mrs.
Piper on this occasion or that, we shall never be able to
establish to every one's satisfaction ; but we may perhaps learn
so to regulate the conditions of trance, automatism, and other
forms of so-called '
mediumship,' that they will yield results,
as in the natural sciences, which progressively increase in value
and trustworthiness, until they cease to be laboratory experi-
ments, and enter into our ordinary practice and outlook upon
life. How in fact that is to be achieved I cannot, unfortunately,
tell you ; for that would be the real discovery, and one of the
most momentous men could make. But we are far more
likely to make it, if we make it clear to ourselves that it is
the discovery to aim at.
Experimental control similarly changes the notion of
'
proof.' It liberates us from the illusion, which still
vitiates so much of the argument on both sides in Psychical
Research, that it is in our power or duty to contrive a single
200 F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [PART
unexceptionable and final experiment or observation which
will constitute an absolute and coercive proof of a disputed
belief once and for all, and silence sceptics for ever after.
Once we capitulate to this logical superstition, we are not
only bound to reject much valuable and scientifically suggestive
evidence that for one reason or another does not come up
to this standard of '
proof,' and to engage upon a wildgoose
chase of an impossibly perfect case, but we are also committed
to endless arguments as to whether a particular observation
does or does not reach the standard. But a really experi-
mental science does not allow its progress to be impeded in
this way. It says to the objector
—' you don't think our
evidence good enough. Well, I will not dispute with you
about case A, which you reject ; but here are also cases B
and C, and D, and so forth to any extent, which, though
not one of them is ideally perfect, are not subject to the same
objections as A.' Thus, by the indefinite accumulation of
evidence, even the strongest prejudices are slowly overpowered.
It is possible therefore for a scieuce, i.e. a systematic inter-
pretation of a number of facts, to become certain and indisput-
able, even though none of its constituent facts are per se
beyond cavil. And conversely, if a scientific investigation
is put into a position in which its evidence is not allowed
to accumulate, it can never be secured against cavils, and
remains exposed for ever to attacks which experimental
control would justify it in ignoring.
It follows moreover that much of the criticism to which
our evidence is subjected is mistaken and rests upon bad
logic. It is assumed that proof must rest upon absolute
certainties, and cannot accrue from a confluence of proba-
bilities. It is then shown that no part of the evidence taken
piecemeal is absolutely unexceptionable. It is, thereupon,
rejected as inconclusive, and it is inferred that nothing has
been proved. But this is really to imply that evidence must
never be allowed to accumulate, that probabilities have no
logical value, and that the sort of evidence on which most of
the sciences rely is worthless. It would clearly be inept on
our part to acquiesce in a procedure which first requires us
to prove scientific novelties by one single historical case,
and then condemns us for failing in this impossible attempt.
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 201
It is evident then that experimental control would not only
give us power to amass evidence to our hearts' content, but
would enormously improve our logical position. If we had
such control, even to a slight extent, we should no longer
need to waste time and ingenuity in arguing with sceptics
about the precise weight of particular pieces of evidence or
to strain after one single invulnerable piece de conviction.
We could calmly let the evidence accumulate for what it was
worth, and devote our energies to the extension and improve-
ment of that control, convinced that in the long run it is not
possible to deny the status of truth to knowledge which has
shown itself to be real, by proving itself useful and by becoming
a power in the world.
It seems then that in Psychical Research also we cannot
convince others, nor in the end perhaps ourselves, that our
discoveries are real, unless they conform to the type which
the pragmatic philosophy assigns to all genuine knowledge,
i.e. unless they increase our power over the course of events.
Indeed I do not know of any case which bears out more
strikingly the correctness of the pragmatic analysis of know-
ledge. What other case is there of alleged knowledge which
is as ancient, as important, as passionately defended and
attacked, as the occult and mysterious occurrences which our
Society has for the first time in human history essayed to
subject to systematic investigation ? And about what alleged
knowledge also have disputes raged so interminably ? Why ?
The testimony to the genuineness of this whole realm of know-
ledge is doubted and repudiated, because those who claimed
to possess such knowledge have never been able to show that
it could stand the pragmatic test, that they had the pheno-
mena under control, and that it yielded them real power.
Hence the world has never been willing to acknowledge that
they possessed real knowledge.
Let me illustrate this point from a delightful book which
exhibits a rare combination of philosophic and spiritual insight,
Prof. L. P. Jacks's All Men are Ghosts (pp. 4-7).
Turning the tables upon us, one of his characters declares
that " Ghosts who believe in the existence of human beings
often regard them as idiots. To communicate with such
imbeciles is to court an insult, or at least to expose the
202 F. C. 8. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
communicating spirit to an exhibition of revolting antics and
limited intelligence. From their point of view, men are a
race of beings whose acquaintance is not worth cultivating."
By the majority of ghosts " belief in the existence of beings
like yourself is regarded as betokening a want of mental
balance. A ghost who should venture to assert that you,
for example, were real would certainly risk his reputation,
and if he held a scientific professorship or an ecclesiastical
appointment he would be . . . made the victim of some
persecution. . . . The ghosts have among them a Psychical
Research Society which has been occupied for many years
in investigating the reality of the inhabitants of this planet.
"A friend of mine, who is a Doctor of Science, and extremely
scornful as to the existence of spirits, is actually undergoing
examination by the ghosts. . . . Some assert that he is a
low form of mental energy which has managed to get astray
in the universe. Others declare that he is a putrid emanation
from some kind of matter which science has not yet identified,
without consciousness, but by no means without odour.
They allege that they have walked through him. ..."
"By the vast majority of ghosts the proceedings of the Society
are viewed with indifference and the claim, which is occasionally
made, that communication has been established with the
beings whom we know as men is treated with contempt. The
critics point to the extreme triviality of the alleged com-
munications from this world. They say nothing of the
least importance has ever come through from the human
side, and are wont to make merry over the imbecility and
disjointed nonsense of the messages reported by the mediums*
for you must understand that there are mediums on that
side as well as on this. Some time ago, two questions, pur-
porting to come from this world, reached the ghosts. One
was '
What will be the price of Midland Preferred on Jan.
1, 1915 ?
'
The other, '
Will it be a boy or a girl ?
'
"
Why do you laugh at these questions ? Are they not
psychologically natural questions for us to ask, and questions
about what it concerns men greatly to know ? Nay, are
they not logically good test questions, and would not correct
answers to them unquestionably be convincing ? Could
any one persist in disbelieving the genuineness of supernormal
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 203
communications if they conveyed information bearing so
directly on his vital interests ? And if he did, should we not
confidently expect one who was blind to the advantages of
such valuable information to be speedily eliminated by natural
selection ? Whatever, therefore, may be the idiosyncrasies
of individuals, the race has to be empirically-minded enough
to believe whatever is enforced by a long course of successful
and valuable prediction. You may convince yourselves of
this by an illustration taken from an ingenious tale, by Mr.
H. G. Wells, if I remember rightly, of a race of men con-
genially blind, in whose midst by some freak of atavism a
child was born gifted with sight. Being a seer, he became
•of course a prophet ; i.e. he was able to predict, supernormally,
a vast number of events which duly came to pass. He could
foretell to his blind fellows that if they walked on so many
yards in a certain direction they would run into a rock or
encounter a bull, and would of course himself avoid many
dangers he could see approaching. At first, of course, his
claim to be possessed of an additional sense and a consequential
extension of his means of knowing would be scouted, and
fraud, coincidence, or lying be alleged in explanation of his
feats ; but in the end the regular success of the seer's pre-
dictions and the superior adaptations which they rendered
possible, i.e. the practical value of his endowment, would force
the reluctant blind to admit the existence of a sense they did
not possess. And if they reflected intelligently on this result,
they would perceive also that here was one way in which
practical value could establish '
theoretic '
truth.
Why then are questions of the sort that Professor Jacks
satirizes felt to be absurd ? Their absurdity lies in their
naive assumption that they are equally interesting to the
denizens of another world, to whom they are supposed to be
addressed, and are not merely natural questions for us to
ask, but also for them to answer. They presuppose a com-
munity of interests between the two worlds, which seems to us
presumptuous and absurdly unlikely.
Yet there is nothing in itself absurd in presuming a com-
munity of interests. Unless we can find or make such a thing,
we can hardly hope to establish any effective communication.
It is no use trying to ring up any one on the telephone who
204 F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
does not want to converse with you, because he knows you will
bore him with your personal affairs in which he takes no interest.
The flaw in these questions lies in the one-sidedness, blind-
ness, and egotism of the st. adpoint from which they are
asked. If we want to enter into communication with other
worlds, we must endeavour to ask, not only questions to
which the answers would be of value to us, but also questions
which will seem worth answering to those we address. And
this I think we have so far failed to do. Whether we conceive
them to have been addressed to angels, devils, spirits of the
departed or '
elementals,' our questions must have seemed
intolerably silly, and (as a rule) the answers have paid us
out in kind. It may well be, therefore, that the value of the
responses we have elicited has been so small, because we have
been so stupid ; it would be unscientific to infer from our
failures either that no communication is possible or even that
it has not occasionally in some measure been achieved. But,
as a rule, the few who have not been too engrossed in mundane
affairs to interest themselves in such attempts have asked
for information either about spiritual spheres, and got de-
scriptions that were humanly quite unveriiiable, or about
such of their earthly affairs as could hardly be subjects of
interest and competence to the denizens of other worlds.
They have not contrived questions of interest to both sides,
which would yield evidential answers.
I do not, however, wish to imply that the fault is wholly
on our side. It may well have been that the only common
interest to which we could hitherto appeal was precisely
the personal one, viz. the desire to get through a message
of greeting and consolation to those whom death had left
bereaved. That certainly, rather than the purely scientific
desire to extend our knowledge, has been the driving force
in such researches as there have been on our side. And why
not also on the other ? Such personal messages have not
infrequently convinced those for whom they were intended.
But, unfortunately, they can rarely be made to appear
evidential to the world at large, which cannot judge the
facts, and naturally suspects the bias of those who can.
Success in Psychical Research, therefore, seems to need
not merely systematic and continuous effort on our part,
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 205
organized with much larger resources both in men and money
than the world has yet placed at our disposal, but also intelli-
gent co-operation in what, for purposes of reference alone,
I ma,y call the '
spirit '
world. And on both sides the efforts
made will have to be prompted largely by a scientific desire
to break down the barriers that evidently exist between the
different phases of being. These barriers, if a '
spirit ' world
exists at all—and I have elsewhere shown that there are no
reasons, scientific, philosophical or theological, why there
should not be one 1—are probably mainly psychological in
character, and no more substantial than the flimsy fences
that restrict the grazing of the Alpine cow.
In other words we need a S.P.R. on the other side as well
as on this. And if we may trust the gradually hardening
convictions of those who have most intimately and laboriously
studied at first hand the complicated evidence of Cross-Cor-
respondences, we seem to be getting something of the sort,
as more and more of those who were devoted to Psychical
Research in a lofty scientific spirit join the majority. But
I fear that the obstacles in the way of Psychical Research
must be even greater on the other side than on this. For a
variety of reasons, largely discreditable and therefore unavowed,
Psychical Research is far from popular on earth. There are
pretty good reasons why it should be even more unpopular
in the beyond. For the conditions are much less favourable.
No one can seriously and honestly contend that it is a good
thing that we should know nothing about what death means
to what, again for the purpose of provisional reference, I
must call the individual soul, and about what may befall it
after that—for I greatly doubt whether the sentiments of those
who say that knowledge would destroy the merit of faith
have been interpreted aright. But it is easy to conceive
that, once the ordeal of death is passed, it may seem in a
high degree repugnant, unnecessary, and degrading to allow
one's thoughts to dwell on the dreadful past and to attempt
to resume relations with a world like ours. It would at any
rate demand some leisure and a high degree of unselfishness
and independence of a social sentiment which would doubtless
1
Cf. Riddles of the Sphinx, Ch. XI. ; Humanism, Ch. XVII. -XIX. ; Studies
in Humanism, Ch. XX.
206 F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
denounce communication with our earthly sphere as dis-
gustingly '
bad form,' and make its reprobation felt in appro-
priate ways. So it would accord with what we know of human
nature that, if we survive death, we shall continue to live
for the future rather than in the past, and to be sensitive and
submissive to social sentiment.
We have come then upon a number of grave intrinsic
obstacles to Psychical Research : (1) In trying to establish
communications with other worlds we are probably dealing
with forces which are not seriously interested in us, or nothing
like as much as we are in them ; (2) At present these forces
are beyond our control.
(3) We have scarcely any more control over the forces
at our end of the line, which we could use as instruments
of exploration. For the
1
physical '
forces, which we have
learnt to some extent to control and use, seem to fail us here.
There seems to be very little analogy, and an almost absolute
difference of kind, between the '
physical '
and the '
psychical.'
And though I quite believe that in the end, when we have
made as serious and sustained efforts to understand the
psychical as we have the physical, and considered the whole
antithesis in a philosophic manner, this difference will turn
out to be as arbitrary and fictitious in fact as it historically
was in origin, it is at present unfortunately true that psycho-
logists have not yet succeeded in making the methods which
are effective in the physical sciences work in the psychical.
Nor have they succeeded as yet to any important extent
in devising any methods which are distinctively psychical.
Hence psychology at present seems to concern itself chiefly
with the multitudinous rivalries of alternative descriptions
of the psychic processes or data, all of which rest on arbitrary
abstractions and fictions, and none of which exhibit any
decisive superiority by working better than their competitors
and showing themselves more extensively applicable to the life
of psychic beings. 1
In other words, psychology at present stands
1
Perhaps these remarks do not apply quite so definitely to the descriptions
of '
functional ' psychologies as to '
structural,' nor to the hypnotic and
'
psycho-analytic '
methods of practical psychologists like Morton Prince,
Boris Sidis and Freud, which have to some extent verified themselves by
yielding actual cures.
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 207
the pragmatic test hardly any better than Psychical Research.
Some day it may supply us with real knowledge about the
'
soul.' which we can apply and act on; but that day is not yet. 1
(4) This inadequacy of psychology and of its knowledge
of the '
soul '
brings me to the last point to which I can draw
your attention to-day, viz. the general inadequacy of the
conceptions with which we have to operate in analysing the
phenomena that are offered us.
That our notions should be inadequate is not of course
astonishing in itself. For the conceptions in use everywhere
embody merely the knowledge on record, and nothing more
can be extracted from them than was put into them by the
researches which consolidated their '
meaning.' Consequently
it is the regular and normal experience of every progressive
science to find that its initial conceptions were inadequate
and have to be extensively modified as its knowledge increases.
History also attests that many centuries of groping often pre-
cede the discovery of suitable conceptions that will effectively
analyse and handle the phenomena a science studies. The
palmary example occurs in the history of physics. From the
beginnings of Greek science the human intelligence strove
for over 2000 years to hit upon conceptions that would lead
to a fruitful treatment of physical phenomena. Men naturally
took their first cues from the apparent sensible qualities
of bodies, and laboured perseveringly to explain their
behaviour by assuming the antitheses of
!
hot ' and '
cold,'
'
heavy '
and 1
light,' '
thick '
and '
thin,' '
rest '
and '
motion,'
etc., and the elemental character of '
earth,' '
water,' '
air,'
'
fire,' and sometimes '
ether.' But all these efforts proved
vain, and it was not until Galileo and Descartes in
the seventeenth century that physics arrived at mechanical
conceptions that would really work. After that progress
was assured, not because '
absolute '
truth had been attained
and nature was wholly (or even in part) '
mechanical,' but
because the mechanical conceptions gave the physicist the
experimental control which enabled him progressively to
1 Teachers are often found to make similar complaints of existing psychology.
For they too desire to use it, and find that psychological speculations have
not yet come down to the concrete mental life, while psychological experi-
ments presuppose conditions that are too remote from those of their problems.
O
*
208 F. C. 8. Schiller, D.Sc [part
improve his weapons. The physical conceptions now in use—
•
1
atoms,' '
ether,' '
electrons,' '
quanta,' etc.—are not such as
would impress themselves on an a 'priori philosopher as self-
eviolently true, or even reasonable, and they would have
appeared incredible and absurd to primitive man ; but they
work so well that they silence our prejudices.
In Psychical Research, I venture to think, we are still in
the groping stage. As Prof. Bergson has pointed out so
lucidly, the Psychical is only just becoming a subject of scientific
interest. Man's first preoccupation (of natural necessity)
was with the outside world ; what study of the psychical
there was devolved upon magicians and priests. But the
magicians, not being endowed, pursued it in a narrowly com-
mercial spirit with an eye only to their personal power and
profit ; the priests, though endowed, were so on the wrong
lines, and evolved an intolerance and conservatism that was
even more deleterious scientifically than the impostures of
the magicians : neither, moreover, had any conception of the
need for scientific progress.
The net result is that we not only have no suitable con-
ceptions even for preliminary use in psj^chical researches,
but have had our minds thoroughly confused by the vague-
ness and ambiguity of the current terms and obstructed by
various inappropriate notions that spring from applying to
the psychical false analogies from the physical world.
The peculiar badness of our initial notions here seems to
be largely due to the fact that they are forced upon us by
an unnatural conspiracy of common-sense and metaphysics.
Common-sense normally looks only to the immediate need,
and devises notions adequate to the practical purposes of
ordinary life, and in this it usually succeeds. Metaphysics,
ideally, should however criticize the limitations of these notions,
and open our eyes to wider possibilities. But in this case it
has not fulfilled its proper function, but merely reduced the
common-sense notions to uselessness and absurdity, while
so infecting common-sense with its paradoxes that it is hard
to disentangle its original meaning.
From lack of time I will exemplify these strictures from
two only of the notions we have to use, those of '
soul ' and
of '
reality.'
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 209
(I.) The conception of 'soul,' as we have lately been re-
minded by Mr. McDougall's admirable book on Body and
Mind, is one of immemorial antiquity, and enormous elasticity.
It embraces and expresses, in varying proportions, the notions
of a principle to explain life, consciousness, spontaneous
mobility, breathing, sleeping, dreaming, and possibly others.
It is conceived as material or immaterial, as simple, multiple,
or both at once, as the real man, or as a shadowy reflex,
as separable from its body and capable of inhabiting others,
usually as surviving death and often as pre-existing birth.
Needless to say, it is a pretty slippery conception to handle,
and hard to pin down to any definite formula. But on closer
examination it will be found that every one of this bewildering
variety of functions assigned to the '
soul '
by primitive thought
is intended to solve a real problem, and that the conception
of soul is never otiose. Primitive man is not learned enough
to construct purely verbal problems and to pay himself in
words ; common-sense therefore always conceives the '
soul
'
as a principle of real explanation.
But when we turn to metaphysics the situation is greatly
altered for the worse. The great philosopher of the soul is
Plato, and in him most of the primitive notions about the soul
jostle each other with little or no attempt to unify them.
But, animated by an ascetic dread of the sensible world, Plato
proceeded to invent also the attribute of immateriality and
the notion of pure spirit, which have ever since had a succes
fou in philosophic circles. He thus paved the way for the
philosophic elaboration of the soul into a '
spiritual substance,'
absolutely different in kind from the body, which could be
proved to be immortal a priori, because it was simple and
therefore indissoluble, and could support all its changing
'
accidents '
as an immutable substratum. The intention of
all this metaphysical defining was of course to demonstrate
the soul's immortality without recourse to any laborious
interrogation of experience. But the actual effect was not
only to fail to do this, but to render the notion of soul
scientifically useless, and unintelligible, even as metaphysics,
because incapable of performing the function assigned to it
by definition. As conceived by philosophy, therefore, the soul
became a meaningless principle.
210 F: C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
To justify this briefly, I may point out—(1) that the '
im-
materiality '
ascribed to the soul, so far from facilitating a
genuinely idealistic interpretation of the world, really con-
travened it. A genuine idealism has to try to conceive all
reality as existing for spirit, and as in some sense ultimately
spiritual. It must hold, therefore, that the external world
also is spiritual in its nature, and cannot admit that there
is any real incompatibility between apparent materiality
and real spirituality. This, however, leaves the '
immaterial
'
functionless. Idealism has no need to postulate with Plato
an immaterial world to be the true home of an immaterial
soul which has inexplicably fallen from its high estate and
is yearning to return to it : nor need it chill the aspirations
of the natural man with the uncomfortable and unimaginable
institutions of '
heavens '
compounded according to the
Platonic recipe. It can argue rather that if it is not incon-
sistent with the spirituality of reality to reveal itself as a
sensible and material world now, it need not ever be so, and
can infer that the heavenly Jerusalem is a forecast of perfection
logically sounder, as well as more agreeable, than the thinly-
veiled negations of non-sensible being out of space and time.
(2) However verbally invulnerable a priori proofs of the
soul's immortality might be, they could never demonstrate
that the metaphysical definitions of the notion were empirically
applicable to reality, and that '
souls ' coming up to their
specifications were in fact possessed by anybody. This
unavoidable defect, which clings to the method of a priori
reasoning everywhere, renders real proof of matters of fact
essentially empirical and takes all the effectiveness out of
the philosophic arguments about immortality.
(3) As a matter of fact these verbal '
proofs '
of the soul's
immortality were far from invulnerable, and Kant had no
difficulty in pointing out their obvious gaps and flaws. A
'
simple substance '
cannot indeed perish by dissolution into
'
parts,' which it has not got ; but that need not save it from
fading out completely. Nor is the soul properly called '
simple.'
Rather it is '
one '
for some purposes and '
many '
for others, 1
and its unity embraces an infinite complexity. A really
1
Even the philosophers who most strenuously insist on its '
unity '
cannot
manage without ascribing to it '
parts '
and '
faculties.'
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 211
simple soul-atom would be perfectly useless theoretically,
and perfectly intolerable practically. It is moreover undis-
coverable in psychic life, as Hume proclaimed, and if it could
be found, could certainly not be identified with our true self.
(4) But the most maladroit blunder of all was to conceive
the soul as '
a substance,' taken in the sense of an immutable
substratum. For in the first place this notion of substance
was inappropriately modelled upon the common-sense notion
of '
things,' which serves us so effectively to group together
the changing appearances of the external world. But the
course of inner experience flows very differently. Nothing,
even remotely, thing-like appears in it, nothing requiring to
be hung upon the peg of '
substance.' A '
soul ' is composed
of '
processes,' not of '
things,' and even its '
permanence '
is
that of a stream and not that of the rock it carves into. It
is in unceasing change, and neither immutable, nor required
to be so. For an immutable soul would be incapable of learn-
ing by experience, and no one wishes to have such a stupidly
ineducable soul. 1
What we want is to change and yet to be
'
the same,' to preserve our '
identity '
in changes (preferably
for the better), and the only spot in the universe where the
possibility of this feat seems to be revealed to us is in our
personal experience. And even if we overlooked these differ-
ences, the notion of substance does not explain even the nature
of '
things.' No one has ever been able to conceive how a
'
substance '
functioned, how its '
attributes ' '
inhered '
in it,
or how an immutable substratum could guarantee to '
things
'
their identity and permanence. For the changes which
pass over the '
thing '
do not touch its '
substance,' nor can
the '
substance '
exercise any influence on the course of the
changes. There is not even an imaginable connexion between
the '
substance '
and its '
accidents '
; and there are no means
of knowing what is happening to the former, because ex hypothesi
all we ever know is the behaviour of the latter. The truth
is that this notion of '
substance '
is not functional at all,
and explains nothing either about '
things '
or about '
souls.'
It is no wonder therefore that modern psychology has no use
for a metaphysical soul of this sort.
1
Except, apparently, some philosophers (as Schopenhauer), for whom
time is '
unreal,' and therefore learning illusory.
212 F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
It should be clear by now that we must get a better notion
of substance, before we can get a helpful notion of soul, that
will enable us to attack the complexities of our psychic nature
as they are beginning to reveal themselves in the phenomena
of multiple personality, trance, automatism, and what we have
ventured to label '
telepathy.' Unfortunately I have no time
on this occasion to suggest the positive developments of the
notion of soul that might advantageously be tried. 1
(II.) The defects and ambiguities of the term '
reality ' are
still more mischievous. For they enter into and vitiate all
inquiries into the reality of anything ; so that, even if we had
succeeded in meaning something definite by '
soul,' we could
hardly discuss whether '
souls '
were '
real ' until we had settled
what we meant by '
reality.'
The particular point however I want to make to-day is
that in Psychical Research we are specially concerned with
the ambiguities of '
reality.' We are continually endeavour-
ing to test '
facts '
of sorts, which lay claim to '
reality '
in
some sense, and to assign their proper sense to each, and in
this process we may often have to revise or modify the classi-
fications of realities which are good enough for the purposes
of ordinary life and even of the sciences, and in the end may
even have to declare thoroughly shallow and inadequate
beliefs which are almost universally accepted. For example,
if there is anything about which ordinary persons, philo-
sophers and scientists may be said to agree it is that the simple
and proper answer to the question '
How many real worlds
are there ?
'
is '
One !
'
; and yet it is impossible to concern
oneself at all seriously with psychical phenomena without
feeling that this answer is, so far, quite an unwarranted piece
of simplification.
The first sense of '
reality '
is the merely formal sense to
which formal logic restricts itself. It constitutes anything
an object of discourse, and must be possessed by anything
talked about, however nonsensical and absurd it may be.
But as this sort of reality is presupposed in every real inquiry,
it may perhaps be dismissed as unimportant.
We next find that the other senses of '
reality '
are derivative
1
Some hints, however, together with a reconstruction of the conception
of substance, will be found in Humanism, Ch. XII.
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 213
from two main sources. To the first, which we may call
the psychological, anything is '
real '
that is experienced,
and moreover as it is experienced, and nothing is unreal that
any one can be got to experience. It follows that errors,
illusions, hallucinations, dreams, etc., are all possessed of
this sort of reality. The '
imaginary '
pains of hysterical
patients also are real in this sense.
The second main sense we may call the pragmatic and
explain by saying that for it the '
real '
is the important. Its
classical description by James declares that " whatever
things have intimate and continuous connexion with my life
are things of whose reality I cannot doubt." 1
In this sense
'
reality '
is clearly a value, and admits of gradations, and is
essentially relative to purposes and their order of importance.
It is this sense which dominates our sciences and our ordinary
life. The common-sense beliefs of ordinary life have an
indefeasible reality, because they are undeniably important.
So are the realities of ethics and politics, and the other opinions
which have social currency.
The realities of the sciences are less universally impressive :
for though the objects of every science are of course real for
it, however fictitious and abstract they may seem to common
sense, like e.g. the realities of mathematics, and however
little interest we may take in them, many of us manage to
avoid any very intimate contact with the realities of many
sciences. Yet even in such cases we have to concede that,
in so far as the sciences are important for life, the reality of
the '
realities '
they posit must be admitted.
It is however to be noted (1) that all the realities mentioned
are (or are supposed to be) common, i.e. to be shared by many,
and not to be in their nature objects only for a single per-
cipient. The one exception to this which common-sense
allows is the reality of pleasures and pains. We are willing
to admit that our fellow creatures have feelings, although we
can never apparently feel them. But the pragmatic reasons
which compel us to make this exception are so obvious that it
only confirms our contention that the '
real ' is the important.
(2) All these positive values which we call realities are
haunted by negative counterparts, variously named '
errors,'
1
Principles of Psychology, Vol. II., p. 298.
214 F. G. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
'
failures,' '
unrealities,' etc. Neither our science nor our
public opinion is actually infallible, though it is often con-
tended that ideally they should be. We try to put the blame
for such failures on the fallibility of individuals, and label
them '
subjective,' although most errors are collective and
popular, and every truth starts its mundane career as the
discovery of some unhappy wight who is sure to be persecuted
by all the authorities for making it.
Nevertheless, we cannot, by attaching a stigma to these
'
unrealities,' deprive them of psychological reality (in the first
sense) ; we only lump them together with such '
subjective
?
realities as '
dreams '
and '
hallucinations.' By coalescing
with these they form a formidable host, capable of very
seriously upsetting the conventional beliefs both of ordinary
life and of the sciences. Ordinarily, however, little attention
is paid them ;
they are flung out on the rubbish heaps, and
officially their existence is denied.
Now this is where ive come in, and come across them. Both
for the reason that they are '
subjective '
and because they are
suspected of error and illusion, they concern us nearly. For
all the subjects we investigate seem to have a reality which
is largely of the sort called '
subjective '
; indeed there is
usually a question whether they have any other. They are
also peculiarly subject to error and illusion. We are bound,
therefore, to become expert in dealing with perplexing material
of this sort, and to fit ourselves to work over the rubbish heaps
of all the sciences for residual products of value.
Now when we do this we cannot but note two facts. (1)
Though in a general way the sort of reality which the various
objects of our interest have has become pretty plain, yet
there is always a fringe of disputed cases. No sphere of interest
is sharply defined, and each gets shadowy at the edges. E.g.
we feel quite confident that in general the science of astronomy
does not deal in illusions, and yet at the present moment
we must say that the '
canals '
of Mars may be only '
optical
'
phenomena. Again, while the N-rays have been relegated
to the realm of illusion, the synthesis of elements is either
a great physical discovery or an error of experimentation.
The subjects whose scientific place in reality is thus ambiguous
vary of course from time to time, but there always are such
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 215
puzzles, and in any decision of them psychology must always
have a large part ; the case therefore runs closely parallel to
our own problem in dealing with the supernormal : in both
cases the alternative explanation is illusion, and psychology
is relevant, if it is understood as the psychology of actual
minds, and not as a mere juggle with abstractions.
(2) We note that though our ordinary classification of
realities usually stands, yet realities which do not normally
rank high in the scale do become valuable upon occasion,
and force us to take them seriously by the importance they
acquire. This is particularly true of such things as dreams,
trances and visions, which have not infrequently turned the
course of history. The visions of Jeanne d'Arc, for example,
decisively checked the English conquest of France, and force
us to choose between a recognition of their supernormality
and the alternative that '
delusions '
may be the really
important and dynamic forces in human life—a view ill
calculated to enhance the rationality of human history.
But does not this occurrence of valuable realities in unlikely
quarters cast an extensive doubt on the correctness of the
classifications which common-sense accepts as final because
they usually suffice ? When we combine these anomalies
with the general presumption of the fallibility of all our know-
ledge, are we not driven to inquire whether the distinction
between the '
real '
and the '
unreal ' is as rigid and absolute
as we commonly assume ? As a matter of fact the real and
the unreal seem to interpenetrate in the subtlest fashion, and
to be separable only in the roughest way for the most coarsely
practical purposes. So may there not lurk in '
dreams '
and
their kin far more valuable revelations than we have yet ex-
tracted from them, while on the other hand the multitudinous
abstractions, theories and fictions, of which the sciences
proclaim the '
reality '
so loudly, and even those common-
sense realities which so irresistibly obtrude themselves in
practice, may in very sooth turn out to be but fashionable
modes of '
dreaming '
?
These suggestions seem to me worth dwelling on, both
directly and for their own sakes, as opening out what may
prove profitable lines of investigation, and indirectly, as
abating our excessive trust in the reigning '
truths,' and
216 F. G. 8. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
compelling both the man of science and the man in the street
to face the fact that the foundations of their ordinary inter-
pretation of experience are by no means as assured and stable
as they find it convenient to believe. Let us marshal, there-
fore, in a progressive series the doubts that should save us
from premature dogmatizing about the '
real '
and the
'
unreal.'
( 1 ) So long as we restrict our regards to the ordinary routine
of everyday life, the realities we encounter seem solid and
assured enough. On the level of common-sense, on which
we spend our days (if not our nights), we live as animate
bodies amid other bodies which we distinguish as animate and
inanimate, feeling, moving, changing, acting upon them, and
interacting with them, finding them hard, rough, cold, noisy,
malodorous, unpalatable, or their opposites, in various ways
and degrees. This common-sense view of reality imposes
itself upon all in their actions, whatever the over-beliefs they
may privately add to it in their philosophic or religious cogita-
tions.
(2) But even the ordinary man does not live wholly by
routine, and most men are extraordinary when you can really
probe into their souls. So the '
realities '
of common-sense
do not satisfy them. Indeed they are not entirely satisfactory
objectively, as men discover after a time. In order really
to understand this world of sense and common-sense we have
to devise a multitude of sciences, which enormously enhance
our power over the real. But in so doing they abrogate the
realities of common-sense and substitute constructions of
their own which are very different. For none of the sciences
is the sensible world really '
real,' and more than a starting-
point for conceptual experiments. It is as vain to appeal
to physics as to geometry to substantiate the visible, audible,
tangible '
thing '
our matter-of-factness loves to embrace as a
solid fact. Geometry deals only in immutable, immaterial
shapes in an ideal space in which no thing could possibly
move or live. Physics deals only in creatures like '
molecules,'
'
atoms '
and '
electrons '
that possess neither temperature,
colour, nor solidity, but move with incredible velocities in
a space and a time that are wholly relative through a mysterious
'
ether '
which has been expressly invented as a vehicle for the
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 217
paradoxical qualities which the science of the time finds it
convenient to attribute to the physically '
real.'
(3) Not only do our sciences thus disavow our senses, but
they are mostly not on speaking terms with each other. In
the name of scientific specialization they claim the right to
make incompatible assumptions, which, when they meet
(as officially they never need do), simply cut each other. But
what is a concrete human being to think when e.g. he learns,
in physics, that a colour is a definite rate of vibration in the
ether, and, in psychology, that it is a '
simple sensation '
?
Must he not infer from the difficulty of finding anything to
mediate the transition from the one to the other of these
modes of regarding his '
sensible quality '
that both are prag-
matic conveniences for scientific purposes, and that in the end
it is his experience and his needs that both are catering for ?
(4) The '
realities '
the various sciences assume do not
merely conflict with each other : they also administer a severe
shock to what might otherwise be dangerously plausible
pretenders to reality. I mean the accounts of ultimate reality
given by the various philosophies and religions. For, in the
name of scientific method, they insist that these accounts
shall be susceptible of verification, and to this pragmatic test
neither the metaphysics nor the theologies seem willing to
submit. Hence the modern mind seems to be inclining more
and more to the conclusion that the philosophies express
little beyond the idiosyncrasies of their authors, while the
religions all suffer not only from the badness of the historical
evidence to which they appeal, but also from incapacity to
see that historical evidence never suffices to establish scientific
truth. 1
When in addition the irreconcilable varieties and
incompatibilities of these masses of speculation are noted,
it is no wonder that they are growing more and more '
unreal
'
and tending to be classed with '
dreams.'
(5) Variability, however, is no reproach to address to the
results of uncritical speculation alone. It occurs also in the
1
1 do myself not hold that this condemnation is altogether just in either
case. But I cannot help noting the trend of thought, and the responsibility
for it of the expounders both of the religions and of the philosophies. Both
mostly labour to estrange their beliefs from life, and the living retaliate
by letting them alone to fossilize to their heart's content.
218 F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
finest products of science. Indeed it occurs more constantly.
For while in the former case it is more or less accidental and
restricted by the influence of conventions and traditions, in
the latter it is a matter of principle, inherent in scientific
method. For the sciences must all conceive themselves as
progressive. Hence they cannot regard their '
truths ' as
final, but must continually labour to improve their state-
ment and to extend their sway. In this process the '
realities
'
the '
truths '
reveal may undergo the weirdest transformations.
When therefore we have sufficiently recovered from the shock
of its novelty, we shall realize that revolutions which the
electric theory of matter has recently occasioned in our view
of physical '
reality '
are normal incidents in scientific progress,
even though their occurrence can never be predicted. It
should be noted, however, that there is no necessary correlation
between the improvement in scientific value which a new theory
effects and the change in our beliefs about '
reality ' which
it demands. Quite a slight improvement in the interpretation
of scientific facts may entail a complete revolution in our
conception of reality, as was exemplified by the substitution
of the Copernican for the Ptolemaic explanation of the suc-
cession of day and night.
(6) Similarly what are theoretically quite easy emendations
may enormously alter the bearing of scientific truths upon
our life. Quite a small improvement in petrol engines removed
flying from its proud position of proverbial impossibility.
The perception by Darwin of biological facts, as easy as the
egg of Columbus, has profoundly modified our conception of
our place in nature. And whereas but a few years ago we
were taught to look forward to a gradual chilling of the earth
as the sun's furnaces burnt out, we have now a choice of sudden
deaths, according as we prefer to believe that radio-activity,
heating up the earth's interior to the explosion point, or a
collision of the solar system with a dark nebula, is destined to
terminate our earth's career.
(7) In no way then and for no purpose is there an escape
from the uncomfortable uncertainties of science. Nowhere
can even stable illusions be found to lull our doubts to rest.
And seeing that we cannot in any proper sense be said to live
only in one '
real ' world, what attitude is it reasonable to
lxix.] Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research. 219
take up towards the chaos of '
realities '
that surround us ?
It is clear that we cannot admit the claims of all alike ;
we
must select, to get anything like order into them. But does
not this mean that the source of unity and order in our scheme
of realities will be '
subjective,' will be precisely that very
personal subjectivity which at first we strove to represent
merely as a principle of insecurity and error ? The individual
soul, which science seemed to abstract from and philosophy
despised, is after all the principle of unity and order, because
it is the only available agency of selection. It stands at the
core and centre of the cosmos and occupies the sole point at
which aU the various sorts of reality intersect, the sole position
from which they can be controlled and unified. How that
may be it is still premature to guess ; but the indications do
not at present favour any more '
objective ' unification of
all that claims '
reality.' It does not, for example, seem at
all likely that all the '
dreams,' errors and delusions of every
one can be made to fit together into a real cosmos ; but how
many worlds we may thus, actually or potentially, inhabit
remains to be explored.
The central position of the individual soul does however
fully warrant, I think, a resolute refusal on our part to neglect
the significance of the '
realities '
we have called '
subjective.'
They certainly lie very near the centre of affairs, and no limit
can be set to their influence : they pervade, and, if you will
have it so, taint, all our '
truths.' Indeed, no truly compre-
hensive view of reality can ever allow us to grow oblivious
of the most extensive of our doubts, which I have saved up for
the last, because in the end it may prove the most consoling.
We have no means of proving that our whole life, with all the
'
truths '
it supports and all the '
realities '
it attests, is not
itself a '
dream,' and consequently death itself, when we
come to it, may appear like awakening from a nightmare.
This suggestion is an old one and there is much to be said in
its favour, while no serious reply to it has ever been forth-
coming. But as the representatives of established '
ortho-
doxies,' scientific, religious and philosophic, will not face so
big a thought, it is all the more incumbent on adventurers
and explorers like ourselves to bear it conscientiously in
mind. For even practically it may be that the difficulties
220 F. G. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
of communicating with other planes of being is essentially
that of transmitting a message to (or from) a man asleep.
To conclude then, let me say that I hope I have shown that
we cannot in Psychical Research complain that we have a
subject which is trivial, hackneyed, or devoid of the most
varied connexions with life, science and philosophy. On the
contrary we have a task of such magnitude and complexity
that only an age which has had such abundant experience
as ours of the triumphs of science, and of the progress of know-
ledge could have been emboldened to attempt it and to dis-
credit the old prejudice that knowledge is evil and that the
particular sort we seek is forbidden to man and the devil's own
preserve. Success in our enterprise is not of course assured :
but if we are vigilant and worthy of our opportunities, and
can obtain social support at all commensurate with the import-
ance of our quest, I can see no reason why the methods
of science should not vanquish difficulties which do not differ
in kind from those of all knowing, and so illumine the dark-
ness that broods over the destiny of man.
LXIX.] Evidence of Personal Survival. 221
IT.
SOME RECENT SCRIPTS AFFORDING EVIDENCE
OF PERSONAL SURVIVAL.1
By the Right Hox. Gerald W. Balfour.
The evidence I propose to lay before you in this paper in
favour of personal survival, and in support of the belief that
communications may and do reach us from those who have
passed out of the body, is based upon four passages from
Scripts of different dates produced by the automatist who is
known to members of the Society under the pseudonym of
Mrs. Willett.
In the Proceedings, Vol. XXV., pp. 113-217, will be found
a careful and exhaustive discussion by Sir Oliver Lodge and
Mrs. Verrall of certain scripts written in February, 1910, by
Mrs. Willett, and purporting to convey the answer of Myers
to the question :
" What does the word Lethe suggest to
you ?
" These scripts, now generally referred to as " the
Lethe scripts," were of a very remarkable character.
The writers of the papers in the Proceedings contended :
(1) That there were interconnexions between the Willett
scripts and the scripts of other automatic writers (with some
of which, at least, Mrs. Willett was wholly unacquainted),
that clearly indicated a supernormal origin ;
(2) That the classical and literary knowledge exhibited in
the scripts was beyond what Mrs. Willett normally possessed,
and again pointed to a supernormal origin ;
(3) That the simplest and most probable hypothesis to
account for all the facts of the case was that the Lethe scripts
had really been inspired by the surviving personality of the
scholar and man of letters from whom the scripts showing
1
This paper was read to a meeting of the Society on March 27. 1914.
222 Bight Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
interconnexions with them also claimed to come, namely,
P. W. H. Myers.
I believe this reasoning to have been in the main sound,
even if not conclusive. Probably its weakest point lay in
the difficulty of proving that the classical and literary allusions
were beyond the normally-acquired knowledge of the auto-
matist.
The case I am about to lay before you differs in some respects
from the Lethe case. On the one hand it involves no cross-
correspondences or interconnexions with the scripts of other
automatic writers, but is self-contained. No doubt this will
come as a relief to many members of the Society for whom
cross-correspondences have grown to be somewhat of a weari-
ness of the flesh. On the other hand the subject-matter in the
present case seems to me to be more clearly outside the range
of the automatist's normal knowledge than in the Lethe
scripts, and, in this respect, to be more evidentially com-
pelling.
To facilitate the task of exposition, I will first quote from
the four scripts by Mrs. Willett such extracts as are relevant
to the case. The scripts cannot be given in their entirety for
reasons of a private nature. But the relevant passages are
in every case easily detachable from the remainder of the
script ; and I am able to assure you that neither their inter-
pretation nor their evidential value is in any way affected
by separation from their contexts. I will ask you to note
particularly the elate of the first script, as this is important.
Extracts from Mrs. Willett's Scripts.
(A) {Script of July 6, 1912.)
Does she remember the passage in which there's a reference
to a river ? A traveller looks across it, and sees the inn where
he wishes to be ; and he sees the torrent and is torn both ways,
half disliking to battle with the current, and yet desiring to be
at his destination.
Should it be possible to identify this passage, the matter would
prove interesting.
lxix.] Evidence of Personal Survival. 223
What the passage does not say I draw from my own mind to
make the connection clear.
The passage is not from Christina Rossetti ; but I want to say
that too :
Yea, beds for all that come
—
You cannot miss that Inn.
After an interval of more than a year, three Willett scripts
in succession return to the subject, and a humorous impatience
is exhibited at the delay which had occurred in tracing the
passage.
(B) (Script of August 13, 1913.)
Some one indignant at the delay calls out
HAS THE PASSAGE
been identified about the traveller looking across a stream ;
dips
his staff in, fears to wade, takes a run, heart misgives him (Here
Mrs. Willett said out loud, " Some one is laughing so."
—
Note by
Sitter), longs to be over and done with
Eaith and
Hair
in a Temple.
(Drawing of a ivheel) Wheel.
Pilgrim.
There was a reason for the CHOICE, if you find the passage
alluded to, it will be clear.
Have this seen to, for he swears he will not here exercise any
patience whatsoever. Not even about
Lavender or Lub.
(C) (Script of August 17, 1913.)
THE PASSIONATE PILGPvIM
But it is of another one I want to write. I said Pilgrim. Now
write this
—
Not a one-horsed dawn, but a two-horsed chariot, though one-
horsed in a way might lit, because as compared to another
p
224 Right Ho7i. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
charioteer's exploits his were but a one-horsed affair. It is a
poem I am alluding to
A man who drove two horses in a less ambitious manner. His
predecessor
—
Does God exact day labour, light denied ?
That ought to make it clear.
Hair in a temple was said.
(D) (Script of September 8, 1913.)
(Written in the presence of Mrs. Verrall.)
He of the little patience demands now this 3rd time whether
the Pilgrim has been understood.
Now if I say Passionate Pilgrim, I know all sorts of connotations
will be dragged in. But think of the passages twice inserted,
The River and he who would be across.
Letting I would not wait upon I would.
That seems jumbled up somehow, never mind.
A passionate Pilgrim but
NOT H.S.'s
one.
What moves the stars and all the heavenly bodies ? Dante makes
it clear.
Then again I will repeat and will continue to repeat until you are
all sick and tired of the subject
HAIR IN A TEMPLE.
That belongs.
You will observe that all these extracts refer to a " passage
"
in some written work. What this passage was long remained
a mystery to the little group of researchers who were studying
the Willett scripts. It had indeed from the first been supposed
to be connected in some way with the late Dr. Verrall. The
script of July 6, 1912, contains two lines from a poem by
Christina Rossetti called " Uphill," the subject of which is
Death. Now Dr. Verrall had died only a few weeks before
(on June 18, 1912). Though Mrs. Willett knew him but
slightly, she was a friend of Mrs. Verrall ; and this being
LXIX.] Evidence of Personal Survival. 225
the first script she had written since Dr. Verrall's death, it
was natural to expect that reference to him would be made
in it. Moreover, a phrase in this same script " does she re-
member " was reminiscent of similar phrases in which " she
"
clearly alluded to Mrs. Verrall. To this extent, then, we
had correctly interpreted the script of July 6, 1912, as the
later scripts have conclusively proved. But the " passage
"
to which allusion was made in it completely baffled us. None
of us, Mrs. Verrall herself as little as the rest, could remember
anything in literature, whether ancient or modern, which
satisfactorily corresponded to the description of the Timid
Traveller.
It may be convenient to state at this point that throughout
the period covered by the printed extracts we were careful
to keep all our conjectures and conclusions to ourselves. For
instance, Mrs. Willett was never told that we believed her
script of July 6, 1912, to contain allusions to Dr. Verrall ;
and to this day (March 27, 1914) she has no idea of the inter-
pretations to which we have ultimately been led and which
I shall presently have to submit for your consideration.
The subject had been almost forgotten, when, as we have
seen, it was unexpectedly revived in three successive scripts
of August and September, 1913. Of these three scripts the
two first confirmed our impression that the mysterious passage
was in some way connected with Dr. Verrall, but did not
otherwise seem to advance the solution of the problem. The
September script, on the other hand—the only one written
with Mrs. Verrall present—contained the important state-
ment that " Dante makes it clear." 1
This was evidently a clue worth following up, and it soon
led to fruitful results. What is the link between Dr. Verrall
and Dante ?
In the spring of 1913 was published a collection of Literary
Essays, Classical and Modern, contributed by Dr. Verrall at
various dates to various magazines and periodicals. Among
the Essays are three Papers dealing with the interpretation
1 The sentence " What moves the stars and all the heavenly bodies ?
"
which precedes the words " Dante makes it clear," is an allusion to the last
line of the Divina Commedia :
" L'Amor che muove il Sole e 1'altre stelle."
226 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
of passages in the Divina Commedia . One of these, on " The
Birth of Virgil," does not concern us here. The other two
are occupied with a historical problem concerning the Latin
poet Statius, an imitator of Virgil, who lived and wrote in
the second half of the first century a.d., and whose reputation
stood a good deal higher in Dante's time than it does to-day.
His principal work was the Thebaid, which described the
legendary War of the Seven against Thebes. Readers of
Dante will remember that he and Virgil on their pilgrimage
through Purgatory meet the soul of Statius, which happens
at that very moment to have completed the Purgatorial
expiation assigned to it, and is therefore free to accompany
the two other poets on the remainder of their journey up
the Mount.
Now to place Statius in Purgatory was to make him out
to be a Christian, which there is no ground in any record or
tradition to believe that he was. Dante, however, goes yet
further. Not only does he make the bold historical assump-
tion that at some time or other in his life Statius became a
convert to Christianity : he has " the audacity "—to quote
Dr. Verrall's words—" to date the event, the baptism, by a
particular passage, a definite point in the Thebaid, which no
one familiar Avith the poem could fail to recognize. '
I had
received baptism,' so he makes Statius say, '
before, as a
poet. I had brought the Greeks to the rivers of Thebes.'
"
What justification could Dante have had for taking this
strange liberty with accepted history ?
This is the question which Dr. Verrall sets himself to answer
in the two essays to which I have referred, and which have
for their respective titles " To follow the Fisherman " and
"Dante on the Baptism of Statius."
You will perhaps think I am wandering from the subject
of my Paper, and wonder where I am coming to. But wait
a bit and see. I shall be very much disappointed if before
I have finished I have not succeeded in convincing you that
in " Dante on the Baptism of Statius " is to be found the
elusive passage of which we are in search.
In order to make this fully intelligible I shall have to follow
rather closely part of the argument of this Essay, and even
to quote from it at some length. Indeed I would strongly
LXIX.] Evidence of Personal Survival. 227
advise those of you who may be interested in the subject
of my Paper to read for yourselves both the Essays. Taken
together they form one of the most brilliant and ingenious
pieces of literary criticism that I can call to mind ; and the
Essay on the Baptism of Statius in particular is so charac-
teristic of its author, that if his individuality still persists,
and, being wishful to communicate with those yet in the
body, he had elected to refer to this essay in proof of his
personal survival, I doubt whether a more appropriate choice
could have been made.
First let me quote the passage from the Ptirgatorio round
which the whole discussion turns. Statius is giving an account
of his conversion to his two fellow-poets. His first impulse
towards Christianity arose, he explains, from his study of
the famous Messianic Eclogue of Virgil.
Through thee (he says, addressing the latter) I was a poet,
through thee a Christian, but that thou mayest see better what
I outline, I will put forth my hand to fill in colour. Already the
whole world was big with the true belief, sown by the apostles
of the everlasting kingdom ; and thy words, touched on above,
harmonised so with the new preachers, that the habit took me
of visiting them. They then became so holy in my sight, that
when Domitian persecuted them, their wailings were not without
tears of mine. And while by me yon world was trod, I succoured
them, and their righteous lives made me despise all other sects ;
and ere in my poem I had brought the Greeks to Thebes' rivers,
I received baptism, but through fear I was a secret Christian,
long time pretending paganism.1
The translation I have given you is taken from what Dr.
Verrall calls " the faithful prose of the Temple Classics," and
may be accepted as a correct version of the passage as gener-
ally understood. But Dr. Verrall, seizing upon two linguistic
refinements, has managed to invest Dante's lines with a com-
pletely new significance.
In the first place he contends that the words mentre che
di la per me si stette, translated in the version I have just read
to you " while by me yon world was trod," cannot properly
bear this meaning. A literal rendering of the words would
1
Purgatorio, XXII., 73-91.
228 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
be " while I stayed on the other side " ; but the peculiar
linguistic form used implies that the staying was in some
sense the voluntary act of the stayer ; so that we should
be nearer the true meaning in translating them " while I
lingered on the other side." Moreover, if the phrase means
nothing more than " while I lived " or " before I died," the
effect is to put into Statius' mouth the strange statement
that he had become favourably disposed towards Christianity
before he died, and actually a Christian before he wrote a
certain line in the Thebaid, i.e. six years or more prior to his
death. The greater includes the less ; and if Statius became
a Christian six years prior to his death, it is, to say the least
of it, unnecessary to tell us that before he died he had become
favourably disposed to Christianity. Mentre che di Id per me
si stette, according to Dr. Verrall, can have, in the context
in which it occurs, one meaning and one meaning only. It
must signify " while I abstained from joining the Church."
In the second place Dr. Verrall points out that the render-
ing " ere in my poem I had brought the Greeks to Thebes'
rivers, I received baptism," ignores the emphasis which the
order of the Italian words lays on the pronoun "I." " Ebb'
io battesmo " is what Dante writes ; and the more correct
translation would be " Ere in my poem I had brought the
Greeks to Thebes' rivers, I myself received baptism."
Starting from these premises, Dr. Verrall arrives at an
interpretation of the passage as a whole which I must give
in his own words :
The question arises, by what thought or metaphor Dante is
led to describe the delay or hesitation of the convert, his abstention
from the decisive step of receiving initiation, as a staying " on
the other side." On the other side of what ? The context again
furnishes the answer, about which indeed we could hardly doubt,
even if we were left to conjecture. The comparison of baptism
to a river is, for obvious reasons, so well established and familiar,
that, in this connexion, it would be almost sufficiently signified
by "on the other side " itself. But Dante explicitly gives us
the " river "
—
" e pria ch' io conducessi i Greci ai fiumi
di Tebe, poetando, ebb' io battesmo :
"
LXIX.] Evidence of Personal Survival. 229
" And before, as a poet, I brought the Greeks to the rivers of Thebes,
I had myself received baptism." The emphasis on of Thebes,
given by the position of the words in the verse, and on myself,
given by the inversion " ebb' io,"' imply an antithesis or com-
parison between Statius and the Greeks of the poem, between
the " rivers " to which they came and that to which he came,
the river, according to the familiar figure, of baptism. This river
he long hesitated to pass ; he " halted on the other side," as a man,
who was no hero, might, when to be baptised was to be in danger of
death,—though, as he tells us, the delay cost him centuries of expiation
upon the purgatorial mountain. But before he brought his Argives
to the Asopus, he himself had made his passage.1
I do not think we need go further afield in quest of our
Timid Traveller, and of the river which he is afraid to cross.
The timid traveller is Statius himself, and the river is the
metaphorical river of baptism into the Christian faith. Indeed
Dr. Verrall goes so far as to maintain that Dante plays upon
the name of Statius, interpreting it to mean " the stationary
one,*' the " Stayer "'
or " Hesitater." xAlready in his own day
Statius appears to have incurred the censure of the critics
for his excessive dilatoriness in getting to the avowed subject
of his poem. The Thebaid, I may remind you again, is an
epic poem describing the expedition against Thebes by the
famous Seven Chieftains. It consists of twelve books, and
at the end of the sixth book the Argive host has not yet entered
the enemy's country. It is not until the seventh book that
Statius brings the invaders to the bank of the Theban river,
in the line which Dante quotes as marking the period of his
conversion to Christianity. The poet's full name was Publius
Papinius Statius, and Dr. Verrall suggests that Dante took
" Statius " to be no part of his original name, but a literary
nickname applied to denote this characteristic of dilatoriness
in his poetic compositions, and no less applicable to his delay
in entering the Christian Church.
Dr. Verrall may be right or he may be wrong in this as in
his other conclusions. That really does not concern us ; nor
do I pretend to have done justice to the whole argument of
the Essay. The point for us is that the passage we have
1
The italics in the last two sentences are my own.
230 Bight Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
been looking for is to be found in an essay written by Dr.
Verrall himself ;
though, as we shall see, not one readily
accessible to the general public till nine or ten months after
the first script that refers to it was produced.
I am afraid you may think I have been almost as long,
in proportion, in bringing you up to the brink of my river
as the poet was in bringing his Greeks to the banks of the
Asopus. Perhaps I have justly laid myself open to this
reproach. But as the whole superstructure of the subsequent
argument rests on the identification of the " passage " which
the script bids us search for with that which I have just read
from Dr. Verralks essay, it was necessary for my purpose to
establish the foundation as firmly as possible.
The fact that this essay brings into conjunction Dr. Verrall
himself, Dante and a traveller or pilgrim who hesitates to
cross a river, is to my mind almost convincing proof that
it contains the passage we are looking for. But any doubt
that may still remain will vanish, I think, before one decisive
consideration.
When Statius, in the lines of which I have already read a
translation, says to Virgil " Through thee I was a poet, through
thee a Christian," he adds " but that thou mayest the better
see what I outline I will put forth my hand to fill in colour.'"
Dr Verrall quotes these lines, and explains them to mean
that Dante himself felt that his account of the manner and
date of Statius' conversion rested on an imaginative inter-
pretation of the passage in the Thebaid on which he was relying,
and went considerably beyond its literal meaning. Now turn
to the printed extract from the Willett script of July 6, 1912 :
" What the passage does not say I draw from my own mind
to make the connection clear
T
We have here an unmistakable paraphrase of the very
words that Dante puts into the mouth of Statius ! And
what I will again ask you specially to note is that this crown-
ing proof that the passage has been correctly identified occurs
in the earliest of the four scripts that refer to the subject.
The importance of this will become clearer in the sequel.
Having successfully traced our mysterious passage to its
source, our next task must be to enquire what evidential
LXIX.] Evidence of Personal Survival. 231
value the references to it in Willett Script possess. Are we
entitled to conclude from them to the continuous existence
of a personality that has survived the grave ?
On this question I cannot expect unanimity ; but I will
endeavour to state my own view.
Let me point out to begin with, that whatever intelligence
may be responsible for the scripts, it can hardly be doubted
that we have in them a deliberate attempt to produce at least
the semblance of evidence of survival. And it is a remark-
ably clever attempt too. The intelligence must certainly have
possessed something more than a mere superficial acquaint-
ance with Dr. Verrall's essay. The boiling down of the whole
complicated case into the description of a traveller or pilgrim
who would fain cross a certain river, but hesitates through
fear to make the plunge, and still more perhaps the direct
paraphrase of the two relevant lines from the Purgatorio, prove
this incontestable. Could the intelligence have been that of
the automatist, and could she have acquired the requisite
knowledge normally and consciously ? If so, she must have
read the essay, and read it with care and attention. Towards
the end of October, 1913, I sent to Mrs. Willett herself the
following questions, without however telling her my reason
for putting them :
(1) Have you read an essay by Dr. Verrall contained in
his Literary Essays, Classical and Modern, and entitled " Dante
on the Baptism of Statius " ? If so, when did you read
it ?
(2) Did you ever hear of this essay before the lately pub-
lished volume came out ?
(3) The essay originally appeared in the Albany Revieio
in 1908. Have you ever seen or heard of the Albany Review ?
To these questions I have received answers in writing—
-
the answers being in every case in the negative. The volume
was sent to Mrs. Willett as a present from Mrs. Verrall in
May, 1913. She had glanced through the Memoir at the
beginning of the book ; but was positive that neither then
nor since had she read any of the essays contained in it. Of
this particular essay Mrs. Willett was certain she had never
even heard until she received my set of questions. Nor had
she ever either seen or heard of the Albany Review.
232 Eight Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
If we accept Mrs. Willett's evidence as valid, these state-
ments are conclusive on the points with which they deal.
If we decline to accept it as valid, and still suppose that the
knowledge shown in her scripts was acquired normally and
consciously, then she must either have forgotten the fact
or be fraudulently concealing it.
No one who knows Mrs. Willett will believe her to be cap-
able of deliberate deception. The matter is not one to argue
about with those who do not know her. I can only say that
this alternative possibility does not trouble me personally.
I simply reject it, and with absolute conviction.
There remains the possibility of forgetfulness. Mrs. Willett
may have read the essay and afterwards lost all recollection
of it so far as her ordinary consciousness was concerned. I
am not prepared to deny that this is possible. Hidden
memories undoubtedly do sometimes re-appear in scripts
without being recognized as memories by the writers. In
such cases we must suppose that they still lie preserved in
what is commonly called the subliminal self, or at least are
recoverable by it ; and we may, if we like, suppose that the
subliminal can use them on its own account, and for its own
purposes, if it has any, just as if it were an individual con-
sciousness distinct from the supraliminal.
But consider what the hypothesis implies in the present
instance. It requires us to assume, first, that at some time
Mrs. Willett must have read this essay of Dr. Verrall's and
read it with care and understanding ;
secondly, that, having
done so, she forgot all about it ;
thirdly, that her subliminal
self waited its opportunity and in due course, a few weeks
after Dr. Verrall's death, proceeded to manufacture out of
the knowledge so acquired an elaborately evidential case of
a fraudulent character in favour of survival. If we are willing
to go as far as this, we shall no doubt be inclined to go further,
and suggest that it was the subliminal self that prompted
Mrs. Willett to read the essay, and afterwards inhibited her
from remembering that she had done so.
I repeat . such a hypothesis is possible. It is one of the
alternative explanations we have to bear in mind. I do not
myself think it probable ; and the improbability in this case
is greatly added to, and the evidential value of the case itself
LXIX.] Evidence of Personal Survival. 233
increased, by a consideration of dates. As regards the three
latest scripts we have to recognize that Mrs. Willett had an
opportunity of reading the essay before they were written, be-
cause the volume containing it was in her hands in May, 1913,
and these scripts were written in the following August and Sep-
tember. The first script, on the other hand—that of July 6,
1912—was not only produced many months before she re-
ceived the volume, but many months before it was published.
If, therefore, she had read the essay before this script was
produced, she must have read it in the Albany Review, in
which it originally appeared. That takes us back to August,
1908, before Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Willett became known to
each other. I do not know if many persons among my readers
are acquainted even with the name of the Albany Review.
It was quite new to me until I began to study this case last
autumn ; but I understand it was a magazine conducted
largely by a few Cambridge men, which had an ephemeral
existence, and came to an end two or three years ago. I
think it extremely unlikely that Mrs. Willett should ever
have seen it, and equally unlikely that she should have got
to know about the essay from any other source. Such purely
literary questions have no sort of interest for her. Both
Mrs. Verrall and Miss Verrall are confident that they never
spoke to her on the subject.
Looking, then, to this first and most important of the four
scripts—important by reason of its date, and also by reason
of its containing that clinching paraphrase of the two lines
from Dante already referred to—I claim that our verdict
on any explanation which requires us to assume that at some
time prior to July 6, 1912, the essay was read by Mrs. Willett,
must be " Not wholly impossible, but in a very high degree
improbable."
What then ? If the knowledge shown by the scripts was
not normally obtained, it must have been obtained super-
normally—that is, it must have been telepathically derived
from some consciousness distinct from that of the automatist.
What kind of consciousness ? Incarnate or discarnate ?
Again, design is manifest in the scripts, inasmuch as they
use their material, whencesoever derived, to serve a definite
purpose. Who was responsible for the design ? Was it the
234 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
subconscious self of the automatist, or was the automatist
little more than an instrument played upon by the same
independent consciousness which supplied the material of the
scripts ?
Here are tAvo pairs of alternatives. Taken together they
give four possible combinations, any one of which might be
put forward as the true account of what actually occurred.
Thus the really active and planning intelligence may have
been :
(1) Mrs. Willett's subconscious self, drawing its material
from some other embodied consciousness ;
(2) Mrs. Willett's subconscious self, drawing its material
from the spiritual world ;
(3) The mind of some other living person acting on the
mind of the automatist ;
(4) Some discarnate spirit using the automatist as a medium
of communication.
It is the last case alone that points unambiguously to the
doctrine of personal survival ; for the second case, in which
we suppose the planning intelligence to be Mrs. Willett's
subconscious self drawing its material from the spiritual
world, while not inconsistent with personal survival, would
be equally satisfied if the source of the supernormal know-
ledge were some spiritual reservoir of pooled memories, such
as has been suggested by William James.
I am not prepared to affirm a priori that any of these ex-
planations is so intrinsically improbable as to be straight-
way ruled out of court. All of them, so far as I can judge,
involve a root-and-branch reconstruction of many present-
day psychological orthodoxies : and yet one or other of them,
it would seem, must be admitted, wherever we accept evidence
of design in the scripts combined with supernormally acquired
knowledge.
Which of the four explanations fits the present case best ?
I am afraid it is not possible within the limits of this Paper
to give the question an adequately reasoned answer. A
special case cannot be properly discussed in all its bearings
without an examination of many other more or less similar
cases, nor without some attempt to estimate the value and
significance of the automatist's script generally.
LXIX.] Evidence of Personal Survival. 235
There are, however, some circumstances in connection with
the case before us which are not immaterial and may help
towards forming an opinion.
Mrs. Willett writes her scripts sometimes alone, sometimes
with a sitter present . There was a sitter present on July 6,
1912, the date on which the first reference to the subject
appeared. When an automatist is supposed to have derived
information telepathically from the mind of another living
person it is naturally on the sitter that suspicion first falls.
But the sitter on July 6 Avas myself ; and I can positively
aver not only that I had no idea at that date, or indeed for
a Avhole year afterwards, who the Timid Traveller might be,
but that even the bare fact of Dr. Verrall's having •written
on the subject of Dante and Statius Avas completely unknoAAm
to me.
There remain Mrs. Verrall and Miss Verrall—for I cannot
think of any other liAang person A\r
hose mind Mrs. Willett
can plausibly be supposed to have tapped.
That one or the other or both of these ladies should haA-e
been the source AAr
hence Mrs. Willett dreAAr
her information,
is a possibility Avhich I do not deny, and which ought not
to be ignored. If, however, we go further and suppose them
to have been intelligent agents in the production of the scripts.
the difficulties become greater. I doubt Avhether any actual
facts can be brought forward tending to show that evidential
cases have been " engineered
:
'
by the subliminal self of some
living person other than the automatist without the normal
consciousness of that person being in any Avay aware of Avhat
was going on. Yet this is what the hypothesis compels us
to assume. Moreover, the particular case we are considering
offers special difficulties of its OAvn. Neither Mrs. Verrall nor
Miss Verrall had seen Mrs. Willett for nearly two months
before July 6, 1912 ;
they were separated from her by more
than a hundred miles when the script of that date AA'as written ;
further, Miss VerraU's acquaintance Avith Willett Scripts is
practically confined to the very few that have appeared in the
Proceedings ; and Mrs. Verrall AA
r
as so innocent of any conscious
understanding of the allusion to the Traveller and the River
AAhich he AA
T
ished to cross, that she had not the faintest inkling
of the interpretation iioav placed on the scripts until she AA^as
230 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
shown the first sketch of this Paper in November of last year
(1913).
I hope these observations may have helped somewhat to
narrow the issue ; and there I must leave it so far as argument
is concerned. If, however, you care to hear a dogmatic ex-
pression of my own personal opinion, I am willing to tell
you frankly what I think.
The scripts which we owe to the group of automatists of
whom Mrs. Verrall, Miss Verrall, and Mrs. Willett are the
chief, go back for many years now, and require to be con-
sidered together and as a whole. A long and laborious study
of them carried on from this point of view has brought me
slowly but surely to a conviction that there is much in them
that cannot be satisfactorily explained except upon the
spiritistic hypothesis.
Of course such a conclusion must in its turn affect one's
judgment concerning any particular episode in the scripts.
And my own sincere belief is that in these allusions to Dr.
Verrall's essay on " Dante on the Baptism of Statius " we
have at least the echoes of the voice of one who " being dead
yet speaketh."
A few subsidiary points in the scripts still remain to be
considered. Though of secondary importance they are by
no means without interest ; and their collective effect is to
confirm and reinforce the results already arrived at.
At the end of Extract (B), from the script of August 13,
1913, a curious phrase occurs :
Have this seen to, for he swears that he will not here exercise
any patience whatsoever ; not even about
Lavender or Lub.
" Lavender or Lub" came in a script of Mrs. Verrall's written
on Jan. 13, 1908. That script had been seen by Mrs. Willett,
which no doubt accounts in part for its appearance here.
So much I was aware of ; and I also knew that its original
source was some comic verses in Punch. But I was unable
to form any conjecture respecting its meaning or appropriate-
ness in this place until light was thrown on the subject by
Mrs. Verrall herself. She was shown the script for the first
LXIX.] Evidence of Personal Survival. 237
time on November 10, 1913 ; and on the 15th of that month
she writes :
" Lavender or Lub " is a quotation from a poem which appeared
many years ago in Punch, where several variations were made
on the alternative name for the fish, Chavender or Chub. The
fines were exceedingly familiar to my husband, and some of the
phrases had become household words with him, displacing the
proper terms : during many years, for instance, the mention of
bathing invariably produced the lines
" And when I take my Tavender,
My Tavender or Tub."
" Lavender or Lub " is presumably introduced to serve
as an identifying symbol connecting Dr. Verrall with the
script by a link the significance of which was outside the
normal knowledge of the automatist. For although Mrs.
Willett knew that " Lavender or Lub " had come in a
Verrall script, she certainly did not know that the phrase
had become a standing jest in the intimacy of the family
circle. 1
Another cryptic but ingenious reference to Dr. Verrall will
be found in the next extract, marked (C), from the script
of August 17, 1913 :
Not a one-horsed dawn, but a two-horsed chariot, though one-
horsed in a way might fit, because as compared to another
charioteer's exploits his were but a one-horsed affair. It is a
1 There is nothing in Mrs. Yen-all's Script of Jan. 13, 1908, to suggest any
connection between Dr. Verrall and the phrase " Lavender or Lub." To
make this quite clear, I give the Script in full :
" Everard not not that name. Begin again. Lavender is a word that
will fit into the scheme much better.
Lavender or Lub.
Ask Helen when she thought of that last— write and ask her this at
once—and now write for me.
Vagatur extra muros in praesenti sed mox intra circuitum penetrabit.
Bene.
Ibi invenimus et inventum nobiscum in domum invitabimus. Bene,
immo optime.
Nomen rogamus, quod cum declaravit, en aenigma solvitur
Euge eu eu."
238 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
poem I am alluding to—a man who drove two horses in a less
ambitious manner. His predecessor
—
Does God exact day labour, light denied ?
That ought to make it clear.
" A one-horsed dawn " will doubtless recall to many here
an experiment in telepathy in which Dr. Verrall was con-
cerned, and which was described at length by Mrs. Verrall
in Vol. XX. of the Proceedings. But what follows is a riddle
not so easy to read until the clue is supplied, when all becomes
as clear as daylight.
The clue is to be found, as the script hints, in a poem
—
Gray's Ode on the Progress of Poesy. I will quote the passage
and you will at once perceive the application :
Nor second He, that rode sublime
Upon the seraph-wings of Extasy
The secrets of the abyss to spy.
He passed the flaming bounds of place and time ;
The living Throne, the sapphire-blaze
Where angels tremble while they gaze
He saw ; but blasted with excess of light,
Closed his eyes in endless night.
Behold where Dryden's less presumptuous car
Wide o'er the fields of glory bear
Two coursers of ethereal race,
With necks in thunder clothed, and long-resounding pace.
Gray is comparing Dryden with Milton. The lines,
" He saw ; but blasted with excess of light
Closed his eyes in endless night
"
refer of course to Milton's loss of sight—a reference which the
script recalls by quoting from Milton's Sonnet on his Blindness
"Does God exact day-labour, light denied ?
"
Milton is Dryden's " predecessor " ; and the " man who drove
two horses in a less ambitious manner " is Dryden himself :
" Behold where Dryden's less presumptuous car
Wide o'er the fields of glory bear
Two coursers of ethereal race."
LXIX.] Evidence of Personal Survival. 239
A neater or more convincing example of the deliberately
round-about method of the scripts it would be difficult to
find. The last work on which Dr. Verrall was engaged before
his death was a set of lectures on Dryden, in the course of
which this very passage from Gray's Ode was quoted. The
object of all these elaborate literary allusions I take to be
the identification of Dr. Verrall as the " communicator " in
a way that would be apparent to an interpreter of the scripts,
while unintelligible to the normal consciousness of the writer
of them. It is possible also, though not certain, that the
allusions show supernormally-acquired knowledge. Mrs. Wil-
lett doubtless knew that Dr. Verrall was giving lectures on
English Literature. She told me, in answer to a question,
that she was not aware that he had been lecturing on Dryden ;
and she certainly did not know that the passage from Gray's
Ode had been quoted in the lectures. But it is quite possible
she may have heard or read that he had been lecturing on
Dryden without consciously remembering it ; and the refer-
ence to Gray in the scripts may have been a chance coinci-
dence. The lectures themselves were only published in the
present year (1914).
Another point : What is the meaning of " Hair in a
Temple " ? Some importance is evidently attached to the
allusion contained in these words, for they are found in every
one of the three later scripts, and in the last of all with reiterated
emphasis :
Then again I will repeat and will continue to repeat until you
are all sick and tired of the subject, HAIR IN A TEMPLE. That
belongs.
It is, I think, a fair assumption that the expression " Hair
in a Temple " relates to some story or poem belonging to
classical times. There happen to be two, and, so far as I
know, only two classical poems to which it can refer. One
of these is a well-known poem by Catullus, called " The hair
of Berenice." The other is a poem less well-known, and
less deserving to be well known, whose author is none other
than our friend Statius. That Statius should have written
a poem to which " Hair in a Temple " might appropriately
serve as a title is certainly curious : and it may be that here
Q
240 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
we have the explanation of which we are in search. " Hair
in a Temple " may simply be intended as a hint that Statius
is in some way connected with the main topic of the script.
But while not wholly rejecting this explanation, it is only
right I should tell you that I do not believe it was what the
intelligence responsible for the scripts had primarily and
principally in mind. I think we were meant to interpret
the scripts as alluding to the Hair of Berenice, which, accord-
ing to the story, she cut off by way of sacrifice for the safe
return home of her husband, and dedicated in a temple ;
whence it was transferred to the heavens and became the
Constellation known to this day as Coma Berenices.
What, then, is the connection between Berenice and the
hesitating Pilgrim ?
Here I am in a difficulty, and must bespeak your kind
indulgence. I must ask you to accept from me that there
is a connection, but one which I have to leave unexplained,
because it involves a reference to private matters which I
am not at liberty to disclose. Unfortunately this difficulty
is one that frequently occurs in dealing with Willett Scripts,
and diminishes their evidential utility, even when it increases
their intrinsic evidential value.
I can only tell you that " Berenice " is, as a matter of fact,
connected by very definite intermediate links with Dr. Verrall's
essays on Dante and Statius, and that this explanation has
the additional merit of explaining why the drawing of a wheel
appears in the script of August 13, 1913. The intermediate
links have nothing to do with Dr. Verrall himself, and could
only be understood by the small group who have been study-
ing the scripts of Mrs. Verrall and Miss Verrall, as well as
those of Mrs. Willett. I am sorry I cannot say more on the
subject.
One additional puzzle and I have finished. It will be
noticed that the " Traveller " of the script of July 6, 1912,
is spoken of in the script of August 13, 1913, first as the " Tra-
veller," and then as the " Pilgrim." In the two latest scripts
he appears either as the " Pilgrim " or as the " Passionate
Pilgrim." What is the significance of the epithet " Passionate"
thus applied to him ?
It is true that it is only applied in a half-hearted and almost
lxix.] Evidence of Personal Survival. 241
apologetic way ; and care is taken to guard against the associa-
tions, literary or otherwise—for instance, those connected
with Shakespeare's poem—which may have gathered round
the combination of " Passionate " with " Pilgrim " :
The Passionate Pilgrim. But it is of another I want to write.
I said Pilgrim.
and again :
if I say Passionate Pilgrim, I know all sorts of connotations
will be dragged in ... a Passionate Pilgrim, but not H.S.'s one.
" H. S." stands for Henry Sidgwick ; and " H. S.'s one
"
must be taken to refer to an early script of Mrs. Verrall's
(Jan. 17, 1904)
1
in which " the Passionate Pilgrim " occurs
in a passage afterwards connected by her with Professor
Sidgwick. This passage was published, together with Mrs.
Verrall's interpretation of it, in Volume XX. of the Proceed-
ings, and had been seen by Mrs. Willett.
But what does " Passionate " mean here, if these associa-
tions are excluded ?
It may perhaps be nothing more than an unauthorised
contribution on the part of the automatist, the " Pilgrim " of
the communicator having suggested to her mind the " Pas-
sionate Pilgrim."
Another explanation, however, seems to me possible, and
even probable. It is that the passage describing the hesi-
tation of the Pilgrim to cross the river carries with it a personal
reference to the communicator. The communicator in some
sense identifies himself with the Pilgrim ; and the mock
indignation and impatience which he professes at our failure
to discover the passage for which he bade us search, is
humorously carried on into the description of him as a Pas-
sionate Pilgrim :
Some one indignant at the delaj^ calls out HAS THE
PASSAGE been identified ?
and again :
Have this seen to, for he swears he will not here exercise any
patience whatsoever, not even about Lavender or Lub.
1
See Proc. Vol. XX., p. 289.
242 Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour. [part
Similarly in the last extract :
" He of the little patience
demands now this 3rd time, etc."
Who then is "he of the little patience"? About this
there can, I think, be no doubt. It is clearly Dr. Verrall
himself ; and if my interpretation of the Passionate Pilgrim
is right, there must be some sense in which the autobiographical
references discovered (according to the view of the essay)
by Dante in the lines from Statius' Thebaid about the crossing
of the river, must have a personal application to Dr. Verrall
as well. He must be representing himself as in some way
a Statius, or Stayer on the brink.
I think, too, the words in the script of August 13, 1913,
which I have just quoted confirm this idea :
" Have this
seen to, for he swears that he will not here exercise any patience
whatsoever." " Not here " seems to signify that during life
in the body patience was exercised ; and the word " Faith
"
occurring in the same script may be intended to denote the
subject with which the exercise of patience was concerned.
Could the River which the Pilgrim was afraid to cross,
and which for Statius was the River of Baptism, have been
for Dr. Verrall the River of Faith in a life hereafter, and in
the reality of communication from " the further shore " ?
The suggestion here made receives some support from a
statement which Mrs. Verrall prepared for me, and which
I am permitted to reproduce :
My husband's interest in Psychical Research was mainly due,
as has been said by Mr. Bayfield in the recently published Memoir,
to his desire to " encourage every investigation which gave promise
of tangible fruit " ; and for many years after the development
of my faculty of automatic writing he dejorecated as premature
any attempt to frame even a " working hypothesis " to account
for what seemed difficult to attribute to telepathy between living
minds. But he was greatly impressed by some of the more recently
recorded phenomena ; —in particular by the evidence of classical
knowledge shown by Myersp in the sittings of Mr. Dorr with Mrs.
Piper during the spring of 1908, as suggestive of the identity of
the supposed communicator and so pointing to what may be briefly
called the " spiritistic hypothesis." This impression was deepened
on his receipt of a " message " claiming to come from a personal
LXIX.] Evidence of Personal Survival. 243
friend, recently dead, in a Willett Script of Oct. 29, 1911, which
was sent to him within a few days of its production, and was further
confirmed by a talk which he had with Mr. Gerald Balfour in
January, 1912, of which he spoke to me at the time, and to which
he often subsequently referred.
His interest in the subject was further shown by his choice for
reading in March, 1912, first of William James's Varieties of Religious
Experience, which he had not read when it appeared and which
filled him with admiration for what he called James's " magnificent
candour," and later of Mrs. Sidgwick's Paper in an early volume
of the Proceedings (Vol. III.) on the Evidence collected by the Society
for Phantasms of the Dead.
The question of his personal opinions was not at this time dis-
cussed between us, but some months ago, after his death, an inti-
mate friend of his told me that something which my husband
said made the hearer think that he believed in the continuance
of existence after death.
Let me say in conclusion that, in suggesting that an analogy
is intended between Dr. Verrall's personal attitude and that
of the pilgrim who shrinks from plunging into the stream.
I do not wish to insist unduly on this reading of the script,
or to have it regarded as in any way essential to the main
contention of my Paper. It may be that, like Dante's Statius,
I have " put forth my hand to fill in colour," and done so
without sufficient warrant. But I cannot help feeling " se
non e vero, e ben trovato " ; and that the interpretation
is one which puts a finishing and as it were artistic touch
to a message which must in any case take high rank among
the evidences provided by automatic writings of the reality
of communication from the departed.
244 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
III.
NOTE ON THE SAME SCRIPTS.
By the Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
In a closely reasoned and characteristically lucid argument Mr.
Balfour has shown good grounds for his belief that the late
Dr. Verrall is the original source of the scripts which are here
brought to our notice. For this conclusion there are yet other
reasons. They were present to Mr. Balfour's mind, but as he
said at the meeting at which he read his paper, he did not
enlarge upon them because he thought they would come better
from some one not the author of the paper, who might be
thought to be unduly influenced by a desire to make out a
case. The imputation is one to which no one could be less
liable than he, but personally I regret his abstention the less
since it has given me an opportunity of contributing some-
thing to the discussion of a communication which I, too,
believe to have come from my oldest and dearest friend.
Also, having at various times for some years past expressed
in these pages doubt and hesitation as to the proof of com-
munication with the spirit world, I venture to seize the
occasion and here make formal recantation of those doubts.
The present scripts, following on Miss Johnson's recently
published elucidation of the cross-correspondence entitled
" Alexander's Tomb," have furnished this " timid traveller
"
with a bridge by which to cross the stream.
These additional reasons for assigning to Dr. Verrall the
scripts which we are examining can, I fear, be fully appre-
ciated only by those who knew him somewhat intimately, for
they consist in the exhibition in the scripts of two traits of
his personality which, highly characteristic though they are,
would not be likely to come under the notice of an ordinary
acquaintance, or be known by hearsay to a stranger. Since
XiXIX.] Note on the same Scripts. 245
many readers of the foregoing paper can only have known Dr.
Verrall by repute, this note is appended, at Mr. Balfour's
suggestion, in the hope of further assisting such readers to
form an independent judgement on the whole matter.
It will be convenient to begin by repeating Mr. Balfour's
important statement that Mrs. Willett's acquaintance with
Dr. Verrall was very slight. It was, in fact, limited to a visit
of three days in the late summer of 1910, when she first met
him, another of two days in 1911, and an interview of a few
minutes in 1912 ; and Mrs. Verrall is sure that she could not
at these visits have discovered either of the first two points
discussed below. Mr. Balfour, who was very intimate with
Verrall in old days when they were young together, and who
is also personally acquainted with Mrs. Willett, is equally
certain that nothing said by him to her could account for the
impersonation presented in the scripts.
For the last fifteen years of his life Dr. Verrall suffered
from arthritis. The disease gradually increased in severity,
depriving him more and more of the use of his limbs, and after
the spring of 1910 he was unable to walk ; fresh loss of power
in the hands followed, and he could now with difficulty turn
the leaves of a book. These painful and steadily increasing
physical disabilities he bore with an uncomplaining patience
which excited the amazement and admiration of all who came
in contact with him ; he did not even allow them to inter-
fere with the continuance of his literary work. Now, it was
just when this exhibition of fortitude was most remarkable
that Mrs. Willett first met him, and it cannot be doubted
that his extraordinary patience would have been the charac-
teristic by which, either at this time or later, a visitor would
be most impressed. This, my own independent opinion, is
confirmed by Mrs. Verrall, who writes, after seeing a draft of
this note :
" Mrs. Willett's own normal impression of A. was,
I know from what she has said, mainly the patience with which
he bore his disqualifications and sufferings, and of the way in
which he was '
Captain of his soul.' " But the scripts describe
him as showing a considerable degree of impatience, and the
peculiar kind of impatience indicated was, in fact, in the
earlier days of health and high spirits, a noticeable feature of
iis character. It signalises a Verrall very different from the
246 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
one Mrs. Willett knew. It was not the impatience of irrita-
tion, but that of eagerness and keen interest ; there was
nothing querimonious about it. It emerged in all sorts of
circumstances and in all sorts of ways, and especially in a
conversation or discussion (with intimates only, for with others
he was always courtesy itself) when your thought did not travel
so quickly as his own, or with the rapidity which he expected
of you. Or it would be evoked when, as in the scripts, he
had reason to fear that something which could and ought to
have been done at once had not been done ; or again, when
he was anxious to have some preliminary point settled and
cleared out of the way in order that the talk might get on to
the main issue. The thing I mean does not readily lend itself
to definition, but it was eminently characteristic, and no one
who had engaged with him in intimate talk could fail to be
struck by it. A number of examples would perhaps make it
clearer, but for that there is not space here, and it must suffice
to say that all the specimens in the scripts are typical :
" HAS THE PASSAGE
been identified about the traveller looking across a stream ;
"
etc., in (B) ;
" That ought to make it clear," in (C) ;
" Now
if I say Passionate Pilgrim I know all sorts of connotations
will be dragged in " (a peculiarly Verrallian remark) ; and
" Then again I will repeat and will continue to repeat until
you are all sick and tired of the subject
HAIR IN A TEMPLE "
in (D). All this is VerralFs manner to the life in animated
conversation. On the other hand, the terse completeness of
the description in the first paragraph of (A) is equally in his
carefully ordered style when stating a case, and the phrase
" and yet desiring to be at his destination " is an admirable
illustration of his somewhat stately way of putting a simple
fact in a considered exposition. When I first read the words
quoted above I received a series of little shocks, for the turns
of speech are Verrall's, the high-pitched emphasis is his, and
I could hear the very tones in which he would have spoken
each sentence. The crescendo at the end of (D) was perhaps
the most startling instance : I can see the amused smile on
LXIX.] Note on the same Scripts. 247
his face and the merriment flashing from his eyes as he shouts
out with all the gaminerie of a mischievous child,
"HAIR IN A TEMPLE."
During the discussion on Mr. Balfour's paper at the meeting
at which it was read, both he and Dr. Leaf—also an intimate
friend of Verrall from undergraduate days—concurred with
me as to this impression made by the language and tone of the
scripts ; and after the meeting a niece of Dr. Verrall told me
she had had a similar experience. Mrs. Verrall has since
written that she is altogether in accord with us, and doubtless
many others would testify to the same effect.
Since Mrs. Willett, before writing scripts (B), (C), and (D),
had read the Memoir prefixed to the volume of essays to which
Mr. Balfour has referred, it is important to state that no
mention is there made of this salient trait of intellectual
impatience, though it was vividly present to my mind when
I wrote, " Easily roused though he was even to excitement
when holding forth on some matter which greatly interested
him, his usual maimer was extremely gentle." Verrall's
natural gaiety and love of fun are indeed dwelt upon at some
length, but nothing is said of the particular point with which
I now proceed to deal,
—" Lavender or Lub."
As a mark of identification, the reference to " Lavender or
Lub " is as convincing as the impatience. Verrall had a rare
and always alert sense of the comic (see Script B), and his
fine appreciation of the noblest in literature did not prevent
his deriving the keenest delight from clever nonsense, and
especially from humorous or frankly nonsensical verse. He is
the only man I ever met who enjoyed it quite in the same way
and to the same extent as myself,—that is to say, an extent
which seems to permit of no increase without danger of dis-
integration. If we were together and one of us read aloud
something very good after its kind—something in which the
combination of rhythm and assonance and rime and sense (or
nonsense) left nothing to be desired, there would be no inter-
ruptions for the expression of our enjoyment, but like two
connoisseurs sipping a wine of choice vintage, we would merely
exchange a series of rapturous winks. When a contributor to
Punch, having found the full designation of the fish commonly
248 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
known as the chub to be " the chavender or chub," published
the little poem in which he properly sought to extend this
delicious type of synonym—writing of " lavender or lub,
gravender or grub, pavender or pub," etc., etc., the idea was
immediately recognised as one of great merit, and from that
time onward, until he ceased to be able to walk (January,
1910), Verrall habitually described his bath, the taking of
Avhich had become a serious effort, as his " tavender or tub."
Now, as has been said, Mrs. Willett did not make Verrall's
acquaintance until the late summer of 1910, and Mrs. Verrall
is quite sure that all allusions to " lavender or lub " ceased
after her husband's serious illness in the early part of that
year ;
jokes had become very rare, and she doubts whether
Mrs. Willett ever heard him laugh. It appears to be an irresis-
tible conclusion that no one but Verrall himself, who, as we
have seen, is unmistakably delineated throughout the scripts,
could have furnished this peculiarly ingenious touch.
Both the points which we have been considering may be
further illustrated by the narration of an incident which
occurred about the year 1906. Verrall, who was on a visit
to us, was sitting by himself on the lawn, looking through old
volumes of Punch, when he caught sight of me coming from
the house. " Oh, Bayfield," he cried (and the voice was so
urgent that I began to quicken my pace), " come here ! Come
here and listen to this !
" He had found " The Three Judges.
A song of the Parnell Commission. Air
—' The Three Ravens,'
"
(vol. 97, p. 194), and when I got to him, chuckling with delight
so that he could hardly go on, he read through the whole
poem, of which the following is the opening verse :
There were three Judges sat on a bench,
Down a down, hey-down, hey-down ;
And from their task they all did blench,
With a down.
And one of them said to the others,
" Oh, here's a bore, my learned Brothers ;
With a down derry, derry, derry down down."
The point which, judging by myself, I think tickled him most,
the Derry and the Down, he brought out with ever increasing
emphasis until at last it became a shout (see end of Script D).
LXIX.] Note on the same Scripts. 249
It remains to mention one more point which also impresses
me strongly. We have here an extraordinarily faithful repre-
sentation of Verrall in respect of a peculiar kind of impatience
and a habit of emphasis which he had in conversation, and
of his playfulness and sense of humour. In what way are
these life-like touches of character introduced ? How are
they worked into the essential matter of the scripts ? Have
they the air of being inserted by an ingenious forger (the
unprincipled subliminal of some living person) with a purpose,
in order to lend convincing vraisemblance to a fictitious im-
personation ; or do they give us the impression of being
spontaneous and genuine ? Unless I am inexcusably mistaken,
no one accustomed to estimate the internal evidence afforded
by a document of doubtful origin could hesitate as to the
answer. Note how simply and naturally the first hint of the
impatience which we have been discussing emerges at the
beginning of Script (B) :
" Some one indignant at the delay
calls out," etc. Surely this is the language of sincerity,—of
one who, so far from lying " with malice aforethought," is
honestly describing what he has before him, what he actually
sees and hears. Nor can I find in all that is said by the " some
one indignant " throughout the scripts any touch that betrays
artificiality, any '
fault ' in the close contexture of matter and
manner. Nowhere is there any slip which would justify the
suspicion that in reality we have to do with a cunningly
masquerading '
sub.' Neither the impatience, nor the em-
phatic utterance, nor the playfulness has anywhere the appear-
ance of being '
put on,'—of being separable from the matter
of the scripts. " Assume a virtue, if you have it not," is no
doubt a motto which an enterprising subliminal would not
forget, but to me at least it is incredible that even the cleverest
could achieve such an unexampled triumph in deceptive
impersonation as this would be if the actor is not Verrall
himself.
250 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
IV.
A FURTHER STUDY OF THE MAC SCRIPTS.
By Helen de G. Verrall.
Mr. and Miss " Mac," it will be remembered, were two of the
automatists who took part in the cross-correspondence on
" Sesame and Lilies " (see Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXIV., pp.
264 et seq.). The present paper is concerned with some later
scripts of theirs and with certain connexions between these
scripts and some written by Mrs. Verrall and myself. The
circumstances under which the earlier cross-correspondence
on " Sesame and Lilies " occurred are worth recalling here,
because they add to the interest of other phenomena con-
nected with Mr. and Miss Mac.
Mr. and Miss Mac are not members of the S.P.R. and were
quite unknown to my mother and me until in September,
1908, Miss Mac sent my mother the records of some plan-
chette writing obtained by herself and other members of her
family, chiefly her brother. This she did in consequence of
definite and repeated injunctions given in the planchette
writing to " send the messages to Mrs. Verrall." These
records showed a definite correspondence of topic with scripts
recently produced by my mother and me. Since that time
my mother has occasionally corresponded with Miss Mac, but
we have never met either Miss Mac or her brother. The
additional interest which the earlier phenomena derive from
the fact that Mr. and Miss Mac were complete strangers to the
other automatists concerned, extends, therefore, in a measure,
to these later phenomena.
The scripts involved are (a) four scripts of my own written
between January and March, 1911, sent to the Rooms of the
S.P.R. and not seen by Mrs. Verrall till August 20, 1911, (6)
lxix.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 251
three scripts written by Mrs. Verrall in June, 1911, and (c)
five scripts written by Mr. and Miss Mac in July and Sep-
tember, 1911, of which the first three were received by Mrs.
Verrall on July 12, 1911, and the remaining two on September
12, 1911. I did not see either Mrs. Verrall's scripts of June,
1911, or the Mac scripts of July and September, 1911, till
October 6, 1912. The connexions of thought constituting the
cross-correspondence are to be found chiefly in the Mac scripts
and mine, the part contributed by Mrs. Verrall's scripts being
slighter and less definite. It will be noticed that between
the last of my scripts and the first of the Mac scripts there
is an interval of more than three months, but this interval
may be to a great extent discounted, because July 7, 1911,
was the first occasion for more than a year, upon which Mr.
and Miss Mac obtained any script purporting to come from
Henry Sidgwick, the only one of their supposed controls
who has ever been associated with the production of cross-
correspondences. The other scripts written by them during
1911—not a large amount—are of a totally different char-
acter, and we may for our present purpose ignore them, and
regard the script of July 7, 1911, as the first script produced
by Mr. and Miss Mac after my scripts of January and March,
1911. That being so, no great importance need be attached
to the interval of time.
I will first quote four scripts of my own, written on January
25, February 28, March 10 and March 14, 1911.
(H. V. script of January 25, 1911.)
Cloth of gold—the king's purple
'Twas a royal train put forth to sea
But the tale can be told by none but me.1
The wild waves wist 2
And apple—the apple of discord, the fruit of the tree—fruit
A barred gate nothing more.
no sound was heard
A leaf couch—in the depths of the forest—and in green under-
wood and cover blossom by blossom the spring begins 3
1
Rossetti, The White Ship. 2
Shakespeare, The Tempest, I. 2.
3
Swinburne, Atalanta in Calydon, first chorus.
252 Helen de G. Verrall. [fart
golden grain for the harvest, a rich harvest—gather tip the
sheaves.
What went ye forth for to see ?
1
The winding of the thread the whirling spindle.
9 times 9 and again 9.
(H. V. script of February 28, 1911.)
Salvator cupidine
[A saviour—-with desire.]
The early dawn—the first awakening
the first fruits of Time
—
airav& 6 /xaKpos KavapiOjj.vTO'i \p6vos*
[All things long unnumbered Time.2
]
look back where that was written before s
strength to resist but more to yield
The garden of Eden.
master of the murmuring courts
—
4
the end and the beginning
A charm a philtre—nectar and dew the drink of the gods
the spinning wheel
Enough.
(H. V. script of March 10, 1911.)
The tune—the old tune—once again
I cannot hear in the depths
then when the end comes
a faded flower memories live
the best and the worst 5
God be thanked the meanest of his creatures boasts two soul
sides 6
the worst and the best 5
I cannot get it elear.
1 Matt. xi. 7-9 ; Luke vii. 24-26. 2
Sophocles, Ajax.
3
This quotation occurs in the H. V. script of December 16, 1909, which
is not discussed here.
1
Rossetti, Love's Nocturne.
5
Cf. Swinburne, Triumph of Time, " For me that know not of worst or
best."
G
Browning, Men and Women : Epilogue.
lxix.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 253
{H. V. script of March 14, 1911.)
Quarto decimo die [On the fourteenth day].
Ask not—ask me no more 1
—no that is wrong—the pensive
lily—the water lily—the rose was awake all night for thy sake.2
The triumph of Time
It is not much that a man may save
In the straights [sic] of Life on the shoals of Time
Who swims in sight of the great third wave
That never a swimmer may cross or climb.3
We have tried to get at this idea before.
A solemn music—harmonies of ancient days—a broken lute.
No more no never more. 4
The objection is sometimes made in regard to the evidence
for cross-correspondences that the scripts, in which they
are said to occur, have been chosen arbitrarily out of a large
mass of irrelevant matter. That objection cannot be raised
in this instance. In the first place the whole amount of
material to be considered is small. Between November, 1910,
and March, 1911, I wrote only seven pieces of script, which
are divided from the rest of my script by an interval of two
months on one side and four on the other, so that they may be
regarded as constituting a group by themselves. Moreover,
the four scripts of this period, which I quoted just now, are
not arbitrarily selected. Quite apart from the question of
whether they give evidence of supernormal connexion with
the script of other automatists, they can be shown to have a
normal connexion with one another through the recurrence
of the same or closely similar ideas and phrases. These ideas
and phrases, which they share with each other, they do not
share with the other scripts of this period, so that we are
1
Tennyson, Princess : Last Song.
2
Tennyson, Maud, I. xxii.
3
Cf. Swinburne, Triumph of Time :
"It is not much that a man can save,
On the sands of Life, on the shoals of Time,
Who swims in sight of the great third wave,
That never a swimmer shall cross or climb."
4
Cf. Shelley, O World, O Life, O Time, of which the last line is " No more,,
oh never more."
254 Helen tie G. Verrall. [part
justified on internal evidence alone in regarding these four
scripts as a distinct sequence,—distinct, that is to say, from the
other scripts of this period. In order to make my meaning
clear, I must analyse the four scripts which I have quoted
above.
The script of January 25, 1911, the first in the series, contains
the phrases :
the apple of discord—the fruit of the tree . . .
no sound was heard
A leaf couch—in the depths of the forest
—
and later,
The winding of the thread the whirling spindle.
This last phrase and the allusion to the " fruit of the tree,"
link it with the second script on February 28, 1911, which
alludes to a spinning wheel and to the garden of Eden.
The third script, on March 10, 1911, has :
I cannot hear—in the depths,
which recalls
no sound was heard ... in the depths of the forest.
The first script, therefore, has points of connexion both with
the second and with the third.
The second script, moreover, contains the words :
the first fruits of Time, a—a\>6' 6 /xaxpos navapiOyu^-os \p6vo<;. [All
things long unnumbered Time]
The Greek words are a quotation from the Ajax of Sophocles ;
the passage runs :
" All things long unnumbered Time brings
to light when they are hidden, and hides when they are mani-
fest " ; and might be briefly paraphrased as describing " the
triumph of Time." The. second script is therefore closely
linked to the fourth script on March 14, 1911, which has :
The triumph of Time
It is not much that a man may save, etc.
The fourth script also contains the phrases :
A solemn music—harmonies of ancient days—a broken lute.
No more no never more,
LXIX.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 255
which we may compare with the opening words of the third
script :
The tune—the old tune—once again.
Moreover the phrase " No more no never more," being an
almost exact quotation from Shelley's poem 0 World, 0 Life,
O Time, contains another implicit allusion to Time.
There is a further connexion of thought between these
scripts, which did not become apparent until some time after-
wards.
The first script on January 25, 1911, opens with the words :
Cloth of gold—the king's purple
'Twas a royal train put forth to sea
But the tale can be told by none but me.
These lines are a quotation from Rossetti's ballad The White
Ship, in which he tells the story of the drowning of Henry I.'s
only son on his way back from France.
This quotation appears once again in my script on September
25, 1911, which begins :
'Twas a royal train put forth to sea
But the tail [sic] can be told by none but me
Youth at the prow and pleasure at the helm.1
atrox incubat cura [Fierce care oppresses.]
the uncertainty of human fate
that is one idea I want to get—now the other—it is a parallel
passage
a sunless sea—write that it will help ....
This script may be paraphrased thus : the quotation from
The White Ship and the idea expressed by it, —which is re-
peated in the quotation from Gray and summed up in the
words " the uncertainty of human fate,"—are to be com-
pared with a parallel passage, and the words " a sunless sea
"
will in some way help to identify this passage.
1
Cf. Gray, The Bard :
" In gallant trim the gilded vessel goes ;
Youth on the prow, and Pleasure at the helm ;
Regardless of the sweeping whirlwind's sway,
That, hush'd in grim repose, expects his evening prey."
R
256 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
The Latin words in this script, atrox incubat cura, are an
unmistakeable, though inaccurate, allusion to the famous
passage in the Odes of Horace, in which he speaks of black
care sitting at the horseman's back,1
atra cura, not atrox.
The quotation is familiar to me, and I should not normally
misquote it, as I do in the script. Nevertheless the same
misquotation appears in another of my scripts (and only in
that one other) on April 15, 1912. Thus :
Atrox cura [Fierce care.]
imminente luna 2
[When the moon hangs overhead.]
non ebur neque aureo 3
[Not ivory nor with gold]
nemesis—the mills of God grind slowly
Swinburne—a parallel
It is not much that a man can save
—
Within the compass of a hand.
The three Odes of Horace, to which this script refers, all
turn upon the subject of Nemesis, or, as it was expressed in
the earlier script, the uncertainty of human fate, and these
quotations lead up to the words :
Swinburne—a parallel
It is not much that a man can save.
This script is linked to the script of September 25, 1911,
by the misquotation atrox cura, and therefore there is no doubt,
I think, that in its quotation from Swinburne (" It is not
much that a man can save ") we have the " parallel passage
"
to which the earlier script as follows refers :
(H. V. script of September 25, 1911.)
the uncertainty of human fate
that is one idea I want to get—now the other.—it is a parallel
passage
a sunless sea—write that it will help.
It may fairly be said that the words " a sunless sea " will
" help " towards identifying the passage required, because
Horace, C. III. 1.
2
Horace, G. I. 4.
3
Cf. Horace, G. II. 18 ;
" Non ebur neque aureum."
LXIX.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 257
not only does the particular verse from The Triumph of Time,
which is afterwards quoted, refer to the sea, but this idea is
prominent throughout the whole poem, as it is in so much of
Swinburne's work. In the first verse we have :
" Time swift to fasten and swift to sever
Hand from hand, as we stand by the sea,"
and later :
" I will go back to the great sweet mother,
Mother and lover of men, the sea."
and again :
" There lived a singer in France of old
By the fadeless dolorous midland sea."
The two poems, The White Ship and The Triumph of
Time, present several possible points of comparison, and the
quotations given in the script clearly bring out one of these
points.
In Swinburne we have :
" It is not much that a man can save
On the sands of life, on the shoals of Time,
Who swims in sight of the great third wave,
That never a swimmer shall cross or climb."
and in Rossetti :
" By none but me can the tale be told,
The butcher of Rouen, poor Berold.
(Lands are swayed by a king on a throne.)
'Twas a royal train put forth to sea,
Yet the tale can be told by none but me.
(The sea hath no king but God alone.)
"
Rossetti's sea is the real sea ; Swinburne's is metaphorical,
the sea of Time ; but both are represented as forces against
which human beings strive in vain.
I have thought it worth while to discuss these later scripts
of mine for two reasons. In the first place, they show that
there is a closer connexion of thought between the earlier
258 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
scripts than would otherwise appear. The first script of the
series, on January 25, 1911, begins :
Cloth of gold—the king's purple
'Twas a royal train put forth to sea
But the tale can be told by none but me.
The last of the series, on March 14, 1911, has :
The triumph of Time
It is not much that a man may save, etc.
The statements found in the subsequent scripts make it
very probable that the idea of drawing a parallel between
Rossetti's poem and Swinburne's was already latent in the
scripts of January and March, 1911. Moreover, the date at
which my script returned to this idea is worth noting. It was
on September 25, 1911, that my script opened with the words :
'Twas a royal train, etc.
and it was on September 25, 1911, that Mrs. Verrall, after
reading the various scripts discussed here, completed the
notes from which this paper has been written. To the opening
words of my script of January 25, 1911,
Cloth of gold—the king's purple
'Twas a royal train put forth to sea
she appended a note :
Cf. Swinburne, Triumph of Time :
" Drowned gold and purple
and royal rings."
At that time and for many months afterwards I knew
nothing of the Mac scripts of July and September beyond
the fact that they had been written and sent to my mother.
I did not see the scripts, or my mother's notes on them, until
October 6, 1912, i.e., some months later than any of the scripts
discussed here.
My second reason for discussing these later scripts of mine
is that they afford a good illustration of one of the characteristics
of automatic writing, or at least of some automatic writing,
the way in which a train of thought may be persistently evolved
LXIX.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 259
in the script, in a fragmentary way, perhaps, and at consider-
able intervals of time, but so that it can be traced by following
the clues afforded by the script itself.
So far, then, I have tried to establish on internal evidence
that there is a close connexion of thought linking together four
scripts of mine written between January and March, 1911. I
turn now to the scripts contributed by Mr. and Miss Mac.
On July 5, 1911, Miss Mac received the then recently issued
number of the Proceedings of this Society, Part LXIIL, and
at once read the papers on Mrs. Willett's and Mrs. Holland's
scripts, in which she Was specially interested, because they
contained some references to her own earlier scripts. On
July 7, 1911, for the first time for more than a year, she and
her brother obtained script purporting to be from Henry
Sidgwick. They had made several attempts to obtain script
earlier in the year, but on almost all these occasions, the only
one of their supposed controls who purported to communicate
was " Bell," who is thus described by Miss Mac :
.... Ellen Bell seemed to be a perfect lunatic, as indeed the
other controls said she was. . . . She has her own line of riddles,
epigrams, Limericks, etc., . . . She draws clever caricatures of
our acquaintances . . . she appears to be quite subliminal and
varies in character with the various writers.1
Once or twice a little " Italian " script was obtained which
Miss Mac describes as " rather like an intermediate stage
between Bell and H. S."
As the script of July 7, 1911, was obtained immediately after
reading Part LXIIL of the Proceedings, and probably to some
extent at least in consequence of the stimulus thus given, it
becomes a matter of interest to consider what were the contents
of the articles read by Miss Mac and whether they had any
perceptible influence on the scripts produced. But it will be
more convenient to discuss this question after I have dealt
in detail with the contents of the scripts.
There are five Mac scripts in this period, a group of three
on July 7, 8, and 9, 1911, and two more on September 2 and 6,
1911. I will first quote the three July scripts.
1
See Proc. S.P.B., Vol. XXIV. p. 265.
260 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
(Mac script of July 7, 1911.)
Sidgwick
I am that I am.1
(Drawing of hands and piano keys.)
P saw one moon flower fair
fair flower of foam endures when the rose withers whose flowers
are put to scorn 2
roses and lilies too.—You see, scribe, it is I.
I return for a little with a gathered flower when the air is green
with summer.
Thus in the green growth of hedge and coppice
(Drawing of horse-chestnut leaf on long stalk.) Rest.
H.S. finished feast and the light vanishes and the dancers ar \sic]
left in the gloom.3
They are very alike those two with the moon-eyes from behind
a cloud I think and the Lethean souls perched about the white
lilies
4
like bees in summer.
All.
All.
(Mac script of July 8, 1911.)
(H. S. control.)
agate
The meaning I want is the gate which I have hinted.
There is an end of joy and there shall be no more weeping. 5
But the garden is gone to seed and forsaken 6
I am thinking of
Swinburne. As the heart of a ded [sic] man the seed plots are
dry.6
1
Exodus, hi. 14.
2
Cf. Swinburne, A Forsaken Garden, " For the foam flowers endure when
the rose-blossoms wither."
3
Cf. E. Dowson, " When the feast is finished and the lights expire . . -
dancing."
4
See Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXV. p. 137. Cf. Verg. Aen. VI. 707 ff.
5
Cf. Swinburne, Garden of Proserpine (recognised by Mr. Mac and Miss
Mae), " We are not sure of sorrow, And joy was never sure."
0
Swinburne, A Forsaken Garden.
LXIX.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 261
No more joy no more thrall 1
(Drawing of a gate as above) I have important words.
Think of Swinburne and it all comes what the others are all
getting at. It is him. About dead fancies and spoilt rimes 2
and lost faces and sad farewells
about Time about ruined rimes 2
a broken song spoilt music a ruined rhyme 2
I know how he feels now
(Drawing of hills) hills and crushed fruit moon
all
(Mac script of July 9, 1911.)
(H. S. control.)
I am he that endureth 3
(Drawing of a gate) *
The beginning is here ; the end is not yet. 5
The beginning of years 6
Whoso knocketh
They are not long the weeping and the laughter
Love and desire and hate.
I think they have no portion in us after
We pass the gate.7
May voices
The psean of spring Atalanta and the hounds of the hunter 8
I found this fair to see.
1 Cf. Swinburne, A Match, " If you were thrall to sorrow, And I were
page to joy."
2
Cf. Swinburne, Triumph of Time, " A broken blossom, a ruined rhyme."
3
Ps. ix. 7 ; cii. 12, etc.
4
The drawing was so interpreted by the automatists. It is very fragmentary
but resembles the drawing of a gate on July 8, 1911.
5
Matt., xxiv. 6 ;
Mark, xiii. 7 ;
Luke, xxi. 9.
6
Swinburne, Atalanta in Calydon, second chorus :
" Before the beginning
of years there came . . . Time."
'
E. Dowson.
Cf. Swinburne, Atalanta in Calydon, " When the hounds of spring are
on winter's traces."
262 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
This is wrong but it connects on to the other. I think they will
piece it toge
Lord if it L
I have spent my days and nights in love who tarrieth but a
little
(Reynold control.)
Send all this on to Mrs. V. at once
Reynold.
The first thing to notice in these scripts is that they are
full of allusions to Swinburne. There are seven certain refer-
ences to his poems, and one that is doubtful. Of these allusions
the most important is in the script of July 8, 1911 :
Think of Swinburne and it all comes what the others are all
getting at. It is him. About dead fancies and spoilt rimes [sic]
and lost faces and sad farewells
about Time about ruined rimes
a broken song spoilt music a ruined rhyme
There is no doubt that the script is here alluding to the
same verse from The Triumph of Time which is quoted in the
H. V. script of March 14, 1911. The verse runs :
"It is not much that a man can save,
On the sands of life, on the shoals of Time,
Who swims in sight of the great third wave,
That never a swimmer shall cross or climb ;
Some waif washed up with the strays and spars,
That ebb-tide shows to the shore and stars.
Weed from the water, grass from a grave,
A broken blossom, a ruined rhyme."
The two scripts are complementary, because, whereas the
H. V. script emotes the first four lines of the verse, the Mac
script refers to the last line.
It should also be noted that this passage in the Mac script
is definitely claimed as a cross-correspondence ; thus
:
Think of Swinburne and it all comes what the others are all
getting at.
LXIX.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 263
This point is important, in view of the fact that the Mac
scripts of this period are full of references to Swinburne. If
the claim to a cross-correspondence were not made here—and
only here—it might be said that there was no reason for
singling out this allusion to Swinburne rather than any of
the others.
Here, then, we have the closest and most definite point of
connexion between the Mac script and mine, but there are
several other connexions still to be considered, which afford
interesting corroborative evidence of design in the choice of
topics.
In the Mac script of July 9, 1911, there are two allusions
to Swinburne's poem Atalanta in Calydon. There is first a
quotation from the second chorus :
The beginning of years,
the context of which is interesting. The chorus runs :
" Before the beginning of years
There came to the making of man
Time, with his gift of tears, etc."
The script, therefore, is still harping on the notion of time.
Then later in the same script we have :
The psean of spring Atalanta and the hounds of the hunter.
Taking into consideration the fact that we have here an
undoubted allusion to the first chorus of Atalanta :
" When the hounds of spring are on winter's traces,"
I think there is probably an attempt to quote from it in the
script written two days before, on July 7, 1911 :
I return for a little with a gathered flower when the air is green
with summer.
Thus in the green growth of hedge and coppice.
This last phrase recalls the lines from the first chorus of
Atalanta :
'
' And in green underwood and cover
Blossom by blossom the spring begins."
264 Helen de G. Verrall. [paet
The line in the script is very clumsy, but it is metrically
equivalent to Swinburne's line, having four principal accents.
We might read :
Thus in the green growth of hedge and coppice, 1
Blossom by blossom the spring begins.
and " the green growth of hedge and coppice " certainly suggests
an inaccurate recollection of
"green underwood and cover." 2
The point is interesting when we remember that the H. V.
script of January 25, 1911, the first of the four scripts which
I have quoted above, has :
A leaf couch in the depths of the forest
—
and in green underwood and cover blossom by blossom the
spring begins.
The mere fact that the same poem is quoted in two scripts
is hardly enough to constitute a cross-correspondence between
them, but the H. V. script of January 25, 1911, has another
point of connexion with the Mac script of July 9, 1911, the
script, that is to say, in which there is an explicit allusion to
the first chorus of Atalanta.
Just before the quotation from this chorus, the H. V. script
has :
A barred gate nothing more.
The Mac script of July 9, 1911, begins :
I am he that endureth
(Draiving of a gate.)
Allusions to a gate run all through the Mac scripts of this
period. The drawing of a gate, reproduced above, p. 260,
1
Cf. another line in the chorus :
''Fills the shadows and windy places."
2
It has been suggested that the phrase '
' the green growth of hedge and
coppice " may be a reminiscence of a line from Swinburne's poem The Garden
of Proserpine, ..
No growth of m00r or COppice
- .
or perhaps the phrase is due to a mental fusion of this line and the line from
Atalanta in Calydon, quoted above.
LXIX.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 265
appears first at the beginning of the script of July 8, 191 1.
1
The script goes on :
The meaning I want is the gate which I have hinted ....
{Drawing of a gate) I have important words
Think of Swinburne and it all comes what the others are all
getting at.
Then follows the allusion to The Triumph of Time.
The script of July 9, 1911, begins :
I am he that endureth
(Draiving of a gate.)
. . . Whoso knocketh
They are not long the weeping and the laughter
Love and desire and hate
I think they have no portion in us after
We pass the gate.
" The gate " is also referred to in the Mac script of Sep-
tember 6, 1911 :
Many that enter by my gate shall proceed further.
Mr. and Miss Mac produced two scripts in September, 1911,
and both present points of interest in regard to the subject
of this paper. I will therefore quote these two scripts.
(Mac script of September 2, 1911.)
(H. S. control.)
Light only light the laughter of the sage where—house of shades
Ever busy (?) sprite
Come here on tripping feet that scorn the grass
Welcome ! s
from the sea.
And the sea parted and the way was made clear for the children
of Israel. 2
Month by month loves [or lover] of men
my mother
1
It should be noted that the drawing is here labelled " gate," so that there
is no doubt as to how it should be interpreted.
2
Exodus xiv.
266 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Good (?) Mark
A match (?) of the house.
We nailed love up to a tree 1
hood
More lest you remember when I forget.
More—my
Two things perchance he has left us yet
All sad and ^| [sic]
And then to die !
2
more
Universe of his love that he giveth you
the sea green mirrors of your eyes 3
the sea
wan from the waves I the mark that is missed 4
lips kissed
All H. 8.
(Mac script of Seiptemher 6, 1911.)
(H. S. control.)
[The script opens with an allusion to a picture by Bramley, called
The Hopeless Daiv?i.]
The hope I have cherished through long years of oppression.
You do not and you never will know. The writing is for a long
period. It continued uninterrupted by the presence of a third
person.
In the night where your moonlike eyes make thy garden seem
like a sleepy heaven there.5
[Then follows a statement about the conditions, under which
the script was written.]
Many that enter by my gate shall proceed further
(Drawings of ring, E. F. (?) and of hands, left hand with ring on
third finger.)
The Ring is here of which you have written G
as Swinburne :
—
Strange raiment clad thee like a bride
With jewels to wear on hands and feet.
With clasps of gold on either side.
Wine made thee glad and thou didst eat
1
Cf. Swinburne, Satia Te Sanguine, " Your hands nailed love to the tree."
2
Cf. Swinburne, Felise. 3
Swinburne, Felise. 4 Swinburne, Hertha.
s Cf. Mac script of July 7, 1811, " the moon-eyes."
6 There had been no previous reference to a ring in the Mac script.
LXIX.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 267
Honey and pleasant choice of meat.1
H. S.
A. C. S. Ring (?) {Drawing of ring.)
Three things I give with you
These three -
Faith [sic]
Hope
2
Charity [sic]
{Drawing of a harp with one string )
G. F. Watts.
You remember greeny blue.
I find the grey seas notes of green
The green seas fervent flakes of blue
More fair than you.3
{Drawing of hand apparently holding handle of whip.)
Then winter came
The wind was his whip
One choppy finger was on his lip *
{Drawing of finger on lips.)
The moving finger writes
And having writ— 5
La fleche {Draining of an arrow.)
Rosy fingered dawn. 6
It is clear but she will miss it may be
The first is not clear your hand is imperfect.
Why the worlds mine oyster which I with sword will open.7
There's straw in my hair.
(Drawing of a circle.) I sit astride
o' the world
There's straw in my hair
Blaw in blaw oot
Blaw the hale hoose about.
1
Cf. Swinburne, Aholibah :
" Strange raiment clad thee like a bride
With silk to wear on hands and feet
With plates of gold on either side ;
Wine made thee glad and thou did'st eat
Honey and choice of pleasant meat."
2
Cf. 1 Cor., xiii. 13. 3 Swinburne, Felise.
4
Shelley, The Sensitive Plant. 5
Fitzgerald, Omar Khayyam.
6
Cf. Homer, Od., passim. 7
Shakespeare, Merry Wives, II. ii.
268 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
EUROPA
Paseppe
Such as I have do I give unto you freely. 1
Freely I have given unto you freely take.2
Much laughter begets weeping
Take hands and part with laughter 3
T
Come unto these yellow sands
And then take hands 4
All
H. S.
The latter part of this second script may be summarised
as a series of allusions to hands and to Shakespeare, culminating
in a quotation, which combines these two ideas, the opening-
lines of Ariel's song :
" Come unto these yellow sands
And there take hands."
Having reached this point, the script ceases, which suggests
that the earlier allusions were all leading up to this by a series
of associated ideas. The various stages of this process are
interesting.
The idea of hands first emerged in several drawings of
hands and rings and a quotation from Swinburne's Aholibah
in which the word hands is underlined. Then after a digression
the script returns to the idea in the quotation from The Sensitive
Plant
:
'
' The wind was his whip
One choppy finger was on his lip."
The same idea is persistently emphasised in the quotation
from Omar Khayyam, " the rosy-fingered dawn," and " your
hand is imperfect." Then we get the first suggestion of
Shakespeare in a quotation from The Merry Wives. The next
phrase " there's straw in my hair " was associated by the
automatists with Shakespeare, as they believed it to be a
quotation from King Lear. The words do not occur in the
1
Cf. Acts, iii. 6.
3
Swinburne, Rococo.
2
Cf. Matt., x. 8.
4
Shakespeare, The Tempest, I. 2.
LXIX.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 269
play, but they might naturally be associated with it, straw
in the hair being a conventional sign of madness.1
I sit astride o' the world
is perhaps a reminiscence of the phrase from Julius Caesar,
" bestride this narrow world
"
suggested by the previous allusion to Watts' picture of Hope,
who is represented as sitting on the globe. Then, after another
short digression, we find a quotation from the Acts, leading
by a natural association of ideas to an inaccurate reminiscence
of a passage in St. Matthew. The context of these two passages
shows an even closer connexion between them than is apparent
in the script :
" Silver and gold have I none ; but such as I have, give
I thee." (Acts, hi. 6.)
" Freely ye have received, freely give. Provide neither gold
nor silver nor brass in your purses." (Matt., x. 8.)
The reminiscence from St. Matthew introduces for the first
time the word take. This, followed by an allusion to laughter,
leads to the quotation from Swinburne :
" Take hands and part with laughter,"
and this again to the quotation from Shakespeare :
'
' Come unto these yellow sands
And then take hands."
We find in the script three separate streams of thought,
" hands," " Shakespeare," " take," successively introduced
and finally combined. It is worth noting that in the quotation
from St. Matthew the word take has been substituted for the
word give, thereby completely altering the sense of the passage
and throwing a special emphasis on to this word. There are
several instances in automatic writing of misquotation used for
emphasis, e.g. the substitution of " hope " for " passion
"
in the quotation from Aht Vogler (see Proc. S.P.E., Vol. XXII.,
p. 63).
There is evidence, therefore, in the script of September 6,
1911, that the emergence of the quotation from Ariel's Song
1
Cf. Sheridan, The Critic, in which the mad Tilburina has straw in her
hair.
270 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
was the result of a persistent effort to give this quotation, and
this evidence is strengthened by the fact that there seems to
be an attempt to refer to the Song in the previous script on
September 2, 1911.
This script begins :
Light only light the laughter of the sage where—house of shades
Ever busy sprite
Come here on tripping feet that scorn the grass
Welcome ! from the sea
In her original copy of the script Miss Mac put a note to
" Ever busy sprite," saying that " it suggests The Tempest
and Ariel." The actual phrase does not occur in the play, but
the description is obviously appropriate to Ariel, and several
times Prospero calls tipon Ariel to " come," e.g. :
" Come
with a thought," "Come away, servant," "Ariel, come,"
and he habitually calls him " spirit," " my tricksy spirit,"
etc. Moreover, the automatists' interpretation of the phrase
as referring to Ariel is an important point, whether the inter-
pretation be thought correct or not, since it shows that the
association was in their mind.
Then again, at the end of the same script we find :
wan from the waves I the mark that is missed
lips kissed
Ariel's Song runs :
" Come unto these yellow sands
And there take hands ;
Curtsied when you have and kissed
The wild waves whist."
The introduction of the words " waves " and " kissed,"
taken in conjunction with the probable allusion to Ariel at
the beginning of this script, may be due to a confused attempt
to quote from the Song, which definitely emerges at the end
of the next script.
It may therefore be said, I think, that these two scripts
contain more than a casual allusion to Ariel's Song ;
they
give evidence of repeated attempts to allude to it, and as soon
as the attempt has been successful, the script ends.
lxix.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 271
This point is interesting, when we remember that a quota-
tion from Ariel's Song occurs in the H. V. script of January
25, 1911, the first in the series of four, with which this paper
deals. Thus :
Cloth of gold the king's purple
'Twas a royal train put forth to sea
But the tale can be told by none but me.
The wild waves wist.
To sum up, then :
(a) There are four H. V. scripts written between January
and March, 1911, connected one with another by the repetition
of various phrases and ideas and by the fact that the first of
these scripts contains a quotation from The White Ship, and
the last a quotation from The Triumph of Time, these two
quotations being closely associated with each other in sub-
sequent H. V. scripts.
Of these four scripts the first on January 25, 1911, com-
bines with the quotation from The White Ship a quotation
from Ariel's Song in The Tempest, an allusion to a barred gate,
and a quotation from the first chorus in Swinburne's Atalanta ;
the second on February 28, 1911, has a Greek quotation,
which might be paraphrased as " the triumph of time "
;
the fourth on March 14, 1911, has a four-line quotation from
Swinburne's Triumph of Time, combined with a statement
that an attempt has been made to give this idea before.
(&) There are five (and only five) scripts written by Mr. and
Miss Mac from July 7 to September 6, 1911, inclusive.
In the first, on July 7, 1911, there is probably an attempt
to quote one of the two lines from Swinburne's Atalanta
in Calydon quoted in the H. V. script of January 25, 1911 ;
in the second script, on July 8, 1911, there are two allusions
to a gate, which is described as important, followed by a
quotation from the same verse of The Triumph of Time, which
is quoted in the H. V. script of March 14, 1911, and a state-
ment that a cross-correspondence is aimed at ; in the third
script, on July 9, 1911, there is another allusion to a gate,
followed by a quotation from the second chorus of Atalanta in
Calydon and an allusion to the first chorus ; the automatists
are also enjoined to " send all this to Mrs. Verrall " ; in the
s
272 Helen de O. Verrall. [part
fourth script, on September 2, 1911, there are two probable
allusions to Ariel ; and in the fifth script, on September 6,
1911, there is an allusion to a gate, followed at the end of the
script by a quotation from Ariel's Song :
" Come unto these yellow sands,
And there take hands."
Or, to put it in another way, in the H. V. script of January
25, 1911, we find a quotation from The White Ship, a quotation
from Ariel's Song, a reference to a gate, and a quotation from
the first chorus of Atalanta in Galydon ; in the Mac script of
July 8, 1911. there is a reference to a gate combined with a
quotation from The Triumph of Time, afterwards associated
in the H. V. script with the quotation from The White Ship ;
in the Mac script of July 9, 1911, there is a reference to a gate
combined with an allusion to the first chorus from Atalanta
in Galydon ; in the Mac script of September 6, 1911, there is
a reference to a gate combined with a quotation from Ariel's
Song.
1 turn now to the consideration of some scripts written by
Mrs. Verrall during the same period. In June, 1911, she
produced three scripts closely related to one another, in which
there appear to be attempts to indicate Swinburne's initials.
These attempts were not recognised by Mrs. Verrall (and no
one else had examined her scripts) until, on July 12, 1911, she
read the three Mac scripts of July, the statements in which
led her to search her own scripts for cross-correspondences
on the subject of Swinburne.
The three scripts in question are as follows :
{Mrs. V.'s script of June 27, 1911.)
2 "Eiy/xa (ocrai'roj? kou TaAAa. ypatjie crv —et jit] p.eru. ixt'i'ccreojs
—
(tvv
ra^ei. ra p.kXXovro. KapTepws fievei' a crvp.Trpdcro'op.ev upurreva,' Seyou
K0U (TV.
Gnome kou Srj
nmeme
aAes rrjSe' avpiov aXXy •yAoxnx// ~\p~?i(r6at.
[Sigma thus also the other things. Write, if not with under-
lxix.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 273
standing, with speed. What is to come stands firm. Combined
action is best. Receive you also.
Mind and also memory.
Enough to-day ; to-morrow use another language ]
(Mrs. V.'s script of June 28, 1911.)
In a garden of cucumbers—a lodge. 1
Write both letters large
A. L odge. The first initial is now right—never mind the name.
A c c i dente cespitosa in caespite [By accident (?) turfy on the
turf] what is upon the turf ? The Turf.
(Mrs. V.'s script of June 29, 1911.)
The white swan—my white swan—and Browning's poems.
Would it were I—not you.2
It really is important to get the clear record clear to-day—but
she does not understand.
Try again—swan wings beating—the swan's nest and little
Ellie 3
Why so pale and wan fond lover 4
An apple showed the law to Newton's mind
An apple was the aim of William's bow
An apple caused the fall of human kind
An apple made the maiden's feet run slow.
A was once an apple pie
Now you have it part was said last night.
The first script, on June 27, 1911, opens with the Greek
letter S. The rest of the script is rather obscure, but it clearly
implies that there is more to come, that some other person
is to play a part, and that Mrs. Verrall is to write again next
day.
In the second script, on June 28, 1911, we find the words :
A. Lodge. The first initial is now right—never mind the name.
1
Cf. Isaiah, i. 8.
2
Cf. Browning, The Worst of It :
'"
Would it were I had been false
Not you ! . . . my swan . . .
. . . wonder of white."
3
Mrs. Browning, Ellie and the Swan's Nest.
4
Sir John Suckling. Encouragements to a Lover.
274 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
This clearly implies that the first initial is A, and that the
name is not Lodge.
In the words that follow :
A c c i dente cespitosa in caespite,
we find the initial A repeated and followed by what may be-
an attempt to represent Swinburne's second initial C. Puns
and assonances are a fairly common feature of Mrs. Verrall 's
script.
The script of June 29, 1911, was written, Mrs. Verrall notes,
in consequence of an impulse which came to her, whilst she
was copying the script of the preceding evening, and it evidently
carries on the same train of thought, concluding as it does
with the words :
A was once an apple pie
Now you have it—part was said last night.
The way in which the letter A is gradually approached is
interesting. The script opens with a reference to a swan.
Then after a short digression the word " swan " recurs, followed
by a quotation containing the word " wan," followed again
by four lines of verse each beginning with the word " an,"
giving the sequence swan, wan, an, A.
Thus we find in these three scripts definite allusions to the
letters A and S and a possible allusion to the letter C. It
should also be noted that in the script of June 28, 1911, the
emphasis laid on the letter L in the Avords, " A. Lodge," may
have been suggested by Swinburne's first name, Algernon.
The script of June 29, 1911, presents several other points
of interest in connexion with the H. V. scripts of the preceding
February and March, which Mrs. Verrall had not seen when
she wrote it.
The script opens with a quotation from Browning's The
Worst of It, which may be compared with Swinburne's Triumph
of Time. In both poems the speaker is a lover whose mistress
has proved unfaithful, though the point of view of the two lovers
is widely different. In particular we may contrast the con-
cluding lines of The Worst of It :
'
' I knew you once ; but in Paradise
If we meet, I will pass nor turn my face."
LXix.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 275
with the concluding lines of The Triumph, of Time :
" Shall I lose you living and vex you dead ?
I never shall tell you on earth ; and in heaven
If I cry to you then, will you hear or know %
"
Possibly the H. V. script is groping after an allusion to
The Worst of It on March 10, 1911, in the words :
the best and the worst
God be thanked the meanest of bis creatures
boasts two soul sides 1
the worst and the best
I cannot get it clear.
The explicit allusion to Browning makes this interpretation
more probable.
Mrs. Verrall's script of June 29, 1911, has a further point of
connexion with the H. V. script of January 25, 1011, which
has :
And apple—the apple of discord
—
the fruit of the tree
followed almost at once by the quotation from Atalanta in
Calydon :
And in green underwood and cover
Blossom by blossom the spring begins.
Compare in Mrs. Verrall's script the lines :
An apple caused the fall of human kind
An apple made the maiden's feet run slow
The first of these latter lines refers to the fruit of the tree
of knowledge and the second to Atalanta, who was beaten
in the race because she stopped to pick up the golden apples
which Milanion let fall.
It only remains to consider how far the contents of these
scripts may be accounted for by the normal thoughts of the
automatists at the time or by any habitual tendencies observed
in their automatic writing. To consider my own scripts
1
Browning's Men and Women, Epilogue.
276 Helen cle O. Verrall. [part
first, there had been very few allusions to Swinburne in my
script before January, 1911,—three certain allusions (all to
The Garden of Proserpine), and one doubtful allusion to The
Triumph of Time, not to the verse quoted on March 14, 1911.
I am fairly well acquainted with Swinburne's poems, having
at one time or another read the greater part of what he has
written. With a few poems, including The Triumph of Time,
I am more familiar, but Swinburne is not a poet for whom I
have a special admiration, and I do not read his poems very
often. So far as I know, there had been nothing to turn my
thoughts towards them in the early months of 1911.
There are seven allusions to Swinburne in the Mac script
before July, 1911. They all occur between May and July,
1909, and are probably due, in part at any rate, to the fact
that Swinburne died in April, 1909, so that he might naturally
have been in the automatists' minds about that time. Mr.
and Miss Mac are familiar with Swinburne's work, as might
be inferred from the number of more or less correct quotations
occurring in the script. But the predominance of Swinburne
in the scripts of July and September, 1911, is very marked,
and quite unlike the brief, fragmentary allusions in 1909.
About half the whole amount of script produced in 1911
(and attributed to Henry Sidgwick) consists of quotations
from Swinburne. I have already referred to the fact that
immediately before the July scripts were written, Miss Mac
had read the articles on Mrs. Willett's and Mrs. Holland's
script in Proc. S.P.R., Part LXIIL, and the allusion to lilies
and bees in the script of July 7, 1911, can be directly traced
to this source. The question will naturally be asked : can
any other part of the scripts and especially the allusions to
Swinburne be explained in the same way ? Both in the
article on Mrs. Willett's script and in the article on Mrs.
Holland's script, passages from Swinburne are discussed at
some length.1
Passages from several other poets are discussed
even more fully ;
but, if the case for a supernormal connexion
between the Mac scripts and mine depended solely, or even
mainly, on our both alluding to Swinburne, it would be
seriously weakened by Miss Mac having read Part LXIIL
But I hope that I have already made it clear that the case
1
See Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXV. pp. 206 ff. and 234 ff.
lxix.] A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. 277
rests on a much surer foundation, and some further considera-
tions will make this point still clearer.
The poems by Swinburne which are discussed in Part LXIII.
are The Garden of Proserpine, Itylus, and the third chorus
from Atalanta in Galydon, which has an obvious association
with Itylus. It contains the lines :
'
' The brown bright nightingale amorous
Is half assuaged for Itylus,"
Avhich are the lines referred to in Part LXIII.
On the other hand, none of these poems is mentioned in
the Mac script (the allusions to Atalanta are to the first and
second choruses), and the only passage which is claimed in
the script as a cross-correspondence is one from The Triumph
of Time. It is not unlikely, I think, that from reading Part
LXIII. Miss Mac's mind received an initial impulse, which,
by association of ideas, greatly facilitated the emergence of
certain latent impressions ; but this initial impulse can hardly
be considered sufficient to account for the particular course
followed by the script. Why is it that, whereas the poems
discussed in Part LXIII. are The Garden of Proserpine, Itylus,
and the third chorus from Atalanta in Galydon, the emphasis
in the script is thrown on to The Triumph of Time % More-
over, the curious way in which the Mac scripts are linked
together by references to a gate cannot be explained by any-
thing in Part LXIII., whereas the probability of a super-
normal connexion with my script of January 25, 1911, which
also refers to a gate, is thereby increased.
Although the scripts as a whole show remarkably little
connexion with the normal, contemporary thoughts of the
automatists, yet there are cases in which it is clear that a
normal train of thought has formed the starting-point of a
script. It is almost inevitable that this should be so, seeing
that the mind of an automatist during the production of
script is not divided by any hard and fast line from the same
mind at other times. I should not think it worth while to
dwell on this point, if it were not that some critics seem to
think that if they can trace the influence of any normal associa-
tion of ideas either in the connexion of the scripts Avith the
normal thoughts of the automatist, or in the connexion of one
278 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
part of a script with another, they have thereby removed
any ground we might have for supposing that the scripts
have been influenced by some force external to the mind of
the automatist. That is a confused and misleading way of
stating the problem. The relation between the scripts and
the normal thoughts and knowledge of the automatists is, of
course, an important question, but the crucial point to be
determined is this : how definite are the connexions between
the scripts of one automatist and those of another, and how
probable is it that these connexions are due to chance-coinci-
dence ? That may be a very difficult question to determine,
and, as Mrs. Sidgwick has pointed out, in her reply to Dr.
Maxwell, it is one upon which individual judgments will differ.
Nevertheless, in the answer to this question lies the solution
of the problem.
But admitting, as most students of psychical research do,
that there is evidence in these automatic writings for the
influence of some supernormal agency, it becomes a matter of
psychological interest to trace the workings of an automatist's
mind, as it is reflected in the scripts. It is especially interesting,
I think, to notice the part played by the ordinary laws of
association, as in the case of the Mac scripts of September 2
and 6, 1911, where a certain goal is reached in a way suggest-
ing that it has been deliberately sought, because, assuming
that some telepathic force has been at work on the automatist's
mind—whether it is telepathy from the living or the dead
matters nothing to the present argument—it seems a priori
probable that the effect of this telepathic force will be not to
thrust a human mind entirely out of its natural channels,
but to turn the stream of ideas a little this way or that, and
thus to exercise a choice as to which amongst a hundred
possible associations shall actually emerge.
lxix.j Experiments in Thought-Transference. 279
V.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
By Clarissa Miles and Hermione Ramsden.
[Most of the experiments recorded in this paper have already
been reported in the Journal, see Vol. XIII., pp. 243-262,
and Vol. XIV., pp. 392-399. Their publication in the Pro-
ceedings was postponed, because it was hoped that further
experiments by the same ladies would be tried, the results
of which might be added to these. Only a few results, however,,
have been obtained since and those hardly successful enough
to be worth publishing ; and as there seems no immediate
prospect of further experimenting by them in this direc-
tion, it has been thought desirable to publish these series
now.
All the original records have been put into our hands and
the postmarks, etc. verified by us.
—
Ed.~\
I.
EXPERIMENTS BY MISS MILES.
The experiments here described are a continuation of those
which were previously brought before the Society and
published in the Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XXL, pp. 60-93.
As before, I was the agent and my friend Miss Ramsden the
percipient. Miss Ramsden on each day sent me a postcard
describing what her impressions—which were generally rather
numerous,—had been, and I noted each day on a postcard
sent to her what the idea was that I had tried to transmit.
280 Clarissa Miles. [part
On receiving her card I noted what facts in my experience
had corresponded with her impressions.
As in the previous account in Proceedings, (a) indicates my
postcard written at the time of the experiment ;
(b) Miss
Ramsden's postcard recording her impressions at the time ;
(c) my comments, made after receiving her postcard, as to
points in her description that seemed to correspond to what
had been happening to me ;
(d) corroboration of the latter by
my friends.
Some of the experiments failed altogether, and in most of
them Miss Ramsden had other impressions besides those that
were more or less correct. These unsuccessful cases are
omitted here ; but as all the experiments are numbered
consecutively, the proportion of complete failures is shown.
In the record of the more or less successful cases, the
portions omitted are indicated by asterisks.
During these experiments I was on a tour with Lady
Guendolen Ramsden in the Ardennes, where Miss Ramsden
had never been. She only knew my address, so that she
could post the cards. I went to Namur and joined Lady
Guendolen there on the 13th of July, 1907, and did not begin
the experiments till July 21st.
Experiment I.
Miss Ramsden on July 2Lst sent a sketch of a well which
she had been thinking of on the 18th and 19th several
times in connection with me. It will be seen that this has
some resemblance to a photograph which I took from our
hotel window, and part of which is reproduced in Plate I., showing
a tower, which was the most conspicuous object from the hotel
garden : when there, we could not look up in any direction
without seeing the tower outlined against the sky ; but the
weathercock and round ball beneath shown in the photograph
would not be visible to us, for the garden being situated
exactly at the foot of the tower, we were too much under-
neath it.
LXIX.J Experiments in Thought-Transference. 281
Experiment II.
The following is my postcard, written on the first day that I
attempted to transfer an idea to Miss Ramsden :
(a) Hotel d'Harscamp, Namur, July 20th [really 21st.]
[Postmark, Namur, 22. vn. 07. 10.17.]
We went to Huy by train and spent the afternoon there, I
wanted you to see the fine view of citadel. The hill beyond
covered with trees, boats in foreground and a fine bridge spanning
the Meuse. .. C. M.
(b) Miss Ramsden's next postcard, written from Ardverikie,
Kingussie, has the postmark " Kingussie, 12.45 p.m. Jy. 23. 07
"
and has nothing on it except the sketch here reproduced.
.MISS ramsden's sketch.
Miss Ramsden adds later :
This was seen as a hypnagogic illusion just before going to sleep.
I drew this on Monday after the post had gone (8 a.m.). That
is why it was not posted until the 23rd. I saw it in colour ; the
distance was a lovely blue. H. R.
282 Clarissa Miles. [part
(d) Lady Guendolen Ramsden writing to her daughter later
of this occasion, sends the following sketch :
Lady Guendolen adds :
[On] the day we went to Huy, Clarisse sat under a tree on the
bank of a garden overlooking the Meuse. She said, " I'll draw
the bridge ; M. may get an impression of the arches." So you
did,—only yours were more like a viaduct. . . . This sketch is
from memory, showing where Clarisse sat to draw. There was a
large tree on whose roots she sat : lots of boats everywhere. . . .
The next two experiments were failures.
Experiment V.
(a) Bruges, July 24th [probably should be 28th, as postmark
is " Bruges, 29 Juillet, 07 "].
We stopped at Ghent on July 23rd [27th] on our way here.
Had lunch. Then saw the Cathedral of St. Bavon. The Van Eyck
picture " Adoration of the Immaculate Lamb " interested me
much, details so wonderful. ... CM.
{b) Saturday, July 27th, 1907. 10.45 p.m.
[Postmark : Kingussie 10.30 a.m. Jy. 28. 07.]
An Arab or Indian wearing a turban on his head. . . .
H. R.
LXIX.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 283
(c) In the " Adoration of the Immaculate Lamb," by Van Eyck,
one of the principal groups in the foreground is composed of
oriental figures, many of whom have turbans on. We had been
looking specially at one of these. We were given glasses to inspect
closely the wonderful finish and technique of the painting.
C. M.
Experiment VI.
(a) Sunday, July 24th [28th].
[Postmark : Bruxelles, date illegible.] 1
We went to Church in the morning. Then I walked to the
Grande Place and saw the tournament of the Toison D'Or.
Ladies on horseback with quaint head-dresses, men tilting with
long lances, horses caparisoned and shining armour, made a dazzling
picture of colour. Clowns juggled and tumbled at intervals. The
giant and the dwarf gave signals of when the jousts were to begin.
C. M.
(6) Sunday, July 28th.
[Postmark : Kingussie, 12.30 p.m. Jy. 29, 07.]
A spider ; but the chief impression is Swalloivs inflight. Then a
nest full of eggs. A new moon. A nurse with a red cross on her
arm. Prancing horses, wooden ones ;
perhaps it is a merry-go-
round. ... It seems scarcely fair to describe Bruges, as I have
heard so much about it and read about it—I don't know how
much is telepathic. I see a stone bridge with three arches.
Poverty-stricken houses rising straight up out of the water, clothes
and rags hanging from the windows. A belfry which dominates
the town. Did you go to see the bell ? H. R.
(c) The Grande Place where the Tournament is held is just at
the foot of the High Belfry Tower which dominates the town. It
was facing me all the afternoon. Numbers of swallows were flying
about everywhere. A few of the people in the Procession had
crosses on their costumes. The clowns had a sham joust on
wooden horses, with lances made of thick brown paper like round
poles. It was very comic, and amused me much. It looked so
absurd to watch the ridiculous antics of these clowns, after the
1
Some Bruges letters go via Brussels ; there is the hotel mark [Grand
Hotel de Commerce, Bruges | on the postcards.
284 Clarissa Miles. [part
prancing horses, the shining armour and rich accoutrements of the
real tilters with their lances.
Bruges was en fete, decorated everywhere ;
flags and banners were
flying from every window. Bruges is noted for its bridges.
C. M.
Experiment VII.
(b) Ardverikie, Monday, July 29th.
[Postmark : Kingussie, 12.30 p.m. Jy. 30. 07.]
4.45 p.m. I was not thinking of you, when I suddenly began to
see Church windows, and realised that you were inside a Church,
perhaps sketching. The following was a most vivid impression.
11.30 p.m. You both sketched, my mother sat with her back to
the altar and drew the door with its curious old carving. There
was a priest in white before the altar, I think you drew that.
Outside the Church were many steps, and people selling postcards,
and penny toys—windmills with paper sails for children. You
bought a postcard in case I should see this, and you thought of
me. The Church is much higher up than I had imagined. It is
several hundred feet above the sea. There is an open space round
it and, standing on the steps, you get a fine view of the town with
its tiled roofs, and the sea beyond. There are fishing boats to be
seen, and the sun was setting. H. R.
These impressions had no connection with what was
attempted to be transferred on this occasion, but applied
appropriately to some of the events of the day. Thus :
(c) On Monday, July 29th, we were in a Cathedral just about
the time Miss Ramsden saw the Church windows. We had no
time for sketching. But Lady Guendolen said to me :
" What a
fine head that priest has, how much I should like to draw him."
There was also a Priest in white standing in front of the altar.
The Church is on a level with the town, not above it. We bought
many postcards. A variety of fishing boats were to be seen.
They looked most picturesque against the setting sun. Children
were swarming everywhere, bringing penny toys, flying paper
kites and round air balls, blowing trumpets, thoroughly enjoying
the gay and festive season of the Tournament, which has brought
people to Bruges from all parts of the World. C. M.
lxix.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 285
(d) Lady Guendolen Ramsden writes :
We were in church at the time, 5.30, but not drawing I did
say to Clarisse, " Look at that priest resting (in a common chair
like a visitor). What a fine grey head ! I should like to draw
him."
Experiment VIII.
(a) August 1st, Hotel de L'Univers.
[Postmark : Bruxelles, 2 Aout, 07.]
We took a drive in the afternoon near the pare and saw the
large Colomie de Congre and the Cathedral. Made several pur-
chases, cards with dogs and cart amongst the number. I could
not get into any telepathic state to send you impressions. I am
just leaving for Montreuil. C. M.
(6) Thursday August 1st.
[Postmark : Kingussie, 12.45 p.m. Au. 2. 07.]
A statue—bust of a man Nothing at all vivid except
the statue. H. R.
(c) The Colonne de Congre is a very tall column with a bronze
statue of the King on the top. a.d. 1831. See p. 96 of Baedekers
Holland and Belgium.
Experiment IX.
(b) Ardverikie, Friday, August 2nd, 11.45 p.m.
[Postmark : Kingussie, 12.45 p.m. Au. 3. 07.]
A stone bridge. Quai Berthelot or some name like that.
# $
H. R.
(c) This is another instance of what happened several times
in the earlier experiments ; a name obtained more or less correctly
by Miss Ramsden. In this case the name " Quai Berthelot
was like that of two places we saw,—the Tour de la Reine Berthe
and the Chapelle Sainte-Austreberthe.
C. M.
Experiment X.
I next went to Montreuil-sur-Mer in the North of France,
to join a sketching class organised by Mr. Townsley, Director
286 Clarissa Miles. [part
of the London School of Art, tuition to be given by Frank
Brangwyn, A.R.A.
(a) Hotel de France, Montreuil-sur-Mer, August 5th.
[Postmark : Montreuil, 7.8.07.]
I drew all the morning on the ramparts, trees and cottages.
In the afternoon we all went to the Studio and painted the same
girl. Mr. Brangwyn gave us a criticism. C. M.
(6) Ardverikie, Monday, August 5th.
[Postmark : Kingussie, 12.45 p.m. Au. 6. 07.]
. . . Trees with overhanging branches, very low so that you
would have to stoop to pass under them, and fields of long, wet
grass, like uncut hay ; a calf. Is it raining hard, so that you
cannot sketch ? I feel nothing happening,—so dull.
H. R.
(c) The place where the model poses is outside the ramparts
on a knoll. The trees are low, with overhanging branches. There
is a quantity of long, wet grass about half cut. It is let to a
woman in Montreuil for feeding her goat, which is always brows-
ing close to us while we paint, but there is no calf.
C. M.
Experiment XL
In the next case the interesting point is that Miss Ramsden
gets names associated, not with the place where I was, but
with another place of the same name.
(b) Byram, Tuesday, August 6th, 1907. 10 p.m. posted 7th.
[Postmark : Ferrybridge, Au. 7. 07.]
A fragment of sculptured marble, it might be a column or a
chimney piece that you are sketching. Then a distant view of a
farmhouse surrounded by an orchard. A cart horse. The follow-
ing names : Rue de Lafayette. Malesherbes. Buisson. It seems
like an attempt at some name with a rural meaning. H. R.
(c) Mr. Brangwyn settles on a certain street or place for his
weekly criticism, and we all go and choose a suitable spot for our
work. On a certain day Mr. Brangwyn gives a correction to each
student. This week I understood the place chosen was the village
La Madeleine, and I had a little difficulty in finding it. The
lxix.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 287
village is seen from the ramparts and is quite close to Montreuil ;
but I had to ask my way there, as there are two or three gates
to pass outside the fortifications. When I arrived I chose a row of
cottages with a farmhouse in the distance, surrounded by trees,
as a subject for my sketch. It is very curious that two of the
names Miss Ramsden thought of, namely, Lafayette and Male-
sherbes, are connected, not with this village La Madeleine, but
with the well-known Church of La Madeleine in Paris. I lived
for two winters in Paris in La Rue Caumartin close to La Madeleine,
so I am well acquainted with the whole neighbourhood, and the
names of these streets must be subliminally associated hi my mind
with the name La Madeleine. CM.
Experiment XII.
The next seems to be an instance in which Miss Ramsden
obtained in a dream an impression of a conversation which I
was having the evening before.
(6) [Postmark : Ferrybridge, Au. 8. 07.]
An aggressively modern house, built upon the ruins of an old
fortress, looking small and insignificant compared to the forti-
fications by which it is surrounded. The Church is also modern.
Seen in a dream, night of August 7th-8th, 1907.
MISS ramsden's sketch.
288 Clarissa Miles. [part
This is my third attempt to draw it ; it isn't quite right. I
particularly noticed this low and curiously-pointed hill. I think
this is all the same thing as the other postcard [viz. the one quoted
in Experiment XIII.]. This may be a hospital, it looked more
like a chateau, what we call a villa, and stands surrounded by an
orchard of young trees. Saint Cloitre or Saint Croix ?
H. R.
(c) On Wednesday, August 7th, Mr. Baxter, an artist, in course
of conversation at dinner, described to me the interesting objects
in the neighbourhood of Montreuil. We talked especially about
the Chartreuse. I had walked round the ramparts ; which com-
mand an extensive view of the whole neighbourhood, but the
Chartreuse had never been pointed out to me as an object of special
interest.
It is a monastery from which the monks were expelled about
five years ago. It has remained unoccupied ever since. Quite
recently it has been bought by a man who is intending to turn
it into a Sanatorium, and it is now called Sanatorium on picture
postcards. Mr. Baxter's own account of our conversation is as
follows :
(d) December 18th, 1907.
La Chartreuse, near Montreuil-sur-Mer, is not a very interesting
building, being quite modern and containing little more than the
bare walls. I understood an attendant to say that it had been
built on the site of a more ancient building ; also that the cele-
brated Chartreuse liquor had not been made there for a great
number of years. I fancy the same man said there was talk of
turning the place into a Sanatorium. The foregoing, I think, is
all I mentioned to you on the 7th August, when speaking of my
visit.
C. H. Baxtee.
Plate II. is a reproduction of an illustration of La Char-
treuse in a French guide-book.
LXIX.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 289
Experiment XIII.
(6) Byram, Wednesday, August 7th, 1907, 11 p.m.
[Postmark : Ferrybridge, Au. 8. 07.]
Is it a drawbridge ? It may be stagnant water, but I do not
think that it is a river ; it may be a road. The roof has red tiles,
there was a chimney and windows.
You have met an interesting man to-day, a doctor, from a place
called Saint Cloitre or Saint Croix.
You have been to see a fortress with big bare rooms not used
now-a-days ;
big oak chairs and large fireplaces. Perhaps the man
was Governor of this fortress. There was a Church tower with
these windows.
^ # %L %
H. R.
(c) Mr. Brangwyn, A.R.A., informed me there was a Doctor
who lived as Governor of the Tower by the bridge which connects
one part of the fortifications of Montreuil with another. This
doctor with his family used to dine every evening at our Hotel.
I remember seeing him but I never heard anything of his history
at the time. A copy of a drawing by Mr. Brangwyn of this tower
and bridge is reproduced on Plate III.
I imagine that the " fortress " mentioned by Miss Ramsden is
the place of which she dreamt that night (see previous Experi-
ment) and which I identify as the Chartreuse.
C. M.
290 Clarissa Miles. [part
Experiment XIV.
I then left Montreuil-sur-Mer and went to stay at Laburnum
Villa, Wickham Heath, near Newbury, to have painting
lessons from Mr. Pittman. I should say that he lives at
Hoe Benham with his friend, Mr. Waud.
(6) Wednesday, October 30th.
[Postmark: Kingussie, 12.45 p.m. Oct. 31. 07.]
Archways—entrance to a building. It may be only trellis work
in the garden, or the pattern on your fender, but the impression
was very persistent.
E. N. H. Y. A name : Ellen Hay or Henry. A very high-
heeled Shoe. ... H. R.
(c) The drawing of arches on Miss Ramsden's postcard has some
slight resemblance to the windows of Mr Waud's studio, the whole
side of which is one large long window. Mr. Waud writes :
(d) Hoe Benham, Newbury.
Miss Miles has been down to Hoe Benham several times for
painting, and had never seen the Studio before, as it had only
just been erected and consequently it would be very much
impressed on her mind. She worked in it every day and found
it so extremely convenient.
The large shoes mentioned very much resemble mine. I always
wear sabots to go down to the Studio, which is at the bottom of
the garden. I wore them all the time Miss Miles was here. They
have caused many comments.
I take great pride in my garden and the garden is full of green
posts and arches, with roses growing on them. At the present
time there are some still in flower.
Reginald Waud.
Experiment XV.
(6) Thursday, October 31st, 1907.
[Postmark : Kingussie, 12.30 p.m. No. 1. 07.]
First I saw dimly a house, but I think that you wish me to see
a little girl with brown hair down her back tied with a ribbon in
the usual way. She is sitting at a table with her back turned and
LXIX.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 291
seems very busy indeed ; I think she is cutting out scraps with a
pair of scissors, she has on a white pinafore, and I should guess her
age to be between eight and twelve.
H. R.
(c) This is the description which my landlady Mrs. Lovegrove
gives of her child, who had not been at all well. I was much
interested in this child :
Laburnum Villa, Wickham Heath.
I have a little girl aged eleven, with brown hair, tied with a
ribbon in the usual way ; she wears a pinafore and, being ill, often
amuses herself cutting out scraps. I took her to the doctor's on
the 30th October, and had a long talk with Miss Miles on the 31st
October. Laura Lovegrove.
The 16th Experiment will be described below ; the 17th was
a failure.
Experiment XVIII.
My sister Lady Tennant was going to marry Mr. Geoffrey
Lubbock, and her wedding, as Miss Ramsden knew, was to
be on November 13th.
(a) Friday, November 8th.
I lunched with Marguerite Tennant. . . , After lunch I went to
Mr. Pavitt's and ordered a talismanic bit of jewelry for my sister
to wear, on her wedding day. Her house is Taurus ruled by
Venus. 1
C. M.
(b) Friday, Nov. 8th, 1907.
[Postmark : Kingussie, 12.30 p.m. No. 9. 07.]
[After some drawings of a Church Miss Ramsden draws another
figure which she describes as follows :]
A ring, and in the midst of the ring an eye emitting rays of light
like the sun.
You have been to see somebody to whom you have just received
an introduction : it was very interesting and weird and strange.
1 Consequently the design of the pendant was the circle with horns
symbolising Taurus, and enclosing the symbol of Venus, a circle surmount
ing a cross. The former was composed of a single turquoise in a thin gold
band, turquoise being the stone of Venus.
292 Clarissa Miles. [part
There is some art or symbolism connected with some strange
religious cult. It may he somewhere near Regent's Park. . . .
H. R.
(c) The strange religious cult I think refers to the astrological
symbols in the pendant. C. M.
Experiment XIX.
(a) 59 Egerton Gardens, Sunday, Nov. 10th.
[Postmark : Chelsea, 1.30. p.m. 12 Nov.]
.... We took a turn in Kensington Gardens and looked at
the Ducks on the Round Pond Mr. and Mrs. Hunter
were going shortly on a visit to Taormina. We talked a great
deal about Sicily, I pictured Mount Etna and that lovely view
over the Straits of Messina. I know it well, having been there
yachting in former years. C. M.
(6) [Postmark : Kingussie, Nov. 11, 07.]
A row of houses that remind me of Chalfont St. Peter, because
there is a duck-pond in front.
[Picture of a mountain with two peaks.]
the Alps. Shipley H. R.
Experiment XX.
This last experiment is the only one in which I was
percipient.
(a) 59 Egerton Gardens, December 15th.
[Postmark illegible.]
I first of all get the impression of a red glow, bright colours. I
think there Avas a lovely sunset, or brilliant coloured flowers. The
most lasting impression is a candlestick, an old-fashioned one with
a flat bottom and large handle, probably made of brass. . . .
C. M.
(c) After the first impression I went on for some time seeing
wherever I looked a sort of after-image of it, which was shining
and circular in shape, with a great variety of colours in it, like
those seen at first, but much more subdued in tone. The whole
LXIX.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 293
effect resembled a polished brass shining disc like the bottom of an
old-fashioned flat-bottomed brass candlestick with a bright light
reflected from it. CM.
(b) Sunday, December loth, 1907. Raith, Kirkcaldy, N.B.
[Postmark : Kirkcaldy, 12.45 p.m. De. 16. 07.]
$ $ sH
Went to Church this morning, the sun shone very brightly
through a stained window above the organ. It was this shape :
[Drawing of circle, with six small semi-circles round its edge.]
I wished you to see it.
% ^ * * *
H. R.
(e) The sun was shining straight into my eyes during the whole
time I was in Church, we sat in the gallery and the round window
was on a level with our eyes. The glare of light was almost un-
pleasant. There were flowers painted on the window, and in the
centre a lamb with a halo round its head. The colours were very
bright, H. R.
Experiment XVI.
This experiment involves a complicated story of supposed
hauntings near the village of Hoe Benham, and is therefore
described last.
Laburnum Villa, where I was staying, is about three
minutes' walk from the cottage and studio where Mr. Pittman
and Mr. Wand live. They had been here for about four
years. I have been down there three or four times before
for painting lessons and have always stayed at Laburnum
Villa, which belongs to Mr. and Mrs. Henry Lovegrove.
This autumn for the first time here, I began to try thought-
transference with Miss Ramsden.
This is Mr. Pittman's description of what happened on
November 2nd, 1907 :
Hoe Benham, Newbury.
On November 2nd, 1907, I was painting in the Studio with my
friend Reginald Waud ; the model was our servant dressed as a
widow, and we were waiting for Miss Miles to join us. At 10
o'clock I knew the milkman had come by the dogs barking in the
294 Clarissa Miles. [part
cottage at the top of the garden. So I said, " I will take the milk
in," and went up to the cottage. After putting the jug in the
pantry and shutting the cottage door, I looked up the road and
saw Miss Miles coming down with her easel and paint-box.
Following quite close behind her was a large white pig, with a
long snout. I went down to the Studio and said to Waud, " What
do you think Miss Miles is bringing down with her this morning,
instead of her Chow ? A large pig !
" We roared with laughter,
and he said, " Call out and tell her not to bring her friend in, and
to be sure to shut the gate, as we take a great pride in our
garden." The moment Miss Miles appeared I opened the window
and shouted out, " What have you done with your companion ?
"
She was very surprised and said, " My companion, what do you
mean ?
" Then I told her what I had seen following her. She
immediately said, " If a pig were trotting behind me, I must have
heard it. Besides, there is a very easy way of finding out, for I
passed the milkman in the lane and he must have seen it, but
I shall go and look for myself." When she came back she said :
" There is no trace of a pig anywhere." We made enquiries all
over the village ; no one had seen a stray pig. There is only one
white one in the place, and this one, its owner assured us, could
not possibly have got loose without his knowing it. At the present
time there is a notice out forbidding owners to allow pigs to stray,
under penalty of a fine, as there have been cases of swine fever.
We enquired of the milkman next morning. He remembered
passing Miss Miles, as he usually met her about the same time.
He most emphatically said there was no pig to be seen anywhere
on the road.
(Signed) Osmund Plttman.
Reginald Waud.
Clarissa Miles.
Louisa Thorne.
I chose this pig for the subject of experiment with Miss
Ramsden, and wrote on my postcard :
(a) Laburnum Villa, Saturday, November 2nd.
[Postmark : Newbury, G.30 p.m. No. 3. 07.]
I wished you to see a stuffed pheasant or you may have seen
the flying phantom pig. C. M.
LXIX.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 295
(b) November 2nd, 1907.
[Postmark : Kingussie, 10.30 a.m. No. 3. 07.]
£ a|c $ #
You were out of doors rather late, a cold raw evening near a
railway station ; there was a pig with a long snout, and some
village children ; it was getting dark. H. R.
As to whether there could have been a real pig on the road,
this is the evidence of the milkman, who passed me that
morning :
Westbrook Dairy, Boxford.
I have been asked by Mr. Pittman and Miss Miles to say whether
I saw a large white pig following Miss Miles on November 2nd,
1907, at 10 o'clock in the morning, as I met her walking down
to the cottage carrying her painting things. I can honestly say
that I saw no such thing, there was no trace of a pig to be seen
anywhere. E. Carrell.
Mrs. Thorne wrote :
I had a talk with the children playing on the road. They had
seen Miss Miles go by and they told me they had been there all
the morning, but they had seen no pig anywhere.
Louisa Thorne.
On February 4th. 1908, I returned to Laburnum Villa to
finish one or two paintings I began last autumn. I also
wished to get further evidence of the strange animal forms
that are supposed to haunt this lane, as I was told last
November, after the episode of the phantom pig, that so
many of the villagers had been witnesses of these remarkable
apparitions under different forms, such as a cat, a dog, or a
rabbit, or other animals. Mr. Pittman and Mr. Waud had
never seen anything weird or out of the ordinary till I came
down last autumn and began thought-transference with Miss
Ramsden ;
they had only heard quite casually very vague
accounts of something strange that had been seen years ago,
to which they had paid but little attention. The villagers
are very reticent and will not talk much for fear of being
laughed at, but the history of the phantom pig overcame all
difficulties on that score as regards my enquiries.
290 Clarissa Miles. [part
The villagers all tell the same story to account for these
apparitions. They put them all down to " Tommy King."
He was a farmer, who lived over a hundred years ago. He
hung himself in an outhouse, and his spirit is supposed to
haunt the spot, appearing in these strange shapes and making
uncanny noises. The farm buildings and outhouses were all
demolished on the occasion of the sale of the property by
Mr. Dreweatt to Sir Richard Sutton in 1 892 ;
only a cottage
remains, which is still called King's cottage, and a disused
well close to the lane, which is called Tommy King's chalk
well. In former years they used to dig out chalk from the
side of the hill. I have looked at the Register of the Parish
Church and there are entries of the deaths of two Tommy
Kings, one in 1741, the other in 1753, so it must be one of
these two.
At the corner of the lane stands an old-fashioned inn,
called the Halfway, because it is halfway between London
and Bristol and sixty miles from each. It is on the main
road, and in the olden days all the coaches stopped here
to change horses. The lane to Hoe Benham branches off
here, going up a hill called Pound Hill. King's cottage and
the well are situated to the left of the lane. The well is close
to the road, but only a hole in the bank indicates the spot.
At the top of the hill about ten minutes' walk brings you
to the Church, then there is a short, sharp decline and the
straggling village of Hoe Benham is reached. After Benham
Hill is mounted a cluster of cottages is seen nestling on the
side of the hill, one of them belonging to Mr. Pittman and
Mr. Waud. Their cottage is about a mile from the Half-
way, and it is all along this lane that the apparitions have
been seen.
The following are accounts which I obtained from some of
the villagers. I Avrote down what they told me as nearly
as possible in their own words, and afterwards got their
signatures to the accounts.
Hoe Benham.
In the beginning of January, 1905, about half-past seven in the
evening, I was walking up from the Halfway. I suddenly saw an
animal that seemed to be like a large, black dog appear quite
LXIX.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 297
suddenly out of the hedge and run across the road quite close in
front of me ; I thought it was the dog belonging to the curate.
I was just going to call it to send it home, when it suddenly
changed its shape and turned into a black donkey standing on
its hind legs. This creature had two glowing eyes, which appeared
to me to be almost as big as saucers. I looked at it in astonish-
ment for a minute or so, when it suddenly vanished. After that
I hurried home, for the sight of this creature with the large shining
eyes gave me a shock. The evening was a light one for the time
of year.
(Signed) William Thorne.
At Michaelmas, 1897, seven o'clock in the evening, I met a
friend, John Barrett, on Benham Hill, and we stopped to have a
chat. At this spot there is a gate on either side of the road.
Whilst we were talking a curious looking animal, snowy white,
crossed the road quite slowly from one gate to the other close to
us. John Barrett said, " What was that ?
" The animal seemed
too large for a cat, more the size of a terrier with a fluffy coat. I
went and stood on the gate and watched it as it trotted half way
across the meadow, Avhen it disappeared. The strange whiteness
of the creature's coat struck me as being so uncommon.
(Signed) William Thorne, Hoe Benham.
John Barrett, Wickham Heath, Newbury.
About three or four years ago in the autumn about five o'clock,
sort of between the lights, but I could see everything, I was walking
to Stock Cross and got to the last handing post. All at once, I
heard a buzz, like the whizz of leaves, and a rattle on the ground.
I cast my eyes down, and saw summat in the shape of a calf
knuckled down. It seemed about 2 ft. 6 in. high and 5 feet long
with large glowing eyes. It regularly startled me. My hat waved
over my head. I kept my eyes on't, but I never saw the goings
on't.
(Signed) Albert Thorne, Hoe Benham.
This is the story told me by John Barrett and his wife
Polly. He is 63 years of age. About 50 years ago when
he was a lad, he was returning with seven or eight men in
a waggon from Halfway after a day's haymaking. The team
298 Clarissa Miles. [part
of horses went quite quietly until they reached Pound Hill,
when suddenly without any warning,
The team began a-snortin' and a-blowin' and a tramplin' agen one
side of the road to another. They were likes to turn round. Carter
jumped down to their heads and began pattin' them, when he
said, " Look ! Them horses can see more than we. Look at that
white thing a-bobbin' up and down over their heads." We all
looked and saw what he was pointing at. This white thing kept
on a-bobbin' and a-bobbin', and the horses continued a-snortin,
and a-snortin' until we came to a gate just before the Church, when
the white thing vanished through the gate, and the team became
quite quiet.
Later on, I became assistant to Mrs. Flower. She kept a baker's
shop, and I had to lay the leaven for the bread every evening.
Sundays Mrs. Flower always had supper with her mother at
Wickham Heath. For this she had to go up Benham Hill. One
evening she returned as white as a ghost and lay on the sofa as if
she were going to die. She said, "I be all of a shake and a
tremble. I did see summat white on the gate at the hill. Never
shall I go to supper agen with my mother of an evening." And
she never did. I replied, " I never seen nothing there on that
hill ; I have been up and down all hours of the night." I
remember the elate, it must have been on a summer's evening
about 35 years ago. [Polly Barrett chimed in and said, " Quite
right, you were a courtin' and you told me."] A few days after,
between nine and ten in the evening, I was a-comin' down Benham
Hill. Between the two gates, I heard a rattle on the stones as of
an animal pawing the ground. I looked to see what it was. I
saw summat like a sheep. I went to'poke un with my stick when
it vanished away.
Another time me and my brother George were walking late near
Perris Cottage. We heard summat that made such a rumpus like
stones tipped down from a cart. We groped about and walked to
and agen to and agen, and waited to hear summat more, but could
not make out nothing, so we just walked home. My father always
told me these apparitions were put down to Tommy King.
(Signed) John Barrett, Wickham Heath.
Polly Barrett.
lxix.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 299
The following were my own experiences at Hoe Benham :
On Sunday, February 16th, 1908, I arranged to join Mr. Waud
and go to the Church with him at Hoe Benham to 3 o'clock
service. All the morning I felt in a weird, trance-like state, the
condition I get into when I have visions of coming events, changes
likely to affect my future. I described these sensations both to
Mr. Pittman and to Mr. Waud. After Church I felt compelled
to walk towards Tommy King's chalk well, as I wished to see the
road along which the team of horses came, which were so terrified
at the white thing bobbing ujd and down over their heads. We
thought we would go and have tea with Mr. and Mrs. Le Mesurier,
who live at the end of the lane just opposite Halfway Inn. To
reach them from Hoe Benham we always take a short cut across
the fields. I looked over the old inn, and the proprietor showed
me where the old stables stood, where the bell was always rung to
get the horses ready for changing teams. I take a great interest
in all coaching matters and horses, for I have hunted all my life,
and my father was a splendid whip, also one of the finest heavy
weights of his day across country. After tea, Mr. Waud and I
walked back. On passing Tommy King's well an overpowering
sense of suffocation seized me, I felt the presence of some awful
being. This evil spirit seemed to follow me up Pound Hill. I
felt it longing to do me some bodily injury, there was such deadly
malice and hate in the air. I described all this to Mr. Waud.
We constantly looked around but could see nothing. These
sensations continued all the way back, but grew worse as we
walked up Benham Hill. After the cottage was passed a shiver
went down my back and spine, the same kind of shock I ex-
perience when dowsing and walking over water. Suddenly quite
close to us on the road the stillness of the evening was broken
by an unearthly scream which seemed to end in a moan. As the
sound seemed so very close to us, we both looked round to see
if anything was near which would have produced it, but nothing
whatever was visible. We both were speechless for a minute,
—
the effect was so awful. We hardly spoke till we reached
Laburnum Villa, the time being about six o'clock. It was
only the next day, in comparing notes, that we found this dread-
ful wailing cry was heard on the exact spot where the phantom
pig was seen by Mr. Pittman following me on November 2nd,
1907.
300 Clarissa Miles. [part
Two evenings after, on February 18th, I walked to Tommy
King's chalk well with Mr. Pittman to try if any more strange
phenomena could be seen. It was a brilliant moonlight night.
No evil beings were there to disturb the stillness of this evening,
all was calm and peaceful. I tried automatic writing, and two
sentences were written twice over ;
they came with such lightning
speed, no human hand could have written that pace alone. The
words were, " I am in hell, pray for me, I am in hell, pray for me "
;
nothing more. On walking back we looked around and across
the lane a white band of light appeared ; —the same sparkling-
effect I have sometimes seen at sea, from the deck of a yacht on
a dark night, shimmering on the ocean. It was of a quite different
quality from the moonlight. This luminous effect undulated
up and down, backwards and forwards, and seemed to come towards
us, till it appeared to be only five yards away ; it was about a foot
from the ground ; it then receded and disappeared. We both
saw it ; most strange and mysterious it appeared in the brilliant
moonlight. Another evening a little later I walked down with
Mr. Pittman but nothing of special interest occurred. But the
pencil wrote automatically, " I am happier."
On Benham Hill where so many strange apparitions have been
seen, one evening when it was half daylight, half dark, I distinctly
saw a white shadowy form which appeared like drapery standing
against the gate. No one else saw this.
On Thursday, February 27th, my last evening at Hoe Benham,
I dined at the cottage, and Mr. Pittman and Mr Waud walked
back with me. We were laughing and talking. Suddenly our
conversation was interrupted by this unearthly moaning cr3r
,
which came wailing across the stillness of the evening. This
doleful sound seemed to come over our heads from the roof of the
Chapel which is exactly opposite Laburnum Villa. We all heard it .
It was a repetition of the groan Mr. Waud and I heard the other
evening preceded by that awful scream.
(Signed) Clarissa Miles.
Reginald Waud.
Osmund Pittman.
Mr. Waud adds :
On Monday, February 24th, whilst Pittman and I were taking
tea in the cottage, two distinct taps were heard on the door just
lxix.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 301
behind us. Both dogs started barking. I got up, thinking some
one had called. I went to both doors and not a sign of any one
or anything was to be seen. It was about 6.15.
Reginald Watjd.
I tried later a series of experiments with Miss Tamara
Statkowski, a Russian lady, who was at the time living in
England. From Oct. 1, 1908, to Nov. 20, 1909, twenty
experiments were tried, the three most successful of which
are given here.
Experiment VI.
(a) Postcard from Miss Miles to Miss Statkowski.
Tuesday, January 28th.
[Postmark: Chelsea, S.W. 1.30 p.m. 29 Jan. 1909.]
I went to an Artists' fancy dress ball at the Grafton Galleries.
Met Mrs. Brangwyn there. She was dressed as a Roman peasant,
black velvet skirt and bodice. I lent her the costume and long
ear-rings. I was in a fortune-telling dress, brilliant red scarf and
head dress, the rest a mixture of green and all sorts of colours.
There were some excellent dresses. At the end every one walked
round in procession, and prizes were given. I attended the meet-
ing of the S.P.R. at five, and Mr. Baggally told me of some of the
marvellous phenomena they had witnessed with Eusapia.
C. M.
(6) Postcard from Miss Statkowski to Miss Miles.
Thursday eve. 28th Jan.
[Postmark : London, W.C. 4.15. p.m. Jan. 29, 09.]
A triangle very clearly cut.
An arch. The Arc de Triomphe, or else the Arc de Titus in
Rome. An Italian pine tree. A very blue bay—a pointed moun-
tain on the other side. Can't make out whether palm tree or
pine tree—whether Vesuvius or a pyramid.
T. S.
Here the percipient's impression of Italy, and in particular
302 Clarissa Miles. [part
of Rome and Naples, seems to correspond to what was
attempted to be conveyed.
(c) Subsequent Note by Miss Miles.
I only spoke to Mr. Baggally for a very few minutes, about the
wonderful experiences he had had in Naples with Eusapia. 1
They
made a very great impression on me at the time. I suppose
my thoughts were concentrated all the evening on South Italy
as well. For I went afterwards with Mrs. Brangwyn to the Fancy
Ball given by the Artists in the Grafton Gallery. She was dressed
as a Roman Peasant. I had bought the dress long ago in Rome
when we were yachting in the Mediterranean, and lent it to her
for the occasion.
Note by 31rs. Brangwyn.
Temple Lodge, Queen Street, Hammersmith.
I went to a fancy dress ball given by the Artists in the Grafton
Gallery on Jan. 28th, 1909.
I was dressed in the costume of a Roman peasant. Clarissa
Miles joined me there.
L. Brangwyn.
Note by Mr. Baggally.
March 11th, 1910.
At the meeting of the S.P.R. on the 28th Jan. 1909, I spoke
to Miss Miles and related to her some of the experiences I had
had recently with Eusapia Palladino in Naples.
W. W. Baggally.
Experiment XIV.
(a) Postcard from Miss Miles to Miss Statkowski.
59 Egerton Gardens, Saturday, June 19th.
[Postmark : Chelsea, S.W. 12.15 a.m. 21 Jun. 1909.]
I saw Peggy Tennant, aged ten, in bed in a home. She had
undergone treatment for her tonsils. I took her toys. In the
afternoon Nesta and I went to the White City. We saw Indians
juggling. The Dahomey Village, natives cooking, one woman
with a baby tied on to her back. The mountain railway. After-
wards I went to the evening Church Pageant. The Coronation
1
See Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., pp. 309-569.
LXIX.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 303
of King Edward VI., and the beheading of Archbishop Laud were
most effective. Also the last scene where the crowd were all massed
together with flaring torches.
C. M.
(b) Postcard from Miss Statkowski to Miss Miles.
20 June, Sunday morning.
[Postmark : London, W.C. 4 a.m. Ju. 21. 09.]
A sort of fairy-tale king with a big crown on his head. [Draw-
ing of man's head, with crown on.] A drive with rows of trees,
the boughs meeting overhead, and a long line of carriages going
through it to the front of a white country house. Looks like a
wedding.
T. S.
(c) Subsequent Note by Miss Miles.
The Coronation of King Edward VI. made an immense
impression on me. I was thus able to have a glimpse of how
these ceremonies were conducted in ancient times and compare
it with the Coronation of King Edward VII., whom I had seen
crowned in Westminster Abbey.
The scene is described in the programme of the Pageant
as follows :
The Coronation Procession of King Edivard VI. from Westminster
Hall to the Abbey, 20th February, 1546-7.
The Coronation ceremonies of a King of England anciently
began with a great procession, in which the King, accompanied
by his great officers of State, rode bareheaded from the Tower
of London through the City to his palace at Westminster, and
thus offered himself to be seen by his people.
The next day the King came down into Westminster Hall, where
he was met by the prelates and nobles of the realm, and lifted
up by them into a marble chair set upon the King's bench.
The King, having thus been elected and enthroned by his peers,
was conducted from his palace to the Abbey Church.
It is this procession which is represented by the scene. The
order of it is taken from a contemporary manuscript in the Library
of the Society of Antiquaries.
u
304 Clarissa Miles. [part
Experiment XVIII.
(a) Postcard from Miss Miles to Miss Stathowshi.
Sunday, November 14th, 1909.
[Postmark: Chelsea, S.W. 5.15p.m. 15 Nov. 1909.]
I was at Bulstrode with Lady Guendolen Ramsden. In the
morning I looked out at the wintry scene, snow falling and the bare
barren look of the trees, and all the ivy cut off the tower. The
pigeons looked so disconsolate. The scene so different from when
I painted it in the summer. I psychometrised for Lady G. in the
afternoon, and we talked much of Mr. W. We also looked at
dolls and a Teddy bear.
C. M.
(b) Postcard from Miss Stathowshi to Miss Miles.
Monday, Nov. 15th, 1909.
[Postmark: London, W.C. 1.15 p.m. Nov. 15, 09.]
A lot of yellow trees.
Something large and dark, like some big animal. A large brown
bear.
The iron bars of a cage.
T. Statkowski.
(c) Subsequent Note by Miss Miles.
I painted the view of the garden, ivy tower Pots of Hydrangeas
in the foreground and the trees just turning yellow in the month
of September, from Lady Guendolen's sitting-room. Arranging
the Teddy bear for the picture was a great amusement.
Note by Lady Guendolen Ramsden.
Bulstrode, Gerrard's Cross, Bucks.
Dec. 11, 1909
On Sunday, the 14th November, I showed some dolls and a
Teddy bear to Miss Miles. I wanted to paint a picture, and the
Teddy bear was to be in the middle. Miss Miles helped me to group
the dolls and bear for the picture and we talked a good deal about
it, particularly about the Teddy bear. Miss Miles left next day.
Guendolen Ramsden.
A photograph of the picture painted by Lady Guendolen
Ramsden shows the Teddy Bear seated on a couch as the
principal figure in the centre.
lxix.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 305
II.
EXPERIMENTS BY MISS RAMSDEN.
In . the following series, Miss Ramsden was the agent and
Miss Tamara Statkowski the percipient. During the period
September 8 to December 12, 1908, twelve experiments were
tried. As a rule, both agent and percipient recorded their
impressions on post-cards, so that the postmarks might attest
the dates on which they sent information to one another,
and all the original records from which this account is com-
piled were put into our possession. In each case we quote
first : (a) the agent's statement of what she intended to
transfer ; then (6) the percipient's statement of her im-
pressions ; and finally (c) the agent's notes or comments
made after receiving (b).
Before the first experiment, Miss Ramsden, writing to Miss
Statkowski from Bulstrode, Gerrards Cross, Bucks., said
"I go on Monday [Sep. 7] to Morton's House, Corfe Castle,
Dorset, and on Friday to Rushmore, Salisbury." This
note was posted on Monday, Sep. 7, 1908, and received by
Miss Statkowski, who was then staying at Westerham, Kent,
on the following day.
Experiment I.
(a) Postcard from Miss Ramsden to Miss Statkowski.
Morton's House, Corfe Castle, Dorset., Sep. 8.
[Postmark : Corfe Castle, Sp. 8. 08. 8.30 p.m.]
This is the landscape which I am trying to make you see to-day,
and the same when I arrived yesterday.
H. R.
(b) Letter from Miss Statkowski to Miss Ramsden.
Sept. 8th, 1908. Tuesday, 7 o'c. p.m.
First—an electric light hanging from the ceiling, in a plain green
shade, like the lights in offices. Then the electric ball inside came
306 Hermione Ramsdeh. [part
forwards and slowly changed into a white lily, something like that
[rough drawing of floiver] on a stem with long green leaves. Then
nothing at all for some time.
Then a white shapeless thing which grew square, and looked
like Chinese work in ivory ; it changed ; two towers, between
them the high curve of a bridge with a landscape inside, framed
in between the two towers and the curve, a large tree and water ;
all that " sculpte en bas relief " in ivory—not Chinese at all any
more—but quite European, mediaeval looking. Then the tree
grew very green, stood out, and its branches spread in a Gothic
vault, like a church. I fear it is altogether rather a muddle. I
wonder if it's anything. Green and white seemed the principal
impressions of the whole. Then a lady, with a white front on the
bodice of her dress, sort of white cloth " revers " and white silk
inside. . . .
Were you sitting in a deep armchair with your hat on, a
round, broad hat, shady ? I thought of you like that, I don't
know why.
Tamara Statkowski.
(c) Subsequent Note by Miss Ramsden.
Morton's House, Corfe Castle, Dorset.
Tuesday, Sept. 8th, 1908.
I had been admiring the tall white lilies in the garden here.
At 6.30 p.m. I went out on purpose to get a good view of Corfe
Castle to impress on you. I walked down the village and across
the bridge ; then discovered that I was too much below the castle
to get a good view of it, so I returned to the garden here. (There
are three bridges, trees and water, not a river, to the right on en-
closed postcard.) I then went to the end of the garden, where
there is a stone seat, roofed over. 1
There I sat till past 7 p.m. ;
my
hat was navy blue, round, broad, and shady. It was almost dark
and the moon was rising. The castle looked very dark grey
against the sky. It was once a square tower, which has been rent
in two ; from where I sat it looked like two towers.
My cousin was wearing a white silk blouse and grey coat and
skirt.
1
It was from this point of view that the picture post-card reproduced
on Plate IV. was taken.
Plate IV.
CORFE CASTLE.
Face page 300.
Plate V.
BRONZE STATUE OF C/ESAR AUGUSTUS IX THE GROUNDS AT RUSHMORE.
Face page 307.
lxix'.j Experiments in Thought-Transference. 307
Experiment II.
September 10. A failure. Details not recorded.
Experiment III.
(a) Postcard from Miss Ramsden to Miss Statkoivski.
Rushrnore, Salisbury. Sat. Sept. 12th.
[Postmark : Salisbury, Sp. 12. 08. 10 p.m.]
I am sorry I sent nothing yesterday, Friday, but mil try again
to-night.
Yesterday I was busy talking at 7 p.m. in a round room with
a lot of windows. Drove from station here in motor. . . .
H. R.
(b) Two Postcards from Miss Statkoivski to Miss Ramsden.
Westerham, Kent. Sep. 11th, 1908.
[Postmarks: Westerham, Kent, Sp. 11.08. 8 p.m.]
An arch with a statue in it. The arch changed into an arched
sort of cloister, Italian, viewed in perspective, with little columns
to the right, where there was a walled-in square garden with grass.
A niche with a statue in it, statue of Roman Emperor,
full figure, in armour, with wreath of laurels on his head, right
arm stretched out holding a spear. Very clear and persistent
—
the Emperor.
A little girl in an apron with white kerchief on her head and a
broom in her hand. A sweet face, rosy and white, a girl's, with
plait of hair put all round her head.
Somebody on a bed, turned into a square mediaeval tomb, with
lying statue on it. Low arch above, and frescoes above the arch.
A very low stumpy palm tree—changed into a bush, in the
same square walled-in garden, seen at first.
A man's head, with big, white curly wig, something like Louis
XIV.-—le Grand Roi—on his portraits.
A woman's neck with thin black velvet round it, with a bow
of it at the back, and Watteau costume.
Such a lot of things ! T. Statkowski
We reproduce on Plate V. a print of a temple in the grounds
of Rushrnore Park, with a statue of Augustus (a copy of that
308 Hermione Rnmsden. [part
in the Vatican Museum) which stands in front of it. These
seem to correspond with Miss Statkowski's first impressions.
(c) Subsequent Note by Miss Ramsden.
Sept. 9th. No attempt.
Sept. 10th. Failure.
Sept. 11th. No message, but the percipient saw a great deal.
I arrived at Rushmore 6 p.m. and drove close to this temple, when
the thought crossed my mind :
" That would be a good subject
for telepathy, I will try it to-morrow !
" I saw the statue of the
Roman Emperor in the distance, from behind, but did not notice
it, and did not discover the likeness to this description until the
13th. The garden here is square with a hedge round it, but I
had spent the whole morning in " a walled-in square garden with
grass," at Morton's House, Corfe Castle ; there was a little girl
aged six, but she had no white kerchief or broom. At Rushmore
there was a girl as described. The rest is wrong.
Hermione Ramsden.
Experiment IV.
(a) Postcard from Miss Ramsden to Miss Statkoivski.
Rushmore, Salisbury. Sat. Sept. 12, posted 13th.
[Postmark: Salisbury, Sp.13.08. 9.30 p.m.]
7 p.m. After tea I sat for a long time, thinking of you as I
looked at this temple. There was a statue of Japanese storks
on an island in the pond. There were many impressions : several
temples,—one with a statue of Buddha over doorway,—but this
was the prettiest of all seen through a vista in the trees.
H. R.
The picture referred to is entitled " View of the Temple,
Larmer Grounds, across the Dell." It shows in the fore-
ground a pond with a little island on which the two Japanese
storks are standing, and beyond a flight of steps leading up
to a small round Temple, in the midst of trees.
Miss Ramsden afterwards added an enlarged view of the
pond, entitled " Japanese Storks in Larmer Grounds," show-
ing the island covered with plants and the two storks standing
upright on it, with closed wings. On this picture Miss Rams-
den noted ;
" The stones of which this island is built are now
LXIX.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 309
plainly visible." The Larmer Grounds are part of the Rush-
more estate.
(b) Miss Statkoivski to Miss Ramsden.
Westerham, Kent. Saturday, 12th.
Nothing at all for a long time. Then, very clearly, a big bird,
with outspread wings, sitting on a stone, like an eagle. Big, pink
clouds. A wild landscape of high mountains. Fir-tree in front.
Rush of waters, cascade, or the fall of a river, rocks and the eagle
again.
A girl in white muslin frock with dark hair down her back.
Tamara Statkowski.
It will be seen that the impression of a big bird sitting
on a stone has some resemblance to the storks on the stone
island.
Experiment V.
(a) Postcard from Miss Ramsden to Miss Statkoivski.
Rushmore, Salisbury. Sunday, Sept. 13th, 1908.
[Postmark: Salisbury, Sp.14. 08. 10 p.m.]
A distant view from a high common, low blue hills in the dis-
tance. Remains of an old Roman village, only mounds of earth
to be seen, and deep holes, fenced in.
Some horses in a field came up to be patted and talked to.
There were pink clouds at sunset. H. R.
(Posted 14th.)
Just got your card of 12th. Glad you saw the birds.
(6) Postcard from Miss Statkowski to Miss Ramsden.
Westerham, Kent. Sunday, 13th.
[Postmark : Westerham, Kent. Sp.14. 08. 10.15 a.m.]
Very unsatisfactory.
Something very pale, whitish blue like a streak of moonlight.
Changed into a silvery pale blue silk dress. Clouds, or rather
very thick smoke, clustering white and grey. A barn with trees
on some high ground behind. Nothing more.
Forgot carriage and pair, coachman and groom in black, horses
gray. T. Statkowski.
310 Hermione Ramsden. [part
(c) Subsequent Note by Miss Ramsden.
On Sunday. Sept. 13th. I wore a pale blue silk dress with silver
trimming ; it was hanging over a chair at 7 p.m. when I sent this
message.
There was a barn and some cottages and trees on the common.
Carriage wrong. Village called Woodcuts.
Experiment VI.
(a) Postcard from Miss Ramsden to Miss Statkowski.
Monday, Sept. 14. Rushmore.
[Postmark: Salisbury. Sp.15.08. 10 p.m.]
I spent the afternoon at the Museum looking at skeletons and
the skulls of ancient Romans dug up near here.
Also some carved figures and a great deal of pottery. I am
trying to make you see a skull.
I return home to-morrow 15th. (Posted Sept. 15th.)
H. R,
(b) Postcard from Miss Statkowski to Miss Ramsden.
Monday, Sept. 14th. Westerham, Kent.
[Postmark : Westerham, Kent. Sp.14.08. 8 p.m.]
A white flower, like a white narcissus or an anemone. A glass
house—a green house with rows of flower pots without flowers.
Beds of cyclamen and violets, the leaves only. A lot of empty
flower pots.
The sea very blue, dark blue. A desolate, dry, hilly shore.
Negroes or some sort of savages moving about the shore, very
black, half dressed. One of them has a big ring in his ear, and
he is eating something with gusto. Tamara Statkowski.
(c) Subsequent Note by Miss Ramsden.
There were some flower beds in front of the museum. Room
8 has glass windows the whole way along the side, which give
it the appearance of a green-house, at first I thought it was one.
In one of the rooms there is a statue of an Egyptian, also a mummy.
There are relics from all parts of the world, the object being to
compare the primitive races of all countries with the ancient
Britons and Romans. Hermione Ramsden.
LXIX.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 311
Experiments VII. and VIII.
September 15 and 17. Failures. Details not recorded.
Experiment IX.
(a) Miss Ramsden to Miss Statkowski.
Friday, Sept, 18th.
Boecklin's picture called " The Isle of the Dead."
P.S.—If this method of transferring ideas from pictures and
books does not succeed, we had better stop for the present, as I
am not seeing any new places, and up till now, it is only when I
have been vividly impressed myself that I have succeeded in send-
ing the thought of it to you.
The picture, as subsecpiently described by Miss Ramsden,
is that of an island near Corfu, called by Boecklin " The
Isle of the Dead." His picture is partly fantastic ; he has
imagined dark entrances to tombs in the rock. A boat
bears a coffin through the narrow gateway, accompanied by a
Greek mourner draped in white.
(b) Miss Statkowski to Miss Ramsden.
Friday, 18th, Westerham, Kent.
A railway train disappearing in a tunnel. At the mouth of
the tunnel a large electric light just blazing up in the dusk. The
round light changes into the white face of a clock which marks
10 past 10 o'clock. Again a railway line
—" seulement les railles
"
—on a hill top, some white houses down below. The mouth of a
grotto, or a cavern with a faint light inside. Capri's blue grotto
came into my mind, but not the image of it. Again railway lines
—and always railway lines. A white vase with maiden hair
ferns planted in it. A woman in a garden or park in a grey tweed
skirt playing diavolo with a little child, a boy, I think. A white
horse, with a man on it, looks like a servant. Woods, woods,
and again railway passing through.
T. S.
312 Hermione Ramsden. [part
Experiment X.
(a) Postcard from Miss Ramsden to Miss Statlcowshi.
Bulstrode, Monday, Sept. 21st. 11.30 a.m.
[Postmark : Gerrard's Cross, Sp. 21.08. 3.5 p.m.]
Picture of a wild buffalo which has just been shot with an arrow
by a red Indian, riding a white horse. The Buffalo is the chief
thing.
H R.
P.S—Tuesday and Wednesday 12.30 ; on Wed. I shall be
seeing something interesting at that time.
Plate VI. is a reproduction of the picture at which Miss
Ramsden was looking. The two deer, one with large
antlers, seen against the water, are more conspicuous in the
original.
(b) Postcard from Miss Statlcowshi to Miss Ramsden.
Queen's Square, London, Monday.
[Postmark: London, W.C. Sep. 21.08. 10 p.m.]
A bull in a field,—a frightful one. Horns—of deer and other
animals. Wall covered with all sorts of horns, like in some sport-
ing hunting place.
T. S.
Subsequent Note by Miss Statkowshi.
Queen Square Club, 9 Queen Square, London, W.C.
Sept. 21, 1908.
I forgot to post my p.c. mentioning the bull and the deer's horns,
and had it with me lying on the table, whilst I was playing cards.
My three partners saw it before I got Miss Ramsden's p.c. about
the buffalo, and kindly give testimony to it.
(Signed) L. Matilda Fagan.
H. R. Ratallack-Moloney.
P. Ashford Eve.
Lxix.j Experiments in Thought-Transferewe. 313
Experiment XI.
(a) Postcard from Miss Ramsden to Miss Statkowski.
Bulstrode, Gerrard's Cross, Bucks. Wednesday, Dec. 9th, 1908 ;
12 o'clock.
[Postmark : Gerrard's Cross, De. 9. 08. 7.30 p.m.]
" June in Tyrol " by MacWhirter. A coloured print of the
picture in the Tate Gallery.
Pointed blue mountains with patches of white snow. A white
church with a spire.
The entire foreground is a mass of blue and white flowers :
bluebells and daisies. A woman in a blue apron and a white
blouse is gathering flowers.
(6) Postcard from Miss Statkowski to Miss Ramsden.
Wednesday, Dec. 9, 1908. 12 o'clock.
[Postmark : London, W.C. Dec. 9. 08. 2.15 p.m.]
First a black umbrella and pair of goloshes.
Then a wooden cross like this near a road. A white building
at the back like a chapel with a white bell tower, like one sees
in Tyrol. Changed into a large white building with one beauti-
fully carved Gothic window.
(c) Subsequent Note by Miss Ramsden.
I had just bought a large coloured print of this picture and was
very pleased with it. I did not know that Miss Statkowski had
ever been in Tyrol ; but the wooden cross, or wayside shrine, which
she describes is closely connected with the Tyrol in my mind, as
there are many of them at Berchtesgaden where I have been.
T. S.
H. R.
314 Hermione Ramsden. [part
Experiment XII.
Dec. 12, 1908. A failure. Details not recorded.
In July and August, 1911, Miss Ramsden tried a number
of experiments with two other ladies, the Misses Tipping.
In eleven cases, Miss K. Tipping was agent and Miss Ramsden
(then at Ardverikie, Kingussie, N.B.), percipient. The amount
of success in most of these seems hardly beyond what might
have been obtained by chance, except in the last experiment,
the record of which is as follows :
(a) From Miss K. Tipping to Miss Ramsden.
29 Alexander Road, Lowestoft, July 30, 1911.
[Postmark : Lowestoft, Jy. 30. 11. 7.45. p.m.]
Yesterday, 29th, 12 mid-day. A lighthouse, which had an
arrow for a weather-vane ;
upper part of tower painted white,
lower part black. Very brilliant day. There was a staircase
(outside) leading to it (the tower).
4 o'clock. A turquoise ring.
7 o'clock. Myself sewing something white.
I really intended sending gun-boats, but they had all dis-
appeared.
K. T.
(6) From Miss Ramsden to Miss Tip-ping.
Ardverikie, Saturday, July 29th, 1911.
[Postmark : Kingussie, Jy. 31. 11. 12.45 p.m.]
Cannot post this till Monday morning.
I only got your letter at 5 p.m. to-day. I did not feel your
message at any time during the day ; but now, at 11.30 p.m., I
get these impressions of your surroundings.
A thing like the Eiffel Tower. A lift from the town to the beach
(I have never been to Lowestoft).
An immense number of ships, sailing ships without sails. One
has a red flag. There are also smaller boats. It looks like
manoeuvering and yet they are not warships. Shooting or fire-
works.
lxix.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 315
Large numbers of men (no women) on the sands, which are very
extensive. They look like soldiers or sailors practising. There
are tents on the sands ; it might be the Boys' Brigade ? But
they look grown-up. I am puzzled as to what it can be. Very
vivid impression.
H. R.
(c) From Miss K. Tipping to Miss Ramsden.
[Postmark : Lowestoft, Au. 1. 11. 7.45 p.m.]
I wanted to send a warship and submarines which I saw Friday
night ; on going to the spot Saturday, they were gone. There
were six submarines, just the conning tower showing, one cruiser
and another vessel (I don't know the technical name). Several
men were looking at them and one kept talking about the target ;
probably that accounts for the shooting. They were not on the
sands, which are very extensive, or rather reclaimed sands. There
are tents there, which I believe are Boy Scouts', though I am not
sure. In the morning I saw immense numbers of sailing ships
without sails and smaller boats.
K. T.
Later some experiments were tried with Miss Ramsden
as agent and Miss L. Tipping as percipient. The most
successful of these was recorded as follows :
(a) Miss Ramsden to Miss L. Tipping.
Tuesday, August 22nd, 1911.
[Postmark : Kingussie, Au. 23. 11. 12.45. p.m.]
We motored to Fortwilliam in the afternoon to the Lochaber
Games,1
but arrived too late, we only saw some sailors dancing
the hornpipe, pipers playing bag-pipes, Irishmen in green coats
and scarlet waistcoats dancing an Irish jig. (This I particularly
wanted you to see.) Men running races round the course and two
men ran in sacks afterwards. Crowds of people sitting on the
ground and on reserved seats. A tent in which we had tea. A
lovely day, very hot sun.
1
Miss Ramsden sends us an extract from her diary of the same
date (August 22), in which she writes that she " went to the Lochaber Games
at Fortwilliam, starting at 20 min. to 2, but got there, alas ! too late to see
the Sword Dance, but saw an Irish jig and the Hornpipes."
316 Hermione Ramsden
.
[part
(b) Miss L. Tipping to Miss Ramsden.
29 Alexander Road, Lowestoft. August 22nd, 1911.
[Postmarks of letter: Lowestoft, Au. 22.11. 8.15 p.m. ;
Kingussie, Au. 24. 11. 6 a.m.]
6 o'clock till 7 o'clock.
I see you very plainly, smiling and speaking to some one. I
get a large number of pines growing on rising ground. I
feel chilly, as if the air was cold and damp ; it may be raining,
I rather think it is. A large space of grass comes now, a house,
—grey stone—square in shape. I get a strong feeling of people
moving ; some are in kilts, green plaids, and you are looking on
at a scene. It makes me think of a stage scene,—people in kilts
twirling about, as if at play, or dancing ;
great rapidity of motion ;
they have staves or swords,—the latter, I believe,—and I feel
I must dance ! I see swords or staves on the ground, as if they
were hopping over them ; it seems only men in kilts going in for
this rapid motion. I can't help feeling rain, or showers are
spoiling things. Are these men I see soldiers, because I can't
see them without swords [rough drawing of a sword] like I have
drawn ? I think it must be some kind of performance out of
doors, and you are looking on. I see many spectators.
Now I'm seeing people in old-world dress performing in the open ;
is it a pageant you are looking at ? I get people in varied colours
forming a group of some kind.
The strongest feeling I get is my first, viz. : the men in kilts
with swords, or staves. The last impression is much fainter, but
I'm putting down what I feel.
L. Tipping.
(c) Miss Ramsden to Miss Tipping.
Ardverikie, Kingussie, N.B. August 24th, [1911].
It was a great success ! But the funny thing is that what
happened to you is exactly what happened to your sister and me
with the warships. I got the idea of warships manoeuvering,
though they were not there.
I arrived late at the Lochaber Games and missed all the High-
land dances, and was very disappointed, because I wanted the
children to see the Sivord Dance, which I had been talking
about.
lxix.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 317
But some of the details are curiously wrong. For instance,
there were no pines, 1
but crowds of people sitting on rising ground.
It was very hot, the sun scorched my back till I was afraid that
my new mauve cloth dress would fade ! Yet it was too scorch-
ing to take off my jacket. It did not rain at all, but motoring
home between 6 and 7 it was decidedly chilly. We live high up
in a different climate to Fortwilliam, which is by the sea on the
west coast, and roasting hot.
A large space of grass—right ; and a square grey stone villa
overlooking the course ; I said :
" What a good view those people
have !
" There was a square platform in the middle of the field
on which two pipers stood, all Camerons and Macphersons, kilts
and plaids red, and some purple, but there may have been a green
one ; I forget. But the kilts did not dance, that part we missed.
No soldiers, but sailors.
The " old-world dress " is very good for the Irishmen who
danced the jig ;
they had curious old pointed coat tails, scarlet
waistcoats, green velvet coats and knickers ; at one moment
there was a group of them and the pipers in kilts—Scotland and
Ireland—and every one remarked on how picturesque they
looked
The men dancing the jig had " staves,"—I believe they call
them " shillelaghs,"—I never saw any Irish jigs before. The
staves were like this [rough drawing] about 2 feet long, and they
kept thumping them down on the platform and crj'ing :
" Hooch " !
Hermione Ramsden.
'Note by Miss Ramsden, 1914. —There are pines above where the people
were sitting. I have been several times since this to Fortwilliam, and have
taken special note.
318 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
VI.
TO CLEAR THE AIR.
By the Rev. M. A. Bayeield.
He is a marvellous good neighbour, faith, and a
very good bowler ;
but, for Alisander,—alas, you see
how 'tis,—a little o'erparted.
Loves Labour's Lost.
In the paper entitled Some recent Scripts affording evidence of
Personal Survival, printed above, pp. 221 et seq., Mr. Gerald
Balfour has taken occasion to tabulate the alternative con-
clusions open to us to adopt in connexion with these scripts.
He states them as follows :
" Thus the really active and planning intelligence may
have been :
(1) Mrs. Willett's subconscious self, drawing its material
from some other embodied consciousness ;
(2) Mrs. Willett's subconscious self, drawing its material
from the spiritual world ;
(3) The mind of some other living person acting on the
mind of the automatist ;
(4) Some discarnate spirit using the automatist as a
medium of communication."
The last is the conclusion to which Mr. Balfour has himself
been led, and my own concurrence has already been expressed
in the Note appended to his paper.
Since writing that note it has occurred to me that it may
be not out of place, while Mr. Balfour's paper is fresh in our
minds, to examine the claims of the first three alternatives.
The inquiry may help us to clarify our ideas and to estimate
with some precision the assumptions which, in the present
LXIX.] To Clear the Air. 319
state of our knowledge, it would be necessary to make
before any one of the three could be accepted as a probable
explanation of the phenomena which the scripts present.1
This, and this only, is the purpose of the present paper, which,
as will sufficiently appear, is in no way intended to be a
general review of the whole question of spirit communica-
tion,—an undertaking that would require an essay, if not
a volume. My sole object is to show that, while it is easy
and not unnatural to imagine the phenomena to be some-
how explicable by telepathy between embodied minds, it is
by no means so easy to work out in detail a coherent theory
which would lend reasonable support to the supposition.
I take first the second alternative, which can be briefly
dismissed. It offers two choices : Mrs. Willett's subconscious
self, as the active and planning intelligence, may have drawn
its supernormally acquired knowledge either from (a) a dis-
embodied spirit, or (b) from memories stored in the spirit
world independently of any surviving personality. The
former supposition (a), which postulates the survival of
human personality, need not be discussed at length. It pre-
sents practically the same difficulties as we shall find con-
fronting us when we come to examine alternative (1). If,
as will appear, it is unlikely that one incarnate mind can
extract information from another without that other's con-
currence and assistance,—can in fact read the other mind as
one reads a book,—there is no reason to suppose that it would
fare better in an endeavour to read the thoughts of a dis-
carnate spirit. At any rate, the argument from analogy is
all we have to go upon at present, and the point can well
be deferred until the fact of communication between the
living and the dead is so firmly established that the question,
which of the two is the active factor, is the only one at issue.
With regard to the second supposition (b), so far as I am
aware, the notion of a " spiritual reservoir of pooled memories,"
though originated by one of the most brilliant of psychologists,
is a mere imagination unsupported by any substantial evidence.
Before leaving it, however, we may note that the evolving of
this strange and really fantastic suggestion shows of itself
how little satisfied William James was that telepathy between
1
The scripts will be found on pp. 222 ff . supra.
X
320 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
the living would explain even the phenomena which had come
to light in his day.
Let us consider the alternatives numbered (1) and (3).
What are the assumptions involved in (1)—that " the
really active and planning intelligence may have been Mrs.
Willett's subconscious self, drawing its material from some
other embodied consciousness " % I imagine them some-
what as follows. During the fortnight or so immediately
preceding the production of the first script Mrs. Willett's
thoughts had been, as we know, specially attracted to Dr.
Verrall by the news of his death, which occurred on June 18,
1912. Stimulated by her conscious thoughts, her subliminal,
we conjecture, enters upon a series of activities which, though
in effect productive of an imposture, may not have been
fraudulent in intention. Possibly the fraud was deliberate,
as I incline to think it was in the case of M. Til quoted in
Proceedings, Vol. XXV., p. 470 ; but in Mrs. Willett's case,
being free to assume what I please, I prefer another sup-
position. We will suppose that her subliminal (hence-
forth for convenience referred to as '
Z.') dreams that
Verrall's spirit wishes to make a communication through
her, and as happens in dreams, comes to identify itself, the
dreamer, with him. Thus the dreamed wish has now become
Z.'s own wish, and the train is laid for a pseudo-communica-
tion.
The next step is to find suitable material. Apparently
Mrs. Willett did not herself possess any, for we have her
own word for it that she had no conscious knowledge what-
ever of that which was actually used—Verrall's essay entitled
The Baptism of Statins. The subject-matter of the purposed
communication must therefore be borrowed from the mind
of some other living person, probably (according to our
present knowledge) that of one of the small number of " sensi-
tives " with whom she was in touch. Since, however, only
two of these, Mrs. Verrall and Miss Verrall, had read the
essay in question, it must have been in the mind of one of
these two ladies that Z. found the thing it wanted.
But Jioiv did Z. find it ? Shall we say, by rummaging,
without invitation given or leave asked, among the millions
and millions of memories stored in that mind (whose sub-
LXIX.] To Clear the Air. 321
liminal consciousness we will, for convenience of reference,
designate '
V.'), and selecting unaided the one that appeared
likely to suit ? And if we say this, have we at present any
warrant for believing that a subliminal has the power thus to
ransack another mind and abstract its latent thoughts, that
other lending no assistance, but remaining passive and inert ?
Our published records of experimental telepathy show that
when a thought has passed from one mind to another, the
former has always intended to effect the particular transfer-
ence, or, as in some of the experiments conducted by Miss
Ramsden and Miss Miles, has had the imparted thought
consciously present to it at or about the time when the transfer
was effected. This fact has not unnaturally led us to assume
that in all cases of telepathy the person whose thought is
transferred is the active factor in the actual process of trans-
ference, and for reasons given below I believe we are right.
On the other hand, it must be admitted that in spontaneous
telepathy there is no conscious intention to convey the par-
ticular impression which the percipient receives. Spontaneous
cases, therefore, and indeed the majority of experimental
cases, if they are regarded alone and other considerations
are neglected, might seem to offer no obstacle to the con-
trary supposition,—that in ordinary telepathy, certain neces-
sary conditions being favourable, the actively operating
intelligence may be that of the percipient.
The question is further complicated by the fact that we do
not know whether in telepathy between the living it is only
the subliminal consciousnesses that come into touch with each
other, or whether the essential immaterial intelligences of the
two who are concerned somehow meet. In a case of com-
munication from the spirit world I incline to take the latter
view ; and I should suppose that there is a more intimate
fusion of mind with mind than could be effected by anything
that could be called conversation :
—
And all at once it seem'd at last
His living soul was flash 'd on mine.
And mine with his was wound, and whirl'd
About empyreal heights of thought,
And came on that which is. . . .
322 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [PAET
Even so, there must, I should imagine, be a willingness on
both sides and co-operation. But whatever may be the
method by which a spirit communicates its thoughts to an
embodied mind, the existing evidence, in my judgement,
points to the conclusion that telepathy between the living
does not need for its accomplishment more than the activity
of the subliminal consciousness, and upon that basis this
paper is written.
To return to the point which immediately concerns us
—
which of the two persons concerned is the active factor in
ordinary telepathy—notwithstanding the admission made
above, all the probabilities seem to me to point away from
the supposition that thoughts could be literally stolen. I
base this conclusion on several concurrent considerations.
Firstly, on the broad ground that, thought being essentially
an activity, one would expect it to pass to another mind
by its own energy ; it seems unnatural to suppose that it
could be read like an inanimate piece of print. Secondly,
in cases of spontaneous telepathy such as those in which
an apparition of the dying is seen, and especially when the
hallucination is experienced by more than one person, it
seems perverse to seek the prime cause elsewhere than in
the activity of the dying person's mind. And if this is so,
analogy suggests that in other cases also of spontaneous
telepathy,—as, for instance, when Mrs. Holland's script made
reference to some furs recently purchased by Miss Verrall,
the ostensible agent (here Mrs. Verrall or Miss Verrall) is
really the active factor in the transference. Thirdly, while
all experimental telepathy obviously suggests this view of
its own modus operandi, I do not see how we can resist the
evidence afforded by one class of experiments in particular ;
I mean those in which pain is suppressed or prevented by
suggestion without the induction of trance. (Whether there
is or is not in such cases some slight degree of hypnosis, is
here immaterial.) In a valuable paper on experiments of
this kind, published in Proceedings, Vol. XII., pp. 21 ff., Mr.
C. M. Barrows writes (p. 25), " Mine is a silent suggestion.
I use neither voice nor other means to convey its import to
the patient through sensory adits. I find it possible to affect
with these unvoiced suggestions one who does not know my
LXIX.] To Clear the Air. 323
language, infants who have learned no language, and brute
creatures. . . . More than this : I am not conscious of
forming any statement of the message, even in thought, when
I make the suggestion." Surely there is no room for doubting
that Mr. Barrows' mind was the active factor in the numerous
successful experiments which he made,—that there was no
reading of his thoughts by the patient. If doubt were possible
in some instances, the mention of infants, at any rate, is con-
clusive. I may add that the last quoted sentence has some
bearing on what I have said a few lines above about the prob-
able activity of the subliminal in cases of spontaneous tele-
pathy. In any case, it is sufficient for my present argument
to point out that the supposition that Z. might be able to
read V.'s thoughts unassisted, rests at present upon no
foundation, while the contrary view has much to be said
for it.
We fare no better with the alternative supposition, that
Z. does not play the thief, but is assisted by the co-operation
of V., who obediently selects and gives over the thing de-
manded. This would seem to entail a little conversation
between the two. If the commodity which is to change hands
cannot be stolen, it must be asked for. But if Z. can '
speak
'
and V. can '
hear,' we must in fairness attribute the power
of speech to V. and that of hearing to Z. ; and that in that
case V. would ask some questions, we cannot doubt.
We ask ourselves at once, can subliminals converse ? "It
mayn't be much to do, your Majesty, but can they do it ?
"
The subliminal is certainly " a very good bowler," and may
be counted on to get one '
wood '
in even at long bowls ;
" but for Alisander—alas, you see how 'tis,"—at present we
have no evidence of its ability to take part in dialogue. Never-
theless, for the sake of argument, let us assume that it possesses
this indispensable faculty. We have next to ask, in what
character does Z. open the negotiations ? As the spirit it
now believes itself to be, and expecting to be accepted as
such by V. ? Then, I suppose, something like this would
be said : "I want to bring off an evidential communication
through Mrs. Willett, but can think of nothing to say. Do
suggest something." The incredible confession would, I fancy,
condemn our masquerading Z. out of its own mouth. The
324 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [PART
first thought of V. would be (with a twist of Hamlet's meaning),
Thou comest in such a questionable shape,
and there would be, alas, no answer !
Shall we say, then, that, by a shifting of the dream-centre,
Z. has for the moment recovered its identity and speaks in
propria persona, and that the colloquy proceeds thus : "I
want a little material to make up into a pseudo-spirit-com-
munication. Could you let me have something that would
do ?
"—" Certainly ; what do you think of this ?
" Or
instead of a ready acquiescence, did the tempted subliminal
show reluctance and need persuasion, and when persuaded
still perhaps express a natural misgiving as to success ?
Macbeth. But if we fail ?
Lady Macbeth. We fail
!
But screw your courage to the sticking point,
And we'll not fail.
However the interview may have proceeded, neither is self-
deceived ; the two are engaged in planning a most nefarious
conspiracy, and both of them know it. I will not deny that
even these two subliminals might be morally capable of such
an imposture, for I do not forget the shifts and evasions of
Mrs. Newnham's, but it will be time enough to go into that
when we have proof that subliminals are able to exchange
their thoughts in conversation at all. Until the proof is
forthcoming the assumption of collusion seems hardly more
attractive than that of robbery, and we may hesitate to
choose between them. However, let us not be daunted.
If choice is difficult, let us refuse to choose, but assume that
somehow or other Z. could get from V. the thing it requires.
We have now to ask, what it is that Z. gets. Clearly one
of two things : either (a) the sum and substance of the essay,
or (6) the ready-made confection that had perhaps only been
waiting, by the happiest of coincidences, for some one to
take and make use of it—the actual riddle, framed upon
the essay, which is propounded in the script. 1
Our bold leap has brought us to the very heart of the
1 See p. 222 supra.
LXIX.] To Clear the Air. 325
matter ; let us consider the probabilities severally attaching
to these two alternatives.
If (a), the whole essay, was the treasure trove, how did
Z. apprehend it ? As a complete whole,—at one gulp, as
it were, after the manner of a serpent swallowing an egg ?
Before attempting to answer the question we must first ask
whether it is probable that the essay subsists in V. as an
agglomerated, individualized whole, if I may so put it. Let
us suppose that in the mind itself, the centre of our intelli-
gence, the whole essay may so subsist as an extremely elaborate
complex concept ; then another mind might, we may equally
suppose, apprehend such a whole by one comprehensive act.
I do not know how far the first of these suppositions rests
on any psychological probability, but the two taken together
are useless for our present purpose, unless we identify the
subliminal consciousness with the mind itself. But as I
understand our terminology and the psychological view which
it implies, the mind is one thing and the mind's consciousness
(subliminal or supraliminal), although inseparable from it,
is another ; and upon our present evidence at any rate, as
I have already said, we are not warranted in believing that
in a case of ordinary telepathy either of the two persons con-
cerned brings into direct and immediate operation any more
intimate part of his personality than the subliminal con-
sciousness. We must therefore dismiss these suppositions,
and seek further for an answer.
What is one's experience in ordinary acts of recollection ?
It is true that when I myself think of the essay, I seem in a
way to recall it as a whole, but do I really ? Do I not rather
recollect first one of the ideas of which it is composed, and
then successively, though with great rapidity, a certain number
of others, one idea following on another by some mysterious
association 1 Consciousness, whether supraliminal or sub-
liminal, appears to be no more than a manifestation of the
mind's activity ; and the brain—the instrument both of
conscious and subliminal thought, as hypnotic experiments
show—would appear to be so constituted that it can only
allow ideas to issue in a series of flashes, so to speak. At
any rate one thing is certain,—in whatever form the essay
subsists in my mind itself, the ideas of which it is composed
326 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
are never all present to my external consciousness at one
and the same moment. And if ever I recall the sum and
substance of the essay as a whole and by one act, am I
not in reality recalling a new and complex concept formed
in my mind upon reading the essay,—a complex peculiarly
my own and differing from another man's, and one which,
so far from being identical with the essay, lacks most of its
details ? I conclude, therefore, since the essay never emerges
as a complete whole, nor any considerable part of it as written,
that it is not present as a whole in the subliminal conscious-
ness, and that accordingly Z. could not apprehend it from
V. in this form.
Let us proceed on another tack, and consider in what form
we can with greatest probability suppose the memories of
the essay to be immanent in the mind itself of whose activity
the subliminal consciousness V. is merely the expression.
And since the argument will not be affected thereby, we will
for the moment grant Z. liberty of access even to this very
centre of intelligence.
As I am informed, if I understand my informant aright,
the best supported view among psychologists is that memories
are retained as a series of mutually interpenetrating concepts.
Thus the memories of an essay would subsist in the mind as a
ivhole and not a. whole. The whole essay is there (assuming
all its concepts to be retained), but not as an isolated body
of memories ; for the recovery of it as a logical whole there
must be made a selective combination of all the concepts
that belong to it, with rejection of all others. If this is so,
it seems natural and reasonable to suppose that it is as a series
of concepts that Z. apprehends the essay, whether by
" reading " or by V.'s recital. What exactly is the manner
of this interpenetration of concepts, no one, I imagine, could
say ;
nor, accordingly, why when one of a given series emerges
to my external consciousness others of the series have a tendency
to emerge also, while some do not. Again one thing is cer-
tain,—I cannot evoke them all at will ; I trace the associa-
tions successfully up to a point, and then break down. Is
it, then, likely that Z., starting from one concept and
unassisted by V., could trace out the whole series of
which the essay is composed ? (If we assume conversa-
LXIX.] To Clear the Air. 327
tiort between the two, we come in effect to Mr. Balfour's
third alternative, which is examined below.) We shall be
little helped if we show ourselves yet more generous to Z.,
and having endowed it with the power to apprehend at will
some of the concepts in another mind, assign to it also the
power of apprehending the mode of interpenetration by which
concepts are connected. Our mental concepts have each of
them several, and most of them countless associations ; how
then could Z., ignorant as it is of the goal to be reached, know
which line of association to take ? For what is its position ?
We may for our present purpose compare any given series
of concepts (the essay) to a water-way, which is made up of
a number of interpenetrating particles of water ; and the
mind to a sort of water-maze, of practically limitless extent
and containing many millions of such water-ways, which
continually intersect each other. Z., then, is in the position
of a man who, exploring this maze, wishes to follow the route
previously traversed by a friend, though he knows neither
at what point his friend started nor what point he made his
destination. It would be as much bewildered as our little
friend who asked, " Which way am I to go now, please ?
"
" Where do you want to go to ? " replied the Caterpillar.
" I don't know," said Alice. " Then it doesn't matter which
way you go." We seem, in fact, to have set this subliminal
a task " imagination boggles at."
Freely granting that, if Z. can grasp the whole essay, such
a clever subliminal will have no difficulty in framing a little
enigma in connexion with it, we will leave it to its task and
go back to our second alternative (b) : —Z. finds in V., ready-
made and admirably suited to its purpose, the puzzle pro-
pounded in Script (A). 1
Still we are baffled, for all the diffi-
culties which we have been examining continue to confront
us, though on a smaller scale,—that is to say, in connexion
with a more limited subject-matter. For although the riddle
is of much smaller bulk than the essay, it must equally be
apprehended as a whole or by some process of rehabilitation.
We have already discussed the difficulties attaching to
each alternative ; but the form in which the puzzle appears
in the script presents yet another. If Z. could obtain from
1
See p. 222 supra.
328 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
V. a knowledge of the gist of the essay at all, it might, we
may perhaps say, have obtained this in a more or less rough
form ;
here, however, we have a little picture in words, an
episode in a story, neatly and compactly rounded off, and
complete so far as it goes. It occupies four lines of print,
and unites in logical connexion a considerable number of
concepts. I cannot recall from our records of cross-corre-
spondences any case in which it could be maintained that
one living mind has received from another a similar com-
position. The transference of single concepts, simple or
complex, would appear to be the limit of an incarnate mind's
telepathic achievement. Many automatic scripts, it is true,
contain connected writings of considerable extent, but we do
not find them reproduced in the script of other automatists.
Even in the case of Mrs. Piper (who may be regarded as a
" sensitive " of at least equal capacity with Mrs. Willett,
whether as giver or receiver of impressions) single ideas
—
words or phrases—are the utmost that we find appearing
both in her script and in the script of others in identical form.
Moreover, if one incarnate mind has this power of reading the
thoughts of another as connected in that other mind, why, we
may fairly ask, did not Mrs. Piper read and reproduce the
translation of the Latin Message, which was vividly present
to the minds of several persons, both sitters and others, during
a considerable period of time ? Her desire and her efforts to
do so must have been far stronger than Z.'s in the present case.
It has been suggested to me that a performance of the
medium Adele Maginot (see Proceedings, Vol. XIV., pp. 61 ff.)
should in fairness be mentioned here, as possibly an instance
to the contrary of what has just been said. The sitter, M.
du Potet, wished her to '
call up '
M. Dubois, a friend of his
who had died some fifteen months before. She proceeded
to give an extraordinarily detailed and (save for four mistakes)
accurate description of this friend's outward appearance, mode
of carriage, walk, and gestures. If we regard this as a case
of spontaneous telepathy, which it appears to be, we have
clearly something very different from the transference of the
logically connected composition of Script (A). I see no diffi-
culty in supposing that the medium received successively
from the sitter's mind, as he sat in front of her, a number
LXIX.] To Clear the Air. 329
of separate concepts (say, twenty-one), or possibly one complex
concept picturing the whole man. Two points which would
not properly belong to such a pictorial concept in M. du Potet's
mind were mentioned by the medium, but they were wrong.
M. Dubois' action in the vision on hearing mention of the
Jesuits, is obviously a complex concept of this kind.
If this analysis of Mr. Balfour's first alternative is sound,
that alternative seems to involve for Script (A) the combi-
nation of a number of assumptions which are unsupported
by our present knowledge and also in themselves improbable.
It is obvious that the same difficulties attach to the neatly
compacted problem contained in (C), 1
if we suppose that Z.
was the active party in effecting its transference, in what-
ever manner or form, from another mind. Neither this
script, therefore, nor either of the other two, since all three
are intimately connected with one another and with (A),
calls for separate discussion.
I must, however, advert briefly to one further difficulty
which is presented by all the scripts when they are considered
as produced by the method of this first alternative. Z. offers
for our inspection four bricks—if a metaphor may be per-
mitted—composed of a peculiar kind of clay, a species which
we recognise as Verrallian. We find it difficult to understand
how Z. could have obtained the clay ; but on examination
of the bricks our perplexity increases, for we find that the
clay is bound together by a peculiar kind of straw, a kind
which grows only in a certain district which we are sure was
never visited by Mrs. Willett. The straw is the life-like
characterisation of Verrall discussed in my Note. The diffi-
culties which, as we have seen, would attend Z.'s search after
the matter of the scripts must no less effectually defeat any
efforts it might make to discover and reproduce these examples
of VerraU's manner.
Let us turn to Mr. Balfour's third and, as most people
will probably think, more attractive alternative :
" the really
active and planning intelligence may have been the mind
of some other living person acting on the mind of the auto-
matist."
For the sake of argument, we will say that the intelligence
1
See p. 223 supra.
330 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
actively operating on Mrs. Willett's mind was that of Mrs.
Verrall, though it should be noted in passing that, as a matter
of fact, Mrs. Verrall was no more able than any one else to
guess the enigma of Script (A) until the clue, " Dante makes
it clear," was given fourteen months later in Script (D). If
her subliminal had composed the problem, one would have
thought it likely that the key to it would emerge at some
time during this long interval.
Not long before his death (June 18, 1912), Dr. Verrall
discussed with Mrs. Verrall and two friends the selection of
certain of his essays for republication, and came to a decision
as to which should be selected. The three essays on Dante
were from the first included in the list, but the copy for the
two volumes was not sent to the press until the following
September. Now, while it is improbable that Mrs. Verrall
consciously recalled the point in the Baptism of Statins which
reappears in the script, either at the time of the selection
of the essays or in the interval which elapsed before July
6, 1912, no doubt her subliminal may have done so. Let us
suppose that it did ; and let us further suppose that during
the fortnight preceding July 6, and in some such way as that
suggested above for Z., it conceived the idea of a pseudo-
spirit-communication, and proceeded to concoct the little
puzzle propounded in Script (A). Then, unless V. has some
power of selecting a recipient, Script (A) is launched into the
void, like a wireless message, to be taken in by any other
subliminal that happens to be receptive at the moment, and
is in fact received and recorded by Mrs. Willett. Indeed,
we must suppose all four scripts (including the curious cir-
cumstance of the laughter, which perhaps betrays V.'s delight
at the success of its enterprise !) to be so given out and received
verbatim et literatim.
But whether the subliminal can or can not select a recipient,
our telegraphic simile (and some such seems to be required)
has carried us beyond the evidence. As an explanation of
impressions received of persons in articulo mortis or in some
other critical situation, it seems to be reasonable to suppose
that such persons may have flashed forth an image of them-
selves—or, when the impression is auditory, a word or phrase
—-somewhat wireless message is given out. In such
LXIX.] To Clear the Air. 331
cases, however, the pictorial image or phrase transferred is
always, I believe, a single though perhaps complex concept,
—a thing very different from any one of Mrs. Willett's scripts,
each of which presents to us several series of concepts com-
bined, both as individual concepts and as series or groups,
in logical connexion. And the simple truth is that up to the
present, at any rate, we have no reasonable ground for sup-
posing that the embodied mind can either give out or receive,
after the manner of the telegraphic instrument, long and
logically connected messages such as are produced in the
scripts. It may be that it can both give and receive messages
of this character, and we may some day get proof of this
power, but as I have already said, our present evidence points
the other way.
If M. du Potet's case, referred to above, should again seem
to suggest a different conclusion, I would repeat that the
thing transferred was essentially different from the scripts ;
the vision was in fact one of the kind just mentioned as some-
times flashed from the dying. And though M. du Potet was
in no critical situation and had no conscious intention to
transfer his own mental impression of M. Dubois, we do not
know what his subliminal was doing ; his earnest desire to
get into relations with his friend might well have stimulated
it into becoming (according to what seems to me the more
probable view of the modus operandi) the active factor in
the transference. I find it very difficult to believe that the
mental picture seen in the vision was not vividly present
to M. du Potet's subliminal consciousness.
But, it will be said, it is precisely this power of conveying
and receiving a connected message which believers in the
establishment of communication with the spirit world attri-
bute to the spirit and the automatist respectively. Why
admit its exercise in the one case and deny it in the other ?
The point is a strong one, and perhaps the strongest that
can be urged in favour of the telepathic and against the
spiritistic view of the phenomena. The answer I would give
is, firstly, that we must suppose a disembodied spirit to be
free from many limitations which beset the embodied mind
when endeavouring to effect a telepathic communication ;
and secondly, that the distinction appears to be warranted,
332 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
or rather demanded, by the evidence as a whole. It is the
content of the messages which weighs. Some scripts embody,
in the form of a connected composition, information which
is outside the knowledge of any automatist in the group con-
cerned, and at the same time profess to be messages from
the spirit world. Clearly the internal evidence of genuine-
ness in such cases is strong, and especially so if the content
of the message is also characteristic of the alleged communi-
cator, as in some of Mr. Dorr's sittings with Mrs. Piper. On
the other hand, some scripts, also professing to be spirit com-
munications and written in connected language, fail to exhibit
these marks of genuineness. There is, I believe, no clear
evidence or plausible ground for thinking that any such
'
messages '
emanate from some other incarnate mind ; and
if we prefer not to consider them genuine, the natural account
of them would seem to be that they are products of the auto-
matist's own subliminal. In many scripts this certainly seems
to be the case. If it be further objected that such connected
messages or communications may nevertheless be dictated by
the subliminal of some person outside the ring of automatists
and sitters, one can only reply that it may indeed be so, but
that in the absence of evidence in its support, the suggestion
cannot carry more weight than any other mere possibility.
The result of our examination appears to be that there
is a lack both of positive evidence and of reasonable proba-
bility such as would warrant our accepting any one of Mr.
Balfour's first three alternatives as an explanation of the
phenomena presented by the scripts under discussion. In
other words,—and it is the whole of the contention which
this paper set out to maintain—though we leave it indifferent
which of two mutually exclusive views is taken as to certain
questions, psychological and other, which have emerged in
the course of the discussion, it seems impossible, without
ignoring the trend of our present evidence and knowledge,
to construct any coherent and plausible theory of telepathy
between the living which would account for the production
of these astonishing scripts. If, as is only too probable,
I have done the facts or the argument any injustice, due
correction will no doubt be forthcoming. I shall kiss the
rod.
LXIX.] The History of Marthe Bemud. 333
VII.
THE HISTORY OF MARTHE BERAUD ("EVA C").
By Helen de G. Verrall.
Bibliography.
De quelques Phenomenes dits de Materialisation. By Professor
Charles Richet. (Annates des Sciences Psychiques, 1905,
pp. 649 ff.)
Les Polemiques aw sujet de la Villa Carmen. By Professor Charles
Richet. (Annates des Sciences Psychiques, 1906, pp. 129 ff.)
Mon Temoignage concemant Bien-Boa. By Monsieur Marsault.
(Les Nouveaux Horizons, November, 1906.)
Les Mediums de la Villa Carmen. By Dr. Rouby. (Les Nouveaux
Horizons, February-June, 1907.)
Materialisationsplianomene. By Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing.
(Ernst Bernhardt. Munich. 1914. 14s. net.)
Les Phenomenes dits de Materialisation. By Madame Juliette
Alexandre-Bisson. (Felix Alcan. Paris. 1914. 10s. 6d.
net.)
Moderne Mediumforschung. By Dr. Mathilde von Kemnitz
and Dr. von Gulat-Wellenburg. (J. F. Lehmann. Munich.
1914. Is. 6d. net.)
Der Kampf um die Materialisationsphanomene : eine Verteidi-
gungsschrift. By Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing. (Ernst Rein-
hardt. Munich. 1914.)
Materialisation,—the supposed creation of matter through
the agency of some kind of psychical force,—has always
occupied a conspicuous position amongst the physical pheno-
mena with which psychical research is concerned. From
the days of " Katie King " onwards many contributions have
been made to the subject, of varying interest and importance,
334 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
but few are more worthy of consideration, either on account
of the care with which the researches have been conducted,
or the conclusions which the authors have reached, than the
volume in which Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing describes his
experiences during the last few years with the French medium,
Marthe Beraud (" Eva C").
Dr. von Schrenck's personal acquaintance with the case
dates from the earlier half of 1909, but Marthe Beraud's
career as a medium began in 1903, and before we turn to the
consideration of Dr. von Schrenck's book, some account
must be given of the medium's earlier history.
The first experiments with Marthe Beraud were conducted
at the Villa Carmen in Algiers, the house of General and Madame
Noel, who were in the habit of holding seances, in which
various mediums, professional and otherwise, took part.
Mademoiselle Beraud, at that time a very young girl of about
seventeen, was a family friend and not a professional medium
Accounts of the phenomena observed at these seances were
published in various spiritualistic papers, and in August,
1905, Professor Charles Richet went over to Algiers to in-
vestigate the case. He published an account of his observa-
tions in the Annales des Sciences Psychiques, 1905, pp. 649 ff.
The phenomena witnessed by Monsieur Richet consisted
in the alleged materialisation of several spirits, in particular
of an Arab chieftain, who gave himself the name of Bien-
Boa, and showed in various ways that he possessed the attri-
butes of a living human being. The problem therefore was
to ascertain whether the part of Bien-Boa could possibly
be played either by Marthe or by an accomplice. The con-
clusions to which Monsieur Richet came were that :
(a) at the sittings at which he was present, any action
on the part of an accomplice was excluded and therefore,
if there was fraud, it was practised by Marthe Beraud and,
moreover, was deliberate ;
(b) the phenomena were almost certainly genuine, although
Monsieur Richet did not commit himself to any definite theory
to explain them.
I do not propose to discuss Monsieur Richet's article in
detail, but one point is worth mentioning. Several photo-
graphs were taken at the sittings with a view to obtaining,
lxix.] The History of Marthe Bemud. 335
if possible, definite evidence to prove that Marthe and Bien-
Boa were present simultaneously. These photographs show
the bearded figure of Bien-Boa himself wrapped in a white
garment of a nondescript character and wearing on his head
either a turban or a sort of helmet. What appears to be a
part of Marthe's form is also represented in these photographs,
but in no instance are her hands or head visible. This
fact suggests prima facie that what we see in the photographs
is Marthe's blouse and skirt, stuffed perhaps and suitably
disposed on a chair, whilst she herself is occupied in represent-
ing the Arab chief. Monsieur Richet himself is at some
trouble to explain these photographs, and on one occasion
accounts for the apparent emptiness of Marthe's sleeve by
suggesting that "the phenomenon, so mysterious and almost
miraculous, which we call '
materialisation,' is accompanied
by a sort of disintegration of the pre-existing matter, so
that . . . the medium empties herself, so to speak, to constitute
the new being, which emanates from her, and which one
cannot touch without injuring the medium."
On the other hand, Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing explains a
somewhat similar phenomenon, which was observed by
Monsieur de Fontenay at Paris, during Marthe Beraud's later
phase, as being due to the " so-called transfiguration " of the
medium, who "in a spiritualistic sense takes over the part
of the spirit, and clad in materialised stuffs tries to represent
dramatically the character which is at the moment in ques-
tion." (See Materialisationsphdnomene, p. 157.) According
to Dr. von Schrenck, therefore, what Monsieur Richet pro-
bably witnessed at the Villa Carmen was a " transfiguration
"
of the medium, the supernormality of the phenomenon con-
sisting in the " materialised " clothes worn by Bien-Boa.
Shortly after the publication of Monsieur Richet's report,
several people came forward with statements to the effect
that all the phenomena witnessed at the Villa Carmen were
produced by an organised conspiracy of fraud, in which Marthe
Beraud and several servants, employed by General and Madame
Noel, were involved,—in particular the coachman Areski, who
frequently took part in the sittings, although he had not
been present on the particular occasions described in Mon-
sieur Richet's report. It was alleged that not only Areski,
Y
336 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
but also Marthe Beraud and her father, had confessed to
complicity in the fraud. These allegations were all set forth
in a series of articles by Dr. Rouby and Monsieur Marsault,
and published in Les Nouveaux Horizons, 1906 and 1907.
The most important part of the story for our present purpose
is contained in a statement made by Monsieur Marsault, a
lawyer living in Algiers, of which the following is a translation,
considerably abridged (see Les Nouveaux Horizons, 1906,
pp. 403 ff.) :
It was towards the end of the year 1900 that 1 made acquaint-
ance with Monsieur and Madame Noel. ... I was invited to
the seances at the Villa Carmen and attended them regularly
for several months. There was much talk at the time of an
old medium Ahmed, a servant of Monsieur and Madame Noel,
and of the strange phenomena obtained through his presence
:
the apport of a stone of seventy kilograms, the changing of tea
into coffee. . . . One need only read, for example, a few numbers
of the Revue Scientifique et Morale de Spiritisme of that date to
realise the improbability and grotesque nature [of these pheno-
mena.] . . . Bien-Boa already existed, but he had not shown
himself in a materialised form. At that time he was only giving
what I will call the current coin of spiritualism : movements of
tables, lights, automatic writing, etc., and already promising future
materialisations.
[Monsieur Marsault then describes how on two occasions he
detected the fraudulent practices of a medium, who was perform-
ing at the Villa Carmen.] ... A few days after this seance I
received a letter from Madame Noel, politely requesting me, by
reason of my inharmonious fluiclic force, to stay at home, until
the phenomena should have returned to their normal course. . . .
My banishment lasted four years. During that time I had
maintained strictly courteous relations with Monsieur and Madame
Noel, whose suspicions of me increased daily. They even came to
believe that my advice was the cause of certain differences of
opinion which had arisen between them and their son Maurice,
who had become my intimate friend.
Maurice went off to the French Congo about July, 1900, as
commercial agent in a large business enterprise, after engaging
himself to Mademoiselle Marthe B whom he was to marry
LXIX-.] The History of Marihe Beraud. 337
when he obtained his first leave. . . . My unhappy friend was not
destined to return from the Congo. . . . He died at Libreville in
October, 1904. . . . My friend Monsieur Journau and I paid a visit
of condolence to the Noel family. General Noel had just received a
posthumous letter from his son, praising me and clearing away the
misunderstanding which had existed between us for several years.
Very loyally—and I thank him for it—General Noel recognised
this misunderstanding, and our reconciliation was sealed. . . . No
one therefore will do me the injustice of supposing for a moment
that the attitude which I have adopted in regard to the Bergolia
and Bien-Boa episodes was dictated by any animosity. . . .
My visit of condolence had re-established the cordiality of our
relations. My friend Monsieur Journau and I were invited to a
family supper at the Villa Carmen and to the seance for materiali-
sation which was to follow
My friend and I received letters at that time from Madame Noel,
informing us that a spirit, Bergolia, sister to Bien-Boa, was appearing
in materialised form, " drinking tea with her, talking in the most
feminine way imaginable, rummaging about in a box of sweets."
In one of these letters Madame Noel even said that their son Maurice
had materialised, that he had kissed her, and that she had felt
on her forehead the cold touch of his eye-glasses.
I paid a visit to Marthe B.'s family. I did not get to the bottom
of the mystery, but Marthe B. spoke to me of a certain Ninon,
who was then playing the part of medium at the Villa Carmen.
I understood that it was Ninon who simulated the materialisation
of Maurice Noel. Marthe B. added :
" Ninon had better not simulate
my fiance before me, or I'll jump at her face."
... To return to Madame Noel's invitation.
It was in November, 1904, about a month after the death of
our friend Maurice Noel, that Monsieur Journau and I went to the
supper and the seance, to which we had been bidden. At the end
of the meal, Monsieur and Madame Noel went away for a few
minutes, leaving my friend Monsieur Journau and me alone with
Mademoiselle Marthe B.
She at once said to us, in some such words as these :
" Do you
want to have some fun ? You know Bergolia is all humbug ;
my sisters and I will give you some fun." Monsieur Journau was
astounded. For my part, I had already been warned by Marthe
B. that all these materialisations were non-existent, which I had
338 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
long suspected, but I had thought that for once Bergolia would
miss her appointment. At this juncture, there arrived Marthe
B.'s two young sisters. Ninon, who was expected that evening,
did not come. . . .
We entered the seance room and sat down round a table in front
of the cabinet reserved for the medium. A red lamp gave a very
faint light, enough however to see outlines, light tones especially.
We had hardly taken our places, when Marthe B. kept her promise.
She rose from the table, entered the mediumistic cabinet and
came out with a thin white shawl over her head and shoulders.
She walked about the little room, carefully avoiding the better
lighted parts, answering first in French to the questions which
Madame Noel put to her about Bien-Boa and then at Madame
Noel's request inventing a sort of language, which she said was
Hindu. . . .
This little comedy lasted about twenty minutes. . . . Monsieur
and Madame Noel, whose absolute good faith I have never doubted,
believed blindly that the sister of their favourite spirit was present.
To seek to undeceive them was utterly futile. All who have
experience of spiritualists know that this is labour lost. . . .
Moreover, Marthe B. was not a professional medium. Bergolia,
I think, never did much harm to any one, not even to Monsieur
and Madame Noel, who did not wait for her entry into our
world to believe in materialisations. . . .
Such events would have left no room for doubt even in the mind
of St. Thomas. Monsieur Journau and I had no doubt whatever.
We did not attend any further seances at the Villa Carmen in
spite of the pressing invitations which Ave subsequently received.
This was, I think, the wisest course.
I come now to the critical point, namely, Bien-Boa as sanctified
by the authority of Monsieur Richet, Bien-Boa, turned into a public
character, known to all. . . .
I had learnt that Monsieur Richet had come to the Villa Carmen
to study for the second time the phenomena of materialisation.
Knowing what I have related above, I thought that no one could
have the audacity or the simplicity to simulate before a great
savant like Monsieur Richet the materialisation of Bien-Boa. I
was convinced that should this occur, Monsieur Richet would
discover the hoax. . . .
I leave to the imagination my amazement when I read in the
LXIX.] The History of Martlie Beraud. 339
Annates Psychiques for December, 1905, Monsieur Richet's report
on the materialisations at the Villa Carmen. . . .
In the fight against these trickeries, so often unmasked . . .
no honest endeavour is to be despised. That is what I thought,
when I determined to help so far as I could in the discovery of
the facts. ... I at once considered what was the best way to attain
the proposed end. I put aside all idea of publicity. ... I thought
it best to act discreetly. This was the only method which could
reconcile the interests of unrecognised truth with the peace of
mind of my friends at the Villa Carmen, the reputation of a young
girl of good family, and above all the susceptibility of a man of
learning. . . .
When I reached this stage of my reflexions, I had learnt from
Marthe B.'s father . . . that the observed phenomena were fraudu-
lent and that Marthe had done nothing but amuse herself. . . . Mon-
sieur B. was very much surprised and troubled at the unexpected
publicity which had been given to the matter. ... I expressed
the opinion that he ought to confess the truth to Monsieur Richet
and I strongly urged him to do this in the interests of all.
On my part, I wrote to Monsieur Richet, as follows :
"... For the last five years or so I have taken an interest-
in psychical research and during this time I also have known the
Villa Carmen.
I think that I shall be serving the cause of truth and doing a
wise and useful deed if I come to you and say that / fear greatly
that you have been deceived.
My strong conviction is based upon the most serious grounds.
If you are willing, whilst turning to your own use the statements
I shall make to you, to promise me complete silence as regards
both them and my name, I will tell you the grounds of my con-
viction. ..."
My letter was well received by Monsieur Richet, who replied
as follows :
" I am prepared to receive in absolute confidence any dis-
closures you may wish to make to me and you may accept my word
of honour that your name will not be mentioned. ..."
... On January 1, [1906], I went to see [Marthe and her father]
at their house and met the whole family, Monsieur and Madame
B. and their three daughters. During the three hours that I was
there we talked only of Bien-Boa. With much volubility and a
340 Helen de G. Verrall. [paet
certain humour Marthe related all the ins and outs of the story.
She had been medium against her will, because Madame Noel
found a mediumistic significance in her least gestures and saw
spirits everywhere . . .
When Monsieur Bichet came, she had long been established
as a " great materialising medium." How was she to escape
examination by this man of learning 1 She protected herself by
asserting that she was not a medium at all and did not believe
in spirits. But they pressed her with such insistence that at last
she gave way and went back to the cabinet in the seance-room. . . .
Thus it was that little by little against her will she had been led
to play her part. And what part ? A secondary, almost a negative,
part. There was a trap-door set between the bath and the wall,
in the angle, through which, when the room had been darkened,
a young girl was introduced, slim and dressed in black, a friend
of Ninon's. ... As to Marthe herself, her part was secondary ;
she remained passive and pretended to sleep. . . . She was very
repentant at having set her hand to trickery, but put forward as
her constant excuse, the compulsory role of medium which she
had been obliged to play and the existence of the trap-door. She
pleaded extenuating circumstances.
The publicity given to a farce which they thought trivial terri-
fied Marthe and her family. I pointed out to them that the only
way to put an end to the thing was to tell the truth quite frankly
to Monsieur Richet. .
The next day I wrote to Monsieur Richet, as follows :
"... Monsieur B. and Mademoiselle Marthe B. herself have
given me their confidence.
They have told me 1
that the whole affair was a sham, that there
was a trap-door and accomplices. Everything was explained to
me in detail.
If I am to believe 1
Marthe B., her part was rather slight, and
almost negative ; she remained passive. . . .
I have strongly urged her to open her mind to you frankly in
conversation, since you have given her reason to hope for your
return in a letter which she has shown me.
1
Note by Monsieur Marsault. I draw attention to the two passages
"they have told me," and "if I am to believe Marthe B." I have never
therefore made myself responsible for the hypothesis of the trap-door, which
people have foisted on to me as a means of attack.
LXIX.] The History of Marthe Bemud. 341
If you come I will explain my story in greater detail and, if
necessary, will provide you with evidence from some of my friends,
who will make it their duty to act as I have done. ..."
Monsieur Richet replied as follows :
' :
I have received your letter. It is quite possible that there
was trickery that I was unable to discover. But the trickery must
be proved.
You write to me of a trap-door and accomplices. Well ! nothing
is easier than to ascertain the existence of a trap-door in the summer-
house at the Villa Carmen. ..."
It was my intention to write to Monsieur Richet to point out to
him that I did not believe in the hypothesis of the trap-door,—
a
convenient method by which Marthe might partly exculpate her
self,—although I was convinced of the trickery . . . when, on
January 11, I met Monsieur B. He told me that Marthe had had
a letter from a lady in Paris telling her that a lawyer in Algiers
had written to Monsieur Richet to inform him of the deception. . . .
Monsieur B. iirferred that the Algerian lawyer was myself. . . .
When I saw that my discreet intervention with Monsieur Richet
was becoming everybody's secret, I determined to write to Mon-
sieur Richet no more. . . .
In the early days of March, Dr. Rouby of Algiers thought he
had discovered the key to the trickery in the person of Areski,
Monsieur Noel's former coachman. ... To destroy this hypothesis
General Noel put forward the equivocal nature of Areski's state-
ments and wished to prove his inconsistency before witnesses.
General Noel came to me on March 12 and asked me to be
one of the witnesses. I agreed, on condition that Areski should
be cross-examined in Dr. Rouby's presence,—-which I thought a
reasonable suggestion. General Noel would not agree to this
condition and in return I refused the favour he asked of
me. . . .
Two days later I received a letter from Madame Noel, bitterly
reproaching me for my behaviour. ... I quote some interesting
passages from this letter :
" I assumed that you were one of the '
anonymous young
men '
of whom the delightful Rouby spoke.
My opinion was confirmed by what you said to the General
about Mademoiselle Marthe B. ; but she repudiates your statements
utterly. ... I think that an impartial person, having to choose
342 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
between your two assertions, would ask first :
'
What interest
could Mademoiselle Marthe B. have in acting thus, in running the
risk of being thrust out in disgrace by a family who received her
with open arms ?
'
"
. . . Indignation, reproaches, or attacks trouble me little. Bien-
Boa does not exist and has never existed.
I refuse to admit that the existence of Bien-Boa has been
scientifically proved . . .
Monsieur Marsault's statements do not prove Marthe
Beraud's guilt, any more than her repudiation of these state-
ments proves her innocence. But considering the circumstances
of the case, Monsieur Marsault's story certainly required an
answer and a refutation. The most important part of the
storjr, however, has never been answered at all. In an article
contributed by Monsieur Richet to the Annates des Sciences
Psychiques (March, 190G), in which he is mainly concerned
with disproving Dr. Rouby's contentions, the following
passages occur
:
. . . He [Dr. Rouby] relates that in the presence of two young
men, who would not refuse to give their evidence, she [Marthe
Beraud] played, for a joke, the part of Bergolia, Bien-Boa's
sister. . . .
As to the so-called confession of Mademoiselle Marthe B. . .
she is alleged to have said that everything was done by means
of a trap-door, whereas in the first place she has not said so, and
in the second place there is no trap-door . . .
A foot-note is put to this last statement, as follows :
The existence of this notorious trap-door, about which a lawyer
in Algiers wrote me an excited letter which some day I will publish,
is disproved by the following affidavit : [the statement of the
architect who examined the seance-room].
This is the only direct allusion to Monsieur Marsault which
Monsieur Richet's article contains, and it will be at once
apparent that . it leaves Monsieur Marsault's main contention
quite untouched, because the latter is careful to point out that
he takes no responsibility for the statement about the trap-
door, and that the existence of this door is in no way essential.
LXIX.] The History of Marihe Beraud. 343
to his conclusions. If Monsieur Richet had reasons of his
own for discrediting Monsieur Marsault's statement, why were
they not given ? The " impartial person," to whom Madame
Noel appeals, will, I think, conclude that the whole episode is
most unsatisfactory, and of a nature to arouse grave suspicions.
So much then for Marthe Beraud's early history.
In 190S "Eva C", as she is now to be called, came
to Paris, and early in 1909 she began to give sittings
for a small private circle formed under the auspices of
Monsieur and Madame Alexandre Bisson. Monsieur Bisson
was a well-known French playwright : he died in January,
1912. Madame Bisson is a sculptress of some repute. Dr. von
Schrenck-Notzing was introduced into this circle in May, 1909.
and his observation of the phenomena has continued from
then up to the present time.
Before turning to the consideration of these phenomena,
something must be said with regard to the concealment of
the medium's identity. In Materialisationsplianomene Dr.
von Schrenck-Notzing describes " Eva C." as " a young girl
of the middle classes who has already in other circles produced
phenomena of materialisation." He is not permitted, he
says, to give precise details as to her family and circumstances.
Her identity with Marthe Beraud became known in December,
1913 (one of the earliest statements of it appeared in the
Matin on December 29, 1913), and no attempt was made
to deny it. In Der Kampf um die Materialisationsphanomene.
a pamphlet recently published by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing
in reply to various criticisms of his book, he minimises the
importance of Eva C.'s identity by making light of the dis-
closures in regard to Marthe Beraud. " It is a long recognised
fact (he says) that every report about mediumistic phenomena
is speedily followed by a sensational account of exposure.
Since statements in the newspapers have for many people
the authority of a gospel ... it is not surprising that such
statements are more readily accepted than observations
which are inconsistent with public opinion and scientific
orthodoxy." He then dismisses Dr. Rouby's contentions
as " gossip of the lowest sort " ; with Monsieur Marsault's
story he does not deal at all.
344 Helen tie G. Verrall. [part
But Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing's defence does not meet
the objections of those who think that whether the accusa-
tions against Marthe Beraud were well-founded or not,
students of her subsequent phenomena should have been
given the opportunity of judging the case for themselves.
The refusal of her family to allow her name to be published
put Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing in a difficulty, no doubt ;
but, if this difficulty was insuperable, it would at least have
been possible to insert a statement that she had not an abso-
lutely clean record. The omission of any such statement
would naturally be interpreted as implying that she had.
As regards the phenomena observed in the case of Eva
C, they are of one kind only,
—"materialisation." The problem
therefore resolves itself into two questions : (a) what is the
nature of this " materialised " substance 1 (b) what possibility
is there that the medium smuggles this substance into the
sittings by some normal means not detected by the
observers ? In order to answer these questions, some
account must now be given of the phenomena observed and
of the conditions under which they occur.
During the production of the phenomena, the medium
sits in a three-cornered " cabinet," consisting of black cloth
stretched over a wooden frame-work. The cabinet, which
fits into one corner of the room, is completely closed at the
top and bottom and on two sides ; in front are two curtains
(of black cloth) running on a rod. These curtains are usualty
under the control of the medium, who opens or closes them
at her pleasure ; at some of the later sittings, however, the
curtains remained open or partly open during the whole
time. The sittings always take place by artificial light,
usually red light, but in some cases subdued white light was
used. The light varied in intensity, and on this point, as on
others, better conditions were gradually imposed ; at the
later sittings it was possible to read good print, standing at
a distance of two or three yards from the light. Within
the cabinet there was of course no light at all, except such
as shone through the open curtains. One advantage of using
red light was that the shutters of the various photographic
apparatuses could then be left open, ready for use by flash
light at a moment's notice. On many occasions several
LXIX.] The History of Marthe Beraud. 345
cameras were used simultaneously and the phenomena were
photographed from the front, from the side and from above.
Interesting evidence was thus obtained as regards the dimen-
sions of the phenomena ; on this point more will be said
later.
During the sittings the medium is, ostensibly at least, in a
hypnotic trance, Madame Bisson being usually the hypnotiser.
Doubts have been cast by some critics on the genuineness of
the trance (a question which Dr. von Schrenck does not dis-
cuss at all), but compared with establishing the genuineness
of the phenomena, the point is of secondary interest. It
has also been suggested that the medium may be assisted
by an accomplice, a suggestion arising naturally out of the
suspicions cast upon her earlier performances. But there
is no evidence in support of this hypothesis, and at many
of the sittings strong evidence against it.
If complicity is suspected, suspicion will naturally fall on
Madame Bisson, both on account of her close personal
relations with the medium, who has for some years lived
in her house as one of the family, and because she is
the only person who has been present at all the sittings
(with a few unimportant exceptions). I must apologise to
Madame Bisson for discussing so frankly the question of her
good faith ; she will see the necessity of this course from a
scientific point of view.
It should at once be said that Madame Bisson has no financial
interest in the phenomena, and it is very difficult to see what
motive could induce a woman of her standing to enter into
a conspiracy for their production. But besides the absence
of motive for fraud, there is, on some occasions at least, good
evidence for the absence of opportunity. During the earlier
sittings Madame Bisson was allowed to enter the cabinet
during the production of the phenomena, and under these
circumstances she might conceivably have supplied the
medium with materials of some sort ; but at many of the
later sittings she did not enter the cabinet at all, no contact
was allowed between her and the medium except during the
process of hypnotisation, when she held the medium's hands
for a minute or two under strict supervision, and on several
occasions Madame Bisson herself was very thoroughly searched
346 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
before the sitting and dressed in clothes which had been care-
fully examined by the investigators. A detailed description
of these conditions will be found, e.g., on p. 320 of Materiali-
sationsphanomene, in the report of a sitting held on August 15?
1912, and in Der Kampf um die Materialisationsphanomene
(pp. 30 ff.) Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing quotes an account of
this sitting by Dr. von Gulat-Wellenburg, who was present
at it. The two statements are in agreement, and although
Dr. von Gulat-Wellenburg has shown himself one of Dr. von
Schrenck-Notzing's keenest critics, he seems to have been
quite satisfied with the conditions as regards Madame Bisson.
It may therefore be taken as established, I think, that in
some sittings at any rate, the sole agent in the immediate
production of the phenomena was the medium herself.
The question as to whether she had any assistance in pre-
paring the materials (assuming them to be prepared) is quite
distinct. Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, however, states that, with-
out his knowledge, Madame Bisson and Eva C. were shadowed
for eight months by the agents of a well-known Paris detec-
tive bureau. But the " anonymous employer " of these
detectives did not succeed in obtaining " any evidence what-
ever of fraud, or in tracing the shop from which the materials
required for the sittings . . . might have been obtained."
(See Materialisationsplidnomene, Introd. pp. vii and viii.)
It will be convenient at this point to give a brief account
of the nature of the " materialisations," some of which I shall
afterwards describe more in detail. Roughly speaking, they
may be divided into two classes :
(a) Vague masses of no definite shape, sometimes more
or less globular, sometimes ribbon-like, white or greyish
white in colour and, on some occasions at least, semi-fluid.
(b) Objects having a definite shape. These are chiefly
of two kinds, arms, including hands and fingers, and heads.
The arms and hands are usually flat and look as though they
had been cut out of some white material of a flexible nature.
But there are two or three instances of "plastic" fingers,
well modelled and showing the outline of the nails. The
heads also are sometimes flat, and sometimes appear to be
modelled in bas-relief. The ground colour of all these objects
is white or grey. In the case of the heads the features
LXIX.] The History of Marthe Bemud. 347
frequently present the appearance of being drawn in black on
a white ground.
If these " materialisations " are fraudulently produced
without the help of a confederate, they must either be con-
cealed in the cabinet before the sittings begin, or they must
be brought into the cabinet by the medium on her own person.
The cabinet and the only article of furniture which it con-
tains, the chair on which the medium sits, are always searched
carefully before each sitting. The medium is not in the room
during the search. At the sittings described in Materialisa-
tionsphanomene the chair, which was of wicker, was covered
with narrow strips of black cloth, wound round the various
parts of the chair, the reason given being that the reflexions
from the polished surface of the wicker were confusing in the
photographs. It has been suggested that small objects,
e.g. rolls of paper, concealed between the chair and the cloth,
might have escaped notice in the search. It is conceivable
that fraud of this nature may have been practised on one
or two occasions without detection, but the hypothesis appears
quite inadequate to explain the phenomena as a whole,
especially in vieAV of the fact that in December, 1913, the
cloth was stripped off, and the phenomena were not affected
by the change. We are therefore forced back upon the other
hypothesis, that, in some cases, at least, the medium conceals
the necessary materials on her own person.
She also was carefully searched before each sitting, and
wore clothes specially designed for the occasion,—tights of
black stockinette (hose and stockings in one piece), reaching
to the waist, and a loose black tunic fastening behind. The
whole surface of her body was carefully examined by Dr.
von Schrenck-Notzing (and occasionally by other investigators),
her hair, nose, mouth and ears were also investigated and
sometimes (without any previous warning to the medium) a
gynaecological examination took place. With one very
doubtful exception, into which I need not enter here, nothing
suspicious was ever observed. After the medium had been
examined, the tunic was securely sewn to the tights at the
waist ; it was also sewn closely round the medium's neck and
wrists, so that she could not get access to any part of her body,
except her head and hands, without breaking the threads.
34S Helen de G. Verrall. [part
This method of procedure leaves only one of the natural
orifices of the body free and accessible, namely the mouth,
and this fact, taken in conjunction with certain characteristics
of the observed phenomena, has led some critics to suggest,
as an explanation of the whole case, that the medium possesses
the faculty of " regurgitation." For this theory there is,
prima facie at least, a good deal of evidence, and it deserves
careful consideration.
The question is discussed in detail in Moderne Medium-
forschung, a criticism of Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing's book by
Dr. Mathilde von Kemnitz and Dr. von Gulat-Wellenburg. " A
'
regurgitator,' " says Dr. von Kemnitz (op. cit. p. 12) "is dis-
tinguished from other men, in that without any sensation
of sickness, without retching or sound or trouble of any kind,
he can at any time at will bring up into his mouth the con-
tents of his stomach." Dr. von Gulat-Wellenburg (op. cit.
pp. 63 ff.) gives an account of a remarkable case of " regurgi-
tation " which came under his observation.
The subject, Hermann W., was a man who in 1913 gave
public exhibitions, at which he swallowed as many as twenty
living frogs and fishes, having first drunk a large quantity of
water, held them in his stomach as long as he chose, and brought
them up again alive, without any sound or visible symptom
of vomiting. Hermann W. is sixty-three years old and in
good health. He has had the power of regurgitation from
babyhood and can usually inhibit it, although sometimes
with difficulty. For many years his wife remained in ignor-
ance of his peculiarity. Dr. von Gulat-Wellenburg tried
several experiments with the man, making him swallow a
long roll of chiffon, an india-rubber glove, and several pieces
of thin paper, folded up. All these objects Hermann W.
swallowed and brought up again without any difficulty.
We have information of a family, several members of which
have the same power and could probably develop it with
practice such as Hermann W. has given to it.
There are several points in the evidence upon Eva C.'s
phenomena which suggest " regurgitation," as Dr. von
Schrenck-Notzing himself admits. (See Materialisations-
phanomene, p. 355.) In the first place the materialised
substance has frequently been observed to issue from the
LXIX.] The History of Marthe Beraud. 349
medium's mouth. A particularly clear instance of this is
described in the report of a sitting held on August 21, 1911
(see MaterialisationspTianomene, pp. 179 ff.). The medium's
hands and feet were controlled, and under these circumstances
" a long shred of tissue, which appeared to be in direct con-
nexion with her body, and to be guided by its movements,
showed itself several times in the light." Dr. von Schrenck-
Notzing asked that this material should lay itself in his hand,
and after several attempts his wish was gratified, and a
photograph taken of the phenomenon.
The tissue, which remained motionless for about six seconds,
came out of Eva's mouth, as the stereoscopic print clearly shows,
and ended in my hand. It appeared to be transparent in parts
and flexible like india-rubber. The substance, which lay in my
hand, struck me as heavy in proportion to its size and comparable
to some heavy organic substance (Mesenterium ?) ; it was damp,
cold and slimy, and gave the impression of a long fibrous, irregu-
larly-shaped piece of membrane, of a definite consistencjr and
formation.
Later in the sitting a second photograph was taken :
We see . . . the medium's two hands holding the curtains
and her head thrust out through the opening. . . . The front
part of her face and the substance, issuing from her mouth and held
by it, are outside the curtains.
This is only one of many occasions upon which the
materialised substance was clearly seen to come from the
medium's mouth, and the nature of this substance, as described
by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing (he speaks of it as damp and
slimy), is perfectly consistent with the hypothesis that it has
been swallowed and brought up. Other evidence can also be
adduced to support this contention. At a sitting held on
September 8, 1912 (see Materialisationsphanomene, pp. 333 ff.) :
Strips of the material [were seen] on the bodice of the [medium's]
dress. . . . We ascertained by repeatedly touching her dress,
that the parts where the material had been observed were wet,
as though moistened by a slimy substance. . . . An investigation
of the dress [after the sitting] disclosed on the breast and lap a
group of irregular, whitish-grey spots . . . and in particular a
350 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
long streak below the waist, . . . just where I [Dr. von Schrenck-
Notzing] had seen the bright streak disappear [as described in the
report of the sitting].
The substance of wbich these spots were composed, and
several other very small quantities of the " materialisations,"
obtained at other sittings, were subjected to careful analysis
(cf. Materialisationsphanomene, pp. 439 ff.). The general con-
clusion to be drawn from this analysis appears to be that
the substance is of an organic nature, somewhat resembling
saliva, but not identical with it. So far as the result of the
analysis goes, there seems to be no trace of any substance
which might not be produced by normal, or only slightly
abnormal, secretions from the human body. But one of the
unsatisfactory features of the case is that it has never been
possible to obtain for subsequent analysis any fragment of
what may be called the solid materialisations. Several
attempts have been made (one of them forcible), but all that
has been obtained is a few drops of the moisture by which
these materialisations are frequently accompanied. It may
be, as Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing maintains, that owing to
the nature of the " ideoplastic " process (see below, p. 363) by
which these phenomena are produced, it is impossible to seize
the substance without the risk of serious injury to the medium.
But the facts obviously lend themselves to a more sceptical
interpretation. However that may be, the issuing of the
materialised substance from the medium's mouth, and the
nature of that substance so far as it has been ascertained, lend
colour to the regurgitation theory.
Another point in favour of this theory for those who are
not disposed to believe in the genuineness of the phenomena
is that the medium would then be provided with an excellent
hiding-place, in which she might conceal the materials required
for her performance both before and after it. This is im-
portant, because the fact that careful searching has so far
failed to reveal anything suspicious has been put forward as
a strong point in her favour. Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing
calls attention to this in his introduction :
Since the special gift of Eva C. is confined solely to the sphere
of materialisation, the only objection that can be raised is that
lxix.] The History of Marthe Beraud. 351
the materialised products are somehow fraudulently smuggled
into the sittings. The problem of control is proportionately simple,
since it is concerned only with preventing the introduction, piecing
together, and removal of any substance. None of all the observers
who have attended sittings during these four years has been able
to show that previously prepared pictures or materials have been
brought into the sittings and again removed after use. . . . The
result on this point is and remains negative, that is to say, in favour
of the medium.
The methods of search normally employed by Dr. von
Schrenck-Notzing and his fellow-investigators would, however,
be quite useless on the supposition that the materials had been
swallowed. But attempts were made on several occasions to
detect or preclude regurgitation. At three sittings in May,
1913, the medium's head was enveloped in a net veil, which
was firmly sewn to the neck of her tunic. At the first of these
sittings, on May 2, 1913, a head was seen, which in its general
character resembles phenomena obtained at earlier sittings,
that is to say, the features present the appearance of being
painted or drawn on some flat material, which is creased in
several places and torn at the edges. Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing
was not present at this sitting, which is only cursorily described
in his book, so that one cannot draw any definite conclusions
from it. At the next sitting on May 9, 1913, " at 10.14 p.m.
a white strip, about half a yard long, came through the veil
before our eyes and laid itself upon the upper part of her
[the medium's] left arm." At 10.28 p.m. the phenomenon
disappeared, but unfortunately no record was made as to
the exact manner of its disappearance. A photograph taken
at 10.17 p.m. shows this white material lying across the
medium's left arm with one end in her lap. In general appear-
ance it suggests a strip of very fine butter-muslin.
The third sitting, on May 16, 1913, is worth describing in
some detail, as it presents one very curious incident. The
medium was dressed on this occasion in a close-fitting knitted
costume, made all in one piece and opening only at the wrists
and from the back of the neck to the waist. Her head was
covered with a black net veil sewn to the neck of her dress.
" An attempt to force a way through at any point with a
z
352 Helen de 0. Verrall. [part
sharpened pencil without breaking the stitches was unsuccess-
ful." The mesh of the net was about TL inch square. The
sitters present on this occasion were Dr. Bourbon, Monsieur
de Vesme, Madame Bisson, and Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing.
The general conditions were as usual (see above, p. 344). The
sitting began at 9.5 p.m. and it is noted that the medium's
hands remained visible throughout, holding the curtains.
At 9.9 p.m. she changed the position of her hands, crossing
the forearms, and then replaced them in the usual position,
the right hand holding the right curtain, the left hand the
left curtain. At 9.25 "a white substance appeared hanging
out of her mouth like a great tongue and seemed to be making
its way through the veil." Then a finger was seen at the end
of this tongue and a photograph was taken, which is thus
described by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing :
Eva's mouth is wide open. Part of the veil has been drawn a
little way into the mouth-cavity. One sees plainly that along
the whole width of the lower lip a broad mass ... of a matted,
skein-like nature, is hanging out of the mouth ; it appears to be
issuing from between the tongue and the lower lip. At the end
of this skein of threads hangs a finger of natural size, completely
modelled and cut clean across at the middle of the first phalanx ;
a thread is wound round the second joint uniting it to the mass
[above], with which it is not otherwise connected.
This photograph is reproduced in Materialisationsphano-
mene (p. 418) and corresponds with Dr. von Schrenck's de-
scription, and a side view taken simultaneously is also shown.
For several minutes after the photograph was taken, Dr.
Bourbon and Monsieur de Vesme were able to observe this
finger. Dr. Bourbon, who had the best view of the incident,
thus describes it :
About 9.20 p.m. Eva leant forward towards us and we saw the
" substance " coming out of her mouth and certainly on the inner
side of the veil.
Very shortly afterwards I perceived that " something " was
hanging out of her mouth and moving up and down on her breast ;
it was a finger tied to a cord of the substance with which we are
familiar. The finger touched me and in answer to a question
from one of the observers I said that the finger felt dry. Again
LXIX.] The History of Marthe Beraud. 353
the medium took my hand and placed it under the object ; I felt
and now saw clearly and definitely a finger, which was damp and
cold, fall into the hollow of my hand, where it rolled to and fro
for a few moments ; its size appeared to be that of a full-grown
finger.
The phenomenon vanished.
Eva then allowed me to feel the veil, which was quite wet
through in the region of the mouth as though with saliva. Soon
afterwards with practically no alteration in the position of the
curtains the phenomenon was repeated, the hands remaining in
full light throughout. I could now perceive the finger quite clearly ;
it hung from a grey substance having two or three strands and
moved up and down on the medium's breast. Two or three times
the finger made distinct bending motions and then disappeared
on the spot, as though it had ceased to be illuminated. This
manner of disappearing on the part of the phenomena can often
be observed.
Then Eva rested with her hands laid on her lap, holding the
curtain open as often before. Suddenly I saw something white
between her hands which were about ten centimetres apart. I
pointed this out to my fellow-observers and we ascertained that
we again had to do with a small finger, which lay parallel to those
of the medium. Soon it stretched itself slowly and we perceived
now that it lay on a mass of the above-mentioned substance, united
by a cord with the medium's body. A few minutes afterwards
the whole thing disappeared into the opening of the curtains and
thereupon in spite of our wishes nothing more showed itself.
At the conclusion of the sitting Eva was searched and the
veil examined. There were no holes in it and the stitches
fastening it to the tunic were intact. The " finger," as the
photographs clearly show, is cylindrical in form and about
life-size ; in fact it does in shape very closely resemble a human
finger, showing the slight indentation at the joints and the
outline of the nail. It appears certain therefore that the
" regurgitation " theory will not by itself suffice to account
for this phenomenon. For if the finger came from the
medium's mouth and therefore from inside the veil, it must
have passed through the veil before it could fall into Mon-
sieur Bourbon's hand. Taking into account the respective
354 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
dimensions of the finger and the apertures in the veil,
it seems that the finger could not have passed through the
veil by any normal means. We may assume, if we please,
that it passed through by some supernormal means (and
supposing the finger itself to be of supernormal origin there
is no knowing what it might do in that way), but considering
that it was never seen inside the veil, it is simpler to suppose
that it never was inside. We must then dismiss the " re-
gurgitation " theory as an explanation of this phenomenon
and consider whether there is any other way in which it might
have been fraudulently produced.
We have two hypotheses to choose from : (a) that the finger
and the accompanying " substance " were concealed by the
medium either on her person or in the cabinet, (6) that they
were handed to her by some confederate at or after the begin-
ning of the sitting. I have already discussed above the
cmestion of whether there is any reason to suppose that
Madame Bisson plays the part of a confederate. Here I
need only add that as Madame Bisson was not searched
on this occasion, and held the medium's hands for a few
moments during the process of hypnotisation, the possibility
of her handing something to the medium was not wholly
excluded. On the other hand it is only fair to repeat that
neither on this occasion nor on any other is there a shred of
positive evidence against Madame Bisson, and there is no
doubt that some phenomena do occur without any complicity
on her part. At the same time I would suggest the desir-
ability from the evidential point of view of holding some
sittings in which Madame Bisson did not approach the cabinet
at all, or at least in which there was no contact between her
and the medium. For it is a generally recognised principle
in scientific experiments to vary all the known conditions,
in order to discover which, if any, are essential to the pro-
duction of the observed effects.
With regard to the possibility of the medium having con-
cealed materials of some kind in the cabinet or on her person,
it should be noted that these materials would have to be
easily accessible and more or less ready for use. All the
observers agree that her hands were continually under observa-
tion, holding the curtains. I do not think this statement can
lxix.] The History of Marthe Bemud. 355
be accepted without some reservations (for reasons which
I shall presently explain) ; nevertheless it is hardly possible
under the circumstances that she should have had the
free use of the whole of either hand for more than a very
short time, too short to admit of any complicated process
of extracting or manipulating the materials. That being so,
it is extremely difficult to see where she could have hidden
an object as large as a human finger, so as to escape detection
in the preliminary search. It should be noted that the dress
she was wearing that day left no part of her body accessible
except her head and hands. Supposing the phenomenon
to be fraudulent, the finger was probably attached to the
white mass which accompanied it, before the beginning of
of the sitting. This can be inferred from the argument which
I have just put forward in regard to the very small oppor-
tunity, if any, that she had of using her hands.
Monsieur Bourbon in his report speaks of the " substance
"
coming out of the medium's mouth inside the veil. But since
the veil had been caught up into her mouth, as the photograph
shows, it would be extremely difficult in a rather poor light
to be sure whether the substance was inside or outside. It
is impossible to determine this point with any certainty
from the photograph, and the fact of the veil being thrust
into the mouth is in itself rather suspicious, because this
proceeding would be necessary on the supposition that the
medium, having extracted the material from some place of
concealment, wished to make it appear to be streaming from
her mouth, whereas one does not see why the veil should
be caught up in this way, if the phenomenon is genuine.
It is interesting on this point to compare the phenomena
obtained at the previous sitting. " A white strip," says
Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, " about half a yard long came
through the veil before our eyes and laid itself upon the upper
part of her left arm." Some of the sitters thought they saw
a finger, but Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing did not see it him-
self, nor does the photograph show it. At the conclusion of
the sitting, about sixteen minutes afterwards, the veil was
found to be dry. The photograph, as described above, shows
the " white strip " lying over her left arm with the end in
her lap. (See Maierialisationsphdnomene, p. 412.) The veil
356 Helen cle 0. Verrall. [part
is hanging clown quite clear of her face. No one touched
this object, and therefore there is only the evidence of the
photograph to show the nature of the material of which it was
composed. This material, as I have said, judging from the
photograph, somewhat resembles white butter-muslin. The
substructure is rather filmy in appearance, with coarser
threads running through it. At one point there is apparently
a rent in the stuff. Its position, as it hangs from the medium's
arm to her lap, shows that, although limp, it can to some
extent support its own weight and is not completely fluid.
It does not seem that any material presenting the char-
acteristics above described could be forced through a veil,
having a mesh inch square, by normal means without leaving
obvious traces of its passage. If therefore we accept the
statement that " the white strip came through the veil," it
is difficult to resist the conclusion that we have to do here
with some abnormal phenomenon. This statement is not
open to the same objection that can be raised against the
similar statement made in the report on the later sitting
of May 16, 1913, because on this first occasion the veil was
not caught into the medium's mouth. With the veil hanging
loose, as in the photograph, it would be comparatively easy
to determine whether the substance was coming from the
medium's mouth or not.1
At the same time, considering all the circumstances of
the case, the conditions of light, etc., an observer might
be mistaken on such a point, which brings us up against
one of the inherent difficulties of judging a case of this
sort on written evidence. To the actual observer the words
" I saw it coming from her mouth " may imply many con-
vincing details which they do not actually express. To
some extent no doubt this difficulty is insuperable ; but I
think it might have been partly overcome by a greater
precision in detail, especially upon certain crucial points. The
1
A photograph taken by Dr. von Schrenck with another " materialising
"
medium, Stanislawa P. (see op. cit. pp. 465 ff.) shows a similar white sub-
stance issuing from her mouth through a veil. This substance certainly
appears to be inside the veil as well as outside. In my opinion this is one
of the strongest pieces of evidence for the abnormal nature of the substance
which Dr. von Schrenck has yet published.
LXIX.] The History of Marthe Beraud. 357
report of the particular phenomenon which we are now
considering may be taken as a good example of what I mean :
10.14 p.m. A white strip about half a yard long comes through
the veil before our eyes and lays itself upon the upper part of her
left arm. . . .
10.17 p.m. The strip is lying over the medium's left arm and
the upper part of her thigh. . . .
10.25 p.m. The strip visible again.
10.28 p.m. Eva feels that the phenomenon is about to vanish.
10.30 p.m. Close of the sitting.
It will be seen that between 10.14 p.m. and 10.17 p.m.
the white strip changed its position considerably. Was there
an opportunity for continuous observation during this period
and if so, why are not the movements of the white strip
more precisely described ? Or were the curtains closed
during any part of this time ? At 10.25 p.m. it is said that
the strip was " visible again," impljdng that there had been
an interval during which it had not been visible. Was this
due to the closing of the curtains ? In many of the reports
cpiestions such as these are raised and left unanswered, which
produces an unsatisfactory impression of vagueness on the
mind of the reader. In a case where the whole value of the
evidence depends upon accuracy of observation it is hardly
possible to be too precise.
I have thought it worth while to discuss this particular
group of phenomena in some detail, because they are fairly
representative of the case, and the conditions under which
they were observed make them especially interesting. They
prove, as it seems to me, that regurgitation cannot have
been used in all instances. If therefore these phenomena
were fraudulently produced, the medium must have some
other means besides regurgitation of obtaining access to
materials not known to be in her possession, and whatever
means were employed on this occasion may well have been
employed on other occasions also. I have already indicated
the chief difficulties in the way of supposing that the medium
gets possession of the recpiired materials by any normal means,
and I shall return to this question later. Meanwhile it will be
358 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
convenient to consider what evidence there is as to the nature of
the substance composing what I have called the solid material-
isations. In discussing this question I shall take into account
only those phenomena of which photographs are available.
These materialisations are of two types, flat and modelled,
the latter being less common. The finger seen at the sitting
of May 16, 1913, is a notable instance of this second type
of phenomenon. A somewhat similar finger, similarly bound
round the second joint with a cord-like substance, was
observed on April 1, 1913. The two fingers, however, are not
precisely similar, for whereas the finger seen on May 13, 1913,
was almost completely extended, the finger seen on April 1,
1913, was bent at the second joint. In this connexion it
should be noted that in his account of the sitting of May 16,
1913, Dr. Bourbon says that he saw the finger make " two or
three distinct bending movements."
It is difficult to form any definite hypothesis as to what the
substance could be, of which these fingers are made. They
suggest white plaster casts, but evidently the substance is
not hard, like plaster, because in the photograph taken on
May 16, 1913, it can be seen that the outline of the finger
has yielded a little to the pressure of the cord, by which it
is suspended. Possibly the effect could be produced by some
substance of the nature of plasticine in the hands of a toler-
ably skilful modeller.
A more frequent type of phenomenon consists in flat, white
" pseudo-hands," which look as though they had been cut
out of some material having the consistency of white leather.
These " pseudo-hands " bear only a rude likeness to real
hands and are often incomplete, having only two or three
fingers. It is impossible not to be struck by the fact that
they present exactly the appearance that might be expected
of fraudulent materialisations, and there is evidence to show
that, whatever their origin may be, they are used on occasion
to perform a questionable function. In Dr. von Schrenck-
Notzing's report on the sitting of August 11, 1911, the following
passage occurs :
Out of an agglomerate of the elemental substance, which kept
shifting its position, there was formed in her lap a third clearly
LXIX.] The History of Marihe Beraud. 359
visible flat hand [i.e. in addition to the medium's two hands which
were holding the curtains]. Then I also observed about thirty
centimetres above her head a more completely developed hand.
When the phenomenon repeated itself several times and was again
visible above her head I took a photograph, which is of a very
remarkable character. For in the place of her right hand is the
flat hand which I had repeatedly seen, three fingers and the greater
part of the back of the hand being visible. ... In the same photo-
graph we may observe over Eva's head a remarkable four-cornered
object, irregularly shaped below. We may easily suppose that the
substance is supported by the medium's right hand held above
her head. . . .
After the second photograph [i.e. the photograph described
above] the phenomena continued. A strip of stuff about thirty
centimetres wide and half a yard long Avas waved at us from behind
the curtain, but immediately withdrawn. Finally there appeared
coming from the left a hand fully developed in all respects with
five fingers and a forearm (the medium's hand 1
?) whilst Eva's
two hands (the pseudo-hand 1
?) lay visible on her lap. This appear-
ance made a threatening motion, remained visible for four or five
seconds and was then withdrawn. . . . The same hand touched
the back of my left hand and pressed the tip of its finger against
my skin so that I clearly felt the nail (obviously Eva's hand 1
). . . .
Then the sitting ended. Considering the result of the photo-
graph, the cpuestion must remain open whether one of the two
hands which lay on her knees was not in these [last] phenomena
also merely the appearance of a hand, so that on this assumption
the frankly material character of the final phenomena was pro-
duced with the help of one of the medium's hands.
Two things are clear from this report. In the first place
there can be little doubt that the phenomena on this occasion
were at least partly fraudulent. The photograph shows
that the pseudo-hand was very cunningly placed to simulate
the real hand, and the curtain on that side is gripped together
1
The words in round brackets are part of Dr. von Sehrenck-Notzing's
report; they were, I imagine, added in consequence of the disclosures made
by the photograph, the passage without the bracketed words representing
what was actually observed at the sitting. I draw this inference from Dr.
von Sehrenck-Notzing's words :
" Considering the result of the photograph."
(See above.)
360 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
(probably between the medium's knee and the arm of her
chair) in such a way that in a rather poor light it would appear
to be gripped by the pseudo-hand. Recourse was apparently
had to this form of deception on at least two other occasions
(see Materialisationsphanomene, pp. 275 and 313).
In the second place it is clear that until the photograph was
developed, Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing did not clearly realise the
deceptive nature of the phenomena. He was under the im-
pression at the time of the sitting that the medium's two hands
were "visible on her lap,"' when a third fully-developed hand was
seen. It was this occasion that I had in view when I said that the
statement as to her two hands being continually under observa-
tion could only be accepted with some reservations. She
could not deceive the camera, but she could apparently deceive
the observers. Taking all the evidence into account, and
especially the more stringent conditions as to the control
of the hands which were enforced at the later sittings, I do
not think that this device can have been used at all frequently.
But the fact that it was used once at least with partial
success is damaging, as regards both the honesty of the
medium and the trustworthiness of the evidence concerning
her phenomena.
These pseudo-hands are frequently accompanied by shape-
less masses of what Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing calls " the
elemental substance." I have compared this substance to
butter-muslin, but it is of a curiously variable character and
presents one of the most perplexing features of the case. The
most important advance that could be made in the evidence
would be to obtain further knowledge as to the nature of
this substance. But the investigators are seriously hampered
by the fact that the medium strongly objects to any attempt
to seize the materialisations or to handle them without warn-
ing, alleging,—whether truly or no,—that such attempts have
a damaging effect upon her health. Nevertheless, one such
attempt has been made, at a sitting held on August 30, 1912.
Dr. Kafka thus describes the incident (Materialisations-
phanomene, p. 345)
:
. . . Next a thin brownish strip appeared on the right side of her
neck, hanging out of her dress. It was about three inches long
LXIX.] The History of Marihe Bemud. 361
and recalled in its structure a coarse porous tissue. This strip
did not change its appearance during the three or four seconds
that the light [an electric torch] was on it. At Dr. von Schrenck's
request I snatched at the substance ; the medium cried out in
protest and made violent movements of her whole body and
especially of her neck, so that I seized nothing. I also felt no
moisture under my hand.
This incident is interesting as far as it goes, but it is far
from being conclusive. The materialisation seen on this
occasion was very small, and, as Dr. Kafka himself suggests,
the violent movements of the medium might easily have
prevented him from laying his hand on it. The failure of a
similar attempt to seize a large mass of substance would have
afforded much better evidence of supernormality. I think
that the efforts of those who are investigating these pheno-
mena should now be mainly directed to seizing a portion of
this substance, or at least to demonstrating, far more clearly
than has been done yet, that it cannot be seized. The ex-
periment made on August 30, 1912, did not apparently do
the medium any permanent injury. Could not this experi-
ment be repeated at intervals, especially at moments when
a large mass of substance is visible ?
Of all the phenomena associated with Eva C. the most
sensational are the more or less realistic representations of
human heads, which appear at the sittings, some being flat,
others modelled in relief. In some cases it is difficult to be
sure whether the head is flat or modelled, but on several
occasions photographs were taken simultaneously from differ-
ent positions, and the proportions of the materialised object
thus demonstrated. (See Materialisationsphanomene, pp. 283 ff.
and 311 ff.
1
) The heads are never completely modelled ;
they are masks in bas-relief, and the modelling shows as a
rule very little technical skill. The features are often dis-
torted, especially the nose. The most realistic of these modelled
faces is the one which appeared at the sitting of November
1
By the courtesy of Dr. von Schrenek-Notzinu: I have also had the oppor-
tunity of examining some stereoscopic photographs, in which the dimensions
of these heads can be more clearly seen.
362 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
22, 1911 (Materialisationsphdnomene, p. 216). Even here
there is distortion, but rather as though a good model had
been roughly used and knocked out of shape.
The flat heads, on the other hand, display considerable
skill in draughtsmanship ; as Dr. vow Schrenck points out
himself, they present the appearance of " artistic " productions,
drawn or painted on some thin pliant material, such as silk
or linen. In at least one instance (the Monna Lisa of Material-
isationsphxinomene, p. 239 1
) the lighting of the medium's
face is inconsistent with the lighting of the materialised head,
proving that the photograph shows us in one case the actual
shadows caused by the magnesium flash by which it was taken,
and in the other only a representation of shadows already
existing as an integral part of the " materialisation." Many
of the heads show clear traces of having been creased or
folded, and in some cases the edges are torn.
These heads are chiefly interesting as affording evidence
of a surprising and most suspicious nature as to the source
from which some of them were derived. A photograph taken
at the sitting of November 27, 1912 (Materialisationsphano-
mene, p. 367) shows the medium with a mass of some white
substance fastened to one side of her face. On the back of
this substance, as shown by a simultaneous photograph taken
from inside the cabinet, there appear the letters M I R 0 in
lar^e capitals. The explanation of this curious phenomenon
given by the medium at the next sitting is of the flimsiest.
On the other hand, in a series of articles published in January
and February, 1914, in the Psychic Magazine,2
it is pointed out
that these capital letters bear a very close resemblance to the
lettering on the cover of the French illustrated paper Le Miroir,
and that some of the heads seen at Eva's sittings are obviously
derived from illustrations which have been published on the
front page of Le Miroir. Two clear instances of this may
be seen on pp. 386 and 402 of Materialisationsphdnomene.
With the first of these two photographs, taken at the sitting
of January 19, 1913, may be compared the portrait of Presi-
1
An enlarged and much clearer reproduction of this photograph appears
in Madame Bisson's book Les Phenomenes dits de Materialisation, p. 101.
2
A periodical which, in spite of its English title, is French, and published
in Paris.
LXIX.] The History of Marthe Beraud. 363
dent Wilson, published in Le Miroir on November 17, 1912,
and with the second, taken at the sitting of March 6, 1913,
may be compared the portrait of President Poincare, published
in Le Miroir on April 21, 1912. In both cases the features
have been to some extent altered or blotted out, but there
can be no reasonable doubt (nor indeed is it denied by
Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing 1
) that these '"materialisations"
are in some way derived from the Miroir portraits. On the
other hand a careful comparison of details makes it clear
that at least in some cases the " materialisations " do not
consist of the actual paper sheets torn from Le Miroir, because
there are slight discrepancies which no amount of " touching-
up " will explain. (For the details of this evidence, which
it is impossible to give here, see Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing's
Der Kampf um die Materialisationsphanomene.) The heads
at the sittings present the appearance of a rough tracing or
copy of the Miroir portraits, deliberately botched in various
ways.
Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing brings forward evidence to show
that there are also discrepancies between the capital letters
observed on November 27, 1912, and the Miroir title ; but
the evidence on this point does not seem to me conclusive, if
allowances are made for the possible effect of perspective, slight
crumpling of the paper, etc. Considering that the letters are
on the back of the " materialisation," i.e. they were not
visible to the observers, but only appeared in a photograph
taken from inside the cabinet, it is natural to suppose, if we
assume fraud, that they were there by an oversight on the
part of the medium, and were not, so to speak, intended for
exhibition.
To explain these phenomena Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing
puts forward the theory of " ideoplasma." These heads are
" materialised dream-images," " ephemeral, externalised and
in some cases recognisable precipitates from the medium's
psychical impressions and recollections." The medium, accord-
1
See Der Kampf um die Materialisationsphanomene, p. 114: "It may be
objected that the cumulative force of these pieces of evidence [i.e. the various
points of resemblance between the " materialisations " and the Miroir
pictures], corroborating one another, is too great to be explained by pure
chance-coincidence ; an opinion in which I must concur."
364 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
ing to this theory, has seen the Miroir portraits and out of
the impression which they have left upon her mind she is able,
by some strange creative process, to make material repro-
ductions of her thoughts, which, when the creative force
ceases to work, are reabsorbed into her body. It is useless
perhaps to speculate as to how this obscure ideoplastic faculty
might be expected to act, but it is surely remarkable that
the medium's " materialised dream image " should adorn
President Wilson with a black eye and an alien moustache,
whilst reproducing almost exactly the pattern of his
tie !
The burden of proof in regard to this ideoplastic theory,
as in regard to all supernormal theories, is upon those
who uphold it, and obviously a very broad basis of evi-
dence will be required. But the evidence put forward
by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing is almost entirely negative :
the medium could not have had the necessary materials in
her possession ; she could not have manipulated them in
the necessary way (owing to the close watch kept upon her
hands) ; the observed effects could not be produced by any
of the normal processes, which the medium might be sup-
posed to employ. That there is considerable force in Dr.
von Schrenck-Notzing's contentions, no careful reader of his
book will deny, but he has against him a dead weight of
probability which is hard to move.
The case is very complex, and discussion of its various
features might be indefinitely prolonged. But since the object
of this review is to set before the reader, so far as is possible,
an estimate of the evidence as a whole, I think that I shall best
serve that object if I now briefly summarise what seem to
me the chief points for and against the genuineness of the
phenomena, and finally state the general conclusions to which
the evidence seems to point.
The Case against the Phenomena.
(1) Some of the heads observed during the sittings have
been traced to a French illustrated paper, Le Miroir ; these
heads present the appearance of being drawn in black upon
white paper or linen ;
upon two occasions a " rustling as of
soft paper " was heard just before and just after the appear-
i.x ix.
;
The History of Marthe Beraud. 365
ance of a head (see Materialisationsphanomene, pp. 366 and
372). On one occasion the letters MIRO appeared, in a type
closely resembling that which is used on the title sheet of
Le Miroir.
(2) Except on one occasion no determined effort has been
made to obtain any direct positive evidence as to the nature
of the substance of which these heads and similar phenomena
consist. This is explained by saying that attempts to obtain
such evidence are injurious to the medium, but the chief
authority for this statement is the medium herself, who, if
her phenomena are fraudulent, has an obvious interest in
making it.
(3) There is some evidence of attempted fraud on the part
of the medium by the substitution of a faked hand for her
own, which was thereby left free to play various tricks upon
the observers. This fact, taken in conjunction with the
medium's previous record, must awaken grave suspicions of
her honesty.
(4) The sittings take place in a dimly-lighted room. The
medium sits in a cabinet which is not lighted from within ;
the cabinet is closed in front by two curtains, which are usually
under the medium's control. She can open or close them at
her own pleasure. In many cases the curtains were opened
only when the " materialisation " was fully " developed,"
and closed again immediately afterwards. These conditions
obviously lend themselves to the manipulation of fraudulently
prepared materials.
(5) It has been suggested that the medium possesses the
faculty of regurgitation and that she swallows rolls of paper,
muslin, etc., which she uses to produce the so-called material-
isations. This theory is supported by various observations
which have been made as to the nature of the materialisa-
tions and the conditions under which they are produced,
especially by the fact that they are frequently seen issuing
from the medium's mouth.
The Case for the Phenomena.
(1) It is difficult to see by what normal process the medium
could have prepared the various objects which have been
seen at the sittings, especially those which are modelled in
366 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
relief. She has never been observed to make any suspicious
purchases, nor have any suspicious materials been found in
her possession.
(2) A deliberate attempt was made on one occasion to
secure a piece of the materialised substance, but the attempt
failed. It is suggested that the failure, was due to the abnormal
nature of the substance, which had been reabsorbed into the
medium's body. Evidence of this kind might be of great
value if it could be strengthened by repetition, but one cannot
attach much importance to a single incident.
(3) At the later sittings the medium held the curtains with
her hands all the time. Even when the curtains were closed
part of her hands was visible. The observation of the hands
was thereby made easier and the medium had proportion-
ately less opportunity of using them for the production of
phenomena. There seems no doubt that phenomena are
frequently produced without the use of the hands.
(4) At a sitting held on September 11, 1912, the curtains
remained open throughout and phenomena of an interesting
and remarkable character were nevertheless obtained. This
is an important sitting, to which I shall refer again.
(5) The regurgitation theory will not cover the whole case,
because on three occasions (see above, pp. 351 ff.) the medium's
head was enveloped in a veil and " materialisations " were
nevertheless obtained outside the veil. Moreover, at a sitting
held on November 26, 1913, with the express purpose of
testing this theory, the medium was given an emetic immedi-
ately after the sitting and the contents of the stomach were
analysed, but nothing suspicious was found. The circum-
stances are thus described by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing (see
Der Kampf um die Materialisationsphanomene, pp. 9 ff.) :
The curtains were open when the phenomena began.
Between 9 and 9.10 p.m. a white substance issued with a flowing
motion from the medium's mouth without any assistance from
her hands or knees. . . . The length of the strip was about fifty
centimetres, its width about twenty centimetres. It laid itself
upon the breast of her dress, broadened out and formed a white
head-like disc, of life size and with the profile to the right. Even
after the magnesium flash (used for the purpose of taking a photo-
LXIX.] The History of Marthe Beraud. 367
graph) the curtain remained wide open. At the same moment
I turned an electric torch upon the image, which now formed a
folded strip and went slowly back into the medium's mouth, which
remained visible till the close of the sitting, 9.20 p.m.
The emetic was administered at once and took effect at
9.30 p.m. The contents of the stomach, which were analysed,
showed no trace of anything but fragments of partly digested
food. The medium's mouth was examined both before and
after the sitting, so that it seems clear that the substance
seen on this occasion came from her throat or stomach and
was of a nature to be rapidly assimilated. None of the artificial
products which it has been suggested that she may use, e.g.
paper, silk, linen, etc., answer to this description, nor, judging
by the appearance of the phenomenon on this occasion, does
it seem to me necessary to suppose that any material of that
kind was used. There is no question here of a clearly-
defined " portrait head " but only of a " head-like disc."
I hesitate to put forward a theory which requires medical
knowledge for its support, but it seems to me worth consider-
ing whether the case might not be explained by sup-
posing that the medium is possessed of some abnormal power
of bodily secretion (mcluding probably the power of re-
gurgitation), which she supplements by fraud. On this
hypothesis I should say, roughly speaking, that whilst the
more definite phenomena, heads, hands, etc., are fraudulent,
the phenomenon witnessed at the sitting just described and
the many similar phenomena witnessed on other occasions
are to be explained by this supposed power of secretion.
There is, in fact, a good deal of evidence suggesting that the
medium is able to secrete substances of various kinds from her
body in an abnormal way. In particular, I would refer the
reader to the sitting of September 11, 1912 (Materialisations-
phiinomene, pp. 339 ff.). Reports of the phenomena witnessed
at this sitting (too long to quote here) are given not only
by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, but also by Dr. Kafka and
Count Pappenheim. Dr. Kafka's report is especially inter-
resting, and suggests that the secretion issued not only from
the medium's mouth, but also from her breasts. Reports of
secretions from the navel and other parts of the body are
2a
368 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
given by Madame Bisson (see MaterialisationspTianomene, pp.
192, 220 ff), the medium being on these occasions completely
naked. It is unfortunate that, as regards the evidence for
these interesting and remarkable phenomena, we should be
dependent on the report of a single observer. For obvious
reasons the unsupported testimony of any one person can
never be accepted without reservation, and moreover Madame
Bisson, being a personal friend of the medium, and convinced
of the genuineness of her phenomena, cannot be expected to
regard them from an entirely critical and detached point of
view.
In many cases we may suppose that the secretion is of a
fluid and foam-like character ; in others (as e.g. the sitting of
November 26, 1913, see above, p. 366) we must assume that it
may become partially solidified. I am aware that this theory
is open to serious objections and I put it forward very tenta-
tively. It has at least the merit that it would explain some
of the most perplexing features of the case, without straining
our credulity to the extent to which it must be strained, if we
are to accept the supposed " ideoplastic " reproductions from
the illustrated press.
There is very little positive evidence of fraud in regard
to Eva C.'s phenomena (I have referred above to the occasional
substitution of pseudo-hands) ;
nevertheless, as regards the
Miroir portraits and other kindred phenomena, the balance
of probability appears to be on the side of fraud, although
I must admit that I am quite unable to put forward
any coherent theory as to the particular method or methods
employed. But on the other hand, if we suppose that the
whole case is purely fraudulent, we should be forced, as it
seems to me, to make all the following assumptions :
(a) that the phenomena are ill observed and carelessly
reported ;
(b) that the medium possesses the faculty of regurgitation ;
(c) that she was able on several occasions to elude the
preliminary search and conceal materials of various kinds,
either in the cabinet or on her person ;
and, almost certainly,
(d) that she had in some cases a confederate, at least in the
preparation of the materials, if not in the actual production
of the phenomena.
LXIX.] The History of Martlie Beraud. 369
I have tried to indicate in a general way with what degree
of probability these various assumptions may be made. But
no review can enable any reader to form an independent judg-
ment of the case ; for this a detailed study of the published
reports, or personal observation of the phenomena, would be
required.
Personally I incline to the opinion that there is evidence in
this case of some abnormal faculty, round which have gathered
fraudulent accretions of various kinds. I am aware that the
theory of physical secretion which I have put forward above
needs personal observation to substantiate it and may be
wholly inadequate to explain the facts. I put it forward, as
I have said, for consideration, because, after reading Dr. von
Schrenck's report, I find myself in great perplexity,—unable
to conclude either that the phenomena are wholly fraudulent,
or that he has proved his case for the ideoplastic theory.
Before a solution of the problem can be reached, further
investigation will be necessary under the most stringent
conditions which the medium can be induced to accept. In-
deed, unless she will accept more stringent conditions
than have hitherto been imposed, I doubt whether any
solution is possible. Meanwhile, a debt of gratitude is
owing to Madame Bisson and to Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing
for the patience and industry which they have devoted to
a most laborious task.
370 Sidney Wilkinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. [part
SPECIAL MEDICAL SUPPLEMENT.
VIII.
RECENT EXPERIENCE IN HYPNOTIC PRACTICE.
By Sidney Wilkinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.
(Hon. Physician to the Liverpool Psycho-Therapeutic Clinic,
Member of the Psycho-Medical Society).
During 23 years in which I have employed hypnosis in medical
practice, I have had experience of all classes of cases, and it
seems to me amazing that medical men have such a power at
their disposal which they never employ, and withal one that
is so easy to use.
Take, for instance, a case of pneumonia with all the accom-
paniments of parched mouth, dry skin, sleeplessness, and pain.
I have seen patients respond almost immediately to the
suggestion of sleep, waking at regular intervals as instructed,
to take their supplies of nourishment and medicine for which
an artificial desire has been induced. They have looked for-
ward to the nightly visits to receive suggestions, with a
confidence unequalled in any other form of treatment. By
the same means pain has been relieved and the skin moistened.
We are acquainted also with the benefits bestowed for the
relief of drink and drug habits, neuralgia, asthma, obsessions,
stammering, painful self-consciousness, hysteria, and a hundred
other maladies in which suggestions are applicable.
As a conservation of work, hypnosis has been used in institu-
tions for mental cases, where attentive rapport has been
established between patient and attendant, so that on the
smallest movement of the patient during sleep, the attendant
quicldy awakes, though unaffected by noises of a much more
disturbing nature.
lxix.] Rece?it Experience in Hypnotic Practice. 371
I had a somewhat amusing experience on these lines, in a
lady patient who suffered from nervousness and insomnia.
I suggested ability to sleep soundly, but in order that a
young and somewhat delicate child might not suffer from
inattention, I included a protective suggestion of rapport, that
whilst sleeping soundly through aU other movements and
noises, she would be alert to any movement that the child
might make. The night following was broken by the boy
developing an attack of croup, and true to the letter of my
instructions, the mother awoke, but only to fulfil the duty
of rousing her husband, and thereafter being content, she
turned over and slept soundly through the remainder of the
night.
In spite of the evidence in favour of the employment of
psycho-therapeutic methods in selected cases, and even in
some degree for many organic diseases, it still seems to be
necessary to offer some sort of apology for its employment.
It does not occur to us to justify the use of radiography,
electricity, and other forms of treatment that are far newer.
Is it because psychic treatment is produced by an agency
that cannot be seen, and felt, and measured ? Yet its results
are not infrequently characterised by extreme brilliancy.
There is no doubt, however, that the old conservatism is
rapidly dying down, and that medical men, though they may
be slow to see that a case is a suitable one, and try every other
means first, are nevertheless recommending patients in in-
creasing numbers, and teachers are more and more acknowledg-
ing the merits of psychic healing in their clinics. The day is
rapidly dawning when hospitals will not be considered com-
plete without psycho-therapeutic specialists upon their staff.
I invite your attention to some interesting points occurring
in three or four of my patients during treatment, but I would
like it to be clearly realised that though I made some simple
tests in the cases recorded, these are special instances, and that
they have been done with the patients' full consent and
knowledge. They are a few patients chosen from many, and
it must not be inferred that a custom is made of thus experi-
menting. Patients must be treated, not tested, and this is a
principle that I invariably adopt, for I am convinced that
there would be no greater deterrent to patients accepting
372 Sidney Wilkinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. [part
treatment than the thought that they were destined to play
a part in some entertainment.
The first case I shall record, I will refer to as E. P., a man of
47 years, whose employment was amongst horses.
I was asked to see him as a hospital patient.
As might be expected from his calling, he was a rugged type
of man, and scarcely one who might be expected to develop
neurotic symptoms, and less so, since there was no thought of
compensation to accentuate his malady.
Two years prior to my seeing him he was thrown from a
horse whilst jumping a hedge, and lay for some time untended
in the ditch. He had some indefinite injury to the head, and
pains in the hip which were probably of a rheumatic character
from damp and exposure. Instead of improving, his symp-
toms increased, and perhaps the more because, as a well-known
servant, he was frequently visited and sympathised with by
his master's friends.
Finally he drifted into hospital, where he had been an inmate
for two months before I was asked by the physician in attend-
ance to see him, as the conclusion had been arrived at that his
pains were chiefly of a functional nature. During all this
time he had been confined to bed.
My interviews with him were in the X-ray room, to which
he was carried in a lifting chair, and whilst still seated in the
chair and with a ruby, cell-charging lamp for illumination, an
attempt was made to induce hypnosis. This was successful
to a deep degree, on the first trial, and after my suggestions
were concluded, he was carried back still asleep, with instruc-
tions not to awake until the nurse came round to him with
his dinner. He was much tickled on awaking to find himself
back in bed with no memory of the transition.
Next day the process was repeated, with this variation, that
he was now informed that he could walk back to the ward
with light assistance. In this he was quite successful, negotia-
ting on the way two nights of steps. This was the first time
in two years that he had been upon his feet. His fellow
patients exhibited keen interest in this experiment.
Although success had thus far met our efforts, the pain had
not greatly abated, and I wondered if I could expedite recovery
lxix.] Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice. 373
by temporarily blotting out from consciousness the memory of
the accident and attendant effects.
To bring about this end I created a dissociation by sugges-
tion, and brought about a change of personality in which E. P.,
the man who had sustained injury and had lived in the hospital
as a patient, had no part. The proposal was that he should
become John Jones, who was engaged as a hospital attendant,
who had no knowledge of E. P. and his accident. He con-
tinued to occupy the same bed, and understood that he was
thus situated the better to assist in the ward duties. Mean-
while his case card was removed and letters bearing his rightful
name were withheld. It was understood by all concerned
that he was to be addressed as Jones, and work was to be
found for him.
All went well for about six hours, and he worked quite indus-
triously, but at five o'clock the same evening, when the house
surgeon addressed him as Jones, he said :
" You have been
having a fine game with me ; I know who I am now." At
the same time he continued to assist in the ward work,
though it was apparent that he limped, and he still complained
of pain.
On the following morning I repeated my suggestions of
altered personality, and again he responded. Realising that
he returned to normal at 5 p.m. on the previous day, I
rang up the hospital at that hour and had the man brought
to the telephone, when I at once addressed him as Jones. The
ruse was quite successful, and the response as unexpected.
Asked how he was doing in his new place, he assured me
that he was all right, but added, " What are you going to
give me for this job ?
" I satisfied him on the point, and he
then complained of pain in his hip as though he was then
experiencing it for the first time, and offered as a satisfac-
tory explanation that it was caused by looking after two
pneumonia patients, whom he described as " them two
lunatics," who had kept him awake all night. This was a
self-imposed task, and was evidently a reason invented to
account for what he believed to be a new pain.
As is well known, patients frequently invent reasons in this
manner to account for phenomena which they cannot other-
wise explain.
374 Sidney Wilkinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. [part
He was at this time wearing an old dressing-gown, and fear-
ing that it might prove suggestive of invalidism to him, I told
him that I wished him to wear a white coat, whilst on duty,
like those worn by the house doctors. For this he demanded
extra payment. His cupidity was growing apace. I kept him
in this state for three days, at the expiration of which time I
was obliged to resynthetise the dissociation for the peace of
the administration. He had become so strict in his zealous
attendance upon the pneumonia patients, that no one was
permitted to speak above a whisper for fear of waking them,
and a nurse was severely reprimanded for sneezing. So for
the smooth working of the ward Jones had to become E. P.
once more, and was allowed to receive letters and friends, but
forgetfulness of the accident was still suggested.
A rapid diminution of pain ensued, walking became more
certain and easy, and in fourteen days he was discharged from
hospital, and during the next two weeks, prior to returning to
work, he several times walked two miles from his home to
visit me. In one month from the commencement of treat-
ment he returned to a former employment, which consisted in
breaking-in horses.
On the last occasion upon which I saw him, he complained
of a blank period in his memory that had been produced since
he had been under me. This was the state that I had pur-
posely left when I restored him to his normal personality, so
that his recovery might not be retarded by disadvantageous
recollections. Now that the end had been gained, I released
this inhibition and placed him at his ease.
There was in this case a psychic trauma as well as the somatic
one, the symptoms of the latter continuing to be reproduced as
reverberations. No doubt I should have eventually succeeded
in arriving at a satisfactory termination of the case by the
use of simple suggestions, but I am satisfied that by causing
a displacement of memory I was able to eliminate the pain
more effectually, so that exercise might be encouraged with
its concomitant improvements in circulation and muscular
development, both of which were vital for recovery.
The next case I will refer to as Miss A., a dressmaker,
aged 28.
lxix.] Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice. 375
It was one of conversion hysteria, the chief symptoms of
which were spasmodic wry neck and spinal curvature, the
muscular contractions being of a very coarse and distressing
nature. Here, again, the duration was two years, with abso-
lute confinement to bed in the last four months. Feeding and
other attentions were rendered very difficult on account of
the incessant movements of the head and shoulders, and a
good deal of pain was experienced from the same cause.
Fig. 1, Plate A, shows how severe was the torticollis, but
fails to show it at its worst, for with each movement the head
was jerked still lower on to the shoulder. Life was a misery in
spite of the unremitting endeavours of her medical attendant.
Treatment was commenced on April 16, 1912, and on the
following day the first photograph was taken, at the patient's
home. She was barely able to stand for the few moments
necessary for this procedure, and the photograph was practically
an instantaneous one.
On a first attempt, I was fortunately able to induce hypnosis
to the fourth degree, and there were in all twenty-eight treat-
ments, though after six or seven sessions the patient was able
to go out and take short walks.
On the second day I made an attempt to resurrect the
causative effect, and her mother being present, I induced a
deep stage of hypnosis, and placed a pencil in her hand and a
sheet of paper before her, and I instructed her to write answers
to my questions, and for a facsimile of this writing the reader
must refer to Plate A, Fig. 3.
In answer to my first enquiry, viz. what circumstance she
associated with her first symptoms, she wrote " Fright."
Next, I asked who frightened her, and she wrote " Man."
" When ?
" " Night, May, 1910." " How did he frighten
you ?
" " Tried to take my life." " In what way ?
"
" Poison."
I showed her this paper on awaking, and she expressed great
relief. She felt freed from a burden, only the skeleton of
which she remembered, and the details of which she had con-
fided to no one, her mother not excepted. Free conversation
was invited and various memories recalled.
It was, of course, a love affair, and the man showing mental
symptoms the engagement was abandoned, and he tried to
376 Sidney Wilkinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. [part
take revenge by an actual attempt upon her life, and by
other forms of persecution, all of which had been zealously
kept secret.
This is a case that would doubtless have benefited by Freud's
method of psycho-analysis, but fortunately I was able to obtain
all the associations I needed by the quicker route, because she
proved a good hypnotic subject.
So far as the case was concerned, my work was practically
ended, and it only remained for me to continue my suggestions
for a time, and to give some general directions for exercises
designed to cure the scoliosis, in order to obtain the result as
seen in Fig. 2, Plate A.
From the point of interest to this Society, however, the case
is still of value.
Wishing to test the power of the unfettered sub-conscious
mind to recall very early events, I hypnotised Miss A. and
asked her to tell me of one of her earliest recollections. She
recalled a circumstance which she told me occurred at the age
of three years. She remembered a scene at a bridge under
which a large volume of water flowed, and which she was
afraid to cross. Her mother corroborated this, and supplied
other details, such as the child's screams and the people who
were attracted thereby.
I urged her to try further back, and I asked her what she
could recall in connection with her second birthday. I had
no reason for asking for this particular day, except that
a birth date is a prominent day in a child's life, one that
could be more easily remembered than any other date.
After naming this day, I realised that the second birthday
might be rather ambiguous, and might as easily refer to the first
anniversary as the second, according to whether the actual birth-
day was included in the count or not, so I made the question
specific by adding, the birthday when you were two years old.
She informed me at once that she was ill. Her mother
subsequently recalled this fact. Giving her a pencil and
paper, I asked her to draw a square to represent the sick
room, and to place initials corresponding to fireplace, window,
door and cot (Fig. 4, Plate A). The result is not a work of
art, for the eyes were closed and the finish of the square did
not correspond with the commencement.
lxix.] Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice. 377
If I had thought at that time that I was likely to publish the
case, I should have allowed the girl to open the eyes, and make
a more finished sketch, but still this was not a test of drawing
ability, but of memory, the details of which were confirmed
again by the mother. In the waking state the girl had no
memory of these events, and had even no knowledge of the
house she had then lived in.
I have since ascertained from Dr. Francis Scott that he had a
case where memory was pushed back to the third month, and
a pattern of the wall paper was sketched and afterwards veri-
fied to be correct. I have also met a girl in her early teens who
can remember an incident in her first year, in her waking state.
I nevertheless cite this for what it is worth, with the comment
that there is a difference between the early memory of a child
who has just entered her teens, and that of a young woman in
her twenty-ninth year.
I next experimented Avith her for the post-hypnotic fulfilment
of a suggestion to a specified number of minutes.
On June 14 (1912), at 11.45, I induced hypnosis, and sug-
gested that she should come to my house in 4455 minutes.
She had never been tried with a time test, nor had she been
to my house, though she was acquainted with the ferry-boats
by which she travelled, and she knew what time to allow
between the ferry and the Square in which I live.
The journey involved the following modes of transit. A walk
to a tram-car occupying about fifteen minutes, tram ten to
fifteen minutes, ferry-boat to Liverpool, change of steamers,
and ferry-boat to Birkenhead, and finally a walk of five
minutes' duration. The journey was therefore somewhat com-
plicated, but nevertheless she was on my doorstep as the clock
was striking two on June 17th, i.e., exactly in 4455 minutes.
I presume there must have been an element of good luck in
arriving exactly to the minute, since it would be impossible to
judge the precise time that it would take to complete the
journey. She must have been to a great degree dependent
upon the timing of the steamers, and her only chance of
lingering or making up time would be in the last five minutes'
walk to my house. Her sister accompanied her, and they
both stated that there was no special effort made to keep a
scheduled time. She had a feeling that she must come about
378 Sidney Wilkinson, M.R.C.8., L.R.C.P. [part
that time, without having a specified hour in her mind. It
seemed more a question of " beating time " than judging by
a clock.
The question will naturally arise, was the command given in
the presence of any one who would instruct and prompt her ?
The mother was present at the time of the suggestion, but
I had the assurance of both that no assistance was given, that
nothing whatever was told the girl on waking. The mother
was as interested in the experiment as I was, and, moreover,
she is incapable of making a calculation in minutes which run
into thousands, as is also the girl herself. The girl only
knew at the completion of the test that she had come to me
in response to a suggestion. No test had been given pre-
viously to guide her.
In this experiment I had purposely given a number of
minutes which I had previously estimated would mature at a
time when I would be at home to receive her, but in the next
experiment I named the minutes at random.
Having hypnotised her in my Liverpool consulting room,
on July 1st, 1912, I read a paragraph from a book which lay
upon my table :
—
" An old and loyal patient consulted me one morning. She
complained of being run down and languid, and of troublesome
indigestion. I prescribed a medicine and a course of treatment
which I assured her would put her right."
I read it a second time, and told her that in 4910 minutes, no
matter what might be occupying her attention at the time, she
would write it down in full and then make a note of the time.
To enable her to do this, I instructed her to carry a pencil
and a piece of paper with her. I awoke her, and after she
had left I made a calculation and found that the suggestion
would fall due on the fourth night at 3.50. The sister was
present on this occasion, but assures me that she gave no
assistance, and, moreover, did not know herself when the
calculation would work out.
On the fifth day the patient duly called upon me, bringing
the slip of paper with the sentence written out almost word
for word, and endorsed 2.20 a.m. The only variation in the
wording is as follows : for " She complained of being run
down and languid, and of troublesome indigestion," she had
x,xix.] Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice. 379
written, " She complained of feeling tired, languid, and suffer-
ing from indigestion."
I will undertake to say that not one reader can repeat the
first ten words of this sentence at this juncture, yet after four
and a half days the paragraph on a first attempt is almost
correct throughout. It will be observed that there is an
error of 90 minutes between the estimated time and the actual
completion of 4910 minutes. The experiment is wonderful
enough as it stands, but it must be explained that the girl
had no clock in her bedroom, and the question arises whether
the sub-conscious reckoning was at fault, or the guess which
the waking mind made of the time of carrying out the
suggestion.
From the former experience I lean to the latter theory.
I questioned Miss A. and her sister, who sleeps with her, as
to what occurred on that night. It appears that on retiring
to bed that evening Miss A. took to bed with her the piece of
paper and a pencil, it being the first time she had taken this
precaution to provide a pencil, in the preceding four days,
though she did not know why she did this. Both were
soundly asleep, when the sister was awakened by Miss A.
sitting up, and exhibiting a strange and confused demeanour.
She complained of feeling cold and faint, but rose from bed,
and in the dark fulfilled her task, when she at once became more
comfortable, returned to bed and slept.
The next case is interesting as showing that when I started
a train of thoughts, the movements that subsequently followed
were self-devised in accordance with the subject's foreknow-
ledge of what is usual under the circumstances.
The patient was a boy aged 1 1 years. He had been frightened
by an infuriated bullock charging him, and for many months
he had been afflicted with epileptiform convulsions of daily
occurrence, in some of which the parents feared a fatal issue.
Two or three sittings completely eradicated them.
One day, as he lay asleep, I put the suggestion to him that
he was a cat. For some time he made no move, and did not
seem to know what was expected of him, but when I explained
that cats sat by the fire and washed themselves, he jumped
down off the couch and proceeded to carry these occupations
380 Sidney Wilkinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. [part
into effect, and thereafter he invented new pastimes for him-
self. He purred and rubbed himself against my leg. He
sought for mice in the dark corners of the room, played with
cotton reels under the table, growled over small articles thrown
to him as mice, pawing them in quite a characteristic manner.
If told that a dog had entered the room, he arched his back
and stiffened his muscles. At the call of "puss," he followed
me about the house, and descended the stairs on all fours in a
perfectly correct style. If awakened in any of these attitudes,
he appeared embarrassed, but had no memory of his actions.
After a few such experiments I desisted, as I am of the
opinion that such tests pushed too far are not in the best
interests of the patient.
Mr. H., an organ builder, age about 48, came under my care
last year on account of profound neurasthenia.
Being desirous of testing the depth of his hypnosis, I
suggested a post-hypnotic inability to step over a tape which
I had placed across the floor. On waking, he made two
attempts to do this and failed. He thereupon sat down on
the chair against which one end of the tape was placed, with
his legs bent very awkwardly to that side of the tape on
which he had been standing. Suddenly he gave a savage
side kick to remove the obstruction, saying at the same time,
" This thing annoys me." Thereafter he was able to walk
through the gap he had effected.
Seeing his evident annoyance, I did not repeat this test, but
tried a simpler one on his next visit. Looking around my
room for a suggestion to make, and having in mind his pro-
fession, I was struck with the analogy which my desk bore to
an organ. It is a roll top desk with columns of drawers down
the sides, and on top of the desk stands a three-tier elastic
bookcase. I suggested that when awake he would be im-
pressed by the analogy, seeing in the tall lines of books a
similarity to organ pipes, in the writing surface the keyboard,
in the drawers at the sides, stops, and the pedal space
underneath.
After awaking he approached the desk and examined the
whole thing minutely, then said how irresistibly it reminded
him of his work, indicated, with an upward sweep of his hand,
lxix.] Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice. 381
the likeness of the books to pipes, ran his fingers over the
table top, and looked below for the pedals, which, however,
were not represented, the space merely indicating them.
Finally he opened the drawers down the side as though he
was on the point of making a comparison, then his better
knowledge coming to his rescue, he shut them with a vicious
snap, and said, " You have got the stops in the wrong place ;
they should be here," and opened a little drawer inside the
roll top.
I had made a false suggestion. His professional knowledge
was too deeply ingrained for him to make such a mistake.
And this has always been my experience. When it is
attempted to alter a deeply rooted, or instinctive idea, there
is too strong a counter resistance for it to succeed. In the
same way I find it a most difficult task to accomplish a cure
in traumatic neurasthenia when compensation is being paid
under the Act. There is a strong auto-suggestion of uncon-
scious contentment with the lot of the insured, acting against
the treatment.
The case of Miss S. has been, and continues to be, my best
case, just as she is my most responsive patient to suggestions
carried out post-hypnotically, and it consequently deserves
dealing with in greater detail.
She was a patient in whom I feared acute tubercular caries
of the spine, but when I received the assurance of no less an
authority in such matters than Mr. Robert Jones that there
was no organic lesion, I entered on a course of treatment by
hypnosis which has resulted in great improvement. Sleep was
not induced until about the tenth sitting. So responsive has
this patient become that a single utterance commands imme-
diate sleep. With this patient's permission I have carried
out a number of experiments, a few of which may be worth
reporting in detail.
I can at any time carry out the experiment of selecting an
envelope from a new packet, which being secretly marked
inside the flap, is afterwards presented to her with the sugges-
tion that there is a picture upon the face of the envelope.
This is found and easily recognised again after the envelope
has been thoroughly mixed with the others in the packet.
382 Sidney Wilkinson, M.B.C.8., L.R.C.P. [part
A propos of this, I lean to the opinion that the outline of
the photograph is sub-consciously associated with fine points of
dissimilarity on the surface of the paper, perceived through the
induced hyperacuity of vision. I hold this view from the
fact that I have repeatedly observed in this patient and
others, that if the envelope is turned end for end, after it
has been shown, and returned in this inverted position to the
packet, the experiment is a failure. A test recently made to
see if the envelope could be distinguished merely by the
sense of touch met with no success.
In August, 1912, 1 was treating a patient who did not resporjd
as readily as I wished to my suggestions, and hoping to help
him by example, I showed him this patient, and used a test
which proved more interesting since than at the time.
I instructed her that when she was awakened she would
discover that we were alone, and that the gentleman who was
in the room when she fell asleep had left, and further, that she
would find her hat upon the stand in the corner.
The gentleman meanwhile stood in the corner, holding the
hat upon his left hand, as though upon a peg, his right hand
being similarly extended.
She awoke, and asked if the gentleman had gone, and
quite unconcernedly she took her hat, and completing her
toilet, she left, fully under the belief that he was no longer
there.
So far there is nothing unusual in such a negative test.
When at home she remarked upon the new stand which I
was supposed to have bought, and when next she came I asked
her, when hypnotised, to draw it. This she did, and the result
is seen in Plate B, Fig. 2. It is significant that in the waking
state she is unable to make even an attempt at drawing a
straight line, her efforts in this direction being represented
in Plate B, Fig. 1.
Eleven months elapsed, when it occurred to me one day to
ask her to draw the stand again from memory. In the mean-
time she had not seen the drawing. I had seen it myself
many times, yet as I watched her draw the second one I had
a sudden misgiving that she was going to make an error when
I watched her commence the fourth row of pegs (Plate B,
Fig. 3). Yet she was right and I was wrong. Even the
x,xix.] Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice. 383
unevenness of the upper slopes correspond, the thick line at
the base, the double lines in the mirror, and the transverse
and longitudinal shadings are all correct.
I have pointed out these similarities on many occasions to
my friends, and ought to be very familiar with every line of
the drawing.
As a comparison, therefore, when writing this article, I took
a piece of paper and a pencil and drew Fig. 4, Plate B to see
how I could do it. With all the advantages which I possessed,
—
viz. ability to copy a drawing with some accuracy, and having
seen both drawings at least a score of times, and particularly
having pointed out details of likeness,—I could not remember
just how the slopes were disposed, Avhether the double lines
surrounded the whole of the mirror or lay only upon the left
of it, and I was utterly at fault when I tried to bring to
mind the outlines of the umbrella rails and, as the results
"
show, I was quite wrong.
These details were of great interest to me, and speak volumes
ior sub-conscious accuracy of recollection after so long a
period. To make my report a complete one, I must add that
the gentleman who stood as a model for the stand was not,
as I hoped he would be, made susceptible to hypnosis thereby,
a,nd I regard his case as one of my failures.
I have several times given this patient instructions to carry
out complicated directions and she has never failed me. A
specific instance will illustrate the kind of post-hypnotic fulfil-
ment that I refer to.
I was asked to speak at a gathering where a question of
Psychical Research was under discussion—the theme of the dis-
cussion being Sir W. F. Barrett's little book bearing the above
title. Two weeks before the event was due to take place, I
gave hypnotic instructions to Miss S. to present herself at the
house of meeting on the date specified at 8 p.m. It was a
part of the town that she had never visited before, so that all
the routes and names were new to her. It involved a journey
by two tram-cars, and a walk of rather more than half a
mile. Her directions were supplied twice, verbally, with
injunctions to ask for the hostess by name, and when ushered
into the room she was to fall asleep immediately and remain
in that condition until I needed her. No one was informed
2b
384 Sidney Wilkinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. [part
of my intentions except the girl's mistress, whose permission
had to be gained to permit her to leave.
This lady takes an intelligent interest in the experiments
and co-operates with me heartily, so that there was no fear of
prompting, in addition to which the lady was only supplied
with the bare information that I wanted Miss S. on that day..
It is probable that she knew the lady's name to whose house
she was to proceed, but she did not know the locality of this
house, the name of it, or the road.
As events transpired, the mistress also believed the appoint-
ment to be for the afternoon of that day, and as the afternoon
wore on without the girl making a move, she came to the con-
clusion that the suggestions had miscarried.
All occurred punctually as described to the subject, and it
was interesting to trace, step by step, how the impulses to act
came to her, and how the names slipped into consciousness as
each was needed. For instance, the name of the hostess only
came into her mind as the maid answered her ring.
During the afternoon of this day she had asked permission
to do her shopping earlier than usual. Consent was given, and
as the afternoon went by her employer became uneasy that
she had not asked to be released for what she thought was the
time I needed her. Nevertheless she did not prompt her, and
finally, seeing her linger over her work, she quite made up her
mind that for once my influence had failed, and she afterwards
gave up all idea of the matter.
During the waiting at table in the evening, the girl seemed
absent-minded, and rather perplexed, but this was not then
connected with my suggestions. An hour or so before the
time for leaving the house the restlessness increased, and
Miss S. stood for a long time at the kitchen door looking
out into the garden, and finally asked to be allowed to
go out.
This, under the circumstances of the household arrangement,
was considered to be an unreasonable request, but was neverthe-
less somewhat reluctantly granted, and it was not until the
matter was discussed, after she had left, that the light of
understanding dawned upon the employers. They realised for
the first time that it was an evening assembly and not an after-
noon one, as believed up to that moment.
lxix.] Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice. 385
This explanation precludes the thought that a hint of assist-
ance might have been given to my patient.
I have tried some simple tests in telepathy with this subject,
under hypnosis, with fair success, but my experiments in this
line have not been extensive, nor carried out with that care
which would be considered necessary to eliminate all possibility
of correct answers being given by other means. I was satisfied
that she did not see, but in the absence of stricter methods
I could not expect others to share that satisfaction, and for
this reason the experiments are omitted.
I shall have one other experience to relate about the same
subject in my next and last case.
Miss C.j age 24. This was a case of very severe conversion
hysteria, having its commencement about eighteen months
prior to my introduction to the case. There appeared to be
nothing special in the family history, other members of the
family being normal people. The death of the father six
months previous to the onset was supposed to have had some
connection with the illness.
There was a small patch of dulness at the apex of one lung,
but this did not give rise to any complications, and the definite
evidence of tubercle was not established.
The main points in the symptoms were extreme wasting, the
weight being but 4 st. 12 lbs. This was due to the persistent
refusal of all food, only a little water ever being taken volun-
tarily. A few tablespoonfuls of milk were occasionally forced
down, during twenty-four hours, under very great resistance,
but at other times only as many teaspoonfuls were able to be
given. Rectal feeding was equally resisted, and in spite of
the frailness of the girl she was able to resist the attempts of
two people to give nourishment by either route.
The eyes were closed except momentarily on rare occasions.
Speech was equally obstinately withheld, and I believe abso-
lutely so prior to my visits. The limbs were rigid and the
legs were flexed and crossed. The eyes were invariably turned
up out of sight when the lids were raised. That she was
conscious was evident, as talk of feeding, or the preparations
made for the purpose, were always the signal for crying and
screaming.
386 Sidney Wilkinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. [part
After seeing the patient in consultation I made arrangements
for her to be brought into residence as a private patient at
the Liverpool Psycho-Therapeutic Clinic. This programme,
arranged in her hearing, provoked the first words that she
had uttered for months. Although she made no sign in my
presence, she afterwards protested strongly against being
moved. My attempts at persuading her to take food were
unsuccessful, and she was accordingly fed forcibly, after which
I tried to induce sleep. The sleep that supervened I thought
to be the result of my endeavours, until I discovered that she
invariably slept from exhaustion after each struggle to feed.
Indeed I soon discovered that hypnotism was impossible, and
equally so was the question of psycho-analysis.
Suggestions were therefore regularly given, though there was
never a quiver of an eyelid to show that they were understood.
As stated above, I was satisfied on this point by the patient's
consciousness whenever feeding was spoken of, and preparations
were in progress.
Later I tried suggestion by transference after the method
described by the late Dr. Forbes Winslow in the May issue of
the Practitioner, 1913.
My last-mentioned patient acted as the medium, and when
hypnotised, her hands were joined to the patient, and I made
an endeavour to tap the patient's sub-conscious mind by
questions addressed to the medium.
For some strange reason Miss S. failed me for the first time,
and offered stubborn resistance to all my attempts. Persever-
ance on my part, coupled with the plea that it was the only
chance of saving the girl's life, resulted in an outburst of
crying from my hypnotised subject. Further questions only
increased the distress. I therefore took her into an adjoin-
ing room and left her with pencil and paper, and gave her
instructions to write.
After an interval I returned and discovered her with her
head on her hands, still sobbing, and with an incomplete
sentence upon the paper, viz. :
" I didn't want to do it, Don't
tell Una [intended for " Una," the girl's name], Come to
what." No amount of coaxing would make her finish the
sentence, so it had to remain incomplete and senseless.
To my question, if she had received any intimation not to
lxix.] Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice. 387
reveal what she had learned, she answered " Yes." It was
evident that this interrogation was causing distress, and I
therefore desisted, and suggested an amnesia for all that had
occurred, and not to allow the circumstance to worry her. On
the command to awake, she was immediately bright and
smiling, with no memory of what she had passed through.
Before separating the patient's and the medium's hands, I
made such suggestions as I thought would be applicable to
the case, from the scant history supplied by the friends, and
the general symptoms. The reason given, viz. the death
of the father, I did not consider sufficient, partly for the
reason that the event was six months prior to the first
symptoms. I thought it far more likely that there had been
a love affair which had caused a more than usually keen
disappointment, and I made some suggestions to that effect.
Whether there was truth in this shot or not, it was the only
chance that seemed to be left to me.
In any event, I had barely left the house before the patient
was roused to indignation, and for the first time in months
spoke freely, and indignantly denied all that I had ventured
to say, and forthwith evinced a dislike for me, and on each
subsequent occasion turned over in bed away from me when-
ever she heard my voice, whilst previously I might have been
absolutely non-existent, so little did she appear to notice my
presence, providing I was not preparing to feed her.
This increased my belief in the accuracy of my remarks,
and it was further made evident by the pains with which she
endeavoured to supply another reason, viz. that she felt that
she was not regarded at home with the same esteem as the
other members of the family, and that in consequence of this
she wished to die, and was taking this means of accomplishing
her end. Apart from being an improbable reason for so grave
a condition, the explanation was not true, since great devotion
was shown to her by her people.
From this point in the history I ceased to attend the patient,
as she expressed a wish to go back to the house where I first
saw her, and to be spared from the visits of doctors.
I considered it best to agree to this, and I did not see her
again for two weeks, and hoped that the suggestions would
meanwhile wake up fresh conflicts.
388 Sidney Wilkinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. [part
At the completion of this period I called to enquire about
her progress, from her sister, and I was informed that she was
taking a little more food, and there seemed some hope that
improvement had commenced.
Whether on account of increased acuity of hearing she
heard my voice, or by any supernormal means received a sub-
conscious impression of my presence which set a further train
of associations in action, or whether my visit was in no way
concerned with the change, yet a little time after I left the
house the girl suddenly sat up in bed, asked where she was,
embraced her sister, enquired after various members of the
family, and stated that she was hungry.
She arose and dressed and ate a good meal. She remem-
bered nothing of the eighteen months, beyond a dim recollec-
tion of having seen the room she was in before. Of the
visits of doctors, change of abode, and other circumstances,
she had no recollection. She slept well that night, and for
several days continued to improve, and we believed that there
was a promise of a complete return to health. The dis-
sociated elements had been re-synthetised with the main
stream of consciousness.
I wished to complete my investigations into this case, but
the friends were reluctant for hypnosis to be tried in order to
probe the cause and to try and eliminate the complexes.
They were afraid of a recurrence of the old condition, and
I hesitated to press the point until a later and more robust
phase should supervene.
I should like to be able to record that this return to memory
marked the commencement of a return to health, but the
subsequent history of the case is that the system, worn out by
long privation and emotional distress, was too far disorganised
for recovery, and she subsequently gradually sank, and,
as the physical energy gave out, the psychic dissociation
returned, and the girl died. She fulfilled her determination,
as frequently expressed when speech returned.
It will be fully appreciated that there were no means of
influencing the sub-conscious mind except by persistently
repeated suggestions. Psycho-analysis was as impossible as
hypnosis, except that it might have been employed after speech
and memory returned, if opportunity had been granted to me.
lxix.] Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice. 389
In conclusion, there may be some people who will laugh at
a serious attempt being made to affect ttiis patient by " trans-
ference," but this method has the support of men who are well
known in the profession ; the late Dr. Forbes Winslow was
one who appeared to use it extensively in his practice ; and
though I cannot say whether any of the subsequent results
were due to this means or not, still two things stand out
prominently in my mind :
(1) Some very disturbing element must have entered the per-
ception of my medium in order to cause such obvious distress
and such blank refusal to divulge her thoughts, and
(2) After the first sitting the medium knew the patient's
name, though no mention of it had been made in her presence,
and when awake she had no knowledge of it.
Since the death of the patient, I have made other attempts to
obtain something from Miss S., telling her that it did not matter
now that the girl was dead and could not object. Beyond
telling me that the secret is one that she cannot divulge,
she is adamant, and every effort that I made brought about
the same state of sobbing and distress, so that I finally had
to abandon the task. We must therefore be content to let it
remain a mystery.
390 V. J. Woolley, M.D. [part
IX.
SOME AUTO-SUGGESTED VISIONS AS ILLUSTRATING
DREAM-FORMATION.
By V. J. Woolley, M.D.
During the last few years the study of dreams and their
causation has made great advances through the work of Pro-
fessor Freud of Vienna. His theories have excited the fiercest
controversy on the Continent, particularly among the members
of the medical profession, and the quarrel has extended in a
somewhat milder form to this country, where it has even
reached the daily press. The last development I personally
rather regret, since it is only too well known to members
of this Society what gross misrepresentations and garbled
narratives are inevitably produced by such an extension. It
is in the hope of clearing up one of the grosser misunder-
standings of Freud's theory that I venture to bring forward
some experiences closely resembling dreams and illustrating
to some degree what Freud believes to be an important factor
in the causation of the dream state.
It is probably known to most people that Freud believes
that every dream originates in some impulse or tendency
towards action present in the unconscious part of our mind.
Every dream, moreover, represents in some way, generally a
symbolic or distorted way, the carrying out into action of some
such impulse. This theory is usually put in the form of the
statement ''every dream represents the fulfilment of a wish,"
a statement which I think is very misleading, and has caused
an immense amount of misunderstanding of Freud's con-
ception.
As we ordinarily use the word, when we say " I wish to
do this or that," we mean that we have considered the pros
lxix.] Visions Illustrating Dream -Formation. 391
and cons and are actually willing and anxious to adopt this
or that line of conduct. In Freud's sense, however, the word
wish implies nothing of this kind. As I have expressed it
above, it implies no more than that there is present in some
part of our mind a tendency towards a particular line of
action ; but this tendency may be so checked and resisted
by other existing conditions, such, for instance, as ideas of
duty or of worldly wisdom, that it in no way corresponds
to the real line of conduct which we are willing to follow.
In fact, it often happens that some such impulse is so opposed
to the ideas on which our conscious life is based that it fails
altogether to penetrate to our consciousness. It is delibe-
rately kept out by a mental mechanism which works without
our knowledge, and is called by Freud the Zensur, or Censor.
When we sleep this Censor is weakened in its working ; it
is not strong enough to keep out these impulses completely,
but it succeeds in distorting them, so that they are no longer
recognizable by our conscious mind ; or we may put it that
they manage to disguise themselves sufficiently to slip past
the sleepy sentinel and take advantage of their chance to
do so.
It is in this sense that dreams represent the distorted ful-
filment of an unconscious wish or impulse. Yet it has been
continually urged by those who have not read Freud's writings
that dreams so often go counter to our wishes, or are unpleasant,
or that we dream that we murder some one against whom we
have no ill will , that they cannot be said to be the fulfilment of
our wishes. I have said enough to show that such an objection
is baseless, but the dream-like visions I am going to discuss
give, I think, a clearer illustration of the dream method than
can be got from the ordinary dreams of sleep.
These visions consist of a number of self-suggested hallucina-
tions which were experienced by one of our foreign members.
He has placed them at the disposal of the Society, and I hope
that at some future date they may be described in detail by
some one who is personally acquainted with him. (See Miss
Johnson's paper below.) I have only selected a few which
seem to illustrate the point I hope to make clear.
This gentleman, whom I will call Mr. Grunbaum, suffered
in 1911 from some kind of nervous breakdown which he says
392 V. J. Woolley, M.I). [PART
he determined to cure by means of self-hypnotism. He
writes :
My intention was first to influence the different senses and then
the psychical part of myself. Therefore one day in the end of
September [1911] I sat down in a chair with a sheet of white paper
in front of me. I took some solution (of bromural or something
like it) in order to get a little sleepy, and then I told myself that
after awaking I should see a black charcoal line on the white paper
sheet. I really got sleepy, and after a while I saw a very decora-
tive line on the paper in front of me. A voice in my head told
me " This is on account of the experiment you are making."
Thereupon the line vanished. Then I tried again to get the line
straight, but that would never succeed. It was always more or
less decorative. The one that came nearest to the straight line
was about this [here he gives a sketch of a complex figure of several
loops and curves suggesting nothing in particular].
So [he concludes] I gave that up, and one of the following days
I tried a more complicated thing. I tried a young lady. She
did come and even without any drug. It was as follows : In
order to get tired I had been making a long walk and thereupon
I sat down again and told myself that after awaking I should see
a young lady. After some 20 minutes I got aware of some kind
of whirlpool where there seemed to be flames or firework. Then
the thing got the shape of a lady coming in a great speed towards
me. She was all the while smiling friendly and seemed to be in
a great haste. She held up her dresses at one side with her hand
in order to be able to go quickly. I saw them flying in the wind
and I saw her feet go very quick. When she was about the size
of 1 foot English then the voice said again that it was on account
of my experiment, and then I began to make up my mind that
it might come out to be interesting when she came nearer, where-
upon she vanished.
The next account I shall quote describes as follows his
experience while undergoing hypnotic treatment from a
physician whom he had consulted for the relief of his
symptoms :
I got aware of something moving and turning in front of and above
my forehead. It took the shape of a disk of some 4 feet diameter.
xxix.] Visions Illustrating Dream-Formation. 393
Inside that disk there was sitting a young lady. It was a beautiful
creature with a very friendly charming face. She nodded her head
very nicely towards me. I said " Who are you ?
" She answered,
" I am your Self-control. " (I had read in Dr. Bramwell's book that
the chief aim of every hypnotic treatment should be to develop
the patient's self-control, but I had never thought of the idea
"that it meant to develop a young lady.)
" Just feel how real I am," she said, and she stretched out
her arm and hand towards me. So I gave her a pat on her
fingers. I heard the sound it made and felt the touch. Then
I noticed on that occasion something extraordinary : I felt in
her hand just as well as my own hand. That is to say, that I
felt just the same as when one is touching his own right hand
with his left hand. My own hands were, however, not touching
one another, but were lying on the woollen cover.
Thereupon she began to make arrangements to step out of the
disc. She put her foot outside. I still remember the beautifully
decorated silk stocking. I could see every stitch of the silk. So
I made directly up my mind that she had better stay in there,
as I began to feel uneasy that there might something get wrong in
my brains. She noticed my fear directly : I could see it on her
face. So I returned to common consciousness and she dis-
appeared.
I have quoted the last vision chiefly in order to make clear
some others that follow, but I may here draw attention to
what is disclosed in it by the most superficial analysis. We
•can easily discern three desires which form the motive force
of the vision : the wish to pass into a hypnotic trance, to
•develop his self-control, and to see a young lady. The first
two are derived from Dr. Bramwell's book which he had just
been reading : the third is sufficiently common in all the
visions to make one certain that it is nearly always present
in the unconscious. In the book there is a good deal said of
the method of producing hypnosis by a circular mirror or disc
held above and in front of the eyes, and it will be seen how
precisely the disc containing the vision is located at this spot.
After this vision Mr. Griinbaum began to address his Self-
control much as spiritualists address "controls" at a seance.
I quote next a vision of February 1, 1912 :
394 V. J. Woolley, 31. D. [part
(Young lady's hand.)
I sit down after dinner and after a while I speak to myself as.
follows :
" My dear Self-control, " I say, " where have you gone to ? Now
come back, there is a chance for you here to try your powers,
granted that you behave exactly in the way I want you to. Come,
come, come, show me your little hand."
Result.—After some 20 minutes, at the moment of getting a
little dreamy, I see a disk in front of my closed eyes—about one
foot in diameter and at about one foot distance. There is nothing
in it except a piece of staniol. This takes the shape of a flower.
Then there comes at the underpart of the disk a red-brown hand,
all stiff as if carved from wood. It is connected to a long brown
arm and moves upwards. It takes hold of the staniol-flower and
shows it to me. It turns it to and fro and disappears at the under-
part of the disk, taking the flower with it.
(February 2.) Young lady's hand.
I say :
" Dear Self-control, you seem to have made a mistake
yesterday. I wanted to see your own hand, keep that well in
mind ; go on, as you are on the right track."
Result : a lady's hat.—It is beautifully ornamented with silk and
velvet trimmings all of a dark colour. It is more than K foot
broad and turned slightly upwards so as to show to me the hollow
crown.
I say :
" My dear lady-friend, you must be mistaken, as this
is not a hand but a hat ; try again."
Directly hereon the hat begins to turn around its axes, and
there comes something glistening around the corner and more and
more into the light. It is then brilliantly illuminated and turns
out to be a brooch. It is silver plated and is as a Christmas card :
two hands folded together. Then the hat turns to and fro and
to and fro as if it were to show to me how nice it is.
It fades away and then comes a small nickel-plated press-papier
with a nickel hand on it.
(Note.—In the morning of that day I had seen in a lunch-room
a girl with a rather nice hat with trimmings of silk and velvet.
There was no brooch on it, but she wore a band around her waist
fastened with such a brooch.)
lxix.] Visions Illustrating Dream-Formation. 395
(February 3.) Bouquet of flowers.
I speak as follows :
' L
Self-control, here is something you'll like,
as it is flowers ;
just the thing for you. After you have shown
the bouquet to me you must let me smell the delicious flavour of
the flowers ; don't forget that."
Result : A pair of slippers.—They are pointing with their em-
broidered toes towards me. The toes are embroidered with coloured
cotton wool, roses and buds.
Then all at once I get the most fearful stink in my nose, as I
had never before. It was, in fact, worse than rotten eggs. I pull
myself out of it with a start.
(February 8.) Boy.
I give an order to show me a boy. I keep this idea in mind and
picture it out in front of me.
Result : my own face making an ugly grimace at me.
(Note.—I fail altogether to see any connection between this face
and a boy. But afterwards, on February 10, talking the affair
over with Mr. Feilding, I remember that on February 7 I had been
looking in a small mirror hanging in a corridor in order to inspect
one of my teeth. On that occasion I had made the remark :
" Well, you are a nice boy ; would you make yourself younger
with your suggestion ? You are decidedly getting older.'")
(February 10). Landscape covered with pure snow.
I tell my Self-control, as I am rather warm near the hot stove,
to show me a landscape, covered with pure snow. (The word
pure is in the Dutch language rein.)
Result.—I see Mr. Feilding, who is present in a little canoe with
somebody else. The canoe tumbles over and they fall down into
the water.
(Note.—During the morning of that day, I had a conversation
with Mr. Feilding concerning a canoe accident he had once. In
the course of that conversation Mr. Feilding told me that it had
been on the river Rhine.)
(February 14.) Rose.
I point out to my Self-control that she seems to have lost the
right track last time. So I'll help her by trying to picture out the
rose in front of me.
396 V. J. Woolley, M.D. [part
Result.—After some 20 minutes I get aware of something waver-
ing to and fro under my nose. I look at it and I see that it is a.
rose with a bud. It is connected with a long stem of about a foot.
Very low down it is held by a lady's hand—very elegant—with a
bracelet around the wrist.
Just when I try to get a good view of this bracelet, I smell during
the time of one inhalation a very intense smell of beautiful roses.
It smelt much nicer than ever a real rose could smell.
Then I say :
" Well now, this is right, this is the way I want you
to work for me."
(Note.—Still a while afterwards I had that delicious smell in my
nose.)
(February 15.) Mignonette.
I proceed in the same way as with the rose, my intention being
to work along in this way all the different flowers.
Result.—I see a disk. In this disk there comes a little boy. He
is laughing. Then there comes a big woman in front of him. She
is pulling his ears and giving him blows on his face. I hear her
saying :
" There, there, there." The whole scene was enveloped
in a very thin black veil.
(Note.—That day I had been taking a very long walk. Coming
back to the city, I came across a brook, wherein there was still
lying a flake of ice. There was a boy standing on it, amusing him-
self there. Then his mother came out of house scolding at him.
So he came off and she began to beat him.
Next day I went clown again to the same place and noticed
some old flower-pots in the window-sill. There was, however,
nothing in them but what once might have been flowers.)
(February 16.) Violets.
I point out to my Self-control that she seems to have got on
an altogether wrong track again. So I'll try to help and picture
out some violets. [On February 17] I make up my mind to try
that again.
Result.—After a while my hair is pulled, just at the centre of
my head. I say :
" Come now, here you are wrong, it has nothing
to do with it, try again." There again my hair is pulled, but
stronger and more decided.
LXIX.] Visions Illustrating Dream-Formation. 397
(Note.—Then I make up my mind, that there stands on my
mantelpiece a small bottle with some oil in it, to be put on the
hair. It bears a label :
" Violette de Parme.")
(February 21.) Song-bird.
I point out to Self-control, that I have here something she'll
like better, as it concerns the singing of birds. I try to picture
out all kind of beautiful birds in front of me.
Result.—I hear somebody whistle outside. He whistles all kind
of airs that are on my phonograph. He really does it in a mar-
vellous way. He whistles some five or six different airs.
(Note.—After interrogating my mother who was present that
time, I asked her, if she had heard how nicely that man imitated
birds in the street. She said she heard nothing at all.)
(March 1.) Heavenly Love.
(This is the best one as far as now.)
Now I point out to my Self-control that we shall go over to
the higher sentiments ; I propose to her to work together in order
to get the wanted result.
Result.—I see a medallion of some 2 feet diameter. All around
the circumference there are little flames all jumping around. They
dance all around in a very agitated way. In the medallion I see
(1) Mephisto. He is wonderfully well defined with his shrewd face.
I feel myself very much attracted towards him, as he has such a
cunning face. He has a staff in one hand and is pointing with the
other hand to Heaven. Then it disappears.
(2) The darkness opens itself again very slowly, and I see a
disk. Therein is a brass stand with a brass kettle on it. It is
wonderfully ornamented with all kind of curls. It is transparent,
as if made from glass. It is all enveloped in a very thin black veil.
Even the way in which the veil is slung around the brass stand is
highly artistic. Then it disappears.
(3) Thereafter there comes a work girl with a blue skirt with
the sleeves and hands. Next to her is a hand and a part of a
sleeve apparently belonging to a policeman, since there are
police stripes on it. The man himself is invisible, but the hand
is in a position as if he were standing up to dance with the girl.
Then I make up my mind that, when she connects both parts
together, the thing will be ready then.
V. J. Woolley, M.D. [PART
Thereupon there comes out of the darkness a Christmas card
with all kinds of friendly-looking faces on it. The card is of an
extremely fine texture like muslin, and behind this muslin there
are again all kind of silvery bouquets. It is an immensely nice
little thing and ornamented all over with flowers. It all glitters
like electricity. It fades away and thereafter I get a sensation of
really going up to Heaven. This must have been what is called
ecstasy.
Notes.—(1) That day I had been reading in the book of Faust.
There is a print in it in which Mephisto points with his hand to
Heaven. It is, however, nothing like what I saw.
(2) Sitting on the chair, wherein I have been reading Faust's
book, the brass stand with kettle stands to the left. It is heated
by gas.
(3) The evening before I had been visiting a variety theatre.
One of the numbers was a love-song between a work-girl and a
policeman.
{March 2.) Hoiv much is 65 x27 ?
I tell my Self-control that after we have been right up to Heaven
yesterday, we shall have some arithmetic to-day. So I tell her to
calculate out how much is 27 x 65 and write it down in front of me.
I keep asking mentally : How much is 65 x 27 ?
Result.—I see two arms coming out of my shoulder. They are
intermingled with one another like snakes. They are in the act
of writing down something in front of me on the wall. I can, how-
ever, not make out what is written. At the same time I hear
somebody say :
" Didn't I sharpen your pencil for you yesterday ?
"
(March 7.) Boy playing at hoop.
I keep this idea in mind and picture out a boy playing at hoop.
Result.—After a Avhile I see a disk. There come figures in it.
I see three little girls dressed up as boys. They give one another
their hands, in this way forming a closed circle. Then, keeping
one another's hands, they begin to jump around. I hear them
singing " tralalah, tralalah." It is as if they are made from very
thin coloured glass thread. It is immensely nice to see them jump
around, at the same time looking at me with their lovely faces and
long curls.
lxix.] Visions Illustrating Dream-Formation. 399
(Note.—So I find that herein the idea of children s game and boy
and circle (hoop ?) are represented, but I did not see a boy playing
at hoop.)
There are many more of these visions, and the ones I have
quoted are taken to some extent at random. They all, how-
ever, have one character in common. With the rarest excep-
tions, the vision which Mr. Griinbaum actually experienced
was not the one that he wished for and expected. Sometimes,
as in the smell of the carpet slippers, it was just the reverse,
but in most it was more or less clearly connected in a way
which he was able himself to detect. In some, which are not
quoted, no connection was obvious to him, but I have no
doubt that a connection could be established by any one
who was sufficiently acquainted with his thoughts, and his
association tendencies.
The object of this paper is to controvert the objection to
Freud's theory of dreams, which is based on the fact that
dream experiences are not obviously pleasant or satisfying to
the dreamer. I have mentioned earlier that the motive force
of the dream is to be sought in some desire or impulse which
cannot obtain gratification in waking life, on account either
of outward circumstances or of inward judgment. It is this
incompatibility with the waiving life that causes the disguise
which renders the desire unrecognizable.
In Mr. Griinbaum 's visions, the place of the desire is taken
by his wish to experience a particular vision. As that wish
is conscious, it does not need to be rendered unrecognizable;
but it does succeed in associating itself with some elements
from the unconscious which bring about the moderate distortion
which is present. To know what those elements are, it would
be necessary to know what ideas could be associated in his
mind with the various items of the visions,—a knowledge
which could only come from a prolonged and detailed study.
All that I have tried to shew is that such a vision may be
demonstrably based upon a definite wish, while it fulfils that
wish in a distorted or disguised manner.
400 Alice Johnson. [part
X.
PSEUDO-PHYSICAL PHENOMENA IN THE CASE OF
MR. GRUNBAUM.
By Alice Johnson.
Mr. Grunbaum's narrative, some parts of which are discussed
above by Dr. Woolley, includes various incidents which closely
resemble certain types of alleged " physical phenomena," and
may instructively be compared with them, since it is clear that
in Mr. Grunbaum's case the apparently material effects were
really hallucinatory, while the actually material effects were
found to be produced by his own automatic and unconscious
action. These incidents being outside the scope of Dr. Woolley's
paper are given separately here ; but as they obviously
belong to the same train of psychical events, they will be
best understood if seen in their proper setting. I there-
fore quote some cases of the same kind as those already
given, in the midst of which what I may call the " pseudo-
physical " phenomena occurred.
As stated by Dr. Woolley, Mr. Griinbaum wished to cure
himself by self-suggestion, and, with a view to testing his
susceptibility, he tried first to influence his different senses,
intending afterwards to affect his general mental condition.
Shortly after the first vision of the young lady, the following
occurred :
Next day I tried sound. I said that I should hear my name
called. I did so. After about fifteen minutes I heard myself called
in a very bright way.
Then I said that I should feel myself touched. This it did in a
rather curious way, as it pulled my coat a couple of times. Now
this was not exactly what I had been aiming at. So I tried again
LXIX.] Pseudo-PhysicaI Phenomena
.
401
and said that I should feel a hand. It did so and I felt a hand
being laid on mine. This rather startled me, notwithstanding I
had asked for it myself.
So I made up my mind, that whereas I had been so fortunate
with the different senses, I might now go over to the psychical
side of myself. Here I found myself, however, in front of an
obstacle. The fact is that when you are getting sleepy, then you
cannot repeat your suggestion any more. Therefore I prepared a
wax-record for my Edison Phonograph, saying that I should go to
sleep very quietly and after awakening all my troubles should be
gone.
The effect of listening to this record was very wonderful. It
might have run some 4 minutes (I had altered the speed of my
phonograph in such a way that it ran 8 minutes) when I got aware
of a most extraordinary sensation. The tonation wherein the words
were spoken had a very curious influence on me : it felt like an
intoxication of the soul. There is, however, nothing that feels like
it, nor can it be compared with anything else. The sound of my
own words nearly made me dance.
It was decidedly agreeable and felt like going right up to Heaven.
If somebody had cut off one of my hands in that state, then I
think that I should have perfectly enjoyed it. Then the voice
said that it was on account of my experiment, and I opened my
eyes and there I saw the wax record rapidly spinning around (it
had advanced about up to the middle of the whole length) ; during
some words I still felt that extraordinary sensation, and thereupon
the sensation ended.
So I was very content with my success, and then I began to
consult Mr. Bramwell's book in order to find out into which hyp-
notic state I had worked myself. But I could find neither head
nor tail in it, in so far that I read therein that the senses could be
influenced in the deep stage, and I had never been aware of having
been in any stage at all, except during that very curious sensation.
So I got hold of a very old book concerning Faust. (I should
not have done this, by the way.) I found different formulas in it, as :
'
' Tetragrammaton—Adonai—Agla—come—come—come. '
'
I did not pay any special attention to this at the time ; but at
night time, when lying in my bed and just at the moment of going
to sleep, there came a thought flashing through my head. It said :
" Tetraagrammaton—Adonai—Agla." Nor did I pay any attention
402 Alice Johnson. [part
to it, as I had no notion that the effect of it would be so fearful.
A short while afterwards I saw a broad spectre standing at the
end of my bedside. It was about five feet high and three feet
broad. It consisted of a body and a head. I did not see any eyes
in it, nor was it a real spectre ; it was only the flat drawing of a
spectre. It was drawn in blue smoky outlines, all vibrating There
was nothing fearful in the thing itself, but I cannot say how it was
that the thing gave me such a tremendous fright (the whole thing
was connected with a feeling of wrong, black mischief). I was
lying on my right side, so that there could be no question about
nightmare ; besides I never have such a thing as nightmare, unless
I am lying flat on my back. My heart seemed to have come to a
dead stop. Then all at once it started with a fearful speed. So
I jumped out of my bed and drank a glass of water. By means of
counter-suggestions and very heavy slow breathing, I mastered the
palpitation of my heart, but it took as long as half an hour before
it began to beat at moderate speed again. I slept very little that
night.
Next day I listen again to my phonograph-record, but it gives
no result whatever. I feel very sorry about this, as all the other
experiments gave me such a peaceful agreeable feeling. That night
I do not try anything else any more, but all at once, contrary to
my expectation, the same spectre is there, but that time standing
at my bed side, decidedly looking at me. So it had come nearer.
I jump directly out of my bed and my heart starts beating
again, although not half as bad as the other day. Thereupon I
think that I slept a little.
Next day I prepare a special record with the suggestion that I
shall feel happy, etc. ; but I get no result whatever. I feel very
depressed about this and write the whole affair (without the spectre)
to Mr. Bramwell, who answers me that I had better consult a com-
petent physician.
As a result of this advice, Mr. Griinbaum went (as stated
above by Dr. Woolley) to a physician for hypnotic treat-
ment on October 17, 1911. He received about thirteen
treatments, at the rate first of twice a week, then once a
week, and afterwards once a fortnight. The effect was excel-
lent, and he recovered completely from the abnormal mental
condition.
LXIX.] Pseudo-Physical Phenomena. 403
Meanwhile, however, various hallucinations occurred to him
spontaneously. One form of these seems to have been the
distorted result of an external suggestion, just as some others
were the distorted result of self-suggestions. He describes this
as follows :
In the beginning of November, when I was going to have one of
my teeth drilled, the doctor gave me a suggestion concerning this
in the waking state. The effect of it, after a while lying on the
sofa, was a feeling as if I received a blow on my head with a club,
and as if all my brains were pulled together by means of a string.
At the same time I felt a tingling in that special tooth.
Next day, on the way to the dentist, that sensation was repeated,
and the tooth was drilled without any special discomfort from my
side. I will call this sensation the " club-blow,
,
" as we shall see that
it is to be repeated many a time afterwards masked for.
Then came the day when I received the Journal of the S.P.R.,
wherein is described the case of " Anna Burton." 1
This thing
seems to have evoked quite a stir in my subliminal being.
It was as follows : I think it must have been on November 11th
that I received that special Journal. Not having had a chance to
read it in the day-time, I took it along with me to bed and, after
lighting the candle, I began to read the case all through. So I
made up my mind that it was no way of experimenting at all, if
one is asking in total darkness to be touched, whereas I had been
doing that [with success] in plain daylight, being all alone and as
a result of my own suggestions. Also I made up my mind that
if the doctor who made that experiment had smeared some lamp-
black on his fingers, he might then have been able to make out
if he had really been touching his own right hand with his left hand,
or if somebody else did it, or if it was a hallucination. But it is
always very easy to make up your mind what other people should
have done. So I blew out my candle and lay down to sleep.
I was, however, to get aware of something else, before sleep
should come. Just at the verge of falling asleep, there shot a
thought through my head saying :
" Shall I touch you a little ?
"
Directly afterwards I received a " club -blow " on my brain ; it
was accompanied by a white silhouette of a hand on a black back-
ground. I saw this hand at the back of my head. I recognised
1
Journal S.P.R., November, 1.911.
404 Alice Johnson. [part
directly in it the exact reproduction of a black hand on a white
background that had once been printed in the Annals [of Psychical
Science] 1
in an article by Prof. Richet on " The Spirit of Pres-
bourg." Then, not expecting anything particular, I fell asleep,
when all at once I was taken hold of by two big hands. They took
hold of me in my sides and gave me eight strong squeezes.
It was not at all disagreeable. After the first four squeezes I
said :
" Don't get higher," as I was afraid that it would come in
my face. It responded directly to what I said and gave me four
more squeezes lower down. Thereupon I cried :
" Don't get lower !
"
and then it finished.
It was done with very great force. It lifted me right up (this,
at least, is what it felt like) ; but it may have been my own muscles
doing that. The first series made me bump with my head against
the wall and the second series nearly threw me out of bed.
I was not at all frightened. These hands felt as if they had
gloves on and were at the inside lined with cotton wool.
On the night of November 14th (I am not altogether sure of the
date) I received such a sudden blow on my head, that I was alto-
gether startled by it. I thought that this was to be the end of my
life, such a tremendous bump I received on my brains. I all at
once resisted and said :
" Get away, whatever you may be, as I
did not call for you !
" Then I got a sensation, as if there were
champagne all foaming through my body from the tips of my toes
to the top of my head, all up and down, my brains at the same
time being handled in the above-named way. I would not let go
for anything. Then I felt as if my spine was pushed upwards
and as if there was being made a trial to lift me up. The perspira-
tion came all over my body and the bed began to dance up and
down at least a foot, and all other kind of nervous phenomena.
Then I compared the top of the bedside with the figures on the
wall-paper, and I felt that they were going up and down together.
Then I said to myself :
" Well, my dear, so you see that the bed
does not move." After a while I mastered the position and I was
glad that I kept master in my own house.
Then there happened something very curioiis. In this very quiet,
totally exhausted state, it was all at once as if there opened itself
something before me and there came a very big hand some foot
long, with fingers of some 2 inches, all vibrating towards me. It
1
Vol. I. pp. 210-212, April, 1905
:lxix.] Pseudo-Physical Phenomena. 405
did so extremely carefully. I tried to get hold of it, but it with-
drew. So it did a couple of times when at last I got hold of the
thing and I felt that it had some resistance. After a Avhile there
came something more—shoulders and a head. It was as if it were
made from cigar-smoke, all vibrating and changing its position.
Then I said :
" Who are you ?
"
He said : "I am Urlus " (this is, by the way, the name of a
German opera-singer). Then I said :
" Well, this may be or it may
not be, but what do you want ? " Then Urlus said (I was dreaming
with my eyes half open) : "I am going to materialise for you."
Whereupon he began to manipulate and after a while there stood
a complete man in front of me with very broad shoulders. Then,
taking hold of my left pulse, he squeezed me rather painfully.
Then he said :
" Just feel my shoulders, how strong they are."
Then I slapped him on his shoulders and remarked to him that
it sounded rather like cardboard. Whereupon Urlus said :
" You
are right, in so far that it really sounds like cardboard, but you
should not forget that it is artificial."
Thereafter I went through a common dream, giving him lemonade
to drink (a remembrance of " Bien-Boa " ?
1
). I felt very proud
of having such a big man for my companion. Then all at once I
found myself lying with my eyes open and my candle still burning.
I wondered about the curious experience and soon after I went
to sleep.
On November loth and 16th the thing repeated itself in so far
that there began all kinds of objects to fall around me. I heard
the loud blows ; I also heard the sound as if people were hammering
with a chisel on big stones. I remember one object coming so near
that it flew right through my nose. Mr. Urlus did not come that
time. Then during the day I made up my mind that at night
time I seemed to be in a somewhat abnormal state of mind and
I prepared a glass plate all covered with lamp-black. As I had
read that other people claimed to have got impressions in that way
on such glasses, so I thought that I might just as well try for
myself.
1 " Bien-Boa " was the name given to the "materialised" form that
appeared at the seances held by Professor Richet at Algiers in 1905 with
the medium Marthe B. (see Miss Verrall's article above, pp. 333 et seq.)
as reported in the Annals of Psychical Science for October and November,
1905. The photographs of "Bien-Boa" there reproduced are probably the
origin of Mr. Grunbaum's "Urlus."
406 Alice Johnson. [part
So I did. I fastened the plate to the wall along my bedside.
Then, when I felt that my brains began to work, I said as follows r
" Well, Mr. Urlus ; in case you might come back to-night, I pro-
pose that, instead of handling my body with your big hands, you
might try to press one of your hands on the glass plate. I have
arranged it specially for you, so I suppose that you will make use
of it. It has the great advantage that it does not keep me out of
my sleep, and you only need to use one hand instead of your whole
body. Besides this, it may leave a mark of your presence." So
I went to sleep.
In the morning I am perplexed, as I find that the black plate
has been really tampered with.
There was no impression of a hand on it, but the lamp-black
over about a third of the surface was rubbed clean off. I began to
search. My head-pillow on the place where I am lying with my
head is all smeared with lamp-black. There is also lamp-black on
the wall. Then I search my hands. They are all clean ;
my nails
the same, but looking in my mirror, I find that the inside of my
left ear is black, also behind my ear it is smeared.
Then I begin to search the bed-clothes. I find that the right
corner at the foot end of the upper sheet leaves a black trace on the
white pillow when I rub that corner with force on it. The other
corners do not do that. So the operation must have been done
with that special corner. As my door was locked, there cannot
have been anybody else in the room except myself. So I must
have been doing that myself and I must have been taking scrupulous
care not to leave any trace of the modus operandi.
I am, however, not aware of ever having done such a thing, so
that I cannot make this very clear.
The vision of the young lady quoted above in Dr. Woolley's
account, p. 393, followed shortly afterwards.
Mr. Griinbaum goes on :
One or two days after that had happened, I think on November
17th, I tried " direct writing."
I prepared a black plate, put it inside a box, but left a round
hole in the box cover. I put also some scraps of pencil inside the
box. I put that box under my head-pillow and as I liked that
young lady much better than the big hands of Mr. Urlus, I began
to address her and I said :
LXIX.] Pseudo-Physical Phenomena. 4(17
" My dear Self-control, can you write on the plate under my
head-pillow without opening the cover of the box ?
"
I received directly an answer to that question in the shape of
a sound. First I heard something fumbling in the pillow and then
I heard that there was something written on the plate. Then
there was drawn a line and after that there was put a big point at
the end. Then I thought :
" Now we shall have what we want."
I got out of bed, took a glass of water, and then I said to myself :
" Well, now you look at it." So I opened the box and there was
nothing written on it.
After describing one or two other experiences, Mr. Grunbaum
continues :
I made up my mind to have absolutely nothing to do with that
kind of thing, as it was all at work by itself and not at all to be
handled by me. So at night-time I gave myself strong suggestions
to do nothing else but sleep quietly.
It came back a couple of times in another shape.
One night (I think I had been reading the Proceedings) when
I had gone upstairs to my bedroom, I was just in the act of taking
my coat off, when it was puUed a couple of times. So I took it
off altogether. But when I was opening my vest, after I had
loosened the buttons, and just when I was moving one tip of it
sidewards, I felt some resistance. I thought that it might be a
motor automatism of my left arm, but when I felt with my right
hand in front of me, I felt that there was some fluidic kind of thing
standing in front of me. This thing gave me a fearful fright. I rushed
towards the curtains, and pulled them high up. I think that it is a
touch that makes one feel afraid, especially when it is not expected.
After I had gone to bed that night I did, of course, not feel
quite certain about what was going to happen, when all at once
I felt as if somebody gave me a stroke with a fan towards my
face. All my mouth, hps, etc., felt as cold as ice ; it felt just as if
some icy cold air were blown towards my face. A short while after
that I heard somebody whistle. It was done rather nicely. I con-
cluded that it was a hallucination. But then I noticed that when
I closed my ears, I did not hear it so well, and when I opened them
I heard it. This puzzled me again and, feeling with my hands
towards my hps, I felt that my own lips did it. Then I got out of
bed and took a glass of water.
408 Alice Johnson. [part
So I had a long conversation with my own " Self-control," and
I pointed out to her that the only way to give her a chance to
show her powers was, in my case, that she should behave exactly
according to my directions. She never said a word, but at the
end of my conversation I got a squeeze in my brains, accompanied
by a young lady's bust and face looking very disdainfully at me.
She then started and flew far away and away, all the time looking
at me, until she was no more than a point. I specially noticed her
very high white collar.
Mr. Griinbaum, having found that his experiments led to
results which he did not desire, now determined to give them
up. Some weeks later, however, when it seemed that the
hypnotic treatment had completely restored his mental
balance, he began again to feel attracted by the idea of trying
the effects of self-suggestion and started his experiments once
more. He now found that he could no longer induce the
mental state in which he could, as he expresses it, " create
"
things,—the state, that is, in which all his senses were affected
at once by the hallucination, which therefore assumed the
most realistic form possible. He could only induce visual
hallucinations. It is these visions of which Dr. Woolley has
quoted some typical instances. Later, the complicated type
recurred, and in the following case the realism was carried so
far that the whole room appeared to him to be affected, the
floor seeming to vibrate :
{July 5, 1912, at night.)
Without any intention on my part, I awake at about 3 o'clock
at night. Then I am looking out for a vision. There comes nothing
at all.
All at once I hear mentally behind myself the loud noise of the
rattling of an iron chain (at about 3.15).
My attention is drawn by this and then I hear behind myself
four very heavy footsteps. They are given in a very decided way
at intervals of about two seconds. (It sounds exactly as if a heavy
iron statue had taken a fancy to walking about a wooden floor.)
At the same time I see a dark column coming down at me at
my back. The thing was about 5\ or 6 feet high, and I saw a trans-
parent black veil over the top part, something like this drawing.
LXIX.] Pseudo-Physical Phenomena. 409
[Drawing of a completely draped figure.]
It was a visual mental image. At every footstep I hear the floor
behind myself vibrating (all mentally). I get afraid of the thing
and lack the courage to let it come nearer, and draw myself out of
the trance.
I make up my mind that this curious phenomenon must be the
same as in those cases in which people claim to have heard footsteps.
Mr. Grunbaum, whom I had known for some years by
correspondence, described a good many of these experiences to
me in a long talk which I had with him at the rooms of the
S.P.R. when he was once for a few days in London, and
this talk strongly confirmed the impression I had already
formed of him as an intelligent and accurate reporter.
It may, nevertheless, not be out of place to conclude this
paper with a warning of the risk of trying experiments such
as are described in it. There is clearly a possibility that
hallucinations, if once deliberately started, may develop
and tend to recur spontaneously and more and more fre-
quently till the whole mind may conceivably be thrown out
of gear. Mr. Griinbaum himself was not unaware of this
possibility, and especially desired that, if his experiences
were published, readers should be warned of it. He thus
describes what he regards as the greatest danger of all :
" I found it as a rule very easy to manoeuvre myself into
some mental state from which I could not get myself out
again." Another danger, he adds, is " Voices talking in
the head. On many occasions I heard a whole conversa-
tion concerning the suggestion. I think there is nothing
abnormal in this. But sometimes these conversations were
all of a sudden interrupted by a sentence, or a part of a
sentence, not at all belonging to the conversation. These
curious voices would induce either direct visions or post-
hypnotic hallucinations." Hallucinatory voices are well known
to be a frequent accompaniment of mental disease, occurring
much more frequently than visual hallucinations.
But it is to be noted that throughout all this series of some-
what disturbing experiences, Mr. Grunbaum never allowed
himself to be deceived into imagining" that his hallucinations
had any objective reality ; he never seriously supposed that
410 Alice Johnson. [part
anything beyond his own mind was at work. It was this
completely sane view that no doubt prevented the ill effects
that might otherwise have followed. If he had believed, as
many persons under the same circumstances would have been
tempted to believe, that " spirits "—evil, or merely mischievous
—were at work, the consequences might have been serious. It
seems to me, indeed, that modern attempts to revive the
mischievous doctrine of demon-possession have much to answer
for through the encouragement thereby given to the de-
velopment of latent or incipient delusions in ignorant and
unbalanced minds. Against these tendencies Mr. Griin-
baum was fortunately forearmed by his acquaintance with
the work of the S.P.R., aided by the not inconsiderable sense
of humour which enables him to take an impersonal view
of his own mental processes.
XXIX.] Review. 41 I
REVIEW.
Psychopaihology of Everyday Life. By Professor Sigmund Freud,
LL.D. Authorised English Edition, with an Introduction by
A. A. Brill, Ph.B , M.D. (T. Fisher Unwin, 1 Adelphi Terrace,
London, W.C. 1914. Price 12s. Gd. net.)
This long looked-for translation has fulfilled the promises of interest
awakened in us by the brief presentations of writers upon psycho-
analysis. The present volume grew out of an essay published in
1898 on " The Psychic Mechanism of Forgetting," in which failure
of memory is explained upon principles of determinism. The
underlying idea is that just as dreams are an expression of the
"unconscious," so also does it strive for expression in absent-
minded acts, slips of the tongue or pen, and in things erroneously
recalled, or resolutions carried out in a manner contrary to con-
scious intention.
It is generally conceded that names tend to be forgotten more
easily than any other content of memory ; but Freud examined
this phenomenon of temporary forgetfulness in the course of his
analytical researches. He concluded that, whether a name is
merely forgotten, or is replaced by a substitute, the displacement
follows definite natural laws, and is associated with repression.
Sometimes it is due to direct associations, but not infrequently
to disturbances of the present theme by the ps}^chic relations
of the theme which preceded it, " for the disinclination to recall
may apply to one content of the theme, and yet the inability to
remember may appear in another."
Forgetting is sometimes brought about by a deviation of atten-
tion, due to inner conflict, in which outer association is formed
between an idea and a repressed wish.
412 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
Our social sense regards the forgetting of a name as a slight,
for we are supposed never to forget the name of a person who
makes a pleasing impression upon us.
We are sometimes induced to undertake an engagement against
which we have resistances, and we are apt to accept it with a safe-
guard, such as :
" I will do this, but I have a bad memory and
you must excuse me if I forget to turn up." No psychologist
is surprised to find that engagements undertaken in this fashion
frequentty come to grief. An example of an omission which be-
trayed an unconscious intention is given in a letter from a pro-
spective patient of Brill's. After some preliminary correspondence
about treatment he obtained an appointment. Instead of keeping
it, (says Brill) he sent the following letter :
" '
Owing to foreseen circumstances I am unable to keep my
appointment.' He naturally meant to write unforeseen. He
finally came to me months later, and in the course of the analysis
I discovered that my suspicions at the time were justified ; there
were no unforeseen circumstances to prevent his coming at that
time ; he was advised not to come to me. The unconscious does,
not lie."
Printers' errors are often explicable in the same way, but in
Freud's examples the Editorial Department comes in for a large
share of responsibility. He tells the following story :
" An almost unbelievable example of miswriting and misreading
occurred in the editing of a widely circulated weekly. It con-
cerned an article of defence and vindication which was written
with nmch warmth and great pathos. The editor-in-chief of the
paper read the article, while the author himself naturally read
it from the manuscript and proof-sheets more than once. Every-
body was satisfied, when the printer's reader suddenly noticed
a slight error which had escaped the attention of all. There it
was, plainly enough :
'
Our readers will bear witness to the fact
that we have always acted in a selfish manner for the good of the
community.' It is quite evident that it was meant to read un-
selfish. The real thoughts, however, broke through the pathetic
speech with elemental force."
Freud, with his charming disregard of personal feelings in favour
of analytical truth, tells of himself that he has occasionally attacks
of migraine which are heralded by inability to recall proper names.
For this he does not allow himself the excuse of circulatory or func-
LXIX.] Review. 413
tional disturbance of the brain, but attributes such forgetting to
the same psychic forces that trip him up in health. He finds,
on analysing such phenomena, that the name withheld usually
touches some painful personal complex in himself.
He quotes an example of Jung's, showing the effect of a personal
complex :
" Mr. Y. falls in love with a lady who soon thereafter
marries Mr.- X. In spite of the fact that Mr. Y. was an old acquain-
tance of Mr. X., and had business relations with him, he repeatedly
forgot the name, and on a number of occasions, when wishing to
correspond with X.. he was obliged to ask other people for his
name." Here the motivation for forgetting is obvious, aiid it
is a direct result of Y.'s dislike for his successful rival,—he wishes
to blot him out.
Our chance actions betray the state of our unconscious to such
an extent that Freud prefers to call them " symptomatic actions."
They give expression to something which the actor does not suspect
in them, and which he has no intention of imparting to others.
For instance, a newly married lady after six weeks' honeymoon
was out shopping with her sister, when !1
suddenly she noticed
a man on the opposite side of the street ;
nudging her sister
she said :
'
Why, that is surely Mr. L.', forgetting that for some
weeks this man had been her husband." Freud says :
" I was
chilled by this tale, but I did not dare to draw any inference.
This little story came back to me several years later, after this
marriage had ended most unhappily."
These unintentional occurrences tend to complicate human
relations, and they explain some of the difficulties neurotic
persons experience in living together. Such persons are exceed-
ingly sensitive to the " symptomatic " conduct of others, which
they understand to express change of feeling, or veiled hostility,
and they are apt to be blind to similar lapses in themselves.
In the chapter on " Determinism ", in which Freud states that
if one is asked to select a number at random it is impossible to
do so " by chance ", he gives several analyses to prove his state-
ment, the deductions from which will appear arbitrary to many
readers. Some phenomena of superstition also furnish examples
of unconscious motivation. Superstitious persons find omens, not
only in external chance events, but also in occurrences brought
about by their own unintentional mental activity. Freud says :
" There are two differences between me and the superstitious
414 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part lxix.]
person : first, he projects the motive to outside, while I look
for it in myself ;
second, he explains the accident by an event,
which I trace to a thought. What he considers hidden corre-
sponds to the unconscious in me, and the compulsion not to let
chance pass as chance, but to explain it, is common to both of
us. Thus I admit that this conscious ignorance and unconscious
knowledge of the motivation of psychic accidentalness is one of
the psychic roots of superstition. Because the superstitious person
knows nothing of the motivation of his own accidental actions,
and because the fact of this motivation strives for a place in his
recognition, he is compelled to dispose of them by displacing them
into the outer world. If such a connection exists, it can hardly
be limited to this single case. As a matter of fact, I believe that
a large portion of the mythological conception of the world, which
reaches far into the most modern religions, is nothing but psychology
projected into the outer world. The dim perception (the endo-
psychic perception, as it were) of psychic factors and relations
of the unconscious was taken as a model in the construction of
a transcendental reality, which is destined to be changed again
by science into psychology of the unconscious."
The book is full of pertinent examples, and should be read care-
fully if justice is to be done to it. The subject is one which
awaits further investigation, and it is open to Freud's critics
to put his theories to the test, for absent-minded acts, omis-
sions and forgetfulness are daily occurrences. It is, indeed, easier
to apply psycho-analysis to our neighbours than to ourselves,
but what we discover in the psychology of another is rarely far
from what is present in our own personality, though we
live so near to ourselves as to be very partial in our self-obser-
vations.
Constance E. Long, M.D.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXX.
May, 1915.
I.
SOME RECENT EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-
TRANSEERENCE.
By Helen de G. Verrall.
Introduction.
The experiments in thought-transference described in
this report have been conducted during the last two years
under strict conditions determined by the officers of the
Society for Psychical Research, and under their personal
observation and supervision. The percipient throughout
was Miss Louisa Tipping ; the agent in the first series
of experiments was her sister, Miss Kathleen Tipping
;
in the second series I myself was the agent, and on two
occasions there were two agents, Miss Kathleen Tipping
and Mr. G. N. Tyrrell.
An account of some experiments in thought-transference
between the Misses Tipping and Miss Hermione Ramsden
2d
416 Helen de O. Verrall. [part
was included in an article published in the Proceedings
(see Vol. XXVII., p. 314), but the amount of success
obtained in this series was not very large. Miss Louisa
Tipping and her sister had also tried some earlier ex-
periments together with interesting results. But these
earlier experiments were conducted under less strict con-
ditions than those with which I shall deal here, and
therefore do not fall within the scope of this report.
For the same reason, in considering the question of
the success or failure of an experiment, I shall concern
myself here only with immediate success, that is to say,
success obtained during the actual course of the experi-
ment, under conditions which I shall presently describe.
In a good many instances after the percipient had gone
home, she got a deferred impression approximating more
or less closely to the subject chosen for transmission.
But since she had in the mean time met the agent (her
sister), the possibility of unconscious suggestion has to be
taken into account, and it is almost impossible to deter-
mine how much allowance must be made for this factor.
General Conditions.
In all the experiments dealt with in this paper,
the agent and percipient were in different rooms, so
that there was no possibility in any case of indications
being unconsciously given or unconsciously received as to
the subjects chosen for transmission. If, therefore, we
conclude that the results cannot be explained by chance-
coincidence, we can hardly, I think, avoid the further
conclusion that some telepathic faculty is involved. As
to how far chance-coincidence will explain the results,
opinions will probably differ. The problem is very
similar to that which has to be faced in considering the
question of cross-correspondences in automatic script.
At the conclusion of this report I shall put forward
certain considerations which seem to indicate that, after
all due allowance has been made for chance, there still
remains a margin of evidence suggesting that some other
agency has been at work.
In each case the subject for transmission was chosen
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 417
either by Miss Newton or by myself, with the exception
of the two experiments in which Mr. Tyrrell was an agent,
w
2.
Miss Johnson's
Room.
•
W W
Miss Verrall's
Room
W w
Stairs.
|Passage.
Lift.
\
w
Miss Newton's
Room.
Store-room.
/
w W' w
Library and Office.
W w
Plan of S.P.R. Rooms at 20 Hanover Square, W.
when he chose his own subjects. Throughout all the
experiments the agent was in one of the Rooms of the
Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W. During
418 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
the first four experiments the percipient was in some
other part of London, and posted the record of her
impressions immediately after the experiment, before
she had seen the agent again. This arrangement was
made because we were anxious at first not to impose
completely new conditions on the percipient.
All experiments after the first four were conducted
entirely at the Rooms of the Society, the agent being in
one room and the percipient in another. These two rooms
(marked 1 and 2 on the plan on p. 417, which is drawn
to scale), are on opposite sides of the building and are
separated by a passage about ten yards long. The doors
of both rooms were always closed during the experiments,
and care was taken to avoid the possibility of the per-
cipient obtaining by normal means any indication of the
subject which had been chosen. If we suppose that she
received her impressions through any of the channels
of sense, we must therefore assume her to be hyper-
aesthetic in a remarkable degree. We have no a priori
grounds for assuming this, and there seems to be nothing
in the result of the experiments to suggest hyperaesthesia
as a probable explanation.
When Miss Kathleen Tipping was the agent, she was
never told what had been chosen as the subject of the
experiment until after she and her sister had parted. She
sat in Miss Newton's room, and Miss Newton was always
present during the experiments. Miss Louisa Tipping, the
percipient, sat in Miss Johnson's room, and Miss Johnson
was usually present.
When I was the agent, I myself chose the subject for
transmission, except in the first two experiments, when
it was chosen by Miss Newton. I sat in Miss Newton's
room (usually alone), and the percipient sat as before in
Miss Johnson's room. When these experiments began
Miss Louisa Tipping and I were not acquainted. After
some weeks, at Miss Tipping's suggestion, we met once
in Miss Newton's room at the conclusion of an experi-
ment, and had about five minutes' talk. With this
exception we never even saw each other during the
period covered by these experiments.
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 419
I will now give the detailed record of the experiments,
as follows :
(A.) Twenty-two experiments.
Agent, Miss K. Tipping. Percipient, Miss L.
Tipping.
(B.) Ten experiments.
Agent, Miss H. de G. Verrall. Percipient, Miss
L. Tipping.
(C.) Two experiments.
Agents, Miss K. Tipping, Mr. G. N. Tyrrell. Per-
cipient, Miss L. Tipping.
In my analysis at the end of this paper I have reckoned
nine experiments out of the thirty-four as successes,
viz. Nos. II., VII., XL, XIV., XV., XIX., XXVI.,
XXVII., and XXX. The records of these experiments
are printed at full length. As regards the other twenty-
five experiments I have included such parts of the records
as present points of interest, and I have printed at length
one completely unsuccessful experiment to serve as a
specimen. As regards the question of type and arrange-
ment, I have followed the same method as is used in
the reports on the exj^eriments in thought-transference
between Miss Miles and Miss Ramsden : (a) indicates
the contemporary record of the subject chosen for experi-
ment, with notes made either by the agent or by some
other person who was present during the experiment,
before they had seen the percipient's record ;
(b) the
percipient's record, made before she knew the subject
of the experiment ;
(c), (d), etc., notes made immediately
after the experiment by the agent or percipient, or by
some other person concerned in the experiment. These
notes are printed throughout in small type ;
my own
comments are in large type. I have marked with an
asterisk those experiments which have been counted as
successful in my final analysis.
420 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
A.
Experiment I.
A Failure.
March 6, 1913. 2.45-3.15 p.m.
20 Hanover Square, W.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Note by Miss Newton. The subject of the experiment was
Botticelli's picture " The Birth of Venus."
* Experiment II.
(«) March 7, 1913. 2.38-3 p.m.
20 Hanover Square, W.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Note by Miss Newton. The subject of the experiment was a
gold watch bracelet. Miss Tipping sat at the table holding the
bracelet up and turning it round and round in her hands.
(6) March 7, 1913. 2.30-3.15 p.m.
24 Gordon St., W.C.
You are sitting at a table in a well-lit room—the fire seems
burning brightly—great sense of comfort—and you are holding
a small round smooth object, bright in colour. You have
picked it up and keep turning it round, your hands seem
moving much. It is glowing colour—orange is the colour I
get—and its colour is its attraction. The object seems very
cold and smooth, and a great feeling of roundness comes to
me. I sense a warm country and dark people moving about
—picking up fruit—long groves of trees—blue sky—and very
sunny. Is it fruit you are holding ? I get many objects of
the same shape. I can't make out if it is an orange, or
some kind of fruit with plenty of juice. I seem to be
tasting fruit of some kind. L. Tipping.
It will be seen that the first part of the percipient's
statement, down to "a great feeling of roundness comes
to me " is quite appropriate, especially as regards the
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 421
movements of the agent's hands. The latter part of the
statement is wrong. This result suggests that the per-
cipient, having got a correct, but slightly blurred and
incomplete impression of what the agent was doing, mis-
interpreted it.
This is a typical instance of the results which have
been obtained in these experiments. Sometimes the per-
cipient's impression approximates more closely to the
subject chosen for transmission—sometimes less. Biit in
almost all cases in which any degree of success has been
obtained, what the percipient seems to get is an impression
of movement and of simple sensations, shape, colour, size,
weight, position, texture and so forth. These impressions
she apparently combines by means of associated ideas
into a complex whole which may be very far from the
truth.
Experiment III.
(a) March 8, 1913. 11.15-11.35 a.m.
20 Hanover Square, W.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Note by Miss Newton. The subject of the experiment was a
long chain of beads of autumn colourings. The agent sat in the
window with the chain, which she put on and off, holding
it out, examining the beads and slipping them up and
down the string. The beads were brown, yellow, green, red
and bronze, yellow predominating.
(6) March 8, 1913. 11.15 a.m.-12 noon.
British Museum.
You are holding the object. I get the same feeling again
to-day that the object is round, smooth, hard, and has a
shiny surface, and the colour is leaning towards yellow, or
yellow objects seem in it or near it, and they are very
alike. They seem to be living. Is it flowers in a vase ?
You, I think, are holding an ornament, and it is deep
enough to hold things, pretty in shape and colour. I get
bright, stimulating colour. You also turn the object about,
your hands do not remain in the same position for long.
422 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
If you let go what you are holding, it would break. There
is a frail feeling about it. I can't get the object you hold
very clearly and I'm getting tired. L. Tipping.
(c) The agent afterwards added a note that she had thought
of
tl
autumn leaves, yellows, (but no flowers) and sunlight."
Here again we have a result suggesting a partially
correct impression wrongly interpreted.
Experiment IV.
March 10, 1913. 11.35-11.50 a.m.
20 Hanover Square, W.
Note by Miss Newton. The agent sat at the table, and
I took the atlas from the cabinet and gave it to her. She
looked at the map of Bulgaria. The subject to be transmitted
was war. . . .
We were five minutes late in beginning.
(6) March 10, 1913. 11.30 a.m.-12 noon.
British Museum.
I can only get a vague impression this morning, nothing
sharp. I am wondering if you are sending anything ? I think
you are close to the table, and I feel that an object has
been handed to you from some shelf, that is not very large,
rather square and dark. ... I get books lying near you and
white papers. ... L. Tipping.
The percipient's impression is vague, but fairly correct
as far as it goes, especially as regards the position of the
agent " close to the table," and the handing of a square
object to her from a shelf.
From this time onwards the experiments were conducted
entirely at the Offices of the Society, the agent and
percipient being in different rooms. In future, therefore,
only the room in which each sat will be noted in the
record.
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 423
Experiment V.
On this occasion, contrary to the usual practice, the
agent sat in Miss Johnson's room and the percipient in
Miss Newton's room.
(a) March 18, 1913. 11.35 a.m.-12.15 p.m.
Miss Johnson's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Note by Miss Johnson. The agent sat at the table arranging
a bunch of violets in a narrow green glass vase.
. . . The violets bad very long stalks, as had also their
leaves—there were a good many leaves with them—and Miss
Tipping cut the stalks of some. . . .
(6) March 18, 1913. 1
Miss Newton's room.
The object is standing on the table in front of you, you
touch it, but do not hold it. I get a fairly tall object,
slim in shape, and colour rather light in tone. I see carving
of some kind on it, sometimes it seems in the shape of
leaves, and they stand off well from the flat surface of the
object. Is the object stone ? I feel it is hard, smooth,
polished.
I also get the form of a running figure, swift movement
;
it is a man's figure. This only comes faintly ; the object
seems rather heavy for one to hold, so it stands in front
of you. L. Tipping.
The first part of the percipient's impression as far as
" colour rather light in tone " is correct, and it is note-
worthy that again she is right as to the position and
movements of the agent in relation to the subject of the
experiment. The impression of carving is wrong, but it
is interesting that this carving should appear to the
percipient to be " in the shape of leaves, and they stand
off well from the flat surface of the object." This
1 The percipient did not always note the time of day as well as the
date in her record, but in all cases she and the agent "sat" simul-
taneously, although sometimes the percipient continued the experiment
for a longer period.
424 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
impression might easily be derived from a group of leaves
in a vase, and Miss Johnson notes that " there were a
good many leaves with [the violets]."
The idea of carving apparently suggests to the percipient
something of stone, which becomes defined as a statue
or bas-relief of a running figure. This part of her
impression is wrong.
Experiment VI.
A Failure.
March 19, 1913. 11.35 a.m.-12 noon.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Subject. A pack of cards and some black envelopes with
red hearts pasted on them. The agent sat building card
houses.
* Experiment VII.
{a) March 26, 1913. 11.25-11.50 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Note by Miss Newton. The agent and I discussed what to do.
I suggested that she should lie on the sofa. I fetched a cushion
from the office and placed it under her head. I gave her a
blotting pad, a pencil and a piece of paper, and placed a
little table at her side. She tried to transmit at home.
Miss Jones brought in tea, a teapot, milk-jug, cup and saucer
on a tray, put it on the folding table and left the room. I
carried the tray and placed it on the table by Miss Tipping
and poured out a cup of tea, telling her it was china. I
left the room and brought in another cup and saucer and
poured out some tea for myself.
{b) March 26, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
You are holding the object and appear to move it about. I
see a smooth bright-looking thing, and I get reflections from
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 425
things near this object. I think it is hard, also a roundness,
and I see black colour near to it. I feel a metal like silver,
it is so bright and quite light in weight. L. Tipping.
(c) Note by Miss Neivton. The percipient told me when I
went to her after the experiment that she had had a persistent
impression of a silver spoon and reflections of a face in it.
When she told me this she did not of course know what
the experiment had been. She thought the impression was
due to her having seen, just before she left the boarding-
house where she is staying, a new bright half-crown.
The agent told me after she knew that her sister had thought
of a spoon and of reflections, that she had taken up the tea-spoon
and looked at it, and also had noticed the reflections in the polished
brown tea-pot, but had dismissed the thought of the reflections
from her mind. This and the attention given to the spoon were
but momentary impressions.
The percipient on this occasion had one persistent, im-
pression, derived apparently from a passing incident in the
experiment, which the agent had not consciously tried to
transmit. There have been several instances in earlier
experiments, in which the percipient's mind has apparently
reflected the subconscious rather than the conscious
thoughts of the agent (see e.g. Proc. 8.P.R., Vol. XXVII.
,
pp. 309, 310).
It is, of course, a defect in the record that no mention
of the tea-spoon occurs in the contemporary note on the
subject of the experiment, but Miss Newton's supple-
mentary note was made immediately afterwards, when the
agent's memory was still fresh in regard to her action with
the spoon.
Perhaps the reason why the percipient's mind seized upon
this particular impression is that it was linked by association
with an idea already present in her mind, that of the silver
half-crown which she had recently seen. Students of
automatic script will remember instances in which an
idea normally engendered in the mind of the automatist
has formed the starting-point for a train of thought, sug-
gesting some abnormal connexion with other scripts.
426 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Experiment VIII.
A Failure.
March 27, 1913. 11.35-11.53 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Subject. Winding a skein of red wool.
Experiment IX.
A Failure.
March 29, 1913. 11.30 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Subject. A picture in a book, representing a child in red.
Experiment X.
A Failure.
(a) April 1, 1913. 11.35 a.m.-] 2 noon.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Subject. Printed letters, D, 0, G, S.
* Experiment XL
(a) April 2, 1913. 11.30-11.55 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Note by Miss Newton. I first asked the agent whether she knew
any part of Switzerland well enough to visualise it (I having
brought with me a book of views of Switzerland). She replied
no. I then told her Mrs. Sidgwick had suggested she should open
an umbrella. She agreed and said she had tried it once before,
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 427
but all that her sister got was an impression of her opening and
closing a fan. I suggested that she should dance round with
an open umbrella. She laughed. I cleared away the table and
bookcase. Miss Tipping opened and closed the umbrella for some
minutes, and then I again suggested that she should dance. She
did so, twirling the umbrella, and opening and closing it as she
danced.
(b) April 2, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
Your hand seems moving up and down. The object stands
in front of you, and I can hear a bell with a measured strike, very
faintly but often. I get reflection on the object you have near
to you, and I feel, if I could hold it, it would be a cold weight in
my hand. It seems very hard, and it has a useful feeling. Your
hand rises and falls frequently. I might add the object seems
round in shape, something like this ^ with a little top
to it. I think I could see myself in it if I wished to do so. I get
a green colour close to you, and once I have faintly seen good-
sized letters ; one letter seems an O, C, or E. I can't make out
any word. It is either G or E, I can't say which. And I also
see objects near very like in shape and colour, round. They seem
to have a life of their own. Is it flowers ? I am not as sleepy
as yesterday, but I see more objects.
You lift up your hand and let it fall. Several times you do
this. The shape seems like a doll's umbrella, with a little slender
stem. L. Tipping.
(c) Note by Miss Newton. The last paragraph of the percipient's
statement was written in my room, but before the percipient had
any opportunity of guessing what the experiment had been.1
When she came into my room, she said the impression she had
got was of her sister moving her hand up and down rhythmically.
(The illustration she gave was like the agent's movement with
her hands, when opening and shutting the umbrella.) She saw
an object like a mushroom, and, wondering what it was, had kept
1
The umbrella had been removed from the room before Miss Louisa
Tipping entered.—H. de G. V.
428 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
on thinking of a wee doll's umbrella which she had had when a
child. She tried to banish the impression as irrelevant. When
she told me this, neither the agent nor I had suggested anything,
or helped her to remember the impression.
We have apparently another instance here of a correct
impression wrongly interpreted. The percipient sees " an
object like a mushroom " and the agent's arm, moving
up and down. She actually interprets the mushroom-
shaped object as an umbrella, but dismisses this inter-
pretation as due to the recollection of one of her own
toys. Then, casting about for some other interpretation,
she thinks of a small table-bell, the kind that is struck
by hand, and her impression develops further on these
lines into an object with reflections on it, which would
be a cold weight in the hand, is hard, and has a useful
feeling.
Experiment XII.
(a) April 3, 1913. 11.45 a.m.-12.10 p.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Subject. Dusting the bookcase. At the conclusion of the
experiment the agent washed her hands.
Note by Miss Newton. After the percipient had left the room,
I brought in a pair of step-ladders, and a duster, large holland
apron, etc., which the agent put on. She climbed to the top of
the ladder and dusted the top of the bookcase. She came down
and shook the dust over the fire, and I said the dust was
like soot. She went on dusting the bookcase thoroughly,
coming down to shake the dust into the fire. She laughed
and said it was a spring cleaning, and I regretted I had not
brought gloves for her, but she said, " Oh, no, I can wash
my hands."
(6) April 3, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
[The percipient first has an impression of " round objects
like flowers . . . yellow in colour."]
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 429
... I also sense water, a wet feeling comes to my fingers,
I feel I must wipe mine. You may be wiping yours. I get
a handkerchief. ... L. Tipping.
(c) Note made by Miss Newton after seeing the percipient'''s
record. When the percipient was asked at what time she got
the impression of wet hands, she said it was between 12 and
12.5 p.m. She heard the clock strike twelve before she
received the impresson, and when she looked at her watch
after the impression it was 12.5 p.m. From what she told
me I gathered the impression was received about 12.3 p.m.
I was careful to ascertain the time as near as possible, and
it was not until after I had ascertained it that I remembered
my watch was fast, and comparing it with hers, found that
mine was seven minutes in advance of hers.
It will be seen that the percipient's impression of wet
hands corresponded in time almost exactly with the moment
when the agent was washing her hands, since this occurred
at 12.10 by Miss Newton's watch, that is to say, at 12.3 by
the percipient's watch. This was the only time in this series
of experiments that the percipient had an impression of wet
hands. The agent washed her hands during an experiment
on one other occasion.
Experiment XIII.
(a) April 9, 1913. 11.40 a.m.-12.2 p.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Stibject. The agent wrote several sentences on a typewriter.
(6) April 9, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
I can't see the objects. I feel there are several and very
alike. They are on the table in front of you, and you touch
but do not hold them all the time. I get squares still, but
more faintly than yesterday.1
I get colour, red and black, design
1 It appears from this statement that some experiment must have
been tried on April 8, 1913, but no record of it has been found.
430 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
of some kind. Also I want to look into some object very near
you, and it seems fairly tall, smooth, hard, and has a shiny
surface. What it is I can't say, but I think I could pick
things out of it, and drop them into it again, but this
feeling is only dim. L. Tipping.
The percipient, when asked at the close of the experi-
ment, whether she could draw the objects she had seen,
produced the following sketch :
58 these slender things
are hard.
The objects represented in the percipient's sketch are
not unlike the keys of a typewriter, seen from the
operator's point of view, thus It is true in
reference to these keys that " there are several and they
are very alike. They are on the table in front of you,
and you touch but do not hold them all the time."
It is also correct to say " I get colour, red and black,
design of some kind." The keys of the typewriter used
in this experiment (a Smith Premier) are black and white
(symmetrically arranged), with five red stops. The type-
writer itself is black, it is " fairly tall, smooth, hard, and
has a shiny surface." In the centre, immediately behind
the keys, there is a large cup-like depression out of which
things could be picked.
* Experiment XIV.
(a) April 10, 1913. 11.45 a.m.-12.7 p.m.
Miss Newton's room
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Subject. Picture of a Madonna and Child by Murillo.
Note by Miss Newton. The agent sat in the basket-chair with
the picture in her hands. We were very quiet and did not speak
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference . 431
after the experiment began, until 12.5 p.m., when I mentioned
the time, and the agent said she would go on a little longer, as
she " had been rather naughty this morning, thoughts would
flit in." The only disturbing sound was the typewriter which
was occasionally used in the office. I asked Miss Tipping if the
typewriter disturbed her. She replied no, but that the opening
and shutting of a door had.
(b) April 10, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
Sometimes the object seems placed in front of you, then again
you lower it as though you rested your hands with the object on
your lap. I have seen a round, hard, smooth thing, and also
figures, Roman figures, II, III, IV, V, VI, rather large, and also
letters small and large, as if a book lies near you. You appear
most interested. Whatever the object is you seem to hold it
in two positions, on a shelf in front of you, and then much lower
down. It is not heavy. I get one object only. I thought it
was golden, but am not sure ; this feeling was fleeting only.
It has also a very useful feeling. I get a yellow colour, and
I think the object must be fairly bright. I could pass my
fingers over it very smoothly, and it is cold. Is it a coin ?
Or some metal ? I can now see a head like you see on
coins. I get a round hard something like this [Drawing of a
circle ivith a head in it] with a form or pattern stamped on
it, an imprint of some one, perhaps.
I don't think what I have written down is any good. I have
been disturbed by a man outside with a hammer and thoughts
were hard to hold in my mind. But I feel the object has weight,
smoothness, hardness. It is cold, and I think of letters or figures
on it, or in connexion with it.
I felt once I could fold it up into different shapes, this
only very faintly. I felt this was not true.
[Drawing of four circles.]
L. Tipping.
The picture which formed the subject of this experiment
was a coloured reproduction, mounted on stiff cardboard.
The background is buff, and round the picture there is the
representation of a gold frame, which perhaps accounts
for the percipient's impression that the object is golden.
2E
432 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
From the reproduction on the opposite page (Plate I.)
it will be seen that the Madonna and the two angels
on either side of her have large and conspicuous haloes,
producing an effect not unlike a head on a coin.
* Experiment XV.
(a) April 12, 1913. 11.50 a.m.-12.10 p.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Note by Miss Newton. The subject of the experiment was a
figure of a black cat, cut out of velvet, on a card bearing
the words A BLACK CAT (see illustration, Plate II.). It
stands on the revolving bookcase. Behind it, as a background
to throw up the black shape, stands perpendicularly the
large, brown-paper-covered atlas. Miss Tipping sat in the
basket-chair in front of the cat and looked at it, sometimes
leaning back, sometimes sitting up. Generally one hand was
on her chin. I also tried to transmit the idea of a black
cat, running along the passage to Miss Johnson's room, arching
its back to be stroked, sprawling on the rug to be played
with, etc.
Miss Tipping said she thought the object was more like a dog,
and that she could not get away from that idea.
{b) April 12, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
I have seen the face of a man, very handsome, with a heavy
moustache, hair on head inclined to be curly. This has come
to me as a photo set in a small frame. It looks framed up with
slight black or brown border of wood around it. My mind has
been a perfect blank but for this one idea, and I have been very
sleepy. I believe you held the object you send, and perhaps
have sat and gazed at it in front of you, but have not held
it. I am divided between these two ideas.
I am wondering whether my mind has been too sleepy to jrick
up the object. I don't feel at all sure that this is right, rather
the opposite feeling comes to me.
Plate I.
f*|l name shall enouvr for poer: J|te name shall be
fTonlinueb as long as (he sun: ano men shall he
IMesseo mMfin- all nations shall ralljKmt hlesseb.
P$, ixxrt. ry.-
Face page 43:2
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 433
I felt a square feeling, and as though you touched wood, and
that printing and paper were mixed up with what you send. I
could break it up.
This portrait has a look about it as if the man inside thought
deeply, and it gives me a feeling of great repose and strength.
The face is most striking. I have seen it so clearly.
I don't feel this object is cold. I think paper is in it, and I
feel as if I could break it up. I could bend it up, and I do not
get much weight with the object.
L. Tipping.
When the percipient returned to the Secretary's room
at the conclusion of the experiment, after the cat had
been put away, she described to Miss Newton, who
was careful to say nothing to her about whether her
impression was correct or not, the portrait which she
had seen, and drew the sketches reproduced opposite
to illustrate her meaning. The frame of the picture
was black, she said, with a cream mount. The waving
lines she explained as representing the man's hair. It
will be seen that these lines are not unlike the cat's
ears. Moreover in the percipient's sketch of the " por-
trait " there appear some scrawls at the bottom repre-
senting the supposed title. The only legible letters
amongst these scrawls are G at the beginning, and t at
the end, whereas the word Cat was written under the
cat. The description of the object photo set in
a small frame. It looks framed up with a slight black
or brown border," is also appropriate. It is again as
though various disjointed impressions were correctly
received, and then woven by the percipient's mind into
a coherent whole which is ludicrously wrong.
The following experiment, which was completely un-
successful, is printed at full length as a specimen
:
434 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Experiment XVI.
(a) April 14, 1913. 11.45 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Subject. Two red apples on a black velvet cloth.
Note by Miss Newton. Miss Tipping sat in the basket-chair ;
she stroked the velvet and then leant forward, her right elbow
supported in her left hand, her face resting on the other hand.
After about six minutes I went to the store-room and brought
in two saucers, putting one on the table in front of the
agent, and placing one of the apples on it. I took a knife
out of one of the drawers of my desk.
Miss Tipping lifted the apple up by the stalk and turned it
round, and held it up, let it hang, and so on. She then
peeled the apple, and was careful to keep the peel unbroken ;
it hung from the apple like a ribbon. She dangled it on her
fingers and said she would try to make her sister think of
an old custom. She threw it over her shoulder, cut up the
apple and handed it to me, and we ate it.
(6) April 14, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
I get very slow ideas this morning, have been waiting twenty
minutes and can't feel a thing. I get a strong violet light around
me.
I now see the colours red and blue. I think you hold the
object on the table in front of you. You both appear
interested in it, very much so. I think it is something
slender, flat, and has a soft feeling about it, paper of some
sort, and I get a figure of a woman. She is not English, dark
and southern looking. I feel a squareness and about half an
inch in thickness, figures one after another like this,
13 17 21
14 18 22
15 19 23 and so on,
16J20
many figures, and round these figures a border to fasten them
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 435
in, little square {Drawing of figures in squares) dates. The object
is just one simple thing, and I feel paper is connected.
I can see a figure like a little Cupid with wings and a
straight little body. I feel he is moving in the air, he seems
to fly.
I see also small letters c d e g h i following one another in
very long lines. It makes me think of verse, they seem in
couplets nicely arranged.
Second impression. A round object, smooth, that you can
look down into ; also it would and can hold small objects. I
get a laced feeling, as if the texture of the object were like this
{Drawing of trellis-work), a kind of pattern. This seems to me
to be very hght in weight.
I must say ideas come very badly, and I feel this is not correct,
either of the things I have written clown. I feel very still and
thoughtful, but everything is so faint. L. Tipping.
The percipient's first impression seems to be a calendar
and her second a basket.
Experiment XVII.
A Failure.
April 19, 1913. 11.50 a.m.-12.10 p.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Subject. Weighing-scales and six small brown paper parcels.
Experiment XVIII.
(a) April 24, 1913. 11.45 a.m.
20 Hanover Square, W.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Note by Miss Newton. The agent and I went into the garden
in Hanover Square. I got the key from the Office in the
Hall. We walked about on the grass and talked all the time.
I went to the summer-house and brought out two chairs,
i:ir> Helen de G. Verrall. [part
and we sat down. The wallflowers, red and yellow, were
out. We touched the yellow ones. We left the garden at
12 noon, returned to my room, and the agent climbed out
of my window on to the balcony and looked down on the
Square. When we went into the garden, there were four or
five persons there, a nurse and children ;
they came towards
us, we noticed them as they came, and they left the garden.
We were then the only people in the garden.
(6) April 24, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
1 have felt once that you are holding something slender,
smooth, and fairly tall, and that you move your fingers up
and down on it, also that the object is soft, and very
pleasing to look on. A feeling of moisture comes, as if the
object you touch might be slightly moist, wet. All these
feelings are so very faint. I don't think they are correct in
the least. I wondered once if the object had life.
Second impression.
I now get an object shining and smooth, pretty in design,
a pattern running through it, yellow in colour, it catches
reflections, and I can see a ring, like a gold one, or I might
say a golden circle, and one part a distinct round in it, and
the face of a small watch conies like this (Drawing of a
watch) and an e d. in small letters, very small letters.
The object is cold to my hand, not heavy, hardness, and frail
too. I think I could injure it if I tried, and you would not
improve it if you let it fall.
I have also seen a scene with immense distance in it. I thought
you were looking at some scene or other. I feel quite lonely as
I look into it, very lonely, but a great sense of beauty. I can
now see a few figures moving about, very few. and foreign-looking
beings.
Have you held a silken material soft green in colour ? I want
to fold it up.
Ideas are poor this morning. I can't hold them much to be
able to decide which I feel is near what you are doing.
The object seems to have life, and my fingers feel as if
you had touched something cold and moist, yellow in colour,
smooth.
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 437
The scene I have seen was very expansive, not many trees,
but a very peaceful feeling. I saw five men, came one after
another, such a strange feeling of leisure, no one had need
of hurry. If you had hurried it would have been quite out
of character. Wherever I have been, I have seen strangers.
It has given me much rest, poised my mind. The quiet of
this place was intense. These men came near to me, then
faded. L. Tipping.
(c) Note made by Miss Newton after seeing the percipient's
record. The yellow wallflowers were planted in five beds in
the centre of the garden. They were planted in rings.
There are two points of interest in this experiment
:
(i) The percipient first has an impression of touching
an object which is " soft and very pleasing to look
on . . . slightly moist."
Then she has an impression of an object which is almost
certainly a watch-bracelet (the subject of an earlier
experiment, see p. 420), and is described as " shining
and smooth . . . yellow in colour ... a golden circle,
etc."
. Afterwards these two impressions coalesce apparently
into an impression of an object which " seems to have
life." " My fingers feel as if you had touched something
cold and moist, yellow in colour, smooth."
This impression was perhaps suggested by the yellow
wallflowers which the agent touched, and which, as Miss
Newton noted after the experiment, were planted in
circles.
(ii) The percipient had an impression of an outdoor
scene, a country-scene evidently, since she speaks of it
as expansive with " not many trees " and " a very
peaceful feeling." This impression was appropriate, seeing
that the agent had been sitting in a garden. She and
Miss Newton were careful when they went out to walk
quietly and not to speak in the passage, so that the
percipient should have no normal knowledge of their
having left Miss Newton's room. This was the only
time that the agent left 20 Hanover Square during the
experiment, although on one later occasion she went
438 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
up on to the roof (May 3, 1913). On one other occasion
(April 26, 1913), the percipient had an impression of an
outdoor scene.
(a)
* Experiment XIX.
April 25, 1913. 11.45 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
The subject of this experiment was a stereoscopic con-
trivance invented by Mr. W. W. Baggally, of which a sketch
in profile is given below. Slides are inserted at the point
marked s, and by an arrangement of mirrors, if a spectator
looks through the lens, he sees a stereoscopic view against
the background.
Lens. {
Candle.
I
Backgrou n (I.
Note by Miss Newton. The stereoscope had a black velvet
background which I built up of letter-filing boxes, and covered
with a piece of black velvet. The agent sat in the basket-chair
at the seance table, with the large dark screen behind her. I
lit the small piece of candle in the stereoscope, then blew it
out and substituted a longer piece which, after lighting, I
thought was unsatisfactory, and so I replaced the original piece
and lighted it again. On the table was a small dark green
box and a piece of string. The box contained the slides,
which Miss Tipping took out one by one and inserted in the
stereoscope, and looked at through the peep-hole. The candle
was short and flamed and smoked occasionally. Miss Tipping
said it made her think of photography, as the candle in her
little lamp acted in the same way.
Miss Tipping seemed specially interested in the slide of Ellen
Terry, and commented on the vivid colouring of her hair, and in
one of a statue of a boy ; also one of the Royal Exchange.
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 439
(b) April 25, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
Impressions are very faint this morning. I wonder if you are
sending anything to me. I can't see things yet.
You appear to me to hold the object, sometimes quite close
to you, then put it at a distance. It is hard, smooth, round. I
have not any strong sensing that it has ever lived, unless in
the mineral world. I have only a very faint feeling of this,
yet it seems to me to have an interesting feeling, a certain
aura, as though many hands have held it. I get the colour
blue, from faint blue to an intense green blue. The colour
draws me. I like it. It makes me think of a jar, and that
I could place things in it, and yet I can't see what it is. I
see figures again to-day, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and a few others,
but these come so very faintly, I don't think you are looking at
anything like figures. A great feeling of doubt comes over these.
I have seen two faces in a looking-glass. I don't know
them. I feel as if I'm looking into a glass and can see
myself. You have talked to each other this morning, but
have also been fairly quiet. I get very little movement.
I get a shape now like this I [ . I can see the flame
of a candle, light of some kind. I also get rounds. (Drawing
of several circles.)
I shall say you hold a round, smooth, hard object, nice colour,
and I feel I can place things if I wish in it.
I have seen a strong violet light this morning, very violet. I
have found it difficult to keep my mind quite free of other
thoughts. L. Tipping.
The percipient's note records one quite correct impression,
that of the lighted candle, which is shown by Miss Newton's
note to have figured prominently in the experiment ; it
was lit, re-lit, observed to smoke, etc. This is the only
occasion upon which artificial light in any shape formed
part either of the experiment or of the percipient's im-
pression.
440 Helen de O. Verrall. [part
The statement " I have seen two faces in a looking-
glass," is interesting. This impression might easily be
derived from the thoughts of the agent, as she looked
through the glass lens and saw e.g. a portrait of Ellen
Terry, against the background.
Experiment XX.
(a) April 26, 1913. 11.35 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Subject. A Badminton racket and shuttlecock.
Note by Miss Newton. Miss Tipping played, removed her
coat, while I played, and then continued playing.
The shuttlecock was formed of white feathers and a green
and white base.
(6) April 26, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
I can see beautiful yellow sand, and blue sea^—many people
walking along sands ; the sunlight is lovely. I see very white-
sailed ships, moving very swiftly—these are yachts I think
—
people dressed very smartly, feeling of great comfort and plenty
of time to stand and look at things.
The object seems very close. I think you must hold it. I
get gold in some form or another. I see bright colour and
white. You both talk over the object, you seem very
interested. I feel it is long and fairly wide. I think I
know what you are looking at. It seems familiar to me.
I want to look at what you are looking at much. I get a
feeling of design, and again I look through a substance like
glass. The first part or top of the thing you hold makes me
think of glass ; it is so smooth a surface. I also sense it is
cold and thin and breakable, glass I think ; it catches high
lights. I get shapes like this v—iiy . Several of the same
kind, but of different colours.
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 441
It does not live ; I feel it is very pleasing. You both like
it ; the colour is good. I think it must be a bright coloured
thing. It cheers rne. A certain amount of weight in this
object. I get faint letters in (Scrawl) and a long letter like
the last mark, but these letters are so faint, as if they did
not wish to be seen, a very minor detail.
I also get the colour green, a dark-green. I think you must
be looking at flowers, but I can't feel they live, and I don't
feel a scrap certain if they are flowers, but I do appear to
see many shapes alike. I feel also an ornamental design.
Sometimes I think the object must rest on your knee, it
comes so very close.
Have you eaten anything ? —because you seem to hand some-
thing to each other. I feel Miss Newton holding something to
you. Heads move very much up and down. L. Tipping.
(c) When the percipient was asked by Miss Newton at the
conclusion of the experiment, before being told what the
subject was, whether she could draw something to represent
her impression, she produced the following sketches :
The three drawings marked (a) were perhaps suggested
by the shuttlecock, especially taken in conjunction with
the percipient's statements :
I also get the colour green, a dark-green. I think you must
be looking at flowers, but I can't feel they live.
The shuttlecock used in this experiment " was formed
of white feathers and a green and white base," and might
well be described as "a flower which doesn't live."
442 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
In an earlier part of her record the percipient notes
that she sees " bright colour and white," and at the
beginning of all she has an impression of " white-sailed
ships moving very swiftly."
Another interesting point in the percipient's statement
again concerns movement. Speaking of the agent and
Miss Newton, she says :
Have you eaten anything 1 —because you seem to hand
something to each other. I feel Miss Newton holding some-
thing to you. Heads move very much, up and down.1
This should be compared with Miss Newton's state-
ment that she and the agent played alternately. There
would almost certainly be an up-and-down movement
of the players' heads, following the movements of the
shuttlecock.
Experiment XXI.
A Failure.
April 30, 1913. 11.35 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Subject. A picture of a red Punch, with a blue stick and a
blue Toby, on a white, background.
Experiment XXII.
A Failure.
(a) May 3, 1913. 11.45 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Note by Miss Newton. At 11.45 a.m. Mss Tipping and I
went on to the roof at 20 Hanover Square, and looked
down on to the roofs below towards Bond Street.
1
The italics are the percipient's.
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 443
B.
In the following series of ten experiments Miss Louisa
Tipping was again the percipient and I was the agent.
Miss Tipping sat, as before, in Miss Johnson's room and
I sat in Miss Newton's room. On the first two occasions
Miss Newton chose the subject of the experiment, on all
other occasions I chose it myself and no one else knew
of it until after the conclusion of the experiment.
Experiment XXIII.
A Failure.
(«) April 16, 1913. 11.28 a.m.-11.50 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss Verrall.
Subject. A little white velvet spotted dog against a black
velvet background.
Experiment XXIV.
A Failure.
(a) April 17, 1913. 11.30 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss Verrall.
Subject. A bunch of daffodils.
Experiment XXV.
(a) May 7, 1913. 11.25 a.m.-11.50 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss Verrall.
I strung some bright blue beads on a piece of string. I
counted the beads, 22, played with them, unstrung and re-
strung them. H. de G. Verrall.
444 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
(b) May 7, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
I think you hold the object, or else you are very close to
it, and touch it when you wish to. Sometimes I fancy you
draw away from it, and return to it, and then hold it. I
have a sensing that it is cold to hold, smooth and round.
There are reflexions in it, but it is not a very clear surface.
I want to look into it sometimes, but very faintly. I feel
there are many objects near you, and alike in shape, but this
I do not feel one bit sure of, only I want to pick up more
than one thing in connexion with what you are trying to send
me. Then again a smooth, round, fairly large thing comes,
but what it is I can't sense. You appear to be looking most
intently at what you are doing. I get colours, yellow and
pink. There is not any life in the object or objects you are
holding. Have you turned over things like the leaves of a
book ? I see small letters, but rather funny shaped letters,
and three faces of women but very very faintly. You have
moved your hands about in connexion Avith what you have
been sending, but you have not walked about. I don't get
much weight in the object. I could hold it very comfortably.
You have not left the room you have entered once during
the experiment, neither have you talked. L. Tipping.
(c) Note by the agent after seeing the percipient's statement.
The beads are of serpentine rock, cold, round, smooth and
polished. It is true that there are reflexions in them and that
they are not clear. It is true that I did not walk about
during the experiment, or talk. I did, of course, move my
hands a good deal, stringing the beads, and then holding them
up in front of me on the string and swinging them about.
H. de G. Verrall.
(d) Note made by the percipient after she had gone home, but
before she had seen the agent or knew anything of the subject
of the experiment.
I think she sat down to a table. I can't say whether there
are more objects than one, smooth, hard and cold. She seems
to me to pick things up and put them back in front of her.
I can't say what they are, not very heavy in weight. I get
lxx.] Some Recent, Experiments in Thought-Transference. 445
lines on something, and feel like the leaves of a book. I get
little writing. Is there a transparency with this ? A thinness
that I could look through ? And yet I get a solid feeling.
The objects seem close together, as though they were in a
basket. I want to pick these things out of something.
L. Tipping.
The percipient's impression of my action was fairly
correct this time, especially her remark that she wants
" to pick up more than one thing in connexion with what
you are sending me," and again later, " I think she sat
down to a table . . . She seems to me to pick things
up and put them back in front of her."
The impression of an object which is cold, smooth and
round, although correct, must be to some extent dis-
counted, because it is an impression which the percipient
has not infrequently.
* Experiment XXVI.
(a) June 4, 1913. 11.25-11.45 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss Verrall.
I sat throughout the time of the experiment making white
crochet lace. H. de G. Verrall.
(b) June 4, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
Impressions come very faintly. I can't hold ideas. First
came white flowers, with petals lying around as if you had
pulled them off, lots of little bits of white, very soft in
texture. I want to pick up these little white things and place
them in order. You seem to move these fallen white things
about, at least your fingers seem very busy.
Then I see red colours and small rounds this time, like
this. (Drawing of six cherries with, stalks.) I want to eat
cherries. I keep wishing to taste fruit. These small rounds
appear to me to have stalks. I get a large number of the
same kind, it would be very hard to have to say how
446 Helen de O. Verrall. [part
many of them, I mean of these rounds. I get a very high
polish, very very smooth and hard.
Your hands seem to move about much.
It's so queer, but I do want to count the things you are
touching. I get also a white or light colour with these rounds.
I feel very strongly that you have had more than one
object and that there were many shapes alike, round, hard,
and smooth in texture, and white and red in colour. I
thought I looked through these rounds, but that feeling soon
went.
All I have seen has come very slowly and faintly.
I have also seen very small letters, writing, and in lines
that are very close together. L. Tipping.
Note by Miss Newton. The percipient came straight to my
room when she left Miss Johnson's room soon after 12 noon,
and she spoke of her impression. I append the note I hastily
made while she talked. I did not know what Miss Verrall
had chosen for the experiment until after Miss Tipping had
left. Miss Verrall and Miss Tipping did not see each other,
Miss Verrall having left the room before Miss Tipping came in.
Statement made by the percipient to Miss Newton.
I tasted fruit, and I wanted to count. I felt all the time
I wanted to count. I felt I must ask : how many are there
in front of you ? I don't know how to express it. There
were so many, too many to count, and yet they were countable.
I think Miss Verrall moved them. I got thirsty and tasted
fruit. Then there were a lot of small, highly-polished objects,
with stalks ; I could bite them ;
they were hard and smooth,
like cherries.
(c) Note made by the agent after seeing the percipient's state-
ment.
June 4, 1913.
The lace I was crocheting has a pattern which makes it
necessary to count the stitches as I work. It has been in
my mind this morning (I thought of it just before the experi-
ment) that I must not forget to buy some cherries for dessert
this evening, as I have a friend dining with me.
H. de G. Verrall.
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 447
The percipient had two impressions this time, (if we
ignore the impression of " small letters," which is of very
frequent occurrence and upon which no emphasis is laid
here), one of " little white things," the other of small
round objects, red in colour, identified as cherries. After
a time, as often happens, there is contamination between
these two impressions, but at first they are quite distinct.
The impression of cherries may be due to the fact that
cherries had been prominently in my thoughts that morn-
ing, as stated above. But upon that point one cannot
lay much stress, as cherries had not been the subject of
the experiment. The other impression is more interesting.
It is an impression " of little bits of white, very soft in
texture," which the percipient wishes to pick up and
place in order ; I seem to her to move these white things
about, my fingers seem very busy. She has a persistent
desire to count the things I am touching.
This impression seems to me very much what we might
expect to find, if we suppose that my actions and sensa-
tions, as I sat crocheting, were conveyed to the percipient
piecemeal, bereft of all meaning and coherence. The
colour is there, the texture of the material, the idea of
making a pattern, placing things in order, the constant
movement of my hands, and the persistent counting,
which is not the counting of a definite sum total of
things. She says :
I felt all the time I wanted to count. I felt I must ask :
how many are there in front of you ? I don't know how to
express it. There were so many, too many to count, and yet
they were countable. I think Miss Verrall moved them.
* Experiment XXVII.
(a) June 11, 1913. 11.20-11.50 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss Verrall.
I played patience. I sat at the table and laid the cards in
front of me.
2f
44S Helen de G. Verrall. [part
The cards had backs with a pattern in light and dark
green. H. de G. Verrall.
(6) June 11, 1913. 11.20 a.m.
Miss Johnson's room.
Are you thinking of a puzzle ? Because I have seen little
things of many shapes, some like this, (Drawing of shapes)
queer shapes and yet you could put them in order, and they
would mean something. I got different colours. I want to
pick these things up, and place them again. It would require
thought, and a good eye for measurement. I get a feeling
of wanting to space things out. You look down at what you
are trymg to send me, and your hand goes ovit and picks
up these queer little shapes. They appear to me to lie quite
close to you, all mixed up, and you sift them for a certain
shape. Whatever you are doing takes up your attention much.
I feel most serious and attentive, quite puzzled.
The objects appear to be of a hard texture ; it is the
different shapes which attract me. I think you have thrown
them out of a box or some kind of square thing which has
held them. These objects are different on the upper and
lower surface ; the shape is the same, but there is something
on the one side which makes an alteration.
Then once I felt you were cutting things out in paper with
a pair of scissors, shapes like these (Drawing of shapes)
because I wanted to out up things with you. I feel much
design about what you are trying to send through. Also I
wondered once if it was a message to me, because these words
came very clearly :
" It will come." Letters of some kind.
Have you spoken out loud to yourself about what you are
sending, because I thought once I heard words and wanted
to listen. This feeling went very quickly, it seemed to me
just like the end of a whisper.
But the chief thought is about the queer little shapes, a
feeling as if they were connected with some sort of puzzle.
L. Tipping.
Note by Miss Johnson. Miss Tipping gave this writing to
me about 12.15 p.m., then stood and thought further, and at
intervals made various remarks which I wrote down, not quite
verbatim, as follows :
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 449
" It seems like different things that could be put together
to make a pattern, things of different shapes. I don't want
to count them as the other day. They were lying in a heap
together and she took them out and placed them.
I distinctly saw a message, letters, '
it will come.'
The strongest impression was the puzzle. Things different
on the two sides, like playing cards, all cardboard, they express
on their surfaces different things.
She seemed to be very intent on what she was doing. Just
a flutter of words, you could hardly catch it, the faintest
whisper, such a flutter. She's spoken something out."
(c) Note added by the agent after seeing the percipient's
statement. The cards were in a cardboard case. It is there-
fore correct to say that I threw them " out of a box or some
kind of square thing which has held them."
H. de G. Verrall.
The first part of the percipient's statement is obviously
a description of a jigsaw puzzle. The allusion to the
queer shapes of different colours and different on the two
sides, which are to be sifted out and put in order, makes
this clear.
But many of the percipient's remarks are equally
appropriate to my action during the experiment :
Are you thinking of a puzzle ? . . . I want to pick these
things up and place them again. It would require thought
. . . I think you have thrown them out of a box, or some
kind of square thing which has held them. These objects
are different on the upper and lower surface . . . there is
something on the one side which makes an alteration.
After a fleeting impression of cutting out paper, ob-
viously derived from the earlier impression of the " queer
shapes," the percipient returns to the idea of the puzzle,
which she finally sums up in the words recorded by Miss
Johnson, who did not at the time know the subject of
the experiment :
Things different on the two sides like playing cards, all
cardboard, they express on their surfaces different things.
450 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Even here the objects seen are not identified with
playing-cards, they are only said to be like them ; but
it should be noted that the words "all cardboard," which
are applicable to cards, are not applicable to a jigsaw
puzzle, which is always made of wood.
The percipient was evidently strongly impressed with
the idea that the things she saw were different on the two
sides ; she returns to this idea more than once. My own
record shows that I was consciously aware of this pecu-
liarity in playing-cards, for I noted that " the cards had
backs with a pattern in light and dark green."
It is again as though the percipient received a series
of correct but disjointed impressions, which at first she
misinterprets. Afterwards this misinterpretation is partly
corrected.
Experiment XXVIII.
A Failure.
June 12, 1913. 11.25 a.m.-11.55 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss Verrall.
Subject. Design of twenty-four squares, red, blue and yellow.
Experiment XXIX.
A Failure.
June 18, 1913. 11.15 a.m.-11.45 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss Verrall.
Subject. A long gold chain with two latch-keys on it.
* Experiment XXX.
(a) June 19, 1913. 11.30 a.m.-12 noon.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss Verrall.
I sat and looked at a small china bowl. It was bright blue
outside with a gold pattern on it, and white inside with a
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 451
border of blue and red. I held it in one hand for some time
and passed a finger of the other hand round and round the
rim. I also laid the bowl on its side on the table and rolled
it round and round. In the middle of the experiment I con-
sidered the question of filling the bowl with water, but decided
not to do this. H. be G. Veerall.
(6) June 19, 1913.
Miss Johnson's room.
I see very plainly a Japanese doll, its hair and slanting
eyes I see very clearly. I first saw it as though you held a
small form in your hand, and then it seemed lying in your
lap, first in one position and then in another. The slanting
eyes were the first thing I felt in this figure, then came the
dark hair, and afterwards the colour and form of a face. I
felt whatever you held in your hand was light in weight, and
that it was clothed. I get light bits of colour splashed on a
dark ground-work, easy and flowing in design, but this does
not attract me much, just a detail in the object you hold.
The face is the strongest thing and that I see most clearly.
I sense an unusual feeling in what you are doing. I don't feel
anything spread in front of you, but that it is one object.
You pick up, hold, turn it round, and then place it on your
lap. I get red colour.
Second impression :
I can see gold-fish in a bowl, or a something that holds
water. I want to wet my fingers. Not many gold-fish but
little objects moving round. This is as clear as the face of
the doll, or whatever I'm seeing ; has life. I think they must
be gold-fish. I can see them moving so swiftly, round and
round. I want to keep making circles.
Whatever you have tried to send through this morning has
to me the feehng of the unusual. L. Tipping.
Note made by Miss Johnson at the conclusion of the experi-
ment. I gathered from what Miss Tipping said that the
impressions were unusually clear, the doll with the black hair
and slanting eyes as clear as my inkstand,—the fish, or what-
ever they were, going round and round, always in the same
direction.
452 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
(c) Note made by the agent after seeing the percipient's state-
ment. The bowl used in this experiment was a small bowl of
oriental china, about three inches in diameter at the rim.
Inside at the top was a narrow border of blue and red flowers,
and a circle of similar flowers at the bottom. Between the
two, on the sides of the bowl, were three red and blue butter-
flies. H. de G. Verrall.
With regard to the percipient's first impression, the
Japanese doll, I have no explanation to offer. Her
second impression appears in several particulars to reflect
the ideas that I was trying to convey.
(i) The percipient says that she sees gold-fish in a bowl,
or something that holds water, and she wants to wet her
fingers. The subject of the experiment on this occasion
was a bowl, and during the experiment, as I have noted
in my contemporary statement, " I considered the question
of filling the bowl with water, but decided not to do this."
(ii) In speaking of the gold-fish the percipient says :
Not many gold-fish but little objects moving round . . .
I think they must be gold-fish. I can see them moving
so swiftly round and round. I want to keep making circles.
And immediately afterwards, in conversation with Miss
Johnson, she speaks of " the fish, or whatever they were,
going round and round."
With these impressions should be compared my note :
I held it [the bowl] in one hand for some time and passed a
finger of the other hand round and round the rim. I also
laid the bowl on its side on the table and rolled it round and
round.
Perhaps " the little objects moving round " which the
percipient identifies, rather doubtfully, with gold-fish, were
suggested by the three butterflies painted on the inside
of the bowl.
LXX.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 453
Experiment XXXI.
A Failure.
June 20, 1913. 11.35 a.m.-12.5 p.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss Verrall.
Subject. Cutting and folding white paper into patterns.
Experiment XXXII
A Failure.
June 25, 1913. 11.15-11.45 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss Verrall.
Subject. Washing a lace collar.
C.
Twice the experiment was tried of having two agents
simultaneously. The percipient was not told that a second
agent was to take part on these occasions, as it was
thought that it would be interesting to note whether she
showed any consciousness of this unusual circumstance.
Mr. G. N. Tyrrell, the second agent, is an associate of the
Society for Psychical Research, and was not at the time
acquainted with the Misses Tipping. He has since tried
some further experiments in thought-transference with Miss
Louisa Tipping, and they have met with some success.
Experiment XXXIII.
(a) (i) April 30, 1914. 3.5 p.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Subject. A yellow crescent on a white card.
454 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
(ii) April 30, 1914.
Miss Verrall's room.
Agent. Mr. Tyrrell.
Subject. Queen of Clubs.
(6) April 30, 1914.
Miss Johnson's room.
I see three objects, square in shape, thin and light in weight,
colour, red, faint black, and also white. I think there are
small letters on these squares, or printing of some kind ; the
surface of the objects very smooth. I get numbers, 1, 2, 3.
There is drawing on these squares. L. Tipping.
The percipient's impression is, perhaps, a faint reflexion
of the second subject, the Queen of Clubs, but the re-
semblance is too vague to be evidential. Of the first
subject there is no trace.
Experiment XXXIV.
(a) (i) May 11, 1914. 11.57 a.m.
Miss Newton's room.
Agent. Miss K. Tipping.
Note by Miss Neivton. The agent polished the silver handle
(a crook) of her umbrella.
(ii) May 11, 1914. 11.57 a.m.
Miss Verrall's room.
Agent. Mr. Tyrrell.
Note by Miss Verrall. The agent chose two subjects for
this experiment. From 11.57 a.m. to 12.7 p.m. he sat and
looked at a diagram, drawn in black ink on a white ground,
as below :
He also copied this diagram.
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 455
From 12.7 to 12.17 p.m. the subject of the experiment was
"CLARENCE, in gold letters on a red brick house outside."
(b) May 11, 1914. 11.57 a.m.
Miss Johnson's room.
First impression. Silver, metal. [Drawing of a circle.]
Money. Silver.
I think you have written something on paper for me, or
you have done drawing of some kind. I wish to draw, or
make figures. I have felt numbers, or rather a number, 12,
colour black and white. L. Tipping.
The percipient's impressions are interesting on this
occasion, because they seem to some extent to reflect the
thoughts of both agents, the idea of silver being perhaps
derived from the polishing of Miss K. Tipping's umbrella-
handle, and the idea of drawing in black and white
from Mr. Tyrrell's diagram. The percipient's impression
of the number 12 was perhaps suggested to her by the
fact that the time was then just about 12 noon ;
very
probably she had heard a clock strike.
Neither here nor in the previous experiment does the
percipient's record show any consciousness of there being
two agents, and although on the second occasion the
result was not unpromising, it was thought better for
the moment at any rate to follow a simpler line of experi-
ment and therefore on subsequent occasions there was only
one agent.
As to the question of how far these results may be
attributed to chance-coincidence it is not possible to come
to any exact conclusion, because the experiments do not
admit of statistical analysis. As regards certain types
of impression a good deal of allowance would undoubtedly
have to be made for chance, because the percipient
exhibits in these experiments several mental habits. For
instance, she has an impression of letters or printing no
fewer than sixteen times out of thirty-four, and on six
occasions she has an impression of flowers. But it will
456 Helen de G. Vcrrall. [part
be noticed that in none of the more successful experi-
ments do these recurring ideas play an important part.
If we left them out of account entirely, our estimate
of the success would hardly be affected.
Critics may be inclined, again, to suggest that where
the resemblance between the percipient's impression and
the subject chosen for transmission is only of a general
character,—a question of the attitude and gestures of
the agent, or of the shape and colour of the subject,
—
chance-coincidence might account for most of the resem-
blances.
With a view, however, to testing, as far as possible,
the quantity and quality of the coincidences that might
have been produced by chance in this series, I con-
structed out of it an artificial series by comparing each
of the percipient's impressions with the subject (a) of
the succeeding experiment, (b) of the next experiment
but one, (c) of the next but two, obtaining thus a series
of ninety-six imaginary " experiments." Since the date
of the percipient's impression in each case preceded
the date of the subject chosen for comparison, it might
be assumed that any coincidence which occurred in this
artificial series was due to chance. If the dates had
been reversed, it might be supposed that the coincidences
were due to deferred telepathy.
In judging the amount of coincidence in this artificial
series, I tried to maintain approximately the same standard
as I have applied to the genuine experiments discussed
above, and I therefore began by discounting slight, vague
coincidences which seemed mainly due to what I have
called the percipient's mental habits. Amongst these
ninety-six results I found five partial coincidences,1
i.e. a
proportion of one in nineteen, as compared with nine
out of thirty-four, i.e. one in four in the real experiments.
1
Compare, e.g., III. (a) with II. (b) and XVII. (a) with XIV. (b).
In Experiment XXVI. I made crochet lace in white cotton and in
Experiment XXIV. the percipient had an impression that I was knitting
with white or grey wool. This is the only one of these five coincidences
which is at all striking. I will ask the reader to take the other two
" on trust," since they occur in experiments of which the detailed record
is not included in this paper.
lxx.] Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. 457
So far, therefore, as any conclusions can be drawn from
this test, there seems to be a considerable margin of
evidence for supposing that some other agency than chance
has contributed to the result of these experiments, and
as I have said' hi my introduction, it is difficult to see
what this other agency can be but thought-transference.
After the conclusion of the experiments which I have
discussed here, Miss Louisa and Miss Kathleen Tipping
carried out another short series of experiments, in May and
June 1914, in which the subject was usually a playing-
card or diagram upon which the agent fixed her attention.
In this series of experiments there was only a very small
amount of success. The Misses Tipping are both under
the impression that more success is likely to be attained
when action of some kind is involved in the subject of
the experiment, and the results hitherto observed in this
case bear out this impression. It may be, of course, that
the higher degree of success attained in a particular
type of experiment is due to expectation and auto-sugges-
tion, but two other explanations may be suggested :
(a) Any one who has ever played the part of agent in
experiments of this kind will recognise what a great help
action of almost any kind is towards continuous mental
concentration. Indeed, for most people it is almost
impossible to keep the attention fixed upon a single mental
concept for more than a very short period of time.
(b) In carrying out action of any kind many sub-
conscious nerve-centres, both motor and sensory, are
stimulated. If, as we have some reason to think, the
subconscious mind plays an important part in thought-
transference, it may be that the stimulation of these
nerve-centres helps in the transmission of ideas.
It is not possible to draw any certain conclusions from
such a small number of experiments as are here discussed,
but we hope before long to carry out further experiments
with Miss Louisa Tipping, and perhaps with other per-
cipients. As the amount of material increases, it may
gradually become possible to form some theory as to what
conditions are most favourable to thought-transference.
458 Hereward Carrington
.
[part
II.
A DISCUSSION OF THE WILLETT SCRIPTS. 1
I.
By Hereward Carrington.
In the opinion of Mr. Gerald W. Balfour—and evidently
other members of the S.P.R.—the late Willett scripts
have afforded evidence for survival of a very striking
character, and at least two of our prominent members
have had no hesitation in coming forward and asserting
that they prove the persistence and identity of Dr. A. W.
Verrall—instigating and dictating these scripts. To others
of us, on the contrary, these scripts have proved anything
but conclusive, and I beg to offer, in the following brief
discussion, an alternate theory, which tends to dispose, not
only of their spiritistic character and origin, but of their
supernormal character altogether ! Let me first of all quote
the scripts verbatim, so that there may be no misunder-
standing with regard to the actual " evidence " discussed.
(A) (Script of July 6, 1912).
Does she remember the passage in which there's a reference
to a river ? A traveller looks across it, and sees the inn
where he wishes to be ; and he sees the torrent and is torn
both ways, half disliking to battle with the current, and yet
desiring to be at his destination.
Should it be possible to identify this passage, the matter
would prove interesting.
1
See the papers by Mr. G. W. Balfour and Mr. Bayfield on " Some
Recent Scripts affording Evidence of Personal Survival."
—
Proceedings,
Part LXIX., pp. 221-249.
lxx.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 459
What the passage does not say I draw from my own mind
to make the connection clear.
The passage is not from Christina Rossetti ; but I want to
say that too :
Yea, beds for all that come
—
You cannot miss that inn.
(B) {Script of August 13, 1913).
Some one indignant at the delay calls out
HAS THE PASSAGE
been identified about the traveller looking across a stream ;
dips his staff in, fears to wade, takes a run, heart misgives
him (here Mrs. Willett said out loud :
" Some one is laughing
so."
—
Note by Sitter), longs to be over and done with
Faith and
Hair
in a Temple
(Drawing of a wheel) Wheel
Pilgrim.
There was a reason for the CHOICE, if you find the
passage alluded to, it will be clear.
Have this seen to, for he swears that he will not here
exercise any patience whatsoever. Not even about
Lavender or Lub.
(C) (Script of August 17, 1913).
THE PASSIONATE PILGRIM
But it is of another one I want to write. I said Pilgrim.
Now write this
—
Not a one-horsed dawn, but a two-horsed chariot, though a
one-horsed dawn in a way might fit, because as compared to
another charioteer's exploits his were but a one-horsed affair.
It is a poem I am alluding to
A man who drove two horses in a less ambitious manner.
His predecessor
—
Does God exact day-labour, light denied ?
That ought to make it clear.
Hair in a Temple was said,
460 Hereward Carrington. [part
(D) (Script of September 8, 1913).
(Written in the presence of Mrs. Verrall.)
He of the little patience demands now this 3rd time whether
the Pilgrim has been understood.
Now if I say Passionate Pilgrim, I know all sorts of con-
notations will be dragged in. But think of the passage twice
inserted,
The River and He who would be across.
Letting I would not wait upon I would.
That seems jumbled up somehow, never mind.
A passionate Pilgrim but
NOT H.S'S
one.
What moves the stars and all the heavenly bodies ? Dante
makes it clear.
Then again I will repeat and will continue to repeat until
you are all sick and tired of the subject
HAIR IN A TEMPLE
That belongs.
Now, in considering this curious series of writings, let us
start our discussion without any prepossessions whatsoever.
Let us not assume that they refer to any particular thing,
or to any particular person. If we begin by assuming this,
we are apt to make all the evidence fit into our theory.
Let us, rather, judge the scripts purely impartially, without
assuming that they emanate from Dr. Verrall or from any
other disembodied " spirit." It seems to me that those
who have studied these scripts have not done this ;
they
seem to have been almost determined from the start to
place the authorship with Dr. Verrall ; for we read (p. 224) :
" it had indeed from the first been supposed to be connected
in some way with the late Dr. Verrall." Why ? Because
the script of July 6 contains two lines from a poem of
Christina Rossetti's, whose subject is death, and Dr. Verrall
had died " only a few weeks before !
" Surely the S.P.R.
will invite very adverse criticism as to its methods if it
advances evidence of this sort, and then proceeds to build
up elaborate theories and an immense superstructure upon
lxx.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 461
so flimsy a foundation as this ! Let us see if there is not
another interpretation of the script—one quite in confor-
mity with the facts, and perfectly obvious, when once
pointed out.
Before discussing this alternate interpretation, however,
one fact must not be lost sight of ; and that is the fact that
the enigmatic, studied, veiled and obscure form of the
writing affords no evidence, per se, of its genuinely spiritistic
character. We know full well that planchette and auto-
matic writing will often assume this form, when there is no
evidence whatever that any external intelligence is active-
—
other than the subliminal of the medium. This " dramatic
play " is effective, but it affords a strong argument against
the spiritistic theory just as much as it does for it. The
beautiful cases brought forward by Flournoy, in his work
Spiritism and Psychology, fully demonstrate this, and indi-
cate the lying character of many of these communica-
tions. Here, as we have seen, messages of a precisely
similar character were received from supposedly " dead "
people who afterwards turned up alive and in good
health ! Facts of this character should give us pause,
and make us decide to discard absolutely all evidence for
survival based upon this " dramatic play." Evidence
must be forthcoming that the knowledge shown over-
reaches the possibilities of the subconscious mind. The
supernormal is the criterion. This fact was very clearly
seen and insisted upon by Prof. Hyslop, when he said
{Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XVI., p. 292) :
The crucial test of Spiritism, in this and all other cases,
must turn upon the question of telepathy to furnish the data
upon which any secondary consciousness has to work. Until
it is more fully studied, we shall have to assume that second-
ary personality is equal to the task of explaining the dramatic
play of person ality, and all non-evidential data, and base our
conclusion upon the insufficiency of telepathy to supply the
objective facts in evidence of personal identity.
This has been more and more borne out by the publi-
cation of late facts. We must make up our minds,
therefore, to discard all " dramatic play " as non-evidential,
462 Hereivard Carrington. [part
in the strict sense of the word, and judge the scripts
solely upon the basis of the supernormal information they
contain.
Judged in this light, and from an entirely unbiassed view-
point, what do we find ?
It seems perfectly obvious to me that the symbolic re-
ferences to crossing a river, the pilgrim hesitating upon its
brink, etc., refer not to Dr. Verrall at all, nor to any classical
writer ; but to a book which practically everyone has read,
and which may be calculated to leave an indelible and life-
long impression upon the subliminal of every reader—to
wit, Pilgrim's Progress. The word " Pilgrim " is distinctly
referred to on several occasions—the actual word being
used. We are also specially warned not to confuse this
Pilgrim with the Passionate Pilgrim (which would steer us
off, into Shakespeare) nor to " H. S.'s." In other words,
the script refers in a veiled way to a certain passage in
which a Pilgrim comes to a river which he hesitates to
cross, and which may be assumed to refer symbolically to
Death. Now, in Pilgrim's Progress, Death is aptly repre-
sented by a deep river without a bridge, separating the
believer from his heavenly inheritance—as Jordan flowed
between Israel and the promised land. Let me quote the
passage to make this perfectly clear
:
Now I further saw that betwixt them and the gate was a
river ; but there was no bridge to go over ; the river was
very deep. At the sight therefore of this river, the pilgrims
were much stunned ; but the men who went with them said,
" You must go through or you cannot come to the gate."
The pilgrims then began to inquire if there was no other
way to the gate ? to which they answered, " Yes ; but there
hath not any, save two, to wit, Enoch and Elijah, been
permitted to tread that path since the foundation of the
world ; nor shall until the last trumpet shall sound." The
pilgrims then (especially Christian) began to despond in their
minds, and looked this way and that, but no way could be
found by them, by which they might escape the river. Then
they asked the men if the waters were all of a depth ? They
said, " No ;
" yet they could not help them in that case
;
lxx.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 463
" for," said they, " you will find it deeper or shallower, as
you believe in the King of the place."
They then addressed themselves to the water, and, entering,
Christian began to sink, and crying out to hi& good friend
Hopeful, he said, " I sink in deep waters ; the billows go over
my head, all his waves go over me. Selah."
The passage then goes on to describe Christian's further
agonies of soul in crossing, and his final triumphant emer-
gence upon the further shore.
I think we need surely go no further in our search
for the origin of this script. We have all the necessary
conditions fulfilled. Assuming Mrs. Willett to have read
Pilgrim's Progress, or to know the story, we have here,
it seems to me, a complete explanation of the origin of this
part of the writing.
We have a Pilgrim (not the Passionate Pilgrim of
Shakespeare nor H. S.'s)—crossing a river—the river of
death. It is beautifully symbolized. He hesitates and
doubts before crossing. He sees the stream and is afraid.
He dislikes to battle with the current and the water's
probable depth. It would " prove interesting " upon
identification, because it refers to Death, symbolically. It
is not Rossetti's. Truly, " you cannot miss that Inn,"
because all men must die ! The passage is as clear as
possible throughout. The writing is a mere subliminal
re-construction of this story of Christian crossing the
river of Death—portrayed in the usual veiled manner.
Neither Statius nor any classical author whatever is referred
to ; nor is reference to them necessary to explain the
script fully and satisfactorily.
To pass to other portions of the script. In that of
August 13, we have "Faith and . . . Hair ... in a
Temple." Now, I should imagine that the automatic
hand, wandering on in its usual dreamlike way, started
to write "Faith and Hope," but after writing the H of
the word Hope, it suddenly took a "new turn" and
wrote " Hair in a Temple." I have seen many similar
instances of this, in which the meaning of the phrase
has been suddenly turned in this manner, after the first
2 G
464 Hereward Carrington. [part
letter of a word has been given. It is a common trick
of the subliminal. Just why " Hair in a Temple " should
then have been written, I am, of course, unable to say.
It seems mere dream-like rambling. Mr. Balfour says it
has a hidden and very intimate and subtle connection
with Dr. Verrall
—
too intimate and subtle, unfortunately,
for publication ! Not knowing the facts, I cannot dispute
this. As, however, I think I have shown that neither
Dr. Verrall nor Statius were in any way referred to in
the foregoing script, I think we need not concern our-
selves very greatly with this connection, which thus
assumes a very far-fetched aspect.
" Lavender and Lub " would be a good hit, were it
not for the fact that this phrase had already appeared in
Mrs. Verrall's script, and had been seen by Mrs. Willett
(]). 236). If, therefore, Mrs. Willett had any intimation
that her script was thought to emanate from Dr. Verrall
—which she might well have subconsciously surmised
from the actions of her sitters—her subliminal might well
have inserted this phrase, amidst her writings, as it was
known to be intimately connected with Mrs. Verrall
(it appeared in her writing) and hence indirectly with her
husband. The phrase does not appear remarkable to me
at all.
As to the drawing of a wheel, amid many drawings
and diagrams which have occurred in the automatic writing
in the past—many of them unrecognizable—this should
not occasion us much concern ! It might represent the
Wheel of Fortune ; the wheel of a Chariot (spoken of at
the next sitting) ; the Wheel of Time ; the Wheel upon
which Mercury is sometimes represented as standing, etc.
If the latter, it would follow very naturally from the
sentence before it—speaking of a Temple. (I myself have
seen a dome-like building, resembling a temple, surmounted
by a winged Mercury, standing upon a wheel.) This
would seem, therefore, to represent a pure piece of symbolic
imagery.
Finally, as to the passages relating to the "one-horsed
dawn " and " Dante,"—inasmuch as these had already
been the subject of lengthy discussions in the Proceedings,
LXX.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 465
I am inclined to attach no weight whatever to them, but
to regard these references merely as stray shots—referring
to incidents which could not fail to hit the mark in one
capacity or another. Any reference whatever to Dante
would be held to have significance—after all that has
been written upon him in the past ! It has no real
connection with the script, but is merely a stray shot,
a line thrown out, to see whether or not it would find
soil. The fact that it did so is evident from the paper of
Mr. Balfour, and the tremendous superstructure of theory
which the Rev. M. A. Bayfield has reared upon this slender
number of facts !
Reviewing the evidence, therefore, from a purely im-
personal and impartial point of view, we see that it by no
means points to Dr. Verrall as the author of the scripts ;
and that no vast amount of classical scholarship is involved
or necessary to understand or interpret them fully. They
represent, rather, the piecing together of disjointed fragments
of subconscious knowledge and subconscious memories ;
they have no systematic connection, and point to no
" spirit " as their author. They are all fully explained
upon purely psychological and naturalistic lines. And
this criticism applies, it seems to me, not only to the
Willett scripts in particular, but to almost the whole
of the cross-correspondences. Studied in this manner,
and without prepossession, they almost invariably resolve
themselves into simple subconscious memories and associa-
tions, between which no real connection whatever exists.
I believe, with Dr. Maxwell, that the evidence afforded by
these cross-correspondences has been vastly over-rated ;
that chance has played a far greater part than is usually
assumed ; and that the evidence for survival which they
furnish is distinctly inferior in all respects to the straight-
forward communications supplied in the Hodgson and
Hyslop reports, from which method many of us are sorry
the Society has ever departed. I also agree fully with
Mrs. Anna Hude {The Evidence for Communication) in
thinking that, while there is strong evidence for supernormal
knowledge of a vague kind shown by these cross-references,
there is practically no evidence of "spirit return," and
466 Hereward Carrington. [part
that the Latin message incident, far from being a success,
was a miserable failure. It is with regret that I record
these impressions, which are doubtless opposed to those of
many other members of the Society ; but they have been
reached only after a thorough and painstaking examination
of the evidence. I cannot help feeling that these com-
munications lack nearly all the essentials necessary to
insure conviction ; and that the spiritistic hypothesis still
rests for its most solid support upon the G. P. sittings,
and other " direct " communications coming through Mrs.
Piper. The whole crux of the question lies there.
II.
By Ivor Lloyd Tuckett, M.D.
[The following remarks by Dr. Tuckett, who is not a
member of the S.P.R., are taken from a letter he wrote in
October, 1914, to a member who had asked his opinion about
the Willett scripts, and who suggested that his answer should
be published. This is now done with Dr. Tuckett's permission.
—Ed.]
The Willett script published in Part LXIX. of the
Proceedings is a less oppressive case for discussion than
most cases of automatic writing, especially those that
are supposed to form a cross-correspondence, such as the
"Alexander's Tomb " C. C. analysed by Miss Johnson, which
does not impress me with the necessity for a supernormal
explanation but which it is difficult to grasp and criticise
concisely. So this Willett script, in as far as it is not
supposed to be part of a cross-correspondence, deserves,
to my mind, more serious attention and is more impressive.
But it is only impressive if you agree with Mr. Balfour
that the Willett script of July 6, 1912 (written in Mr.
Balfour's presence eighteen days after Dr. Verrall's death
on June 18, 1912) finds its solution in a passage from
Dr. Verrall's essay, entitled " Dante on the Baptism of
Statius," published in the Albany Review in August, 1908,
lxx.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 467
but probably quite unknown to Mrs. Willett. Mr. Balfour,
who has written the article in the Proceedings of the
S.P.R. with considerable skill, is too ready, I think, to
assume that it does find its only solution in Dr. Venull's
essay. Therefore, as Mr. Balfour's argument depends
almost entirely on identifying the passage asked for in
Mrs. Willett's script with a passage in Dr. Verrall's essay,
I must discuss this matter at some length.
The script of July 6, 1912 (see above, p. 458) ends
with a quotation from a poem called Uphill, the subject of
which is Death.
Now in this script there is obviously quite as much
stress laid on the idea of an Inn as there is on that
of River ; and there is also some mention of battling
with the current. Then the quotation of Christina
Rossetti's poem rather implies that the passage referred
to occurs in a poem. Consequently I do not think the
passage in Dr. Verrall's essay more appropriate than
many other passages either in classical literature about
crossing the Styx, or in hymns about trembling on the
brink of the river of death ; while in modern poetry
there must be many passages which would fit well enough.
Why should it not even be some passage from Dante
(for the script of September 8, 1913, contains the words,
" What moves the stars and all the heavenly bodies ?
Dante makes it clear.") rather than the passage in Dr.
Verrall's essay, which runs as follows :
This river [i.e. of baptism] he long hesitated to pass ;
he " halted on the other side," as a man, who was no hero,
might, when to be baptised was to be in danger of death,
—
though, as he tells us, the delay cost him centuries of expiation
upon the purgatorial mountain. But before he brought his
Argives to the Asopus [i.e. in his poem of " The Seven
against Thebes "] he himself had made his passage.
Here there is no reference, explicit or implicit, to an Inn,
and nothing about battling with a torrent. In Dr. Verrall's
remarks on Statius, the stress is on the danger he ran after
crossing the river of baptism rather than on any danger in
crossing, the point accentuated in the script.
468 Ivor Lloyd Tuckett, M.D. [part
In the next place, Mr. Balfour tries to clinch the matter
and convince the reader that this is the passage referred
to in the script by writing (p. 220) :
The fact that this essay brings into conjunction Dr. Verrall
himself, Dante and a traveller or pilgrim who hesitates to cross
a river, is to my mind almost convincing proof that it contains
the passage we are looking for. But any doubt that may still
remain will vanish, I think, before one decisive consideration
When Statius, in the lines of which I have already read
a translation
—
[i.e. Purgatorio xxii., 73-91]—says to Virgil,
" Through thee I was a poet, through thee a Christian," he
adds, " but that thou mayest the better see what I outline, I will
put forth my hand to fill in colour." Dr. Verrall quotes these
lines and explains them to mean that Dante himself felt that
his account of the manner and date of Statius' conversion
rested on an imaginative interpretation of the passage in the
Thebaid on which he was relying, and went considerably beyond
its literal meaning. Now turn to the printed extract from the
Willett script of July 6, 1912 :
" What the passage does not
say I draw from my own mind to make the connection clear."
We have here an unmistakable paraphrase of the very words
that Dante puts into the mouth of Statius. And what I will
again ask you specially to note is that this crowning proof
that the passage has been correctly identified occurs in the
earliest of the four scripts that refer to the subject.
Here you see Mr. Balfour talks about a crowning proof.
But to my mind the occurrence in Mrs. Willett's script
of words which are more or less a paraphrase of some
lines in the Purgatorio do not prove anything at all. If
the inspirer of the script, supposed by Mr. Balfour to be
Dr. Verrall, had wanted to make the script refer to a
passage in Dr. Verrall's essay and at the same time to
bring in a reference to Dante's mention of Statius in the
Purgatorio, he would have attained his end with certainty,
not by using words which are only a vague paraphrase of
Dante's words, but by quoting Dante's words themselves
in the Italian or at any rate the English translation, viz.
" but that thou mayest the better see what I outline,
I will put forth my hand to fill in colour."
lxx. I
A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 469
The expression " I will put forth my hand to fill in
colour " would have been a millionfold more convincing
than saying, " What the passage does not say I draw
from my own mind to make the connection clear." These
latter words might be applied to so many contexts, and
are not uncharacteristic of the vague, non-committal
utterances of automatic script.
Then again Mr. Balfour's words, " The fact that this
essay brings into conjunction Dr. Verrall himself, Dante
and a traveller or pilgrim who hesitates to cross a river,
is to my mind almost convincing proof that it contains
the passage we are looking for," are to my mind point-
less. For if we do not assume that Dr. Verrall is the
inspirer of the script, then the fact that any passage
brings into conjunction Dr. Verrall, Dante and a Traveller,
does not make that passage any more probably the one
referred to in the script. Mr. Balfour here is obviously
arguing in a circle. He assumes the identity of the
passage to prove that Dr. Verrall inspired it, and he
then makes a point of Dr. Verrall being the inspirer to
prove the identity of the passage.
Altogether I am absolutely unconvinced that the script
about the Timid Traveller refers to the passage in Dr.
Verrall's essay ; and if it does not, then there is nothing
impressive about the script. In all cases of automatic
writing I see no reason yet for doubting that what is
written could be given a normal explanation, if we knew
all about the conscious thoughts and subconscious material
present to the automatic writer's mind in the hours or
days preceding the production of the script. Nevertheless,
I admit the possibility that some day convincing evidence
of communications from discarnate minds may be forth-
coming ;
although in this particular case I regard the
evidence for Dr. Verrall's interference as very weak.
Next a few remarks about two subsidiary points.
(1). "Lavender or Lub," which came at the end of
script B (August 13, 1913), and which Mr. Balfour
supposes were words " introduced to serve as an identify-
ing symbol connecting Dr. Verrall with the script by a
link the significance of which was outside the normal
470 Ivor Lloyd Tuckett, M.D. [part
knowledge of the automatist," had occurred in a script
of Mrs. Verrall written on January 13, 1908. Mrs. Willett
had seen this script ; so the occurrence of the expression
in her own script requires no supernormal explanation.
(2). In scripts B, C, and especially in D, quite as much
or more stress is laid on "HAIR IN A TEMPLE " than on
the passage referring to a Timid Traveller. If the expres-
sion involves private matters, it is unfortunate for the
supernormal explanation ; but Mr. Balfour's words are of no
scientific value when he says he thinks it refers to Catullus'
poem on " The Hair of Berenice," and adds, " I must ask
you to accept from me that there is a connection, but
one which I have to leave unexplained, because it involves
a reference to private matters which I am not at liberty
to disclose. ... I can only tell you that '
Berenice
'
is, as a matter of fact, connected by very definite inter-
mediate links with Dr. Verrall's essays on Dante and
Statius, and that this explanation has the additional merit
of explaining why the drawing of a wheel appears in the
script of August 13, 1913."
I regard it as almost scientifically illegitimate to use
the words as a matter of fact ; and it is certainly scientifi-
cally pointless to mention Berenice's Hair at all, if the
evidence cannot be given. So for the ordinary reader
of the Proceedings there is nothing to show from the
occurrence of the words " Hair in a Temple " in three
scripts out of four that the passage referred to in the first
script has anything to do with Dr. Verrall's essay entitled
" Dante on the Baptism of Statius."
Finally, I feel I ought to make some general remarks
about the whole incident.
(I.) It is noteworthy how prejudiced Messrs. Balfour
and Bayfield are in favour of the Verrall origin of the
script. They do their best to make the passage in Dr.
Verrall's essay, entitled " Dante on the Baptism of
Statius," fit the words of Mrs. Willett's script without
considering and discussing the claims of any other passages
in modern and ancient literature about a river which
some one hesitated to cross, such as Caesar and the
Rubicon, or Christian crossing the river to Paradise in
lxx.J A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 471
The Pilgrim's Progress ; and then they triumphantly argue
that the inspirer of the script was much more probably
Dr. Verrall's discarnate mind than the automatist's own
mind, or some other incarnate mind acting telepathically
on the automatist.
N.B.—It is amusing to note how seriously the Rev.
M. A. Bayfield discusses whether Dr. Verrall or some
form of telepathy is the more probable explanation of the
script ; and talks as if he knew a great deal about
Telepathy, although—as I continue to maintain—Telepathy
itself has never yet been scientifically established. In
this discussion, too, I note that he refers, as evidence for
telepathy, to the scientifically worthless experiments of
Miss Miles and Miss Ramsden which gave such feeble
results.
(II.) Even if I admitted that there was no doubt of
the connection between the script and Dr. Verrall's essay
and that apparently Dr. Verrall was the inspirer of the
script and that there was here some evidence for the
supernormal, yet then I should try not to forget that
this was a single experiment ; and that, in the light of all
the twaddly, worthless automatic writings and utterances
which have been given forth during the last 2000 years,
great caution must be exercised. For in studying pheno-
mena taking place under vague, unknown conditions, with
the possibility of all sorts of unforeseen fallacies, the only
way to approach truth is by establishing a percentage of
striking results out of a large mass of phenomena, of very
low scientific value individually. And the percentage is
remarkably low ! Yet the Rev. M. A. Bayfield in his
Note on the Same Scripts says that this incident has quite
convinced him of the reality of " communication with the
spirit world."
(III.) The Rev. M. A. Bayfield's note on the incident
is remarkably characteristic of the sort of effect which
emotional bias has on a person. What has convinced him
much more than any sound scientific evidence is obviously
the form of the script in which he thinks he can recognise
personal peculiarities of Dr. Verrall. This reminds me
strikingly of the trial of the French spirit-photographer,
472 Ivor Lloyd Tuckett, M.D. [part
Buguet (see Podmore's Modern Spiritualism, Vol. II.,
p. 120), at which witness after witness came forward to
testify on behalf of the accused, having obtained unmis-
takeable photographs of those dear to them ; and they
would not relinquish their faith, even when they heard
Buguet explain how he had taken all the photographs with
" a headless doll or lay figure, which, variously draped,
served for the body of the ghost. The head was commonly
chosen to suit expectations. . . . The lay figure and a
large stock of heads were seized by the police at the
studio."
In short there is no evidence apt to be more deceptive
than the recognition of traits and peculiarities which we
think characteristic of those we have known well and
loved. The emotional bias subconsciously making one
wish to be convinced is so strong. Even the recognition
of Russians whom we have never loved can be fallacious, if
the bias is strong enough !
In this case the Rev. M. A. Bayfield lays stress on the
characteristically impatient tone of the Willett script. But
from his remarks it is clear that, if the script had been
remarkable for the patience shown, it would have been
equally easy to say this was characteristic of the patient
fortitude with which Dr. Verrall bore his long illness.
(IV.) There is nothing in Mrs. Willett's script which
is not characteristic of automatic writing. Now as we
knoiv that automatic processes in some cases have been
inspired by forgotten memories or by a subconscious
train of thought—I could give four or five examples from
Miss Johnson's first paper on Mrs. Holland's script, —the
natural attitude, apart from special reasons, is to find
the explanation of every script in the automatist's own
mind. (In this case identification of the references to
a Timid Traveller with Dr. Verrall's essay would con-
stitute a special reason ;
but, as I have shown, this
identification is not convincing.) Moreover, the year's
interval between scripts A and B is quite characteristic of
the way subconscious processes, masquerading as a per-
sonality, go on. We must always remember that Mrs.
Willett was at the time an intimate friend of Mrs. Verrall
lxx.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 473
and her daughter, and knew all about their hopes of what
automatic writing would prove, besides having read many
papers published by the S.P.R. Consequently, Mrs. Willett
probably knew quite well, subconsciously, the sort of
evidence which would impress members of the S.P.R.
,
and how this sort of puzzle of referring vaguely to some
passage and then returning to the subject a year later
would excite interest.
(V.) All that we know about the mind and its relation
to the brain from the researches of physiologists and
experimental psychologists goes to show that you cannot
get out of the mind anything the elements of which
have not been put into the mind at some previous time.
The mind can evolve wonderful combinations out of
subconscious material, but there is no evidence that it
can produce thoughts quite outside the range of the
thinker's experience. For instance, there is no evidence
that an automatist can speak or write a language which
can be shown with certainty never to have come within
the horizon of the automatist's experience. Consequently,
the hypothesis that Dr. Verrall inspired Mrs. Willett 's
script can only mean that Dr. Verrall's discarnate mind
was able to select and utilise elements which were present
in Mrs. Willett's subconscious mind ; but the Rev. M. A.
Bayfield, in discussing the telepathic hypothesis, himself
denies that there is any evidence that one mind can rout
about in another person's mind. On the other hand, if
the discarnate Dr. Verrall was more than a mere selector
of the script, his mind must have got possession of the
working of the automatist's brain, a hypothesis which
raises endless difficulties.
(VI.) Mrs. Willett only knew Dr. Verrall slightly. So
if Dr. Verrall wanted to send a communication to show
the S.P.R. that his mind still survived, he could have
done it so much more easily—one would think, knowing
nothing about the supernormal conditions under which
automatic writing might occur—through his wife or
daughter. Or, if he wanted to make his communication
as convincing and striking as possible, one would expect
him to have chosen some complete stranger. Mrs. Willett
474 Ivor Lloyd Tuckett, M.D. [part
strikes me as being neither intimate enough nor enough
of a stranger for it to be probable that Dr. Verrall
would have chosen her for his medium of communication.
However, I really consider ib is futile to discuss what is
probable in a hypothesis for which there is no evidence ;
and I attach no weight to this argument. So I have
put these remarks last in case they may appeal to any
spiritistically inclined readers.
III.
By the Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
I have been asked to make a reply to the two papers
which immediately precede this, and will endeavour to do
so, dealing in such detail as seems to be required with
the criticisms which they offer. We will take Mr. Carring-
ton's paper first.
He writes on p. 460, " they seem to have been almost
determined from the start to place the authorship with
Dr. Verrall ; for we read (p. 224) '
it has indeed from
the first been supposed to be connected in some way
with the late Dr. Verrall.' Why ? Because the script
of July 6 contains two lines from a poem of Christina
Rossetti's, whose subject is death, and Dr. Verrall had
died 'only a few weeks before'!" But Mr. Balfour's
words, " it [the script] had indeed from the first been
supposed to be in some way connected with " afford no
warrant for Mr. Carrington writing, " they seem to have
been almost determined from the start to place the author-
ship with." Further, in order to show that the supposed
connexion was not altogether arbitrary (as Mr. Carrington
suggests that it is), Mr. Balfour goes on to say, " This
being the first script she had written since Dr. Verrall'
s
death, it was natural to expect that reference to him
would be made in it." Any one familiar with the subject
knows that this is the way of automatists, and also that
the fact imports nothing as to the ultimate origin of the
lxx.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 475
script. To maintain that Dr. Verrall is referred to in the
script is totally different from maintaining that he is the
author of it ; the critic, however, appears not to have
grasped the distinction, and he omits Mr. Balfour's im-
portant sentence. Mr. Balfour immediately adds a stronger
reason for the connexion :
" Moreover, a phrase in this
same script '
does she remember ' was reminiscent of a
similar phrase in which '
she ' clearly alluded to Mrs.
Verrall.'' This point also Mr. Carrington ignores and
omits ; but clearly Mr. Balfour's two reasons, given in full
and taken together, explain satisfactorily enough why it had
been supposed that Script (A) was " connected in some way
with the late Dr. Verrall." Even if Mr. Carrington does
not find these reasons satisfactory, he might note that
though the supposition was seriously entertained, this was
in spite of the fact that it left any connexion of the
" passage " with Dr. Verrall still a complete mystery.
Mr. Carrington comments on his own version of Mr.
Balfour's arguments as follows :
—" Surely the S.P.R.
will invite very adverse criticism as to its methods if it
advances evidence of this sort,". . . Fortunately the
Society is in no way responsible for offering '
evidence of
this sort ' in support of spirit intervention, nor is even
Mr. Balfour ; it is a hors d'ceuvre of Mr. Carrington' s own
preparation. The evidence Mr. Balfour advanced on this
point is merely evidence that the scripts referred to Dr.
Verrall, and has nothing to do with the question of the
latter's authorship or agency.
Next we are warned to attach no importance to the
'
dramatic play ' in the scripts, since it is by no means
beyond the capacity of the unaided subliminal conscious-
ness. That is a truth familiar to babes in psychical
research, and since Mr. Balfour showed no forgetfillness
of it, one wonders why it was thought necessary to
emphasise the axiom in the present connexion. The
topic is quite irrelevant. May I be pardoned for wonder-
ing—merely wondering—whether, by some confusion of
thought, the writer had in his mind my Note on the
extraordinary characterisation of Dr. Verrall (with its
dramatic features) which the scripts present ? If this
476 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
is so, it is to be remarked that the two things are not
the same. The characterisation of an individual is
quite distinct from the ordinary dramatic play which
occurs so commonly in scripts, and which is referred
to in Mr. Carrington's quotation from Dr. Hyslop's
article.
Mr. Carrington identifies the passage referred to in
the scripts as being Bunyan's description of the pilgrims
crossing the River of Death ; he says the identification
is " perfectly obvious." The passage in The Pilgrim's
Progress is so familiar, and the superficial similarity
between the passages so obvious, that the idea is probably
the first that would occur to anyone on a first glance
at the scripts ; and as a matter of fact it was the first
that occurred to those who first saw the scripts. They
rejected it because a second glance showed the proposed
solution to be untenable for the following reasons.
First, all the scripts emphasise the single traveller,
and never mention more than one ; in Bunyan's allegory
there is a crowd of people on the river bank, who are
described as all being concerned to make the crossing and
as proceeding to attempt it, and two pilgrims, Christian
and Hopeful, pass over together.
Again, Script (A) describes the river in question as a
"torrent," and speaks of the traveller as " disliking to battle
with the current." Now, this is in precise and remarkable
agreement with the condition of the river Asopus as
described in the essay. Dr. Verrall's words, which follow
the description of Statius, are, " The unfriendly stream, we
are told, then chanced to be swollen by a formidable
flood, and the Argive horsemen hesitated to pass." 1
It
was the strength and speed of the river, now become a
torrent, which dismayed them, and it is natural and reason-
able to suppose that if Dr. Verrall assigned in his thoughts
any particular characteristics to the metaphorical river of
Statius' baptism (the river of the script, as we think), it would
be those of the Asopus in flood, since it is the Asopus
in that condition which furnishes the image. Bunyan's
1
See Literary Essays Classical and Modern, p. 195, and Statius, Theb.
vii. 425 ff.
lxx.] A Dismission of the Willett Scripts. 477
river, on the other hand, appears to have had no appreciable
current. In fact its pace was no part of his thought ;
the
only feature and the only difficulty he is concerned to
present is the depth of the water. At its first mention the
river is said to have been " very deep," and a little later
the pilgrims are told that they " will find it deeper or
shallower " according to their faith ; and that is all that
is said of the character of the stream.
A still more decisive objection than these is that this
solution boldly ignores the various hints given in the
later scripts as a help towards identification of the passage
in the first. Mr. Carrington arbitrarily and impatiently
tosses these aside, and says with the finality of a Judicial
Committee of the House of Lords, " It [any reference
to Dante] has no real connection with the script." Now
assertion is not argument, as Mr. Carrington is well aware,
and since he is engaged in a serious discussion to which
he must desire to do strict justice, he cannot be '
bluffing
'
his readers ; no honest seeker after truth would do that.
We are bound, therefore, to suppose that he has some
sound reasons for this wholesale elimination of the refer-
ences to Dante, though he keeps them to himself,—that
he possesses some touchstone by which he can infallibly
distinguish the material from the immaterial. But why
this sudden and unexpected reticence ? To raise our
expectations of a reasoned treatment of this cardinal
point and then leave us unsatisfied is, to say the least,
unkind. Also I am afraid he cannot have realised how
important these allusions to Dante are for Mr. Balfour's
view ;
else, with his desire to be studiously fair to the
discussion and to guide us aright, he would have told
us plainly why, like " the flowers that bloom in the
spring, tra la," they " have nothing to do with the
case." As it is, deserted by our guide, we shall go on in
our own stupid way, believing that these allusions are
intentionally inserted as helps towards identification of
the propounded passage.
Moreover, as against Mr. Carrington's view, if the
passage in Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress is the true answer
to the riddle, what plausible explanation can be given of
478 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
the words of Script (A), " Should it be possible to identify
this passage, the matter would prove interesting " 1
" Should it be possible " is a phrase which suggests some
difficulty in making the identification, but the incident in
Bunyan's story leaps to any literary person's recollection
at once. And if the passage of Bunyan had had any
" interesting " association with Dr. Verrall, Mrs. Verrall
would almost certainly have been aware of the fact, and
would have told us. On the other hand, if the " passage
"
of Script (A) is the passage in the essay on Statins,
" the matter " does " prove interesting," for it furnishes
strong evidence of personal identity and survival.
Let us, having no reason to the contrary, take into
account the allusions to Dante, and let us for the moment
assume that Mrs. Willett's subliminal alone, and in pure
mischief, concocted the scripts. She begins by pro-
pounding the problem in Script (A) ; but the little jest
falls flat, for nobody makes any guess at the answer,
though she waits for a whole year. The words " What
the passage does not say," etc., were not at that time
recognised as a paraphrase of two lines of Dante. She
is naturally piqued, and propounds her riddle again in
(B), this time adding hint the word ' wheel ' and
the drawing of a wheel. This hint also is too obscure
;
for though there is a famous wheel in the Divina Corn-
media, there are also others, as Mr. Carrington observes.
Accordingly there are still no bids. So in (D) she returns
to the subject once more, and this time with the pointed
hint " Dante makes it clear." After that, those few who
had seen the writings offered their answer to the puzzle,
and the subject disappeared from Mrs. Willett's scripts.
Apparently her subliminal was satisfied. On the assump-
tion with which this paragraph begins, this view of
the scripts seems to be natural and indeed inevitable.
On any view of the origin of the scripts it is merely
perverse to separate the references to Dante from the
propounded passage ; and this will, I think, be the
general opinion until Mr. Carrington sees fit to impart
the secret of his patent separator. One wonders what
he himself would have said of such a dislocation if
LXX.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 479
anyone had ventured upon it in order to support a case
for spirit intervention.
How dangerous it is to form a judgement about the
allusions in script without taking every detail into account
is well shown in the case of the following scripts written
by Miss Verrall. Though they extend over a period of
six years they are apparently all connected. I have
italicised the words which alone belong to the poem that
was finally identified as being the one intended :
(1) Dec. 16, 1907.—. . . A fairy boat in the moonlight
(drawing of a boat) and a star at the prow (drawing of
a boat and a star) and a mast of silver but the sails are
furled . . .
(2) Dec. 15, 1908.—. . . A knife a carving knife three blind
mice a single thread.
(3) Feb. 1, 1909.—. . . A ship a ship comes sailing but
never a ship for me . . .
(4) Jan. 21, 1914.—. . . Apollo's golden bow—a shower of
gold—aurea a golden boat (drawing of a crescent moon) there
is a poem—something about the moon and a golden boat . . .
(5) Jan. 28, 1914.-—. . . the golden boat—something about
the masts being of silver—it is an English poem—we have
tried to quote it twice before—to sail on the sea—last night
the moon had a silver ring—three blind mice—yes write it
down—I wish you could find that poem . . .
(6) Feb. 4, 1914.—. . . the masts were all of silver—the crew
were mice . . .
Before the next script appeared Mr. Piddington told
Miss Verrall that he had discovered the poem, and told
her what it was.
(7) Feb. 9, 1914.—. . . It was right about the boat.
(8) Feb. 25, 1914.—. . . Did you understand about the silver
masts ? that was important—the mice too were to identify
—
I mean for identification of the ship . . . the ship is what
matters . . .
After much hunting, Mr. Piddington had identified the
2h
480 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [PAET
poem as being The Fairy Ship, a child's poem which
begins :
—
" A ship, a ship a-sailing, a-sailing on the sea,
And it was deeply laden with pretty things for me ;
There were raisins in the cabin and almonds in the hold,
The sails were made of satin, and the mast it was of gold.
The four and twenty sailors that stood between the decks
Were four and twenty white mice, with rings round their
necks ..."
There are other versions, and in one the sails are, it is
said, of silver.
Probably few people would dispute the correctness of
this identification, which, it should be added, was arrived
at by Mr. Piddington entirely without prejudice, for he
has no idea why the poem in question was referred to
by the scripts. But if no notice had been taken of the
mice, which in (2) and (5) appear to be altogether irrele-
vant, the true solution would certainly have been missed.
Thus Miss Verrall herself thought that Hood's poem
beginning, " A lake and a fairy boat, To sail in the
moonlight clear," might possibly be intended. Only
when it was plainly said in (6) that " the crew were
mice " was it seen that all previous guesses had been
erroneous. None the less, should this identification ever
be used to support a case of spirit intervention, we must
not be surprised if some one gifted with mysterious
powers of penetration comes forward and boldly declares
that the mice have " no real connexion with the script,"
that each one of them " is merely a stray shot, a line
thrown out, to see whether or not it would find soil "•
—
and bear no doubt those fantastic fruits that we so often
see when shots and lines strike root. Any one who can
ignore Dante would make short work of three blind mice,
or even a crew of them.
These scripts of Miss Verrall furnish a further lesson,
which may be useful to those who have only made a
superficial study of automatic writing. They illustrate the
difficulty which the subliminal not infrequently seems to
find in expressing simply and directly the idea which it
lxx.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 481
apparently wishes to convey. It will lead up to it by
indirect approaches, or wrap it round with confusing
superfluities, or even—betrayed by some literary or other
association—introduce a fresh thought similar yet distinct,
so that the reader is puzzled to decide which idea is
the important one. For instance, in (2) above, we get
at the mice of the fairy crew only through " three blind
mice," and these themselves are led up to by the carv-
ing knife.
Again, such irrelevances may be introduced by the
automatist's conscious self : realising what she is writing,
she may start a train of associated thought which some-
how finds its way into the script, either at the time or
later. Thus the description of the fairy boat in (1)
introduces moonlight and a star, neither of which occurs
in the poem. The moonlight is borrowed from Hood's
poem, and the star comes from an illustration of it
which Miss Verrall had seen, and which shows a star
at the boat's prow. I may add in passing that the
foregoing remarks have a bearing on the mention of
the Inn in Mrs. Willett's Script (A), which will be dealt
with below.
The references to " Hah in a Temple " Mr. Carrington
explains in a manner apparently satisfactory to himself,
but which is mere imagination. He is, of course, not
in a position to offer, or even form, any opinion on this
point, and he would have impressed us more as a dispu-
tant if he had contented himself with saying that the
court could take no notice of statements unsupported
by evidence. Mr. Balfour's opinion on the matter (pp. 239 f.)
has weight with many of us, but one would not expect
importance to be attached to it by anyone who did not
know his impartiality in judging of such questions. The
reader may be reminded that his mention of the point
was independent of his main argument, and that he did
not offer it as any part of the evidence in support of that
argument.
The remarkably strong point " Lavender or Lub " is
similarly dismissed with a mere wave of the hand—and a
false statement. For the phrase was not, as Mr. Carrington
482 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
asserts, " known to be intimately [the italics are mine]
connected with Mrs. Verrall "
(p. 464). It had appeared
once in a script written by Mrs. Verrall on January 13,
1908, which, among a large number of others, had after-
wards been seen by Mrs. Willett, and that fact is all Mrs.
Willett could have known about it. As will be seen by
reference to Mr. Balfour's footnote on p. 237, " Lub " (the
essential word in the Willett script) is in Mrs. Verrall's
script solely due to the accidental emergence of a sub-
liminal memory, through association with " Lavender "
—
one of thousands of such emergences, and there is nothing
in the script to suggest any connexion of this phrase with
Dr. Verrall. Yet a critic who comes before us as one not
to be convinced on important matters without compelling
evidence, can on these facts satisfy himself that Mrs.
Willett having " subconsciously surmised from the action of
her sitters " [my own italics] that " her script was thought
to emanate from Dr. Verrall," " her subliminal might
well have inserted this phrase amidst her writings, as
it was known to be intimately connected with Mrs. Verrall
. . . and hence indirectly with her husband." That is
to say, he is ready to believe that, though Mrs. Willett
had seen enough of Dr. Verrall to remember many things
connected with him, she reproduces a casual and meaning-
less expression that had once emerged from Mrs. Verrall's
subliminal when writing automatically, in order to give
colour to the suggestion that Dr. Verrall is the author of
her own script. It is a curious example of believing against
all probability what one wishes to believe.
Mr. Carrington's mention of sitters, it may be added,
is a mere assumption, for he could not know that there
were more than the one mentioned by Mr. Balfour. In
any case, it was made clear in Mr. Balfour's paper
(pp. 236-7) that Mrs. Verrall was not present. As a
matter of fact there was one sitter only, Mr. Balfour
;
but he, as he states, " was unable [with regard to the
phrase Lavender and Lub] to form any conjecture
respecting its meaning or appropriateness " in connexion
with Dr. Verrall.
LXX.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 483
Dr. Tuckett, unlike Mr. Carrington, has not made up his
mind to any particular identification of the passage pro-
pounded in Script (A). Apparently almost any passage
that refers to the crossing of a river would satisfy him,
if only that passage were not in the essay on Statius,
or did not for other reasons lead to a spiritistic explana-
tion.
He begins by stating that in the script " there is
obviously quite as much stress laid on the idea of an Inn
as there is on that of River." Any one acquainted with
the idiosyncrasies of automatic writings—and it is dangerous
to offer judgements on them without such acquaintance
—
would have written not " obviously " but " apparently,*'
remembering that appearances are deceptive. As we saw
in the case of Miss Verrall's scripts quoted above, it is
quite possible for a topic to be introduced which is
foreign to the main theme of the script, and neglect of
this possibility may result in a complete misunderstanding
of the script's point. As therefore we found no difficulty
in eliminating the " moonlight " and the " star at the
prow " from Miss Verrall's script after the poem referred
to had been securely identified, so here, if we believe we
have good grounds for identifying the river with one on
whose banks there is no inn, we need not hesitate to
suppose the inn to be an irrelevance which has crept
in through some mental association. The association of
travellers and inns is both familiar and natural. The fact
is, supposing spirits do communicate, few communications,
it would seem, are reproduced in script without '
con-
tamination.' 1
The imparted thought is liable to be im-
perfectly grasped or to receive additions as it passes
through the medium's brain ; it may be coloured, decorated,
or otherwise modified in various ways, and foreign ideas
may be interpolated between two or more connected
pieces in the same script. This view of the matter
seems to be warranted by the facts, and since the point
has been discussed from time to time in our publications,
1
For an instructive instance of this contamination in the case of
telepathy from the living, the reader is referred to the ixovuttwXov es aw
incident reported in Proceedings, Vol. XX., pp. 156-167.
484 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
one would have thought it would not be ignored by any
one who ventures to write on the main question.
This " Inn," irrelevantly intruded (as I believe) in the
hrst paragraph of the script, has perhaps been responsible
for the introduction of the quotation from Christina
Rossetti's poem and the idea of death. However this
may be, what is certain is that both the Inn and the
poem, with the latter's associations of death, are dropped
entirely from the later scripts, while the other itemsj|of
the description are persisted in and amplified.
It is somewhat startling to find that Dr. Tuckett,
notwithstanding the importance he would attach to the
presence of the Inn, is prepared to identify the river
with the Styx or the Rubicon, or the river in The Pilgrim's
Progress (!), or a river hi some hymn or in " some passage
from Dante." My acquaintance with Dante is not suffi-
ciently precise to enable me to affirm on the point, but I
should be much surprised to find in his works mention
of a river with an inn on its bank. Without referring to
my copy, I hazard the assertion that Bunyan does not
place an inn on the heavenly bank of the River of Death,
or indeed on either. I am sure there is no mention of
an inn in any hymn, and I do not think Greek or Latin
literature mentions one on the banks of the Styx or
Rubicon. It may be added that the passage of the Styx,
so far from inspiring alarm, was made with ease and
comparative comfort. The stream was sluggish, and the
passengers were ferried over in a punt by an old man,
whom they sometimes mobbed in their eagerness to get a
place. Also, always supposing there had been no oversight
or other mishap, each of them had in his (or her) mouth
three halfpence with which to pay the fare.
It may be freely admitted that possibly there is " some
passage from Dante " which would fit the case as aptly as
does the passage from Dr. Verrall's essay, but it has not
been found. Perhaps the critic will suggest one. If
he can bring himself to accept the concession, mention of
an inn shall not be a sine qua non.
As his final words on this topic, Dr. Tuckett writes,
" In Dr. Verralls remarks on Statius the stress is on the
lxx.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 485
danger he ran after crossing the river of baptism rather
than on any danger in crossing, the point accentuated
in the script." One wonders what he himself would
have said if an opponent had descended to this quibble.
The paper next deals with the argument which Mr.
Balfour bases on the words, " What the passage does
not say I draw from my own mind," etc. Or rather,
though some observations are made on the words, there
can hardly be said to be any attempt to deal with the
argument. Dr. Tuckett admits that the words are " more
or less a paraphrase " of Dante's lines, but complains
that the poet's actual words (in Italian or English) were
not given in the script. A wise inspirer of scripts would
have given them, and they " would have been a million-
fold more convincing." But the objection quietly evades
the point at issue. If the words are really a paraphrase
of the lines in Dante, they are altogether as effective
as the original, for they guide us to the passage in which
the original occurs—and that is all that quotation of
the poet's actual words in the Italian would have been
intended to do. One wonders what it is that has blinded
the critic to this obvious fact ? And how far are truth
and serious discussion served by dismissing the matter
with this weak and pointless observation :
—" These latter
words [those of the paraphrase] might be applied
to so many contexts, and are not uncharacteristic
of the vague, non-committal utterances of automatic
script " ?
That the sentence in the script is a paraphrase of
Dante's lines I am personally unable to doubt. I did
not see the scripts until a few minutes before the meeting
at which Mr. Balfour's paper was read, when one of
the slips on which they had been separately printed for
the convenience of the audience was put into my hands.
I at once began to read Script (A). The moment my eye
fell on the words now in question they recalled the two
lines of Dante. For reasons here immaterial I happened
to have a peculiarly thorough acquaintance with the essay
on Statius, but had last seen it twelve months earlier
and some ten months before I heard of the existence of
486 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
the scripts. Moreover, I knew nothing of Mr. Balfour's
paper beyond the broad fact that it would endeavour
to establish some connexion between the scripts and the
essay ; it was the paraphrase alone which evoked the
memory of the lines.
On the whole question Dr. Tuckett accuses Mr. Balfour
of arguing in a circle (see p. 469), but the accusation
falls flat. The argument may be summarized thus. A
certain script, which probably (or more probably than
not) has reference to Dr. Verrall, propounds a passage in
literature for identification. Later scripts written by the
same automatist present features which, apart from any
fancied identification of the proposed passage, leave little
room for doubt that the writer at any rate has Dr.
Verrall in mind throughout (Conclusion (a) ). On the
other hand, independently of any presumption that Dr.
Verrall is referred to in the scripts, various hints in the
scripts lead to identification of the propounded passage
as being a passage in a certain essay (Conclusion (b) ).
This essay happens to have been written by Dr. Verrall.
If there had been reason to think that Dr. Verrall had
not even heard of the essay, then conclusion (b) would
receive no support from (a), and vice versa ;
considering
the subject matter with which wc are dealing, each
might even be thought to weaken the other. But since
Dr. Verrall is actualty the author of the essay, each of
the two independent conclusions is sensibly strengthened
by the other ; there is mutual confirmation. To combine
the two conclusions is not the fallacious process known
as "arguing in a circle," but a legitimate completion of
the circle of the argument.
In his remarks on subsidiary points Dr. Tuckett dis-
misses " Lavender or Lub " in two sentences which betray
somewhat . misty thinking. The phrase had a peculiar
and special connexion with Dr. Verrall, and Mr. Balfour
noted that the significance of this link with him was
outside the normal knowledge of the automatist. If Dr.
Tuckett had shown us that the scripts one and all had
no reference to Dr. Verrall, or that " Lavender or Lub
"
had no meaning in connexion with him—whereas he has
Lxx.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 487
attempted neither—it would have been to the point to
say that, since Mrs. Willett had seen the script of Mrs.
Verrall in which the words occur, "the occurrence of
the expression in her own script requires no supernormal
explanation." Of course the mere occurrence of the words
requires no supernormal explanation, and Mr. Balfour
said so ; but if it is clear that the automatist (whether
'
inspired ' or not) had Dr. Verrall in her mind through-
out, and if the words are remarkably significant in con-
nexion with him (a fact in no way indicated in the scripts
which she had seen), then some further explanation of
then insertion in then context is obviously required.
It is strange that anyone who adventures on the field
of *
scientific '
criticism should fail to grasp an issue so
simple.
As to " Hair in a Temple," Dr. Tuckett regards it
as " almost scientifically illegitimate " for Mr. Balfour to
use the words "as a matter of fact" in his statement
that Berenice "is connected by very definite links with
Dr. Verrall's essays on Dante and Statius ". . . Now,
either these " very definite " links exist or they do not.
If they do—and most people will readily take Mr. Balfour's
word on the matter—the connexion in question is removed
from the region of opinion and becomes a matter of fact ;
and it is difficult to see why it was " illegitimate " for him
to say so. It would indeed have been illegitimate to
foist in the statement as any part of the evidence for the
contention that Dr. Verrall was concerned in the author-
ship of the scripts, but this Mr. Balfour did not do ;
on the contrary, he states that his inability to give the
facts " diminishes [the] evidential utility " of the scripts.
Why the aUeged illegitimacy is described as almost scien-
tific (" almost scientifically illegitimate ") we shall probably
never know. Or is " scientifically almost illegitimate " what
is meant ?
Dr. Tuckett's paper concludes with some general
remarks, which are distributed under six heads. On the
whole they are not very helpful. I adopt the numbering
of his paragraphs.
(I.) With a rashness not entirely new to us in the writings
488 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
of '
scientific
1
men on psychical subjects, he accuses
Mr. Balfour and myself of having come to our conclusion
" without considering and discussing the claims of any
other passages in modern and ancient literature.". . .
How can he know that no other passage has been con-
sidered ? And what would be the profit of discussing
in a paper (if that is what is meant) passages which
appeared not to fit the case ? Was every river that anyone
ever crossed to be passed in review ? Would he have the
absurd unsuitability of the Styx and Rubicon solemnly
demonstrated ? Was even the inappropriateness of Bunyans
river to be made clear until someone should have main-
tained the contrary ? Surely it is for the critic himself
to find the River which will offer a more plausible
solution of the problem than the one with which he
quarrels.
While on this topic Dr. Tuckett takes occasion to
observe :
—" It is amusing to note how seriously the
Rev. M. A. Bayfield discusses whether Dr. Verrall or
some form of telepathy is the more probable explanation
of the script : and he talks as if he knew a great deal
about Telepathy, although—as I continue to maintain
—Telepathy itself has never yet been scientifically
established." 1
Dr. Tuckett, as we have seen, is not
a severely logical thinker, and the implications which
underlie this modest sentence may have escaped him.
What he writes seems to come to this :
—I, Dr. Tuckett,
am of opinion that Telepathy is a fond thing vainly
imagined. Some people write as though they knew a
good deal about it, but there is nothing known in its
favour that is worth knowing. This is indeed only my
opinion ;
nevertheless, so long as I, Dr. Tuckett, continue
to maintain (that is to say, hold or assert) this mere
opinion, it is ridiculous for any one to write as though
Telepathy were an established fact.
I like a modest man, but Dr. Tuckett pleases me too
much. As to Telepathy, if it has not yet come to his
1
For Professor Bergson's views on the question which Dr. Tuckett
implicitly raises here by his use of the word " scientifically," see the
references given in the footnote on p. 490, infra.
lxx.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 489
ears that it is a well-established fact, it would be well for
him to study the evidence which has been accumulated,1
or, better still, to make some experiments. It is, how-
ever, only fair to warn him that he must be prepared
for the worst, that is to say for conviction, and that
conviction on this point might lead him to the very
abyss of superstition.
(II.) The critic's description of the present case as
a single experiment " appears to show that he is in
almost total ignorance of what the S.P.R. has been doing
for now many years past. One is reminded of the man in
Punch who, when asked if he had read a certain book,
replied, " We don't read—we tonte." Still it was not too
much to expect Dr. Tuckett to read with attention the
paper which he undertakes to criticise. On p. 236 (Proceed-
ings, Part LXIX.) Mr. Balfour had written :
—" The scripts
which we owe to the group of automatists of whom Mrs.
Verrall, Miss Verrall, and Mrs. Willett are the chief, go
back for many years now, and require to be considered
together and as a whole. A long and laborious study of
them carried on from this point of view has brought me
slowly but surely to a conviction that there is much in
them which cannot be satisfactorily explained except upon
the spiritistic hypothesis."
Dr. Tuckett's remarks on my own final conviction
betray an inability to understand this cumulative effect
of a large body of evidence pointing in the same direction,
and how one strong piece of evidence following on many
others may transform doubt into conviction. Indeed by
his constant use of the word '
scientific,' which is as
much out of place hi our present inquiry as it would be
in a court of law at a trial for murder, he seems to be
unaware that there are numerous ways by which the
mind may arrive at reasonable conviction besides those of
1
In The Evidence for the Supernatural : a critical study made with
"uncommon sense," published in 1911, Dr. Tuckett confessed that he
had " not made any detailed study of the subject " of cross-corre-
spondences. He seems not to have repaired the omission since, and
indeed to have little first-hand acquaintance with the work of the S.P.R.
A notice of the book appeared in the Journal for May, 1912.
490 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [fart
the laboratory and dissecting-room or of mathematical
demonstration. 1
(III.) " The Rev. M. A. Bayfield's note on the incident
is remarkably characteristic of the sort of effect which
emotional bias has on a person. What has convinced
him much more than any sound scientific evidence is
obviously the form of the script in which he thinks he
can recognise personal peculiarities." There are, as we
know, many who hold it for an axiom that those who
are convinced of the reality of communication from the
spirit world must ipso facto have been led to their con-
viction mainly by " emotional bias." How far Dr.
Tuckett may be the victim of this curious '
scientific
'
prejudice we need not inquire, for it is clear that in my
own unfortunate case he believes the scientific laws of
scientific logic force him to the conclusion. It is not worth
while to examine this logic beyond pointing out its major
premiss : all men who recognise personal peculiarities in
scripts are influenced by emotional bias ! If he had been
less anxious to make this insinuation, he might perhaps
have remembered the opening words of my Note on the
case {Proceedings, Part LXIX., p. 244), which I beg leave
to quote :
—" In a closely reasoned and characteristically
lucid argument Mr. Balfour has shown good grounds for
his belief that the late Dr. Verrall is the original source
of the scripts which are here brought to our notice. For
this conclusion there are yet other reasons. ..."
(IV.) This paragraph, which is specially prepared for
infantile digestion, calls for no remark.
(V.) So far as one can disentangle the materials of
1
See the admirable discussion of this point in Professor Bergson's
Presidential Address, Proceedings, Vol. XXVI., pp. 464-466 (or in the
English translation, Proceedings, Vol. XXVII., pp. 159-161). With
regard to Telepathy he says in this passage [after reviewing the work
of the S.P.R. and noting the care with which the evidence has been
tested], " I am led to believe in Telepathy, just as I believe in the
defeat of the Invincible Armada. My belief is not the mathematical
certainty that the demonstration of Pythagoras' theorem gives me,
it is not the physical certainty that I have of the law of the fall of
bodies, but it is at least all the certainty that we obtain in a historical
or judicial matter."
lxx.] A Discussion of the Willett Scripts. 491
this illuminating paragraph, the syllogism appears to be
as follows:
—
Major Premiss: "You cannot get out of the
mind anything the elements of which have not been put
into the mind at some previous time."
—
Minor Premiss :
If you agree with Mr. Bayfield, there is no evidence
that one mind can rout about in another person's mind
[selecting and abstracting thoughts suitable for some
purpose of its own].
—
Conclusion : Therefore the thoughts
[combinations of elementary concepts] contained in Mrs.
Willett's scripts could not have been conveyed to her
mind by another mind.
Thus we see that one mind cannot communicate new
ideas to another. It must be admitted that there are
cases in which this is lamentably true.
(VI.) The Oversubjectivity (if a German word may be
pardoned) of Dr. Tuckett's concluding paragraph is mildly
interesting, but needs no discussion. Its general intent
is to convey a friendly warning to the correspondent to
whom the paper is addressed, and the warning is based
on the suppressed major premiss : To be " spiritistically
inclined " is evil.
492 F. 0. 8. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
REVIEW.
The Unconscious, The Fundamentals of Human Personality, Nor-
mal and Abnormal. By Morton Prince, M.D., LL.D.,
Emeritus Professor of Diseases of the Nervous System, Tufts
College Medical School ; Consisting Physician to the Boston
City Hospital. (New York : The Macmillan Co., 1914.
Pp. xiii, 549.)
A new book by Dr. Morton Prince is something of an event for
the many readers of his fascinating Dissociation of a Personality,
and for all who are interested in the problem of human person-
ality in a practical way. For he is a leader among the all too
scanty band of those who have gone out into the untamed jungle
of concrete facts, and tested their psychological theories by their
working, i.e. by the therapeutic success of their applications, and
this puts his theorizing, like that of Freud (with whom he is in
partial agreement), into a different category from that of merely
academic psychologists. Moreover, the discoveries he has to
report, though they seem at first sight as complicated as they
are strange, and fit ill into the accepted framework of traditional
ideas, constrain one to feel that it is not armchair introspec-
tion by professional psychologists of the normal mind (which
they always identify with their own), nor even laboratory experi-
ments (usually conducted under conditions too artificial to dis-
play the mind's normal working), and least of all philosophic re-
flection on the metaphysical implications of the notions of '
mind.'
'
self,' '
soul,' etc., but only the successful handling of patients
who are abnormal only in exaggerating universal tendencies,
that can make any real advance towards a scientific solution of
the riddle of human personality.
LXX.] Review. 493
The claim which Dr. Prince has upon the attention of those
interested in this problem rests essentially on his method : for
this involves the principle that our preconceptions are to be con-
trolled by the facts which observation and experiment reveal,
and to be tested by their success in handling them. This also
means that the notions we employ to interpret the facts must
be conceived as plastic, and modified whenever the facts demand
it. As Dr. Prince well says (p. 422), " until we have wider and
more exact knowledge, it is well not to theorize, and still more
not to dogmatize," and all the terms employed must be treated
as provisional and open to correction. For Avhile some existing
terms must be used to describe the observed facts, their
traditional meaning has no authority as against facts and
experiments.
Dr. Prince's present volume is the first instalment of a
theoretic discussion of the stores of evidence he has collected,
which he promised in the preface of his Dissociation of a
Personality. Actually it is part of his lecture courses on abnormal
psychology in the Tufts Medical School, and bears traces of
its origin in a certain diffuseness, lack of arrangement and
repetitions. It is also more technical than the Dissociation,
and though Dr. Prince often draws apt illustrations from the
wealth of his clinical experience, these references are usually
of a tantalizing briefness. But, as a whole, the book is very
stimulating.
Critical comment should first be directed upon the tools
with which Dr. Prince operates, viz. the extant notions relative
to psychological phenomena. For such comment may be
helpful by stimulating him to remodel the extant terminology
in the light of his unrivalled experience. I will attempt,
therefore, to express my sense of the grievous inadequacy
of our old notions, in the hope that he may be enabled to
improve on them, and without fear of giving offence to one
who has, I am sure, only used them faute de mieux.
We may begin our critical reflections with the notion of
the '
unconscious,' which, after being rendered fashionable by
E. von Hartmann's metaphysical Philosophy of the Unconscious,
has since been used by psychology in a great variety of senses.
Von Hartmann himself had late in life to recognize no less than
nineteen distinct senses of '
unconscious,' though he continued
494 F. C. 8. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
to maintain that these ambiguities had not vitiated his original
doctrine. Dr. Morton Prince is concerned with several of these.
The term '
unconscious '
appears to denote (1) a " storehouse
of neurographic dispositions," inferred from the phenomena of
memory (p. 229), (2) whatever is devoid of the attributes of con-
sciousness (p. 249), (3) co-conscious or sub-conscious ideas (ibid.),
and (4), most strictly and properly, a kind of the subconscious,
opposed to the co-conscious, and occurring in the two forms of
neural dispositions and of neural processes (p. 253). So under-
stood, it " rather than the conscious is the important factor in
personality and intelligence "
(p. 262).
The subconscious, therefore, in Dr. Prince's most formal ter-
minology (though not in bis title), becomes the generic notion
contrasted with consciousness. The '
sub- '
in it is taken to mean
'
beneath,' and it is not, therefore, to be applied to '
dimly conscious
'
or '
marginal '
processes in the '
fringe '
of consciousness, but
only to the '
ultra-marginal '
(pp. 343-52). That subconscious
processes go on is attested (inter alia) by their subsequent re-
covery in memory under hypnosis or in dreams. Their existence
leads, however, to such verbally contradictory statements as that
" the whole content or field of consciousness at any given moment
includes not only considerably more than that which is within the
field of attention but more than is within the field of awareness " 1
(?= consciousness), viz. "conscious states of which the personal
consciousness is not even dimly aware "
(p. 351). These, how-
ever, are more properly '
co-conscious '
processes. Further, it is
admitted that " there is a constant shifting or interchange of
elements going on between the field of attention and the marginal
and the ultra-marginal zone "
(p. 344), and that " the distinction
between the conscious and the subconscious " is not always " sharp
and precise " (p. 420, cf. pp. 243, 347).
In view of the modification of subsequent action by unconscious
and subconscious processes, and the proofs of their registration,
conservation and possible reproduction, Dr. Prince feels entitled
to regard " conscious memory as only one type of memory
"
(p. 3). It follows that " the inability to recall an experience
is no evidence whatever that it is not conserved," even when
our actual methods fail to recover it, though it would be
1
The author's italics.
LXX.] Review. 495
exaggeration to say, on the present evidence, that everything
is conserved (p. 84).
It follows, however, that " ideas which have passed out of mind
must be conserved through some sort of residuum "
(p. 109), which
the author prefers to conceive as neurograms or '
traces '
left in
the brain forming a " functioning system corresponding to the
system of ideas of the original mental process and capable of re-
producing it "
(p. 121). This is necessary because " there is no
evidence that co-conscious ideas have a continuous existence,"
and they are, therefore, " inadequate to account for the whole
of the conservation of life's experiences " (p. 112). Frederic
Myers's theory of a subliminal mind is rejected as an unnecessary
" metaphysical hypothesis," and the theory that the seat of the
'
conservation '
is psychical is rejected as " transcending experi-
ence "
(pp. 114-7). Dr. Prince, however, candidly admits that
his materialistic " neurograms are pure theoretical conceptions
and have never been demonstrated by objective methods of
physical research "
(p. 132).
By '
co-conscious ideas '
Dr. Prince means " a coexisting dis-
sociated consciousness of which the personal consciousness is not
aware "
(p. 249). He seems to have fully established its exist-
ence by an abundance of ingenious experiments and observations
which he relates. He denies, however, that normally these co-
conscious processes form a self (pp. 256-7, 348, cf .
p. 169). Largely,
it would seem, on the authority of the hypnotic self of " Miss B.,"
who denied that the pronoun I could be applied to the co-
conscious processes accompanying her ordinary life, and declared
that they were better described as unconnected, discrete sensa-
tions, impressions and emotions, not synthesized into a personality,
though the hypnotic I could subsequently acquire and remember
them (p. 348).
It will have been noted that Dr. Prince makes much use of the
term '
idea '
in his psychological descriptions, but, I cannot help
thinking, without due appreciation of its essential trickiness, and
without explaining its relation to '
process.' Thus (p. 312) a
'
perception '
and an '
idea '
of an object are equated, and said
to be usually complex (cf. p. 315). '
Perceptions '
are memory
images synthesized with sensations (p. 316). But when percep-
tion is regarded as a process (p. 321), associations with previous
experiences " give the ideas meaning." This '
context ' is itself
496 F. G. 8. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
a process, and may also be regarded as an '
attitude of mind '
(p. 321), and is part of the idea's conscious content (p. 323). It
is (quite truly) pointed out that the psychology of meaning has
not been properly worked out, and that to conceive '
ideas '
as
compounded of '
perception '
and '
meaning '
is too static, because
they shade into one another and should be regarded as one dyna-
mic process (p. 327). This is profoundly true, but does not suffice
to eradicate a feeling that Dr. Prince has not adequately brought
out the vital differences between the psychological and the logical
sense of '
idea,' and between the verbal or '
dictionary '
meaning
of an idea, which is static and supposed to be fixed, but is not
a psychic fact, and the actual or personal meaning, which is a
dynamic process and a psychic event.1
But the gravest objection to the term '
idea '
is that it is funda-
mentally incompatible with the functional or '
process '
view of
consciousness and life, Avhich is what Dr. Prince really believes
in. It irresistibly suggests that '
ideas '
are thing-like entities,
which can wander about on their own in a mind of which they
are not integral parts, and possess a permanent existence and
identity, so that they can pass into and out of '
consciousness,'
officially retaining the title of '
our thoughts '
even when we no
longer think them or know anything about them (cf. p. Ill),
'
associating '
themselves with others, capable of '
recall '
(cf
.
p. 6), becoming '
dormant '
and being '
stored up '
in memory,
like so many bulbs, or '
conserved,' like pots of jam. All this
is the old '
Associationist '
mythology, which has often been re-
pudiated by the more philosophic psychologists, and seems singu-
larly unsuited to interpret the complicated facts Dr. Prince has
observed. He himself at times recognizes this, as when he argues
for the existence of physiological conservation on the ground
that the conservation can hardly be psychical (p. 113 f.). More-
over, the intellectualistic colouring of '
idea ' renders the term
very inappropriate to processes which admittedly are, always
more or less, and often intensely, pervaded by emotion. But
the climax of awkwardness is reached by this phraseology when
it is driven to declare that " neurograms are concepts " though
unconscious (p. 148). Surely '
concepts '
must be psychical, and
the confusion of the psychical and the physical could hardly go
further.
1
Cf. my Formal Logic, Ch. II., § 3, Ch. VII., § 9.
LXX.] Review. 497
It follows from these objections to the notion of '
ideas '
that
it cannot be lightly conceded that they can form '
complexes,'
which are syntheses of '
elemental '
ideas (p. 265), even though
Dr. Prince agrees with the Freudians that this notion has great
clinical value in psychotherapeutics (p. 288). It need not be
disputed that patients may often behave as if '
complexes '
existed,
but the fact that they may be subconscious as well as conscious
is surely an additional problem, and is not easy to reconcile with
the argument that '
neurograms '
must be assumed because there
is no sufficient evidence that subconscious ideas have a continuous
existence (p. 112).
On the whole, our terminological survey does not lead to the
conclusion that Dr. Prince's tools, the notions by which he tries
to interpret the facts, are particularly well adapted to his pur-
pose. And as he gives such abundant proofs of candour and
openmindedness, I am emboldened to make him a present of a
series of suggestions of alternative interpretations which might,
perhaps, do better service.
(1) In the first place is it not rather hazardous to assume, as
Dr. Prince does at the outset (p. 1), that the conception of
mechanism must provide an adequate clue to the nature of mind ?
If the term is used at all strictly, it seems to leave no room for
the specifically biological nature of mental functioning, to which
all the '
mechanisms '
found in the body must be subordinate.
For they must all conduce to the maintenance of life, and be under-
stood as so conducive. It is a far cry, therefore, from mechanism
to psychology, and the value of mechanical analogies in psychic
life is far from self-evident.
(2) It may be suggested that seriously misleading implications
lurk in the notion of '
dissociation.' The word seems to imply
a mind which is constructed by the '
association '
of simpler '
ele-
ments,' into which it may again be broken up ; or else, a unitary
mind, which can somehow fall to pieces. In either case it is in-
sinuated that the '
association '
is normal, and the '
dissociation
'
abnormal and morbid.
But are not the so-called '
elements '
of mind manifest fictions,
sheer conveniences of description, to which no biological signifi-
cance can possibly attach ? No mind can possibly maintain its
existence on earth unless it contrives effectively to control and
498 F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
guide the behaviour of its body, and the speculations which
compound the mind out of '
elements '
like '
cognition,'
'
conation,' and '
feeling,' analyse the mind into abstractions
which are incapable of independent existence, and, what is
even worse, contain no hint of the sort of unity every mental
process must have, viz. relevance to some more or less important
vital process or purpose. The simplest and most primitive
mental processes, therefore, must have a functional unity
which is not decomposable into the abstractions of psycho-
logical analysis.
This need for vital adaptation, however, does not demand or
guarantee any complete or metaphysical unity of mind, such as
many philosophers have postulated. Its requirements would be
met by a mental life that consisted of a series of impulses and
responses to stimulation each of which acted itself out indepen-
dently, discontinuously, and separately, and yet so appropriately
as to conserve the life of the organism. Now, curiously enough,
such is in actual fact the dominant aspect of mental life. Most
minds live by their instincts and impulses, and not by their reason,
and in the lower (or immature) minds, whether of adults, chil-
dren, or animals, there is a strongly marked growth of discon-
tinuousness and inconsequence the lower we go. And even the
most highly systematized human minds are by no means com-
pletely unified ; even the most consistent characters fall far short
of exhibiting complete mental harmony and congruity in all their
acts. Consequently the unification of their '
personality ' or
'
self '
cannot truly be said to have been achieved.
It follows that when they suffer '
dissociation '
they are not
doing anything out of the Avay. They are simply reverting to,
or exhibiting, a lower and more primitive organization of men-
tality. '
Dissociation '
in this sense is normal ; it exists every-
where more or less, and is not a morbid disruption of a normal
unity. We need not, then, be surprised to find vast amounts
of it in every one. Wherever there are mental processes imper-
fectly coordinated with others, mental conflicts, incongruities,
and inconsistencies of any kind, impulses, moods, dreams, etc.,
there is '
dissociation.' The morbid dissociations which Dr.
Prince has studied so brilliantly are throughout continuous with
common and normal phenomena, and differ from them chiefly
in intensity. What the psychologist has to explain, therefore,
LXX.] Review. 499
is not dissociation so much as unification, and the formation
of a (relatively) stable and well-balanced '
personality.'
(3) It would seem to follow that, strictly, every soul is not one
but many, and a battle-ground for hosts of inveterate habits and
ancestral impulses, and that its '
unity '
is really an illusion. And
no doubt the absolute sort of unity which metaphysicians used
to assume can no longer be regarded as scientifically admissible.
Still the belief in a unitary soul is not necessarily disposed of.
It has, no doubt, to be considerably modified in view of the new
facts, and must not be deduced a -priori, but verified empirically ;
but I would put it to Dr. Prince that it retains some truth, or,
at any rate, appreciable utility. In particular, his own facts
do not seem to warrant either (a) his acceptance of physiological
pseudo-solutions of psychological problems, or (b) his scorn of
the '
soul '
and the '
subliminal self.' For whereas the former
cannot be made to explain ' anything, the latter when properly
formulated may explain many things which at present puzzle
him.
(a) So long as no satisfactory and really intelligible theory of
the relation of body and mind is extant, hypothetical '
neuro-
grams '
seem quite ineffectual in accounting for the psychological
facts of memory.
For what after all is a '
neurogram '
supposed to be ? Nothing
but a physical alteration in bodily tissue. But how can any such
alteration in any way help to generate the judgment '
I remem-
ber experiencing something very like my present perception '
?
Have we the least notion of what the '
I '
may be as a '
nemyo-
gram '
? Are we in the least able to trace any specific parallelism
between variations in the flow of blood in the brain and the com-
ings and goings of '
ideas '
in the mind ? Only negatively. We
can after a fashion understand that if the bodily mechanisms
are instruments for the expression of 'psychical energies normally
transmitted through them, any damage done to a physical mechan-
ism may, by blocking the physical channels, arrest and shut off
the psychical phenomena mediated by it, at all events temporarily
and until either the mischief is repaired or alternative modes of
expression have grown up (how ?) in the form of new mechanisms
or of old ones put to new uses. This would explain the observed
fact that psychic functions which are lost in consequence of in-
juries to the brain reappear if life continues long enough for the
500 F. C. 8. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
damage to be repaired. As Dr. Prince himself points out (pp.
232-3), " the decerebrate unconscious (?) animal performs about
all the movements performed by the normal animal. . . . Even
spontaneity which at one time was supposed to be lost it is now
agreed returns, if the animal is kept alive long enough." These
facts seem to render it imperative that the '
transmission '
theory,
as James has called it, of the relation of the psychical to the
physical should be seriously considered as an alternative to the
materialistic '
production '
theory. It has the logical advantages
of being incapable of refutation by any conceivable physiological
evidence, of accounting for a number of admitted facts which
do not fit at all well into the materialistic scheme, and of leaving
room for the evidence of discarnate psychic action which, though
not yet admitted by official science, is far from contemptible as
evidence.
At present, however, it is better to rely chiefly on the second
of these grounds in order to contest the exclusive claims of
the '
neurogram '
theory. It fails to account for a large
number of undisputed facts. Taking for example the familiar
fact of recollection, Dr. Prince is compelled to regard it as
" only a more perfect kind of conscious memory "
(p. 144).
It is difficult to understand this, as recollection appears to
have all the defects of memory ; it may be '
dim '
as well as
'
clear,' and false as well as correct. Moreover '
recollection,'
as defined, does not seem to be the real thing ; Dr. Prince
means by it merely the '
localization '
or placing of memories
in space and time. But this entirely omits the active recol-
lection, the conscious striving to remember. When I say '
I
tried to recollect the plot of my dream, but only got dis-
jointed memories,' this is (like the other facts of self-conscious-
ness and the experiences of activity) prima facie evidence of
the activity of a '
self,' which has to be explained, and is
not to be interpreted by '
neurograms.'
Lastly and most fundamentally, it may be contended that
the explanation of memories by '
neurograms '
is essentially
illusory, because memory, the very fact to be explained, is
implied in the very notion of a neurogram. For what is this
remarkable capacity of a physical body to retain an impress of
its past experiences and to have its subsequent behaviour
modified thereby, but a close analogue of memory ? We may
LXX.] Review. 501
assume that it differs from what is ordinarily termed memory
in being unconscious ; but Dr. Prince himself has taught us
how risky it is to assume that a process is unconscious merely
because the dominant personality does not now remember it,
and we should remember that it may only seem unconscious
to us because we are unable (as yet) to get at it from the
inside, and to get at the mind behind the physical changes,
as we get at the minds behind the actions of our fellow men.
The essential mystery of memory is that the past should
not be dead, but should continue to modify present action :
that in fact it does this is familiar to us from our personal
experience, though we do not yet understand how it is done.
It is '
memory '
therefore which gives a clue to the registration
of '
neurograms,' and not vice versa.
(b) I now feel in a position to break a lance on behalf
of the theories about human personality which we owe to the
genius of Frederic Myers. And to begin with I would enter a
protest against dismissing his subliminal self as an unnecessary
metaphysical hypothesis. If ever a psychologist formed his
ideas empirically and in close contact with the facts accessible,
it was Myers, and his ideas seem to me to be thoroughly
legitimate and susceptible of empirical verification. Similarly
I am unable to understand why Dr. Prince should regard the
notion of a '
soul '
as involving any '
transcendence of experi-
ence.' Metaphysicians no doubt used to conceive the soul as
something beyond its activities, and as somehow '
underlying
'
and '
having '
them, and inaccessible to empirical observation.
But that was only because their metaphysics were bad, and
everywhere assumed a relation of '
substances '
to '
attributes
'
which was essentially unverifiable, and rendered all '
substances
'
unknowable as such. Apart from this mistake there is, as
Mr. M'Dougall has so strongly urged, no intrinsic reason why
the '
soul ' should not be conceived as a principle of scientific
investigation and be used to interpret empirical facts. Only
of course, before we do so, we must radically disabuse our
minds of any belief that we can know a priori all about the
constitution of a soul and the limits of its powers. We must
say rather that a soul '
is '
what it does, and that what it
does has to be learnt from experience.
It must not therefore be assumed (as the metaphysicians
502 F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
were led to do by very superficial evidence) that the soul is
necessarily coextensive with the passing consciousness of the
moment, or one, or immutable, or even personal, or again
that the traditional distinctions recognized in it adequately
represent the real facts. On the contrary its organization and
behaviour have to be studied empirically with conceptions
which are modified and grow as knowledge accrues.
Now there is in the facts which Dr. Prince and his col-
laborators have adduced much that conducts straight to the
notion of a soul organized as Myers suggested. Myers tried
to conceive the manifest and supraliminal psychic processes as
selections from a larger totality. He gave a reason also for
thinking that such selection was needed. The functions of
the soul might not all be required for the purposes of terres-
trial existence, and therefore might be economically cut down
to those that had survival-value, so that normally these alone
would be operative. This is a good biological argument, and
there is nothing metaphysical or transcendent about it. He
also pointed out that whereas in face of the facts of multiple
personality, etc., any absolute unity of consciousness had
become untenable, it need only be inferred that the unity
must be subliminal. Hence there may yet be a real soul for
science to discover ;
nay, it may be a bigger thing than the
useless creature of metaphysics we have had to abandon.
Only it is probably far more complicated than the surface
indications showed.
Now has Dr. Prince advanced any evidence to discredit
this hypothesis ? On the contrary, he has adduced much that
favours it. For example, what about his signal successes in
re-constituting '
dissociated '
personalities ? Can they mean
that he created a unity that never existed before out of a
discordant chaos of soul-dust ? Are not these dissociated
processes best conceived as capable of fusing because they were
already connected in a larger whole ? Now this whole cannot
have been the body, of which the disorders are apparently
the physical stimuli to the dissociations. Besides, it contains
no reason even for the imperfect psychic unity we find. For
if the body is a self-regulating system of mechanisms, why
should the bodily functions ever have become psychical at all ?
If, on the other hand, '
soul '
is the name for what regulates
LXX.] Review. 503
the mechanism and is partially revealed in our conscious
experiences, both the dissociations and the syntheses of '
person-
ality '
seem to become more intelligible.
Again, how interpret the fluidity of the whole psychic material,
the continual interchanges between conscious and subconscious,
central and marginal, processes ? Do they not incite us to
regard the real soul as embracing them all and our distinctions
as artifices ?
Even the extraordinary phenomena to which Dr. Prince refers
as disproving the view that the secondary consciousness is a
personality (pp. 348, 169) really tell against his inference.
Granting that " there is, normally, no distinct subconscious
self, or subliminal self, or secondary self, or hidden self
"
(p. 256), but rather a flux of '
unowned '
uncontrolled
'
thoughts '
and impulses, figures that come into the subject's
mind out of the unknown and proceed to add themselves in
order to comply with a posthypnotic suggestion, and obsessions
that the dominant personality is unable either to expel or to
assimilate, it by no means follows that all this '
mind-stuff
'
is as autonomous and impersonal as it seems. Even our
normal thoughts have a good deal of apparent autonomy, and
only gradually and imperfectly yield to the behests of the
personality. But what is still more to the point, does not the
very fact that these impersonal processes could subsequently
be taken up into the self,1
and remembered as having occurred,
conclusively show that in a way they belonged to it also
before ? The '
quasi-pathological '
state Dr. Prince calls
'
depersonalization '
(p. 459), in which " the '
conscious intelli-
gence '
present is able to think and reason logically and sanely,
is capable of good judgments, and has an unusually large field
of memory, and is in short a very intelligent consciousness,"
but nevertheless " has lost all consciousness of self, and has
no sense of personality, of anything to which the term '
I
'
can be ajDplied," because " this sentiment seems to be abso-
lutely dissociated in this state," points to the same conclusion.
For surely, as Lotze long ago explained, to be a '
self '
it
is not necessary to feel self-conscious ; it is enough that such
states should be continuous with the whole personality and
be subsequently claimed. Otherwise it would have to be held
1
In this case a 1
hypnotic '
self.
504 F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part
that many of our highest and most characteristic activities,
e.g. absorbed attention in a scientific research, were '
dis-
sociated '
from our personality. Of course, Dr. Prince's evi-
dence shows that in cases where the '
mind-stuff ' was sub-
conscious, the '
self,' which included the mind-stuff, could not
have been the normal waking self, nor even the '
secondary
'
consciousness (p. 170) ; but is there anything to prevent
our supposing that the '
personality '
which includes everything
psychic that occurs in what we call '
our ' experience may
habitually reside at still greater depths % Myers's terminology
seems to fit such facts most aptly.
It can hardly be too strongly emphasized that these pheno-
mena are in important senses normal. They happen to us all
more or less, and even the psychic processes '
abnormally
'
revealed are akin to and continuous with those we call
1
normal.' Dr. Prince has to confess as much himself. E.g.
after interpreting the descriptions of one of his subjects as
meaning that " the thoughts of the secondary consciousness
do not form a logical chain. They do not have volition
"
(p. 348), he proceeds on p. 349 to remark that " the subcon-
scious thoughts may involve a certain amount of volition and
judgment." Clearly no definite line between the normal and
the subnormal can be drawn.
The same point may be illustrated from so familiar an experi-
ence as dreaming, which may be shown to involve at least
three strata of '
personality.' In the first place, to be aware
of the '
dream '
and its unreality there must be a standpoint
of waking life more or less disconnected from the '
dream,'
and able to condemn it. Secondly there is the dreamer, who
is not identifiable with the normal ivaking self. For not only
do his thoughts, feelings and acts often markedly differ from
the latter's, but the dissociation between the two is attested
by the extensive amnesia which the waking has for the dream
life. Dreams are usually forgotten with an uncanny and
abnormal rapidity.
Nor is this all. The dreamer is not himself the maker
of the dream. He is more commonly its victim, always hallu-
cinated, and sometimes (as in a nightmare) most unpleasantly
so. Who or what then is this hidden third party, the maker
of the dream ? The times are past when it seemed enough
LXX.] Review. 505
to ascribe dreams to such agencies as unconscious cerebration,
automatic recrudescence of impressions, or indigestion. Practical
psychologists like Dr. Prince and Prof. Freud are by no
means disposed to underrate the constructive ability which
goes to the making of dreams, and the value of the clues
they give to the dreamer's character and history. If any-
thing, they seem to common-sense rather to overrate the
significance of dreams. But there can be no doubt that
the making of dreams is often a highly intelligent and
artistic process. Dr. Prince fully endorses the Freudian
doctrine that " underlying a dream is a subconscious process
which fabricates the conscious dream " (p. 196), though he does
not think its meaning is always sexual nor restrict its aim
to the fulfilment of wishes, but thinks it may express also
antecedent doubts, scruples and anxieties. He relates an
elaborate symbolic dream constructed by one of his patients
out of a hint given her in hypnosis, and remarks that " it
is difficult to conceive of a dream allegory being constructed
by the dream consciousness (i.e. dreamer) itself," because
" the imagery develops as if done by something else "
(pp.
202-3), and infers that " a subconscious intelligence " is required
(p. 203). If then " the subconscious process which determines
the dream may be what is actually an intelligence," and its
" fabrication has all the earmarks of purpose, forethought and
constructive imagination "
(p. 211), it may reasonably be
identified with the intelligence that animates automatic writing,
in which also " all happened as if there was a deeper under-
lying process which did the composing "
(p. 208). I cordially
agree, and would only add that if ordinary dreaming implies
such complexity in the personality, we may well expect such
further complications in abnormal cases as are attested in the
famous '
Beauchamp '
case. Here '
Sally,' who claimed that
she never slept, was aware of what 'Miss B.' dreamt, and
was able to describe her dreams as the experience of another
and yet also from within, while conversely Miss B. sometimes
dreamt about what '
Sally '
was thinking (p. 212).
It does not appear, however, that Dr. Prince's attention was
ever drawn to a possibility which has long seemed to me the
most plausible explanation of the '
Beauchamp '
case, viz. that
'
Sally '
was precisely the '
maker of dreams,' enabled by the
506 F. G. S. Schiller, D.Sc. [part lxx.
abnormal conditions to manifest herself and to control the body,
but supjDressed again whenever normal conditions were restored.
The Dissociation of a Personality does not contain any decisive
evidence for or against this theory, perhaps only because
the crucial experiments were not made. If, however, '
Sally
'
was not the '
maker of dreams,' it simply follows that this
personage must be located deeper down still. In any case it
remains a constituent of our total personality, which it should
'
theoretically '
be possible to elicit by experiment.
In short, what is called abnormal psychology, but is simply
the method of clinical experiment in psychology, seems to
open endless vistas of exploration into the abysses of our
'
personality.' For the first time in history there is before
us a definite prospect of learning what is the real scientific
meaning of terms like '
self,' '
soul '
and '
personality,' which
we have long been accustomed to use so vaguely and blindly.
All, therefore, who are anxious to learn cannot do better
than wish Dr. Prince more power to his elbow, and will look
forward to his next book.
F. C. S. Schiller.
FORMER PRESIDENTS OF TEE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Professor Henry Sidqwick, - 1882-84.
Professor Balfour Stewart,
F.R.S. , 1885-87.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - 1888-92.
The Eight Hon. A. J. Balfour,
M.P., F.R.S., ... - 1893.
Professor William James, - - 1894-95.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., - 1896-99.
Frederic W. H. Myers, - - - 1900.
sm Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., - 1901-03.
Sm William Barrett, F.R.S., - 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, - - 1905.
The Bight Hon. G. W. Balfour,- 1906-07.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, - - - 1908-09.
H. Arthur Smith, - 1910.
Andrew Lang. 1911.
Rt. Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Car-
penter, D.D., .... 1912.
Professor Henri Bergson, - - 1913.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, - - 1914. •
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1915.
PRESIDENT.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Rt. Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Car-
penter, D.D.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., D.Sc.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
COUNCIL.
J. G. Piddington.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Litt.D.
H. Arthur Smith.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
V. J. Woolley, M.D.
M. B. Wright, M.D.
W. W. Baggally.
The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bp>amwell, M.B.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
Professor L. P. Jacks, D.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
HON. TREASURER.
H. Arthur Smith, 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
HON. SECRETARIES.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 27 Grange Ro;k1, Cambridge.
The Hon. Everard Feilding, 5 John Street, Mayfair, London, W.
RESEARCH OFFICER AND EDITOR.
Miss Alice Johnson, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
SECRETARY AND SUB-EDITOR.
Miss I. Newton, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
ASSISTANT RESEARCH OFFICER.
Miss H. de G. Verrall, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
HON. SECRETARY OF THE MEDICAL SECTION.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, nr. Tollbridge.
HON. SECRETARY FOR RUSSIA.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, 55 Serguievskaia, Petrograd.
AGENT FOR AMERICA.
The W. B. Clarke Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
508 Members and Associates. [part
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
May, 1915.
President—Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D.
Vice-Presidents.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., 4 Carlton Gardens,
London, S.W.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S., 6 De Vesci Terrace, Kingstown,
Co. Dublin.
Rt. Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter, D.D., 6 The Little Cloisters,
Westminster, London, S.W.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., 7 Kensington Park Gardens,
London, W.
George B. Dorr, 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, 519 West 149th Street, New York City.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., The University, Birmingham.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D., 27 Grange Road, Cam-
bridge.
Honorary Members.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S., 6 De Vesci Terrace, Kingstown,
Co. Dublin.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., 7 Kensington Park Gardens,
London, W.
Madame Curie, Faculte des Sciences de Paris, Laboratoire de
Physique Generale, 12 rue Cuvier, Paris.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S., Holm Leigh, West Road,
Cambridge.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 509
Corresponding Members.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa 906, Rio Janeiro.
Professor H. Beaunis, Villa Printemps, Le Cannet (Alpes Mari-
times), France.
Professor Henri Bergson, Villa Montmorency, 18 Avenue des
Tilleuls, Paris.
Professor Bernheim, Hopital Civil, Nancy, France.
President Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York,
U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex, 6 Rue du Bellay, Paris.
Dr. Max Dessoir, Speyererstrasse 9, Berlin, W.
Professor Th. Flournoy, The University, Geneva.
Professor Dr. Freud, ix., Berggasse 19, Vienna.
President Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Mrs. William James, 95 Irving Street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Pierre Janet, 54 Rue de Varenne, VIP, Paris.
M. Maurice Maeterlinck, 32 rue Perronet, Neuilly-s.-S., France.
Professor Wm. Romaine Newbold, Ph.D., Univ. of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Dr. Morton Prince, 458 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Th. Ribot, Office of the Revue Fhilosojjhique, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15 Rue de 1'Universite, Paris.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 2 Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Honorary Associates.
Alrutz, Dr. Sydney, Upsala, Sweden.
Bayfield, Rev. M. A., The Rectory, Hertingfordbury, Hertford.
Edmunds, Miss L., P.O. Box 111, Alton, R.I., U.S.A.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Regio Instituto Tecnico e Nautico,
Venice.
Fryer, Rev. A. T.. St. James's Vicarage. Walthamstow, London, E.
Grubb, Edward, 26 Avondale Road, Croydon, Surrey.
Muirhead, Professor J. H., The Rowans, Balsall Common, nr.
Coventry.
Ochorowicz, Dr. J., Faubourg de Cracovie No. 16/18, Warsaw.
Reed, Miss E. M., 2 Gledhow Gardens, S. Kensington, London,
S.W.
Sage, M., 33 Rue de Coulmiers, XIVe Arrt., Paris.
van Eeden, Frederik, M.D., Walden, Bussum, Holland.
510 Members and Associates. [part
Members and Associates.
An asterisk is prefixed to the names of Members.
Abbott, Mrs., Broadview, Hill Brow, Bromley, Kent.
Abbott, E. J. W.
Abernethy, Mrs., 10 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Acland-Hood, Lady Helena, 46 Burton Court, London, S.W.
Adair, Desmond.
Adamowska, Madame S., 11 Cbanning Street, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Adams, Mrs., 4 Brookside, Cambridge.
Adamson, Rev. H., P.O. Box 241, Christcliurch, New Zealand.
Agelasto, Michael A., Box 485, Norfolk, Va., U.S.A.
Albree, John, Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Alexander, Professor S., Victoria University, Manchester.
Allan, Percy, M.D., Crogdene, Croham Road, South Croydon,
Surrey.
Allen, B. M., 14 Gainsborough Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Allen, George B., Free Chase, Warninglid, Sussex.
Allen, Professor H. J., c/'o The National Bank of India, 26
Bishopsgate, London, E.C.
Allen, William, M.B., 4 Newton Terrace, Charing Cross, Glasgow.
Alston, Mrs. Rowland, Turvey Abbey, Turvey, Beds.
Anderson, Mrs., Brackenboro', Bramhall, Cheshire.
Anderson, Lt. -Colonel A. T., R.F.A., 115 Knight's Hill, West
Norwood, London, S.E.
Anderson, F., Medical Director, 1628 19th Street, N.W., Wash-
ington, D.C., U.S.A.
Anderson, Rev. Francis M., 115 Knight's Hill, West Norwood,
London, S.E.
Anderson, Miss Ruth, Heath Cottage, Westleton, Saxmundham.
Anstey, Captain E. C, R.F.A., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16 Charing
Cross, London, S.W.
Armstrong, Charles W., Caixa 196, S. Paulo, Brazil.
Armstrong, Miss M. M., 57 Redington Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W.
Askew, Claude, Botches, Wivelsfield Green, Sussex.
Askew, Mrs. Claude, Botches, Wivelsfield Green, Sussex.
*Assheton-Smith, Lady, Vaynol, Bangor, N. Wales.
Astley, Miss, Cowrie Haven, Poundstock, nr. Bude, N. Cornwall.
*Astor, William Waldorf, Cliveden, near Maidenhead.
Atkinson, Henry, Rokeby, Green Lane, Northwood, Middlesex.
LXX.J Members and Associates. 511
Atwater, Horace G., Norfolk, St. Lawrence Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
*Auden, Harold A., 13 Broughton Drive, Grassendale, Liverpool.
*Austen, Harold W. C, M.D., 2 Freeland Road, Ealing, London, W.
Austin, C. G., I.C.S., Hosur, South India.
*Ayrton, Captain F. F. J., Royal Cornwall Yacht Club, Falmouth,
Cornwall.
Bacon, Mrs. Sewell, Highground, Waterford Rd., Oxton, Cheshire.
*Baggally, Wortley W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
Baggally, Mrs. W. W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
Baikie, W. S., Southend, Stromness, Orkney Islands.
*Bailey, Cyril, Balliol College, Oxford.
Bailey, Hon. Mabel, Hay Castle, Hay, by Hereford.
Baker, Alfred L., Lake Forest, Illinois, U.S.A.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, 14 Inverness Terrace, London, W.
Baker, Miss Mabel, St. John's Schools, Eton, Windsor.
*Balfour, Miss, 4 Carlton Gardens, London, S.W.
*Balfour, Right Hon. A. J., M.P., F.R.S., 4 Carlton Gardens,
London, S.W.
Balfour, F. C. C, 32 Addison Road, Kensington, London, W.
*Balfour, Right Hon. G. W., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Bandon, The Countess of, Castle Bernard, Bandon, Co. Cork, Ire-
land.
Bannester, Miss E. S., Alexandra College, Westcliff-on-Sea, Essex.
*Barclay, Edwyn, 39 Hurlingham Court, London, S.W.
*Barker, Mrs. C. F., 3942 Ellis Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Barkley, Dr. M., Box 162, Carlyle, 111., U.S.A.
Barkworth, Mrs., Thornford House, Sherborne, Dorset.
Barlow, Miss Jane, D.Litt., Killarney Hill, Bray, Co. Wicklow,
Ireland.
Barnes, Rev. Walter W., Meadowside, Cliddesden Road, Basing-
stoke.
Barritt, E. H., J. P., Warrior House, 26 Beaconsfield Avenue,
Colchester.
*Barrow, J. R., Ramna P.O., Bengal, India.
Barrows, Miss, Hampton School, Malvern P.O., Jamaica, B.W.I.
Barrows, C. M., 522 West 149th Street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Barrs, Mrs., Marshlands, Laurel Road, Cottenham Park,
Wimbledon, London, S.W.
Baruch, Edgar, Rooms 805-6, Wright & Callender Building, Los
Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Basden, Miss Isabel K., 21 The Drive, Hove, Sussex.
2k
512 Members and Associates. [part
*Batchelor, E., I.C.S., Wardha, Central Provinces, India.
*Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring, Herts.
*Bayley, Weston D., M.D., 1524 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
Baynes, W. E. C, Assiut, Upper Egypt.
Bean, Rev. Edwin.
*Beattie, Ivor Hamilton, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
*Beaumont, Miss Annette.
Beaumont-Klein, Leopold de, D.Sc, Clermont House, Methwold,
Norfolk.
Beaumont-Klein, The Hon. Mrs. de, Clermont House, Methwold,
Norfolk.
*Bedford, Adeline Duchess of, Chenies, Rickmansworth.
Beeching, Miss Nelly, York House, Ton bridge.
*Behrens, Captain Clive, Swinton Grange, Malton, Yorks.
Behrens, Noel Edward.
*Beilby, Dr. G. T., F.R.S., 11 University Gardens, Glasgow.
Belaribi, Mrs., Bartlands, Holt Heath, Worcestershire.
Bell, Miss A. E., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W.
Bell, Miss Alison H., Exmoor, Quickley Lane, Chorley Wood,
Herts.
Bennett, Colin N., Escot, Penzance, Cornwall.
Bennett, Ernest N., The Bath Club, 34 Dover Street, London, W.
Benson, Miss A. M., M.D., Pedcler Road, Cumballa Hill, Bombay,
India.
*Benson, Mrs., Tremans, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
Benson, Arthur C, C.V.O., The Old Lodge, Magdalene College,
Cambridge.
Benton, Dr. J. R., Gainesville, Florida, U.S.A.
*Berens, Rev. Randolph, 14 Prince's Gardens, London, S.W.
Bergen, Axel von, Abbey Road, Darlington, Durham.
Berrington, Rev. Leslie G., 29 Beauchamp Avenue, Leamington
Spa, Warwickshire.
*Berry, Mrs. F. M. Dickinson, M.D., 21 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Best, Robert, 146 Hamstead Road, Handsworth, Birmingham.
Bethell, Mrs., 23 Shooters Hill Road, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131 Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9 Rutland Gate, London, S.W.
Bevan, Rev. W. O., Kalutara, Ceylon.
*Beveridge, Erskine, LL.D., St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Beverley, Mrs., Nascot Lodge, Watford, Herts.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 513
Biach, Dr. Rudolf, Mayerhofgasse 20, Vienna IV., Austria.
Bibesco, H.H. Prince Antoine, 114 Grosvenor Road, London, S.W.
Bicknell, Clarence, Villa Rose, Bordighera, Italy.
Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge.
*Bigg, Miss Louisa, 2 York Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
*Binney, Rev. Maximilian F. B., The Vicarage, Richmond, Surrey.
Birley, Miss Florence H., Goldsmiths' College, New Cross, London,
S.E.
Black, Mrs., 37 Rectory Place, Woolwich, London, S.E.
Blackburn, A. J., Aruba House, The Leazes, Burnopfield, Durham.
Blackburn, E. M., Little Thakeham, Pulborough, Sussex.
Blacklock, Miss C, 101 Beaufort Mansions, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Blane, Miss Edith H., 18 Ashley Mansions, London, S.W.
Blathwayt, W., Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
*Bligh, Stanley M., 28 Grosvenor Road, Westminster, London, S.W.
Bloemfontein, The Right Rev. the Bishop of, Bishop's Lodge,
Bloemfontein, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Bodley, Mrs., 41 Gloucester Place, Portman Square, London, W.
Bois, H. G., c/o Messrs. J. M. Robertson & Co., Colombo, Ceylon.
Bolton, Lyndon, The Patent Office, 25 Southampton Buildings,
London, W.C.
Boothroyd, A. E., Warley, Meadway, Hampstead Garden Suburb,
London, N.W.
Bosanquet, Miss Theodora, 10 Lawrence Street, Cheyne Walk,
London, S.W.
Bonlding, R. S. H., Woodthorpe, Barston Road, W. Norwood,
London, S.E.
Bouwens, B. G., The Grange, Idmiston, nr. Salisbury, Wilts.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., rue Maze, St. Martin's, Guernsey.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., Careys, Brockenhurst, Hants.
*Bowditch, C. P., Ill Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Bowen, Miss Anna C, 210 E. Main Street, Batavia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Bower, James Garton, Junr., Earlham House, Norwich.
Box, Alfred Marshall, Woodlands, 14 Magrath Avenue, Cam-
bridge.
Bozzano, E., Salita Emanuele Cavallo, N. 92, Genoa.
Brabrook, Sir Edward W., C.B., Langham House, Wallington,
Surrey.
*Bradley, Miss A. A., Hingham, Mass., U.S.A.
Bradley, Professor A. C, 54 Scarsdale Villas, Kensington,
London, W.
514 Members and Associates. [part
Bradley, F. Ii., Merton College, Oxford.
Brain, Ernest, 7 St . George's Square, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Bramly, Mrs. Jennings, Asolo, Treviso, Italy.
*Bramwell, J. Milne, M.B., 17 Wimpole Street, London, W.
*Brandt, Rudolph E., 4 Fenchurch Avenue, London, E.C.
Bray, F. E., 17 The Boltons, London, S.W.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brewster-
,
Bertram, 59 Madeley Road, Ealing, London, W.
Briantchaninoff, Alexandre N., 11 Grand Mouetuaia, Petrograd,
Russia.
Bristowe, The Hon. Mr. Justice, Supreme Court, Pretoria, South
Africa.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A.
Brooke, Colonel C. K., Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W.
Brooke, Miss Emma F.
Brooke, E. G. de C, Brushford, Dulverton, Devonshire.
*Brooke, Lady, Colebrooke, Brookeborough,Co. Fermanagh, Ireland.
*Brown, B. G., 46 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W.
Brown, Mrs. F. C, Women's Franchise Club, 9 Grafton Street,
London, W.
Brown, Haydn, L.R.C.P., Manor Lodge, Chislehurst, Kent.
Brown, Mrs. H. F., 18 Curzon Park, Chester.
Brown, Miss May, 62 Carlisle Mansions, Westminster, London, S.W.
Browne, Professor Edward G., M.B., Pembroke College, Cam-
bridge.
Browne, J. Stark, 87 York Mansions, Battersea Park, London,
S.W.
Brownrigg, Lady, White Waltham, Maidenhead, Berks.
Bruce, James, Craik, Sask., Canada.
Brush, W. Franklin, 500 5th Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Bryan, C. A. Douglas, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Portland House,
1 Saxe Coburg Street, Leicester.
Bryce, Miss Kathleen, 15 Campden Hill Square, London, W.
Bryson, Archibald, Nenthorne, Ayr, N.B.
*Bubb, Henry, J. P., Ullenwood, near Cheltenham.
Buchanan, A. G., F.R.C.S., 75 Warwick Square, London, S.W.
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Buller, Professor A. H. Reginald, University of Manitoba, Winni-
peg, Canada.
*Bulley, Mrs. Arthur, Ness, Neston, Cheshire.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 515
*Bullough, Edward, 6 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Bullough, Mrs. Edward, 6 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Burghard, Mrs., 86 Harley Street, London, W.
Burnham, Mrs., Staindrop Lodge, CkajDeltown, Sheffield.
Burns, Nesbitt, M.B., The Lodge, Highbridge, Somerset.
Burrard, Mrs. Charles, c/o Lloyds Bank, Knightsbridge Branch,
Brompton Road, London, S.W.
Burton, Miss L. M., 26 Deans Walk, Gloucester.
Bury, Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
Bury, Mrs. Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
*Bushell, Rev. W. D., Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Butler, Mrs. Charles, Syon House, East Budleigh, Devon.
Butt, Lady, 9 Albert Hall Mansions, Kensington Gore, London,
S.W.
Buttemer, Robert Wm., St. Mary's, Godalming, Surrey.
Butterworth, Miss A. M., The Bungalow, West Kirby, Cheshire.
Cadell, Mrs. Lewis, Brae Lodge, Murrayfield, Edinburgh.
Caird, Mrs. Henryson, 34 Woronzow Road, St. John's Wood,
London, N.W.
Cairns, Rev. David S., D.D., 62 Hamilton Place, Aberdeen.
^Campbell, Lady Archibald, Coombe Hill Farm, Kingston-on-
Thames, Surrey.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ormidale, Colintraive, Argyllshire.
Campbell, Mrs., Arduaine, Lochgilphead, N.B.
Campbell, Colin E., 34 Lower Belgrave Street, London, S.W.
Campbell, Major N. D. H., 7th Dragoon Guards, Trimulgherry,
Deccan, India.
Campbell, Rev. R. J., The City Temple, London, E.C.
Campbell-Lang, Miss, c/o Professor Brunton, LL.B., 180 Hope
Street, Glasgow.
Candler, H. A. W., 37 Commercial Road, London, E.
Capron, Mrs. Cynthia J., 316 Lincoln Avenue, Freeport, 111.,
U.S.A.
Carnahan, C. T., 951 Logan Avenue, Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
^'Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13 Berkeley Square, London, W.
Carpenter, Mrs. , 51 Teignmouth Road, Cricklewood, London, N.W.
Carr, H. Wildon, D. Litt., 10 More's Garden, Cheyne Walk,
London, S.W.
Carr, Lucien, 163 Brattle Street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Carrington, Hereward, 504 West 111th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
516 Members and Associates. [part
Carter, Lady, Greycliffe, Torquay, S. Devon.
Case, Miss A. J., 35 Elm Bank Mansions, Barnes, London, S.W.
Cassatt, Miss Mary, 10 Rue de Marignan, Paris.
Cathels, Rev. David, The Manse, Hawick, Scotland.
*Cave, Charles, J. P., Ditcham Park, Petersfield, Hants.
Cayley, Hugh S., Room 221, Loo Building, Vancouver, B.C.,
Canada.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Alford House, Alford, Somerset.
*Chambers, John, Mokopeka, Hastings, Hawkes Bay, New
Zealand.
Chance, Clinton F., 12 Arthur Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Chapman, E. G., Belsize, Friern Watch Avenue, N. Finchley,
London, N.
Chaidton, Miss Frances M., 23 Kensington Square, London, W.
*Charrington, Miss E. Beatrice, 60 Eaton Terrace, London, S.W.
Chatterjee, A. K., Deputy Magistrate and Collector, P.O. Comilla,
District Tippura, India.
Chattock, Arthur P., D.Sc, Heathfield Cottage, Crowcombe, nr.
Taunton, Somerset.
Cheney, Dr. Frederick E., 126 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
Chichkine, Mademoiselle A. de, Lyceum Club, 128 Piccadilly,
London, W.
Ckilde-Pemberton, Miss A. H., 12 Portman Street, Portman
Square, London, W.
Childers, Miss F. I., Cranbourne Grange, Sutton Scotney, Hants.
Chitty, Hubert, M.B., F.R.C.S., etc., 46 Pembroke Road, Clifton,
Bristol.
Chubb, Mrs. C. A., Longforgan, The Ridgway, Wimbledon, Lon-
don, S.W.
Clapham, Mrs. H. H., 50 South 6th Street, San Jose, Cal., U.S.A.
Clapham, J. H., King's College, Cambridge.
*Clark, Rev. F. H. H., 12a Market Hill, Cambridge.
Clarke, Ronald Stanley, Trobridge House, Crediton, Devon.
Clarkson, Mrs. St. John, 18 Milner Street, Cadogan Square,
London, S.W.
Clive, Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Closson, Miss Olivia T., 1359 Columbia Road, Washington, D.C.,
U.S.A.
Clover, Martin, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Bay House, Veryan, Gram-
pound Road, Cornwall.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 517
Coates, C. J., The Thornton Woollen Mill Co., Petrograd.
Coates, Mrs., 4 Duke's Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N.W.
Cochrane, Miss Jessie, 148 Charles Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Cockle, Rev. Francis T., The Rectory, Swinford, Co. Mayo,
Ireland.
Coe, Miss M. A., c/oM. T. Pritchard, 125 School Street, Roxbury,
Mass., U.S.A.
*Coggin, Rev. F. E., White Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
Coghill, Colonel Kendal, C.B., Castle Townshend, nr. Skibbereen,
Co. Cork, Ireland.
*Cole-Hamilton, Mrs. L. A., c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co., 9 Pall
Mall, London, S.W.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Colquhoun, Daniel, M.D., 44 High Street, Dunedin, New Zealand.
*Constable, F. C, Wick Court, near Bristol.
Conway, Lady, Allington Castle, Maidstone, Kent.
Cooke, Miss Mabel, Dana Hall School, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Cooper, Rev. F. W., Prestwich Rectory, Manchester.
Cooper, Miss Louisa E., Ripponhurst, Epping, Essex.
Cooper, Mrs. P. H., 283 South Street, Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
Cornelson, Rev. G. H., 1912 State Street, New Orleans, La.,
U.S.A.
Corry, Miss Lucy, 13 Argyll Road, Campden Hill, London, W.
Cort van der Linden, P. W. A., Councillor of State, Groenhove,
The Hague.
Cotesworth, Miss Lilias E., 45 Westminster Mansions, Great Smith
Street, London, S.W.
*Cotterell, Mrs., Claremont, Walsall, Staffs.
Cotterell, Miss Alice, Ig Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W.
Courtauld, George, Junr., The Waver, Wethersfielcl, Braintree,
Essex.
Courtauld, R. M., M.B., 6 Denmark Villas, Hove, Sussex.
*Cowan, W. H., The Crow's Nest, Fairwarp, Uckfield, Sussex.
Cowell, Miss Marion A., 3 Brudenell Terrace, Aldeburgh, Suffolk
Cox, Mrs. Rowland, 310 West 7th Street, Plainfield, N.J., U.S.A.
Coxe, The Hon. Mr. Justice Henry R. H., c/o Messrs. Grindlay
& Co., 54 Parliament Street, London, S.W.
Coxon, Mrs. George S., Craigleith, Cheltenham.
Cozens, J. C, Brigus, Conception Bay, Newfoundland.
Craggs, Lady, 30 Bramham Gardens, London, S.W.
518 Members and Associates. [part
Craige, Wm. C, 409 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Craufurd, Commander Queutin C. A., R.N., H.M.S. St. George,
Home Fleet.
Crawford, W. C, 1 Lockharton Gardens, Colinton Road, Edin-
burgh.
Croft, Mrs. Henry Page, Knole, Bournemouth.
Crook, A. H., Queen's College, Hong Kong.
*Crookes, Lady, 7 Kensington Park Gardens, London, W.
Crouch, H. N., AdditionalJudicial Commissioner of Sind, Karachi,
Sind, India.
Currie, Mrs., 7 Sunderland Terrace, Bayswater, London, W.
""Curtis, Atherton, 17 rue Notre Dame des Champs, Paris,
France.
*Curtois, Miss Margaret A., 10 Barton Street, Westminster, Lon-
don, S.W.
Curzon of Kedleston, The Earl, Hackwood, Basingstoke, Hants.
Dale, Alan, Wright Avenue, Bayside, Long Island, New York,
U.S.A.
Dale, Mrs. Hylton, 28 Elm Park Gardens, London, S.W.
Dale, J. Gilbert, 68 Holland Park, Kensington, London, W.
Dallas, Miss H. A., Innisfail, Crawley, Sussex.
*Dalton, J. H. C, M.D., The Plot, Adams Road, Cambridge.
Damant, Mrs. H. C, Lammas, Cowes, Isle of Wight.
Daniell, Mrs. Averell.
Danzas, Mile. Julia, 26 Moika, Petrograd.
D'Arcy, Rev. G. J. A., The Vicarage, Worksop, Notts.
Davies, Benjamin, Wilford, Chase Green Avenue, Enfield, Middle-
sex.
Davies, Mrs. G. R., Glenlaggan, Parton, N.B.
Davies, Miss M. H. Lloyd, Lynton, Curzon Road, Hoylake,
Cheshire.
);
'Davies, Valentine Clements, 59a Grove Road, Eastbourne.
Davis, A. E., F.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 56 Rodney Street, Liverpool.
Davis, Thomas Henry, Trelinda, St. Merryn, Padstow.
Davison, Miss Annie, Albemarle Club, 37 Dover Street, London, W.
Dawson, Lt. -Colonel Henry P., Hartlington Hall, Skipton.
Day, Rev. Dr. E. H., Newton House, Belmont, Hereford.
Day, Miss Mabel K., Gershom, Reigate, Surrey.
Dearmer, Rev. Percy, St. Mary's Vicarage, Primrose Hill, London,
N.W.
Deichmann, Baroness, Abbey Lodge, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 519
De Jong, Dr. K. H. E.., Obrechtstraat 343, The Hague.
Delap, Alfred D., Rosslare Harbour, Kilrane, Wexford.
Deverell, Mrs. F., 7 Glen-dower Place, South Kensington, London,
S.W.
Devitt, Mrs. J. A., Oskaloosa, Iowa, U.S.A.
*Dewar, Rev. Peter, The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, Scotland.
De Wyckoff, Joseph, The Croft, Greville Place, London, N.W.
Dickie, H. Elford, British Consulate, Pernambuco, Brazil.
Dickinson, Miss, Trebrea Lodge, Tintagel, Cornwall.
Dickinson, Miss A. J., 3a Clareville Grove, London, S.W., and
Poultry Court, Painswick, Gloucestershire.
Dickinson, G. Lowes, King's College, Cambridge.
Dicksee, Frank, R.A., 3 Greville Place, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W.
Dill, J. F. Gordon, M.B., 6 Brunswick Place, Brighton.
*Dixon, Edward T.
Dixon, Hugh N., 17 St. Matthew's Parade, Northampton.
Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, LL.B., Litt.D., 2 South Park
Terrace, Hillhead, Glasgow, W.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Dobie, D. Jamieson, 46 Hulne Avenue, Tynemouth.
Dodds, E. R., University College, Oxford.
*Dodge, Miss Mary H., Warwick House, St. James's, London,
S.W.
Donne, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Holt & Co., 3 Whitehall Place, London,
S.W.
Dorr, George B., 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Dougall, Miss Lily, Cutts End, Cumnor, nr. Oxford.
Douglas, Mrs., 4 Campden House Road, Kensington, London, W.
Douglas, Mrs. Charles, Auchlochan, Lesmahagow, Lanarkshire.
Douglas, Rev. Dr. G. W., Tuxedo Park, Orange County, New
York, U.S.A.
Douglas, Rev. Job A., 11 Commercial Road, Peckham, London,
S.E.
*Douglas-Pennant, Hon. Violet, 9 Cromwell Place, London, S.W.
Dowson, Mrs. W. E., Felixstowe, The Park, Nottingham.
*Doyle, Sir A. Conan, M.D., Windlesham, Crowborough, Sussex.
Drake, Mrs. A. J., 24 Bennington Street, Newton, Mass., U.S.A.
Drew, Ringrose C, Kluang, Johore, via Singapore, Federated
Malay States.
520 Members and Associates. [part
Drewry, Mrs. George, c/o S. Hicks, J. P., Rostherne, Upper
Colwyn Bay, N. Wales.
Driesch, Professor Hans, Ph.D., L.L.D., 52 Uferstrasse, Heidel-
berg.
Duggin, Mrs. Clias., 25 East 38th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Dulley, Rev. P>., St. Peter's Clergy House, London Docks, E.
*Duncan, Harold, 43 Fetter Lane, London, E.C.
*Duncan, Mrs., Earlston, Epsom Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Dunne, D. P., Yetholme, Liverpool Road, Birkdale, Southport.
*Dutton, Miss A., Somerdon, Sidmouth, Devon.
Dyce, Capt. Cecil, 69 Linden Gardens, Bayswater, London, W.
Dyson, Rev. W. H., Edgerton, 1a Weld Road, Birkdale, Southport.
Edelsten, Colonel John A., 8 Beach Lawn, Waterloo, nr. Liverpool.
Edie, H. S. Ker, c/o Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son, Ludgate Circus,
London, E.C.
*Edwardes, Mrs. Dyer, 5 Hyde Park Gate, Kensington, London, W.
-Elder, Frederick, The Times Library Club, 380 Oxford Street,
London, W.
Eldred, Fleet-Paymaster E. H., R.N., c/o Capital and Counties
Bank, Ltd., Southsea, Hants.
Elliot, Miss A. I. M., Women's University Settlement, 44 Nelson
Square, Blackfriars Road, London, S.E.
Elliot, Gilbert C, Hull Place, Deal, Kent.
Elliot, Mrs. Gilbert, Kasr el Nuzha, Cairo, Egypt.
Elliott, Captain B. H., R.A., 6 Ahlon Road, Rangoon, Burma.
Ellis, Herbert, The Gynsills, Groby Road, Leicester.
Emmerson, Robert, M.D., Calle Llave 423, Chihuahua, Chih.,
Mexico.
Emmet, Rev. C. W., West Hendred Vicarage, Steventon, Berks.
Engall, John S., 62 Goldsmith Avenue, Acton, London, W.
Eno, H. L., Princeton, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Entee, Professor B. A., Samaldas College, Bhaunagar, India.
Erskine, Mrs., The Buries, Bishopstrow, Warminster, Wilts.
Evans, Frank Gwynne, The Tower House, Woodchester, Stroud.
Evans, W. A., The Brackley, Stoneygate Avenue, Leicester.
*Fabbri, Alessandro, 11 East 62nd Str., New York City, U.S.A.
*Farrer, The Dowager Lady, Idlerocks, Stone, Staffordshire.
Faulkner, W. B., 52 South Molton Street, London, W.
*Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5 John Street, Mayfair, London, W.
Ferenczi, Dr. Sandor, VII, Erzsebet-Korut 54, Budapest, Hungary.
Field, Allan B., Kingslea, Strines Road, Marple, Cheshire.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 521
Fillmer, Hoi'atio R., 52 Ship Street, Brighton.
*Firth, Colonel R. H.
Fisk, Rev. George, Tsingchowfu, Shantung, China.
Fliigel, J. C, Cravenhurst, Reigate, Surrey.
Foote, Mrs. H. R., Harewood House, Hanover Square, London, W.
Ford, Miss Emily S., 23 Glebe Place, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Forman, Josef, 28 Lowndes Square, London, S.W.
Forman, Colonel R. H., A.M.S., 65 Ashley Gardens, London,
S.W.
Fortescue, Miss Frances, Woodlands, Warwick Gardens, Worthing.
*Foster, Rev. J. Edgar, Lindsey Vicarage, Ipswich.
Fotheringham, W. B., 24 Teville Road, Worthing.
*Fox, Mrs., Fawe Park, Keswick, Cumberland.
Fraenkel, Dr. Joseph, 21 East 82nd Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Francis, Arthur, P.O. Mazwood, Victoria, Vancouver Island,
Canada.
'•Francis, Mrs. Francis.
Frankiand, F. W.
Franks, Mrs., 51 Dacre Hill, Rock Ferry, Birkenhead.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Queen Anne's Mansions, London,
S.W.
Freeman, Rev. H. B., The Vicarage, Burton-on-Trent, Staffs.
*Frith, Mrs., Swynnerton Rectory, Stone, Staffordshire.
*Frost, Miss Annie, Carnelloe Cottage, Zenuor, nr. St. Ives, Corn-
wall.
Frostick, J. A., Christchurch, New Zealand.
*Fry, Miss Agnes, Failand House, Failand, near Bristol.
*Fry, Lewis George, Stonycroft, Limpsfield, Surrey.
*Fullerton, Colonel J. D., Artillery Mansions, Victoria Street,
Westminster, London, S.W.
Gabb, F. B., The Willows, Abergavenny, Wales.
Gaff, T. T., 1520 20th Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Gage, Lyman J., Point Loma, Cal., U.S.A.
Gantz, Mrs., Wallington Rectory, Baldock, Herts.
Gardiner, Professor H. N., 23 Crafts Avenue, Northampton,
Mass., U.S.A.
Gardner, Harold E., 9 Cook Street, Liverpool.
*Gaskell, Mrs. J. B., Roseleigh, Woolton, Liverpool.
Gellert, J. W., c/o Box 396, G.P.O., Adelaide, S. Australia.
*George, Mrs., Cottage-on-the-Links, Hindhead, Haslemere, Surrey.
522 Members and Associates. [part
*George, H. Trevelyan, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 33 Ampthill Square,
London, N.W.
Gibbes, C. S., Mojaiskaia oolitsa, No. 1, Petrograd.
Gibson, Professor W. R. Boyce, D.Sc, Lichfield, 18 Wallace
Avenue, Toorak, Melbourne, Australia.
Girod, Madame, 4 Avenue Hoche, Paris.
Glenconner, Lady, 34 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W.
Gobel, J. S., Fraii9ois Valentignstraat 199, The Hague.
Goedhart, P., Laan van Meerdervoort 135, The Hague.
*Goldschmidt, Mrs. Beni de, 16 Wilton Street, Grosvenor Place,
London, S.W.
Goldstein, Dr. phil. J., Rossdorferstrasse 81, Darmstadt, Germany.
Golejewski, Lieut. -Colonel N., The Russian Embassy, Washing-
ton, U.S.A.
Golejewski, Madame, The Russian Embassy, Washington, U.S.A.
Gomme, J. F., 196 Oxford Street, London, W.
Gooch, G. P., South Villa, Campden Hill Road, London, W.
Goodall, Charles Henry, Lucknow Avenue, Nottingham.
Goodhart, Rev. Charles A., Lambourne Rectory, Romford,
Essex.
Gordon, Mrs. J. L. R., Roden House, Cheltenham.
Gough, A. B., Ph.D., Sandcroft, Upper Bridge Road, Redhill,
Surrey.
Gover, J. M., LL.D., 5 New Square, Lincoln's Inn, London,
W.C.
Gower, John H., Mus. Doc. (Oxon.), 1600 Clarkson Street,
Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
*Grafflin, Mrs. W. H., Filston Manor, Glencoe, Baltimore County,
Md., U.S.A.
Graham, J. W., Dalton Hall, Victoria Park, Manchester.
*Grant-Suttie, Captain H. F., " H " Battery, Royal Horse Artillery,
Expeditionary Force.
Graveson, Miss C, Goldsmiths' College, New Cross, London,
S.E.
Green, Mrs. Alan B., Hogarth House, Bushey, Herts.
Greene, Mrs. Bertram, 382 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Greene, J. G., 34 Stiles Street, Elizabeth, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Greeves, Rev. F. B., Cudworth Vicarage, Barnsley, Yorkshire.
Greg, Mrs., 56 Eaton Square, London, S.W.
*Grenfell, Mrs., 5 New College Street, Oxford.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 523
*Grenfell, Field-Marshal Lord, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., Overstone Park,
Northants.
Grew, Mrs. Joseph Clark, Rauchstr. 27, Berlin, Germany.
*Grey, R. C, c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street,
London, S.W.
Gribble, Miss F. M., 32 Chester Terrace, Regent's Park, London,
N.W.
""Grignon, Miss A. E., 4 Melrose Avenue, Cricklewood, London,
N.W.
*Grigsby, Miss E. B., 80 Brook Street, London, W.
Grosvenor, Hon. Mrs. R. C, Morrisburne House, Woking,
Surrey.
Grottendieck, W. G., Schenk Straat 150, The Hague.
*Grubbe, Hubert H., Southwold, SulTolk.
*Gurbaxani, Professor H. M., D.J. Sind College, Karachi, Sind,
India.
*Guttwoch, Charles, 7 Kingswood Avenue, Queen's Park, London,
N.W.
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 Netherhall Gardens, South Hampstead, London,
N.W.
Hackett, James T., Widows' Fund Building, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide, South Australia.
Haemmerle, Madame, Merdo, Arendal, Norway.
Haldar, Professor Hiralal, 37 Sibnarayan Das Lane, Calcutta.
Halkett, Miss Katherine E.
*Hall, Mrs. Basil, 29 Dover Street, London, S.W.
Hall, Miss E. M., Swedish Gymnasium, Prince's Drive, Colwyn
Bay, N. Wales.
*Hall, J. P., Gorse Bank, Werneth, Oldham.
Hall, R. D., c/o W. H. Hart, Sutton-on-Hull, Yorks.
Hall, Miss S. Elizabeth, 33 Canfield Gardens, London, N.W.
Hall, Wilfred, 9 Priors Terrace, Tynemouth, Northumberland.
Hallett, Henry Hiram, Bridge House, Taunton.
*Halsey, Mrs., 18 Mount Street, Grosvenor Square, London, W.
*Hambro, Mrs. Eric, 70 Prince's Gate, London, S.W.
Hamilton, James, Heversham School, Milnthorpe, Westmore-
land.
Hamilton, J. J., 80 Woodland Rise, Muswell Hill, London, N.
Hamilton, Mrs. Vera, 22 Hornsey Lane, Highgate, London, N.
Hamilton, W. Bernard.
Hammond, Miss Winifred B., Cocpiille, Oregon, U.S.A.
524 Members and Associates. [part
Handcock, Dr. Charles L., J. P., Muswellbrook, New South Wales,
Australia.
Hannes, Mrs.,- Woolley Firs, Maidenhead Thicket, Berks.
Hansard, Mrs., 1236 Oxford Street, Victoria, Vancouver Island,
British Columbia.
Hanson, H. P., Box 39, R.F.D. Route No. 5, Harlan, Iowa, U.S.A.
Hanson, Mrs., Pleasaunce Cottage, Dormans Park, Surrey.
Hardeman, Miss Frances E., 1 Prince's Park Terrace, Liverpool.
Hardie, Miss Mabel, M.B., Candello, 577 Finchley Road, London,
N.W.
Harding, Miss A. K., c/o Nevett & Co., 21 Park Road, Crouch
End, London, N.
*Harding, Wyndham, 19 Bishopsgate, London, E.G.
Hargreaves, Miss, 115 Clarence Gate Gardens, Regent's Park,
London, N.W.
Harris, Alan C., c/o Messrs. Morgan, Harjes & Co., 31 Boulevard
Haussmann, Paris, France.
*Harris, Mrs. H. Percy, 98 Gloucester Terrace, London, W.
*Harris, Hon. J., East India United Service Club, 16 St. James's
Square, London, S.W.
Harris, Mrs. Leverton, 70 Grosvenor Street, London, W.
Harris, Mrs. W. F., The Willows, Westbourne Avenue, Hull.
Harrison, Rev. Arthur S., 28 Eastgate, Stafford.
Harrison, Miss Jane E., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Harrison, William, 47 Chatsworth Road, Croydon, Surrey.
*Hart, Colonel H. H., R.E., c/o Messrs. King, King & Co.,
Bombay, India.
Hart, Lieut.-General Sir Reginald Clare, V.C., K.C.B., K.C.V.O.,
United Service Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W.
*Hartness, James, Springfield, Vermont, U.S.A.
Hartshorn, Miss Cornelia, Milton P.O., Mass., U.S.A.
Hartshorne, Charles H., 35 Warren Place, Montclair, N.J.,
U.S.A.
Hastie, Miss, c/o Messrs. Street, 30 Cornhill, London, E.C.
Hastings, Rev. J. H., The Manor House, Halton, Lancaster.
Hatton, G. C, 3 Vernon Chambers, Southampton Row, London,
W.C.
Hauxhnrst, Mrs. W., 35 West 81st Street, New York, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
Hawarden, The Viscountess, 18 Chelsea Court, London, S.W.
Hawker, Mrs. George, 55 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 525
Hawker, Miss Elizabeth, 55 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W.
Hawkins, E. F., 9bis Allee du Jardin Anglais, Le Raincy (S. et
O.), France.
Hayes, Rev. Joseph W., West Thurrock Vicarage, Grays, Essex.
Head, Miss Alice L., 26 Leinster Square, London, W.
Heard, G. H., 90 Goldhurst Terrace, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Heath, George H., 277 Brockley Road, London, S.E.
Heaton, Guy, 51 West CliS Road, Bournemouth.
Henderson, J. J., 322 Avenue U, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, The Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street,
London, W.
Henly, Mrs. Albert W., Gwydyr House, Bromley, Kent.
Henning, Mrs., 4 Upper Bedford Place, Russell Square, London,
W.C.
Henrici, Jacob, 6126 Penn. Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1 Argyll Villas, Cheltenham.
Herbert-Smith, Miss Evelyn E., Raymead, Park Road, Watford,
Herts.
Herriot, Miss E. F., 2 Sunningdale Gardens, Kensington, Lon-
don, W.
Hersckel, Colonel John, F.R.S., Royal Engineers, Slough, Bucks.
Heseltine, Mrs., 19 Launceston Place, Kensington, London, W.
Heymans, Prof. G., Ubbo-Emmiussingel 2, Groningen, Holland.
*Hicks, Miss Lucy, 50 Cambridge Terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Higbee, Colonel George H., Burlington, Iowa, U.S.A.
Hildyard, F. W., 77a Lexham Gardens, London, S.W.
Hill, J. Arthur, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford.
*Hillard, Miss Mary R., Westover School, Middlebury, Conn.,
U.S.A.
Hillman, E. Haviland, 4 Somers Place, Hyde Park, London, W.
Himes, Prof. Charles F., 170 W. Louther Street, Carlisle, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Hoare, Fred H., 37 Fleet Street, London, E.G.
Hoare, Mrs. Henry, 20 Montagu Street, Portman Square, Lon-
don, W.
Hockliffe, Mrs. Ernest, Littlebrook, Uppingham.
Hodding, Miss, 2 The Avenue, Bedford Park, London, W.
Hoernle, Professor R. F. Alfred, Emerson Hall, Harvard Uni-
versity, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Hogenraad, Mrs. Clio, Cornelis Jolstraat 93a, Scheveningen,
Holland.
52G Members and Associates. [part
*Hogg, Sir Frederick Russell, Oriental Club, Hanover Square,
London, W.
*Hogg, Henry R., 23 Hornton Street, Kensington, London, W.
Hoggan, Mrs. Frances, M.D., Hillview, Squire's Lane, Finchley,
London, N.
Holding, Sam, Columbia, Tenn., U.S.A.
Holland, Miss, 1a Holland Park, London, W.
Hollander, Bernard, M.D., 57 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Hollins, Mrs., 24 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Hollins, Mrs. A. E., 3 Maid's Causeway, Cambridge.
Hollway, C. R., Balliol College, Oxford.
Holme, Strachan, Bridgewater Offices, Walkden, Manchester.
*Holt, Henry, 34 West 33rd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Holt, Miss Winifred, New York Association for the Blind, 111 East
59th Street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Homan, C. H., 24 Oscarsgade, Christiania, Norway.
*Home, Mrs. Robert, b/78 Portsdown Road, Maida Vale, Lon-
don, W.
Hoppin, J. C, 310 Sears Building, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Horridge, Miss J. G., 43 Alexandra Road, Southport.
*Hoskins, Edmond J., M.D., Hammam Chambers, 76 Jermyn
Street, London, S.W.
Houston, James, 9 Viale Giuseppe Mazzini, Piazza d'Armi, Rome.
Howard, Miss Marian, Dobroyd, Westgate Avenue, Bolton, Lanes.
Howden, Mrs., 11 Eton Terrace, Edinburgh.
Howe, Mrs. M. A. De Wolfe, 26 Brimmer Street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Hude, Mrs. Anna, Ph.D., 35 Vestre Boulevard, Copenhagen, B.
Hudson, Morris, St. Cuthbert's, Bathampton, Somerset.
Hughes, Major H. M., St. Elmo, Victoria Road, Worthing, Sussex.
*Hull, Mrs. Carrie G., 20 Garfield Place, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., The Pines, Tivoli Road, Cheltenham.
Humphreys, T. H. A., Survey Department, Giza (Mudiria),
Egypt.
*Hunt, Mrs. Warwick, 12 Lansdowne Road, Holland Park, London,
W.
Huntingford, Miss, Beverley Hall, South Cliff, Bournemouth.
Hurwitz, W. A., Ph.D., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
Hussain, Dr. C. Muhammad, c/o C. Jaffer Hussain, Madrax-
Arzam, Mount Road, Madras, India.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 527
Hutchinson, F. W. H., Grove Lawns, St. Albans, Herts.
Hutchison, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Woodhead & Co., 44 Charing Cross,
London, S.W.
*Hutchison, Mrs., 8 The Manor, Davies Street, London, W.
Hutton, Mrs., St. Mary's Vicarage, Brighton.
*Hyslop, Professor J. H., 519 West 149th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Imamura, Pi*of. Shinkichi, Clinic for Psychiatry, Imperial Uni-
versity, Kioto, Japan.
Ingham, Charles B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingham, Percy B., 120 Bedford Court Mansions, London, W.C.
Ingram, Miss M. I., The Priory, Wimbledon Common, London,
S.W.
Innes, Miss H. K., 4 Greycoat Gardens, London, S.W.
*Ionides, A. C, Junr., 34 Porchester Terrace, London, W.
Ireland, Gordon, 32 Nassau Str., New York City, U.S.A.
Jacks, L. P., 28 Holywell, Oxford.
Jackson, Mrs., 44 Park Street, Calcutta, India.
Jackson, Miss Emily G. A., 28 Melville Road, Barnes, London,
S.W.
*James, Miss S. Boucher, Hallsannery, Bideford, N. Devon.
'Jameson, David, New Castle, Pa., U.S.A.
*Janson, E. W., 11 Eaton Mansions, Eaton Square, London,
S.W.
Jaye, William R., Springwood Lodge, Oakfield Road, Clapton,
London, N.E.
Johnson, Miss Alice, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Johnson, Charles R., 340 Main Street, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Johnston, R. F., Weihaiwei, China.
*Jones, Miss Constance, Girton College, Cambridge.
Jones, D. Marinus, M.D., Ardmay, Woburn Place, London, W.C.
*Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., Cranmer Hall, Fakenham,
Norfolk.
Jones, Miss Lilian I., 120 Maida Vale, London, W.
Jordan, H. W., Ashcroft, The Green, Southgate, London, N.
*Judah, Noble B., 2701 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Judd, Mrs. Sylvestre Dwight, 477 Highland Avenue, Maiden,
Mass., U.S.A.
Jutsum, J. A., 6 Cowley Street, Westminster, London, S.W.
Karrer, Enoch, 6527 Jefferson Street, Germantown, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
528 Members and Associates. [part
Keene, The Most Rev. J. B., D.D., Bishop of Meath, Navan,
Co. Meath.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, The Hut, Holmwood, Dorking.
*Kelso, Captain, R.N., Horkesley Park, Colchester, Essex.
Kenneth, H., Lindley, Bycullah Park, Enfield, Middlesex.
Kennion, T. A., Apartado 810, Mexico, D.F.
Kenway, Mrs., Mendip View, Winscombe, Somerset.
Ker, Miss, 78 Ann Street, Glasgow, W.
*Kerr, George, M.B., 6 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Kerr-Clark, Lady, Moore Abbey, Monasterevan, Ireland.
Ketkar, N. G., Amraoti, Berar, India.
-Kevill-Davies, Captain G., Edgeley House, Whitchurch, Salop.
*King, H. F. Locke, J. P., Brooklands, Weybridge, Surrey.
King, W. A. H., Balliol College, Oxford.
*Kingscote, Mrs., 4 Southwick Crescent, London, W.
*Kingsford, Miss S. M., 5 Doneraile Street, Fulham, London, S.W.
Kirkwood, J. H. M., 81 Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
*Kittel, T. B., Vane House, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Klinckowstroem, Count Carl, Elisabethstrasse 40, Munich,
Germany.
Knight, Mrs. Baillie, Thornhnrst, Silverdale Road, Burgess Hill,
Sussex.
Knight, Charles N., 36 Kensington Park Road, London, W.
Knoller, Richard, 1 Riemerstrasse 8, Vienna.
Kothen, Baron Axel von, 27 Mikealsgaten, Helsingfors, Finland.
Krebs, Rev. Stanley L., 1411 N. 18th Street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Lach-Szyrma, Rev. W. S., Barkingside Vicarage, Ilford, Essex.
Lafone, A. W., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
La Grange, H. R., 43 Winder Street, Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
Laing, R. M., Boys' High School, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Lamb, Charles George, 77 Glisson Road, Cambridge.
Lambert, Miss Ada R., 4 Overstrand Mansions, Prince of Wales
Road, Battersea Park, London, S.W.
Lambert, G. W., War Office, Whitehall, London, S.W.
Lane-Poole, Professor Stanley, Litt.D., Donganstown Castle,
Wicklow, Ireland.
Langworthy, Major G., Santa Clara, Torremolinos, Malaga, Spain.
Larken, E. P., 98 Warwick Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Latham, Miss Edith, 3 Avenue Bugeaud, Paris.
Latshaw, Allen, 3414 Sansom Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 529
"-Latymer, Lord, 88 St. James's Street, London, S.W.
Lauritzen, Severin, Holte, Denmark.
Law, A. H., 16 Manor House Road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
*Lawry, J. Littleton, M.D., Calstock, Cornwall.
Leaf, Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Miss Ellen, 6 Airlie Gardens, Campden Hill, London, W.
Leaf, Miss E. M., 4 Barton Street, Westminster, London, S.W.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough, Wilts.
*Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., 6 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Leaf, Mrs. Walter, 6 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. H., Cazenovia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Lee, Blewett, 135 Park Row, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Lees, Miss G. Hyde, 16 Montpelier Square, London, S.W.
*Legg, W. A., 18 The Avenue, Brondesbury, London, N.W.
Leggatt, E. O. E., Y Bryn, Deanery Road, Godalming, Surrey.
*Leigh, Lord, Stoneleigh Abbey, Kenilworth, Warwickshire.
Leigh, W. Austen, Hartfield, Roehampton, London, S.W.
Lenon, J. W., c/o P.O. Kyambu, British East Africa.
Leon, Mrs. Philip, 4m Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W.
Leonard, Thomas, 223 W. School Lane, Germantown, Phila-
delphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Leslie, James, 1029 Corydon Avenue, Winnipeg, Canada.
Lewin, Rev. C. H., The Hill, Lower Bourne, Farnham, Surrey.
Lewis, David J., House of Representatives U.S., Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of Adelaide, Australia.
Librarian, Adelbert College of Western Reserve University, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Birmingham Public Libraries, Reference Department,
Ratcliff Place, Birmingham.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, etc., Church Street, Brighton.
Librarian, Cambridge Public Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Colorado Springs, Colo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of the District of Columbia, Washing-
ton, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian (Hon.) of the Constitutional Club, Northumberland
Avenue, London, W.C.
Librarian, The John Crerar Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
530 Members and Associates. [part
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore,
Md., U.S.A.
Librarian, Grosvenor Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.C.
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich., U.S.A.
Librarian, Harvard College Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Jamsetjee Nesserwanjee Petit Institute, Hornby Road,
Bombay.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial Street, Leeds.
Librarian, Leland Stanford Junior University, Calif., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library Association, Portland, Oregon, U.S.A.
Librarian, Meadville Theological School, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Mercantile Library, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Minneapolis Athenaeum, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Newberry Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-
Tyne.
Librarian, Public Library, New Bridge Street, Newcastle-upon-
Tyne.
Librarian, New Hampshire State Library, Concord, N.H., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of New South Wales, c/o Messrs.
Truslove & Hanson, 153 Oxford Street, London, W.
Librarian, New York Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Ohio State Library, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
""Librarian, Omaha Public Library and Museum, 19 and Harvey
Streets, Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Librarian, Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Librarian, Seattle Public Library, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 19 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C.
Librarian, The University, Aberdeen.
Librarian, Bibliotheque Victor Cousin, L'Universite de Paris.
Librarian, University of Minnesota Library, Minneapolis, Minne-
sota, U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 531
Librarian, Victoria Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Dr. Williams's Library, Gordon Square, London,
W.C.
Librarian, Yale University Library, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
*Llewellin, Mrs. W., Upton House, nr. Poole, Dorset.
Lloyd, Major-General Sir Francis, K.C.B., C.V.O., D.S.O., Aston
Hall, Oswestry, Salop.
Lloyd, Judge Frank T., Camden, N.J., U.S.A.
Lloyd, Rev. John, 530 Warren Street, Wausau, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
Lloyd, Miss Julia, Farm, Sparkbrook, Birmingham.
Lodge, Miss E. C, Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford.
*Lodge, Sir Oliver, F.R.S., Mariemont, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Lodge, Robert, Compton Wood, 28 Carlisle Road, Eastbourne.
Loewenstein, Amtsrichter Dr., Heimhuderstrasse 32, Hamburg,
Germany.
Lomax, Arthur, Heilbron, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Lombardi, C, 2231 Le Conte Avenue, Berkeley, CaL, U.S.A., and
c/o The Dallas News, Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
Long, Miss Constance, M.D., 2 Harley Place, London, W.
Long, T. K., 4823 Kimbark Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Low, Miss Ursula, 22 Roland Gardens, London, S.W.
Lowrey, Grosvenor, M.D., 34 Albert Road, Regent's Park, Lon-
don, N.W.
Lubbock, Mrs. Geoffrey, Greenhill, Sutton-Veny, Wiltshire.
Lyall, Sir Charles James, 82 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W.
*Lyall, Edward, Barton, R.S.O., Darlington.
Lyell, D., 74 Campden Hill Court, Kensington, London, W.
*Lyon, Miss C. C, Ashcroft, Prestwood, Great Missenden.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Alfred, 16 Great College Street, Westminster,
London, S.W.
Macdonald, Prof. Duncan Black, Hartford Theological Seminary,
Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Macdonald, Lieut. -Colonel F., Neemuch, Central India.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B., 47 Seymour Street, Portman
Square, London, W.
Macdonald, Mrs., Dun Erin, Chalfont St. Peter, Bucks.
MacGregor, Arthur C, 8 Longford Terrace, Monkstown, Co.
Dublin.
Mackay, N. Douglas, M.D., Dall-Avon, Aberfeldy, Perth.
Mackenzie, H. Gordon, M.D., 74 Wimpole Street, London, W.
532 Members and Associates. [part
Mackenzie, Lady Muir, 22 Draycott Place, Cadogan Gardens,
London, S.W.
Mackintosh, R. D., M.B., The Bungalow, Mortlake, Surrey.
Macklin, Miss Helen E., 141 Inverness Terrace, London, W.
Macnauglitan, Miss, 1 Norfolk Street, Park Lane, London, W.
MacVeagh, Lincoln, 11 Prescott Hall, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Madocks, Major H. J., 94 Piccadilly, London, W.
Mahler, Mrs. John, Bronygarth, Oswestry, Salop.
Mainwaring, Mrs., 11 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W.
Maitland, A. Heriot, Calle Andes 22, Buenos Aires.
Mallet, Sir Louis, K.C.M.G., C.B.
*Malone, Squadron-Commander C. L'Estrange, R.N., 30 Eccleston
Street, London, S.W.
Mander, Charles A., The Mount, Wolverhampton, Staffs.
*Mander, Geoffrey Le Mesurier, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
Mangin, Marcel, 102 Rue Erlanger, Paris.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, Temple Ewell Vicarage, Dover.
Mansell, Andrew Evans, Hammerstene, Bagdad, Tasmania.
*Mansfield, Mrs. Richard, The Grange, New London, Conn., U.S.A.
Mantell, Colonel A. M., Arolla, Warren Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Marks, Mrs. Claude.
Marsh, Edward H., 3 Gray's Inn Place, London, W.C.
Marshall, William Cecil, Tweenways, Hindhead, Haslemere,
Surrey.
Marston, Charles, J. P., Afcot, Compton, nr. Wolverhampton.
*Marston, Commander G. M., R.N., Park Lodge, Albert Gate,
Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Marten, Miss A. R., 78 Vanbrugh Park, Blackheath, London,
S.E.
Marten, Rev. G. H., St. Mark's, Purley, Surrey.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury.
Martin, Thomas Beecham, Wanstead College, South Woodford,
London, N.E.
Martineau, Alfred Edward, Gnrdaspur, Punjab, India.
Matsumura, Rev. Kaisiki, Omori, Tokio, Japan.
'-Mason, Frank, 7 Stanley Crescent, London, W.
Mason, Miss M. H., 5 Vincent Square Mansions, Westminster,
London, S.W.
Massey, Hon. Mary, 80 Royal Hospital Road, Chelsea, London,
S.W.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 533
*Mather, Rev. Herbert, 13 Grosvenor Road, East Grinstead, Sussex.
*Matthews, Mrs., 15 Stanley Gardens, Notting Hill Gate, London,
W.
Mattiesen, Emil, Ph.D., Witzleben Str. 3, Charlottenburg, Berlin,
Germany.
Mavrogordato, John N., 52 Queen's Gate Gardens, London, S.W.
Maxim, Sir Hiram S., Sandhurst Lodge, 382 High Road,
Streatham, London, S.W.
Maxwell, Dr. Joseph, 6 Rue Villaret-de-Joyeuse, Paris.
^Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart., 21 Portland Place, London, W.
Mayor, R. G., 11 Campden Hill Square, Kensington, London, W.
M' Alpine, Robert, The Croft, Totteridge, Herts.
M'Clellan, Mrs. Clara D., Briarcliff Manor, New York City, U.S. A.
M'Clure, Henry, M.D., 30 Portland Court, Portland Place,
London, W.
M'Connel, H. W., M.B., M.R.C.S., Matlaske Hall, Norwich;
and 11 Eton Avenue, Hampstead, London, N.W.
M'Connel, Mrs., Matlaske Hall, Norwich; and 11 Eton Avenue,
Hampstead, London, N.W.
M'Dougall, William, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B., Woodsend, Foxcombe
Hill, nr. Oxford.
M'Kay, Mrs. Alex., Mangonui N., Auckland, New Zealand.
M'Keever, Buell, 3900 Lake Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
M'Lauchlan, G. M., c/o B. A. Hignett, St. Brannocks, Mount
Grove, Birkenhead.
Mead, G. R. S., 16 Selwood Place, Onslow Gardens, London, S.W.
Meek, Maximilian de, 5 Rue Leo Delibes, Paris.
Meebold, Alfred, Heidenheim, Wurtemberg, Germany.
Megson, Albert, Fern Villa, Headlands, Ossett, Yorks.
Mehrji, Munchershaw Hormusji, M.D., 3 Batlivala Villa, Sleater
Road, Bombay, India.
Meissner, Mrs. de, 1524 31st Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Mellone, Rev. Sydney Herbert, D.Sc, Dunedin, Victoria Park,
Manchester.
Menendez-Mena, Rodolfo, LL.D., D.Sc, Apartado 24, Merida,
Yucatan, Mexico.
Merwin, Miss Mary F., 668 Hancock Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
Metcalfe, Mrs. G. R., The Aberdeen, St. Paul, Minnesota, U.S.A.
Meyer, Rev. F. B., Regent's Park Chapel, Park Square East,
London, N.W.
534 Members and Associates. [part
*Micklethwait, Richard K.
*Mildmay, The Hon. Mrs. St. John, 121 Mount Street, London, W.
*Miles, Miss, 59 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W.
*Millard, Mrs. Almira B., 2505 Farnam Str., Omaha, Neb., U.S.A.
Millard, Charles Killick, M.D., D.Sc., Gilroes, Leicester.
"""Miller, Prof. Dickinson S.
*Miller, Miss Elizabeth L., Greenriver, Bonchester Bridge, Hawick,
N.B.
*Milward, Graham, 77 Colmore Row, Birmingham.
*Mirlees, W. J., 11 Cranmer Road, Cambridge.
Mitchell, Sidney J., c/o D. Mitchell & Co., Box 77, G.P.O., New-
castle, N.S.W., Australia.
*Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, nr. Tonbridge.
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes, Co.
Limerick.
Montgomery, Mrs. W. H., Byways, Exmouth, Devon.
Moore, Major H. G. A., East Yorkshire Regiment, Victoria
Barracks, Beverley, Yorks.
*Moore, Admiral W. Usborne, 8 Western Parade, Southsea.
Morison, Mrs. Miller, 4 Randolph Cliff, Edinburgh; and Morison
House, Hetland, Ruthwell, N.B.
Morley, Edwin W., Andover, Ashtobula County, Ohio, U.S.A.
Morrill, Dr. Frank G., Havana, 111., U.S.A.
Morris, Mrs., Horsley Hall, Eccleshall, Staffs.
Morton, Mrs. F. N., 73 West La Crosse Avenue, Lansdowne, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Moses, E. J., c/o Messrs. E. D. Sassoon & Co., 2 Rampart Row,
Bombay.
Moss-Blundell, F. B., 28 George Street, Richmond, Surrey.
Mosscockle, Mrs., 26 Hertford Street, Mayfair, London, W.
Moulton, Mrs., 7 rue de Chaillot, Paris.
Moultrie, Miss A. J. C, 6 Oakhill Road, Putney, London, S.W.
Miiller, Fraulein A., 78 Vanbrugh Park, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Munro, Hector, M.B., 27 Lower Seymour Street, London, W.
Murgoci, Prof. George, Str. Transylvania 13, Bucharest, Roumania.
*Murray, Donald, 12 Wharf Road, City Road, London, N.
*Murray, Professor Gilbert, LL.D., Litt.D., 82 Woodstock Road,
Oxford.
Murray, Miss Jessie, M.B., 14 Endsleigh Street, Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.
Murton, Miss Josephine, The Firs, Charing, Kent.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 535
Musson, Miss A. J., Fair View West, Rainhill, Lanes.
Myers, Professor Charles S., M.D., Galewood Tower, Great Shel-
ford, Cambs.
*Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
*Myers, L. H., 34 Kensington Square, London, W.
Myers, W. Wykeham, M.B., H.B.M.'s Consular Agency, Pagoda
Anchorage, China.
*Neale, Edward, c/o Mr. Herbert Bishop, 29 Ludgate Hill, London,
E.C.
Neild, Miss Maria, 27 Brompton Square, London, S.W.
Neustadter, Louis W., 461 Mission Street, San Francisco, Cal.,
U.S.A.
*Newcastle, The Duke of, Clumber, Worksop, Notts.
*Newmann, Oscar P., 84 Newman Street, London, W.
Newton, Miss I., 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Newton, Heber, Oamaru, New Zealand.
*Nicoll, Mrs. DeLancey, 23 East 39th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Nicolls, Brig. -General E. G., United Service Club, Pall Mall,
London, S.W.
Nicolson, Right Hon. Sir Arthur, Bart., G.C.B., etc., Foreign
Office, Downing Street, London, S.W.
*Nisbet, E. T., 13 Beverley Terrace, Cullercoats, Northumberland.
*Niven, Mrs. Graham, The Golden Farm, Cirencester, Gloucester-
shire.
Noel, Miss Frances, 40 Beaufort Mansions, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Noel, J. B. L., West Hill House, Portishead.
Noel-Cox, H. L., M.D., F.R.A.S., 11 Clifton Hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Norman, Hubert, M.B., Camberwell House, Peckham Road,
London, S.E.
*Norris, Professor Richard, M.D., F.R.S.E., The Laboratory,
Yardley Fields, Yardley, Birmingham.
Northcote, Rev. H., 17 Rue Simoneau, Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.
Nott, William F., Sunnyside, Wales Avenue, Carshalton, Surrey.
Nutter, Miss H. G., 6 Acacia Road, Norbury, London, S.W.
Oates, R. Crosbie, The Chalet, Park West, Heswall, Cheshire.
Odell, S. W., 202 Boston Building, Pasadena, Cal., U.S.A.
Ogilvie, Mrs. Robert, c/o R. G. Ross, 10 Hill Street, Edinburgh.
Ogle, Captain N., 67th Punjabis, Quetta, Baluchistan, India.
Oldham, G. F., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Rostrevor, Langton Green,
Tunbridge Wells.
536 Members and Associates. [part
*01ivier, Sir Sydney, K.C.M.G., Board of Agriculture and
Fisheries, 4 Whitehall Place, London, S.W.
Oman, Professor Charles W. C, Frewin Hall, Oxford.
Onslow, Lady, Chevin Bank, Duffield, Derbyshire.
*Onslow, Hon. H., Clandon Park, Guildford.
Osborne, Miss H., 2 Northcote Mansions, Heath Street, Hamp-
stead, London, N.W.
Overton, Mrs. Winfield S., 4 Upper Bedford Place, London, W.C.
*Owen, A. S., Keble College, Oxford.
Pack Beresford, Denis R., Fenagh House, Bagenalstown, Co.
Carlow.
Pagan, Miss C, Marston Lodge, Harrow.
Paget, Sir Arthur, 9 King's Bench Walk, Temple, London, E.C.
Paley, Mrs., Ampton Hall, Bury St. Edmunds.
*Parkin, John, Blaithwaite, Carlisle.
Parkin, Mrs., Broomhill House, Watson Road, Sheffield.
Parsons, N. M., 22 Barkston Gardens, London, S.W.
Patel, F. J., L.R.C.P., 3 Church Gate Street, Bombay.
Paterson, Miss Mary N., 3 Devonshire Terrace, Ventnor, Isle of
Wight.
Paul, J. Rodman, 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Payne, Ernest, 10 Wellington Court, Knightsbridge, London,
S.W.
Pease, Mrs. J. R., Hesslewood, Hessle, Yorks.
'Peck, Miss Charlotte L., Maidencombe House, St. Mary Church,
S. Devon.
Peckham, Orville, 953 N. Pennsylvania Street, Indianapolis,
Indiana, U.S.A.
Pennington, Mrs. Henry, Chalet Belleone, Gstaad, Bernese Ober-
land, Switzerland.
Penny, W. R., Railway Stores Department, Uitenhage, nr. Port
Elizabeth, S. Africa.
Percival, Mrs., 1 Chesham Street, Belgrave Square, London, S.W.
Perdicaris, Ion, The Manor House, Chislehurst, Kent.
Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, Teneriffe, Canary Isles.
Perkins, Miss S. R., c/o Dr. Perkins, 57 Harley Street, London, W.
Permain, W. J., 146 East Dulwich Grove, London, S.E.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, The Count, 55 Serguievskaia, Petro-
grad.
Perowne, Miss Edith, 12 Albert Road, Regent's Park, London,
N.W.
lxx.] Members and Associates. 537
Perry, Sir E. Cooper, M.D., Superintendent's House, Guy's
Hospital, London, S.E.
Perry, Horace H., Court Royal, 144 King s Cliff, Brighton.
Perry, T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Pessers, Henry J. G., 265 Folkestone Road, Dover.
*Pkillimore, Mrs., Battler's Green, Letchmore Heath, Watford,
Herts.
Pickering, J. W., D.Sc, Sundridge, Russell Hill, Purley, Surrey.
*Piddington, J. G., Holy Well, Hook Heath, Woking, Surrey.
*Piercy, Major B. H., 94 Piccadilly, London, W.
Pigou, Professor Arthur Cecil, King's College, Cambridge.
*Pilcher, Giles T., Treen, Frith Hill, Godalming, Surrey.
Pinchot, Gifford, 1615 R.I. Avenue, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Piper, Jobn E., LL.B., 10 Herondale Avenue, Wandsworth
Common, London, S.W.
Pithapuram, The Rajah of, Pithapuram, Godavari Dist., Madras
Presidency, India.
*Pitt, St. George Lane Fox, Travellers' Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W.
Pitt, Mrs. Fox, Robin Hood Farm, Kingston Vale, Putney,
London, S.W.
Plowden, Mrs., Strachur Park, Loch Fyne Side, Argyllshire.
Plumer-Willson, Mrs. W., 20 Laurence Road, Hove, Brighton.
Pogson Smith, Mrs. E., Bourkes, Blackball Rd., Oxford.
Pond, George F., 816 Commonwealth Building, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs. C. B., 14 West Halkin Street, London, S.W.
Pontifex, Dudley, 73 Alleyn Park, West Dulwich, London, S.E.
Pooley, H. F., Scotter, Well Walk, Hampstead, London, N.W.
*Pope, Miss Theodate, Hillstead, Farmington, Conn., U.S.A.
Popoff, General James, Sosnitza, Gov. Tchernigov, Russia.
Porter, Miss Agatha, M.D., 18 Kensington Park Road, Notting
Hill, London, W.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch,
Hants.
Post, Mrs. Wm., St. Lucie, Fla. ; and Buckhannon, W. Va., U.S.A.
*Potter, John Wilson, 219 Ashley Gardens, London, S.W.
Pou, Hon. E. W., House of Representatives, Washington, D.C.,
U.S.A.
Powell, C. Berkeley, J. P., 283 Metcalfe Street, Ottawa, Canada.
538 Members and Associates. [part
Powles, Lewis Charles, The Highlands, Rye, Sussex.
Prausnitz, Dr. Paul H., Buchschlag, bei Frankfurt-a-M., Germauy.
*Proctor, G. Norman, 83rd Wallajahbad Light Infantry, Secundera-
bad, Deccan, India.
*Pulver, S. H., Dunedin House, Basinghall Avenue, London, E.G.
Pumphrey, Mrs., Hindley Hall, Stocksfield-on-Tyne.
Putnam, Miss Irene, 328 Walnut Avenue, San Diego, Cal., U.S.A.
Pye, W. A., Priest Hill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
"Tyke, Mrs. Aubone, The Hermitage, Netley Abbey, Hants.
Pym, Mrs. Guy, 35 Cranley Gardens, South Kensington, London,
S.W.
Quackenbos, John D., M.D., 331 West 28th Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
*Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Woodstock, Ulster Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
Raggett, Mrs., 70 Maida Vale, London, W.
Raikes, E. B., Drayton Old Lodge, Norwich.
Raikes, Mrs., Beomonds, Chertsey, Surrey.
*Raines, Lady, 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Raj, Des, Kasur, Dist. Lahore, Punjab, India.
*Rampling-Rose, W., 10 Dee Hills Park, Chester.
Ramsden, Miss, 16 Incognito Gade, Christiania.
*Randell, Rev. J. Mickley, The Church House, 26 Crowndale Road,
London, N.W.
Ransom, Francis, Chilterns, Hitchin, Herts.
Raper, R. W., Trinity College, Oxford.
*Rashdall, Rev. Hastings, New College, Oxford.
*Rashleigh, John C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okehampton.
Reade, Herbert V., C.B., 32 Palace Gardens Terrace, Kensington,
London, W.
*Reckett, Miss Juliet E., 20 Dulwich Wood Park, Upper Norwood,
London, S.E.
Redgrove, H. Stanley, 191 Camden Road, London, N.W.
Regina Madre, S. M. La, Palazzo Margherita, Rome.
*Reinhardt, C. E., M.D., 29 Onslow Square, London, S.W.
Remacle, Georges, c/o Mrs. Laurie, 22a Buccleuch Place, Edinburgh.
Rendall, Rev. Dr. G. H., Dedham House, Dedham, Essex.
Richardson, Frederick W., County Analyst's Office, Hustlergate,
Bradford.
*Ridley, Henry N., F.R.S., C.M.G., 7 Cumberland Road, Kew,
Surrey.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 539
*Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham Gardens, London, N.W.
Ridley, The Viscountess, 10 Carlton House Terrace, London,
s.w.
Ritchie, A. J., 20 Kensington Mansions, Earl's Court, London,
S.W.
Ritchie, Thomas, J. P., Conservative Club, St. James's Street,
London, S.W.
Ritter, Miss, 7 Park Place, St. James's, London, S.W.
Riviere, Mrs. Evelyn, 10 Nottingham Terrace, York Gate, London,
N.W.
Rix, Rev. A. H., St. Mary's Vicarage, Keighley.
*Robbins, Miss A. M., 79 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Robbins, Rufus M., Titusville, Brevard County, Florida, U.S.A.
Roberts, Mrs. Hugh, Fernwood, St. Lawrence, Jersey.
*Roberts, Lady, Bryngwenallt, Abergele, N. Wales.
Roberts, W. M., Bar Harbor, Maine, U.S.A.
Robertson, Mrs. J. G., 90 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W.
Robinson, George R., 31 James Street, Liverpool.
Robinson, Nelson L., 120 East 61st Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Rogers, Edmund J. A., M.D., CM., 222 West Colfax Avenue,
Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
"-Rogers, George F., M.D., 19 Raymond Street, Chester.
Rogers, T. Percival, Henleaze Park, Westbury-on-Trym,
Gloucestershire.
Rolleston, Mrs., 31 Moscow Court, Bayswater, London, W.
Rolleston, T. W., Ifield, 16 Prince Arthur Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W.
"-Romanes, N. H., The Cavendish Club, 119 Piccadilly, London, W.
Rosenberger, James, Sellersville, Bucks Co., Pa., U.S.A.
Ross, Samuel, 67 Willis Street, New Bedford, Mass., U.S.A.
*Rothschild, Mrs. Leopold de, 5 Hamilton Place, London, W.
Ryves, Miss Evangeline, Damory Cottage, Walton-on-the-Hill,
Surrey.
St. Hill, Mrs., Thimble, Littlewick Green, Berks.
*Salm and Dyck, H.S.H. Christine, Princess.
Samaldas, Hon. Lalubhai, 99 Apollo Street, Fort, Bombay, India.
Sampson, Colonel Dudley, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Hayward's Heath.
Sanderson, W. R., Via Nomentana 58, Rome.
Saunders, Miss E. R., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Saunders, W. E., Riovista, Torresdale, Pa., U.S.A.
540 Members and Associates. [part
*Savage, Rev. M. J., D.D., 1867 Crawford Road, Cleveland, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Savill, Mrs., M.D., 66 Harley Street, London, W.
*Scaramanga-Ralli, Mrs., 2 Lygon Place, Grosvenor Gardens,
London, S.W.
*Scatcherd, Miss F. R., Ringmore House, Quarry Road, Hastings.
Schaaf, Albert E., 55 North Clinton Street, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
*Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Schilling, Baroness, Lowenwolde, Stat Rakke, Estland, Russia.
Schofield, Mrs., 1 Phillimore Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Schuster, Miss, Cottenham House, Wimbledon, London, S.W.
Scott, Rev. D. D., The Manse, Onehunga, Auckland, New Zealand.
Scott, F. Gilbert, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Rocquaine, New Maiden,
Surrey.
*Scott, Captain G. B., N.W. Militia, Miranshah, N.W. Frontier
Province, India.
*Scott, Sydney C, 92 Westbourne Terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Scott, W. Sibbald, M.B., The Lymes, Ellesmere, Salop.
*Scott-Gatty, Sir Alfred S., K.C.V.O., F.S.A., Garter King of
Arms, Wendover Lodge, Welwyn, Herts.
Scowcroft, Heber, Ogden, Utah, U.S.A.
Seabra, Alberto, M.D., rua 15 de Novembre No. 9, Sao Paulo,
Brazil.
Sedgwick, Mrs. H. P., 120 E. 22nd Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Selenka, Frau Prof., Leopoldstrasse 7, Munich, Germany.
Sellers, Miss R. A., Wellesley Girls' High School, Naini Tal, India.
Senathi Raja, E. S. W., LL.B., The Grange, Trivandrum, India.
Seton-Karr, Captain H. W., 8 St. Paul's Mansions, Hammersmith,
London. W.
Seymour, Admiral of the Fleet Sir E. H., O.M., G.C.B., G.C.V.O.,
Queen Anne's Mansions, St. James's Park, London, S.W.
Shackleford, Hon. Thomas M., Tallahassee, Florida, U.S.A.
Shakespear, Mrs., 12 Brunswick Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Shand, Alexander F., 1 Edwardes Place, Kensington, London, W.
Shaw, Arnold E., Grove House, Aspley Guise, Beds.
*Shaw, Mrs. Bernard, 10 Adelphi Terrace, Strand, London, W.C.
*Shaw, Rev. Sir Charles J. Monson, Bart., The Rectory, Wrotham,
Kent.
Shaw, Mrs. W. N., 10 Moreton Gardens, London, S.W.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 541
Sheets, J. C, 7 Glenwood Apartments, College Hill Station,
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Shewan, R. G., c/o Shewan, Tomes & Co., Hong Kong, China.
*Shove, Miss E., M.B., 30 York Street Chambers, Bryanston
Square, London, W.
Sbuttleworth, Miss C. J., 10 Cottesmore Gardens, Kensington,
London, W.
*Sidgwick, Arthur, LL.D., 64 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 25 Collingham Road, London, S.W.
*Sidgwick, Mrs. H., 27 Grange Road, Cambridge.
Sidgwick, Miss Rose, 64 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Siegel, Mrs. Henry,, Hotel Saint Regis, 5th Avenue, New York,
U.S.A.
Silver, Mrs., 24 Victoria Square, London, S.W.
Simmonds, Miss C. E., 33 Clarence Gate Gardens, Baker Street,
London, N.W.
Simons, L., 230 Overtoom, Amsterdam.
Simpson, Commander H. V., R.N., United Service Club, Pall
Mall, London, S.W.
Simpson, Miss Price, Beech Barns, Alton, Hants.
Sinclair, Miss May, 1 Blenheim Road, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W.
Singh, Amar, Hoshiarpur, Punjab, India.
Skipwith, Mrs., 13 Montagu Square, London, W.
Sloggett, Director-General Sir A. T., C.M.G., K.C.B., 6s Bicken-
hall Mansions, London, W.
Smith, Adolphe, 12 Crookham Road, Fulham, London, S.W.
Smith, Miss Beatrice E., Lea, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
"Smith, Rev. Ernest F.
Smith, Ernest T., 178 Park Road, Crouch End, London, N.
Smith, G. Albert, Sunville, Cromwell Road, Hove, Brighton.
Smith, G. Main, Southville Lawn, Brunswick Square, Gloucester.
*Smith, Henry Arthur, 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London,
W.
Smith, Sir H. Babington, C.B., 121 St. James's Court, Bucking-
ham Gate, London, S.W.
Smith, J. Hoyle, Spring Bank, Eccles, Lancashire.
Smith, R. F. Ruthven, 81 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
Smith, Rev. Sidney M., Hebden Bridge Vicarage, Yorkshire.
*Smith, Mrs. W. Easton, 132 Grove Street, Waterbury, Conn.,
U.S.A.
542 Members and Associates. [part
Smith, William Hawley, 2039 Knoxville Avenue, Peoria, 111.,
U.S.A.
Smith, William P., Crestline, Ohio, U.S.A.
-Smithson, Mrs., 42 Tilehouse Street, Hitchin, Herts.
Songhurst, Bernard, Departamento Almacenes, Ferro Carril Anto-
fagasta a Bolivia, Antofagasta, Chili.
Sparrow, G. W. S., Albrighton Hall, near Shrewsbury.
*Speer, Charlton T., Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
Spens, William, King's College, Cambridge.
Stanton, Rev. Horace C, Ph.D., D.D., 148 North 18th Street,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Stapleton, Mrs., 11 Sloane Terrace Mansions, London, S.W.
*Stapley, Sir Richard, 33 Bloomsbury Square, London, W.C.
Stawell, Miss F. M., 33 Ladbroke Square, Notting Hill Gate,
London, W.
Steedman, J. G. W., M.D., 5394 Waterman Avenue, St. Louis,
Mo., U.S.A.
'-Steel, Mrs., Court o' Hill, Tenbury, Worcestershire.
Stephen, Mrs. Adrian, 3f Morpeth Terrace, Victoria Street,
London, S.W.
Stephens, Mrs., 41 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W.
Stevenson, Mrs., Wingrove, Moorend Park Road, Cheltenham.
Stewart, Mrs. C. A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stewart, Miss M. A., Artillery Mansions, 75 Victoria Street,
London, S.W.
Stoehr, Miss, 109 Iverna Court, Kensington High Street, London,
W.
Stout, Professor George F., Craigard, St. Andrews, N.B.
Strachan, W. M., Strood Park, Horsham, Sussex.
Strachey, Charles, Colonial Office, Downing Street, London, S.W.
*Strachey, John St. Loe, Spectator Office, 1 Wellington Street,
Strand, London, W.C.
Stratton, F. J. M., Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
Strauss, E. A., M.P., 49 Grosvenor Square, London, W.
Strode, Miss E. L. C, 7 Stafford Terrace, Kensington, London, W.
Strong, Rev. Charles, D.D., 67 Avoca Street, S.Y., Melbourne,
Australia.
*Strutt, Hon. Richard, Rayleigh House, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Stuart, Mrs.
-Sturdy, Edward T., Norburton, Burton Bradstock, Bridport,
Dorset.
lxx.] Members and Associates. 543
Sturge, Miss M. Carta, Cranbourne Grange, Wonston, Micheldever,
Hants.
Swainson, Miss F. J., Stonecross, Kendal.
Swainson, Miss M., 7e Oxford & Cambridge Mansions, London, W.
*Swayne, Mrs. Noah Haynes, Junr., 153 Mill Creek Rd., Ardmore,
Pa., U.S.A.
Sweetland, Mrs. Gifford.
Szentirmay de Darvasto, 13. M. J. de.
Tait, Mrs., 10 Ellerdale Road, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., Lismullen, Arthur Road, Wimbledon Park,
Surrey.
Taplin, A. Betts, L.R.C.P., Norwood, Ivanhoe Road, Sefton Park,
Liverpool.
Taylor, Mrs. C. C, Wood Cottage, Cronk's Hill, Reigate, Surrey.
*Taylor, Mrs. Charles H., 31 Blenheim Park Road, South Croydon,
Surrey.
Taylor, Miss E. Waring, 7e Oxford and Cambridge Mansions,
London, W.
*Taylor, H. Dennis, Stancliffe, Mount Villas, York.
Tebb, Mrs., Rede Hall, nr. Burstow, by Horley, Surrey.
Temple, Reginald W.
Tennent, Mrs., 16 Park Avenue, Willesden Green, London, N.W.
*Thaw, A. Blair, Hotel Leonon, 701 Madison Avenue, New York,
N.Y., U.S.A.
*Thomas, Rev. C. D., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
Thomas, Miss Edith J., Mynydd Ednyfed, Criccieth, N. Wales.
Thomas, Ernest Seymour, Turf Club, Cairo, Egypt.
*Thomas, J. W., Overdale, Shortlands, Kent.
"-Thomas, Seymour P., 41 Gower Avenue, Germantown, Pa., U.S.A.
Thompson, Edwin, 25 Sefton Drive, Liverpool.
Thompson, Matthew William, Salters Hall, Sudbury, Suffolk.
Thompson, Mrs. Rosalie, 90 Newman Street, London, W.
Thompson, W. R., Zoological Laboratory, Cambridge.
^Thomson, Edward J., Western Club, Glasgow.
Thorburn, Rev. T. J., D.D., LL.D., The Bungalow, St. Helen's
Down, Hastings.
Thornhill, Miss H., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W.
Thornley, Rev. Alfred, Hughenden, Coppice Road, Nottingham.
Thorp, Richard, Colenso Hill, Napier, New Zealand.
Thurn and Taxis, H.I.H. The Princess Alexander of, Lautschin,
Nimburg, Bohemia, Austria.
544 Members and Associates. [part
Trafford, Mrs. Galfrid de, Queensberry House, Richmond.
*Trotter, Mrs., Standerwick Court, Frome, Somerset.
Truell, Robert Holt Stuart, West Mount, Dover College, Dover.
*Tuckey, C Lloyd, M.D., 45 Upper Brook Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, W.
Tudor, Owen S., Friday's Hill, Haslemere, Surrey.
*Tugwell, Mrs. Arthur, Bracken Hill, Tower Road, Branksome
Park, Bournemouth.
Tyler, Professor C. M., 1601 Washington Avenue, Scranton, Pa.,
U.S.A.
*Tyrone, The O'Neill de, 59 rua das Flores, Lisbon, Portugal.
Tyrrell, G. N., The Lodge, Alderminster, Stratford-on-Avon.
Tyrwhitt, Rev. H. M., 19 The Glebe, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Ulman, Mrs. Jacob A., Brooklandville, Baltimore County, Md.,
U.S.A.
Urquiola, Manuel de, Calle de Alfredo Calderon 8, Valencia, Spain.
Van Deren, H. S., Nashville, Tenn., U.S.A.
Van Hamel, Professor J. A., 612 Keizersgracht, Amsterdam.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 1 Van Breestraat, Amsterdam.
*Verney-Cave, Hon. Mrs., Stanford-on-Avon, Rugby.
*Verrall, Mrs. A. W., 5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss H. de G., 5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss M. E., The Lydd, West Hoathly, Sussex.
Vyvyan, Mrs. T. C, Poldhu, Richmond, Natal, South Africa.
Wade, Miss Florence, 52 Alexandra House, Judd Street, London,
W.C.
Walker, Rev. David, The Vicarage, Darlington, Durham.
Walker, Miss Madeline J., 107 Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
Walker, Miss May C, Halcyon Club, 14 Cork Street, London, W.
*Walker, Captain P. L. E., 7th Hussars, Bangalore, South India.
*Walker-Munro, L., R.N., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
Walker-Munro, Mrs., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
*Wallace, Abraham, M.D., 39 Harley Street, London, W.
Walsh, A. Digby, Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, Lon-
don, S.W.
"
Walsh, Correa M., Belleport, Long Island, N.Y., U.S.A.
Wanderley, F. M., Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil.
Ward, David S., Sedan House, Harrogate, Yorkshire.
Ward, Hon. Kathleen, Beechwood, Killiney, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Warndorfer, A., Gunselsdorf, Port Schonau a.d. Triesting, Lower
Austria.
LXX.] Members and Associates. 545
Warner, Miss E., 42 Albany Villas, Hove, Sussex.
Warren, Mrs. Fiske, 8 Mount Vernon Place, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 50 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W.
Wastell, Mrs., The Rowans, Crowborough, Sussex.
Waterhouse, Miss, Glenalna House, Killiney, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Watson, H. B. Marriott, Shere, Guildford, Surrey.
Watson, Mrs. Milne, 39 Eccleston Square, London, S.W.
Waymouth, Miss Esther, 3 Church Road, Parkhill Road, Hamp-
stead, London, N.W.
Webber, Mrs. Felix, The Croft, Shillingstone, Dorset.
*Weinberg, Harry J., North Road, The Park, Nottingham.
Weingaertner, F. C, 187 Grove Street, Liverpool.
Wemyss, Countess of, 23 St. James's Place, London, S.W.
Western, F. J., Cambridge Mission, Delhi, India.
*Westlake, Ernest, Fordingbridge, Salisbury.
"'Westmorland, Brig. -General C. H. , C.B. , c/o H. S. King & Co.,
9 Pall Mall, London, S.W.
Westropp, A. S. A., East India United Service Club, 16 St.
James's Square, London, S.W.
Wheeler, C. Bickersteth, 80 Hamilton Terrace, London, N.W.
*Whetham, W. C. D., F.R.S., Upwater Lodge, Cambridge.
Whishaw, R. W., North West House, Duntrune Terrace, Broughty
Ferry, N.B.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
*Whitehead, Miss Mercia D., St. Mary's, Trumpington, Cambridge.
Whiting, J. Markby, Ashford House, Wimbledon Common,
London, S.W.
Whitmore, Mrs., 28 Milner St., Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
Whiton, Rev. J. M., Ph.D., 65 West 127th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
*Whittemore, Mrs. Julia S., Naugatuck, Conn., U.S.A.
*Whittingham, F. S., Rodborough Rectory, nr. Stroud, Gloucester-
shire.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone, Kent.
Wight, Edward, M.R.C.S., 9 Regency Square, Brighton.
Wilding, Mrs., Penbryn, Montgomery, Wales.
Wilkins, Mrs., 19 Ormond Road, Rathmines, nr. Dublin.
*Wilkins, C. F., Allahabad, U.P., India.
^Wilkinson, Miss Milisent, c/o The Royal Bank of Queensland, Ltd.,
31 Budge Row, London, E.G.
546 Members and Associates, [pakt
Wilkinson, Sidney, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 4 Hamilton Square,
Birkenhead.
Willett, Mrs., Fir Tree End, Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Williams, A. C. Redshawe, 4 Church Road, West Drayton, Yiew-
sley, Middlesex.
Williams, Mrs. Glynne, 7 Berkeley House, Hay Hill, London, W.
Williams, Harry L., 541 Wood Street, Pittsburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Williams, J. E., 200 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Williams, Mrs. S. R., 12 Lome Rd., Oxton, Cheshire.
Williamson, Mrs., The Copse, Brook, Godalming, Surrey.
Willis, Grant B., 1103 West Aultoman Avenue, Canton, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Wilson, Rev. Alexander, The Manse, Ythanwells, Insch, Aberdeen-
shire.
Wilson, Mrs. Arthur, The Nook, Peppard Common, Henley-on-
Thames.
Wilson, Charles J., Derlamogue, Ailesbury Park, Dublin.
Wilson, Mrs. C. Stuart, c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16 Charing Cross,
London, S.W.
Wilson, Miss E. M., c/o H. E. Wilson, Gainesville, Texas, U.S.A.
Wilson, Mrs. George, 12 Osborne Drive, Bangor, Co. Down, Ireland.
Wilson, Mrs. F. E., c/o Hon. W. Warren- Vernon, 105 Cadogan
Gardens, London, S.W.
Wilson, Mrs. H. J., 12 Cheyne Court, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Wilson, Miss M. A., c/o H. A. Higgins, Ythan, Woodland Grove,
Weybridge, Surrey.
Wingate, D. C.
Wingham, T. A., 174 Aberdeen Avenue, Hamilton, Ontario,
Canada.
Wise, Miss A. Stewart, 16 West Kensington Gardens, London, W.
Witherby, Arthur George, Newtown Grange, Newbury, Berks.
*Wolf, Francisco Eugene de, P.O. Box 269, Bristol, Rhode Island,
U.S.A.
*Wood, R. H., c/o Messrs. Smith, Wood & Co., 3 and 4 Lime Street
Square, London, E.C.
Woodhull, Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire.
Woods, Miss Alice, St. Ives, Radlett, Herts.
Woods, Mrs., The Master's House, Temple, London, E.C.
Woollett, Lieut. -Colonel W. Charles, F.S.A., 4 The Ridges, Farn-
boro', Hants.
lxx.] Members and Associates. 547
Woolley, V. J., M.D., 15 Lower Camden, Chislehurst, Kent.
*Worsfold, Mrs. Basil, Romden Place, Smarden, Kent.
Wrangliam, W. H., 78 Barmouth Road, Wandsworth, London,
S.W.
Wriford, Mrs., 21 Bullingham Mansions, Kensington, London, W.
*Wright, Maurice B., M.D., 17 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Wyllys, Miss R., 18 Louisburg Square, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Wyndham, Mrs., 200 West 58th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Wyndham-Quin, The Lady Emily, 12 William Street, Lowndes
Square, London, S.W.
Yaroschenko, Madame, La Cava, Bordighera, Italy.
Yeats, W. B., 18 Woburn Buildings, Tavistock Square, London,
W.C.
Yih, Z. L.
Younghusband, Sir Francis, 3 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W.
Yssel de Schepper, Mr. Justice, Eendrachtstraat 27b, Rotterdam.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX to VOL. XXVII
(PARTS LXVIII-LXX)
1915.
A.
Abnormal Psychology, Problems in - 492-506
A hi I 'lujltr. Si 1 ( Y( >ss-(.'( >rrcs| « )i it Irnrrs : Script tvtVrences to drowning.
Aeneid. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references.
Aeschylus, Prometheus Vinctus. See Cross-correspondences : Script
references.
Aksakoff, Alexander N., Animisme et Spiritisme, quoted - - 184-185
Alexander's Tomb. See Cross-correspondence.
All Men are Ghosts, by Professor L. P. Jacks, - 201-202
American Society for Psychical Research. Experiments in Thought-
transference, reference to - - 186
Amherst (Nova Scotia) Poltergeist, reference to - - - - 178
Anagrams in the Scripts - - - - 35-36, 40-42
Arnold, Matthew. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Associates, and Members, List of - - - - - 508
Auditory Hallucinations - 393, 396, 397, 398, 400-401, 405, 407, 408-409
Automatic Scripts. See Cross-correspondences.
" Automatisms, Concordant" A Reconstruction of some, by Miss Alice
Johnson ... . - - 1-156
Auto-Suggested Visions illustrating Dream-Formation - 390
Auto-Suggestion. See Self- Suggestion.
[parts lxviii.-lxx.] Index to Vol. XXVII. 549
ou'tos ovpavbs aKVfjLwv Incident, The - - 3, 24, 67, 77-127, 135
„ Report, Detailed - 80
„ Summary - - - - 77, 125-127
See also Cross- correspondences : Ave Roma
Immortalis and The Clavigers.
Ave Roma Immortalis. See Cross-correspondence.
B.
Balfour, The Rt. Hon. G. W.
—
,, ,, The Horace Ode Question, Some Observations,
reference to - - - - - - 81
,, ,, Survival, Some Recent Scripts affording Evidence
of 221
Bangs Sisters, The ... - - 178
Bateson, Mary, Script reference to 47
Bayfield, Rev. M. A.—
Survival, Note on some recent scripts affording evidence of - 244
Clear the Air, To - - - - 318
Reply to H. Carrmgton - 474-482
Dr. Ivor Tuckett - - 483-491
Verrall, Dr. A. W. - 244-249
" Beauchamp, The Misses," reference to - - 505-506
" Bell, Ellen." See Controls.
Beraud, Marthe, The History of - - 333
Bibliography - - ... 333
Fraud, Alleged - - - 335-336, 337-343
„ Confession - - - 339-340
„ Indications - - 358-360, 362-363, 364-365, 368
Phenomena, Nature of - - 346-347, 349, 358-359, 362
Conditions - 344-346, 347
„ Evidence for and against, summary - - 364-369
Theories, Regurgitation - - 348-354, 357, 365, 366-367, 368
„ Secretion, Physical - 367-368,369
Bergson, Professor Henri - 192, 194, 208, 488 (foot-note), 490 (foot-note)
Presidential Address (1913), Translation - - - 157
""
Bien-Boa." See Controls.
Bisson, Madame Alexandre - 333, 343, 345-346, 352, 354, 367-368, 369
Blake. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Body and Mind, by W. M'Dougall, reference - - 209
Bourbon, Dr., On Marthe Beraud 352-353, 355, 358
Bramley. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Bramwell, Dr. J. Milne, Hypnotism : its History, Practice and Theory,
references to - - - 393, 401
Browning. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
550 Index to Vol. XXVII. [parts
Browning, Mrs. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Browning-Tennyson Quotation in " Mrs. Holland's " Script - - - 9, 112
C.
" C, Eva." See Beraud, Marthe.
Carr, H. Wildon, D.Litt., Translation of Professor Bergson's Presiden-
tial Address (1913) - .... 157
Carrington, Hereward, Personal Experiences in Spiritualism, review of 176
„ „ Willett Scripts, A Discussion of the - - - 458
„ „ „ Reply by the Rev. M. A. Bayfield 474
Clavigers, The. See Cross-correspondence.
Clear the Air, To, by the Rev. M. A. Bayfield - - 318
Clough. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Coleridge, Hartley. See Cross-correspondences : Script references
Communicators
—
Hodgson, Dr. R. - - 27, 74
Myers, F. W. H. See the Trance Phenomena of Mrs.
Piper, and the automatic scripts of Mrs. " Holland,"
the "Macs," Mrs. and Miss Verrall, and Mrs.
" Willett,"
Sidgwick, Henry - - - 251, 259, 260-262, 265-268, 276
Verrall, Dr. A. W. See Survival, Some Recent Scripts
affording evidence of.
Controls
—
„ " Bell, Ellen " - - 259
" Bien Boa " - 334, 335, 336, 337, 338, 339-342
„ "Reynold" - - - ,
- 262
See also Communicators.
Coover, John E., Ph.D., Thought-Transference—Experiments - 186-190
Cross-correspondence : Alexander's Tomb 2-3, 4, 25, 50-76, 107,
150, 151-154, 156
,, ,, Summary ------ 75-76
Ave Roma Immortalis 2, 3, 11-24, 119, 127,
134, 144, 145-147, 156
See also avrbs ovpavbs aKVjxiDV and The Clavigers.
Clavigers, The 3, 22, 24, 78, 112, 114, 127-143, 156
„ Summary 142-143
See also Ave Roma Immortalis and avrbs ovpavbs
Hope, Star and Browning - 2, 25, 27, 28-49, 104
,, ,, Summary ------ 49
„ Sesame and Lilies - - 6, 250
Sevens - - ... 147-148
Swinburne's Poems - - - - 250-278
Thanatos 37 (foot-note)
LXVIIL-LXX.] Index to Vol. XXVII. 551
Cross- correspondences, General references - - - 1-156, 250-278
Nature of - - - - -1,3,4-11
,, Experiments to elicit evidence of an inde-
pendent intelligence. See arros ovpavvs
aKVfjwov, " Horace Ode " Question, and the
Latin Message Experiment.
Cross-correspondences, The Automatic Scripts
—
,, Association, Normal, of ideas - - 277-278
„ " Author," On the use of the word - - 9-10
Influence of 1, 3-4, 10-11, 62,
143-144, 145-147, 148-155
„ Automatist. See below, " Writer."
,,
Intelligence behind. See above, " Author ;
"
and Cross-correspondences : Experi-
ments.
,,
'
Interpretation, Methods of - 1, 5-9
,, Obscurities, The Sources of - 1, 10
Selection, The Principle of 3-4, 146-147,
148-149, 150-151
Telepathic influence 144-145, 146, 147-148, 278
" Writer," On the use of the word - - 9-10
,, ,, On the Part played by the 3, 9,
21-22, 26, 31, 43 (foot-note),
45, 46, 47, 48, 71, 72, 73,
77-78, 81, 84, 96, 113, 123,
124, 134-135, 143-144, 148-
149, 152-153, 221-222, 276-278
Cross-correspondences, Script References and Reminiscences
—
Aeneid - - 12, 129 (foot-note)
,, Aeschylus, Prometheus Vinctus - 128 (foot-note)
,, Arnold, The Forsaken Merman 57
Blake, Song - - 36
„ „ Songs of Innocence 72
„ Bramley, The Hopeless Dawn - - - 266
Browning, Alt Vogler 27, 32, 35, 36, 37,
38 (foot-note), 40, 41, 43,
44, 45, 269
„ Aristoplxane£ Apology - 140, 143
„ Asolando : Epilogue
78, 92, 95, 125, 126
Home Thoughts, from Abroad - 43, 46
,, Home Thoughts, from the Sea - 46
James Lee's Wife 30, 112, 127, 143
Last Ride- Together - 9, 114, 127, 143
„ Men and Women : Epilogue 252, 275
,, Pied Piper of Hamelin - 39, 41, 42
552 Index to Vol XXVII. [parts
Cross-correspondences, Script References and Reminiscences
—
Browning, Prospice - - - - 95, 126
,, Ring and the Book
34, 35, 36 (foot-note), 37
Sordello 32, 34
Worst of it - - 273, 274, 275
Browning, Mrs., Ellie and the Swan's Nest - 273
Clough, Say not the Struggle nought availeth 69
Coleridge, Hartley, Prayer 30
Dante - - - 80, 110, 111, 118, 119, 148
Dowson, E. - - - - - 260, 261
Dryden, Song for St. Cecilia's Day - - 31
Eurijjides, Hercules Furens 14 (foot-note),
128, 130, 140, 142, 143
479-480
267, 268
255
57
-
59, 122, 123
- 77, 90, 141
43, 255, 256, 267
- 14, 21
88
61
- 72, 73
- 72, 73
47
124
Fairy Ship, The
Fitzgerald, Omar Khayyam
Gray, The Bard
Herbert, George, A Wreath
Homer, Iliad
„ Odyssey
Horace, Odes
Juvenal -----
Keats, Ode to a Nightingale
Marlowe, Doctor Faust us -
Milton, VAllegro
,, II Penseroso -
Moore, T., While History's Muse
Myers, F. W. H., Essays—Classical
31, 36, 37,
,, Renewal of Youth and
Other Poems 67-68, 78,
79, 91, 99-100, 103,
106, 107, 108-109,
125, 126
„ Stanzas on Mr. Watts'
Collected Works 79,
99-100, 126
To Tennyson 87, 91, 94,
125, 126
Venice - 45, 92, 123 (foot-note)
Poe, E. A., To One in Paradise - 29
Rossetti, Blessed Damozel - 9, 45-46
„ Love's Nocturne - - - - 252
Rose Mary - - 67-68, 107
White Ship 251, 255, 257, 258,
271, 272
LXVIII.-LXX.] Index to Vol. XXVII. 553
Cross-correspondences, Script References and Reminiscences
—
,, Ruskin, Sesame and Lilies - - - 76
Scott, The Violet - 67, 106
Scriptures : Old Testament 59, 109, 260,
261, 265, 273
New Testament 61, 83, 119,
129, 252, 267, 268, 269
,, Shakespeare, Antony and Cleopatra - - 42
; , „ Julius Caesar - - 267, 269
King Lear - - 267, 268-269
,, ,, Merchant of Venice - - 28, 92
Merry Wives of Windsor 267, 268
„ ,, Midsummer Night's Dream - 56
Othello - - - - - 70, 71
Tempest - 251, 268, 269-271, 272
Shelley, O World, 0 Life, 0 Time - 253, 255
,, ,, Prometheus Unbound - - - 151
Sensitive Plant - - - 267, 268
To Night - - - 67-68
„ Sophocles, Ajax .... 252, 254
,, Suckling, Encouragements to a Lover - - 273
Swinburne, Aholibah - - 266-267, 268
Atalanta in Calydon 251, 261,
263, 264, 271, 272, 275, 277
Erechtheus - - - 99
Fe'lise - 266, 267
Forsaken Garden - - - 260
Garden of Proserpine 260, 276, 277
Hertha - - 266
Itylus 277
Match, A - - - - 261
Rococo - - - 268
Satia Te Sanguine - - - 266
Triumph of Time 252, 253, 257,
258, 261, 262, 271, 272, 274,
275, 276, 277
Tennyson, Crossing the Bar, 78, 79, 94, 98,
99, 104, 107-108, 116, 126, 127
„ In Memoriam 77, 78, 79, 87, 89,
96, 97, 99, 100, 101, 110, 112,
115, 124, 125, 126, 127, 143
Lotos Eaters - - - 93, 126
Lucretius 77, 90, 93, 124, 126, 141
Maud - - 69,75,111,126,253
Merlin and the Gleam - ^ 77, 89
Morte d' Arthur 89
554 Index to Vol. XXVII. [parts
Cross-correspondences, Script References and Reminiscences
—
Tennyson, Passing of Arthur - - 77,89,141
,, Princess - - 253
,, Progress of Spring 43
Silent Voices 94
„ Ulysses - - 87-88
,, Voyage of Maeldune -
77, 88, 92
Watts, Hope 267, 269
Wordsworth, Descriptive Sketches - 101
,, I wandered lonely as a cloi d - 118
„ Peele Castle in a Storm - 91
,, Slumber did my spirit seal 58
Song at the Feast of Brougham
Castle ... - 101
D.
Dante, Conception of Leah and Rachel - - - 135-137
in the Willett Scripts - 224, 225-230, 231, 233, 235, 236, 240, 242
See also Cross-correspondences : Script references.
- Dawn, The One-Horse," references to - 3, 144-145, 237, 238
Diamond Island Incident, Reference to 71, 153
Dissertationes of Maximus of Tyre, and the avros ov/>avbs aKV/Mov
Incident - - - 77-78, 90-91, 141
Dissociation, Normal - - ..... 493
Dorr, G. B., Sittings with Mrs. Piper, reference to - 82 (foot-note), 242
Dowson, E. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Dream-Formation, Some Auto-suggested Visions as illustrating - - 390
Dreams, Freud's theory of - - 390-391, 399, 411, 505
„ Subconscious process of ... . 504-505
Dryden. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
E.
Elijah. See the aiVbs oiyjaros aKv/xmv Incident.
Euripides. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
F.
Fairy Ship, The. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Feeling of being stared at—Experimental - - 188-189
Forgetfulness, Temporary, Prof. Freud on - 411-413
Freud, Professor S., Psychopathology of Everyday Life, Review of - 411
„ Theories - 206 (foot-note), 492, 497
„ Dreams 390-391, 399, 411, 505
Frith, Mrs., The Automatic Scripts of - - ... 148
LXVIIL-LXX.] Index to Vol. XXVII. 555
G.
Gray. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references.
" Griinbaum, Mr.," Auto-suggested Visions - - 391-399, 400-402, 403-409
Gulat-Wellenburg, Dr. von, on Marthe Beraud - - - 333. 346, 348
H.
Hallucinations—
Auditory - -393,396,397,398,400-401,405,407,408-409
Self-Suggested - - - 392-399, 400-402, 403-409
Dangers of - - 409-410
Smell - 395, 396
Tactile 393, 396, 400-401, 403-405, 407
Visual - - - 392, 393, 394-399, 402, 403-405, 408, 409
Hartmann, Philosophy of the Uncoyiscious, reference to - - 493-494
Hauntings - 293-301
Herbert, George. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Hercules. See Cross-correspondences : The Clavigers and Ave Roma
Immortalis.
Hercules Furens. See Cross-correspondences : Script references to
Euripides.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., Attempts to obtain Evidence of the Identity
of " communicators " - .... 81-82
Hodgson-Control. See Communicators.
Hoe Benham, Alleged Haunting - - 293-301
" Holland, Mrs.," The Automatic Script of 2, 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 14, 22-23,
24, 25, 26, 27, 28-30, 32-35, 37, 39, 42-49, 54,
56-59, 65, 66-68, 69-71, 72, 74, 75-76, 78-82,
87, 90, 96, 106-115, 116, 119, 123, 126-127,
132 (foot-note), 133, 135-142, 143, 147, 148-
149, 150, 151-154, 259, 276
,, Cross-correspondences. See Alexander's Tomb ;
Ave Roma Immortalis ; The Clavigers ;
Hope, Star, and Browning ; Sesame and
Lilies ; Sevens ; Tlianatos.
Homer. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Hope, Star and Browning. See Cross-correspondence.
11
Horace Ode " Question - - 80, 81, 82, 92
Horace's Odes. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Hough, de Witt, Fraudulent Medium, reference to - - 178
Hypnosis, Self 392-399, 400-402, 403-409
Hypnotic Practice, Recent Experience in - .... 370
Hypnotism, Experiments in, reference to - - - - 328-329, 331
Memory, Revival of 376-377
556 Index to Vol. XXVII. [parts
Hypnotism, Post-Hypnotic Suggestions - - 377-379, 380-381, 382-384
,, „ Calculations involved in - - - 377-379
J.
Jacks, Professor L. P., All Men are Ghosts ... - 201-202
James, Professor William 192, 196, 213, 234, 319-320
Johnson, Miss Alice
—
,, Pseudo-Physical Phenomena in the Case of Mr. Grimbaum 400
„ Reconstr uction, A, of some " Concordan t Automatisms "—
Synopsis 1
Introduction --------- 4
" Ave Roma Immortalis " ------ 11
Theory of Cross-correspondences and the Latin Message 24
Hope, Star and Browning ------ 28
Alexander's Tomb -------- 50
The outos ovpavbs d.KVjxij>v Incident 77
The Clavigers -------- 127
Some General Conclusions ... - 143
List of Illustrations ------- 156
., Reports on " Mrs. Holland's " Scripts, reference to
33, 43 (foot-note), 46 (foot-note), 71, 72, 132 (foot-note),
148-149, 151, 153
Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - - 74,116-118,122,124-125
Thought-Transference, Experiments in - 418, 423, 448-449, 451, 452
Jonson, Joseph, Fraudulent Medium, reference to - - - 176
Juvenal. See Cross- correspondences : Script references.
K.
Kafka, Dr., On Marthe Beraud - - 367
Keats. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Keeler, Pierre, Fraudulent Slate-writing, reference to - - 177
Kemnitz, Dr. Mathilde von, On " regurgitation " - - 348
L.
Latin Message Experiment, The 2, 24-27, 30, 37, 39, 80, 81, 92
(foot-note), 103, 104, 151, 152, 328
„ Summary - 26-27
Laurel Wreath. See Cross-correspondence : Alexander's Tomb.
Lavender or Lub - - 223, 236-237, 247-248, 469-470, 481-482, 486-487
Leland Stanford University, Psychical Research at - - 186 (foot-note)
Me Scripts, The .... . 221-222
Levitations. See Telekinesis.
Library. See Cross-correspondence : Alexander's Tomb.
lxviii.-lxx.] Index to Vol. XXVII. 557
Light in West. See Cross-correspondence: Alexanders Tomb.
Lily Dale Camp Experiments, reference to - - - - - - 176
Lodge, Sir Oliver
—
„ In Memory of F. W. H. Myers, reference to - 105
Scripts of " Mrs. Willett " - 221
Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - - - 73-75
Long, Constance E., M.D., Review of Professor Freud's Psychopathology
of Everyday Life - - - - - - - - - - 411
M.
"Mac" Script, The - 3, 6, 71, 72, 76, 250-251, 258, 259-272, 276-277, 278
,, Cross- correspondences. See Alexander's Tomb ; Sesame
and Lilies ; Swinburne?'s Poems.
Maitland, Professor F. W., Script Allusions to Illness and Death of 33, 46-48
Maginot, Adele, Reference to Hypnotic Experiments with - 328-329, 331
Marie, Professor Pierre, Reference to the works of - - 167
Marlowe. See Cross- correspondences : Script references.
Marsault, M., On the Mediumship of Marthe Beraud - 333, 336-343
Materialisation. See The History of Marthe Beraud (" Eva C").
MaterialisationsphanomeJie, by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing. See Beraud,
Marthe.
Maxwell, J., M.D., Criticism of Cross-correspondences, reference to
15, 144 (foot-note)
M'Coy, Mrs., Fraudulent Medium, reference to - - - 176
M'Dougall, W., Body and Mind, reference to - 209
Medical Supplement - - - - 371
Medici, The, History of, as bearing upon the cross- correspondence :
Alexaiider's Tomb - - 2, 50-56
Members and Associates, List of - - - - - 508
Miles, Miss Clarissa, Experiments in Thought-Transference 279-295,
301-304, 321, 419
Hoe Benham, Alleged Haunting - 293-301
Milton. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Moore, T. See Cross-correspionclences : Script references.
Moses. See The olvtus ovpavus aKv^tav Incident and The Clavigers.
Moss, Mrs., Fraudulent Medium, reference to 176
Music, Item in Cross-correspondence. See Hope, Star and Browning.
Myers-Control. See The Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper, and the
Automatic Scripts of " Mrs. Holland,'' the " Macs," Mrs. and Miss
Verrall, and " Mrs. Willett."
Myers, F. W. H.—
„ Theory of the Subliminal - 495, 501-502, 504
„ Works by, references to (as bearing on Cross-correspondences)
*
11-12, 18, 23-24, 77, 79, 81. 84, 85, 89, 91, 102, 119, 123, 124
See also Cross-correspondences : Script references.
558 Index to Vol. XXVII. [PAETS
N.
Newton, Miss I., Experiments in Thought-Transference - 417, 418,
420-442, 443, 446, 454
Nichols, C, Fraudulent Medium, reference to 176
Noel, General and Madame - - - 334, 335, 336-338, 340, 341-342, 343
Norm n, A., Fraudulent Spirit-Photography and Slate-Writing of,
ference to - ... 176
Nun' iers used as Letters in the Scripts - - - 46
0.
Officers and Council, for 1915 - 507
Omar Khayyam. See Cross- correspondences : Script references to
Fitzgerald.
" i
ne-Horse Dawn " Experiment, references to - - 3, 144-145, 237, 238
I'.
P., Stanislawa - - 356 (foot-note)
Palladino, Eusapia - - 178-184
Pappenheim, Count, On Marthe Beraud - - - - 367
Pemberton, Mrs., Fraudulent Medium, reference to 176
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Count, Review of Personal Experiences in
Spiritualism., by Hereward Carrington - 176
Personality, Human, The Problem of - - 492-506
Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research, a Presidential Address by
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller --------- 191
Physical Phenomena. See Beraud, Marthe.
Physical (Pseudo) Phenomena - - - 400
Piddington, J. G., References to 11, 24-27, 29 (foot-note), 30, 31 (foot-
note), 32, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 (foot-note), 45 (foot-
note), 50, 60-61, 63-66, 70 (foot-note), 71, 76.
77-78, 80 (foot-note), 81, 82, 85, 86, 90, 91-92,
96, 98, 102-105, 106, 115 (foot-note), 123 (foot-
note), 130, 132, 139, 140 (foot-note), 141, 142,
148, 479-480
Sittings with Mrs. Piper 26-27, 60-61, 63-66, 71, 82,
85, 86, 92 (foot-note), 98, 102-105, 106, 115
(foot-note)
Piper, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of, 3, 4, 9, 24-27, 28, 29, 30, 37, 38
(foot-note), 40, 42, 43, 49, 54, 59-61, 62, 63-66, 71.
73-75, 76, 77-88, 92 (foot-note), 94, 97-99, 102-106.
108, 111, 115-119, 122-123, 124-127, 138, 139-140,
143, 151-153, 242, 328
LXVIII.-LXX.] Index to Vol. XXVII. 559
Piper, Mrs., Cross-correspondences. See Alexander's Tomb ; The
Clavkjers ; Hope, Star and Browning. Also The
avrus ovpavos dicvfuov Incident; and the Latin
Message Experiment.
Pittman, Osmund, Evidence contributed by - 293-294, 300
Plotinus. See the avros ovpavijs aKVfiwv Incident and Cross-corre-
spondence : The Clavigers.
Poe, E. A. See Cross- correspondences : Script references.
Poltergeist Cases - - - 176, 178
Presidential Address (1913). By Henri Bergson (Translation) - - 157
(1914). By Dr. F. C. S. Schiller - 191
Preyer, W., Die Erhldrung des Gedankenlesens, reference to 186, 187 (foot-note)
Prince, Morton, M.D., The Unconscious, The Fundamentals of Human
Personality, Normal and Abnormal, Review of - - 492
Pseudo-Physical Phenomena ----- - 400
Psychical Research, at the Leland Stanford Junior University, reference
to ------ 186 (foot-note)
„ Professor Bergson on the Method followed in
159-161, 490 (foot-note)
Psychical Research, Philosophy, Science and, by Dr. F. C. S. Schiller - 191
Psychology, Experimental, Feeling of being stared at - 188-189
Psychopathology of Everyday Life, by Professor S. Freud, Review of - 411
Psycho- Therapy. See Hypnotism ; and Suggestion.
Puns and Assonances in the Script - - - 274
R,
Ramsden, Miss Hermione, Experiments in Thought-Transference
279-295, 305-317, 321, 415-416, 419, 471
Rector, Trance Personality of Mrs. Piper - - - 59-61,66
Regurgitation - - - 348
Reviews : Hereward Carrington's Personal Experiences in Spiritualism 176
,, Professor Freud's Psychopathology of Everyday Life - - 411
,, Dr. Morton Prince's The Unconscious - - 492
" Reynold." See Controls.
Richet, Professor Charles
—
„ Beraud, Marthe (" Eva C") - - 333, 334-335, 338-341, 342-343
„ Thought-Transference, Experiments in - - 186-187
Rossetti. See Cross- correspondences : Script references.
Rossetti, Christina, Uphill, Script reference to - - 223
Rouby, Dr., On the Mediumship of Marthe Beraud - 333, 336, 341, 342, 343
Ruskin. See Cross- correspondences : Script references.
S.
St. Paul. See Cross-correspondence : Ave Roma Immortalis.
St. Peter. See Cross-correspondences : Ave Roma Immortalis and The
Clavigers.
560 Index to Vol. XXVII. [parts
Sambor, Alleged Mediumship of, reference to - 180
Schiller, F. C. S.—
,, Philosophy, Science and Psychical Research - - 191
„ Review of Dr. Morton Prince's The Unconscious - - 492
Schrenck-Notzing, Dr. von. Experiences with Marthe Beraud (" Eva C")
333-334, 335, 343-364, 366, 369
Science, Philosophy and Psychical Research, by Dr. F. C. S. Schiller - 191
Scott. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Scripts, Automatic. See Cross- correspondences ; and The Scripts of
" Mrs. Holland," the " Macs," Mrs. and Miss Verrall, and " Mrs.
Willett."
Scriptures, The. See Cross- correspondences : Script references.
Secretion, Physical - - 367-368, 369
Self-Suggested Hallucinations - - - 392-399, 400-402, 403-409
Dangers of - 409-410
Self-Suggestion and Self-Hypnosis - 392-399,400-402,403-409
Sesame and Lilies. See Cross-correspondence.
Sevens. See Cross-correspondence.
Shakespeare. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Shelley. See Cross- correspondences : Script references.
Sidgwick, Henry. See Communicators.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry
—
Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - - - 26, 115, 124-125, 138
„ Thought-Transference, Experiments in, reference to - - 186
Smell. Hallucination of ... . 395, 396
Sophocles. /See Cross-correspondences. Script references.
Spirit Identity, Characteristic Traits of Personality - 244-249
Spiritualism, Personal Experiences in, by Hereward Carrington, review
of 176
Statius. See Dante in the Willett Scripts.
Statkowski, Miss Tamara, Experiments in Thought-Transference
301-304, 305-314
Subconscious, The - - 494-495
See also Subliminal.
Subliminal, The, Difficulty to express Ideas simply - - 480-481
F. W. H. Myers's theory of - 495, 501, 502, 504
Suckling, Sir John. See Cross- correspondences : Script references.
Suggestion, Hypnotic - - - 370
By Transference 386-387, 389
Non-Hypnotic - 322-323, 386-388
Self 392-399, 400-409
Survival, Professor Bergson on - - - - - 171
Survival, Some Recent Scripts affording Evidence of - 221, 244, 318,
458, 466, 474-482, 483-491
Discussion of the Evidence - 230-236, 318
,, „ Design. Indications of - 233-234
LXVEK.-LXX.] Index to Vol. XXVII. 561
Survival, Recent Scripts affording Evidence of
—
., Discussion of Evidence for Identity - - 244-249, 329
„ Knowledge shown - 231-236, 244, 318
Swinburne. See Cross-correspondences : Script references.
Sivinbume's Poems. See Cross-correspondence.
T.
Tactile Hallucinations - 393, 396, 400-401, 403-405, 407
Telekinesis
—
Movements of Tables - - 336
„ Lights 336
„ Levitations - - - - - - 180
Telepathic Influence on the Scripts - - 144-145, 146, 147-148, 278
Telepathy, The Active Factor in 321-323, 325
Experimental 145, 186-190, 279-295, 301-304, 305-317, 321,
415-457
General Methods - 187-188, 279-280, 416-419
Tennyson. See Cross- correspondences : Script references.
TJumatos. See Cross-correspondence.
Thought-Transference. See Telepathy.
Tipping, Miss K., Experiments in Thought-Transference 314-315, 415,
416, 418, 419, 420-442, 453-455, 457
Tipping, Miss L., Experiments in Thought-Transference 315-317, 415-457
Tuckett, Ivor L., M.D., A Discussion of the Willett Scripts - - - 466
Reply by the Rev. M. A. Bayfield - - 483
Tyrrell, G. N., Experiments in Thought-Transference 415, 417, 419, 453-455
U.
Unconscious, The, by Dr. Morton Prince, Review of - - - - 492
V.
Verrall, Dr. A. W.
—
Ave Roma Immortalis - - - 13, 14, 17, 21-22, 144, 145-147
„ Communications purporting to come from. See Survival,
Scripts affording Evidence of.
,, " Dante and Statius." See below, Literary Essays.
„ Hercules Furens 128, 130
,, Latin Message Experiment - - - - - 26
„ Literary Essays, Classical and Modem 225-230, 231, 320, 330,
476 (foot-note)
" One-Horse Dawn " Experiment - - 3, 144-145, 237, 238
See also Bayfield, Rev. M. A.
562 Index to Vol. XXVII. [parts lxviii.-lxx.]
Verrall, Mrs. A. W.—
Automatic Scripts of 4, 12-24, 26-27, 28, 29, 30-32, 35-39, 40,
41, 44-45, 49, 53, 59, 61-63, 65 (foot-note), 76, 77-81,
83-84, 87, 88-106, 108, 109-115, 116, 119, 123-124,
125-127, 128-135, 138-143, 144-149, 151, 236-237, 240,
241, 250, 251, 272-275
„ Cross-correspondences. See Cross-correspondence : Alex-
ander's Tomb, etc.
Lethe Scripts, On the - - - - - - - - 221
,, New Group of Experimenters, reference to - - - - 71, 72
„ Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - 60, 76, 77, 82, 85, 86, 116-118, 122
,, Verrall, Dr. A. W., On the Communications purporting to come
from - - 225, 233, 235-237, 242-243
See also The uurus ovpavus aKVfUtiV Incident and the Lathi
Message Experiment.
Verrall, Miss H. de G.
—
„ Automatic Scripts of 2, 3, 26, 28, 29, 33 (foot-note), 35, 39-42,
49, 50, 54, 68-69, 71, 72, 76, 78, 92, 93-94, 95, 125, 148,
150, 151-154, 236, 250-259, 262, 263, 264, 271, 272,
274, 275-278, 479-481, 483
„ Cross-correspondences. See Alexander's Tomb ; Hope,
Star and Browning ; Sesame and Lilies ; Sevens ;
Swinburne's Poems.
Experiments in Thought-Transference - 415, 417, 418, 419, 443-453
Further Study of the Mac Scripts, A ... 250
„ History of Marthe Beraud (" Eva C") - - - - 333
„ Report on Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference 415
Visions, Auto-Suggested - - 390, 400-402, 403-409
Visual Hallucinations - - 392, 393, 394-399, 402, 403-405, 408, 409
W.
Watts. See Cross- correspondences. Script references.
Waud, Reginald, Case confirmed by - - 294, 300-301
Wilkinson, Sidney, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Recent Experience in Hypnotic
Practice 370
" Willett, Mrs.," The Automatic Scripts of 3, 72-73, 76, 154, 221-225,
230-243, 244-249, 259, 276, 318-332, 458-491
,, Cross-correspondence. See Alexander's Tomb.
Woolley, V. J., M.D., Some Auto-Suggested Visions as Illustrating
Dream-Formation - ....... 390
JPROP^TY OF THE
PROCEEDINGS^, state librae
NOT TO BE TAKEN Fftti
Society for Psychical Kfeeafcfe
1
.
Part LXVIII. Vol. XXVII.—January, 1914. Price 4s. net.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
I. A Reconstruction of some " Concordant Automatisms." By Alice
Johnson.
Synopsis, . . . . . . . . .1
Introduction, ........ 4
Chapter I. Cross-Correspondence: "Ave Roma immortalis," . 11
,, II. . The Theory of Cross-Correspondences and the
Latin Message, . . . . .24
III. Cross-Correspondence: " Hope, Star and Browning," 28
IV. Cross-Correspondence: " Alexander's Tomb," . 50
V. The avros oipavbs clkv/jlojii Incident, . . .77
VI. Cross-Correspondence: "The Clavigers," . . 127
VII. Some General Conclusions, . . . . 143
List of Illustrations, . . . . .
•
. .156
II. Presidential Address. By Professor Henri Bergson. Trans-
lated by H. Wildon Carr, D.Litt., . . . . 157
Supplement :
Revieiv : Mr. Hereward Carrington's "Personal Experiences in
Spiritualism. By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, . 176
Thought-Transference, —Experimental. By John E. Coover,
Ph.D., . . . . ... , . .186
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED,
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW.
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW: JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vincent Street.
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-28 Tremont Street Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved.
The Society for Psychical Research.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1913.
PRESIDENT.
Professor Henri Bergson
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Right Rev. Bishop Boyd
Carpenter, D.D.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
COUNCIL.
W. W. Baggally.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
The Rev. A. T. Fryer.
Sir Lawrence J. Jcnes, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall,' F.R.S., M.B.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.
J. G. Piddington.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt..
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
H. Arthur Smith.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
V. J. Woolley, M.D.
Maurice B. Wright, M.D.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - - - - - - 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., ----- 1885-1887.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, 1888-1892.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., - - - 1893.
Professor William James,- - 1894-1895.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., - ... - . 1896-1899 ;
Frederic W. H. Myers, '-
- - - - - - 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., ------- 1901-1903.
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., - - - - - - 1904
Professor Charles Richet, 1905.
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, - 1906-1907.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, - • - - .
- - - - 1908-1909
H. Arthur Smith, - - 1910.
Andrew Lang, LL.D., - - 1911.
The Right Rev. Bishop Boyd Carpenter, D.D., - - 1912.
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the various subjects which
are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Society, or
from others. Communications to be addressed to the Secretary,
Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
The Rooms ot the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday,
when they close at 1.30 p.m.
Proceeding's of
The Society for Psychical Research.
Principal Contents of Parts LXIII.-LXVII.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, 'W.]
II.
III.
IV.
V.
VI.
Part LXIIL—June, 1911. Price 5s. net.
I. Evidence of Classical Scholarship and of Cross-Correspondence in
some New Automatic Writings. By Sir Oliver Lodge, ,
Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts of February, 1910. By Mrs
A. W. Verrall, . . .
•
.
Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. By Alice Johnson :
Introduction, . . . .
-
Cross-Correspondences, . . . .
The Principle of Selection in the Production of Scripts,
Appendices, .......
Note on the Cross-Correspondence "Cup." By Mrs. A. W
Verrall, . . . . . . .
Miss Verrall's Script of March 16, 190S : a Correction and an
Addition. By Mrs, A. W. Verrall, .
The Hypnoidal State of Sidis. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D.,
Supplement : Bevieivs :
"An Adventure," ......
Professor Robinson Ellis's " The Tenth Declamation of (Pseudo
Quintilian." By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.;
Part LXIV.—August, 1911. Price 2s. 6d. net.
General Meetings, . . . .
I. Presidential Address. By Andrew Lang,
Poltergeists, Old and New. By Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.,
Les Phenomenes Physiques de Spiritisme : Quelques Difficultes. Par
le CoMTE Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo,
On the a priori Argument against Physical Phenomena. By Sir
Oliver Lodge,
A Case of Emergence of a Latent Memory under Hypnosis. By
G. Lowes Dickinson, •
. . . . .
Supplement : Review -.
Professor Flournoy's "Esprits et Mediums." By the Rev. M. A
Bayfield, .......
Appendix to Part LXIV. —December, 1911. Price Is. net.
Officers and Council for 1911, . .
List of Members and Associates, .....
Index to Vol. XXV., . . . . . .
Part LXV.—September, 1912. Price 5s. net.
General Meetings, ......
Presidential Address. By the Right Rev. Bishop W. Boyd
Carpenter, D.D., .
A Month's Record of Automatisms. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall,
Correspondances Croisees. By Joseph Maxwell, M.D., .
Edftorial Note, r
The Latin Message Experiment. By Mrs. Anna Hude, .
Note on Mrs. Hude's Paper. By J. G. Piddington,
A Hitherto Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. By
J. G. Piddington,
Some Observations on Mr. Piddington's Paper. By the Right
. Hon. G. W. Balfour, .....
A Reply to Mr. Balfour's Observations. By J. G. Piddington,
Two Tennysonian Quotations in Mrs. Verrall's Scripts. By J. G
Piddington^ . . .
Supplement : Review
:
N. Vaschide's "Les Hallucinations Telepathiques." By Mrs
Henry Sidgwick, ......
II.
III.
IV.
V.
I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.
VI.
PAGB
113
176
218
229
282
293
.304
320
338
353
361
363
364
377
413
447
455
468- j€3
477
478
520
1
o
24
57
145
147
171
174
221
231
245
251
\
Proceedings of the Society.
—
Continued.
Part LXVL—November, 1912. Price -3s. net.
I. Some Types of Multiple Personality. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D., 257
II. A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality, with Report of a
Case. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D., . . . . 286
III. A Note on the Unconscious in Psycho- Analysis. By Professor
Sigm. Freud, M.D., LL.D. (Vienna), . . .3)2
IV. The Theory of the Subconscious. By Boris Sidis, M. A., Ph.D., M.D., 319
Supplement : Reviews :
Me. M'Dougall's "Body and Mind, a History and a Defence
of Animism." By the Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, . 344
Prof. Dr. E. Bleuler's "Die Psychanalyse Freuds." By
V. J. Woolley, M.D., . . . . . .367
Dr. Edwin Ash's "Faith and Suggestion." By C. Lloyd
Tuckey, M.D., ....... 370
The Liverpool Psycho-Therapeutic Clinic. By A. Betts Tap-
lin, L.R.C.P., 373
Part LXVIL—July, 1913. Price 3s. net.
I. A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper on " Cross-Correspondences
and the Experimental Method. "'-'By Mrs. Henry SidGwick,
Appendix I. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, .
,, II. By Alice Johnson, .
,, III. By J. G. Piddington,
II. Andrew Lang and Psychical Research. By the Rev. M. A
Bayfield, . . . . .
III. A Study of Dreams. By Dr. Frederik van Eedex,
IV. Presidential Address. By Professor Henri BergSon,
Officers and Council for 1913, ....
List of Members and Associates, ....
Index to Vol. XXVI., . .
-
.
375
401
409
415
419
431
462
481
482
522
Bound Copies of Volumes I. -XXVI. of the Society's Proceedings, or any
Part separately, can be obtained through any Bookseller, from Mr. Francis
Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London, W., as above.
Members and Associates can obtain bound copies of volumes, or separate Parts,
at half-price, as below, on application, to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. Or, in America, to The W. B.
Clarke Co. , 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
Vol. I. (Parts i.-iv.) pp. 336. 5s.
„ II. ( „ v.-vn.) pp. 340. 5s.
,, III. ( ,, vni.-ix.) pp. 500. 5s.
,, IV. ( „ x.-xi.) pp. 605. 4s.
,, V. ( ,, xn. -xiv.) pp. 606. 5s.
,, VI. ( ,, xv. -xvii.) pp. 707. 5s.
,, VII. ( ,, xviii.-xx.) pp. 442. 4s.
VIII. ( ,, xxi. -xxiii.) pp. 647. 5s.
,, IX.( ,, xxiv. -xxv.) pp. 407. 4s.
X. ( Part xxvi. ) pp. 466. 4s.
,, XI. (Pts.xxvn.-xxix.)pp. 637. 5s.
,, XIL ( ,, xxx. -xxxi.) pp. 391. 4s.
,, XIII. ( ,, xxxii.-xxxni.)pp.653.6s.
„ XIV. (Pts.xxxiv.-xxxv. ) pp. 436. 5s.
Vol. XV. (Pts. xxxvi. -xl.) pp. 522.
, XVI. (Part XLi.Jpp. 650.
, XVII. ( Parts xlii. -xlv. ) pp. 468,
XVIII
XIX.
XX.
XXI.
XXII.
XXIII.
XXIV.
xxv.
XXVI
us.
( ,, xlvi.-xlix. ) pp. 548,
( ,, L.-Lii.)pp. 508. 6s.
(Part liii. ) pp. 444. 6s.
(Pts. liv.-lvi.) pp. 584.
(Part
(Part lvii.) pp. 445.
(Pts. lviii.-lix. ) pp. 602.
( ,, lx.-lxi.) pp. 758.
( ,, LXII.-LXIV.)pp. 540.
( ,, Lxv.-Lxvn.)pp. 544.
6s.
6s.
3d.
7s.
6d.
6s.
6s.
7s.
7s.
Cloth-lettered Covers for binding most of the Volumes, price Is. each.
The Society also issues a Monthly Journal for Private Circulation
among Members and Associates only.
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
