{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1944__oneill___spiritualism_as_spiritualists_have_written_of)it.pdf","mytitle":"Spiritualism As Spiritualists Have Written Of)it","mylang":"de"}
SPIRITUALISM
AS SPIRITUALISTS HAVE WRITTEN OF IT
By
HERBERT V. O'NEILL
W i t h a P r é f a c é by
THE MOST REVEREND
RICHARD DOWNEY, d .d „ Ph.D., l l .d .
ARCHBISHOP OF LIVERpOOL
BURNS OATES & WASHBOURNE LTD
LONDON
PUB1ISHERS TO THÇ HODY SEE
NIHILr O BSTAT :
E douardus Can , Mahonry, S.Th.D.
Censor Deputatus.
IM PRIM ATU R :
E. Morrogh B ern ard, Vie. Gen.
WES-W
OSASTEM
Ï*
Su j m Juin, i$i4.
T H IS B O O K ÏS IN C O N F O R M JT Y W IT H
T H E A U T H O R IS E D E C O N O M Y S T A N D A R D S
Ftrst pubhshed in 1944
M ABE AND FRÏNTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
FOR
B DR NS GATES & W ASHBOURNE LTD
DEDICATION
To
E.GeraldStanley, Esq,,tow
hom
I ow
e m
ore titan he canréalisé.
CONTENTS
F o r b w o r d . . . . . . .
PAGE
7
P r é f a c é ................................................... . * ♦ 9
I. #Â W a r n in g t o A i l M é d iu m s * . . . *5
I L Is S p ir it u a l is m a R e l ig io n < . . . * 2 6
I I I . D e a t h — H e a v e n v . T h e S u m m e r
E l u e Is l a n d
L à n d i>. T h e
46
IV . P e r à s d u a a b A st r is . . . 67
V . * W h is t l e , a n d F l l c o m e * . . . 91
V I . T h e C à t h o l ic P o in t o f V ie w — I ♦ . 1 1 4
T h e C à t h o l ic P o in t o f V ie w — I I ♦ 132
[ 6 ]
FOREWORD
T his littie t>ook owes its inception and publication to His Grâce
the Archbishop of Liverpool, W ithout his encouragement I
would not hâve written it.
In order to anticipate the question likely to be put by possible
Spiritualist readers, viz, : *What can a Catholic priest, who is
forbîdden to attend séances, possibly know about Spiritualism i ’
I can State that I hâve enjoyed the friendship of leading Spiritualists
and hâve corresponded in a friendly way with others, and hâve
studied the subjeet closely for over thirty-five years.
A former editor o f The Tm Worlds (Mr, J. J, Morse) used to
allow me unrestricted hospitality in the columns of that paper.
The late M r. David Gow, formerly editor of Light, was a
Personal friend. He used to send me ail the foreign Spiritualist
publications received in his office— Il Veltro, La Vie Mystérieuse,
Psyché, Die Uebersinnliche Welt, Luce e Ombra, Psyschische Studien,
Le Courrier Spirite Belge, etc. W e lunched together *
, and though
in controversy we were utterly opposed we were friends. He
wrote to me once that 1 4fought with a clean rapier and was no
cloak-and-dagger merchant,’ At the time of his illness his wife
wrote to me (in a letter I still possess, dated Jan. 9, 1936) : 4I
believe there are few people who hâve such a wide and deep
knowledge of our subjeet.’
In another letter which I still treasure, the late vétéran protagon»
ist of Spiritualism in America, D r. J. M . Peebles, wrote ï 4Readîng
your writings, my dear Sir, I thought it probable you were a
medium*’
These testimonials, so to speak, are proffered merely to show
that I do not write 4without the book.’
If those Spiritualists who attack the Catholic Church would
only give, I won’t say one-half, but one-tenth the application to
the study of Catholic text-books that I hâve given to Spiritualist
teaching in English, American and Continental books and news-
papers, I am fully convinced that they would alter their views
completely*
Herbert V . O’Neill.
St. Joan of Arc,
Bootle,
Liverpool, 30.
Feast of the Apparition of St. Michael the Archange!, 1944.
[ 7 ]
PREFACE
BY
The Most Reverend Richard Downey, D .D ., Ph D ,, L L ,D „
Archbishop of Liverpool
Nearly sixty years hâve elapsed since the Society for Psychical
Research was founded, for the purpose, as it stated in its first
manifesto, of making *an organized and systematic attempt to
investigate that large group of debatable phenomena designated
by such ternis as *
*mesmeric,” Hpsychical/' and “ spiritualistic 'V
Amongst its first investigators were M r, Hereward Carrington,
M r. Bagally and the Hon. Everard Fielding. After years of
patient and careful investigation the verdict o f ail three was
unanimous as to the high percentage of *psychic phenomena '
produced by frattd and trickery, M r. Carrington in his Personal
Expériences in Spiritualism placed the percentage at 98, and no
one suspects him of overstatement.
It is with the remaining a per cent, that we are here concerned.
There are, so to speak, various schools of interpreters.
(i) There are, first of ail, the Naturalists and Rationalists
who, relying on the uniformity of nature, with Browning,
class ail médiums with Sludge, who could 4play you
twenty tricks miraculous/ From Podmore to Clodd
there hâve been many who dismiss ail psychical phe­
nomena as *sheer humbug/ But this robust school
ignores the evidence. Carrington, Bagally and Fielding
never hesitated to expose the frauds of Eusapia Palladino
whenever they detected them, but they hâve put it on
record that the result o f séances held in their own rooms
at a hôtel in Naples, under the auspices of the Society
for Psychical Research, was such as to convince ail three
that genuine psychical manifestations o f a remarkable
character had been obtained* (See Proceedingst S.P.R .,
vol. xxiii, pp. 309-596).
(ii) A t the opposite pôle are those who roundly and samphrase
ascribe ail spiritistic phenomena, not manifestly pro­
duced by fraud, to demoniacal agency. They seem to
give the devil more than his due, and inddentally insult
C9 l
PR EFACE
bis âûgetîc intelligence by crediting bim with the ap-
paUing drive! churned out by modem médiums. There
are other and more serions difficulties against this pro­
position. It bas been pointed out by Greeley and other
hostile critics of Spirituaüsm that 4spirit m essages'
bave not infrequentîy brought about a reformation of
tife on the part of drunfcards and libertines, and there
are even instances of such communications leading their
redpients to make submission to the Catholic Church.
If these messages be from the devil, we can only say with
Greeley that his Satanic Majesty's character has been
much maligned, and that his biography ought to be re-
written. To say that in these instances the devil was
throwing a sprat to catch a mackerel is gratuitous, and
in any case hardly a satisfactory answer. Again, it is
uxged, that if the upholders of the out-and-out demoniacal
theory were consistent they ought to attribute the safety
of the sleepwalker in his perilous journeyings to angelic
guidance. And ftnally, it is contended that the whole
theory gœs beyond the available evidence, that the con­
clusion is very much wider than the premises.
(üi) Thirdly, there are the 4true beh’evers' who regard Car-
rington's a per cent, o f unexplained phenomena, and
a good deal more of their own, as manifestations of dis-
camate spirite. Outside the ranks of Spiritualists this
hypothesis is regarded as at least unproven.
(iv) Amidst the dm o f contending parties the psychologist can
hardly make Mmseîf heard. Y et he really has something
o f value to contribute to the discussion, if the disputants
who émit mare beat than light would only give him a
hearing. It is surely to the experimental psychologist
that one naturaîly turns for a scientific explanation of
psychîc phenomena. It is a sound principle to seek
ftrgt for a natural explanation before having recourse
to die pretematural. Is psychology really as bankrupt
in explanation o f psychical phenomena as Spiritualists
would hâve us suppose {
Years agpo Carrington pleaded for a laboratory in which psychical
phenomena could be sdentificaUy investigated. He argued :
ïln ta we can appîy defimte 4
4laboratory methods ” and study
pyritics by mains of physicaf instruments far more délicate than
[ î o ]
PREPACS
our senses# it is probable that the présent State of things wifl con­
tinue to exist ; but it îs my firm belief that# were a laboratory
fitted up with physical and electrical apparatus# stûtable for tbis
work# and if we could by their aid study a promismg case of
4
4psychic *
* or u mediumistic ” phenomena# we should (wxthm
ten years or so) arrive at some definite conclusions. W e shotdd
then know something about the laws and conditions trader which
telepathy# clairvoyance# telekenesis# etc.# operate, and not until
this is donc# I beîieve# will such a positive conclusion be reached/'
(Personal Expériences in Spiritualisai, p. 258). M uch has been
accoraplished in this direction since these words were written.
M r. Harry Price succeeded in procuring laboratory tests which
certainly brought no advantage to the Spiritualist cause. Again
the resuit of a sériés of psychological tests apph'ed to trance-
médiums was to show that in no case did the medium in the
trance-state rise above the mental level of his waking-state ; that
h is4révélations *were# as a matter of fact, nothing more than out-
pourings from his dream-consciousness# or 4télépathie *messages
from more intelligent sitters.
The utterances o f trance-mediums in general are largely ex-
plainable according to the ordinary psycho-analytic prindples
for the interprétation o f dreams. Every dream# we are told#
represents# in symbolic form, the fulfilment of a repressed wish ;
and certainly the utterances of trance-mediums abound in instances
o f desires fulfilled. Because the medium in his waking-state
wishes that there should be no hell and no suffering in 4the
beyond,' the dream-consciousness asserts that there is noue.
Because M r. Vale Owen# with the rest of us# was tired of the long
spell of wet weather# his# or the medium's# dream-consciousness
asserted that# though there are clouds# there is no rain in that
wonderful heaven of hts— a heaven# by the way# that is very
obviously spun out o f his own inner consciousness# so like is it
to a glorified rectory standing in its own grounds. Because Sir
Arthur Conan Doÿle was an advocate of easier divorce his médiums
very naturaily assure him th at4on the other side f spirits dwell in
groups# but only 4affinitded * spirits are together# husbands and
wives in many cases being astral miles apart. Because Sir Oliver
Lodge was interested in physics his médiums tell him how bricks
are manufactured in spirit-land# and how the essence of terrestrial
cîothes passes over and is woven into spirit-dothes on etherial
looms. A spirit hypothesis of any kind seems hardly necessary
to account for *such stufif as dreams are made of/
Ti t l
PREFACE
But, it îs contended, there is steraer stuff in trance-utterances.
Of the sternest stuff Dr. Quackenbos writes in his remarkable
book, Body and Spirit : 1 The writer has never heard a spiritistic
medium say anything that was not readily compréhensible on the
theory of thought-transference. He has never seen a medium
do anything that could not be rationally explained as due to the
action of supersensible psychic force ' (p. 277). There are many
psychoîogists, such as the late Professor Münsterberg, who dia
not think it necessary to hâve recourse to the debatable theory
of thought-transference in order to explain the phenomena.
Münsterberg, after a careful sdentific investigation of the case of
Beulah M iller, came to the conclusion that she possessed the faculty
of reading, not other people's minds, but other people’s unpre-
meditated actions ; in psycho-analytic jargon, she interrupted
their motivations from the unconscious. Most professional
médiums can very truthfully say with Sludge :
4Fm eyes, ears, mouth of me, one gaze and gape,
Nothing éludés me, everything*s a hint/
Years ago the celebrated psycho-analyst, D r. Jung, advanced a
psychological theory to account for ghosdy apparitions. They
are, according to him, entirely subjective— the resuit of a crisis
in the mternedne strife that goes on unceasingly deep down in
the uneonsdousness o f each one of us between the ego-complex
and the constellation of complexes around it and inimical to it.
Thus, to take the case of Swedenborg. He was a hard-headed
mathematidan and his ego-complex bade him, in his own interests,
keep to mathematics. But from his earliest years he had a
*m ysticalrcomplex which not infrequently asserted itself. The
Dictionary of General Biography records how 4he then suffered
from acute dyspepsia and an attack of temporary insanity/ after
which period of unconsdous psychological incubation, he had
visions and conversed with the mighty dead of ail âges, his chief
visitants being poets and musicians. Clearly ' in his case, the
repressed 4mystical ’ complex triumphed over the ego-complex
and avenged its former repression by halludnatory expression.
O f psychological théories purporting to account for abnormal
psychical occurrences there is no end. But when the psycho-
îogist has had his say to the M l, there remains a margin of ad-
mittedly unexplained psychical phenomena. T o account for
some o f the marvels o f the séance-room on psychological grounds
is by no means to preclude the possibility of Satanic intervention.
C13]
PREFACE
The Church has laid down some very defitute theological principles
relative to this matter, She teaches, on theological grounds, that
spirits good and bad do exist, and that they are capable of entering
into communication with man, subject to God’s sanction— His
positive permission in the case of good spirits, His toleration in the
case of bad ones, W hat bad spirits hâve done once they can do
again, and we know from the Gospels how the disciples cast out
devils in Christ's name.
The evil efïects, both physical and moral, of Spiritualism are
admitted on ail hands, and hâve been pointed out by psychologists,
and even by investigators who regard SpirituaHsm as a gigantic
System of fraud. Podmore, for instance, wam s his readers that
to take part in a séance may be to assist at a process of moral de-
gradation. It is true, of course, that these evil efïects may be
explainable on physiological or psychological grounds, but they
are of such a character as to constitute strong presumptive evidence
of diabolic origin, and the Church, in the practical guidance of
her children, acts on this presumption, at least hypothetically.
Her condemnation of Spiritualism is simply a practical application
of the theological principle that to hold communication with evil
spirits is wrong. As to whether diabolic intervention takes place
in any particular case the Church pronounces no judgment. That
is a question of fact to be dedded on the evidence. But whether
in any particular case there be Satanic intervention or not makes no
différence with regard to the culpability of attending the séance.
The Catholic who attends does a thing which the Church in her
wisdom has forbidden in the gravest possible manner. It is further
to be noted that modem Spiritualism, ever since its introduction
to this country in 1853, has taken the form of a religion, and a
religion the basic tenet of which is directly subversive of the
teaching of Christianity that the deposit of revealed truth was
closed, once and for ever, with the death of the last Apostle.
But, it may be asked, is not the prohibition of the Church a piece
of mere ecdesiastical législation which she might set aside in the
light of subséquent sdentific discovery i B y no means, Her
prohibition is tantamount to a formulation of divine positive law.
The cérémonial law of the Old Testament has passed away, but
not so the injunctions which refer to the natural law or the funda-
mental principles of religion, The prohibition, *Neither let there
be found among you anyone that . . . seeketh the truth from the
dead/ (Deuteronomy xviii, 10, 11), has surely perpétuai validity.
Here is a divine categorical impérative proscribing any attempt at
[ 13 3
PREFACE
aeekmg troth îtom the dead, even though they died in the Lord.
Though the^r may bave died in the odour of sanctity intercourse
with them » rwnred to divine initiative. Tbis is a point not
jgœeraljy grasped by Spirituahsts who are continually citing
appm tkm of Our Lady and the saints in support of their creed.
They ignore the aJi-important fact that these apparitions were
not sought by the persans to whom they were vouchsafed ; St.
Bernardette, for instance, was astomshed when Our Lady appeared
to her î she was neither seeking nor expecting anythtng of the
k k d , The evokîng o f spirits by Spirituahsts is quite another
«w
ttef*
The Church's uncompromising attitude towards Spiritualism
ts not something new, called for, as it were, by the périls of our
days. What but _a œost fierce condemnation of everything
ownected with Spiritualism could account for the amazing action
of the Ephesians of whom we read m the Acts (xix, 19) : 4and many
of them who bad foUowed curious arts brought together their
books and bum t them before ail. And, counting the price of them,
they found the money to be 50,000 pièces of silver {* They
made a bonftre to the value of some £3,500. A similar holocaust
would hardly purge sonie of our large dties to-day,
Fr. Q TïeâTs book is particularly welcome at the présent time
which is witncssiag a recrudescence of Spiritualism owing, on
the om hand, to the desire of the bereaved for tangible assurance
of the Kml-sumval of kwed ones kîlkd in the war and, on the
otfeec hand, to the lass laudabk desire of unscrupulous charktans
to mate capital ont of the mouraerst longing and credulity. Fr.
QTfetM has made a careful study of the whole suhject over a great
ntmaber of years, is conversant with the literature in most modem
languages, and has had personal contact with many of the acknow-
fedged kaders of the Spiritualist movement at home and abroad,
He tes, tfaerefore, unique qualifications for giving to the public
a coraprehmave and up^toniate présentation of the cuit in its
var«l ram ficattons, Tins litrtk book is in itself a valuable bureau
deaM
Umtatmn, for the student and a safe guide to the man-in-the-
Rreâ; It is free from the dullness of so many of the tomes on
SpmtoaHsui, and Fr. O ’Neill is to be congratulated on his skilful
sæfecticiï of material and on his lightness of touch in dealing with
*** , He » admittedly cntkal, but his critidsm is fair and honest
km , atone ail, based on facts. Obviously much research has
goæ to the making of this informative volume,
ï
*A WARNING TO ALL MEDIUMS *
D espite the agitation that is going on at the présent time for the
repeal of the law against fortune-telling# and the howls of indigna­
tion raised by Spiritualists at the prosecution of médiums# the
words of the above heading are not taken from a police notice ;
nor are they the cry of some deceived heartbroken *sitterr who
has corne away from a séance dispirited and disillusioned,
They form the heading to a leading article from the pen of the
editor of Psychic N w $, in the issue of November 3 7 # 1 9 4 3 »
My readers are asked to note that the warning is addressed
not toafew médiums# nor to some médiums# but to *all *médiums»
To m y mind that leader# which we shall analyse later, is also a
WARNING TO ALL WHO ARE TEMPTED TO CONSULT MEDIUMS»
To disabuse# disillusion and enlighten any who are îndined to
think that there4 may be something* in Spiritualism is the pur-
pose of this book*
The book is not intended as a study in Psychical Research. A
study of that kind would need a very much larger volume than the
format of this sériés o f 4 Présent Day Problems ' allows* What
is aimed at is the présentation of such a case against Spiritualism
that all Catholics at least will see for themselves how hollow# how
fraudulent# how contradictory a movement it is# and thereby be
deterred from having anything to do with it.
In the attempt to convince possible non-Catholic readers# as
well as Catholics, the damning évidence against Spiritualism will
be provided by quotations from the writings of non-Catholic
investigators of Spiritualistic phenomena and from the admissions#
as to fraud and unsatisfactoriness# made by Spiritualists them­
selves,
At the moment of penning these words not only Spiritualist
newspapers# but others (like The Leader) are excitedly concemed
over the prosecution of médiums by the police» Such prosecu-
[153
SPIRITUALISM
tions are quite justified, The behaviour of many present-day,
médiums is most heartless, consdously cruel and abominable to
the extreme. By fraud and Wholesale déception they are battening
on the sorrows and miseries of the anxious and the bereaved,
They are lying for money, indifferent to the pain they may cause.
And they know it*
As in the last Great War, so in this one, The harvest of Death
grows day by day on the fields of battle. Death is no gleaner,
Each sweep of hls scythe means a household in mourning and
many a widow and many a fatherless child, There are countless
sad hearts in the world to-day. What wonder, then, if the
thoughts of the nations are turned to the problem of the life
beyond the grave*
There are other hearts that are troubled too ; the hearts of
those who hâve received the laconic message : * M issing/
The genuine Christian has learned from Christ to say, in his
hour of Gethsemane : * T h y W ill be done/ The dead, he
knows, are in the keeping of their Maker. But the mourner who
has no txue Christian faîth has little other consolation but to
nurse Ms grief,
T o such as these last the daims of Spiritualisme with its alleged
promise o f communication with the dead, offer â solace wMch
some o f thon do not refuse.
D o they ail get the solace ^ D o they ail get the promised
information i Or do they rather fmd, as Stainton Moses put it,
that 4it is extremely difficult to get anything Hke definite and
précisé facts plainly put *i
The answer is supplîed by Psychic News* The leader referred
to above is beaded ;
*A Wakning to all Médiums/
A s stated already, it is a waming not to a few médiums, nor to
same médiums, but to all médiums.
I t b e g in s î
4Some of our médiums are unwittingly performihg a disservice
to Spiritualism, They are confronted with harassed people who,
in the absence of official information, yearn for news of loved ones
in the Services described as 4
4missing,” , , ,
* Perpkxed readers tell of contradictory messages from médiums,
some averring that these 4
4missing men ” hâve passed on, others
declarmg that they are still on earth and will return to their
hom es.. . *
E16 ]
* A W A R N IN G T O ALL M E D IU M S *
' In view of these circumstances, médiums are warned against
raising the hopes of anxious sitters. Truth and frankness, in the
end, are the best guides, even if it means disappointing those who
cling to the hope that their loved ones are not 4
4dead/'
* No service is rendered by raising expectations that will be
dashed to the ground. In times of difficulty when nearly ail the
odds are against successful spirit communication, it is best to be
cautions/
Those are the words of the editor of what is ciaimed to be
*The Spiritualist Newspaper with the World's Largest Net Sale/
An analysis of the *Warning ' establishes the purpose of this
chapter, viz. the useîessness of the alleged messages» More, it
gives away the fact that the *messages ' are not from the spirit
world, but are the medium’s own concoction ; hence the déclara­
tion : _4Truth and. frankness, in the end, are the best guides,
even if it means disappointing those who cling to the hope that
their loved ones are n o t4
4dead,n *
So that, in addition to the admission th at4in times of difficulty
» » » nearly ail the odds are against successful spirit communica­
tion * we are presented with the further admission that some
médiums are liars.
There you hâve the callous, open admission, by the editor of
* The Spiritualist Newspaper with the WorkTs Largest Net Sale/
that médiums are not ail honest.
His 4warning * makes plain that these médiums to whom his
leader is addressed (and he addresses it to all) are practising this
déception consciously, They know they are telling lies. That
is why he writes 4médiums are warned against raising the hopes
of anxious sitters * ; that is why he States that * truth and frank­
ness, in the end, are the best guides * ; that is why he ends with
the advice : 4it is best to be cautions/
Now, if the médiums concerned were in a genuine trance when
delivering these lying messages there would be no sense in issuing
the warning ; or if they were genuinely receiving those deceiving
communications from the spirit-world there would still be no
need for the warning ; a medium in a State of trance is not directly
responsible for his or her words or actions whilst in the trance ?
and if the message really was communicated by a 4spirit * the
medium could disclaim all responsibility for the inaccurate
utterance. But because the writer of the warning leader knows
perfectly well that the 4messages * are fraudulent he feels caUed
upon to issue a word of advice to the culprits concerned.
[ I 7 l B
SP IR ITU A LISM
la that leading artidc there is not a trace of sympathy for the
sorrowing 4harassed people *who are deceived, nor is there any
cottdenmatiofl of the heardess déception practised ; ail the editor
is concemed with is the 4disservice to Spiritualisme _One is led
to wonder woald even that waming hâve been issued if the police
had m
ot been busy rounding ttp some of these shameless médiums»
h it from characters such as these that the anxious and the
bereaved really hope to receive the truth about the fate of the
nmsing and the killed 4
The tesson to be îeamed from the newspaper article in question
beats out the character of SpirituaHst4messages *which they hâve
borne since modem Spiritualism began» It is a long story of
unfiilfilled promises, fantastic daims, dubious phenomena and
lying messages. The only thing to be said in its favour is that it
bas led a few blank materiahsts to a beh'ef in the existence and
surviva! of the human soûl. The late Mr. David Gow, formerly
editor of Lîght, a man whose friendship I shared, made that con­
fession to me— vis, that Spirituaîist phenomena broke down his
agnostictsm andîed him to believe that there was a life after death.
Fcc Spiritualism as a religion he had no use. Robert Blatchford
made a similar confession. Dennis H. Bradley took the same
attitude.
But, a reader might ask, does not the fact that Spiritualism has
led people to a beliefin afuture life justify people in practising it 4
In reply to that question I may be pardoned for quoting from
that most entertaining and instructive book, my favourite bedside
book, Sanctions, by M gr. Ronald A . Knox. In the chapter
*Against the Stream f that very question is discussed by an
agnostic doctor who is a psycho-analyst, and by a Catholic and
others.
One of the characters, Lady Maud Sanquhar, has confessed her
belief that Spiritualism provides positive evidence for immor-
taüty.
4There was an awkward pause. Most propie présent knew
that Lady Maud had a weakness for Spiritualism, and also that
ber bosband disapproved of it. It was not often that the influence
of these beîiefs made itself felt in public. A t last the crisp voice
of Dr. Donovan intervened :
,f *
*Of course, we don*t want to destroy any reasonable con­
viction that anyone has, We are out to reach the truth, not to
obscure it. But for that very reason we are bound to attack every
false bsas of belief, even though the belief itself should be true,
E18]
* A W A R N IN G T O Â L L M E D IU M S '
Nothing docs more harm, does it, than belief based on Wfong
grounds t Well, what I mean to say is, we ottght îlot to assume
the présence of any supematural agency in so-cailed 4occult '
mamfestations untÜ we know more, a great deal more, about the
secrets of the subconsdous, How do we know that persons présent
at a séance, even if they are honestly trying to make their minds
a blank, do not subconsciously project their own thoughts into
the medium s1 . .
444And so,” answered Lady M aud, u for the sake o f a scientific
theory, you wouid take away from us what is to so many of us
our only hope of seeing our dead again, the only thing that makes
life worth living i I lost two brothers in the war, D r. Donovan,
and I should lose them again, this time irretrievably, if I could
believe what you say.”
4 There was another pause. , . . D r. Donovan was a kindly
man, and felt incapable of answering the oütburst, Only Kaîocry
at last found voice to speak :
144W e must not believe a lie, Lady M aud. W e must not
believe a lie, even if ail the Hght of our hopes dies with the dawning
of the truth.” r
That attitude of Lady M aud's was expressed by one of the
witnesses for the defence in the recent trial of M rs. Helen Duncan.
She said : 4Spiritualism is my religion, You can't trick me on
these things. The whole of my life wouid feel it was at an end
if I found I had been tricked* (Portsmouth Evening News,
March 29,1944).
T o that witness the words also apply : we should not believe
a lie.
Now, modem Spiritualism, like Selfridge's Stores, was ushered
into the world with a great trumpeting. Even from the first year
of its coming into being, that is in 1848, the world was told that
Spiritualism meant th e 4 dawning of a new era/
Leah Fox, who made this first great announcement, was fol-
lowed by many others who also prodaimed a transformation of the
earth ; but in spite of the echoing chorus in which Judge Edmonds
and others of the early days took up the refrain of Leah Fox's
anthem— only to befollowed in our own days by Sir Oliver Lodge,
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, M r. Dennis Bradley and a host of
unidentifiable 4spirit guides 4
— the nearest approach to a 4trans­
formation ' is the latest type of 4transfiguration séance ' to be
witnessed— as the Spiritualist advertisements tell us— at Golders
Green and Forest Lane,
[ 19]
SPE R ITÜ Â LÏSM
4BrilMant minds with hrilliant thoughts/ we were told, were
*buming to givc utterance to earth/ And we wait in vain,
A hundred years almost hâve passed since the first trumpetings
of Spiritualisai sounded, and not a single * brîlliant thoughtt has
reached m yet. As for the * brilHant minds/ well, Professor
C . E. M . Joad disposes of them by saying : * One is driven to
the conclusion that, even if ghosts hâve soûls, they certainly hâve
no brains/
T h e4great and astounding manifestations *promised for 1855, for
1931, for 1926, hâve proved a failure. They hâve not materiahsed,
So much for the trumpeted prophecies of their 4New Révéla­
tion/ W hat are we to say of the private messages t
Were I to give my personal opinion alone with regard to the
value of private messages conveyed through professional médiums
there would be the usual outcry of ‘ Roman CathoKc intolérancef
and 4Roman monopoly of m iracles4; so, as a foundation for my
own judgment, I quote here only the opinions and verdicts of
authorities whom no Spirittialists can accuse of parti-pris, viz*
non-Cathohc researchers in psychical studies, and SpirituaHsts
themselves.
Let me begin with the statements o f the Rev, Stainton Moses,
known also as ‘ M A ,, Oxon/
The Rev. Stainton Moses was for a while a clergyman of the
Cfaurch o f England, and an M A . of Oxford University. From
the rime he became a convert to Spirituah'sm, through the pheno-
mena of automatic writing, till his death he spent his days in
'‘defence of his new belief, He was the first President of the
London SpirituaHst Alliance, and he was for a number of years the
éditer of Light, which daims to be (Mr, Barbanell must not take
this teo much to heart) * the acknowledged représentative of
caltivated and intelligent Spiritualism throughout the world,
everywhere quoted and referred to as such/
The Rev. M r, Moses wrote two important books : Spirit
limJdty and Higher Aspects of Spiritualism. He himself dedares
in his Spirit Idmtity that whereas he wrote previously ‘ for the
unimtructed world ’ 4here on the contrary I am speaking to the
esoterk body *and *speaking only to su ch f (p, 1). That is, he
wrote his book for SpirituaHsts.
Aaother important déclaration of his occurs in the préfacé
(p,vi) of his secondbook, HigherAspects .*' I protest that Spiritual-
M i, * * « is not the silly thing that its friends (alas !) too often
^depict it as being/
4A W A R N IN G T O A L L M E D IU M S 4
Now we hâve the reverend gentleman’s credentials : Church
of England clergyman converted to Spiritualism ; a Master of
Arts of the University of Oxford ; a zealous defender of the cause
of Spiritualism, and 4ail out 4
4to purify the movement.
And what has he to say with regard to these private 4spirit
messages 4i
He is discussing in Spirit Identity 4The Nature of the Intelli­
gence 4that provides the messages* He asks : 4Is the Intelligence
human i 4 and States that 4Several suspicious circumstances
combine to throw doubt upon particular cases/
4The free use of names great and honoured amongst men is
one of the most suspicious*4 He adds : 4Another cause of doubt
is the extreme difficulty that is usually found in getting any facts
precisely given, especially facts that are certainly external to the
knowledge of the sitters 4 (p* 31).
Let the enquirer who is anxious to know the fate o f someone
posted by the War Office as 4missing 4 ponder those words.
The medium does not know what the War Office does not know ;
the enquirer herself does not know— therefore there is, on the
admission of a leader of Spiritualist thought,4 extreme difficulty 4
in getting the information that is sought*
L et ail persons who may be tempted to consult médiums as to
the fate of their men-folk engaged in the war ponder also these
further quotations î
4Another cause which has strengthened the inhérent feeling of
improbability with which most of us start, is the mass of contra­
dictions in the messages 4(p* 35)*
In his other book— Higher Aspects of Spiritualism— referring
to public séances, he says the 4spirits4who m anifest4are beings
who are not possessed of high moral consciousness* Whether
they are instruments in the hands of more progressed intelligences
or not, the fact remains that they can give no trustworthy informa­
tion 4 (p* 18)*
Seventy pages further on he makes a more detailed charge
against su ch 4messages4: 4 Furthermore, it is a common cause of
complaint amongst us that the communications received * . *
are of an unsatisfactory nature. It is said that they are frequently
trivial, contradictory, foolish (if not worse), and not such as to
command respect. . . * I am anxious not to overstate the argu­
ment. . . . Is it not so i I am disposed to think it is 4(p* 88).
Referring again to the public séances, M r. Moses adds, two pages
further on : 4A medium is a charlatan, an impostor, who produces
[ 3i ]
SP IR IT U A L IS M
one's grandmotber for fivc shillings» a noton s and elusive wild
beast, ta be crushed and trampled ont 1 Yes, I am aware of it,
Mme Ûtm lachrymae* It is for this reason that our drcles are
crowded with phenomena at best equivocal, too often apparently
or reaily frauduleat. It is for this reason that we hâve such cause
to blush for the puerilities and Îmbeciliîies» the frauds and tricks
that are perpetualîy being brought to lig h t' (p. 90)*
ftow Ê a CathoUc were to hâve made those statements ‘ off his
own bat ' there would hâve arisen a chorus of protests in the
Spiritualist press. There would hâve been no end to the questions
in retort as to whether the author of the charges had ever been
présent at a séance* etc.» etc.» etc, ; so how could he know anything
about it i 4Bigotry,' ‘ Intolérance,' 4Methods of the Inquisi­
tion,' and the usual litany o f abuse,
I doubt if even a Catholic would refer to fraudulent médiums
as *noxious and elusive wild beasts to be crushed and trampled
ont/
Conan Doyle said of such médiums t 4Every fake medium
should get at least ten years in prison ' (Letter to Samrî Frikell :
Spirit Médiums Exposed, p, 10),
Nor îs the Rev, Stainton Moses alone in making such chapes
and admissions, The Lyceum Marnai, which is the official
text-book ‘ for use in Progressive Lyceums connected with
Bfitish Spiritualistic Sodeties ' and which is published under the
aeps of the British Spiritualists' Lyceum Union, wams the
leamers that not a11messages are to be trusted.
In section 140» o n 4Mediumship,' the Conductor of the Lyceum
pute the question t 4Has the medium any influence on the
phenomena i ' ^And the answer given is : ‘ Yes, every medium
h » a perscmaHty more or less positive» and ail communications
are cdoured more or less thereby ; subde dilferences in the
«Eganism cause variety in the manifestations, Spirit power is
îimited in expression by the organisai through which it works,'
In answer to the question rDo médiums exhibit any pecuü-
arityî'^ the reply h t 4Yes» waywardness of charaeter, and a
disposition to be te» easily influenced by surrounding dreum-
or persons* but the broadest charity should be bestowed
ugxm them as they are' often left in such a négative State as to
bwooie the prey of conflicting influences,'
la th en ext section (§ 141), on 4Spiritual G ifts,' which are
, A® of Spirit Friends to prove their presence and
it m asked ï ‘ Are ail Spirit messages to be relied
'A W A R N IN G T O A L L M E D IU M S '
on i f T o that the Lyceum answer in chorus : 4No ; we must
test, prove, and try them in order to ascertain the truth.*
Well, SpirituaHsts may be able to * test, prove and try * the
lying messages given by médiums with regard tP those reported
as 4missing ' in this war, but for the life of me I can't see how
they are to set about it, Even the editor of Psychic News admits
that * The weli-known ' (the well-known, mark you) 4spirit guides
are unanimous in affirming that they are confronted with over-
whelming difficulties in spirit communication these days/ and
he adds that 4 In times of difficulty . . » nearly ail the odds are
against successful spirit communication ' (Nov, 37,1943, P* 4)*
T o crown ail these damning admissions we hâve the statement
o f 4Sir Arthur Conan Doyle/
Manifesting from the spirit world on Tuesday, October 7,1930
(three months after he had 4passed over '), through the medium-
ship of M rs, Eileen G arrett,4he *spoke for a long time with M r,
Harry Price at a séance held in the National Laboratory o f Psychi-
cal Research. In reply to the question, put by M r. Price : 4Is
it possible for you to know if some of the médiums are genuine,
or partly genuine, or some wholly fraudulent i 4 the doughty
champion of Spiritualism replied : 4There is not a medium in
the world, from what I know now, that is able to get a clear ad­
mission into our life ' ÇLeaves from a Psychisfs Case-Bookt
p. 113).
W ith such admissions made by Spiritualists themselves there
is, perhaps, scarcely need to add further evidence of the worthless-
ness of spirit messages, but two or three quotations from ex-
perienced psychical researchers may not corne amiss.
First, there are the statements of Professor Sir W illiam Barrett,
who was one of the earlier Presidents of the Society for Psychical
Research which was founded in 1882.
Professor Barrett wrote a very interesting book entitled Psychi­
cal Research. In it he refers, regretfully, to 4the impassihÜity
of securing the complété passivity of the mind of the medium/
and t o 4the ail but total impossibility of transcending the limitations
imposed by the mediunTs mental apparatus and intellectual
equipment * (p, 240), 4W e must also allow iikewise/ he adds,
4for the possibility, if not probability, of other still more baffling
impediments, unimaginable by us in our ignorance of what the
conditions are in the spirit-world * (p, 342),
Professor James H , Hyslop, Ph,D ,, L L JD., first President of
the American Society for Psychical Research, a man who spent
[ 3 3 1
SP IR ÏT U A L IS M
tnany years in investigating Spiritualist phenomena, also refers
to the ‘ baffiing impediments, unimaginable by us *of Sir William
Barrett, only, after the fashion of Amerîcans who describe under-
takers as * morridans/ he terms them, ponderously, *intercosmic
obstacles/ He writes of *The triviality and confusion of the
messages/ and goes on to say that : ' The limitations of the
messages are due to the conditions affecting the possibility of any
ceonmtmication at aU. It is an abnormal State in the living that
conditions the access of knowledge from beyond, and there is
evidence that similar difficultés often encounter the efforts of
those who hâve passed before to penetrate the veîl. Besides there
are probabiy intercosmic obstacles to ready communication, and
when we add to these mamfold complications in the mental world
affecting any access of outside influences at ail, we may well
imagine that abnormal conditions on both sides would, Hke
deliria, give us only fragmentary knowledge. A sériés of facts
will make this cîear to ail who care to think * (Enigmas of Psychical
Research, p, 388).
ïhrofessor É. É. M . Joad, who has attehded séances held under
test conditions with some of the most noted médiums— médiums
whcse performances-hâve attracted the attention of learned men of
to-day, asks in hîs book Guide to Modem Thought (p. 154) ; *Do
the messages convey information which could not conceivably
hâve been accessible to any person other than the person who
bas " passed oyer n i It may be admitted at once that proof that
sueh mfonnarion had in fact been conveyed would be difficuit to
estabKsh/ s
Regardmg ' the general nature of the communications received
t o n *
*spints ” purporting to describe the conditions under which
tfaey eadst/ he says : * These hâve two general characteristics ;
they are pktitudinous and trivial, and almost invariably they
œproduce the general culture, outlook and ideas of the medium
of those sittmg with the medium . . . they embody no other
material other than what migfat hâve been supplied by the imagina­
tion of the living persons concemed * (pp. 155-156).
. Tins disposition to be too easily mfluenced by surrounding
cotmotaoce» or persons *is borne out by Continental Spiritualists
a t o Frau Maria Von Bergen, the représentative of Swedish
Sfitetoahste, emphasised the point very strongly. ' The different
s w it communications vary, espedally in these days, almost
One messie contradicts another so directly at rimes
tte t it ® impossible to harmonise thpm. Besides, we may never
[ 34]
*A WARNING TO ALL MEDIUMS #
be abie to judge, most probably, how far the subconscious mind
of the medium plays a part in these messages. . . . Hence the
déplorable confusion, the agonising discord, and the tragic diver-
sity of opinion that reign to-day/
Mme Thérèse Darel, of Geneva, one of *the most illustrions
and greatest names in the study of Spiritualism/ also stresses this
further point : 4You hâve learnt by expérience/ she says, 4that
the dead are no different from what they were when they were
alive . . . in their new condition they remain finite entities and,
in conséquence, imperfect ; their knowledge is limited, as limited
as are the possibilities extended to them of manifesting and estab-
lishîng contact with the living ’ (Congress Report, p. 14).
Here is the situation to-day : thousands o f anxious, harassed,
heartbroken women— mothers or wives or fiancées— are rushing
to consult predatory, lying médiums, médiums who hâve to be
warned that 4truth is best in the end/ These anxious women,
who know no better, seek from heartless harridans information
as to their loved ones who are dead or mîssing, and that at a rime
when prominent leaders of the Spiritualist movement feeî con-
strained to déclaré that the possibility of getting genuine and
truthful information is well-nigh impossible. 4In rimes of
difficulty f— like the présent—4nearly ail the odds are against
successful spirit communication/
Strangest of ail, in a sense, is the fact that whilst these marvel-
lous (s1
) médiums profess to be able to give information about
soldiers, sailors and airmen who are missing or dead they fail
repeatedly to secure warnings from th e4spirits *when the clients
who consult them are from the police 1
So much for the situation in general ; let us now enter a little
into detail.
[25]
II
IS SPIRITUALISM A RELIGION i
ÀT the second International Spirituaüst Congress, held in Geneva
m 1913 (of which more will be saîd later), Mr* E* W* W allis, then
édite» of Light, represented the London Spiritualists" Alliance*
In Ms address on May 13 he said : *Spiritualism is the resuit of
the action of beings from the next world (des entités de Vau-delty
on men faere beîow (sur Thomme dfici-ba$) in their attempt to
corne to his assistance* [I quote and translate from the full
report, which was pubfisbed in French*]
*The beings from the next world are neither angels nor devils,
they are human beings (applause) ; consequently what they tel1
ns stands at the bar of our own judgment (doit être jugé par notre
propre raison), Consequently it dépends upon m to dedde whether
th« messages we rtceive from beyond the grave are true or not "
(p* 183)*
?ery well, îet us put some of those messages at the bar of human
ttesoù*
We hâve seen in the preceding chapter suffirent to make us
qwatkm the bona fiées of any medium* Spiritualists them selves
hâve given us enough Justification for doubting the good faith of
dte instruments through whom the messages are conveyed*
I know perfectly well that I shall be accused o f bigotry for
attaŒmg Spiritualism* I shall be told that it is m ost unchristian
to a t e d anybodyfs rdigious belief* But : Is Sp ir it u a lism a
w& igion i ^
SpMtuaMsm Has hem offered to the world as a religion, a ' New
H cvttâtk»/ Not onîy îs it to be considered a religion but the
d a n » are advanced for it that it is to be the handmaid of Christian-
fhough some Spiritualists go so far as to assert that it is to
supplans Chrisùanity and be the *Universal Religion*"
<-Jl the late Sir Arthur Conan Doyle who described it as
The New Révélation "
—a very brave title to use sedng that
m
IS S P IR IT U A L IS M A RELIGION S*
there is notihing newin attempting to make contact with the dead,
and that the révélations of Spiritualisai do not contain a single
iota of crédible information beyond the fact that the soûl survives
after the death o f the body : we are presented instead with the
ancient pagan ideas of Reincarnation, or else with a description of
a materialised heaven that few people would want to inhabit*
The Lyceum Marnai issued by the British Spiritualists'
Lyceum Union seems to be undecided as to what form of religion
Spiritualism shall be* It has sections bearing the headings 4The
Religion of Humanity ' (an idea common with some continental
Spiritualists) ; 4The Religion of Health ' (in common with
Nudists and the Maadaznan believers) ; 4The Religion o f Use '
(or the expansion of Science for the benefit of society)*
Spiritualist weekly publications advertise 4Sunday Services '
by the score, and call theîr meeting-places 4churches ' or (after
the French and Belgian style) ' temples/
So it rrm
st be a Religion*
But isiti
One after another o f the accredited leaders of Spiritualism tells
us that it îs a religion, but a religion without dogmas or creeds,1
O f course the obvious retort to that statement is the question :
Can there be any religion without dogma or creed i And the
answer is : No.
If # e ask Spiritualists does not their religion teach anything,
they reply at once : O f course it does ; it teaches the spirituality
of the soûl, its immortality, and the possibiüty of communicating
with it after death.
There, straightaway, you hâve *dogma '—4dogma * means
4what is held/ ' what is believed/ * tenet/
When the Spiritualist says he has no creed, he again betrays his
ignorance of the meaning of the words he uses. A 4creed '
merely means * an expression of one's beliefs/ So when we find
in the Lyceum Marnai (§ 136) : 4What is the creed o f Spiritual­
ism i 4followed by the answer :
4Spiritualists hâve no creed, but mostly unité in affirmdhg the
following simple summary of principles :
' The Fatherhood of God.
The Brotherhood of Man*
The Immortality of the Soûl, and its personal characteristics*
1 Psychic N ew s pritited in a panel over the heading of its leading article :
*“ Our allegiance is not to a Creed, not to a Book, not to a Church, but to the
Great Spirit of Life and to His etemal natural laws.”—A spirit message.*
[ 27]
SPIRITUALISM
The ProvenFacts of Com
m
unionbetweendeparted Human
Spirite and M
ortals.
Personal Responsibiüty, with Com
pensation and Rétribu­
tion hereafter for ail the good or evil deeds done here.
And a path of Eternal Progress open to every human soûl
that wills to tread it by the path of eternal good '—there
you hâveacreed.
Prefix the wordst * I believe in* to each of those statem
ents,
orarticles, andyou hâve the Spiritualists* creed.
H
ence ail the talk of religion without dogm
as and without a
, , to say is that they hâve no true Christian
bdiefs. Those who do accept Spiritualismas a religion deny the
Divinity of Christ and reject nearly ail His teaching : original
an J the need for repentance; the Atonement ; the value of
Christ's death on Calvary ; His Church and His sacram
ental
System.
Let us take, for exam
ple, the anti-Christian ideas set forth by
som
eoftheEnglish-speaîdngleadersorauthoritiesof Spiritualism
.
Despite the fact that the New Testament is full of references
to the Fall of Man through the original sin of our first parents,
W
efind the Rev* W
illiam Stainton M
oses, form
erly a clergym
an
of the Church of England, defying the Sacred Scriptures and
dedarm
g that Spiritualiste * reject as a baseless figm
ent the story
of â fall from prim
aeval innocence and perfection * * * in the
persan of Adam and Eve * (Higher Aspects, p, 62).
H
ence if there w
as no Fall of Man there was no need for the
Rédem
ption and Atonem
ent by our Saviour Jésus Christ* The
Agony of Christ in the garden of Gethsem
ane, His trial before
Annas and Caiaphas and Pilate and Herod, His suffering at the
hands of the m
yrm
idons of ail these four—buffeting, m
ockery,
scpurgm
g, crow
ning with thom
s—His Via Dolorosa to Calvary
wità the dimax of His Crucifixion * . * ail this was, in the
üpittiQ
iï of thousands of Spintualists, sheer unnecessary sufferinn
ætm a vrxstt* nf Kf» J &
[28]
IS SPIRITUALISM A RELIGION f
described as 4 the highest form of Protestantism* (Deuxièm e
Congrès Spirite Universel, p. 153).
These people, then, would share with Mr. H. G, W
ells the
idea that the Cross of Christ is a 4sham
eless Sym
bol *; if not
sham
eless, at least useless and unm
eaning.
To such the lesson of the suprêm
e sacrifice of Jésus Christ on
Calvary is of little account. They could scarcely be expected to
understand that in His crucifixion Jésus exem
plified His own
saying : 4 Greater love hath no m
an than that he lay down his
life for his friend/ They seem not to réalisé that the Cross of
Christhasbeenadoptedeversince, evenin thisProtestant country,
as the symbol (surely not a 4 sham
eless Symbol/ Mr. Wellsf) of
suprêm
e sacrifice—hence the Victoria Cross, the Royal Red
Cross, theMilitary Cross, the Distinguished Flying Cross—and the
little wooden crosses on the graves of Fianders, France, Gallipoli,
M
esopotam
ia (in the last war), and El Alamein, Tobruk, and in
Tunis, Sicily, Burm
a and a dozenother places in this war.
CcuTt these people see that Calvary counts i Or would they
hâve the little wooden crosses, so pathetic, so revealing, replaced
by stakes as though tom
ark the burial place of vam
piresi
Readers who profess to be true Christians and belîevers in
the Bible are asked to com
pare the statem
ents of Spiritualist
authorities with what they know to be the traditional Christian
teaching :
4 The m
iracles (so-called) that attest the truth of the Bible
story in the Old and New Testaments are well-nigh worthless
to sciencef (Higker Aspects, p. 72-73).
4 Man can hâve no saviour outside himseîff (Higher A spects,
P* 7 8)* . .
Spiritualism4 déniés the im
m
oral and soul-corrupting doctrm
e
of any vicarious atonem
ents for sin, and on the testimony of
m
illions of im
m
ortal spirits, solem
nly affirm
s that every guilty
soûl m
ust arise and becom
e its own saviour* (Lyceum M a rn a i,
§ 136).
4 There can be no m
iracle or supernatural event, as law reigns
suprêm
einthe spiritual as well as in the physicalrealm* (Lyceum
Marnai, § 138).
Spiritualism 4 asks no pardon for its sins * (Lyceum M a rn a i,
§ 14a)*
As a final contrast between the dogm
as of Spiritualism and
those of true Christianity let me oppose two passages—one from
the New Testament and one from The Letters o f a L iv in g D ead
29]
SPIRITDALISM
Mon* This bttter book, by the way, bas beeü descfibed as th
e
best of ail spirît com
m
unications.
*Andwhen theywere cornetotheplacewhichis called Calvary,
theycrucifié Himthere; and the robbers, one on the right hând
and the otfaer on the left * * . and one of the robbers who w
ere
hanged bl^phemed H
im
* saying î If Thou be the Christ* save
Thyself and us.
*But the other answering, rebuked him, saying : Neither dost
thou fear God, seeing thou art under the sam
e condem
nation.
Andweindeedjusdy*forwereceivethedue reward of our deeds\
but this m
an hath doueno evil.
*And he said to Jésus : Lord, rem
em
ber m
e when Thou shalt
corneinto Thy Kangdom
.
* And Jésus said to him; Amen, I say to thee, this day shalt
thoube with Me in paradise' (St. Luke xxiii, 33-43)«
That incident put the crowning touch to the lesson contained
in the parable of the Prodigal Son. It has proved an incentive
tofinal repentanceforpossiblym
illionsofsinners.
In coatrast, what do aîleged spirit-m
essages tell us i
* B m a re o f dmth^bêd rèpentatice andits after-harvest of m
orbid
m
em
orfes. It is better to go into etemity with one's Karmic
burdern bravely carried upon the back rather than slink through
the backdoor of hell in the stockinged feet of a sorry cowardice *
(Lêtters o f a Living D ead M an),
So Jésus Christ, for these Spiritualists, ceases to be the lovùag
Redeem
er. His Crucifixion toas 4 m
onstrous * waste of .life.
Hts m
iracles, to which He appealed so frequently, coünt for
acrtM
ng. Final repentance isuseless, since sinis only a 4 Karmic
burden* to be4 bravely carriedupontheback/
And this Spirittialismis the Key totheBible andthe Handmaid
of Chriatiaoityf
This book Isnot intended to be a stüdy in Psychical Research,
butto exam
ination of the claim
s of Sptritualismviewedespecially
tn the hght of the teachings of accredited Spiritualists.
Unfortuaately Sptritualism is accepted by thousands in this
e&antry as a definite form of religion. W
hether it should be so
deagnated form
ed a very hotly debated question at the inter-
H
itÉm
al Spirituaîist Congress held in Geneva in 1913. The full
reçcrt of that Congress m
akes very curious reading. For one
if showshowm
arkedlyinsular andprovincial is the attitude
ù i EttgîsshSpiritualists.
Th® mstdafity of the peuple of Bngland—I speak not only of
[*>J
1S SPIRITUALISM A R E L IG IO N S1
the m
asses, or the * bourgeoisie/ or 4the mao in the Street is
som
etim
es astounding, In m
atters affecting religion it would
seemto be the obstacle to the conversion of England,
To the mind of the writer the lim
it was reachedon an occasion
when, in Ramsey, I.O.M., a revivalist preacher entered on a
discussion regarding the Holy Eucharist, An attem
pt was m
ade
to try to bring hom
e to him the différence between two Greek
words c
r
s
c
p
^
, and used in regard to the doctrine of the Real
Presence, The effort was fruîtless : the good revivalist promptly
retorted that there was no need to quote any foreign languages,
as* theBible cam
e downfromheavenwrittenin English,*
I bade him good-night, and thenceforth talked with him no
m
ore, My one reflection was : * God help the poor soûls left
to the care of such m
asters in Israël.*
But to apply the lesson, One would expect that since the Fox
happenings at Hydesville in 1848 the teachings of Spiritualism
would hâve been synthesisied by now. Instead, one finds the
m
ost hopeless confusion as to the value and aimof Spiritualism.
It would seem that the leaders of the m
ovem
ent them
selves
realisedtheneedforadefiniteplatform
,fortheyheldtheir*Second
Universal Spiritist Congress * in Geneva in 1913 to discuss this
very question,
There were présent at the Congress their m
ost prominent
m
em
bers from England, France, Switaerland, Holland, Spain,
the U.S.A., Braail, Denmark, Italy, Mexico, Sweden, Monaco,
Portugal, Croatia, Germany, Canada and Austria. In addition
to two official représentatives from Belgium, M, le Chevalier le
Clément de St. Marcq represented his own unofîidai following,
He daimed to represent Belgian Spiritualists, despite the fact that
35out of 37Fédérations Spirites of Belgiumdisownedhimbecause
of his obscene and blasphem
ous brochure H istoire de VEuchar-
istie. There was som
e friction over his presence, but harmony
was restored.
Then M. Léon Denis (France), one of the three acting Presi­
dents, announced the subject for the first day's debate i * The
Rôle of Spiritualismin the Religious Evolution of Humanity,*
The subject was divided into three questions for discussion:
1, Is Spiritualismthe universal scientificreligioni
3. What connection or relation is there between Spiritualism
andtheotherexistingreligions oftheday i
3. Can Spiritualismdevelop into am
ode of worship4
[ 3 1 3
SPIRITUALISM E
There were other questions for discussion on other days of the
Congress sittings, but they do not concem us in this chapter,
The debate realiy developed into trying to décidé _whether
Spiritualism was a religion at ail, To the non-Spiritualist it
seems surely strange that such a question should need discussion
after three-quarters of a century. The early Christians did not
wait nearly a century to find out whether their new faith was a
religion or not. Not only did they know it before they were
baptised, but the Jewish priests knew it and the pagan emperors
of Rome knew it* It was precisely because it was a new religion,
a religion that was intolérant o f any other religion, that it was
proscribed and its adhérents were persecuted and put to death.
Hence wfaen we find that the members of the Congress could not
décidé on the question Catholics may be excused if they refuse to
accept it as such. The most that can be said for it is that it is an
attempt to prove, by démonstration, the truth of a dogma which
Christianity bas aiways taught, vis. that there is a life after death.
That view is upheid also by the editor of The Occult Review,
Commenting on the renewed debate in Light as to 4whether
Spiritualism is a religion/ he says : 4The admitted business of
Spiritualism being to demonstrate the life of the soûl after death,
if it does succeed in this, it is a priceless adjunct to religion, but it
is not religion itself, the concem of which is not evidence of im-
mortality but evidence that there is a possible and attainable State
of union between man and God ' (Occult Review, Jan. 1917).
It wouM take far too long to summarise ail the views expressed
at the Congress. One can give a translation of only some of them.
The first speaker was M me Darel, of Geneva. She said ï
4If Spiritualism is to be a religion, who are going to bé the means
of révélation of the new religion f According to you, it will be the
spirits of the dead, Now, ail your expérience has taught you that
the dead are not any way different from what they were when they
were on earth* . . . The dead in their new conditions are finite
mtittes, and coosequenily they are imperfect ; their knowledge
mlimitéei»and so are the possibilités limited of their getting into
communication with us ' (p. 14). She goes on to say that the
messages they give are of îittîe value, with no guarantee that they
do corne from the dead. 4It is useless, ladies and gentlemen, to
tsk them to give proofe of their identity/ (Poor Sir Oliver and
pocarSir Arthur I) *You wish to found a Scientific Religion ; let
m epropeseinstead4
4The Scientific Study of Spirit Phenomena.” *
The omet speaker was a Jewish rabbi, M, Alfred Bénésech. He
[33]
IS S P IR IT U A L IS M A R E L IG IO N i
admitted that w e can believe in a future life without becoming
Spiritualists. He gave as a reason for the opposition of Christian
Churches to Spiritualism the texts of the Bible that condemn
necromancy* But he, good Jew, will accept in the Bible only what
suits him : 4 If, some three thousand years ago, communication
between the living and the dead was forbidden, well, I, for my
part, do not hold myself bound to obey *(p. 30),
Laughter greeted his sally o f contemptuous reference to the
*Church’s monopoly of miracles " at Lourdes and L a Salette.
He ended by appealing for Spiritualism to maintain at ail times'
a critical and scientific character.
The rabbi was followed by a Frenchman, M . Vallabrègue.
*Every religious founder is a medium* Whether we like it or not,
the Sacred Scriptures are spirit writings/ Confucius, Mahomet,
St* Joan of Arc, ail owe their influence to Spiritualism* ' Can
Spiritualism be the universal scientific religion i The universal
religion will be Christianity, but this Christianity will be
Spiritualist/
After a eulogy of the 4civiüsing benefits f o f Christian Rome
with 4its miracles of love and prayer and the incomparable lives
of its saints/ he goes on to preach a doctrine of 4Deliverance,
Fraternity, Equality, Spiritual Life— the Kingdom of Heaven/
He seems not to hâve read the words : 4Blessed are they that hâve
not seen and hâve believed/ for he adds ; 4Thanks to Spiritualism
it is no longer Faith and Hope that open the gates of heaven, but
Science and Certitude* * * . Spiritualism is scientific and it is re­
ligions* . . * H ow could any man’s soûl be other than penetrated
by the highest religious feeling when he has constant proof that
the dear dead he thought were lost for ever still live, are there
beyond, speak to him, prove their identity in so many different
ways, whisper words that deceive not, give irréfutable proofs and
attest the perpetuity of existence." (Mme Darel must hâve
laughed scornfully, if silently, at this*) Finally, after contra-
dicting himself several times over, our good M* Vallabrègue ended
up on a note one suspected from the beginning as the dominant :
4The Church is dead. W hat we want now is the Church of
Humanity/ (Applause.)
Knowing something of the character and history of the next
speaker, I can imagine how he must hâve chuckled to himself
at the effusive déclamation of M* Vallabrègue. Right from the
outset M . le Chevalier le Clément de St. M arcq rises suprême
over the man-in-the-street for whom Christ came. St* Marcq
[ 3 3 ] c
S P IR IT U A L IS M
bas atl îhe assuredness o f the esoteric, the contempt o f the Initiate
far the uninitiated, coupled with a scorn of Christianity born of
inteilectual pride. * Man is content with the inferior food of
religions belief because the worîd in which he Hves is incapable of
providîng hîm with anything more solid, « , » Faith, that little
night-Kght so precious in days gone by because our ancestors had
no other light to enlighten their way in the dark shadows of the
past. . . « Spiritualism is to replace ail beüefs. ♦ , . In its pro­
gressive and limitless march it has against it the Priest ; for it, the
People. . . , What brought about the tremendous transformation
of primitive, revolutionary and spiritualist Christianity into a sub-
mîssive, conservative, Christ-worshipping Catholidsm was the
suppression of the Agape . * » and the substitution o f the Mass
. . . the growing Catholic Church replaced in power, behind the
Cross, the infernal band of dominating priests. * . . Spiritualism
provides the world with a universal scientific religion ; but it lays
stress as well on the divine right of the People ; it consecrates trium-
phant democracy in Humanity one and indivisible/ AU this and
much more, front a man whose writings 4under spirit guidance 4
dare not be published in this country,
M . Gabriel Delanne saîd there were too many religions already,
4Spiritîsm makes no philosophie spéculations ; it invents nothing ;
it merely proves. . . . It has no need of priests ; no need of any
form of worship/ One wonders what the National Spiritualists4
Union and the London Spiritualists4AlHance would reply to that,
The uselessness of expecting religious teaching of any definite
sort from the dead is because 4whatever spirit of the dead you
evoke» whatever religious dénomination he belonged to in life,
his attitude post mortem is always the same, provîded only he did
gaodS Thus M . Delanne, who, by the way, is a re-incarnationist
and a believer in the law of Karma.
Âaother re-incamationist, M . Phiüippe, stated bluntly and
firmly ; 4Strictly speaking, Spiritualism cannot be a religion. . „ .
Some of you say that Spiritualism has corne to confirm other
reJMons. AËow me to tell you—-timidly, in face of the statements
maoe to this effect that I Hstened to yesterday— that I reject that
affirmation. . . . W e do not know the true religion ; or, rather,
there is no need for such a religion, . . . I conclude by
stating, with emphasis ; No, Spiritualism is not ; no, Spiritualism
never wili be ; no, Spiritualism ought not to be a religion/ (Loud
applatise.)
A t last there was an EngUsh speaker, M r. Hanson Hey, of the
E 34 3
IS S P IR IT U A L IS M A R E L IG IO N i
National Spiritualists* Union, England. M r. Hey gave expression
to vague Pantheism, and recited a paraphrase of the Lord's Prayer
that only fell short of M rs. Eddy's for bathos. * There is too
much talk about Saviours and intercession. The truth is that
each man is as near to the heart of God as any other . . . each
man must find the way to God by himself/
One must pass over a number of addresses, some of which
were mere rhapsodies of Positivism or Pantheism.
The next speaker calling for attention was Mynheer Beversluis,
a minister of the Reformed Dutch Church. Mynheer's address
was an ' apologia pro religione sua/ Once he believed in strict
Calvinism. Then philosophy and science seemed to him to be
in conflict with religion. W hilst distressed with doubts he met
a friend who introduced him to Spiritualism. ' I thank God that
this friend led me to Spiritualism, although he himself abandoned
it later, and declared that it was a deceit of the devil. . . . Once I
believed that Jésus was the Second Person of the Trinity, born
supernaturally. . ♦ . Now I recognise in Him the suprême
example for ail men. . . . Once I believed in the existence of the
devil, the eternal enemy of God and of His elect ; now I know
he does not exist. . . . Once I believed in a Heaven of infinité
and indescribable happiness prepared for the elect ; and I know
there is an infinité spiritual world consisting of innumerable
spheres, of dark spheres for impure spirits, of shadowy spheres
for repentant spirits, of spheres of light for purified spirits. . . .
It is blasphemy to call Spiritualism a deceit of the devil ; rather
it is the dogmas of the various religions that are such/ There
will be no résurrection of the body. The Bible has no value :
4The word of God is given to us in the communications of happy
spirits . . . rather than in the writings o f unknown men who
lived on earth many centuries ago/
And yet, according to some of the speakers, e.g., M .Vallabrègue,
the Bible was ail written under spirit-guidance.
The height o f absurdity was reached by an Italian delegate,
Captain Volpi. This enthusiastic speaker acclaimed Spiritualism
as 'T h e Universal Religion without Priesthood and without
Worship/ He based his convictions on ' a book dictated by
Jésus Himself to the medium, Madame X ., which complétés the
work of Allan Kardec, and gives us definitively the Universal
Religion. . . . Jésus never pretended at any time that He was
God , . . * but declared that *from time immémorial divine
worship has been a mixture of superstitions dévotions and lying/
£ 35 I
S P IR IT U A L IS M
M r. E. W. Wallis, then editor of Light : 4 Spiritualism is, to
ray mind, the highest form of Protestantism ’ (p. 153)* ^
By its leaders Spiritualism is declared to be at once : impossible
as a religion ; the perfection of Christianity ; the utdîying element
of ail existing religions ; the only sdentific religion ; the one hope
of humanity ; the Universal Religion ; mere scientific investiga­
tion, and yet not scientific at ail because it deals with a subject
outside the realms of science*
It is trustworthy because scientific ; it is not trustworthy
because the dead know no better than ourselves* It is dogmatic,
yet it has no doctrines* It is the light of the world, yet ail con­
fusion. It has a positive message, yet 4the communications vary
almost inftruteîy.' The dear dead speak to us, yet 4it is useless
to ask them to give proofs o f their identity.’ It présents us with
certitude, yet *we shall never know with certainty what part the
unconsdous mind of the sitters may hâve in the communications.’
It is perfect Christianity, yet Christianity is the devil. And there
is no devil* It is, in fine, a Babel of confiicting tongues*
Nearly twenty years later—-in June 1932, to be exact— the Daily
Mail publîshed a two-column article purporting to présent the
findings of a committee o f ciergymen that had been *almost
continuously in session ’ from January 1931. This committee
busied itselt with 4the growth of Spiritualism and whither it is
leading us.’ The whole article had a two-column wide banner-
heading : Speritüalism as K ey to the B ible, with a sub-heading
4Clatm that it is aliy of the Churches.’
Further down the first column came a secondary heading which
prefaced the report of the committee’s secretary :
Clergy’s Inquiry
Is Spiritualism a M ain Part of C hristianity i
The reply to that inquiry was very vague. T he daim was made
in the report that : * To a distracted and profoundly materialistic
•world Spiritualism has corne to show that the teaching of the
Founder of Christianity is really true.*
Well, surely, no Christian needs any help from Spiritualism
to enabie him to beîieve that.
At die meeting, held in Ail Soûls’ Church Room, Langham
Place, where the committee was inaugurated, the main address
was that of the Rev. G. Vale Owen. M r. Owen was not présent
in person, so his address was read on his behalf.
4The Rev* G* Vale Owen refexred to the current issue o f the
C?6]
1S S P IR IT U A L IS M A R E L IG IO N i
Church of England Newspaper in which the Bishop of Ripon
expressed the view that4
4at any moment the Christian Church may
be faced by one of her great historié opportunities/'
44
4The great historié opportunity has been with us for the last
half century, and the Church has turned a deaf ear and bhnded
vision upon it because it is new ; in other words, unorthodox and
therefore not respectable/' said Mr* Vale Owen,
44
4You will hâve to throw your orthodox theology into the
melting pot and re-fashion it anew. For instance, the Christ of
our orthodox formulae will disappear and there will arise another
conception of Him of mueh greater majesty, more lovely and
more real than the conception we hâve been given of Him in our
creeds and articles ' (Liverpool Daily Post, Jan, 16, 1931),
One naturally asks, what greater majesty could be given to
Christ than that contained in the Nicene Creed : 4God of God,
Light of Light, Very God of very God, Begotten, not made,
Being of one substance with the Father ; by whom ail things were
made, Who for us men and for our salvation came down from
heaven *i
What 4greater majesty ' is accorded to Him by denying that
He is God-Incarnate equal to the Father and the Holy Ghost i
Is it adding to His majesty to place Him on a level with Mahomet,
Confucius or Buddha 4 Is it not rather a blasphemous dérision
of His majesty to put Him as one who rariks with such Lyceum
Marnai4 canonised saints as Sappho, Aspasia, Shelley and Thomas
Paine ' i (.Lyceum Manual, § 145),
4Oh, but a C h rist4
4more lovely/' '
Now, did the Rev* G . Vale Owen really believe that in deposing
Jésus Christ as the Redeemer of the world, the Victim ôf Calvary,
he was presenting the world, in the name of Spiritualisme vrith a
4lovelier ' and more loveable figure i
The honesty and mentality of a man who could recite the
Nicene Creed in his church Sunday after Sunday, and yet deny
on Spiritualistic platforms, and to the larger public of the Press,
the Divinity of Christ is something beyond reasonable com­
préhension*
And that point is one that gives the hall-mark of the evil nature
of Spiritualism— its attack, in many cases a savage attack, on the
Personality and Divinity of Jésus Christ* Thus stamped it
betrays the place of its origin»
Mr* Vale Owen might well say, at the close of his address, that
the change in our valuation of Jésus Christ through the adoption
[ 3 7 3
S P IR IT U A L IS M
of the Spiritualise valuation would mean * going through a bit of
mental hell/
Who wants to go through such 4mental hell ' to please a man
who puts his own ideas about life after death above the teaching
of Our Saviour Jésus Christ (
Jésus Christ said definitely that there would be no marrying or
giving in marriage in heaven. This statement is recorded in
thrm of the four Gospels. But M r. Vale Owen, having been
through his * mental hell/ knew better ; and so he informed the
world that his daughter Ruby, who died v/hen a few months old,
had grown to be a beautifuî angel, had married, and was now
teachmg her children to sing in the heavenly choir !
And that is the sort of teaching our English and American
Spiritualists expect us to b'elieve.
When ministers of a Christian Church can adopt that attitude
we need not be at ail surprised to find M r. Ernest W , Oaten,
* one of the world leaders of Spiritualism/ being reported as
saying î 4Spiritualism is leading to individualism in religion and
the break~up of authoritative churches * (Daily Mail, June 17,
193a).
Surely M r. E. W . Oaten behes his position as one of the
world leaders of Spiritualism by such a display of ignorance.
* ladividualtsm in religion * had a really good send-off when
Luther declared and proclaimed the Protestant principle of
Private Judgment, which was some time before 1848.
Ah, but * it is leading to the break-up of authoritative churches * 1
ï&iti
There is only one authoritative Church, the Catholic Church. "
And that is not breaking up.
We hâve heard that story from Spiritualists for close on a
htmdred years ; but the Catholic Church still présents to the
world a solid organisation that many fear and many respect.
Even Hitler (XWrite this in December 1943), despite the fact that
Italy has deserted him, and that German troops are in Rome, has
so far not dared to treat the tiny prmcipality of the Vatican State
as he treated Belgium, Holland, Denmark and Norway. He
knows he has to respect the neutrality of the Vatican.
And the Vatican represents the Catholic Church.
M r. Oaten is not alone amongst the prophets who hâve foreseen
the destruction of the Catholic Church. From even Italy the
Mme cry has gone forth. In Lace e Ombra, September 1916,
there was pubKshed a diary of spirit-messages which contained a
[38]
1S S P IR IT U A L IS M A R E L IG IO N î1
more emphatic prophecy than that o f M r, Oaten : “ Lo Spiritismo
conquisterà le vostre scuole, le vostre cattedre, le vostre accademie
+ . . conquisterà anche la Chiesa *
— Catholic schools, cathedrals,
universities, even the Catholic Church herself were to be overcome,
vanquished, destroyed by Spiritualism.
Well, Nero thought to destroy the Church ; Arius thought it ;
Luther thought it ; Henry V III and Bloody Queen Bess thought
it— and now a few Spiritualists who imagine themseives to be
big noises think it ; 1 Lo Spiritismo conquisterà anche la Chiesa/
declared the spirits themseives,
" L ’Eglise est morte— The Church is dead/ said M . Albin
Vallabrègue at the Geneva Congress (p. 27),
" Sa destinée est de disparaître/ declared the erotomane
St, Marcq.
One after another Spiritualists in England, in North and South
America, in various countries of Europe hâve repeated the parrot-
cry: Spiritualism will dominate the world. Speaking o f the
heresies that hâve seemed to threaten the existence of the Catholic
Church in the long course of her history a man of saner vision
wrote these words : " To hâve fallen into any of those open traps
of error and exaggeration which fashion after fashion and sect
after sect set along the historié path of Christendom— that would
indeed hâve been simple. It is aiways simple to fall ; there are
an infinity of angles at which one falls, only one at which one
stands. T o hâve fallen into any one of the fads from Gnosticism
to Christian Science would indeed hâve been obvious and tame.
But to hâve avoided them ail has been one whirling adventure ;
and in my vision the heavenly chariot Aies thundering through
the âges, the dull heresies sprawling and prostrate, the wild truth
reeling but erect ’ (G. K . C, in Orthodoxy, p, 185).
This threat to the Catholic Church is held as a bogey before us
because of a " New Révélation/ as Conan Doyle called it— not a
new Révélation by Almighty God, but a new message from a
dubious, unidentifiable, unhistoric spirit.
It really is a bit tiresome to hâve ail these occult movements
thrust upon our notice as something new. W e hâve had M me
Blavatsky's " New Theosophy ’ ; Sir Oliver Lodge’s ‘ New Cate-
chism ’ ; Lady Emily Lutyens’ " New Gospel ’ ; the Faithists’
*New Bible for a new Cycle ’ ; the new System of Hatha Yoga
of D r. O. Z» Ha’nish j the " New Révélation ’ of Conan Doyle—
and they are ail, oh I so old and so lifeless ; so old that they are
dead.
SPIRITUALISME
And the Catholic Church is so alive.
The strangest thing about ail these *New *movements is that
they base their newness on 4the Wîsdom of the Ancients *: on
Zorc&strianism, early Buddhism, Brahminic tantras, Gnostidsm
and the Old Testament,
How well St, PauPs words apply to those modem seekers after
aîiqmd novi, somethiag new ; how fittingly the Catholic Church
can address them to Spiritualists, Faithists, Theosophists, foi-
lowers of the Kosmon Light and the rest : 4Y e men of Athens,
I perceive that in ail things you are too superstitious, For passing
by and seeing your idols, I found an altar also on whîch
was written T o the ünknown God, What, therefore, you
worship, without knowing it, that I preach to you * (Acts xvii,
23-23).
And what the Catholic Church teaches is good, sound common
seose.
Throughout these articles only the views of non-Catholics hâve
been quoted, Thus the charge of Catholic préjudice has been
obviated,
Let us read what another non-Catholic has to say about the
Catholic faith.
/ Notwithstanding the obstinate preference the 4
4bulk of man-
Mnd ” always show for demonstrable errors over undeniable
pR»fs, the number of persons is daily increasing who hâve begun
to put a value upon mental coherency and to appredate the charm
o f a lexical position,
4It was common taîk at one time to express astonishment at the
extending influence of the Church o f Rome, and to wonder how
p®ople who went about unaccompanied by Keepers could submit
their reason to the Papacy. , . , It used to be thought a sufficient
explaaation to say either that the man was an ass or that it was
ail those Ritualists,'
Since those words were written by M r. Augustine Birrell in
Ms essay ^4The Via Media ' many more men o f talent, un-
accompanied by Keepers, hâve submitted to Rome— Papini,
Joergensen, Alfred Noyés, Arnold Luira, Ronald Knox, G , K ,
Chesterton, Christopher Lawson, Jacques Maritain, Douglas
WoodrufF, Henri Ghéon, George Glasgow and a thousand other
me» of hi^fa attainments. But, as Augustine Birrell goes on to
say ï *It is not the Roman ritual, however splendid, nor her
cérémonial, however spirituaily significant * (though this it was,
the présent writer submits, that brought the noted Satanist
U o ]
IS S P IR IT U A L IS M A R E L IG IO N i
Huysmans into the Church) * nor her System of doctrine, as well
arranged as Roman law and as subtle as Greek philosophy, that
makes Romanists nowadays.
4It is when a person of religions spirit and strong convictions
as to the truth and importance of certain dogmas— few in number
it may be ; perhaps only one, the Being of God— first becomes
fnîly alive to the tendency and direction of the most active opinions
of the day, when, his alarm quickening his insight, he reads as it
were between the lines of books, magazines and newspapers ;
when, struck with a sudden trépidation, he asks, “ Where is this
to stop i How can I, to the extent of my poor ability, help to
stem this tide of opinion which daily increases its volume and
floods new territory i n— then it is that the Church of Rome
stretches out her arms and seems to say ; “ Quarrel not with
your destiny, which is to become a Catholic. You may see
difficulties and you may hâve doubts. They abound everywhere.
You will never get rid of them. But I, and I alone, hâve never
coquetted with the spirit of the âge* I, and I alone, hâve never
submitted my creeds to be overruled by infidels. Join me,
acknowledge my authority, and you need dread no side attack and
fear no charge of inconsistency. Succeed finally I must, but
even were I to fail, yours would be the satisfaction of knowing
that you had never held an opinion, used an argument, or said
a word, that could fairly hâve served the purpose of your
triumphant enemy/f
4At such a crisis as this in a man's life, he does not ask himself,
How little can I believe i W ith how few miracles can I get off i
_he demands sound armour, sharp weapons, and, above ail,
firm ground to stand on— a good footing for his faith— and these
he is apt to fancy he can get from Rome alone.
* No doubt he has to pay for them, but the charm of the Church
of Rome is this ; when you hâve paid your price you get your
goods—-a neat assortment of cohérent, interdependent, logical
opinions/ .
Apply these words of a non-Catholic to Spiritualism. Can
Spiritualism truthfully say it has never ' coquetted with the spirit
of the âge ' with its changes from 4astral body ' to ethereal sub­
stance ' and * ectoplasm ’ i Can Spiritualism maintain that it
has *never held an opinion, used an argument, or said a word
that could fairly hâve served the purpose of the enemy/ with
its contradictory teachings of being Christian and denying the
Atonement ; of being a religion and not being one ? of being
[41]
SPIRITUALÏSM
Theosophicaî and mot Theosophicaî ; of being backed by the
Bible and denying tbe value of the Bible i
Does Spiritualism, in tbe face of its multiplied contradictions
betrween Engiish, American and Continental beliefs présent * a
neat assortment of cohérent,^interdependent, logical opinions*?'
The price you pay for admission to the Church of Rome means
the keeping of the Ten Commandments; humility o f intellect;
and possibly the loss of some friends, But having paid the price
you get the goods— and they are good.
Tour dead you leave in the Hands of God, knowing that He is
infinitely merdfuî, infinitely forgiving and infinitely good,
Whilst Christianity in general is the object o f attack by many
îeading Spiritualists, it is the Catholic Church in particular
which cornes in for the bulk o f their abuse,
The reason for îhis is obvions : the Catholic Church and the
Catholic Church aîone condemns Spiritualism outright. Other
Christian bodies may coquette with it ; her attitude remains
unchanged and adamant.
Professer C . E, M , Joad, in his Guide toModem Thought (p, 148),
remarks on the merely half-hearted way in which other reügious
bodies frown on Spiritualism, adding * the Catholics, as usual,
providing an exception to the prevailing anæmia of religions
conviction by downright denunciation of intercourse with what
they do not hesitate to call evil spirits and even démons and
demis.*
What else can Catholics beîieve it to be when it can lead so
many to abandon the true, historié Christian faith in Jésus Christ
as the Divine Redeemer, and can even prompt a Lyceum leader
to refer to the Almighty (as he did in a letter to the présent writer)
as 4that hydra-headed monster called the Christian God.*
>
Is this the *beautiful and lofty * teaching 1 that cornes from the
bigher spiritual sources * that Lady Doyle referred to in the
Sunday Dispatch i She added : * I f ail the fine sermons I hâve
ever heard were put together they could not compare with the
wonder of one of the marvellous discourses I hâve heard from the
bigher Spîrit people ' (Sunday Dispatch, Jan. n , 1931),
4Beautiful and lofty *
— with Jésus Christ no longer our Re­
deemer, and *a hyçira-headed monster * as the description of
Almighty God !
Be the aheged spirit utterances * beautiful and lofty ’ or not we
are entitled to ask : W h y should Spiritualism be looked upon
AS à R E L IG IO N i
[ 43]
IS S P IR IT U A L IS M A R E L IG IO N i
Spiritualiste are almost unanimous in declaring that Spiritualism
bas no creed, no dogmas, no formof worship. If ît has none of these
things it cannot be a religion. That fact was pointed ont very
emphatically at the Geneva Congress, It remains the professed
attitide of Psychic News.
Therefore, to attack Spiritualism by exposing its frauds, its
chicanery, its lying messages, does not constitute an attack on
anyone's religiousbeliefs,
What Spiritualists fail to réalisé is that t h e s a m e p h e n o m e n a
WHICH THEY CLAIM TO OBTAIN BY INTRODUCING A PSEUDO-RE-
ilG io u s ATMOSPHERE (singing * Nearer, m y God, to Thee f and
4Onward, Christian Soldiers 0 c a n b e o b t a i n e d a n d h â v e
BEEN OBTAINED WITHOUT THE INTRODUCTION OF ANY RELIGIOUS
ELEMENT.
Dr. Schrenck-Notging secured his alleged matérialisations with
Eva C. and Stanislawa P. independently of any suggestion of
religion at his séances, What is more, he stressed that point
himself in his book Matérialisations phânomene. D r, Carlo
Akona also calls attention to the fact, and adds : 4Che sia possibile
ottenere fenomene medianici di grande intensità senza lepreghiere,
i canti, le animate conversagioni sopra suggetti mistici era da
molti anni dimostrato ~ * It was proved years ago that it is possible
to obtain mediumistic phenomena of great power without prayers,
hymns, or lively discussions on mystical subjects/
M r. Harry Price, Founder and Director of the National Labora-
tory of Psychical Research, provides supplementary confirmation
of multiform phenomena obtained without any religions element
being even suggested.
In his book Leaves from a Psychisfs Case-Book he gives inter-
esting accounts of séances held with the Schneider brothers (Rudi
and Willy) in M unich, Braunau and London, A t these séances
instead of hymns and prayers we read of noise, chatter, music-hall
songs and folk-sings, with a good chorus,
I quote from M r. Price’s illuminating volume,
At Munich : 4The first portion of the sitting was not very
successful, and after requests from the medium (entranced) for
more noise, talking, etc/ . , . (p. 32).
*The next stage of the sitting was remarkable for some well
defined phenomena. , , , After repeated requests from the
medium for more noise, talking, etc/ . . . (p. 22).
In the record of another séance at Munich we read : 49,26.
We recommence singing and the medium beats time to the music
[ 4 3 3
SPIR ITU A L.ISM
by bâ&gmg his fists on my thighs. Curtains still agitated. Cur-
tains twisted by some invisible agency* Luminous “ angel”
sways tip and down and nearlyfalls. We cry out “ Bravo 1 Otto/"
Thank y&u, Otto/" etc/ {p. 36)*
At a laïer sitting : * 10.07 ♦ . » Circle commences singîng
" Katharina ” (which bas a fascinating iilt to it) ’ (p, 44).
Thete follows the account of the sittings held in London when
WÜly Schneider's brother Rudi gave a ' Fraud-proof manifesta"
don at the National Laboratory for Psychical Research/ Captain
Noël Gow gave his report on it in Light (April 27, 1929) ; in the
course of it he says the sitting *was decidcdly unæsthetic, and
dignity was conspicuous by its entire absence* * * . We ail sang.
ît m
as a grotesque noise ; but it apparently served some necessary
purpose. In low, whispered, guttural German, the voice of Rudi,
the agent for *
* Olga/' the presiding intelligence, asked for ail to
sing, and we obeyed loyally. u Katharina ** and HValenda ”
were her two favaurites. Somettmes we sang unaccompanied, at
other rimes with gramophone aceompaniment. Both methods
were equally cacophonous ' (pp. 63-64).
M r. Harry Price States lhat the phenomena produced by Willy
and Rudi Schneider 1hâve împressed both British and Conti­
nental sdentists * and hâve provided a subject * about which scores
of articles and several books hâve been written/
The same remarks can be made regarding the phenomena
obtained through the mediumship of Eva C . and Stanislawa P.
I myself hâve read accounts of them in Die Uebersinnliche Welt, De-
cember, 1913, by Dr. Josef Peter ; in Luce e Ombra (a sériés of
articles Jan.-April 1914), by D r. Carlo Alzona; and French
reports. In none of these is there any indication that the séances
were in the süghtest way religious meetings, or that the séances
were other than mere experiments in psychical xesearch.
If ail these alleged phenomena, ranging from bell-ringing,
curtain-bilJowing and handkerchief-manipulation to partial or
complété matérialisations, can be produced as a form of leger-
demain, are we to condude that il, instead of 4Katharina ' and
* Valenda/ the sitters had sung *Onward, Christian Soldiers/ or
*Nearer, my God, to Thee * the proceedings would hâve been a
religious service of the kînd advertised as <Church Services ' in
SpirituaHst newspapers i
*Let us approach this, as far as possible, in a rehgious spirit/
said Sir Arthur Conan Doyle at Ada Besinnett’s flying-tambourine
exhibition in total darkness, * Leds sing 4
4Katharina,n * says M r.
1S S P IR IT U A L IS M A R E L IG IO N ?'
Harry Price, * * ♦ And M r, Price got the better value for his
money,
One can only conclude that we must agréé with that ardent
Spirituaîist M . Phillippe, whose final words at the Congress met
with Moud applause ' (vifs applaudissements) : 4 ï say with ail
my soûl î No, Spiritualism is not ; no, Spiritualism never will be ;
no, Spiritualism ought not to be a religion/
[ 4 5 ]
ÏIÏ
D EA TH -H EA V EN v. THE SUM M ER LAND p* THE
BLUE ISLAND
Despite îhe emphatic déclaration of M* PhilHppe, and leaving out
of considération the findings of the Deuxième Congrès Spirite
Universel, which were 1that the question needs further study (la
question a besoin d'être encore étudiée) (p. 300), let us assume
that Spirituaîism is a religion, and not merely a racket or scientific
research—What has rr to tell us of the world to come i
Seeing that its beliefs are professedly ail based on the informa­
tion provided by those who hâve * passed over/ we may surely
expect to get some definite, detailed and accurate information
on that p oin t
After ail, according to SpirituaHsts themselves, they are not
angels nor deviis who manifest at séances, but our own friends
and relations who hâve passed over the great divide. In the
Congress Report the late E* W* W allis, then editor of Light, used
aîmost those very words*
I quote from the Report (p* 183) î * Les entités de l'au-delà
ne sont ni anges ni démons, ce sont des êtres hum ains/
Surely, then, those, at least, of them who were SpirituaHsts
whüst Hving on this earth, knowing the keen anxiety of their
friends srill on earth to leam something definite about the life
after death would be only too ready to supply the information*
D o we get that definite information i We certainly do not*
Reams and teams of paper hâve been used up and wasted in
the pretence of providing descriptions of Hfe in th e4 Summerland '
or m e 4Bltie îslan d / Fantastic, fanciful and falladous accounts
hâve been pubHshed ail purporting to be spirit com m unierions ;
btit from their discrepanaes and contradictions one can only
condude that these messages are not the product of any human
soûl that had reached Heaven*
î am perfectly aware thaï ail sorts of excuses are made for the
variations and discrepanaes in these accounts.
[46]
DEATH— HEAVEN
We are told, for instance, by way of explanation, that the spirit
had only recently passed over ; and, of course, being only on one
of the lower planes, could not be expected to give an accurate
account of life in the au-delà.
Or, as a further explanation, the excuse is offered that he 4may
be in afog-bomd beltf and can remain there for centuries apparently
without knowing he is dead ' {Heritage of the Dead),
Mr* D . Conan Doyle, writing in the Sunday GraphieandSunday
News (Nov. 18,1934), replies to the question :
*4»— D o ail those who pass on know at once that they are
dead (
4No» It is an interesting fact that many men and women who
hâve passed to the next world hâve no idea as to their true position.
Many think that they are dreaming, though they cannot under-
stand the reality of everything.
4They are often very indignant when they are informed that
they are 4
4dead,” and in some cases they are unable to réalisé their
condition for years/
Or, again, sudden and tragic death, according to the editor of
Psychic News (Nov. 27, 1943, p. 4), may resuit in the dead not
knowing they are dead— and so we cannot expect any accurate
information from them. M r. Barbanell, the editor in question,
says : 4W e are becoming famüiar with many cases of “ dead ”
airmen, for example, who stili go on flying their aéroplanes and
working at their aerodromes, thinking aü the time that something
must be wrong with their former earthly associâtes who are unable
to see or hear them/
In his account of the George Vak'antine sittings of 1927, M r. H .
Dennis Bradley tells us of a ‘ spirit ' who announced himself as
Harold Howard. 4Harold Howard ' 4said he was killed in the
war î in an advance 4
4over the top.” He told me that it was at
least twenty minutes before he reaüzed that he had passed over.
He stated that for this twenty minutes, although his body was
lying on the field, he went on with the attacking party thinking
he was still alive. He then found that those around him could not
see him, and he went back and viewed his body lying dead *
(. . . And Aftert pp. 80-81).
The Rev* G . Vale Owen, in his lecture on * Life Beyond the
Veil/ stated th at4Death was a perfectly natural process of which
nobody need hâve any fear. It was exactiy the same thing as
falling asleep, with the exception that the cord which held the
spirit to the material world was broken, and the sleeper woke up
[ 4 7 3
S P IR IT U A L IS M
in the new world, where his friends would be waitîng to receive
him, and to teach him his way about in spirit life/
Mr, Vale Owen made no mention of any difficulties due to
fog-bound belts or to peopîe kiUed tragically not knowing they
were dead. His lecture gave one the impression that men who
were kilied in action found communication with this world easy :
* The spirits of young men who fell in the war told him not to be
afraid of death. *
*When you get up here,” they said, ” you wili
get the shock of your life, because you will find out you are just
as you were/'’ r
We are led, then, to ask : What realîy is the explanation
Spiritualists wish us to accept to account for these conflicting
statements i
Accotding to newspaper reports, well-known peopîe die and
aimost immediately after their death médiums in varions parts
o f the world claim to be in communication with the spirits of
these notabilités,
Immediately after the death of Edgar Wallace a medium claimed
to hâve had a message from him, The genuineness of the message
was denied by Mrs, Wallace on the grounds that if it were really
her husband who had given it his fîrst concern would hâve been
not for his dog, as the medium stated, but for herself.
In his Lmves from a Psychùfs Case-Book M r, Harry Price, in
the chapter * Conan Doyle “ cornes back n * (p, 97), States 1
*At 343 on the afternoon of July 7,1930, a press agency rang me
up and informed me that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle had 4
4corne
back ” and manifested through a medium in the Midlands—
exactly 6§ hours after the passing of the great apostle of
spiritualism, ♦ . .
4* . . Within forty-eight hours o f Doyle’s death I had received
seveateen reports to the effect that Sir Arthur had “ returned n
through médiums in Vancouver, Paris, New York, Belgium, Italy,
and other parts of the world. * .-. On one day it appears that
Sir Arthur was at Wilkes Barre, Pa,, and Lyons (France) at
practically the same moment/
Raymond Lodge is aîleged to hâve begun to communicate with
his family eieven aays after he met with a tragic and sudden death
in the last war.
Miss Estelle Stead, by her own account in The Blue Isîand
(p. aevi}, talks with her father fourteen days after he was drowned
when the Titanic went down.
4Jimmy Sparrow/ a cockney boy, aged ten, who was knocked
[48]
D E A T H — H E A YE N
down and killed by a lorry in the East End of London, spoke, a
few weeks after he was killed, to the editor of Psychic News at
Hannen Swaffer's cirde (Psychic New$> Jam 6, 1943),
So it looks as if the 4sudden and tragic death ' explanation îs
a very poor one ; and the 4fog-bound b e ltf is even weaker j and
if Conan Doyle cottld manifest 6| hours after passing over,
well, the excuse of * the shortness of time *does not hold water
at ail*
But what are we to think of W . T , Stead, whose sudden and
tragic death presented no difficulty to his realising, within 4a few
seconds/ that he had passed over i 41 was stiil so near the earth
that I could see everything going on there, Where I was I could
see the wrecked ship, the people, the whole scene ; and that
seemed to pull me into action— I could help 1 ♦ * » and so in a
few seconds— though I am now taking a long time to tell you,
it was only a few seconds really— I found myself changed from
the helpless State to one of action ; h e l p f ü l not helpless— I was
helpful, too, I thinkf (The Elue Island, p* 38)»
Raymond Lodge, W* T . Stead, Conan Doyle, Jimmy Sparrow,
Edgar Wallace— ail manifesting so soon after death : what are we
to conclude i On the plea of the shortness of time that elapsed
between the death of three of these important witnesses and the
time when they first got into communication with their friends
on earth, are we to disregard ail that they are alleged to hâve said
about the Blue Island or the Summer Land i
I put the question from the standpoint of Spiritualists—
personally I do not believe that any one o f the accounts furnished
is genuine and authentic» But the Spiritualist has to face the
difficulty. In the matter of psychical (or mental) phenomena he
has no canon of iudgment— he has no more reason for denoundng
one medium as fraudulent than he has for accrediting others»
If a medium in the Midlands daim s to hâve had a spirit message
from the defunct Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 6| hours after hxs
passing over, is that mediumls daim to be rejected in favour of a
fabulous, unidentifiable 4Pheneas f who is alleged to hâve lived
before Abraham and who gives his messages through the medium-
ship of Sir Arthur's widow i
M ust we rely only on the accounts furnished by unidentifiable
* guides r who masquerade as H igh Priests of Egypt, unknown
Red Indians, or the prophet M alachy using the nom-de-séance of
* Imperator *i
These are not vague rhetorical questions ; they concern the
[ 4 9 ] d
SP IR IT U A L IS M
vexed problems of authenticity, genuineness and identity. They
aie crucial points»
However, let us take it that these oîder f guides/ philosophers
and * spirit ’ friends did pass over thousands of years ago. They
ought, by now, to know something definite, detaiied and reliable
about the conditions in which they now live. How does the story
told by the old arrivais compare with that of the new arrivais i
Strangely enough, in view of the excuse put forward to cover
the dîscrepandes and contradictions in spirit messages, vis. that
the new-arrival had not been long enough in the spirit-world to
be able to communicate accurately, the description given to the
Doyle family by the ante-Abrahamanîc ‘ Pheneas’ tallies to a
great extent with that given by the aileged Raymond Lodge.
' But that just goes to show how accurate the two accounts
must be ! *
Does it i Drop your insularity, my good Spiritualist friend.
Read the 4messages ' given to Continental Spiritualists and to
many in the United States of America. They don’t tally with
the * messages ’ given for British consumption.
Once again I refer my readers to the Report of the Second
International Spiritualist Congress. I do so because that Congress
concemed itself to a great extent with the question of the trust-
nmrthinessof spirit-messages. An intelligent study of that Report
shows the marked différence between British and Continental
ideas of the future life.
However, since this book is intended for English-speaking
readers we shall confine our study of the life-to-come to the
accounts provided by English-speaking médiums and their
English-speaking Red Indians, Arabs and Egyptians.
We ask these spirit-guides :
Under what conditions does the soûl survive i and what is
life like in the worid to corne i
A s soon as that question is put disagreements, and disputes
even, arise. And this is strange and puzaling.
Suppose a hypothetical inhabitant of Mars were to arrive on
this globe of ours, would we not expect him to be able to tell us
something definite, something detaiied and spécifie about the
conditions of life amongst the Martians i
' And suppose that this good Martian was found to be unable to
give any really definite M ormation as to the Martians’ mode of
life (the food they eat ; their occupations ; their style o f houses ;
and so on, and so on), but could merely reply that they did not
[ 5 0 ]
D E A T H — H EAVEN
eat méat ; their occupations were *more vital ' than ours ; their
buildings were, well, buildings, what would we conclude i
Suppose, further, that other Martians arrived and that they,
in reply to our questioning, gave reports entirely contradictory
of that supplied by the first arrivai, and disagreeing also amongst
themselves, would we not be justifiedin wondering not only which
of them to beüeve, but also whether they ail came from the same
place i And perhaps we might even be justified in disbelieving
whether any of them came from Mars,
Yet that is the State of things regarding the alleged spirit-
messages so readily believed in by Spiritualists. And we Catholics
are reckoned to be the ones who are credulous 1 These wonder-
fully well-informed people who know so much about heaven—
yes, the terra 4heavenf is used by them sometimes—-seem to
sneer at the Catholic ideas about the life after death. They refer
contemptuously to the conception of what they call th e4orthodox
heaven/ The Rev, William Stainton Moses started the fashion
just on seventy years ago. Since then Spiritualists of a less
educated type hâve repeated the adjectival phrase parrot-Hke,
Some of them do so without knowing the meaning of *orthodox/
It means 4sound opinion or doctrine/ And just as we find them
incapable of understanding the real meaning of 4creed f or
♦ doctrine * or ' dogma/ so we find editors of Spiritualist news-
papers writing about 4f aise orthodox teaching' (Psychic News,
Nov. 27, 1943),
Stainton Moses, the Lyceum Marnai, and M r. Ralph Shirley
ail hâve their tilt at what they term * the orthodox heaven/ This
*orthodox heaven *
— though where they get the idea of its being
orthodox is a puzzle*—is a *psalm-singing heavenr (Lyceum
Marnai), a heaven 4of angels with harps sitting on damp douds *
(Ralph Shirley)^
And the joke is agaînst them,
The Lyceum Marnai abounds in doggerd verse describing angel
choirs ; the Rev, Vale Owen left it on record that his daughter
Ruby is training her children to sing in the heavenly choir ; and
Mr, Shirley himself cites a passage from The Letters of a Living
Dead Man (a book that meets his entire approval) in which a
wandering soûl in the world to corne is carried off * to some
similitude of the orthodox heaven * (Occult Review, April rgi^,
P* *9 3 )* -
Stainton Moses speaks of 4 the m
ass of contradictions in the
messages/ and from the point of view of the alleged daims of
[51]
SP IR IT U A L IS M
Spiritualism these contradictions are tinfortunately most marked
in the descriptions of life after death— descriptions furnished,
mark you, by people who hâve * passed over/
Stainton Moses might interject, were he alive to-day, that it
is 4the material heaven ' that lias gone with the advent of Spîritual-
ism* But bas it {
The Stimmer Land, or Heaven of the Spiritualists, is nothing
if not material ; it is so very material that its very distance from
the earth can be measured— that is, if we accept the assurances
of those who prétend to know. But even this matter of the
distance o f the Summer Land from our poor earth is not without
its contradictions :
The ‘ spirits ' informed Professer Robert Hare that the spirit
world lies between 60 and rao miles from the terrestrxal surface
(Experimental Investigation, p. 87).
The operative word here would seem to be 4lies/ because the
spirits also informed M r. J, H* M cKenzie that 1 the Summer
Land ' is 41,350 miles from earth ' (Spirit Interconrsef p. 203)*
However, the différence between 120 miles and 1,350 need not
trouble us because other visitors from the au-delà informed
Andrew Jackson Davis that the Summer Land 4is a belt of land
extending above the earth two-thirds of the distance from the
son (Moming Lectures, pp. 349-350). That makes it about
60,000,000 miles away 1
Anyway, the Summer Land is somewhere. It has a more or
less geogxaphical position ; perhaps not suffidently accurately
charted for aeronautical navigation— but there it is.
We next want to know how the departed soûl reaches the
Summer Land, be the distance 60 miles (Hare) or 60,000,000 miles
(Davis) ; and how does it fare when it gets there i
Well, we really don't know. Some of the revenants d*outre-
tom
Jbetell us one story, some tell a taller.
The Rev. G . Vale Owen tells us that we simply fall asleep, * and
the sleeper waked up in the new world, where his friends would
be waiting to receive him/
Air Ghief-Marshal Sir Hugh Dowding offers for our belief a
message alîeged to hâve been received *through the pencil of
Colonel Gascoigne’s daughter, Mrs. Hill* (Sunday Pictorial,
Jtrne 6,1943). Colonel Gascoigne is dead, but he has organised
the transmission of messages from the Summer Land to earth.
One message given in that issue purports to corne from * the
driver of a tank in Libya/ A t the end of a supposed description
Csa]
DEATH—HEAVEN
ofhowthewholecrewof thetankcam
etoréalisétheyweredead—
4He said to m
e, 44 Why, Alf, we're dead now/f . . . So we both
laughed, not caring, yet caring very much *
—we are told that
the driver thanked his officer and askedif ail were safej and *he
said, 44 Yes, and now we#
d best be going, but where to I don't
know,"
* So we just trudged on after him without taking any particular
direction, and soon we came to quite a different country ; I was
glad to leave the desert behind and be in wooded country again.
We were joined by others of our own forces and others of ail kinds.
*Suddenly I felt so tired that I lay down in the shade o f a big
tree covered with fruit, and that is the end of my first venture,
ï canh Write any more to-night/
The alleged spirit of W . T , Stead gives a more detailed account :
* The scene on the boat at the time of striking was not pleasant,
but it was as nothing to the scene among the poor soûls newly
thrust out of their bodies, ail unwillingly. It was both heart-
breaking and repellent, And thus we waited— waited until ail
were collected, until ail was ready, and then we moved our scene
to a different land.
4It was a curious journey that. Far more strange than any-
thing I had anticipated. W e seemed to rise verticaüy at terrifie
speed. As a whole we moved, as if it were on a very large plat-
form, and this was hurled into the air with gigantic strength and
speed, yet there was no feeling of insecurity. » * . We were quite
steady. I cannot tell how long our journey lasted, nor how far
from the earth we were when we arrived, but it was a gloriously
beautiful arrivai ' (The Bîue hland, pp. 39-40),
But Sir Oliver Lodge has a version of his own. He gravely
informed us in Raymond that the flight of the soûl is not left to
die forces of gravitation. The fond fancies of childhood are ail
ruthlessly dispelled by the discoveries o f science. W e do not
mount to heaven as glorious rays of light, nor as spirit-forms
clothed in gleaming robes of white ; we do not mount on a plat-
form * hurled into the air with gigantic strength and speed '—
no . . . we go as smells,
The human body, says the inventor of the theory of ether,
contains 4etheric substance f which is dissîpated at death, but is
gathered together by 4a spirit doctor who cornes round/ This
etheric substance of the human body is transmitted to the next
world by the gases and smells of putréfaction.
(Query : Can smells travel 60 million miles s1
)
[ 5 3 ]
SP IR IT U A L IS M
When the spirit doctor has gathered the smells and gases
together (one supposes he knows which belong to each of the
hundreds and thousands of bodies that are either buried in the
ground, drowned at sea, cremated in cemeteries, burnt at funeral
ghats or exposed on ' towers of silence * each day throughout
the world) then some of the new arrivais 4dwell in a fog-bank and
can remain there for centuries, apparently without knowing they
are dead ' (Heritage of the Dead) ; many, because o f 4years of false
orthodox teaching, do not réalisé they hâve passed on ' (Psychic
News, Nov. 27, 1943). Some are given a choice of the sphere in
which they wish to dwell (The Voices— by Admirai Moone). Some
are given spirit garments which they soon change for their old
kit (Raymond)* Some are left with their ‘ old rusty black frock
somewhat out o f date * (Letters of a Living Dead Man), just as
W* T* Stead found that his father was * dressed as I had always
known him * (The Elue Island) ; his suit, also, must hâve been
4somewhat out of date/
* In clothîag/ the pseudo W . T . Stead informs us, ' we are
practically as on earth, and as there are so many races here you
can weli understand the general appearance of this land is most
unusual, and in an odd way particularly interesting and amusing '
(The Elue Island, p* 65).
One can quite imagine how amusing it must be to see those
who were drowned whilst bathîng, wearing perhaps no costume
at ail, competing, in the matter of dress, with the Kavirondo from
Uganda, or the Austraüan bushman or some o f the tribes from the
Belgian Congo*
It may be comforting to some— to the gourmands or the gourmets
— to know that on arrivai they can get a meal right away. A t
least4W* T . Stead ' says so : ' Everything and everybody seemed
to be quite normal— quite as on earth* W e went out together
and had refreshment at once *(p. 47)*
*A t once/ mark you* Isn't that fine ! Not content with that,
foüowing 4a long walk together along the shore * they ‘ arrived
at length at a huge building, tircular and with a great dôme. . * .
W e stayed there some time and had refreshment very similar, it
seemed to me, to what I had always known, only there was no
flesbfood '(p* 50). . * . *Looked upon as a meal— a lunch out— it
was the longest one I hâve ever known *(p. 55).
Poor Stead seems not to hâve got into a first-class eating-place
for he refers to the refreshments as being very similar to what he
had always known ; whereas other spirit messages say that they
C5 4 3
D E A T H — H EAVEN
hâve food over there, but 4Not in your sense but much nicer.
Such lovely essences and wonderful fruits, and other things
besides, which you don't hâve on earth/ But the cigars and
whiskey, manufactured 4out of essences and ethers and gases *
of which Raymond tells, are apparently provided for ail.
And what is life like in the Summer Land or the Blue Island i
Despite the assurances repeated a hundred thousand times over
at séances that everyone is 4happy, very happy— much happier
than when they were on earth/ a tiny glimmer of iogic and of
the sense of justice betrays itself occasionally in Spiritualistic
writings ; hence we find admissions here and there that some are
not happy because their lives on earth were evil. Others are
unhappy as a resuit of their false *orthodox * reh'gious belîefs.
The pseudo-Stead provides us with a saddemng thumb-nail
sketch of many whose unhappiness starts from the moment of
death : 4A matter of a few minutes in time only, and here were
hundreds of bodies floating in the water— dead— hundreds of
soûls carried through the air, alive ; very much alive some were.
M any, realising their death had corne, were enraged at their
powerlessness to save their valuables. They fought to save what
they had on earth prised so much ' (The Blue Island, p. 39),
Letters of a Living Dead Man présents the picture of an unfortu-
nate, hapless, helpless woman who, when on earth, lived in one
boarding-house after another in the United States. This un­
happy soûl fanded she was still living in a boarding-house, and,
in conséquence, was most misérable.
She was met on the astral plane by the spirit who communicated
the Letters of a Living Dead Man, and he attempted to console her,
asking her to tell him her troubles.
44
4W hy, I hardly know where to begin,” she answered. 4
4ï hâve
found so many unpleasant things."
44
4What, for instance i "
44
4W hy, horrid people. I remember that when I lived in ---------
I sometimes told myself that in the other world I would not be
bothered with boarding-house landiadies and their careless hired
girls ; but they are just as bad here— even worse." . . .
44
4Is the table good in your boarding-house i " I asked.
44
4No, it is worse than at the last one."
44
4Are the meals scanty i "
44
4Yes, scanty and bad, espedally the coffee."f
Now, can any thoughtful, earnest Christian who believes in an
infinitely good God really be convinced that the Almighty would
[ 5 5 ]
S P IR IT U A L IS M
allow a hapless soûl to go wandering in heaven sufferîng from
delusions Hke that Especially the coffee/— Let the reader ask
himself honestly i does the story ring true i
We are told regarding the author of this book that he was ' a
weli-known American lawyer, who was also a profound student of
philosophy, an author, and a man whose ideals and enthusiasms
were, in the words of the transcriber, an inspiration to everyone who
knew bina.’ W e are told also that ' It is obvious that the writer
took over with him to the other side the keen intelligence of an
investigator as well as the impartiality of the judicial mind*
(Ralph Shirley in the Occult Review, VoL X IX , No* 4, pp* 185-6).
In praise of the book the same article says : 4 Compared with it,
ail previous records seem trivial and commonplace/
Unfortunately the incident of the deluded and misérable
boarding-house lady is not the only one which the book contains
to contradict the platttudinous * I am happy, very happy *of the
common drcles* Not everybody is happy over there.
However, to enable us to guard against this unhappiness there
are wamings uttered by this anonymous well-known American
lawyer. One is : 4Don't look back/ a warning against 4the
terrible curiosity to go back and look upon that body which we
once believed to be ourselves/
The other warning is : 4Beware of deathbed repentance and
its after-harvest of morbid memories. * * * He who dwells upon
his sins in his last hour will live them over and over again in the
State beyond the tomb/
Now, what evidence do these statements provide of ' the keen
intelligence 1of the author or communicator in these two wamings i
Does not everybody know that within a few days after burial the
remalns of a human body are not an object anyone would wish
to gaçe uponî* Who would be so consumed by curiosity as
to wish to retum to this world to see a mass of corruption and
worms i
HappÜy this picture of lost soûls in rusty black frocks remaining
ha a dream-state that is so desolate, or of soûls that return to pore
over the corruption of cemeteries is not the only side there is to
the descriptive spirit accounts we are vouchsafed of the Summer
Land. There are other accounts of the lower spheres that vie
with the so-called orthodox materialist descriptions of helh But
let us look now on the brighter side*
Thanks to the information supplied by an Arabian sage who
lived before the time of Abraham, and to that supplied by other
[ 56]
D E A T H — H EA V EN
' guides/ like * L ily/ conveyed through the mediutnship o f Lady
Conan Doyle, and by Claude Bamber, we hâve the assurance tfaat
whilst we here await the time for our passing over there are ffiends
of ours busy building houses for us in the Summer Land.
Little do people dream as they go to the pictures or to the
theatre or to their work that ail the time they are intent on their
amusements or pre-occupied with their business, architects and
bricklayers in the next world are planning our future homes for
us in préparation for our arrivai.
These homes are houses of red brick, and the bricks are made
by extracting substances from the air with a machine like a dynamo;
and the houses are built in *gardens where the flowers tum towards
you as you enter, or, in case they don't like you, tum away/
They ' hâve rooms as on earth, but so much lovelier. The
colours are so much daintier, and the fabrics so much more
délicate/
The spirits eat and sleep : there are cigars and whiskey, but
no beds—*Spirits . . . repose on a veivety kind of grass/
Whilst the ideals of the Tempérance Societies (Band of Hope,
and so on) are rejected those of the Vegetarian Societies are
respected. 4W e hâve no méat here/ but the rest of the food is
4much nicer *than that on earth : 4lovely essences and wonderful
fruits, and other things besides/
It seems such a shame that the hapless boarding-house tenant
was left so long without finding this out ; the 4lovely essences *
would hâve compensated for the vile coffee.
One only wonders why there should be so much activity on the
part of the architects who plan the houses so very anxiously and
of the men who do the bricklaying and tend the dynamos when
other ' spirits * assure us that they hâve only to 4breathe forth
the desire and the thing is created/ Fancy ail those workmen
wasting their ehergies so î bricklayers, painters, slaterers, the
men who lay the terraces and'dig the oblong ponds, the plumbers,
the gardeners, the carpenters and the joiners, and the upholsterers
who handle the délicate fabrics. How inconsiderate on the part
of the ' spirits * not to * breathe forth the desire * for what they
want and so save ail that trouble.
Perhaps the explanation is that we ail carry on in the Summer
Land with our earth-time avocations, because we are told that
doctors go on with their medical work— midwifery and testing
smells for the identification of bodies— and writers still write.
Medical work and literary pursuits are pleasant occupations, but
[ 5 7 3
S P IR IT Ü A L IS M
do servants still hâve to sweep and clean, hâve they to wash ttp
when the superior *spirits ' hâve drunk their whiskey and eaten
their ' wonderful fruits/ or hâve had the longest meals they ever
knew in the domed buildings of the Elue Island i
O f course it is not only the doctors and writers who are able to
carry on with their professions. Nor is it ail work and no play.
4 It seems that ail the senses are provided for here. The chief
work on this island is to get rid of unhappiness at parting from
earth des, and therefore, for the time being, the individual is
allowed to indulge in most of eartb/s pleasures. There are
attractions of ail îdnds, . . . Whatever the person's particular
interest on earth has been, he can follow it up and indulge in it
here for the présent. Ail mental interests and almost ail physical
intereste can be continued here. . * .
4There are houses given over to book study, music, to athletî-
dsm of ail kinds. Every kind of physical game can be practised—
yoti can ride on horseback, you can swim in the sea. You can
hâve aU and any kind of sport which does not involve the taking of
life/
In case the reader shouîd wonder how 4athleticism of ail kinds *
— cycle racing ; the 500 yds. and the mile ; dirt-track racing ;
football ; cricket; and so on— can be practised in a house, I
must point out that these houses are larger than H ider's Chan-
cellery (that was) with its frontage of 800 yards.
During that longest meal he had shortly after his arrivai W . T .
Stead had explained to him by his father the purpose served by
the varions *houses/
* He explained to me that the place we were then in was a
temporary rest house, one of many, but the one most used by
newly arrived people *(p. 55).
It was not only a house ; it was a building. 4There were other
buildings used for the same purpose as well as for other purposes ;
by that I mean that there was more than one of each.
4These different houses were not ail alike, they varied con-
siderably in outward appearance, but there is no need to describe
each. To calî it a big building is suffident, and by that you must
understand a place like your muséum or your portrait gallery, or
your large hôtels . . . anythîng you like, and it is near enough.
But it was not fantastic in any way and had no peculiarities,
therefore by 4
4building ” I mean a building only *(pp. 55-56),
So m m , gentle reader, after that masterly description, you can
understand how houses can be 4given over to athleticism of ail
[ 5 8 ]
D E A T H — H EAVEN
kinds because these houses are ' buildings/ and by ' buildings'
the spirit of M r. W , T , Stead means buildings,
The musician and the man with literary leanings are well
provided for : * M usic belongs to this land/ * Then there is the
bookworm, He, too, finds intense satisfaction in his new-found
fadlities. Knowledge is unlimited— Works of priceless value,
lost upon earth, are in existence here ' (p, 57),
So the ^scholar may look forward to finding the missing papyri
of the Egyptian Book of the Dead, the treasures of the libraries
of ancient Alexandria and of modem Louvain,
One little point that will appeal to the Rockefellers, the Morgans,
the Rothschilds, the Leverhulmes— ' The keen business man on
earth whose only interest is in making his business successful
will also find scope for his ability, He will corne in contact with
the house of organisation, and he will find himself linked up with
work transcending in interest anything that he could hâve im-
agined for himself whilst on earth *(pp, 57-58).
Not only those who are seriously concerned with their sport
or music or books or business hâve every means of being 4happy,
happier than on earth/ but larking larrikins are not left without
their opportunities for fun, The Rev, G . Vale Owen, in his
lecture on *The L ife beyond the Veil/ declared that *The spirits
were no more straight-laced than mortal créatures, and were just
as fond of humour, A group o f young soldiers told him that
they had visited his old church at Orford, and stayed there through-
out the service ; and when he asked them 4What did you do
about the collection i ' they only laughed and repiied, 4Oh, we
eut that out/
M r. Vale Owen's larking soldiers are not the only spirits who
are 4no more straight-laced than mortal créatures/ 4ever-loving
husbands/ as Damon Runyan described them, also corne back to
earth to embrace their wives. A t least, so we are informed by
Lady Caillard in an article she wrote for Psychic News. This is
what she tells us :
4A few days before Christmas I was asked by m y husband *~~
Sir Vincent Caillard had been dead some time—4to arrange for a
Christmas party on Christmas Eve, There was to be a Christmas
créé for the spirit children, and I was to hang up my stocking. He
said he would put something in it, even if it was only a clothes peg.
The party was to be held at M rs, L , E. Smgleton’s house, and
only three of us were to be présent— M rs. Singleton, B. K . Kirkby,
and myself. . . . After our muai prayer (italics mine), and before
[ 5 9 ]
SPIR ÏTU A LISM
we had finished playing a Christmas carol on the gramophone,
little Ivy came and asked Kirkby to *Stop It, meaning the gramo­
phone, She told us that the room was full of children who had
corne to the party, . , .
1 One of the most wonderful things happened at this party,
I was not going to write about it, because I feel it is too sacred.
But Sir Vincent says he is so proud of being able to do it that he
wished me to add it/
Here the next two h'ttes are prînted in italics :
4He ms able to put his arm round me and kiss me three
times. , , ,
4 1 think it was the most wonderful party I ever attended/
I like the way in which the bashful italics are introduced, like a
coy, shy maiden whispering a secret t 4He was able toput his arm
round me and kiss me three limes *!
One wonders what Mr, Kirkby thought of it— or didn't he i
M r, Kirkby» by the way» was one of the witnesses for the defence
in the recent Helen Dttncan trial for fraudulent mediumship.
And why the *usual prayer *at the beginning, to be followed by
* The Big Bad W olff on the gramophone i Is <The Big Bad
Wolf ' a hymn i
However» w ell leave these grown-ups to their fun and games
and pass on to the bed-time storîes of the Summer Land as told
by Grandpa Andrew Jackson Davis» Auntie Gaillard» and other
well-known friends of spint-chüdren,
Now here is a very spécial message for the children,
Children in the Summer Land— that's Heaven» you know ;
only Spiritualists don’t seem to like the Bible-name of Heaven ;
they prefer to call it the 4Summer Land»' o r4The Blue Island»' or
the ‘ Return or Stay Sphere * or something like that— anyway,
children are weü cared for there» very weU looked after, They
live in surroundings where there are flowers and rippling brooks»
*the silver seas and the murmhing trees * and *evergreen fields *
and 4the echoes caught from the birds of Paradise/ And the
place is fnll of angels *whose presence is marked by an iridescent
glory» and their footsteps are luminous long after they hâve passed *
{Lyc&rn Manual, §304), Shouîd this be 4foot-prints»* by any
chance f
The srilly psalm-singing Heaven is donc away with »
* but there
still is music in the Summer Land. The angels may n o t4sit on
damp clouds ’ to play their harps as Uncle Ralph Shirley would
hâve it» but they sdll hâve their harps and they still sing. Uncle
[6 0 ]
D E A T H — H EAVBN
Alfred Kitson has told us so. Now, just get out your Marnai
and you'll learn ail about it in section 201, * Spiritual Harps *:
4W e corne, we corne with our harps of gold,
From the far-off Summer Land,
The crystal river w eVe crossed again,
W eVe left an angel band
T o bring to you on our golden harps
Sweet music from afar ;
W ith cadence soft the Angels sing,
A s they glide from star to star.
^Gliding from star to star is ever so much more pleasant than
sitting on one of Uncle Ralph Shirley’s damp clouds, even though
the stars may be millions of miles apart. But I wonder, children,
does gliding from star to star afïord any opportunity for leaving
4luminous footsteps ' i It sounds like Alice in Wonderland,
doesn't it i
Anyway, children, you need never be frightened of death ;
Uncle Kersey tells us that 4Children enter the Spirit W orld as
Spirit Children/ He does not say how they get there : whether
they go bang up on a kind o f Magic Carpet, like Uncle William
Stead did ; or whether they go up as smells, like Uncle Oliver
says.
WeU, when children get there they don't feel lonely. 4Good
and loving Spirit Friends gather round to welcome the little
stranger, and if the child's earthly mother has preceded it, the
mother takes charge, if worthy ; otherwise it is placed in charge
of a good Spirit who is specially noted for love of children/
And * Children grow in Spirit-Life . . . their spirit bodies
grow so transcendently lovely, no human mind can conceive of
the beauty and grâce of these little ones/
When they are old enough they go to school,
O f course they are not caîled * schools ' j they are 4Progressive
Lyceum s/ which is ever so much nicer— just like the Word
4Summerland ’ is nicer than the Word * Heaven/ So you won’t
mind going to a Progressive Lyceum in the Summerland, will
you i After ail, Uncle William Stead has told us that ail grown-
up people hâve to hâve lessons there ; and in any case ' the
method of teaching is mostly by object lessons *
— so Uncle Kersey
says. Besides, they are such lovely schools ! The English
Board of Education would never dream of black-listing the
Summerland schools because the spirit children are *assembled
[ 6 1 ]
SPIRITUALISME
In large and beautiful halls arranged in groups, where they go
through some beautiful marches, in which are illustrated the
motions of the planets round the sun.’ They also hâve 4beautiful
lessons in geography,’
I'm sure I'd like a * beautiful' lesson in geography ; but I
don't thînk I could *mardi ' whilst illustrating how the earth
goes round the sun, It would be difficult and diszying, wouldn’t
it i
There is a language of colour, too, which is taught in thç Summer
Land— by the way, children, you may spell it : Summerland,
Summer-land or Summer Land— and the Lyceums #are sur-
rounded by large and beautiful gardens, where birds sing, flowers
bloom, waters ripple and fountains play,’
And then, just hke Hitler's Youth, after their drill the Lyceum
members march ’ in perfect order, over undulating plains, with
banners waving, and making the valieys resound with their sweet
mélodies, whxle on their way to visit some other Lyceum , who
receive thera with friendly greetings, giving either the right-hand
symbol of “ Good will ” or the left-hand symbol of “ Fraternal
love.” *
Ali thîs must be true, children, because Grandpa Andrew Jack­
son Davis saw it 4in his visits to those régions of the spirit worîd
where spirit children are instructed,’
What is more, the Lyceum owes its origin to 4spirit révélation
which shows us how God’s will is done in heaven/ (Lyceum
Manrnl, §§ 139 and 148).
O f course * these spirit children ’ do not spend all their time
in the Lyceum ; they hâve their games and fun just like the
grown-up people. Like the soldiers killed in the last war who
used to visit the Rev. G , Vale Owen’s church at Orford— perhaps
you remember hearing of M r. Vale Owen : he was the clergyman
who used to go travelling round to tell people all about the Summer
Land, and who said at the begmning of a lecture : 4 1 am still a
member o f the Church of England and a member of its priest-
hood, and I wear my collar the wrong way round as a sign that
I still belong to that benighted body ’— well, just as dead soldiers
used to visit his church, so children *retum at times to visit
their earthly friends, Their Guardians bring them back to their
earthly homes, that they may learn the lesson of earth life, feel
the warmth of parental love, and know the joy of earthly affections,’
And if they are very, very good they may join in the Christmas
parties given on earth for spirit children by soft-hearted people
[6aj
D E A T H — H EA V EN
like Lady Gaillard and M r. and Mrs* Perriman j and there are
Christmas trees at these parties spedally for spirit children !
Sometimes, like at Lady Caillard's, the darkened room is *füli
of children who hâve corne to the party/ and they *touch the
things on the tree ' and ' ring ail the bells at once.' Isn't that
lovely, children i Fancy ringing ail the bells at once î and in the
dark too 1 !
There is music on the gramophone at these parties, and there
are 4plated hand-bells ' and even * spécial crackers ' sometimes.
Even clothes-pegs— just fancy, children, dothes-pegs— are put in
the stockings that hâve been hung up by the soft-hearted ladies.
And just as children who still live on earth hâve their h'ttle
tiffs even at Christmas parties, so do the spirit children. At
least there was some trouble at Lady Gaillard's party wheû she
4had bought a doll for Ivy/ who was a negro spirit child, and
4there was some trouble over this/
4Jack Cornwell came and said : 4
4That little black kid is
awfully cheeky. She dug me in the ribs and told me to get ont,
because I touched her doll. I told her I would give her something
when we got back this evening/' '
Perhaps poor Jackie couldn't give Ivy something till they got
back because he couldn't see her in the dark.
Anyway, they played * The Big Bad W olf ' on the gramophone,
and ail the spirit children * kept time with the trumpet and the
bells/
And you need not be afraid of these parties, children, just
because they are held in the dark. Lady Gaillard said : * It was
aU so natural ’ ; so you need not fear there was anything super-
natural about it.
So now, children, you can see how, both for yourselves and
for grown-up people, Spiritualism has got rid o f every idea of
a material heaven. The Sommer Land is ail so very spiritnaL
Angels still hâve their golden harps, but they only sing when
ghding from star to star, leaving luminous footsteps behind them
long after they hâve passed ; they would never dream of singing
whilst sitting on damp clouds, but they might when reposing on
velvety grass.
AU these silly Christians may believe that the happiness of
Heaven consists in the Béatifie Vision— that is, in seeing God,
W ho made the human soûl and for Whom the human soûl was
made ; but Spiritualists know better.
On page sixty-one of the Rev. Stainton Moses's book, Higker
[ 63]
S P IR IT U A L IS M
Aspects of Spiritualismt we read : *This, then, is spirit-
teaching * . »: God is spoken of as the Suprême, Ali-wise Ruler
of Création, the Object of the ceaseîess adoration of ail created
sentient (ski) beings, N o s p ir i t w h o c o m m u n i c a t e s w it h
BARTH, HOWEYER LONG HIS SPIRIT-LIFE MAY HAVE BEEN, PRETENDS
TO HAVE SEEN H lM , OR TO HAVE PENETRATED TO H lS PRESENCE/
You can understand now, children, the beauty of SpirituaHsm,
Instead of a State of unending bliss where sorrow and tears are
no more ; where the human will is perfectly satisfied with the
love of God, and the human mind is equally satisfied by ail know­
ledge through the Vision of God seen face to face, SpirituaHsm
tells you that you can still quarrel in the Summer Land, and
envious boys can ‘ give little girls something ' for digging them in
the ribs ; and children can go to Progressive Lyceum s and do
beautiful marches from one to another ; and at Christmas time
they can leave the celestial festivities, that Uncle Maurice Barbanell
has told us about, and corne millions of miles to beautiful parties
held in darkened rooms on earth, and ring ail the bells on the
Christmas tree at once—-and they need not give a single thought
to the Baby Jésus Christ Whose birth on earth inspired the idea
of a feast for children on the anniversary of His Nativity.
Good-night, children.
Ail the above details about life after death are taken from
alleged spirit-messages. M uch is supplied from the book of
Miss Estelle Stead and M r, Pardoe Woodman, entitled The Blue
Island, which is oflered to us as the révélations of W . T , Stead
who was drowned on the Titanic, For sheer banafity and vague
generafities The Bine Island would be hard to beat,
W , T , Stead, former editor of the Review ofReviews, had a great
rtame in journalisai, At the time of his tragic death continental
Spiritualist hewspapers and monthh'es praised his literary ability.
The editor of the Revue Spirite, in the issue for January 1913,
said of him : *M , W* T , Stead . , , est non seulement en
Angleterre mais encore dans tous les pays de langue anglaise, un
pubHdste de haute autorité, et pour son grand talent, pour sa
culture intellectuelle *
— M r. W , T . Stead is, not only in England,
but also in ail Engüsh-speaking countries, a journalist of great
authority both on account of his great talent as well as for his
inteHectual culture.
In an obituary notice of his death we read in Psychische Studien
(June 1912) : * Er ist bei su seinçm Tode der anerkannte Meister
[64]
D E A T H — H EAVEN
des Interviews gebüeben und derglânsendeste Jouraalist Bnglands *
— He remained. till his death the acknowledged master o? inter­
views and the most briilîant jouraalist in England,
I challenge anyone who has had even only a fairly good literary
training to find any evidence of * great talent ' or 4inteEectual
culture * in his alleged spirit communications as contained in
The Blue Islande
To begin with, the book damas itself by the inclusion, as
frontispiece, o f a photograph of Miss Estelle Stead which carries
on it a 4spirit extra/ To anyone who knows a little even o f the
Crewe Circle photography and of the exposure of the spirit-
photographer, M r, Hope, who took this photograph of M iss
Stead, suspicion at once suggests itself as to the genuineness of
the contents o f the book, Added to this is the fact that in place
of the clear and defined and intelligent account of his new life
that one would expect to get from 4England’s most brilliant
journalist * we are presented wîth vague generalities, dum sy
expressions, escapist phrases and platitudinous moralisings,
This is h o w 4W* T , Stead * sums up life on the Blue Island t
*When you are inclined to ask ; 4
4What are they ail doing
there 4” turn your mind to some dear one on earth who has
taken up an out-of-the-way kind of life somewhere abroad, where
you are not in constant and intimate touch, and say of h i m , 441
wonder what he's doing now 4 ” , , , Then answer it by saying,
44 1 suppose he's carrying on/' So are we, we people in the Blue
Island ’ (p, 68),
With the picture of 4Sir Vincent Gaillard *kissing his wîfe at
the Christmas party, and remembering ail that D r, Peebles,
M r. Stainton Moses and others hâve told us about the hordes of
earthbound spirits who 4hover round the confines and rush in
when the gates are set ajar/— and so on for three pages of Spirit
Identity— we leave it to the humourist to interpret that passage
for himself. As for the seriously-minded I would ask : Does
any one of these alleged spirit descriptions of the Summer Land
approach within a fraction of the beauty of the reward one would
expect from a God of infinité holiness and_infinité love 4
Hâve the 4spirits ' and theîr automatic human agents— be
they clairvoyant, clairaudient, or cosmopathic— no idea of the
dignity of the human soûl i Has any 4spirit ' ever communi-
cated any reflections, ideas or thoughts comparable with the
writings of St, Augustine, St, John of God, St,_ Teresa of Avila,
or the Imitation of Christ of St, Thomas à Kempis 4
£651 E
SP IR IT U A L IS M
Do Spiritualiste reaiîy believe that the martyrs o f the early
Church, the Apostles, St, Stephen, St. Agnes> St, Francis of
Âssisi, St, Vincent of Paul, St. Joan of Arc, St, Thomas Aquinas,
St, Cîare and countless others who ieft ail things to follow Christ
are to hâve in the next world as their reward merely a répétition
of our présent life on earth i
Instead of swallowing Wholesale and believing blindly the
fourth-form standard of essays on life after death as provided,
for example, in The Blm Isîand, would we not honour God more
by trusting Him to provide a reward hereafter more in character
and keeping with His infinité purity and goodness and power i
To présent for our belief pictures of the longest meal one ever
knew, Hitlerian marches for children, every kind of sport—
swimming, horse-riding, shooting (without killing)— Christmas
trees with plated bells, and cuddling in the dark as the best that
an Almighty and Infinitely Perfect God can provide for those
who hâve served Him well during their life on earth is little short
of blasphemy. The religions mind revolts from it. It dishonours
God. It is a patent lie.
[66]
IV
PER A R D U A A B A S T R IS
Having read the preceding chapter on Heaven, the Summer Land,
the Blue Island and the 1 Retura or Stay Sphere/ the reader may
be indined to ask î If these descriptions of life afïer death are
not communicated by spirits who hâve passed over, where do
they corne from i He may aîso ask how any spirit-messages are
to be accounted for.
Briefly, the answer is t They practically ail corne from îhe
w ishM thinkmg of either the medium or the sitters,
* The sitters i 4
Yes, the sitters— those forming the séance circle,
4But how i 4
B y telepathy— or» if you prefer so to call it, by thought-trans-
ference.
4W ell, for thinking out loud l *
Let me indulge in a short preliminary digression^
The practice of modem SpirituaHsm begm in the United
States of America ; and North America was aiso the birthpîace
of Western Theosophy. T he terminology of Theosophy, with
îts 4auras * and * astral bodies * and * spheres r of post-Hfe exist­
ence, was readily adopted by American Spiritualists. It soon
became part of the jargon of ail Western occult ' religions/ From
the U .S J L it passed to England, and was welcomed by English
Spiritualists ; and it is to-day to be found in use amongst the
majority of Continental Spiritualists.
For quite a time Theosophists and Spiritualists were more
than merely sociable and friendly. Then came the Leadbeater
scandai. Rather than be mixed up in so sordid an affair the
English Spiritualists dropped ail association with Theosophy,
As between cuits the rupture was complets ; but the terminology
of Theosophy was, to a certain estent, retained by Spiritualists,
For a time they had not a satisfactory vocabulary of their own.
r^ter, they fell in with the more modem worship o f 4science4;
[ 6 7 ]
SP ÎR IT U A L IS M
évolution was in the air— hence ail the present-day Spiritualist
jargon o f 4évolution ' and _
4progressé Then, as one o f the
periodic météore in the Spiritualist firmament, tfaere burst across
the sky o f their world the light and effulgence of Sir Oliver Lodge,
The theory of Ether as interpenetrating ail things had been
mooîed for some years ; and quite a few people got used to the
idea ; but when, three years before the loss of his son, Raymond,
Sir Oliver gave the inaugural address in 1913 to the British
Association in Birmingham, he both startled the scientific world
and rejoiced the hearts of Spiritualists by including in his address
on 4Ether * and radio-activity a confession of faith in Spiritualisai.
Ether he declared to be ‘ not matter, but m aterial4(non é materia,
ma é materiaîe) ; 4it is the universal medium of communication
between worlds and infinitésimal partides 4 (ed é il mezzo uni­
versale di comraunicazione fra mondi e particelle infinitesime).
[I quote and translate from the report of the address as given in
Filosofia délia Scienza, Feb. 15,1914.] He speaks o f 4radiation/
4ethenal motion4 or 4etherial movement 4; 4putréfaction 4;
4fermentation 4; 4évolution 4; 4vibrations 4 and 4waves/
There followed from his pen, three years later, the book Ray­
mond,
Now everybody knew vaguely of 4ether 4 and 4waves 4 and
4radiation4 and 4vibrations/ They came so readily in use that
people began to talk of 4brain-waves/ even, Sir Oliver was the
new luminary in the Spiritualist world. The terms that he used
proved a gift from the gods of sdence for the Spintualistic vocabu-
lary. Sdentific terms o f Greek origm had already become
poptilar *
. phonograph, gramophone, tdegraph, téléphoné were
almost as much EngÜsh as the few remaining Anglo-Saxon words
to be found in our hybrid tongue.
A further enrichment o f the Spiritualist vocabidary came as a
windfaE to supplant the Theosophical terms and théories, in the
additional Greek words provided by the learned members of the
London Dialectical Sodety, now the Sodety for Psychical Re­
search ; 4telekinesis 4; 4teleplasm,4 4teiaesthesia/4 4telepathy,4
4ectoplasm.4 F . W . H. M yers, in his Human Personality, gives
a spécial vocabulary of 5 octavo pages. Many of them hâve as
much value as explanations of Spiritualist phenomena as, had
Mesmeds 4fluid-magnetism4; yet they corne as trippingly to
the tongues of many Spiritualists as did 4Abracadabra4for more
andent magicians.
M odem Spiritualism must be up to date ; and when sdence
[68]
PER A R D U A A B A S T R 1S
seems to m ie the day sdentific ternis must be adopted, Thou^h
some Spiritualists may still refer to the *spheres' of progress in
the Summerland whilst others make them different islands, it
îs no longer the *astral shell/ or the *astral b o d y f or the *Atm ic
plane * to whîch they refer— no ; Lodge won the day with his
e t h e r and his v ib r a t io n s , Now ail is 4etherial/ A s we hâve
seen in the prevïous chapter the 4etherial substance *o f the body
rises to heaven ; dgars and whiskey are manufactured from the
ether of the Summerland ; 4essences and ethers and gases * seem
to be the basis for ail things produced there, from bricks to
clothing ; and houses hâve their coloured vibrations, Even on
this earth médiums hâve distinctive vibrations.
W ith that evidence before us it is not far-fetched to conclude
that either the medium imagines that by utilising Sir Oliver's pet
theoretical terms in her description o f life in the Summerland
she will the better convince and please her important sitter ; or,
to give an alternative explanation, that Sir Oliver’s prédilection
for the terms of his theory was communicated to the mind o f the
medium by telepathy.
Spiritualists do not like that word 4telepathy/ They will
accept and u§e frequently such similar words as teleplasm and
telekmesis} but telepathy is almost tahu— it is too accurate a
term to use in explaining the origin o f alleged spirit-messages.
Y et a man so prominent in the study of psychic phenomena as
was F . W . H , Myers wrote in his Introduction to Human Person-
ality : *This work of mine is in large measure a critical attack
upon the jtnain Spiritist position, as held, say, by M r. A . R.
Wallace, its most eminent living supporter— the belief, namely,
that ail or almost ail supernormal phenomena are due to the action
of the spirits of the dead. By far the largerproportion, as I hold,
axe dm to the action of the still e m b o d ik d spirit of the agent or
perexpient himself * (p. 7).
That is what I maintain ; and to support that view is the object
of this chapter.
Now, what predsely do we mean by the word ' telepathy ’ i
Telepathy, to quote F . W . H . M yers, is 4The communication of
impressions of any kind from one mind to another, independently
of tlje recognised channels of sense ’ ; or, as I would put it : the
transmission of the thoughts or impressions o f one person to
the mind of another, without the use of the usual means of com­
munication between mind and mind.
Ordinarily we use vocal sounds (speech) ; symbols (hand-
C69]
’ SPIRITUALI5M
wrîting) ; signa (gestures ; the deaf and dttmb 4alphabet *) ; or
facial expressions, in order to express our thoughts or feelings to
another person* But telepathy (or thought-transference) dis­
penses with ail these* The thoughts are transmitted directly
ftom one mînd to another without the use o f Sound, symbol or
sïgo.
The siraplest examples of this are provided by what is calîed
1The Willing Game/
Both Professer Sir William Barrett and Professor James H,
Hyslop cite striking instances of telepathy* To avoid having the
theory of ‘ muscle-reading '— which used to be alleged in order to
expîain the mystery of the willing-game— adduced as an alternative
to telepathy, Professor Barrett conducted a sériés of experiments
wherein there was no physical contact whatsoever between the
■*operator * and the subject or * percipient/ He wrote the follow-
ing account in Chapter V of his book Psychical Research*
Âfter alluding to his investigations during a period of five years,
he suys :
* One of these cases which seemed quite inexplicable on any
theory of muscle-reading, and which was personally investigated
during Easter 1881, was that of the children of the late Rev* A* M*
Creery, a respected clergyman in Buxton* This case is histori-
cally of importance, for it led to the first clear evidence of thought
transference m the normal State of the perdpient* Stringent
précautions were taken to avoid any information being conveyed
to the subject through the ordinary channels of sense* For
example, one of the perdpients, Maud, then a child o f twelve
years old, was taken to an empty adjoining room and both doors
dosed. I then wrote down some object h'kely to be in the house,
which we (the family together with myself) silently thought of*
N o one was allowed to leave his place or speak a Word. The
predpient had previously been told to fetch the object as soon as
she *
*guessed " what it was, and then return with it to the drawing-
room where we were seated. Quoting again from my communica­
tion to Nature—
1**Having fastened the doors I wrote down the following artides,
one by one, with the resuîts stated— haïr brush, correctly brought ;
wimglm, correctly brought ; orange, correctly brought ; toasting-
fork, wrong on the first attempt, right on the second ; apple,
correctly brought; knife, correctly brought ; smoothing-iron,
correctly brought; tumbler, correctly brought; cup, correctly
brought ; mm?, faüure. Then names of towns were fixed on,
[y©]
PER ARDTJÂ A B A S T R IS
the name to be called out by the child outside the closed door o£
the drawing-room, but guessed when fastetied into the adjoimng
room. In this way, Liverpool, Stockport, Lancaster, York,
Manchester, Macclesfîeld were ail correctly given; Letcester
was said to be Chester ; Windsor, Birmingham and Canterbury
were failures.”
4The success obtained in these and other experiments could
not be explained by mere lucky guesses nor by involuntary guid­
ance by those who knew, for these was no contact, and in sonie of
the trials (as in the foregoing) the percipient was out of sight and
hearing. Under such drcumstances any secret code o f signais
between children would hâve been practically impossible to carry
out; moreover, in several successful experiments no one but
myself knew what was to be donc/
I stated earüer on that this book is not intended to be an essay
on psychical research ; hence I shah not feel called upon to
multiply examples of telepathy. The above experiments by Sir
William Barrett are referred to merely as an illustration o f what
is meant by thought-transference within the purpose of this
book, Readers who might wish to know more about it will find
a wealth of material on the subject in the volumes of the Pro-
ceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, What I wish to
emphasise here, is that the mental phenomenon known as telepathy
is an estabüshed fact.
That a few * last ditchers *amongst the out-and-out materîalist
professons o f phyrical science may stdl refuse to accept the phe-
nomenon as proven means nothing. T he history of hypnotîsm
provides us with a glaring example of stubborn refusai on the
part of sdentists to face facts.
The fîrst Medical Commission appointed to examine the daims
of Mesmerism was set up in 1784. In its findings it admitted the
cures but rejected the magnetk-ftuid theory of Mesmer, Forty-
two years later another French Medical Commission reported in
favour of the mesmeric cures— but the report was suppressed by
the medical faculty.
In place of the *magnetic-fluid * theory of Mesmer, D r, A ,
Bertrand introduced the idea of * suggestion f as the influenemg
element in the various mesmeric phenomena which were now
found to include the remarkable induction of complété anæsthesia
in the patients.
Again the medical faculty discredited the results obtained.
Next, Dr. Elliotson became the protagonist of the cause of
f 71 1
S P IR IT U A L IS M
mesmerism in England. He was ostracised by the medical
profession and lost his practice.
Most noteworthy of alî was the case of D r. Esdaile, Presidency
Surgeon of Calcutta, who performed over 250 major operations
on patients whom he had anæsthetised by mesmerism. He too
lost his appointment owing to the stubborn opposition of the
medical faculty.
I mention these cases merely to show how deeply rooted and
fixed opposition can become in the minds of people with pre-
conceîved ideas as to the value of any theory which has not hitherto
corne within their expérience or knowledge. What Sir Oliver
Lodge termed 1 orthodox science ' is not always right ; ' Science/
too, can be guilty of intolérance despite the wrecks of hypothèses
and théories that strew the paths of its history.
ït would be prématuré to add any further lesson from the
reports in this morning’s newspapers regarding the daims of
Professer Félix Ehrenhaft to hâve discovered magnetic current—
a discovery which, if confirmed, was stated by Sir Lawrence
Bragg Cavendish, professer of experimental physics at Cambridge,
to lead to *a complété reversai of ail our présent thought *(Daily
Mail, Jan. 17, 1944).
In his introduction to Occultism and Common-Sense (by Beckles
Willson) Professor Barrett writeÿ : * It is amusing now to recall
the fierce outery aroused by the paper I read at the British Assoda-
tion meeting in 1876, when, after narrating certain apparently
transcendental phenomena I had witnessed, I asked that a com-
mittee of sdentific men should be appointed to investigate the
preliminary question of the possibility of thought-transference.
(The Spectator, I believe, alone, generously reported me, and in an
éditorial article on the 30th September 1876 expressed the hope that
*
*the British Assodation would really take some action on the
subject of the paper, in spite of the protests of the party, which
we may call the party of superstitions incredulity ” * (p. xii).
_Hypnotism is accepted to-day by sdentists ; it has an estab-
lished place in various forms of mental treatment. Psychiatrists
of repute hâve recourse to it. What is it, then, that prevents the
acceptance of the fact of telepathy by alî sdentists i Is it thdr
' superstiîious incredulity *i Is it because, as Professor Barrett
puts it, *this particular field of psychical investigation belongs to
an order other than that with which sdence deals *i Or is it
their Zolaesque détermination not to admit the existence of the
huraan soûl as a spiritual entity i
[72]
PER A R D U A AB A S T R IS
Evidence of thought-transference from the hypnotiser îo the
subject is provided in hundreds and hundreds of cases* A simple
and perfect example of this is given ns by Professor Barrett in his
book Psychîcal Research, to whîch reference has already been
made. He experimented with an Irish village-girl with notable
results* He says :
*One of the most interesting experiments was made when in
answer to m y request that she should visit London and go to
Regent Street, she correctly described the optician's shop of
which I was thinkùig* As a matter of fact, I found, upon subsé­
quent inquiry, that the girl had never gone fifty miles away from
her remote Irish village* Nevertheîess, not only did she correctly
describe the position of this shop, but told me of some large
crystals of Iceland spar (" that which made things look double *
*
)
which I knew were in the shop, and that a big clock hung outsîde
over the entrance, as was the case* It was impossible for the
subject to gain any information of these facts through the ordinary
channels of sense. M y friend, the late M r. W , E. Wilson, F.R.S*,
was présent when these experiments were made in his father’s
house, and in answer to m y request he subsequently wrote to me
confirming them, saying, u We proved beyoad ail doubt that the
subject was able to read the thoughts o f the mesmerizer*” '
The italics in that account are mine t they are intended to call
attention to the faet that the girl did not tell Professor Barrett
anything he did not know himself ; she did not mention, for
example, the time by the clock which hung outside the shop, nor
whether it was goiag or not*
It was not a case of her reading his thoughts— as Mr* Wilson
put it— but of her mind receiving the thoughts that were in
Professor Barrettes mind.
Sir William goes on to give in detail a number of experiments
with another hypnotised subject* * In these early experiments,*
he writes, 4 1 noticed that the hypnotised subject responded to
thought-transference even when a considérable distance and
opaque objects intervened * (p, 76).
These experiments were of the same nature as those described
in his previous chapter wherein he dealt with THOUGHT-TRANS­
FERENCE IN THE NORMAL STATE OF THE PERCIPIENT*
Now then, what I want to emphasise in reply to the question :
Where do 4spirit *messages, be they descriptions of the Suramer-
land or merely messages in general, corne from i is that sinee
telepathy is possible (a) in the normal State and (h) in the hypnotic
C73 1
S P IR IT U A L ISM
State without any invocation of the dmd, it is equally possible at
séances, whetfaer the medium be in a normal State or in a trance*
That such is not only possible but probable is admitted by
leading Spiritualists themselves.
For exampîe :
Stainton Moses in bis Spirit Jdentity wrote (p. 7) : * The
atmospherîc conditions are so variable and exercise so powerful
au influence : the investigator is dépendent on the aid of those
who farm the circie ; and each of these imports his own con­
ditions of error into the investigation ; these and other causes
, . , reader his early pursuit of knowledge liable to every fluctu-
ating degree of error/
What can this mean except that the mental * conditions of error '
are conveyed by thought transference (telepathy) to the medium
and so colour the *messages ' given 4
In a section# addressed to Spiritualists only (pp. 31-32), on
the ABSENCE OF précision in statement, he hints at similar
influence : * Another cause of doubt is the extreme difficulté
usually found in getting any facts precisely given, especially facts
that are certainly external to the knowledge of the sitters.*
Apply that to the descriptions of the Summer Land or the
Blue ïsland t what knowledge hâve the sitters of life after death 4
In his almost impassioned appeal to Spiritualists to purge the
movement, after a section on T he Purification of Public
C ircles, the same author deals with T he M edium, and the
N ature of M ediumship as follows : ' The medium is a mesmeric
sensitive, and as such is amenable to every dominant influence
brought to beat on him. He is the réceptacle of the several
positive influences of the circie. If there be présent a positive
mind filled with doubt it reacts on the medium. If there be a
seoflmg, jeering spirit amongst those présent, it cuts into him like
a knife. If an over-cîever person thinks he has detected or
suspected fraud, that suspicion bites into the medium and u the
iron enters into his soûl "— precious rusty iron it is too. I f vice
be présent, it reacts on him. I f fraud suggests itself, he feels it.
He is the u wash-pot ” into which the collective feelings'and senti­
ments of the circie are collected. And more than this. He is the
link between them and the spirits whom their mental States
attract. The communications are pretty sure to be the re­
présentations of the mental State of the sitters : unless indeed a
powerful and controlling spirit is charged to protect and neutralise
adverse influence. . . . If suspicions and evil tempers are pre-
E74 î
PER A R D U A AB A S T R IS
domifiant, he is influenced in correspônding ways. A mesmerie
sensitive, he cornes under the dominant influence, and too often
represents the wishes and thoughts of those who surround h îta r
(.ffigker Aspects, pp. 89-90)*
It is interesting, and up to date, to refer in this connection to
an article published in the Sunday Graphie (Jan* 9, 1944), re-
portxng an interview with M r. George Bernard Shaw. GJBUS,
is reported as saying : 4M y expérience of spiritualism began
when I was a smaîl boy. . . / He then refers to Oliver Lodge
and Conan Doyle. 4 1 am quite sure that neither of them ever
cheated at a séance, Weli, I hâve. I used to say that unless
everybody cheated as hard as they could, and the results obtained
went beyond those that could be obtained by cheatittg, the séances
could prove nothing.
4Accordingly I cheated, and was amazed at my success (I am
no conjurer) and by the discovery that the more cultivated, clever
and imaginative my victims were, the more easy it was to cheat
them— or rather to induce them to cheat themselves/
The Rev. William Stainton Moses does not stand alone in
making such admissions. They hâve been made by continental
Spiritualists also, Frau Maria Von Bergen, the représentative
o f the Swedish Spiritualists, after dedaring that it was useless
to attempt to found a religion on the results of spirit communica­
tions 4because they vary almost infinitely, especially in these
days/ gives as one of the reasons for these contradictions in teaching
that they may be due 4to the hidden influence of the drcle/
D r. Gustav de Gaj, the Jaska-Croatian SpirituaHst leader,
quotes the five classes of fraud on the part of médiums as detailed
by D u Prel, and adds two more of his own explanations of fraud,
the second of which being : 4Genuine fraud on the part of the
medium dm to mental suggestion from the members of the séance/
He goes further, and develops the idea that thought transference
from the sitters can cause ail kinds of fraudulent phenomena.
H e quoted Thomson Jay Hudson as stating in The Law of Psychic
Phenomena that ' persons who are hypnotisable can be constantly
controîled by suggestion/
4Amor y Progress/ the SpirituaHst Sodety of M exico, in a
paper issued by them on mediumship, also admits in determining
the causes o f fraudulent phenomena, one o f them to be *the
influence of the sitters themselves/1
1 In this connection it might be of interest to point out that amnging
anonymously for séances with a real medium need be no safeguard, The
consultant wül pass on his name by telepathy.
[ 75]
S P ÏR IT U A L ÏS M
Therc is no need to multiply further the references to such
admissions. The fact is there : telepathy is an actual occurrence.
Thought transference by telepathy Irom the minds of the sitters
at a circîe incontestably does take place. The medium 4is the
“ wash-pot ” into which the collective feelings and sentiments
of the circle are collected/
When in addition to îhat admission we get the further statement
that as a resuit * The communications are pretty sure fo be the
représentations of the mental State of the sitters/ we are perfectly
justified in asking : If that be so, o f w h a t u s e w h a t e v e r a r e
t h o s e c o m m u n i c a t i o n s 4 What value hâve they as spirit
communications 4
Such admissions, especially those of M r. Stainton Moses,
plainly damn the public circles.
Who go to those circles but the curious, the credulous, and
those who ought not to go, such as Stainton Moses's 4sorrowing
widow, whose agonised mind is not in the best frame for accurate
judgment *; the bereaved whom Sir Oliver Lodge warned to keep
away. Yet these last are the very ones most attracted by the
* Church Notices f that appear in the Spiritualist press, and they
are the ones at the présent time who almost haunt such services.
These so-called 4Church Services *are nothing else but public
séances, and they hâve about as rauch true worship o f Almighty
God in their composition as a Voodoo rite. George Valiantine
would recite the Lord's Prayer at the beginning of his fraudulent
séances with M r. H . Dennis Bradley ; and the fraudulent M rs.
M urphey-Lydy did the same. The singing of :
4God o f the granité and the rose I
Soûl of the sparrow and the bee 1
The mighty tide of being flows
Through ail T h y créatures back to Thee *
would îiever turn any public séance into a genuine act of worship
of the Almighty. (The verse of the 4hymn * is taken from § 339
of the Spiritualist Lyceum Marnai.)
The late H . Dennis Bradley believed in spirit communication
as strongly and as firmly as did the Rev. Stainton Moses, and yet
we find him writing : * SpirituaHstn is now being foisted on the
public as a religion. I assert deliberately that as a religion it is
a farce. Tinpot little churches are being erected ail over the
country ; irresponsible spiritualistic tub-thumpers are appointing
themsdves as preachers of a new gospel ; dud clairvoyants are
giving banal exhibitions at their church services under the blas-
L76]
PER A R D U A AB A S T R IS
phemous guise of spirituality. Boring and Ul-written hymns are
sungj hypocritical hymns are intoned by vulgar and crafty
médiums ; and the name o f God is dragged into abysraal mud*
(. . . And After, p, 392)*
How cm these public séances be of any use i And the bigger
the attendance the less chance is there of getting * successful
descriptions and spirit messages.*
This is what a medium, who daims, in 1931, to *hâve been
acquainted with Spiritualism for nearly thirty years,* has to say
on the subject. It is M r, Horace Leaf, F .R .G .S., writing on
*Spiritualism and Christianity ' in The Two Worlds (F e b .6 ,1931),
M r. Leaf's name has been familiar to me for over thirty years.
He himself appeared on many a platform and conducted 4D e-
veloping Classes,* at home, and public classes.
In the previous chapter I mentioned the discussions conducted
at AU Soûls' Church Room, Langham Place, with regard to the
discussion on 4Spiritualism by clergymen and ministers * of the
Protestant dénominations— not of all dénominations, please,
M r. Leaf. Referring to that same meeting, M r, L eaf writes :
4Only brief reports of the ministerial gathering hâve been
published, but these convey the impression that the case for
Spiritualism was weU stated, and in the end it was dedded to
hold a meeting at which a clairvoyant wiU be invited to de-
monstrate 4
4how spirit messages are reeeived." This wÜl he
no easy task, and we extend to the medium hold enough to
accept this invitation our best wishes for a successful démonstra­
tion. M y opinion is, that no matter how well-intentioned the rev.
gentlemen may be, conditions will not beeasy' (my italics). 4A few
years ago I attended a conférence held in London by the Church
of England to discuss Spiritualism, and was appaUed by the
ignorance and resentment of some of the clergymen. I f there
prevails at the forthcoming meeting anything like the same spirit,
it wiü require a perfect Samson among clairvoyants to give suc­
cessful descriptions and spirit messages.'
I would ask my readers to note those words of M r. Horace Leaf :
4no matter how well-intentioned the rev. gentlemen may be,
conditions will not be easy ' (p. 84).
En passant I might as weÛ State that M r. Leaf, in the same
article, also says î 4The teachings are alwaysgravely affected by the
beliefs of the medium.'
On the opposite page of the February 6,1931, issue of The Two
Worlds is the report of an interview with M rs. Estelle Roberts. It
[ 7 7 3
SP IR IT U A L IS M
is headed t T he Faits of â G reat M edium» 4She was the great
sensation of the great memorial meeting held in tlie Royal Albert
Hall, London, a few days after the death of Sir Arthur Caaaa
Doyle.4 I may hâve some further comment to make later on
their interview. What concems the présent chapter is that
J* L ., the contributor of the article, after a very laudatory descrip­
tion of the powers of M rs. E. Roberts, says : 4Spiritualiste are
always talking about4
4conditions ” at their meetings and séances.
Mrs. Roberts does not mind much about conditions. Though it
is generaUy agreed that a large hall crowded by ail types of people
is about the worst place for obtaining evidential psychic pheno-
mena. . * /
So there you hâve it i 4Spiritualiste are always talking about
4
4conditions 4
4 at their meetings and séances4
— by way of excuse
for failure, I présumé ; M r. Horace Leaf despairs almost of getting
4successful descriptions and spirit messages 4 at a meeting where
4well-intentioned 4rev. gentlemen are présent ; and J. L . tells us
that4it is generaîly agreed that a large hall crowded by ail types
of people is about the worst place for obtaining evidential psychic
phenonena*4
Then why continue to hold the meetings in large halls i If
the presence of weh-intentioned rev. gentlemen is going to queer
the pitch, what is it going to be like when people o f 4ail types4are
présent i Nearly every condition that can ruin a séance is présent ;
doubt, curiosity, fickleness, hostüity, credulousness and the
xest . . . not to mention the possible adverse 4atmospheric
conditions.4
In addition to these adverse conditions there remains the very
important fact, which is also admitted by one leading Spiritualist
after another, that psychicphepomemarenotalways4on tap/ They
cannot be produced at wifi.
Let me assure any Spiritualist readers, once again, that I am
not writing 4without the book.4 I quote two statements (many
others could be given), one from the Continent ; one from an
Engiish medium.
M . Pillaut, an outstanding personality in French Spiritualist
drcles, put, and answered himsdf, these two questions at the
Congrès Spirite Universel at Geneva— regarding the medium :
4Est-il le maître absolu de ses facultés mediummques i
— Non, puisqu'il ne peut les mettre en pratique qu'autant
qu'à est actionné par une psychose adéquate à la mise en œuvre
de ses facultés.
PER A R D U A AB ASTRIS
— Suffit-il qu'un médium et que les personnes assistant à une
séance de médiumnité le désirent, en fassent la demande, pour
que les facultés médiumniques du médium soient actionnés î
— Non, il faut que l'Esprit ou les Esprits désincarnés disposés
à cet effet, le veuillent, le puissent, ou sans cela aucune manifesta­
tion ne se produira ' (p. 107).
M r. H . Dennis Bradley, who had an unshakeable beüef in
spirit communication, wrote : ‘ I hâve had many years o f inten­
sive mediumsbip, but I bave never before heard the assertion
made : u You will immediately hear a voice respond.” AU my
expérience has shown that it is impossible to tum on the psychic
tap at will ; especially is this impossible in ail the cases of genuine
phenomena ' (. . . And After, p. 274).
This very fact that spirit phenomena cannot be produced at will
is adduced by Spiritualists themselves as an excuse for even the
most notable médiums resorting to fraud.
A striking example of the inability of médiums to produce
phenomena at wül is fumished by M r. Harry Price in his Leaves
from a Psytikisds Case-Book (pp. 351, ss.). It is the case of 4a
wonderfui psychic,' Frau Matylda Strzetuska, whose phenomena
were said to range *from spirit voices ta matérialisations, and
from psychic raps to lévitations.' M r. Price says t *I wiU not
weary the reader with the details of the séances, as nothing what-
ever happened. We sat solidly every night— Sundays incîuded—
for three weeks, and not a singlephenommon (genuine or otherwise)
was witnessed
The éditons and proprietors of Spiritualist newspapers must
know this as well as anyone, Is it honest of them, then, to
publish column after column of ' Church Notices ' or 4Society
Advertisements ' announdng public séances in the way they do {
Can they guarantee that at precisely 3.30 there will be a genuine
4Public Transfiguration in fuU light ’ i Can they guarantee that
between 10--3 on a Saturday, or 12-3 on a Tuesday at Finsbury
Park, and between 11.30 and 4.30 at Cuffley there m il be genuine
' healing by Sw iftfoot ' i What assurance can they give that
ail the conditions will be good ; that there wül be no * weU-
intentioned rev. gentlemen ' présent ; and that, though large
halte are the worst places for obtaining evidential phenomena, in
every hall or church or temple where the advertised séances
are to be held, guaranteed evidential phenomena wiU take
place i
Further on in this chapter I shall give a list of over thirty reasons,
[ 79]
S P IR IT U A L IS M
reasons advanced by Spiritualists themselves, which militate
against successful results and actually îead to fraud— in fact they
are excuses to «plam fraudulent phenomena, Some of tbetn
may be given as excuses for faiiure or imtrustworthmess in the
case of private drcies ; but they can nearly ail be applied to the
public séance as well.
One can understand the attitude of M r. Harry Price exposing
fraudulent mediumship ; but when it cornes to the fulmimting
demmdatiom of the Rev. Stainton Moses, Dr. J. M. Peebles, and
H. Dennis Bradley—ali of them enthusiastic believers in spirit
communication— then there must be something very wrong about
public séances.
* Yes, yes/ some Spiritualist may interject, ' that may be true
of the public meetings for phenomena, with their promiscuous
gathering of sitters ; but what about the private, home drcies i
They are different/
Are they so very different i Cannot thought-transference or
îelepathy take place at a private séance as easiiy as at a public one {
Is there not even a greater chance of such telepathy in the home
d rd e, where a positive or dominant mind amongst the few sitters
would hâve less difficulties to contend with than amongst hundreds
or thousands in a large hall {
We hâve already seen how * the positive influences o f the d rd e
can influence the medium/ That can happen, that does happen,
in the private d rd e also. The Lodge phraseology is an illustra­
tion of this.
Hyslop, Barrett and Myers in their experiments dealt only with
private cases. They did not concern themselves at aÜ with
Caxton Hall or Albert Hall or Grotrian Hall or Clarendon Hall
meetings; and ail three— men of painstaking character— empha-
sised the actuaHty and power o f telepathy. In fact F. W . Myers,
in his book Htrnan Personality, says ; ' Telepathy, in short, must
be the prerequisite of ail these supemormal phenomena.
/ Actual expérience, as we shall presently see, confirms this
view of the place of telepathy. For when we pass from the
induced to the spontaneous phenomena we sHall find that these
fllustrate before ail else this transmission of thought and émotion
directly from mind to mind ' (p. 183, one-volume édition),
The experiments conducted by M r, Gurney, Professor Sidgwick,
D r, Herdman and others give convindng évidence of the actuality
of telepathy, The private séances of Dennis Bradley, Lord
Charles Hope, Madame D ard, Frau Maria von Bergen, Dn.
CBo]
PER A R D U A AB ASTRIS
Neville^ Wbynant, Senhor Lui? de Mattos— these, too, afford
multipHed epm ples of telepathy with their respective médiums»
If the attitude of mind of weîl-intentioned rev» gentlemen can
influence adversely the production of spirit phenomena, so too
can the dominatmg positive mind of any sitter at a private séance.
Putting aside for the moment the very questionable identity of
such private * guides ’ as Imperator, Pheneas, White Hawk, Silver
Birch, Pat O fBrien, Dr. Barnett, Uvani, Swiftfoot, Abduhl Latif
and pantomimic characters like John King, with their more
questionable authority, we hâve presented to us by Spiritualists
themselves, as excuses for faulty or fraudulent messages, quite
a long Hst of explanations. To the Spiritualist thèse may seem
bona fide excuses. To the non-Spiritualist they simply consti-
tute further reasons for denying the genuineness of the alleged
spirit messages»
In his Study of Mediumship—Etude sur la Médiumnité, Monsieur
Wibin, a leading Belgian Spiritualist, editor of Le Courrier
Spirite Belge, gives as an explanation o f the incohérence of some
spirit messages that it is due to a struggle between the *spirit *
who wants to control the medium and the medium who resists
going under control. M . Wibin also trots forth another excuse ;
that of the absence of a fully sympathetic circle of sitters.
M. Bénégech, in an address on ‘ L ’action combinée des médiums
et des Esprits dans les phénomènes psychiques -The combined
action of both médiums and Spirits m psychic phenomena— talks
about * projections from the medium hîmself ’ ; 4latent meraory ' ;
*thought-transference ’ ; * the content of the subconsdous mind
of the medium ' ; the difficulties the spirits hâve to overcome
since they must work in an atmosphère bristling with obstacles
(un milieu hérissé d*obstacles). These latter, I suppose, indude
the *intercosmic obstacles ’ of Professor Hyslop.
The Hst of obstacles against getting any genuine message
through is a formidable one :
From the Summer Land :
1. The overwhelming prépondérance of different astral in­
fluences (Frau von Bergen) ;
2. Fraud on the part o f the Invisible Agent, with or without
the consdousness of the medium (Du Prel) ;
3. Fraud on the part of the Invisible Agent without any con­
currence on the part of the medium (Du Prel) ;
4. Mental suggestion from the Spirit Agent leading the medium
to commit fraud (Gustav de Gaj) ;
[ 8 1 ] F
S P m iT U A L IS M
5. Undeveioped and tricksy human spirite (Stainton Moses) ;
6. Evil spirite as distinct from human earth-bound spirite
(Mijnheer Beversluis, Frau Von Bergen, Monsieur Béziat, M r.
H* Dennis Bradley, etc.) ;
7. Intercosmic obstacles (Hyslop, etc.) ;
8. Other still more baffling impediments, unimaginable by us in
our ignorance of what the conditions are in the spirit-world (Barrett).
From the C irde :
g, Faulty linking of the sitters (Price, Bradley, etc.) ;
10. Hostile element amongst the sitters (Moses, Oaten, Price) ;
11. Doubting element amongst the sitters (Moses, Oaten) ;
ia . Evil affinities— 1 like attracts like ' (passim) ;
13. Conflicting influences (Lyceum Manual) ;
14. Cheating on the part of die sitters (G . B . Shaw) ;
15. Unsympathetic attitude of the sitters (Wibin) ;
16. Unconsdous hints from the sitters (Hyslop) ;
17. Manifold complications in the mental world affecting any
accès» of outeide influences at ail (Hyslop) ;
18. Atmospheric conditions (Moses, Price).
On the part of the Medium :
19. Extrême susceptibility of the medium whose * processus *
can be neutralised by a mere nothing (irn rien) (Mme Darel) ;
ao. Bad health of the medium (Amor y Progreso) ;
31* Physiological defects (Confederacion Espafiola) ;
33. The professional medium îs likely to cheat for money
(Confederacion Espaüola, Amor y Progreso) ;
33. Consdous fraud (passim) ;
34* Unconsdous fraud (passim) ;
35. The very personality of the medium (waywardness, etc,).
■*AJ1 communications are coloured more or less therebyt (Kersey
in Lyceum Manual) ;
36. Incomplète passivity o f the medium (Wibin, Barrett) ;
37. Incomplète development of the medium (ilfaut consacrerdes
annéesàdévelopperunmédium) (M. Delanne). [Note : M . Delanne
déclarés that he and his friends spent thirty years trying to get
genuine médiums ; and that they still found it difficult to get them] j
38. Résistance of the medium to spirit-control (Wibin) ;
39. Wrong dothing worn by the medium (Wibin) ;
50. Wrong jewelry worn by the medium (Wibin) ;
3:1, Wrong colours used in séances (Wibin) ;
3a. Want of harmony between the vibrations of the medium and
the manifesting spirite (Mme Darel) ;
[Sa]
PER A E D U A A B A S T R ÏS
33, But thecreamo
£ailis givenus by no less aspirit-guide than
*Red C lr n â :
4 Red Cloud * m
anifesta through the m
edium
shîp of one of
England's most notable m
édium
s, Mrs, Estelle Roberts, He also
functions for a séance-drcle at Douai, in France, He talks
4pidgin * English, French and Arabie ; and bis explanation of
the fraudulent behaviour of a *voice and m
aterialising medium'
who was caught producing 4spirit-music ' standing in lier
stockinged-feet on a chair and playing a toy harp, was thaï the
blatant fraudwas due to the influence of *Roman Catholic spirits
fromwhomshe had had trouble before *1i 1
And that was the explanation offered to Mr, Harry Price by the
editor of a Spirituaîist newspaper (Leaves from a Psychist's
Case-Book),
4 Eh ! they're a bad lot them Cafflicks ; even when they’re
dead they won't H
e down/
M. Bénésjech was right, The whole business is hérissé
d'obstacles. I hâve endeavoured to indicate a few presented in
Spirituaîist writings, There may be more, not speciaüsed, in-
cluded in the 4 intercosm
ic obstacles ' of which we hâve no con­
ception, Sufficient for my purpose are the thirty-three thereof,
The H
st is a form
idable one.
Even with those that are given we are left wondering whether
there is ever a rime when not one of these difficulties is présent
and we are definitely sure of an authenric and genuine message
from a really identifiable human soûl that bas 4 passed over/
*Identifiable '—-that is the im
portant question. W
ere it
possible at any séance, private or pubfic, to secure complété
absence of each and every one of the thirty-three obstacles listed
above—intercosm
ic obstacles ; adverse atm
ospheric conditions ;
fraudî telepathy; physiological defects; unsym
pathetic sittersj
and the rest—there would still rem
ain the nightm
arish burden
of proving the Identity of the com
m
unicating Intelligence.
Putting aside the phenom
ena that can be or m
ight be explained
as due to fraud, trickery, m
al-observation, telepathy, etc., even
them
ost confirm
edm
aterialist enquirerinthedom
ainof Psychical
Researchisforcedtoadm
it that thereis aresiduumofphenomena
that seem to be explainable only on the theory of the action of
unknown Intelligences,
The Spirituaîist theory is that these Intelligences are the soûls
of the departed (of those who hâve 4 passedover *).
CathoH
cs—and others—are entitled to ask: 4 Are they the smüs
[83]
S P IR IT U A L IS M
of the deaâi ' Hâve they ever been incontestabîy identified as
such i
AU but Spiritualists would answer t No*
Eveil amongst Spiritualists the question of the identity o f the
manifestihg Intelligences is adœitted to be the main difficulty,
the crux of their position.
In hîs book On the Threshold of a New World of Thought Pro­
fesser Sir William Barrett says : * For my own part it seems not
improbable that the bulk, if not the whole, of the physîcal mani­
festations witnessed in a spiritualistic séance, are the product of
fmman-like, but not really human, intelligences/
Spiritualists like to quote Sir William Crookes with regard to
his expériences. W e hâve an account of his conclusions given
by M r. de Vesme, who wrote a history of SpirituaKsm. He
stated in Annals, July 1907 : * Lastly, we are obliged to recognise,
with Spiritualist writers themselves, such as Myers and Aksakof,
that we do not see how we can arrive at establishing, in a positive
manner, the i d e n t i t y of a “ spirit.” . . . Moreover, why should
we stick as obstinately to the spirit-hypothesis, properly so-caUed i
W e know that Sir William Crookes, for instance, whilst he asserts
that he has not been able to identify the so-caUed spirits as soûls
o f deceased persons, at least déclarés that he is persuaded that
they are spirits independent of the psyché of the medium/
Stainton Moses was a convinced Spiritualist. He is stfll held
in very high esteem by Spiritualists. Yet he wrote t *I am
speaking to the esoteric body. . . , Speaking to such only, I
désiré to clear the ground by a few preliminary considérations,
the more necessary because a considérable portion of this work is
devoted to an exclusive argument dealing only with one side of
the question— the retum to earth of the spirits of departed
humanity. I hâve no desire to stand committed to any narrow
définition or limitation of the Intelligence at work, any more than
I wish to ignore the great weight of evidence that goes to show
that in a large number of cases the I n t e l l i g e n t O p e r a t o r is
NOT the person he prétends to be ' (Spirit Identity, pp. 2, 3).
Professor Camille Flammarion, who also ranks high in the
esteem of the Spiritualists, dedared : *The innumerable observa­
tions which I hâve collected durïng more thanfortyyears, ailprove
tome the contrary. No satisfactory identification has been made *
{Mysterbm Psychic Forces, p. 436).
W e hâve seen that serious învestigators, some of them Spiritual­
ists held in high esteem by their own community, repeatedly
[ 8 4 3
PER A R D U A AB A S T R ÏS
refer to *personatmg spirits who as a hoax, or from m alidous
motives, or from a love of posturing under great names “ fool m
to the top of our beat " . . . vain créatures strutting in borrowed
plumes— Shakespeares who cannot spell, Bacons who cannot
convey consecutive ideas * (M .A. Oxon). Are these really the
soûls of our dead i Surely not ; unless they be soûls from helL
In a leading article in Light, an official organ of Spiritualism,
the editor admitted : 4It is a fact that we cannot gainsay, that
the hardest thing to prove 4
4from the other sida ” is identity, And
we know of no test that can déterminé it *(March 13, 1909)*
Such being the convictions of so many leaders of the Spiritualist
movement, can Catholics be fairly condemned for rejecting the
Spiritualistic daims i
So much for the 4S>pirit-Messages ' ; but what are we to say
about the physîcâl phenomena—lévitation, apports, raps, 4spirit
music/ trumpet voices and trumpet movements, etc. i
Again we study the attitude of Spiritualists themselves. Judging
by the reports of séances and by advertisements that appear in
the Spiritualist press, the general body of Spiritualists seem to
consider such phenomena as highly evidential of spirit influence.
On the other hand quite a few leading Spiritualists deem them to
be of no value whatever ; certainly of no value inproving immortal-
ity* It is in this line of phenomena that most frauds hâve been
detected— they smack too much of conjuring and illusion. M ost
people can be taken in by conjurers or illusîonists who work on
a fully-lighted stage ; how much easier is it to deceive in a faint
light or in the dark.
* The daim that the banjo-playing and furniture shufflîng, the
antics and ineptitudes of the ordinary dark cirde are the work o f
our departed friends who take this remarkable method o f proving
to us their continued life and happiness, is so monstrous that a
well-balanced mind recoils in disgust as from a profanation and
a blasphemy/
These are not the words of a Catholic, nor of an opponent to
Spiritualism ? they are the considered judgment of the Reverend
Staînton Moses (M .A. Oxon.), who remained an ardent Spiritualist
to his death.
He condemns also ail * cabinet * phenomena and 4the whole
method of conducting matérialisation séances/ The latter he
judges 4to be erroneous, calculated to introduce éléments of
uncertainty, and to produce the results which we are compeîled
again and again to déploré ' (Higher Aspects, p. 16).
[85]
S P IR IT U A L ÏSM
He goes on î 4O f the moral aspects of such a procedure I will
say nothing. It is a fact well knawn to experienced Spiritualiste
that the Spirits who are able to deal with gross matter so as to
produce these physical manifestations are beings who are not
possessed of a high moral consdousness* (Higher Aspects,
P *l8)*
When one reads of the mmute préparations made for 4testf
matérialisations, as, for instance, the exploratory examination of
the medium Eva C . by D r. Schrenk-Notzing and his associâtes,
with the further detailed account of the parts of the medium's
body from which the 4teleplasma * (or ectoplasm) issued to form
the materialised spirit, one is forced to ask ; Granting, for argu­
mentas sake, that the phenomena are gentuhe manifestations from
the spirit-world, are such the conditions that normally healthy-
minded people would choose in order to get into touch once more
with their beloved dead i Is our ingrained sense of the holiness
of heaven so low that we can conceive of no more reverential
methods of communing with the dead than by tapping with
tambourines, talking with trumpets, tarra-diddlmg with tables
and tampering with naked médiums i— Surely not.
So long as the bulk, if not the whole of the physical manifesta­
tions are 4not really human intelligences' (Barrett), b u t 4spirits
independent of the psyché of the medium * (Crookes), and that
4in a large number of cases the Intelligent Operator is not the
person he prétends to be (Moses) but rather 4the contrary4
(Flammarion), we CathoHcs feel we are on good ground when,
with these sdentific enquirers and Spiritualists themselves we
say, that 4the hardest thing to prove is i d e n t i t y 4 (Light),
and that 4no satisfactory identification has been made *
(Flammarion).
W e hâve seen how thought-transference can easily account for
most of the messages given. We hâve seen what numerous
obstacles there are against getting evidential messages. W e hâve
seen that even when genuine messages may be received there still
remains the very great and unsolved problem of establishing the
identity o f the communicating spirit.
One other point remains to be considered, namely, the character
of the messages.
W e hâve seen in the chapter on the4Summer Land *how contra-
dictory they can be in their descriptions of life beyond the veil.
The contradictoriness is évident from the passages given. Not
only are they contradictory, they are so vague, so wanting in
[ 86]
PER ÂRDUÂ AB A S T R 1S
précision, so untrustworthy, and so frequently lying, as to be
valueless,
*Is there a lady here who knows Pierre, a French boy who
stayed in London before the war i *asks Sergeant William Ellis,
R .Â.S.C. 4Yes/ says a lady from the back of the hall, and leams
that Pierre is saying, in broken English, that he is unhappy
about her health/ Thus we read in Jliustrated (Jan. i, 1944), in
an article 4Médiums take the Pbtform / at the Caxton Hall,
Westminster,
There may easily hâve been a htmdred boys of the name of
4Pierre *in London before the war— 4Pierre *is nearîy as common
a name for French boys as is 4Jean/ Why could not Sgt, Ellis
give the boy's surname i
Mrs. Flavell followed her teacher, Mrs. Rolfe (from the London
School of Psychoîogy). She pointed to the middle of the empty
aisïe* 4IV e got a boy here— an Air Force boy— saying he wants
someone by the name of Winifred/ No surname again. ït
would be interesting to know why. It is no use advancing the
excuse that the meeting was a public one, and therefore the full
names could not be given with propriety* We fmd exactly the
same vagueness is évident in private séances.
Here is a short extract from a sitting that Dennis Bradley had
with Miss Hazel Ridley, an American trance medium. Miss
Ridley's 4guide ' is an Indian of the name of 4Gray W olf/ In
this séance the messages were supposed to be spoken by the spirit
communicator himself after he took control of the medium.
Medium : 4Gert—Gertie—Gertrude— wants Mary/
Mrs. Austin Harrison (whose name is Marie, asked) 4Do you
want me i 4
Medium : 4Yes, {Floundering about) MotheFs here/
Mrs. Harrison (querying— her mother being alive),
Medium : 4M ary's mother/
Mrs* Harrison could not place 4Mary*s mother* so the medium
triedsomething else*
Medium : 4Gertie/
We then asked who Gertie wanted tospeak to*
Medium : 4Quite young— when she went over/
Nom of us could claim a young Gertie who went over*
Medium : 4 1 will open a way for the others/
Medium î (a minute or two later, whispering) : 4Elisabeth/
We tried tofind out who Elisabeth was, but âiâ not succeed*
And so on, and so on, with attempts at Henry, Hetty, Edie#
[ 8 7 ]
S P ÏR IT U A L IS M
Elisabeth again, Maurice, and M ary's father, whose name could
not be given (. . , And After, pp. 278-379)*
Mrs* Mona Roife, Director 01 the London School ofPsychology,
*stabbed her finger at a man with a lean face and untidy grey hair*
*
* There is a gentleman here with a very strong Creative force
behind him» Hâve you done any sort of créative work s*"
' u N o/' replied the gentleman.
*Mrs* Roife pursed her üps. *' Any drawing, something créative
with yottr hands i '' she qtieried.
■*u I work with my hands*"
4“ You've been frustrated and held back. I feel there is some­
thing you are trying to grasp and you are putting a cîoud around
yourself 4
Perhaps one ought not to be too severe in one's judgment on
that séance* because, as M r. Alan Reeve, the writer of the report,
informa us* M rs. Roife said : ' I reaüy started these Sunday
services to get a platform for my students topractise on*
Several questions suggest themselves in regard to that state-
ment : (1) Was Lord Dowding invited to act as chairman in order
to be practised on i (2) Is a large hall crowded with ail types of
people, and thus about the worst place for obtaining evîdential
psychic phenomena, the best place for practising i (3) It takes
years to develop a medium* says M , Delanne. Is it quite the
thing* then* to put pupils on the platform for a public Sunday
servicei If such meetings would need* as M r. Horace L eaf
deciared* * a perfect Samson among clairvoyants to give successful
descriptions and spirit messages*' what hope could there be for
the general public to get anything else beyond such useless stuff
as î 4T ell her that he cornes home very often* and would she
please leave the photograph where it was first ' (lUustrated,
Jan. 1* 1944)*
Biackpooi-shore *gypsies ' could do as good, if not better. Is
that sort of thing religion i Would even the singing of *Nearer*
my God, to Thee/ with a subséquent rendering of a vocal solo,
‘ Hear my Frayer ' (Mendelssohn), make it a service that truly
constitüted worship of the Almighty God i
4Power,' the spirit guide of M rs. Meurig Morris, gives an
exhibition at the Fortune Theatre, Covent Garden. ' Great
crowds again flocked ' there. * Though the doors of the theatre
were timed not to open ttU 6 p m ., queues began to form at n a .m /
The subject of the discourse to he given by * Power ' w,as chosen
by a member of the staff of the D aily Maü ; we présumé that the
[ 8 8 ]
PER AR D UA AB A STR IS
Daily Mail has a department of spécialiste in theology. An> way,
4Power's * address 4was followed with rapt attention ,— was it
rapt bewilderment 4 because 4 Power’s * addresses are difficult
for a reporter to follow. . . * His sentences, too, are often lengthy
and involved, whilst the rapid flow of his language is remarkable f
(The Two Worlds, Feb* 6,1931).
Reporters are stipposed to be trained to report. A reporter
from the staff of the Daily M a il (not a 4correspondent/ mark you)
should be tip to his job. And in this instance the reporter chose
the subject of the address. Yet ail we are told in The Two Worlds
is— not what the subject was ; nor what 4Power *said about it—
but that44
4Power's ” addresses aredifficult for a reporter to followf
Surely we may présumé that the reporter chose a subject about
which he knew something, even if only a littîe. I, personally,
would think he would propose a test-subject ; something about
which he knew a good deal, It would seem that both the medium
and her spirit-guide 4Power *got lost ; hence the 4lengthy and
involved * sentences and the remarkably 4rapid flow of language/
Further, if the Daily M ail reporter could not follow a discourse
on a subject he himself had chosen, what chance had the audience
which packed the theatre 4
We are told that the address 4îeft a deep impression on the
audience/
I think it would.
Now we can understand why Stainton Moses declared, with
regard to public séances, that the medium at such gatherings4can
give no trustworthy evidence f {Higher Aspects, p. 18). Now we
can believe him when he says : 4It is a common cause of com-
plaint amongst us that the communications received . . . are of an
unsatisfactory nature. It is said that they are frequently trivial,
contradictory, foolish (if not worse) and not such as command
respect. . . . I am anxious not to overstate the argument. * * .
Is it not so 4 I am disposed to think it is * {Higher Aspects,
P
* 88).
Here is another witness, quite up to date and modem— the late
M r. H . Dennis Bradley. He says : 4When the medium starts to
fish for information by asking questions of the sitter, in order to
get a line to work upon, one may be safe in assuming the medium
is not genuine/
At Mrs. Rolfe's meeting at the Caxton Hall it seemed to be ail
fishing :
4Is there a lady here who knows Pierre 4 * asks Sergeant Elüs.
i m
S P IR ITU A LIS M
* Hâve you doue any Creative work s
'— Any drawing, something
créative with your hands i * queries the Director of die London
School of Psychology, Mrs* Rolfe*
#IVe got a boy here— an Air Force boy— saying he wants
someone by the name of Winifred/ is the fishing remark of Mrs*
Rolfe's pttpil (Mrs* Margaret Flavell).
Surely to goodness 4Pierre * and the * A ir Force boy * did not
travel sixty million miles to endeavour to get in touch with some-
one, out of a population of seven million, whose surname they
did not know, and who might or might not hâve been at the
Caxton Hall that evening 1
Accuracy, précision, means of identification, solid knowledge—
ali these are missing from the spirit messages. Instead we are
presented with contradictory reports, vague generahties, baaalxües,
forgotten surnames and truly Delphic equivocal utterances* No
wonder Professor Joad wrote, with regard to such messages : * One
is driven to the conclusion that, even if ghosts hâve soûls, they
certainly hâve no brains.*
A nd who is to know, especially at a public séance, whether
OR NOT THE MEDIUM HAS A CONFEDERÀTE— OR CONFEDERATES— IN
THE BODY OF THE HALL TO GITE A HBLPÏNG HAND, SHOULD 4BLACK
DEVIL f OR 4SCALPING KNïFE4BAIL IN HIS TASK, BECAUSE A D02Æ
N
ORMOREOF THETHIRTY-THREE OBSTACLES CONFRONTTHE MEDIUMi
V
*WHISTLE, AND TLL COME*
*So Spiritualism is u ail my eye and Betty Martin ** i *
Well, not quite.
* But you hâve just tried to make out a case to prove that there
is no genuine communication with the dead/
With the dead, yçs ; as far as the dead died as the friends of
Àknighty God. But please do not overlook the possibility that
there may be other spirits in the life-to-come besides the soûls of
the dead, Don't forget what I quoted already from M . de Vesme,
or from Sir William Crookes, or from Sir William Barrett.
Professor Barrett says : *For my own part it seems not im­
probable that the bvdk, if not the whole, of the physical manifesta­
tions witnessed in a spiritualistic séance, are the product of
human-Hke, but not really human, intelligences/
De Vesme asks : ' Why should we stick so obstinately to the
spirit-hypothesis properly so called i We know that Sir William
Crookes, for instance, whilst he asserts that he has not been able
to idenùfy the so-called spirits as soûls of deceased persons, at
least déclarés that he is persuadai that they are spirits indépendant
of the psyché of the mediumi
What do these three men mean if not that there are other
spirits besides those who are the soûls of the dead i They may
not make any allusion to the evil character of these *human-Hke,
but not really human, intelhgences/ but others, who beHeve in the
actuahty of spirit-communication, do point out the evil nature
of manifesting spirits,
The late H . Dennis Bradley in the course of describing his
chats with his pet medium, George VaHantine, said : * I alluded
to my expériences when genuine phenoraena had occurred and
yet at the same time the ** voice ” phenomena had obviously
been produced by impersonating entities* I recounted to him
certain expériences when evil influences had affected the results *
(, * . And After, p, 367),
[91]
S P IR ITU A LIS M
Again, he says (p. 394) : 4 It fs tmquesdonable that in the lower
grades of mediumsiup there are innumerable evil, lying and
impersonating entities seeking channels of communication, with
the resuit that many séances which are held are of a degrading
character, and in such cases the practice is unhealthy and morbid/
Mijnheer Beversluis, aminister of the Dutch Reformed Church
and a most ardent Spiritualist, in his lecture on *The rôle of
Spiritualism in the religious évolution of humanity/ declared ;
1As to the doctrine of Parsedsm— that of the perpétuai conflict
of evil with good— of evil spirits with good spirits, that we find
in ali the monotheistic religions, in Judaism, in Islamism and
Christianity, in the doctrine of the existence of Satan and the
devüs, who fight God and His angels, Spiritualism has reveakd
that there really is a fight hetwem pure and impure spirits^ that there
are diahoîic spirits that haie God*
Mijnheer Beversluis is not the only reverend gentleman who
espoused the cause of Spiritualism* There are too many others
from Nonconformity and from die Church of England* Amongst
the latter the Rev. William Stamtoh Moses stands out head and
shoulders, a very Saul amongst the prophets, above the rest.
M r. Moses, whilst endeavouring to make out as strong a case as
he coufd against the existence of the Devil and his angels, was
forced to admit, as a conclusion from his own Spiritualistic
expériences, that they are not only the soûls of the dead who
manifest at séances. *It is not for me to deny/ he wrote,4that
there are at work in Spiritualism agencies other than the departed
souk of our kind *(Spirit Identity, p. 18).
In his other book, Higher Aspects of Spiritualism (pp. 47-48),
he writes of spirits *who seem to be on a lower plane than our
own ; others are destitute of moral consciousness *; and as an
alternative to their being merely human spirits *fond of a hoax/
he dedares they must be *démons : devils in short, emissaries
a i Satan * ; and he adds i *I do not see why such a devil as
Caîvinists, Puritans and the narrow school of Evangelicals believe
in should not account, on the most comprehensive prindpîes, for
the whole mystery of evil.’'
There is the point : 4 on the most comprehensive prindpîes *
—
that is the very situation that is burked and avoided. M r. Stainton
M oses avoids it himself by denying the existence of the devil.
He is content to call them *maüdous spirits* and *tricksy spirits *
and *agendes other than the departed spirits of our kind/ So do
Spiritualists in general argue that these 4 not really human intelli-
[ 9^3
'W H IS T L E , A N D T L L C O M E *
gences ’ ; these *spirits independentof the psyché of themedium *;
these *evil influences ' of whom Dennis Bradley speaks ; these
spirits 4 who seem to be on a lower levei than our own/ are not
deviîs, but only ‘ earth-bound spirits '—i.e, human soûls of low
degree who hâve passed over, but who stili ciing, on account of
their evil earthly lives, to earthly attractions.
To foîiow out the purpose of this book, which is to wam those
who may be tempted to dabble with Spiritualism as to the kind
of spirits they may contact, it might be useful to see what
Spiritualists themselves hâve to say forther of the character of
these earth-bound beings.
For the moment we shaîl set aside the question as to whether
or not they are deviîs in the theological meanmg of the word, and
consîder them soleîy as *evil spirits/
The hésitant wouîd-be enquirer can then put the question to
himself as to whether they are the type of beings with whom
anyone would realîy care to get in touch and to trust.
To begin with we must keep in mind that the majority— if not
ail— of Spiritualist writers insist on stating that death does not
bring about an immédiate change of character in the soûl of the
person who passes over.
Andrew Jackson Davies declared in his Diakka and their
Victims : 4 Death does nor change the character of a man, but
simply strips off his masks and compris him to stand forth as he
is, and he becomes after death the image of his own character/
D r. J. M . Peebles, commenting on this passage, wrote : 4 How
true this independent clairvoyantes words ! “ Death does not
change character/' Are there no evil-mmded, incorrigibiy
malignant persons in this world i Only the semi-brainless can
rationally deny it. There must, therefore, be such undevrioped,
conscienceiess beings in the world of spirits ' (Demonism o f the
Ages, p. 19).
Two pages farther on he quotes with approval the words of
Hudson Tuttle : *Ail spiritual beings were once human beings,
and according to the fondamental principles of Spiritualism, by
passing through the gateway of death hâve met with no change,
except such as they hâve gained by growth. Hence they are as
good and as evil as they were here, no more, no less,
4 If there are evil persons in this life there are in the next, and
IF WE OPEN THE WAY FOR THEIR APPROACH AND ALLOW THEM TO
INFLUENCE US, WE MUST EXPECT THEM TO MANIFEST THE SAME
QUALITIES WHICH DISTINGUISHED THEM IN EARTH-LIFE.'
[ 9 3 ]
S P ÏR ITU A L1SM
D r. J. M . Peebles, thât late vétéran American Spirituaîist,
sent me, *with good wishes/ an autographed copy o£his Demonism
of the Âges, Spirit Obsessions so common ùi Spiritism, Oriental and
Occidental Occultism, in which he had marked off several passages
in order to call my attention to them. (Italics his.)
After describing luridly the varions types of inhabitants of this
earth,with its *
400,000,000almond-eyed semi-enlightenedChinese;
some 350,000,000 plague-stricken, polygamy-practising, child-
marrying, superstitious people of India ; 300,000,000 ignorant,
scantiiy-dad African negroes, with cannibal tribes in the central
régions . . . scheming, gold-dutching millîonaires of America ;
Whitechapel murderers of London, travelling road-side tramps
and thieves ; night-walking outcast men and women that infest
the dties ; the liars, gamblers, unprindpled tricksters, slum-
saloon patrons, wild, dazed, insane j criminals in jails and peni-
tentiaries ; intriguing, morally-perjured politidans/ he adds t
4— these— ail these are swept with the black besom-wing of death
into the spirit world î They are spirits— discamate spirits now—
but are they pure i — are they good i If so, what has made them
sot1 Was it the last death-gaspi Is death a saviori Does
dying inject, or transmit with a flash, beneficence and wisdom
into a stupid African cannibal i Does death clean off the slate,
making philosophera of idiots, and saints of savages i A re tkere
no evü spirits just over the border /
4 If not, then spirit-identity is a fallacy— a gigantic delusion/
Then follows the first marked passage : 4 These countless
millions above-named, divested of thdr mortal vestures, are now
spirits, yet in tendency and sentiment, they are still of the earth,
earthy/
Of course we never hear a word from Spiritualists who organise
or hold the weekly meetings of this sort of evil spirit-entity ever
manifesting at their public séances. When the Great Metro-
poh’tan Spirituaîist Association advertises its séances at which
there is *Healrng by Sw iftfoot/ who may hâve been a first-dass
hand at scalping in his earth-life, we are not warned that public
séances are, according to men like Peebles and Stainton Moses,
the very type of occasion for earth-bound spirits to manifest,
Nor does the Marylebone Spirituaîist Association Ltd. (I like
the 4 Ltd/) put us on our guard against the possibility of the
médiums they hâve engaged being fraudulent, and therefore the
more likely to attract lying spirits. No ; we are not advised of
these possible dangers. A il die spirits who manifest at the 3,000
C94]
4W H IST L E , A N D IT ,L C O M E '
wecîdy meetings are presumed to be good spirits ; ail ready ta
produce phenomena ‘ on tap/
Cm ihese Associations, whether Ltd, or not, guarantee that
no earth-bound, lying or tricksy spirits will rush in to be présent
at their meetings i Are there no spirit gate-crashers i After ail,
it is not only in the U .S.A . that evil spirits abound to trouble
séances, We must not overlook Dr, Peebies' allusion to the
* Whitechapel murderers of London *; and as spokesman for
this side of the Atlantic we hâve the Rev. William Stainton Moses,
M .A , (Oxon.)
This reverend gentleman referred in his Spirit Identity (p. a)
to the difficulties of investigation, and said, regarding séances î
*The gates are set ajar, and a motley company enfers/ He
repeats this description of the manifesting entities on page twelve,
heading the section in capitals :
*T he G ates being ajar, a M otley Crowd rushes in .
* The worid from which disembodied spirits return to us is very
much iike our own. The denizens of it are of varying degrees
of progression ; and those, unfortunately for us, who are least
progressive, least developed, and most material and earthly,
hover around the confines, and rush in when the gates are set
ajar,
' Our crimùmls we hâve atways with us.
4The dwellers in our ianes and alleys, for whom we make a
decent life impossible ; the victims of our lusts and debaucheries,
whom our conditions of life drive, like the poor sheep that they
are, to inévitable sin and shame— these scapegoats o f advanced
civilisation . . . these we hâve too, answering the first call, only
too ready to corne back to the only place they care for,
*They who hâve lived the life of incarnation without progress :
they who hâve hoarded their treasure here, and hâve no home
elsewhere ; they who are tied to earth by any o f the bonds that
chain down the spirit ; they for whom heaven has no meaning,
and who would find their highest gratification on the earth they
should hâve quitted for ever ; those, in short, whom we by our
vicious civilisation, by aË the methods whereby worldly wealth
and power preys on and dégradés those who are the ministers of
its lusts and material cravings and necessities ; those whom we
hâve reduced to the level of mere physical machines, and robbed
o f the predous birthright of spiritual progress and true life—
these find the gates ajar and vex us. . , . W hat does H oly W rit
[ 9 5 l
SPIRITUALISM
say i *
*He that is unjust is unjust still ; and he that is filthy h
fiîthy still/*' Carry on the argument, and the conclusion is
inévitable. W e hâve éléments set loose from this world of ours
day by day, endowed too, with perpetuated life and energy,
sufficient to nrake ît not only probable but certain that, once m
establish communication with the disembodied statet they will retum
to vex and harass us, as we know they do/
If this be the actuai State of affaire ; if the statements of these
leading exponents of Spiritualism be true— and there would seem
to be little reason to doubt that they were honest in writing as
they did ; for, after ail, they were downright ardent advocates of
the cause of Spiritualism— again I ask î why, why, why, in the
face of such statements, made by such men, as to the evil nature
of the spirits who are first on the spot to manifest, why is it taken
for granted that ail the phepomena at private, and espedaliy at
public séances are the work of goodspirits i
Tttmtratèd, in its issue for January i, 1944, declared that * Once
again the Spiritualist movement stands in the limelight, Every
Sttnday almost 3,000 Spiritualist groups meet in churches and
halls throughout England. Thousands o f converts hold séances
in their homes/ Are we to believe, after reading what Jackson
Davis, Peebles and Stainton Moses hâve written, that ail these
thousands o f groups and private circles never contact an evil
spirit i H such maHcious intelligences do not manifest, why are so
tnany warning instructions given by the LyceumMarnai, Stainton
Moses and people like M r. Harry Boddington î W hy are there
people liike D r. Cari Winnick for *driving out obsessions through
mediumship *i— those “ obsessions so commun in Spiritism/ as
D r. Peebles puts it in itaücs on the title-page o f his book i
Those *3,000 Spiritualist groups/ which Jllustrateâdistinguishes
from the private circles, are the very type that are denounced by
the more respectable leaders of Spiritualism. Such groups hold
their séances under what are termed *bad conditions/ the worst
conditions; conditions condemned repeatedly by more honest
Spintualists.
Apart from my own conviction (which would count for nothing
with the believing Spiritualist) but relying solely on the denuncia-
tions of such types of meetings as hâve been uttered by their own
, I would say, emphatically, that if evil, malicious,
ever manifest they must do so at such gathermgs.
The *conditions * are ail bad : the professional medium en­
gage*!, who is, in the words of Conan Doyle, *the curse o f the
[963
1W H IST L E , A N D YLL COME '
movement *; the promiscuity of the people drawn to the séance ;
the ftivolous, the merely curions» the sceptical— and that very
class who should keep away î the broken-hearted, the bereaved»
the anxious» the unbalanced ; ail of whom Oliver Lodge and
Stainton Moses warned off, as 4their judgœent is uncritical ' ;
the cool»calculated presumed daim to be abîe to secure phenomena
immediately the medium goes into action» Sunday after Sunday»
or any time on any day that is advertised.
Those who hâve studied the literature on the subject and who
hâve not been content to get ail their information from such
papers as Psychic News know perfectly weii that the most famous
médiums—those of English, Continental and Trans-Atlantic
repute'—hâve repeatedly failed at séances to get any results at ail.
Are we to believe» then, that the professionals like the Baylises,
the Murphey-Lydys» the Duncans, the Hamiltons can get results
any time they like i
The organisera of uch meetings must know the odds are against
genuine phenomena occurrmg under such conditions» and thère-
fore must be prepared to sanction fraud, lest their patrons go
away disappointed— and the Association Ltd* would be faeed with
a finandal loss* If they are ready to pass off the fraudulent for
the genuine their motives are bad ; and should any spirit reaîly
manifest in the course of the session it would in ail probability
be an evil one*
T o back up this judgraent on the matter I quote once more
from Spirit Identity (p* 16} : * Too often what happens is this :
a number of persons assemble» most of them densely ignorant of
any conditions to be observed ; sonie animated by mere curiosity»
a few by a dumb desire to see what can be had through the only
course open to them as evidence of a future life : ail, in nine cases
out of ten» unfit, for one or more of many causes, for the solemn
work they hâve undertaken. The îink between the two worlds,
the line that the Intelligent Operator must use» is out of order»
over-wrought» in anything but a satisfactory condition* How
should it be otherwise i Anyone who can spare five shillings runs
to him for proof of immortality 1 The burden is more than he
can bear ; and if he be a model of integrity» a very storehouse of
psychic power» he becomes distressed and broken down. His
nerves are shattered» he is open to the assaults of ail the malidous»
tricksy spirits that his vocation brings him in contact wîth» and,
as a conséquence» he is in grievous péril— through our ignorance
and folly as much as through the ever-present danger o f his
[ 9 7 l G
S P IR IT U A L IS M
vocation— of moral, or mental, or physical détérioration» Then
cornes the necessary sequel ; temptation, obsession, fraud,
buffoonery, and ail that we so lament as assodated with phéno­
ménal Spiritualism»
*These are the drcumstances under which a large proportion
of those who desire to gather evidence respecting the intercourse
between the two worlds are forced to get it. I repeat that I am
astonished that any evidence shoald be worth comting that is pro-
duced under stick conditions ; and I do not wonder that, as a rule,
the evidence is faulty, and that the conditions set up and per»
petuated by us resuit in much that is discreditable, and even
shameful.
4In so saying, I hâve in mind many a scandai that has brought
shame on the cause I advocate.'
It is amazing îo me that anyone who has read widely and
studiously the literature of Spiritualism could lend his or her name
and presence to the fostering of these promiscuous public séances
in the Caxton Hall or any orner hall. Seeing the picture of Lord
Dowding at the late Caxton Hall meeting, apparently telling the
photographer to * G et on with it/ I asked myself : 4Qu'est-ce
qu'il est allé faire dans cette galère i *
There you hâve it : at such meetings the medium *is open to
the assaults o f ail the maiicious, tricksy spirits that his vocation
brings him in contact with.' Andrew Jackson Davis, Hudson
Tuttie, Stainton Moses, D r. Peebles— one after another— ail
dedaring that there is an enormous doud of evil witnesses, ‘ a
motley crowd,' ready to rush in as soon as the gates between this
world and the next are set ajar by the forming of a séance-circle.
But the puzzle is î why do ail these people content themselves
with describing these evil Intelligences as merely malidous,
lying spirits, possibly sub-human, ' agencies other than the
départe! spirits of our kind ' i Why can they not go further and
admit that they are devils in the orthodox theological sense i
After ali, Dr. Peebles and Stainton Moses claimed to be Christian
dergymen ; ought not the word of Jésus Christ to be good enough
for them i W hat différence does it really make to the cause of
Spiritualism to admit the existence of the devil and his angels
when they so openly admit the existence of hordes of evil,
malidous, lying and obsessional earth-bound spirits who are the
l£ke of Satan in thdr influence and character i
Accepting, for arguments sake— though I hâte to hâve to put
it so—the Spiritualists' description o f Jésus as ' the greatest
[ 98]
* WHISTLE, AND rL L CO M E *
medium that ever lived/ what do we find in reading any of the
four accounts of His life— the four Gospels i We find this : that
He believed in the existence of the devil and his angels ; He
taught that they existed ; He claimed the power to exorcise them,
and also the ability to pass on that power to His disciples» His
very mission on earth, as St. John tells us, was ' to destroy the
Works of the devil— Ivx X
u<rn -rx Ipyx tou SwcBoXau/
Voltaire put St. John's statement in another form : 4Pas de
Sathan, pas de Sauveur/— If there is no devil, then there is no
üeed for a Saviour.
The test for those early Christians who were converted from
superstitious surroundings was to * Try the spirits/ and if those
spirits (devils) who then manifested denied the divinity of Christ
they were anathema, Le. accursed.
And there Hes, in my judgment, the keynote of the Spiritualist
movement, vis. the déniai of the Divinity of Jésus Christ,
Stainton Moses wrote at a time when England was more Chris­
tian than it is now j and he penned these words in Spirit Identity
(p. 22) : 4Ever since I beeame intimately acquainted with the
subject, I hâve been deeply impressed with some serions con­
sidérations respecting it.
' One is, there is an organisai plan on the part of the spirits who
govem these manifestations . . . to act on us and on the religions
thought of the âge/
Those words are as true to-day as ever they were. Note the
words : ever since he beeame intimately acquainted with Spirit-
ualism he had that deep impression of an organised plan on the
part of the spirits to act on the religions thought of the âge,
Hence we can understand the fulminations of M , le Clément de
St. Marcq against the Church ; the beHttling of the value of faith
in the teaching of Christ that is common to so many Spiritualists ;
the rejection of the Bible by so many others ; and the extreme
case of the late A . J. Smyth (once a Spiritualist Lyceum leader)
who, in a letter to me, could describe the Almighty as * that
hydra-headed monster called the Christian G od/
Hence we can understand how a correspondent could write
in Psychic News (Nov. 27, 1943) :
* Silver Birch says the Nasarene was a great teacher. I f the
Bible is to be believed he was a great teacher and the greatest
medium ever, . . . As for Silver Birch's teachings being at variance
with the Christian belief, thank God they are *1
* Silver Birch/ by the way, is an alleged spirit-guide of Hannen
[ 9 9 3
SPIRITUALISM
Swafferis home drcle, He seems to hâve dethroned 4White
Shadow/ the chief guide o f the cirde. He is a pantheistic
North American Indian (?)+
Im*t it astounding { Isnh it perplexing to think that people
who wotdd call themselves sane can prefer the teaching of quondam
scrip-hunting, savage 4braves/ whom nodoby can identify nor
prove to hâve EviR existed, to that of Jésus Christ i
Quos dem mit perdere prias dementat
The movement appears to be one of the attacks of Antichrist—
it is anti-Christ. L et us consider again those portentous words of
Stainton Moses : 4There is an organised plan on the part o f the
spirits who govem these manifestations « , „ to act on us and on
the reHgious thought of the âge/ That is the whole situation.
If these spirits were merely the soûls of the dead, why should they
bother about the religions thoughts of those on earth i W e hâve
been told that whaîever religion a man belongs to in this life will
be his religion beyond the grave. But we see how the plan acts.
It attempts to change the man*s reHgion in this life if he takes up
Spmtualism.
D r. J, M . Peebles wrote at the âge of 92 a brief account of his
conversion to beîief in Spiritualism. He described his réluctance
to take aay notice of the 4rappings * then becoming common at
Auburn, U .S A . Finaîly he went to consult a female medium.
The raps and the vibrations both astonished and horrified him.
4When I got back to my study I tried to get rid of ail thoughts of
4
4spirits/* It was impossible. True enough, I had preached
eloquently of the future life, immortal life, and now that the
spirits had corne and proved the truth of my preaching I was
annoyed and almost angry with them ; because they had turned
my religions beliefs upside down * (p. 58).
Mijnheer Beversluis : _
4Formerly I believ^ed that Jésus was the
second person of the Trînity ’— now he beüeves that no more.
4Never did Jésus Christ daim to be God ! * says Captain
Volpi.
And Stainton Moses devoted a whole chapter in his Higher
Aspects of Spiritualismwhich he entitled 4Loss and Gain/ Here
is a man, educated and well read, a dergyman of the Church of
Bngtand, who once redted, Sunday after Sunday, the Nicene
Creed, and thirteen times a year the Athanasian Creed, before his
congrégation ; and through his adoption of Spiritualist practices
he gave up belief in the Trinity of God, in the Divinity of Christ,
in rite existence of the Holy Ghost, in the Atonement and Redemp-
E100]
'W H IS T L E , AND FLL COME*
tion through the shedding of Christ's Blood on Calvary. * We
hâve iost a God-man» but we hâve gained a mode! maa, ail but
divine/ Like Lady Emily Lutyens, who said with regard to the
Krishmmurti humbug stunt : *There must be anarchy before
there can be création ' {Herald of the Star, March 1937), so Moses
dedared : *The work of destruction must necessarily précédé the
work of construction/
So ail is plain : the organised plan of the spirits to work on
the religions thought of the day was to be by the way of destruc­
tion— destruction of true Christian faith, and especialîy of Cathode
faith ; destroy ail belief In the idea of Jésus as God-Incarnate,
then people will take His authority as being of only a wee bit more
value than Mahomet's ? and so the world can believe what it
likes and behave as it likes, and nobody need bother himself about
anything.
If that plan is not, to the truly Christian mind at least, the work
of the devil, one is justified in asking : what is i
Some reader may retort : 4Yes, that may be true of the general
trend of the movement, but wheee does the diabolic influence
COHE IN WITH REGARD TO SÉANCES < HoW FAR ARE THE PHENO-
MENA OF SPIRITUALISH DUE TO DEMONIC OR SATANIC AGENCY i *
M uch as they may seem to be alike these are two distinct
questions, each having its bearing on the subject of this chapter.
i. There is the influence exercised to attract people to frequent
séances or to * try for themselves/ and be impressed. This may
lead to a continuance of attendance or to a répétition of experi-
menting at home,
a. There is the question of the aetml agency of the devü in
producing the phenomena.
In other words, we are asked to dîscuss (a) the r e h o t e influence
and (b) the i m m é d ia t e influence of Satan in Spiritualism.
(a) R e m o t e i n f l u e n c e : According to ail true and historié-
Christian teaching there exists outside this material world, in
which we live and move and hâve our being, a world o f spirits
both good and bad.
God is the Suprême Spirit who alone exists of Himself, and is
infinité in ail perfections,
There are the good Spirits, commonly called Angels— though
the Angels are only one class of the nine choirs of pure Spirits—
who are the créatures and the servants o f Almighty God.
There are the evil spirits, who are called devils ; these are the
enemies of God.
C lo i ]
SP1K
JLrUAJLIàM
T he Sacred Sadptures are fuU of references to the existence of
both good and evil spirits and the New Testament tells us that
4our wrestling is not against flesh and blood» but against prindpali-
ties and powers, against the rulers of the world of this darkness,
against the spirits of wickedness in high places *
— therefore
St* PauTs couverts at Ephesus were advised to take unto them
4the shield of faith, wherewith you may be able to extinguish ail
the fiery darts o f the most wicked one/
That 4shield of faith f is the very protection o f which Satan
would deprive manMnd through Spiritualism. Forgetting, or
igporing, the words of Jésus Christ ; 4Blessed are they that hâve
not seen, and hâve beüeved/ Spiritualists actually sneer at faith,
and would hâve ail men become a s 4doubting Thomases/ W e are
asked to stake our beüef in a future life on the fraudulent
phenomena o f such notorious fake-mediums as the widely
celebrated Eva C., Mrs* Duncan, George Valiantine, Rudi
Schneider, M rs. Murphey Lydy, Harold Evans, M rs. Hamilton,
M rs. Baylis, Jean Guzik, M iss Hazel Ridley, Stanislawa P., and
so on, and so on ; or eîse to base it on the alleged teachings of
unidentifiable Red Xndians and Arabs.
Spiritualists seem not to recogmse the différence between
divine faith and simple creduüty. 4A s for Silver Birch's teach­
ings being at variance with the Christian belief, thank God they
are f l
Our Lord Jésus Christ described Satan as the father of lies.
St. John wrote : * He that committeth sin is of the devîl : for the
devh sihneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of
God appeared that He might destroy the Works of the devil/
The work of the devil is the luring away of human beings from
the love and service of God ; and this is done by destroying
beKef in the divinity of Christ whom He hath sent, and by setting
’at naught the value of the Rédemption by Christ's Atonement.
In order to secure that rejection of Jésus Christ as Redeemer
and Saviour any and every means of séduction is used by Satan
and fais assodate wicked spirits; appeals to pride, lust, envy,
jeakmsy, love o f money, curiosity, and every human wealmess.
O f these the least reprehensibie (in one sense), the least dé­
terrent, and the one most common to men and women, is
CORIOSITY.
* Y e shall be as gods, knowing good and evil/ And the sur-
render to that appeal ‘ to know * ail brought sin into this world,
and with sin, death.
[ i o a ]
* W H IST L E , AND T L L C O M E *
1
1 was the debasement of human Intelligence (or reason), that
greatest gift of God to man, that very gift that marks man off
from the brute création, which calied for such a penalty.
As part of our ratiotial nature we are always wanting to know— ■
even if it is only the winner of the 3.30. Curiosity leads many
Eves to read their husbands' letters. Curiosity entices young
people to pry into books not intended for adolescents— and the
surrender to the temptation of curiosity has much to answer for.
Unfortunately we too often want to know the wrong things.
The human will is ôrdained to choose jfood. When it décidés
on the choice of what is evil, that is because the evil présents
itseîf, for the moment of choice, as something good— an advantage
to well-being, or pocket, or knowledge. Satan being an in-
tellectual being, knows this. W ith his expérience of what human
nature is and of what human minds long for, and knowing that
the human will revolts from evil as evil, he can easily work on the
chief weakness of any human being in order to lead him or her
away from God.
Spiritualists claîm to hâve proved that discarnate spirits can
communicate their thoughts to human minds ; what, then, is
there to prevent evil spirits who hâve never been incarnate and
who are of a higher întellectual nature from doing likewîse i
What is more likely than that they should exploit the curiosity
of the bereaved and others as to what happens to the human
soûl after death i
When to that curiosity to know what is hidden from us by
God there is added the attraction of mystery and the lure of the
occult, what more enticing temptation could the devil use i The
fortune-telling élément apart, there is attached to it no danger of
arrest for breach of the civil law ; it is free from the grossness
that repels many from sensual sins ; it leads to no infringement
of a neighbour’s rights— it ail seems so harmless, so simple, so
natural, so above-board, and so very removed from sin.
Hence to the Catholic mind it is just the very type of tempta­
tion the devil would use.
The actual results of loss of Christian faith through dabbling
in Spiritualism bear ample testimony to the strength of this
argument as to the ‘ remote * influence of the devil (p. 15).
(6) There is another influence, which is Immédiate or D irect.
Here we State the Sound Catholic prindple which is used in
the testing of miracles, namely : never to postulate the super-
natural until ail known possible explanations hâve been exhausted.
[ 103]
bFJLKJL i U A i j l b M
When that has been done each individual case must be con-
sidered on the fait évidence given.
Where that evidence proves conclusively that no explanation
by way of fraud or trickery or mal-observation or telepathy or
any other natural hypothesis catx account for the phenomena,
then we are left with the only conclusion which remains : that
the cause is supematurd ; and if the résulte are of an evil nature,
then the supernatural agency is of the devil,
It might be objected : But why not allow that it may be the
work o f some discamate human soûls1 It might be , , , but
such a manifesting 1spirit * could only be one from hell*
Catholic doctrine concerning Heaven is : that Heaven is a
State of ineffable happiness wherein the soûl enjoys the suprême
reward of the Vision of God. 1 Now we see in â glass darkîy/
says St, P au l,4but then face to face/ I put it to any reader who
daims to be a true Christian yet hovers on the brink of the pit
of Spirituaiism : what soûl entranced by the Vision of God
would wish to leave that for the darkened séance-room in order
to tap people on the head with a celluloid trumpet or to ring ah
the plated bells on a Christmas-tree at once i
On the admission of Spiritualiste themselves, as we hâve seen,
many of the messages are futile, deceiving or lying ; and, as such,
are wickedly cruel when the déception is practised on people
recendy bereaved.
Again, experimenters with the planchette can testify, by the
score, to the obscene, filthy and blasphémons messages received,
The iate M r. Godfred Raupert, once an ardent believer in
Spirituaiism, told me how his dabbling with the planchette made
bôth himself and his wife downright ill through the foulness. of
the messages they received. A il was fair, 4uplifting * and in-
nocuous to begin with ; but the later résulte were horrifying—
and that led him to enter the Catholic Church as the only Christian
body that, as far as he knew, condemned Spirituaiism outright.
Gilbert K . Chesterton told Fr, O'Connor that he used to
experiment with the planchette quite frequently at one time, but
that later he gave it up because it gave him headaches followed
by *a horrid feeling as if one were tryîng to get over a bad spree,
with what he could best describe as a bad smell in the mind '
(Gilbert Keith Chesterton, by Maisie Ward, p. 45),
Are such the résulte or the consoüng words one would expect
from spirite who had corne direct from the Presence of God Who
minfinste purity and truth i
[10 4 ]
* W H ISTLE, AND FLL CO M E '
Someone might ask : 4Might they not be souk from
Purgatory i *
One would need to hâve a low conception of what Purgatory
means to be able to entertain for a moment, seriously, that that
oouldbe the explanation, The soûlsin Purgatoryarethe prisoners
of God's love and mercy* They are not free to manifest at the
beck and call of the Mrs. Rolfes or Mrs. Duncaas, nor of ail the
bereaved and the merely curious. They are expiatmg forgfven
sins, and such is their intense love of God that they would be
most tmükely ready to induce their friends who are stiil on earth
to displease Almighty God by indulging in practices which He
has forbidden.
‘ Well, might they not be some of M r. C. S. Lewis's Screwtape's
pupils— spirits or deviis from hell i *
Now, who in his right mind wants to commune with spirits
from hell, spirits who are the enemies of both God and maa i
Is it to such beings that the ajourner must turn for syrapathy,
instead of to the God of ali consolation i
These, we say, are the general principles.
The question now anses : How do we propose to deal with the
indimdual cases in order to judge the extent of direct dîabolic
agency i
Here we must digress in order to emphasise once more the
truth of true Christian teaching regarding the existence of the
devil and his assodate wicked spirits.
T o support our belief in the existence of the devil we hâve
the authority of the Old and New Testaments. In regard to
that I may point out that many Spiritualists déclaré that the
Bible was written *under spirit guidance/ A former editor of
Light (Mr. Wallis) and his wife wrote a book to prove it.
Now, the authenticity of the New Testament as an historical
document is fully guaranteed. Even Harnack, the leader of the
school of Higher Criticism in Germany, felt compelled to admit,
in the end, the authenticity and genuineness of the varions books
of which it is composed. No historié document has been sub-
jected to so prolonged, nor to such adverse criticism as has the
New Testament. No other book has been so well vindicated.
Catholics, therefore, are on sound, reasonable ground when
they accept the facts of Christ's Birth, Death and Résurrection.
From the fact of the Résurrection of Christ they deduce His
Divinity : He is Lord of Life, God Incarnate.
Accepting Jésus Christ as God Incarnate they believe in the
[ 105]
S P IR IT U A L IS M
absolute perfection of His character and in the absolute truth of
His statements* When Chrbt speaks it is God Who speaks, Jésus
is not only the W ay and the Life— He is also the Truth*
Hence, when Jésus talks o f the existence of the devil (*Be
gone, Satan : for it is written : The Lord thy God shalt thou
adore, and Him only shalt thou serve.* ‘ Heal the sick ; cast out
devils *) we believe that Satan and the devils exist. When He
uttered those words to St, Peter : 4Simon, Simon, Satan hath
desired to hâve you that he may sift you as wheat * * */ we see in
that warning the policy of attempting to brîng about disunity
amongst the Apostles and thus weaken their attack on the kingdom
of darkness, just as Hitler to-day seeks to sow seeds of discord
amongst the United Nations in order to weaken their attack on
Germany.
When Jésus professes to exorcise possessing devils (* G o out
o f him, thou unclean spirit *), when He gives to His Apostles the
power to cast out devils, a power distinct from that of healing the
sick (* Heal the sick } cast out devils *), then we believe unfeignedly
in the existence of Satan and his wicked angels, and in their power
to obsess and possess human beings,
That evil spirits, presumed to be discarnate spirits, do actually
obsess or possess human beings is, as we hâve seen, admitted by
the highest authorities in Spiritualism.
Materialistic psychologists may refer to ail the examples of
what may easily be cases of demonic possession— cases such as
those o f 4Felida X ,*4Sally Beauchamp,* and Léonies I and II—
as cases of ' Split personality/ * Doppel Ich/ *Dédoublement de
personalité * j or speak of them more mystifyingly as examples of
* Schizophrenia *; but do these imposing terms explain the
cases i A psychologist who déniés the existence o f the human
soûl as a spiritual entity is forced to invent imposing words to
save his face* *Dédoublement de personalité/ 4Doppel Ich *—
these terms are mere words t each human Seing is on ly one
person. In speaking of Jésus Christ as the God-ÏÆan Catholic
theology understands and teaches that ‘ there are two natures in
Jésus Christ, but only one person.* Hence, if there be another
* person * occupying the body o f the possessed that 4person * is
a devil*
I am not denying for a moment that there is a psychological
esplanattoa of die double characteristics observed in abnormal
mental cases* After ail we must stick to the principle of not
pûîmdating the supernatural until ail possible natural explanatîons
[ 106 ]
* W H JSTLE, AND I'L L C O M E r
hâve been exhausted; and a very natural explanation of som
mental abnormalities may be found in the subconscients exercising
the ascendancy over the conscious. Those who are addicted to a
form of auto-hypnosis through attempts to develop medittmship
are, no doubt, in reality, developing a mental condition wherein
the subconsdous is being allowed too large a portion of activity ;
with the resuit that the controllable conscious mental îife drops
into the background, to be superseded by the subliminal (or
subconsdous)— and that condition is abnormal, ttnhealthy and
dangerous, dangerous to mental balance» That danger is in-
creased where the mental background stages a belief in the action
of departed spirits ; and just as repeated subjection to hypnotic
suggestion can bring about an undesirable State of mind, so
repeated experiments in auto-hypnosis can lead to delusions
regarding obsession and possession by the spirits of the dead.
Such obsessionaî cases are common amongst Spiritualists.
Hence the précautions that must be taken, in the earlier stages of
*development of mediumship * at least, against allowing oneself
to pass into a State of trance.
The shivering and shaking, the moaning and even frothing at
the mouth that in many cases précédé * going under control * are
o f their nature— consfdered merely as nervous disturbances—
something to cause anxiety. I f the individuals who allow them-
selves to get to such a stage are of a neurotic disposition, there is
danger to their mental balance at least. What is more, because
they invoke the control of spirits their State may readily become
one of not mere delusion, but o f obsession : 1Whistle, and TU
corne/
W e may be asked : How do Cathoücs attempt to diagnose
satanic possession in such cases as distinguished from possession
by discarnate human soûls/
The answer is : that ail the phenomena of the alleged possession
are taken into account, examined, considered and diagnosed*
Just as in medical diagnosis varions éléments combine to enable
the doctor to form his opinion as to the patient*s malady— tempéra­
ture, puise, respiration, location of pain, and so on— so in spiritual
diagnosis various indications, some by themselves, others when
conjoined with a multiplicity of factors, enable those competent
to judge to décidé whether the case is one of mere mental ab-
normahty or real possession. Catholic theology has laid down
the prindples for determining diaboiic possession, and some of
those prindples or criteria are such as are applicable to the judging
[ 107 ]
S P IR IT U A L IS M
of the nature of the agency at work in the production o f Spirituai-
istic phenomena,
Amongst those criteria some are merely probable indications
of possession ; others are looked upon as certain— -just as in
medicine some symptoms of disease are only probable indications
of a spécifie malady, whilst others are certain and defmite. And,
a^ain as in medicine, a combination of probable symptoms of a
disease may justify a doctor in making a definite diagnosis ; so,
too, in spiritual diagnosis a combination of several probable
signs of possession may justify a decided opinion on the point*
[En parenthèse I might suggest to the serious reader a compara­
tive study of Chapter IX in Human Personalîty, by F, W . Myers,
and the exceptionaliy good book Les Névroses et la Possession
diabolique, by D r. Charles Hélot. There is a profound contrast
between the views of one who does not want to admit the existence
of the devil, and of one who exhausted ail possible natural explana-
tions only to find that a superaatural, satanic influence had to be
admitted in the end.]
In the application of these criteria to psychical phenomena I
quite réalisé that, devilish in character as they may be, some of
the indications may be due to the downright malevolent thoughts
commumcated through telepathy from the sitter or sitters to the
mind of the medium. For example, take the obscene and dread-
fuily blasphemous brochure, Histoire de VEucharistie, published
by M . le Chevalier Le Clément de St. Marcq. (St. M arcq sent
me twenty-five copies of it ; it was issued in French, Flemish and
Spanish.) St. Marcq was the President of the Fédération Spirite
Belge (representing the 37 Spiritualist Sodeties). Beginning in
October 1904 he gave a course of lectures on * L ’Interprétation
des Livres Sacrés *to Spiritualist study-drdes at Antwerp, The
course covered two years* study, and was repeated in its entirety
to five sériés of students, and was not interrupted till 1909, when
a new course of theology ($) was begun.
This course, an exegetical one, comprised the most blasphemous
and obscene teaching regarding the Holy Eucharist. He con-
densed it in his brochure, The book was so horrible that ail
but two of the sodeties in the Fédération— those of Bruges and
Antwerp— forced him to resign his leadership, and he was charged
by the offidal organ of the Fédération (Le Courrier Spirite Belge)
witb *immoralité flagrante * for pubüshing it,
Although St. Marcq claîmed for his book that it was written
tmâer spmt-gmdamce it may bave been due to nothing else but
[ i o 8 ]
*WHÏSTLE, AND I'LL COME *
thought-transference from the vile mind of St. Marcq to the
medium* But I do not think that a Catholic could be jusdy
blamed for dedding that it was the work o f the devil, espedally
since the prindples he enuntiated are very espedally those o f the
4Black M ass/ which is, in direct intention,, the worship of Satan
himself. When to this is added the fact that the book contained
letters of approbation from a number of Satanists (including two
ex-abbés) the probability of its being the work of the devil is
increased*
I quote this case as an illustration of how far one may be pre-
pared to go in assessing a merely natural explanation, one due,
for example, to telepathy from an evil mind ; but when a more
complété knowledge of the symptomatic drcumstances are studied
in its connection something really diabolic is suggested*
Now, in regard to the mental (or psychic) phenomena it is not
onîy the ckaracter of the alleged spirit-messages that needs to be
considered, there are other signs that hâve to be valtted. Some
of them may be found in certain maladies— hysteria, lunacy, etc*
— but the indications of their being diabolic in engin dépend
on their accumulation. These probable signs are too numerous
to relate* Hence we shall confine our attention to the more
certain signs*
Amongst those laid down as providing certain evidence of
diabolic agency are the following :
i. Si quis prius îgnarus de repente linguis loquatur peregrinis
— that is : speaking in a language of which the medium was
previously ignorant.
W e must note here : (a) it is not a matter of replying in one's
own language to questions put in a foreign tongue— thought is
not dépendent on any language ; the deaf and dumb can think
before ever they learn anything of manual signs— it is a matter
of u s i n g a language never previously leamt. That is the great
marvel in the miracle Christ wrought when he heaîed the man
who was born deaf and dumb, 4and immdiately he spoke right,
blessing God ' ;
(b) nor is it a matter of uttering a few phrases that could hâve
been leamt by heart, There is the very amusing case, *The
Return of Arditi/ as described by M r. Harry Price in his Leaves
from a Psychisfs Case-Book, where the lateJHL Dennis Bradley's
most trusted medium was found to hâve memorised a few sentences
from Italian phrase-books. This was not discovered tiîl a good
time afterwards (pp* 305, ss.) ;
[ 109]
S P IR IT U A L ISM
(c) nor is it a case of the medium muttering umnteîîigibîe
sounds which the sitters, in their ignorance of the language those
sounds are supposed to represent» accept on the medium/s state-
ment to be ancient Chinese, Arabie or early Hebrew. A s an
example we hâve the incident recorded in Psychic News (Jan. 6,
1934, p, 6) ; * Hebrew as Evidence ; The third story is that of a
women (sic) who went to Red Cloud's voice drcle. A spirit
voice claimed to be her husband.
*u Can you prove it i *
*she asked.
* Immedîately, he spoke in Hebrew to her.
* This was evidential, as» on earth» he was a teacher of Hebrew
ih Scotland.'
It is very doubtful as to whether the wîdow knew Hebrew from
Maltese. Nor are we told whether there was anyone présent who
could guarantee the sounds uttered to be genuine Hebrew» or to tell
us whether it was Yiddish» Aramaic or some other Hebrew dialect.
And one's doubts as to the genuineness of the whole proceed-
ings are increased by the statement that» ' in connection with the
mediumship of Estelle Roberts ' a ‘ man had a long conversation
with Red Cloud, her guide» in Arabie/
*Curioser and curioser,* said Alice.
It just happens that I kept the copy of The Two Worlds which
its editor very kindly sent me» with paragraphs marked in which
my name figured ; because in that issue of February 6» 1931»
there is a full-page article on the mediumship of Estelle Roberts.
The article is *An Interview with M rs. Roberts/ It describes
how her mediumship developed.
For a week nothmg happened. In disgust she put away the
table through which she had hoped to get communications» saying :
' That's that î They hâve given me nothing to prove what they
said was true. I thought it was ail *
*bunkum.”
* As I turned» my daughter screamed and ran out of the room.
Then I felt a bump against my head» and» glancing around» I was
astounded to see the table floating in the air across the room. I
was not a bit frightened» and when it settled down again I put my
hands on it, Then the message came î *
*I» Red Cloud» corne
help the world. I work with you. No more touch table. You
hâve knowledge.” (Red Cloud subsequently proved to be m y
guide.) T o say I was astonished is to put it mildly/
L too» am astonished, to put it mildlv. I know from expérience
that Arabie is one of the most difficûlt ianguages in the world.
How cornes it» then» that a Red Indian from North America can—
[ n o ]
*W H 1S T L E , A N D F L L COME'
according to Psychic News— carry on * a long conversation in
Arabie/ when hîs English is so * pidgin *ï <. . And we hâve the
Hebrew from the same source. Red Cloud also speaks in French
at the Douai circle,
W ell, that is not the kind of evidence we require to fulfil the
condition 4si quis prius ignarus de repente linguis loquatur
peregrinis/
Such instances as reported by the Spiritualist press are too
reminiscent o f 4The Murder in the rue M orgue/ Lovers o f Poe
will recall how the sounds made by the chatterings of a monkey
were alleged, by the various witnesses in the case,, to be languages
quite dissimilar, but somehow representing to the minds o f the
witnesses a tongue foreign to their knowledge.
If, as in the case of the Zulu girl Germana— as given us by the
Right Rev. M gr. Delalle, of Natal— a case is substantiated of
actual intelligent use of a language previously unknown to the
subject, then the obvious explanation is that the phenomenon
is supematural (not merely supernormal) j and when the rest of
the details are filled in, with their satanic character, only one
conclusion remains— vis. diabolic agency.
a. Si légat ignarus, scribat . . . de rebus sublimionibus, et
aliunde ignotis, erutide respondeat— that is ; the exhibition of
a knowledge of, and an ability to argue about, subjects beyond the
inteUectual capacity of the medium.
A perfect example of these two criteria is provided in the
narrative above referred to regarding the case of possession
affecting two Zuîu girls, Germana and Monica. It corresponded
in nearly every detail with the case of Maria Celeste (as reported in
Lace e Ombra) and that of * Louise * given by D r. Charles Hélot
in his Névroses et Possession diabolique. I pubüshed a com­
parative study of these three cases— one given by a Catholic
bishop in Natal ; one by an Italian student of the occult ; and
the third by a French mental specialist— in a medical monthly,
where it received complété approbation*
Mental phenomena, whether diagnosed by materialist psycho-
logists as examples of split personaüty, Doppel Ich, or Dédouble­
ment de Personnalité, are not the only ones which corne under
considération in the question o f diagnosing diabolic possession.
Physical phenomena are dealt with also.
The first criterion with regard to these is : *Vires supra aetatis
seu conditionis naturam ostendere '— that is. the exhibition of
praeturnatural strength.
[ n i ]
SP IR IT U A L IS M
As Dr* Charles Hélot points ont, it is not a question of mere
increase of strength (exaltation des forces) like that met with in
convulsions or nervous attacks ; but the exhibition of strength
or Of résistance must really be beyond human capability, ' Pour
que ce signe puisse apporter une certitude, il faut que les tours
de force ou de résistance dépassent véritablement les forces de la
nature humaine/
In the same class may be mcluded such phenomena as are
opposed to the laws of physics, chemistry and physiology : im-
munity from buming either by firé or Chemicals ; and so on—
ail trickery apart, of course.
There is another criterion for application to mental phenomena
which, taken strictly in its application, is also looked upon as a
certain sign of diaboHc influence : 4Si occulta et absentia, quae
nataraliter ab homine sciri non possunt captum tamen daemonis non
excedunt, nec sanctitati eiusmodi hominis tribui possunt mani­
fester *;butwith our présentknowledge of the extent of the power of
telepathy the use of thi? criterion would nçed to be very strict ;
the words * quae nataraliter ab homine sciri non possunt ' would
need stringent application.
However, the criteria already given are suffident to cover ail
classes of Spiritualistic phenomena.
Those criteria are sound ; and I think that ail unprejudiced
readers will admit that they are. To use such terms as ' tele-
kinesis *to cover such physical manifestations as lévitations, tying
knots in handkerchiefs, ringing bells and throwing men's jackets
in the faces of the sitters at a séance explains nothing. To speak
of * telekinetic phenomena ' is merely a descriptive phrase ; it is
not an expîanation of the source from which the power proceeds.
So, too, to speak o f 4automatic writing ' is not an expîanation
as to the source whence the written words corne,
Nox does the term *clairvoyance* mean anything definite.
Clairvoyance leaves itself open to fraud more than any other
Spiritualist phenomenon known— if, as M r. Harry Price admits,
the trance condition is impossible of vérification, what test hâve
we for proving the genuineness of any professional dairvoyant i
A s a matter of fact an ex-medium told me she threw Spiritualism
overboard because she discovered how easy it was for a medium,
when only partially *under control,’ to get on a platform and
deliver an address that was from her own conscious rnind, but
which the audience would take to be a spirit message.
Hence I would condude— both in the sense of finisbîng tbis
[ u s ]
4W H IS T L E , A N D T L L C O M E '
chapter, and in the sense of summing up in judgment— that any
gemme, supernormal phenomena that hâve an evil influence
faehind them, either in the source of power which they manifest
or m their effect on Christian belief are of the devil» For the
Christian, at least, the mental speciaîist o f the Freudian or Dr,
Alexander Cannon type is suspect ; the physicist of the raaterialist
school is suspect ; the Spiritualist is wholîy suspect.
Give the devil his due— even if it be only that of the admission
of his existence, Jésus Christ taught the truth of his existence—
that should be good enough for us.
[ 113] H
VI
THE CATHOLÏC POINT OF VIEW
I
' So Spiritualisai is evü i *
Most certainly,
*It îs even of the devil i *
Well, if the statement made by the Rev* Stainton Moses be true,
namely, that *îhere is an organised plan on the part of the spirits
who govera these manifestations to act on us and on the religions
thought of the âge,* I cannot see how one can escape the condusion
that the devil is behind it ail* Hâve we not seen already how even
cîergymen of the Church of England and ministers of the various
Nonconformist sects hâve openly acknowledged that SpirituaHsm
led them to abandon their belief in the Divinity of Jésus Christ,
to reject the Bible and to deny the value of Christ's Atonement
and Rédemption by His death on Calvary i Must not that in
itself indicate the dxabolic influence behind the Spirituahst move-
ment S
*
And the high priest saîd to Him i 1 adjure thee by the living God}
that thou tell us if thou be the Christ the Son of God,
Jésus saith to him ; Thou hast said it,
So wrote Saint Matthew in his account of Christis trial before
Annas and Caiaphas,
Again the high priest asked him, and said : A rt thou the Christ
the Son of the blessed God i
And Jésus said to Him : I A M ,
Just weigh those words : * 1 adjure thee by the living God —
that is, * on your mth — tell us if thou be the Christ the Son of
the blessed God*
Now if the challenge meant merely that Jésus claimed to be a
son of our Father in heaven as d l Jews claimed to be, why should
there be need to put Him on oath before He answered the ques­
tion^
[114]
T H E CATHOLIC P O IN T O F VIEW— I
If the question meant merely *Dost tfaou daim to be, tike as,
a chfld of our heavenîy Father f *why the sequel : 1the high priest
rmt Ms garments, sayîng : Me hath blasphemed, what further rm d
hâve we of witnesses f Behold nom you hâve heard the blasphemy :
W hat think you i B ut they answering said : Me is guilty of death ' {
The daim to be a mere créature, a created son of God, was no
blasphemy to any Jew ; it did not entail the penalty of death.
So Christ hust hâve meant something more than mere created
sonship or adopted sonship. He must hâve meant what He said
when He declared 4Before Abraham was made, I A M .' It was
because He claimed to be divine that He was sentenced to death
for blasphemy.
T o support that daim was the whoie purpose o f the Gospel of
St. John. You can't get away from it. The very first words of
the first chapter of that Gospel emphasise the fact : * In the
begirming was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word
was G od.' And almost the last words o f that gospel are : * These
are written that you may believe thaï Jésus is the Christ the Son
of G od.'
In the light of these statements of the Gospels I challenge any
Spiritualist who stiil daims to be a Christian to read the first
Episde of St. John. It would almost seem as if St. John had had
a prophétie view of modem Spiritualism when he wrote, He
was addressing people who had believed in spiritualistic practices.
H e asserts the existence of the devil. He refers hîs converts to
their former belief in the messages from spirits ; and he déclarés
regarding those spirits— who were like those of whom we read
in the Acts of the Apostles— that *Every spirit that dissolveth
Jésus is not of G od, and this is Antichrist
When he says 1 try the spirits,' he does not mean, as some
Spiritualists maintain, that we should f hold séances ' ; he means
4test their messages ; analyse their teaching ' (cf, LycernnMarnai),
and if you fmd that such messages ' dissolve ' Jésus Christ by
denying either His humanity or His divinity then they are not of
G od, but of Antichrist.
4Yes j but . ,
Yes ; but what i
4W ell, even members of the Society for Psychical Research
and other enquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism never
mention the devil . . . people like Professors Barrett and Hyslop
and Sidgwick and Richet and Bolzano ; and men like Schrenck-
Notzing and Bradley and M r. Harry Price.'
[ii5 3
S P IR IT U A L IS M
That's the trouble. A il these people you hâve named profess
to carry out their tests and experiments on scientific lines ; and
they are not truly scientific as long as they ignore a possible
explanation of the phenomena that has held the field since Christi-
anity began, Their conclusions dépend entirely on two very
important and capital considérations : first, on their personal
views as to the nature of the human soûl— their views may be
Christian or Theosophical or Freudian or entirely Materialistic ;
and secondly, on their religions convictions— do they admit the
existence of a spirit-world in the historié and traditional Christian
sense or not i That is, do they beüeve in the existence of an order
of spiritual beings, some good, some evil, who are not discarnate
human soûls, but are, as Catholic theology defines them, purely
spiritual créatures, either good or bad— that is, either good Angels
or devils i
B y *pure f spirits is meant : intellectual beings whose nature
is complété without any dependence on matter, and who hâve
complété personality.
If these learned gentlemen deny the spirituality of the human
soûl, o r if they refuse to accept the possibility of the existence of
non-human spiritual beings, then logically they will not admit the
existence of the devil and his associate angels. But as long as
they ignore or refuse to consider those lesser factors their explana-
tions are not complété, they are not scientific— they hâve not
exhausted all possible explanations,
4WdÜL, what is the Catholic explanation of Spiritualist pheno­
mena ç1'
T o begin with, let me tell you that the Catholic Church is more
truly scientific in her judgment than are the scientists of to-day.
She ioes attempt to explore all possible explanations, She lays
down the principie that we a re 4not to postulate the supematural
untü aU possible natural explanations hâve been exhausted/
Hence the establishment of the Bureau desContestations at Lourdes
-—an office to which any doctor o f any faith, or o f none, has a right
of entry ; and where the medical history of any patient cured at
Lourdes can be examined fully, and where any doctor is free to
examine the patient for himself, at the time of the cure and at
the next visit twelve months afterwards, No * cure * is admitted
by the Bureau unless the patient présents a full medical certificate
issued by the doctor who has had charge of the patient at home,
* If the *Healing by Swiftfoot * or 4Black Hawk * or by the
* Golden Triangle Healing and Teaching Centre * adopted one-
[u 6 J
THE CATHOLIC POINT OF V IEW — I
»
half of the stringent rules of the Lourdes Bureau then we might
think there was more than mere healing by auto-suggestion in the
results they obtained.
Even admitting, for arguments sake, the reality and permanence
of such Spiritualistic 4heaüngs * they afford no evidence whatso-
ever that any discarnate human soûl is the healing agent.
And coming to the considération of the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism we ask» from the practical point of view : how can
such phenomena as lévitation, apports, the movement of trumpets,
the tying of knots in handkerchiefs, and so on, prove that the
human soûl survives after the death of the body ï
Even if such phenomena were not due to trickery the most they
can prove is the existence of an unknown force— either physical
or spiritual— that appears to be beyond the discoveries of physical
science. They provide no element for establishing the identity
of any alleged manifesting4spirit/
After reading and studying Spiritualistic publications, from
various countries, for over thirty years, I do not recaîl the daim
ever having been made that because a table was raised in the dark,
almost to the ceiling, that it was a proof that a muscular U nd e
Joe or a hefty Aunt Maggie, or any other identifiable person was
présent in spirit form.
For example, let me quote from a letter to Psychîc News. The
correspondent wrote :
4For purposes of instruction, four of us used to sit at the
ouija board one night every week. Six weeks agowe were asked
to sit in the dark in future. . . . A t the second sitting we were
treated to peculiar flashes of light. . . .
‘ The same evening, spirit friends moved the trumpet süghtly
without contact while we held hands. . . >
* The fifth sitting was absolutely devoid o f results ; but quite
undaunted, we obtained another trumpet, and held our sixth
sitting.
4Results were beyond our wildest dreams. The trumpet
performed a peculiar kind of tap dance on the table. When I
lifted the trumpet off the table to make room for the ouija board,
a bluish-white light jumped between me and the trumpet, the
end of which was about three inches away from me at the tîme *
(Psychic News, Jan. 6, 1934).
On analysis, what does this correspondent^ letter prove î1
Apart from the suspicion aroused by :
1. the instructions received to sit in the dark in future,
[ 117]
,S P IR IT U A L ISM
3. the acquisition of a newtmmpet} to use instead of the * home-
made *one in use previously,
3. the mûrement to the kitchenette for the sittings (where there
was probably an electric cooker or an electric meter),
what evidence do the phenomena (i) of the trumpet doing a
peculiat tap dance on the table, or the biuish-white light (so
electrical in character) provide that an identified or identifiable
discaraate soûl was the agent for the pueriîities that took place i
Surely the answer is : * None.'
Moreover, the daim was not made in the letter that any identi­
fiable spirit was the agent. W e are simply told that *spirit
frîends moved the trumpet slightly/ That is the sole reference
to any agency.
When bottles of scent or a bunch of fiowers (apports) are
introduced into a closed room— like the faked apports of Madame
Blavatsky— how does that prove they were brought by a dead
relation or friend i One of Conan Doyle's photographed fairies
might hâve brought them. And when the spirits of the dead
bring présents of ear-rings * from the spirit world ' that were
made in Birmingham, we are justified in wondering if Spiritualist
*apports *are less fraudulent than those of Mme Blavatsky.
(Cf, Hatcher and Little v, Crown ; Cardiff, Nov. 12 , 1942.)
The retort might be made : *But what of matérialisations i
There you hâve proof of identity.’
W ell, what about matérialisations s
* Personally I think they,
with public clairvoyance, constitute the biggest fraud in the whole
range of Spiritualist phenomena.
Perbaps the most famous matérialisations were those obtained
through the mediumship of Eva C.,under the auspices and arrange­
ments of the Freiherr Dr. Schrenck-Notging and M me Bisson.
I hâve read Schrenck-Notring's book and studied the photos it
contained. I hâve read critiques of the book in English, French,
German and Italian psychic magazines ; and I am convinced it
was ail fraud— better done than the efforts of M rs. Helen Duncan,
who has been twice convicted in the court for fraudulent medium-
ship.
There is no getting away from the fact that Eva C . made use of
fuH front-page blocks from a French illustrated newspaper (Le
M irâ t) for her 4spirit faces.' The flatness of the faces ; the
creases in some o f them ; and the appearance of some of the actual
lettermg of the narne of the newspaper from which the blocks were
taken proved the fraud.
E «8 ]
THE CATHOLIC P O IN T OF V I E W - I
The President Wilson * matérialisation ' could deceive no one.
It shows the touched-up newspaper photo just like a page front
a newspaper merely lying m the medium*s chest, with one edge of it
extending beyond Eva's body. It is taketi from Le Miroir of
Nov. 1 7 ,191a.
Similar one-surfaced faces were materialised at Ada Besinnet's
séance in the presence of Sir Arthur and Lady Doyle. Despite
the enthusiasm of these two protagonists of Spiritualism for the
performance given on that occasion, I would rank it as one o f the
most worthîess séances ever given* The sîtting was held in
absolute darkness, and there was no control of the medium nor
of her assistant at the victrola.
If a person stands in the centre of a drcle of eîeven people, ail,
surely, can see him at the same rime ; but if the individual in
the centre of the circle is showing a photo only three or four o f the
group can see the full surface of the photo at the same time. O f
the rest of the group one or two at either side will observe only
the edge of the picture j the others will see nothing of it because
it will be hidden from their view by the interposing body o f the
person in the centre who holds it.
And that is what happened at Miss Ada Besinnefs séance.
Here is what Mr. W. W. Roche says of it— he was présent on the
occasion : *AU the appearances were visible fully to only three
or at most four sitters at a time. . . . But the matérialisations
appeared several times at different arcs of the circle, so that ail had
a view.
*Now came a vision for Lee Keedick and the sitters on either
side of him. He gave a little gasp, but said nothing. The same
vision showed to the other sitters.
‘ Lady Doyle cried t *
*Why, it is Katie K in g." The vision
was an exact reproduction, each sitter testified, of thephoto of Katie
K ing taken by Sir William Crooks years ago and now being repro-
duced by Sir Arthur in his American lectures.
*Lady Doyle said : *
*It is the same sweet face, the same dress,
the same draping— it is Katie K ing. . . J*
*“ It is a marvelous thing," said Sir Arthur, and Lady Doyle
added t u Is it not wonderful how they try to aid us i Sir Arthur
can now tell of having himself seen Katie King, whose spirit
picture he has been showing, . . . "
*There were several other vivid matérialisations, visible from
two to five seconds ; one of a boy, one of a man, one of an elderly
woman and several of younger women. Some of them were
[ 119]
S P IR IT U A L IS M
recognised ; others were n o t' (Toledo Nem-'Bee, M ay 33,
1922).
Just fancy travelling 60,000,000 miles to appear from two to
five seconds, and then not to be recognised î 4Even if ghosts
hâve soûls, they certainly hâve no brains/
Possibly some people are harder to convince than others, I,
personally, find it difficult to see how Sir Arthur found i t 4marvel-
ous/ (The American spelling has been retained from M r.
Rochers report— hence, too, 4Sir William Crooks/)
The reader must bear in mind that the séance was held *in
perfect darkness/ Now if a human form— not the photo of a
human figure— were really materialised it ought to hâve more than
one dimension, and so should be visible to ail présent at the same
time, and not to only three or four sitters at a time. f
* Ordinarily/ M r. Roche tells us, 4the matérialisations are
illuminated from one side only/ Is not that the very efïect one
would expect from throwing a light, either from a small torch or
from a phosphorous lamp, on to a photo i
M rs. Helen Dumcan's matérialisations had fairly rounded
features ; but they were Father Christmas masks and * Poll-
façes/ Too often, as in the case of Mrs. Thompson and M r,
Harold Evans, the médiums themselves masquerade as the
manifesting spirits. In this connection it is amusing and inter-
esting to read in It Veltro (p. 1212, N o. 14, 1909) that during a
séance in Dresden a spirit-form was fired at— and the medium
was wounded 1 *A Dresda, in una seduta spiritica, sarebbe
stata colpita, con arma da fuoco, la forma d'un fantasma, vero o
falso che fosse ; e il medio sarebbe stato costretto a porsi a letto
ferito/
<K M r. Harry Price had added to his already numerous précau­
tions against fraud the warning that, when camera-shots were
taken an automatic pistol would go off, he might hâve been able
to add a few more names to those enumerated in his chapter
* Médiums who will not sit with me/
Stainton Moses had Httle time for such phenomena, where a
medium *produces one's grandmother for five shillings,' as he
put it. It is to be doubted if he would believe any stronger if
the matérialisations were produced at M rs. Duncan's charge of
12s* Sd* plus unpaid income-tax. He wrote : 4 1 believe the
whoîe method of conducting matérialisation séances to be er-
roneous, calculated to introduce éléments of uncertainty, and to
produçç the results which we are compelled again and again. tQ
THE CATHOLIC POINT OF VIEW — I
déploré/ He adds, a little further on, that what he tenus the
fact of matérialisation being 4 presented as it oniy too freqtiently
is, am
id conditions of darkness and secrecy that seem devised for
the very parpose of mystification, can convince no one whois worth
convincing' (Higher Aspects, pp. 16-17)*
In his book Spirit Medium Exposed, M r. Samri Frikeîl wrote :
4Ail the materializing séances are fakes and swindles. No less
aninvestigator than the celebrated Doctor E. J. Dingwall of the
British Society for Psychical Research admitted almost as much
to me. During his visit to this country in 1923 he said that 99 per
cent, of the physical phenomena he had witnessed had been
fraudulent/
Professor Hyslop, the pioneer of psychical research in America,
had even less time for physical phenomena. He presented a sane
view when he wrote regarding them : 4I shall give very brief
attention to these, as I do not believe in a single one of themf
(Enigmas of Psychical Research, p. 337).
When men of the standing of Stainton Moses and Hyslop, who
genutnely and firmly beüeved in the actuality of spirit-communica-
tion, speak out so strongly in denundation of physical phenomena
CathoHcs may, surely, be reasonably excused if they also refuse
to believe in their gentnneness.
A s for the psychical, or mental, phenomena, we hâve seen
enough in Chapter IV— Per ardua ab astris— to convince us of
the worthlessness of clairvoyance and clairaudience in providing
any proof whatsoever that the messages corne from any discamate
human being.
In addition to this we CathoHcs are entitled to ask, using the
expression of the Rev. W . Stainton Moses, w hy should there be
connected with séances so many * conditions of darkness and
secrecy that seem to be devised for the very purpose of
mystification ' i
Mystification is the right Word. The actual précautions taken
at séances are just of the very type that lend themselves to aid
mystification and shield fraud.
The perfect darkness or obscurity leaves lots of room for fraud,
too much room. The Ada Besinnet séance that Conan Doyle
described as 4marvelous/ and at which Lady Doyle dedared
with reference to the tambourine effects in perfect darkness * ;
4î hâve never before heard such tambourine playing/ is a perfect
example of how people may be deceived. Anyone who has even
a slight knowledge of stage *Black Magic ' knows how convemently
[ i 3i ]
S P IR IT U A L IS M
easy it îs to create illusions of a most striking kind on a darkened
stage*
Stainton Moses and D* D . Home condemned entirely the
darkened room. Both of those two médiums produced their
phenomena in full light. During six years Stainton Moses
experienced manifestations ' at aU times, and in ail sorts of places,
in the house and out of it, with no formai séance j at meals, in
church, in empty rooms, here, there, and everywhere * (Spirit
Identity, p, 95)* If they could do it, why can't ail médiums do
the sanie i
The editor of The Two Wortds (Feb* 6, 1931) criticised * the
Vestments, the Postures, the swinging of the Censer, and various
other artistic but useless forms of genuflection at a Roman Catholic
service/ I did not know that 4Vestments * or 4the swinging of
the Censer * were 4forms of genuflection *; perhaps M r. Oaten
knows better* Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who ought to hâve
known better, sneered at Catholic liturgical rites* But I wonder
what would these good Spiritualists hâve to say if Catholic priests
offered the holy sacrifice of the Mass in the dark, to the accompani-
ment of *flitting lightst 4some high in the air, some below the
level of the table * (altar), ' some mere sparks o f light ; others
gaseous appearances as large as half a dollar *i (Toledo News-
Bee, M ay 22,1922)*
Yet that is the kind of thing Conan Doyle considered marvellous
and to be approached in a religious spirit* The late, much
missed G* K* Chesterton took Sir Arthur to task fairly severely
on this point* This is what he wrote î 4He has some very
innocent remarks about what he considers grotesque in the sacra­
mentel System ; innocent, because apparently unconscious of
what everybody else in the world considers grotesque in the
spiritualistic System. If any Christian service were so conducted
as to resemble a really successful séance, the world might welf be
excused for faliing back on the Word 4
4grotesque.” , * * But
when Sir Arthur deliberately gibes at our ceremonies, we may be
at least allowed to smile at his* Suppose any Catholic rite before
the altar consisted of binding a human being hand and foot with
ropes ; should we ever hear the last of the horrible survival of
human sacrifice i Suppose we declared that the priest went into
a trance and that clouds of thick white stuff hke cotton-wool
came out of his mouth, as a manifestation of celestial grâce ;
might not some of our critics be heard to murmur the Word
4
4grotesque ” i If we conducted a quiet îittle evening service
[ 122]
t h e cath olic poin t of view —i
in which a b ig brass trumpet careered about in the air and patted
people on the head, caressed a lady with intimate gestures of
affection, and generally exhibited itself as about as attractive an
object as a phiïandering tromboneor anamourous big dram, wonld
not our critics hâve something to say about the unwholesome
hysteria and senseless excitement of Popery i îf the Spiritualist
goes out of his way to challenge us to a duel in the matter of
digmty, I do not really think it can be reasonably said that he is
on stronger ground than w e f {The Thing, pp, 180-181).
If we are to consider the grotesque, what are we to think of
such advertisements as these :
1 Psychic Call Bell, everything necessary, including prisms, 9/6.*
* Receptograph Communicator. Défiés the subconsdous mind.
4/6/ [It ought to be worth £20 4s. 6d. if it can defy the
subconsdous mind.]
* Trutnpets are the best ! . . . Made of specially treated
celluloïd (the most tangible substance to spirit forces).
Function, with minimum of power. . . . Highly absorbent
psychically. Phenomena possible immediately* . . . W hy
exhaust patience and power on old-fashioned aluminium
trumpets i . . . 5/6 ; luminous 7/6/
Does one find anything so grotesque, as an aid to religion, in
Catholic publications { What would Spiritualists say if we had
advertisements such as : *Sanctus bells complété with prisms *i
or, following the example of a North London Spiritualist Sodety :
*Eat more bananas as an aid to prayer ' i
W e hâve music in our churches, granted ; but the music is in
harmony and meaning with the act of worship it accompanies—
and so we are entitled to ask how the playing o f 4Where the Four-
leaved Clover grow sf or 4The Big Bad W olf ' can be an aid to
the worship of Àlmighty God. Surely the playing of * The B ig
Bad W olf * following on Lady Caillard’s prayer is somewhat
worse than grotesque ; so, too, the prayers of the Baylises, the
Hamiltons, George Valiantine and Mrs. Murphey-Lydy. W hy
the hymns foliowed by songs i W hy the L ofd’s Prayer fotlowed
by II Baciot or, as in Mrs. Helen Duncan's séances, by 4You are
my Simshine *{
4 Can the Lord's Prayer be called a conjuration i * asked M r.
Loseby, the defending Counsel in the Duncan case. AU ktiow
the answer to that ; but the use of the Lord's Prayer as a sort o f
cover for fraudulent mediumship passes beyond the grotesque to
[ 123]
S P IR IT U A L IS M
what the late Dennis Bradley described as 4nauseous blasphemy/
G . K . Chesterton told Father O'Connor that the use of the
planchette left hhn with what he 4could best describe as a bad
smeîl in the mind/ T o read of the misuse of prayers and hymns
at fraudulent séances has a like effect.
Is it not grotesque to hâve music and singing and banging and
shouts of 4Bravo l * almost constantly during a séance i As
Professor Joad says (with hîs tongue in his cheek, no doubt) t
4 The spirit control is said to like a noise/ I can understand the
medium liking it— noises can so easily cover the faint sounds of
accomplices movïng about.
To add to the grotesqueness— if the movement is to be accepted
as a religion— there are the suspicion that attaches itself to ail
the conditions laid down for the séances, and the conflicting
excuses given for the mistakes made.
The impersonation of aUeged spirit-guides whom not one
Spiritualist can identify— Phinuit, Pheneas, Imperator, Feda, Ivy,
Red Cloud, Abduhl Latif, Silver Birch, etc., etc., etc.— ail this
is grotesque and suspidous.
It is grotesque because the 4authority 4 of these unidentifiable
guides or Controls is placed above that of Jésus Christ.
It is suspidous because it affords the medium a cover for the
mistakes made : the English language is so difficult ; or the
controlhng spirit lived so long ago ; or he is on so advanced a
sphere. And since no one to-day ever heard the prophet Malachy
or an andent Red Indian speak, any medium can adopt any form
o f halting English to represent the efforts of these strange folk to
express themselves. Sergeant Ellis's 4Pierre * uses broken
English. 4Hawk Chief, speab'ng in a loud voice and giving a
war whoop/ 4Chloe ’ says, 4You hâve a big white massa *
—
Dennis Bradley mentioned in italics : 4 Chloe is an Indian girl,
and occasionally uses the vocabulary of her tribe. Men ske always
refers to as 4
4Massas” *
I would like to ask : what did Dennis Bradley know o f the
vocabulary of Chlœls tribe î and since when did Red Indians
adopt the vocabulary of West African negroes i Xts ail too easy 1
Jimmie Sparrow says 4Blfm e/ and at once he is identified ;
a Red Indian says 4Massa/ and at once the identification is
complété 1
4You always know Joan/ says M r Barbanell, 4as apart from
her squeaky voice, she always says 4
4 Good night,” instead of
4
4 Good evening/1,4
[ 1 2 4 ]
THE CATHOLÏC POINT OF VIEW—I
And that is called identification î If a voice shouted ont
4Hallelujah ! ' would that be a proof that the founder o f the
Salvation Army was présent i
The opportunités for mimicry are too obvious ; espedally
when the alleged manifesting spirits are claimed to be foreigners
of some kind» or persons who died sa long ago that no one living
ever heard them speak ; yet the 4big noises ' in SpirituaKsm
nearly ail seem to fall for this grotesque weakness : Dennis
Bradley had his * Hookum *; Conan Doyle had ‘ Pheneas4;
Stainton Moses had ‘ Imperator *; M r. Hannen Swaffer has his
4W hite Shadow/ his 4Silver Birch/ and an andent Egyptian.
M rs. Victoria Helen Duncan chose two characters as her spirit-
guides whom none of her clients had ever heard speak : * Peggy/
who seems to daim no surname ; and 4Albert/ who used to
live in the Antipodes.
M r. Hannen Swaffer might change his Red Indian ' guides»*
but M rs. Duncan has stuck to Peggy and Albert for about fifteen
years j yet in spite of this faithful attachment they both let her
down.1 M r. C. E. Loseby» her defending Counsel, said at the
Old Bafley ; * If M rs. Duncan has a guide he will be with her
now» probably trying to help her here, possibly waiting for an
opportunity to help her. If it be true» you may be sure of it
here» in the Central Criminal Court * (Portsmouth Evening News,
March 27» 1944). An unfortunate statement on M r. Loseby's
part» and a most unfortunately lost opportunity for 4Albert *1
After ail we hâve been told by Lady Doyle of the ability of the
4spirits * to foretell disastrous events it does seem a pity that no
spirit gave warning to Mrs. Duncan as to what would happen at
Portsmouth. How grotesque, to use Sir Arthur's term l
A s for the 4ectoplasm * or * teieplasm,* M r. Harry Price has
given his analysis of that : regurgitated butter-muslin or cheese-
cloth or toilet-paper. Regarding the îast commodity» is it a mere
coinddence that the name o f M rs. Duncan's ectoplasmic parrot
boasted the trade-name of a toilet-paper : * Bronco *i
W e are told repeatedly by Spiritualists that this so-called
ectoplasm is vitally connected with the medium. In the report
of M rs. Duncan's latest trial» we read that L t. Worth» arranging
with M rs. (s1
) Homer» * asked if he could bring a surgeon naval
officer who was sceptical» and M rs. Homer replied, 4
4Yes» I will
1 It is somewhat strange that, whereas the Rev. Vale Owen's baby daughter
pew up in the Summer Land, Mrs. Duncan's “ Peggy " is still but a child,
wearing the same OS sise in ladies* vests.
[ 125]
SPX R ITU A LISM
give him a seat in the front row and scare him stiff.” She said
that k the doctor attempted to touch the,ectoplasm it would rush
back with such force into M rs, Duncan's body that it might
cause her serious harm or even kill her * (Portsmouth Evenùig
News, March 23,1944),
If ectoplasm is so very vital to the medium it must form part
o f her organism. Now M rs, Victoria Helen Duncan’s ectoplasm
could produce rabbits and parrots and cats. That a human
being, mediumistic or otherwise, should be able to produce birds,
quadrupeds and human beings indiscriminately, and at will, is
beyond my powers of credence, It would be interesting, en
passant, to know what was the judgment of Sir Oliver Lodge
after he had been présent at M rs, Duncan's exhibition of medium-
ship. Perhaps the fauna were not included in the séance pro­
gramme in his day ; in which omission he woüld hâve to take
second place to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who once felt a dog's
muzzle on his knee at a séance,
W ith regard to the vital connection between the ectoplasm and
the medium, D r, Carlo Angona wrote in a sériés of articles in
Lace e Ombra on the alleged matérialisations produced through
the mediumship of Eva C . : *Esiste tra i medium e le materiah-
zzazoni un rapporto cosi intimo, da causa a effetti, da autorisxarci
ad accogliere Pipotesi di un processo teleplastico che si svolge
tmicamente per m e^o dell’ attività psichica dei soggetti i lo credo
che per ora questo rapporto non sia dimostrato, nè dal punto da
vista fisico, nè da quello psicologico/
Sînce Dr, Anzona passed that judgment no one has proved
that there is a vital nexus, physical or psychological, between the
alleged ectoplasm and the medium.
It is surely also grotesque that a medium who had been so
thoroughly debunked by M r. Harry Price and later convicted of
fraudulent mediumship in a Scottish court should be granted a
diploma by the Spirituaüstsf National Union after both exposures.
It amounted to a double diploma, since the Spiritualistst National
Union felt themselves constrained to discuss the question of
the Edinburgh conviction at an Annual General Meeting, A
vote was taken, and by a huge majority the diploma was
renewed 1
Since then the good lady has carried on her déceptions and
frauds apparently under the aegis of the Spiritualists' National
Union. Eleven years of continued finandal profit at the expense
of sorrowing soûls. Spiritualists, protesting against police con-
[ ia6 3
T H E C Â T H O L IC P O IN T O F V IE W — I
victions, hâve declared that in their persécution they were Hke
the early Christians ; but I do not know of any early Christian
who was persecuted shouting ont : * Oh, I hâve donc nothing.
I hâve never done anything. Oh, G o d ; is there a God <*
Rather, *And cailing in the apostles, after they had scourged them,
they charged them that they should not speak at ali in the name
of Jésus, and they dismissed them. And they indeed went out
from the coundl rejoicing that they were accounted worthy to
suffer reproach for the name of Jésus f (Acts of the Apostles,
v, 4°> 4*)*
It îs grotesque to read of M rs. Helen Duncan dealing her
husband *a smashing bîow on the face which sent him reeling *
because he suggested she should allow an X-ray photo to be taken
on the occasion of her first exposure ; and engaging in *a terrifie
struggle * with M iss Maule, which led to her prosecution at
Edinburgh in 1933. The Chief Constable o f Portsmouth declared
that when that struggle took place * M rs. Duncan used blas-
phemous language, swung a chair and hit two people in the
audience. She said to the woman who had caught hold of the
stockmet material : ‘ I will brain yo u * (Portsmouth Evenùtg
Nem, April 1, 1944). So îike an early Christian !
If this is the best a twice-diplomaed medium can give us— well,
we don't need Arthur Askey to tell us that * It makes you think/
A t the very least it makes one wonder what trust can be put in
non-diplomaed médiums when the Spiritualists* National Union
can pass a vote of confidence in a medium who had twice been
convicted of fraud.
The cause of M rs. Helen Duncan, who eould eara over £100
a week by her performances, would mean, in case of conviction
in a higher court, such a loss of prestige to the Spiritualists'
National Union that a meeting was held in London on April 22,
ig44, to consider a further appeal. At a rather late hour in the
day, M r. J. B . M clndoe informed the audience at that meeting
that : *Médiums hâve now been instructed how to conduct
themselves so as to avoid threats of prosecution* {Suniay
Dispatch, April 23,1944). Now, did anyone ever hear, in modem
times, of foÛowers of any religion, barring the pseudo-gnostic type,
being warned as to how to conduct themselves to avoid threats of
prosecution i The appeal for subscriptions to meet a possible
*cost of £2,500 * (if not more) seems to îndicate that M rs. Helen
Duncan, despite her three exposures of fraudulent mediumship,
continues to hold the support of Spiritualists.
EÏ37l
S P IR IT U A L IS M
I would invite aU who stiii believe in ber genuineness to study
the photographs of her 4matérialisations * as published in M r.
Harry Price's books Leaves from a Psychisfs Case-Book and
Régurgitation, and the Duncan Mediumship. The coat-hanger
shoulders o f the spirits ; the Father Christmas masks ; the
ladies O .S* vests ; the cut-out photographs and the gorgonzola
cheese-cloth—4smelling lîke death/ as a witness for the defence
described it at the Old Bailey— are these really worth an appeal
to the House of Lords i
It is certainly grotesque to find a warning issued4to ail médiums ’
about the importance of telîing the truth, and yet to find so much
4fortune-tellmg * encouraged in their newspapers. I hâve been
îaken to task, in a friendly way, by M r, Ernest W , Oaten, in The
Two Worlds, for writing on this subject ; but I stiU would empha-
sise it.
Lady Conan Doyle may protest-—in leaded type— as site has
done, that 4Spiritualists do not countenance fortune-tellmg/
She may add : 4W e ail loathe it and do ail in our power to stop
it ’ ; but as long as Spiritualist periodicals continue to publish
the advertisements of fortune-tellers, her protesting will convince
no one. When palmiste do as so many médiums do, Lady Doyle
tells us it is 4most wrong/ Where is the différence i The
Hamiltons, the Duncans, the Valiantines, the Murphey-Lydys
can get away with it ; b u t4Madame Pola/ 4Signor Gaga * and
4Archie Demos *are4most wrong/ W hy i
In my article referred to above, which was accorded honourable
mention in The Two Worlds, I gave a summary merely of a long
list I hâve of médiums who profess to tell the future by crystals,
candies, water, flowers, sand, the Tarot cards (of various types),
and so on. I quoted from an article, Chez lesPythonesses de Paris,
that the number of such fortune-tellers in Paris was 37,000. Mr,
Oaten wanted to know 4who counted them/ He ought to put
that question to the Spiritualist paper that published the article
(Echo du Merveilleux) ; or to the 4Sûreté de Paris * who keep a
registration check ; and registration in France was, long before
this war, a very thorough thing. Passports and identity cards
wete not a war-time régulation ; the very detailed identity-card
(Carte dTdentité) was in use in rimes of peace.
To the CathoHc, with his keener sense of proportion as to the
différence between the dignity and nature of the human soûl and
that of the brutes, it is certainly grotesque to read in Spiritualist
publications that brute animais survive and pass on to the Summer
[ 138 ]
TH E C A T H O L IC P O IN T O F VIE W — I
Land ; that 4pet animais and birds are most numerous ’ there,
We may ask : if pet dogs, why not favourite parrots, cherished
cats, beloved budgerigars i And why draw the line there i The
Arab might want his trusty steed ; the Chinese fisherman his
most acœmplished cormorant ; the Indian and the African the
elect of theîr éléphants ; the stage-entertainer his well-trained
seals, and the side-show man his performing fleas,
It is indeed grotesque to Jiave the spiritual Heaven of the
Christian sneered at a s 4material,' and then to be offered a heaven
where everything is as material as anything on earth— food and
drink and houses and sport and financîal interests and love,
courtship, marnage and births. Nor must we omit the chance
encounters with hapless soûls wandering about in the Summer
Land, misérable and tmhappy because the coffee was bad.
A nd when we fînd M r. Harry Price's4 Conan Doyle ' control
denounced as a humbug by 4Conan Doyle ' manifesting in New
York ; and M r. Hannen Swaffer's *Silver Birch ' declarmg ail
other 4Silver B irchs' as fraudaient, it is amusingly grotesque,
It is surely grotesque that the practice of any religion should be
fraught with dangers and attended by 4disastrous results.' And
there are those dangers attached to the practices of Spiritualism—
dangers to mental balance, to moral judgment, to Christian faith,
and dangers of obsession and possible actual possession.
D r. J. M . Peebles, m reply to a question I put to him, wrote :
' Emphatically I do think the îndiscriminate use o f planchette
dangerous— dangerous as médianes misused ; dangerous as
floods that drown— or fires that bum dties. . . . Be sure, mis-
understood and misdirected mediumship may cause în-harmony,
ill-health, and doubtless does lead to obsessions.'
Like ail Spiritualists who admit the dangers, he goes on to add
that under the * right conditions ' the danger is obviated.
But that is not true.
N o matter what attempt is made to secure a d rd e under what
are generally considered the right conditions, viz. that the drcle
be composed only of people of good moral character, who are
actuated by the highest motives and convinced of the truth of
SpirituaHsm, there is always danger, Hence the wamings issued
by Stainton Moses, D r. Peebles, Sir Oliver Lodge, Dennis
Bradley and the rest.
L et me cite an instance in support of my statement that
the securing of ail the right conditions does not obviate the
danger.
[ 1 3 9 3 I
SPIRITUALISM E
À very exclusive drcle of sitters had been trying for sortie time
to secure a genuine and complété matérialisation. Repeatedly
at theîr séances an earth-bound spirit interfered to spoil the
séance. Acdng on the prindple that *like attracts like/ three
of the drcle decided that there was one person amongst the party
of sitters who was probably the attraction for the poltergeisU
They decided to exclttde this gentleman from their next sitting.
The gentleman took the huff, but stayed away. His angry
resentment at being excluded &om the very spécial attempt at
complété matérialisation, where everything had been done to
secure the best conditions, resulted in pandémonium and in
something very tiear disaster to those présent. 4How the medium
did not lose her reason, I don't know. Luckily I had sufficient
presence of mind to ask the earthbound spirit how he came to be
présent. He told me that after the Major went away, angry at
his exclusion, he formed a drcle of his own at which the particular
evil spirit manifested, as usual ; whereupon the M ajor told him
to go along and spoü the test séance. It was like hell itself ht
loose I *
That story was told to me by Miss Felicia Scatcherd in
the presence of the late M r. David Gow, in the office of
Light.
If such be the risks run by educated and expert Spiritualists,
what must not the danger be for the less educated and less expert,
and for those whose minds are unbalanced by grief î
These latter, above ah, shouid avoid the séance-room, be it
public or private. One after another the more responsible
Spiritualists and psychical researchers issue their warnings
against this dabbling with the occult.
Sir Oliver Lodge warned 4bereaved persons * against *getting
communications#from the spirit world. He also issued a strong
4word o f waming to those who find that they possess any unusual
power ha the psychic direction' (Raymond, p. 382). On
another page (325) he said : * T o give up your own judgment and
dépend solely on adventitious aid is a grave blunder, and may in
the long run hâve dîsastraus conséquences/
*It may be asked/ he wrote further on, 4do I recommend ail
bereaved persons to devote the time and attention which I hâve
done to getting communications and recording them i Most
certaMy I do not* (p. 342).
In W s4Foreword *to Leavesfrom aPsychisfs Case-Book (p. 15),
M r. Harry Price writes : 4A final waming : Unless a person is
[ 130 3
T H E C A T H O L IC P O IN T O F VIEW — I
very evenly balanced, is healthy in mind and body, and possesses
a keen, discriminating judgment, he should leave splritualism
and psychical research severdy alone/
Dennis H» Bradley, in . . . And After (p. 396), also issued bis
waming : ' In psychics, the great unsdentifically-minded mass,
who bave made a few trifling and indiscriminate expérimenta,
expose themseîves to the dangers0/ obsession/
M r. Harry Boddington in his * Advice to Médiums who are de-
veloping# (.Psychic News, Jamtary 6, 1934), warns his readers
against allowmg ‘ spirit control/ which, he adds, 4should be re-
sisted unless experienced friends are présent. . . . Nearly ail
get indefinable sensations akin to incipient control/ M r. Price
relates how, during a sitting with Stella, the 4electric girl/ 4Pro-
fessor Julian Huxley deliberately relaxed and nearly went into
a trance State/
M r. Boddington adds : 4Remember in addition (to the head-
aches, etc.) you will sense more acutely the thoughts and feelings
of spirit people who will do their best to impress you. These are
not always pleasant, and may perhaps cling to you in a somewhat
embarrassing fashion/ He goes on to warn devdopîng médiums
that spirits 4throng round ' them in response to their request.
Some of these are * drifters in spirit life who are not fully consdotts
that they no longer occupy a physical body, Their uppermost
thoughts will be that they are very, very itt* and it is qirite possible
for sensitives to catch this thought. . . .
4Cases of nervous prostration may often be traced to this inter­
action of soûl upon soûl/
Sixty-five years ago Stainton Moses gave advice on 4The
Forming of a Circle/ in which warnings are contained almost
identical with those of M r. Boddington. He wrote : 4Should
an attempt be made to entrante the medium, or to manifest by
any violent methods, ask that the attempt may be deferred tiH
you can secure the presence of some experienced Spirituaüst.
K this request is not heeded, discontinue the sitting. The
process of developing a trance medium is one that might dis­
concert an inexperienced enquirer/
Thus it would seem that during a period of over half a century,
from the days o f Stainton Moses to those of M r. Harry Bodding­
ton, despite Sir William Barrett’s wishful prophecy of ptogress
in the means of spirit-communication, the same dangers and
difficulties exist for the enquirer. One wonders how many
enquirers during that period hâve paid the penalty, Pandora-like,
[ 1313
SP IR IT U A L IS M
because they tried to develop mediumship without knowing what
précautions shouid be taken.
So there you hâve it as an équation :
Psychical Research - f Hymns — Spiritualism,.
And that, with its attendant lying, frauda trickery, impostures,
ectoplasmic parrots and dangers, is offered to us by many of its
adhérents as a Religion 1
II
W e may ask : W hy ail this sneering and contempt and hatred
for the Catholic Church almost exdusively i W hy ail these
expressions of enmity and disparagement such as * the Catholic
monopoly of miracles/ *the infernal band of dominating Catholic
priesthood/ and the like i There are three reasons for it : first,
because the Catholic Church is so utterly and uncompromisingly
opposed to Spiritualism j secondly, because these contemptuous
critics are ignorant of Catholic doctrine j _
and thirdly, because of
a really devilish hatred of Catholic Christianity*
With regard to the first, Professor Joad writes : *I infer that
the ordinary religious conception of the universe is unfavourable
to the spiritualist hypothesis, and it is not without interest to
note that most religious organisations condemn the performances
of the séance room with as much definiteness as in the twentieth
century they permit themselves to condemn anything, the
CathoHcs, as muai, providing an exception to the prevailing
anæmia o f religious conviction by downright denunciation of
intercourse with what they do not hesitate to call evil spirits and
even démons and devils *(Guide to Modem Thought, pp. 147-8) ♦
Others attack Catholicism out of the abundance of their
ignorance. When M r. Oaten, forgettxng the elaborate cérémonial
of lodge meetings, or of a présentation at Court, criticises *the
Vestments, the Postures, the swinging of the Censer, and various
other artistic but useless forms of genuflection at a Roman Catholic
service/ he betrays his ignorance of the meaning and symbolism
o f the cérémonial ; he fails to see why, if débutantes must wear
three feathers in their hair, leam how to bow and curtsey, and how
to walk backwards from the Royal Presence after présentation,
Catholic cérémonial should not be as particular when it is ail
directed to Him Whom we believe to be the King of K ings. Few
[ 133]
T H E C A T H O L IC P O IN T O F VIEW — II
people are ignorant, I fancy, of the ‘ Posturings ' at a lodge initia­
tion ceremony, or of the abbreviated *vestm ents* of apron and
sash, for which a symbolism is claimed. If we may excuse the
editor of The Two Worîdsfor his ignorance concerning the symbol­
ism of Cathoüc cérémonial we cannot excuse his ignorance when
he States that the Christian heaven is ‘ based upon the taies of the
Arabian Nights ' (The Two Worlds, Feb. 6, 1931),
The general impression one gets from reading Spiritualists'
attacks on the Catholic Church is that the bulk of their ideas o f
Catholicism are derived from the denunciations of hot-gospeüers
and ill-informed revivalist preachers, whose sole sources o f
information seem to be Fox's Book of Martyrs, Maria Mortk, and
the publications of the Rationalist Tract Association.
Even D r. J. M . Peebles betrayed his ignorance of things Catholic.
In his Demonism of the Ages he describes a vision (?) that was
seen by a medium whose services he frequently sought. H is
report, which betrays not only ignorance but also his credulity,
is given very solemnly :
4A man is seen coming down the mountain side. He ap-
proaches the cloud and dehvers a poeticaî address on the subject
of spiritual unfoldment, making use of the flower as an illustra­
tion. His head is shaven and he is in the garh of a friar, a long
gray gown with a corded helt at the waist. After he bas finished
his address, we ask him if he is a member of any ecclesiastical
order. He answers, 4
4The Society of Jésus ; but, no longer.”
Adding, 4
4Blâme no one.” f
Thus the Rev. D r. Peebles, a minister, a Doctor of Medicine,
a Master of Arts, and a very widely travelled man. Despite his
travelling and his attainments he swallows the taie of a medium
that Jesuits hâve shaven heads, wear gray gowns and corded belts,
and are friars. I doubt if the reverend Fathers of the Society
of Jésus, at Farm Street, would be able to recognise any of their
confrères in such attire. As a test for identity the detaüed descrip­
tion is a complété flop ; yet, owing to his ignorance of things
Catholic, it satisfied D r. Peebles . . . and he, with his eighty years
of dévotion to Spiritualism, was a really outstanding personage
in the movement.
A s for the third explanation, that of hatred of everything
Catholic, it is evidenced by the blasphemy of the atheistic A . J,
Smyth ; by the obscene blasphemies of M . le Chevalier le Clément
de St, M arcq, and by the whole 4Red Catechism * tone of the
LycenmManualissued by the British Spiritualists* Lyceum Union.
[ m 3
SPIRITUALdbM
M y questioner may say : *You blâme Spiritualist sodetites
for sponsoring fraudulent médiums ; you blâme the Spiritualist
press ; you blâme médiums Wholesale ; you condemn the whole
movement as of the devil. W ell, what has the Cathoüc Church
to offer in the place of Spiritualism i *
The Catholic Church offers what Augustine Birrell so aptfy
and truly described as *a neat assortment of cohérent, inter­
dépendant, logical opinions/ She has more than that to offer,
It is not *opinions * merely that she offers : it is fixed, defined,
unshakeable Truth ; and the conséquent spiritual aids of universal
prayers and the sacraments.
*1116 foundation of Catholic Faith is, in the first place, human
reason. The Apostle tells us to give to God our *reasonaMe
service/ Ours is not a blind surrender of our judgment to rite
alleged spirit-message from an unidentifiable scalp-hunting Red
ïndian. It is a faith backed by reason. W e argue as follows :
For the Christian the first considération is the question of the
existence of God, because religion, in the accepted and genuine
sense of the word, means nothing else but the scheme of man’s
relationship towards God, that is, the service of the créature to
his Creator.
In order, then, to hâve any foundation for religion in its true
sense we must be convinced of the existence of God, and that
God may be the object of religion. He must be a God with
Whom it is possible to enter into some kind of personal com­
munication.
Moreover, God as God must be suprême and all-powerful ;
otherwise there would be some other power to which higher
considération would be due than that which is due to God. We
could not pay divine honours to a God of limited powers— for
a God of limited powers is, from a Christian point of view, a
contradiction in terms.
What then must be out attitude towards Him i
T o answer that question I propose to-analyse the working of
the mind of a Christian with regard to his religious standpoint.
Starting as an enquirer from the point of view of reason and
accepting the varions arguments of reason for the existence of
the Suprême Being, God Almighty, vi?., the argument from
Design in the universe ; the argument from Cause and Effect ;
the teleological argument, that there is a purpose for ail things ;
the arguments, from conscience, from motion, and so on— we
reason out his position thus—
C134]
T H E CATH O LX C P O IN T O F VIEW — II
A man says to himself : I exist. God made me, I hâve
certain qualities of health and strength ; certain powers o£
sensation hearing, sight, taste, smell, and touch ; I hâve certain
instincts of self-preservation and the like.
But my experxence tells me that the brute animal world around
me has similar powers of sensation, keener, perhaps, than mine ;
it, too, has similar instincts of self-preservation, Yet, on re-
flection, I cannot but be convinced that I am, in the true sense
of the Word, superior to any member of the brute création î I
possess powers that they hâve not, intellectual powers o f memory,
understanding and will. M y memory is not a mere record of
sensations, like that of the dog, for instance ; it is a memory of
far higher attainments ; it records a thousand and one things
that are the object of my intellect— and m y intellect deals with
the considération not of material things only, of sense-impressions,
but with abstract ideas, such as truth, justice, equity, goodness ;
it deals with scientific truths, with mathematical propositions,
with ethical principles— and my memory can record ail the
workings of my intellect and will with regard to these abstract
thoughts : considération, comparison, sélection, judgment and
choice.
I hâve, then, something that is not possessed by any of the
brute création, I call that something my Soûl, It is a ratfonal
soûl, gifted with the powers of memory, understanding and wiU,
These gifts of health and strength, these powers of sensation,
my great instincts, m y intellectual abilities, I know are given to
me by my Creator,
W hat then {
I get a dog. The dog learns to look upon me as its master.
It grows to recognise, in a way, that it owes me a retum for my
care of it and so it demonstrates its affection by wagging its tall
at m y approach, by trying to lick m y hands, by barkmg its satis­
faction. It does more : it attempts to render me a service by
waming me of the presence of possibly unwelcome strangers, and
it learns to be obedient to my commands. AU for what s
* Because
I feed it and house it and care for it.
But my Creator has done more for me than I couîd do for any
animal. He has given me ail I possess, B y His faveur am
what I am as regards goodness and indiffèrent things : charitable-
ness, patience, prosperity, intellectual attainments, Only the
bad in me is my own. ShaU I then be less grateful to Him than
a dog is to its master î
[ 135]
S P IR IT U A L IS M
Free in T hought
Y et what can I do by way of return i AU I hâve He has given
me— my health, m y strength, my possessions, H e has no need
o f these* Can I, then, give Him anything He would appreciate i
Is there anything I possess that ï can refuse H im and that He
will not take from me by force i Yes, there is : the use of those
two highest natural gifts He has given me of reason and of wül ;
the service of these He will not compel me to give, These are
the things He would appreciate, because my will is free and He
will not constrain it ; my inteUect, too, is free, and He will not
force it*
If it is the service of these faculties that I am to offer, how am I
to do it i Has He at any time made known to man that in the
service of the intellect and will lies the key to the worship of the
Creator i Is it possible for Him to hâve ever made known in
what particular way these two powers should be used to honour
Him i Would such a révélation be of any use i Would it be
possible i Is it necessary i
For the Christian the answer to ail three questions is : Yes.
Révélation is useful, possible and necessary* It is useful because
of the existence of mysteries in the truths of religion— and by a
mystery is meant a hidden truth, the knowledge and understanding
of which we cannot of ourselves attain* There are the truths
which are a mystery solely because their existence is not known ;
and there are truths which remain mysteries, as far as under­
standing them goes, even when their existence is known.
M y s t e r ie s
But the question of mysteries need not disturb us. Natural
reasoning from our daily expérience proves that there is much
in the world around us that we cannot understand— visible,
created and finîte changes that are a mystery' to us ; much more
may we expect tofind mysteries when we corne to deal with the
invisible and infinité. And if human reason, despite the accumu-
lated knowledge o f thousands of yearsf study, of progress and
invention, is utterly mystified with regard to objects of sensation
whose existence it knows, how much less is it capable of under­
standing divine, supra-sensible things i
The problems of sleep and dreams and growth still puzale us ;
[136]
T H E C A T H O L IC P O IN T *OF V IEW — II
the nature of electridty, light, sound and magnetism has yet to be
discovered.
T he révélation o f mysteries by God leads to a sublimer Idea o f
Him and to a more perfect knowledge of Him. It urges the intellect
to seek to know more about Him, Moreover, it is necessary, not
only because certain truths being mysteries cotdd not otherwise
be believed in, but also because in order to know ail the truths of
the strictly moral order divine help and révélation is necessary
for man, History amply testifies to the fact that despite eamest
and deep study, men ignorant o f divine révélation were also for
centuries ignorant of the most primary moral and social truths.
Their incredible forgetfulness of their last end and destiny and
of their duties to their fellowmen, shows that divine révélation
is necessary in order to bring man to a right knowledge of his
end and duties.
Every great religious System makes some claim to be God-
revealed. Each System calls for some form of faith and obedience.
But how am I to tell which of ail the various religious beîiefs of
importance is the one m y Creator wishes me to embrace t M any
differ so fundamentally in dogmatic and in moral teaching,
W e find polytheism as opposed to monotheism ; polygamy as
opposed to monogamy ; déniai of the doctrine of the Holy Trim’ty
as opposed to behef in the three Persons in one God ; déniai o f
the divinity of Christ as opposed to belief in His divimty ; and
so on, and so on.
Evidently a11 these contradictory beüefs cannot be divinely
revealed, God, as the God of truth, cannot be the author o f
contradictory révélations,
Is there any means, then, of recognising the genuine Révélation
of Almighty God i
There must be. He must hâve made known what truths are
to be believed (the service of the intellect or reason), and what
commands are to be obeyed (the service of the wili), and how these
truths and commandments are to be recognised as comingfram Hùn,
There must be some hall-mark, test, criterion— caU it what yott
wül— that stamps or indicates the Révélation as divine*
God as the Father and Creator o f all human beings— black or
white or yellow or red— must wish all His children to serve Htm
in truth, Hence this Révélation is meant for all men, for the
millions who cannot read as weU as for the keenest intellects that
even modem times hâve produced ; and so the test of the gentune-
ness of the divine origin of the Révélation must be one that is of
1*37 3
SP IR IT U A L ISM
equally compelKng value to ail men* since it is to be the standard
of judgment for ail»
W hat test ss there that would strike ail men equaUy fordbly i
There ss the test of miracles.
W hat is a *m iraclef i
I know that Spiritualists talk about th e4miracles of the séance-
room/ I know they talk contemptuously o f 4the Church's mono-
poly of miracles *; but in the question of miracles we are dealing
with Thedogy; and jus$ as the sdentist* be he a physidst or mathe-
matician or medical man, resents the theologian interpreting the
tenus of scientific théories or formulae in any but those of Science*
sothe theologian daims the right to hâve his définitions interpreted
in a theological sense ; the more so since the theologian has
centuries of backing for his définitions* whereas the sdentist is
constantly changing his théories and hypothèses. As Professor
Joad says in his Guide to Modem Thought* Sdence has a new
theory of the atom at the rate of one every four or five years.
Well* what does Catholic Theology give as an accurate définition
of a miracle t It defines a mirade as : 4Opus sensibile* divinitus
factum* praeter ordinem communiter servatum in rebus *
— Le. a
sensible sign* meaning one that can be observed by the senses
(Keating, sight) ; worked by Almighty God ; and beyond the
ordinary powers of nature.
There are three éléments in that définition* and they are att
important : (i) a sensible sign or operation ; (2) performed by
God ; and (3) having an extraordinary rareness of character.
1. M en differ very considerably in intellectual attainments ;
but the most unskilled labourer can* as a rule, trust the evidence
of his senses as reliably as can a professor of sdence. In a court
of iaw a witness does not need to be a graduate of the University
of Cambridge in order to testify as to who was to blâme in the
case of a Street motor accident. The testimony of a casual labourer
is as good as that of a doctor with regard to what both hâve actuafly
witnessed,
a. It must be worked by God— because it has to give the hall-
mark o f its divine origin ; as though Almighty God was under-
so to speak* the doctrines in faveur of which the mirade is
performed.
3. It must be of an extraordinary character— in order to arrest
attention and impress the beholder . . ♦ and make bim think.
A s an example— taking the New Testament merely* for the time
being* as an historical document— we hâve the accouat of the
[13&]
TH E C A T H O L IC P O IN T O F VIEW — II
rassmg of Lazarus to life. There were présent on that occasion
people of every class of life and of varying degrees of tnrdW tttaî '*
■
attainment, from the hired mourners to the priests ffom the
temple of Jérusalem. AU knew that Laçants had been buried
four days. AU heard Christ's prayer to God* His Fathen-** I
give Thee thanks that Thou hast heard me/ AU heard Christ
indicate the purpose of what He was about to do : ' because o f ète
people who stand about hâve I said i t r
— he, addressed God in
heaven, that they might recognise it as the mrk of God— aad,
secondly, 4that they may believe that Thou hast sent M e/
AU saw the covering of the tomb removed. AU heard the
command : 4Lazarus, corne forth/ AU saw him 4that had been
dead corne forth/
In the face of that classic example of a miracle, cm anyone
find fault with the Catholic définition I hâve given i
In that Hght, can the phenomena of psychicai research or of
Spiritualism be called miracles 4 If miracles were to occur every
day and at any hour one wanted they would cease to be miracles.
The condition *praeter ordinem communiter servatum m rebus *
would be absent. They fulfil the condition of 4sensible signs/
but there is no indication that they are the work of God (4dîviwtus
factum *) i it is only Auntie Maggie, or Silver Birch, or Ivy.
But if I can find a religion that is backed up by such wonders
as can be strictly called miracles, then I hâve proof positive that
my Creator approves of that religion; since God, who is Truffa
itself, cannot lend Himself to support falsehood.
I apply tbis test to the various religious Systems, and I discover
that only in Judaism and in Christianity do ï find real miracles
worked in support of religious teaching. I discover, too, that
Judaism was only a préparation for Christianity ; thayt a Savwur
was promised (Messiah) Who would fulfil ail thmgs. I find, too,
that the reaction at His Corning was similar to that of the people
who witnessed the raising of Lazarus from the tomb— * maay
believed in H im / but others, 4because He worked many miracles**
set about to accompüsh the destruction of both Hîmself and Hîs
Church.
Moreover, I find that once Christ aune— the préparation by
Judaism having been completed— no further miracles were worked
in favour of Judaism, but only for Christianity. Nor dû I find
that the Jews daim that God worked miracles for them rince the
ooming of Christ.
This fact ieads me to study the Christian Sacred Scriptares,
l * S 9 l
S P IR ÏT U A L IS M
which combine the Hebrew Révélation with their own Révélation
of Christ*
Convinced that in these two sets of Books I havè the Révélation
of God, the question arises what ought to be the attitude of a man
to this revealed truth i
The answer is î faith— that is : a firm, intellectual assent to
revealed truth on the authority of God Who reveals it*
The very prophedes of the Old (or Jewish) Testament wera
miracles. Their fulfilment évidences their truth* Hence I
accept the divine origin of both the Old and the New Testaments :
I accept the Bible as divinely inspired.
N ow the New Testament présents me with not only the claim
of Jésus Christ to be God, it gives me proof of that claim in His
Résurrection from the dead* T hat is the truth, the indisputable
fact, which was preached by the Apostles to both Jew and Gentile.
A t the élection of the apostle who was to take the place of the
traitor Judas one of the chief qualifications for sélection was the
ability of being able to testify to the fact of Christ's Résurrection.
That was indicated as being the burden of apostolic preaching.
Jésus Himself had said in His address of farewell î 4These are
the words that I spoke to you while I was yet with you, and ail
things must needs be fulfilled which are written in the law of
Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning M e.
*Then He opened their understanding, that they might under-
stand the Scriptures. And He said to them : Thus it is written/and
thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise again from the dead the
third day . . . andyou are witnesses of these things *(St. Luke xxiv).
And so we find St. Peter addressing his small congrégation of
one hundred and twenty persons, in the upper room, on the first
W hit Sunday, saying : * Wherefore of these men who hâve
companied with us, ail the time that the Lord Jésus came in and
went out among us, beginning from the baptism of John until
the day wherein He was taken up from us, one of these must he
mode a mtness with us of His Résurrection *(Acts i, 22).
This witnessing to the fact of the Résurrection of Jésus from
the dead was emphasised in order to drive home the proof and
truth o f His Dimnity— that Christ was God*
That being so I read my New Testament once more to consider
and study it, not now merely as an historié document but as the
Révélation of God. In the light of what my reasomng has led
me to belîeve as to the divinity of Christ ail in His life and teaching
takes ont a new aspect ; it has a new value. His authority to teach
C140]
THE CATHOLIC POINT OF VIEW— II
and to command is no longer that o f a prophet merely, a messenger
from God ; no, it is the authority of God ; it is God Himself W ho
speaks. In the Old Testament the prophets, speaking under the
inspiration of God, as the spokesmen of God, said : * Thus saith
the L ord/ But not so Christ ; He uses a totally different form o f
words ; He déclarés : 41 say to you . . / ; 4It was said to you
of old » * ♦ , but I say to you ♦ . ♦ *
*j 4Amen, amen, I say to
you ♦ * *
* He daims, what was blasphemy to the Jews, to be
4Lord of the Sabbath *; He daims to hâve existed before Abra­
ham was bom ; He déclarés î 4 1 and the Father are one/
Even the uneducated, the common people, recognised the
note î 4And the people heard Hin gladly, because He spoke as one
having authority/ It was the authority of His Godhead*
I note also now, with a new significance, that one great complaint
He had against the leaders of the Jews espedally was their refusai
to believe in His teaching— their want of faith. He called them
4an incredulous génération/ He dedared their unbelief a sin î
4If I had not done among them the works that no other man hath
done, they would hâve no sin ; but now they hâve no excuse for
their sin/
I see, further, that this Divine Teacher set up a Chttrck taper-
petuate His teaching ; that He appointed leaders and teachers to
speak in His name, and with His authority î 4Aü power is given
to Me in heaven and on earth, therefore go ye and teach ah things
that I hâve commanded you/ H e promises, moreover, that in
their preaching and teaching they shall be guarded and guided by
the Holy Spirit of God, and that He would be with them ail days,
even to the consummation of the world.
Christ, then, Who is God, founded that Church, gave it autho­
rity to speak in His name, and promised it mdefechbility. What
else can I reasonably do but accept its teaching with faith i
But my trouble is that there are so many Churches and secm
teaching contradictory doctrines and opposed one to the other,
some believing in the Divinity of Christ, otfaers denving it} some
holding a sacramental System, others rejecting ail sacraments ;
some insisting on the rite of Baptism, others holding Baptism of
no account—and yet ail daim to represent the true Church of
Christ» How am I to tell which really is that Church i
Again I use my reasoning powers and I ask myself t What
characteristics, or notes, would I expert to find in the Church of
Christ i
To begin with I would expect to be abie to trace an unbroken
[ 14x 3
S P IR IT U A L IS M
line of atjthority to ride, and to teach, and to hand on tire powers
winch Christ eonferred on th>e Apostles# and to do so as easily
as I can trace the anthority of our présent king to sit on the throne
cïf England to-day. The Church of Christ must hold to-day the
doctrines and traditions of the Apostles ; she must dérivé her
Orders and her Mission from them.
Jésus Christ# as I hâve seen# is God- Incarnate ; I wouîd expect#
then# to see the fulfilment of His prayer at the Last Supper, That
prayer was concerned almost entirely with Faith and unity# a
unity not amongst the Apostles only but a unity of *ail who
tbrough their teaching shaîi believe in M e/ It was to be a unity
of a supernatural character : nations might change their form of
government from monarchism to repubücanism or to totali-
tarianism ; politidans might alter their views from Conservatism
to Liberaüsm or Communism ; there might be fashions in art and
musdc and literature ; sdentists might change their théories on
life and matter repeatedly— but the Unity for which Christ
prayed# a Unity of Faith and Worship and Allegiance#was to be
one that would astonish the world : ' That they may be one# as
Thou# Father# in M e and I in Thee# that the world may believe
that Thoa hast sent Me*
And since Christ came to 4fulfil the Law / that is# to call ail
m ea to perfection# I would expect to find His Church teaching a
holy doctrine# and providing the means to become holy to ail her
children. Further# I would look to see that in every âge there
would be many who answering that call would# like the Apostles#
* leave father and mother and wife and diildren and land ' to
follow Him, In short I should expect to find a long succession
of men and women who had *left ail things * to practise that
hernie hoüness which produces Saints*
Lasdy, rince Christ gave the command to 4teach ail nations
aü that I hâve commanded you,f I would look for the attempt to
do so to begin at once after His departure and to continue to the
présent time.
I then apply these notes or characteristics to the various
religions organisations which daim to represent the Church of
Christ# and I find that in none of them are ail the four essential
notes realised# except in the Roman Catholic Church.
So I sum up the situation at the bar of reason, and I say :
God wants me to serve Him in His way ;
He bas rnade that way known to me through Jésus Christ ; I
hâve the certainty of that through the evideace of mirades #
[ 14a]
TH E C A T H O L IC P O IN T O F V IE V ^ -II
Only one Church to-day can properly daim to be so suppocted
bf God ; and
That Church possesses ail the essential characteristics which
I would look for in the true Church of Christ— ApostolidCv
Unity, Sanctity, Catholicity ; r
That Church has the Authority of Christ Himselfj and ïesus
Christ is G o d }
As God He commanded that Church to preach and teach m
His name ; ' AU pomr is given to Me in heaven and on earth
th e r efo r e go ye and preach a il things that I hâve commanded
you/ He promised to His Church the guidance of the H dv
Ghost whom He calls ' the Spirit of Truth ' ; lasdy, He promised
that that Church would never failt because He would he with it
*a11 days, even to the consummation of the world/
What that Church asks of me is what Christ asked of ail to
whom He spoke— Faith» It is not faith in the sense of mere
confidence or trust, but faith as an intellectual assmt to rmealed
truth» It is to lead me to say : *I believe/
M , lesChevalier le Clément de S t Marcq and other Spiritualisa
may sneer at faith as ' that little night-light so precious to our
ancestors in days gone by/ but neither S t Marcq nor any other
Spirituahst with their questionable * Silver Bûches ' and ' Red
Clouds * can supplaht the authority and trustwoithiness of God
Who is Truth Itself»
Using rny powers of reason I see that Christianity à a fm t
I.do not need to be a profound philosopher nor a very leamed
historian to see what it has done for the élévation of womanhood ;
for éducation ; for art and music and architecture ; for science
even but I do fail to see one single thùig that Spiritualism ha«
done to provide real inspiration for anything,
Spiritualism may claim the ringing of bells, whether on
Christmas trees or not, and the movement of trumpets (y/6— or
luminous 7/6) as miracles ; it may grant diplomas to médiums
after they hâve been detected in fraud ; it may concerta
with the length of meals and the delicacy of fabrics to be had in
the Summer Land ; it may try to prove that psychical experi-
ments and hymns = ersatz religion, but— it has m Mèxm God
F
IR
S
T
»
Let me end by quoting the following passage from the writrng
of an agnostic*
*If, on the other hand, we adopt the kind of hypothesis with
regard to the nature of the universe which Christianity requires,
[ HB ]
SPIRITUALISM
the phenomena of spiritualism become uninteUigible. That the
universe may be the création of an omnipotent, personal deity
is conceivable ; that the human spirit is immortal and survives
the destruction of the body is aîso conceivable» Given these
îwo premises, we may further suppose either that God permits
us to know the fact of immortality, or for reasons of His own
withholds the knowledge» But that He should allow it neither
to be known nor not to be known, but to be suspected merely,
the suspicion being founded upon equivocal phenomena occurring
in the dim light and doubtful atmosphère of the séance room,
is to me utterly inconceivable* The atmosphère of the laboratory
is clear and obvious j it is an atmosphère favourable to the dis-
covery of concrète fact. The atmosphère of the cathédral is
equally known, and, at its best, equally respect-worthy ; it fosters
faith, encourages contemplation and sharpens the vision of
spiritual truth. But the séance room with its ail too close affinity
to the alchemy and witchcraft of the past, its longing for a sign
and its crude appeal to the appetite for thrills and the love of the
marvellous, is pôles asunder from either of these, and it is, to
say the least of it, unlikely that a benevolent creator should go
out of his way to choose it as a medium for conveying to his
créatures profound truths in regard to the nature and future of
the human soûl ' (Guide to Modem Thought, p» 147)»
That is not an a priori argument ; it is a reasoned judgment
from a better understanding of the nature of God than Spiritualists
seem to possess.
AU Catholics can accept that view or argument of Professor
Joad.
Mr» B. W» Wallis, a former editor of Lightf declared at the
Geneva Congress : 4Spiritualism is the highest form of Pro-
testantism.' That's as may be; but my verdict coïncides with
that of M. Philippe, who ended his address to the same Congress ;
41 conclude, with ail my energy : No, Spirituahsm is not ; no,
Spiritualism never shall be ; no, Spiritualism ought not to be a
religion l*
And that emphatic déclaration, uttered in the presence of
représentative Spiritualists from ail over the world^was foÛowed
by 4kmd applause *(vifs applaudissements)»
P rin ted tn Bnglattd a i T h e B a l l a h t v n e P b e s s
Se o t t x s w o o d e , Ba l l a n t y n e & C o , L t d ,
Colchester, London & Bion
