{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1944__gaines___thirty_great_secrets.pdf","mytitle":"Thirty Great Secrets","mylang":"de"}
I
TJUR.Pi GREAT SECRETS
- -
,
f.oJt.
mAIDTAIDIDG HEALTH ADD YOUTH
By
THOMAS GAINES
Author of
"Healthful Eating," "Every Woman a Food Scientist," "Health
Is in You," "Vitalic Breathing," "Share My Hill," "New
Light from an Old Book," "Yes You Can," "Higher
Mental Action," "Intelligence Course."
Pioneer 0 fficial Breathing Instructor
N ew York Police Training School
JOSEPH F. WAGNER, Inc. • 53 Park Place • New York 8, N. Y.
INTRODUCTION
In this little volume, Thomas Gaines has brought together in
concise, easy-to-use form his most important teachings on main-
taining health and youth.
You will find dearly and simply outlined in the following
pages a safe and sane program of healthful living through
better methods of eating, breathing, body mechanics and cor-
rect thinking. These four essentials, which Mr. Gaines has taught
for years, provide a solid foundation for vibrant health, youth-
fulness and lasting happiness. You may eat the most health(ul
foods available, but emotional disturbances and wrong thinking
can make you violently ill. Likewise, improper breathing and
poor posture may cause you to tire easily and rob you of energy.
In addition to the essentials of healthful living, you will
also find a wealth of valuable advice on specific problems of
vital int~rest to many people. You will learn, for example, how
to prevent colds - how to correct constipation - how to sleep
soundly - how to overcome nervous tension, worry and' fear
- how to develop poise and an attractive personality - how
to conquer fatigue - how to relieve headaches. In every case
you are given detailed, "how-to-do-it" instructions and thus
will secure the best results.
The methods presented in this book are based on 46 years'
continuous study and research. They have been personally tested
by Mr. Gaines and have been used with excellent results by
thousand's of students who have attended his classes on healthful
living in over 150 cities in the United States, Canada and
Hawaii.
THE PUBLISHERS
•
Copyright 1944
by
Thomas Gaines
Appreciatively Dedicated to My Many
Thousands of Personal Students and
Readers of My Books
DISEASE is never a visitation. It comes only when invited.
When we violate nature's laws by overeating or eating the
wrong type of foods, at that moment we extend an invitation
to pain and suffering to enter our life.
As we make bad posture a habit, we invite illness to abide
in our body as a permanent guest. When we allow fear or
worry to possess our mind, we open the door of our life to
the invasion of mental and physical sickness.
Health is natural, suffering is not. When we are so wise
as to cultivate the ability to cease treating our body in a
manner in which nature never intended us to use it, then
health becomes a constant companion. In the pages of this
little book I present 30 Secrets of Health, Youth, Beauty and
Happiness which have helped thousands of my students to
get more health, fun and joy out of living.
1. HOW TO BREATHE TO PREVENT FATIGUE
In order to prevent fatigue while walking, ~im~y blow
o
& the breath ~rough your .IDO\!.t;h_at each ste_E; e more
concerned about the exhalation than the mtake ot the breath.
If you feel you need extra oxygen, inhale a supply through
the mouth. The atmospheric pressure tends to force air into
the lungs when there is a need for more air and oxygen.
Always form the habit of blowing out inner toxins and
wastage through mouth exhalations whenever you are walk-
ing. This good habit reduces lung and muscle~e fu_!!y
90 per cent. Always swing thear
mS1rom the shoulder while
walking. This helps keep the spine flexible and young. Watch
that your toes a!.~ pointed stqjght to the front. This practice
conserves ibOtit 15 per cent of the energy consumed when
the bad habit of toeing out is practiced while walking.
5
2. HOW TO CLIMB HILLS AND STAIRS WITH
LITTLE FATIGUE ,
Always bend your knees slightly while climbing stairs\
or hills. As you take the first upward step, take in a sniff of ,
air through the nose and retain it. On the second upward ~
step repeat the process. On the third step forcibly exhale
both retained breaths. Practice this system of breathing for
all stair- and hill-climbing and the usual fatigue attending
such effort will be practically at an end. The exhalations may
be made through the mouth. Personally I find the nose is V
better medium for exhaling the retained breath during the
process of climbing.
3. HOW TO STOP A NOSE BLEED
When a simple nose bleed is present, tilt back your head
and take 2 sharp sniff breaths through the nose. Immedi-
ately exhale these breaths through the mouth in 1 gush
exhalation. Repeat a dozen or more times until bleeding has
stopped. Head must always be tilted backward. If the bleed-
ing is profuse, lie down with the head lower than the rest
of the body and keep using the breathing plan until relief
is achieved.
The act of cold air coming into the nostrils tends to
seal the ruptured blood vessel in the nose. When the warm
breath from the lungs is exhaled through the mouth, the
rupture remains sealed as cold contracts and heat expands.
When nose bleeding is usual with children, more calcium-
bearing foods should be included in their diet. If bleeding
does not cease with this breathing plan within 2 minutes,
secure the services of a physician.
4. HOW TO INDUCE SOUND RESTFUL SLEEP
Form the habit of sleeping on your sto~ach or right side.
You gain three advantages by so doing: You support your
liver; you facilitate the complete emptying of the contents of
6
the stomach; also, you are not so liable to hear the pulsation
of the heart. Never carry your troubles to bed with you. Seek
repose with an empty mind. Endeavor during the day to .,. ~
speak graciously about every person. Such a course of pro-
cedure will never keep you awake at night. It is only when
we treat others unkindly that the fear of their retaliation
troubles us later and prevents us sleeping peacefully at night.
If you are troubled by insomnia, mentally relax yourself ../
and breathe in 2 sniff breaths through the nose. Exhale
very slowly through the nose or mouth. The exhaling period
should take ten times longer than the inhalation. A dozen '
such breathing processes should be sufficient to put you into
a quiet sleep. While exhaling, mentally direct the outgoing
air to pass downward through the body.
5. HOW TO RELIEVE SINUS TROUBLE
AND PREVENT COLDS
With you right index finger press tightly your right nostril
so that no air can enter. With your left thumb and first finger
lift upward the outer side of the left nostril. Now breathe
in through the left nostril 4 to 10 short sharp sniff breaths.
Forcibly expel in 1 gush these retained breaths. Repeat the
same finger and breathing process on the right side. Eight
such left and right nostril exercises will do much to rid you
of sinus infections or nasal catarrh.
Always endeavor to have both nostrils breathing freely
and equally. This simple breathing exercise will help you to
accomplish this healthful aim. Practice the voice exercise pre-
sented in the next paragraph. This exercise will be most help-
ful in the prevention of sinus infection and common colds.
6. HOW TO DEVELOP A PLEASANT AND
RESONANT SPEAKING VOICE
A pleasing speaking voice is a winning, priceless asset. In
fact, it is the outstanding factor in one's personality. It is
7
not at all difficult to improve your speaking voice if you are
faithful in the practice of the following voice-improvement
procedure.
Lie comfortably on your back on a bed or couch. Imagine
you are yawning. This movement helps to keep the throat ·
relaxed and open. Concentrate on your diaphragm and aim
to speak from that region. Speak clearly and bell-like from
' the diaphragmatic center with jaw relaxed and mouth open
so the tone can issue forth uninhibited.
Now inhale fully until your stomach region protru,des
outward. Imagine your body is a sounding board as you hum
these vowel sounds:
a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a.
a~a~~.a~~.a~a~a~a~
OU, OU. OU. OU. OU. OU. OU. OU. OU.
oh. oh. oh. oh. oh. oh. oh. oh. oh.
When you feel you are running out of breath, inhale
quickly through the mouth and prevent the diaphragm f~om
flattening. A breath-extended diaphragm is always a source
of support to a more powerful speaking voice.
Try this second exercise while sitting or standing. Relax
lower jaw and with mouth comfortably open hum as follows:
"ing, ong- ing, ong- ing, ong - ing, ong- ing, ong." The "ing"
sound should be placed in the forehead; the "ong" sound
should emanate from the stomach region. The recitation of
the following sentence will also be found an excellent aid
to the cultivation of a better speaking voice:
"Nine hundred and ninety-nine bonded, branded men determined
to roam to Rome."
As you are faithful and consistent in your daily two-minute
practice of each of these three exercises, soon your friends
will be complimenting you on your improved speaking voice.
8
7. NEW FEET FOR OLD
When your feet hurt, your entire body is ill at ease. Your
feet are made out of the food you eat. When your feet pain,
swell or burn, unless from an organic disease like diabetes,
generally it signifies you are in a toxic condition from the
excessive intake of food or from the wrong type of food.
The first remedy for ordinary foot trouble is to change
your diet. The use of the 21st century list of meals given in
"HEALTHFUL EATING" should easily remove the threat
of toxicity from your body and feet.
The next step is to bathe your feet in hot water in which
have been dissolved 4 heaping tablespoonfuls of bicarbonate
soda, half a pound of sugar and half a pound of white salt.
Keep your feet in this salt, sugar and soda solution bath for
at least 15 minutes. Feet should then be dried thoroughly
and rubbed with butter or warm soybean oil. This should be
done just before retiring. As long as the feet hurt, this bath
should be taken twice a week. Once a month thereafter. The
butter or oil rub might profitably include the calf of the
legs up to the knees. Wear long stockings to protect the
bed sheets from grease or oil stains after application.
8. HOW TO IMPROVE EYESIGHT
Here is how I developed perfect eyesight. I trained myself
to stand loosely erect. It is practically impossible to maintain
excellence of vision when the shoulders sag forward or the
abdominal organs sag downward. Then I limited myself to
3 slices of bread daily. I believe the excessive use of sugar,
bread and cereals are conducive to poor eyesight.
I also practiced the following procedure until I developed
excellence of vision. I filled my mind with the idea that
rerfection of sight is a normal and natural state of being.
I trained myself to enjoy perfect sight always. Daily, for a
9 \......._..
period of 2 minutes. I placed my left band on the back of my
bead, the positive electric pole of the body, and my right hand
over my dQsed eyes at the same time.
While in this position, I reclined on my back and men-
tally breathed in and out through my closed eyes.. I con-
centrated my mind on my eyes and took 2 sniif breaths,
imagining my eyes were performing the function of inhala-
tion. I then exhaled the retained breath, imagining my eyes
were expelling the breath. Two minutes given to this exercise
in combination with proper posture and planned eating have
not only helped my own eyesight, but also have been most
profitably used by hundreds of my students.
9. HOW TO IMPROVE SOME TYPES OF
IMPAIRED HEARING
The first step is to eat more solar foods. That means to
taboo for a month at least all vegetables that grow below
the ground. Also to omit all dairy products save a little
cream to be used in beverages. Eat abundantly of the four
basic foods mentioned in my book "HEALTHFUL EATING."
Posture should be improved, also flexibility of the spine should
be aimed for.
The causes of deafness are legion. Most cases, however,
will show marked improvement when diet is improved and
posture faults corrected. There are also two exercises to be
taken in overcoming deafness. Place the fat pads of the
middle fingers in the passages of your ears and hum "ZUM-
OHM" r,r a period of 2 minutes, twice a day.
Seconilly, twice a day, for a period of 2 minutes place
the fat pads of your middle finger tips in your ears and men-
tally try to breathe in and out through your finger tips di-
rectly into your ears. During both of these exercises deeply
expect that you are going to regain your lost power to hear.
Faith and action in the right direction are invincible forces
10
in healing and health restoration. Be certain that your voice
while humming and your breath while breathing are directed
to the region of the inner ear.
10. A NATIJRAL METHOD FOR CORRECI'ING
CONSTIPATION
Place the palm of the right hand upon the left elbow,
place the palm of the left hand upon the right elbow. Now,
while arms are thus folded move them above your head, for
a period never exceeding 2 minutes. Do this while seated
or standing. Concentrate deeply that this lifting of the intes-
tines will aid in the elimination of the constipation. If while
in this position you breathe in sniffs from the region of the
diaphragm it will act as an extra stimulus to the correction
of constipation. This exercise should be taken between meals.
Some medical authorities affirm constipation is a mental
trouble. In addition to the physical exercise with arms folded
above .the head, also try the water cure. Before the practice
of folding arms above the head, slowly sip a glassful of
cold water impregnating it with the idea of an accelerated
peristaltic movement of the upper intestine. Thus you com-
bine the forces of mind, breath and movements in a perfect
unity to bring about the desired end.
If you have a heart or lung condition, never perform any
lifting of hands above the head unless with the advice of
your doctor.
Personally I am fearful of cathartics. There is often more
than one reaction from their use, and frequently the reaction
is more harmful than the presence of constipation. Baked
potato skins, grape juice, entire whole wheat cereals and
raw vegetables provide essential materials which may be the
elements necessary to correct constipation. An upright posture
is always conducive to perfect elimination.
11
11. HOW TO OUTWIT THE GREAT AMERICAN
KILLER- HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE
From the best obtainable scientific information, V{e must
conclude that .high blood pressure is usually present in its
deadly form due to two causes: clogging of the kidneys and
tension of the mind. It is stated that high blood pressure
ranks next to heart disease as a cause of death in the United
States, the annual toll being 370,000 persons. By using the
lungs as kidneys we relieve at once the cause of kidney
clogging. By easing tension of the mind we tend to eliminate
the mental cause of high blood pressure.
The simple act of expelling the breath through the mouth
while walking is the first step of protection against this disease.
This relieves the clogging of the kidneys which is often
blamed for the presence of high blood pressure. For a period
of 20 to 30 minutes each day while walking form the habit of
exhaling the breath rather forcibly through the mouth in a
soft "sh" sound. If "sh - sh - sh" is made a daily habit, the
intelligence of the body will begin to direct the Bow of inner
gases and water toxins and wastes into the lungs for expulsion.
This procedure will save the kidneys from doing the work
of the lungs in addition to its own work. As a result watch
for an immediate lowering of high blood pressure. When
the lungs are not used as toxin eliminators, the kidneys must
perform this, essential task. Presently the kidneys are over-
worked and high blood pressure and other injuries are in-
dicated.
It is also advisable to sleep with the head of the bed
placed towards the west. The electric currents travel from
east to west.
To relieve brain tension it is suggested by one eminent
authority that the vowel "u" should be hummed for a brief
space each day until relief is obtained. Simply hum "you, you,
you, you, you" for a period never exceeding one minute daily.
12
12. HOW TO.PREVENT BALDNESS AND PROMOTE
THE GROWTH OF HAIR
Science points out if you place in a sugar solution a
strip of muscle from the heart of a turtle, the muscle soon
ceases to live. When such a muscle strip is placed in a salt
solution, the muscle continues to manifest life. Salt seems
to be an energizer for the glands and life processes of the
body. Here is the plan whereby I have restored a fairly
abundant crop of hair to my head after being without it for
a period of 10 years.
I placed into 2 quarts of boiling water 4 heaping table-
spoonfuls of ordinary white salt. This solution was allowed
to boil for 10 minutes. Then I let it cool off before bottling it.
Before retiring at night, I dipped my finger tips in a little
of this salt water and moved the scalp gently where baldness
existed. The rubbing movement of the scalp covered 15
minutes.
At the end of 6 weeks of nightly rubbings I was grati-
fied to find a crop of tiny new hair had presented itself.
While engaged in the scalp-massaging process with my right
hand I held a book or magazine in my left hand and read
from it. Thus I killed two birds with one stone. I grew new
hair with one hand as I fed my mind by reading from a
thought-provoking book held in the other. The rubbing
process should occupy 15 minute's daily for 12 months.
13. HOW TO BANISH THAT TIRED FEELING
There are four chief reasons for continuous tiredness and
ennui of body and mind. These reasons do not refer to tired-
ness which is the result of strenuous effort or hard work.
When the body is not held loosely erect, there is a tendency
to become fatigued. When more food is consumed than
the body needs for normal functioning, a condition of cell
poisoning is always present. This unhappy state fatigues the
13
brain, cells and nerves. When worry or uncertainty exists in
the mind, it causes a mental poison to form, which slowly
but surely injures the entire organism if not expelled by im-
proved thought processes. When no conscious breathing is
practiced, fatigue poisons gather in the system.
If you are easily tired or if your step is beginning to drag
while walking, repeat the following affirmation with dash
and emphasis 4 times slowly each day.
"I AM as RADIANT as the SUNLIGHT.
I AM as VIBRANT as LIFE.
The strength of the EARTH is MINE.
I WANT HEALTH.
I THINK HEALTH.
I BREATHE HEALTH.
I AM HEALTH.
HEALTH IS MINE, MINE, MINE."
Quite often, perhaps 5 days out of the week the cutting
down of the daily consumption of starches, fats and sugars
will promptly relieve that tired feeling.
14. HOW TO HELP LIFT AND TIGHTEN
DROPPED ORGANS
Lie Bat on your back on the floor or on a bed. Push out
your toes as far as possible, and at the same moment breathe
in 2 SHARP SNIFF BREATHS. Meanwhile push your arms
upward, dose to the floor or bed, as much as you can. Relax
your body as you exhale and rest 4 seconds before continuing
the exercise. The second phase of this tightening breath is
performed in identically the same manner save that the toes
are pulled inward
Perform 8 movements with your toes pointing outward
and a similar number with the toes pulled inward.
The result of this exercise is invaluable. Dropped organs
are often tightened into a natural position. Chronic constipa-
tion is often relieved. Rupture. is frequently aided or cor-
14
rected. Heart or s_tomach ailments resulting from an abnormal
lowering of the diaphragm are often ended. Practice the Inner
Tightening Breath daily until all the abdominal organs are
in their natural position. This may happen in a week or a
month, but persist in these daily 16 movements until victory
is assured.
15. HOW TO EXERCISE ALL THE ABDOMINAL
ORGANS GENTLY
Lie flat on your back with your feet resting easily on a
chair. Close tightly the left nostril with your index finger
and sniff in from 4 to 16 times through the right nostril,
then forcibly expel the retained breath through the right
nostril. Practice the same procedure by means of the com-
pression of the right nostril. The use of this exercise for 8
left and 8 right nostril movements each day will exercise
each abdominal organ most effectively.
This is a MUST exercise as the liver, spleen, pancreas
and kidneys are massaged during the process of this Inner
Exercise. Twice daily for 10 days and once a day thereafter
will be found most helpful for your abdominal organs.
In conjunction with this practice, proper posture should
be rigidly observed. Aim to get the back of your neck loose
and straight. This will help to pull up into proper place any
organ or inner part that may have slipped or sagged because
of faulty habits of bodily carriage or posture.
16. HOW TO RELIEVE FRONTAL
HEADACHES QUICKLY
Place the left palm on the back of the head. Place the
heel of the right hand on the forehead. With the heel of
the right hand firmly but gently massage the forehead region
until relief is obtained. During the period of massaging keep
the left palm over the back of your head as this center is
15
the posttlve electric pole of the body. The direction of the
massaging should be in reverse circles and reverse straight
lines. Usually within a minute or two the disappearance of
the most stubborn headache, including the migraine kind,
should have taken place.
17. A SAVORY LAXATIVE DINNER
FOR FOUR PERSONS
Into a roasting pan place 2 pounds of top round of beef-
steak. A thin cut is preferred. All fat should be trimmed off.
Chop up 3 large onions in tiny pieces and place on top of
the meat. Over the onions sprinkle half a cupful of finely
minced parsley. On the parsley place sections of about 6 white
or sweet potatoes sliced, enough to satisfy the probable hunger
of four persons. Sprinkle salt over all. No water is to be
added. Cover pan securely and roast in oven at 375• F. for
one and one-half hours. This is a dinner which men enjoy. It
is my favorite dinner at least once each week.
18. HOW TO RELAX AND OVERCOME WORRY
AND NERVOUS TENSION
It is now officially stated that 60 per cent of all those
who are ill in the United States are mentally ill. When
thoughts are not clear, thinking becomes a mental poison. The
person who fears cancer and dwells upon it is attracting
cancer or other diseases at that moment. Words are poison
when they suggest disease or failure. Words are thoughts in
action. First we think about sickness, then we express our
thoughts in words as we say "my neuritis," "my cold," "my
arthritis," "my headache."
Such a course of destructive thinking sows the seeds of
disease deeper and deeper into our body and mind. Presently
signs of the actual diseases manifest themselves in many in-
stances. Improper habits of eating is the first cause of all
16
the ailments of the human race. Wrong thinking and the
improper use of the mind may be considered the second
basic cause behind disease and failure.
When thoughts are depressing, distorted, worried, such a
type of thinking means inner tension, mental darkness, nervous
agitation, and probably a nervous breakdown in the offing.
All fear thoughts represent mental arsenic. We are actually
pouring dire poison into our blood and arteries as we allow
ourselves to practice destructive thinking.
When thoughts are tainted with jealousy, worry, anger
or envy, such mental concepts represent the pattern of future
mental and physical diseases. Surely one can find better use
for his time and mind than to use them in a manner spelling
future destruction of health, happiness, success and love. If
you must worry, try out my personal plan for outwitting that
pernicious habit.
When some condition presents itself that inclines me
toward fear or worry, I accept it as a passing experience. I
say to myself, "Several months ago I had a condi6on almost
similar and really I have forgotten all about it today." Thus
I prevent myself from concentrating fearfully on this present
condition that looms up harsh and high. Usually in a day
or two the cause of this particular worry has disappeared of
its own volition and is forgotten.
Here is a valuable metaphysical law I teach to my studen; ;
t
all over the United States, Canada and the Hawaiian Islands:
"WHAT You MENTALLY RESIST T ENDS TO ELIMINATE ITSELF"
If you are constrained to fear sickness, resist such an in-
clination and absorb yourself in the idea of health: If you
are apprehensive of failure, think and act in the consciousness
of success. These are practical, positive steps you can take
to further your health and prosperity. If you are fearful or
worried now, use logic and postponement to outwit any un-
happy state of mind. Leaders and great personalities never
17
reach their high places in life by habits of dark thinking. The
rungs of the ladder of health and achievement represent
lighted thoughts, such as courage, daring, incentive, unselfish-
ness, ambition, and confidence to walk alone.
Emotion, when uncontrolled, is Enemy Number Two of the
body. Wrong eating ranks Number One. Our hearts, stomachs
and glands are constantly being swayed by our thoughts. Our
nerves out of control may ruin our bodily health. All the
organs and glands of the body work in close cooperation.
Emotion makes you live against yourself.
An emotional, uncontrolled mind does not permit the
normal processes of the body to function. As we strive to quiet
our mind and control our emotions and nerves, we usually
find life more enjoyable. Also we are at peace with ourselves.
Uncontrolled emotion is almost hypnotic. It prevents us
from judging wisely. It may cause stammering and stuttering.
It is always inimical to sane living and personal happiness.
Problems diminish as thoughts are lifted and controlled.
Relaxation is an almost supernatural force. A relaxed mind
and body favors freedom from tension, high blood pressure,
anger and nervousness. Relaxation of mind and body also is
conducive to mental alertness, quickness of action, avoidance of
accidents, sound sleep and freedom from unpleasant dreams.
Here is my plan of relaxing both body and mind. Thou-
sands of students report marvelous benefits accruing from
their occasional use of the following exercises:
Relaxation Exercise No. 1.-Sit quietly, chin on breast,
finger tips touching or with hands clasped. As you lift your
chin slowly, whisper the word "Rest" ; as you slowly lower
the chin back on the breast, again whisper "Rest." With the
chin resting on the breast but with a straight back, save the
neck, blow out the breath slowly 4 times or more, holding
the thought that you anticipate yawning. Follow the same
procedure using the words "Quietness, poise and peace." Four
18
words in all. Always blow out the breath after lowering of
the chin on breast. Sometimes you may have to blow out the
breath through the mouth for 6 or 8 times before the desire
to yawn is induced.
Relaxation Exercise No. 2.-Sit quietly, chin squared to
front. Clasp your hands behind the head and say in a clear,
monotonous tone. "I am tranquillity." Clasp your hands in
front of your breast and affirm "Freedom." let your hands
drop loosely to the sides, then affirm "Poise." Drop your head
forward loosely, chin on breast, as you affirm the word "Peace."
Repeat 4 times or more. Eyes should be closed during exercise.
Relaxation Exercise No. 3.-While standing in a relaxed
way, chin on breast, walk slowly about your room breathing
in this manner. Breathe in 1 sniff breath on the first step.
Breathe 2 short sniff breaths on the second step. Breathe
out through the nose on the third step. As you breathe in,
lift up the head and say in breath, "Breathing In"; as you
lower the head while exhaling say in breath, "Peace." Practice
this movement before retiring for sounder sleep.
Relaxation Exercise No. 4.-The Yawning Breath is a
positive step toward absolute relaxation of body and nerves.
Sit down on a chair with your chin on your breast. As you
slowly move the chin upward and backward, allow the lower
jaw to sag open. As you slowly lower the chin on your breast,
inhale through the mouth and exhale forcibly. Do this 3 times
until you reach the yawning state. Also feel that your entire
physical and mental being are becoming free and relaxed.
This entire process should be repeated 4 times twice each day
until perfect relaxation of body and mind are assured.
19. HOW TO RESTORE YOUTHFUL CONTOUR
TO THE NECK
The face and form may be changed for the better by
improved habits of eating, thinking, breathing and posture.
19
Age does not cling to us -we cling to it. Unhappy thoughts
age our face and neck. The neck tends to shrink as we grow
older. This causes crepiness of skin and aged-appearing neck.
When our neck is old in appearance, we lose personal charm,
glamor and personality. Faithfully follow these instructions
for 40 days and I am almost certain the results will be found
thrilling, especially if your neck exhibits any signs of flabbi-
ness or ageing.
Provide a pan of cold water - not iced. Remove upper
garments and place both hands in the basin of water. Now
tilt back your chin and place the back of your hands on the
front part of the neck. Now pull backward the skin of the
neck until the fingers of both hands meet on the back of
the neck. Grasp firmly the loosened flesh with the idea that
it is dissolving between finger tips of left hand. Remember,
the drawing process is done with the back of the hands.
For a complete movement of this beauty exercise the time
should not exceed 20 seconds. During the drawing back and
the dissolving movement the chin should always be tilted
backward so as to further tighten the skin of the neck. In
all, 16 such movements should be taken nightly before retiring.
The whole time should not exceed 3 minutes for the complete
16 movements.
Another exercise to help remove signs of age from
neck is to lift your chin upward and backward to the left
side, front and right side. As you perform this beauty aid
hold in your mind the idea that the normal muscle tightness
of youth is being established in your neck region. Perform
this three-movement exercise 20 times daily for neck improve-
ment results.
Only to man was a face given, and that face should be
kept beautiful or serene by its owner whether he or she be
18 or 80.
20
The first actual castle ever built was a thought castle be-
fore its erection. Concentrate your thought on the idea of
beauty of countenance and grace of body. As we think, so
will our face and form follow suit. Use this beauty affirma-
tion 4 times every day. "I am making my body perfect in
beauty." The expression of your face is the quality of the
consciousness of your mind.
20. HOW TO MAKE THE HANDS YOUNGER
IN APPEARANCE
Situated in the base of the brain is the life gland - the
PITUITARY. The intelligence pervading that miracle gland
seems to control every physical and mental activity of the
entire organism of a person. To use this pituitary power to
improve the appearance of the bands and renew the skin,
proceed as follows:
Gently clasp both bands in front of the body, at the same
time holding the thought that the pituitary force is sending
its renewing energy into both of your hands. Now drop both
hands by your sides with fingers extended. Presently you will
notice an increased blood or energy supply flowing into the
tips of your fingers. Soon a tingling sensation will take place
and thus you will know that you have performed the exercise
correctly. Two minutes twice a day should be given to the
performance of this hand-beautifying technique.
Before the great Thomas A. Edison passed away, he ob-
served in a newspaper interview, "We do not know a millionth
about anything." Let us all keep on the line of discovery.
21. HOW TO HAVE A CLEAR, HEALTHY
COMPLEXION
Millions of high school students and young men and
women throughout the_United States are poor advertisements
of themselves. They have blotchy or pimply faces. Newspaper
21
advertisements refer to pimples as being of the "adolescent"
kind. Really, there is no such thing as adolescent pimples.
Pimples appear on the.faces of the old as well as the very
young. Pimples are generally merely the sign of faulty eating.
If you have any pimples, conscientiously adhere to the use of
any or all of the following 16 foods for a period of 2 weeks
and, unless the pimples are due to an organic disease, you will
find them greatly lessened or entirely gone.
No OTHER FooD oR DRINK Is TO BE CoNsUMED
FoR THE Two WEEKs' TRIAL PERIOD
Eat only raw apples, baked apples, steamed broccol~
sliced tomatoes, celery, vegetabfe bouillon soup (recipe
in "HEALTHFUL EATING"), boiled entire whole
wheat, honey for sweetening, raisins, pears (fresh or
baked) , skins of baked potatoes, steamed carrots, raw
garden peas, raw watercress, well-cooked lean meat,
steamed or raw cauliflower, figs or prunes (fresh or
dried). Use salt for seasoning soup and vegetables.
It will not be difficult to live for 2 weeks this healthful
eating way. During this period expose your body to the sun-
light as frequently as possible. Sun tan your face also. If sun
is not shining, expose your body to the air. Air bathing is
akin to sun bathing.
Do not think of food limitation during this cleansing
period. Anticipate gleefully the excellent results that are in
store for you. Be glad you have found such an easy plan of
ridding your face of disfiguring pimples or other skin troubles.
Self-discipline is a sign of greatness of personality. All good
things are hard and what we get without training or self-
discipline will never prove of much value in times of stress.
The mental way to improve the appearance of the face is
to establish inner serenity. The face may be changed for the
better by adopting the inner consciousness of perfect harmony.
As we become more unselfish, less critical, more gracious in
22
oui manner, such mental improvements will presently reflect
a beautiful radiance in our countenance. When the face is
lighted and serene, it becomes ageless. The slightest mental
improvement causes a pleasing change to take place in the
lines of our face.
Watch your thoughts, aim for a serene, poised, gracious
inner life. Beauty culture is intended for men as well as
women. Nagging habits and negative thoughts can produce
ugliness of features. Mind and muscle are more closely related
than we imagine. Every true action, every right thought,
leaves an impress on our face and person, and that impress is
related only to beauty.
22. HOW TO STAY YOUNG
In the full flush of youth we are inclined to dissipate our
energies through debilitating practices. Later will begin the
reaction to this youth-dissipating form of living. Our sins of
immaturity catch up with us and our bodies begin to reflect
signs of age. As we are reckless and spendthrift in our ways
of living in youth, nature will make us pay dearly later on
for our recklessness or ignorance.
Loss of health, loss of hair, loss·of teeth, loss of eyesight,
are all symbols of faulty habits of living. It is squarely up
to us whether we will alter our habits to prevent further age-
ing and formulate a set of habits ensuring a longer span of
years filled with youthful promise of dynamic health, strength,
happiness and vigor.
Here Are the 16 Principles of Everlasting Youth
Adopt an erect carriage, never toe out while walking -
Refrain from old ways or living in the past - Refuse men-
tally to be old in body or mind- Wear youthful clothes ir-
respective of age - Read modern, up-to-date books - Prac-
tice moderation in eating and drinking - Practice vitalic
23
breathing while walking or climbing - Keep out of ruts -
Be ready at all times to change or adventure - Honor your
body by keeping your weight normal - Learn to enjoy lectures
on up-to-date subjects - Have at least one active hobby -
Ever express and live in the consciousness of youth - Do not
save old letters or old newspaper clippings.
23. HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR POSTURE SPEEDILY
Stand with your back pressed against a wall. Aim to have
the tip of your nose, the extension of your chest and the tip
of your toes in one straight line. Pull in the stomach region
if it protrudes. Force out the chest if it is flat or receding.
This causes a strain on your muscles and ligaments if your
body has not been accustomed to a gallant posture. Persevere,
however, and soon a more dynamic posture will be developed.
As you daily train your body into this correct pattern of
posture, walk about for a minute or two with arms held to
the sides. While holding this rigid posture pattern, visualize
that soon an erect, youthful posture will be habitually estab-
lished. Gradually train yourself in posture improvement un-
til your body expresses ease, flexibility and relaxation at all
times. Practice in the right direction always insures ultimate
perfection.
24. HOW TO HELP AVOID AN UNPLEASANT
BREATH
The tongue is really an outlet for toxic poisons. When
the tongue is allowed to retain its coating, an unpleasant
breath may result. It is important to wash the teeth with
powder twice a day. It is equally desirable to brush the sur-
face of the tongue twice daily. In brushing the teeth a hard
. bristle brush is best unless your gums are very sensitive. A
softer bristle brush should be used for tongue cleansing. The
tongue should be swept gently and outwardly in the cleansing
24
process. I use a small amount of tooth powder in the cleansing
of my tongue twice a day.
Always be alert to preserve your teeth. Ever is prevention
superior to cure. At the first sign of tooth decay or pain seek
the services of your dentist. Good teeth are pearls of great
price. The longer you postpone necessary dental care, the more
costly will be the ultimate price you will have to pay.
Expose the interior of the mouth each day to air or sun-
light. A healthy mouth, a pleasant breath and nice teeth are
all marks of personal care and appreciation of beauty.
25. A FAMOUS SECRET OF THE MAURI PEOPLE
FOR PREVENTING DISEASE AND
MAINTAINING HEALTH
When the Mauri children are about six years of age, they
are brought before the Noble or Leader of their tribes and
informed that disease has its origin in improper habits of eat-
ing. They are also instructed to prevent disease by the use of
cabbage water. At the first sign of pain they are told to cut
a head of cabbage in several pieces and boil it in water (or
about 30 minutes, and then to drink the water which is rich
in minerals extracted from the water in the boiling process.
These wise Mauri people who live in New Zealand are re-
markably free from disease because of the knowledge that
wrong food causes disease. They are not subject to consti-
pation, varicose veins or rheumatism - troubles which are so
prevalent among the people of the United States. Possibly
the use of more cabbage and cabbage water is all we need to
build a healthier nation.
26. HOW TO STRENGTHEN THE SPINE
Stand loosely erect, arms extended at sides, back of the
hands outward with thumbs facing forward. Smartly jerk the
hands around until the palms face outward with little fingers
25
pointing to the front. Breathe 2 sniff breaths in and 1 sniff
breath out through the nose while performing this exercise.
Eight movements daily are sufficient. The 2 inhalations of
breath should take place while the hands are being jerked
to position of palms facing outward. The exhalations should
be carried out as hands are restored to original position, with
back of hands facing outward.
27. HOW TO DEVELOP POISE AND GRACEFUL
CARRIAGE WHILE WALKING
Always endeavor to carry your body proudly erect. In walk-
ing do not lift the feet, simply push your foot lithely forward.
Come down on your heel and step off from your toe. Swing
your arms from the shoulder region. Never from the elbows.
Strive to keep your neck as straight as a barber's pole. Push
back your neck until you can feel it touching your coat collar.
Keep the chin square to the front.
Avoid toeing out. Toes should always be pointed toward
the front., Breast should be gently lifted, but all breathing
should emanate from the diaphragmatic region. Walk rather
rapidly at all times. In wet weather or when the sidewalks
are slippery, take short steps to avoid falling and possible
serious injury. In walking over sandy or rough ground, take
short steps and bend your knees slightly.
Study vitalic and cosmic breathing and use these natural
forms of breathing whenever you walk, run or exercise. Knees
should not be bent while walking. Knees should be bent while
climbing hills or stairs and when running. Learn to walk
gracefully as a preventive of old age.
28. HOW TO VITALIZE DRINKING WATER
Different colors throw off varying vibrations of energy.
This is a proved scientific fact. Green throws off the odic ray
which is two reverse circles and two reverse straight lines.
26
That is the reason I advise my students to use green drinking
glasses so as to impregnate the water or liquids therein with
the mysterious odic ray which issues from leaves, grass and
the color green.
From the eyes, finger tips and nostrils issue a stream of
vital forces supposed to be thrown off by the pituitary gland.
The actuality of these emanations is admitted by accredited
scientists. If you desire to impregnate water with these vital
forces proceed as follows.
Place the bunched fingers of both hands about one inch
above the water in glass or cup and hold fingers in that position
from 2 to 4 minutes. It is essential that the arms are extended
downward full length during the charging process. The ener-
gies from the pituitary gland seek the shortest path to the
earth and will leave through the elbows if the hands are not
held downward.
After the water is successfully charged with the pituitary
energy, it is no longer plain water; it is far more, it is water
plus the dynamic energy injected into it during the charging
process from the finger tips.
I am sure you will greatly benefit in health from the daily
drinking of a glassful of this energized water. It costs nothing
to prepare save the time involved. It is especially beneficial
for children. Milk or any other beverage may be profitably
energized in this finger manner. Always be watchful the
fingers never contact the liquid in glass or cup.
29. HOW TO RECOGNIZE SIGNS OF REACTION
TO OVEREATING OR TOXICITY OF THE BODY
Nearly all bodily discord is caused by eating more food
than your body requires. The usual signs of overeating are
slow-healing sores, frequent yawning, desire for sleep during
the day, desire to walk slowly, backache, colds, diseased ton-
27
sils, heavily coated tongue, phlegm in the throat, a husky
voice, dandruff, a lessening of the power of vision or hearing.
Plan that all your daily activities are connected with the
principles of health. Many school children are made ill by
school luncheons and hasty consumption of food during the
too brief luncheon period. Schools never teach true healthful
living. That is the reason 80 per cent of the American people
live to suffer.
30. THE SPIRITUAL WAY TO BANISH PAIN
AND SICKNESS
When sickness is present, it is a reflection on the intelli-
gence of the person who is ill. Sickness is never natural, it
is something produced by violating the principle of health.
When you are well you should not take health for granted.
The preservation of health depends on the perfection of our
daily habits. Health habits alone ensure health always. Never
rely entirely on anything else for the maintenance of good
health. If you rely on any force outside of excellent habits
to keep you well you are destined to attract sickness.
We have conquered no diseases, we have simply changed
their names. After middle age our chances of reaching an
extended span of life are no greater than they were seventy-
five years ago. It is only in childhood that we have advanced
the span of years. Unless we train our children to "train for
health" 80 per cent of our people will continue to express
life in a low grade of health.
Disease is the most unnecessary thing in life. It is not
created by nature but by man. As we locate and correct our
disease-making habits, we become aligned to the principle of
health. There are but four faulty habits to correct: improper
eating; incorrect habits of using the lungs and diaphragm; un-
controlled, slouchy posture; low mental action. As we reform
these four fundamental habits of life expression, we move
28
into the beam of health and youth always. Before disease
presents itself it is always preceded by wilful or ignorant use
of the mind or body by dishonoring habits. Disease is rarely
present in any other way. If you decide you want to enjoy a
long and fruitful life, it cannot be won by hoping but is en-
sured by the daily practice of worthy habits.
If you are ill DESIRE health with all the intensity of your
being. Desire will not restore your health but it will gradually
lead you to the invisible BEAM of health. As you get on this
cosmic health beam, you will finally be shown how to gain
and maintain health the fourfold way: through proper eating,
breathing, motion and thinking.
Life is neutral. It ever stands ready to give you what you
have the faith and vision to demand and deserve. The channel
to the source of healing is never closed entirely. It is never
too late to open it wide to the inflow of healing power that
is ever present to serve us and heal us by day or by night.
When we know and practice the four principles of reality of
existence, disease of mind or body is shut out. These funda-
mental principles are Healthful Eating, Scientific Breathing,
Body Mechanics, Higher Mental Action.
Health of body and mind can only be maintained by dis-
cipline in the principles of health. There is no easy path to
health. It is not like running easily down a hill. Health is
always an ascension, a daily disciplined climb. Almost all
those who do what they want are destined to be ill. Those who
seek to learn to do what is right are alone privileged to enjoy
the blessing of health always.
Here is my principle for the ending of pain and the heal-
ing of disease. However, with it I advance this note of warn-
ing. Life is subject to all the laws of the universe. My spiritual
plan of healing is subject to health laws. All types of spiritual
or mental healing have little assurance of permanency. Perma-
29
nent, constant health of body must be earned by daily habits
that ensure 5uch a glorious type of healthful living. There-
fore, depend on wise habits of living to maintain good health.
Only in time of emergency use the spiritual plan for over-
coming disease. If you are seriously ill, tum to God for re-
lief. By all means secure the services and advice of a wise
doctor also.
Here is the healing word I have formulated and used with
marvelous success.
"Goo Is MY HEALTH - THE HEALTH oF Goo Is MINE."
As you affirm "GOD IS MY HEALTH," lift your head
upward and backward. When you complete this affirmation,
your chin should be lifted high and your head should be well
back. As you lower your chin onto your breast, speak the
' second half of your affirmation, "THE HEALTH OF GOD
IS MINE."
Practice these head movements and affirmations from 4 to
16 times. During the progress of this healing exercise imbue
your thought and word with the spirit of deep faith and posi-
tive expectancy that "SO SHALL IT BE."
We breathe in air to keep us alive. When we speak the
healing word, "GOD IS MY HEALTH - THE HEALTH
OF GOD IS MINE," we should speak that word in the spirit
of deep and trustful conviction that the POWER behind that
word is able to heal us to the uttermost. As we learn to use
air scientifically, we get many additional benefits from the
function of breath. As we speak the word in the healing
spirit of trust, anticipation and faith, we draw to us beneficent
power. Unless we put LIFE into our word by the spirit of
conviction and absolute belief, our word is the word of hoping
but not the word of BELIEVING.
The principle factor in healing is to plan to STAY WELL
after you receive your healing. The maintenance of health is
30
purely a personal matter. You cannot get something for noth-
ing, therefore you must value perfect health and pay the full
price in knowledge, effort and discipline, which entitles you
to possess and enjoy health always. ·
Whenever you affirm for health, healing, security or pro-
tection, never dwell mentally upon results. Concentrate solely
upon your words. Then give thanks as your heart really feels
"So shall it be." Remember iii speaking the healing word
speak not with your voice but with the voice of SPIRIT. Heal-
ing takes place more speedily as you relax and become quiet.
In speaking the word you increase its power to heal as you
increase your faith in God's healing power.
Physical health potentiality is always in us. When we are
ill, it means that the potentiality for expressing health is
covered by excess food, negative thought, inner toxins or strain
from improper posture. As we change our habits, these en-
cumbrances are removed and health rises again into expres-
sion. When the word of SPIRITUAL HEALTH is spoken it
helps to clear away most speedily all these encumbrances to
physical health. Without any change of habits the healing
word has power to heal. However, this healing is rarely the
permanent kind as the full law of healing has not been
observed.
Before disease there is health. Wholeness or HOLINESS
is God's intention for all. Due to the ignorance and wilful-
ness of man, disease has been created. When you speak the
healing word let it be with confidence in the power of THE
INFINITE. As the one who is ill moves from the conscious-
ness of doubt into the attitude of full expectancy, the healing
is assured.
31
