{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1943__robinson___through_war_to_god.pdf","mytitle":"Through War To God","mylang":"de"}
By FRANK B. ROBINSON
THROUGH WAR
TO GOD
by
Frank B. Robinson
Published by “ Psychiana,” Inc., Moscow, Ida., U .S .A .
COPYRIGHT, 1943, PSYCHIANA, INC.
Printed in the United States of America, on the
Presses of the Metropolitan Press, Portland, Ore.
ENSIGN ALFRED BRUCE ROBINSON, U.S.N.
Book I
CHAPTER 1
THE irony of this war lies in the fact that it is absolutely
unnecessary. Unnecessary, and useless. For it will settle
nothing. Like the last war, and wars of the past, Utopia
will not be brought to mankind through this, or any other
war. Permanent peace, freedom from want, fear, distress,
cannot be brought to this earth through the sword, regard­
less of who wields the sword.
In war, there is usually the aggressor and the victim. The
aggressor gathers together the greatest aggregation of in­
struments of death possible, and the victim does likewise.
Attacker and attacked wrestle against each other until one
or the other, or both, are completely exhausted. Or, one
side gives in, bowing before the superior physical might of
the other.
But it is all so unnecessary.
If it were possible for perfect peace, plenty, joy, happi­
ness, freedom from want, fear, poverty, etc., to be perma­
nently brought to a war-weary earth, there might be some
justification for one great, big, world-war in which mili­
taristic powers might be brought down to permanent im-
potency.
But that has never been done. War has never brought
the ideals of man any closer. There is no reason to believe
it will do that now. To the contrary, there is every reason
to believe that when the Axis is completely eliminated, if
that happens, the human race will embark upon another era
of one political intrigue after another.
8 Through War to God
Jealousy, selfishness, fear—these and many other frailities
of men and nations will inevitably lead to either a renewal
of the conflict, or another conflict. The axiom, “ They who
take the sword shall perish by the sword,” does not guar­
antee that when they have perished the remaining nations
will live together in peace and harmony.
They never have. There is little reason to believe they will
after this world catastrophe. The instincts in man will be
the same after this war as they were after the last world
war. Nothing has yet happened to change human nature.
Until something does happen to bring about a change, wars
will continue.
Wars are hatched out in the minds of a very few individ­
uals. The masses, in arms, follow. But it is usually just a
handful of men, leaders of their respective nations, who
make and order wars. This has been so as far back as we
have history. It is true today. It will be true tomorrow,
unless some revolutionary change is brought to pass in man.
His aims, his ambitions, his natural impulses will have to
be elevated to a much higher plane than the one on which
they now exist.
To attempt to legislate human actions—to attempt to
make a selfish man, or nation, good, clean, pure, unselfish,
moral, by legislation or agreement is to attempt the impos­
sible. The change will come from within if it comes at all.
It cannot be forced in from without.
The Vice-President of the United States realized this
when he made a recent utterance that unless the nations fol­
lowed a certain path, they were sowing the seeds of an­
other world war, even before this one is won. That man is
very far-sighted. He is entitled to the admiration of every
thinker.
Not long ago Mr. Churchill told the House of Commons
that he was not Prime Minister of Great Britain to pre­
side at the dismemberment of the British Empire. Later,
he made a similar statement that the British Empire and
Through War to God 9
its colonies would have to remain intact after the war.
These statements may be harmless enough in themselves,
but they show the way the wind is blowing.
The United States is seeking an agreement with Great
Britain even now regarding the distribution of American
air bases after the war. Russia says that if Great Britain
and America want to sit round the peace table which will
divide up Germany, they had better get to Berlin before
she does. She has publicly announced her intentions to
take over Poland.
So we can see how the wind blows. We should not forget
however that the war is not yet won. The Japs are still in
the Aleutians. Billy Mitchell, the martyr, who was later
exonerated and decorated, made the statement that which­
ever nation occupied Alaska and the Aleutians would control
the destiny of the world.
The Japs are still in the Aleutians. Perhaps it would be
better to concentrate on the winning of the war than to
plan how the spoils are to be divided. The old Scotch poet
said, truthfully, “ The best laid plans of mice and men gang
aft aglee.”
What the Vice-President meant was that as long as the
seeds of distrust of each other, and perhaps fear of each
other exist even among the Allies, the seeds of another
war already exist. Secretary Knox recently said that the
United States intends to build and keep a navy big enough
to control all the seas. Will Great Britain stand for that?
These war-seeds cannot be eliminated by choice, legisla­
tion, agreement, or parley. They can only be eliminated
when human nature undergoes a drastic and radical change
of complexion. This change of complexion can only come
when something higher than wars, and rumors of wars,
enters into the mind of man. Perhaps some would prefer
to have me say the “ soul” or the “ conscience” of man. Very
well—you name it.
If there does not come to the human race an objective
10 Through War to God
much higher than the objective of personal power and ag­
grandisement, war will continue. There will be nothing to
take its place. One nation will reach the zenith of its power
and another nation, or nations, will come along and dispute
for that power. As long as there is inequality of men and
nations, wars will continue to come.
As long as the ideals of man are concerned only with man
as he exists now, the horizon for the “four freedoms” is
dark. War, I repeat, even successful war, if such a thing
can be, never can bring freedom of any sort. It only brings
sorrows, heartaches, tears in its wake. It can never be
right. It can never be successful. It can never liberate the
human race from its lack of knowledge of how wars really
can be controlled.
That way is not by fighting them, but by eliminating the
cause of them. The cause of war, as Vice-President Wallace
so truly said, still exists in the Allied nations. Yet these
are the nations which are fighting to bring peace, joy, hap­
piness and the “four freedoms” to humanity. If and when
the Allied Nations eliminate the war-seeds, there might be
hope of Utopia coming to this earth. But war-seeds can
only be eliminated in the hearts and minds of men. No
national leader can do that.
It must be a process of enlightenment which, as it comes,
will show mankind the utter folly of attempting to bring
peace to earth by the war method. Theologians tell us man
fell as a result of war-seeds in heaven among the angels.
Even there, in that supine abode of supposedly eternal
bliss, one of the angels disputed with God and tried to de­
throne Him from off His dazzling pedestal. Then, we are
told, there was war in heaven. That started hell a-popping.
If there was war in heaven among God and the angels
and the Devil, darn his hide, we may have to require a
higher concept of spiritual and moral values up there as
well as down here. If the seeds of war were planted in
Through War to God 11
heaven, among God and the angels, there can be little won­
der that they exist on the earth.
* * ❖
What war brings in its wake is too high a price to pay
for what material possessions nations may secure. National
leaders may plunge their nations into war, but national
leaders cannot eliminate the sufferings which war brings in
its wake. They cannot bind the wounds nor can they heal
the broken hearts and bodies of those who, while not hav­
ing a word to say about war, patriotically gave their young
lives in order that their way of life might be made secure.
No civilization which can justify even the slaying of one
young life has yet been brought to this earth even though
human history to date is a cruel record of one bloody strife
after another. Writ in our country’s reddest blood are the
cruel records of the struggles and sufferings of patriotism
while striving to give birth to a new nation. Hallowed by
age and sacred memories are the nightmare tales of Valley
Forge, when despair in vain sat brooding o’er the smolder­
ing fires of hope, and the long dark night of disappointment
settled like a pall o’er the sons of liberty.
When the long, dark night was over and the morn of lib­
erty’s day began to break, Tom Paine, an infidel, brought
hope and cheer in his book, “ The Crisis,” whose opening
words, “ These are the times that try men’s souls,” are
known to every school boy. When the gleams of peace
struggled over the dark horizon, our forefathers gathered
together to formulate a plan of government. They gave us,
after nights of tireless effort, our far-famed Constitution
as it came from the hand of Gouvernor Morris.
From this sacred document they omitted all reference to a
God. This was their greatest mistake. Their intent was
good, for by leaving reference to a God out of our famed
Constitution, they decreed that religion and State should
be forever separate, each being given the right to worship
God according to the dictates of his or her own conscience.
12 Through War to God
’Twas a noble deed. ’Twas a far-sighted act. For little
was known of God then. Less is known now. One hundred
and fifty years later we see this beloved land of ours resting
in the lap of the gods. Once more we are fighting to pre­
serve the independence which we won at so great a cost
from a nation which is now one of our Allies.
Valley Forge was the result of the greedy, grabbing Eng­
lish, yet out of it came our Constitution. Out of the present
war may come something far greater than our Constitution,
great as this God-inspired document is. It is not at all un­
likely that as a result of the inhumanity of the present
ghastly spectacle with all its misery, horror, death, and
suffering, there may come the greatest spiritual discovery
of all—how the seeds of war may be completely eliminated
from the thoughts of men and women, and nations.
If that should be, gruesome as the price we are paying,
the end will justify the means. But that day cannot come
by argument, agreement, leagues of nations, or political ex­
pediencies. It cannot come until some new light comes to
man. Man will not originate that light. Some man, how­
ever, will call the attention of the entire world to the Light
which can completely eradicate the war-seeds from the hu­
man race. That Light is already shining. But man cannot
see It.
The reason man cannot see It is because he is wrapped
up and completely covered by a mantle of materialism which
completely blacks out the Light which, could man but see
it, can make war so very unnecessary.
War is black. War is hellish, even though it did originate
in heaven among the angels. It is the result of a mental
darkness which is greater throughout the world today than
ever before. Humanity’s night is black, indeed. The imme­
diate future is blacker. And regardless of which side wins
in this brutal, insane conflict this gross mental darkness will
continue until some man, inspired by a God-given under­
standing, penetrates that darkness and allows the Light
Through War to God 13
which is even now shining, to penetrate into the very heart
of that darkness.
For it is Light— Spiritual Light, which can wipe away
the crime of war and eliminate the war-seeds. Not con­
ference. Not pow-wow. Not schemes or plans no matter
how honest in intent they may be. For as long as these
seeds of war exist in human lives—as long as hate, fear,
jealousy, exist in men and nations, the war-seeds exist.
They are not to be legislated away.
Darkness cannot be shovelled out of a room. You turn
on the light and the darkness disappears. So it must be in
the mental and spiritual darkness that is so thick that no
nation can see its way out. It is true that the United States
will be the land which will bring knowledge of Light which
shines to all humanity, but not in the way our leaders plan.
Darkness is darkness and light is light. The weapons of
darkness cannot bring in the Light. Someone will throw the
switch and the Light will automatically dispel the dark­
ness, not because of human plan, but because it is Light.
Darkness cannot exist with light. Nor can light exist
with darkness. Either of the two must go. They cannot
exist together. No one in his right mind would say that we
here in America possess the Light which can dispel the
darkness of the world. Had we possessed such a Light we
should not now be in the deepest mental and spiritual dark­
ness we have ever been in.
Had we possessed the Light which can eliminate the war-
seeds, we should have used that Light here at home. We
should have brought peace, plenty, freedom from fear, free­
dom from want and a good many other freedoms to our
own beloved land first. Then war would not have been nec­
essary. Others, seeing the Light we possessed, would gladly
have followed that Light, and we should have been glad to
have them.
They could have learned the source of the many freedoms
which we possess here and used that same source to bring
14 Through War to God
to their respective lands, the complete freedom we enjoyed
here— did we but enjoy it.
Had we discovered the Light which is shining, we should
have known how to eliminate world maurauders like Hit­
ler, Tojo, and the Italian dictator, and we should not have
been compelled to lower ourselves to descend to using the
same instruments of death and destruction which they are
using. We should not have been compelled to use the weap­
ons of darkness to eliminate that darkness.
You cannot make light from two darknesses. It is hope­
lessly impossible, therefore, to expect the True Light to
shine on this earth as a result of a struggle between two
forces, both of which are using the same instruments of
darkness to secure their respective freedoms. The instru­
ments of death which both sides are using are implements
of destruction. They are implements of darkness. They
can produce no light.
Regardless of the aims and ambitions of the Allied Na­
tions, and we all wholeheartedly agree those aims are of
the very highest and most benevolent type, the method by
which they are attempting to bring freedom to the human
race is the method adopted by the opposite forces of evil
and destruction.
We use tanks, submarines, bombs, flame-throwers, etc.,
and Hitler uses the same instruments of destruction. Japan,
too. In fact, we supplied her with a great deal of the im­
plements of war which are, at this moment, snuffing out
the lives of tens of thousands of our beloved sons in the
hell-holes of Bataan and Guadalcanal.
Rather an inconsistent and ludicrous picture certainly.
We are going to bring freedom, with great mental and spir­
itual uplift to the world. Yet we are attempting to do
that with weapons of destruction. That cannot be.
Mental progress, spiritual progress, the four freedoms,
just cannot be brought to humanity with the instruments
of destruction which we are now using. When the Light
Through War to God 15
dawns, there will be no compromise with darkness. It will
spring into being under its own might. It will eliminate the
darkness because It is Light. But we do not possess that
Light, nor do we know anything about it. If we did,
should we be using the very weapons darkness uses to
bring Light? That would be like trying to neutralize an
acid by pouring more acid on it, instead of using an alkali.
Our American way of life is the grandest and finest in
the world. Our freedom is greater than that enjoyed by
other nations. Yet, one would not say that here in America
we had attained a perfect state of life by any manner of
means. Things were so ruffled here before war broke out
that I have heard many say that a revolution was in the
making.
But at that, we do enjoy the greatest amount of freedom
known to the human race. And yet, when mad-men at­
tempt to wrestle that freedom from us, we know of no
method with which to oppose them except the very same
methods these aggressors are using.
In other words, with our wonderful freedoms, we have
not yet learned how the inferior forces of darkness can be
eliminated by allowing the beams of Light to shine upon
them. While fighting to free humanity from the heel of the
oppressor, we know of no better method to do this than to
use the death-dealing instruments of destruction he uses.
The dictator nations are attempting to subdue the world by
brute force. We, who love freedom, and are attempting to
bring freedom to those under the heel of the oppressor,
know of no better way to liberate those nations and protect
ourselves. So we use the same methods they use. We
copy, and use, the methods of darkness to bring Light. It
cannot work.
CHAPTER 2
IT BECOMES evident, then, that there is something lack­
ing in our philosophy and ideas of world-peace and secur­
ity. The picture we hold is not well rounded out. We have
missed the Light. It goes without saying that any civiliza­
tion any nation can produce can attain no greater heights
than the level of spiritual and mental consciousness held by
the common people of that nation. For a nation is only a
lot of individuals living together in the same land.
That nation really is every one of those individuals. We
must, therefore, when evaluating any nation, do so on the
ground of the mental and spiritual achievements of that
people. What they say may be one thing but what they are
can be something else.
Granting that there is no higher type of civilization than
our American civilization, the fact still remains that there
is something missing from the picture. We are not complete
in our happy way of life. There is no sense of permanent
security, nor is there an absence of things which most as­
suredly are fundamentally wrong. These things, which
could not exist in any nation which had seen the Light,
will, if allowed to exist unmolested, destroy even the finest
civilization. Yet all these things do exist right here in our
land of the free and the home of the brave.
There is the crime of our land. There is the saloon,
which, in spite of all arguments for and against, sells a
poison to American people. There is the problem of strikes,
absenteeism, poverty, immorality, and there’s a lot of that
Through War to God 17
in our fair land. Our prisons are full, and so are our insane
asylums. Our poor-houses are filled to overflowing. Ve-
neral disease never was as prevalent as it is now, and our
morality was never lower.
We have been somewhat inflated during the past few
years by promises of Utopia, etc. But these promises have
failed to materialize. We have been asked to tread new
paths, and we have trodden them. But we have found those
paths not quite as safe as the more simple paths which our
forefathers planned for us in the “horse-and-buggy” days
of the founding of our Constitution.
We find ourselves nationally head over heels in debt and
getting farther into debt with each passing hour. What, at
first glance, appeared to be good economic advances have
now turned into swords placed against the throat of free
Americanism. Labor groups, led by irresponsible leaders,
even at this writing, think so little of our struggle for
existence that they do not hesitate to shut down a war fac­
tory.
Business enterprises are forced to deal with labor groups,
even though such dealing saps the very life out of our Con­
stitution, and relegates it to the past. Political wrong­
doing and patronage is at an all-time high, and what will
be the end of it all no one knows. I have heard it said that
the only safeguard against a full dictatorship is the present
Congress of the United States. I trust it is.
Without going into detail, we’ll admit, I believe, that
while we are fighting to protect our land and those we love,
we still are a long way from perfection. There still remains
a gap to be filled. We may have seen a small part of the
Light, but not enough to enable us to straighten out our own
muddled tangles, or to establish complete happiness, joy,
peace in our land. It still is a long way from what we
would have it be.
Like our enemies, we, too, believe that the power of the
sword is mightier than any other known power. So we
18 Through War to God
strive to out-produce our enemies in the manufacture of the
instruments of destruction, believing that if we do that,
we are their masters. We can subdue them and wipe them
from the face of the earth.
* ❖ *
If, then, we believe the power of brute force is the great­
est power known to man, our mental and spiritual picture
must needs be incomplete. There must be another Power,
and a higher Power, somewhere. If there is not, and the
whole scheme of civilization is haphazard, then by all means
let us go right ahead and slaughter our enemies by the most
brutal methods we can conceive.
Let us torture them, let us poison them, let us butcher
them with an even more fanatical zeal than they do these
things to their enemies. Let us go on, unrestrained, and
shed their human blood so rapidly and effectively that every
stream, every river, every street in their lands is running
to overflowing with human blood. Let us meet their methods,
those methods of darkness, by similar methods. What’s the
difference? There is no higher Power we have decided, so
let’s get this job of terrible human slaughter over as quick­
ly as we can, and as effectively as possible.
Why not? There can be no civilization higher than ours,
can there? We are the greatest nation on the face of the
earth. We are the people who are going to bring complete
peace, abundance, and all else good to the entire world. So
why not do that as quickly and as horribly as we can?
This is a little far-fetched of course, and none of us ad­
vocate any more brutality and horror than is necessary. It
so happens, however, that none of this bloodshed is neces­
sary. Hitler, Tojo, and the Italian dictator can be eliminat­
ed without recourse to any implement of war whatsoever.
This, because the Axis is operating as a power of darkness.
A negative inferior power regardless of how much material
of war it has available.
The principle and the force behind any nation which
Through War to God 19
makes war on another nation, is a negative principle. It is a
force of darkness. The way to eliminate darkness is to
throw the Light where the darkness is. Then, this done,
whether the darkness be spiritual or material or both, it
must disappear when the true Light is thrown upon it. True
Light eliminates all forms of darkness, whether spiritual
or material.
As a democracy, we should know all about whatever men­
tal or spiritual Power exists. Aggressor nations are never
interested in spiritual or mental power. The dictator wants
to have all the brains. He wants to do the thinking for the
entire nation. Usually he considers himself a sort of “super­
man,” gifted by the gods with intelligence and intuition far
surpassing that of the rest of his nation, who, if given cred­
it for being able to think independently, should be restrained
from such thinking.
So, then, if there should exist a spiritual Power which,
because it is spiritual in essence can completely eliminate
the powers of darkness which are seeking to destroy all in­
dependent thought and action, it is logical to believe that
such a Power, such a Light, shall break to humanity
through a democracy, not through a dictatorship.
If, then, there does exist a principle of Light, a prin­
ciple of right which is so powerful that because of what it
is it can eliminate the powers of darkness, then the discov­
ery of such a principle would certainly constitute the most
amazing discovery ever made by man. It would mean that
all illness, all fear, all poverty, all crime, all unrest, and,
more than these, the “ seeds of war,” could, once and for all
be completely eliminated from the minds and actions of the
human race.
The chaotic conditions which exist on the earth today;
the sufferings, the unrest, the illnesses, the misery, the self­
ishness exist because of the incompleteness of the mental
and spiritual state of man. They cannot come from the
20 Through War to God
Light which, because it is Light, must be, and is, perfec­
tion of everything good.
Had man developed his mental and spiritual faculties to
such a degree than he comprehended the Light which is
shining, this earth would have been revolutionized in short
order. There may be many reasons why no such Power or
Light has been presented to men yet. Perhaps if they had
been discovered and presented 50 or 100 years ago, man
would not have been mentally or spiritually capable of con­
ceiving them.
It is not so very long since they were cutting off heads on
Boston Commons for denying that the Christian Bible was
the “ Word of God—inspired from cover to cover.” It is
not so very long since John Calvin, founder of what is now
Presbyterianism, ordered the cruel death of Dr. Michael
Servetus for denying that Almighty God could be a “trin­
ity.”
The author has seen the instruments of torture which
Christians used not too many hundreds of years ago, to
make “ Christians” of those who, had they been allowed to
follow the dictates of their minds, would have had nothing
to do with Christianity. The rack, the thumb-screw, the
Iron Maiden, a devilish contraption the size of a man. It
has eight iron spikes six inches long on its inside. Hinged,
it opens like a door. Where the ears should be, two ghastly
funnels are placed.
The “ unbeliever” was placed in the open Maiden, and the
door was closed. The spikes, on the inside and back of the
hell-begotten contraption, pierced the eyes, mouth and ab­
domen of the “unbeliever.” Then, molten lead was poured
into the two funnels, as if the agony was not complete with­
out that.
Then there was a bathtub made of wood. About every
three inches, all over the inside of the bathtub, were sharp
iron spikes. The “ unbeliever” was placed naked in this in­
strument of the devil, and rocked back and forth until he
Through V/ar to God 21
accepted the Christian religion. These instruments may be
seen on exhibition in New York City to this day.
It is then quite conceivable that the human mentality,
even though religious, which was capable of such brutality,
never could have conceived a spiritual Power of such mag­
nitude that It can, because of what it is, banish completely
and forever all want, suffering, disease, crime, and the
“war-seeds” from the face of the earth. Yet all this may be
possible. We may just be entering a new era in our mental
and spiritual life.
When Steinmetz, the electrical wizard, was alive, he was
asked along what lines he thought the greatest discovery of
the future would be made. Without a moment’s hesitation
he replied, “ Along spiritual lines.” Perhaps he knew.
_ Certainly it would be wrong to attempt to limit the spir­
itual or mental growth of thinking human beings. It would
be equally wrong to say that we have reached the peak of
spiritual knowledge. That is the trouble with most of our
systems of religion. They are content to stand fast on what
was believed 2000 or 10,000 or 100,000 years ago.
But to do that is to stagnate. And to stagnate is to die.
Religion must keep pace with changing times. It will cease
to be religion and become pagan myth if it does not. In­
versely to the remoteness of time has been man’s ascent
toward the temple of spiritual knowledge. Truth has made
its ingress into the human mind in the ratio by which man
has attained the capacity to receive it.
Hence, as we tread back the meandering pathway of hu­
man history, every step in the receding process brings us
to a lower plane of intelligence and a state of mind more
thoroughly encrusted with ignorance and superstitution.
To attempt, therefore, to solve the problem of the ultimate
perfection of man by reading or studying what was pre­
sumed to be spiritual truth ages ago is to mire ones self
down., The liberating truths of God cannot be found in any­
thing religions of the past taught.
22 Through War to God
The full truths of God are not known yet by anyone. But
they are becoming known. As the human race progresses,
it will inevitably see the Great Light which your author will
present to you. If that Light be the true Light, it will light­
en the world, and the “war-seeds” together with all mental
and spiritual darkness will disappear as the mists do out
here in Idaho when the sun rises from its well-earned sleep.
Your author is not an imaginary. He is not a religious fa­
natic. Nor can he be swayed by the “blessing” or “curses”
of those who, though self-appointed “agents of God,” turn
to the traditions of the past for the truths of God. He is not
a religious “super-man.” Quite the contrary, he is a cold­
blooded, hard-headed, successful business man who keeps
both feet solidly on the ground. He listens to the theology
of all and accepts none unless the theology be accompanied
by proof of its ability to remove the mental and darkness
which has covered the earth like a pall.
He has been placed in many different categories. One
large religious journal alluded to him as “the greatest spir­
itual genius of the twentieth century,” while another said,
“ This man is the devil in human form.” Neither is correct.
He is neither genius nor devil.
Nevertheless, such outstanding periodicals as Collier’s
Weekly, Time, Newsweek, Pic, Magazine Digest, The Amer­
ican Mercury, The Sunday School Times, The Presbyterian
Banner, The Lutheran Companion, The Gospel Advocate
and hundreds of other periodicals have seen fit to feature
him in their columns. This, however, does not make him
either “ genius” or “devil.”
If you knew the author personally you would find him to
be, perhaps, one of most common-place individuals. Mil­
lions of others like him pass unnoticed in the gay throng
of Americans. Collier’s Weekly, kindly or otherwise, al­
luded to him as “having the appearance of a tired matinee
idol.” However, writers differ. I may look tired, but the
“matinee idol” part, I believe, can be dispensed with.
Through War to God 23
The author knows that there is something in the mental
or spiritual realm which man has not yet discovered. He
knows that the full consciousness of what man would be,
did he but know himself in his true perspective with the
Creator, would be a very much more potent power than he
is today.
Being a deep student of religion, he knows that what we
know as religion cannot answer the problems of life. He
knows that instead of man being in tune with the Infinite,
he is far from the Infinite and getting farther away every
day. You see, he does believe in a Creator. Not, perhaps,
the Creator of theology. For the author has been gifted
with average intelligence; he believes, and this intelligence
reveals to him that there must be undiscovered heights to
which man can rise, not after he is dead, but while he is
alive.
What happens after death is unknown. None has ever re­
turned to tell us. We may safely, therefore, confine our en­
deavors to trying to discover whether or not there are vistas
of spiritual Power and Light which are possible here, but
which have never been attained.
When one introduces the Creator into a conversation, or
writes about It in a book, there is a great tendency on the
part of the reader to lay the book aside; perhaps with the
remark, “ Oh, I’m not interested in religion.” Don’t do that
with this book. The author is not interested in what calls it­
self religion today. He is, however, very vitally interested
in discovering if God (if you choose to use that word) can­
not actually be discovered by every normal human being.
That is something which interests him very much.
For there must be some mis-alignment between the Crea­
tive Intelligence which created the earth, placing man upon
it, and man himself. The darkness, the wholesale bloody
murder, the ruthless shedding of human blood, tell better
than the author can, that most certainly man is hopelessly
lost in a maze of untrue theology—in spite of which he still
24 Through War to God
knows nothing about the Creator or whatever Power the
Creator may have.
This “ blind-spot” in our spiritual nature should be filled.
The Light exists certainly. An Intelligent Power, the author
of all creation, certainly exists somewhere. The “blind-spot”
is ours then, then God’s.
To say that the Creator of the universe set this celestial
sphere in motion billions of years ago, leaving it to its fate,
is eluding the question. It took a super-intelligence to make
man and the universe, and the creation was not haphazard.
The fact must be, then, that there are certain faculties man
has which, when discovered and fully developed, must re­
sult in the discovery of the Creator, not “ in heaven,” for
no one knows where heaven is—but right here on the earth.
It would be equally foolish and unscientific to say, as
some religions do, that 2000 years ago the Creator trod the
earth, but man killed the Creator. At any rate, the Creator
disappeared and none has seen hide nor hair of him since.
(From this point on, this book will hurt the feelings of
about 15,000,000 good church attenders. It will tread on
their toes. But there are about 120,000,000 of good, honest,
intelligent Americans who do not ever see the inside of a
church. Nor do they accept the church theory of God. The
feelings of this 15,000,000 church-goers must be hurt, then,
if, in bringing the True Light to the other vastly greater
number of Americans, that becomes necessary. I do not
apologize. It was inevitable that some man somewhere in
this great democracy should step outside of the church
sheep-fold and search for God alone. Your author was “he­
retic” enough to do this, and in this book he is submitting
to his readers what he discovered. They may take it or
leave it. It is honestly and, I hope, intelligently submitted.)
To write or talk about the Creator (God, if you will), is
to at once link the name of God with our churches. This is
because the church is the only organization on earth which
has been bold enough to tell us that Almighty God ordained
Through War to God 25
that it should be the agent through which the truths of
God should be disseminated to humanity.
But in view of the facts of the brutal conditions on the
earth today, that seems hardly likely. The Roman Catholic
church, the foster-parent of Christianity, tells us, com­
pletely without proof, that Jesus (God) gave to this Italian
church the keys to the Kingdom of God, and told it not to
let anyone in or out unless it chose to do so.
Well, this does not appeal to the intelligence of the aver­
age American. When one analyses what the churches have,
we discover that while they tell us they are the representa­
tives of God on the earth, all of the activities of God, accord­
ing to their theologies, are to take place beyond the tomb—
in heaven or hell. And, they tell us, unless we believe what
they teach we never shall see heaven.
No proof whatsoever is offered. We are told we must
“believe.” How many “ believe” is plainly shown by latest
releases on church attendance of the major religions in the
United States. While they claim some 55,000,000, a check
reveals that less than 15,000,000 attend these churches. So
the vast majority of Americans do not choose to “believe.”
The author is not interested in “heaven.” He thinks any­
thing connected with that far-away place is incapable of
proof. In any event, he is more interested in discovering
whether or not the Power which must be God cannot be
manifested here on earth. He cannot understand a God
whose Power cannot be discovered and used now, right here
on the earth, when civilization is dying for one faint ray of
the actual Power of God. Your author knows that a Power
great enough to set the celestial sphere in motion and keep
it in motion, is great enough to do what man and his re­
ligions cannot do—stop this awful shedding of human blood
and remove the seeds of war.
The author believes that it is scientifically possible to
discover the limitless Power there must be in the realm of
God. He believes that when this Power is discovered, and
26 Through War to God
you’ll agree, that certainly it can be thrown against the
Axis, bringing its speedy defeat, and thus saving the lives
of millions of our precious sons, my own included.
If this is not possible, either there is no God or we know
nothing about the approach to God. Everything religion has
taught us about God can be at once and completely discard­
ed. Millions of our sons will give their sacred lives on the
bloody battlefields of the world. Hundreds of thousands of
American homes have already been desolated. Gold stars are
appearing. And all the while our churches stand idly by,
telling us that if we believe their preachments and theory
of God, we can’t stop this war but we can “ save our soul”
after we die.
I should be perfectly willing to give my soul and the
whole future “ in heaven” if, by so doing, I could stop this
ghastly human carnage. A religion which seeks only to
save the souls of its followers is not worth the name. God
made a material world. It’s now we need the Power of
God to straighten it out. We can’t, and our churches can’t.
Perhaps we may discover that God can, if we ever get at
the truth about the existence of God.
The answer to the God proposition, however, must be
absolutely scientific. The element of “faith,” while handy
to religions whose sole aim is to save souls for future life,
can have no place in any concept of God which fills the
needs of the entire human race. We have been “faithed”
to death. Now we want actual, demonstrable Power, com­
ing direct from the Creator to the created.
All present-day systems of religion are but “faiths.”
Just so long as they are but “faiths,” there is no assurance
that they will ever be other than that. Webster defines
“faith” as a “system of religious beliefs.” A belief may be
true or false. In religion, which offers no proof, there is
just as much chance of its preachments being false as there
is of them being true. In “faith,” one does not know. With
Through War to God 27
the actual Power of God—one does know. That is the dif­
ference.
If “faith in God” could bring a response from God, and
if the Power of God could be demonstrated by the stopping
of this brutal war and the elimination of the Axis, that
would change “faith” into Power. It would prove the “faith”
a true “faith.” But when no religion—nor all religions com­
bined can manifest the Power of God on the earth in this,
its darkest hour, we feel justified in questioning them all.
This can be very easily offset by our churches. All they
have to do is to manifest the actual Power of God to us.
We’ll believe anything they ask us to then.
The author believes it is a mockery of God to profess to
know God, and at the same time stand impotently by while
three mad-men rape the earth and baptize it with the blood
of our innocent boys. Of course, there is always the prob­
ability that the “ god” of our religious bodies is far re­
moved from the God which, in a thoroughly scientific man­
ner involving millions of ages, created the earth and man.
He believes that humanity will find God when present theo­
ries of God held and taught by our churches are completely
discarded.
* * *
No one should make the statement your author made in
the preceding paragraph unless he is prepared to prove, be­
yond all refutation, that the entire story of God as the
churches give it to us, it not true. In order that our read­
ers may know what the facts are, and in order that they
may have complete knowledge of what Christianity really
is, we shall prove that instead of Christianity being a di­
rect revelation from God, it is nothing more than an old
dark-age system of theology, told once more.
If the revelation of the scientific Power of God is to be
brought to earth, that revelation cannot come without com­
pletely upsetting and exposing systems of religion which
cannot bring to earth the actual Power of God. If scien-
28 Through War to God
tific, and they must be, the truths of God will be suscept­
ible of proof by anyone. More than that, if the author has
made a spiritual discovery of revolutionary moment, that
discovery, and the Power of God which follows it, must be
the most staggering discovery of the ages.
Every Sunday morning over C.B.S. one may listen to the
beautiful strains of pipe-organ music from the Mormon
Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. If we trace this Mormon re­
ligion to its source, we find that about 125 years ago an
angel did come down from heaven to earth. It sat upon
the back porch of a little house on Palmyra Hill in New
York State.
This angel told Joseph Smith and his friend, Oliver Cow­
drey, to go and dig under a tree. They did—and they
brought back books with leaves of solid gold. On these
pages were strange hieroglyphics which neither Smith nor
Cowdrey could decipher. However, the angel was prepared
for their illiteracy.
He produced a strange pair of spectacles which were
known as Urim and Thummim, telling Smith and his part­
ner that if they would use those miraculous specs they
would be able to read the “ divine” message which Almighty
God had inscribed upon the books with the golden pages,
and hidden under the ground on Palmyra Hill, N. Y.
These specs were really good ones, for, we are told by the
Mormon Church, Smith and Cowdrey translated the re­
markable hieroglyphics with the more remarkable spec­
tacles, and lo and behold!—they produced the Book of Mor­
mon upon which the celebrated Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints, 600,000 strong, is founded. Whereupon
the angel took both the books and the specs and made his
way back to heaven where, we presume, he still is.
But so far, all the Mormon Church has done is to bring
another system of religion into existence. It has not been
able to reveal the Power of God to the world. So even if
Through War to God 29
another angel were to come down, we may look for little
hope there.
Humanity cannot stumble blindly along for ever. The
chances of an angel bringing the truths of God to earth are
very slim. The chances of these truths coming through
any of our church systems are equally slim. So we shall
have to look elsewhere.
Let us briefly see what the concept of God is, as brought
to us by Christianity. We take Christianity because it is
presumed to be the “national” religion of America. We
have seen, however, that less than 15,000,000 out of 135,-
000,000 people ever attend their churches. The author feels
that when the other 120,000,000 know what the religion of
our churches really is, a great hope will be kindled in their
breasts. For all of us instinctively know that somewhere
there must exist the creative Power of the Creator. We
long for that knowledge to be turned into an actual demon­
stration.
Had the churches never taught the theory of God they
now teach, it is my opinion that this world would have dis­
covered the actual truths of God long, long ago. What a
pity—the very agency which claims to be bringing knowl­
edge of God to humanity is the very agency which has cre­
ated a “ blind spot” in our spiritual vision.
* ❖ ❖
The author is in a position to know from 15 years actual
experience in dealing with the newly-discovered Power of
God that this Power exists. During the past 15 years re­
ligious history has been made. Some 300,000 people, and
twice as many more, perhaps, have written personal letters
attesting the fact that entirely aside from orthodox theol­
ogy, they have found the Power of God.
As a result of their finding the Power of God, stories
too amazing to reproduce her, and too copious, have flooded
the author’s office. As might be expected, these experiences
stagger human reason. That is because the Power of God
30 Through War to God
is in actual operation. Of course these experiences stagger
human belief. Many an article has been written by religious
and other critical publications stating that what has hap­
pened never could have happened. The human mind cannot
conceive of how the Power of God, operating here on the
earth, can do the seemingly impossible.
Yet this is exactly what has been happening over a period
of fifteen years. Consequently, your author considers him­
self fully qualified to make these achievements through the
Power of God public.
CHAPTER 3
I MIGHT hesitate to write this chapter were it not for the
fact that millions of our boys are overseas, facing the mur­
derous fire of fanatical fiends who, if they could, would not
only destroy civilization, but would prevent independent re­
ligious thinking; the type of thinking which has been able
to pierce the veil of religious superstition and present to
humanity a scientific knowledge of the Power of God which,
recognized and used, can bring Axis vultures to their knees
far quicker, and at so much less cost than they can be
brought down without the Power of God.
But there they lie—out yonder. Some of them screaming
in the horrible agonies of a premature death. Others, wad­
ing through the muck, the stink, the filth of Guadalcanal
with its tropical sun beating mercilessly down upon their
young heads, while the bombs and bullets fly all around
them.
Over 100,000 American boys have been lost or taken pris­
oners already. Millions more of them will go. Perhaps the
inhuman fiends of Japs will tie their live bodies to stakes
and use them for bayonet practice as they do on the help­
less, innocent Chinese.
You know those boys. You know the type I mean. High
school boys. They used to play on the home football squad.
Many a time you’ve gone down to the ball grounds to see
them meet and defeat another high school team. Then,
after the victory, you could see them gathered round the
corner drug store drinking cokes. Some of them took part
32 Through War to God
in their annual high school plays. Good boys—the finest
class of manhood this world ever knew.
Yet their bones will lie bleaching under a tropical sun.
Many of them will return, blasted in hope and in body.
Crying to God many of them for release from the cruel
fates which have taken them out of loving homes and thrust
them into the very jaws of death and hell at a premature
age. God have mercy on the men responsible for this cruel
horror which is devastating the earth. Yes, and God have
mercy, too, on those who, with a Bible in one hand and a
prayer-book in the other, have told those young boys that
it is the will of God that they go through such agomes.
God have mercy on those who have taken upon them­
selves the name of God, yet have remained utterly impotent
to do one thing towards bringing the Power of God to hu­
manity. Bibles and prayer-books when the Power of God
actually exists and can be used to dethrone the Axis?
Yes—I’ll write this chapter regardless of the consterna­
tion it causes. Truth often hurts, but it only hurts those
who are in opposition to it. The truth will reveal God to
humanity though. And when that Truth is known—when
that Light is allowed to shine, all the Bibles and prayer-
books of all religions can be thrown into the furnace. They
could have been a long time ago for all the good they have
done.
’Tis a pity that it took a gruesome war to bring to hu­
manity the truths of God and the Power of God which can,
and will, once and for all, cleanse this world from wrong­
doing and make it blossom as the rose because of the Pres­
ence of God on the earth, even though that Power and
Presence is almost unknown, and even though it is op­
posed by the churches, the very organizations which are
supposed to bring the Power of God to humanity.
It is not to the church members I write, but it is to an
America which is awakening from its slumber of religious
hypnosis, and, at last, is showing signs of willingness to
Through War to God 33
give the Creator of this universe credit for being able to
manifest His Power now—not exclusively after we die.
Whenever and wherever the Power of God is manifested
on the earth, you will recognize it. It will always be fol­
lowed by men and women praising God that they have, at
last, found the Power of the Great Spirit here on the earth.
Saving the soul is good, I suppose. But to save our young
sons from the cruel murder machines of the Axis is better.
Let us see what the basis of the Christian concept of God
is then. The story in a nutshell is this—2000 years ago, Al­
mighty God, seeing the lost hopeless condition of the human
race, sent His son to earth to save it from “ sin,” the very
“ sin” which, we are told, man was born in.
This son of God was born in the womb of a married
woman who, we are asked to believe, was a virgin. She
later had several other sons, but this one, the first born, was
conceived by a mythical being called the “holy ghost.” In
Greece, so many unmarried women claimed the “holy ghost”
to be the father of their children born out of wedlock that a
law was passed condemning to death any unmarried woman
who claimed the “holy ghost” got her into trouble.
Then we are asked to believe that a handful of Roman
soldiers killed Almighty God on a cross, after He had been
betrayed by one of his followers. But, this fantastic
story proceeds, after three days this son of Almighty God,
the Creative Intelligence that never had physical form, rose
from the dead and even now, as I write this, is sitting up
in the skies in a place called heaven, totally oblivious to the
misery and the bloody death here below.
Now that, in essence, is the story of God as brought to
humanity by the Christian churches. No wonder this earth
is bathed in blood. No wonder the Power of God is an ab­
solutely unknown factor on the earth today.
But I have good news for you. Exceedingly good news.
This entire story can be thrown into the discard. It is not
true. It came, in its entirety, from an old pagan myth which
34 Through War to God
was subscribed to in India, almost 1500 years before Chris­
tianity was ever heard of. The first step in the discovery
of God is the complete and total discarding of everything
Christianity has ever taught about God.
We see then the heart-rending spectacle of a world which
is crucifying itself on the bloody battlefields of the earth,
and a church which, instead of bringing knowledge of the
Power of God to humanity, is teaching an old pagan myth
which was hoary with age long before Christianity was ever
heard from.
If I can prove my statements, the greatest theological hoax
ever perpetrated on humanity is the hoax of Christianity.
If I cannot prove it, I should most certainly not write about
the subject at all. Fortunately I can prove it. Prove it be­
fore any court of law in the United States. The author
would welcome the opportunity to do just that. It is time,
high time, that we Americans knew the truth about God,
and the churches. You will learn the truth in this book.
Fifteen hundred years before Christianity was ever heard
of they had a myth which goes something like this: The
first man and woman on the earth were Adimo and Heva.
We have Adam and Eve, a direct copying of these other two
old Indians who out dated Adam and Eve some 1500 years.
Then there came a flood, and the only man saved was called
Noe. We have a flood, too, and the only man saved was
Noah.
Christianity tells us that Noah had three sons, Shem,
Ham, and Japheth. But the Bible of India tells us that
1500 years before, Noe, their “righteous one,” also has
three sons whose names were Sherma, Hama, and Jiapheta.
Almost an exact duplication of names. If not copied from
the religion of the Hindoo, where did they come from ?
The virgin mother of God, according to the religion of In­
dia, was Maia, which means Mary. She had a son. This
son was not the natural normal result of intercourse with
her husband. Not that, for we are told, and asked to believe
Through War to God 35
that a “holy ghost” was the father of this son, who was to
be Almighty God in person, and who was to save the whole
world from sin.
The name of this virgin-born son, born, like Christ, on
December 25th, was Jeseus Chrishna. Note the similarity to
Jesus Christ. Note the same birthplace and date. This god
Chrishna was later crucified on a cross at the age of 33,
and three days later he rose from the dead and ascended
into heaven where he now sits. Every one of these happen­
ings occurred 1500 years before Christianity was born.
The following brief analysis form will show the absolute
duplication of stories of these two gods. Let it be remem­
bered that millions upon millions of human beings in India
today worship Chrishna as God just as we in the United
States worship Christ as God. Yet the two stories are
identical. The Hindoo has prior claim to the story. If the
story of Jesus Christ is true, so is the story of Jeseus
Chrishna, for it contains every fundamental of the Jesus
story and has the added proof of being known to its follow­
ers 1500 years before.
CHRISHNA
A VirginMother—Chrishna
was born of a virgin who
was selected as the moth­
er of the heavenly child
on account of her purity
—his father was God.
Born in a Cave— Chrishna
was born in most humble
surroundings, in a cave.
CHRIST
A Virgin Mother— Christ
was born of a virgin who
was of immaculate pur­
ity—his father was God.
Born in a Cave—Christ was
born in a cave! — the
grotto with the Manger
is exhibited today in the
Church of the Nativity
at Bethlehem, exhibited
as Christ’s birthplace.
36 Through War to God
Cave Illuminated—At the
time of Chrishna’s birth,
the cave was illuminated
by a miraculous light.
Away Paying Taxes—Nan-
da, the foster father of
Chrishna, was away pay­
ing taxes when he was
born.
Coivherds’ Adoration—The
child Chrishna was rec­
ognized and adored by
cowherds who b o w e d
down before him.
Slaughter of Innocents —
The tyrant King Cansa
ordered the massacre of
all male children born
during the night of
Chrishna’s birth.
H eav enl y Warning —
Chrishna’s foster -father
was warned by a heaven­
ly voice to take the child
to Gakul to escape from
the King.
The Child Chrishna Per­
forms Miracles—In the
city of Matra, Chrishna
performed many mir-
C av e Illuminated — At
Christ’s birth “ There
was a great light in the
cave, so that the eyes of
the midwife could not
bear it.”
Away Paying Taxes — The
birth of Jesus took place
while his foster-father
Joseph was in the city,
to pay his tax to the Gov­
ernor.
Shepherds’ Adoration—The
infant Christ was recog­
nized and adored by
shepherds who prostrat­
ed themselves before him.
Slaughter of Innocents—
King Herod ordered the
slaughter of innocents,
hoping to bring death to
the Christ child.
Joseph Warned — Joseph
was warned by a heaven­
ly voice to “take the
young child and mother
and flee to Egypt to es­
cape Herod’s wrath.”
The Child Christ Performs
Miracles — W h i l e in
Egypt Jesus lived at Ma-
tarea and there per-
Through War to God 37
acles in h is childhood. formed many miracles.
(Notice the similarity of (See the Apocrypha.)
the name Mattra and Ma-
tarea.)
Chrishna the SecondPerson
in a Trinity of Divinities
— Chrishna was God in
human form, being the
second person in a holy
trinity.
Chrishna was Crucified—
Chrishna was crucified
on a cross with arms ex­
tended, b e t w e e n two
malefactors. Whilst on
the cross, Chrishna was
pierced by an arrow;
Chrishna said to the man
who shot him, “ Through
my favour, go to Heaven,
the abode of the Gods.”
The Sun Darkened— When
Chrishna died the sun
was blotted out at noon­
day.
Descended I n t o H el l—
Chrishna descended into
Hell for the purpose of
raising dead, before re­
turning to Heaven.
The Christian Trinity—.
Christ was the son of
God in a Holy Trinity of
Father, Son and Holy
Ghost — Christ was the
Son in human form.
Christ was Crucified—Be­
tween two thieves, Christ
was crucified on a cross
w i t h arms extended.
Christ was pierced with
a spear. He said to one
of the thieves, “Verily I
say unto thee this day
shalt thou be with me in
Paradise.”
The Sun Darkened— On the
day of Christ’s death,
the sun was darkened
from the sixth to the
ninth hour.
D e s c e n d e d into Hell—
Christ descended into
Hell, to save the Souls of
the Saints imprisoned
there. Christ broke the
fetters of the Saints and
led them to Paradise.
38 Through War to God
Resurrection of Christina—
Chrishna, after his death
and burial, came back to
life, he arose from the
grave, and ascended to
Heaven “in the presence
of many.”
Resurrection of Christ—
Christ after his death
and burial, came back to
life, arising from the
tomb in the flesh, and
ascended to Heaven, in
the presence of many.
Here you have the true origin of Christianity. It is all
there in every detail. In other words, the author has gone
into considerable detail so there can remain no doubt but
what the entire Christian religion is an absolute copy of a
religion which the Christian calls “pagan,” and which was
known to millions 1500 years before Christ was ever heard
of.
This, dear reader, is what has been handed to us Ameri­
cans as the “ holy inspired word of God.” That is all we
have had a chance to know about God. That is all the Chris­
tian religion can tell us about God. That is the reason we
know absolutely nothing about the existence of God. No man
in his right mind can attribute such pagan myths as being
of God. The Power of God cannot operate on earth through
such stories.
This palpable religious fraud was perpetrated on the hu­
man race by an Italian system of religion known as The
Roman Catholic Church. It is interesting to note that on
the eve of the nefarious back-stabbing of France by Italy in
the present war, priests of this same Roman Catholic
Church went among the Italian soldiers “blessing” them,
whatever that may mean, and, to quote, “ Praying for your
speedy and complete victory in order that the flag of the
House of Savoy (Italy) may wave forever over the holy
sepulchre in Rome.”
We are at war with Italy. It is an Axis power, and the
Roman Catholic Church is an Axis system of religion. It
Through War to God 39
never was anything else. Yet here we see the sorry spec­
tacle of this Axis religion praying that the Italian army
might be successful in its fight against the Allies. If you
or I made such a statement we should be arrested for sedi­
tion. Yet we give this Axis system of religion recognition
by sending a representative from Washington to the Italian
headquarters of this religion in Rome, Italy.
We recognize it as a true system of religion. We give it
tax-free privileges. Yet had it not been for the false con­
cept of God brought to humanity by this very organization,
this world today would know the truth of the present exist­
ence of the Power of God, and this brutal war could not
possibly have happened. The organization, however, has a
certain political power which it should not have in the
United States. It has many votes.
Your author holds no brief for or against this Italian sys­
tem of religion. He does not say it is not honest in its ac­
tivities. He merely is giving you facts which very few writ­
ers would dare to give you. If the facts concerning God
and religion may be known— if the truth is known— it will
not take humanity very long to discover what those truths
are. If organized systems of religion do not have the truths
of God, let them go. Let them be exposed. For God will
always be found in what is true. God can never be found
in falsity. There is no religion higher than truth, nor can
there be.
Truth ever must remain supreme in the Realm of God, no
matter where or what that Realm may be. Certainly no re­
ligion has as yet brought to humanity any God-truths which
can eliminate the bloody human slaughter of our beloved
sons. They cannot do that. They can burn incense before
altars, they can chant masses, they can sell tickets out of
purgatory. They can do anything and everything to ad­
vance their own pagan philosophy. The only thing they are
supposed to do they cannot do; that is to reveal God to the
40 Through War to God
_3£Qrld. The man who can do that will write his name in
letters of gold across history’s scroll.
Quite often some prominent divine argues with me that
the story of Chrishna (sometimes spelt Crishna) is merely
coincidence. They say that Chrishna was but an “ ante-type”
of Christ. But it occurs to me that that is stretching the
imagination. You could not expect an “ante-type” to appear
on the scene 1500 years ahead of the “type.” Most of the
clerics with whom I have discussed this point, however,
lightly brush it off with the word “ coincidence.” So, in or­
der to make it absolutely clear that it is not coincidence, the
author deems it wise to give several pages to a brief recital
of 15 other “crucified gods,” all of which are supposed to
have appeared long before the “ god” the Roman Catholic
Church advocated, which “god” it unquestionably discov­
ered in the religion of India.
The author does not claim that these gods were real per­
sonages any more than he claims that the “ crucified god”
of Christianity was a real personage. That is beside the
point. The fact that a score of religions prior to Christian­
ity had a “god,” who was born of a virgin, killed on a cross,
etc., is sufficient to prove that religions of the past, which
Christianity calls “ pagan,” or “heathen,” had the identical
doctrines which the Christian Church has now, and had
them many years before. This places Christianity in exactly
the same category. If these old systems of religion and their
“ gods” are but pagan religious myth, it must follow that
Christianity is just one more in the long parade of religions
which have utterly failed to reveal God to humanity. It, too,
must be myth.
You may depend upon it, when the truths of God become
known to Americans, those truths will be accompanied by
the Power of God. And when the Power of God is known to
us Americans, it will not take us long to throw that Power
against the Axis and bring it to a complete and speedy de­
feat. In giving you these facts, I fully realize that we are
Through War to God 41
in a theological rut. We have given the Italian Catholic
Church credit for bringing to us all there is to know about
God. We pamper and pander to all Christian churches,
while we lose sight of the fact that the trouble with this
world is that, in spite of all these good churches, the world
does not know the Power of God. J f these churches have not
the truths of God we cannot know God through what they
advocate.
It is a wonderful thing to have the assurance that you
may have a nice home in heaven among the angels, singing
songs and playing harps of gold and all that. But it would
be a far more wonderful thing if some man could discover
the actual existence of the Great Spirit, which is God, right
here on the earth.
I am willing to gladly sacrifice eternal life in heaven and
die a natural death here, thus entering into eternal oblivion,
if by so doing I can bring the liberating truths of God to
humanity. So would you. So would any true American. A
bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. And God here is
worth a million “gods” in heaven.
hristianity’s specialty is the absence of God here and
r
, plus the hope only of eternal life above the skies. But
i mink we shall discover that if we can find the fullness of
the Power of God here on the earth, the problems of life
both here and in the hereafter will be fully solved.
/ To claim that God can do so many beautiful things in
heaven, at the same time remaining either uninterested or
impotent to do anything for humanity here and now, is lim­
iting God. Such a concept of God cannot be true. It is lop­
sided. It is not logical. Therefore, it is not true.
The revelation of God which this earth is shortly to wit­
ness will stagger it. Yet it is all so beautifully reasonable
and normal. Why someone did not see it years ago I am at
a loss to understand.
Your author has no more ability than anyone else. Yet
these truths of God—these revolutionary, saving, amazing
42 Through War to God
truths of God have always been evident to anyone who cares
to discard pagan superstition masquerading as being of God,
and just understanding what one sees. There is no mystery
about the existence of the Spirit of God. In expecting
mysticism and in looking for it, we created a blind spot in
our spiritual vision. Because of that blind spot we have
been unable to see God. The author will endeavor to remove
the blind spot.
* * *
Now to get back to a record of 15 other “crucified world-
saviors.” Chrishna was the first. I shall give a few pages
to Sakya on account of the large number of followers this
religion now has. The rest we shall deal with very briefly.
I do not like to clutter up the pages of this book by wasting
much time on “ crucified gods” of the past. You will find few
writers, however, who will give you these records, although
they are known to every theologian worthy of the name.
For some reason or other they are suppressed. Truth can­
not be found in that manner.
What should be done is to take all these “gods” by the
back of the neck and bring them out into the light where
we can publicly examine them and see what they really are.
If this were done with the “crucified god” of Christianity,
there would be no Christianity. For proof of the existence
of Jesus Christ, as Almighty God, is completely and entirely
lacking. We must believe the word of an Italian system of
theology.
The fact that no history, sacred or profane—that not one
of the 300 histories of that age—makes the slightest allusion
to Christ, or any of the miraculous incidents ingrafted into
his life, certainly proves, with a cogency that no logic can
overthrow, no sophistry can contradict, and no honest skep­
ticism can resist, that there never was such a miraculously
endowed being as his many orthodox disciples claim him to
have been.
The fact that Christ finds no place in the history of the
Through War to God 43
era in which he lived—that not one event of his life is re­
corded by anybody but his own interested and prejudiced
biographers— settles the conclusion, beyond cavil or critic­
ism, that the godlike achievements ascribed to him are
naught but fable or fiction. It not only proves he was not
miraculously endowed, but proves he was not even naturally
endowed to such an extraordinary degree as to make him an
object of general attention. It would be a historical anomaly
without a precedent, that Christ should have performed any
of the extraordinary acts attributed to him in the Gospels,
and no Roman or Grecian historian, and neither Philo nor
Josephus, both writing in that age, and both living almost
on the spot where they are said to have been witnessed, and
both recording minutely all the religious events of that age
and country, make the slightest mention of one of them,
nor their reputed authors. Such a historical fact banishes
the last shadow of faith in their reality.
It is true a few lines are found in one of Josephus’s large
works alluding to Christ. But it is so manifestly a forgery
that we believe all modern critics of any note, even of the
orthodox school, reject it as a base interpolation. Even Dr.
Lardner, one of the ablest defenders of the Christian faith
that ever wielded a pen in its support, and who has written
ten large volumes to bolster it up, assigns nine cogent rea­
sons (which we would insert here if he had space) for the
conclusion that Josephus could not have penned those few
lines found in his “ Jewish Antiquities” referring to Christ.
No Jew could possibly use such language.
It would be a glaring absurdity to suppose a leading Jew
could call Jesus “the Christ,” when the whole Jewish nation
have ever contested the claim with the sternest logic, and
fought it to the bitter end. “ It ought, therefore,” (says
Lardner, for the nine reasons which he assigns), “to be
forever discarded from any place among the evidences of
Christianity.” (Life of Lardner by Dr. Kippis, p. 23.)
As the passage is not found in any edition of Josephus
44 Through War to God
prior to the era of Eusebius, the suspicion has fastened upon
that Christian writer as being its author, who argued that
falsehood might be used as a medicine for the benefit of the
churches. (See his Eccles. Hist.) Origen, who lived before
Eusebius, admitted Josephus makes no allusion to Christ.
Of course the passage was not, then, in Josephus. One or
two other similar passages have been found, in other
authors of that era, which it is not necessary to notice here,
as they are rejected by Christian writers.
It must be conceded, therefore, that the numerous his­
tories covering the epoch of the birth of Christ chronicle
none of the astounding feats incorporated in his Gospel bi­
ographies as signalizing his earthly career, and make no
mention of the reputed hero of these achievements, either
by name or character. The conclusion is thus irresistibly
forced upon us, not only that he was not a miracle-worker,
but that he must have led rather an obscure life, entirely
incompatible with his being a God or a Messiah, who came
“to draw all men unto him.” And it should also be noted
here that none of Christ’s famous biographers, Matthew,
Mark, Luke, or John, are honored with a notice in history
till 190 years after the birth of Christ. And then the notice
was by a Christian writer (Ireneus).
“ We look in vain,” says a writer, “for any contemporary
notice of the Gospels, or Christ the subject of the Gospels,
outside of the New Testament. So little was this ‘king of
the Jews’ known, that the Romans were compelled to pay
one of his apostles to turn traitor and act as guide before
they could find him. It is impossible to observe this negative
testimony of all history against Christ and his miracles, and
not be struck with amazement, and seized with the convic­
tion that he was not a God, and not a very extraordinary
man.” Who can believe that a God, from off: the throne of
heaven, could make his appearance on earth, and while per­
forming the most astounding miracles ever recorded in any
history, or that ever excited the credulity of any people, and
Through War to God 45
be finally publicly crucified in the vicinity of a great city,
and yet all the histories written in those times, both sacred
and profane, pass over with entire silence the slightest no­
tice of any of these extraordinary events. Impossible—most
self-evidently impossible! And when we find that this omis­
sion was so absolute that no record was made of the day or
year of his birth by any person in the era in which he lived,
and that they were finally forgotten, and hence that there
are, as a writer informs us, no less than 133 different opin­
ions about the matter, the question assumes a still more
serious aspect. From the logical potency of these facts we
are driven to the conclusion that Christ received but little
attention outside of the circle of his own credulous and in­
terested followers, and consequently stands on a level with
Chrishna of India, Mithra of Persia, Osiris of Egypt, and
other demigods of antiquity, all whose miraculous legends
were ingrafted in their histories long after their death.
The author has wandered a bit. We shall, however, come
back to the 15 crucified gods now. The reader will, perhaps,
recognize the magnitude of the writer’s task and the un­
comfortable situation in which he finds himself. One would
imagine that churches of all denominations would shout
for joy when they discovered that the Power of God can be
manifested on the earth, but that it is not so.
Instead, the organizations which are fighting the com­
ing of God to the earth are the very organizations which
make their living by teaching religion. But times are chang­
ing. We are living in a fantastic era. Realities, and reali­
ties only, count today. We are fighting for our national life.
The pity of it all lies in the fact that no system of religion,
not even the pagan Italian system known as The Roman
Catholic Church, can reveal to humanity the Power of God,
here and now.
Naturally, they oppose anyone who brings the truths of
God to humanity, if those truths violently oppose the theology
these institutions teach. They are all honest—just as hon-
46 Through \¥ar to God
est as your author is. Your author, however, has for 15
years been teaching not a theory of God, but he has been
demonstrating the actual Power of the Spirit of God in hun­
dreds of thousands of lives. The results stagger the imagi­
nation.
II.— CRUCIFIXION OF THE HINDOO SAKYA, 600 B. C.
How many Gods who figured in Hindoo history suffered
death upon the cross as atoning offerings for the sins of
mankind is a point not clearly established by their sacred
books. But the death of the God above named, known as
Sakya, Buddha Sakya, or Sakya Muni, is distinctly referred
to by several writers, both oriental and Christian, though
there appears to be in Buddhist countries different accounts
of the death of the famous and extensively worshipped sin-
atoning Saviors.
In some countries, the story runs, a God was crucified
by an arrow being driven through his body, which fastened
him to a tree; the tree, with the arrow thus projecting at
right angles, formed the cross, emblematical of the atoning
sacrifice.
Sakya, an account states, was crucified by his enemies
for the humble act of plucking a flower in a garden—doubt­
less seized on as a mere pretext, rather than as being consid­
ered a crime.
One of the accusations brought against Christ, it will be
remembered, was that of plucking the ripened ears of corn
on the Sabbath. And it is a remarkable circumstance, that
in the pictures of Christian countries representing the vir­
gin Mary with the infant Jesus in her arms, either the child
or the mother is frequently represented with a bunch of
flowers in the hand.
Here, let it be noted, the association of flowers with di­
vinely born Saviors, in India, is indicated in the religious
books of that country to have originated from the concep-
47
Through War to God
tion of the virgin parting with the flowers of her virginity
by giving birth to a divine child, whereby she lost the im­
mortality of her physical nature, it being transferred by
that act to her Diety-begotten son. And from this circum­
stance, Sakya is represented as having been crucified for
abstracting a flower from a garden. That his crucifixion
was designed as a sin-atoning offering, is evident from the
following declaration found in his sacred biography, viz.:
“ He in mercy left Paradise, and came down to earth because
he was filled with compassion for the sins and miseries of
mankind. He sought to lead them into better paths, and
took their sufferings upon himself that he might expiate
their crimes and mitigate the punishment they must other­
wise inevitably undergo.” (Prog. Rel. Ideas, vol. 1, p. 86.)
He believed and taught his followers that all sin is in­
evitably punished, either in this or the future life; and so
great were his sympathy and tenderness that he conde­
scended to suffer that punishment himself, by an igno­
minious death upon the cross, after which he descended into
Hades (Hell), to suffer for a time (three days) for the in­
mates of that dreadful and horrible prison, that he might
show he sympathized with them. After his resurrection,
and before his ascension to heaven, as well as during his
earthly sojourn, he imparted to the world some beautiful,
lofty, and soul-elevating precepts.
“ The object of his mission,” says a writer, “was to in­
struct those who were straying from the right path, and ex­
piate the sins of mortals by his own suffering, and procure
for them a happy entrance into Paradise by obedience to
his precepts and prayers to his name.” (Ibid.) “ His fol­
lowers always speak of him as one with God from all eter­
nity.” (Ibid.) His most common title was “the Savior of
the World.” He was also called “the Benevolent One,” “the
Dispenser of Grace,” “the Source of Life,” “the Light of
the World,” “ the True Light,” etc.
His mother was a very pure, refined, pious and devout
48 Through War to God
woman; never indulged in any impure thoughts, words or
actions. She was so much esteemed for her virtues and for
being the mother of a God, that an escort of ladies attended
her wherever she went. The trees bowed before her as she
passed through the forest, and flowers sprang up wherever
her foot pressed the ground. She was saluted as “the Holy
Virgin, Queen of Heaven.”
It is said that when her divine child was born he stood
upright and proclaimed, “ I will put an end to the sufferings
and sorrows of the world.” And immediately a light shone
around about the young Messiah. He spent much time in
retirement, and like Christ in another respect, was once
tempted by a demon who offered him all the honors and
wealth of the world. But he rebuked the devil, saying, “ Be
gone; hinder me not.”
He began, like Christ, to preach his gospel and heal the
sick when about 28 years of age. And it is declared, “the
blind saw, the deaf heard, the dumb spoke, the lame danced
and the crooked became straight.” Hence, the people de­
clared, “ He is no mortal child, but an incarnation of the
Deity.” His religion was of a very superior character. He
proclaimed, “ My law is a law of grace for all.” His religion
knew no race, no sex, no caste, and no aristocratic priest­
hood.
“ It taught,” says Max Muller, “the equality of all men,
and the brotherhood of the human race.” “All men, with­
out regard to rank, birth or nation,” says Dunckar, “form,
according to Buddha’s view, one great suffering association
in this earthly vale of tears; therefore, the commandments
of love, forbearance, patience, compassion, pity, brotherli­
ness of all men.” Klaproth (a German professor of oriental
languages) says this religion is calculated to ennoble the
human race. “ It is difficult to comprehend,” says a French
writer (M. Leboulay), “ how men, not assisted by revela­
tion, could have soared so high, and approached so near the
truth.”
Through War to God 49
Dunckar says this oriental God “taught self-denial, chas­
tity, temperance, the control of the passions, to bear injus­
tice from others, to suffer death quietly, and without hate
of your persecutor, to grieve not for one’s own misfortunes,
but for those of others.” An investigation of their history
will show that they lived up to these moral injunctions. “Be­
sides the five great commandments,” says a Wesleyan mis­
sionary (Spence Hardy) in his Dahmma Padam, “ every
shade of vice, hypocrisy, anger, pride, suspicion, greediness,
gossiping, and cruelty to animals is guarded against by spe­
cial precepts. Among the virtues recommended we find not
only reverence for parents, care for children, submission to
authority, gratitude, moderation in all things, submission
in time of trial, equanimity at all times, but virtues, un­
known in some systems of morality, such as the duty of for­
giving injuries, and not rewarding evil for evil.” And we
will add, both charity and love are specially recommended.
We have it also upon the authority of Dunckar that “ Bud­
dha proclaimed that salvation and redemption have come
for all, even the lowest and most abject classes.” For he
broke down the iron caste of the Brahminical code which
had so long ruled India, and aimed to place all mankind
upon a level. His followers have been stigmatized by Chris­
tian professors as “ idolaters.” But Sir John Bowring, in
his “ Kingdom and People of Siam,” denies that they are
idolaters— “ because,” says he, “no Buddhist believes his
image to be God, or anything more than an outward rep­
resentation of Deity.” The deific images are looked upon
with the same views and feelings as a Christian venerates
the photograph of his deceased friend. Hence, if one is an
idolater, the other is also. With respect to the charge of
polytheism, Missionary Hue says, “that although their re­
ligion embraces many inferior deities, who fill the same of­
fices that angels do under the Christian system, yet,”—
adds Mr. Hue— “monotheism is the real character of
50 Through War to God
Buddhism” ; and confirms the statement by the testimony of
a Thibetan.
It should be noted here that although Buddhism succeeded
in converting about 300,000,000, or one-third of the inhabi­
tants of the globe, it was never propagated by the sword,
and never persecuted the disciples of other religions. Its
conquests were made by a rational appeal to the human
mind. Mr. Hodgson says, “ It recognizes the infinite capac­
ity of the human intellect.” And St. Hilaire declares, “Love
for all beings is its nucleus; and to love our' enemies, and
not prosecute, are the virtues of this people.” Max Muller
says, “Its moral code, taken by itself, is one of the most per­
fect the world has ever known.”
Its five commandments are:
1. Thou shalt not kill.
2. Thou shalt not steal.
3. Thou shalt not commit adultery or any impurity.
4. Thou shalt not lie.
5. Thou shalt not intoxicate thyself.
To establish the above cited doctrines and precepts,
Buddha sent forth his disciples into the world to preach his
gospel to every creature. And if any convert had committed
a sin in word, thought or deed, he was to confess and re­
pent. One of the tracts which they distributed declares,
“ There is undoubtedly a life after this, in which the virtu­
ous may expect the reward of their good deeds. . . . Judg­
ment takes place immediately after death.”
Buddha and his followers set an example to the world of
enduring opposition and persecution with great patience
and non-resistance. And some of them suffered martyrdom
rather than abandon their principles, and gloried in thus
sealing their doctrines with their lives.
A story is told of a rich merchant by the name of Purna,
forsaking all to follow his lord and master; and also of his en­
countering and talking with a woman of low caste at a well,
Through War to God 51
which reminds us of similar incidents in the history of
Christ. But his enemies, becoming jealous and fearful of
his growing power, finally crucified him near the foot of the
Nepal mountains, about 600 B. C. But after his death, burial
and resurrection, we are told he ascended back to heaven,
where millions of his followers believed he had existed with
Brahma from all eternity.
[N o t e .—In the cases of crucifixion which follow, noth­
ing like accuracy can be expected with respect to the dates
of their occurrence, as all history covering the period be­
yond the modern era, or prior to the time of Alexander the
Great (330 B. C.) is involved in a labyrinth of uncertainty
with respect to dates. Hence, Bible chronologists differ to
the extent of 3000 years with respect to the time of every
event recorded in the Old Testament. Compare the Hebrew
and Septuagint versions of the Bible: The former makes
the world 3944, and the latter 5270 years old at the birth
of Christ—a difference of 1326 years. And other transla­
tions differ still more widely. All the cases of crucifixion
which follow occurred before the time of Christ, but the
exact time of many of them cannot be fixed with certainty.]
III.—THAMMUZ OF SYRIA CRUCIFIED, 1160 B. C.
The history of this God is furnished us in fragments by
several writers, portions of which will be found in other
chapters of this work. The fullest history extant of this
God-Savior is probably that of Ctesias (400 B. C.), author
of “ Persika.” The poet has perpetuated his memory in
rhyme.
“Trust, ye saints, your Lord restored,
Trust ye in your risen Lord;
For the pains which Thammuz endured
Our salvation have procured.”
52 Through War to God
Mr. Higgins informs us (Anac. vol. 1, p. 246) that this
God was crucified at the period above named, as a sin-aton­
ing offering. The stanza just quoted is predicated upon the
following Greek text, translated by Godwin: “ Trust ye in
God, for out of his loins salvation has come unto us.” Julius
Firmicus speaks of this God “rising from the dead for the
salvation of the world.” The Christian writer Parkhurst
alludes to this Savior as pi'eceding the advent of Christ, and
as filling to some extent the same chapter in sacred history.
IV.—CRUCIFIXION OF WITTOBA OF THE
TELINGONESE, 552 B. C.
We have a very conclusive historical proof of the cruci­
fixion of this heathen God. Mr. Higgins tells us, “ He is
represented in his history with nail-holes in his hands and
the soles of his feet.” Nails, hammers and pincers are con­
stantly seen represented on his crucifixes, and are objects of
adoration among his followers. And the iron crown of Lom­
bardy has within it a nail of what is claimed as his true
original cross, and is much admired and venerated on that
account. The worship of this crucified God, according to
our author, prevails chiefly in the Travancore and other
southern countries in the region of Madura.
V.—IAO OF NEPAL CRUCIFIED, 622 B. C.
With respect to the crucifixion of this ancient Savior, we
have this very definite and specific testimony that “he was
crucified on a tree in Nepal.” (See Georgius, p. 202.) The
name of this incarnate God and oriental Savior occurs fre­
quently in the Holy Bibles and sacred books of other coun­
tries. Some suppose that Iao (often spelt Jao) is at the
root of the name of the Jewish God Jehovah.
Through War to God 53
VI.— HESUS OF THE CELTIC DRUIDS CRUCIFIED,
834 B. C.
Mr. Higgins informs us that the Celtic Druids represent
their God Hesus as having been crucified with a lamb on
one side and an elephant on the other, and that this occurred
long before the Christian era. Also that a representation
of it may now be seen upon “the fire-tower of Brechin.”
In this symbolical representation of the crucifixion, the
elephant, being the largest animal known, was chosen to
represent the magnitude of the sins of the world, while the
lamb, from its proverbial innocent nature, was chosen to
represent the innocency of the victim (the God offered as a
propitiatory sacrifice.) And thus we have “the Lamb of
God taking away the sins of the world”— symbolical lan­
guage used with respect to the offering of Jesus Christ. And
here is indicated very clearly the origin of the figure. It is
evidently borrowed from the Druids. We have the statement
of the above writer that this legend was found amongst the
Canutes of Gaul long before Jesus Christ was known to his­
tory. (See Anac. vol. ii, p. 130.)
m
VII.— QUETZALC0ATL OF MEXICO CRUCIFIED,
587 B. C.
Historical authority, relative to the crucifixion of this
Mexican God, and to his execution upon the cross as a pro­
pitiatory sacrifice for the sins of mankind, is explicit, un­
equivocal and ineffaceable. The evidence is tangible, and
indelibly engraven upon steel and metal plates. One of these
plates represents him as having been crucified on a moun­
tain ; another represents him as having been crucified in the
heavens, as St. Justin tells us Christ was. According to
another writer, he is sometimes represented as having been
nailed to a cross, and by other accounts as hanging with a
cross in his hand. The “ Mexican Antiquities” (vol. vi, p.
166) says, “ Quetzalcoatl is represented in the paintings of
54 Through War to God
‘Codex Borgianus’ as nailed to the cross.” Sometimes two
thieves are represented as having been crucified with him.
That the advent of this crucified Savior and Mexican God
was long anterior to the era of Christ, is admitted by Chris­
tian writers, as we have shown elsewhere. In the work
above named, “ Codex Borgianus,” may be found the ac­
count, not only of his crucifixion, but of his death, burial,
descent into hell, and resurrection on the third day. And
another work, entitled “ Codex Vaticanus,” contains the
story of his immaculate birth by a virgin mother by the
name of Chimalman.
Many other incidents are found related of him in his sa­
cred biography, in which we find the most striking counter­
parts to the more modern gospel story of Jesus Christ, such
as his 40 days’ temptation and fasting, his riding on an ass,
his purification in the temple, his baptism and regeneration
by water, his forgiving of sins, being anointed with oil, etc.
“All these things, and many more, found related of this
Mexican God in their sacred books,” says Lord Kings-
borough (a Christian writer), “are curious and mysteri­
ous.” (See the books above cited.)
VIII.—QUIRINUS OF ROME CRUCIFIED, 506 B. C.
The crucifixion of this Roman Savior is briefly noticed by
Mr. Higgins, and is remarkable for presenting (like other
crucified Gods) several parallel features to that of the Ju­
dean Savior, not only in the circumstances related as at­
tending his crucifixion, but also in a considerable portion
of his antecedent life.
He is represented, like Christ:
1. As having been conceived and brought forth by a vir­
gin.
2. His life was sought by the reigning king (Amulius).
Through War to God 55
3. He was of royal blood, his mother being of kingly
descent.
4. He was “put to death by wicked hands”—i. e., cruci­
fied.
5. At his mortal exit the whole earth is said to have been
enveloped in darkness, as in the case of Christ,
Chrishna, and Prometheus.
6. And finally he is resurrected, and ascends back to
heaven.
IX.— (AESCHYLUS) PROMETHEUS CRUCIFIED,
547 B. C.
In the account of the crucifixion of Prometheus of Cau­
casus, as furnished by Seneca, Hesiod, and other writers, it
is stated that he was nailed to an upright beam of timber,
to which were affixed extended arms of wood, and that this
cross was situated near the Caspian Straits. The modern
story of this crucified God, which represents him as having
been bound to a rock for 30 years, while vultures preyed
upon his vitals, Mr. Higgins pronounces as an impious
Christian fraud. “ For,” says this learned historical writer,
“ I have seen the account which declares he was nailed to a
cross with hammer and nails.” (Anac. vol. i, 327.) Con­
firmatory of this statement is the declaration of Mr. South-
well, that “he exposed himself to the wrath of God in his
zeal to save mankind.”
The poet, in portraying his propitiatory offering, says:
“ Lo! streaming from the fatal tree
His all atoning blood,
Is this the Infinite?—Yes, ’tis he,
Prometheus, and a God!
“ Well might the sun in darkness hide,
And veil his glories in,
56 Through War to God
When God, the great Prometheus, died
For man the creature’s sin.”
The “ New American Cyclopedia” (vol. i, p. 157) con­
tains the following significant declaration relative to this
sin-atoning oriental Savior: “ It is doubtful whether there
is to be found in the whole range of Greek letters deeper
pathos than that of the divine woe of the beneficent demi­
god Prometheus, crucified on his Scythian crags for his love
to mortals.” Here we have first-class authority for the
crucifixion of this oriental God.
In Lempriere’s “ Classical Dictionary,” Higgins’ “Ana-
calypsis,” and other works, may be found the following
particulars relative to the final exit of the God above named,
viz.:
1. That the whole frame of nature became convulsed.
2. That the earth shook, the rocks were rent, the graves
were opened, and in a storm, which seemed to threaten the
dissolution of the universe, the solemn scene forever closed,
and “ Our Lord and Savior” Prometheus gave up the ghost.
“ The cause for which he suffered,” says Mr. Southwell,
“was his love for the human race.” Mr. Taylor makes the
statement in his Syntagma (p. 95), that the whole story of
Prometheus’ crucifixion, burial and resurrection was acted
in pantomime in Athens 500 years before Christ, which
proves its great antiquity. Minutius Felix, one of the most
popular Christian writers of the second century (in his
“ Octavius,” sect. 29), thus addresses the people of Rome:
“ Your victorious trophies not only represent a simple cross,
but a cross with a man on it,” and this man St. Jerome calls
a God.
These coincidences furnish still further proof that the
tradition of the crucifixion of Gods has been very long prev­
alent among the heathen.
Through War to God 57
X.— CRUCIFIXION OF THULIS OF EGYPT, 1700 B. C.
Thulis of Egypt, whence comes “Ultima Thule,” died the
death of the cross about 3500 years ago.
Ultima Thule was the island which marked the ultimate
bounds of the extensive empire of this legitimate descendant
of the Gods.
This Egyptian Savior appears also to have been known
as Zulis, and with this name—Mr. Wilkison tells us— “his
history is curiously illustrated in the sculptures, made 1700
years B. C., of a small, retired chamber lying nearly over
the western adytum of the temple.” We are told 28 lotus
plants near his grave indicate the number of years he lived
on the earth. After suffering a violent death, he was buried,
but rose again, ascended into heaven, and there became “the
judge of the dead,” or of souls in a future state. Wilkison
says he came down from heaven to benefit mankind, and
that he was said to be “full of grace and truth.”
XI.—CRUCIFIXION OF INDRA OF THIBET, 725 B. C.
The account of the crucifixion of the God and Savior In-
dra may be found in Georgius, Thibetinum Alphabetum, p.
230. A brief notice of the case is all we have space for here.
In the work just referred to may be found plates represent­
ing this Thibetan Savior as having been nailed to the cross.
There are five wounds, representing the nail-holes and the
piercing of the side. The antiquity of the story is beyond
dispute. '
Marvelous stories are told of the birth of the Divine Re­
deemer. His mother was a virgin of black complexion, and
hence his complexion was of the ebony hue, as in the case
of Christ and some other sin-atoning Saviors. He descended
from heaven on a mission of benevolence, and ascended back
to the heavenly mansion after his crucifixion. He led a life
of strict celibacy, which, he taught, was essential to true
58 Through War to God
holiness. He inculcated great tenderness toward all living
beings. He could walk upon the water or upon the air; he
could foretell future events with great accuracy. He prac­
ticed the most devout contemplation, severe discipline of
the body and mind, and acquired the most complete sub­
jection of his passions. He was worshiped as a God who
had existed as a spirit from all eternity, and his followers
were called “Heavenly Teachers.”
XII.—ALCESTIS OF EURIPIDES CRUCIFIED, 600 B. C.
The “ English Classical Journal” (vol. xxxvii), furnishes
us with the story of another crucified God, known as Al-
cestis— a female God or Goddess; and in this respect, it is a
novelty in sacred history, being the first, if not the only ex­
ample of a feminine God atoning for the sins of the world
upon the cross. The doctrine of the trinity and atoning
offering for sin was inculcated as a part of her religion.
XIII.—ATYS OF PHRYGIA CRUCIFIED, 1170 B. C.
Speaking of this crucified Messiah, the Anacalypsis in­
forms us that several histories are given of him, but all
concur in representing him as having been an atoning of­
fering for sin. And the Latin phrase, “suspensus lingo,”
found in his history, indicates the manner of his death. He
was suspended on a tree, crucified, buried and rose again.
XIV.— CRITE OF CHALDEA CRUCIFIED, 1200 B. C.
The Chaldeans, as Mr. Higgins informs us, have noted in
their sacred books the account of the crucifixion of a God
with the above name. He was also known as “the Redeem­
er,” and was styled “the Ever Blessed Son of God,” “the
Savior of the Race,” “the Atoning Offering for an Angry
Through War to God 59
God.” And when he was offered up, both heaven and earth
were shaken to their foundations.
XV.— BALI OF ORISSA CRUCIFIED, 725 B. C.
We learn by the oriental books, that in the district of
country known as Orissa, in Asia, they have the story of a
crucified God, known by several names, including the above,
all of which, we are told, signify “Lord Second,” having
reference to him as the second person or second member of
the trinity, as most of the crucified Gods occupied that posi­
tion in the trial of deities constituting the trinity, as in­
dicated by the language “ Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,” the
Son, in all cases, being the atoning offering, “the crucified
Redeemer,” and the second person of the trinity. This God
Bali was also called Baliu, and sometimes Bel. The An-
acalypsis informs us (vol. i, 257) that monuments of this
crucified God, bearing great age, may be found amid the
ruins of the magnificent city of Mahabalipore, partially
buried amongst the figures of the temple.
XVI.—MITHRA OF PERSIA CRUCIFIED, 600 B. C.
This Persian God, according to Mr. Higgins, was “slain
upon the cross to make atonement for mankind, and to take
away the sins of the world.” He was reputedly born on the
25th day of December, and crucified on a tree. It is a re­
markable circumstance that two Christian writers (Mr. Fa­
ber and Mr. Bryant) both speak of his “ being slain,” and
yet both omit to speak of the manner in which he was put
to death. And the same policy has been pursued with re­
spect to other crucified Gods of the pagans, as we have
shown elsewhere.
Our list is full, or we might note other cases of cruci­
fixion. Devatat of Siam, Ixion of Rome, Apollonius of
Tyana in Cappadocia, are all reported in history as having
“ died the death of the cross.”
CHAPTER 4
THERE are those who, because our churches have failed to
disclose God to the world, have adopted the attitude that
there is no God. At least they admit there is no evidence
of a God whose Power may be known here on the earth,
unless one subscribe to a certain religious philosophy. This
is a sensible conclusion. For theories, without evidence,
still remain theories. Very unsafe to build upon them. One
grain of known scientific truth is worth, in any realm, many
times its bulk in theory. Truth, in whatever realm it may
be discovered, is scientific. And all science is truth.
So these good folks who, through experience with the­
ology, deny that there is a God who can eliminate warfare
and its subsequent horrors, are looking to some material
source for release and surcease from inner fears. They,
and there are millions of them, believe that perfection of
government and social security must be attained through
human channels. That is true. There will never be a su­
pernatural manifestation from God on this earth. There
never was—there never will be. For God makes the natural
out of what present theories of religion have presumed to
be the supernatural.
There is nothing supernatural in the Realm of the Great
Spirit—God. What we do not understand is only un-under-
standable because we know not the correct relationship which
exists between man and God. Naturally, never having been
told, we cannot know of this relationship. So we get drunk.
We strike. We eat, drink, and be merry, believing that
Through War to God 61
through some human “fairy godfather,” all will be well.
“ Give us all the money we want, give us all the liquor we
want, give us all we want to eat—and what more can we
ask?” said a labor leader to me recently.
So, eliminating God completely as an active factor in this
world’s affairs, we look elsewhere for the complete and total
abolition of wars, hunger, fear, and everything the human
race would like to get along without.
Nations will follow any leader who promises complete
freedom, ease, a good time—even if God is left completely
out of the picture. Hitler, insane maniac, endeavored to
eliminate God by eliminating the churches. Had he been
smart enough to know that the churches are not God, and
perhaps know little about God, he would have wasted no
time on them. As far as the future of mankind goes, it
makes little difference whether there are churches or not,
if those churches cannot reveal the actual Power of God to
humanity.
If these churches exist, but cannot disclose God to the
world, they are spiritually useless. Their own theories of
God the world is not interested in and every one of them
hungering for the Power of God. Men and women will
be interested in churches only when they can disclose the
literal Power of God to humanity. That Power—and that
Power alone, can bring to us all, the freedoms we are ex­
pecting, and would so dearly love to have.
When man discovers the Power of God—when man dis­
covers that all the invisible Power of Almighty God is at
his disposal, then these freedoms will appear automatically.
When man knows God, man is, through that knowledge,
able to use the Power that is God, and with that Power he
can bring to himself whatever good thing God has. So,
then, in the final analysis, peace, plenty, joy, happiness, free­
dom from want, freedom from fear, freedom of religion,
and freedom of speech will be brought to earth not by a hu­
man plan, but by man’s discovering the eternal truth that
62 Through War to God
these things automatically appear and manifest, the moment
man discovers the truth of the existence of the Spirit of
God—not in heaven, but right here on the earth among men,
where It rightfully belongs, and where It has always been.
Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt met on a boat in the At­
lantic. There they drew up a plan, or at least talked about
a plan, which is aimed to bring four freedoms to the whole
human race. That’s the most laudable undertaking I have
ever heard of. I take off my hat to both of these gentlemen
for taking such an interest in world affairs as to even make
the desire for these freedoms known. They have my pro­
found respect.
Whether these four freedoms can be made real is some­
thing else. Until this war is won, those four freedoms mean
little. Even after the war, these gentlemen have set them­
selves a somewhat stupendous undertaking. Whenever two
men attempt to settle the political intrigues of a Europe
that was battling and intriguing long before America was
discovered, they have set themselves some job. Neverthe­
less, if they think they can do it I should be the last one to
criticize them. (They will fail because they made no al­
lowance for the Power of the Spirit of God.)
But it seems to me that any international undertaking of
that magnitude should first be tried here at home, or in
England. Then, if it is successful, it can, of course, be
offered to the rest of the world. Whether the rest of the
world wants our philosophies is something else again.
I know of many freedoms which we would like to see
here before we offer them to the rest of the world. The
American pople would like to see freedom from strikes.
They would like to see freedom for Americans who do not
want to join a labor union, to secure employment on gov­
ernment work without having to join a labor union. That
cannot be done today. The recent McNutt suggestion sim­
ply means that our citizenry either get out in the first-line
trenches or join a labor union. That is not freedom.
Through War to God 63
Then, again, the American people would like to have
freedom from bureaucratic regimentation. They would like
to have freedom of our courts. They do not like “ court­
packing” experiments. They would like to see freedom from
political intrigue right here at home. They would like to
see freedom from bureaucratic questionnaires. In fact,
there are so many freedoms we should like to see here at
home before we try to sell the “four freedom” idea to the
rest of the world that we submit this should be done. (The
simple way, of course, would be to learn of the present
existence of the Power of God. There is full freedom in
that Power.)
Even if it were possible to bring to pass such a happy
world, it would not last. It could not last, for the Power
of God would be left entirely out of the picture. You would
have freedom of religion, but no God. Man would be living
his life in complete ignorance of the greatest invisible Pow­
er the world will ever know, just as he is living it now. It
is completely useless for any man or any combination of
men to bring permanent peace to this earth, with freedom
from want, freedom from fear, freedom of religion, and
freedom of speech, unless that man, or that combination of
men do it by and through the Power of the existing God.
There is no other way it can be done. Why look for an­
other way? It will never be found. Since history was, this
world, every so often has plunged itself in war. Until it
finds God it always will. And every scheme, every plan of
man to bring universal peace and Utopia to earth, is doomed
to failure. It is doomed to failure because it is founded on
sand. It is attempting to usurp the functions of Almighty
God. It is a case of imperfect man trying to create a per­
fect world. An utter impossibility.
When, however, man discovers the unseen powers which
he has at his disposal through the present existence of God,
that’s something else again. The only thing which stands
between man and an abundance of everything good, is a
64 Through War to God
complete lack of knowledge of the Power of the Spirit of
God. Until someone brings true knowledge of that Power
to humanity, it will flounder round in a quagmire of its
own making, and the more it flounders the deeper into the
mire it will go.
Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt are big men, who are
honestly trying to do big things. But neither of them is
quite big enough to usurp the Power of the Spirit of God,
and it is God’s duty to bring peace, joy, harmony, and eter­
nal life to us humans—not Mr. Roosevelt’s or Mr. Chur­
chill’s. It will take all the Power Almighty God has to
straighten out this degenerated world. That Power is avail­
able now. It always has been available. Had our religions
taught the Power of God—existing now, instead of the
foolish theories they have advanced, there would be no
global war now. Until knowledge of this God-Power comes
to mankind, it is utterly useless for anyone to attempt to
straighten this old mad world out. Only a complete union
of man with God can do that.
Man did not make this world. He did ruin it. And it will
be only when the actual truths of God are brought to hu­
manity that the world will be as perfect as God can make
it. That will be perfect enough.
I understand that there are two diametrically opposed
philosophies on this earth. The Axis has one, we have the
other. I understand, also, how knowledge of God being com­
pletely unknown, such great men as Mr. Roosevelt and Mr.
Churchill should at least try to dethrone the fantastic phil­
osophy of Hitler, Hirohito, and Mussolini. It is right that
they should. The trouble about eliminating these Axis
philosophies lies in the fact that after we have eliminated
them, the only thing we have left upon which to build a new
and perfect world is human planning. That is not enough.
It leaves God completely out of the picture. Perfection on
earth comes only through man consciously knowing what
the invisible Power of God can do.
Through War to God 65
It is not sufficient to add “freedom of religion” to the
platform. Who cares about freedom of religion if religion
cannot disclose God to us? The more religions there are,
without God, the deeper the maze, and the more sure are
we of another global conflict, worse, if possible, than this
one.
No— it cannot be done. It will not be done. And the vast
majority of Americans know it cannot and will not be
done. Old Europe is a masterhand at political intrigue. We
found that out after the last world war. We may find it out
again after this one. It’s quite probable that it might be
your Uncle Sammy who, once more, is left holding the sack.
Of what use will the four freedoms be then?
This world is standing on the threshold of the most revo­
lutionary religious discovery of all time. It is about to dis­
cover who and what God is. It is on the verge of making
the most profound, world-rocking spiritual revelation since
time began. That has to be. Either this world will discover
the Power of God, or it will annihilate itself. It cannot go
on as it is now. The four freedoms will not save it for the
reason advanced. They eliminate the Power of God. They
know nothing about such a Power. And discovery of that
Power, and its union with man, is the natural, normal end
of man.
When Almighty God made this universe, hundreds of
millions of years ago, He knew what would happen. He
knew that man would have to grope through the countless
ages before it discovered that God can reveal Himself direct
to man. God Almighty knew that.
Study geology. Read about the Neanderthal man. Read
about the Cro-Magnon man. Devour the story of the Pekin
man. Watch, as through the ages, man, ever longing to
know God, plodded his weary way towards the stars. Study
astronomy. Spend much time on the mountain top or be­
side the sea. Picture if you can this earth 500,000,000 years
ago. Picture it without human life—just animal and vege-
66 Through War to God
table life. Dwell on the vast periods of time it took to make
the coalbeds of Pennsylvania.
Picture in your mind’s eye the days when the trilobytes
were the only living creatures on the earth. Then ask your­
self if a Power big enough to bring such a scheme into
existence in all its majesty is not also big enough to blot
out the Axis powers and their insane leaders. It is blas­
phemy for any priest or preacher of any religious organi­
zation to talk about God, and at the same time deny that
God, in this, the greatest of all human crises, has to have
the help of man to eradicate three human parasites. The
irony of it all is that the Power of God exists here and now,
and is only awaiting for the human race to find and use it.
That Power can smash the Axis without any human help.
What a pity our religious organizations ever looked to a
pagan past for their religion. What a pity they did not,
and do not, anticipate the greatness of God. What a shame
that they have so little confidence in the Creator of this uni­
verse that they stand here— “ agents of God”—yet so utterly
impotent that not a priest, preacher or rabbi in existence
can disclose the Power of Almighty God to this heart-ach­
ing world.
CHAPTER 5
LET US take a sane, sensible, American look at God. Let
us, for the time being, completely discard what our fathers
taught us about God. We can go back to that later if we
think we should. Let us also try to eliminate hereditary ef­
fects of the religious beliefs of our childhood.
Perhaps most readers of this book will be people who
make no profession of religion. There will be many, of
course, who do. But in view of the fact that the percentage
of church-goers is so small, let us look calmly, quietly, and
intelligently at God.
Most of us will admit that as far as tangible evidence of
the existence of God goes, the only thing we can know about
God is what we see around us. The hills—the wonderful
birds—the flowers—the little children—the grown men and
women. The tall skyscrapers of New York. The amazingly
productive wheat fields of the Palouse Empire where I live.
All these are evidences of God. Not of a dead God but of
a Living, Vital, Creative Power, whose chief function is the
creation of life in its many forms. Not only the primary
creation of Life, but the ability to reproduce and re-create
Life—these are evidences of the present existence of God.
There is nothing on this earth which was not originally
created by the One Supreme Creator who brought life to
the earth in the first place. I don’t care when, why, nor how
that life first appeared. It makes little difference. The all-
important fact is that some time, millions and perhaps bil­
lions of years ago, life was manifested on this earth. Evi-
68 Through War to God
dence seems to point to the fact that life may also exist on
other planets, too. But shall we stay on this one for the
time being?
Now the fact that so many varied forms of life exist is
evidence that somewhere there must exist One Supreme
Power which, in the beginning, place that beginning where
you may, that One Supreme Creator decided that life was
to manifest on the earth. Not only plant life but human
life also.
Take the roses which bloom so wonderfully round my
home in Moscow, Idaho. Just as long as those roses are
blooming—just as long as they are alive, they are mani­
festations of the Power of the Creator—in action.
The wheat fields which are here in such abundance. Soon
the little tiny shoots will appear, then, later, the full ears
of ripened grain. The farmer plants the wheat, and leaves
it alone. He has complied with the Law of the Creator cov­
ering the growth of one wheat grain into hundreds. He
never digs it up to see whether it is growing or not. He
plants the seed and proceeds to forget it, knowing full well
that in the Fall there will be an abundant harvest.
That Idaho farmer is unconsciously manifesting superla­
tive faith in the ability of God the Creator to change, cer­
tainly by His own means, those single grains of wheat into
whole wheat fields. He never questions the ability of God
to do that.
He cannot make the grain grow. There is not a college
professor on the stafi: of the University of Idaho who can
duplicate the growth of one grain of wheat into many thou­
sands.
No chemical laboratory can cause this wheat to grow. The
farmer knows that if he plants the grain in the Fall there
most assuredly will appear, later on, a full and profitable
harvest. He never for one instant imagines that the fullness
of the Power of Almighty God is in operation right there on
his farm. The chances are he never even thinks of God as
Through War to Cod 69
being in any way connected with that marvelous transfor­
mation. Yet it happens—and he sees it happen.
Every few weeks in the Spring these Idaho farmers take
a walk through their seeded fields. They see the growth of
the wheat. Yet, to them, it is perfectly natural and normal
that this miracle of growth should take place. If they
should plant the grain and the harvest not appear, then they
would begin to wonder.
I have before me two barrels. One is full of sawdust and
the other is full of black, rich soil. Into both barrels I bury
a handful of wheat. What happens? Well, in a few months
plenty will happen in the barrel containing the wheat and
the soil. I shall see the little shoots poking their noses
through the soil, and in due time full-grown blades of wheat
will most surely appear.
Now what about the other barrel? I could stand and
watch that barrel for a long time before I should see wheat
growing in it. Well, what’s the answer? Neither the wheat,
nor the soil, nor the sawdust have thinking ability. They
are inate substances, and certainly the soil does not know
that wheat is in it, nor does sawdust know that wheat is in
it. Nor does the wheat know where it is. It has no intelli­
gence at all.
It does not know that it is supposed to grow in soil and
not in sawdust. There is no conscious intelligence in this
whole operation. There is, however, something far greater.
The Law governing the operation of the Creative Forces of
God has been complied with, and the wheat will grow.
In the sawdust barrel the Law of God governing growth
was not complied with, so the wheat does not grow.
Now shall we take the birth of a human body? I am 56
years old. Sixty years ago I did not exist. My parents had
not met then. But they did meet. They fell in love, and
were married according to the laws of the land. After mar­
riage, some one year later, I came along.
Shall we trace the birth of this physical body of mine?
70 Through War to God
The thought to grasp here is that when my parents were
married they complied with the Law of God governing
child-birth. They placed themselves in a physical condition
which facilitated the male germ, the sperm, uniting with
the female ovum. They made a physical union of their
bodies which made it possible for two out of millions of lit­
tle bugs to unite. And they did unite. That—was complying
with the Law of God governing child-birth.
After this physical union had been made and the two dif­
ferent cells had joined, my parents had done all they could
do. They had complied with the Law of God, and, like our
Idaho farmers, they had forgotten the planting of the seed,
and turned their thoughts to the expected child which they
knew would most assuredly appear, about nine months later.
There was nothing more these parents could do. They
had nothing to say about the child which was later born.
They could not determine its sex. They did not know wheth­
er the birth would be a single, double, or triple birth. They
merely complied with the Law of the Creator governing
child-birth, and proceeded to leave the actual formation of
the child from two little bugs to a Higher Power.
In the translation, or growth, of those two germ-cells into
a fully developed baby some nine months later, many things
happened. Things which only Almighty God could have ac­
complished. For, at the precise moment when the physical
junction of bodies was made, some other Power came into
the picture and took full and complete charge of the build­
ing operations from that point on.
Biological problems, chemical problems which no man can
duplicate in a biological or chemical laboratory were per­
formed, and they were performed with amazing accuracy.
Sugars were changed into starches, and many operations
took place, entirely beyond the ability of the parents.
Now this Power which came to earth, or which was on
the earth (for these operations happened on the earth in the
physical body of that mother) must have been possessed of
71
Through War to God
amazing ability. Matter of fact, as God is the only Creator
of life, what actually happened was a very amazing thing.
The invisible Spirit of God, the same Great God who cre­
ated this entire scheme of the universe, was actually in my
parents’ home, in the body of my mother, there working out
the most amazing physical operation one can ever know.
Nine months later there was born another human soul, and
body.
The thing to note here is that the Spirit of God, the Crea­
tor of all life, was operating in a little home, in the body of
a young mother. That Spirit of Life, or God, actually took
charge of those building operations. It actually took two
little life-cells and, without human aid, transformed them
in nine months into another separate human being. That
human being is now writing this to you. Yet 60 years ago
he was not here, nor had his parents met.
“ Nature”—did I hear you say? That is one name for it.
But if it was nature, then consider the infinite intelligence
“nature” displayed in making this remarkable change from
two little germ-cells to Frank B. Robinson. Can you do
that? Think of the God-Power involved in that operation.
And it did not take place “ in heaven,” it took place right
here on the earth. It happened exactly where the growth
of the grain took place—right here on the earth.
So you see the invisible Spirit of God—the Spirit of in­
finite Life does exist on the earth. It does manifest here
and now.
Our modern systems of religion tell us that man was
“ born in sin and shapen in iniquity.” They tell us that be­
cause Adam sinned when he fertilized Eve, we all come
under the curse of God, and, they tell us, it took the death
of God’s son Jesus to wash our sins away. This will only be
done, however, “if we believe.” The trouble is we don’t.
If the entire human race was born in sin and shapen in
iniquity, then it was Almighty God who caused the two
germs in Mrs. Eve to grow into a child, was it not? And if
72 Through War to God
that constitutes being “ born in sin,” requiring the brutal
murder of a son of God, who at the same time was the
totality of God, then, I repeat, Almighty God was respons­
ible for the sin of man.
The whole theory, though, is so preposterous as to be un­
worthy of acceptance by any intelligent American. It is too
fantastic. It originated in a pagan era, was fostered by
pagan priests, and has none of God in the entire theory. Yet
this is all Christianity has to offer us. No wonder the Pow­
er of the Spirit of God has no chance to show what it can
do against Hitler when our churches insist on requiring
that you and I believe this foolish “sin” theory, or they will
refuse us membership.
* * *
Coming back again to the Power of the Spirit of God
which actually performed these building operations in the
body of that mother. There came a day when the physician
was called. He cut the umbilical cord, binding the child to
its mother. Chances are he gave it a slap on the back, and
that child, your writer, took its first free breath of air. It
became a living soul with the ability to manifest indepen­
dent life.
Up to that point it had not been able to do that. The
Spirit of God, the Author and Creator of all life, had taken
full and complete charge, you will remember, of all those
intricate building operations.
Now the child is born. It is manifesting independent life.
Let me ask you a vital question: Do you think that the Spirit
of God, when it had finished its functions of changing two
little life-cells into a human body, bade that body fareioell
and left for parts unknown ? Or does the Spirit of God still
reside and continue to operate in that body?
I certainly had nothing to do with building my body.
Even in early childhood someone had to feed me. I surely
had nothing to do with changing that baby into a full-grown
man. But the same Intelligence which took complete charge
Through War to God 73
of the building operations, and changed those two little bugs
into a human body, certainly has never left me.
The building operations continue to this day. The Spirit
of God, that invisible Power which created my life, still
lives in my life. It still exists in my body. It still is the
Spirit and Life of Almighty God.
Just as long, then, as I live, the Spirit of God, with all
its Power, all its amazing intelligence, is so close to me that
it can never leave me while I live. This is an amazing fact.
It means that we have in us, here and now, all the Creative
Power there is in the Realm of Almighty God. It means
more than that—it means that if the Power, the intelli­
gence which is Almighty God lives in us, is there anything
we cannot draw upon that Power for?
The difference between us and the wheat in the barrels
lies in the fact that human beings are the only form of
God’s creation which is capable of grasping the fact of
the existence of Creator with all the amazing Power that
implies. Man is the only creation having the ability to rec­
ognize the Spirit of God in him, and to DIRECT THAT
POWER.
It is a definitely proven fact that the Spirit of God, living
in us, can be directed, and will bring forth abundantly any­
thing we need to complete our happiness, joy, and material
and spiritual abundance. There is absolutely nothing good
in this life we can need, and not secure, because the Spirit
of Almighty God gave us life in the first place, created our
physical body in the second place, and lives continually in
that body in the third place.
So, then, you who have prayed and have followed some
religious philosophy which teaches that you are a guilty
hell-deserving sinner—take hope. There has never been a
moment in your life when all the Power of the Spirit of
God has not been available to you. Why? Because your
body is the place where the Spirit of God, with all its re-
74 Through War to God
markable creating ability, actually lives. It is there. You
could not expel It and live for a second.
When the body becomes uninhabitable the Spirit of God
leaves. But so long as the Spirit of Almighty God, the Cre­
ator of this universe, lives in you, you have in you the great­
est Source of supply you can ever know. What God can
create, and that’s everything, exists for you now, because
you have in you all the Power of the Spirit of God. And
the important thing here is that YOU CAN DIRECT THAT
SPIRIT. YOU CAN DRAW UPON IT FOR EVERY
GOOD THING YOU NEED AND IT WILL NEVER FAIL
YOU.
The only reason God lives in you is to give you life and
to bring to you everything which goes with life. To say
this is not true is to limit the Power of the Spirit of God.
I repeat, it has been abundantly proven by me, over the
past 15 years, that the indwelling Spirit of God in every
man and woman can bring to that man and woman every­
thing that God is capable of producing.
Go out some clear night. Look up to the stars. Try to
imagine the infinite intelligence which could throw such a
galaxy from off the ends of His fingers and cause them to
revolve in space for billions of years. Then, as you stand
there spellbound at the amazing Power of this scene, realize
that the very same which created yon stars also created
you, and STILL LIVES IN YOU. More than that, you have
the ability to fully draw upon that Power, and It can never
fail to respond. For It is Almighty God the Creator, and
God lives in you.
This cannot be argued away. The pity of it all is that
our religious organizations have succeeded in telling their
followers that it took the death of Almighty God to save
their souls. They told them that salvation was only to be
found “ through the name of Jesus.”
What do we need salvation from ? Is not the Power of the
Spirit of God living in us? Did not the Power of Almighty
Through War to God 75
God take those two little germs, and build us from them?
When did the Power of God ever leave our bodies? What
Power is it that keeps the heart beating? What Power that
causes the lungs to inhale and exhale when we are asleep?
What Power is it which enables us to transmit life, and
thereby the Spirit of God? Is all this done “ in sin” ? Is it
all automatic? I think not. Rather do I think and know
that in every human soul lives the actual Power of the
Spirit of Life—Almighty God. And with God in the life,
we need no religious theories to take care of our future.
_The God who created life is capable of sustaining it,
whether in the body or out of the body. So take ye no heed
for the future. You have one task before you now. That
task, when completed, can transform your life, making it
so powerful and so full of the Spirit of God that you’ll bless
the day the Spirit of God in you was ever called to your at­
tention.
I suggest that you read this chapter again. It will sud­
denly dawn upon you. There will come to you the stagger­
ing significance of what it really means to have the Power
of Almighty God actually living in your body. (This is true
religion. It reveals the Power of God to man.)
The author could spend the next five years writing eight
hours a day and he could not begin to tell you what it means
to you to have there, actually living in you, all the Power
of the Spirit of the God who created you.
This Truth of God is so foreign to what you have been
taught about God that there will be some effort on your part
to eradicate hereditary beliefs, which, in their eagerness
to promote their particular “faith,” gave you to believe in
childhood that God is separated from man.
That is the greatest sin our churches have ever com­
mitted. They separated man from God, and then told man
that he never could re-discover God or get back to God,
unless he “believed” what they taught.
Good earnest church members every month partake of
76 Through War to God
communion. There they are told they are “eating the flesh
and drinking the blood of God, who, 2000 years ago, died
on a cross to wash their sins away.” That is dogma. That
is tradition, and pagan tradition at that. That is an insult
to Almighty God. For even at the time these good folks
are going through that heathen rite, the Spirit of God
which gave them life many years ago—the Spirit of God
which moment by moment took of the Great Spirit of Life
and imparted It to them, is actually living and operating
them. How, then, can they “eat the flesh and drink the
blood of Almighty God?”
-God never had form. It creates forms, and It lives in
those forms. But God will ever be an invisible Spirit, capa­
ble of manifesting Life without physical form. There are a
million differing forms of life, but human life, the very life
of God, in a human body, is the only form of life capable
of grasping the existence of God in it. It is the only form
of life which has the ability to draw to the full upon the
indwelling Power of the Spirit of God, making effective the
Power of God in any manner desired.
God lives, then, in you. God has never been separated
from you. You have the ability to draw to the full upon the
Power of the Spirit of God, and the Intelligence which cre­
ated the universe will fly into action when you comply with
indwelling of the Spirit of God in him.
Do you think such a Power can stop Hitler, Tojo, and
the Italian dictator? Incidentally, the head of the Italian
church, the Pope, holds his followers because his system of
religion has taught them to believe that Almighty God,
operating as Jesus, gave him the keys to the “kingdom of
heaven,” with the right to say who goes in and who stays
out. That, my friend, is not of God. It is paganism in its
most perfect form. It is an Italian system of religion.
There is none of God in it. Protestantism, being a fallen
branch of Catholicism, is essentially just as pagan as is
Catholicism.
77
Through War to God
When men and women discover the fact that Almighty
God lives in them, available with all Power to them, they
waste little time atoning for their “sins.” All the “sins”
man has ever committed are directly attributable to re­
ligious philosophies which have failed to reveal to man the
in-dwelling of the Spirit of God in him.
When man knows the fullness of the Spirit of God in him,
instantly available with all the Power God has, that man
does not “ sin.” He gives all of his efforts to the Spirit of
God within him. He uses the Power of God to make his
life what God wants it to be. It is for that purpose God
exists. Not to damn him into hell—but to provide all the
Power necessary for a life which is full and complete, be­
cause that life recognizes the Spirit of God in it.
CHAPTER 6
AS SOON as the American people heard of the discovery
of the Power of the Spirit of God in them, they began to
learn how to use this dazzling Power. Inside of 30 days
from its revelation to the world our offices began to be
flooded with letters, each telling of the results which the
Power of the indwelling God had brought. These letters
came from far and near, and inside of one year’s time
news of this revolutionary spiritual discovery had spread
into 67 countries.
I shall never forget the first letter of that type received
by me. It was a lady somewhere in Ohio. She had been
bed-ridden with rheumatism for 17 years. Realizing the
potent Power of the Spirit of God in her she at once drew
upon the Power of that Almighty Spirit, and, of course,
her rheumatism immediately disappeared.
Let it be noted that in every one of the hundreds of
thousands of lives which have reported to us that the
Spirit of God has manifested in a remarkable manner, the
connection has invariably been between Almighty God and
the person direct. There has been no “ intermediary” of any
sort. Whether Jesus died on the cross of Calvary to save
the world from sin had absolutely no bearing on these
amazing demonstrations of the Power of God.
Most of the experiences happened to those who had no
church affiliation. Some, however, had. But the point to
note is that with no church affiliation or belief, the Spirit
of God made direct manifestation in these lives. What the
Through War to God 79
Christian Bible or any other Bible teaches had positively
no bearing whatsoever upon the operations of the Spirit
of God in any of these remarkable cases.
This proves one thing definitely. It proves that what
you and I “ believe” is entirely aside from the activities of
the Spirit of God. That Law is permanent. It cannot be
altered by anything we may or may not believe. When the
conditions governing the Law, which is God, are complied
with, the results are sure. A “heathen” can get the same
results as a Mohammedan, a Hindoo, a Moslem, a China­
man, a German, a Jap, or a Christian. The Spirit of God,
and the Law by which the Spirit of God moves and oper­
ates, embraces them all. Their theological beliefs, rites,
creeds or rituals might just as well not exist, so far as the
ability and the willingness of the Spirit of God to manifest
in their lives is concerned.
God operates as God. He always operates as God. The
operations of the Spirit of God are as constant as time and
eternity. No human belief can in any way either hinder
or accelerate the manifestations of Almighty God. There is
nothing God can do for humanity which has not already
been done. The existence of the Spirit of God in us all, as
our life, is the assurance of the constant Presence of God
in our lives.
When that Presence and Power are understood, and used,
the very heavens will fall before the Law of God can ever
fail. Note further that in not a single instance has one of
our correspondents given credit for what has happened to
the Apostle Paul, Peter, Jesus, the Virgin Mary, or any
other Bible character. They have, without exception, given
credit for their remarkable demonstration where credit
should go—the God of the universe. That never-failing
Spiritual Law of Life which ever lives in us. Not one word
about the “blood of Jesus.” Not a single word about
“heaven” or “hell.” Not the faintest whisper about “ being
80 Through War to God
saved,” or “ confessing their sins.” Nothing about repent­
ance or forgiveness of sin.
These happy people received their blessings direct from
the Spirit of God. What their past lives had been, what
church they attended, what they “ believe” about Jesus had
positively no bearing in their case. They heard the wonder­
ful words of life which I had humbly been able to bring to
them. They believed that God does live in them. They
had a problem. They followed our directions for finding and
using the Power of the Spirit of God. They succeeded.
They proved for themselves that God is the greatest Living
Power on earth today. They used the Power of God against
their troubles, and, regardless of the nature of those trou­
bles, the Spirit of God caused them to disappear.
Cases of incurable illness, such as cancer, disappeared.
Death was frustrated. I have more than one record of life
being restored to a man after the attending physician had
signed the death certificate. .Eventually we shall come to
know the fullness of the Power of God in us. When we
do, we shall smile at death. It will not either worry or
harm us. For the existence of the Spirit of Life in us makes
death, physical death, a matter of slight importance. It will
eventually make it quite unnecessary.
So, then, whoever you are, you may rest in the com­
plete assurance that the Spirit of God lives in you, and
can do for you every needed thing. It can do this by and
through the Power of the Might of God. What more can
you ask? Why clutter up such a beautiful connection with
Almighty God by unprovable church rituals? They don’t
help—they hinder. They cumber the ground. They hide
God.
Let us look at a few of these demonstrations of the Power
of the Spirit of God. Please understand that there has been
no personal contact between anyone. The Power of God is
not dependent upon personalities. It is an ever-existing
Law. It is the very essence of God. When God is discov-
Through War to God 81
ered in the life, and the conditions governing the mani­
festations of the Power of God are complied with, heaven
and earth might pass away— but not the Power of the
Spirit of God—not the Law that is God. So, then, you may
rest with absolute assurance in the immutabality of God,
in you, to do anything you desire, in order that your life
may be drawn closer to the life which is God.
That is the purpose of life. That is why God exists—
that man may know, here and now, the fullness and com­
pleteness of the Power of the Spirit of God. John 3:16
fades into insignificance in the Light of God, does it not?
The very idea of any creation of God perishing is too fan­
tastic to be even entertained. Love is one of the attributes
of God, but God has other attributes, too. The main at­
tributes of God is not love—it is LIFE. Never-ending LIFE.
A life in which the fullness of the Spirit of God in com­
pletely merged with the physical body of man. That is
complete life. That is what God intended. God will lead
us from that point on when we attain it.
* * *
In the City of Detroit there is a business man who went
without his meals once a day in order to secure the Psychi-
ana Teaching. He had nothing. He wanted a profitable
business, and he knew that the truths of God were being
revealed to mankind through our simple teaching. A few
weeks ago I visited in that man’s home. I went through
his factory. He has 57 employees, and is on Easy Street.
That is what he wanted. That is what the Power of the
Spirit of God brought to him.
In Louisville, Kentucky, there lives a very happy family.
They, too, discovered the Power of the Spirit of God in
them, and they also discovered how very easy it is for any­
one to make the vital contact with that Spirit. Recently this
family wrote me, overjoyed at what the Might of God have
done for them. I quote in part:
82 Through War to God
“ Me and mine have received wonderful blessings
from the God-Law of the universe. We are now free
of debt. We do not owe anyone. We have received
more than enough money to open up a grocery busi­
ness and we are doing fine in that business. It is
astonishing how easy it is to get the things you need
through the Power of God without struggling for
them. No one need ever be in need or want when such
lives are in tune with the God-Law.”
This is only one of millions of people who had not yet
learned the priceless secret that the God of this universe
is not limited in His ability to help here and now. These
good folks discovered the Power of the Spirit of God in
them. They used that Power. Now they have everything
they need. The God of this universe supplies our every
need. This is sure. This is positive, because the God we
know in us has exceedingly great riches. Moreover, the
Creative ability of God is completely limitless. These good
folks are not interested in a “ home in heaven.” They
wanted a good business here. They found the Power of
God, and the rest was easy.
In Philadelphia not long ago there laid, at the point of
death, a beautiful young son. The attending physicians
said, “ He might have a chance,” but they held out little
hope. Many blood transfusions had been given. The ap­
pendix was ruptured and general peritonitis had set in.
Then, thinking, perhaps, I might be able to help, the par­
ents wired me. I have a letter from them before me as I
write this. It says, in part:
“ Two days after my wire to you the doctors were
able to remove the drainage tubes, and even though
further complications had set in, he continued to im­
prove. The Power of God truly is mindful of It’s own.
Thank you a million.”
Through War to God 83
In another city in Pennsylvania a few weeks ago there
happened what the churches would call “a miracle.” How­
ever, there are no miracles in the Realm of the Spirit of
God. Everything, no matter how it may stagger our im­
agination, is perfectly normal. But let this unmarried lady
speak for herself. I have never seen her, and never expect
to. She writes:
“I am writing to let you know of the great miracle
that occurred in my life on the evening of Tuesday,
December 2, 1941. I had my parents at my bedside
thinking I was leaving this world. My body had be­
come all numb, but I could still speak and hear. The
Living God was speaking to me and telling me that I
was being cured of my illness, a disease similar to
epilepsy. As soon as I heard that I was sitting up in
my bed, telling mother, dad, and my brothers. This
condition had been with me for over three years, but
now it looks as though I do have the privilege of a new
life.”
The Power of the Spirit of God, which first breathed its
own Breath, or Life, into you when you were born, still
lives in you. Surely, the Power that gave life to your body
—the Power that actually built it from two little germs,
still has the ability and the power to drive disease out—
don’t you think ? Is it any more difficult for Almighty God
to drive an incurable disease from the body than to make
that body in the first place? Remember this—the Power
that created your body and soul still lives in you. That
Power is the Spirit of God. If you recognize this amazing
Presence, there is nothing God cannot do for you.
You do not have to go near a church to find the fullness
of the Power of the Spirit of God. As a matter of fact, God
is not to be found in anything our churches teach. They
teach the doctrines of the Christian religion. These doc-
84 Through War to God
trines are based on the mythical existence of Jesus, one of a
score of traditional “crucified gods” of the dark and pagan
past. The Power which healed this young girl is the Power
of God—in her. Not the Power of Jesus or any other human
being.
From San Diego, Calif., there comes evidence of what the
Spirit of God can do in a material way. One of the troubles
with present-day religions lies in the fact that they all deal
with the operations of God after death. They all concen­
trate on telling us what God can do for our souls. None of
them teach that God Almighty, abiding in us, can do far
more for us here and now than He can “above the skies.”
Therein they fail.
We live in a terribly real realm. The earth is terribly
materialistic today. It is slaughtering human beings like
rats. So, then, we need a religion which will forget all
about what God can do “above the sky.” We need a re­
ligion which can reveal the Power of the Spirit of God to
humanity here and now. It is very significant that the true
concept of God, and the only concept which has been able
to reveal the actual Power of God, is coming to earth in
it’s most materialistic moment.
Nothing God can do “ above the skies” can have any
bearing on what God can do here and now, when the earth
so badly needs the Power of the Spirit of God. Yet our
churches raise their hands in horror if one tells his fol­
lowers that Almighty God can provide materially as well
as spiritually. Yet the cattle on a thousand hills is a ma­
terial manifestation. Everything else God made is material.
So why limit the ability of God to manifest only “ above the
skies” and “after we die” ? Seems to me that’s making false
systems of religion quite safe. They do not promise results
until after death.
You may be sure that the true concept of God will bring
material results here and now, when and where we need
them. The future of the human race, after bodily death is
Through War to God 85
something which is in the hands of the Spirit of God. Yet
our Christian churches play fast and loose with that sub­
ject as though they understood it.
As if in corroboration of that last statement, the next
letter I pick up reads as follows:
“ I have found the True God at last, both in a
material and spiritual way. Dr. Robinson, I want to
thank you from the bottom of my heart for teaching
me the way to find the Real and Pure God. (I like
that word 'pure.) I am perfectly happy and contented.
I feel just like shouting half of the time, and when I
am most happy is when the hour comes to spend with
my Master in communion with the most wonderful
Presence in the universe. Now, here is the material
side. One year ago, December 1, 1940, my husband
was making a salary of $200 a month. One year later
he is doing exactly the same sort of work at a salary
of $525 a month. Physically, I am in perfect health,
etc.”
The human life that has fully recognized the overflowing
Power of the Spirit of God in it is beautifully rounded out.
First, that life has a super-abundance of everything ma­
terially good, and, secondly, that life overflows with the
Presence of the Spirit of God. Thus, both material and
spiritual needs—in fact, all our needs, are fully supplied,
not because we believe that Jesus died on a cross for our
sins 2000 years ago, but because the Spirit of Almighty
God dwells in us—in our bodies.
This being true, we have at our instant disposal the
Powers which are God. These Powers are not, and cannot,
be limited. The flowers are material—they are very beauti­
ful. The birds are material—they, too, are very beautiful.
In fact, everything you see around you is material, yet all
nature came from the Spirit of God. What foolishness,
86 Through War to God
then, to deny the ability of Almighty God to bring material
benefits to us all, here and now? That teaching may be
propaganda for these varied systems of religion. If they
can keep your eyes off the material—if they can convince
you that so long as you live on the earth are a “pilgrim
travelling along a thorny road,” then you will, of course,
turn to them for succor and spiritual help, which you will
not receive until “after you die.”
Here is a letter received from Kentucky on March 10,
1942. It is but one of hundreds of thousands we have re­
ceived, all bearing mute but incontrovertible evidence that
the Spirit of God does exist in us, and can do for us every­
thing we need to make our lives living mirrors of the Power
of the Spirit of God. Listen to this heart-throbbing letter.
Could human language be plainer?
“ I am at last using the Power—and does it work?
Listen! It is so powerful I can hardly use it. I am at
last getting well. If I could have realized what you
really meant to show me I could have been well long
ago, but I guess I just wasn’t sure. Listen! Today
if anyone should offer me the world with all of its
wealth for my freedom and joy, I could only pity
them.”
I could write until the Fall of 1983 and still I could not
give you in writing all the evidence we have received. Such
an outpouring of the Spirit of God has not been witnessed
on the earth before. It will not stop until the glory of the
Power of the Spirit of God covers the earth as the waters
cover the sea. It cannot stop. For this is the revelation of
the Power of God which humanity has looked for so long.
Never before was the time ripe. Not until this ghastly
global war was the human mind ready to turn from false
prophets of God to the true prophets who do not go 2000
years into past history for their God, but who know, and
Through War to God 87
prove, and teach, the indwelling Power of the Spirit of
God in every life—right here and now.
We have been anticipating God for a long time. We have
known for many years that in this time of world crisis the
true concept of God would be brought to humanity. We
knew 50 years ago that we should play a prominent part
in this most dazzling of all revelations of the Power of the
Spirit of God on the earth. It is the only true revelation
of the Power of the Spirit of God ever to come to human­
ity. And it comes at a time when it will be received.
We have not suffered here in America yet as we shall
suffer. We have not known the misery and wholesale
bloodshed some of the European countries have known. But
we shall know what it means to see the lives of our loved
ones snuffed out by the ruthless bombs and poison gas of
the enemy. Let none think that the fullness of the Power
of the Spirit of God will be universally received here in
America until we have suffered.
The peril which threatens us is not comprehended yet.
It will be. But the main thought of the average American
today is more money. Strikes, walkouts, absenteeism in
our vital war industries. A ruthless disregard for the spirit
of freedom which prompted our forefathers to give us our
Constitution. Politics in Washington. The New Deal. The
utter disregard with which the taxpayers’ money is being
frittered away. All these things are but an indication of what
will come before America, as a whole, will be ready to ac­
cept the fullness of the Spirit of God.
It may be, and probably will be, that the Axis powers
will so punish us here that it will look as if there is no hope.
I trust that day does not come, for I have a son flying in
the navy, and I want that boy to come back to me. But I
am afraid such days will come. It may be that Americans
will bleed, suffer, and die by the millions. If that day does
come, it will then be time for all America to turn to God.
This it can do, and will do, not by bowing to the dictates
88 Through War to God
of an Italian or English or American system of religion.
For none of these can disclose the Power of the Spirit of
God to anyone.
Book II
CHAPTER I
NOW THAT we have discovered what God is not, we should
be in an advantageous position to discover what God is.
Obviously, we shall not return to theology, but shall look
for God where we know we shall be most apt to find God.
And we do not have to look very far away.
As I look out of the front window of my home in Mos­
cow, Idaho, I see a huge pine tree on a neighbor’s lawn. It
has been growing there for hundreds of years. Once it was
a pine-cone. If I look out of my back window I see a beau­
tiful barberry hedge surrounding my home. I planted that
hedge some 15 years ago. When I planted it the shoots
were less than a foot in length. Now the hedge stands six
feet high and I must trim it every year to keep it from
growing too high.
Around my walks the crocuses grow. And the bleeding
hearts. And a variety of other beautiful flowers so beau­
tiful that the hand of man could never have created them.
The hand of man can imitate them wonderfully, but there
is one thing man cannot put into them—that is Life. For
there is life in those beautiful flowers and plants. They
do grow. When the snow falls and covers them with a
blanket of white they go to sleep. When Spring comes
they awaken. .But the hand of man does not awaken them.
I do not have to go out and shake these beautiful flowers
advising them that Spring is here and it’s time to wake up.
Then, if I drive through this magnificent Palouse country
the fields at this writing are golden and heavy with grain.
92 Through War to God
Soon the combines will cut it down. It will be milled, and
much of it sent to feed the fighting men of the Allied nations.
There is life in the crocus. There is life in the bleeding
hearts. There is life in Mr. Collin’s pine tree. There is
life in my barberry hedge. Not human life, to be sure, but
life, nevertheless.
I have travelled over much of the world, yet I have never
seen a place where life is not. I have seen some places such
as the barren slopes of Mt. Vesuvius, but the country all
around literally teems with life. Grape vines, flowers, fruits
—these and a thousand other forms of vegetable and plant
life all join together to speak in unmistakably plain lan­
guage the fact that Life exists on the earth.
Where life exists, in whatever form, there, too, exists the
Creator of life— God. I do not like to use the word “ God”
but am hard-pressed for a better word. Personally, had the
word “ God” never been heard of I am of the opinion that
this earth would be a far different place to live in. Of
course, if we can discover just what this thing called “ God”
is, then it makes little difference what It be called.
(When the word “ God” is used, however, one’s thoughts
unconsciously drift to churches and theology. However, I
want to get just as far away from those things as possible.
So when I use the word “ God” I am alluding only to the
invisible Spirit of all life which we shall call the Creator,
or, preferably, the Spirit of God. When I allude to this
Spirit as “ He,” I do so only for convenience sake, for God,
the invisible Spirit behind all creation, has no gender.)
The poet had the proper understanding when he wrote:
“ I know not where His islands reach
Their fronded palms in air;
I only know I cannot drift
Beyond His love and care.”
Most of “ His islands” today are battlefields soaked in hu-
Through War to God 93
man blood. Let us hope that before we close this book we
shall have discovered not only where and what God is, but
how to use the Power of God to stop this bloody slaughter
of innocent human beings.
My definition of God is this: “Life, capable of existence
without physical form.” There are, of course, many other
attributes which God also is, but these are all subservient
to the one great fact that God is life capable of existence
without physical form. The Creative Spirit has another
faculty—It is able to manifest in a million different forms—
yet It still remains primarily Life— capable of existence
without physical form.
It is safe, then, to state that all known forms of life had
a common origin. They are all products of the Creator
who, we see, is life first, then many other things, too. Life
first—many attributes with that life.
I believe you will readily admit that man is the highest
form of all known life. Man is the only form of life which
is capable of acknowledging the existence of a Creator.
Most certainly man is the only created creature gifted with
the ability to express and reflect the mind and the will of the
Creator. We have seen why this is. Man is a direct product
of the operations of God here on this earth. We can trace
his birth from conception to full-grown manhood. It all
happened here in our homes, and during the different stages
of man’s birth, evidences of that birth were plainly visible.
X-Ray pictures can be taken of the different stages of the
operations of the Spirit of God as It goes about its mirac­
ulous task of creating a human being.
Man is something else—he is the only created thing in
which the Spirit of the Creator abides from life til death.
In every creation there is the life of God, each in a dif­
ferent form and measure. But in man there is no limit to
the measure of the Life, or Spirit of God which has been
placed in him by virtue of the fact that the Creator still
lives in man, and still controls the life of man.
94 Through War to God
To some extent this is also true of the flowers and the
animals. For while God is Life capable of existence with­
out physical form, God has the ability to manifest as life
in a million different forms. It is perfectly safe, then, to
say that nothing living was ever made without the Life
which is God going into that creation. The Life which
must be God must also exist in that creation, regardless
of what it may be. For just as the human race has the
ability to reproduce itself and produce more of its kind, so
do the animals, the flowers, the birds and the bees have the
same ability to reproduce their kind. So God, in some part,
small or large, must live in those creations.
With this very great difference, however, the Spirit of
Life, or the Spirit of God, which exists in man, exists with­
out limit. The rest of the creation is limited. It is not en­
dowed ability to recognize the Creator, nor is it endowed
with the ability to create anything other that its own kind,
and this it does automatically.
A horse, though endowed with Life which must have
come from the Creator of all Life, cannot build a house.
Man can. He is endowed with creative ability. He can
build a Woolworth or an Empire State building if he
chooses. The reason is that the horse has the gift of Life
given to it in a very limited measure, while man, the great­
est of all God’s creations, has the Spirit of Life, or God,
given to him without measure.
Because of the fullness of the Spirit of God in man, he
has, or should have, dominion over every other form of
created life. A horse cannot reflect the fullness of the Pow­
er of the Creator. A man can. A horse cannot commune
with the Creator. A man can. A horse must stay within
the confines of its little bit of the Life of the Creator as
long as it lives. But man, well, he can improve himself,
and he can improve others. The great difference between
the human race and the rest of creation lies in the rather
staggering fact that man has the ability to recognize the
Through War to God 95
works and power of the Creator. He has the ability to
be closer to the Creator than any other sort of created
life.
There is a limit to the functions of flowers. They live and
grow to beautify the earth. There is a limit to the func­
tions of the animals—they are all there for one single pur­
pose. But with man ? Well, when God placed His own Life
and Power in him, He had a very specific reason for doing
so. Had life been given to man in a lesser measure, what
would man be like today?
Suppose God had created man in his present form and
then endowed him with the life of a horse— what would
man be like? No, the infinite wisdom and intelligence,
which is God the Creator, gave to each created thing just
enough of the Spirit of Life to enable it to fulfill its one
function in life. But in man God placed enough of His own
Life, His own creative ability, His own wisdom, His own
power, that there are no limitations whatsoever to what
man may achieve. This, because all of the Life of God was
given to man. No part of the Life of God was withheld.
No limit was put on the measure of the Spirit of God in
man. To say that man is limited is to limit God, for we have
seen that the invisible motivating power of man is God.
When man realizes that the Power of God has been given
to him, and lives in him without measure, man will awaken
to what he really is. Had it not been for the fact that re­
ligions have taught the utter depravity of man, there would
be no world-war today. So it is this theory of utter de­
pravity which we shall have to get around. Almighty God
has not taken up His abode in any creation which is de­
praved. Nor did God ever make a depraved creation, much
less endow that depraved creation with the Spirit of God
without measure.
The old hymn says: “ Where every prospect pleases, and
only man is vile.” That, of course, is in keeping with the
former theory of God given to the world by religions which
96 Through War to God
looked to the pagan past for their inspiration instead of
looking to the future, and anticipating the greatness of
God. Tell the human race that it is removed from God and
never can find God this side of the tomb and you have
blighted the human race, if it believes you.
But tell the human race that all the Powers God has are
available to it here and now and you tell it the truth. Tell
humanity that it must contact a rabbi, preacher, or priest
before it can know God and you insult God and man, too.
But tell humanity that the actual and literal Power of God
resides in us all, free as the air we breathe, and you have
lifted man far closer to God than he has ever been. It is
for this reason that as we progress in our new understand­
ing of God and His relationship to man, we shall let these
old pagan myths concerning God die the death they should
have died before they were born.
Two concepts of God are offered the American people
today. Theology offers one which tells us that before we
can know God we must believe that Jesus was God, and do
what Jesus tells us to do. (If anyone tries to do what Jesus
tells him to do he will land up in a mad-house.) Then there
is my concept, which tells Americans everywhere that the
Power and the Spirit of God has been given to them without
measure. My concept tells them that because of this amaz­
ing fact they have no limitations whatsoever, because the
God in them certainly is not limited.
I think, perhaps, on account of the large number of
Christian people who will read this book it might be in­
teresting to prove the above statement before we continue
on our path which will show every American who reads
this book what the truths of God, and the actuality of God
really are. I have published these before, but it may not be
amiss to publish them again here. I want, more than any­
thing else, to be logical in my disclosures of the Powers of
God to humanity. If I am logical the American people will
Through War to God 97
accept what I write. If I am not logical I might as well
never write.
America today wants the truths of God. It has given
up hope of finding those truths through our churches.
Ninety per cent of our people are not interested in churches.
They are, however, interested in God. But they will have
to have God logically explained to them. They will take
nothing “ on faith.” You’ll have to show them just exactly
how they can find God, and the pathway to God will have
to be a reasonable logical path, every step of which is with­
in the bounds of their reason. The greatest gem in the hu­
man mind is the gem of reason. That is what makes a dif­
ferent creation out of man. That gem came from God.
Any concept of God, or any statement about God which the
reason cannot grasp, is an untrue statement.
The exaltation of men to the character and homage of
divine beings has always had the effect to draw a veil over
their errors and imperfections, so as to render them im­
perceptible to those who worship them as Gods. This is
true of nearly all the defied men of antiquity, who were
adored as incarnate divinities, among which may be in­
cluded the Christian man-God Jesus Christ. The practice
of the followers of these Gods has been, when an error was
pointed out in their teachings, brought to light by the
progress of science and general intelligence, to bestow upon
the text some new and unwarranted meaning, entirely in­
compatible with its literal reading, or else to insist with a
godly zeal on the correctness of the sentiment inculcated by
the text, and thus essay to make error pass for truth. In
this way millions of the disciples of these Gods have been
misled and blinded, and made to believe by their religious
teachers and their religious education, that everything
taught by their assumed-to-be divine exemplars is perfect
truth, in perfect harmony with science, sense, and true
morals. Indeed, the perversion of the mind and judgment
by a religious education has been in many cases carried to
98 Through War to God
such an extreme as to cause their devout and prejudiced
followers either to entirely overlook and ignore their errone­
ous teachings, or to magnify them into God-given truths,
and thus, as before stated, clothe error with the livery of
truth. This state of things, it has long been noticed by un­
prejudiced minds, exists amongst the millions of professed
believers in the divinity of Jesus Christ. Hence the errors,
both in his moral lessons and his practical life, have passed
from age to age unnoticed, because his pious and awe­
stricken followers, having been taught that he was a divine
teacher, have assumed that his teachings must all be true!
and hence, too, have instituted no scrutiny to determine
their truth or falsity. But we will now proceed to show
that the progress of science and general intelligence has
brought to light many errors, not only in his teachings, but
in his practical life also. In enumerating them, we will ar­
range them under the head
Moral and Religious Errors.
1. The first moral precept in the teachings of Christ,
which we will bring to notice, is one of a numerous class,
which may very properly be arranged under the head of
Moral Extremism. We find many of his admonitions of this
character. Nearly everything that is said is oversaid, car­
ried to extremes—thus constituting an overwrought, ex­
travagant system of morality, impracticable in its requisi­
tions ; as, for example, “ Take no thought for the morrow.”
(Matt, v.) If the spirit of this injunction were carried out
in practical life, there would be no grain sown and no seed
planted in Spring, no reaping done in harvest and no crop
garnered in Autumn; and the result would be universal
starvation in less than 12 months. But, fortunately for so­
ciety, the Christian world has laid this positive injunction
upon the table under the rule of “ indefinite postponement.”
2. Christ’s assumed-to-be most important requisition is
found in the injunction, “ Seek ye first the Kingdom of God,
Through War to God 99
and his righteousness, and all else shall be added unto you.”
(Matt. vi. 33.) His early followers understood by this in­
junction, and doubtless understood it correctly, that they
were to spend their lives in religious devotion, and neglect
the practical duties of life, leaving “ Providence” to take
care of their families—a course of life which reduced many
of them to the point of starvation.
3. The disciple of Christ is required, “when smitten on
one cheek, to turn the other also” ; that is, when one cheek
is pommeled into a jelly by some vile miscreant or drunken
wretch, turn the other, to be smashed up in like manner.
This is an extravagant requisition, which none of his mod­
em disciples even attempt to observe.
4. “Resist not evil” (Matt. v. 34) breathes forth a kin­
dred spirit. This injunction requires you to stand with your
hands in your pockets while being maltreated so cruelly
and unmercifully that the forfeiture of your life may be the
consequence—at least Christ’s early followers so under­
stood it.
5. The disciple of Christ is required, when his cloak is
formally wrested from him, to give up his coat also. (See
Matt, v.) And to carry out the principle, if the maurauder
demands it, he must next give up his boots, then his shirt,
and thus strip himself of all his garments, and go naked.
This looks like an invitation and bribe to robbery.
6. “Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth.” (Matt,
vi. 19.) This is another positive command of Christ, which
the modern Christian world, by common consent, has laid
on the table under the rule of “indefinite postponement,”
under the conviction that the wants of their families and
the exigencies of sickness and old age cannot be served if
they should live up to such an injunction.
7. “ Sell all that thou hast, . . . and come and follow me,”
is another command which bespeaks more piety than wis­
dom, as all who have attempted to comply with it have re­
duced their families to beggary and want.
100 Through War to God
8. “ If any man love the world, the love of the Father is
not in him.” Then he must hate it, as there are but the two
principles, and “from hate proceed envy, strife, evil sur-
misings, and persecution.” Evidently the remedy in this
case for “worldly-mindedness” is worse than the disease.
9. “ He that cometh to me, and hateth not father, mother,
brother, and sister, etc., cannot be my disciple.” (Luke xiv.
26.) This breathes forth the same spirit as the last text
quoted above. Many learned expositions have been penned
by Christian writers to make it appear that hate in this case
does not mean hate. But certainly it would be a slander
upon infinite wisdom to leave it to be inferred that he could
not say or “ inspire” his disciples to say exactly what he
meant, and to say it so plainly as to leave no possibility of
being misunderstood, or leave any ground for dispute about
the meaning.
10. “ Rejoice and be exceeding glad” when persecuted.
(Matt. v. 4.) Now, as a state of rejoicing is the highest con­
dition of happiness that can be realized, such advice must
naturally prompt the religious zealot to court persecution,
in order to obtain complete happiness, and consequently to
pursue a dare-devil life to provoke persecution.
11. “Whosoever shall seek to save his life, shall lose it,”
etc. (Luke xvii. 33) Here is displayed the spirit of mar­
tyrdom which has made millions reckless of life, and goaded
on the frenzied bigot to seek the fiery fagot and the halter.
We regard it as another display of religious fanaticism.
12. “Ye shall be hated of all men for my name’s sake.”
(Matt. x. 12.) How repulsive must have been their doc­
trines or their conduct! No sensible religion could excite
the universal hatred of mankind. For it would contain
something adapted to the moral, religious, or spiritual taste
of some class or portion of society, and hence make it and
its disciples loved instead of hated. And, then, how could
they be “hated of all men,” when not one man in a thousand
Through War to God 101
ever heard of them? Here is more of the extravagance of
religious enthusiasm.
13. “ Shake off the dust of your feet” against those who
cannot see the truth or utility of your doctrines. (Matt,
x. 14.) Here Christ encourages in his disciples a spirit of
contempt for the opinions of others calculated to make them
“hated.” A proper regard for the rules of good-breeding
would have forbidden such rudeness toward strangers for a
mere honest difference of opinion.
14. “ Take nothing for your journey, neither staff, nor
scrip, nor purse” (Mark vi. 8) ; that is, “sponge on your
friends, and force yourself on your enemies,” the latter
class of which seem to have been much the most numerous.
A preacher who should attempt to carry out this advice at
the present day would be stopped at the first toll-gate, and
compelled to return. Here is more violation of the rules of
good-breeding, and the common courtesies of civilized life.
15. “ Go and teach all nations,” etc. Why issue an in­
junction that could not possibly be carried out? It never
has been, and never will be, executed, for three-fourths of
the human race have never yet heard of Christianity. It
was not, therefore, a mark of wisdom, or a superior mind,
to issue such an injunction.
16. “And he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved;
but he that believeth not shall be damned.” What intol­
erance, bigotry, relentless cruelty, and ignorance of the sci­
ence of mind are here displayed! No philosopher would give
utterance to, or indorse, such a sentiment. It assumes that
belief is a creature of the will, and that a man can believe
anything he chooses, which is wide of the truth. And the
assumption has been followed by persecution, misery, and
bloodshed.
17. “All things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, be­
lieving, ye shall receive.” (Matt. xxi. 22.) Here is an en­
tire negation of natural law in the necessity of physical
labor as a means to procure the comforts of life. When
102 Through War to God
anything is wanted in the shape of food or raiment, it is
to be obtained, according to this text, by going down on your
knees and asking God to bestow it. But no Christian ever
realized “all things whatsoever asked for in prayer,” though
believing with all his heart” he should obtain it. The
author knows, by his own practical experience, that this
declaration is not true. This promise has been falsified
thousands of times by thousands of praying Christians.
18. “ Be not called rabbi.” “ Call no man your father.”
(Matt, xxiii.) The Christian world assumes that much of
what Christ taught is mere idle nonsense, or the incoherent
utterings of a religious fanatic; for they pay no more prac­
tical attention to it than the barking of a dog. And here is
one command treated in this manner: “ Call no man father.”
Where is the Christian who refuses to call his earthly sire
a father ?
19. “ Call no man master.” (Matt, xxiii.) And yet mis­
ter, which is the same thing, is the most common title in
Christendom.
20. He who enunciates the two words, “ ‘Thou fool,’ shall
be in danger of hell fire.” (Matt, xxii.) Mercy! Who, then,
can be saved ? For there is probably not a live Christian in
the world who has not called somebody a “fool,” when he
knew him to be such, and could not with truthfulness be
called anything else. Here, then, is another command uni­
versally ignored and “ indefinitely postponed.”
21. “ Swear not at all, neither by heaven nor earth.”
(Matt, v.) And yet no Christian refuses to indulge in legal,
if not profane, swearing which the text evidently forbids.
22. “ Men ought always to pray.” (Luke xviii.) No time
to be allowed for eating or sleeping. More religious fanat­
icism.
23. “ Whosoever will be chief among you let him be your
servant” (Matt. xx. 27) ; that is, no Christian professor
shall be a president, governor, major-general, deacon, or
priest. Another command laid on the table.
Through War to God 103
24. “ Love your enemies.” (Matt. v. 44.) Then what kind
of a feeling should we cultivate toward friends? And how
much did he love his enemies when he called them “fools,”
“ liars,” “hypocrites,” “generation of vipers,” etc.? And yet
he is held up as “our” example in love, meekness, and for­
bearance. But no man ever did love an enemy. It is a moral
impossibility, as much so as to love bitter or nauseating
food. The advice of the Roman slave Syrus is indicative of
more sense and wisdom—“ Treat your enemy kindly, and
thus make him a friend.”
25. We are required to forgive an enemy 490 times; that
is, “ 70 times 7.” (Matt, vii.) Another outburst of religious
enthusiasm; another proof of an overheated imagination.
26. “ Be ye perfect, even as your Father in heaven is per­
fect.” (Matt. v. 48.) Here is more of the religious extrava­
gance of a mind uncultured by science. For it is self-evi­
dent that human beings can make no approximation to
divine perfection. The distance between human imperfec­
tion and a perfect God is, and ever must be, infinite.
27. Christ commended those who “ became eunuchs for
the kingdom of heaven’s sake” (Matt. xix. 12)—a custom
requiring a murderous, self-butchering process; destructive
of the energies of life and the vigor of manhood, and ren­
dering the subject weak, effeminate, and mopish, and unfit
for the business of life. It is a low species of piety, and
discloses a lamentable lack of a scientific knowledge of the
true functions of the sexual organs on the part of Jesus.
28. Christ also encouraged his disciples to “pluck out
the eye,” and “ cut off the hand,” as a means of rendering
it impossible to perpetrate evil with those members. And
we would suggest, if such advice is consistent with sound
reasoning, the head also should be cut off, as a means of
more effectually carrying out the same principle. Such ad­
vice never came from the mouth of a philosopher. It is a
part of Christ’s extravagant piety.
29. He also taught the senseless, oriental tradition of
104 Through War to God
“the unpardonable sin against the Holy Ghost”—a fabulous
being who figured more anciently in the history of various
countries. No philosopher or man of science could harbor
such childish misconceptions as are embodied in this tradi­
tion, which neither describes the being nor explains the na­
ture of the sin.
30. We find many proofs, in Christ’s Gospel history, that
he believed in the ancient heathen tradition which taught
that disease is caused by demons and evil spirits. (See Luke
vii. 21, and viii. 2.)
31. Many cases are reported of his relieving the obsessed
by casting out the diabolical intruders, in imitation of the
oriental custom long in vogue in various countries, by which
he evinced a profound ignorance of the natural causes of
disease.
32. Christ also taught the old pagan superstition that
“ God is a God of anger,” while modern science teaches that
it would be as impossible for a God of perfect and infinite
attributes to experience the feeling of anger as to commit
suicide; and recent discoveries in physiology prove that
anger is a species of suicide, and that it is also a species of
insanity. Hence an angry God would be an insane God—an
omnipotent lunatic, “ ruling the kingdom of heaven,” which
would make heaven a lunatic asylum, and rather a danger­
ous place to live.
33. And Christ’s injunction to “fear God” also implies
that he is an angry being. (See Luke xxiii. 40.) But past
history proves that “the fear of God’ has always been the
great lever of priestcraft, and the most paltry and pitiful
motive that ever moved the human mind. It has paralyzed
the noblest intellects, crushed the elasticity of youth, and
augmented the hesitating indecision of old age, and finally
filled the world with cowardly, trembling slaves. No phil­
osopher will either love or worship a God he fears. “ The
fear of the Lord” is a very ancient heathen superstition.
34. The inducement Christ holds out for leading a virtu-
Through War to God 105
ous life by the promise of “ Well done, thou good and faith­
ful servant,” bespeaks a childish ignorance of the nature of
the human mind and the true science of life. It ranks with
the promise of the nurse of sugar-plums to the boy if he
would keep his garments unsoiled.
There are many other errors found in the precepts and
practical life of Jesus Christ (which we are compelled to
omit an exposition of here), such as his losing his temper,
and abusing the money-changers by overthrowing their
counting-table, and expelling them from the temple with a
whip of cords when engaged in a lawful and laudable busi­
ness ; his getting mad at and cursing the fig tree; his doom­
ing Capernaum to hell in a fit of anger; his being deceived
by two of his disciples (Peter and Judas), which prompted
him to call them devils; his implied approval of David,
with his 14 crimes and penitentiary deeds, and also Abra­
ham, with his falsehoods, polygamy, and incest, and his
implied sanction of the Old Testament, with all its errors
and numerous crimes; his promise to his 12 apostles to “ sit
upon the 12 thrones of Israel” in heaven, thus evincing a
very limited and childish conception of the enjoyments of
the future life;Jus puerile idea of sin, consisting in a per­
sonal affront to a personal God; his omission to say any­
thing about human freedom, the inalienable rights of man,
etc.
The Scientific Errors of Christ.
That Jesus Christ was neither a natural or moral phil­
osopher is evident from the following facts:
1. He never made any use of the word “ philosophy.”
2. Never gave utterance to the word “science.”
3. Never spoke of a natural law, or assigned a natural
cause for anything. The fact that he never made use of
these words now so current in all civilized countries, is evi­
dence that he was totally ignorant of these important
branches of knowledge, the cultivation of which is now
106 Through War to God
known to be essential to the progress of civilization. And
yet it is claimed his religion has been a great lever in the
advancement of civilization. But this is a mistake, a solemn
mistake, as elsewhere shown.
4. Everything to Christ was miracle; everything was pro­
duced and controlled by the arbitrary power of an angry or
irascible God. He evidently had no idea of a ruling prin­
ciple in nature or of the existence of natural law, as con­
trolling any event he witnessed. Hence he set no bounds to
anything, and recognized no limits to the possible. He be­
lieved God to be a supernatural personal being, who pos­
sessed unlimited power, and who ruled and controlled every­
thing by his arbitrary will, without any law or any limita­
tion to its exercises. Hence he told his disciples they would
have anything they prayed for in faith; that by faith they
could roll mountains into the sea, or bring to a halt the
rolling billows of the mighty deep. He evidently believed
that the forked lightning, the outbursting earth-shaking
thunder, and the roaring, heaving volcano were but pliant
tools or obsequious servants to the man of faith. And he
displays no less ignorance of the laws of mind that the laws
of nature; thus proving him to have been neither a natural,
moral, nor mental philosopher. He omitted to teach the
great moral lessons learned by human experience, of which
he was evidently totally ignorant.
5. He never taught that the practice of virtue contains
its own reward.
6. That the question of right and wrong of any action is
to be decided by its effect upon the individual, or upon
society.
7. That no life can be displeasing to God which is useful
to man.
8. And he omitted to teach the most important lesson that
can engage the attention of man, viz.: that the great pur­
pose of life is self-development.
9. That no person can attain or approximate to real hap-
Through War to God 107
piness without bestowing a special attention to the cultiva­
tion and exercise of all the mental and physical faculties,
so far as to keep them in a healthy condition. None of the
important lessons above named are hinted at in his teach­
ings, which, if punctually observed, would do more to ad­
vance the happiness of the human race than all the sermons
Christ or Chrishna ever preached, or ever taught.
10. And then he taught many doctrines which are plainly
contradicted by the established principle of modern science,
such as:
11. Diseases being produced by demons, devils, or wicked
spirits. (See Mark ix. 20.)
Christ nowhere assigns a natural cause for disease, or a
scientific explanation for its cure.
12. His rebuking a fever discloses a similar lack of sci­
entific knowledge. (See Luke iv. 39.)
13. His belief in a literal hell and a lake of fire and brim­
stone (see Matt, xviii. 8) is an ancient heathen superstition
science knows nothing about, and has no use for.
14. His belief in a personal devil also (see Matt. xvii. 18),
which is another oriental tradition, furnishes more sad
proof of an utter want of scientific knowledge, as science
has no place for, and no use for, such a being.
15. Christ taught the unphilosophical doctrine of repent­
ance, as he declared he “came to call sinners to repentance”
(Matt. ix. 13)—a mental process, which consists merely in a
revival of early impressions, and often leads a person to
condemn that which is right, as well as that which is wrong.
16. The doctrine of “forgiveness,” which Christ so often
inculcated, is also at variance with the teachings of science,
as it can do nothing toward changing the nature of the act
forgiven, or toward cancelling its previous effects upon so­
ciety. Science teaches that every crime has its penalty at­
tached to it, which no act of forgiveness, by God or man,
can arrest or set aside.
17. But nothing evinces, perhaps, more clearly Christ’s
108 Through War to God
total lack of scientific knowledge than his holding a man
responsible for his belief, and condemning for disbelief, as
he does in numerous instances (Matt. xvi. 16), for a man
could as easily control the circulation of the blood in his
veins as control his belief. Science teaches that belief de­
pends upon evidence, and without it, it is impossible to
believe, and with it, it is impossible to disbelieve. How fool­
ish and unphilosophical, therefore, to condemn for either
belief or disbelief!
18. The numerous cases in which Christ speaks of the
heart as being the seat of consciousness, instead of the
brain, evinces a remarkable ignorance of the science of
mental philosophy. He speaks of an “ upright heart,” “a
pure heart,” etc., when an “ upright liver,” “a pure liver,”
would be as sensible, as the latter has as much to do with
the character as the former.
19. And in many cases in which he makes it meritorious
to have a right “faith,” and places it above reason, and as­
sumes it to be a voluntary act, shows his utter ignorance of
the nature of the human mind.
20. And Christ evinced a remarkable ignorance of the
cause of physical defects, when he told his hearers a cer­
tain man was born blind, in order that he might cure him.
(Matt. vii. 22.)
21. And Christ’s declaration, that those who marry are
not worthy of being saved (see Luke xx. 84), shows that
he was very ignorant of the nature of the sexual functions
of the human system.
22. Nothing could more completely demonstrate a total
ignorance of the grand science of astronomy than Christ’s
prediction of the stars falling to the earth. (See Luke
xxi. 25.)
23. And the conflagration of the world, “the gathering
of the elect,” and the realization of a fancied millennium,
which he several times predicted would take place in his
time, “ before this generation pass away” (Matt. xxiv. 34),
Through War to God 109
proves a like ignorance, both of astronomy and philosophy.
24. And his cursing of the fig tree for not bearing fruit
in the winter season (see Matt. xxi. 20), not only proves
his ignorance of the laws of nature, but evinces a bad tem­
per.
25. Christ indorses the truth of Noah’s flood story (see
Luke xvii. 27), which every person at the present day,
versed in science and natural law, knows is mere fiction,
and never took place.
And numerous other errors, evincing the most profound
ignorance of science and natural law, might be pointed out
in Christ’s teachings, if we had space for them. It has al­
ways been alleged by orthodox Christendom, that Christ’s
teaching and moral system are so faultless as to challenge
criticism, and so perfect as to defy improvement. But this
is a serious mistake. For most of his precepts and moral
inculcations which are not directly at war with the prin­
ciples of science, or do not involve a flagrant violation of
the laws of nature, are, nevertheless, characterized by a
lawless and extravagant mode of expression peculiar to
semi-savage life, and which, as it renders it impossible to
reduce them to practice, shows they could not have emanat­
ed from a philosopher, or man of science, or a man of even­
ly-balanced mind. They impose upon the world a system of
morality, pushed to such extremes that its own professed
admirers do not live it out, or even attempt to do so. They
long ago abandoned it as an impracticable duty. We will
prove this by enumerating most of its requisitions, and
showing that they are daily violated and trampled under
foot by all Christendom. Where can the Christian profes­
sor be found who, 1. “takes no thought for the morrow” ;
2. who “ lays not up treasure on earth,” or, at least, tries
to do it; or, 3. who “ gives up all his property to the poor” ;
or, who, “when his cloak is wrested from him by a robber,”
gives up his coat also; or, who calls no man master or mis­
ter (the most common title in Christendom) ; or, who calls
no Through War to God
no man father (if he has a father) ; or, who calls no man a
fool (when he knows he is a fool); or, who, when one cheek
is pommeled into a jelly by some vile miscreant or drunken
wretch, turns the other to be battered up in the same way;
or, who prays without ceasing; or, who rejoices when per­
secuted; or, who forgives an enemy 490 times (70 times 7 );
or, who manifests by his practical life that he loves his ene­
mies (the way he loves him is to report him to the grand
jury, or hand him over to the sheriff) ; or, who forsakes
houses and land, and everything, “for the kingdom of heav­
en’s sake.” No Christian professor lives up to these pre­
cepts, or any of them, or even tries to do so. To talk, there­
fore, of finding a practical Christian, while nearly the whole
moral code of Christ is thus daily and habitually outraged
and trampled under foot by all the churches and every one
of the 200,000,000 of Christian professors, is bitter irony
and supreme solecism. We would go 500 miles, or pay $500,
to see a Christian. If a man can be a Christian while openly
and habitually violating every precept of Christ, then the
word has no meaning. These precepts, the Christian world
finding to be impossible to practice, have unanimously laid
upon the table under the rule of “ indefinite postponement.”
They are the product of a mind with an ardent tempera­
ment, and the religious faculties developed to excess, and
unrestrained by scientific or intellectual culture.
It is for this reason only that I write a few pages show­
ing how far from the mark we get when we endeavor to
follow either Jesus, or any other “ crucified god” of an­
tiquity. If Almighty God was ever killed, there is little hope
for this world. I shall try and be as brief as possible for I
am as anxious as you are to travel along and disclose to
you the staggering Power which will be yours when you
learn what the truths of God really are.
* * *
The most staggering fact in the world is the fact that the
Spirit of Life, or the Spirit of God came to this earth and
I l l
Through War to God
began Its building and creating operations. That fact stag­
gers the imagination. It is replete with the most astounding
of possibilities. We have seen, and reason dictates that the
Spirit of God, the Creator, even now lives within us. The
ability to press these typewriter keys comes direct from
God. The ability to collect my thoughts and transmit them
to you in the form of a book, is directly attributable to the
Power of the Creator in me.
Can you imagine a horse, or a flower, or a sea-gull being
able to sit down, collect its thoughts and write a book? Can
you imagine my body, 225 pounds of muscle, water, and
fat, in itself being able to sit at this machine and write a
book? Can you imagine this body being alive for even a
fraction of a second without the Life which is God in it?
If it could, what would make it? There is only one God, and
that one God was always life. No one could kill God—which
„yery effectively relegates the Christian theory of God to
where it belongs.
What Power is it which gives you the ability to read this
book? Certainly not the power of your eyes, or your brain,
or your mind, whatever that may be. None of these organs
can give you the ability to do anything, because they, in
themselves, have no ability. But introduce the Spirit of
God—the very Life of God into this body and we can do
these things. Therefore, may I impress upon you once more
the fact—the amazing fact—that all the Power God has, of
which you are able to absorb and use, even now, as I write
this and you read it, actually lives in you. It is in you. So
far as you are concerned that is enough.
I am not here concerned with the question of when the
earth was created, and when the Spirit of God began Its
creating processes on this earth. If you look in the Christian
Bible you find there that the date was 4004 B.C. But we
know that is not true even though it is in the “ Holy-Divine-
ly Inspired Word of God.” This false statement came from
a Roman Catholic “holy man” in the form of Archbishop
112 Through War to God
Ussher of Armagh in Ireland. He took a paper and a pencil
and, under the “inspiration of the holy ghost” as he says,
he figured out that at 9 a.m. on a certain Tuesday morning
some 6000 years ago, God Almighty created the heavens and
the earth. So authentic is this considered to be that you
may find this date in the margin of the King James version
of the Christian Bible. About everything else the Roman
Catholic Church has told us about God is on a par with this
statement, so I cannot be interested in it.
The farthest back history and geology can take us places
the beginning of this earth at least two billion years ago.
No one knows really how old it is, but scientists know that
the beginning was at least 2,000,000,000 years ago. Nor do
we know just how it came to be. It is not too important that
we do know. One thing is certain, the more we discover
about the operations of the Spirit of God, the older does
the earth become.
One pretty well accepted theory is that it all began with
a fire-mist. A spiral nebula perhaps. Whirling balls of gas
and rings of smoke, hurled round and round in space finally
became detached, finally cooling and forming this earth.
And please remember, this is not the only planet in the
celestial sphere. There are billions of them.
However that may be, and it is completely beside the
point, we know that long before man inhabited the earth,
great animals roamed its plains, one preying on the other.
Animals with huge armaments—reminding one of the tanks
now being used in Europe. What they were placed here for,
or how they grew, we do not know. But we do know that
they were here. And we know that the same Great Spirit
which is directing my actions at this typewriter was the sole
originator of them.
When the time came that they served no useful purpose,
they exterminated themselves. Then came other animals and
reptiles, still millions of years before man. They outlived
their usefulness and they too passed into oblivion. The Fly-
Through War to God 113
ing-drago, the Pterodactyl, Tyrannosaurus and scores of
others. They lived. They outlived their usefulness and they
passed on..
Then came man. We know of the existence of man on the
earth half a million years ago. He was a different creature
from man today. But he was a man. He could talk, act,
think, reason, and create. How much these ancient men
knew of the existence of the Spirit of God in them I do not
know. That they had consciousness of a Creator I do know.
For it is not possible for any man to exist anywhere, under
any conditions, and not know that somewhere, there is a
Great Spirit of Creation which is a very definite part of
him. That instinct is in every man. It has probably taken
500,000 years of evolution to bring man to the place where
he can realize that all the Power of God lives in him while
he is on the earth. This generation has not discovered that
yet.
How long it will take before the staggering brilliance of
this amazing fact dawns fully on the human race, we do
not know. It is entirely possible that the present war will
not come to its end before man has grasped the scintillating
Power of God in him. It may take that Power to stop the
Axis. Let us suppose that all our plans for victory in “ 1943
or 1944 at the latest” are all disrupted. Let us suppose that
we are underestimating both German, Italian, and Jap.
It could be.
But let us suppose that things do not go the way we think
they will go. Suppose some night Jap planes fly down from
the Aleutians and blast the Boeing plant in Seattle, and
other coastal airplane plants out of existence. That is not
beyond the realm of possibility just as long as the Japs are
in the Aleutians. And let us suppose further that the com­
bined successes of Jap, German, and Italian are too much
for the Allied Nations—what could we do then?
What Power do we know of which, if we should fail, can
step into the picture and rescue us from complete disaster?
114 Through War to God
Do you know of such a Power ? Does anyone know of such a
Power? Can our churches produce such a Power? Such a
Power is unknown. The shame, yes, the blasphemy of this
was lies in the fact that while the Axis nations have been
able to gather together a greater array of instruments of
death than the world has ever seen before, we of the demo­
cracies, so-called, know of no spiritual Power which can
stop them. We have to meet their attacks with the same
sort of weapons they use.
Where is our vaunted spirituality? Where is our won­
derful knowledge of God. Where is the “god” of our Chris­
tian civilization? Where is it? If this happens, and if some­
one does not bring to humanity something more than 2000-
year-old theories of God, we are very apt to be swept down
to complete and utter annihilation. That will not happen,
however. For knowledge of the actual existence of God, and
all the Power of God has, is finally being brought to the
human race. The churches oppose it, naturally. Neverthe­
less, knowledge of the fullness of the Power of God in hu­
man lives here and now is coming to the earth, in spite of
anything anyone can do to prevent its coming.
This war is a clash between the powers of material, hu­
man darkness, and the Powers of Light. Those who believe
in conquest by the sword, have set out to conquer this earth
because they have seen no signs of a Higher Power. They
know what our religion amounts to, and they know that it
contains nothing they are afraid of. They believe that the
greatest power on the earth is the power of the tank, the
bombing-plane, the submarine, and the other instruments of
death and destruction. They have seen no evidence to the
contrary. So, in their foolish madness, they have embarked
upon a campaign to bring the whole earth under their sub­
mission.
They will fail. But they will not fail because religion to­
day knows any Power which can stop them. They will fail
because there is a far Greater Power than the power of
Through War to God 115
material might. They will fail because before this war is
ended, that Power will begin to make Itself known in Amer­
ican hearts and lives. That Power is God. The crying shame
is in the fact that those organizations which we have sup­
ported, and which tell us they represent God, are utterly
powerless to reveal to this America of ours, any spiritual
Power which can even be faintly suspected of opposing suc­
cessfully the brute force of the Axis.
The “god” of Hitler, Hirohito, and the Italian dictator
is brute force. They know no other force. And we, as a na­
tion, know no other force either. If we did, we should not
resort to the same instruments of destruction the Axis uses.
The fact that we do is prima facie evidence that while we
make a lot of talk about God, we do not know the rudiments
of the Power of God, nor have we the slightest knowledge
of how we can use the Power of God to defeat the Axis.
So we try to beat it with a greater production. I believe
we shall. But—-if we do not—there is only one place Amer­
ica can turn to. And America does not yet know of that
place and the Power that abides therein. This is not a hope­
less situation at all. Its a shameful situation. It’s a pitiable
situation. But it is not hopeless. For the TRUTHS of the
Spirit of God are known—and there are a few people who,
in an emergency, can call upon the Power of the Spirit of
God and throw that Power against the Axis, bringing it’s
complete and total disintegration, along with all other
forces which believe that might makes right.
Yes—man has had to learn the hard way. It has taken
man some 500,000 years to progress to the place where he
is beginning to be able to recognize in him, the Life and
Power of the C reator.,,M an has looked everywhere else. He
has followed this system of religion and that system of re­
ligion. He has blindly followed priest and preacher. And he
has been disappointed. He still does not know anything about
the Power of God. All he knows, and he doesn’t really know
that, is that if he believes that Almighty God was born of a
116 Through War to God
virgin and killed on a cross, he may, if the Roman Catholic
Church says so, enter into the glories of God after he dies.
What a concept of God. What a pity that is the best the
Christian religion has to offer.
CHAPTER 3
i
I SAID that the human race is now facing a clash between
two ideologies. The one, after sizing up the world situation,
is convinced that no power exists on the earth which is
greater than the material power of brute force. I pointed
out that we who call ourselves a “ Christian” nation have no
spiritual Power with which to oppose brute force.
The question therefore is in order—“ Can spiritual Power
dethrone brute force—is it greater than brute force?”
Let us see. What is the reason that the Axis believes that
it can subdue the earth by material weapons of war? Simply
because it has seen no evidence of any power which is great­
er than the power of brute force. Had there been manifesta­
tions of any such power, the Axis would have been quick to
see them, and never would have embarked upon the insane,
murderous campaign we see it now waging.
To be brutally blunt, the Axis knows no power greater
than its own material murdering power. We see here then,
man’s evolution to the place where he believes that he can
do anything if only he has enough material power. We see
in the Axis, complete evidence of humanity gone as far as
it can go without destroying itself. What we see is man
without conscious knowledge of God. We see material power
attempting to rule the world, safe in the knowledge that
there does not exist a spiritual power which can dethrone it.
We see a world of human beings living together in complete
absence of knowledge of any Power the Creator might pos­
sess. This applies to the democracies as well as to the Axis.
118 !hrough V
s!ar to God
If the Allied Nations knew of any such Power they would
use it.
All we know about God is what we have been told through
our national (?) religion. We know nothing about the Pow­
er of the Spirit of God, but we, like other nations, have a
system of religion which we, like they, believe to be the only
true system of religion on the face of the earth. But there
is a blind spot in that religion. It cannot reveal the Power
of God to us. Nor can the religions of other nations reveal
the Power of God to them either.
We are very apt to overlook this fact when we brag about
our religion and our religious affiliations. The fact that we
have a system of religion means nothing. The fact that this
system of religion happens to be called “Christian” means
nothing either. Every large nation has a system of religion
and every large nation believes all other systems of religion
are “pagan” and “heathen” . But we are proud of our sys­
tem of religion, in spite of the fact that in this, the darkest
hour in our history, our religion can do nothing to help us
out.
It can do nothing towards revealing to us a spiritual
Power which, because it is a spiritual Power, and because
all Spiritual Power is of God, can stop three maniacs like
Hitler, Tojo, and the Italian dictator. Our religion is all
right—we are proud of its traditions. The only thing wrong
with it is that it cannot reveal the Power of God to us. If
it cannot do that it is valueless. We might just as well admit
it and meet and defeat the Axis with the sword, as they are
trying to defeat us. A s matters stand now, whichever side
wins will talk about God being on their side. And the ludi­
crous part of this conflict, if there is a ludicrous part to it,
lies in the fact that every nation engaged in this brutal con­
flict claims that God is on its side. Even madman Hitler
.thinks he is an “ agent of God.”
He may be, but certainly the weapons he is using are ma­
terial, brutal weapons, and by no stretch of even his per-
Through War to God 119
verted imagination can God be ascribed to his side. But have
we any more right to claim God is on our side? If God were,
should we be using material weapons or spiritual weapons ?
I am dwelling on this line of thought at some length be­
cause I want the reader to get the picture of the complete
absence of knowledge of the Power of God on both sides. It
would not be true to say that the democracies know any­
thing about the actual and literal Power of God. If they did
they would use that Power. They know something about
their system of religion but there is no spiritual Power in
that.
All this confusion is quite understandable when we real­
ize that the truth about the existence of the Power of God
in us is not known to us yet. We are living in total ignor­
ance of a spiritual Power of such dynamic magnitude, than
when we finally do realize the staggering fact, the human
race will shout for joy under the spell of a rebirth. A re­
birth which this time will have the consciousness of God
in it.
Our religion teaches us that we must be “ born again”
but that only means we must accept the theories of that re­
ligion. But when the whole world experiences the new-birth
which is just ahead, that will be a day of rapture I assure
you. To discover that we have available to us, and living in
us, airthe Power the Creator has, well, that is enough to
bring joy to every American heart. Parasites like Hitler,
Tojo, and Mussolini, with their pagan ideologies and re­
ligions, will very properly be banished from the earth by
the brightness of the Power of the Spirit of God.
* * *
We have seen then that for at least 500,000 years, man
has been slowly climbing up the ladder of knowledge of
himself and his Creator. It has been a long, hard pull. But
that pull was necessary. Everything that has happened to
the human race has been necessary. Not one step of it could
have been avoided. The truths you will absorb as you study
120 Through War to God
this book could not have been even faintly grasped 100 years
ago. The human race was not ready for them. They are al­
most ready now—not quite.
A few more years of suffering and threatened destruc­
tion, and then the American people will really find the
Power of God in them, as a nation. Individually, all over
this nation, men and women are finding the glorious know­
ledge of the Power of God as I told you in a previous chap­
ter. But for the entire nation to awaken to the staggering
Power of God—that day is not quite here. Not far off— but
still, not quite here. Time alone will tell the story of how
and when that day dawned. It will be a joyous story.
Shall we look a little closer at the God in us and see if
we cannot discover what it means to have, living in us, the
Power of the Spirit of God ? Let us go back to the beginning
of creation, or as close to that beginning as we can get.
Scientists tell us that the first form of life manifested as
the humble little algae which floated on the surface of the
waters. Then came the Amoeba, a single-celled organism.
This Amoeba however, had life. The Creative Power of God
was manifest even then, in this, the lowest form of all life.
You can place these Amoeba on a microscope slide, put a
poison close to them and they will flee from it. You can place
on the slide a sweet substance, and they will flock to it.
This humble Amoeba has life. It has conscious life. It can
distinguish between what is good for it and what is harmful
to it. When it wants to ascend from the waters, it has the
ability to blow itself up with air, and when it wants to
drink, it has the ability to deflate the air and sink. Conscious
life and conscious intelligence— even in this first humble
creation, which came from the hand of the Supreme Crea­
tor. God, if you choose.
From this humble bit of cell-life, scientists tell us we
all came. The explanation is scientific, plausible, and there­
fore true. While this Life-Principle was manifesting in the
tiny Amoeba, it was also manifesting in plant life, and
Through War to God 121
other forms of animal life. All of these different forms of
life are but manifestations of the Spirit of God in actual
operation. There can be life without the Source of life mani­
festing in that life. It is impossible to have life without the
Creator of life being the source and origin of that life.
During the millions and perhaps billions of years which
passed while the earth was being formed, this evidence of
the Spirit of God—this Life-Germ, if you will, survived all
crises. Nothing could kill it. The idea of killing God is fan­
tastic. So the Life-Germ continued to live through every
crisis. It continued to manifest, first in one form and then in
another. As my friend Robert Collier said in his amazing
set of books, “ The Secret of the Ages”—
“ Had it been possible to kill this Life-Idea, it would
have perished ages ago, when fire and flood, drought
and famine followed each other in quick succession. But
obstacles, misfortunes, cataclysms, were to it merely
new opportunities to assert its power. In fact, it re­
quired obstacles to awaken it, to show its energy and
resource. The great reptiles, the monster beasts passed
on. But the Life-Principle stayed, changing as each
age changed, always developing, always improving.
Whatever Power it was that brought that ‘Life-Idea’
to earth, it came endowed with unlimited resource, un­
limited energy, unlimited LIFE. No other force can de­
feat it. No obstacle can hold it back. All through the
history of life and mankind you can see its directing
intelligence— call it Nature, call it Providence, call it
what you will—rising to meet every need.”
After millions of years, this life which came direct to
earth so many billions of years ago, now manifests in its
greatest advancement—MAN. And in this man there lives
the Spirit of Life, or the Spirit of God. Life is impossible
without it. There can be no such thing as any sort of life
122 Through War to God
without the existence IN that life of the Creator of life.
Not all of the Creator, but enough, of the Life of the Cre­
ator to enable whatever form of life it may be to function
according to its needs. In man, this Spirit of Life—this
Spirit of God—was placed there with no limitations whatso­
ever upon him. No limitations because the Spirit of Life, or
the Spirit of God, was given to man without limit. In other
words, the fullness of the Creative Life-Spirit is in man-—
but man does not yet know it.
Religions, teaching the total depravity of man have
placed a screen between man and the God-Life in man. For
a couple of thousands of years they have taught that man
was “ born in sin and shapen in iniquity.” And we have
believed them. Now, when danger threatens, watch the Life-
Principle which is God, awaken in man. Watch and see how
the God-Life in man awakens during this world crisis, and,
by sheer weight of Its own Power, smashes the entire Axis
system of barbarism. It is this spiritual awakening of the
Spirit of God in man I am calling your attention to.
If the power of so great destruction is manifesting in the
Germans, the Japs, and the Italians, then so must as great
a spiritual power manifest in the nations opposed to brute
force.
A few weeks ago my friend Robert Collier and I were
eating lunch together in the Roosevelt Hotel in New York
City. Our topic of conversation was the sorrowful condition
of human affairs, and we were discussing the possibility of
how best a knowledge of the indwelling spiritual Power of
God might be brought to the human race. I said to my
friend— “ Collier—I believe it to be entirely possible for man
to awaken to the fullness of the Power of the Spirit of God
in him, and bring peace to this mad earth instantly.”
Mr. Collier was not quite so optimistic, but he did admit
that this was the scientific answer to the world problems.
“ If there is a man alive who can bring this knowledge of
the Power of God to this world, you are that man,” he re-
123
Through War to God
plied. I may not be able to swing the whole world to the
truths of God which can liberate humanity from the dread
blight of wars and sufferings, but I am bringing these
truths to so many people that before too long, they will
leaven the whole human structure. When that day comes it
will be a joyful day for me. If I do not live to see it, I can
pass out of this earthly picture knowing that the seeds of
the spiritual liberation of the human race were sowed by
me to the best of my ability.
it is a very comforting thought to know that there are
such men as Robert Collier, Ernest Holmes, and scores of
others who realize that there is enough of the Power of the
Spirit of Life (God) here on this earth to thrust from the
earth and out of human lives, every semblance of evil, pain,
war, suffering and even death itself. My part is so very
small. But the Life-Principle in the algae was small too. Yet
look what it developed into. My only wish is that I shall not
fail in my trust. I only hope the vision stays clear within
me. I’ll follow it to its wonderful end.
It’s interesting to ponder over the fact that the very same
Life-Principle which first manifested on the earth billions
of years ago, is the very same Life-Principle which is mani­
festing in you every moment of the day and night. Look
inwards once in a while. Don’t be so occupied with making
money. Don’t waste too much effort “having a good time.”
These things bring a certain amount of pleasure for which
you usually pay. But start looking inwards. You’ll find a lot
more true pleasure in communing with the Life-Principle
within you.
I don’t care what you call it. It makes no difference. A
religious person may call it God. Someone else may call it
the Inner Self. Whatever you call it, stop once in a while
and realize that all the great creative Power of God the
Creator actually exists in you, is the real you, and has the
same limitless ability it had when it was first manifested on
the earth so many billions of years ago.
124 Through War to God
It has progressed. It has grown. It is, even now, straining
at the human bonds and limitations you have placed upon it.
It wants to be free. It wants to get loose. It wants to lead
you into realms of life and adventure which you have
never dreamed existed. It wants to show you how speedily
Hitler and the rest of the human parasites can be demol­
ished by this very superior power and the intelligent use
thereof. Yes—there are a million paths along which the
Spirit of God in you wants to lead you. Try cooperating
with the God-Law in you. You will experience many sacred,
beautiful moments.
Moments in which God, the Author and Sustainer of all
life will talk with you and you with him, as you walk to­
gether by the way. Should there arise trouble, remember,
through the infinite intelligence which is God, and which
exists in you, there also exists, the answer.
This same Spirit of Life which was so resourceful so
many billions of years ago, and which was able to sustain its
own life against all earthly disasters, is just as resourceful
now as it ever was. It will respond to your every desire.
Whenever you do not know which way to turn, if you will
but realize that you have in you all the wisdom, all the in­
telligence which is God, the way must open up. For there
can be no problem too great for the Spirit of Life to solve.
There can be no lack in your life, which the great Over-Life
of God cannot supply. All you have to do is to make the
problem known. As Robert Collier so aptly said—“ YOU
SUPPLY THE URGE.”
The beauty of the new conception of God which we have
been able to bring to humanity lies in the fact that the hu­
man race can consciously work with God. Religion has
taught that man was alienated from God from the start.
That is not true. All God has ever wanted man to do is to
recognize the limitless ability of the Spirit of God which
lives in him, giving him life.
When that indwelling Power is recognized, then the abil-
Through War to God 125
ity this Power possesses must also be recognized. Recently
I was fishing at Rocky Point on the Upper Klamath Lake.
Sitting there in a boat with the motor stilled, I watched an
eagle swoop from its heights in the sky, down into that
lake. It came up with a fish. Now what Power do you think
it is that teaches young eaglets to fly? Does the eagle sit
down and figure out the mathematics of aero-dynamics? Or
does it just fly? You know the answer. The eagle has wings.
Those wings were given to the eagle to fly with. And it flies.
Almighty God has not given you wings. He has given you
something infinitely better. He gave you a brain capable of
consciously recognizing the amazing Power of God which
not only gave you life in the first place, but which moment
by moment sustains that life. More than that, through the
conscious recognition of the staggering fact that the limit­
less ocean of spiritual power exists for you and in you, God
had a purpose in so constructing you.
Do you know what that purpose is? Well, it certainly is
not to drive you to your knees admitting to God that you are
a guilty lost sinner, standing in the need of “salvation”
whatever that may be. No—a thousand times NO. God gave
you your brain so that you might see the staggering fact
that God lives in you, and, because of the conscious exist­
ence of the Spirit of God in you, you might achieve in your
life, here and now, everything that God can achieve for you.
For after all, it is the invisible Life-Spirit in you that does
the works. All you do is consciously recognize that Supreme
Presence and direct It.
Tf von live your life all unconscious of the beauty and
Power of the God-Life within you, you will never achieve
anything worth while. But on the other hand, if you do
consciously recognize in you, the inexhaustible supply of
God-Power which came to you at birth, your future lies in
your own hands. How could it be otherwise? This then is the
secret I wish to unfold to you. I want to say to you with all
the earnestness at my command, that there does live in you,
126 Through War to God
all the Power which brought life to this earth, and that
Power is able to do exceedingly more than you can ask or
even think.
The fact that humanity is engaged in a brutal ruthless
struggle with itself, slaughtering itself at a shocking rate,
is a direct challenge to those of us who realize the Power of
the Spirit of God in us. It is a crisis in human affairs. An
emergency exists. But—with the emergency there also
exists the Power to stop this ruthless slaughter of human
beings and make the earth blossom like the rose, just be­
cause the Spirit of God is on the earth, and in all human
lives.
No national leader knows what the answer to this awful
crisis is. Unless they are conscious of the Power of the
Spirit of God in them they cannot know the answer. For
the Spirit of Life, the God-in-you is the only Power that not
only has the answer, but knows how to apply its own amaz­
ing Intelligence and Power to world problems, thereby
straightening out this awful muddle.
National leaders meet for “war conferences.” They meet
for “ peace conferences.” They scheme and plan how to de­
feat the enemy with his own weapons. But do they not
know that the Spirit of God in men, that amazing Power
which made the butterfly, the bee, the bluebird—that amaz­
ing Life-Principle which grows new wings on a spider—do
they not know that through that Infinite Power and Intelli­
gence, the answer they are looking for already exists?
No. They do not know that. Some of them assume to ask
an unknown crucified God for help in smashing the Axis.
But that is vain. The Power of God is a constructive Power.
It never destroys. It is the Power which created life. It
never blasts human beings into eternity. It builds up— it
does not tear down. Praying to some unknown “ god” above
the sky is just so much wasted effort. It is not scientific nor
is it even helpful. Such “prayers” never get any higher than
the roof of the building in which they are uttered.
127
Through War to God
Praying is all so very useless. In this war, each side is
praying to some unknown anthropomorphic “god” . By this
time they all should know that no help is coming through
that approach to God. The better way, and the only way
help can come is by recognizing the Life-Spirit of God in­
side. For that Spirit of God possesses amazing ability. It
knows, even as I write this, what the answer is. It knows
how Hitler and his ilk can be stopped in their mad cruci­
fixion of peace-living nations. And you and I may know that
answer too. Some of us do know it. But we are kept so busy
fighting off attacks of the churches that we have little time
to make the Power of the Spirit of God known to humanity.
I write plainly—of course I do. I cannot write any other
way. I cannot submerge my conscience to suit anyone. I
cannot “ sugar-coat” the truth. If I did, it would still re­
main truth. Besides, this is an age, sodden with death and
human blood. More millions of our beloved boys will be
butchered before this gruesome war is over. Knowing the
truth, what sort of a man would I be if I “soft-pedalled”
that truth just because some organized system of religion
does not like that truth?
The actual truths of God may smash to atoms every
church in America when they become known. If they do,
let those truths come regardless of whom they smash. It
will be well worth while. For those truths of God are the
only truths there are. Mysticism, theology, pagan myth
cannot stop this war. They cannot defeat the Axis. Some
of them are members of the Axis. So you may feel quite sure
that as long as I have life—as long as I know the indwell­
ing of the Spirit of God-Life in me, knowing what the
truths of God are, I shall very fearlessly publish those
truths, regardless of whose feelings are hurt.
* * *
God Almighty is begging the human race now, at this
very moment to give Him a chance to stop this war. The
Life-Spirit in you and in me knows how to do that. It cannot
1128 Through War to God
fail to do that. All it asks is a chance. That chance, YOU
must give it. This is a material world. This it a material
war. You are a material human being, having the fullness
of the Spirit of God living in you. It will be through you—
through the entire human race God will demonstrate His
Power, if He is given a chance to demonstrate it at all.
You will look in vain for a demonstration from the sky.
Two will not be sleeping in one bed, the one taken and the
other left. Gabriel will not blow a trumpet, nor will Jesus
descend with a host of angels on the clouds of heaven. When
this world is finally straightened out it will be straightened
out by man, fully knowing the scintillating Power he pos­
sesses, because the Power of the Author of all Life, the
Spirit of God lives—yes actually lives in us all.
With that Life is Power. So much Power that you and I
will never be able to even understand it all, let alone use it
all. And, at this moment, all this Power is going begging
just because men and women know nothing about it. They
have not been told about it. They cannot know. They chase
hither and thither, here and yon looking for God. They
follow a Swami here and another “mystic” somewhere else.
And all the time, if they could only know it, the Power of
the Spirit of God lives right in them. It motivates them. It
gives them life. It gives them all the Power of that Life,
which is God. Yet, because they have never been told what,
and where God is, they follow false prophets who tell them
that if they believe Almighty God was born of a virgin and
slaughtered on a cross, when they die they will, perhaps,
know God. What a pity such a philosophy ever got away to
a good start.
You may depend upon one fact. All the ingenuity that is
God, is in you. All the Power that is God, is in you. All the
omnipotent wisdom which is God, is in you. It must be. God
is your Creator. God gives you life. God makes you a living
soul. God lives in you. Then how can you separate God from
Through War to God 129
His creation? How can you live and not have the fullness
of the Spirit of God in you. You can’t.
You may be quite oblivious of this amazing Power, but
there is, right in you, just the same. You can go down to
your grave having lived your life in complete ignorance of
the Power of God if you wish. Millions have, and more mil­
lions will. But to know of the existence of the Power of
God in you, and not to use it, is criminal.
Common sense demands of an intelligent Creator, an in­
telligent answer to the problems which are now confront­
ing humanity. With the ruthless blood-letting, the horrible
human slaughter, the human misery and suffering which
an insane war has brought to us—-I say common sense de­
mands that an intelligent Creator provide an intelligent
answer to these ghastly problems which quite evidently
man does not know how to answer himself. Well, Almighty
God has provided an intelligent answer. Let us see if man
has the intelligence to grasp that answer.
The Creator has provided the answer by placing in us,
all the resourcefulness, all the ingenuity, all the power, all
the wisdom, and all the limitless ability God himself pos­
sesses. It is there— right in you and in me. The Life of God
in us provides us with more than the answer to every
problem. But blind man, following the blind advice of
“teachers of religion” and swallowing the pious pap peddled
by prating priests, has fallen a long way from God.
He has followed idols. These idols never can reveal God
as your intelligence tells you they can’t. How can they. In
any event, with the Spirit of Life, or God, actually living in
each one of us, and with all the ability, ingenuity, power,
and resourcefulness there is in God, what is the object in
following any theological system ? Can we get closer to God
through them? Or are we merely subscribing to their theor­
ies without exercising our God-given brains?
When a religious (?) organization tells you that Al­
mighty God, through Peter, gave into its hands the keys of
130 Through War to God
the Kingdom of God, with authority to let in or keep out,
you can just put it down that that organization is pulling
your leg. Take the Bible of the organization which tells us
that, and there, in plain sight, is this statement—“ The
Kingdom of God is within you.” Could anything be plainer
than that?
If I were sitting in Rome with a mitre upon my head
labelling me as the “vicar of Christ,” and if I considered
Christ God, I most certainly would strain every effort to tell
men and women that the Power of God, living in them as
their very life, can manifest in, the darkest hour humanity
has ever known. I wouldn’t be sending my priests into the
front-line trenches “blessing” Italian soldiers and praying
for their complete and speedy victory so that the Italian
flag might wave forever over the “holy sepulchre” in Rome.
My every effort would be directed to the one supreme task
of telling my followers that the Power of Life—the Life-
Principle—the Power of Almighty God lives in them, with
all the amazing beauty such a revelation can bring.
Not long ago, Archbishop Mooney of Detroit convinced
Mr. Dykstra’s headquarters of the Selective Service system
in Washington that Roman Catholic “ lay-brothers” though
not ordained ministers, are bound by the same obligation
as the clergy. So, on Feb. 1st a ruling was announced in
Washington that all Roman Catholic “ lay-brothers” are to
be defined as “ministers of religion” and so are exempt
from military training. Just to show you how pagan super­
stition, masquerading under the cloak of God sears both the
minds and the brains of those with whom it comes in con­
tact, read the following partial report from authentic in­
formation in my files:
New York 26.73% total population is Catholic.
56.46% prison >
> yy
Arizona 33.16% total population is Catholic.
53.26% prison yy yy
California
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Through War to God 131
16.83% total population is Catholic.
43.61% prison yy yy
23.79% total population is Catholic.
43.52% prison yy yy
7.13% total population is Catholic.
38.18% prison yy yy
The latest report on the religious affiliation of prisoners
in Sing Sing gives the following interesting figures:
Catholics 848
Protestants 301
Hebrews 240
Greek Catholics 14
No religion 12
I introduce these statistics here, not to injure the Roman
Catholic Church, but to show that when a religious system
blinds the minds and brains of men and women to the exist­
ence of the Spirit of God in them, crime and ignorance in­
creases. In Sing Sing there are only 12 prisoners who make
no profession of any religion, while Catholics number 848.
Had these good Catholics been taught that the Spirit of
God, with all the Power that involves, lives and abides in
them, they would not be in Sing Sing today. For the Spirit
of God does not make men commit crimes— it keeps them
as far away from crime as possible.
So then, before this earth can possibly know the beauty
and fullness of the Spirit of God, these systems of religion
which came from the dark ages will have to be replaced,
not by another system of religion, but by the actual Power
of God. There can be no need for “houses of God” when God
lives within our “earthly house” can there ?
* * *
The spiritual revolution which is coming to humanity will
bring startling changes. What were once sonsidered the
truths of God will be proven to be human ideas of God.
132 Through War to God
Where we did not look for God (in man) there God will be
found. Man now, even as I write this, possesses more than
enough of the Life-Spirit of God to dethrone Hitler and his
Japanese and Italian fellow cutthroats in 48 hours if only
a small part of the American people would unite to throw
the Power of the indwelling God against this gang of
wholesale murderers and desecrators.
For the Spirit of God has a capacity far beyond anything
we can be conscious of. We can, and should, be conscious
of the Life of God in us, but even when we are, there are
depths of wisdom, power, strength and ingenuity which the
human mind cannot conceive of. The human mind can, how­
ever, conceive of enough of the Presence of God to enable it
to deal with this ghastly world situation. Then, when more
and more of the fullness of the Power of God becomes mani­
fest, vista after vista of Power will open up to man, and at
last, when the consciousness of the fullness of the Power of
God in man is fully known, man will know his true position
as the highest product God ever created.
So then, your common sense tells you to consciously ally
yourself with the unseen powers of God within you. When
you do that you will know that the Power of God in you can
perform tasks which you now consider “ superhuman.” You
will perform these tasks every day. The motivating Power
will not be you. It will be the Spirit of God within you. The
very same Spirit that, billions of years ago came to this
earth and which, through countless ages has been building a
race of men which will finally comprehend in themselves,
the brightness of God and the fullness of the Power of God.
Only those who through the years have cultivated the
Power of the God in them can ever faintly imagine the type
of man we shall be when God is through building us. Every
year, every decade, every generation finds God being a bit
more real to man. We find man throwing away more and
more of his superstitions, and as these impedimenta go,
God is revealed just a little bit more. But man has not yet
Through War to God 133
conceived of what the final man will be like when God is
finished with him.
Those of us who are pioneering the way to God, anti­
cipate God a little bit. And we find that when we anticipate
God, and step out with absolute confidence upon the exist­
ence of God in us, we are never confounded. We cannot be. For
there, as plain as day, we see the actual Presence and Power
of God in us. It is not a case of our being unable to find
God, it is a case of securing correct knowledge of what God
is. When we begin to get the true perspective on God, the
whole future opens up like the lilies which are now blooming
round my home.
Instead of trying to “gain heaven” and “ shun hell,” our
eyes are fixed upon something far more interesting. For we
are beginning to discover where God is and what God is.
And just as surely as day follows night, we shall give much
time to finding out more and ever more of the Power of the
God of all Life, not in the skies but in us. For there is a
fascination about God. The Spirit of God draws us closer
and ever closer to this fathomless Realm where God is. As
we get a bit better acquainted with the Life-Spirit, a vast
vista of unheard of potentialities discloses to us. Not be­
cause we physically are any different, but because we have,
at long last, discovered the Source of all Life— of God—to
be in us. That puts a lot of Power in our hands.
As we use this Power, naturally we become more power­
ful. The more we know of God, the faster we grow and the
more like God we become. How could it be otherwise? For
God not only is willing to disclose His Power to us, but is
able to help us in every human problem. Illness, disease,
failure, poverty—how long do you think these can manifest
when you and I can consciously use the Power of the ever­
present Spirit of God against them ?
Your author receives thousands of wires from all over
America. Every so often some special wire will interest him
more than the others. Often he will make a 2000-mile trip
134 Through War to God
unannounced where he believes his presence might help. A
few years ago one of these wires came in. It was from a
colored woman in Chicago and it asked or rather begged for
help in the recovery of another old colored woman.
After sending the customary wire giving instructions for
the spiritual help of this lady, the author decided to go to
Chicago and personally call on that household. Leaving on
the Olympian, he arrived in Chicago two days later, and at
once made his way to the address where the sick party lived.
Twas a tumbledown shack certainly, right in the heart of
the colored section of Chicago. There were only two rooms
in the shack. Quietly opening the door, the author entered.
From out the bedroom came groans from the sick lady, and
in addition, the voice of another colored woman saying out
loud: “I BELIEVE IN THE POWER OF THE LIVING
GOD.” This is one of my affirmations.
Standing there listening for a few moments, the author
suddenly walked into the bedroom. The old colored woman
who was on her knees beside the bed, jumped to her feet,
and, looking the author in the face said, “ Awmighty God—
if yere ain’t Doctor Robinson hisself—praise de Lawd-—
praise de Lawd.” Turning to the lady on the bed, the author
said, “ How much do you believe in the Power of the Living
God?” “ Why, ah shore does bleeve all ah can, but ah guess
this pore old nigger woman am about to die.”
I then asked her if she believed that the Power of the
Spirit of God lived in her and she said she did. “Then get
off that bed and be completely whole,” I told her. Although
the illness was serious, this poor old uneducated colored
woman arose, and was instantly completely whole. I tell
this story only to bring out the point that when a person
really realizes what it means to have the Life-Spirit of God
actually living in him or her human body, that fact places
at the disposal of him or her, more absolute creative and
healing Power than the mind of that person can ever com­
prehend.
Through War to God 135
My Movement is not a healing Movement. Yet during the
past 15 years we have witnessed enough amazing happen­
ings to stagger the normal imagination. If the trouble is
illness, the Spirit of God is pointed out, and the illness dis­
appears. But that is the smallest and least important part
of our efforts. By far the most important part is the re­
vealing to men and women the staggering fact that all the
Power of God exists in them, because the Life-Spirit— the
Creator of this universe, lives in the life he has given us.
This brings with it a supply of abundant life which the
human mind can hardly comprehend. It puts at the disposal
of everyone who realizes the Power of the Life-God in them,
all the Power there is in that Realm. And that’s more than
enough to carry us on to greater heights of spiritual Power
than we have ever dreamed of.
There exists an instant connection between you and the
unseen Power of God within. It’s a sort of a spiritual tele­
pathy. Something happens. The God-Life in you certainly
knows what is happening. It springs to the alert with all
the Powers of the universe at Its disposal. And then it hopes
against hope that you will have brains enough to use this
amazing God-Life in that emergency. If you are wise, and
at once recognize the ability and power of the indwelling
God-Life, the problem soon ceases to exist. God Almighty,
the Creator of the universe, in you, has handled the problem
for you.
It makes no difference how baffling your problem may be,
there is more than enough ingenuity in God to solve that
problem. Surely a Power so dynamic that it could change a
couple of little amoeba into this great created scheme of
things knows more than enough to solve what few problems
you may have.
CHAPTER 3
WHEN MAN fully awakens to the staggering import of the
actual presence of the Spirit of God or the Spirit of Life
in him, he begins to awaken to a realm of vast possibilities,
so staggering in their import that it will take him quite
some time before he fully knows the true nature of the
priceless treasure he possesses. What man can do, here and
now, through this indwelling Power, no one knows. For
man has not as yet even begun to awaken to what he can
do and what he can be, once he realizes the Spirit of God
within him, and uses that all-creative Spirit.
Already man has gone a considerable way, unconsciously
using the hidden Power of God in him. But he did not know
the source of his power. He thought he was doing all these
things just because he was smart. That is not the answer.
Whatever man has discovered, whatever man has built or
achieved has all been done through the indwelling Power
of the Spirit of God, all unknown to man.
Now what do you think you can acomplish when you
consciously use the Power of the God-Life in you? Won­
derful results may have come to you so far through life.
You may have achieved amazing success. But unless you
have recognized the Source of that success— unless you have
consciously recognized the abiding presence of the Spirit
of God in you, well, you haven’t begun to know the price­
less gifts and achievements God has in store for you.
You have it within your power, through the indwelling
presence of the Spirit of God, to make your life such a
Through War to God 137
potent power for good that you have never dreamed of what
the future can be like. Today, our government tells us to
save everywhere we can. The government seems to feel that
much is being wasted, and it probably is. But the vast ma­
jority of men and women are wasting the most precious
Power the world can ever know. Either that, or they are
allowing this Power to lie idle and unused in them.
Of course, what you want to know now is just how you
can make a definite permanent contact between the Power
of the Spirit of God in you, and your conscious physical life.
If there exist untold treasures for you, and if your life is
not filled to overflowing with the Power of God, naturally
you want to know just how you may fill your life with
spiritual and material abundance, while you live on the
earth.
The Power of the infinitely wise Creator has made full
provision for this. It would be unthinkable that God should
have given to you such an amazing thing as His own Life
and Power, and then ordained things so that you cannot
either find or use the Power of God while you live. The
Creator does not operate in that manner. The fact that He
did give you His own Life, with all the Power that carries
with it, is absolute proof that with this treasure, God also
gave you the means whereby It can be used by you.
As a matter of fact, the Creator is more willing that you
should use the fullness of His power than you are to use
it. All the misery, all the crime, all the suffering which is
plaguing the human race today would never have been,
could never have been, had man but known that he had
within his possession, the ability to draw freely upon the
Realm of God for every good thing which God is capable of
giving him.
This war, brutal as it is, and the misery, the heart­
aches which must follow it, all could have been avoided had
man but known that Almighty God, in His infinite wisdom
and power, had so constituted man that all the joys, all the
138 Through War to God
glory, all the power that is in God, may be fully drawn upon
by man, his limitations to receive being the only limitations
to the good things God is willing to give to man.
For I must say to you that the Power of the Spirit of
God transcends reason. There is so much Power in the
Realm of the Spirit of God, that even if you drew upon it
to the very full, you still would not cause a ripple on the
top of the water. Truly God has given to man this pearl of
greatest price, not to tease or taunt man, but for man to
use here on the earth. Only ignorance of this priceless gift
prevents man from using God to the full.
The instrument which God has provided you with, and
which you may use to bring to you all the powers there are
in the Realm of God, is your will and your intelligence. You
have been able to grasp every word I have written to you
in this book. I have asked you to “believe” nothing. I have
not asked you to “have faith.” I have explained to you in
such a manner that your reason can grasp it, the existence
of the Spirit of Life, or God, within you.
Your intelligence accepts what I have told you. You agree
with me. No man can disagree with this unless he be a rep­
resentative of some religion which believes that the best
man God could make was a man “ dead in trespasses and
sins.” You and I don’t believe that. We do give God con­
fidence for being perfection. If we have not understood God,
that is our fault. If we are so sunken in depravity that we
deny the ability of God to manifest in our lives, we might
as well forget everything and eat, drink, and be merry, for
tomorrow we shall die.
Now the next point is this—Are you willing that the full­
ness of the Power of God he made manifest to you?
To ask that question is to answer it. Of course you are
willing. There would be something wrong with you if you
were not willing. So then, it will not be a seeking soul who
is honest, very long to find the Power of God, especially
when God was more willing to give His Spirit to you than
Through War to God 139
you have been to receive it. Had God not intended you to
live in the fullness of the consciousness of the Spirit of
Life, or the Spirit of God, he would have taken good care
that no man could ever make a personal contact with Him.
But that is just what God did not do. That is the very op­
posite of what God did do.
For, away back yonder, millions and millions of ages
ago, God placed on this earth His own Life. It began to
create. Every form of life came from the hand of God.
Each creation served some useful purpose. When that pur­
pose had been attained, the species passed out of existence.
Then came man. God’s very highest creation. But man is
different from the animals. He is different from the flowers
which are put here to help man enjoy the earth. But man
himself—well, it was God’s idea that man should some day
live completely and eternally with God. God has never had
any other idea about man.
For in the completeness of man lies the completeness of
God. God without man is incomplete. This, because God
gave His own life to man. When man is born, he is born
with the very Life of God in him. The natural end then to
man must be complete union with God. This union is at­
tained when man completely recognizes the fullness of the
Life of God in him, and takes advantage of that Life to the
very full.
As the ages roll by, the completed picture will disclose
God and man completely in unison. No more death. No more
tears. No more sorrow. No more partings. All will be one
beautiful existence with God. The completeness of God and
the completeness of man are indelibly tied together. One is
incomplete without the other.
We are living in one of those rare periods of time when
man is underging a complete spiritual re-making. Old con­
cepts of God are passing away. In their place is coming to
humanity a consciousness of a God who never was absent,
but who was and is ever with us. As we realize this God-
140 Through War to God
consciousness in us, all the powers of God unfold, and our
life becomes more and more like the Life of God, which Life
was given to man millions of ages ago.
It has taken man a long time to grow to the place where
he knows the presence of God in him. Our churches will be
the last ones to admit the presence of God in them. But they
will. For when it is manifested to the American people what
they can accomplish by virtue of the fact that the Spirit of
God has not been given to man by measure, they will rise
to the peak of the amazing freedom which the Power of
God brings.
How then may we consciously know the Power of God?
Why, you know that already. You mentally have under­
stood the staggering fact that the God-Life, or the Spirit
of God came to you at birth. That we shall not repeat. You
are also willing that all the Power of God manifest in you.
So what is the next step?
The next and final step is very simple. It is also very im­
portant. If you do not do this last necessary thing, all I have
said to you will mean nothing. You will then be in the posi­
tion of a man who knows where God is, who knows what
God can do for him, but who just is not interested in God.
To such a man, the pleasures and Powers of God cannot
come, because he will not bring them into his life.
I cannot imagine many Americans adopting that attitude
though. If I can read the signs of the times aright, this
whole nation is patiently awaiting some message from some
man or woman who can point the way to the actual exist­
ence and Power of Almighty God. When that man or woman
appears, the nation will follow him or her. Never was there
the hunger for God there is now. And Americans not only
will spend a little time to get acquainted with God, they
are doing that now.
If only our churches would teach the Power of the Spirit
of God instead of an impossible theory of God which never
can be true, it would not take America long to discover the
141
Through War to God
Power of God. Your author is only one man. He works
against tremendous odds. Yet, in the past fifteen years he
has been able to draw round him, exclusively by mail, about
2,000,000 followers. If all our churches did what your
author is doing, it would not take sixty days for the full­
ness of the knowledge of the Spirit of God to sweep this
beloved land. I do not expect them to do this, however. They
will stay by their unprovable traditions, even though they
make the Power of God of none effect to their followers by
so doing. What a pity. But there it is. Superstition has a
terrible hold on the people—especially religious supersti­
tion.
* * *
I said the actual method by which you can obtain from
the Realm of the Creator whatsoever things you desire, is
very simple. It is. The spoken word accomplishes it. Your
spoken word. The Spirit of God in you needs direction. It
cannot bring to you the things you need unless you direct it.
For you must realize that the Power of God is the most
potent power on earth. But, you are the one who directs this
great sleeping-giant in the way you would have it go.
Almighty God is ready and willing to bring into your life,
a super-abundance of every good thing. You must make
known to God what those things are. The church considers
this “praying.” It is nothing of the sort. Praying is im­
portuning God for something we never expect to get. It is
predicated upon the absence of God. But directing God is
something entirely different. Let me put it another way.
Almighty God, your Creator, placed in you His own Life.
That staggering fact means that you have in you, the Power
that created the universe.
Now then—God so ordained it that whatsoever things
you need, you can get because the Life-Spirit, or the Spirit
of God in you is abundantly able to manifest in you, any­
thing It is capable of creating, and that means anything in
'" the world, or iv the heavens above the world. All that re-
142 Through War to God
mains for you to do is to direct the Life-Spirit, or, tell It
what you want.
Last Xmas a man handed me a check for $1000.00. He
said to me, “ Here’s a thousand dollars—you may spend it
any way you want to.” He didn’t care how I spent it. He
gave me the money and forgot it. It’s like that with the gift
of the Spirit of God. God has given you His Spirit absolute­
ly without measure. He doesn’t care what good things you
use the Spirit of God to produce because He knows that you
cannot seek a thing that the Spirit of God is not capable of
bringing to you.
The Life of God, or the Spirit of God, has been given to
you as a whole. There it is—all the Power there is in the
invisible Realm of God. You are to use the Spirit of God
as you see fit. You are to use It’s remarkable wisdom, it’s
limitless power, all of It’s ingenuity, all of It’s creative abil­
ity to bring to you every good thing you desire. The choice
''must be yours.
The direction of the Life of God in you is your responsi­
bility. It will respond no matter how impossible the thing
desired seems to be. With God nothing is impossible. And
just as long as the Spirit of God lives in you, then you have
all the Powers of God also in you. You do the directing. This
is much better than wasting your time in “ praying.” In
“ prayer” you have no Power to be conscious of. With
knowledge of God in your life, you already possess the
Power. The only thing left for you to do is to direct the
Spirit of God in you.
It will be necessary for you to become acquainted thor­
oughly with the fact of the existence of God in you. Ponder
over it. Almighty God, the Creator of all life, gifted you
with reason, the greatest gem in the human mind. Your
reason will very clearly show you how the Spirit or Life
of God is the motivating Power in you. Your common sense
will make you use this Power. Your spoken word will direct
Through War to God 143
the Spirit of God into whatever channels you desire it to
operate in.
I suggest therefore that you wear this book out reading
it. When you fully comprehend what the Spirit of God in
you means—when you understand that all the Power God
has is instantly available to you, then start putting the
Power of God to work.
You will find that as you come closer to God, the Power
of God will exert a drawing influence upon you. You will
be more and more fascinated with this staggering Spiritual
Power. It will be necessary then for you to cultivate God.
You must spend several minutes alone with God every day.
You will make your wishes known to God. The thing you
desire more than anything else, you will constantly talk
with God about, directing the Spirit of God along that chan­
nel, by making a simple affirmation of fact.
Suppose you desire the recovery of the sick. You will
direct the Power of God in you, and in the sick, to that re­
covery. You will actually speak this recovery into existence,
for the Spirit of God in you, and everywhere else, always
responds to the spoken word. If your problem is financial
or material, then use the same methods of directing the
Power of God against that material lack. The Power that
created this universe can bring whatever material posses­
sions you need, and can bring them very effectively. I know.
A good affirmation is this one—“ YOU WILL BRING ME
. . .” stating clearly what it is you need. You must con­
sciously and intelligently direct the Power of God, yes, I
almost said “ order” the Spirit of God to bring to you the
thing most desired. If you have a perfect understanding of
the Power of the Creator in you, it will not take very long
for you to be able to manifest “ Whatsoever things ye de­
sire.” Again I can say “ I know.”
If you wish to use the Power of God to dethrone the Axis,
you may say, loudly and confidently, “ YOU WILL BRING
THE SPEEDY DOWNFALL OF THE AXIS.” Then, you
144 Through War to God
will keep this up until it is accomplished. Whatever it is
good you need God to bring to you, speak that thing into
existence until it manifests. God never fails. I suggest that
you spend at least half an hour, twice a day, quietly com­
muning with the Spirit of God in you. What will happen
will amaze you. You will then know, and know very fully,
that Almighty God is the most realistic Power this world
can ever know. You will know that you can direct the Power
of the Spirit of God, knowing absolutely that this Great
Spirit of Life will respond, just as surely as day follows
night.
* * *
At the very center of your being is God. Yes—the very
same God who created and still holds the wealth of this
world in His hand. This very same God who, when you were
born a physical being, placed His own life in you. Was there
ever greater miracle than that? What had you or your
parents done to warrant such a gift? For to have the Life
of God in you means that you have in you, through that Life
and Power of God, free access to every good thing God
Almighty can bring into existence. And that’s far more than
you can ever need.
Our religionists tell us that the physical body is the one
thing which prevents us from knowing God while on the
earth. No, it is not. The very opposite is the case. Your
physical body was given to you in order that you might
know the fullness of the Power of God right in this life—
right on this earth. God gave you your physical body for a
physical medium through which the fullness of the Spirit
of God can work. How could you know the amazing Power
of God on the earth if you did not have a physical body
through which the Spirit of God can work?
Everything else God made is material. You have never
seen a thing which is not physical. You have never known a
pleasure which you could have known had you not had a
physical body with five senses to make you recognize and
Through War to God 145
5 enjoy that pleasure. The Christian theory of God is not
true. But there is one slant on it which is significant. Ac­
cording to this theory, it became necessary for God to make
a physical “god” through whom the glories and Power of
God might be manifest on the earth. In other words, it is a
physically impossible thing for the Spirit of God to mani­
fest in any other way than physically.
The Power is spiritual, to be sure, but the means by
which God is to be recognized are always physical. Other­
wise God would be useless to us here and now. But God
Almighty placed His very own Life, with His very own
Power, right in the center of our being. It is there now.
If you do not know of this Power—if you have never exper­
ienced what it can do for you here on the earth, you are of
all men and women the most miserable. For you are living
a life which has the very fullness of God in it—but you
don’t know it.
Your Light then, is hidden under a bushel. You have
trials and tribulations and you don’t know how to handle
them. You have illness and you don’t know how to handle
that. You want God, you always have wanted to actually
know the Power of God, and all the while, right in the very
center of your being, is all of God that you can ever need.
The reason the entire human race, with the exception of a
very few seers and mystics, is living in complete ignorance
of the Spirit of God in it, is simple enough. No one has
ever told it of this amazing fact. Religions have come along
and have told us that because we have a physical body we
are damned through all eternity, unless of course we sub­
scribe to what they have chosen to tell us. But the very op­
posite is the case. If we had not a physical body, God could
not possibly manifest through us, nor could we ever know
the beauty and Power the Spirit of God in us can bring.
It’s all right for theology to talk about us being “ pilgrims
along a thorny path” with God Almighty somewhere “ above
the sky.” But such dogma is a thousand miles from God.
146 Through War to God
All that sort of stuff does is to blind the eyes of men and
women to the actual existence of God in us. So then, from
now on, you may depend upon it, you have in you, at the
center of your life, your being, your human physical body
— GOD.
No one can take God away from you. He will be there
until you die. It is quite possible for others to doubt and
deny this statement, but there is one who cannot be fooled.
YOU KNOW THAT GOD IS AT THE CENTER OF YOUR
BEING. You may only have subconsciously known it so far,
but the very moment someone who knows tells you of this
staggering fact, both your common sense and everything
within you cries out that my statement is correct. So never
again listen to anyone who tells you that you are now, or
ever have been separated from God.
To be separated from God is to cease to exist. The fact
that life—created by Almighty God, exists in you, is abso­
lute evidence that all the Power God has also exists in you,
because your life is God, and God is the Creator of the uni­
verse. Now do you see what you really are? Now do you see
why I said this war is all so unnecessary? How long do
you think it would continue if America knew the staggering
truths I am telling you? Why, every nation would throw
away its arms and fall on its knees and hang its head in
shame when it realized the depths of depravity to which it
had fallen, when all the time, in every human being on
those battle-fields, lived all the Power of the Spirit of God.
Do you want to stop this war? Do you want to help bring
it to a speedy end ? Then spend half an hour each day, pon­
dering on the truths you have learned in this book. To
ponder over God means to spend a certain amount of time
every day, alone with God. If you will do this you need few
instructions from me. For when a man sits alone with God
with the sole idea of getting acquainted with the Spirit of
God within him, that Spirit rushes into action, and the first
thing you know, the absolute consciousness of the Spirit of
Through War to God 147
God, with all It’s Powers, begins to be revealed to you. How
quickly this will come depends upon how much time you
spend alone with God.
May I repeat this world-shattering statement? At the
very center of your physical being—is God. You stay close
to God. You spend a certain time every day reasoning with
God. You tell the Spirit of God in you that you want It to
make Itself known fully to you. And you keep that up until
there steals upon you an experience you have never known
before. The actual consciousness of God becomes a living
reality to you, just as God intended it should. Then, when
that happens, by the spoken word you direct the Power of
the Spirit of God along whatever line you desire It’s mani­
festations.
Is there anything hard about that? Is there anything un­
reasonable about that? Either God lives in you, with all
His Power, or He does not. I say He does and you know
He does. You know better than anyone else that God lives
in you. If God did not, you could not even live another sec­
ond. The fact that you are alive is absolute proof of the
existence of the Spirit of God in you. All that remains then
is to become fully acquainted with your heretofore unknown
Guest, and tell that Guest just what it is you need. All the
Powers of the universe will be behind you when you do. And
the universe would disintegrate before you could ever be
disappointed. The secret of the discovery of God in you lies
in your willingness to spend a certain amount of time every
day getting acquainted with the God-Power in you. For that
is the real you. That is your real self. That is God actually
in operation in you, which is exactly what God intended
should be when He made you that way.
THE END
A PERSONAL WORD TO THE CLERGY OF
PROTESTANT AND ROMAN
CATHOLIC CHURCHES
THIS BOOK speaks very plainly. I cannot speak in any
other manner. The condition of this earth today seems to
me to be a challenge to every man who has named the name
of God. I cannot conceive of the Creator keeping so com­
plete a silence when man, His highest creation, is baptizing
the earth in human blood. I believe it is possible for the
Spirit of God to be made so real to the human race that this
Power can speak—now— in no uncertain terms.
I do not believe your concept of God is true. I believe you
are honest—all of you, and I have a feeling of the very
deepest love and affection for you all. I know your
problems. I know your heartaches. I know your theology.
If I differ from you—if I write my innermost convictions
as plainly as I have written them in this book, it is only
because the Spirit of God has guided me in this endeavor.
I would gladly lay down my life if by so doing, I could make
the reality of God a bit deeper to the dying, murdering
masses of human beings who quite evidently know little of
anything about the Presence of the Spirit of God in them.
However, I cannot agree that God is powerless to stop
this brutal conflict. I am not willing to admit that the brute
powers of a Hitler, a Tojo or a Mussolini are superior to
the Powers of God. Yet there seems to be nothing you or
your theologies can do to manifest the Power of God on the
Through War to God 149
earth. I believe the concept of God advocated in this book is
true. I do not believe your theories of God are true.
So, following the Light as the Light has been revealed to
me by the Spirit of God, I have written plainly. I have made
statements in this book I did not want to make. Some of
those statements reflect upon you and the religion you teach.
Time will be the deciding factor. Time will prove whether I
am right or wrong. Time always does that.
If I have hurt your feelings, that must be. I am sure you
will agree with me that if I can bring the truths of God to
humanity, even though these truths be different from yours,
you will understand why I have written so plainly. I love
every one of you. There is little I would not do for you. If I
can be of any assistance to you in the bringing of the true
knowledge of God to you and your churches, please com­
mand me. If your feelings have been hurt, please forgive
me. I may make errors of judgment but never of heart,,
THE
"PSYCHIANA" MOVEMENT
was founded 15 years ago by Dr. Frank B. Robinson. The Move­
ment is bringing to humanity, not creeds, not dogmas, not rituals,
but the actual Power of the Spirit of Cod. Dr. Robinson fought
his way through the maze of theological dogmas, rites, and creeds,
to Cod. In Infinite wisdom and goodness, God revealed to Dr.
Robinson what His truths are. These truths are not what orthodoxy
teaches. W ith a heart fu ll of love, Dr. Robinson, softly and kindly
points out the discrepancies of present-day religion, and shows
very clearly why it cannot reveal the Power of God to this earth.
- ■ ti■
Everyone knows that_ if the Power of the Spirit of Cod can be
literally used on this earth, this war can be brought to a speedy
halt, and the inhuman slaughter of innocent lives can be stopped.
If the Power of God cannot do this, there is no God.
Dr. Robinson shows in this book, the pathway to God. He
shows where our religious organizations are weak, and he tells
them just why they cannot reveal the Power of God to all humanity,
regardless of church affiliation and w ithout church affiliation.
The “ Psychiana” Movement, world-wide in its scope, has been
w ritten up by Colliers W eekly— Time— Newsweek— Pic— Maga­
zine Digest— American Mercury— The Presbyterian Banner— the
Sunday School Times— The Gospel Advocate— The Lutheran Com­
panion— The Catholic New W orld, and hundreds of other publica­
tions.
The staggering revelation of the Power of God, revealed in this
book, draws men and women by the hundreds of thousands. It can
draw you, too.
Send orders for this book to
“PSYCHIANA” INC.
Moscow, Idaho, U.S.A.
