{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1943__grewal___practical_yoga.pdf","mytitle":"Practical Yoga","mylang":"de"}
Practical Yoga~
by
RISHI SINGH GREWAL (GHERWAL)
Author of Patanjal i's Raja Yoga with Commentary;
Great Masters of the Himalayas, their Lives and Temple
Teachings; Yoga Vashisht; Kundalini : Largest Com-
mentary on Gita; and many others.
Copyri ght ed 1943
By RISH1 SINGH GREWAL
Addres s: P. 0. Box 533, Santa Barbara, Californi a
or 2914 Beverly Blvd., Los Angeles "4," California
TO ALL LOVERS OF YOGA
By An Appreciative Student
There is a treasure house of unused resources within
you of which you have been unconscious hitherto.
Everyone has sleeping within his mind tremendous
unused powers-Extraordinary mental capacities, capa-
ble of an astonishing development. All you need do is to
release these dormant forces, grasp the full sweep of
their possibilities, then make them ready to do your bid-
ding. AND that is exactly what Rishi Grewal can and will
do for you. He can show you how to call .upon this vast
storehouse of power-how to release it and magnify it-
how to put it to everyday use. He shows you how to
banish the negative qualities, such as forgetfulness, brain-
fag, indecision, lack of ideas. Almost immediately tim-
idity gives way to courage, self-consciousness changes to
confidence.
In other words he shows one how to grow in wisdom.
To commence each day with the feeling of a new pleas-
ure, a higher hope and a more determined endeavor to
strike out boldly into new and untried realms of activ:ity.
Think of the waste of joy, the vast dreariness, the mon-
otonolJ,s dullness of the average life, and how easily it can
be dispelled. Then will life and the living of it be a thing
of beauty and joy forever.
All these, a~d every heart-wish that your soul has
hungered for will be yours-every hope that you have
ever entertained was the voice of that ALL POWER seek-
ing expression.
Know the law of your life. Rishi Grewal can show you
how to live it and can open before you an avenue of Mas-
tery, Power and Achievement. HE CAN.
3
INTRODUCTION
To Students of Yoga Everywhere:
Rishi Singh Grewal was born in a famous Rajput
(Ruling Caste) family. His paternal grandfather was
famed for his charity and compassion. It was he who
supplied the money to sink wells all over India so that
the people might benefit.
Although the Rishi's grandfather spent the family
wealth lavishly for charitable purposes the family today
is still in wealthy circumstances.
The Rishi's father, was renowned also for his good
works among 'the people and for many accomplishments.
He predicted his own death and on the day of his passing
away visited his friends and relatives telling them fare-
well.
The Rishi also has two famous brothers. One is fa-
mous for the tireless and unending help which he gave
to everyone in need and the younger became known be-
for the age of twenty for his learning and also for his
prowess in Hindu wrestling which was his hobby. At
the age of twenty-two this brother left everything, wealth,
devoted family-all-to sit under a Banyan tree for the
purpose of becoming a Yogi. Here he spent two winters
without so much as a blanket and became famous for his
persistence . He used to sit in one posture £or seven
hours without moving; reading scriptures three hours
daily in keeping with an oath which he had taken . He
is very famous among the Sikhs and by them is called a
Saint.
One of the Rishi's maternal uncles was Saint Uttam
Singh, a well-known Yogi and man of great sp4-itual at~
tainment.
The Mother of the Rishi never in her life gave away
to any display of temper and she was well known for
that . She passed to heaven in much the same way as
her husband, having walked five miles to visit her
dau ghter one day before her passing.
One of Rishi's sister-in-laws in the family is known by
everyon e as a Living Saint today . His nephews and
nieces already are known for mind Gontrol and sterling
character although they are still very youthful.
\
4 PRACTICAL SCIENCE OF YOGA
In Badowal, the village of the Rishi's birth, it was told
to me that he was known by everyone before he was ten
years old, because of his excellent behavior and Wis-
dom. He never quarreled nor fought as most children
are prone to do.
In India the Rishi is famous as a teacher of Yoga tech-
nique and he has written many books and commentaries
on this subject which are there recognized as the best.
He has traveled many times from end to end of India,
more than once through the Himalayas and once into
Tibet.
When I visited at the home of the Rishi, whic}J.is owned
by him and his two brothers, I was surprised to find that
it ranks in the class of millionaire homes in this country.
I also learned that he is not one of those who left home
and began teaching Yoga for the purpose of making
money, as he already has this in abundant quantities.
He left one of the finest homes and wealth beside to go
out and teach Yoga. I believe that his is one of the rare
families which are blessed from every point of view, with
wealth, Wisdom and long life .
The benefits which I have obtained from the practice
of Yoga urge me to speak of my own experience to the
earnest student and seeker.
:About twenty-five years ago I began to study philos-
ophy and among all the philosophies that I studied , found
that the Yoga Science interested me and made a deeper
impression on me than any other.
I sought everywhere for help. Throughout Europe
and later in the United States. I heard of most of the
teachers and studied with the best among them. Then
it was my good fortune to find and study · with Rishi
Grewal.
Although I learned much Yoga I did not spend as much
time in practice as is required for success in Yoga and
so I began thinking that I should seek still and find some
group of Yogis to live with in India.
Thus in 1936 I went to India to study Yoga there . I
encountered the usual difficulties of having to become
used to the customs and climate and hardships to which I
was not accustomed .
- RISHI -SINGH GREWAL 5
While in India I visited the City of Rikhikesh, where
Yogis spend the winter, and spent a month there. Ih
discussing Yoga with them they asked me what I had
learned and I demonstrated to them the practices which
had been taught to me by Rishi Grewal.
These Yogis, after seeing my demonstration , asked ,
"What more do you seek? This is the same Yoga that
we practice here ."
From Rikhikesh I went on to Almora in the Himalayas
and met there the well-known Yogi Aum. To him also
I demonstrated the practices which I had learned from
the Rishi. Surprisingly he said, "You know enough.
Practice of that which you know will m:ake a man a
Yogi. These are the practices we follow":
Another famous teacher, a Hindu woman called Mataji,
saw me practi cing and said, "These practices are bound
to lead to Wisdom."
I asked the well-known Dev Puriji if he would accept
me as his disciple and he said to me, "It is better for
you to never lose Rishi Grewal. He speaks the language
that you understand and he knows all there is to know
about Yoga. If you stay here with us it will take you
much time to learn the language and you will find diffi-
culty in living on our scanty diet, so take my advice and
follow the Rishi back to the United States and there
study what he has taught you."
I spent much time and · money and experienced many
difficulties to finally realize that its was the best thing for
me to return to America and continue my studies with
the Rishi , as the Yoga which I found in India I had al-
ready learned here. It was very costly to learn that I
did not ne ed to leave my home and business to find Yoga
but that Yoga came to me in Los Angeles.
To those who ar e earnestly seeking Yoga Science, I
sincerely urge them to get in touch with Rishi Grewal.
They will appreciate his teachings as I now do if they
follow his instruction, and will not need to go to far -off
India to find that which they ·are seeking. Make his
acquaintance and find out for yourselves that he know s
more Yoga than any other teacher I have found so far.
It wa s my great privilege to stay with the Rishi at his
6 PRACTICAL SCIENCE OF YOGA
home in Badowal. ,This was, indeed, a happy time £or
IIJ.e. I met his young brother, who is a Yogi. I also
met that jewel among women, Krishna Kaur, the sister-in-
law whom everyone who knows her calls "the Living
Saint." Indeed I could write a fascinating book on the
members of the Rishi's family and one day may do so,
but for this brief letter must confine myself to saying
that it was a deep spiritual experience to meet and know
the members of this unusual family and live in the home
which is regarded by Hindus as the ultimate in Indian
family life.
Best wishes for success in Yoga.
ERNEST HAECKEL,
Los Angeles, Calif.
OUR PRAYER FOR EVERY DAY
"May all be happy-may all be free from disease-
May all realize what is good-
May none be subject to misery-
May the wicked become virtuous-
May the virtuous attain tranquility-
May the tranquil be free from bonds-
May the freed make others free-
May all be free from dangers-
May all be actuated by noble thoughts-
May all rejoice everywhere-
May good betide all peoples-
May the sovereigns rule the earth following the
righteous path-
May all beings attain to their welfare-
May all the world be prosperous and happy."
'He who does and thinks no wrong-
He who suffers, being strong-
Who lives like Gandhi men know-
Unto Swerga heaven such doth go.'
RISH! SINGH GREWAL
PRACTICAL YOGA SCIENCE
BY RISHI SINGH GREWAL
7
In sending this little booklet out into the World I have
kept in mind the idea of throwing some light on Yoga
to reveal its amazing powers which transform an ordin-
ary man into a Yogi (super-:being). The first part of
the booklet explains the value of Yoga and the second
part deals with the benefits obtained, such as freedom
from disease and mental worry and other gains.
India, the land of mystery! The marvels which we read
of in ancient histories and holy books can still be found
there today.
Modern Scientists and Chemists are unable to explain
the marvelous feats which are still performed in India
by Yogis. Such feats as walking on red hot coals, lying
down in the midst of blazing logs, levitation, walking on
water and other equally astounding feats,-performed un-
der the scrutiny of Western Science.
At Lahore Yogi Haridas permitted himself to be buried
alive under fifteen feet of earth £or forty days. At the
expiration of that time he was taken from the place of
burial and found to be as normal as ever he had been.
This feat was performed under the Government seal and
watchful eyes . For further enlightenment on these amaz-
ing feats see Author's booklet "Marvelous Feats Per-
formed by Yogis through the Power of Yoga."
I am questioned as to how such things are accomplish-
ed. I answer that it is done through Yoga by awakening
the Divine Power , (Kundalini) sleeping within every
human being.
When this Divine Energy is awakened th,ese,apparently
supernormal powers are brought into activity; this un-
foldment comes through practice 0£Yoga .
Kundalini Energy is the giver 0£ health, wealth, joy
and Wisdom that knows no .end. It' is the giver of faith,
bliss , life and power.
These seeming miracles are performed by both men and
women and can be ,done by all who go through the neces-
8 PRACTICAL SCIENCE OF YOGA
sary practice of Awakening the Divine Force sleeping
within.
The Swami Vivekananda has said, "Whenever there is
any manifestation of what is ordinarily called supernor-
mal power, or Wisdom , there must have been a little
(control over the) current 0£ Kundalini which found its
way into the Sushumna. Only, in the vast majority 0£
such cases of supernaturalism, they ignorantly stumble
on some practice which set free (and made them con-
scious 0£) a minute portion (0£ the control) of the coiled
Kundalini."
The Yoga system was founded to perfect beings and £or
the purpose of establishing harmony on this Mother
Earth. This alone can save the world from the misery
of selfishness and hate . Only Yogis find true harmony
and this harmony lies in a change of heart. Such change
is wrought through Yoga practice. Yoga can change one
who practices it into a being 0£ Power able to achieve his
fondest hopes.
Yoga is ,the Science 0£ Sciences and it is the method
whereby one may realize the Divinity within-or God-
hood.
Yoga is practiced by Yogis, not £or attaining salvation
or liberation £or themselves alone, but to bring salvation
to all mankind.
The greatness of Yoga is that it teaches one to see all
human beings as the Self. Yogis do not seek heaven
hereafter, but attain it while living on this earth. They
bring heaven to Earth.
The Science of Yoga is like a priceless Nectar which
extinguishes the fires of disease, restlessness, worry,
lust, anger , craving, desire , jealousy and hatred . All
these hindrances on the Path to Liberation and Power
are quenched by the pure Nectar of Yoga.
The Yogis think of this world as heaven , but ignorant
persons change it to the quite opposite place. Yogis be-
lieve that good desires must be fulfilled and evil desires
mastered here on this earth and not in some future state .
Yoga and Bliss go side by side.
Yoga is highest religion . It insists that all religions must
be respected. Yoga has no dogma, it is £or everyone;
RISH! SINGH GREWAL 9
for Clergymen, Doctors, Lawyers, Leaders, Actors , young
and old, - for .all who desire to be free from crav-
ing, anger and greed. Anyone can practice Yoga and
benefit from it . · Where religions end, Yoga begins. Re-
ligion is like a mother who awakens her children to send
them to school. When they have graduated she does not
awaken them any more. Just so does religion awaken
a man to the high state where Yoga begins :
Evolution is the means whereby humanity moves for-
ward slowly and slowly-Yoga is the means of moving
to the final Goal with great rapidity-the goal of God-
hood.
-"Lo, in the East this Wisdom's · showering Light
Adorable, .hath sprung from out the night;
Now may the Dawns, heaven daughters, spread
Shining afar, a path for man to tread."
-RIG VEDA
"If I were to look over the whole world to find out the
Country most richly endowed with all the wealth, power
and beauty that Nature can bestow, in some parts a very
Paradise on earth-I should point to India. If I were
asked under what sky the human mind has most fully
developed some of its choicest gifts; has most deeply pon-
dered on the greatest problems of life and has found so-
lutions of some of them which well deserved the atten-
tion even of those who have studied Plato and Kant, I
should point to India. If I were to ask myself from what
literature we, here in Europe , may draw the corrective
which is most wanted in order to make our inner life
more perfect, more universal, in fact more truly human,
again I should point to India."-Max Muller.
Pope Pius says , "India has remained true to the heart
of the Spiritual motives." (From Sir Woodroffes book
"Is India Civilized?" ·
'Noble hearts are golden vases-close the bond true
metals make;
Easily the smith may weld them, harder far it is to break.
Evil hearts are earthen vessels-at a touch they crack a-
twain ,
And what craftsman 's ready cunning can unite the
sha rds again?'
10 PRACTICAL SCIENCE OF YOGA
THE MATSYENDRA POSTURE
In all my travels in India _
and during my life among
the Yogis I have never yet seen a Yogi whose body was
in any way out of shape or one with a fallen abdomen,
nor do their bodies show signs of flabbiness. Although
old in years their bodies are as tight as those of youth.
What is the reason for this? The answer is the Matsyen-
dra posture because · it tightens every nerve, muscle and
affects every gland in the body . Furthermore it produces
an effect on the Autonomic Nervous System. All Yogis
practice this posture in the morning and in the evening.
Through its practice all the muscles of the trunk are
brought into action . To a great degree the health de-
pends on the condition of the spine as all the nerves come
down through the spine £rom the head .
From the Yogis point of view , even the control of Prana
and the awakening of the Spiritual Energy (Kundalini)
depends on the practice of this posture which is the first
step on the ladder of Yoga.
One may see almost immediately the benefits of this
practice and will become free from disease through doing
it . lt also develops a lithe and supple figure when per-
formed as taught by a Yogi. The one practicing this pos-
ture will find that it is unnecessary to take patent medi-
cines , roots or herbs. ·
This practice is invaluable also for reducing the thighs
and waistline. Within a limited time the spine should
begin to become elastic and the body show signs of re-
laxing. Practice will prove this to the earnest student.
UDDIYANA (Constipation Exercise)
Traveling from end to end of India, living among the
Hindus, seeing thousands of Yogis and having lived at
the great Yogi city of Rikhikesh, I wonder why I have
never yet heard the word Constipation or known anyone
to be suffering from this condition?
Long, long ago the Yogis found a method which is call-
ed Uddiyana and which they practice for the purpose of
levitation and Liberation but this practice also builds up
the gastric fire and rids one of constipation.
RISHI SINGH GREWAL 11
If the intestines are not functioning properly, food ac-
cumulates at different centers, causing constipation. This
occurs principally in the Colon. The Western world has
various methods or remedies (so-called) for this disease,
but none are successful in correcting the condition where
it actually begins. We will see how Yoga proposes to
do this.
Food which lingers in the bowels begins to decay as
a result of the action of bacteria. As a result deadly tox-
ins are developed in the Colon and absorbed into the
system and thus the Liver and Kidneys are broken down
and cannot eliminate poisons from the body. The whole
body is slowly poisoned and chronic disease results.
Surgery cannot overcome this condition, even the use
of drugs cannot. Any of the so-called remedies admin-
istered through the mouth must pass through the stomach
and the length of the small intestine. This causes need-
less irritation to these parts when it is in the Caecum
where the trouble lies. Medicine seems to give tempor-
ary relief but Yogis never have approved this treatment
and it is extremely lucky that medical science is begining
to frown on it, also.
From the foregoing it appears that the remedies used
in the West for overcoming constipation have many dis-
advantages. Treatment should be such as to enable the
patient to empty the Colon completely and throw out of
the body all the foul, putrefying matter. It should also
strengthen the Colon instead of weakening it.
These advantages are all combined in the Yogic prac-
tice of Uddiyana.
Constipation due to the degeneration of the abdominal
muscles can only be overcome by the regeneration of
these muscles and by no other measure so no amount of
purgative can restore them to health. If the drugs and
enemas affect anything, it surely is the inside and not
the outer muscles of the intestines. Such treatment can-
not improve the external wall where the trouble lies.
Muscular exercise 'is the only right method to overcome
this type of constipation . The Uddiyana as taught in
Yoga will be hi ghly efficacious as I shall show.
The practice of this exercise causes nearly every muscle
12 PRACTICAL SCIENCE OF YOGA
in the abdomen to be exercised and the nerves brought
into activity. It also activates the glands which are lying
in the abdominal cavity and gives a good upward push
to the heart and lungs. This improves the health re-
markably and also the muscles of the rectum are con-
tracted and relaxed.
No abdominal exercise devised by physical culturists
·can approach Uddiyana for efficiency and for the capacity
to build a strong and powerful spinal column, especially
in the lumbar and lower thoracic regions.
A fallen abdomen or weakness of its muscles is most
dangerous from the Yogic point of view. Many diseases
are created by weakness of the abdominal muscles. This
Yogic practice is a God-given blessing to suffering hu-
manity as it enables building up of abdominal muscles in
a short time, forcing the glands and organs into their
proper position and causing them to become active. This
is the reason that constipation is unknown in India .
•
PASCHIMOTTANAPOSTURE
This posture is well known and is very highly valued
by Yogis as it awakens the Spiritual Energy (Kundalini)
and can be practiced by everyone .
It is one of the fine Yogic postures for stretching al~ the
muscles of the body and forcing the Pranas into the Sus-
humna. The abdomen and the two rectal muscles are
forcefully contracted and this compresses the abdominal
Viscera, the spine, nerves and vertebrae are stretched
and toned up. ·
Although Yogic books recommend this posture highly
for the development' of the finer body and spiritual power,
I find that it is a great help in building up the health. The
things that have been said about the Uddiyana exercise
may also be said about this one as it aids in overcoming
constipation, poor digestion, liver, kidney and pancreas
trouble. It builds up the deep muscles of the back and
tones up both the nerve systems.
RISH! SINGH GREWAL 13
REGENERATION of the THYROID GLAND
Among the common people of India I have heard that
Yogis do not grow old and that their youthful state is
under their control. Yogis, ?lso, say the same thing, but
they say the mystery of this can only be learned from a
Yogi. However, I heard the word Sarvang-Asana. Will
you please throw .some light on this?
Answer: In the ancient books of India we read that
the Yogis learned how to live long.
Briefly I will explain the effects of this Sarvang pos-
ture, but I can explain here only the physical value. The
mystery of the mental and spiritual, the mixing of the
Pranic forces, deceiving the Sun and saving the Nectar
I will show to those who are truly interested .
I place special emphasis on the Thyroid gland. What
is the Thyroid? It is the life-saver of the human body.
If the gland is healthy it does its work producing the se-
cretion essential to the life of every cell of the body . If
it is unhealthy it cannot do this duty. I will show how
Yogis keep the Thyroid gland healthy.
The Thyroid gland is located at the front and side of
the lower part of the neck, opposite th'e fifth, sixth and
seventh cervical vertebrae. The arteries supplying blood
to the gland are remarkable for their size and the veins
that drain this ductless gland correspond in size to its
arteries and make a free and constant play of blood
possible.
The health and activity of the thyroid depends princi-
pally on the proper functioning of the arteries and nerves
that supply it. If the material necessary for its nourish-
ment is not forth-coming, it will soon be exhausted and go
on a "Sit-down strike," · endangering the health of the
whole body.
Nourishment must be constantly brought to the tissues
of this gland because physiological work means chemical
action. This chemical action ·produces wi;i.ste substan~es
in the thyroid and if these are allowed to remain it would
produce toxins and poison the whole structure. These
useless products must be constantly removed.
14 PRACTICAL SCIENCE OF YOGA
A third function of the thyroid gland is its production
of particular internal secretions and this requires that
certain substances be supplied to it. All these needs are
met by the circulation of blood carried on by the blood
vessels. Fresh blood comes in through the arteries with
its vitalizing substances and keeps (the blood) playing
about, all through the different parts of the gland. As
it flows past the tissues they take up substances need- ·
ful for their nourishment and absorb substances out of
which they manufacture the fluids which they secrete.
The stream of blood then sweeps off with the waste prod-
ucts. · ·
Infectious diseases, sometimes pregnancies, sexual ex-
cesses and many other agencies lead to the degeneration
of the thyroid gland . Under these circumstances the or-
dinary amount of blood which flows to the gland is not
sufficient to restore it to health. But if a richer blood
flow is secured the gland improves and does its duty.
The thyroid exercise which is taught in Yoga classes
enables the thyroid arteries to bring a much richer blood
supply to it, thereby saving it from degeneration and
making it healthy.
The Thyroid Posture aids the gland also through the
nerves as the nerves are responsible £or every physical
part; no organ can carry on its work without getting its
energy through Prana.
As long as the nerves surrounding a particular organ
are healthy and normal the organ does its work; as soon
as the nervous force (Prana) becomes depleted, the organ
begins to degenerate. Nervous disorders may cause
acute pain in the parts supplied by the affected nerves.
The whole nervous system continues to £unction well as
long as the supply of blood is normal, but the spinal
nerves are apt to suffer in their functioning if a vertebrae
is even a little misplaced. For sound functioning of the
Thyroid gland an efficient arterial service is not enough,
the nerve supply must also be kept in a healthy condition
and this is don~ by the special exercise which is taught in
Yoga.
Now, if the Thyroid exercise is capable of restoring the
degenerated gland to health it must prove to be a substi-
RISHI SINGH GREWAL 15
tute for the modern Thyroid treatment; for a healthy . Thy-
roid gland must be able to produce the elements which
are introduced artificially into the body in organo-ther-
apy. What has been said on the Thyroid gland applies
also to the Parathyroids.
The sex glands exert a very great influence on the Thy-
roid and in turn are affected by it. The Testes are effer-
ent glands and are in intimate relationship with the Thy-
roid gland. This exercise surely brings back to health
from the mouth of death, those who have degenerated
Thyroid and atrophied Testes.
The Thyroid and Sex Glands through practice of this
Yogic exercise become healthy. However, Yogic practice
must be performed correctly as taught.
The influence of this exercise on the Testes is brought
about by its ability to aid the Thyroid as it is the only
ductless gland which the practice of this exercise directly
approaches by means of the circulatory and nervous sys-
tems and which affects all other glands of this type . The
Sarvang posture has freed women from many female
troubles and has proven to be the best method of re-
generating the sex glands. Underweight and overweight
are under the control of the Thyroid gland.
By practice of it the affections of the spleen, liver and
etc., may also be eradicated.
MENTAL BREATHING
To one who sees this breath performed for the first
time, it may be a mystery why it is called "Mental
Breath." Apparently, from appearance, it is anything
but Mental, however, when the mystery is explained by
the teacher, it is then clear that the effect is on the Brain
although appearing to be otherwise.
By means of this breath the respiratory passage is
cleansed and an intense vibration is set up in the intest-
ines, all the cells of the body are vibrated and the blood
oxygenated . More oxygen is supplied to the corpuscles,
mak;ing them healthy and there is an inestimable benefit
to the glands and nerves.
During the practice Wf; are taught to concentrate on a
16 PRACTICAL SCIENCE OF YOGA
certain Centre in the body in order to awaken the Spirit-
ual Energy. This results in benefits physically, ,mentally
and spiritually.
This breath awakens every cell in the brain; it removes
the impurities or the dark cloud which lies between and
shrouds each consciousness. The Yogi easily .goes to the
third state of consciousness by removing this dark cloud .
In this state he knows all and sees all. (Clairvoyance,
clairaudience, etc)..
Results of the practice of the breath are that it sends
a rich supply of blood to the head and develops fully the
Pineal .and Pituitary glands.
· A skeptical person may ask how a Yogi overcomes
space and distance. ·The answer to this is that he does
more and more breathing. First of all we must study the
nose. That which we call "nose" is only the outer por-
tion of the nose. The real nose is lying back in the . head
above the soft and hard palates and it has two bunches
of nerves pendant from it. These nerves are of two kinds.
The lowe r bunch is very gross and the upper, very fine.
These are affected by Mental Breathing. The student
finds it necessary to use the full nostril in doing this
breathing.
This Mental Breath also arouses the Pranic forces by
relaxing the nerve plexus which causes slower and deep-
er breathing. It is our goal to gain control of the Auto-
nomic Nervous System.
Mental breathing vibrates every cell in the body :f:rom
the toes to the crown of the head. When it is properly
practiced it sets up such a vibration that the body begins
to swing and it is difficult to maintain the posture. It
destroys mental and .physical sluggishness and makes the
person practicing it, feel the joy of youth, although he is
old in years. It bestows a new mentality but what is the
use to write more when only one can realize by practicing
it? No words can convey the meaning of it nor can one
appreciate it until he experiences the results in practice.
Yogic Breathing or Pranayama
Pranayama means literally "control the Cause · of
Breath" and this is precisely what the student learns to
RISHI SINGH GREWAL 17
do in the practice of Yoga . He learns to concentrate the
Life Force which is called Prana by the Wise, at any part
0£ the body, thus enabling him to overcome any trouble
or depleted condition.
Through its practice the student is taught to purify the
whole body and nervous system. It beautifies the body
and makes it perfect. Think what this means to those
who have always suffered from physical defects and limi-
tations, whose restless minds have been tearing them
apart with unhappiness and discontent. ·
Events and conditions assume their proper proportions
to the one who practices Yogic breathing. No longer does
he suffer the pangs of fear and of not knowing what to
do nor being able to solve the problems which arise in
the daily lives of every one of us .
It is the experience of our students that apparently
hopeless cases have been restored to normal living and
many who have been hovering on the brink of Death
have been snatched back to live long and useful lives, all
through practice of Yoga and principally the Yogic
breathings. There is no lack of experience among our
students to prove the efficiency of Yoga, both in rebuild-
ing worn-out bodies and revitalizing sluggish minds.
Would you desire to be the Master of your destiny in-
stead of drifting with the tide, would you restore that
tired and slackened body to the spontaneous reactions of
youth, then practice Pranayama.
The control and direction of this Life Force can and
will establish such relaxation and rhythm in the body
that it becomes a joy instead of a daily tragedy to carry
on whatever duty )ife requires of us.
The new student of Yoga will find within the space of
a limited time that his whole nervous system has relaxed
and a softer, more beautiful expression becomes reflected
in his £ace. It is easy to the one who practices Prana-
yama to detect the changes wrought in those who are just
beginning. Indeed, even ordinary persons remark the
changes which become apparent in the one who begins
this practice. ·
It is through the concentration of this force (Prana)
18 PRACTICAL SCIENCE OF YOGA
that the great powerhouse of Spiritual Energy is release~
through which Yogis are able to control the Nature ele-
ments and to perform such seeming miracles as levitation,
fire walking, walking on water and other phenomena.
Through Pranayama practice one may gain whatever
he desires. If it is worldly success that beckons, that too
comes through this practice. If it is the inner life which
appeals to the Seeker of Truth, that is attained through
this marvelous practice of Yoga.
As ·one progresses in the practice of Yogic breathing, it
is interesting to note the changes going on within the
body. The physiological processes are normalized and
instead of practice being a burden to be somehow per-
formed, it becomes a joy to which one looks forward
eagerly.
Let The Yoga Be Practiced Through Study, and Study
Be ·Effected Through Yoga. By Yoga and Study
Together the Highest Self Shines.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. What is the duty of the Guru?
A. The duty of the Guru primarily is to watch over his ·
students; to guide them along the path of ethical con-
duct, instruct them regarding their proper duties
towards themselves and their fellow men; enlighten,
encourage and instill within them discrimination and
fearlessness; to infuse in them the love of righteous-
ness and Wisdom, ·and to assist them in awakening
their dormant powers; to expound the mystic teach-
ings of Yoga and to prepare them mentally, physic-
ally and spiritually to fulfill their destinies; to disci-
pline and love them as his own; to remove their
doubts regarding here and hereafter and to make
clear the dangers of anger, lust, greed, passion, ego-
tism, ill-will, and such like qualities.
Q. What designates a Guru?
A. He who has realized the Universal Soul, he is the
perfect Guru (world teacher) says Guru Nanak. By
RISH! SINGH GREWAL 19
association with him people easily attain Wisdom and
meditation. He 1s a Guru who has realized the high-
est self-realization, whose knowledge and powers are
limitless, and who has mastery over his body, mind
and pranas. He knows how to liberate others from
the bondage of ignorance and illusion, and he is free
from sorrows and misery. He desires to make others
free.
Q. What does he teach, or how does he make others
free?
A. He shows the way to Godhood which is within all.
Seeking and searching for God outside of one is
futile. He also proves that God and the soul are one
and the same, called So Ham (I am He, or I and my
Father are one) . He kindles within one the fire that
destroys the darkness of ignorance.
Q. Who is the great Guru?
A. The highest Self is the great Guru.
~ .
Q. Then .why .seek a personal Guru?
A. We seek a personal ·Guru who has realized the high-
est Self because he knows the path and can light the
way £or us. The disciple should worship him as the
highest Self or God within, for the Guru is within
all. It is also true that many have attained the goal
without a personal Guru , but the guidance of a
worthy teacher shortens the arduous road to libera-
tion.
'Gifts bestowed with words of kindness , making giving
'doubly dear:-
Wisdom, deep , complete, benignant , of all arrogancy
clear;
Valor, never yet forgetful of sweet Mercy's pleading
prayer;
Wealth, and scorn of wealth to spend it-Oh! but these
be virtues rare!'
20 PRACTICAL SCIENCE OF YOGA
WHAT RISHI GREWAL'S COURSE DID FOR ME
Exce rpts from Testimonials of Rishi Grewal's Students
Dear Friend and Teacher, Rishi Grewal: It affords
me great pleasure and happiness to tell you of the bene-
fits I derived from your teaching. I took your course
about one and a half years ago. At that time I was very
sick and nervous. I also had trouble with my gall blad-
der and I was overweight. I weighed 210 lbs. I was full
of doubt , worries and feeling downtrodden, as it seemed
the best part of my life was gone. I looked old and felt
old. I had no courage left to face the world. I was hope-
less , and everything looked gloomy and at times, I felt
life was not worth living.
After a few months by practicing your simple course,
science of Yoga, everything became bright and I received
untold benefit. I enjoy perfect health, now, and the ex-
cess fat has disappeared, without going on any diet . I
now weigh 126 lbs ., besides I can accomplish much more
and better work mentally than ever before. I am h_
appy
to write this, in the hope that others may derive the same
benefit . Through my personal experience, I am sure
any one can accomplish as great results, · and stop the
clock and become young, as I did, and make the body per-
fect and become stronger mentally and spiritually. To
accomplish this, all that is necessary is to adhere strictly
to the teaching of Rishi Grewal , which I can most heart-
ily recommend. Sincerely yours, Adele Janetzky, of New
York City .
Dear Rishi, thanks to you, the fetters of age, disease ,
worry and ·discouragement are broken . A new life full
of activity and usefulness is ahead of me, and I feel ca-
pable and anxious to make the best of it. I know the way
to succe ss and happiness , and am encouraged l;>y the
gratifyipg results I am getting. I will c<;mtinue to .practice
till I attain complete mastery over my body and mind .
With sincere admiration and deep respect for your: won -
derful work , I a:m, sincerely yours, 0 . F . L., New York
City, July 14, 1938.
RISHI SINGH GREWAL 21
THE BOOKS YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FOR
At last a book giving an intimate glimpse into the lives
of the great Yogis, by one who lived among them. Read
their priceless words of teachings and read the marvels
they perform daily.
No other book like this has come out of India '. In its
pages YOU, too, may walk beside the MASTERS; may
listen to the Eternal Voice of the Ages, chant the song
of the Infinite; may even dine on Prana.
Volume One LIVES and TEACHINGS of the YOGIS of
INDIA known as "GREAT MASTERS OF THE HIMA-
LAYAS, THEIR LIVES AND TEMPLE TEACHING."
When you are through with it you will have had a visit
with me to the Holy Temples of the Himalayians and
Tibet. What is highest Meditation? The meaning of
Om (AUM) fully explained. Half of this volume deals
with Yogic teachings. 143 pages. Price $1.25.
j
LIVES AND TEACHINGS OF THE YOGIS OF INDIA
Volume Two, 184 pages. Price $2.00.
CONTENTS:
Miracles! How They are Performed. Food and Sil-
ver Manifested from the Atmosphere. Yogi's Pets-
Lioness and Dog. Marvelous Feats of Yogis. Control-
ing the Rays of the Sun and Moon. Mystic Lama Reveals
Your Past and Future. Illusory Tricks. Severing and Re-
joining a Man's Tongue. The Snake-Charmers. Demon-
stration Under Hypnotism. Rebirth Evidence. Fire Con-
trol. Levitation. From Stage Driver to Mastership. The
Living Saint-My Sister-in-Law. Still Alive After Twelve
Years Without Food. How Long Can Life Be Sustained
Without Food. Longevity . Forty-five Days Suspended
Animation. The Golden Temple. Rikhikesh-The Home
of Yogis. Silent Muni. Purity of the Ganges Water. Pun-
dit Ram Singhji. My Visit to Deva Prayag in the Hima-
layas. Up to Vilwa Kedar. The Muni Agastya Ashram.
Kedarnath and the Dangers Confronting the Seeker in
the Snow-capped Himalayas. The India National Con-
ference. My Impressions of Mahatma Gandhi. England
Perplexed by its African Fire-Walkers. Men Changed
Themselves into Leopards and Lions.
22 PRACTICAL SCIENCE OF YOGA
RAJA YOGA - GUIDE TO YOGISIDP
Of all books published on Yoga, none is like this. Giv-
ing needed help to learning Yoga by themselves; it guides
to Yogiship; it reveals the mystery of great hidden power
within. System of Raja Yoga fully explained. To know
the fundamentals of Yoga one should make it their duty
to study this book.
Subjects Treated: What is Yoga? Means of Mental
Control. Lower Mind. Higher Mind. Three Qualities.
State of Free Soul. Five-fold Modifications. Nature of
Imagination . Sleep as a Modification. Reproduction of
Thought. Restraint of Modification. What is Practice?
Who is Fit for Yoga? Samadhi. AUM. Obstacles to
Yoga. Prevention of Obstacles. Pranayama. Boundles~
Power. Thought Transformation Yoga of Action Karma
Afflictions. What is Ignorance? Result of Pleasure .
Result of Pain. Vice and Virtue . Means of Avoiding
Pain. All for Him. Owning and Owned. Seventh Stage
-Discrimination . Annihilation of Impurity. Eight Means
of Yoga. Can the Married Practice Yoga? Asana. High-
est Control of Senses . What Are Concentrations? Medi-
tation? And Samayama? Cause in Effect . Past and
Future Preceived . Previous Lives. Knowing Thoughts of
Others. Mind, A Television . Fourteen Heavens. Seeing
Inside th~ Body. Living Without Food. The Living
Burial. Clairaudience and Clairvoyance . Transference
of Mind. Twelve Englishmen Held Helpless by Will of a
Fakir. Levitation Mastery Over Elements. Food Mater-
ialized. Contracting or Enlarging the Body . Miraculous
Feats. Mastery of Sensations. Mastery Over First Cause .
Wisdom Thru Discrimination. Yogi Cannot Be Deceived .
Immunity to Fire. Walked Across Fire Pit. Miracles of
the Master, Christ. A Challenge to Science. Supremac y
Over All. Temptation. Intuition. Achievements of .Yoga.
Change of Body . One Mind Governs All Minds. Medita-
tion-born. There is No Beginning. Varying Perception
of Observation. Objective Perception by Mind . Ab-
solute Independence.
Its two hundred pages printed on the best of paper and
cloth bound, price $3.00.
RISH! SINGH GREWAL 23
YOGA VASHISHT or HEAVEN FOUND
A splendid book written especially for the truth-seeker
who hungers for spirituality.
In this book, one gets a clear vision of the "Seven
States of Wisdom" by understanding the liberation easily
to be attained. It also gives the "Seven States of Ignor-
ance." Cloth bound, 189 pages. Price $3.00.
KUNDALINI
Contents: Poem to Kundalini, Moth,er of the Universe .
"Yoga and It Objects." Location of Kundalini. What is
Kundalini: When Awakened - What Then? Mudras
move the Kundalini. ·P,ower of Pranayama, Yoga. Power
of Dharana ; Dhyana and Samyarµa Yoga. Power of Sa-
madhi Yoga. The 1000 Highest Occult Man trams of
Kundalini. Why We Worship Siva. Review of Rev.
Leadbeater's "Off the Trail." ·165 pages . Price $3.00.
THE KEY TO HAPPY MARRIED LIFE and A Cure
~or Lovers' Quarrels. Price 50c.
MIRACULOUS FEATS PERFORMED THROUGH
YOGA. Price 50c.
PROPHECIES WHICH ARE MORE THAN 5,000
YEARS OLD. The Modern Dictators and Taxation
Foretold. Price $1.00.
PRASNA UPANISHAD, 75c.
S1jLF AWAKES, $1.00.
LEXICON of HINDU TERMS OF YOGA, $1.00.
Send your order for books to P. 0. Box 533, Santa
Barbara , California, U. S. A. ·
PRACTICAL YOGA-PRICE 25c
Students Express Their Appreciation
Dear Friend: We ; the undersigned, students of various
teachers who have visited our city, wish to call your at-
tention to Rishi Grewal, who is now lecturing and teach-
ing here .
Being memb ers of his class , we find that his work picks
up and adds to where that of other teachers leaves off.
Rishi Gr ewal 's teachings are the most practical and at
th e same time the most effective that have been given by
any teacher.
Rishi Grewal is teaching something new and far in ad-
vance of what we have previously been taught. He
teaches us how to use the finer forces of higher universal
laws and thu s to control and direct prana-to develop ,our
psychic forces- to reall y, know how to concentrate-to
understand the laws of positive and negative as applied
to oursel ves and others .
We feel that you are an earnest soul, seeking wisdom
and pow er to awaken the dormant forces within you.
Therefor e, having studied with Rishi Grewal and realiz-
ing the valu e of his message, we urge you to hear him
and shar e with us the great good that his message brings.
Your s for truth and service .
Stanl ey Stachura
· Ru t h M cL an ch la n
Ali ce Bi erb ower
A. G. Tafl a n
Car l S. An derso n
P a ul Ti ch in off
G. F . Ch apm a n
Lu cia Ell wort h
Su e E . Warre n
s. Fr ee d
Ch ar les Brown
Na t ali e Cadano
Herbert H obson
E liz a b et h Liebes h er
Miss .Jos ie Lee
Lucy D . Sarge n t
W ill iam Yo u ng
.Julia W. Brown
Za h roh E. Olson
Lo u ise Mack ie
.Jean D . L ill ey
Dan a .J. B u gbee
Isodora A. B ugbee
.Toan S h eridan
Ma r y W. Gilbert
Aug u st ine Barbe
Clara Sobe l
Ben j . M . Lut h er
Mary G. P aq u ette
Mr. & Mrs . E. Haecke l
Ha l H. Ur da bl
Mr. & Mr s . F red Lovett
T ess I . Gu erin
Augusta Pa lstra nd
Mrs. I. Ill escas
0 . F. Ill escas
Minerva Shi r ley
Clem W. Smi th
Eva Tay lor
Sop h ie Kor in ek
Rob ert .J. Wood
L. H. Pa lmer
Mrs. E. Nierman
August Keh l
S. Sc h api ro
Otto Lehwald
Tda M ich ae ls
M r s. H . Y. Hub u e
Mr . H. Y. H ub u e
M. Bierbower
E . Clegg
Clara Decker
Ma r y B. Stimson
Barbara Barta
Bertha C. L arson
Fr a nces H ec htman
Minetta F . Nob le
Mrs. L. E ise le
F rederick F . Blodget
Cat h erin e H. Garvey
Hanna Sche r wick
Mer le Perry
Lou iRe C. Bn1ce
Mrs . Clara T ay lor
Th omas T ay lor
Mar ion Sh in n
Martha G. Sc hr eit er
Marga r et M. Yeoman
Grace F olg er D ecamp
Co nde W ilso n Hi ckok
Eva E lfr eda P et er son
Miss Sa r a h Sabl os ky
Mrs. Ro b er t .J. W ood
Mrs . Vio let W a t so n
Ne lli e N. W es t
Cec ile Hargetma n
Dr. L. W. Brat h wai t e
Mr s. K. M. Willi am s
Eln1er Zim m erman
Gnbr iell e Chiqu et
Mrs . La ura Di n gler
E m ma P . Rem ill ard
Grace M. T rank la
Michae l .J. Kwaitz
Oswin B. Fu ch s
Mr s. .T. S. Altman
E. G. Sch r amm
Mi ss Nora La lly
Sofia Gustafso n
Mr s. A.B. Br iggs
E liza b et h Bo r sos
T h eresa W alle
Ange l L eun ga
Mrs. Ida H all
Lorina L indbe r g
Annabe l Pr ich ett
F ran ces Lumpk in
Mrs. Amy W . Colli n s
Mercedes Ur da hl
