{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V28 1915","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v28_1915.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V28 1915","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXVIII
(CONTAINING PART LXXI)
1915
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
1915
Agents for the sale of publications
:
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW : JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vincent Street
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved
* * * > i *
PART LXXI.
December, 1915.
A Contribution to the Study of the Psychology of Mrs. Piper's
Trance Phenomena. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
PAGE
Preface, ----------- i
List of Papers concerning Mrs. Piper previously published
in the Proceedings, -------- ii
Synopsis of Contents, -------- v
Explanations concerning Treatment of the Records, - - xvii
Dates of some Events bearing on the History of Mrs. Piper's
Trance, ---------- xix
Chapter I. Introductory, -------- 1
„ II. Theories of Controls as to their Relation to the
Body and Spirit of the Medium, 29
,, III. Individual Controls, ------ 75
,, IV. Indications (1) of Artificiality in the Language of
the Controls, and (2) of Common Memories and
Associations of Ideas in different Controls, - 130
,, V. Communicators, - - - - - - - 159
„ VI. The Waking-Stage, and the Corresponding Stage
in going into Trance, ------ 205
,, VII. Relation to each other of Mrs. Piper's different
States of Consciousness, ----- 258
,, VIII. Effect of Sitters and of so-called " Influences
"
on the Trance Phenomena, ... - 294
,, IX. Conclusion, -------- 315
Appendix to Chapter I. : Some Prophecies, - - - - 332
„ ,, ,, II. : Theories of Controls as to their re-
lation to the Body and Spirit of
the Medium, - - - - 335
1 V Contents
Appendix to Chapter III
. TV
PAGE
Specimens of Individual Controls, - 437
Some; 'Passage? : about -Speaking by
.V. : / '-.Tkought',-'
: '
-
:
'
'-" . . sis
,, V.: Communicators,,, ,
- - 520
„ ,, \ VI:,: ..The- Waking-.Stage'^ and, the Corre-
" '
sponding Stage in going into Trance, 549
,, „ ,, VII. : Relation to each other of Mrs. Piper's
different States of Consciousness, - 614
,, VIII. : Effect of Sitters and of so-called
" Influences " on the Trance Phe-
nomena, - - - - 619
Chronological List of Page References to Sittings, - - 646
Index to Vol. XXVIII. , • - - - 653
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXXI.
Djecember, 1915.
A CONTRIBUTION TO THE STUDY OF THE
PSYCHOLOGY OF MRS. PIPER'S TRANCE
PHENOMENA.
By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
PREFACE.
The main interest of Mrs. Piper's trance phenomena lies
undoubtedly in the evidence they afford of knowledge acquired
otherwise than through the senses—whether from the living
or from the dead. This evidence has been set forth and
discussed in numerous papers in the Proceedings, of ivhich
a list is given below. To these papers I must refer those
who are interested only in such evidential matter. For in
the present paper they will not find what they want. There
is no attempt in it to give any of the evidence for super-
normal powers, with which it is concerned only incidentally.
Its object is to throw light on the working of the trance
a
ii Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
consciousnesses from a psychological point of view, and, among
other things, on the question whether the intelligence that spealcs
or writes in the trance, and is sometimes in telepathic com-
munication with other minds (whether of the living or of
the dead), is other than a phase, or centre of consciousness,
of Mrs. Piper herself.
A LIST OF PAPERS CONCERNING MRS. PIPER
PREVIOUSLY PUBLISHED IN THE PROCEEDINGS
Vol. VI. (1890), pp. 136-659. "A Record of Observations
of Certain Phenomena of Trance," by F. W. H. Myers,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. Walter Leaf and Professor William
James.
This deals with the sittings in England in 1889-1890.
Vol. VIII. (1892), pp. 1-168. "A Record of Observations of
Certain Phenomena of Trance," by Dr Richard Hodgson.
This deals with sittings in America from 1886 to 1891.
Vol. XIII. (1898), pp. 284-582. "A Further Record of Ob-
servations of Certain Phenomena of Trance," by Dr.
R. Hodgson.
This deals with sittings in America from 1892 io 1895.
Vol. XIV. (1898), pp. 6-49. "A Further Record of Ob-
servations of Certain Phenomena of Trance," by Pro-
fessor Romaine Newbold.
This deals with sittings with which Professor Newbold
was concerned from 1891 to 1895.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Papers. in
Vol. XVI. (1901), pp. 1-649. "A Further Record of Ob-
servations of Certain Trance Phenomena," by Professor
J. H. Hyslop.
This deals with Professor Hyslop's sittings in 1898-1899,
and contains also accounts of certain experiments by him,
and discussions. Professor Hyslop has published accounts
of his later sittings in the Proceedings of the [new] American
Society for Psychical Research.
Vol. XXII. (1908), pp. 19-440. "A Series of Concordant
Automatisms," by Mr. J. G. Piddington.
This deals with concordant automatisms between Mrs.
Piper and other automatists, and some experiments during
her visit to England in 1906-7.
Vol. XXIII. (1909), pp. 2-121. "Report on Mrs. Piper's
Hodgson-Control," by Professor William James.
This records and discusses the HodgsonP communications
whether as control or communicator during the year following
his death, namely 1906.
Vol. XXIII. (1909), pp. 127-280. "Report on some Trance
Communications received chiefly through Mrs. Piper,"
by Sir Oliver Lodge.
Most of this paper is concerned with sittings with Mrs.
Piper arranged for by Sir Oliver Lodge, and at which
he was generally present, in England, in 1889, 1890, 1906,
1907. Two sittings in 1905 in America are included.
Vol. XXIV. (1910), pp. 31-200. "Further Experiments with
Mrs. Piper in 1908," by Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mrs. A. W.
Verrall and Mr. J. G. Piddington.
This deals with Mr. G. B. Dorr's sittings in America in 1908.
Vol. XXIV. (1910), pp. 351-664. "Report on the Junot
Sittings with Mrs. Piper," by Miss H. de G. Verrall.
This gives the record of all " Bennie Junot's " communica-
tions from 1899-1905.
a 2
iv Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
All the above papers are primarily concerned with the
exhibition in Mrs. Piper's trances of knowledge supernormally
acquired, though incidentally some other points are discussed.
There have also appeared in the Proceedings four papers
discussing the published evidence, viz. :
Vol. XIV. (1898), pp. 50-78. "Discussion of the Trance
Phenomena of Mrs. Piper," by F. Podmore.
This paper takes the view that there is undoubtedly
telepathy with the living, but insufficient evidence to prove
anything further. The Piper phenomena are compared with
those of Adele Maginot and others.
Vol. XV. (1900), pp. 16-38. "Discussion of the Trance
Phenomena of Mrs. Piper," by Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
This papei takes the view that, assuming there is com-
munication with the dead through Mrs. Piper, the evidence
points to its being telepathic in character.
Vol. XV. (1900), pp. 39-52. "Discussion of the Trance
Phenomena of Mrs. Piper," by Andrew Lang.
This paper is described by its author as " Reflections on Mrs.
Piper and Telepathy/'
Vol. XXVI. (1912), pp. 147-173. "The Latin Message Experi-
ment," by Mrs. Anna Hude (with Note on same by
Mr. J. G. Piddington).
This discusses one of the experiments in 1906-7 as published
in Vol. XXII.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Contents. v
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
Chapter I. Introductory. PiQE
Hodgson intended to discuss the theory maintained
by controls and communicators concerning the
writings and their production, but failed to carry
it out 1
Materia] available for study, its nature, and how it
can be used -------- 4
Knowledge obtained by supernormal means is often
exhibited in the trance 6
Definition of " Controls " and " Communicators " - 7
History of Piper trance phenomena - - - - 9
General description of trance and waking-stage - - 15
,, ,, of waking-stage - - - - 21
Brief characterisation of different states of conscious-
ness -- 27
Chapter II. Theories of Controls as to their rela-
tion to the Body and Spirit of the Medium.
Special series of sittings for questioning controls in
1888, 1895, and 1896-7 - - - - - 29
The control in voice sittings claims to occupy the
whole organism --------29
The idea of systematic occupation of only part of the
organism begins with writing sittings - - - 31
Development of the writing ------ 32
Divided control -------- 33
This power lost - -- -- -- -35
Divided control with two controls aware of each o ther 38
Want of distinction between the voices of G- P.
and of Phinuit 39
vi Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Control asserted to be unaware of writing, and PAQB
statements contradictory to this 44
Other indications that it is not true 48
Genesis of the notion probably in the theory of the
occupation of the arm by a spirit in bodily form - 52
Theory that hearing is in the hand - - 54
Fingers as supposed organs of sight - - 56
Occupation of arm by control not always affirmed - 57
Relation of control to brain - - - 58
"Light" - 59
Statements as to distance of control from medium
and sitter --------- 65
Relation of control to medium's spirit - 67
Cord said to connect Mrs. Piper's body and spirit,
and its functions - - - - - - - 71
Chapter III. Individual Controls.
Private controls -------- 75
Public or official controls ------ 76
The two functions of public controls, as advisers and
as intermediaries - - - - - - 76
These are the regular functions of the controls of
professional mediums ------- 76
The advantage of the arrangement from the control's
point of view - 77
It is compatible either with the hypothesis that the
control is an independent spirit or that it is Mrs.
Piper's subliminal self ------ 77
Of the public controls selected for special consideration
here, only G. P. and Hodgson give evidence of
identity. This they do as being private controls
as well as public ------- 78
Failure of the others to produce credentials - - 78
But all guarantee each other, and it is on the trust-
worthiness of G. P.'s statement that there is
control by independent spirits that evidence for this
depends. If the consistency of personation of any
control guaranteed by him fails, his evidence
breaks down - 80
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.-—Contents. vii
This would not tend to show that there was no real
PAGE
G. P. in the background - - - - - - 81
Discussion of objections to the telepathic hypothesis - 81
Among the selected controls, specimens, as such, of
the utterances of Phinuit, G. P., and Hodgson are
not required, as they have been sufficiently given
in Proceedings -------- 84
Sir Walter Scott ----- - 85
Proctor -- ---87
W. Stainton Moses and his spirit guides 88
The Imperator Band ------- 98
They take over the management of the sittings - 98
Imperator -------- 98
Imperator on Bible history - - - - - 102
Changes in the Imperator Band - 105
Rector ----- - 105
Mentor, Doctor - - - 105
Prudens --------- 106
Rector as amanuensis, and his difficulties - 107
His inconsistencies about his name and language - 109
Improved conditions under Imperator Band - - 110
Kind of tests objected to - - - - - 111
Julius Caesar - - - - - - - - -112
George Eliot ------- - 115
"Moses of Old " - - 119
Madame Guyon -------- 123
Development of automatic script without trance - 127
Chapter IV. Indications (1) of Artificiality in the
Language of the Controls, and (2) of Common
Memories and Associations of Ideas in diffe-
rent Controls.
Our knowledge of the controls is derived almost
entirely from their language - - - - - 130
There are some differences of movement which may
be habits or may be signals to announce particular
controls --------- 130
Similarly, the mode of speech of different controls
differs 130
viii Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
PAGE
If these differences are due to habit—whose habit ? - 131
Use of second person singular by Imperator and
Rector 132
Grammatical errors of two kinds occur - - - - 138
viz. Mistakes in using archaic language - - 138
Mrs. Piper's habitual mistakes - - - 139
The Quaker " thee " - 140
Time names -------- - 143
One control falling into the mode of expression of
another --------- 147
Common stock of memories and associations : - - 148
" Two, too, to " - - - - - - 149
Solidarity among controls - - - - - 150
Rector associates with the name of a sitter
Phinuit's nickname for him - - - - 154
Forrest case -------- 155
Chapter V. Communicators.
The subject is approached from the point of view
of the theories advanced by controls and com-
municators -------- 159
Alleged difficulties of communication arising from :
(1) Bewilderment or suffocation in going into
"light" -------- 159
Fatigue ;
arrangements for resting - - - 162
(2) Control's difficulty in hearing communicator - 163
Distance of communicator - 168
(3) Communicator's difficulty in hearing sitter - 172
Control's ,, ,, ,, - 175
(4) Sitter's difficulty in reading the script - - 175
False communicators - - - - - - -176
Questions to be considered concerning relations of
control and communicator ------ 178
Dramatic distinction between control and com-
municator --------- 179
Independent memories attributed to control and
communicator -------- 179
Question whether this is more than play-acting - - 179
Real communications from spirits are not incompatible
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance.— Contents. ix
with purely dramatic representations of the com- PAQE
municator -------- - 180
Externalised seeing and hearing of communicator by
control --------- 180
Affirmation by communicator of his position in
space ------- -- 186
Symbolic descriptions - - 186
Communicator sometimes influences medium's organism
as shown by cramped or other movements 'of
her hand and by changes in her handwriting - 187
by use of her hand for other purposes than
writing 191
by perturbation of her hand by communicator's
emotions - -- -- -- - 192
This seeming influence on the organism by the
communicator may be a form of joint control - 193
or may be a part played by the control to
symbohse the communicator - 194
or may be an artifice to make the drama clear
to the sitter 194
Cases of control suffering communicator's pain - - 194
Assisted control -194
Through degrees of assisted control, communicator
and control merge into each other - 200
Communicators hear through the medium's ears - - 201
Summary of points established 203
Chapter VI. The Waking-Stage, and the Corre-
sponding Stage in going into Trance.
Changes in processes of going into and coming out
of trance, and in Mrs. Piper's state of mind
when doing so 205
Quiet and seemingly pleasant process under
Imperator regime - 205
The process under the Phinuit regime - - 206
Mrs. Piper's visions of spirits in waking-stage
began under the Phinuit regime, but became
commoner under the G. P. regime, when also
talking during waking-stage began - 212
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
PAGE
Waking-stages during recovery from anaesthetics - 217
Waking-stages of 1894-5 218
Stages of consciousness during waking-stage - - 223
Consciousness of presence of the sitter - - - 224
Subject-matter of waking-stage dreams can
generally be traced in the preceding trance
proper --------- 224
" Snap " in head during waking-stage - 225
Coincidence of rise of regular waking-stage with
disappearance of Phinuit and ceasing of habitual
voice-sittings - -- -- -- - 226
Mrs. Piper in the " spirit world " of the waking-
stage does not meet living people - 227
But her visionary spirits get mixed with her real
surroundings as she wakes ..... 228
Breaks of memory and absence of judgment in
waking-stage - - 228
Imagery of waking-stages ------ 229
Concerning the nature of the intelligence operating
in the waking-stage ------ 230
Hodgson's view of " the subliminal " discussed - 230
The waking-stage personality conceives itself as
Mrs. Piper -------- 231
Sometimes she gives her side only of the conversa-
tion addressed sometimes to spirits, sometimes
to sitter as well as spirits - - - - 231
Sometimes she gives the spirit's side only of the
conversation ------- 232
Sometimes she gives both sides - - - - 233
Echolalia- -------- 234
Exceptional cases where it does not seem to be
Mrs. Piper herself who is the " I " of the
waking-stage utterance - - - - - 235
The waking-stage sometimes definitely continues
the drama of the preceding trance proper - - 240
The drama of trance proper is sometimes begun in
the going-into -trance stage ----- 242
Connexion of some kind is almost always to be
found between the trance proper and the
waking-stage ------- 244
Lxxi.j Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance.—Contents. xi
Cases where such connexion is affirmed are
PAGE
reserved for Chapter VII. - - - - - 244
There is more or less identity of the personages
who appear in trance and waking-stage—and
once the absence of a personage in both is
noted ------ . . 244
There are no records of personages making their
first appearance in the waking-stage, but
ideas sometimes do ----- - 244
Various cases of correspondence of ideas in trance
proper and in waking-stage (including " sphere-
spear ") - - - 245
Mrs. Piper's visions in waking-stages of Phinuit,
Rector, Imperator ------ 248
Her visions of communicators sometimes veridical 219
Locket case 250
Memory from one waking-stage to another - - 255
Chapter VII. Relation to each other of Mrs.
Piper's different states of Consciousness.
The normal Mrs. Piper appears to have no conscious
knowledge of what happens in the trance proper - 258
Possibility that subliminal memory of the trance
may sometimes emerge in the normal state - - 258
Normal state less cut off from waking-stage than
from trance proper ------- 259
Different views as to knowledge in trance of the
normal state 259
Mrs. Piper's memorised knowledge is certainly common
to both states 259
And to the waking-stage also ----- 260
But is aU her normal knowledge available for trance
and waking-stage consciousnesses ? - - - - 261
Sir Oliver Lodge's view ------- 261
Dr. Leaf's view ------ 261
Hodgson's view ------- 262
Other possibilities besides complete knowledge and
complete ignorance ------- 263
Ignorance professed in trance of Mrs. Piper's state of
health or state of mind ------ 264
xii Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [fART
PAGE
But not very consistently - - - - - - 264
The last thought before trance often recurs on
emerging from trance - 266
Memory in one trance of preceding trances is good - 267
Uncontrolled association of ideas ----- 267
Memory in waking-stage of preceding waking-stages - 268
Memory between trance proper and waking-stage - 268
Examples before the full development of the waking-
stage ---------- 268
Examples after the full development of the waking-
stage 270
Joseph Marble case (recognition of photograph) - - 273
Further evidence of memory in one state of the
other state under influence of cross-correspondence
experiments in 1907 - 273
and in 1908 277
Some statements by MyersP about the connexion - 277
Suggestion from trance to waking-stage - 279
Communicator said to confer with control at moment of
leaving ;
perhaps this indicates moment of special
lucidity - 282
Dramatic consistency ------- 286
The suggestion that questions should be given to
the communicator to think over is perhaps also an
indication that in coming out of trance there is
a moment of lucidity 287
An incident indicating lucidity at the moment of transi-
tion in a break in the trance ----- 289
Cases definitely indicating that it is Mrs. Piper's
consciousness operating throughout - 290
Chapter VIII. Effect of Sitters and of so-called
" Influences " on the Trance Phenomena.
Sitters influence the communications by being person-
ages in the drama ...... 294
Also by being the audience ------ 294
Controls adapt their remarks to supposed needs
of the sitter - -- -- -- - 295
Differences in the qualities of the sitters affect the
amount of veridical communication - 295
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.-—Contents. xiii
Sitters possibly a telepathic channel between com- PAGE
municator and medium ------ 290
Evidence of telepathy from the sitter - - - - 297
Controls are concerned to deny telepathy from
sitters - 298
But are not consistent ------- 298
Sometimes they admit borrowing language from sitter - 299
Some telepathy is admitted by HodgsonP in 1906 - 299
GurneyP,
MyersP and HodgsonP as communicators
apparently affected by sitters - - - 300
Myersp .... .-.-300
HodgsonP -------- 301
Gurneyp --------- 301
" Influences," what they are and how used - - - 305
Hodgson's suggestions about them in his first report - 306
Not much has been added to our knowledge about
them since then - 307
Doctor's account of influences 307
G. P.'s account -------- 307
G. P. and Doctor do not believe in psychometry - 308
Other statements about influences are well adapted
for use as excuses for failure - ... 308
" Spirit " of influences taken to the other world - - 308
Influences of living people—various views - - - 309
Further remarks on telepathy from sitters as an
explanation of effect of influences - - - - 310
But " the healer's influence " and Hodgson's influences
do not fall under any of the above mentioned
explanations 310
The use of influences is perhaps a form of ritual - - 3 1
1
But the use of " the healer's influence " suggests that
grasping it may have had a steadying effect on the
trance consciousness 311
Or a pause may have been desired and obtained by
grasping an influence 311
False influences can be efficacious ----- 312
The same advantages as are supposed to be conferred
by influences were sometimes obtained by resting
the hand on the sitter's head - - - - 312
Also from verses being read to the control - - - 313
xiv Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
Comm. anicators often require a rest and obtain it
PAGE
by pauses - - - - - - - - - 313
Influences may be used, among other means, to
secure pauses for them - - - - - - 314
Chapter IX. Conclusion.
The controls are not spirits other than Mrs. Piper - 315
Nor are the dramatic communicators - - - - 317
The greater powers, as compared with the normal
Mrs. Piper, shown in some respects by controls - 317
And their supernormal access to information from
living minds and probably from the dead- - - 318
Are both compatible with the controls being phases or
fragments of Mrs. Piper ------ 320
The fragmentary character of supernormal impressions
resembles thought-transference experiments - - 320
As does the mental groping after impressions - - 321
Are controls secondary personalities, and if so, in
what sense ? - -- -- -- - 323
They probably are Mis. Piper's hypnotic self in self-
induced hypnosis personating different characters - 324
Sometimes perhaps deliberately, sometimes self-deceived 325
The best analogy to the controls is probably the suggested
personations of hypnosis ------ 326
Mrs. Piper's trance is in other respects like hypnosis - 327
All the elements required to suggest the trance
drama were present in Mrs. Piper's case - 327
Differences in consciousnesses of trance and of
waking-stage -------- 328
Telepathy in the various states - - - 329
What psychical processes are involved in changes and
divisions of consciousness either in hypnosis or in Mrs.
Piper's trance we do not know ----- 329
Brief summary of conclusion - - - 330
Appendix to Chapter I. - - - - - - - 332
Appendix to Chapter II. : Theories of Controls - - 335
(A.) Stenographic reports of Phinuit in 1888 - - 335
(B.) „ „ of G. P. in 1892 - - - 352
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Contents. xv
PAGE
(C.) Sittings for enquiry into theories in 1895 - - 363
(D.) A dream of Mrs. Piper's in 1896 - - 377
(E.) Sittings, October, 1896, to June, 1897 - - 381
(F.) Sittings after 1897 - - 417
Appendix to Chapter III. : Specimens of Individual
Controls. - - - - 437
(.4.) Sir Walter Scott - - 437
(B.) Proctor the Astronomer - .... 443
(C.) Stainton Moses - - - 453
(D.) The Imperator Band - - - - 468
(E.) George Eliot :
Failure of Cross-Correspondence Experiments - 491
(F.) Mrs. Piper's last trance ------ 514
Appendix to Chapter IV. : Some Passages 4B.out
SPEAKING BY THOUGHT - - - - - 518
Appendix to Chapter V. : Communicators - - 520
Examples of :
Intermediaries between Communicator and Rector - 520
Control's difficulty in hearing the Communicator - 524
Communicator " hearing " the sitter - - - 528
False Communicators ----- . 533
Externalised visions in writing sittings - - - 544
Position in space affirmed by Communicator - 546
Control feeling pain of Communicator - 548
Appendix to Chapter VI.
Examples of waking-stages, and stage of going into
trance --------- 549
Appendix to Chapter VII.
Supposed relation of trance personality to normal - 614
G. P. on messages through returning spirit of the
medium 616
Phinuit on messages through returning spirit of the
medium --------- 617
Case of False Communicator remembering in trance
the previous waking-stage ------ 617
xvi Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PART
Appendix to Chapter VIII.
Extracts concerning :
PAGE
(A.) Control's views on influence of minds of sitters - 619
(B.) "Influences" ----- 622
(C.) Examples of medium seeking strength by resting
her hand on the sitter's head 644
(D.) Example of medium seeking strength by hearing
verses recited -------- 645
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Records. xvii
Explanations concerning my Treatment of the
Records.
(i) I have not thought it necessary even when we have
the original script, which to a large extent we have, to
compare with it the extracts from sittings given in my
text or appendices. To do so would be a very laborious
and troublesome piece of work, and for the purposes of
this paper I have thought that the typed copies made
immediately after the sittings and carefully compared with
the original script at the time by the recorder, may fairly
be taken as sufficiently accurate.
(ii) I have in transcribing from the typed copies gener-
ally omitted, without indicating the fact, repetitions due
to difficulty of reading. These repetitions interrupt the
straightforward apprehension of what the controls wish to
sa.y, and do not in any way affect the sense. All omissions
of a different kind in any passage quoted are indicated by
asterisks or otherwise. I have also inserted what seemed
needful in the way of punctuation, but have been very
careful in this, as well as in omissions, not to alter the
sense of what is quoted.
(iii) It has often been necessary for my purposes to keep
before the reader who the control or communicator is
supposed to be, or to distinguish clearly between them.
I have accordingly inserted the name, or some designation,
before each remark. But these names are not part of the
original records nor of the typed copies. Generally
speaking, there is no doubt as to who the speaker or
writer is supposed to be, but occasionally it is a matter
of conjecture, and whenever I have had any doubt myself
I have given as alternatives the two names between which
xviii Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
the doubt lies. When the control is writing for a com-
municator I have generally prefixed to the remark the
name of the communicator or the abbreviation " Comm."
In designating Myers or Hodgson or Gurney as com-
municators or controls, I have generally used the symbol
Myersp, HodgsonP ,
etc., introduced in Proceedings, Vol.
XXII., for two purposes, viz. to distinguish between, e.g.
the Myers of different automatists, and to avoid any
begging of the question whether the control or communi-
cator was the real Frederic Myers, etc., or not.
(iv) Remarks enclosed in square brackets are notes
by the recorder. Those inserted by myself in the course
ofj
a record are indicated by { } .
(v) The symbol " U.D." is an abbreviation for Under-
stand, understood, do you understand ?, etc.
Definitions.
Definitions of the following words and phrases as used
in this paper will be found at the pages indicated :
Control, p. 7.
Communicator, p. 7.
Telepathy (see p. 82) is used of all communication other-
wise than through the senses ; whether between living
persons, or between disembodied spirits and living persons,
or between spirits.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Dates. xix
Dates of some Events bearing on the History op Mrs.
Piper's Trance Communications as dealt with in
this Paper.
1884. Mrs. Piper's trances began.
1887 (May). R. Hodgson went to the United States as secre-
tary of the American Society for Psychical Research,
and continued investigations with Mrs. Piper already
begun by that Society.
1888 (June 22). Edmund Gurney died.
1889-90. Mrs. Piper's first visit to England.
1892 (February). " George Pelham " died.
(March). First appearance of G. P. control.
1897 (January 26). The Imperator Band assume position of
chief controls.
1900 (August 28). Henry Sidgwick died.
1901 (January 17). F. W. H. Myers died.
1905 (December 20). R. Hodgson died.
1906-7. Mrs. Piper's second visit to England.
1909-11. Mrs. Piper's third \isit to England.
1910 (August 26). William James died.
1911 (June 4). Mrs. Piper's first automatic writing without
trance.
1911 (July 31). Mrs. Piper's last trance.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 1
CHAPTER I.
Introductory.
When in 1898 Dr. Hodgson published his second paper on
Mrs. Piper, 1
it was his intention 2
to write a "Part II." in
which he would deal with objections that might be raised
to his views, and would refer to statements made by the
" communicators " concerning the writings and then pro-
duction. He also intended to add records of further inci-
dents strengthening the general evidence. Unfortunately
these intentions were never carried out. All that appeared
of the intended Part II. was a valuable contribution by
Professor W. Romaine Newbold,3
discussing sittings with
which he was concerned in 1894-5. Of these sittings
—
33 in number—15 " were devoted for the most part to
getting evidence to prove the identity of the alleged com-
municators ; the remainder to getting from them their own
theory of the phenomena and their description of the con-
ditions under which they were working and of the life they
live." " While it is impossible at present," Professor New-
bold continues, " to accept these statements as true, it is of
the greatest importance to put them on record as afford-
ing clues for the guidance of experiments with other
automatists." The material provided by this latter series
was, however, left to Hodgson to deal with in the paper
*"A further Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance."
By Richard Hodgson, LL.D. S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 284-582.
2
Op. cit., p. 406.
3
"A further Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance."
Part II., A. By Professor William Romaine Newbold. Proc, Vol. XIV ,
pp. 6-49.
A
2 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
which never saw the light, Professor Newbold concerning
himself, in his paper, with the evidence for identity only.
Nor did Hodgson ever reply to an article by myself,1
in which I discussed his theory of the nature of the
communicating intelligence and its relation to Mrs. Piper ;
and pointed out what seemed to me good grounds for my
view. I regret this the more because he is known to have
disagreed with me and to have intended to write an
answer, and it is only by free discussion that we can hope
to arrive at sound conclusions.
Hodgson not only did not carry out these various
intentions, but, so far as I know, he left no notes of what
he intended to say in any form available for use by
others. It is unfortunate, because his experience of the
trance manifestations in Mrs. Piper's case was greater than
that of any other student of the subject ;
and because the
records of his own sittings with her probably include
experiments and attempts to elucidate points to which we
have not the clue, and the significance of which is therefore
lost to us. Moreover, even apart from this, we who read
his records of sittings have, as it were, only the dry bones,
and doubtless lose much that made the communications life-
like and impressive, and which he might to some extent
have made us realise had he himself written about them.
As Professor William James says (Proceedings, Vol. XXIII.,
p. 32) :
One who takes part in a good sitting has usually a far
livelier sense, both of the reality and of the importance of the
communications, than one who merely reads the record. Active
relations with a thing are required to bring the reality of it
home to us, and in a trance-talk the sitter actively co-
operates. * * * But a sitting that thus seemed important
at the time may greatly shrink in value on a cold re-
reading ; and if read by a non-participant, it may seem
thin and almost insignificant.
This advantage of personal participation in a sitting is,
however, not entirely unmixed, for the dry light of criticism
1 " Discussion of the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper." Proc, Vol.
XV., pp. 16-3S.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance Phenomena. 3
is perhaps more easily brought to bear when uninfluenced
and unimpeded by dramatic or emotional elements. In
much the same way, when we wish to get at facts it may be
better to read a statement of them to ourselves rather than
to hear even the same statement eloquently set forth by an
orator with a parti pris. It must be remembered, of course,
that a conversation of any vividness, whether carried on
on the medium's side by voice or by writing, is hardly
possible unless the sitter can act his part and behave as
though his interlocutor were what he professes to be, even
when he suspects him of play-acting. Thus Mrs. Piper's
sitters cannot escape sharing in the performance, whatever
view they take of its genuineness.
It would be interesting to know why Hodgson failed so
completely to carry out his intentions. One reason was
doubtless that he was busy. The constant superintendence
of Mrs. Piper's sittings—in 1896 and 1897 generally six a
week, and latterly usually three a week during some three-
fourths of the year—and the keeping of records of them,
must have been a time-consuming and rather fatiguing
business, and there was as well the business of the American
Branch of the S.P.R., of which he was secretary. And of
course the material with which he had to deal was con-
stantly growing on his hands. I think, however, that he
did not expect this growth to continue indefinitely. The
records show that the trance personages frequently spoke
of Mrs. Piper's power coming to an end in a year or two,
as well as of the probable withdrawal of the Imperator
Band
—
i.e. the particular group of soi-disant communicating
spirits in whose communications Hodgson was specially
interested from 1897 onwards. The records also show
that a continued and prosperous life was prophesied for
Hodgson himself. 1
The first prophecy might well have
made him feel that it would be more profitable to delay
writing till he had the whole of the evidence before him ;
and the second prophecy, if he attached any importance
to it, would tend to support the impression, natural in a
healthy man of his age, that there was no need for haste
—that he had time before him.
1
For instances of these prophecies see Appendix, pp. 332-333.
4 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Whatever the cause, however, of Hodgson's not giving us
a further instalment of his study of Mrs. Piper's trance
phenomena, we can merely note and regret the fact and
endeavour to make what use we can of his material with-
out his assistance. Some of this material regarded as
bearing on the evidence for the identity of the alleged
communicators has already been published. Professor
Hyslop's sittings, on which he reported in Hodgson's life-
time in Proceedings, Vol. XVI., and some of those on
which he reported in the Proceedings of the American
Society for Psychical Research, Vol. IV., belong to the
period between Hodgson's last report and his death
;
and so do the Junot sittings, edited by Miss Verrall and
published in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., pp. 351-664. Hodg-
son once told me, as I well remember, that he attached
great value to the latter series as evidence of identity,
especially as being one which could be published quite
complete. It is also a series in which—owing to the Junot
family living at a great distance from Boston (where most
of the sittings were held), and to their being unconnected
with other sitters—there need be hardly any fear of leakage,
of information having accidentally reached Mrs. Piper
through other sitters. Unfortunately, though the conviction
of personal identity produced was strong, the amount of
actually veridical statement beyond any probability of guess-
work is less in amount than one could have wished.
There have also been published certain cross-correspondences
between Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Verrall which occurred in 1902
during Hodgson's life-time (see Proceedings, Vol. XX.,
pp. 212-218).
There is other material in the records, which there is
little doubt added to the evidence for supernormal com-
munication ; but some of it is too private to publish, and
in hardly any of it is it now possible to judge of the value
of the evidence, because we cannot tell how much Mrs.
Piper's supraliminal or subliminal self may have known
normally. The record of what passed at sittings is not
complete. Hodgson was often asked to leave the room
during parts of sittings, and on other occasions he was not
present at all. The sitters were sometimes known to Mrs.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 5
Piper in her normal state, and sometimes known to each
other, so that there were possibilities of leakage which
cannot now be estimated. Tor these reasons the records
can add little to the evidence for the identity of com-
municators already published. Moreover, they do not
on the whole afford evidence different in kind from that
which we already have. Mr. Gerald Balfour and I, who
have between us read through all the available records
left by Hodgson, have therefore come to the conclusion
that so far as they are concerned it is not worth while to
attempt to present more evidence, as such, of knowledge
reaching Mrs. Piper's trance personality in a supernormal
manner—and in this conclusion Mr. Piddmgton concurs.
We think, however, that some attempt should be made
by examining all the available records, both published and
unpublished, to analyse further the phenomena of the
various trance states ; to discover in what respects the
communicating intelligences concerned, and alleging them-
selves to be independent of one another, are differentiated ;
whether their account of themselves is consistent ; and to
what extent, if at all, their claim to be other than a
phase, or particular centre of consciousness, of Mrs. Piper
herself is justified. Opinions on these questions have been
much divided. For instance, as Professor William James
says {Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., p. 3) :
" Dr. Hodgson was
disposed to admit the claim to reality of Rector and of
the whole Imperator-Band of which he is a member,
while I have rather favoured the idea of their all being
dream creations of Mrs. Piper, probably having no existence
except when she is in trance, but consolidated by repetition
into personalities consistent enough to play their several
roles." My own opinion in 1899 was that, however true it
may be that there is really communication between the
living and the dead, the intelligence communicating directly
with the sitter through Mrs. Piper's organism is Mrs.
Piper. This opinion was expressed in the article already
referred to {Proceedings, Vol. XV., pp. 18, 19), and I may
as well say at once that it has remained substantially
unchanged.
Incidentally, it will be desirable in the course of the
6 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
discussion to bring into more prominence than has yet
been done the weakest side of the Piper trances—cases of
obviously false personations and false claims, of ignorance
and misapprehensions shown by the trance personages,
and so forth. Not that the existence of these things has
been ignored by any of the investigators, or that specimens
have not been given ; but in joapers mainly concerned with
evidence for the exhibition of knowledge not normally within
Mrs. Piper's reach, their importance is naturally subordi-
nate, and we think that the place which they occupy in the
trance communications as a whole and the important bearing
they must have on such questions as we are now proposing
to discuss, has perhaps hardly been appreciated by those
who have only had the hitherto published evidence before
them. I propose, therefore, besides referring to such cases
where the discussion requires it, to give, among other
things, specimens in the Appendices of what may be called
Mrs. Piper's trance communications at their worst.
Much of the material on which this paper is based has,
as I have already said, been studied by Mr. Gerald Balfour
as well as by myself, and I have had the advantage of
his notes on it as well as of his criticism of what I have
written, though the responsibility is entirely my own.
To PREVENT MISAPPREHENSION, I AM ANXIOUS TO SAY
EMPHATICALLY AT THE VERY BEGINNING OF MY DISCUSSION
THAT I HAVE NO DOUBT WHATEVER THAT KNOWLEDGE IS
OFTEN EXHIBITED IN THE COURSE OF MRS. PlPER'S TRANCE
UTTERANCES WHICH CAN ONLY HAVE REACHED HER BY SOME
SUPERNORMAL MEANS—BY WHICH I MEAN OTHERWISE THAN
THROUGH THE ORDINARY CHANNELS OF SENSE.
For evidence of this I must refer my readers to the
papers already published in the Proceedings about Mrs.
Piper, 1
for I do not propose to go into it in the present
paper. Nor do I propose to discuss the question whether
the evidence, if accepted, does or does not carry us beyond
telepathy from the living. I will only say that since I
wrote my previous paper in 1899 two very important
things have happened. First, evidence tending, in my
opinion, decidedly to support the hypothesis of communica-
1
For a list of these see Preface.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 7
tion from the dead has been obtained through automatists
other than Mrs. Piper ; and secondly, the development of
cross-correspondences has introduced a new line of evidence
to which Mrs. Piper has contributed her share. The weak-
ness I pointed out in 1899—that we depended for evidence
of communication from the dead on one medium alone
—
has therefore disappeared. Nevertheless, partly because I
am not going to deal in this paper, except incidentally,
with evidence for telepathy either with the living or the
dead, partly because I am unable to agree with Hodgson
as to the extent to which Mrs. Piper's trance utterances are
independent of her, and partly because I must dwell on
absurd elements hi those utterances, what I have to say
may seem to some readers to belittle the value of the
evidence obtained through her for communication otherwise
than through the senses. I am, therefore, the more con-
cerned to make it clear that hi my opinion Mrs. Piper's
supernormal powers are very important. It is indeed
chiefly because of their importance that I think it worth
while to make a careful study of her trance phenomena.
Before going further, I wish to define the way in which
in what follows I propose to use the two words "control"'
and "communicator," both familiar to the readers of reports
on Mrs. Piper. In previous discussions these words have
sometimes been used as synonymous, and it will, I think,
conduce to clearness to assign to each a special meaning.
By " control," then, I mean the intelligence which is
and professes to be hi direct communication with the
sitter by voice or writing—the intelligence which Hodgson,
when he wants to distinguish, calls the " direct com-
municator." 1
By " communicator " I mean an intelli-
gence for which the control professes to act as amanuensis
or interpreter, or whose remarks the control repeats to the
sitter.
1
For the benefit of those not familiar with spiritualistic literature I may
remark that the word " control " is in regular use in this sense in mediumistic
parlance. Nearly all trance mediums, professional or otherwise, have their
" controls,*' and speak ''
under control," and indeed the general dramatic
framework of Mrs. Piper's sittings is common to most trance mediums.
8 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [PAET
I am not at present making any assumptions as to whether
controls or communicators are or are not what they pro-
fess to be, namely, spirits of dead persons ; or whether
they are or are not phases of Mrs. Piper's consciousness,
and if so whether the dissociation between them and the
normal consciousness is so complete that they merit the
name of secondary personalities. In the discussion that
follows the aim is to obtain light on these questions.
But whatever theory we adopt it will, I think, be con-
venient in describing the phenomena to use the words
" control " and " communicator " in the senses above
defined.
All readers of our Proceedings will readily recall as instances
of "controls" in the trance state, Phinuit, "George Pelham"
(whom I shall throughout call G. P.), Rector. In the
waking-stage the " control," according to the definition
above given, almost invariably purports to be Mrs. Piper
herself. The friends of sitters generally appear in the role
of "communicators." But the roles of control and com-
municator are interchangeable : a communicator may
become a control and may oscillate between the two func-
tions ;
and, of course, a control can and does communicate
on his own account. Sometimes, as we shall see, it is
difficult for the sitter to know whether the communicator is
supposed to be communicating through a separate control
or whether he is the control himself. But on the whole it
is generally, I think, fairly clear what is happening or
supposed to be happening. Doubt, when it occurs, is often
the result of a further dramatic complication which we may
call "assisted control," when the communicator is repre-
sented as writing or talking himself, but with Phinuit or
Rector or G. P. supporting him, as it were.
The dramatic form above indicated is consistently main-
tained throughout the trance proper : all the characters
appearing in the drama being represented, and representing
themselves, as permanent independent entities—spirits of the
dead—quite distinct from Mrs. Piper herself. Mrs. Piper's
own spirit is represented as temporarily removed and having
no concern in the business at all. Her body is said to be
in the meanwhile occupied by the control who works the
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 9
writing or speaking mechanism ; and the reason that a con-
trol must intervene between communicator and sitter is
said to be that successful working with the medium's organism
needs special capacity and practice. Whatever our theory
of the underlying reality, it would be very inconvenient
not to accept this dramatic form and speak of the char-
acters in the drama as they speak of themselves. When,
therefore, in what follows, I refer to the control as he or
she as the case may be, or say that Rector is writing, and
so forth—this mode of describing what occurs must not be
taken as implying any theory whatever as to the true
nature of any of the personages in the drama.
It may be convenient to my readers to be reminded briefly
of the history of Mrs. Piper's trance phenomena. She first
went into trance in June, 1884, when consulting a profes-
sional medium, Mr. Cocke, about her own health (see Pro-
ceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 46-47). Phinuit, who called him-
self a French physician, was among her earliest controls, but
at first only for medical diagnosis. She had a number of
other controls, " Chlorine," Mrs. Siddons, John Sebastian
Bach, Longfellow, Commodore Vanderbilt, and Loretta
Ponchini—the last purporting to be an Italian girl. 1
According to Mrs. Piper's father-in-law, Chlorine was at
first the principal control for outside sitters, and Loretta
Ponchini and Mrs. Siddons for sittings in the Piper family.
After a time Bach, who represented himself as leader of
the band, said they were going to concentrate all their
powers on Phinuit, and he became ultimately the chief
control. There is a certain interest in comparing this
account of the development of the early trance controls
with the later development of the control of the Imperator
Band, which in some ways resembles it. We have, in the
latter case, Stainton Moses professing to bring his former
controls—Imperator, Rector, etc. These at first aU take
turns in controlling, till finally Rector is established as the
regular control. There is this difference between the two
cases, however, that Rector always had Imperator in the
1
Bach and a soi-disctnt French doctor called Finny were controls of Mr.
Cocke.
10 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
background keeping a general supervision over things, while
Phinuit appeared to act on his own responsibility alone.
Professor William James first came across Mrs. Piper in
1885,1
and introduced her to Hodgson in 1887 when the
latter went to America as secretary of the American Society
for Psychical Research. From that time she has been in
almost constant relation with the Society in America or in
England. The time during which systematic records have
been kept divides itself naturally into four periods. During
the first the principal control called himself Phinuit, and the
sittings were all voice sittings, that is, Phinuit talked to
the sitters. This period lasted till 1892. Three reports were
published dealing with it : one by Professor William
James in 1886 in the Proceedings of the American Society for
Psychical Research ; one in 1890 in our Proceedings, Vol.
VI., by an English committee on sittings held in England in
1889-90, but including a further report by William James ;
and one by Hodgson published in 1892 in the Proceedings,
Vol. VIII.
The second period extends from 1892 to January 1897.
During this period Phinuit still continued to control and
to communicate by voice, but a leading part was played
by a new control, " G. P."—a gentleman recently deceased
—and he and other controls gradually adopted the plan of
communicating in writing, conversations with the sitter
being carried on by the sitter speaking and the control
writing. This period, which we may call the G. P. regime,
was reported on by Hodgson in 1897 in Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., and Professor Newbold's paper in Proceedings,
Vol. XIV. (see above, p. 1) was also concerned with it.
The earlier part of this second period afforded interesting
instances of double control—Phinuit talking and G. P.
or some other control writing on different subjects at the
same time. This and the extraordinary vividness and
truth to life—to judge from his friends' accounts—of the
" G. P." control make me think that in 1892 occurred
probably the culmination of Mrs. Piper's automatic powers.
There are other considerations to which I shall call atten-
tion later, which seem to point in the same direction ;
and
'Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 651.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 11
I think it is true, whether G. P. was an intelligence
independent of Mrs. Piper or not.
During the third period, which extended from the begin-
ning of 1897 till Hodgson's death in December, 1905, the
principal controls were the Imperator Band (professing
to be the spirits who formerly communicated through Mr.
Stainton Moses), and from March or April, 1897, onwards,
chiefly Rector. George Eliot and another literary lady,
K. F., also took prominent parts as controls in 1897, while
the transition to Rector's becoming the important control
was going on.
Phinuit made his final appearance on January 26, 1897,
and G. P. since that time has taken a comparatively sub-
ordinate part. At the beginning of this Imperator regime,
communication by voice, which is stated to be much more
fatiguing to the medium than communication by writing,
was discontinued ; and when a few months later it was
resumed, it was rarely used except with two or three
favoured sitters, most of whom, though not all, had, I think,
been previously hi the habit of sitting with Mrs. Piper. It
was perhaps partly in order to reduce communication by
voice that Phinuit was got rid of—removed to a higher
sphere and relieved from his earthbound condition, it was
explained. A very pleasing change introduced by the new
controls was a quiet and placid jDrocess of going into trance
instead of the convulsive movements, often unpleasant to
witness, with which it used generally to be accompanied
previously. As stated above, the Hyslop sittings {Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XVI., and some in the Proceedings Am. S.P.R.,
Vol. IV.) and the Junot sittings {Proceedings, Vol. XXIV.)
belong to this third period.
The immediate difference introduced by Hodgson's death
in December, 1905, which I have called the beginning of the
fourth period, was, apart from the loss of his management
of the sittings, chiefly the appearance of a communicator
claiming to be Hodgson. Hodgson has also frequently
appeared as control, though Rector retained his position as
chief control. Imperator was in a sense the chief control
both in the third and fourth periods, as Rector always
represented himself as acting under Imperator's direction,
12 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PAET
but Imperator very seldom himself controlled, i.e. he very
seldom, after the spring of 1897, professed to write or speak
himself. The early appearances of Hodgson, whether as
control or communicator, were reported on by Professor
William James in Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., and by Pro-
fessor Hyslop in the Proceedings of the American 8.P.R.,
Vol. IV.
There has been considerable variation in the sittings of
this period, for the English sittings in 1906-7—which Mr.
Piddington reported on in our Proceedings, Vols. XXII.
and XXIII. , and Sir Oliver Lodge in Vol. XXIII.—pre-
sent a somewhat new type ; and those of Mr. Dorr in
1908-9—reported on in our Proceedings, Vol. XXIV.—
a
different type again. It was during this period, in the
spring of 1909, that Dr. Stanley Hall had a series of six
sittings on which he and his assistant, Miss Amy Tanner,
Ph.D., reported in a book entitled Studies in Spiritualism,
published at New York in 1910, and reviewed in our
Proceedings, Vol. XXV.
When Mrs. Piper came to England for her third visit at
the end of 1909, her power of going into trance seemed to
have left her. She was not at all in good health, which
may have had something to do with it. But whatever the
cause, repeated attempts to go into trance produced no
results till May, 1910, when Miss Margaret Bancroft—an
American friend of Hodgson's whom Mrs. Piper was well
acquainted with, and who had been a frequent sitter
—
happened to visit England, and, by encouragement and
suggestion apparently, succeeded in getting the trance to
come on for a short time, and some fragmentary writing to
be produced. Mrs. Piper when normal again was much
gratified by this result, for she had feared that her power
had gone.
After this, sittings of the usual type began to occur
again at intervals. There were one in May and two in
July, 1910, under the management of Sir Oliver Lodge, and
a certain number also under his management in the autumn
and winter of 1910-11. But they were irregular ; the trance
did not always come on, and what was worse, recovery
from the trance was sometimes difficult—long intervals of
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 13
seeming complete unconsciousness occurring after the alert
trance state was over before any sign of returning to normal
consciousness began. This was, of course, alarming. By-
direction of the controls periods of weeks were left without
sittings, but apparently with no good effect The Imperator
Band said at different times that the sittings were bad for
the medium and must stop—that they, the Imperator
Band, must go. They took what purported to be a final
leave on May 24, 1911—the first sitting since the middle
of February. Another sitting was held on July 3, at which
Mrs. Isaac Thompson, well known to Mrs. Piper (see Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XXIII., pp. 162-196), and who had been
asked for by the controls, was present ; but the Imperator
Band did not appear ;
" Madame Guyon," who had in the
previous winter been referred to once or twice by the con-
trols, and had once sent a message, took their place. On
July 31, 1911, a sitting promised by the controls to Lady
Lodge took place, at which her friends communicated
;
" Madame Guyon " opened it, but Imperator came at the
end to close the light for good. This was Mrs. Piper's last
sitting. But it is interesting that a power of automatic
writing in an apparently normal state developed to some
extent. More will be found about this in Chapter III.,
pp. 127-129.
Whether the cessation of Mrs. Piper's power of going into
trance is due to some permanent change in her, or whether
the power will return after really prolonged resting, it is,
of course, impossible to say. Mrs. Piper herself and also
the controls are disposed to regard the change as a con-
sequence of Dr. Stanley Hall's experiments. On one occa-
sion, in testing for ansesthesia, he produced a blister and
other effects from which some discomfort was experienced
after the trance was over ;
and, what was more resented by
the controls, he deceived the Hodgson control
—" told awful
whoppers," as the control expressed it—and induced him
by verbal suggestion to accept a false claim of acquaintance,
to introduce imaginary communicators, and so forth. No
doubt these things were disturbing, and may have inter-
fered with a calm confidence in the sitter, which had perhaps
become a necessary predisposition for going into trance ;
14 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
and what would probably be worse, if the controls are
phases of Mrs. Piper, may have undermined their confidence
in themselves. 1
At the same time no immediate ill effect
seems to have been produced. After the Stanley Hall
sittings Mrs. Piper took her usual summer holiday, and in
the autumn gave sittings to known friends as before. The
week before she was to have sailed for England she gave
so many consecutive sittings that she exhausted herself,
and was subsequently laid up with a very severe cold. She
had to defer her sailing, and was still much out of health
when she reached this country. As before remarked, this
illness, which continued for some time, may have interfered
with the faculty of going into trance.
But it seems equally probable that the prolonged failure
to go into trance—occasional failures occurred from time
to time at all periods—was merely the last step in a gradual
decline of power, for there are indications that the sittings
had been becoming more of an effort and more exhausting
as time went on. It was for this reason that sittings,
which up to about 1898 were frequently held on six days a
week, and before 1887 sometimes more than once a day,
were reduced to three per week. It was for this reason also
—so it was stated—that writing sittings were preferred to
voice sittings, as less tiring. It was probably for this
reason, at least in part, that the Imperator Band preferred
what may be called medical sittings, or preaching sittings
in which general advice was given, or sittings in which
consolation to the bereaved was proffered, to attempts at
purely evidential communications.2
And, moreover, all
through the Imperator regime occasional prophecies were
made that " the light " would fail.
1
I think Dr. Stanley Hall—though a psychologist, and though predisposed
to the belief that the trance personalities were forms of Mrs. Piper—over-
looked the fact that he might in this way be permanently injuring her
psychologically as a subject of experiment.
"E.g. on March 19, 1897, the Control (Rector) says :
R. It is now time to give some comfort and not so much questioning
because the light is not equal to it, my friend. * * * We see
that the light would be withdrawn if such things were to be
continued.
R. H. You mean indiscriminate tests ? R. Yes we do.
lxxi.] Psychology .of Mrs . Piper's: Prdnde: Phenomena. 15
Before proceeding-, to , any , more detailed analysis and dis-
cussion, I had' better'' give .-.
in- ffeijifej introductory chapter a
general description of the trance "and the process of going
into and coming out of it, and of the physical conditions
accompanying it ; and in doing so I shall chiefly have
in mind the later periods of Mrs. Piper's mediumship
—especially the sittings in 1907, at which I was myself
present. In the Phinuit and G. P. periods going into
trance was usually a disagreeable process for all concerned,
accompanied by convulsive movements and grinding of
teeth, but under the Imperator regime it became, as already
remarked, quiet and peaceful.
When during these later periods she desired to go
into trance, Mrs. Piper sat down at a table with a pile
of cushions hi front of her and wiUed to go off, apparently
as one wills to go to sleep. As in the case of sleep success
was usual but not invariable. She liked to have some one
present who knew about the trance and on whom she
could rely, but no one touched her or took any part
in inducing the trance. The person in charge merely
sat quietly beside her. After a varying interval her
consciousness of her surroundings seemed to become
somewhat confused, and then to disappear, visions of spirits
and imaginary scenes being substituted. It can hardly be
said that a definite line could be observed between different
stages of consciousness as she went off. Moreover, the
onlooker is, of course, only aware of them by occasional
remarks or gestures, and often nothing was said at all
during any part of the process of going into trance. What
was occasionally said, however, showed that it resembled
the waking process, though naturally in reverse order, and
the waking process afforded much more opportunity for
observation.1
Usually very soon after the first wavering
of consciousness, Mrs. Piper's head dropped on to the
pillows, with the face turned to the left, and away from
the sitter who sat on her right in order to read the
script ; and then for a few minutes she appeared to be in a
1
In the chapter on the waking-stage (Chapter VI.), I shall have occasion
to refer to some important manifestations in going into trance, notwith-
standing their comparative rarity.
16 MjrssJlenr'y\lliag\i$cl$.-. [paet
profound sleep. A
During this period . the sitter could move
about as he pleased, withoux fear ;
.cf , disracbing her, but
could not, of course," 'assume that her consciousness was
altogether as impervious to impressions as appeared. After
a few minutes the right hand woke from this sleep and took
the pencil the sitter gave it, and the trance consciousness
had begun. The rest of the body remained inert and
quiescent.
This was what happened in a purely writing sitting. In
the old voice sittings Mrs. Piper's whole body appeared to
be muscularly alert, and the whole upper part of it in use,
except the eyes which were usually closed. Hodgson tells
us in his first report that he also found the eyeballs rolled
up whenever he examined them. On one occasion he held
the eyelids open and urged Phinuit to move down the eye-
balls into their ordinary waking position. This was accom-
plished with apparently considerable effort and strain, and
after about half a minute they rolled up again suddenly
(see Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 5). When Dr. Stanley Hall
and Dr. Amy Tanner raised the eyelid during a writing
sitting in 1909, i.e. some twenty years later, . the eyeball
seemed to be in a normal position—not rolled up—so this
cannot be taken as an invariable symptom of the trance.
Hodgson found that the pupils reacted to light. The sense
of hearing and the active sense of touch were in normal
operation in the Phinuit clays, and he could localise pinches,
but there seems to have been a very considerable degree
of insensitiveness to pain (see Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 447,
1
The attitude assumed was, of course, the result of training. That the
brief sleep is really profound so far as the body is concerned seems to be
confirmed by an observation of Hodgson's on April 22, 1897, when Mrs.
Piper happened to be troubled with a cough. She coughed while going
into trance
—" Mrs. P.'s spirit not yet departed," as Hodgson expresses
it. The cough ceased during the sleep, but began again " with incoming
of other spirit." The interval of sleep was sometimes very brief. Thus
Mr. Dorr, recording a voice sitting on March 20, 1905, says about her going
off :
" Passes into sleep, head drooping, and almost immediately rising
again." When the communication is by voice, it should be observed, the
head is erect, not lying on the pillows. On the other hand, on one
occasion (September 13, 1898) it is recorded that " owing to some difficulty
in arranging the cushions Mrs. Piper slept quietly for ten minutes before
writing
"
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 17
and Vol. VIII., p. 5), and smell and taste seem to have been
at least weakened in the trance (see Proceedings, Vol. VIII.,
pp. 4 and 5). Dr. Stanley Hall and Miss Tanner in 1909
tried some tests of a similar kind to Hodgson's, in a writ-
ing sitting, but seem to have been left in doubt as to
whether the sensibility was or was not in any respect
below the normal {Studies in Spiritualism, pp. 17-21 and
235-245).
In the purely writing sittings the whole body, as already
remarked, seems inert, 1
except the right hand, which is
very active and expressive—gesticulating as well as writing,
and exercising an apparently delicate sense of touch with the
finger tips. The sense of hearing is also in operation, and
is, I have myself no doubt, exercised through the ears in the
ordinary way, though some have thought that the organ
of hearing is for the time being in the hand. 2
The writing
hand is sensitive to being touched by the sitter, who can,
however, take hold of the head or left hand and move them
into a more comfortable position on the pillows without
any apparent consciousness on the part of the patient. But
it must be observed that it was often because his attention
was drawn by the script to some unnamed form of dis-
comfort that the sitter w%s led to give such assistance.
It may be worth while to give a few specimens of help
given in this way by the sitter at different periods. We
must first observe that until Phinuit's final withdrawal in
January, 1897, there was generally an assumption while
writing was going on that he was in possession of the head
and the rest of the body other than the writing hand, even
when it was lying inert on the pillows. The following is a
specimen of help given to the medium under these circum-
stances on June 27, 1895. Professor W. Romaine Newbold
was the sitter, and the writing control purported to be Sir
Walter Scott. (For a more complete extract from the record,
see Appendix to Chapter III., p. 437.)
1
When writing sittings first began in 1892 and a writing and speaking-
control sometimes purported to be present at the same time, it was only,
I think, when the speaking control lapsed into the background, and was, in
fact, in abeyance, that the body sagged down and had to be supported.
2
This question is further discussed below, pp. 54-55.
1
8
Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
[Medium's head falls from the cushion.]
W. R. N. Wait a moment Sir Walter while I fix the head of
the medium in place.
W. S. Yes sir. [Hand stops writing until the head is
again firmly set in place. Phinuit thanks me in
stifled tones. I ask whether the light is going
out. Hand replies]
W. S. The light so called ? No sir.
After Phinuit's final departure the function of occupying
the head, etc., while another control is writing is sometimes
said to be performed by Rector. Thus on March 5, 1897 :
[Disturbance with the head of Mrs. P.]
{George Eliot writes.} Rector holds the other side and
begs me to ask you to assist the material while he holds
the spiritual. Then I will go on with you. Pardon any
interruptions that may occur. [I rearrange Mrs. P.'s head
with cushions, etc.] Better so. Thanks to you.
The idea of this kind of divided control was gradually
dropped, and I think there was no such assumption in Mrs.
Piper's later sittings. The writing hand then simply asks
for assistance to be given to the light
—" light " in this con-
nexion meaning medium. Thus on March 2, 1904—Hodgson
recording and two other sitters present—Rector interrupts
his work as amanuensis to say :
Help the light friend. [R. H. moves round tables to
left of Mrs. P. and finds the left arm has slipped and is
hanging down. He replaces it on cushions with hand under
forehead, and returns.]
R. H. All right.
Rector (writing) I began to be a little blind, R.
R. H. Yes ?
1
There have not, I think, been many observations recorded
on Mrs. Piper's pulse and temperature and other such symp-
toms during the trance. As regards the earlier accounts in
our Proceedings, reliance had been placed on obtaining the
1
The question mark after the " yes " I suppose indicates that Hodgson
did not understand Rector's last remark. No explanation is, however,
vouchsafed, and Rector continues to write for the sitters' friends.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena.. 19
report of a physician, who in the end refused to make any
report whatever (see Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 5). Sir
Oliver Lodge tells us {Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 447) that
" her pulse is affected beyond what [he] can imagine to be
the control of volition," but he does not tell us either the
degree or the direction of the change. Hodgson quotes in
Vol. XIII., p. 479, the following report by Dr. Lena V.
Ingraham, who had a sitting with Mrs. Piper on March 12,
1893, preliminary to a very serious operation which she was
to perform on her two days later. Dr. Ingraham gave
Hodgson the following statement as regards this sitting :
Mrs. Piper's pulse before the trance was rapid, from
the fact that she became rather excited over dread of
examination, operation, etc., but just before the trance it
was about 72 per minute, and was not accelerated during
the trance.
Her temperature was 99 degrees before, during and after
the trance.
Miss Tanner, Ph.D., in the book already quoted, Studies
in Spiritualism, p. 14, writes as follows about pulse and
breathing—her observations relating to the six sittings she
and Dr. Stanley Hall had in 1909 :
Her entrance to the trance state is voluntary, though
she is unable to describe in detail her mental attitude
She usually carries on a casual conversation with the sitters
while sitting in an arm-chair in front of a table on which
three pillows are placed. She tries not to think intently
of anything, and more or less consciously she makes her
breathing much slower. She begins to look sleepy, the eyes
become slightly fixed and staring, within a minute the
mouth drops open, and the eyes become rigid, the breath-
ing is still slower, and in five or six minutes from the
first look of sleepiness the head is dropped on the pillow,
the breathing is slower by one half than normal, and very
stertorous, and the hand is ready to write. Usually as
the trance comes on the face twitches slightly, and
sometimes the fingers do also. Sometimes there is some
incoherent talking. The pulse varies from about 84, which
seems to be the normal rate before the onset of the
20 M?:s. Henry SidgwicJc. [PABT
trance, to between 70 and 76 at the close. The breathing
varies from 20 to 22 for the normal, to between 7 and
10 during the trance, up to the time the hand ceases to
write. It then becomes gradually more rapid, rising to
normal in the course of fifteen minutes.
On page 18, Miss Tanner says :
The breathing varies from approximately 22 in the
normal to, at lowest, 7, and, as a rule, 10 in the trance.1
This profound variation in the breathing, with the lessened
oxygenation of the blood, must result in a partial suffoca-
tion, a temporary toxemia, and is probably the agency by
means of which the normal consciousness is put out of
commission and the control put into possession.
However this may be, it seems highly probable that the
slow breathing accounts for the great desire for fresh air
—
wide open windows being frequently insisted on even in the
coldest weather.
Stertorous breathing in going into trance is sometimes
recorded by various observers, but I do not think it
occurred, at least in my own experience, after the trance
was fully established. The breathing while the writing was
going on was, in the sittings of 1906-7, exceedingly quiet.
A remark made by Miss Tanner, lower down on the page
(18) from which I last quoted, that "both ears are un-
covered,'' suggests that the face was buried in the pillows,
which would thus make an obstruction to breathing which
might lead to its remaining stertorous during the trance
proper. In our sittings the head was turned to the left
and the right ear was buried in the pillow, and pains
were taken by the sitter to see that the pillow did not
obstruct mouth and nose. This was also Hodgson's
practice ;
e.g. he records on December 18, 1905, " R. H.
slightly rearranges Mrs. P.'s head, as she begins to breatbe
rather heavily. The nose was pressing somewhat on the
cushion."
1
Compare Sir Oliver Lodge's observation on Mrs. Piper's coming out
from her last trance (Appendix to Chapter III., p. 510), when her breathing
seems almost to have stopped.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance Phenomena. 21
Readers of Proceedings are already familiar with the
procedure in what I may call the trance proper, 1
which has
been more than once described in our Proceedings. I may
refer the reader especially to Sir Oliver Lodge's account of it
in Vol. XXIII., pp. 131-135, and spare myself further
description. Much less, however, has been said about the
waking-stage, of which Hodgson seems to have taken com-
paratively little account,—and which, indeed, had not in
the sittings up to the end of the period with which his last
report deals, taken the important place which it has since
occupied. I will therefore now give a pretty full general
account of the waking-stage, based on notes of the sittings
held in England in 1906-7.
When the writing came to an end—finishing rather faintly
and feebly, and usually with words of leave-taking—the
right hand became relaxed and as inert as the rest of the
body ; the pencil was dropped, and Mrs. Piper had again,
as in going into trance, the appearance of being in a pro-
found sleep. After an hiterval of from two to five minutes
from the dropping of the pencil, but sometimes longer, 2
she
began to raise her head and body into an upright sitting
posture. This sometimes began with stretching out the
left arm. The raising of the head was accomplished slowly
and with effort. Sometimes it fell again on to the cushions
after being raised or partially raised ; the sitter could
prevent this and sometimes hasten the proceedings by slightly
supporting the head. Then the eyes gradually opened, but
without seeming to see what was actually before them. They
tended to look upwards at what, from pointing and smiles
and other gestures, and from words spoken later on, appeared
to be visions of people and scenes of great brilliancy and
beauty. Sometimes these imaginary persons gave her
imaginary flowers, which she would hold between her finger
1
In calling the main part of the sitting the trance proper, to dis-
tinguish it from the more unstable condition passed through at the begin-
ning and end, I do not mean to imply that a strict definition of trance would
not include part at least of the waking-stage.
2
In the last sitting recorded, July 31, 1911, it was a quarter of an hour
after the writing ceased before the waking-stage began (see Appendix to
Chapter III., p. 516).
22 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PABT
and thumb and smell with great apparent enjoyment. 1
The
right hand—the one that had been writing—was drawn
up on to the cushion stiffly and with apparent difficulty
after she had attained the erect sitting posture, and some-
times not till after the speaking had begun. She often,
in course of waking, complained of " aches," and rubbed
the back of her hand.
She usually began to speak two or three minutes after
beginning to sit up, but speech was sometimes delayed
longer, and the gestures above mentioned, in which
head and hands came into play, often preceded it. The
vocal organs, and especially the muscles used in articu-
lation, seemed generally not to be completely available at
first, and whispered and murmured words were pronounced
in an inarticulate manner, which made them difficult and
often impossible to catch. The thickness of speech was
like that of a person half awake and unwilling to rouse him-
self, but apparently the failure to control the muscles of
speech was not in Mrs. Piper's waking-stage voluntary, for
sometimes at request, or spontaneously, she would try to
repeat distinctly, but try vainly. She was certainly often
aware of the indistinctness and was liable to be irritated by
it. On one occasion—December 19, 1906—she remarked,
" My speech isn't good—they haven't taken the bonnet
off me yet "
—the bonnet being something often mentioned
which she says her visionary people put on her when they
send her back to her body, and which perhaps is her dream
explanation of actual difficulty in speaking and seeing, though
it may be merely a way of accounting for the disappearance
of the heavenly visions. Generally some minutes elapsed
after the waking stage speaking began before what she said
became at all distinctly audible and coherent sentences
could be made out.
The speech was addressed sometimes to the visionary
personages in whose company she seemed to herself to be,
and sometimes to the sitter whose questions and suggestions
she would generally respond to, though, as a rule, apparently
regarding him quite impersonally and remaining almost
1 The particular imagery tending to prevail in the waking-stage varied
at different periods (see Chapter VI.).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 23
unaware of his existence till she was nearly normal. Some-
times what she said seemed to be a repetition addressed to
no one in particular of remarks she was hearing.
Consciousness of her actual surroundings seemed to come
gradually and by steps, there being a brief period when the
visionary surroundings and the real ones were apparently
perceived more or less together, and during this period she
could sometimes be put back a step by judicious questions
and remarks calculated to fix her attention on the visions.
Shortly before normal consciousness returned an experience
constantly occurred which she described as her head snap-
ping, and which, as Sir Oliver Lodge remarks {Proceedings,
Vol. XXIII., p. 186), she half seems to expect the sitter
to hear. " Sounds like wheels clicking together and then
snaps," she said, describing it on one occasion (Nov. 11, 1906,
Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., p. 187), and on another (February
20, 1907), " Heard my head snap ? It goes suzz—suzz—er
—suzz and then it cracks." This snap of late years
generally occurred twice with a short interval between,
before she completely recovered her normal consciousness.
I think it was a less invariable phenomenon hi earlier days.
" I hear something snap in my head sometimes," she said
on February 27, 1897.
The sensation is not always described in terms of
sound. Thus on March 6, 1897, she said, "When some-
thing seems to snap in my head I can't remember any more.
It seems as if there were some threads at the back of my
head, and then they got pulled to the front, like three
threads it seems, and when that gets puUed to the
front all that I see is stopped." And on December 13,
1897, " I felt that separation hi my head." On November
13, 1905, this feeling of separation is combined with sound,
" Did you hear my head snap ? I feel as if there was some
division in my brain." On January 1, 1907, she said,
" Head snapped twice in two places." I should imagine
that the sensation is due to some change hi flow of blood
to the brain. Mrs. Piper takes this view herself, perhaps
as the result of a suggestion from some sitter. Thus at the
end of the waking-stage on January 13, 1909, when Miss
Pope was the sitter in charge, Mrs. Piper said, " What did
24 Mrs. Henry Siclgwick. [part
Mr. Myers mean by Bombino ? He said it just as my head
snapped. My head^ goes s—s—s click. I think the blood
settles back in my brain and then I am conscious."
Change of circulation is also suggested by prickling sensa-
tions, of which she sometimes speaks both in going into
and coming out of trance. Thus on February 1, 1897 :
" I prickle from my head to my feet." January 22, 1901 :
" Well, I think I'll prickle all to pieces. Is it night ? You
hear my head snap." March 6, 1901 (going into trance) :
" My face prickles terribly sometimes [rubbing her cheeks]."
November 20, 1905 (waking-stage) :
" [Rubbing her cheek]
" My face is asleep. Hear it snap ? * * * My face felt
just like your foot when it goes to sleep. * * * It
prickles."
When she first perceived her actual surroundings her
vision appeared to be blurred from want of proper focussing
of the eyes or some other cause. Everything looked dark
and horrid—not it would seem merely from contrast with
the previous heavenly vision. In the London sittings the
window was generally the first thing she made out clearly.
She frequently complained of spiders crawling on the wall
and of cobwebs over her face. And she misinterpreted
objects, apparently from indistinctness of vision, taking on
one occasion (March 5, 1907) her own muff and bonnet on
a chair for a man, and on another (January 30, 1907) a fur
coat, similarly on a chair, for a cow, the sight of which at
first amused her and then distressed her so much that she
actually shed tears. On one occasion (March 20, 1905),
after a voice sitting with Mr. Dorr, the blurred vision con-
tinued to some extent after she was practically normal, and
she recognised the fact and described it :
" Let me take
your glasses. I want to see if I can see any better with
them. I have a blurred feeling across my eyes The
heaviness in my head has gone but my eyes are still a little
blurred. I feel that if I would get my reading glasses and
put them on it would help that, that feeling." Ten or
fifteen minutes later she said :
" My eyes are quite clear
now, that blurred condition has all passed off." The follow-
ing remark on April 12, 1905, also indicates a consciousness
of previously imperfect vision: "Yes I can see perfectly. I
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance Phenomena. 25
heard my head snap. When my head snaps you see I see
clearly."
One thing concerning vision which she frequently men-
tioned as having occurred just before she had completely
recovered normal consciousness, is different from indistinct-
ness of vision. She would say, namely, that the sitter, when
she first saw him, had looked to her very small and a long
way off, as if, as she sometimes described it, she had been
looking at him through the wrong end of an opera glass.
This illusion may have been either an actual hallucination
of vision or a pseudo-memory, arising from the theory that
she returned rapidly to her body from a distance. 1
Thus on
February 20, 1907 :
" I saw you, Mrs. Sidgwick, but you
were very small." This was at my first sitting with her
in the series, and when normal or nearly normal, she pro-
ceeded to explain how when she is coming out of trance
people appear to her as through the wrong end of an opera
glass. November 13, 1905 :
" I saw Mr. Hodgson, but he
was a long way off at first ; he was very smaU, then he got
larger. Did you hear my head snap ?
"
The reverse of this was said to happen to her vision of
Imperator as she returned to earth on April 8, 1897: "I
saw that gentleman with the cross again, and he gets so
small." At one time she speaks of something expanding
either in the sitter or herself. Thus on April 17, 1905 :
" Oh,
Mr. Dorr—I thought you were a small man, but you kept
on expanding ! [Becomes quite normal again.] " And on
the following day :
" Did you hear my head snap ? You
seemed so small and something in my eyes seemed to exjDand
and expand till you became big." On May 24, 1905, a
different comparison is made :
" When I came out of this
just now you looked very small, then you kept expanding,
like a rubber ball." Once at least (December 26, 1899),
she remarked in going off into trance :
" Everything grows
so small."
The exact moment of return to normal consciousness can
1
As against this theory, it must be observed that some people have, I
understand, had experience of seeing things small and as though far off
when in a semi-conscious state, as in trying to keep awake in church, or
in recovering from an anaesthetic.
26 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [PART
hardly be defined ; —indeed Mrs. Piper often remained in a
slightly dazed condition for some little time after she had
begun to move about the room and talk in an ordinary way.
But the moment, so far as it could be determined, when she
fully realised the situation and talked entirely rationaUy,
occurred, during the sittings of 1906-7, from 14 to 26 or even
30 minutes after the ceasing of the writing and dropping of
the writing hand. The time tended to lengthen, for in the
first ten sittings of that series in which it is recorded, the
average duration was 18 minutes, and in the last ten, 23
minutes. The reason probably was that those who
managed the sittings—chiefly Mr. Piddington and myself
—
coming to perceive that the waking stage was of considerable
interest and likely to produce evidential matter, our own
remarks and questions retarded the return to normality.
I am disposed to think that in Mr. Dorr's sittings of 1908
(see Proceedings, Vol. XXIV.), the duration of the waking-
stage was longer still, but this impression is only based on
the records of the remarks made in the waking-stage ; the
actual time is not recorded. There can be no doubt, I
think, that the waking-stage was at least sometimes
shortened by the request of the sitter, addressed either to
the trance personalities before the waking-stage began or
to the waking-stage intelligence. The trance also could
be similarly shortened by suggestion. 1
It was sometimes
possible, as I have said, to prolong a dream-like state when
Mrs. Piper had almost recovered, by keeping her mind on
ideas that had prevailed during the waking-stage. 2
After
one of Mr. Dorr's sittings with a long waking-stage in 1908,
Mrs. Piper's daughter reported that her mother had had, an
hour or so afterwards, a slight momentary tendency towards
an apparent relapse into a dream-like state, and it appears
this had also happened on a previous occasion. Whether
1
Hodgson sometimes helped to bring the trance to an end by physical
signs ;
e.g. on November 30, 1892, a spirit controlled who had died of cancer
in the stomach, and the medium apparently suffered so much, and gave
such signs of physical anguish, that the sitters were afraid of exhausting
her and helped to bring the trance to an end by pressing on the back of
her neck. Phinuit commented at the next sitting on the discourtesy of
preventing his returning to bid good-bye.
2
See a case quoted below, p. 250.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 27
this tendency to relapse had any causal relation to the
prolonged waking-stage is not known.
The consciousnesses of the trance and of the waking-stage
occupy a large part of the discussion to follow. Here, how-
ever, I may say, speaking briefly and quite generally, that
the consciousness of the waking-stage seems to resemble that
of many dreams in instability, incoherence, and varying
relations to the actual surroundings. The scenery of the
waking-stage, the imagined surroundings, are generally dif-
ferent from Mrs. Piper's actual surroundings, of which, till
towards the end, she is to a large extent unaware. The
shifting and uncertain nature of the imaginary surroundings
and incidents is again like dreams, and the gradual com-
bination of dream images with actual surroundings is like
what sometimes happens to an ordinary sleeper when he
wakes slowly. The muscles, however, are not relaxed nor the
senses in abeyance as much as in ordinary sleep. In this
the waking-stage is more like sleep walking ;
though, of
course, the muscles come into use in some ordinary dreams
—as when a dog dreams of hunting and moves his legs and
yaps in sleep accordingly. In the waking-stage Mrs. Piper
is usually herself the principal character of the piece—the
" I " who sees and hears and feels and talks with the sitter.
The other characters are as a rule conceived as outside
herself ; and even when then remarks are given in the first
person she usually, though I think not quite invariably,
regards herself as repeating what they say.
In almost all these particulars the waking-stage conscious-
ness differs from the trance consciousness. The latter is
stable and coherent—that is, consistent with itself or nearly
so—while it lasts. It has a definite idea of its relation,
spatial and other, to the actual surroundings, and there
are apparently no imagined surroundings except spirits, who
are usually conceived as present in the room. The writing
or speaking " I "—the control—never appears to regard
itself as Mrs. Piper, and always speaks of her conscious-
ness as outside itself, out of the body, and not at the
moment present at all. The control resembles, externally
at least, the personation by a hypnotised subject of
characters suggested to him by the hypnotiser—as, for
28 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
instance, when told he is Napoleon, he acts the part. 1
This
is, of course, more apparent in the voice sittings when the
whole body is more or less available for acting, than in
the writing sittings.
We have, then, three states of dissociation to study. (1)
The full trance state, in which the controlling intelligence
apparently believes itself to be other than Mrs. Piper, and
not to be in conscious relation with any part of her mind,
though conscious of the position of her body and conscious
of her surroundings—that is, of the room and the persons in
it.
2
(2) The waking-stage, in which the controlling intelli-
gence is consciously Mrs. Piper herself, but is not conscious
of her surroundings. (3) The state accompanying automatic
script while Mrs. Piper is apparently normal, in which we
have two consciousnesses, or a divided consciousness, at
work ; Mrs. Piper fuUy aware of herself and her surroundings
—able to hear and to make remarks to other people, and
to read the script and address questions to the scribe, and
the script at the same time (or at any rate in rapid alterna-
tion) carrying on its own train of thought, or replying
appropriately to remarks made. An account of this de-
velopment will be found in Chapter III., pp. 127-9. Concern-
ing a fourth state—Mrs. Piper in semi-hypnosis—I quote
in an Appendix to this chapter (see p. 333) a brief report on
observations and experiments by William James, published in
the Proceedings of the American S.P.R. in 1886. Mrs. Piper
was not a very good hypnotic subject, but she could—at
that time at least—be put into a semi-hypnotic state, and
comparison between this and the trance proper and the
waking-stage is interesting.
1
Compare Professor C. Richet on Mrs. Piper (Proceedings, Vol. VI.,
p. 620) :
" Pour tout observateur habitue a voir ]es somnambules, l'etat
cle Madame Piper est tout-a-fait le meme que l'etat de somnambules en.
sommeil magnetique, avee transformations de personnalite."
2
This, I think, extends to persons introduced after the trance has begun,
and who are not sitting near Mrs. Piper or taking part as sitters.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 29
CHAPTER II.
Theories of "Controls" as to their Relation to the
Body and Spirit of the Medium.
What I have so far said is intended as an introduction to
an examination of the records in detail for evidence as to the
nature of the consciousnesses with which we have to deal,
and their relation to Mrs. Piper's normal consciousness. It
will be convenient to begin this examination with the
accounts given by the " controls " themselves as to the
nature of control, and it is with this that the present chapter
will be occupied. Special series of sittings have been held
at different times with the object of questioning the
£:
con-
trols " and ascertaining the views they put forward on this
and other points. Hodgson had one such series with Phinuit
as control in May and June, 1888. Professor Newbold and
Hodgson had one largely with the object of questioning
G. P. in 1895, and Hodgson had a number of sittings in
the winter and spring of 1896-7 for the purpose of question-
ing the Imperator Band. These various series afford, on the
whole, the most important sources of our information, and
I quote largely from them in the Appendix to this
chapter, but we have to compare them with statements
made at other times. \
The trance controls, as already said, always claim to be
entirely distinct from and other than Mrs. Piper's spirit,
which they say has left, or been removed from, her body
while the control occupies it in her place. In the days
when Phinuit was the principal control and the sittings all
voice sittings, and also in certain later voice sittings, the
control was supposed to occupy the whole organism. " I
use the medium's organism as my instrument, exactly as
30 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
she uses it," says Phinuit on June 2, 1888 (see Appendix,
p. 339). Thus Phinuit having been asked by Hodgson to
stand up :
Mrs. Piper stood up without changing the position of
her feet, at the same time throwing her head slightly
back and her chest forward, and thrusting the thumbs
jauntily into what would have been the armholes of her
waistcoat had she worn one. (Proceedings. Vol. VIII., p. 5,
footnote.)
Again, Miss A. M. R. writes on December 17, 1888 :
My friend took control first. He used to be lame * * *
This evening he sat about five or six feet from my
folding bed, on which were some ornaments. I asked
him if he thought he could walk over there * * * Instead
of walking as Dr. P[hinuit] would do, he leaned heavily
on me, and seemed to hop or hitch along on one foot,
exactly as a person would do who could only use one
foot in walking. After he came back, he dropped into
the chair exhausted, and said that was the hardest work
he had done since coming back, and that it was too
much of the real life for him ;
* * he was ver}7
glad to
have had the opportunity to handle the articles with
the hands of the medium. (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp.
111-112.)
Again, Mr. Rogers Rich says of a sitting on November 8,
1888 :
I remarked an odd movement of the medium while under
this influence ; she apparently was twirling a moustache, a
trick which my friend {i.e. the control} formerly practised
much. (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 129.)
Compare with this G. P. apparently pulling his moustache
on May 29, 1892 (Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 579).
More explicitly Stainton Moses, controlling on June 24,
1895 (in a writing sitting, however), says :
I am so very delighted to find this bright path to
Earth * * * I am here in every organ of a human body.
(Proceedings, Vol. XIV., p. 39.)
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 31
Again, Hodgson records that, the astronomer Proctor con-
trolling on July 3, 1895 :
The hands and arms made movements as if holding a
telescope, looking through it, directing it upwards, turning
it in a sweep, drawing it out, adjusting it, turning round
the eyepiece, working a side screw etc.1
There is an instance of not quite complete control of the
limbs recorded, which shows that it was usually conceived
as complete. Hodgson writes :
At a sitting which I attended on February 20, 1888,
Phinuit declared that one of his thumbs " belonged to the
medium " and added " I cannot move that." {Proceedings,
Vol. VIII., p. 31, footnote.)
There are variations, however, in degree to the command
of the organism claimed. " Sometimes I do not get so
much control," says Phinuit on June 2, 1888 (Appendix,
p. 339, and see also May 26, 1888, Appendix, p. 337).
Possibly the control growing weak—which is often said to
occur towards the end of a sitting 2
—is another way of
expressing this, though this weakness is sometimes spoken
of as due to want of "light" ;
communicators, however, are
also spoken of as getting weak (see Chapter V., p. 162).
There are, moreover, besides variations in the degree of
control, some definite and constant limitations apparently,
for Phinuit tells us that he cannot taste, and, as stated
above (Chapter I., p. 17), experiments seem to confirm
this to a considerable extent. Another limitation is in the
use of the eyes, which are closed during the sitting. Phinuit,
however, in the conversation on June 2, 1888, already
referred to, asserts that he does use the medium's eyes,
and when reminded that they are closed, says he means
that he uses the medium's brain. The passage (Appendix,
p. 339) should be read.
With writing sittings, the idea of deliberate occupation
by the control of part only of the medium's bodily frame
came in—probably because expression by writing in Mrs.
1
For a fuller report of this sitting see Appendix to Chapter III., p. 448.
2
See, e.g. below, pp. 33, 43, 46, 338.
32 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
Piper's trance began by being associated with divided con-
trol—one control expressing himself by speech and the other
by writing.
Writing during Mrs. Piper's trance was not a new pheno-
menon in itself when the writing sittings began. Her first
mediumistic manifestation seems to have been the writing of
a message " under control " (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp.
46-47), and during later sittings scraps of writing were occa-
sionally produced. Thus on December 24, 1889, in a
sitting at which Mr. and Mrs. Isaac Thompson were present
and Sir Oliver Lodge was taking notes, towards the end of
the sitting :
Here he {Phinuit apparently} asked for pencil and
scrawled a few words, getting very weak. Writing just
legible afterwards in mirror as " Ted "—" Isaac "—
" Horse "—" Dear Brother "
—{all topics which had been
previously mentioned during the sitting}. (Proceedings,
Vol. VI., p. 511.)
Again, on the following day, Phinuit says :
Give me a pencil. [Wrote on back of letter while
holding it to forehead, the word " Nellie " distinctly.]
There, that's her name and that's your Aunt Anne's
writing ; she wrote it.
1
(Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 513.)
For another instance see Vol. VI., p. 519, and for a per-
haps more instructive case see February 1, 1890 (Vol. VI.,
p. 538), as follows : Phinuit was controlling and speaking for
a communicator unknown to Sir Oliver Lodge, who was
conducting the sitting and taking notes :
O. J. L. Will you send him your name, sir ?
W, i, 1. I will write it for you. Show him the
chain again. Hold it up. (Medium writes.) There,
1
Sir Oliver Lodge notes {op. cit. p. 515) :
" This writing was not '
mirror
writing.' Usually when Phinuit wrote on card held in front of him the
writing was perverted so as to be legible in a mirror ; sometimes each letter
was right but the order perverted. Single letters like capitals were made
properly. But when the writing was done on paper held to Mrs. Piper's
forehead, i.e. with the hand turned round—pencil towards face—as in the
present instance, the writing was ordinary."
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 33
that's my full name. [Wrote James Wilson back-
wards, illegible till afterwards in mirror.]
O. J. L. Is this his name ?
Yes, that's right. 1 * * * He's a dear old man, but
1 can't hold him, he's gone. He was quite weak
while writing. I can't do everything.
I think there is no doubt that Phinuit is throughout the
speaker here—speaking sometimes for himself and some-
times for the communicator, but it appears to be claimed
that both " Mr. Wilson " here and " Aunt Anne " (see above)
themselves write. If so, it would seem to be as joint-control
with Phinuit and assisted by him, for there is no suggestion,
as later, that his hand is taken away from him and used
independently. A somewhat similar incident is reported on
March 10, 1892. Phinuit said the communicator would try
to write, whereupon some not very legible attempts to write
a sentence were made. When the sitter (not Hodgson, by
the way) asked " Why can't he talk that ?
" Phinuit replied,
" He's too weak." There seem to have been one or two
such cases about this time, leading on to divided control
and the full development of writing under the G. P. regime.
A case of divided control was, however, apparently wit-
nessed by Miss A. M. R. on May 23, 1891. Her friend H.,
who sometimes controlled—as in the case quoted above,
p. 30—more or less independently, 2
wrote several sheets
to which Miss R. appended the note " Written when Phinuit
had control, but H. said he seized and controlled the hand
and wrote it " (Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 292). But the
first important case of divided control that came under
Hodgson's own observation occurred on March 12, 1892.
about ten days before G. P.'s first manifestation. It was
apparently an entirely spontaneous development. Hodgson
describes it as follows in Proceedings, Vol. XIII. , p. 291 :
The sitter, a lady, had taken several articles as test
objects, among them a ring which had belonged to Annie
D . Phinuit made references to this lady, giving the
1
N.B.—The Christian name was wrong.
2
Though apparently with Phinuit's assistance, see Proceedings, Vol.
VIII., p. 113.
c
34 31r$. Henry Sidgwick. [part
name Annie, and just before the close of the sitting Mrs.
Piper's right hand moved slowly up until it was over the
top of her head. The arm seemed to become rigidly fixed
in its position,, as though spasmodically contracted, but the
hand trembled very rapidly. Phinuit exclaimed several
times :
" She's taken my hand away," and added :
" she
wants to write." I put a pencil between the fingers, and
placed a block book on the head under the pencil. Xo
writing came until, obeying Phinuit's order to " hold the
hand." I grasped the hand very firmly at its junction with
the wrist and so stopped its trembling or vibrating. It
then wrote : "I am Annie D [surname correctly
given] ... I am not dead ... I am not dead but living
... I am not dead . . . world . . . goodbye ... I am
Annie D ." The hold of the pencil then relaxed, and
Phinuit began to murmur " Give me my hand back, give
me my hand back." The arm, however, remained in its
contracted position for a short time, but finally, as though
with much difficulty, and slowly, it moved down to the
side, and Phinuit appeared to regain control over it.
1
There was no proof in this case that the intelligence using
the voice and that using the hand were really independent,
but sometimes there seem to have been two distinct and
simultaneous streams of consciousness, for Hodgson tells us
that it was not necessary for Phinuit to stop talking while
the hand was writing. He gives several instances of this
in Vol. XIII., pp. 292-295 (see also p. 398), though without
much detail. He seems even to have succeeded in getting
writing with both hands while Phinuit was speaking. Thus
he says :
On March 18, 1895, another attempt much more suc-
cessful was made, when I was accompanied for the
purpose by Miss Edmunds. Her " deceased sister " wrote
with one hand and G. P. with the other, while Phinuit
1 After a few sittings at which the writing was done in the above-described
attitude Hodgson, partly by peraua3ion and partly by force, induced the
arm to come down and write in a more ordinary manner on a table (Vol.
XIII., p. 292). But convulsive movements and muscular contractions
continued to occur during the writing at times till the Imperator regime
began, and even occasionally afterwards.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance Phenomena.
was talking, all simultaneously on different subjects. (Yol.
xm„ p. 294.
J
Hodgson further says :
When the sitter turns to pay attention to the hand.
Phinuit frequently makes some such enigmatical remark
as " 1*11 help him." or " 111 help to hold him up." At
other times Phinuit will request that an article should
be given to himself {i.e. placed in the left hand}, so
that he might have something to engage his attention.
* * * At any time., apparently under these circumstances.
Phinuit can be evoked from his silence by talking into
the ear, and will at once resume the communication while
the writing continues without a break.
This phenomenon seems in some respects to resemble the
experience of some automatic writers (without trance), who
find it helpful to read a book while the writing proceeds.
But perhaps Gurney's experiments in post-hypnotic sugges-
tion, in which his subjects would work out problems with
planehette while reading aloud, are more strictly analogous.
They are described in his paper on " Peculiarities of
Certain Post-hypnotic States/'" Proceedings, Vol. IV. For
particular examples, see pp. 317 to 321. but the whole paper
may be read with advantage in connexion with our present
subject.
It is to be regretted that we have not any fuller descrip-
tion of the simultaneous working of two independent streams
of consciousness in Mrs. Piper's case, for it might have thrown
some light on the nature of the " control.'"'' The power
seems to have lasted only for two or three years (the years
in which Mrs. Piper's powers perhaps culminated); for I can
find no such clear and complete instances of it among later
records. Indeed there is some evidence that the power of
separate and simultaneous, as distinct from alternate, action
was lost. Phinuit seems to imply that he has not got it
in a sitting of Professor Xewbold's on June 19. 1895 (see
Appendix, p. 370). Phinuit says :
I'll tell you another thing. While George talks to you
{i.e. by writing}, if it was not for interruption I could
36 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
talk at the same time. George's thoughts have no more
to do with mine than yours have.
There appear, however, to have been one or two instances
of brief sentences being written simultaneously with some
talking in Professor Newbold's sittings in 1895.
On another occasion (December 21, 1896), Hodgson and
a lady being the sitters, Phinuit is talking when G. P. begins
to write :
G. P. I have just returned from Mexico. Who is speaking ?
R. H. Phinuit's talking to the lady.
G. P. I am interrupted, H. I wish the doctor to keep quiet.
R. H. Never mind him. Go on with me.
G. P. I have seen D. and there is no reason why they cannot
put their . . . [the conversation between Phinuit
and {the lady sitter} apparently disturbs G. P. some-
what so I suggest that G. P. should listen to me and
give me the message about D later. |
{G. P. assents and R. H. talks at some length in a very
low voice into the hand close to his lips, G. P. writing
brief but appropriate replies such as " good," " I am
very glad," "leave it to me," etc.}
The difficulty of interruption is given as a reason for not
attempting simultaneous communication at a sitting on
January 5, 1897, recorded by Hodgson. Phinuit was using
the voice when G. P. interposed in writing :
G. P. H. I have several messages for you before I go—if
possible before the Doctor {i.e Phinuit} gets through
R. H. Can you give these while Dr. is talking to these ladies ?
G. P. No he interrupts me.
There was a curious incident on April 5, 1897, suggesting
that in the case of divided control one control may disturb
the other merely by its presence. The control writing is
"George Eliot."
[Hand prods the head and cushions slightly with the
pencil.]
R. H. I'll fix that in a moment.
G. E. Take Rector over
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 37
R. H. I will in a moment [I shift the head further over].
G. E. I wish his thoughts not to interfere with my own.1
But, of course, here, as in other similar cases, we have no
evidence apart from the control's statement that there
really was a second consciousness in operation.
The latest attempt at simultaneous expression by hand
and voice that I know of was made on February 8, 1905, and
was a failure. Hodgson was in charge of the sitting
and no other sitter present. Mrs. Piper's head, turned as
usual to the left, rested on a pile of cushions in front of her.
Rector was controlling, and writing as amanuensis for Mrs.
H. Hodgson reports :
Mrs. H. through Rector. All is well with me. I hope to give
much light on the point of Phinuit
[While the preceding sentence was being written, Mrs.
Piper's head is moving as if antecedent to use of
the voice, and I hear some sounds indistinctly. I
go round and apparently some one is trying to use
the voice, but I can't catch the words. The hand
meanwhile has written / and stopped, as I find on
returning.]
R. H. What is it, Rector ?
Writing. Ask Mrs. C to wait until Mrs. H. finishes.
[I return to left of Mrs. Piper and speak towards left
ear.]
R. H. Kindly wait a moment till Mrs. H. says what she
wants. I shall be glad to hear from you.
Voice. I want to speak with you.
R. H. Yes I shall be delighted. [I return to hand.]
Writing. I will take her away if thou dost wish R.
R. H. Yes, Rector, kindly say I shall be so pleased to hear
from her as soon as Mrs. H. fulfils her promise
which she made to come to me now.
[Pause. Hand in air, talk to spirit. Pause for about a
minute.]
1
Compare November 17, 1896 ;
Hodgson recording, Hart controlling
(writing). [Hand moves over to Mrs. Piper's head, and pokes it several
times quite vigorously.] R. H. What's the matter ? Hart. Tell Doctor
{i.e. Phinuit} to keep all quiet -j R. H. does so}
38 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
Writing. Gone. She thought she could speak at the same
time, but we have explained it to her.
Simultaneous and independent expression by two streams
of consciousness was apparently a development of divided
control, in which the writing and the speaking control
acted in concert, each with knowledge of what the other
was saying. The manifestation of Annie D ,
already
quoted (p. 33), seems to have been of this kind, and
a very clear case of it is given by Hodgson in Proceed-
ings, Vol. XIII., pp. 313-315. It occurred on May 16, 1892,
at one of the earlier sittings at which G. P. controlled.
Hodgson and Mrs. Howard were present. The following
are extracts from the record, the description verbally re-
arranged a little to bring out the point :
{G. P. had been speaking to Mrs. Howard, and on
Hodgson entering the room began to write. I omit
the first sentence.}
G. P. [writing]. I saw him take some notepaper and write an
explanatory letter to Prank * *
Phinuit [speaking]. Do you understand ? Sitter. Yes.
G. P. [writing]. [Some indecipherable words.] The flowers
which I saw mother put before my photo, she and
father will understand . . .
[The next sentence not written, but spelt out by Phinuit]. I
saw them do [patting] I saw mother put them
under my picture on the afternoon of which he
spoke to me to watch him.
G. P. [writing]. In connection with this I saw them open my
book * * * I saw you [Mrs. Howard] and saw
father give you the roses.
Phinuit [speaking]. He saw you take a picture * * *
Sitter. Of whom ?
[Phinuit stumbled over a word sounding something like
" himself."]
G. P. [writing]. Himself my myself [Mrs* Howard asks which
picture, showing portraits, at one of which Phinuit
says " That's it "] I mean the one you got from
the photographer.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. :;<i
Phintjit [speaking on behalf of G. P.j. Ask Hodgson whether
this is important to him or not, I am determined to
G. P. [writing], transfer to you my thoughts although it will
have to be done in this uncanny way. * * * I will
move heaven and earth to explain these matters to
you Hodgson.
Phintjit [speaking]. You see I am not asleep.
G. P. [writing]. I am wide awake, and I assure you I am
ever ready to help you and give you things of
importance in this work.
Phintjit [speaking]. It was like Greek to him before he came
here. I could not believe this existence.
G. P. [writing]. I am delighted to have this opportunity of
coming here to this life, so as to be able to prove
my experiences and existence here.
* * * *
R. H. Now George we mustn't keep the medium in trance too
long.
G. P. [writing]. Do not worry about her, she is having a
good time, and I will do no harm. You know
that too well.
Phintjit [speaking]. He says he's not an idiot.
R. H. Oh I know he's not an idiot etc.
G. P. [writing]. I understand. You see I hear you.
* * * *
I assume that the recorder here had sufficient grounds for
attributing all the spoken remarks to Phinuit. From the
record alone it would seem possible that there was con-
fusion, and that G. P., intending to write, sometimes
spoke by mistake ; in other words, that the supposed divi-
sion of instruments (voice and hand) between the supposed
division of consciousnesses (Phinuit and G. P.) was not con-
sistently maintained. No doubt there was generally some
difference between G. P.'s way of speaking and Phinuit's,
though we are told very little about it,
1
but this difference
1
On April 11, 1892, Mrs. Howard records: "We told him {G. P.} not
to bother about it now, but to tell us at next sitting, a proposal which
Phinuit recommended, but he himself in his gruff voice suggested '
Theo-
sophic' I told him no " (Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 302). Compare also
account of G. P. speaking on May 29, 1892 {Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 579).
40 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
cannot always have been very marked, for at a sitting on
May 22, 1892, Mr. Howard did not at once perceive that
the speaker who opened the communication was G. P. and
not Phinuit, and the same mistake was made by both Hodgson
and Mrs. Howard at a sitting on December 5, 1892, when
there was a change of control. Again, at a sitting on April
13, 1892—that is earlier than the mixed communication just
quoted—Mrs. Howard attributes to G. P. a sentence uttered
while writing, which Hodgson (who was not present) thinks
should have been attributed to Phinuit speaking for G. P.
The case is instructive and I will quote it, prefacing with
preceding portions of the record which illustrate both the
method of G. P.'s entry at that time and the kind of difference
of speech. It was the third " G. P." sitting. 1
The recorder
was Mrs. Howard.
Phintjit [speaking]. It is my work to bring people together,
you know. I go get him. [Puts his right hand
out towards the door beckoning violently for a
minute. I put my photograph {which had belonged
to G. P.} to medium's head. Then suddenly, with
a fresh, joyous tone, and much less French accent,
comes George]
G. P. Mary dear, I'm here again. {A good deal of conversation
follows, in which G. P. is understood to be speaking
directly himself. The record continues :
—
}
[Phinuit reappears 11.45 saying " He wants to leave.
Give me something belonging to him. He hates to
leave, but is exhausted "]
{Then Phinuit speaks reporting what G. P. says and
thinks, and continues :
—
}
Ph. He wants to write. I think he will come and take my
hand soon.—Ah he has my hand ! He has my
hand ! You can talk to me while he writes with
my hand if you wish * * *
{A short letter follows which was I think G. P.'s first
writing except a still shorter similar letter on
April 11th. The record then continues—
}
1
For further information about this sitting see Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
p. 302.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena . 41
[This letter was written with the fist grasping the
pencil and the pad held upon the top of the head
in such a position that I could not read it at the
time. 1
Once he said while writing with feverish
haste " I don't have time to dot all the i's you
won't mind." Apparently Phinuit who was quiet at
this time had given him the body as well as hand,
for he said this in the first person.]
{Hodgson, who was not present at the sitting annotates
on the margin, referring to this spoken sentence,
" Phinuit doubtless repeating G.'s exact words." 2
}
The question of recognition of G. P.'s voice as distinct
from Phinuit's is something of a digression. It is immaterial
to the present argument whether the sitters were always
correct in their diagnosis of who was speaking. My point
at this moment is only that in the early days of the writing
control the speaking intelligence and the writing intelligence
were mutually aware of each other, and sometimes at least
of each other's communications. Of course, in such cases
we have no proof that two distinct streams of conscious-
ness were at work. Both parts might be acted by one intelli-
gence. And this is also true when two controls quarrel,
or talk to each other. 3
I do not think, however, that there
is, or at any rate need be, conscious play-acting on the part
of the trance personality, even when this possibility is not
excluded by actual simultaneous writing and speaking on
different subjects.
During the first year of G. P.'s manifestation—March,
1892, to March, 1893—he was gradually developing into an
1
It was about a fortnight after this—April 29, 1892 (see Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., p. 292)—that Hodgson succeeded in getting the writing done
with the writing pad on a table, but for a considerable time it continued
to be at least sometimes necessary for the sitter to keep the hand steady
by holding the arm.
2
The date of this annotation is not known to us. The records of these
early G. P. sittings with Hodgson's original notes were lost, and he seems
to have used the Howards' copy in writing his paper. But this copy he
could not obtain till the end of 1897 (see footnote to Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
p. 304).
3
For examples see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 429 (in 1892), p. 575 (in
1892), p. 500 (in 1894), etc.
42 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
almost purely writing control. He would sometimes control
the body and speak to the sitters, and sometimes borrow
Phinuit's hand to write, notwithstanding the decided pre-
ference for speech expressed by the sitters ; and the amount
of writing increased at the expense of the speaking. A
brief account of the sittings from this point of view will make
the development clear.
It was, I think, on April 29, 1892, 1
the occasion on which
Hodgson managed to get the arm to write with the writing
pad on a table, that occurred the first conversation carried
on on G. P.'s side by writing, and it seems quite possible
that Hodgson's action in facilitating the writing really sug-
gested this mode of conversing. If so, we owe him a
debt of gratitude for promoting a method which has the
merit of furnishing automatically a record of the medium's
words, and thus is valuable for evidential purposes ;
and in many ways for our present purposes, though it limits
us in some respects. At this sitting there is also, I think,
the first hint that the head control and the hand control
may not always be aware of each other's communications.
The record says, in the middle of G. P.'s writing :
[Phinuit wanted us to ask George if he, Phinuit, was
helping him.]
G. P. Yes [we told Phinuit that George wrote yes.]
Earlier in the sitting, while Hodgson was sharpening the
pencil, Phinuit intervened to " spell out " a sentence for
G. P., the latter resuming the sentence he had been writing
when the pencil was returned to him.
On May 14 there is speaking by Phinuit as well as writing
by G. P., and once or twice, while conversation with the
writing is going on, appropriate remarks are interpolated
by the voice (see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 312-313), as
in the passage I have already quoted above (pp. 38-39)
from the sitting on May 16, though to a much less marked
extent. 2
On May 17 we find G. P. acting as amanuensis
1
For an account of this sitting see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 308-9
and 311.
2
Compare also another sitting of about this time—May 22, 1892—when
the writing control did not purport to be G. P.
—
Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
p. 575.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 43
for another communicator-—the first time, I believe, in which
writing is used in this way.
After Mrs. Piper's summer holidays in 1892 a series of
thirteen stenographically reported sittings were held for the
purpose of communicating with G. P. These sittings are
described and quoted from in Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp.
315-322 and 413-441, but we have the full stenographic
reports and I use them here. At the first of this
series on November 22, G. P. first writes and later
speaks. The writing seems to come with difficulty,
Phinuit talks about G. P., repeating the latter's remarks
in connexion with the writing, making it evident that
he knows what is going on, though less evident that
he knows what is actually written. A considerable por-
tion of the record of this sitting will be found in the
Appendix (p. 352). In this and the following two sittings
of the series (November 22, 28, 30, 1892) G. P. chiefly
used the voice. On December 2 he wrote and then
spoke, but changed to writing again when Mr. Marte, present
for the first time, came in (see Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
p. 420, and Vol. XV., p. 26), because, as he explained, he
was getting weak. On December 5 he chiefly wrote ;
Hodgson was trying to get an answer to a test question
sent by R. T., whom he described by his initials, and at
the same time to get G. P. to give R. T.'s full name.
There was much shuffling and no success. It was only
when this was over that there was a little speaking.
Portions of this sitting also are given in the Appendix
(p. 355). On the 7th G. P. wrote only, and on the
9th, when Mr. Marte was again present, wrote only till
just the end. On the 16th and 19th he spoke and wrote,
and at the remaining four sittings of the series, December
21, 22, and January 24 and 30, wrote only. On the
first of these four days a friend of G. P.'s, Miss Vance,
was for the first time present and would have liked to have
voice communication, but G. P. could not be persuaded to
speak. Preference for writing when the sitters were new
and tests were desired may have been due to the fact
that the slower mode of communication gave more time to
catch elusive ideas. But it undoubtedly also gave oppor-
If Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
trinities of concealing ignorance by writing crucial words
illegibly. 1
The fact that writing as G. P.'s habitual method of com-
municating was developing in 1892 makes the records of this
period important, because we may expect to find in them
evidence about the early form of the theory of writing
offered by the controls and may compare it with that pro-
mulgated some years later. In 1895 G. P. asserted to Pro-
fessor Newbold that he was not conscious of writing. For
example, on June 18, 1895 (see Appendix, p. 367), he says :
G. P. It is like speaking through a * * telephone *
W. R. N. Then how do you make a difference between writing
and talking ?
G. P. There seems ... is no difference to me. I only
know that I am writing by having been told so by
Hodgson 2
This view was subsequently endorsed by the Imperator
Band and fully accepted by Hodgson, who says (Proceedings,
Vol. XIII.. p. 293) :
It would seem, moreover, that until instructed in some
way, the quasi-personality that guides the writing is
unaware that he is writing. The process from the point
of view of the "communicator" {control} rather resembles
the definite thinking of his thoughts, with the object of
conveying them to the sitter,—and I feel very sure that
this is true whatever theory may be held as to the
identity of the '"communicator" {control}, whether this is
what it purports to be, or merely another stratum of Mrs.
Piper's mind believing itself to be an extraneous intelli-
gence.
And again at p. 405 :
After having endeavoured as best I could to follow the
writing of thousands of pages, with scores of different
writers, after having put many incpiiries to the communi-
1
For instances very suggestive ot this, see the above-mentioned
sitting of Dee. 5, 1892 (Appendix, pp. 356-358).
2
We do not possess a record of any conversation before 181)5 in which
Hodgson told G. P., or had occasion to tell G. P. this.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 45
cators {controls} themselves, and after having analysed
numerous spontaneously occurring incidents of all kinds, I
have no sort of doubt whatever but that the consciousness
producing the writing—whatever that consciousness be,
whether Mrs. Piper's secondary personality or the real
communicator as alleged,—is not conscious of writing, and
that the thoughts that pass through " his " mind tend to
be reproduced in writing by some part of the writing
mechanism of Mrs. Piper's organism.
It is with hesitation that one can venture to differ from
an observer so careful and so experienced as Hodgson,
especially as the material on which he based his conclusion
was, up to the date of his report, more ample than that at
my disposal. Nevertheless I am driven to a different con-
clusion. For I cannot see what grounds he can have had
for deciding as he did, except the persistent, but not very
consistent statements of the controls themselves from 1895
onwards, and possibly earlier ; and against this must be
set the clear indications that they held a different view in
1892, and also specific occurrences—published and unpub-
lished—at the sittings which distinctly point the other way.
To begin with, take the first occurrence of trance writing
under Hodgson's observation (see above, p. 34). Phinuit
explained about the " hand control :
" " She has taken my
hand away, she wants to write." This surely indicates
that both Phinuit and the writing control 1
knew that writing-
was aimed at. Frequent remarks scattered through the
stenographically reported series of sittings in 1892-3 referred
to above, show that Phinuit knew what G. P. did with the
hand when he had " taken " it ; that he knew when it
wrote and, sometimes at least, knew what it wrote. For
example, on November 28, 1892 :
PHnsruiT. George is writing that for a lady that speaks Italian.
I can't speak it.
R. H. Well, we can't make it out.
On December 16, 1892 :
G. P. (writes). First you asked me to pump Phinuit.
1
Unless Phinuit merely inferred the intention to write from the action.
46 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Phinuit. You better shut up about me.
3[E 3]C 3}C 3^
G. P. {writes something illegible}
Phinuit. George was weak that time. Wait a minute * * he
will write it for you and then he will explain it to you.
And again on December 22, 1892 :
Ph. That fellow {i.e. G. P.} wants to shake hands with that
little girl {Mrs. Howard's daughter}. |He has got
my hand and he has carried it away somewhere * *
That is very funny ; he is going all round the lot.
{Medium is shaking hands with all present in turn}
I don't care what he does with it ; I give that to
him.
{and later in the same sitting}
Ph. * * he writes because he is more used to it.
* # * *
Ph. And he does not like it {apparently meaning that G. P.
does not like manipulating the whole body} it is
kind of distasteful to him, so I just assist him and
hold the body while he takes my hand, and he
knows how to use my brain through the hand just
as well ; he takes the whole hand away from me
absolutely.
G. P. also was clearly aware of writing. The passage
quoted above (p. 41), where, on April 13, 1892, he said he
had not time to dot his i's, shows this. Again, on
November 30, 1892 :
G. P. (using voice). Then I was happy to know that I could
express my thought or could use the organism of
the medium to express my thoughts. Can you hear
me ?
Mrs. Howard. Yes every word.
G. P. Then I found that I could write, I could handle the
organism of the medium to write.
Dec. 2, 1892. G. P. who has been speaking says [reaching for
pencil] :
" Give it to me, I will write it," and proceeds with
his communication in writing. (Proceedings, Vol. XIII. , p. 420.)
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 47
Dec. 5, 1892 :
Mrs. Howard {to G. P. who is writing}. Are you writing for
Elisa ?
G. P. (writing). Si. Yes.
# * * *
G. P. (writing). I don't quite hear all you say, cannot you
talk slower please, and it is easier for me to write.
Dec. 9, 1892[:
G. P. (writing). I am more used to writing and I am clearer
just now.
sfc % ^ %
Please let this block or sheet alone when I am writing
and wait until I finish.
Dec. 16, 1892 : (see Appendix, p. 361).
Mrs. Howard. Couldn't you do it easier by writing ?
G. P. (using voice). Much easier. I came this way first and
I got to know the real by writing. I am a little
more accustomed to it ; it is easier.
R. H. Will it always be easy for you to write ?
G. P. I shall be able to write clearly by and by.
Dec. 21, 1892 :
G. P. Oh help me to write it.
Miss Vance. Tell me how to help you.
Mrs. Howard. Doctor can we do anything to help him ?
Ph. You help him if you will by steadying his hand ; that
is all he needs.
* * * *
Mrs. Howard. If Helen {Miss Vance} were to come and take
the medium's hands would you talk to her with
your own mouth ?
G. P. (writing). No I want to write to her.
Later than this, in 1894, we still find G. P. apparently
conscious of writing. Thus on January 9, 1894, he says :
G. P. I want to have a good talk with "Marte" and then I
am done * * * But Hodgson, it won't do to stay
is Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
here always. I should have gone on long ago,
with Gurney, Walt Whitman, Darwin and others, if
it had not been for seeing my old friend Marte
* * * But I shall have to write it to him.
R. H. You mean you can't talk ?
G. P. No, not clearly.
R. H. You can do better in the writing ?
G. P. Yes, I guess I can.
Other controls similarly show consciousness of writing in
1894. On March 3, 1894, the following conversation is
recorded with D. P. B. (wife of the sitter C. H.), communi-
cating for the first time (see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 507) :
C H. Can you write your name ?
D. P. B. writing. * * * I wrote it, I wrote it. Do read. It is
over here, turn, [hand fumbles among the loose
sheets lying on the table covered with writing]
C. H. Will you give it me later ?
D. P. B. Yes, before I go I will write it in full {which she
did}
Again, on April 30, 1894 (Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 520).
Sitter, J. M. {second sitting} :
PmisruiT. The lady's going to borrow my hand. * * *
[Hand writes]. I am Margaret M. {Name of sitter's wife}
% * H4
J. M. Did you ever speak to me before ?
M. M. Yes once J. M. How ?
M. M. Writing ? . . . This very way by writing —
A strong reason for doubting the assertions made later
by the controls, that they seem to themselves to be speaking
into an instrument—as it were, a telephone—which auto-
matically produces writing at the other end, is that correc-
tions and other things occur in the writing which require
the writing process itself to be intelligently directed and
not to be merely mechanical ; and the intelligence directing
it must be either the control or another intelligence inter-
vening between the control and the material process of
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 49
writing Professor Newbold brings this point out well in his
questioning of G. P. in 1895 (see especially Appendix, p. 374).
Taking specific instances from 1895 onwards—how is it pos-
sible to suppose that the particular method used on June
18, 1895, to indicate the pronunciation of "lead" (see
Appendix, p. 369)—putting an e after the d to make the
sitter who is reading the script understand that it is the verb
meaning to conduct and not the lead of a pencil that is
intended—was carried out by an intelligence unaware of
writing ? Again, on January 19, 1897 :
{G. P. writes '
annihilated '
and Hodgson cannot read the
word and makes various shots at it ; then :
—
}
G. P. anni.
R. H. Annie something—Animated
G. P. How absurd, H,—Promulgated, put that in and see how
you like it. . . . Annihilated . . . Annihilated . . .
Anni.
R. H. Anni.
G. P. nighilated. R. H. Can't read it.
G. P. Annihilated . . . Banished . . . what are you thinking
about H. Anighilated. * *
It cannot be a machine that tries to indicate the pronun-
ciation of the long i by spelling the syllable nigh ; unless
it is a machine like a typewriter that writes letter by letter.
And that would be inconsistent with the theory that the
controls believe themselves to be speaking when writing,
or with their finding, as MyersP said he did on April 6, 1908,
that " the machine registers according to sound with no
attempt to spell properly."
Similarly, how can the control correct the writing by
erasures or interpolated letters, or how can it point to words
that have been written instead of repeating them, if it is
unaware of writing ? For instance, on March 30, 1897
(see App. to Chap. III., p. 499), Hodgson records that
George Eliot wrote :
" distinguished gentlemen " then " looking " was written
and hand gestured to the words above for me to read it
in its right place. I read "distinguished looking gentlemen."
p
50 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Corrections are quite common. Here are two taken at
random from the sitting of February 14, 1905. First,
"should" is corrected to "could" by a c being superposed,
and later in the sitting the record runs (control Rector,
writing for Mrs. H. as communicator) :
It took just the amount of light possessed [a slight
hesitation] which he was [then hand turns back and
writes of in front of possessed and points to possessed] of.
And again on July 6, 1905, " except " is written without
a p, the p being added over the t. Similar cases are
recorded in Proceedings, Vol. XXII., dealing with writing
sittings of 1907 ;
e.g. an erasure will be found at p. 101,
and examples of the hand pointing to already written words
to make the meaning clear at pages 87, 148, 335, 345.
Drawings made in the course of writing also seem to
show that the communicating intelligence is conscious of
using a pencil or pen. Instances in 1907 will be found
in Proceedings, Vol. XXII., pp. 153, 156, 345. And
consciousness of drawing is clearly shown ;
e.g. in Proceed-
ings, Vol. XXII., p. 71, Rector having made attempts to
draw a triangle, says : "I tried to draw it as he {MyersP }
made it." But drawings were made both earlier and later
than this. For example, on November 18, 1896, a control
professing to be a little nephew of Hodgson's, wrote more
or less baby language in capital (print) letters, and drew
what purported to represent a horse and a pig. Conscious-
ness of writing seems also involved when, as Hodgson records
on March 5, 1897 (see Appendix to Chapter III., p. 496),
hand makes movements as if trying to turn over the leaf
with the end of the pencil.
What is difficult to reconcile with these facts and state-
ments is the theory that the writing control is a separate
and independent spirit, taking the place of Mrs. Piper's
spirit, which has been temporarily ousted altogether. If
the control was a phase—a centre of consciousness—of
Mrs. Piper, it is, of course, quite possible that it may have
been aware of writing in 1892, but through some different
splitting of consciousness, due to suggestion by Hodgson or
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 51
to some other cause, have become unaware of it in 1895,
while yet some part of Mrs. Piper's consciousness was
conducting the writing in an intelligent manner. This
would be the kind of thing that often happens in the case
of negative hallucinations. A hypnotised person may have
a negative hallucination imposed upon him—a hallucination
that some object is invisible to him—and, while really believ-
ing that he does not see the object, may yet by his
behaviour show clearly that some part of him does see it,
as otherwise he could not select it for invisibility. 1
It would be very interesting to know when and how the
idea that the control was unaware of the process of writing
began, but beyond the facts already given we have no means
of tracing this. It is clear, I think, that G. P. knew he was
writing in 1892 ; that he and some other controls knew it
in 1894 ; but that G. P. was not maintaining ignorance of
the process for the first time when Professor Newbold
questioned him in June, 1895. We know this last because
G. P. refers to having been told by Hodgson that he was
writing—a matter about which his memory is likely to have
been correct. Such explanations by Hodgson occur fre-
quently in subsequent unpublished sittings (1896 onwards),
and apparently have sometimes to be given over and over
again at different sittings to the same control. This may
have helped to crystallise the idea of the supposed ignorance
in the trance personality's mind, and may also have helped
to put the theory into a shape acceptable to Hodgson, who
often—in my view too often—corrects statements of the
control's, or gives them back in words of his own.2
Take
1
For a specific instance see Myers's Human Personality and its Survival
of Bodily Death, Appendix to Chapter V., paragraph 546a (p. 499). The
hypnotised person in this case is told that cards with odd numbers on them
will be invisible. The result is that he sees such a card when its blank side
is presented to him, but does not see it when the side with the number
on it is towards him, to his great mystification.
2
This procedure would, of course, be legitimate were we certain that
the control knew what he was talking about and only suffered from a diffi-
culty in expressing it. In such a case, help in expressing it may shorten
the investigation while doing no harm. But if we have to answer the
question :
" Does the control know what he is talking about, or is he merely
trying to conceal fundamental ignorance as well as he can ?
"—which auto-
52 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [pabt
an example from the sitting of January 1, 1897 (see Appendix,
p. 397) :
Rector writes
—
I am inside of an empty shell filled with spirit
air * * and whisper to or through the holes in the
shell, and the air from your world receives the
sound of my voice and registers it for your vision.
R. H. Not the air * * the medium's arm.
I think it is probable that if we had all the records, we
should find the notion that the control was unaware of writing
developing as a corollary to the notion that the spirit in
bodily form occupied the hand and arm, which by June 18,
1895, was so definite that G. P. explains that his head is
in the hand, his feet at the elbow, and so forth (see Appendix
367). The controls made no suggestion of anything of this
kind in 1892-3, so far as we can tell from the stenographic
reports already referred to. They do, however, say quite
distinctly that the writing control is not in the head, though
the speaking control is, and they say this in spite of the
statement that G. P. uses the " brain through the hand
"
(see above, p. 4G). One of the clearest instances is in the
record of December 5, 1892, as follows :
{G. P. is writing}
R. H. I want to ask you a question George.
G. P. Go on please R. H. You hear what I say ?
G. P. Yes. [R. H. speaks into the ear of the medium]
G. P. All right, that is the doctor in the medium's head and
not I. Yes ask your
{After a good deal of conversation with G. P.
(writing) and much shuffling on his part, and some
irritation on Hodgson's, Phinuit intervenes (see App.,
p. 357)}
Ph. Why don't you speak to him ?
R. H Well where is he ?
matic personalities are known often to do—then clearly, in the interests
of truth, no assistance in concealing the ignorance should be given. If
I may say so, Professor Newbold was in this respect a better examiner
than Hodgson.
Lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 53
Ph. Over there.
jfc sfc Jfi «fc
G. P. I don't know what you say * *
Ph. You speak to him, don't speak to me.
R. H. Well, where can he hear that ?
Ph. He is over there by you. 1
Again, on January 24, 1893, Phinuit suddenly interjects :
Talk to him there ; don't talk to me.
And G. P. himself uses the same expression {e.g. on Decem-
ber 7, 1892, see below).
But on no occasion does " there " seem to mean in the
hand as it would have done in 1896. In 1892 the hand
is apparently conceived throughout as a hand. For instance,
on December 21—G. P. writing, Phinuit intervenes :
Ph. He wants to know why you don't hold that {the hand}
for him then.
Mrs. Howard. We did but he slipped his hand down so slowly
{and later in the sitting}
G. P. Help me. Sitter. Yes, how shall I help you ?
G. P. Hold my hand.
The idea of divided control and the speaking of G. P. as
" there " soon led, however, at least in some sitters if not
in the controls, to a sort of personification of the hand, as,
for instance, when on December 7, G. P. having written,
" talk to me there," Mrs. Howard says, " Oh yes, the hand."
The fact that the hand not only writes but gesticulates in
a very expressive maimer 2
would further help to concentrate
attention on it, and one can imagine how under questioning
by sitters the theory, admitted by the controls themselves
to be grotesque, of the hand and arm being occupied by
the spirit in the form of a small human body, might grow
up. Other controls besides G. P. maintained it later, though
with some variations (see e.g. Appendix, pp. 382, 398, 427),
and Hodgson certainly encouraged it, though probably not
1 It may be observed that both head and hand hear the remarks made
sometimes
—
e.g. May 16, 1892 (see above, p. 38).
2
For description see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 322.
54 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
till after it was well established, by constantly explaining
to new controls the supposed modus operandi.
It does not seem very consistent that the control occupy-
ing the hand and arm with his head in the hand, should at
the same time be aware that the hand plays the part of a
hand in the ordinary way ;
as, for instance, in handling a
pencil, shaking hands, or—as in the following case on
December 5, 1898—in putting on a ring :
Communicator (through Rector as amanuensis). What have you
done with my (illegible) give me something, some-
thing for James : my cap, my gloves, anything.
Yes give me something.
Sitter. I have only this ring which you gave me, you re-
member, [taking the ring from her finger she gives
it * * * the right hand of Mrs. Piper seizes it
eagerly and puts it on one of its own fingers.]
Communicator. Yes I do, I do well and if you could only
know how I have changed since I met you here
you would be pleased I know.
This difficulty is, however, boldly faced on more than
one occasion, the control stating that the communicator
uses his (the control's) head to feel something, or the com-
municator (as on April 8, 1903, see Chapter V., p. 191)
indicating a spot by getting Rector to put his head there.
The location of the organ of hearing for writing controls
in the hand is part of the theory of the spirit being actually
in the arm and hand. That the ear was in the hand was
steadily maintained from 1895 onwards by different con-
trols communicating by writing whenever asked about it
—
including the Hodgson control in Dr. Stanley Hall's sittings
in 1909 (see Studies in Spiritualism, pp. 229, 243, 251)
—
and in accordance with this view they often held up the
palm of the hand to the mouth of the sitter in order, as
they say, to hear better. Whether the living Hodgson
believed that the sense of hearing was in the hand, I
do not know. He says in his report {Proceedings, Vol.
XIII., p. 293) :
In all cases when the " hand
'
' is writing independently
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 55
of Phinuit, the sense of hearing for the " hand control
"
appears to be in the hand, whereas Phinuit apparently
always hears through the ordinary channel. This apparent
heteraesthesia will be considered in Part II. of my Report.
And again, on p. 398 :
The sense of hearing for this consciousness appears to be
in the hand, and the sitter must talk to the hand to be
understood.
The italicising of " appears " looks as if he did not
believe it.
1
And it is of course almost impossible to
suppose it true, even if the controls really believe it.
It is quite possible that, without conscious acting, such a
belief might by suggestion produce a simulation of the
results. Something like crucial evidence on the subject
might possibly be obtained by closing the ears in such a
way as to make hearing with them practically impossible.
This is no doubt a thing very difficult to do effectively. 2
I had hoped that Dr. Stanley Hall, with the resources of a
psychological laboratory at his disposal, might have accom-
plished it, but he does not seem to have succeeded {Studies
in Spiritism, p. 243).
I have little doubt myself that successful elimination of
the ordinary channels of hearing would have stopped hearing
altogether. I have never had any feeling at a writing
sitting with Mrs. Piper that the control was hearing other-
wise than through the ears. Nor was loud speaking neces-
sary, as some sitters in America seem to have found. All
that was required was that the sitter, especially if unfamiliar
to the controls, should speak distinctly and not too fast. 3
This was important, as Mrs. Piper's position was not favour-
able for hearing—her head being turned away from the
sitter and one ear buried in pillows.
1
Professor Newbold, however, is inclined to think he did believe it.
2
See on this subject Sir Oliver Lodge's remarks in Proceedings, Vol.
XXIII., p. 244.
3
On December 17, 1906, Rector said to Mr. Piddington, " You may-
speak softly but slowly if you will for our understanding. J. 6. P. I'm
sorry if I have been speaking too loud : I wanted to be clear. Rector.
We do not catch your words if they are spoken too rapidly or loudly."
56 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
It appears to be sometimes further claimed that the
fingers act as organs of sight, or that they read by sense
of touch. One such case occurred on January 18, 1899.
Hodgson was the sitter and Rector the control.
{Hodgson tried to read aloud to the control a prayer
sent as a message by a lady-—a frequent sitter—who
was at the time ill.}
R. H. {reading}. "Please help me oh ye powers of Love and"
—can't read that next word—" make me well soul
and body." [I spent a little time trying to make out
the word (which seems to me now quite clear),
when the hand passed over the paper and lingered
with tips of fingers close to the word in question]
Rector, {writes}. Mercy R. H. Oh yes, Mercy.
Rector. He says it.
This cannot, of course, be taken as evidence of the exist-
ence of the supernormal form of perception apparently
claimed, because it is quite likely that the words of the
prayer had been given either by the invalid lady, or by the
controls at a previous sitting, and that consequently the
word Hodgson failed to read was known to Rector. A
somewhat similar claim seems to be made by another con-
trol, K. F., on June 22, 1899. The sitter had taken with
her a book of her own poems, and describes how the hand
turned " over the leaves-—would go on and then backwards
looking for something ;
finally rested on p. 102," which had
a special appropriateness.
A claim to see with the hand is implied again in sucb
an incident as the following on March 25, 1903. The sitter
was Miss Bancroft, and Hodgson was also present to assist
and record.
G. P. enters apparently controlling and is introduced
to Miss Bancroft.
* * * *
G. P. (writing). Gracie.
Miss B. Is that the last name ? {i.e. the name the previous
communicator had been trying to give through
Rector} [assent] Yes, I remember.
G. P. She told it to me just as I came in.
Lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper*s Trance Phenomena. 57
[Hand moves about in front of Sitter's face and chest.
I did not see this clearly as my eyes were on my
writing. R. H.]
Miss B. What is it ? Something you want now ?
G. P. No I am only looking at you just to get acquainted
that is all. don't mind me.
Notwithstanding the elaboration of the theory it must
not be assumed that writing controls are always supposed
to occupy the hand and arm when they write. The con-
trary seems to be implied, for instance, in the following
conversation on April 26, 1897, between Hodgson and a
communicator whom he calls H. C, apparently communi-
cating through Rector. H. C. is taking part in certain
cross-correspondence experiments about which more will be
said in the next chapter (see pp. 115-118 and Appendix,
pp. 505-513), between Mrs. Piper and a medium Myers was
sitting with in England, and has just described what she
affirms she has written through the English medium.
H. C. {through Rector}. I wrote distinctly this.
R. H. You wrote it yourself ?
H. C. Yes, I used the light
R. H. Did you use her hand to write ?
H. C. Yes, I placed my own hand upon hers.
R. H. Were you conscious of writing %
H. C. No, but I expressed the thought clearly, and the hand
received it.
R. H. Just as Rector is doing now ?
H. C Yes, only his head is bowed down upon his hand and
his hand seized or seizes the hand of the earthly
body. This is as it appears to me.
R. H. Thank you very much. When you thus write through
the other light, you do so I suppose unaided, 1
mean unaided by any other spirit directly.
H. C. Yes, if I understand you correctly. I did not deliver
my sentences to any other spirit. . . . no.
Compare with this a description by Mrs. Piper in the
waking-stage of May 5, 1903, recorded by Mr. Dorr :
Rector's there ! Take him quickly ! He will let me in
58 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
when he goes out. I can see my arm all numb ! I can
see his head on my hand. He has his head on my hand
now. He takes the ether out of it. I can see him go
into the air. I can see the cord on which I came in.
He looks like a priest
!
Further, it would appear from the description given by
Mrs. H. as communicator on December 14, 1904 (see
Appendix, pp. 431, 432), that Rector, while acting as
amanuensis, occupies the whole organism of the medium,
taking the place of her absent spirit. And one would have
naturally supposed that the same idea is intended to be
expressed by Rector himself when he writes of being in an
empty shell and speaking through the holes (e.g. see above,
p. 52, and Appendix, p. 397, January 1, 1897), though
Hodgson interprets it differently.
Before leaving the subject of the supposed relation of
the control to the medium's body, it should be noticed that
the brain is not ignored altogether, though it would be
difficult to say how its function in the matter is combined
with the occupation of the arm as such by the control. In
1888 Phinuit spoke—rather oddly it must be admitted
—
of the part played by the brain. It was on June 2 (see
Appendix, p. 337) :
R. H. You see the difference of mediumistic power as a differ-
ence in luminosity * * Can't you explain how it
would appear to me, supposing I investigated a
medium's body for the purpose of ascertaining the
difference in structure ?
Ph. You would see a very sensitive organism, you would
see a very large, peculiar, undeveloped brain ; what I
mean to say, the brain is too large to be used by
the natural mortal mind of the medium.
R. H. Do you mean there is a certain part of the brain which
is used by the etherial organism and can be filled
by the etherial organism of the spirit ?
Ph. Certainly.
I have already quoted a remark by Phinuit on Decem-
ber 22, 1892, about G. P. using the " brain through the hand "
(see above, p. 46) On November 30, 1892, G. P. himself
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 59
talks of the difficulty of expressing " the thought through
the medium, through the brain of the medium, because it
is so very material " (see below, p. 69). Again, on
December 19, 1892, G. P. writing, points out that there
must " be more or less confliction between one's spiritual
Ego or mind, and the material mind or Ego of the one
you are obliged to use " {i.e. the medium}, and Hodgson
presently asks :
R. H. What becomes of the medium during trance ?
G. P. She passes out as your etherial goes out when you
sleep.
R, H. Well, do you see that there is a conflict, because the
brain substance is, so to speak, saturated with her
tendencies of thought ?
G. P. No, not that, but the solid substance called brain, it is
difficult to control it, simply because it is material
. . . her mind leaves the brain empty, as it were, and
I myself or other spiritual mind or thought takes the
empty brain, and there is where and when the con-
flict arises.1
(See Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 434.)
These statements were made before the theory of occupa-
tion of hand and arm by the control was formulated, but the
brain is also referred to later. Thus on December 11, 1896
(see Appendix, p. 391), Doctor writes :
[Drawing of circle.] See that, that is an empty brain.
I will fill it with light. I have done so. I wish to use it.
Others wish to use it. We divide it. I use one part or
one side. Doctor somebody uses another. George somebody
uses another. There are four sides to an ordinary light.
From the supposed relation of the controls to Mrs. Piper's
organism we may proceed to the theory of their relation
to her spirit and with this to the theory of mediumship
generally. In this connexion the word " light " is in con-
stant use and, as in the passage just quoted, is used in more
than one sense. It denotes the medium ; and it denotes
what Hodgson calls the " peculiar energy " through which
the spirits act on the material plane ; it denotes some-
1
Compare with this statement one on June 18, 1895, Appendix, p 367.
60 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
thing which the spirits provide from their world to make
communication possible ;
and^it also denotes some quality
inherent in all persons or objects which enables the spirits
to discern the past history of objects. The use of the word
to denote the medium perhaps originated in a metaphor
introduced to explain how the spirits distinguish mediums
from other men. Thus at a sitting on December 25, 1889,
recorded by Sir Oliver Lodge, the Gurney control says :
One can tell a medium. She's like a ball of light. You
look as dark and material as possible, but we find two or
three lights shining. It's like a series of rooms with
candles at one end. Must use analogy to express it.
When you need a light you use it, when you have finished
you put it out. They are like transparent windows to see
through. Lodge it's a puzzle. It's a puzzle to us here in
a way though we understand it better than you. I work
at it hard. I do. I'd give anything I possess to find out.
I don't care for material things now, our interest is much
greater. I am studying hard how to communicate ; it's
not easy. But it's only a matter of a short time before I
shall be able to tell the world all sorts of things through
one medium or another. (See Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 516,
and Vol. XXIII., p. 151.)1
The expression was in use before 1889 and very likely
from the beginning of Mrs. Piper's mediumship, though we
have no record of it. When Hodgson was questioning
Phinuit about theory in 1888 a good deal was said about
light, Thus on May 26, 1888, Phinuit said :
There are spirits wandering round here trying to find
their friends and the medium is given them for light.
They see this fight as I see the light of the medium.
And on June 2, 1888 :
Ph. They {bad spirits} are attracted by certain lights, can
see dim lights in the body just as I can.
* * * *
1 I have quoted more of this passage than is required for my present
purpose, because it is interesting as coming from the Gurney control, of whose
history I shall have something to say later (see Chapter VIII., pp. 301-305).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 61
R. H. What is the explanation of mediumistic power ?
Ph. Effervescing light.
Compare also Appendix, pp. 341, 347, 348, for instances
of the use of the word in 1888.
In 1892 we find G. P. talking of light. Thus, when asked
on November 30 (see Appendix) how he found the medium
out, he says :
G. P. It was by light, light alone ; to me her body was
light. 1
On December 5 G. P. proposes to answer questions on
another occasion " before Old Phinuit uses up all the light."
On December 9 Phinuit complains that " the light " was
" not so good as it is sometimes," and G. P. also says
" this light is weak " ; the difficulty on this occasion
being apparently due to Mrs. Piper's ill health (Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., p. 428).
It is in a somewhat different way that Phinuit speaks of
light on January 24, 1893, when he says :
After leaving the material body the body is like vapor,
as it were, and then it is like light, composed of etherial
substances, just as light (heat) inhabits your body now,
or your body inhabits {interruption here}
In this passage it seems to be not mediumistic " light " that
Phinuit alludes to, but the "etherial body" which spirits
are supposed to have, and which is regarded as like light
through a confusion between light and luminiferous ether.
There are in the records of sittings published by Hodgson
one or two scattered references to '"light," and the diffi-
culty of going into trance or giving a proper sitting because
there is " no light," but it was on the unpublished records,
especially doubtless those of Professor Newbold's sittings
in 1895 and of his own with the Imperator Band in 1896-7,
that Hodgson relied when he wrote the following precis
of the theories of the trance personalities (Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., p. 400) :
The statements of the "communicators" {i.e. controls} as
to what occurs on the physical side may be put in brief
1
But compare context, Appendix, p. 355.
62 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
general terms as follows. We all have bodies composed of
" luminiferous ether " enclosed in our flesh and blood
bodies. The relation of Mrs. Piper's etherial body to the
etherial world, in which the " communicators " claim to
dwell, is such that a special store of peculiar energy is
accumulated in connection with her organism, and this
appears to them as "a light." Mrs. Piper's etherial body
is removed by them, and her ordinary body appears as a
shell filled with this " light." Several "communicators "
may be in contact with this light at the same time. * * *
If the " communicator " gets into contact with the
" light " and thinks his thoughts, they tend to be repro-
duced by movements in Mrs. Piper's organism. * * * Upon
the amount and brightness of this "light," cceteris paribus,
the communications depend. When Mrs. Piper is in ill
health this "light" is feebler, and the communications tend
to be less coherent. It also gets used up during a sitting,
and when it gets dim there is a tendency to incoherence
even in otherwise clear communicators. In all cases, com-
ing in contact with this " light " tends to produce be-
wilderment, and if the contact is continued too long, or
the "light" becomes very dim, the consciousness of the
communicator tends to lapse completely.
This precis as far as it goes corresponds I think broadly
with the statements most frequently made by the controls.
But it is a simplification, and in simplifying contradic-
tions, incoherences, and impossible pseudo-scientific state-
ments are omitted, which when taken together seem to me
to show that no authority whatever can be attached to
the theories put forward. I think that most people will
agree with this view, if they will take the trouble to read
the copious extracts given hi the Appendix to this chapter
from the records of Professor Newbold's sittings in 1895,
and from those held for the purpose of questioning the Im-
perator band in 1896-7, as well as sundry remarks extracted
from later sittings. It is not worth while attempting any
full analysis of the various statements made, but some of
them may be mentioned.
We are told that the etherial body is " light, luminiferous
lxxi.] Psychologij of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 63
ether " (Appendix, p. 366) ; that light consists of etherial
and spiritual substance (p. 388) ; that it is spirit force drawn
up by the spirit of the medium from the spirit world where
the whole atmosphere is light or spirit (p. 394). We are
told that the medium's body is like a fountain or large reser-
voir which becomes filled with light, i.e. the etherial atmos-
phere of the spirit world (pp. 398, 417, 418, 422) ; that when
the control first enters the medium the light burns brightly,
but after a short time begins to expire (p. 413) ; fresh
currents may, however, apparently be received during a sitting
(p. 403, 428) ; and controls draw constantly the etherial
strength from the spirit-world while " in the light " (p. 422) ;
experienced controls may advantageously intervene " to give
a clear light "
(p. 383). There may at some moments be too
much light (p. 411) ; and an unduly short sitting may have
drawbacks because of the difficulty of removing from the
body of the medium etherial light which had not been used
up (p. 436) 1
; the light used up at sittings is, however,
replenished by the medium drawing fresh supplies from the
spirit world in the intervals between the sittings (pp. 392,
394, 395). Mrs. Piper's mediumship is due, we are told
in 1896, to her body being inhabited by two distinct lights
—her normal spirit and the light of Phinuit—the result being
a kind of storage battery (p. 389). The light within the
control uses the light within the hand as a telephone (p. 370).
The control follows the light and uses it as one would a type-
writer, only thoughts act instead of fingers (p. 367). A
control loses its grasp of the light as the sitting comes
to an end (Appendix to Chapter III., p. 443). The
light is improved by keeping away all evil or outside
influences (Appendix, p. 400), and " the moie disturbing
elements " {in the form of unfamiliar sitters}, " the lower
burns the light " so Imperator tells us on January 25,
1897.
Perhaps some readers will be inclined to say here that, as
the processes which it is attempted to describe do not belong
to the physical world, the description of what occurs is neces-
1
With adequate warning, however, this difficulty can be avoided appa-
rently. " Give us a few moments warning {before stopping} so that we
may change the light so as to do no harm as we remove it." Feb. 25, 1907
64 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
sarily metaphorical, and that we cannot expect complete
coherence and consistency in metaphor. I think it is true
that the idea of light was at first used metaphorically, but
as it was elaborated under questioning the metaphorical
character soon disappeared, and the warmest defenders of
the Imperator Band will hardly maintain that they intend
to speak metaphorically when they commit themselves to
statements about the chemical composition of the etherial 1
or spiritual body. It is composed, says Imperator, on
February 5, 1897 (see Appendix, p. 406), of air, light, and
a large amount of hydrogen, which is the lightest of any-
thing known to them. When Hodgson demurs to lumini-
ferous ether consisting of air or hydrogen, Imperator says
it is not the air or hydrogen of our planet and of our crude
sciences, but their air and hydrogen, and he ultimately
substitutes vacium—one feels inclined to ask if there is any
connexion between vacium and vacuum—for hydrogen.
Vacium is a body thoroughly spiritualised and pure, a part
of God. It is still more surprising to learn on February 6,
1897 (p. 408), that the spiritual body is composed of love and
wisdom ; that love is a substance purer, lighter, higher and
more real and exquisite than anything else known to mortal
man ; that it is truth, purity and sincerity—and that the
chief substance is vacium, known as love. The spirit of
love is real spiritual ether. Hodgson at this point sees a
way out of the maze, and suggests to Imperator that what
he means is that from the idealistic point of view " ether
is the shadow, the representation on the material plain, the
physical analogue, of love,—which is the real thing." But
I do not think that most people reading the record will believe
that Imperator meant anything of the kind. To me it
seems obvious that he was talking nonsense about what he
did not understand, exhibiting crass ignorance of elementary
facts of chemistry and physics, and a complete absence of
grasp of any distinction between qualities of mind and
matter (see Appendix, February 1, February 5, February 6,
1897). 2
1
Hodgson tells us (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 56) that it was from him
that the^controls^first acquired the terms etherial and etherial body.
2
Hodgson, of course, saw the absurdity of much that is said by the various
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 65
In connexion with the various descriptions of the con-
trol actually occupying the medium's body, or grasping the
" light," must be considered statements of a somewhat
bewildering kind which occur from time to time relating to
its varying distance while controlling. I do not refer to
such statements as that attributed to G. P. by Hodgson
at the end of 1893 (see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 323), " that
he was going '
farther away '
and would not be so available
for tests, but that he would continue to assist as far as pos-
sible, and help any '
stragglers ' to communicate " ; for
this might only mean that he was less in touch with this
world than he had been 1
and that his memories were less
vivid. But it does not seem possible thus to interpret the
following assertion of increasing distance on January 16,
1897. Hodgson had proposed to G. P. that he should at
once communicate through a medium Myers was sitting with
in England, through whom George Eliot purported to com-
municate,2
and that he should enquire of George Eliot about
the matter. Accordingly he proposes to depart :
G. P. Do you not see that I am getting farther and farther
away [the writing has been fainter and more
automatic 3
during the last few sentences] and I will
do this errand for you at once.
R. H. Is the light burning low ? [Hand speiring.]
G. P. Pardon. R. H. Is the light burning low just now ?
controls as well as we do, but he explained it to his own satisfaction by
attributing it to defects in Mrs. Piper as the machine they have to use in
communicating by voice or writing. If, however, the machine introduces
such hopeless confusion into what they say, their communications seem
to lose all value.
1
Compare Chapter III., p. 81, for a statement by Rector on April 23,
1897, about G. P. having gone further from earth and being therefore less
reliable for tests.
2
See Chapter III. below, p. 115.
3
By " automatic " in this connexion Hodgson means, I think, less
energetically controlled. When a sitting was drawing to a close the writing
frequently became very feeble and straggly during the last sentences, owing,
as was explained, to the weakness of the control or the failure of the supply
of light, and Hodgson describes this as becoming dreamy and automatic.
He also uses this expression about a feeble voice in speaking (see below,
Chapter VI., p. 213).
E
66 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
G. P. ... low. Eliot R. H. George Eliot ?
G. P. there H. [Hand points] taking my light.
R. H. Has she a message for me ?
{George Eliot gives a message, apparently through G. P.}
Again, with good will we can interpret metaphorically
—as not really referring to space—Rector's statement on
March 3, 1897, that
We are very much nearer now than you think, yet we
will always be some distance from you.
Or, on March 11, 1897, that
We are not near to your planet.
And
I have one {i.e. Imperator} who will stand by me and
render me assistance when necessary. I know of no one
more competent to do so than he. Yet when he actually
returns here he is not so near as I.
But actual space must surely be referred to in the follow-
ing dialogue on December 12. 1896 :
R. H. {speaking to Imperator}. Are you present, close, or far
off, guiding ?
Imperator (writing). I am present in space near thee.
R. H. Like George or Moses when they are here talking to me ?
Imperator. Yes, yet not quite so near.
And again, Imperator's explanation on February 5, 1897,
(see Appendix, p. 407), of why his writing is always very
faint
—" It cannot be otherwise. I am not so near
your planet as are some others "—can hardly be intended
metaphorically ; unless indeed the faintness of the writing
is itself a mere symbol—a very inconvenient symbol for
the sitter.
In the following case actual space, namely the distance
between Boston and Mexico, seems to be taken account of
by Phinuit. On November 24, 1896, he was by way of
having started for Mexico when Hodgson called him back.
He calls him " several times before he answers. He says
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 67
he was nearly there, i.e. Mexico." 1
And presumably it is
also actual distance in space that he refers to on December
5, 1896, when he explains unusual delay in answering to
Hodgson's call at the beginning of a sitting by saying, " When
you first speak to me I'm very far away. Your voice
seems a very long way off."
We shall have to consider the question of the supposed
position of communicating spirits in space again in con-
nexion with communicators in Chapter V. (pp. 168-172) ;
I will therefore only add here that sometimes a subjective
view of distance—differing for spirits and for mortals—is
suggested. Thus Phinuit on June 22, 1895, says of the place
where he found Stainton Moses, " It would be a long way
to you Billie, but not so far to me " (Proceedings, Vol.
XD7., p. 37), and again, Imperator, when speaking of the
canopy of heaven, the etherial veil or canopy which
separates the spirit world from ours, says on February 11,
1897, in reply to Hodgson, that it would seem to us
millions of miles away from the earth, but to spirits
it seems near (see Appendix, p. 411). On the other
hand, Doctor affirms on February 2, 1897, that the spirit
body is of the same size and shape as the mortal body
(see Appendix, pp. 403-5), though, in maintaining this he
has, in answer to Hodgson's questioning, to modify the theory
about the writing control occupying the arm as described
by G. P. (see Appendix, p. 371).
So far we have been considering the alleged processes of
controlling as they affect the controls. They have also
to be considered in relation to the spirit of the medium*
All controls agree that she goes out of the body and they
come in, but beyond this there are considerable variations
of statement at different times. The earliest account we
have, I think, is in Hodgson's stenographically reported
examination of Phinuit on June 2, 1888 (see Appendix,
p. 337) :
1 At this time Phinuit, G. P., W. Stainton Moses, the Imperator Band,
Julius Csesar, and others are engaged in trying to find a young man lost
in Mexico (see below, p. 112). There were many affirmations of seeing him,
but no ultimate success.
68 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
Phintjit says :
—
When I come here, the medium passes into the spirit
as it were. The medium's etherial organism goes
through the spirit world;
or various parts of the
spirit world ; she wanders about like a spirit * * *
She takes my place as it were in the spirit world.
When I begin to leave the medium * * * she begins to
return and she gets nearer to me. I can actually
sometimes, when I am here, see the medium. * * *
Sitter. How does she know {you are leaving the organism ?
}
Phinuit. Because she lingers in a certain sense near me.
Phinuit's perception of the medium's spirit at what was
probably an earlier sitting than the above is incidentally
mentioned in Hodgson's first report. He was experimenting
on Phinuit's success in describing the writers of letters placed
in his hand, and says (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 24, footnote) :
I asked Phinuit whether the writer of this second letter
{viz. Mrs. Piper herself whom Phinuit had given a fair
description of, but not named} was "in the body" or
" in spirit." He replied at once, " In the body " but
added :
" Why no ; that's curious. There she is in the
spirit, talking to an old lady." This appeared to bewilder
Phinuit, who, after some soliloquising and mumbling, went
on to another subject. Several times at the close of later
sittings he referred to the " medium " as " coming back,"
" laughing," " asking questions," " trying to touch the
sitter," etc.
A similar incidental reference occurs in Sir Oliver Lodge's
report (Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 516). At the beginning
of a sitting on Christmas day, 1889, Phinuit said :
Captain {his nickname for Sir Oliver Lodge} do you
know that as I came I met the medium going out,
and she's crying. Why is that ?
O. J. L. Well the fact is she's separated from her children for
a few days, and she is feeling rather low about it.
In 1892 very similar statements were made. Thus on
November 30 :
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance Phenomena. 69
R. H. Do you get right into the body of the medium George ?
G. P. (speaking). The medium's spirit, her etherial, leaves the
body with the exception of a thread, and I take
the body as she leaves it.
R. H. Your etherial goes in ?
G. P. Just the same. Now I cannot talk to you, I could not
talk to you independent of a medium as I talk to
you now, but it is very trying, it is wearying to me
and it is most difficult to express the thought
through the medium, through the brain of the
medium because it is so very material.
On December 16, 1892, Hodgson says to Phinuit :
R. H. Don't tire the medium out. You must not stay too
long.
Ph. I am going out when I get ready.
R. H. The medium don't like to be too long in trance.
Ph. I don't care. Well, let her show up if she wants to
come out.
{Presently, after saying au revoir, Phinuit exclaims :
}
Ph. Oh, that is the medium. {Trance ends.}
On December 19, 1892, at the end of the sitting, Phinuit
said :
Ph. Here comes the medium. She has got an ugly scowl on
her.
R. H. What for ? Because you kept her body too long ?
[Medium comes out of trance.]
On January 24, 1893, there is a still more dramatic account
of the return of the medium :
Ph. Who is that lady there ? Oh, here comes the medium.
That is the medium.
Mes. Howard. Are you and the medium good friends, or do
you quarrel ?
Ph. To tell you the truth, I don't care much about her.
{at this point the hand makes characters of the deaf
and dumb alphabet 1
which no one is able to read
—
1 " Laura Bridgman " rather often intervened at this period and attempted
communication in what seemed to resemble the deaf and dumb alphabet.
For further particulars, see p. 113.
70 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
then tries to write, spelling words backwards, after
which Mrs. Howard asks}
Mrs. Howard. Doctor, are you trying to get your hand back ?
Ph. I am going out ;
give it here. Look at the medium,
been sitting there waiting for me half an hour.
In all these cases, notwithstanding the thread mentioned
above (p. 69), the medium's spirit seems to be conceived
as moving about freely among other spirits, approaching
the control when she wished to, as other spirits did, and
then visible to him ; also as exercising more or less free
will about leaving and returning to the body. Later, more
compulsion is suggested. For instance, on June 15, 1895,
Professor Newbold reports Phinuit as saying that when he
turns the medium out he goes into her body on a string.
Or, again, on December 8, 1896, Doctor talks of controls
seizing the spirit of the medium and pulling her out of the
body, and then walking in (see Appendix, p. 388), and on
December 11, of her spirit "being removed" (see Appendix,
p. 392, and compare also Appendix, p. 410, February
6, 1897). Persuasion rather than compulsion, however, is
spoken of on March 31, 1897 (see Appendix, p. 414), and
probably it is intended to represent this as what normally
occurs. The free wandering while away from her body
spoken of above seems to be denied in later accounts. It is
difficult, e.g. to reconcile it with MyersP 's account on March
20, 1901, of the medium's spirit blocking up the doorway
because it cannot be removed beyond it without breaking
the cord (see Appendix, p. 419), or with the clergymen
of Mrs. H.'s account on June 3, 1903 (see Appendix,
p. 427), who hold the medium's spirit in one place all the
time that communications are going on. Notwithstanding
this, however, the old freedom seems to be indicated by
many of Mrs. Piper's waking-stage remarks, as we shall
see in Chapter VI. For instance, on December 24, 1906,
she said in the waking stage :
I met Dr. Hodgson walking in the garden and I was
taking a message for him ; and then Myers came and
interrupted him ; and then I came down and down on a
cord, and then I felt a pain here (rubbing solar plexus).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 71
The cord or string mentioned several times above is an
important element in the descriptions of the process of con-
trolling, performing apparently three functions. It main-
tains the connexion between the wandering spirit of the
medium and her body ; it serves as a sort of Jacob's ladder
up and down which spirits pass between earth and heaven ;
and it serves as a kind of telephone wire by means of which
communicators convey what they have to say to the con-
trol. The first function is the one we hear of earliest. I
do not know when the idea first emerged, but I think the
earliest mention of which we have any record was on June
9, 1888 (see Appendix, pp. 342-6), when Hodgson and Phinuit
were discussing the possibility of another spirit taking pos-
session of the medium's body while she is asleep and her
own spirit wandering. Phinuit talks of the latter " holding
on to the brain," " clinging to the brain," and Hodgson
interprets this as done through a " chain of communica-
tion," " a chain that binds the etherial organism with the
mortal body "
(p. 343), " a thread " (p. 344), " a thread
of connexion between A. and A.'s body "
(p. 345). Phinuit
makes no objection to Hodgson's description, but whether
it represents his own idea we have no means of knowing.
There is, however, no doubt that in 1892 G. P. affirms
the existence of the connecting thread or cord (see above,
p. 69), and also in 1895 (June 18, 1895, Appendix,
p. 366) ;
and, prompted by Hodgson, Imperator speaks of
the cord in this sense, February 6, 1897 (see Appendix,
p. 410). It is, however, difficult to reconcile the existence
of this thread with the difficulty of findhig her body, which
Mrs. Piper complains of in the waking-stage of April 3,
1897 (see Appendix to Chapter VI., p. 561).
The use of the cord as a path for spirits is apparently
not realised by G. P. when he says on June 14, 1895,
that he comes to earth without any inconvenience, " seems
like flying " (see Appendix, p. 365). Phinuit, however, on
June 15, 1895 (as we saw, p. 70), speaks of going into
the medium's body on a string ; and the idea is a good
deal elaborated afterwards. Curiously enough the first
description in detail we have of the cord from this point
of view is in a dream of Mrs. Piper's when hi on February
72 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
22, 1896 (see Appendix, p. 380). This is the only dream
of Mrs. Piper's of which I have seen any record,1
and it
is interesting as bringing in controls and communicators
who were at that time figuring in her trance, and also as fore-
shadowing to some extent future trance communications
about going out and in on the cord, and the cord being like
a ray of light, " similar to a ray of light from the sun
through a knot hole," described again by Mrs. H. (as com-
municator) on December 14, 1904 (see Appendix, p. 432).
Similar descriptions may, however, have been given pre-
viously at sittings of which I have seen no record. The
same sort of idea is probably behind Mrs. Piper's descrip-
tion in the waking-stage of November 13, 1896 :
" They
took me out and brought me back, and when I came back
I slid down a rope and I thought I would be caught before
I got here." Mrs. Piper very frequently speaks in waking-
stages of coming down on a rope or cord—at any rate in
the later years of her mediumship.2
Doctor, however,
when he gives descriptions of the process of controlling on
December 5 and 8, 1896 (see Appendix, pp. 383-388), seems
independent of any cord, and Imperator refers to none in
describing, on December 15, 1896, how spirits approach the
medium; nor does Rector on January 1, 1897 (Appendix,
p. 397), though in all these cases the amount of detail
given renders it strange that the cord as a path of egress
and ingress should be omitted. Imperator, however, on
February 11, 1897, speaks of the spirit of the medium
entering the spirit world, through the canopy dividing
earth from heaven, by a thread (Appendix, p. 410).
The fullest accounts of the cord in this Jacob's ladder
aspect are those referred to above, given by Mrs. H. (as
communicator) on June 3, 1903, and December 14, 1904.
According to these accounts the cord which comes from
1
Unless, of course, we regard the trance, or waking-stage experiences
of Mrs. Piper as in some sense dreams. The dream of February 22, 1896,
occurred during ordinary sleep, and differed from the waking-stage or trance
experiences in being remembered.
2
1 think it does not occur in the records of waking-stages (which are
not very numerous) before November 13, 1896, nor again after this till the
end of 1898. On January 13, 1899, she said in the waking-stage, "Do you
know what I was doing ? I came down a long way on a string.'"
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 73
the other world is made for the purpose each time 1
and
is specially attached by Rector to the medium's body.
Compare also the account given by a spirit friend of
Miss A. M. R.'s on May 24, 1904 (Appendix, p. 429).
Sometimes we are told there is a difficulty in attaching the
cord; e.g. on February 24, 1904 (Appendix, -p. 428). It also
is stated on various occasions, e.g. May 25, 1904 (see Appen-
dix, p. 430), that it is one of Rector's functions to hold the
cord at the medium's end while the trance lasts. To com-
bine this with repeating to the sitters what communicators
say is stated to be one of the great difficulties he experiences
as a control. Compare also the extract from the record of
December 20, 1904, in the Appendix, p. 435.
It does not appear that the arrangements for the ladder
are always as elaborate as those described by Mrs. H., for
it is recorded by Miss A. M. R., who was the sitter and
recorder on June 21, 1905—a voice sitting—that Rector
said that the spirits of deceased friends
return to earth under various conditions—possibly
through lights, independently of lights, in their own
spheres, and they pass over certain what we call spiritual
cords to the earthly life, and reach thy spirit, and they
guard that, and when thou dost feel impressed—etc.
I am not sure that the conception of the spirit of the
medium using the cord as a kind of ladder is consistently
held, for some of her waking-stage remarks seem rather to
suggest that she is let down by the cord. For example, on
March 18, 1907, she says :
" I thought I was on a rope on
the end of it coming down very fast." But, on the other
hand, the two ideas seem to be mixed on March 13,
1907 :
" I thought I was up on a rope and I was sliding
down and I tried to get on the end of the rope and I
couldn't."
The third use of the cord ;
as a kind of telephone
or telegraph wire, is also described on June 3, 1903
(Appendix., p. 427), as follows :
1
But compare the view of Hodgson,, on July 31, 1911 (Appendix to
Chapter III., p. 514) about the permanent injury done to the cord by Dr.
Stanley Hall's experiments.
74 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Mrs. H. {communicating through Rector}. I hear over the cord
at which he {Rector} is at its end.
R. H. And my voice travels to you on the cord ?
Mrs. H. Yes if it were not for this I could not U.D. you.
R. H. And how does your thought reach Rector ?
Mrs. H. It reaches him over the cord also it vibrates to him,
and he speaks it to you.
It is doubtless this use of the cord that Sidgwickp, com-
municating through Rector, speaks of in some detail on
February 19, 1902 (see Appendix, p. 420). And the
speaking of communicators over the cord is frequently men-
tioned, at any rate after this date (cf. also February 23,
1904, quoted in Chapter V., p. 164, and May 24, 1904,
Appendix, p. 429). It is perhaps the idea of a telephone
or telegraph wire that leads Mrs. Piper in the waking-stage
of November 20, 1905, to talk of the cord as a wire :
Well I thought I was on the string. I thought I was
on a—on a wire—on a wire cord—what would you call it ?
a wire cord—not a wire cord but a wire. (See Appendix to
Chapter VI., p. 597.)
Or a tube, as on February 4, 1903 :
I was drawn in . . . like being drawn in on a tube . . .
on a cord. (See Appendix to Chapter VI., p. 590.)
Whether or not the cord stands for any real element in the
process of controlling and communicating, it is certain, I
think, that the idea develops in various ways, and that
it does not represent anything of which controls and com-
municators were necessarily and always aware.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 75
CHAPTER III.
Individual Controls.
From the consideration of control in general and the
theories as to its nature offered by the trance personalities,
we now proceed to discuss particular controls, and to
consider how far their claim to be personalities inde-
pendent of Mrs. Piper is made out.
The supposed controls may be divided into two groups
—
private controls who control for their own friends whom
they knew on earth, and those which we may call for
convenience public or official controls.
As regards private controls, we have a good deal of
evidence about Miss E. G. W.'s friend T. (see Proceedings,
Vol. VIII., pp. 28 et seq.), and some about Miss A. M. R.'s
friend H. {Proceedings, Vol. VIII. , pp. Ill et seq.), kindly
furnished by those ladies. We know that Hodgson's
friend " Q." acted as control, and I believe that this was
a very important factor in the experience that convinced
him of the reality of communication from the dead. He,
however, published very little about her as control ; it
was as a communicator through Phinuit that she gave
the important evidence of identity of which Hodgson tells
us in Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 66-67. Under the head
of private controls I may also mention the Gurney con-
trol, to which I shall have occasion to refer in Chapter
VIII. Some of the most successful communicators occa-
sionally manifested as controls for a short time, e.g. the
baby Ruthie (Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 385) and Bennie
Junot [Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 425).
Two observations may be made about private controls.
The first is that the evidence of identity may be con-
76 Mrs. Henry Sictgwich. [part
vincing to the friends to whom they manifest themselves,
but of a kind which is incommunicable to readers of the
records. These may have to be content with the sitter's
statement that the resemblance to his or her friend was
striking. The other observation is that it is not always
clear that the friend when professing to control is doing
so entirely independently of, e.g. Phinuit or Rector. Miss
A. M. R.'s friend H. definitely admitted Phinuit's assist-
ance (see Proceedings, Vol VIIL, p. 113). It must be
remembered, moreover, that the line is by no means always
clearly marked between controlling (direct communication)
and communicating through a control acting as inter-
mediary. 1
Partly because public or official controls are more free
from these complications and partly because taken all
together there is more available material for consideration
in their case, I propose in the main to deal with them in
the following pages.
The public or official controls perform two functions.
First, they communicate on their own account, giving
advice or information or offering tests of supernormal
powers. As regards advice, Phinuit and his successor
Rector were both of them very ready to give medical
and hygienic advice or moral and spiritual advice and
guidance, and did so with considerable effect. As regards
tests, the official controls lend themselves to various
experiments and researches (for examples ' see below under
Julius Caesar and George Eliot), and they are somewhat
addicted to prophesying rather in the fortune-telling
manner, though not very successfully. 2
The second function
of an official control is that of intermediary between the
sitter and his spirit friends. There is, moreover, always
I think some public control professing to manage the
business of communicating through Mrs. Piper, and to
direct and regulate the proceedings, even when not actually
controlling.
Official controls with these functions are usual with
1
Compare, e.g. the case of Dr. Thaw's friend quoted below, p. 82.
2
Though I have not gone into the matter statistically, I think I may
safely venture to say that their prophecies usually proved wrong.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 77
professional mediums, and Mrs. Piper, who, as it were,
caught her mediumship from one of these, Mr. Cocke
(see above, p. 9), would naturally find her automatic
faculty tending to develop on these lines whether spiritual
entities, apart from herself, were concerned in the matter
or not. But it is a fact that must not be overlooked
that to a subliminal self aiming at producing the effects
she did produce, the advantages of the particular dramatic
form adopted would be obvious. For, in the first place,
advice is more impressive appearing to come from some
one other than the medium, and, in the second, less is
demanded from a spirit friend limited to communicating
through another spirit, who may misunderstand what he
is supposed to repeat, than from one purporting to talk
with the sitter directly. As a matter of fact, the
difficulty of this indirect communication is constantly
adduced as an excuse for failure or confusion in the
records before us. 1
A dramatic form is, as is well known,
readily assumed in automatic writing and speaking, even
when there is no reason to suppose an external intelligence
at work, and, as is also known, means of facilitating its
task are apt to be eagerly seized by the subliminal self.
There is therefore no difficulty in supposing that if Mrs.
Piper's trance personality be some subliminal centre of con-
sciousness of Mrs. Piper, it either pretends to be, or
imagines itself to be, a Phinuit or a Rector or a George
Eliot.
To decide between this and the spirit hypothesis we
must examine the sayings and doings of the controls,
find out whether the characters are consistently main-
tained, whether there are manifestations of knowledge,
including memories, which cannot be attributed to Mrs.
Piper, or, on the other hand, defects in knowledge which
cannot be attributed to the supposed spirit.
Among the public controls I will select for discussion
and illustration, (1) as regular controls, Phinuit, G. P., the
Imperator Band, Hodgson, and Madame Guyon, and (2)
1
See also a case below, p. 109, where after a failure Imperator throws
the blame on Rector and threatens to dismiss him as an incompetent
intermediary.
78 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
as occasional controls, Sir Walter Scott, Proctor the
astronomer, Stainton Moses, Julius Caesar, George Eliot,
"Moses of old" {i.e. Moses of the Exodus).
Among them the only ones who give independent
evidence of identity are G. P. and Hodgson. One reason
for this is that these were private controls as well as
public ;
they met those who had been their intimate
friends in life, recognised them appropriately, remembered
things unknown to Mrs. Piper, and generally by their
whole maniere d'etre impressed intimate friends with their
identity. All this has to be discounted to some extent in
the case of Hodgson, on account of his being so well
known to the medium. 1
But G. P. was scarcely known to
her at all, and the evidence set forth by Hodgson in
Proceedings, Vol. XIII., leaves little doubt that in con-
nexion with this control there was sometimes 2
some
supernormal power at work, and further, that there is
good ground for supposing that the supernormal element
was more than telepathy from the living—for supposing,
in fact, that G. P. as a surviving entity was in some
way concerned. But he may well have been concerned
without our being obliged to believe that he " controlled
"
in the sense of finding Mrs. Piper's spirit removed from
her body and taking its place.
None of the other public controls have any credentials
at all. Of those I have named, both Stainton Moses,
who had not been dead three years when the control
claiming his name first manifested, and George Eliot, who
died in 1880, had living friends in England, and might,
one would think, have referred to things which would
have tended to convince these friends of their identity.
1
See Professor William James's " Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson
control " in Proceedings, Vol. XXIII.
2
I say " sometimes " because there are other times when the evidence
is in my opinion not only neutral but against any real G. P. being
concerned at the moment at all. I may instance the effort of the
control G. P. (December 9, 1892) to converse intelligently with Mr.
Marte on the philosophical views held by G. P. on earth (see Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XV., p. 26), and the shuffling attempts to answer, or
rather to evade answering, a test question on December 6, 1892 (see
Appendix to Chapter II., p. 355).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 79
Stainton Moses had even had some personal acquaintance
with Hodgson, and he was also confronted with another
acquaintance who knew several of his friends, and with a
man who had been his pupil as a boy, but he failed on
any of these occasions to be convincing. His English
friends, too, sent questions to serve as tests which he would
when in this world—as far as can be judged—have answered
without difficulty, but nothing worth mentioning did he
remember correctly. George Eliot was equally uncon-
vincing.
The Imperator Band—Imperator, Rector, Doctor, Mentor,
Prudens—were introduced by the so-called Stainton Moses
as the same spirits who had inspired his automatic writing
when he was alive, the writing published in his book, Spirit
Teachings. The above names were pseudonyms, and the
real names claimed by these soi-disant spirits of the dead
were unknown to Hodgson and, at least as regards Impera-
tor' s, had never been published. It would have been excel-
lent evidence of supernormal knowledge if these names had
been given, and it is almost inconceivable that they
should have been persistently forgotten either by their
owners or by Stainton Moses. But not only were these
names not given, which might have been attributed to
reticence, but a variety of other names were given with
solemn asseverations that they were the ones asked for, and
others equally wrong were apparently tentatively suggested.
Hodgson would, I think, have said that the quality of,
e.g. Rector's communications—the advice he gave, and so
forth—is so far beyond Mrs. Piper's normal powers that in
itself it constitutes strong evidence of his independent
existence. Professor William James (see Proceedings, Vol.
XXIII. , p. 3), though he " favoured the idea of their {i.e.
Rector & Co.} all being dream-creations of Mrs. Piper,
probably having no existence except when she is in trance,"
admitted that "with all due respect to Mrs. Piper" he
felt " very sure that her own waking capacity for being a
spiritual adviser, if it were compared with Rector's, would
fall greatly behind." But hejj saw " no contradiction
between Rector's being on the^ one hand an improvised
creature * * * and his being on the other hand the
so Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
extraordinarily impressive personality which he unquestion-
ably is." And this is surely borne out by the surprising
powers exhibited by certain subjects in hypnotic trance.
I cannot, therefore, count this as furnishing what I have
called credentials.
Phinuit, of whose gift for preaching Professor James
speaks, it may be observed, much as he does of Rector's, 1
notoriously failed to produce credentials—so much so that
before the advent of G. P., Hodgson for a long time felt
the most satisfactory hypothesis to be " that of an auto-
hypnotic trance in which a secondary personality of Mrs.
Piper either erroneously believes itself to be, or consciously
and falsely pretends to be, the '
spirit ' of a deceased
human being, Phinuit " (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 57
;
Vol. XIII., p. 286). " Sir Walter Scott," " Moses of old,"
and " Julius Caesar " could hardly be expected to produce
evidence of identity, though somewhat more verisimilitude
in their make-up might, I think, have been looked for.
But though these public controls fail to produce cre-
dentials, they and all controls guarantee each other, as
indeed might be expected on almost any hypothesis. They
guarantee, that is, the reality of each other's independent
existence—independent of each other and independent of
Mrs. Piper. They do not always guarantee each other's
veracity or reliability. Thus, for instance, G. P. says of
Phinuit on January 14, 1894 :
He is inclined to try too much at times, H., and thinks
he hears things when they are not close enough to him.
He is a mighty good fellow, but exaggerates a little
occasionally when he is dull. Better rot tell him I say
this. (Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 369 footnote.)
1
He says in Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 654-5 :
" I must admit, how-
ever, that Phinuit has other moods. He has several times, when my
wife and myself were sitting together with him, suddenly started off on
long lectures to us about our inward defects and outward shortcomings,
which were very earnest, as well as subtile morally and psychologically,
and impressive in a high degree. These discourses, though given in
Phinuit's own person, were very different in style from his more usual
talk, and probably superior to anything that the medium could produce
in the same line in her natural state. Phinuit himself, however, bears
every appearance of being a fictitious being."
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 81
And Rector says of G. P. on April 23, 1897 :
We would warn thee not to rely too much upon the
statements made as tests so-called by your friend George.
He is too far away from your earth now to be clear in
regard to tests, test-conditions, etc. * * * his work in your
field is done * * * the conditions are such as to render it
impossible for him to reach you as he would like. He has
passed beyond * * * not intentionally would he do or say
anything, in the slightest, wrong, yet if called upon he
might err unintentionally.
But if G. P.'s statements were no longer to be relied upon
in April, 1897, it is at any rate assumed that they were
accurate earlier. And if the earlier G. P., who professed to
" control "—to take the place of Mrs. Piper's spirit in her
body—-was all that he represented himself as being and was
doing all that he represented himself as doing, it seems
impossible that he can have been mistaken when he spoke of
Phinuit, Rector, and the rest as being also entities inde-
pendent of Mrs. Piper. The whole thing, therefore, seems
to stand and fall together. G. P. is our real authority for
there being any control by independent spirits. If the con-
sistency either of his own personation, or of the per-
sonation of the " spirits " he guarantees, breaks down, we
are left practically without support for the hypothesis that
controls are anything more than divided off centres of
consciousness of Mrs. Piper, personating and perhaps
believing themselves to be independent spirits. 1
But first, to prevent any danger of misapprehension, let
me here repeat that proof that controls are not independent
spirits would not in my opinion even tend to show that
there was no real G. P. in the background, helping at
times to inspire the personation of him. G. P. may thus
communicate, and there may be sufficient evidence to prove
it, without his being properly speaking a " control." And
if it be urged that so good a personation of G. P. would be
impossible based merely on the knowledge acquired from
the sitters, and telepathically from himself—that telepathy
1
G. P. himself recognises that his credit is affected by false statements
of guaranteed spirits (see Appendix, p. 454).
F
82 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
could not do as much as that—I should reply three things.
First, that, as I argued in my previous paper (Vol. XV.,
p. 21), it is easy to overestimate the completeness of
resemblance required for a personation under the limiting
conditions of the manifestation even when the voice is
used, and still more when the personation is expressed
only in the words written (which are not in the supposed
control's handwriting),1
and in the dramatic representation
of manner through movements of the hand alone.
Secondly, avowed communicators are often dramatically
represented when there is no pretence of their controlling.
I quoted a striking instance of this in the same paper
(Proceedings, Vol. XV., p. 21), taking it from Hodgson's
report (Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 567), and repeat it now
for convenience. It happened on May 10, 1892. It will be
observed that the occurrence of personation in this case is
not conjectural, but is asserted by the control. A friend of
the sitter's, Dr. Thaw, spoke in so life-like a manner through
Phinuit that Dr. Thaw, wishins; to know whether it was
his friend or Phinuit who was speaking, said :
" Can you
tell me anything about Dr. Phinuit ?
" The answer came
from Phinuit
—" I'm talking to you myself, you rascal ;
I'm talking for him." "Well," said Dr. Thaw, "you're
trying to make us think he's talking," to which Phinuit
replied, " I'm simply telling you what he says. I'm trying
to imitate him."
Thirdly, in reply to the argument that telepathy cannot
account for so much, I should say that we know very
little about the possibilities of telepathic communication,
but that whether the controls are other than phases of
Mrs. Piper or not, we have to admit for it a very wide
scope. I am using the word telepathy, of course, in the
comprehensive sense in which I used it in my previous
paper in Proceedings, Vol. XV., p. 18, and in which it is,
I think, now very generally used—in a sense wide enough
to include any communication between mind and mind
otherwise than through the recognised channels of sense,
1
Mr. Piddington thought an approximation to Myers's handwriting
(which was known to Mrs. Piper) could be observed in some of the script
of 1906-7.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 83
whether the minds communicating be in the body or not.
How, except by telepathy, are we to account for Mrs.
Piper's recognition of a photograph of a deceased person
known to her only through a vision in the waking-stage
—
such as the case of Mr. Marble, described by Sir Oliver
Lodge in Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., p. 275, and which,
with other cases, we shall have to discuss in Chapter VI.
below. 1
It is Mrs. Piper herself, or at least some part
of Mrs. Piper, who has the waking-stage vision and
recognises the photograph—not a different controlling
intelligence. A correct visual impression of the deceased
person cannot have reached her through her bodily eyes.
If she had one, therefore, it must have been the result
of telepathy from the living or the dead.
It might, perhaps, be said that though Mrs. Piper
undoubtedly does have vivid visual impressions in the
waking-stage, we must not assume that they are veridical
or that the recognition of the photograph is due to one.
The right photograph might have been picked out owing
to indications given unconsciously by the living persons
present—or telepathically prompted either by the experi-
menters or by spirits without any previous visual impres-
sion corresponding to it. Of course precautions were taken
on each occasion with a view to excluding these possi-
bilities so far as living agents are concerned, but even
if we grant their existence in the case of Mrs. Piper's
selection of photographs, we cannot so explain the ex-
periences of, e.g. Cahagnet's subject, Adele Maginot.2
Here,
again, there is no question of the perceiving intelligence
being other than the medium—that is Adele herself,
1
In some of these recognition-of-photograph cases we seem to require tho
further extension of the idea of telepathy to include communication
between different streams of consciousness in the percipient, which Mr.
G. W. Balfour pointed out as a probable hypothesis in his Presidential
Address in 1906 (see Proceedings, Vol. XIX., p. 392). For Mrs. Piper
has her vision in the waking-stage, and recognises the photograph in
another state of consciousness when all memory of the vision seems to
have vanished.
2
Alphonse Cahagnet, Arcanes de la vie future devoilis, Vol. II.
Podmore gave some account of the man and the book in his discussion
of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena in Proceedings, Vol. XIV., pp. 58-71.
84 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
though Adele in hypnotic trance. Consider, for example,
the case No. 117 quoted by Podmore in Proceedings,
Vol. XIV., p. 61. M. du Potet asked for his friend
M. Dubois, who accordingly appeared to Adele, and was
minutely described as to appearance, dress, manner of
speaking, gestures, etc.
—" si bien que je croyais le voir
moi-meme, tant le tableau en etait saisissant." The
apparition also answered questions correctly and with
appropriate appreciation and behaviour. It is clear that,
if the account given is to be relied on, Adele, if she
was a good mimic, might very plausibly have personated
M. Dubois after seeing that apparition. But she did not
see the apparition with her bodily eyes. It must have
been telepathic ; and Du Potet was inclined to attribute
it to telepathy from himself on the ground that, as he
discovered later, there were some points in the description
which corresponded with his idea, but were not in fact-
correct.
We may now proceed to more detailed examination of
records concerning the public controls selected as types.
The history and development of the Phinuit and G. P.
controls have been so fully related by Hodgson in Pro-
ceedings, Vols. VIII. and XIII., that it is needless to
give an account of them here. I will only remind the
reader that Phinuit, without any formal farewell, made his
last appearance on January 26, 1897, ousted by the Im-
perator Band ;
1
and that G. P., though he continued to
appear from time to time almost to the end, occupied a
subordinate place after Imperator and Co. undertook the
management of affairs. Of the Hodgson control it is
hardly necessary to give any long history. There will be
occasions for incidental mention later on. Hodgson's early
manifestations, whether as control or communicator, are
discussed in a very interesting paper by William James
1
It was suggested by the Imperator Band on July 3, 1897, that they
might bring him back when he had made sufficient progress, but I do
not think he ever did reappear. His return was also offered to Sir
Oliver Lodge in 1906, but the latter did not press for it (Proceedings,
Vol. XXIII., pp. 280-281).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance Phenomena. 85
in Proceedings, Vol. XXIII. He controlled rather fre-
quently, writing either for himself or as amanuensis for
others till the end. 1
Sir Walter Scott.
The earliest in chronological order of the other controls
named above on pp. 77, 78 was Sir Walter Scott. He had first
communicated with Hodgson some time about 1894 through
Phinuit, but we have not got the record of the occasion.
An interesting point about it, as we learn from a note by
Professor Newbold to the record of June 25, 1895, is that
the manifestation occurred the day after Hodgson had been
reading Scott's Life and Letters, which had greatly interested
him. After laying down the book he had spent an
hour or so smoking and thmking, with a strong personal
interest, of Scott. This looks as if the preoccupation of
Hodgson's mind with Scott led to his appearance. A
similar apparent connexion with Hodgson's thoughts
occurred on October 19, 1896, when the day after he
had been re-reading some of Stainton Moses' Spirit Teach-
ings, and, inter alia, Section VI., at the heading of which
the author refers to his meeting D. D. Home the medium,
a soi-disant Home controlled and wrote : "I was with
a gentleman named Moses in the body also." 2
He wrote
at some length, but there was little verisimilitude about
the control. Similarly, Madame Guyon's first appearance
(see below, p. 123) may have been due to the fact that
the sitter on the occasion had been recently reading about
her.
Sir Walter Scott's appearance as a control about a year
later than his first communication to Hodgson occurred
apparently spontaneously on June 25, 1895, at one of
Professor Newbold's sittings. He came to offer informa-
tion about the planet Mars, which had, I gather (though of
this I am not sure), been a topic in his communication the
year before, and which had been talked of earlier in the
1
Compare below, Chapter V., pp. 197-200.
2
This was in the middle of sittings at whicii Stainton Moses was
manifesting.
86 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
sitting of June 25 with Phinuit, who professed to have
found Stainton Moses in Mars. For this part of the
sitting, see Appendix to Chapter II. (p. 375). Sir Walter
Scott's entrance on the scene is recorded as follows ;
Hodgson and Professor Newbold were both present.
[Hand changes. Becomes small and writes slowly]
Scott, Scott, Scott, I am extremely happy to be with
you sir ... I just strayed in here.
R. H. This is Sir Walter Scott ?
Scott. Yes Sir I strayed . . . for a moment lend me your
attention when you wish to hear anything concern-
ing Mars—do not forget to call for me. I am . . .
I have met Mr. Pelham { = G. P.} and I am
enchanted with him intellectually.
After a little further conversation he is asked to return
the following day. This he does, and also at six other
sittings between June 25 and July 8 inclusive. He ex-
presses himself in a precise and somewhat ceremonious
way, and writes in a small, faint handwriting, signing his
name at the end of his communication. The gestures of
the hand were gentle compared with those of other writing
controls. The communications were concerned with ima-
ginary voyages among the planets on which he takes the
sitter, Professor Newbold or Hodgson ; and with life in the
spirit world. He manages, among other things, to betray
a portentous ignorance of astronomy.
The portions of the sittings of June 27 and 28, 1895,
occupied by the Scott control are quoted in full in the
Appendix to this chapter, pp. 437-448. In the course of them
will be found another incident tending to show telepathic
information about what had passed or was passing in the
sitter's mind (see Dr. Newbold's paper in Proceedings, Vol.
XIV., pp. 48-49). Briefly, the control stated on June 27
that there were monkeys in the sun. This naturally excited
laughter in Dr. Newbold and Hodgson when they were
going over the record of the sitting that evening, and
the next day the control spontaneously retracted the
monkeys and asked who had been laughing loudly with
Dr. Newbold over the imaginary journeys.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 87
One rather curious incident concerning this control's
ignorance and knowledge may be described here. On
July 2, 1895, Sir Walter Scott asked Hodgson where he
would like him to take him.
R. H. Have you ever been further away than the planet we
call Saturn ?
Scott. Further away . . . there is not a place or planet known
to the human mind that we have not visited.
R. H. I should like to take a trip further from the sun.
Scott. I do not understand.
R. H. You took my friend to Saturn.
Scott. Yes Sir.
R. H. I should like to go beyond Saturn.
Scott. I cannot catch your meaning sir. I cannot take you to
planets that do not exist.
R. H. Haven't you seen a planet further away than Saturn ?
Scott. Mercury.
R. H. I'm afraid the light's nearly exhausted Sir Walter.
Perhaps you had better continue next time.
In the interval between this sitting and the next. Scott
has apparently made enquiries, or consulted Mrs. Piper's
half-lost memories ; and Hodgson having asked the next
day (on questions being invited to " disentangle every
muddle should there be any "),
" Can you tell me about
the planets beyond Saturn ?
" Scott replies, " Oh yes,
sir, all of them. You know they were distinguished one
from another by names . . . [illegible] in Latin." Later in
the sitting an expedition to Uranus is spontaneously
offered, and on July 5 to Neptune. The previous ignor-
ance or forgetfulness is the more curious as Neptune and
its inhabitants turn out to be specially interesting, and
are described at great length !
Proctor.
On July 1, 1895, Hodgson asked "whether G. P. could
hunt up Proctor the astronomer and get him to com-
municate about the planets." G. P. is at first doubtful
both about the possibility and the utility of this pro-
ceeding, but gives way to Hodgson's view that Proctor
88 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
could speak of modern astronomical problems of which Scott
might be ignorant, and consents to try to find him. The
result is that a soi-disant Proctor turns up at the begin-
ning of the sitting of July 3, 1895, with a great deal of
gesticulation representing the handling of an imaginary
telescope. I give the record in full in the Appendix
(pp. 448-452). There is no astronomy in it, though there is
pseudo-science, but it has an interest for the investigator
because there are some special features both about the
going into trance and the beginning of the trance itself.
It was, so far as I know, Proctor's only appearance.
W. Stainton Moses and his spirit guides. 1
W. Stainton Moses, like Proctor, appeared first in con-
sequence of a request to G. P. to bring him. This is
described, and the communications at this time of the
so-called Stainton Moses are given at length in Professor
Newbold's paper in Proceedings, Vol. XIV., pp. 36-41. Pro-
fessor Newbold's summing up (p. 41) gives the results from
our point of view clearly, and I cannot do better than quote
it here for the convenience of the reader.
In this case we have the difficulties which attach to the
spiritistic theory brought out in the highest relief. The
general tenor of the communications, the allusion to Mr.
Speer, the reception of the names of Myers and Hodgson
have an air of verisimilitude. The communicator then
gives us, with the most solemn asseveration of their
accuracy and with apparent consciousness of the import-
ance of his statements to a cause which he had in life
much at heart, three names which the real Mr. Moses must
have known and which of all possible things would seem
to be the hardest for the spirit to forget—the names of
the spirit friends who, as he claims, opened his eyes while
still on earth to the realities of the eternal life. And not
one of those names is true or has the least semblance of
truth ! Furthermore, of all points touched upon during the
sitting this was the only one that was unknown to both
1 W. S. Moses was very well known in spiritualistic circles. He wrote
under the nom de plume of M.A. Oxon.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 89
the sitters—another item in favour of the telepathic
theory. 1
To my mind this failure on the part of the
alleged Moses is an obstacle to the acceptance of the
spiritistic theory which has not as yet been set aside
and which must be satisfactorily explained before that
theory can be regarded as meeting the requirements of the
case.
Stainton Moses was called for again by Hodgson on
October 1, 1896, the first sitting after a seven or eight
months' interval, during which Mrs. Piper had been re-
covering from an illness which had necessitated an opera-
tion. Hodgson said to G. P., " Especially I want you to
get from Stainton Moses the real name of Imperator."
The importance of this was emphasised, and G. P. pro-
mised to get at Stainton Moses. On October 12, G. P.
says :
I wish to tell you, H. I have seen Moses, and his
thoughts are not as {clear as?} I would wish, yet I am
helping him and in a very short time after I have brought
him here several times he will speak and interpret his own
messages.
Moses proceeds to communicate through G. P., com-
plaining of a veil between him and Hodgson, and showing
some confusion. " What is the meaning of all the con-
fusion and lack of concentration of thought, I wonder,"
writes G. P. for Moses, and continues as from himself to
Moses. " Oh, you will be clearer soon, sir. Have no
misgivings. I will stand by you. Oh yes, yes." 2
Attempts are apparently made to give Imperator's name
—
two or three suggestions being, it would seem, tentatively
put forward, but with the usual want of success.
On October 14 he again communicates for a time, and
continues what looks like fishing for the name of Im-
perator. G. P. says of him, " he is beyond me, H., and
1
Dr. Newbold means here, of course, the theory of telepathy from the
living.
z This kind of by-play is not uncommon, and is sometimes explained
by the controls as registered accidentally. Its advantage in making
clear the dramatic situation is obvious. For a conspicuous case see p. 39(
J.
90 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
to draw him back is not so easy as one would think."
Still G. P. promises remarkable tests through Stainton
Moses soon, and says for him that Imperator is St. Joseph,
" the father of Christ "—which with other names suggested
is again entirely wrong. The next step is that on October 16
a communicator calling himself Imperator writes through
G. P. as amanuensis. He says : "I am Imperator. I am
the intimate friend and adviser of the lamented S. Moses,"
and he uses Imperator's sign—a cross. On October 17 he
prophesied about the millennium (which was to come with
the beginning of the twentieth century) and about a great
war which was to precede it, involving all the great powers,
of whose relations with each other and relative importance
he shows very inadequate knowledge. Hodgson, having
learnt from Myers that Imperator was not Joseph, speaks
very strongly to G. P. (on October 27, 28, and 29, 1896, see
Appendix) about the deception involved on the part of
both Stainton Moses and Imperator. 1
G. P. makes excuses.
Joseph, he says, is a spirit who " is called High Com-
mander by thousands of intelligences " in the other world,
and thought he was meant when Imperator was asked
for. It is curious, on this hypothesis, that besides saying
that he was the intimate friend and adviser of Stainton
Moses, he had spoken of England as the country " in which
I used to return so often"; and that when Hodgson said
he understood that Moses " held somewhat narrow theo-
logical views and that you {the communicator} led him
out of them," he had replied, " Oh yes I was deter-
mined to do so." No explanation of these statements is
offered. Moreover, it appears from the following curious
conversation between Hodgson and G. P., after the
false Imperator has gone on October 17, 1896, that the
latter had talked to G. P. about his communications to
Moses.
R. H. Have you seen much of Imperator ?
G. P. Very little. There is one very strange thing about him,
i.e. he is quite clear-headed, and yet I find him
1
Hodgson was always very frank with the controls about their failures
and false claims, their deceptions and absurdities, and his view of them.
Some other instances will be found in the Appendices.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 91
very . . . [hand moves slowly about as though
exploring in every direction.] . . .
R. H. What's the matter ?
G. P. I did not wish him to hear me, and I was simply
listening to see if he [was] present anywhere.1
He is
very anxious to make this light his, and I am not
quite satisfied.
R. H. He's inclined to talk about teaching and religions, etc.,
isn't he ?
G. P. You mean through Moses' light he was religious, etc.
R. H. Yes, a great deal. I think his communications were
chiefly of that type.
G. P. Yes, he told me this, and I do not approve of a long
Rabble of Religions. Not by any means, I like
test-work enough sight better.
* # * *
R. H. Well we know our views and what we want.
G. P. Yes, of course, only I wished you to fully understand
my position in the matter. This is my light and I
am going to hold on to my own string.
R. H. I'll back you up.
G. P. I promised this, and I will keep my promise.
In the end (see Appendix, October 29, p. 457) it appears
that neither the real Imperator nor the real Stainton Moses
had been communicating so far. The real Stainton Moses
was present, but being confused employed his father to
communicate for him. Hence mistakes. The real Moses
is actually present with Dr. Arthur Myers, continues G. P.,
and will now communicate through him.
Accordingly, we get a very unplausible Arthur Myers
control, who, e.g. calls Hodgson, whom he knew well in
life, " Sir." He gives messages on behalf of Stainton
Moses, and then the latter " controls " himself. The
record of part of his somewhat incoherent writing is
given in the Appendix (p. 460). The incoherence is new
;
he was quite coherent in 1895 (see Proceedings, Vol.
XIV.). Stainton Moses controls again on October 30 and
31 ; both times making confused statements and receiving
1
Compare below, p. 108, March 9, 1897.
92 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [pabt
a good deal of information from Hodgson by way of
encouragement in the form of leading questions. On the
31st he says in answer to Hodgson that he has seen
Doctor, Rector, and Imperator in spirit life, " and if you
will ask me to come and bring them with me I will do
so. You may put them to any tests possible. They are
equal to any."
The assistance of Imperator and Co. is not, however,
obtained at once. Stainton Moses controls on November 9,
1896, without their appearing, though he again offers to
bring them. On November 10 he writes : "I have seen
my friends and they all agree with me as to the
desirability of proving to you just who we all are," and
a little later in the sitting :
I have seen Dr., I. S. D. { = Imperator}, and Rector.
One would not assist. One, Rector, would not say
anything. Doctor says he would be glad to help.
I. S. D. says he also will be glad, and if you wish
they will give in their own handwriting a message
giving their names in full.
R. H. I shall be delighted if they will. Can they do that
now ?
W. S. M. [Conversation with invisibles] Yes . . . yes . . . well
I was trying to see. I. S. D. is a very remarkable
spirit as you see ... at once. [Conversation with
invisibles] No I have not . . . yes . . . not now . . .
all right ... if you wish ... as you wish . . . with me
. . . yes . . . yes. The light is not quite as clear as I
wish it for Rector when he wishes to speak, I will
speak to him in person once more, and what I
wish of all things is for my good friends who taught
me the many truths of spirit life, to speak indi-
vidually, give their names, signs etc. unmistakeably
for you. Speak to Mr. Pelham {G. P.} a moment
and ask him to go to Albion House and call for
Rector.
R. H. Albion House ? W. S. M. Yes. Cypress Road.
R. H. Cypress Road ? W. S. M. Yes.
R. H. In our world ? W. S. M. No.
R. H. In your world ? [Thump for yes.]
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 93
W. S. M. He will understand.1
Rector is accordingly fetched, but does not apparently
take any part in the proceedings that day. Imperator,
however, says through Stainton Moses :
Imp. Well, I will give you my faithful promise to return here
and speak my name to you if you will help me to
reach you, sir.
R. H. What can / do ?
Imp. Let me come first with this gentleman who is present
now.
R. H. Mr. Pelham ? Imp. Yes, Sir, & I will.
R. H. The very next time ? Imp. I will Sir.
{To which Stainton Moses adds}
W. S. M. Yes he will. I would tell you Mr. Hodgson, but
since they would so enjoy meeting you I would
prefer they should do so.
R. H. I leave it to your discretion. You know best.
W. S. M. Yes. You see for years they would not tell me who
they were. Then after they did tell me, they would
not allow me to mention it to any one.
* * * *
The next time I see this light burning I will mention all
of these names. He says this * * * And he never
broke his word with me, and he will not with you.
{A lot of explanation follows about the false Moses and
the false Imperator said to have previottsly com-
municated. }
Accordingly, at the next sitting, November 11, 1896,
Imperator controlled (see Appendix, p. 468). He prayed
in the manner that subsequently became characteristic of
him, and gave a name, if not two names, but not the
right one. His writing is very faint, and the pencil moved
1
Albion House is again referred to at the next sitting. G. P. says :
" I went up to Albion House for him {Imperator} myself and told him
just what you wished." And later again on November 17, 1896, G. P.
says that Imperator " lives here in a fine old chateau "—of which
Albion House is presumably the name ! This kind of grotesqueness is
not common in the records, and it is of some interest that the surprise
Hodgson doubtless expressed in his voice did not prevent Albion House
being referred to again.
94 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
very slowly. In the course of the sitting he promised to
bring scent 1
in time.
On November 13, Mentor, another of Moses's controls,
professed to control, but rather unsuccessfully—he chiefly
produced wild movements of the arm, but managed to
write " I am Mentor." Later in the sitting G. P. wrote :
Say, one word, H, you have raised a rumpus over here,
with Moses and his many controls. They all want to be
present at once, and he also. Now that they have only
found out this light and there is no stopping them.
Stainton Moses at this sitting talked of bringing scent
" from our flowers here," but with less assurance than
Imperator had shown. " I will try and see if I can bring
it to you." After some talk about the " Spiritualist
Alliance " and about Moses's Spirit Teachings—subjects
introduced by Hodgson—Moses suddenly says :
W. S. M. Do you remember Ulysses ?
R. H. Ulysses ! W. S. M. Yes.
R. H. The famous Ulysses ? W. S. M. Yes.
R. H. Of Homer ? W. S. M. Yes.
R. H. Of the Odyssey ? W. S. M. Yes.
R. H. The father of Telemachus ?
W. S. M. Yes. I know him well.
R. H. Do you remember Tennyson's poem about Ulysses,
—
" the weary oar "—and ending " Beyond the utmost
bound of human thought " ?
W. S. M. Yes, exactly, I do very well indeed, and he also
remembers of having heard this read, but he did
not realize * * * that it was to him.
R. H. Is he there now ?
W. S. M. Yes, by you. Who was it that was said to have
laid the egg for Martin Luther.2
1
The scattering of scent was a frequent phenomenon at Stainton
Moses's own sittings, but not through the agency of Imperator. Not-
withstanding promises made more than once, it never occurred at Mrs.
Piper's sittings.
2
The person said to be standing by Hodgson was doubtless Mentor,
who definitely claimed to be Ulysses at this period
—
e.g. on December 7,
1896 :
" Yes. I am Mentor. Ulysses. I am he " (see for further details
Proceedings, Vol. XV., p. 24). Martin Luther had been referred to at the
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 95
R. H. I forget that expression. W. S. M. Do you ?
R. H. Who said it ?
W. S. M. Ulysses. He was said to have laid the
R. H. What Ulysses ? W. S. M. Erasmus
{Difficulties in reading intervene here}
R. H. Erasmus ? W. S. M. Yes.
R. H. The Reformer ? W. S. M. Yes.
R. H. Not Ulysses ? W. S. M. No.
R. H. You'd done with Ulysses ? W. S. M. Yes I finished.
R. H. I understand exactly. Erasmus laid the egg.
W. S. M. Yes. He is with me now.
I think it will be agreed that it requires great good-
will not to attribute real fundamental confusion between
Erasmus and Ulysses to the control here—not merely
confusion induced by difficulties in controlling.
After some more talk and brief controlling by Moses's
old friend Dr. Speer, by Imperator, and by Doctor—the
latter holding the pencil awkwardly and the arm stiffly,
and requiring instruction from Hodgson, but writing a
large and heavy script—Moses reappeared and the following
conversation occurred :
R. H. Doctor's very powerful.
W. S. M. Always was. Rector more so if anything. Imperator
is my idol.
R. H. His writing is very faint. I suppose it's because he's
farther away from earth than they are.
W. S. M. Yes. It is more difficult for him now than when he
used to come to me.1
previous sitting (November 11, 1896, see Appendix, p. 470). This and
some of the other names mentioned by Mrs. Piper's controls at this period
had occurred in Myers's papers on the expei'iences of Stainton Moses in
Proceedings, Vols. IX. and XI.
—
e.g. Erasmus, Grocyn, Lydgate, Louis
Napoleon. In the script, however, we have not Louis Napoleon but Alex-
andria Napoleon. Is this perhaps a combination of Louis Napoleon and
Alexander Theliffsen, a name mentioned on the next page of Myers's article ?
The Piper Stainton Moses asserts in reply to Hodgson's query, that Alex-
andria Napoleon is correct and will be found in his note-books. There
had also been a good deal in the journal Light recently about W. S. Moses'
controls, but I do not know if Mrs. Piper ever saw this paper.
1
This is irrelevant if it means it is more difficult for Imperator to
write, for he did not profess to write himself through Stainton Moses.
He employed Rector as amanuensis.
96 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
R. H. I suppose it's like going into a suffocating region
like going down a pit full of poisonous gases.
W. S. M. Yes, as it was for me at first. I heard the voices
of other spirits call and I gave their names to you
instead of my own, I suppose, from what I have
heard you say. Too bad, but I was not aware of
so doing.
These last statements were meant, of course, to explain
his failure in the sittings with Dr. Newbold in 1895, but
any one referring to the account of these in Proceedings,
Vol. XIV., will find the explanation rather difficult to fit
with the facts.
On the next day, November 14, 1896, W. S. Moses
again appears and asks :
W. S M. What would you have me do for you now, Mr.
Hodgson ?
R. H. Rector has not written at all yet.
W. S. M. No. Shall I call him here ?
1
I will speak to him.
Yes. Give my love, to Sidgwick, both Mr. and
Mrs., also to Myers, Watts, Massey, Wedgewood,
Bennett 3
and any other friends who may enquire
for me.
R. H. But Wedgwood is with you now, isn't he ?
W. S. M. I intended this. He just mentioned to send his love
also.
This is an explanation clearly suggestive of shuffling.
For some months W. S. Moses continued to control
from time to time. It would be tedious to refer to every
occasion. The quotations already given will serve as
specimens, and I have quoted as further examples in the
Appendix the parts of the sittings of December 4 and 5,
1896, in which Moses controlled. On January 16, 1897,
Hodgson told G. P. that " even Moses and his friends
haven't proved their identities. Doctor and Rector and
Imperator haven't given me their real names yet " (see below,
1
Rector writes later in the sitting (see Appendix, p. 470).
2
The mere mention of these names is of no significance, as they
might all have been easily known to Mrs. Piper through the Proceedings
of the S.P.R. or otherwise.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 97
p. 116). Questions from C. C. Massey intended, as mentioned
above, to draw out what should have been vivid recollections
on the part of Moses, were read to the control on January 21,
but the answers given were all wrong. Failure, however,
did not discourage the soi-disant Moses, who continued to
assure Hodgson that in time he would give proofs of his
identity ; and excuses were made for him, as e.g. by
Doctor on February 4, " When one cannot extricate him-
self from the crowd which surrounds him, as has been the
case here, one cannot express one's own thoughts clearly,.
Hence confusion. U.D. Such has been the case with poor
old Moses. Yet he when not in the act of communicating
is clear and coherent."
Vain attempts at identifying statements continue to be
made occasionally, as e.g. on March 2, 1897, when Moses
wrote :
When you see my friend Sidgwick kindly ask him if he
remembers the evening we spent together at his own home
when we discussed this very subject viz : the one of which
we were speaking spiritualism. Also ask him if he re-
members saying he was willing to receive any thing that
was true, yet he must or preferred to judge of its truth
from his own experience. I think if I remember rightly
this was the only evening I ever spent with him.
Unfortunately, like the other attempts, this was a bad
shot, for he never was in Sidgwick's house. On the whole,
after November, 1896, W. S. Moses takes a subordinate
place, retiring into the background as the Imperator Band
begin to take the leading place, and gradually ceasing alto-
gether to control. He admits on April 2, 1897, that " I
never could do what your friend Pelham has done, because
I am not as clear and strong as he is. I do not get the
same control which he does." Hodgson, discussing him
as a control (in Vol. XIII., p. 408), after observing that
he gave entirely wrong names for Imperator, Doctor, and
Rector, " and failed later in attempting to answer test
questions propounded by some of his friends," adds that
" later still, however, he did furnish some private informa-
tion, unknown to the sitters, and afterwards verified in
G
98 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PAET
England, and well adapted so far as it went as an indica-
tion of identity." I do not know what this private infor-
mation was, nor whether it was beyond probable guesswork,
nor whether it was drawn out by leading questions. (It
was not, I think, to Hodgson that it was given.) But I
gather from the way Hodgson speaks of it that it does not
go far to outweigh the many irrelevant, implausible, and
false statements which have to be explained away, and that
consequently we must regard W. Stainton Moses as having
failed to establish his identity. And, similarly, Imperator
and his band, whatever they were, must be regarded as
having falsely claimed identity with Stainton Moses's spirit
guides.
The Imperator Band.
It was on January 26, 1897, that Imperator at the
request of Hodgson undertook the part of chief control.
At the end of a communication by G. P., the latter
writes :
G. P. Here comes + { = Imperator}. We must soon all
leave, H. He is going to take charge of every-
thing next time and keep us all out, so he sent me
here with others to free my mind and get through
with everything.1
Then after a few more remarks G. P. leaves and
Imperator writes :
Imp. + Hail.
R. H. Hail.
Imp. All is going well. The way is being opened slowly.
Patience is not without reward. Father sustain him
and give him strength, courage, hope and light. I
will command the light and it will obey. Your
messages 2
will be given by all. Time is all [?]
Hold thou no cross above thy head, but bear it.
1
It will be observed that G. P. here appears no longer to feel the
objection he did three months previously (see above, p. 91) to being
deprived of his position.
2
To the medium Myers was sitting with in England.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 99
Should thou feel weak, call for help and it will be
given thee.
The light is only fair there.1
It will improve. What
wouldst thou have me do ?
R. H. I want you to take charge of the light and do what
you think best for humanity.
Imp. Ah yes I will, but at this meeting.
R. H. [I ask whether my exterior or interior consciousness
affects the communications, etc., my opinions, pre-
judices, etc.]
Imp. At times you do.
R. H. How can I lessen that ?
Imp. By attending to one thing first.
R. H. Keeping to one thought.
Imp. Yes and not introduce so many outside intelligences.
R. H. So that the stream of your thought shall go on without
interruption.
Imp. Yes, unbroken. But I have seen nothing but confusion
here.
R. H. [I think I referred here to the several matters un-
finished.]
Imp. Yes, but you have had about all the tests that time
can give through this light. Now there should be
higher development. And it must be done. It is
like a child studying music. It must overcome the
drudgery, when in time it produces clear and
beautiful strains of music. The comjjarison is
similar. I was free with my medium Moses. I
must be free here to do good work. I must give
you light and then the door will close here forever.
R. H. In this medium ?
Imp. Yes. After my work has been completed I shall depart
forever from this door and close it behind me.
R. H. So that no harm can come ?
Imp. Yes, and leave the natural soul in its own environment.
Until then I will be constantly with you. I must
depart for the present and give you time in which
to think it over. May God in his mercy be and
abide with thee meanwhile. Amen. Imperator lover
1
Presumably with Myers's medium in England.
100 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
of Proteus [?] Dante Homer 1
[undecipherable words]
I. S. D.
Hodgson on the next day told Mrs. Piper of the pro-
posal that Imperator should take charge, " reading her
such portion of his {Imperator's } remarks as did not refer
to the '
other light.' " He explained Imperator's relation
to W. S. Moses, and left her a copy of his Spirit Teach-
ings to consider.2
She made no objection, and the re-
volution was accomplished. It was more than a sub-
stitution of the Imperator Band for Phinuit, for Hodgson
himself, for a time at least, abdicated the direction of
affairs, so that the controls had a completely free hand
as to conditions. In Hodgson's brief account of the
change, at the end of Ins second Report (Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., p. 408), he speaks of it as having been deter-
mined by the controls to a greater extent than the written
records we have fully indicate. He says that Imperator
" demanded that the control of Mrs. Piper's '
light ' should
be placed in their hands," and that he (Hodgson) " was
repeatedly and emphatically urged " thereto by G. P.
I have already, in discussing the Stainton Moses con-
trol, quoted passages from the records showing how
Imperator (who first controlled on November 11, 1896),
and Doctor and Mentor (who first controlled on Novem-
ber 13), came on the scene. Rector's first appearance as
control was on November 14, 1896, and the account of this,
as well as of Imperator's first appearance, will be found in
the Appendix to this chapter, pp. 468-470. In Chapter
II. above, and its Appendices, are quoted numerous pas-
sages giving accounts by Imperator, Doctor, and Rector
of the process of controlling, and their pseudo-scientific
explanations of it. These accounts were for the most part
given in the early months of their controlling, when, as we
1
Some of the names previously given in connexion with the Imperator
Band. I.S.D. stands for Imperator Servus Dei and was used as a signa-
ture by Imperator as the -f- was. Both symbols were used by the
Imperator of Spirit Teachings.
2
It has been suggested that from an evidential point of view it was
unwise to put Spirit Teachings into Mrs. Piper's hands, but ignorance
of a published and easily accessible book could hardly have been assumed
in any case.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance Phenomena. 101
have seen, Hodgson questioned them closely on the subject.
There still, however, remain some things to say about the
characters and functions of the members of the Imperator
Band.
Imperator is represented as a very " high spirit." " I've
never seen any spirit higher than he is," says Phinuit on
December 14, 1896. G. P. calls him his holy majesty.
Rector says on June 21, 1905 (as reported by Miss
A. M. R.), " No greater spirit ever appeared to earth than
Imperator. His power is divine, it is high, it is noble
* * * He is in communion with the Great and Holy
Spirit." Myersp says on May 20, 1903, that Imperator
" is all powerful." He himself appears to rank himself
with the prophets, and at times speaks as having received
divine authority. On one occasion he says to Hodgson,
who was in difficulty about getting money to pay for
sittings, " Cast thy burdens upon myself and God. We
will bear them all." And, speaking of the work of the
band, Rector says for him on July 3, 1897, " More
satisfactory, higher, clearer, better work than has ever
been done since the days of Christ will be done there-
after. This will be nearly at the closing of this epoch. 1
Then thou must look for other lights."
Imperator's communications read in the light of claims
such as these produce on me an unpleasant effect of
pretentious inadequacy.2
But, though this is my own
feeling, it must be remembered that it does not appear
to have been Hodgson's, nor that of some other sitters in
America. Hodgson would, of course, have agreed that it
is impossible to accept all the statements made, but he con-
cluded that the undeniable errors and inconsistencies must
1 " This epoch " is, I think, the period of Mrs. Piper's mediumship. It
may, however, be the end of the epoch preceding the millennium (see above,
p. 90, and below, p. 122).
2
The same is true of Stainton Moses's Imperator, who also made lofty
claims ; but it is much worse in the case of Mrs. Piper's Imperator,
whose communications are not only incoherent and contradictory but
altogether on a lower level of culture than what we find in Spirit
Teachings. This, of course, is what one would expect if the communi-
cations either originate in, or are importantly affected by, the mind of
the medium concerned.
102 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
be attributed to the difficulty of working with the medium's
organism. When and how he arrived at this conclusion I do
not know, nor whether he was first impressed with Impera-
tor's teaching and inferred from it his wisdom and genuine-
ness, or, on the other hand, first accepted Imperator as a
very high spirit on the authority of G. P., and felt his teach-
ing to be impressive and authoritative on this account. 1
Personally, I can more easily understand the impressiveness
of Rector as manifested in later years—when Imperator
took little part except in opening and closing sittings with
greetings and prayer—for Rector is less pretentious.2
Imperator's ignorance of science combined with assump-
tion of knowledge, as shown in his discussion of the
process of controlling, has been illustrated in Chapter II.
and its Appendix. When his exposition of this subject
was finished, Hodgson started him on the history of
revelation, and thus gave him the opportunity of dis-
playing similar ignorance, combined with similar claims to
knowledge, of history and theology. It was on February
12, 1897, that Hodgson introduced the subject. He
suggested to Imperator that there were several interesting
subjects that he might discourse on, and continued :
R. H. One of the most important subjects appears to me to be
a general or detailed account of the revelation of
God to man on this planet. About this you gave
some instruction to Moses which has been published
in his Sjnrit Teachings. I refer to the references
to the chief line of descent from Melchisedek to
Christ in successive human beings who were guided
by higher spirits from your world. And it seems to
me that the world now might be ready to receive a
fuller account of the lines of spirit influence in
different nations of the world. What do you think
of the desirability of this ?
1 Professor Newbold, who had much opportunity of knowing Hodgson's
thoughts and feelings as the investigation proceeded, is inclined to think
that he accepted Imperator finally on account of his being an inseparable
part of the spiritistic interpretation as a whole, having seen many cases
which he regarded as practically conclusive.
2
For William James on Rector's impressiveness, see above, pp. 79-80.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 103
Imperator agreed, and on the following day, February
13, 1897, began his discourses on the subject with state-
ments about the openness to spirit influence of early man,
mankind being then purer and more spiritually developed.
The discussion between him and Hodgson on that day,
and how Hodgson brought him to agree to a statement
in accordance with the theory of evolution, will be found
in the Appendix, pp. 471-8. Imperator next returned to the
subject on February 20, 1897, with the words :
Imp. Hail friend of earth I am with thee again. Would go
back to the early christian church the first revela-
tion of God * * * There was the kingdom known in
those ancient days as the kingdom of Melchisedek.
During this sitting, and some ten more in the course of
February and March, the subject is continued—I cannot
say developed, for there is much repetition and very
little information. The general line will be seen 1
from
the record of March 10, 1897, given in the Appendix,
p. 478. Notwithstanding a good deal of assistance from
Hodgson, who both gave elementary information by way
of criticism or in answer to questions, and also interpreted
Imperator's statements for him—the latter managed to
produce a medley of nonsense and contradiction. He said,
for instance, on February 23 :
From the days of M[elchisedek] to the life of Abraham,
there were many whose perceptions were such as to enable
them to gain knowledge of God, yet there were none of
his people who were in a condition for God to reveal
himself as he did to Abraham, i.e. between the days of
M[elchisedek] and A[braham].
But when the next day, February 24, Hodgson demurred
to the interval of time between Melchisedek and Abraham,
he withdrew it and said, " that is wrongly registered, there
was no time between." He said also that Abraham " did
more to develop and raise the Jews " than any other in
his day.
1
Together with a conversation with G. P. showing some dissatisfaction
on Hodgson's part, p. 484.
104 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
He said at the same sitting, February 24 :
Imp. From the time of M[oses] to C[hrist] men were en-
lightened. Then after this period so changed did
men become, that they grew to be more of the
earth, earthy, being misled by the teaching of the
Bible, their Book.
Hodgson suggests that he is perhaps referring to the
" dark ages," and Imperator admits this and says pre-
sently :
Imp. To us the dark ages are known as existing only in the
days of the Papacy when in the reign of the Popes
they crucified and slaughtered God's people in large
numbers.
On March 10 Imperator says that Melchisedek after his
death :
Imp. did live and so act upon the earth, manifesting himself
in different form, that he actually reigned all
through the days of Abraham M[oses] E[lijah] and
E[lisha] down to the days of King David.
* * * *
The wondrous workings of M[elchisedek] will never be
blotted out of the history of the early church.
He talks on March 16 of Abraham preaching to the
Jews, and adds :
Imp He made kings of the Jews, built temples of worship,
rescued Lot dost thou not U.D. me ?
R. H. You mean kings metaphorically.
Imp. Yes. They became followers of Mjelchisedek] down to
Moses, Elijah, Elisha, etc. when according to thy
book, which is wrong, came the Levitical period.
And on March 24 :
Imp. We follow the teachings of Mjelchisedek] through all the
ages down to David, Daniel, Samuel. We do not
follow him after this period.
R. H Which period ?
Imp. After the levitical priesthood. After this there came
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance Phenomena. 105
Christ. I wish thee to understand all. Is it at all
clear ?
R. H. I think I understand what you mean. It is expressed
in a way different from ours.
It would, I think, be of little profit to examine these
discourses of Imperator in further detail, though they bulk
so largely among his utterances.
One thing to be remarked about the Imperator Band is
the change it, by degrees, undergoes. When Mrs. Piper
was in England in 1907, for instance, we had Imperator
in the background supposed to be organising the whole
business, and communicating briefly at the beginning and
end of the sittings with a greeting and a prayer and
blessing. He was there to be referred to by his assistants,
as it were, but communicated very little himself. Rector
had become the member of the band with whom sitters
mostly came in contact—the serious, earnest, patient
individual anxious to help everyone on both sides, whom
all who have sat with Mrs. Piper of recent years—indeed,
I think, since 1898—know. Communicators, while availing
themselves of his services, speak of him sometimes in such
patronising terms as e.g. " good old Rector," and seem to
regard him as rather ignorant and a little stupid. " It
was very stupid of Rector I must say {to write "evangelical''
instead of "Evelyn Hope"} as Hodgson and Myers both kept
repeating it over and over again, to him," says G. P.
on March 6, 1907 (Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 61).
Mentor retired early, and Doctor—at least so far as the
Doctor professing to have been Stainton Moses's control
is concerned—appears very little after 1897. The Im-
perator Band secured the services of another doctor for
purposes of medical diagnosis and advice, namely, a
deceased Boston physician, Dr. Oliver. They speak of
him in 1904 as " the doctor," as " our doctor," and say
he " came to us recently." But I do not think there is
confusion, at this stage at least, between him and Stainton
Moses's Doctor ;
perhaps there is later when he becomes
" Doctor " without the " the." I believe, however, that
the original Doctor of Mrs. Piper's Imperator Band (not,
of course, of Stainton Moses's) regarded himself as a
106 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
doctor of medicine, at any rate after he had given up
being Homer (see November 14, 1896, Appendix, p. 471).
Thus on December 3, 1896, there is an air of anatomical
knowledge, and he spontaneously diagnosed and prescribed
for Hodgson who had a sore throat. There is an amusing
piece of sensitiveness about his language on January 29,
1897, when he says :
Yes, but I wish you to understand me because I am a
gentleman and I know my letters thoroughly. I wish
therefore to get my sentences correct for your under-
standing.
Prudens, another of Stainton Moses's controls, is not
mentioned at first, I think, and at no time communicates
much. His chief function is that of a messenger who can
be sent to look for spirits, or to convey a message to
another medium. He seems to be a vaguely conceived
personage, for though in 1899 he was described by Mrs.
Piper in the waking-stage as a little old man, and though
he is generally spoken of as " he "—as, e.g. on March 13,
1901, when Rector says :
Prudens who went and looked up this case * * * and
was explaining to me for thy U.D. the condition exactly
as he found it to be ;
or in 1907 {Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 88) when
HodgsonP says :
Prudens has been to Mrs. Verrall but he has not been
able to get the message through to her ;
-yet on May 26, 1906 {Proceedings, Vol. XXIIL, p. 81),
he turns up as a lady. William James was on this
occasion the sitter and recorder, and Hodgson, who at
this time had been dead five months, the communicator.
Hodgsonp . You understand that we have to have a medium on
this side while you have a medium on your side,
and through the two we communicate with you.
W. J. And your medium is who ?
HodgsoNj,. We have a medium on this side. It is a lady. I
don't think she is known to you.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 107
W. J. You don't mean Rector ?
Hodgsonp . No, not at all. It is—do you remember a medium
whom we called Prizdens ?
W. J. Yes.
Hodgsonp . Prudens is a great help. Through Prudens we
accomplish a great deal.
This, it may be observed, seems to involve a new view
of the modus operandi.1
The same function is assigned to
Hodgsonp, on January 1, 1907, see Appendix to Chapter V.
p. 524. G. P. is sometimes described as taking notes on
the other side as Hodgson did on this ; but that is
different.
To return to Rector, who is from our point of view
much the most interesting and important member of the
band, he at first, as we have seen, controlled and com-
municated only on his own account, just as Doctor and
Imperator did. It was not till March, 1897, that he took
office as intermediary between other communicators and
the sitter. Imperator speaks of him on March 4, 1897,
as his chief assistant, and on March 11 he writes for
Imperator, and does so several times later in the month,
though they each also communicate directly on their own
account. On the 18th Rector says :
" I am between your-
self and Imperator, and must listen to you both which is
not easy for a partially developed spirit to do." Towards
the end of the month other sitters besides Hodgson are ad-
mitted for the first time since the Imperator Band took
charge, and Rector wrote for their friends ; so his position
as intermediary and amanuensis may now be regarded as
established. Moreover, he also about the same period is
represented as performing Phinuit's former part in occupy-
ing the head and body, but without speaking, while George
Eliot writes with the hand. I quoted an instance from the
sitting of March 5, 1897, in Chapter I. (p. 18), and another
from that of April 5, 1897, in Chapter II. (p. 36). One on
March 30, 1897, will be found in the Appendix to the present
1
Mrs. Verrall tells me that the view that a medium is wanted on both
sides was strongly held in the automatic writing of Mrs. Forbes, and that
the question was discussed by the latter with Hodgson on one of his visits
to England about 1900.
108 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
chapter (p. 499) ; and one on March 31, 1897, in the
Appendix to Chapter II. (p. 415). An instance on March 9,
1897, is perhaps worth quoting here because it led to a
remark about spirits hearing, which may be compared with
G. P.'s on October 17, 1896 (see above, p. 91). George
Eliot writes :
" Rector said I will remain with you here
and arrange all these material things for you "•
—
i.e.
Mrs. Piper's position, etc. ; and a little later, when asking
for a message to take to Myers, she writes :
" I do not wish
you to speak it loudly, but slowly, softly, so that I alone
may hear it, or no one but myself and Rector * * * Do
not let the rest of the spirits hear it. Rector says ready."
Rector may then about this date be described as having
taken Phinuit's place, especially as he also undertook
Phinuit's function of medical adviser. One difference,
however, was that Phinuit spoke and Rector wrote.
Rector never spoke during his first months of office, and
later only for a few favoured sitters. The post of inter-
mediary is represented as a somewhat arduous one, for,
in addition to the difficult task of both listening to
the communicator and writing down (" registering ") what
he says, 1
he has to " hold the light," or his " position
in the light," or " hold the end of the cord." 2
When
things go wrong Rector has to bear the blame, and
he only holds his post during Imperator's good pleasure.
For instance, there was serious trouble on December 19,
1898, when there had been a very confused sitting. It was
a first sitting, that is the sitter had not been present before,
and she did not recognise the professing communicators at
all. She writes about it as follows :
More than thirty names were given but no names of
any of my deceased or living friends were among them.
Eight different forms of relationship were given and the
1 " When I am not listening I can register well enough," says Rector
on January 25, 1905, and again on March 27, 1905: "I find it im-
possible for me to listen and register carefully at the same moment."
On both of these occasions Hodgson had complained of his writing one
word on the top of another.
2
Cf. Appendix to Chapter II., p. 430 (May 25, 1904), and also Appendix
to this Chapter, p. 490 (May 24, 1904).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 109
relationship of myself to my departed friend was among
them, but nothing whatever was given to show the per-
sonality of this friend.
The writing had been rapid and often illegible. At the
next sitting—December 24, 1898—Hodgson being alone,
Imperator (apparently through Rector) remarks, referring
to the failure :
We cannot burden Rector with the responsibility of
taking care of new communicators, and we will search and
find another control whom we will have serve in his
place +. We find that unless all the forces are in activity
from our side he is incapable of assuming the responsi-
bility and * * * we are not at all times present * * *
We have been contemplating a trial with either Prudens
or Doctor. We will during the next meeting for test
purposes send either one or the other * * *. We cannot
ask thy friend George to take that position, as he is going
on to a higher and better condition.1
Rector is apparently forgiven however, as there is no
sign of this contemplated change having been carried out.
There is another thing to notice about Rector, namely,
that the inconsistency of his statements as to the name
he bore on earth extends also to the language he spoke.
On May 26, 1898, the sitter, Mrs. " Howard," reports
as follows—Rector was using the voice :
Rector talks about my health and all my affairs and is
very sweet and consoling. Then he says a prayer in a
strange tongue no word of which I can understand. He
says that I must say that prayer. I say I don't under-
stand it. He says it is Hebrew and that he lived long
ago and was Hebrew and wishes me to learn to speak
some Hebrew words. He is sure I can do so. He then
says as nearly as I could tell :
" sick nim kim kray " and
says that is one, two, three, four. Then he says " ain,
nim, kain, kr-g "—this last a guttural like German with no
vowel sound. He is much pleased with my pronouncing
1
More than a year and a half before this (April 23, 1897) it had
been said that "His work in your field is done" (see above, p. 81).
110 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
this correctly. He says he wishes much to teach me some
Hebrew—that this will please Hodgson !
1
A few days later the same sitter, this time accompanied
by her daughter, records :
Rector speaks in a clear deep voice, * * * He then
prays in Hebrew. He says Hebrew is his native tongue,
easier to him than English ; then translates.
It is curious after this to find Rector on January 16,
1907, in England, writing as amanuensis for Imperator
what he said he thought were Hebrew letters (they
scarcely bore even a superficial resemblance), but unable
to understand them himself.
Rector's statement on January 21, 1907 (see Proceedings,
Vol. XXII., p. 35) that his name was Francis, could
hardly be consistent with Hebrew being his native tongue.
Nor, again, combined with the ecclesiastical character given
him in the trance communications,2
is it easily reconciled
with his being spoken of by MyersP as " good old Rector
who does not understand a word of Latin " (see Proceedings,
Vol. XXII., p. 337).
One reason given in January, 1897, for the taking over
by the Imperator Band of the management of medium
and sittings was that the medium had been worn out by
sittings for tests of identity or of supernormal power. If
the " light " is to last, they say, sittings for instruction
and consolation must be substituted for test sittings, the
implication apparently being that the former are less of a
strain to the medium, who is spoken of as a " battered
and worn " machine (February 6, 1897) which must be
repaired. Imperator writes (January 26, 1897, see above,
p. 99), " You have had about all the tests that time
can give through this light. Now there should be higher
development." 3
Accordingly, under the new regime, the
sittings not only become free from the convulsive move-
1
Hodgson was in England at this time. The above syllables have no
resemblance to the Hebrew numerals.
2
See, e.g. June 3, 1903, p. 424, and December 14, 1904, p. 431, Appendix
to Chapter II.
3
See also similar statements in 1903. Appendix, p. 490.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. Ill
ments that previously preceded them, but become other-
wise quieter, and they are largely devoted to instruction
and exhortation. Hodgson describes the change in Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 409, and the change is also appar-
ent from the following account by a lady who had
had experience of both the Phinuit and Imperator regimes.
She writes in December, 1897 :
The April and May {1897} sittings were clearer—as far
as mistakes went—than any I had ever had, and there
seemed a stillness and peace, a freedom from the old
hurry and confusion * * * There is a greater desire to
help one to live a higher life shown * * * but as far as
knowledge of the future goes, I cannot say that the new
controls have been more correct than Phinuit was, but
they are not so ready to talk of the future or of material
affairs.
It is noticeable, however, that the lofty ideal of the
function of the Imperator Band as spiritual teachers and
guides is scarcely consistently maintained. We find, for
instance, in June, 1899, that the Imperator group are
giving advice about investments, or if they do not give
it themselves, introducing Flower, "the great financier," to
do so. Imperator apparently personally invited him. The
advice does not turn out very well, and perhaps this is
why six months later we find the controls saying that
they wish to give advice on financial matters only when
they choose. It is not to be asked for except perhaps
by a certain named sitter.
It is probable that in 1897 the objection to tests
referred chiefly to sittings held with a view to obtaining
proofs of the identity of communicators. At any rate
the objection did not apparently extend to looking for a
missing boy, or to experiments in what we should now
call simple cross-correspondences. 1
The distinction is
not difficult to understand, because immediate success is
demanded by a sitter seeking for evidence of the communi-
cator's identity. If the supernormal information comes
easily all would be well and probably no fatigue ensue, but
1
For these see below under George Eliot, pp. 115-118
112 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
if it is struggled for and perhaps not obtained—the reader
has only to refer to the sitting of December 5, 1892, in
Appendix to Chapter II. (p. 355), or that of March 18,
1907, in Appendix to Chapter V. (p. 536), to see how
fatiguing it would be. On the other hand, in the search
for the lost boy, or in carrying messages to or from a dis-
tant medium, the sitter is as well satisfied at the time by
one decently plausible statement as another. He knows as
little of the truth as the medium does.
Search for the missing boy D , who was officially
reported to have died in Mexico, but who was believed
by his relatives to be alive all the time, engaged the
attention of the Imperator Band, of G. P., of Phinuit, of
Julius Caesar, and of others, in the autumn and winter of
1896-7, chiefly before the Imperator Band took charge.
Elaborate though vague accounts of places and buildings
where he was asserted to be were given by the controls,
who go backwards and forwards between Mexico and
Boston reporting what they see and saying that they are
constantly watching over him. Nothing came of it all,
and there is, I believe, no reason for thinking that there
was anything veridical in any of the statements made. A
few references to the matter have already been inciden-
tally made, and it will suffice if in addition I give the
particulars of Julius Caesar's intervention.
Julius Caesar.
The first time Imperator controlled—November 11, 1896
(see Appendix, p. 470), he said :
" Julius Caesar is my
friend. He will not falter by the wayside. Not he." 1
The
name, like other names mentioned at this time, was prob-
ably a feeler put out in the desire to find the names of
Stainton Moses's spirit guides. But having been so men-
tioned, it seems likely that the idea acted suggestively in
1
A previous mention of the name Julius Caesar had occurred on
October 30, 1896, when the Stainton Moses control made an enigmatic
remark about him as follows :
" R. H. were you interested in the
Bacon Shakspeare controversy ? W. S. M. Yes very, yes very. I have
many fields to open up from Julius Caesar. I have many spirit teach-
ings to recall and discuss."
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 113
producing the control a few days later. We have an instance
in 1892 of a person mentioned by one control appearing as
a control herself afterwards for no reason apparently except
that the name had been mentioned. On November 30,
1892, G. P. controlling illustrated a point by referring to
Laura Bridgman, the blind and deaf girl who was success-
fully taught to read and write. Six days afterwards, and
on several later occasions, a Laura Bridgman control
turned up, but said nothing of interest. At her first
appearances there were movements of the hand suggesting
the deaf and dumb alphabet which no one present knew,
but no name was given. Phinuit professed not to know
who it was, though he said she had had a great struggle
to get there. Subsequently the name was written.
But to return to Julius Caesar. On November 16, 1896,
Doctor writes : "Charles Adams. Julius Caesar. * * * I hear
a word from each for you." On the following day, Novem-
ber 17, talking with the control J. Hart 1
about Mexico
and the search for D ,
Hodgson asked: "Who went
with you on this last trip ?
" Hart proceeded to name
various people—Erasmus, Ulysses, D. D. Home, Alexander
the Great, Proteus, Julius Caesar. Hodgson misreads at
first, then says :
R. H. Oh, Julius Caesar.
Hart. Yes, did you know him ?
R. H. I didn't know him personally, George, of course, but I
know about him.
Hart. I am not George.
R. H. Hart I mean. The writing is so good and quick that it
reminded me of George's manner I suppose.
sfe $ s£ $
Hart. He is a brick.
R. H. Julius Caesar % [Assent.]
Hart. And he went to Mexico with us. Helmet, armour, with
sword.
% % sis Hs
R. H. Any others with you ?
Hart. Yes.
1
Concerning J. Hart, see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 296-9 and 353-7.
H
114 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [paet
R. H. Tell me the others.
Haet. Yes. Can you believe it ? Can you imagine my being
able to fly hand in hand with Julius Caesar 1
On the following day, November 18, 1896, Hart affirms
that " Caesar has got a powerful hold on this matter, and
I assure you, H, old boy, that not a stone will be left
unturned by us on this side." Then presently there is a
scribble of the pencil and Julius Caesar takes control.
Hodgson reports :
[After the scrabble, a wild fling of the arm, several
jerks, and bangs on the table, and then a plunge forward
on the table at full length, palm of hand upwards, turned
a little to the left, as if to shake hands. I touch the
fingers as if to shake hands, but there is no response. I
put the pencil between the fingers, and it seems to under-
stand and the arm draws back and I help it into position
for writing. The writing is not very large, but cramped
and heavy, the pencil being pressed very heavily down.
Two pencils are broken during the writing of two pages.1
]
J. C. I am Julius Caezar (sic). I will move heaven and earth
to find your boy and return him to his home and
friends once more.
R. H. We are very grateful for your kind help.
J. C. I am Julius Caezar. I am Julius Caezar.
R. H. You'll try to influence him, the boy's friend.
J. C. Talk to his soul, oh yes, to his soul. My prayers are
sincere, my interest great. Good day, sir.
R. H. Good day.
J. Caesar.
[Arm extends again as before the scrabble.]
[Then G. P. writes]
G. P. Well H. How are you was ?
R. H. George.
G. P. D is on the right track now if he only carries it
out. By the great Julius Caezar [Hand points to
invisible] he will bring him home.
R, H. Splendid !
1
As very little is usually written on a page, this probably means
during part only of Julius Caesar's writing.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance Phenomena. 115
G. P. Caezar is as great as ever he was. Adieu. G. P. I
am off for Mexico.
This is, I think, Julius Caesar's only attempt to control,
but he is mentioned again on January 21. 1897, by
Phinuit, who says, by voice, not writing :
I just came back a little while ago {from Mexico}.
^ ifc ifc
Imperator has been down there. And so has Moses.
And Julius Caesar. It is Julius Caesar. They say the
only Julius Caesar. He walks around that place like a
man on guard. He'll liberate that boy.
George Eliot.
Another and more frequent control—George Eliot—was
introduced in connexion with the attempts at cross-
correspondence mentioned above (p. 111). They were
carried on for many days and with great elaboration
through the Imperator Band, G. P., and others in January.
February, March, and April, 1897, but were entirely
unsuccessful, notwithstanding constant affirmation of success
by the controls concerned. The medium at the other end
was a non-professional medium, Miss C., with whom Myers
was having sittings in England. These sittings took place
partly in London, and during about a fortnight in April,
in a house reputed to be haunted in Scotland. Special effort
was concentrated over this fortnight, during which the
sittings with Miss C. were no doubt more frequent than
they had been in London.
The first we hear of these experiments in the Piper
records is on January 16, 1897, when Hodgson says to
G. P. :
Fred Myers has got hold of a light * * * why can't
you give your pass-sentence.
G. P. says he will if Myers calls for him, and Hodgson
continues :
The medium is a Miss C [name given] and a spirit
friend of hers, a Miss T. is the chief communicator, I
116 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
understand. George Eliot told Myers through that light
that she had communicated here. She did once when
" Q " was writing.1
You can get hold of George Eliot
through " Q " and make enquiries at once.
After a brief interval, during which another matter is
discussed, G. P. says :
G. P. Oh I shall be so thankful if I can only use the light
there and give my pass-word.
R. H. Take Doctor and Rector and the whole crowd of com-
municators that come here and make them give
their names to the other light.
G. P. But I thought I had given you the names of nearly
every spirit in heaven already. The Egos of every
one of them have been seen by yours truly.
R. H. Yes, but that's totally different. There's nothing
through any other light. Even Moses and his
friends haven't proved their identities. Doctor and
Rector and Imperator haven't given me their real
names yet. And the evidence would be on a dif-
ferent basis if you could send corroborative messages
through another light.
After some more discussion, G. P. agrees, and then
fetches George Eliot 2
—who communicates through him,
and gives a message alleged to come from Myers and takes
one for him. Messages are sent and news of the other
medium given at each intervening sitting, and George
Eliot is spoken of as taking part, but she controls for the
first time herself on January 20 ; Phinuit says :
" There's
a gentleman there wants to speak to " Hodgson.3
Report
continues as follows :
1
This was on December 16, 1893. " Q." wrote :
" George Eliot is
here with me now * * * Yes, at this moment. Who is Fred—of whom
she speaks so often and asked me to say to him that she has the warmest
admiration for him here and he must know of this life and light."
=
The passage about getting further away quoted at p. 65 comes in
here.
3
Later in the sitting Phinuit " remarks that the lady who was there
before resented his calling her a gentleman, but that he couldn't always
tell who was there, and couldn't see very clearly when lie was just
coming into the body, etc."
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 117
[The hand moves to the table and forearm is lifted,
with hand up and palm bent forward. Hand re-
mains poised a short time, with slight gentle move-
ment several times as though listening to spirit and
forefinger points two or three times.]
G. E. [To Spirit]. Yes thanks. Who said I was a gentleman ?
I am not as yet. I may be some day, but I
doubt it. I am George Eliot.
R. H. Delighted to meet you.
G. E. I came here at the request of your friend George
Pelham. I have taken your message to the light
beyond the water, materially speaking. Miss F 1
here is with me, a delightful woman. On my own
responsibility I took the following message to F. W.
Myers a friend of mine when I was in my body. I
think he understood me as few men did, and in
consequence of this I would do anything within my
power for him.
The life of the immortal is sweet. George Eliot. Ask
him if he received it as I have quoted it here.
A good deal more of the same kind is said at this
sitting, and George Eliot frequent!}' controlled 2
afterwards
during the first half of 1897. Her topics were chiefly
these cross-correspondence experiments with Myers's
medium and elaborate descriptions of heaven (where, it
may be observed, she met, among other people, Adam
Bede). I give specimens of communications by her on each of
these topics in the Appendix, pp. 491-513. In connexion with
1
K. F., a friend of a frequent sitter, and herself a frequent control
at this period.
2
There is a little ambiguity sometimes as to whether George Eliot
controls or communicates. In several cases expressions are used which
seem nonsense unless she is controlling. But on March 15, 1897, in the
middle of a communication in which Hodgson describes her as herself
writing, she says :
" We speak by thought unless we act upon some machine so-called
medium when our thoughts are expressed to the controlling spirit
who registers them for us ;
"
which looks as if she regarded herself as communicating through an
amanuensis. She more than once herself acts as amanuensis for Im-
perator.
118 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
the first, I also give Myers's statement of the failure of the
experiments and Hodgson's discussion with George Eliot about
it, and also (p. 513) a record of a similar and equally futile
attempt at cross-correspondence between Mrs. Piper and
the same medium, Miss C , when Hodgson is erroneously
supposed to be sitting with her in November, 1897, though
on this occasion it is " Q." and the Imperator Band who
are the messengers—not George Eliot. The curious thing
about these experiments is the definite and uncompromising
assertions of the controls, not only that they have taken
the messages proposed, but that they have seen the other
medium and sitters and their surroundings, which they
describe, and have brought back messages from them
which they give—all this that they describe being
erroneous and having no relation to the facts. False
statements of the same kind were made, it will be remem-
bered, in 1908 when some cross-correspondences reaUy did
take place (see Proceedings, Vol. XXIII. ). The controls
seemed unable to distinguish the unsuccessful from the
successful attempts, and gave similar circumstantial and
unveridical accounts of supposed visits to Mrs. Verrall
and others.
To return, however, to George Eliot :
—on April 1, 1897,
Rector informs Hodgson that she has been promoted to
apparently a high position in the band of controls and
communicators. He says :
R. We are having many changes made for us. We will
give you a short explanation of what is going on.
I, Imperator Servus Dei, in consideration [not deciphered]
listen . . .
I Imperator, do hereby in consideration of the many
kindnesses bestowed upon us through the con-
geniality and influence of our friend and co-worker
(George Eliot) henceforth and forever . . .
Read to him {i.e. to Imperator} that he may know
that I am doing his bidding.
[R. H. reads over.]
R. pronounce her worthy and capable to manage through
her clearness of thought, this light, and I now
place her at the head of our circle. She is to be
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 119
counted as the leader of the band of lady com-
municators.
R. H. Very good.
R. She will in any and all cases take and deliver any
messages given from either our side or yours.
I am not sure that I have got down my words as he
has repeated them to me, but I think I have them
right. It is difficult to repeat for others. Do you
hear ?
R. H. Yes, quite clearly.
R. Answer him if you please,
R. H. I am pleased with any arrangement that you make. I
will follow any instructions that George Eliot may
give.
R. Thanks. We see that she is qualified to use the light
without doing any injury. Yet we do not intend
to leave her alone, or unprotected.
George Eliot's part does not, however, seem to have
become materially more important after this announcement.
She controlled a good many times in April, 1897, and
a few times in May and June, but I think little or
nothing is heard of her later. As I stated before, she
gave no evidence of identity, and, apart from G. P.'s
guarantee, there is clearly no reason for regarding her as
anything but a rather poor personation.
" Moses of Old."
It seems possible to suggest some reason for the appear-
ance of each of the controls so far dealt with. Phinuit
probably originated in Mr. Cocke's control, Dr. Finney.
G. P. first manifested to a friend who had brought to the
sitting objects that had belonged to him, so that he must
be regarded as invited verbally or telepathically. Proctor,
Stainton Moses, the Imperator band, George Eliot were
asked for. Julius Caesar had been mentioned by a control
a few days before. There is appearance of telepathic
suggestion in the case of Sir Walter Scott, and also in that
of Madame Guyon whom we shall come to presently. But
for the selection of Moses of the Exodus to make the
120 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
prophecy desired by Hodgson (a desire not, so far as we
know, mentioned to Mrs. Piper or her controls), no reason
is indicated. It may well be, however, that the New
Testament phrase, "Moses and the prophets," or some
recollection of the pre-eminence among prophets attributed
to him in the Old Testament (see Deuteronomy xxxiv. 10),
suggested Moses as a leading prophet when prophecy was
wanted. It was on December 18, 1899, that he made
his solitary appearance, and Hodgson notes at the end of
that sitting :
[In connection with the above statement made by
" Moses," I note that the war between the British and
the Boers has been much on my mind lately, and that I
have several times recently since my previous sitting on
Nov. 15,
1
meditated on the desirability of asking Im-
perator if he knew of any one specially competent to
make prophecies on questions of war on this planet.
Prophecies were made at the end of 1896,
2
and also
I think in 1897 and 1898 further prophetic references to
wars were made at the sittings, but owing to my own
ignorance and that of other sitters of the trance con-
ditions, these prophecies were somewhat confused, and I
hoped that perhaps more definite statements could now be
given. I cannot recall having thought of " Moses " in any
way in connection with such proimecies. P. H.]
At the beginning of the sitting of December 18, 1899,
Hodgson being the only sitter, Rector writes (I as usual
omit repetitions due to Hodgson's misreadings) :
The prophet of old will soon appear and with thee
1
He had not been present at any sitting in the interval.
2
The prophecy at the end of 1896 to which Hodgson refers here
was that made by the afterwards-said-to-be-false Imperator, who called
himself "Joseph, the father of Christ" (see above, p. 90). It was given
through G. P. as control on October 17, 1896, and, though hardly con-
sistent with the prophecy made by " Moses of Old," in certain respects
resembled it. Both speak of the near approach of the millennium
(which both call the millennial), and of the lion and the lamb lying in
peace together. Both speak of sanguinary wars. Both say that in the
war England backs the United States, Russia is against them, Germany
not concerned in any important way.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 121
speak. [I supposed at the time that this referred
to Imperator, though it seemed odd, but it evidently
referred to Moses. See below.]
{A good deal of discussion about arrangements for
future sittings and other matters follows, after which
the record proceeds.}
Rector. Now friend hast thou ceased for a moment ?
R. H. Yes, I have all I think, thank you.
R. We must release this spirit then. We will return.
wait for us. +. R. P. [Imperator, Rector, Prudens.]
[Pencil drops. Disturbance in hand. I supply fresh
pencil. Hand half turns over, takes pencil in novel
way, between lower joints of thumb and forefinger,
with tip of forefinger touching it. Rector takes the
pencil by separating fore and middle fingers and
receiving it between their lowest joints.]
[Moses of old writes.]
[Writing rapid, large and scrawly.]
M. I am Moses of old. I speak to say a great uprising
is to take place upon thy earth and there shall be
blood shed and bodies swept away like chaff before
the wind. Such is the will of God, so be it . . .
And thy world shall become purified and a Christian
world prevail instead . . . prevail instead and God's
laws obeyed as thy world hath sinned and become
corrupt. R. H. Yes
M. Speak thou to Moses.
R. H. I thank you. Can you tell me any more detail \
Will the British have much more bloodshed ?
M. Not so, but there will be greater battles through thy
land and there will be forever peace with England
and thy country and love and sympathy prevail
for all time, but battle ships will be set out for
battle and Russia be defeated and wiped out. Doth
thou hear me. Oh mortal tongue speak.
R. H. I think I understand most. Do you say that England
will be victorious in her war now %
M. We Do.
R. H. And that Russia will fight against England and
America ?
122 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
M. later . . . yes . . . and in all ways.
R. H. Shall . . .
M. France will interfere and great will be the loss on
their side.
R. H. Shall this be in iny days on earth ?
M. The dawn of the millenial is at hand and thou shalt
live in flesh to know all.
R. H. Is America to be joined with England ?
M. It is for all time, and ever.
R. H. Amen. And both . . .
M. The lion and the lamb shall lie down together and
peace love Christianity and sympathy reign forever
hand in hand.
R. H. Will this present war with the Boers in Africa bring
about much more loss ?
M. Not to England, but it will soon cease and peace
reign therein
R, H. Amen. And it will be all under British rule ?
M. It will. In spite of any mortal thought to the con-
trary.
R. H. Amen. Will Germany take part in the coming great
war %
M. Not seriously, but in a way yes.
R. H. But the chief fight will be between Russia and France
on one side, and England and America on the other.
M. It will, I say it, and so be it. R. H. Amen.
M. Better will thy world and its people be.
R. H. It is a purification time.
M. Yes and God's voice is being heard unto his people
R. H. Yes.
M. I go. R. H. Thank you very much.
M. Speak cautiously and quietly. Fail not. Fare thee
well. Moses. R. H. Farewell.
M. Prophet of God R. H. Amen.
+ [Disturbance in hand, Pencil drops, etc.]
Rector writes. Friend we return and all is well.
R. H. Amen.
Rector. We gave way to God's voice, and decided to return
to thee and finish our work
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 123
Madame Ouyon, and development of automatic script without
trance.
The development in 1911, as Mrs. Piper's trances came
to an end, of a control calling itself " Madame Guyon
"
has several features of interest. Her name occurs first on
October 23, 1910. Sir Oliver Ledge was in charge, and a
friend of his who was to be the principal sitter was
waiting to come in after the trance had begun. The same
sitter had been present on the immediately preceding
occasion, October 13, and Gurney had then controlled.
The sitting of October 23 begins thus, Imperator appar-
ently controlling :
Imp. + Hail
-f- Friend what asketh thou of me ? + I. S. D.
O. J. L. Imperator I want you to help us. There is a friend
in the next room wishing to speak with one on
your side.
Imp. Friend it may be difficult for you to realise that our
work is nearly at an end, but it is really so.
O. J. L. Don't go in a hurry.
Imp. We have remained a good long time with you and
now I must soon call my messengers away, -f-
I. S. D.
O. J. L. We are grateful for all they have done for us. Do
you know our friend Gurney ?
Imp. Yes well, all he is trying to do. We see his light
and U.D. his desires well. He controls fairly well.
Guyon also
O. J. L. Do you mean Madame Guyon ?
Imp. helps.
The occurrence of the name was striking, because the
attention of the sitter, who came in a few minutes later,
had recently been drawn to the subject of Quietism (of
which Madame Guyon was a prominent exponent) owing
to a reference to it hi a message received through the
writing of another automatist, which message claimed to
come from^ Gurney. This fact was known to Sir Oliver
Lodge, but nothing, so far as is known, had been said on
124 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [pakt
the subject to Mrs. Piper, and there appears to be no
reason why the name should come into her mind normally
at this time. 1
It is mentioned again, still with no apparent
relevance, later in the sitting. Gurney is communicating
and says to the sitter :
E. G. Is {M } clearer ?
Sitter. Yes
E. G. I have explained everything to her all about how to
communicate and everything and all about Guyon.
Yes and her help.
No more happened in connexion with Madame Guyon
till February 8, 1911. In the interval there had been
three sittings and three other attempts to go into trance
which had failed. On this day the following brief isolated
communication occurred in the middle of the sitting a propos
to nothing apparently :
Guyon says it
I hunted all through life for Christ and found him in
myself. I am happier now.
There is undeniably a certain appropriateness to Madame
Guyon hi this remark.
We next hear of her on July 3, 1911, when without notice
she comes as the control in charge of the sitting—in Im-
perator's place, in fact. The sittings that winter and spring
were few and far between, because, as mentioned above
(Chapter I., p. 13), Mrs. Piper had often great difficulty
in going into trance and sometimes in coming out, and long
rests between trances were prescribed by the controls. Even
so, a considerable proportion of the attempts to go into
trance failed altogether. On May 24 a difficult trance
occurred. Rector said :
R. If we could accomplish anything by coming we might
try otherwise it would be wiser to discontinue. We
are sorry to leave you. We have been your friends
and done our best to prove our life.
O. J. L. Yes indeed, and we are grateful.
1
Madame Guyon in life appears herself to have been an automatist, but
whether this was known to Mrs. Piper at any time I do not know.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 125
R. We did hope to restore the light but it seems fruitless.
{At the end of the sitting, however, Rector said :
}
After many Sabbaths try again.
Apparently the next incident was a little impromptu
sitting of Mrs. Piper with her daughters on June 10 at
which the controls urged that there should be a sitting
with Mrs. Isaac Thompson, well known to Mrs. Piper both
as a friend and as a sitter. Accordingly a sitting on
July 3, 1911, was arranged for her and her son. Sir
Oliver Lodge was taking charge, and records the beginning
of the sitting as follows :
Cross in air {this was a common Avay for Imperator
and Rector to begin}
Mme. G. I greet you friends. I am Mme. Guyon I come to
supervise and render such assistance as seems
within my power. Guyon.
O. J. L. Oh, that's very interesting.
Mme. G. I will now stand aside and give way to my new
found friend.
The writing was small and good. After it had been
read, the hand was seized with excitement, scored the
paper, broke the pencil, and presently wrote as Hodgson,
who apparently continued to write through the sitting,
acting as amanuensis for Isaac Thompson. At the end
he wrote in his own name again, and when he had taken
leave and O. J. L. had said " Good-bye, Hodgson," a
cross was made in the air again, and in a changed hand-
writing came :
" Goodbye friends and may you rest in
peace. + Mme G." In the waking-stage that followed,
Mrs. Piper said :
" That lady who prays all the time said
run away now " ; and after the " snaps " hi her head
—
that is, when nearly normal—" I saw a lady with a cross
in her hand and a lot of pretty people."
Mrs. Piper only once more—so far as we know—went
into trance. It was on July 31, 1911. The trance was
long incoming on, but the writing at last began :
Mme. G. + I am glad to meet you friend. I am Guyon.
O. J. L. Hail Madame Guyon, glad to see you
Mme. G. God be with you one and all. A friend is waiting to
126 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
speak. I'll step aside. God's blessing on you.
Mme G.
The main part of the sitting was occupied with com-
munications from Lady Lodge's relations and friends,
HodgsonP apparently acting as amanuensis. Imperator
closed the sitting and Madame Guyon did not appear
again that day, but in the course of his final remarks
HodgsonP spoke—at least so I interpret him—of the possi-
bility of automatic writing without trance being developed,
and then said :
" Mme will get through in any case, this
we are sure of." This final part of Mrs. Piper's latest trance
sitting, and the subsequent waking-stage, are quoted in the
Appendix (p. 514).
There are two things worth noting about the latest
developments of Mrs. Piper's trance. The first is that all
the difficulty attending the going into trance—the evidently
failing power to do so with safety—did not apparently
prevent communications of evidential value occurring when
the trance did come on. By evidential value I mean, of
course, of value as affording evidence in the trance utter-
ances of knowledge which cannot have reached Mrs. Piper
through her senses. Unfortunately this evidential matter
was too private for publication, but I gather that some of
it bears comparison with some of the best that has been
published. I do not here raise the question of how far
the sitter was an important factor in the result, as this
is of general application throughout the evidence, and does
not, therefore, specially affect the present point.
The second point is that the introduction of Madame
Guyon as a control was apparently intended to be a step
in the direction of peacefulrtess in the manifestations
beyond that already attained under the Imperator regime.
This is perhaps made clearer in the automatic writing
without trance to be described presently. But it can
hardly have been meant that this gain in peacefulness
would be secured by a method of going into trance
quieter than the very quiet one which had already become
customary. Presumably, therefore, it meant either a dis-
position to some lighter form of trance, or more probably
to the automatic script without trance which actually
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena,. 127
occurred. It would be very interesting to know how far
the development of automatic script was the result of a
deliberate plan made by some intelligence, possibly a
subliminal self, with the object of making up for the loss
of power to go into trance ; to know whether Sir Oliver
Lodge's suggestion in May (see below) to try for automatic
script set this plan going ; and whether the substitution
of Madame Guyon for Imperator at the last two trance
sittings was part of the plan. But these things must, I
fear, remain matter for conjecture.
The automatic writing under Mine. Guyon's direction,
apparently foreshadowed in the last trance by the Hodgson
control, showed no signs of beginning till September 20,
1911, but it is interesting that one brief piece of script
without trance had already occurred in June. About the
end of May, seeing that the trances seemed likely to come
to an end, Sir Oliver Lodge suggested to Mrs. Piper's
daughters to try if she could do automatic writing in a
normal state. The idea was not new to her ; she had
seen something of the kind produced by others, and had
in previous years occasionally tried for it herself, though
without success. To give a concrete instance, she had
tried vainly on June 20, 1895, in Dr. Newbold's presence
immediately after a sitting during which the control
—
G. P.—had been asked :
" Could you use Mrs. Piper's hand
while she is conscious?" and had replied: "I'll try. I
do not know." 1
Soon after Sir Oliver Lodge's suggestion, namely, on
June 4, 1911, when Miss Violet Lodge happened to be
present with the Piper family party, Mrs. Piper complained
that her hand felt numb, and it occurred to one of her
daughters to give her a pencil. At first nothing happened.
Then the position of the pencil was changed, and it was
placed between her first and second fingers. A little scrap
of script was then obtained consisting first of a drawing of a
seven-legged insect, then the words " A Rachne," and then
a drawing of a spinning-wheel—all three in one line. The
1
A sentence, veridical apparently, had however been written automati-
cally on April 25, 1894. while Hodgson " was managing to keep her
out of trance successfully" (see Chapter VI., p. 211).
128 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
letters were written detached, quite plain, and with a back-
ward slope, totaUy different in character from the trance
writing. The word Arachne—Greek for spider—and the
spinning-wheel make it practically certain that the badly
drawn creature was meant for a spider ; but Sir Oliver
Lodge satisfied himself that neither his daughter nor Mrs.
Piper or her daughters attached any meaning to " Arachne,"
and they called the creature a beetle.
It is rather curious that, notwithstanding this successful
attempt, nothing came but scribbles when Mrs. Piper next
tried on September 20—just as might happen to any one
trying to obtain automatic writing for the first time. The
following attempt was little better, consisting mainly of
repetitions first of " Mme." and then of " G." The next,
on October 8, again consisted of repetitions of " Mme." and
" Mme. G.," but these were interspersed with drawings of
ecclesiastical objects. The fourth attempt on October 11
began to be more coherent. It was made fairly clear that
a rosary and a particular kind of cross were to be sym-
bolic of Mme. G. just as a -f- was of Imperator. The name
Guyon was not given, but Gun was repeated several times.
Then a soi-disant Hodgson wrote and brought about an un-
mistakable coincidence, which it is very difficult to suppose
either accidental or due to any normal knowledge of Mrs.
Piper's, between the script and Sir Oliver Lodge's preoccupa-
tions on that day. The script also said :
Trust Mme G and things will soon be clearer * * * A
most holy influence is being brought to you * * *
Several other scripts followed, getting more and more
coherent. Mme. Guyon always purported to be present,
though the full name was not written except backwards.
The longest and in some respects most interesting of the
scripts was produced on October 28, 1911, in the presence
of Sir Oliver Lodge. The writing continued for about an
hour conversing with him in the manner of Mrs. Piper's
trance script, and accompanied by some of the trance
mannerisms. For instance, the hand was sometimes held
towards Sir Oliver's mouth as though to listen to what
he said. Mrs. Piper too spoke of a tingling in hand and arm
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 129
at the beginning and end, a sensation sometimes experienced
in connexion with the trance (see Chapter I., p. 24).
Mme. Guyon purported to open and close the script
just as she would have done had it been a trance com-
munication. In short, it resembled a trance communication
in almost all respects, except that Mrs. Piper was in full
possession of her normal consciousness all the time, though
she did not attempt apparently to follow what the script
said. Sir Oliver asked for Hodgson, who then purported to
write, Mrs. Piper saying she felt the influence in her arm
changing. After conversing with this Hodgson control for
some time, Sir Oliver sent a message to Myers, who there-
upon took control, the writing again changing somewhat. He
said, among other things, that Mme. G.
has taken up the light and is the chief control now. We
shall all greet you often and give you much help. We
are only in the primary stage
A drawing of Madame G.'s cross presently led Sir Oliver
to say " Madame G. is coming again," and Mrs. Piper re-
marked : "I like her, she is most quiet and restful " ; and
again when the writing was over :
" That is the quietest
peacefulest influence. I feel rather rested when she has
been."
It is clear, then, that some intelligence behind the
trance communications, and behind the subsequent auto-
matic script, looked forward to further communications of
an interesting kind under the Guyon management. But
these anticipations have not so far been fulfilled. Mrs.
Piper sailed for America on October 31, 1911, and since
then has sent a few scripts to Sir Oliver, namely, one
in 1911, three in 1912, some in 1914, and again several in
1915. Madame Guyon has continued to take the lead, and
messages from different communicators have been written,
but the output is somewhat meagre in amount and its
content for [the most part of little interest, though
one ov\ two of the scripts of 1915 give more promise of
evidential communications. It is possible that Mrs. Piper
has not herself been interested in obtaining script, and
that more might come if she were.
i
i
130 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
CHAPTER IV.
Indications (1) of Artificiality in the Language of
the Controls, and (2) of Common Memories and
Associations of Ideas in Different Controls.
The two lines of investigation included in the heading of
this chapter are distinct, but it is convenient to group
them together because certain cases may belong to
either. Moreover, both may conveniently be considered at
this point of the whole discussion when the reader has
just been introduced to some of the individual controls.
Apart from what they say about themselves and each
other, our knowledge of controls depends almost entirely
on their language—that is, on the way they speak and
write. They are not like men living among us, whom we
might know well even if they never spoke or wrote at
all. The examination of their manner of speaking or
writing may therefore be very important. Some controls
have, it is true, certain characteristic gestures. For in-
stance, Phinuit, we learn from Hodgson's records in 1896-7,
had a habit of rubbing Mrs. Piper's right cheekbone with
her left hand when he first appeared. Different writing
controls hold the pencil differently, press on it with dif-
ferent degrees of force, and tend to exhibit different
movements or contractions in the hand as a prelude to
writing. But these movements are not very revealing ;
and whether they were at first accidental and then become
habits of Mrs. Piper's organism associated with particular
controls, or whether they were merely signals, like Im-
perator's cross and Madame Guyon's rosary, intended to
announce the writer, we have no means of knowing.
The language used by each control in speaking or
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 131
writing is similarly more or less characteristic. Phinuit's
way of speaking with a semblance of French accent and
a few French words was peculiar to himself and markedly
different from that of others. The G. P. and Hodgson con-
trols both evidently spoke with a sufficient resemblance to
the language of those gentlemen in life to be impressive
—
sometimes very impressive—to their friends ;
and their
written communications resembled their speech. The differ-
ence of style exhibited by other controls can be studied
by the reader in the preceding chapter and its appendix.
He can there observe the elaborateness of George Eliot
;
the pomposity, with a tendency to use biblical phraseology,
of Imperator ; the brusquerie and colloquialness of G. P. ;
the stilted style of Julius Caesar and " Moses of Old,"
and so forth.
The question is—are these differences due to habit ?
If they are, whose habit is it ? Or are they, on the
other hand,—again like the cross and the rosary—merely
symbols ? In the case of Phinuit, of George Eliot, of
G. P., of Hodgson, and of others stated to have lived
comparatively recently, the habit is no doubt supposed to
be their own ; and the fact that it is tempered by Mrs.
Piper's habit would, perhaps, not be very surprising even
on the theory of almost complete control by spirits. But
whose habit is revealed in the language of Imperator and
Rector ? We do not know what then original language was
supposed to be. Their own view about this presumably
varied with their views about the names they bore, and,
as we have seen, Rector in particular made inconsistent
statements about his native language (see above, pp. 109, 110).
But at all events they did not profess to be modern
Englishmen or Americans. Nor did they derive their
style solely from Mrs. Piper's habitual mode of speaking,
or from that of the sitters. 1
Nor is their style the same
as that of Stainton Moses's Imperator. Whence, then, did
their language habits come ?
If pressed they might, perhaps, themselves have an-
swered this question by saying that they used the same
1
They sometimes however professed that they borrowed words or modes
of expression from the sitter (see Chapter VIII., p. 299).
132 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
language in communicating that they used among them-
selves in the other world, only modifying it a little to
suit our habits. It is true that they and other controls
tell us that communication between spirits is by thought,
or by ideas—not by speech. 1
But other statements
suggest that in practice English, with some deviation from
ordinary usage, is the language of the other world. For
instance, on March 3, 1897, Rector speaks about " emana-
tions." Hodgson asks him what he exactly means by
emanations, and Rector replies, " Spirits. We speak in
this way among ourselves. It is difficult to bear in mind
that I am speaking to an earthly friend." 2
General questions of style are rather elusive and difficult
to discuss, but one peculiarity of the language of Im-
perator and of Rector—the use of the second person
singular during parts of their careers as controls, but not
invariably-—gives us the opportunity of studying a definite
point of style statistically, as it were. The investigation
reveals clearly, I think, that a habit of using the second
person singular was deliberately adopted, was cultivated
with some difficulty, and finally, so far as Rector was
concerned, was deliberately dropped. This, of which I
shall, I think, be able to convince the reader, affords as
far as it goes distinct evidence of an artificial attempt to
speak in a particular manner. It shows that some intelli-
gence was planning the make up of Imperator and Rector,
or that they themselves were playing a part.
To judge from Stainton Moses's Spirit Teachings, his
Imperator, who however did not " control " himself but
communicated through Rector, only used the second
person singular in addressing the deity. His style is a
pulpit style, and the form " ye " occasionally occurs in
addressing people collectively, but to Moses himself he
says " you." The false Imperator, who communicated
through G. P. in October, 1906, and claimed to be Joseph
(see above, p. 90) apparently also used " you " in addres-
sing Hodgson, unless G. P. translated into that form for
1 See Appendix to this chapter for instances of this assertion. The question
whether they think in words has probably not been faced.
2
Cf. below, p. 135, for the language of the other life.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 133
him. When Mrs. Piper's Imperator first controlled (on
November 11, 1896, see Appendix to Chapter III., p. 468)
his communication consisted largely of prayers in which
naturally the word " thou " was used. Hodgson was, how-
ever, addressed as " you " more than once, though " thee
"
was used in the farewell phrases. At Imperator's second
appearance, which was very brief, he used " thou " in
greeting Hodgson. At his third time of controlling,
November 17, 1896, the second person plural is chiefly
used, though he says once " I will be thy spiritual ad-
viser," following it with " I will show you the way."
Examination of subsequent sittings show a similar mixed
use, and I do not think it is clear that Imperator intends
to use the second person singular regularly and habitually
till about the middle of February, 1897. It may have
been that Hodgson's invitation to him on February 12 to
give an account of the revelation of God to man suggested
that scripture language was appropriate—whereas before
that " thou " and " thee " may have been introduced as part
of a more general attempt at archaic or poetic language. 1
As, for instance, on December 8, 1896, when the sentence
" Look thou yonder and see your faithful friend George
"
illustrates both the use by Imperator of the word "yonder,"
unusual in ordinary modern English prose, and the lapse
into " you " of a sentence begun with " thou " as the
mode of address. At any rate it can hardly be doubted,
after February 12, whatever we think before, that though
the use of "thou" and "you" are still mixed, "thou"
is the form intended and " you " comes in by mistake.
It is after this date, too, that these lapses begin appar-
ently to be sometimes noticed by the control, and what
seem rather flimsy excuses for them to be made. The
following example of this occurred on February 22, 1897.
Imperator writes :
In the days when Christ appeared this evil was subdued.
You will U.D.— Thou speakest not to me. I am not
you. Rector says you. I command all quiet. Go on.
1
There is a good deal of this kind of mixture of " thou " and " you " in
e.g. Scott's novels.
134 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
I do not profess to understand fully the by-play be-
tween spirits here, but it seems clear that the sentences
following " you will U.D." are intended to explain the
occurrence of " you." A little further on the enquiry
about understanding is put in the form " Dost thou
U.D. ?
"
In the above passage it is fairly clear that Imperator
was " controlling " himself—not employing Rector as
amanuensis, as he began to do in March, 1897 (see above,
p. 107). Rector's mode of addressing Hodgson in 1897
was, however, in the second person plural, though he was
apt to get a little confused between "you" and "thou"
when his subject was one on which Imperator had pre-
viously communicated, or when he was acting as amanu-
ensis for Imperator. 1
He seems to realise this himself
sometimes, for on March 11, 1897, when there had been
some mixture of " thee " and " you," he interpolated at
one point :
I use my own expression when speaking for him [i.e. Im-
perator] at times, because I am more accustomed to so doing.
After which Hodgson is consistently addressed as " you "
to the end of the sitting.
By the summer of 1898, however, the use of the second
person singular had apparently become easy to Rector,
and he had taken to using it on his own account.
Exactly when this change took place it is difficult to say,
because Rector generally wrote for Imperator or for the
Imperator Band, or for the friends of sitters, and the
passages where it is certain that he speaks for himself
alone are comparatively few. But we can trace the
transition to some extent. Thus, on January 28, 1898, he
is undoubtedly saying " you " to Mrs. L. (see Appendix to
Chapter III., p. 514). Again, on May 14, 1898, a sitting
hi which " thou " and " you " are much mixed, Rector
seems clearly to speak for himself in the following passage :
1
A case occurred on March 19, 1897, of what seems to be confusion under
these circumstances ingeniously explained by getting temporarily rid of
Imperator, who is represented as returning a little later in the sitting. It
is quoted on p. 151 below in another connexion.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 135
Sitter. Is this my father ?
Rector. Yes he is dictating to me. I tell you to follow this
friend and all will be well. Rector
—
Sitter. Is Rector a physician ?
R. I am not a physician, but I do know all. Read not
for many weeks, rest your mind, take things easy.
Amen, and rest thy body a great deal.
And in the following passages in sittings of June 8
and 9, 1898, it is again clearly Rector who is communi-
cating on his own behalf, and this time using the second
person singular without mistake :
{June 8, 1898.)
{Rector writing after a long communication from a friend
of the sitter.}
Rector. Rector. I am with thee friend of earth and what has
taken place no mortal mind must know. Speak not
of thy friends anxieties.
(June 9, 1898.)
I am Rector and I am speaking for thy brother, thy
husband and thy son, they are present but I am
speaking for them
{and later to Miss Edmunds who was recording}
I have told thee this time and over and again
With the evidence before us of the development of
Rector's use of the second person singular, the following
remarks made by him and Imperator to Mrs. L. on
April 9, 1900, read rather strangely. They came to close
the sitting after a friend of Mrs. L.'s had been con-
trolling :
R. Friend we return to thee once more and strange to say
we have discovered that our language is not like
thine of earth. For instance we see that thou dost
say you, and why not thou ?
Mrs. L. Sometimes we say thee and thou to friends, but in
our language usually only in speaking to God.
R. All yes, we U.D. but such is the language of our
own life
136 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
The use by Rector of the second person singular con-
tinued with occasional momentary lapses till the summer
of 1905. But when on October 30, 1905, sittings are
resumed after the summer holidays, the habit is changed
for some unexplained reason. Hodgson was alone present
on October 30. " Thee " is used in the opening greetings
to him—and the use of thou and you is mixed on the
following pages when the controls are explaining that
Mrs. Piper's mediumship is not likely to be continued
long :
We are desirous of finding one or more good lights through
which communication can be established for thy
work, as we shall not long continue here as we
have previously and many times stated. We do
not intend to return so often as formerly friend.
We may continue to return on first 1
and second 1
but it is doubtful if we return continuously on
third 1
as formerly. Therefore it will be well for
[hand turns to spirit] you to look well to other
lights.
After this the second person plural is used during the
remainder of this sitting with one possible lapse ; and it
is also used in those that follow, whether Rector is speak-
ing for himself alone or for the Imperator Band, except
that " thee " is apt to occur in the initial greeting. That
the change was deliberate seems to be shown by the
following passage in the sitting of November 22, 1905, in
which a lapse occurs. Hodgson was the recorder and only
sitter. Rector was writing and had addressed Hodgson
in the second person plural. Then in arranging for a
sitting for a new sitter described as " Mrs. R.'s sister,"
the following occurs :
R. Wilt thou [Hand turns to spirit]
Will you [Hand assents to spirit]
George is teaching me these words. Will. U.D
R. H. Yes.
R. Will you kindly be near so we can call upon you if
1
Days of the week, viz. Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday respectively,
see pp. 145, 146 below.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 137
necessary when we meet Mrs. R's sister as she is
unfamiliar with us. 1
But much earlier than this G. P. apparently intervenes
on one occasion to get " you " said instead of " thee
"
—possibly to cover up a tendency to slip into " you " on
Rector's part. It happened on October 13, 1902. Rector
was writing, and Hodgson was the sitter and recorder.
R. He tried to speak to thee and ask thee to call on
Mrs. D. to see if he could not [send] a message
to . . . say you Rector . . . send a message to
you . . . George said you . . . say [written above
you] you
R. H. (reading) George said say you.
{Hodgson comments on this :} [Apparently G. P. is
communicator and wished Rector to say you and
not thee.]
On May 24, 1904, there is a criticism by the com-
municator, the so-called Dr. Oliver, of Rector's language
as old-fashioned and a statement that they were " teaching
him how to use different language " (see Appendix to
Chapter III., p. 490). Possibly it is intended to represent
the change to " you " in October, 1905, nearly a year and
a half later, as the result of this instruction.
Hodgson died quite suddenly on December 20, 1905, and
the last record of his which we have is that of a sitting
on the day before—December 19, 1905. The next sittings
of which we have the complete records were those in
England in 1906-7. The use of the second person plural
by Rector was quite established throughout these sittings,
except that in the one voice sitting during the series (on
November 16, 1906, see Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., p. 234)
he began by using " thee." In subsequent sittings of
which we have records—viz. Mr. Dorr's in 1908, Miss
1
There is another instance of consciousness about language on the same
day, though in the form of Rector's remarks about the language of com-
municators. He says of a communicator :
" R. This lady is a most
interesting spirit and when she speaks herself I find she does not say
awfully, but George does repeatedly . . . say . . . awfully . . . U.D.
R. H. Yes. R. He supplies words often to help out a new com-
municator."
138 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Pope's in 1909, and the English sittings of 1910-11
—
Rector continued to address the sitter as " you."
Definite changes of language, such as those we have
been considering, can only be explained, so far as I can
see, by supposing the control to be, in some degree at
least, personating a character to which he thinks a special
way of speaking appropriate, and accordingly adopts it as
we might do in acting a charade. The apparently
accidental slips which occur in the use of this language
point in the same direction, but less distinctly perhaps,
because it might be argued on Hodgson's theory that
these, like grammatical mistakes, were due to " the
machine " ; that is, to the control's manner of speech
being interfered with by the tendency of Mrs. Piper's
organism to work in the way habitual to it.
1
It must be observed, however, that the grammatical
mistakes made in the Piper script are of two distinct
classes. There are those consisting in the misuse, but not
uniform misuse, of old grammatical forms which are not
habitual to Mrs. Piper's normal waking self—as, for
example, where the form " dost " is used for " doth " or
vice versa, or " ye " is used in addressing a single indi-
vidual. The following are instances :
" Dost not thy book
drop him {Melchisedek} about the time of Israel," said
by Imperator in 1897, and again, " When dost thy book
speak of Salem?"; "Thou mistaketh God's power," said
by Imperator or Rector on June 3, 1898 ;
" Friend be ye
not discouraged time will be given thee for all things
well," said by Rector for himself and Imperator on
November 20, 1899 ; "If thy brother faileth in his work
fail ye not but turn to him and lend him thy helping
hand," said by Imperator on November 3, 1902 ;
" If
thou hath increased," said by Rector on December 20,
1904. See also, for other mistakes of the same kind, an
extract from the sitting of December 20, 1904, in the
Appendix to Chapter II., p. 434. This class of mistake is
1
A slip occurred on December 12, 1906, which goes against this tendency-
of- the- organism theory. Iloctor, who by this time had given up the use of
archaic language, except occasionally in the initial greeting, wrote " The
lady present hath light a little."
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena . 139
not instinctive, it is not due to bad habit, but to absence
of habit, or, at least, imperfectly formed habit. They are
like the mistakes we make in speaking a foreign language
which we have acquired imperfectly, and they point to a
form of language being used artificially.
The other class of grammatical mistake is doubtless due
to bad habit in Mrs. Piper, whose grammar, I am bound
to say however, is usually excellent. I think the com-
monest error of this class is the use of " as " for " that
"
in certain connexions, which is liable to occur with all
sorts of controls. Thus—taking examples from G. P. and
George Eliot, both educated writers in this life—we have
G. P. remarking on October 29, 1896, "Well, I cannot say
now as he is the Moses you wish " ; and again on January
26, 1897, " I laughed and said I am plain George Pel-
ham and no special Angel as I know of." George Eliot
writes on March 30, 1897 : "I hardly know as there is
enough light remaining for me to continue " ; and on
April 5, 1897, " Do not know as I have ever seen a
'
Haunted House.' " We may compare also GurneyP on
January 25, 1897 : "I do not know as I mean in a day
or two, but it may in a week or two."
There is a record of a conversation about grammatical
mistakes of this sort which took place between Hodgson
and Myersp communicating through Rector on February 4,
1902. It is worth quoting, as it contains views expressed
by Hodgson and by the trance personalities on the subject,
and as it is, moreover, the conversation about " Nigger
talk " to which William James refers in Proceedings, Vol.
XXIII., pp. 18-19.
R. H. Do you remember about your laughing with me once
and your saying that doubtless you would some
time be coming back and talking nigger-talk ?
Myersp . Yes indeed, Well, very well do I remember this.
Is this what you would call my talks with you
now % R. H. No
—
Myersp . I should really like to know if it sounds anything
like it.
R. H. No, but of course it is different from speaking to
you when you were using your own body. For
140 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
Myees
R. H.
Myers,
R. H.
Rector
Myers„
example, you would never say such a thing as "I
remember of doing something."
p
. No not of certainly.
Things like that appear occasionally in the writing
which I attribute to writing mechanism or the
speech centres of the organism.
I find it sometimes and not infrequently due to lack
of U.D. on the part of amanuensis—Rector as
amanuensis
{Note by Hodgson} [He probably refers to difficulty
in transmitting special words or phrases to Rector,
such e.g. as Myers would use in discussing techni-
cal psychical questions with me.] 1
Yes, but ... I don't exactly see how you mean,
—
except that Rector finds difficulty in making, as it
were, the machine run in unfamiliar channels.
[Rector to spirit ?] clearer
Yes, and then again when listening to the com-
municator he not infrequently drops the machine
too quickly therefore registers a word which has
not been given or perhaps leaves out a word and
so on.
R. H. Yes. Myersp . More later. Nigger-talk yes yes.
The next time MyersP communicates, viz. on February 17,
1902, he returns to the subject thus :
Myersp . First let me tell you not to lay so much stress on
words not clearly registered or superfluous . . . the
using of superfluous words ... it is not worth the
while as I find it is due to the machine absolutely
In connexion with the use of the second person singular
it is worth examining two instances in which Rector deals
with the Quaker " thee " when acting as amanuensis for
Quaker communicators.2
The first of these cases occurred
1
1 see no warrant for this interpretation of Hodgson's. The plain,
straightforward meaning is that mistakes like the insertion of the redundant
" of," are often due to Rector's not understanding what the communicator
says.
2
The old-fashioned Quaker use of "thee" is, of course, different from
that of the ordinary second person singular, which may have been Rector's
reason for not attempting it at first.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 141
in November, 1902, when he was habitually using for
himself the ordinary second person singular as his mode of
address. The second case was in July, 1907, after he had
given this up. Mrs. Piper had previously known both the
sitter and the communicator of November 24 and 25,
1902. The control was Rector, writing, and Hodgson was
present as recorder throughout the first of the two sittings
and through the greater part of the second. The sitter
wrote afterwards :
The sittings as a whole were highly satisfactory to me ;
were very characteristic of Mr. W. Although so personal
and private they might not be of much evidential value
to others
—
to me, it was positive assurance that Mr. W.
{the communicator} was really there.
During the first sitting the sitter used the Quaker
" thee " throughout, but the communicator addressed her
through Rector as " you." As regards the second sitting,
Hodgson notes :
After Mrs. P. had lost consciousness and with eyes closed
was sinking into trance, {the sitter} asked me why
Mr. W. didn't use thee in communicating as he was
in the habit of doing during life. I explained to her
briefly that G. P. was probably helping, and that in
any case the verbal forms were liable to be affected
by the intermediary or intermediaries. Nov. 25, 1902.
—R. H.
In Mr. W.'s communications at this sitting " you " is
used at first, but afterwards " thee." Shortly before the
change is made the following remarks occur :
Sitter. I want to know all that is on thy mind, dear. Speak
freely.
Mr. W. I heard better then dear.
[Between spirits] thee yes thee
Mr. W. I hope you U.D. that Mr. {Pelham = G. P.} is helping
me, dear.
Sitter. I am most grateful to him.
Mr. W. He is kindness personified. I can come more easily
to-day.
142 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
It is worth remarking that though the communicator
may have thus repeated the two points of the conversation
which took place while Mrs. Piper was seemingly uncon-
scious—the appropriateness of Mr. W. using " thee " and
the assistance of G. P. as a probable explanation of his
not doing so—though he may have repeated these without
having heard the conversation, it certainly looks as if the
conversation suggested his remarks and the subsequent
adoption of the form " thee." If we could be sure that
this was so, it would be important in its bearing on the
interpretation of the Piper phenomena. Experienced in-
vestigators would of course always assume, as Hodgson
evidently did in this case, that anything said in the
presence of the medium during the period of deep sleep
preceding the trance might reach the trance con-
sciousness.
The second instance occurred at one of the Isaac
Thompson sittings recorded by Sir Oliver Lodge (Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XXIII.). The Thompson family being
Friends, the older members of it appear, sometimes at
least, to have used the second person singular in talking
to each other. The records printed by Sir Oliver Lodge
in Vol. XXIII. , pp. 162-198, show, however, that it was
scarcely used at the sittings either by sitters or com-
municators. The exception occurred on July 3, 1907 (op.
cit. pp. 192-193). Rector was controlling. When Mr. E.
Thompson said to a recently deceased uncle communi-
cating :
" Can you tell us from whom you ordered it ? ",
the uncle replied through Rector as amanuensis :
" That
would be difficult to get through to thee." And later in
the same sitting, when Isaac Thompson was communi-
cating, his widow, who had been addressing him as you,
says :
Mrs. T. And Isaac, we want to send our love to thee and
Charlie. Theodora is here. * * *
Communicator. Theodora dear are you better (Theodora had
just come into the room.)
Rector. I say you R. Because I understand it better. Rector.
He says Thee, but I say you. I understand it
better.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 143
Whether this is genuine—that is to say, whether Rector
was translating the communicator's " thee " into " you "
all through (except in the one case of the uncle quoted
above)—or whether it was a piece of hedging due to Mrs.
Thompson's " thee " suddenly suggesting to Rector that
this was the form he ought to have been using, it is, of
course, impossible to say. The difference between the
excuse given here and that given in the previous instance
is noteworthy.
There is another line of language development analogous
to the change in Rector's usage of " thou " and " you,"
but mixed up, I think, with some confusion of thought.
It is in the use of the names for periods of time—hour,
day, week, etc. —and for the days of the week. The
controls maintain that there is no time in the other world,
apparently meaning thereby no divisions of time. I am
not sure when this idea was first mentioned, but for our
present purpose the following bit of conversation between
G. P. (writing) and Hodgson on October 16, 1896, is early
enough. Hodgson had been talking about mistakes in
prophecies made by controls, and referring to correct
prophecies also.
G. P. Oh I do see, yet H. it is like this. The facts are
visible perfectly, and there is a perfect panorama
of things going on continuously before us. Now
then when I see a picture or which is to me a
stern reality, I mention the fact. Yet whether it
prove itself a fact within one week, one year, I
am unable to say. I am willing to admit this, H.
I have only learned this by experience. That there
is no time here is an established fact.
ft. H. There are changes and there must be time.
G. P. I mean to say not as there is time in the material
world, no division of time.
R. H. Not the same kind of division ?
G. P. No but totally different.
This idea is carried right through the Imperator regime
and to the end of Mrs. Piper's trances, and after a while a
result of it is asserted to be that the controls cannot
144 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
understand the meaning of time names. Thus William
James says {Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., p. 115) :
" The
weak talk of the Imperator-band about time is reproduced,
as where R. H. pretends that he no longer knows what
'
seven minutes '
mean (May 14, 1906)." And, as another
example, in the record of Dr. Stanley Hall's sittings in
1909 (Studies in Spiritism, p. 231), occurs the following :
Sitter. Can we meet two weeks from to-day ?
Hodgsonp . Oh, don't talk like that. Oh, don't talk, I can't
UD.
Sitter. Can we come second after second coming ? Will that
be right ?
HodgsoNj, I'll enquire. [The hand rises, beckons, questions, and
writes,] Yes. Very good. I'll be here.
Or again on November 26, 1906 :
Sitter (O. J. L.) The sitting will be in the afternoon.
Rector. Afternoon ?
Sitter. Yes, your medium does not mind, and it suits the
lady better.
Rector. I do not think we fully understand the time : can
you explain more explicitly ? R.
Sitter. I only mean it will be later in the day : after the
second meal, instead of after the first.
Rector. It will not matter to us, friend, we think + R.
And on April 9, 1907, at one of the sittings in London :
Sitter (E. M. S.). Not to-day at all. Perhaps next week
[Hand seems not to understand]
Sitter. Perhaps after next Sabbath.
Rector. Oh yes I U.D. thank you.
This want of understanding does not occur at first. G, P.
in the passage quoted above writes of " week " and " year "
;
and, what is more to the point, the Imperator Band make
no pretence of not understanding such words in 1897. For
example, on June 28, 1897 (Hodgson recording, Rector
writing) :
R. H. Shall I come to-morrow, or shall I wait a week, or a
month, or three months or six months ?
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 145
Rector. We will mention a time for thee and when the time
approaches fail us not. One more week and we
shall know.
R. H. The nest time that I come is to be a week from
to-day ?
R. We would prefer to see thee the day before the
Sabbath
R. H. To-day is Monday, and I will come again on Saturday.
R. It will be well. We have many preparations for the
Sabbath always in our world.
Days of the week have to be constantly referred to in mak-
ing appointments with controls for future sittings, and the
ideas of day and week and of particular days of the week
are never lost—it would have been very difficult to make
appointments with the trance personality if they bad been
—but the Imperator Band adopt a peculiar nomenclature
for them. The working days of the week are numbered
consecutively from Sunday, and described as following one
or other of the Sundays in a series numbered from the actual
time of speaking. Monday of next week would be described
as the first after the coming Sabbath—or simply as first after
coming, with Sabbath understood. In this way, though
the word " day " is used, the word " week " and the names
of the days of the week are avoided. This practice, for which
I find no reason given in the records, seems to have begun
some time in 1898 or 1899. Certainly in the following
passage on November 4, 1897, it is Mrs. L., the sitter and
recorder, rather than Rector, who approximates to it.
Mrs. L. Can you give me now a time or times when I can
have my sittings so I can send word to Hodgson.1
R. Yes. Monday
Mrs. L. The day after next Sabbath 1
R. And the day following etc.
HfL $ $ a|c
Mrs. L. Am I to understand that you will meet me personally
on Monday ?
R. At 4.30. It is so.
1 With a view to the cross-correspondence experiments, of which the
failure is described in the Appendix to Chapter III., pp. 513-514, Hodgson
was in England at this time.
146 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
And other instances of the use of time names at this
period could be added.
By the autumn of 1898 the Imperator Band's new way
of describing the days referred to had become more or less
established, and it was readily adopted by the sitters, but
the word " week " was still sometimes used by Rector him-
self and by sitters talking to him to the end of 1898
and through 1899 ; and Hodgson could still in 1898 talk to
Rector of Monday, Tuesday, to-morrow, etc. It is hardly
worth continuing the examination of the records for the
exact gradations in the use by the controls of time names
or for the moment when they began to protest that they
did not understand them. It would be difficult to deter-
mine either with any exactness ;
partly because Hodgson
and others concerned with making appointments, which is
the connexion in which dates and therefore time names most
frequently occur, got to use the peculiar nomenclature of the
Imperator Band with great consistency, and therefore gave
no occasion for protest ; and partly because there are slips
and inconsistencies in the controls' own use of the words. As
Miss Verrall says (Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 454, footnote) :
The controls often protest against the use of words denot-
ing periods of time, e.g. morning, week, etc., and
sometimes appear unable to apprehend their meaning. At
other times, however, they use these very words themselves
and their attitude does not seem to be based on any
consistent principle.
It would be easy to multiply examples, but I think I have
said enough to prove the point I wished to bring out, viz.
that the Imperator Band (with HodgsonP in their wake)
professed in e.g. 1906 a difficulty in understanding words
of a certain class which they knew and used correctly
and apparently naturally in 1897. Either, therefore, their
knowledge of the English language had deteriorated or
their ignorance was assumed—assumed, it would seem, with
a confused idea that it supported a theory about time in
the other world expressed by G. P. in 1896 in the passage
quoted above, and by the Doctor of the Imperator group
on April 18, 1904, as follows :
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 147
We have many times (perhaps not I personally) stated
that which is true that we have no stipulated time
in our world. Therefore we more or less lose the
conditions of time in your world after entering this. 1
Another point we may notice is that there are occasional
lapses from the mode of expression proper to a particular
control which are suggestive of artificial use. For instance,
on April 7, 1897, George Eliot, writing, says in the course
of a description given in the first person singular of her
experiences in heaven :
You might ask the question " Are there bees in heaven."
You might also ask as to whether there were birds
in heaven. We would answer both by saying there
are both. We answer from experience. We have
seen them.
I was visited for a moment by an acquaintance viz.
Rector. This is why I said we.
Qui s'excuse s'accuse, and it is the not very plausible excuse
here offered, that makes the case suspicious. No excuse
was needed, for the " we " might quite well stand for " we
in heaven." But Rector when speaking for Imperator
always said " we," and George Eliot's excuse looks like a
consciousness of having accidentally fallen into this
" we " habit ; a thing which might easily happen if there
is an underlying unity in the trance personalities.
That there was a slip in the next case is certain. On
March 23, 1897, the following passage occurred in the course
of a conversation between Rector and Hodgson :
R. H. Where am I going for the experiments to which you
referred %
R. We do not know your country well.
R. H. It is near where I am now ? R. Yes, sir.
R. H. Yes, sir ? R. Yes, friend.
Now Rector does not address any one as " Sir," so it would
seem that this slip must have been due either to a momentary
confusion as to his own identity, or as to the part he was
1 The occasion of this remark, as of Gt. P.'s, is that no reliable date can
be given for the fulfilment of a prophecy.
148 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
playing. Some difficulty in deciding who is communicating
in the script, suggesting possible temporary confusion in
the control as to his identity, is liable to occur, but it is
seldom so definite as in this case.
Another incident may be quoted resembling the last, only
it is not the form of address, but the form of a written
capital letter appropriate to another control that is used
and corrected by the control. It was on April 20, 1897.
G. P., who, I think, had not controlled since March 24,
opened the sitting. The following is Hodgson's record
with his remarks as usual in square brackets :
[G. P. writes] [Shakes hands]
R, H. Halloo George.
G. P. How are you H. ? [The H as Rector usually makes
it, type
R. H. First rate, George, old chap. What's the news ?
G. P. Just left Newbold. Saw him in chair reading, not
feeling any too well physically either.
Go [?] shake hands with him H. [Hesitation in deciph-
ering. H first made as Rector makes it, then as
if with slight effort, as G. P. used to make it,
An underlying unity in the trance personages might, as
I have already suggested, explain mistakes like those just
described, and thus bring them under the second heading
of the present chapter—common associations of ideas and
common memories among controls. That there is a common
stock of memories and associations, besides, of course, in-
grained ones such as are implied in the common use of the
English language, cannot, I think, be doubted, but what
has further to be determined is whether it amounts to more
than can naturally be accounted for by supposing the con-
trols to talk things over among themselves. Do the cases
I am about to refer to indicate, on the other hand, that
the individuality of the controls is less distinct than they
assert ? What they say is (June 5, 1900, Rector writing) :
Our intelligence doth not live within the boundary line
of the brain of this light or any other U.D. but
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance Phenomena. 149
whether our sentences seem broken or unintelligent or
what not we know we are independent and individual
intelligences acting through and upon it as mortals would
register sentences with a machine and mortals hath no right
to gainsay it and ere we cease our work they will surely
know. Remember this friend.1
Does their common stock of associations show this to
be untrue ? I do not think the examples I have to bring
forward can be regarded as conclusive on the subject,
but they are suggestive and worth considering.
I will begin with an instance of the occurrence to G. P.
and to George Eliot of the same language difficulty on
consecutive days which may possibly be a mere coinci-
dence, but which at any rate can hardly be due to the
controls concerned talking to each other behind the
scenes. On January 19, 1897, G. P. controlling wrote
at the end of the sitting :
G. P. Yes, I intend to do this, H . . . Yes yes, they {i.e.
the Imperator Band} two too. The verb too
bothers me at times
1
The sitting at which this was said was a kind of farewell to Hodgson
before the summer holidays, though it was not quite the last of the season.
Nothing in the record of the sitting accounts for the emphatic assertion ;
but I think it may have been in part at least due to my own and Mr. Andrew
Lang's papers in Proceedings, Vol. XV. On April 3, 1900, the following
conversation took place between Hodgson and G. P. about this, and there
is no record of Hodgson being present at any sitting between April 3 and
June 5 :
—
G. P. What have you been discussing now, H. ? R. H. Oh
I don't know exactly, George. I expect soon to reply to some criticisms
on my report of these things. They—for example—allege that there must
be an admixture of the—what is called the subliminal consciousness of
Mrs. Piper, because when Doctor came and talked about Homer, said I
am Homer and so on, and in answer to my question if he was Homer the
reply came yes and so on, a lot of statements made when their group first
began using the light. O. P. Well, don't they know yet that they were
in no wise developed and were more or less confused themselves or will they
never U.D. anything ? R.H.I think probably it will be pretty hard to
drive some things into the heads of those who have not been through a long
practical experience. G. P. Well, don't bother yourself too much, H
there is ... a long road that has no turn. Keep to the right and when
they think they know the most they know the least, so what does it matter
any way * * * * Well, stick to it and in spite of all things you will surely
win. R. H. I know. G. P. I tell you you will sure. R. H. I have
no doubt.
150 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
R. H. The word too. G. P. Verb
R. H. Verb ? G. P. Yes To two too. G. P.
On January 20, George Eliot wrote :
G. E. I am waiting for your message.
R H. Do you remember the words of Shakespeare :
" Spirits are not finely touched
But to fine issues " ?
G. E. Is this quotation from the Tempest or
R. H. I think Measure' for Measure.
G. E. Oh yes. [R. H. repeats the passage several times
during the writing]
G. E. Spirits are not finely touched but to two too two [?]
fine issues. I hear you better this way {i.e. holding
palm of hand towards Hodgson's mouth}
R. H. I understand.
G. E. Spirits are not finely touched but to fine issues. Very
good indeed.
We should think it an odd coincidence if two acquaint-
ances independently spoke of this difficulty on consecutive
days. At the same time, it must be observed that the
difficulty may have been differently caused on the two
days. G. P. evidently made a mistake and wrote " two
"
when he meant "too." George Eliot, on the other hand,
perhaps failing to understand the quotation at first, did
not know which of the three words was meant.
There are various instances in which a solidarity among
controls seems to be assumed—in which, that is, a control
talks about what " we " have done or experienced, though
he is not by way of having been concerned in the matter
personally at all. Sometimes the want of complete appro-
priateness of this mode of speech is noticed, as, for
example, in the remarks of the Doctor quoted on p. 147
above. The Doctor at this time (April, 1904) was said to
be a Dr. Oliver who had died in September, 1903, and
had apparently joined the Imperator Band, " Our doctor
"
who " came to us recently," Rector says on December 13,
1904. When Dr. Oliver says " we have many times
1 Note G. P.'s persistence in a quasi-grammatical error, which G. P.
in life would never have made, and which could not be due to a machine.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 151
stated" "that we have no stipulated time in our world,"
he is therefore wise in adding the parenthesis " perhaps
not I personally," for any knowledge he had of its being
many times stated must have been at second hand.
Something similar occurred on March 19, 1897. Rector
was controlling, acting as amanuensis for Imperator.
Hodgson was the sitter and recorder, and his notes are
as usual in square brackets. They were discussing the
admission of other sitters and communicators for the sake
of the fees.
Rector. We have through this channel given as many proofs
of spirit identity as we can. [It here came to my
mind to say that they had given none at all.] i.e.
not ourselves, but a great many others, and we think
it time before the light expires altogether to keep
the way open and produce the very best there is.
[I wasn't sure about the word produce] Bring forth.
R. H. I understand. It's all right. I wasn't sure what you
wrote.
R. Yes. We did not U.D. you. At least I did not.
Do you wish us to name the communicators ?
R. H. Yes. Of course.
R. We may not recall thy earthly friends, but we do
know those in spirit. We will name some of them
later before we depart.
But in the meantime we would say this for thy U.D ,
that unless you have any—he leaves me now
—
unless—yes I will do the rest [To Imperator]
Unless you have any objection to make in regard
to past experiences we would say to you now
once and for all time. We have opened the way
for better and nobler spirits. We intend to guard
and guide this light now and forever more. The
friends and communicators in the past have given
you all that was possible and if you had continued
in the same way, you never would have received
anything better. There have however been many
proofs given and many good . . .
R H. " Good ones."
R Yes. Yet there has unavoidably been much confusion.
152 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Now we would send only those who are clear and
coherent and it is now time to give some comfort
and not so much questioning because the light is
not equal to it, my friend.
The sentence in this passage relevant to our present topic
is, of course, the first, in which Rector claims on behalf of
the Imperator Band the evidence for spirit identity given
before they came on the scene at all, and then corrects him-
self. I have quoted more of the passage than this, because
the end of it throws further light on the beginning, and be-
cause in the middle occurs an example of change from the
second person singular to which I have referred in a foot-
note on p. 134 above, and it seemed better to give this here
rather than to break the passage up.
The next instance I have to give is somewhat different.
On November 12, 1898, when Hodgson and Rector were
making arrangements for future sittings, the following con-
versation took place :
R. There is nothing of great importance at this meeting
to be settled further, but thou hast a friend, viz.
Newbold who would desire to come to us later,
and he must not be overlooked.
R. H. Very good.
R. No matter when he asks, it must be arranged for.
R. H. I shall be very glad.
R. And we must have it so understood,
R. H. Yes.
R. That is at any moment would he desire to should he
desire to meet us, he will do so without further
question.
R. H. Yes, I understand.
R. No matter who is to be present.
R. H. Very good. He will come at once no matter who
else has arranged to see you.
R. + It was he who once gave us light.
R. H. Yes. Yes indeed. Yes.
R. And to him we will give great help. We are working
for him now.
R. H. I am delighted.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 153
R. For the first time since our last meeting with him
we are working with and for him directly * * *
and -f attention has been called to him in par-
ticular of late and infinitely better arrangements are
being made for him.
I know of no reason for this outburst about Professor
Newbold at this time. The records throw no light on it.
The interesting point in it hi connexion with our present
subject is Rector's reference to him as if the Imperator
Band knew him, for they had never nie„t him through Mrs.
Piper. Any knowledge they had of him as giving light
must, it would appear, have been obtained from Stainton
Moses or other spirits, and " our last meeting with him "
can only be interpreted on the hypothesis of a solidarity
among controls—what Stainton Moses had done counting
as if the Imperator Band 1
had done it. Dr. Newbold
tells me that the only sitting he had between those of
June, 1895 (to which much reference has been made in
previous chapters), and 1906, was one towards the end
of January, 1896, before the Imperator Band had
been introduced. The only other sittings he has had
were the two in 1906, from which William James quotes
largely in his paper on the Hodgson control in Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XXIII. , and it was not till then that he
had any converse with Rector. Dr. Newbold suggests that
the allusion on November 12, 1898, may perhaps be to the
fact that he was the first to enquire for Stainton Moses
and to invoke the Stainton Moses control, through whom
he asked for the names of Imperator, etc. But " giving
light " in script parlance could not, I think, mean this. A
person sitting with Mrs. Piper during the trance " gives
light " when he or she is what I should call a good sitter
—
one with whom the process of communication goes easily
and well, and who gets good results. 2
That Dr. Newbold
1
It is true that Stainton Moses is on one occasion at least mentioned as
having joined this band, which is perhaps to be regarded as a very loosely
constructed one. It is possible that " we " should sometimes be taken as
meaning all the controls and communicators whom Imperator undertakes to
direct.
2
Compare Chapter VIII., pp. 295-297.
154 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
was a good sitter in this sense will not be doubted by any
one who has read his own paper in Proceedings, Vol. XIV.,
or William James's account of his sittings hi 1906 in Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XXIII. Rector was quite right as to the
fact that he had " given light," in the sense that he was a
desirable sitter to have, but how did Rector know, and why
does he claim that the light was given to " us " %
The next case to be considered is one where association
of ideas clearly plays a part. It happened on November
22, 1905. The following conversation took place between
Hodgson and Rector :
R. H. I have various matters to mention, first especially a
special request to Imperator. [Hand {gestures as
to a spirit.} Cross in air.]
Rector. He will U.D.
R. H. I have an earnest request from Lodge, the friend of
Myers and myself.
R. One moment friend. We were told to give a message
to you from Mrs. H. so called on our side, from a
former reigning spirit known to us as Phinuit. 1
The message was, whenever permitted to speak
kindly say to the gentleman present that I send
great love to my old friend the Captain and
assure him that even in my advanced state I
do not forget him and in many ways I am trying
to help him. She gave me the message several
so called days ago will you kindly deliver it ? R.
R. H. With much pleasure * * * Shall I now continue.
R. He will listen attentively.
R. H. Lodge earnestly desires that a friend known to him
should have some meetings with you here. Phinuit
gave some good communications from this person's
relative or relatives many years ago, and he would
welcome the opportunity of coming here {etc.
—
discussing arrangements, without giving his name, for
a sitting for Mr. E. Thompson who was coming
1 Mrs. H., an old friend of Hodgson's, had not long before this given long
communications about Phinuit, what he was, his removal to a higher sphere,
and so on. Communications alleged to come from her on the method of
control are given in the Appendix to Chapter II., pp. 422, 431.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper''s Trance Phenomena. 155
over from England. See Proceedings, Vol. XXIII.,
p. 163. The sitting took place on December 11.}
It is clear here that the mention of Sir Oliver Lodge either
reminded Rector of a message he had been asked to send
to " the Captain," or (on the more sceptical view) suggested
to him that such a message would be dramatically appro-
priate. Why did it do so ? Why did Rector (quite cor-
rectly of course) associate the name Lodge with Phinuit's
old nickname for Sir Oliver ? The association was not
always represented as operative, for when Mrs. Piper was
in England in 1906-7 Sir Oliver had been present at a good
many sittings before, on his enquiring about Phinuit and
saying he was a friend of his, Rector asked, " Could you
by any possibility be the friend on earth whom he called
Captain ?
" (see Proceedings, Vol. XXIIL, p. 280).
The next case I have to discuss is one in which the associa-
tion of ideas cannot be doubted, though it led to inappro-
priate reminiscences. In England in November, 1906, Sir
Oliver Lodge arranged and superintended three sittings at
which a friend of his whom I will call Mr. Richard Forrest 1
was present as sitter. He was introduced to the trance per-
sonages anonymously, and Mrs. Piper was not supposed
to have heard her sitter's name. At the second sitting the
name Helen was given in connexion with a lame little boy,
who had been mentioned at the first sitting and said to be
eight or ten years old. At the same sitting Burlington is
said to be Helen's father. These names and statements had
no meaning for Mr. Forrest. At the third sitting the names
Richard and Helen, and Robert and Helen, were connected
together.
A few days later, December 3, 1906, Sir Oliver Lodge,
sitting alone, addressed the soi-disant mother of Mr. Forrest
as Mrs. Forrest, so from this point the name was
certainly known to the trance personalities, whatever may
have been the case before. Later in the sitting the
following conversation occurred :
Rector. There are four children. She speaks of a daughter.
O. J. L. Well that I do not understand.
1
Other names are substituted for the real ones throughout this case.
156 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. And she calls her Helen. She must be the wife of a
son, we think, and he has a boy whom she thinks
got injured. Now then, if this is so, and Richard
does not know of it, it cannot get out of his mind,
can it \ R.
O. J. L. Well will she tell me which son Helen is the wife of ?
R. Robert.
O. J. L. Very well, Helen is the wife of Robert.
R. Yes, and this spirit who calls himself Burling [or
Buling] is near him
O. J. L. That is the one you got, Burlington.
R. Yes, they called him Cajjtain.
O. J. L. Very well, that may be good.
R. Yes, it is a fact. I hear it most distinctly
Later still in the sitting the name Joseph Hird was written
as part of a message to Mr. Richard Forrest, but without
any obvious connexion with the rest of the message.
Mr. Richard Forrest had a cousin Robert Forrest in the
United States of America, whose wife's name was Helen, and
the combination of the names Robert Forrest and Helen
suggested enquiries there. In response, the following facts
were elicited. Mrs. Helen Forrest's mother's name—not her
father's—was Burlington, and she, Helen, had an uncle called
Captain Burlington. She had no lame child, but a cousin
about her own age named Joseph (surname not Hird) was
lame, and Captain Burlington had been rather interested
in him. Mrs. Robert Forrest's father, Mr. Vance, had been
a member of the American branch of the S.P.R. and inter-
ested in its work, and was on friendly terms with Hodgson,
who often saw him and his family and told them about the
most recent Piper manifestations. Mrs. Robert Forrest
before her marriage had had a sitting with Mrs. Piper when
G. P., whom she had known in life, controlled, and also
Phinuit. It is further almost certain that some trance per-
sonages were aware that she had become a Mrs. Forrest,
because on one occasion at a sitting with Mrs. Piper an
enquiry had been made of the controls, who would at
this timej probably be Rector and Co., about Mr.
Forrest's health, on behalf, as I understand it, of Mrs.
Forrest.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 157
Examination of Hodgson's records brings out the further
facts that Mrs. Forrest's father, Mr. Vance, had a sitting
with Mrs. Piper in 1892 and another in June, 1895. At the
latter G. P. and Phinuit successively acted as intermediaries
for Captain Burlington, for whom the sitter had asked by
name, giving also his title. It was a very confused sitting,
but various things were said for Captain Burlington, and
said more clearly at a subsequent sitting of Dr. Newbold's.
They were, however, completely wrong. Mr. Vance wrote
to Hodgson :
Dear Mr. Hodgson. As to the enclosed interview with
Mrs. Piper, I can only say that it amounted to just
nothing at all. Also, that the subsequent sayings when I
was not present, have no significance. It seemed to be
all guessing. Nothing said by the supposed Captain
[Burlington] about his death, his book, his friends, etc.,
was even approximately correct. One wonders why so
much that is fraudulent gets mixed up with the sayings
of a medium of Mrs. Piper's undoubted honesty. It would
be so much easier to say that Captain [B.] could not be
found or was unable to communicate ! Why is it neces-
sary to falsify about him ? * * * I was intimate with
him [Capt. B.], and know that he could (and would if
he could) give me evidence of his continued existence.
The last sentence is something of an Irishism—but you
see what I mean. So this interview must take its place
among the complete failures which, as well as the mysterious
successes, challenge further enquiry.
At the sitting this letter refers to, the soi-disant Captain
Burlington enquired about " your girl Helen," which is of
no evidential importance, but shows that Captain Burlington
and Miss Helen Vance were associated for the intermediary,
who was at that moment Phinuit.
G. P. continued to take an interest in " Helen " and her
affairs, for on January 7, 1897, after abruptly referring to
Mr. Vance, he said :
G. P. Helen is married. R. H. Yes, I know.
G. P. Got a boy. R. H. I didn't know that.
G. P. Yes, she has, I see it. Positive.
158 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
A similar interpolation, irrelevant to what was being
talked about, occurred on March 17, 1897 :
G. P. Did you find out about Helen's boy ?
R. H. What Helen's boy ? [Difficulty {was} in deciphering
partly, but partly because I thought of my sister
Ellen's boy.]
G. P. Vance.
R. H. No, not yet.
G. P. Aren't you slow ?
In this case, then, we have a misleading track starting
from the name Forrest 1
leading through Helen to Captain
Burlington. Rector may, through his own experience as
intermediary, have been acquainted with this track as far
as " Helen." G. P. had all the associations. But how did
Rector get to the name of that false and futile communicator
Captain Burlington 1 That name relatively to Mr. Richard
Forrest was irrelevant ; as indeed were several other names
mentioned at his sittings, but these may have been mere
guesses, which " Captain Burlington " clearly was not.
1
How the name Forrest was arrived at we do not know. It may, of
course, have been telepathic ; but as Mrs. Piper was staying in Sir Oliver
Lodge's house at the time, and the sittings were held there, it is almost
impossible to be sure that the name had not leaked out through some channel
or other and become normally known to her.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 159
CHAPTER V.
Communicators.
In this chapter we have to consider the soi-disant personalities
called by Hodgson indirect communicators ;
personages
whose appearance or statements are described by the con-
trol—by Phinuit, G. P., Rector, Hodgson, etc. ; or for whom
the control acts as intermediary or amanuensis, professing
to repeat as exactly as he can what they say. It is in this
way, for the most part, that the friends of sitters communi-
cate with them,1
and communicators (like controls in the
trance proper) always profess to be spirits of persons who
have lived on earth and died—unless indeed we stretch the
meaning to include pet animals whose spirits are in one or
two cases described.
It will be well to approach the study of communicators
as we did that of controls, from the point of view of their
own theories, and to examine what they and the controls
tell us about the process of communicating. They agree
that it is by no means simple and easy. There are many
difficulties to be overcome, and these difficulties are repre-
sented as accounting for much of the failure in getting
clear and satisfactory communications.
(1) A first difficulty is that, though the communicator
is not in control, he is liable—to use Hodgson's words
(Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 401)—to suffer from " bewilder-
1
This is true, speaking generally, and especially true of the Phinuit
regime. It is less true apparently of the early years of writing sittings.
Hodgson says (Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 293) :
" If writing occurs at any
sitting it usually purports to come directly from some deceased friend of the
sitter," and (p. 331), " Since the development of the automatic writing,
most communicators have made some attempt to express their thoughts
directly through this channel."
160 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
ment " produced " by his relation to the '
light.' " Some-
times this is described as a difficulty in breathing. For
instance, on March 30, 1904, Hodgson and a sitter being
present, and Hodgson recording :
Sitter. How far away do I seem from you ?
Communicator. As I would express it were I in the body you
seem about ten feet. If I could only come a little
closer I should U.D. better what your expressions
are. But they won't allow me to come any nearer
just now. They say I could not do so well because
I could not breathe.
A year later—March 27, 1905—-the same communicator,
whom I will call John, observed :
I am talking as it were through a thick fog and it
often suffocates me.
The difficulty is sometimes expressed in terms of mental
bewilderment—as by Bennie Junot on June 20, 1899 (see
Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 377) :
I have no bother unless I try to speak, then it all
goes away from me before I have a chance to say
it.
Or again, on May 2, 1905, by the communicator John
quoted above, whose friends questioned him a good deal
about the process of communication :
John. I find my thoughts become clouded at times
especially when I am trying to recall experiences
and narrate them at the same time. I often feel
confused and long to leave here for a few
moments in order to refresh myself. You have no
idea how pleased I am to see you in this way.
However it is rather confusing and I find my
thoughts often wandering when I am trying to
speak.
$ $
Sitter. Why is it that you can talk away so glibly and clearly
as you are doing now about the conditions, but the
moment I want you to give a correct and detailed
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 161
account of some incident in your life you become
confused ?
John. That is easy enough to U.D. and if you will take the
trouble to put your question to Mr. Pelham he will
soon explain it to your satisfaction. I will explain
briefly, as I U.D. it.
I come here delighted with the thought of seeing you.
The moment I enter this atmosphere I find the
incident I have on my mind suddenly leaves me.
I have to get some one here to take my place for a
few moments until I collect my thoughts again so
to speak.
Another thing which confuses me greatly is your lack
of U.D. the incidents to which I refer which have
been 1
so completely registered on my mind. Besides
I always feel the presence of some one else with
you which prevents me from expressing my thought
clearly.
Sitter. And . . . you see, J ,
you are talking finely and
like a book now, but the moment you turn to give
your memories your talk becomes seemingly crazy.
John. It is the most exasperating thing on our side
to give clearly our earthly recollections. It is like
a wild panorama before us when speaking in this
way especially when giving detailed accounts of our
earthly experiences.
To this category of difficulties belong expressions like " It
is hard to come into the light sometimes " (see Proceedings,
Vol. XXIV., p. 462), or " wait until I pass through the
light " (same volume, p. 380), or " the Good Priest is
helping me to keep my thoughts clear " (same volume,
p. 390).
The mind-wandering theory is recognised by Hodgson
when speaking to communicators, and on one occasion
(October 13, 1902)—when H. Sidgwick is communicating
through Rector and offering specific alleged but erroneous
recollections, after having been told that previous statements
were wrong—he says :
1
The word " been " omitted at first and added above.
L
162 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H. Do not hurry. Would it not be better for you to
think of some special private incidents between
yourself and Mrs. Sidgwick and go over in memory
one of these again and again so that you could
automatically reproduce it here, even should your
mind wander while communicating ?
H. S. Possibly. I will try this especially.
Rector. Gone. This spirit seems weak, when trying to speak.
It is to be regretted that Hodgson did not try to test the
theory in this case by seeing whether the specific things
stated when under the influence of mind wandering were
or were not subsequently remembered and reaffirmed.
The effort of communicating is said to exhaust the com-
municator as well as the control (see e.g. Proceedings, Vol.
XXIII., p. 180, at the end of a sitting, " He is here, but
he is getting weak"). On account of this exhaustion, the
communicator during a long communication sometimes
goes out to " get his breath," to " refresh himself." This
happened twice, for instance, during a long conversation
between Miss A. M. R. and a communicating friend on
May 24, 1904. He says :
I have got to go out a moment—you will excuse me
—I must go out for a little change. My thoughts begin
to wander, and if I stayed you would be displeased
with my wandering thoughts, so I will just go out and
get refreshed and return instantly.
{After silence for perhaps a minute he returns}
The second time he thus went out another communi-
cator took his place for a short time,1
which is a way the
situation was often dealt with. 2
1
On returning, the first communicator here says about the second : " 1
met Mr.- and he told me he just wanted to speak to you a moment while
I was refreshing myself, so I said '
go ahead and ask Rector if you can
get in.'
"
2
For other instances of fatigue and resting, see Proceedings, Vol. XXII.,
p. 338 : "I am too [weak] to tell it to-day. My thoughts wander . . .
good-bye " ; p. 339 :
" Wait until he rests and I will get it clearer " {G. P.
then communicates and afterwards MyersP returns} ; p. 360 :
" Oh yes
do while I can hear you clearly " ; and Vol. XXIII., pp. 7, 8, 11, 89, 95,
etc., also below, pp. 198, 545.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 163
(2) A second hindrance to communication arises from the
difficulty the control as amanuensis has in hearing or
understanding the communicator. I say " hearing
"
because the process is generally so spoken of, and the
details of such descriptions as are given are generally in
terms of sound. We cannot, however, suppose that com-
munication either between two discarnate spirits or centres
of consciousness, or between a discarnate spirit and one
occupying the organism of the medium is by air waves
impinging on physical organs of hearing. Such communi-
cation must be telepathic, since the ideas must be trans-
mitted otherwise than through organs of sense,1
and if the
control thinks he hears the communicator, his perception
must be hallucinatory. Nevertheless, it will be convenient
to discuss the alleged difficulties of communication in the
terms in which the controls present them to us, and this
is for the most part in terms of hearing.
It may be remarked, however, that there are some things
which suggest seeing rather than hearing ;
e.g. on March
19, 1900 {Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 416), Bennie Junot
says through Rector or G. P. :
You should see the kindly men who are teaching me
how to find the way to speak clearly. * * * here my
words form in the Gloria and they speak them out for
me. {' Gloria '
is a new word, and Rector on being asked
says Bennie means by it 'the light.'}
Again, an error on June 2, 1907, does not appear like
one due to mishearing (Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., p. 254).
Myersp communicating through Rector ends a sentence :
in order to make it still more de finite
{Myersp apparently in some way becomes aware that
" de finite " has been written thus in two words, and
remonstrates, at any rate Rector says :
}
All right, I will. I am sorry. Rector, {and continues
for Myersp :
}
Yes definite I registered a star, etc.
1
As remarked in Chapter IV., the controls themselves on various occa-
sions tell us that spirits converse by thought (see p. 132 and Appendix to
Chapter IV., p. 518).
164 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
When Rector, on March 6, 1907, says about an attempt
of his to draw a triangle, " I tried to draw it as he," i.e.
Myersp, "made it" (Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 71), he
means, I imagine, that MyersP was drawing a triangle for
him to copy. Sometimes, moreover, the control is repre-
sented as imitating the communicator's gestures as well as
his words. For instance, on May 24, 1904, Miss A. M. R.
reports the communicator as saying through Rector in the
voice sitting already quoted from :
If the eye was opened to the spiritual and you could
see me as I stand here talking with you, you could see
every gesture I make, which is copied by Rector. He
imitates me as I speak with you.1
Whatever the significance of these passages may be, how-
ever, there is no doubt that the usual view of the process
expressed by both communicators and controls is that one
speaks and the other hears. But it appears that the hear-
ing is liable to be imperfect and the speaking indistinct.
" You see she has a peculiar voice and it is difficult to hear
all she says," says G. P. of a communicator on June 26, 1894
(see Proceedings, Vol. XIV., p. 27). It appears also that
from some unexplained causes the sounds undergo some
change in travelling from communicator to control. Thus,
on February 23, 1904, Bennie Junot says through the control
(Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 587) :
I have to speak over the line to you and I cannot
always make the sounds audible to those to whom I
speak {i.e. the controls.}
On March 4, 1903, the following is recorded by Hodgson
1
In connection with this obtaining information from the communicator
by sight, compare the cases quoted below of the control having visual
hallucinations, and of communicators writing for the control to see
(pp. 181-186).
Compare also an incident on December 7, 1892, when Hodgson was
enquiring of Phinuit about the whereabouts of a lost young man.
Phinuit says, he is in Dakota. " R. H. How can you find out that ?
Ph. These letters are written right before me ; I can see them just as plain
as this. And another thing, he has got letters in a little desk before him
with that initial on top."
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 165
(a communicator has been struggling to give a pet name
through Rector) :
Rector. If thou couldst only realize the difficulties in registering
sounds thou wouldst U.D. my position. R.
R. H. Yes. I understand of course only in part. But . . .
R. E invariably when spoken by a spirit to me through
the light sounds like i and vice versa.
The difficulty of hearing a name is referred to again on
February 25, 1903 (see Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 555).
Vain attempts had been made to get a certain name, and
Hodgson, who was in charge of the sitting, interposed :
R. H. The name is not right, Rector. Better get George to
get it and not make the attempts on the machine
in this way to get the sounds registered when it is
so difficult.
Rectoe. We thank thee. We do not clearly see the registering
as thou dost. We repeat by sound and it tries us
sometimes to U.D.
The expedient here advocated by Hodgson of bringing
an experienced communicator like G. P. to help an inex-
perienced one in making Rector understand was one often
adopted, but it, of course, adds another wheel to the
complicated machine. For examples, see the Appendix,
pp. 520-524, also Chapter VII., p. 289.
The control's difficulty in hearing is somewhat differently
stated in the following extract from a voice sitting of June
30, 1902 (sitter and recorder, G. B. D.) :
[Rector has difficulty in getting the word '
broader,'
and afterwards explains to me :]
Sometimes friend, when I hear a word I hear two words
which convey the same meaning
* * * *
Some mortals in the body, friend, wonder why these
communications are not continuous—I say this, Rector
—
they would not think so if they had to deliver them,
let me assure you, friend. They come intermittently and
brokenly—Owing to the registering of the thoughts it is !
I get their replies and sayings through the vibrations.
166 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
With this again we may compare the following message
from Myersp on June 2, 1907, quoted in Proceedings, Vol.
XXIII., p. 253 :
Rectob. Myers will open first this day. He says when messages
come from him he understands that the language
is not always as he would speak it, but it gathers
so much on the way when it is being transmitted
it sometimes loses its natural tone. Understand ?
And also the following extract from the sitting of July 11,
1904 (sitter and recorder, Hodgson). The communicator
" John " says through Rector writing :
I heard Miss talking with George but whether
he used his own expression or hers I cannot say. * *
You forget * * that oftentimes our words travel a long
distance before they are registered at all and when they do
they lose much of their significance. You seem to think we
are just close to you when we are speaking but this is
not so really.
Confusion caused by spirits talking to each other, and
the control not distinguishing the words intended for him,
is mentioned on July 6. 1904 (see Appendix, p. 526-7). And
Bennie Junot complains on February 19, 1901 (see Proceed-
ings, Vol. XXIV., p. 463) of interruptions by other spirits.
He says to his mother :
My mistakes are not due to lack of memory on my
part or lack of love for you, but due to a misunder-
standing on the part of the good man {i.e. Rector} who
is good enough to repeat my words to you and other
spirits who sometimes interrupt me when I am speaking.
Instances of remarks of spirits to each other or of the
controls' own remarks to spirits being written down, acci-
dentally as it is sometimes alleged, are not infrequent,
and instances have been quoted in preceding chapters.1
Poor Rector, it seems, suffered from yet another diffi-
culty in following the communicator's remarks, for he told
1
E.g. pp. 89, 92, 133, 137. See also pp. 184, 399.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 167
Hodgson on May 25, 1904, that he had partly lost his
understanding of earthly language. He said :
I have not after so many so called years in spirit life
—not a complete U.D. of the earthly words therefore I
may not comprehend readily their meaning.1
Other descriptions of the control's difficulties in getting
hold of the communicator's messages will be found in the
Appendix, pp. 524-528.
An added difficulty for the control in reporting the com-
municator correctly occurs, one must suppose, when the
former, absorbed in " registering," does not attend to the
meaning of what the communicator says or to the remarks
of the sitter to which the communicator replies. Rector
represents this as occurring on April 12, 1897, when he
was acting as amanuensis for G. P. (sitter and recorder,
Hodgson). Hodgson had been speaking to G. P. about an
incident concerning which Myers had written to him,
namely, the apparition of Hodgson's double to the medium
with whom Myers was experimenting in England. G. P.
suggested an explanation which did not commend itself to
Hodgson. Hodgson continued :
R. H. Well, now, let me ask Rector himself if he knows any-
thing about the incident of which Myers wrote.
G. P. Yes, certainly.
R. H. Well what do you know ?
Rectoe. You wish to speak with me ?
R. H. Yes. I wish to ask you the question which I have
been asking George, and I want him to listen also
to your reply.
Rector. Repeat kindly. When I am speaking for some other
spirit, I do not
R. H. follow the sense particularly. [Hand assents]
{When the incident is explained to Rector he says he
knows nothing about it.}
In Hodgson's sittings during the Imperator regime failure
to make communications clear to the control is generally,
1
For further passages from this sitting describing Rector's difficulties
see Appendix to Chapter II., p. 429.
168 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
I think, attributed to want of skill or experience in the
communicator ; but in England in 1907 denseness on the
part of Rector, arising it would seem from stupidity or
ignorance, seems to be assumed as a cause of failure in
getting communications through to the sitter.
Thus MyerSp says, on June 2, 1907 (Proceedings, Vol.
XXIII., p. 255)
:
Do you realise how difficult it is to receive your words
{presumably certain Greek words} and translate them
clearly to Rector, who understands nothing of what I am
trying to tell him ?
On May 7, 1907 (Proceedings, Vol. XXII. , p. 391) :
You understand the difficulties in quoting to Rector
who must repeat for me.
And on May 6, 1907 (Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 383) :
It is very clear to me my only difficulty is in making
it quite clear to R{ector}
In speaking thus plainly about " good old Rector,"
through Rector himself, MyersP was, perhaps, counting on
his " not following the sense particularly." Compare also
a remark of G. P.'s on March 6, 1907, quoted above, p. 105.
It will have been noticed that the distance the sounds
have to travel is sometimes spoken of as one cause of the
difficulty the control has in hearing the communicator
correctly, and under the next head it will appear as also
affecting the hearing of the sitter by the communicator.
What exact meaning is to be attached to the idea of
distance is as difficult to determine in the case of com-
municators as in that of controls (see above, Chapter IL,
pp. 65-67), and all the more because the statements made
about it are not very consistent. The distance of the
communicator is sometimes represented as varying, and
communication as being clear only when he is near.
Thus on April 20, 1897, Rector, apparently addressing the
communicator, writes :
Come a little closer to this [Hand beckons to spirit.]
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper 's Trance Phenomena. 169
On July 1, 1898, the communicator says :
I am coming to help my child if she will only hear
me. I am very far off. I want to reach her more
closely
On November 21, 1898, another communicator :
I am coming nearer and nearer and in a few minutes
I will be able to hear all you say to me.
At Bennie Junot's first appearance—June 19, 1899 (see
Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 356)—he is represented as
approaching :
Rector. We see among our friends here a young man who seems
dazed and puzzled. He is not near enough to us
for us to give him much help at the moment but
will be presently * * * George is here with him and
trying to urge him to come closer as . . . that he
may see into thy world more clearly.
Bennie (through Rector). I hear ... I hear something. Where
is my mother I want very much to see her. I
can breathe easier now.1
I want to go home now . . .
and take up my studies and go on. I see some one
who looks like my father * * * Father I hear
something strange . . . can it be your voice.
Communicators are represented as receding as well as
approaching. Thus on February 18, 1901 (Proceedings, Vol.
XXIV., p. 451), Bennie says :
I am getting . . . far away now.
* * * *
Rectok. Friend it will be better to ask him again when he is
nearer the light
And on March 2, 1903, Rector says about an exhausted
and unsuccessful communicator :
He is getting far away friend hope he will return refreshed.
1
This may refer to the suffocating effect of the " light," or to Bennie's
mis-recollection of his last illness as affecting his breathing (see Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 414). As a matter of fact, he died of con-
gestion of the brain.
170 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
In these cases distance and weakness seem to be
equivalent.
Sometimes, however, nearness does not seem to help much.
Thus on April 9, 1902, Rector, in a voice sitting, said to Mr.
Dorr :
This spirit, friend, is very, very close to me yet I
may not be able to catch all the sounds of the voice.
And sometimes distance seems to be no hindrance. For
an instance, see in Appendix to Chapter II., p. 427,
Mrs. H.'s account on June 3, 1903, of speaking over the
end of a cord, which, she thinks, is about a quarter of
a mile long. 1
When Hodgson asks whether she is a quarter
of a mile away, she replies, " about this distance, I should
say," and as she represents Rector as being in the medium's
body, this means a quarter of a mile from the control as
well as from the sitter. Nevertheless, her communication
was very clear. Her views on her position varied,
however, for on February 18, 1903, she had said through
Rector :
Mrs. H. Do you understand that I am looking into your face
now.
R. H. I wish I could see you.
Mrs. H. Can't you . .
It is worth observing that Rector seems to know nothing
about this quarter of a mile, for on June 8, 1903, only five
days after the statement about it was made, the following
conversation occurred about another communicator, K. F.,
who had made a sudden brief incursion during a sitting :
Rector. She has gone.
R. H. {with the statement of June 3rd in mind} Rector, was
she a quarter of a mile off ? [Hand listens as
though not understanding.] Was she a quarter of a
mile off ?
Rector. No she came down close to me. Here comes
again {after going "out a moment" to "think up
some of the things " he had seen}, rubbing his
hands over his forehead.
1
The full account is worth reading for the theory of communication.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 171
The communicator is undoubtedly constantly located in
the seance room and in a definite spot there, as on April 13,
1892, when Phinuit says about G. P. :
He is close by (pointing with hand) He has just passed
behind you. He is looking over Jim's shoulder * * *
He wants to write. I think he will come and take my
hand soon.
And the hand in a writing sitting constantly turns to
listen to the communicator as though standing close by,
just as it turns to listen to the sitter (compare Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XIII.. p. 399). Some communicators, how-
ever, never seem to get near. Thus on January 21, 1902,
H. Sidgwick is said to be " some distance from the light
which accounts for the apparently weak speech."
Some of the statements quoted suggest that the ideas of
the trance personalities about the position and distance of
the communicator depended partly, at least, on whether
he was conceived at the moment as speaking in the usual
way or as speaking as by a telephone, which is, I
suppose, the idea implied in " speaking over a cord."
And a further complication is introduced by the meta-
phorical use of distance, to which I called attention in
Chapter II., pp. 65-66, and which should possibly be assumed
in some of the statements about the position of communi-
cators quoted above. In the following instance on March
26, 1902, the ideas of distance and of bewilderment from
entering the sphere of the light seem to be combined :
Communicator. If I seem far off or at times bewildered it is
not because I am really so but owing to the con-
ditions into which I enter while impressing [speak-
ing ? ]
The word " seems " again in the following passage
(Proceedings, Vol. XIV., p. 25) suggests distance ha a
metaphorical sense. The sitting took place on June 25,
1894, and G. P., asked if he could give the communicator's
name, replied :
I'll ... I don't believe it because I can scarcely hear
her, she seems so far away.
172 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
The alleged relation of communicators to the bodily
organism of the medium (discussed below, pp. 187-192) makes
the meaning to be attached to distance still more difficult
to disentangle.
The presence or absence of spirits from the immediate
neighbourhood is sometimes spoken of apart from the
question of hearing them speak. Thus on January 2, 1907,
the following conversation between himself and Rector
(writing) is reported by Mr. Piddington :
J. G. P. Could I speak to Myers now ?
R. I'll see if I can see him about
I'll send for him wait (Pause—hand moves about
enquiringly.) he will be here presently. I believe
he has gone to see if he can see Miss Johnson at
the other [" Light " is the obvious completion of
the unfinished sentence.]
(Agitated movement of hand.)
Here he is. Speak.
Spirits are, I think, never conceived by the trance
personalities as otherwise than in space, and on April 5,
1897, we find it expressly stated (by George Eliot) that
"it is impossible for individual spirits to be in more than
one place at a time." An approximation to this is, how-
ever, suggested on one occasion by the communicator
whom I have called Mrs. H., who on July 2, 1904,
claimed a " sixth sense of double consciousness," as
follows :
R. H. What new senses have you ?
Mrs. H. I have in every way the same that I had when in
the body with the additional sixth sense of double
consciousness. For instance when I am speaking
with you, I am speaking with some one else at the
same time with another consciousness
(3) Returning to the difficulties of communication, a third
impediment is due to the communicator's difficulty in hear-
ing the sitter. About this the information given us varies.
On April 7, 1897, George Eliot controlling says to Hodgson
about the communicator :
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 173
Friend, this lady hears you, as is not usually the case.
And the following remark by G. P. on June 24, 1894 (see
Proceedings, Vol. XIV., p. 34), suggests indirect hearing :
G. P. Do you see these people.
R. H. No, George, not we.
G. P. Why is it possible when they are so near, yet I know
you do not, yet it seems as though you must . . .
Yes . . she says this distinctly and is still coming
nearer and now requests you to speak.
W. R. N. Can she hear me ?
G. P. I can and I am the telephone.
Nevertheless, it is generally assumed that the communi-
cator does hear the sitter directly as the control does,
though perhaps with more difficulty. And the statement
that the communicator is expected to hear is often
explicitly made. Thus on June 22, 1895, Professor
Newbold reports G. P. as saying (Proceedings, Vol. XIV.,
p. 37) :
Here is Stainton Moses, do you wish to see him % Well,
now let me give you a bit of advice. Speak slowly and
distinctly, making sure that you articulate properly, or in
other words well * * * then he will answer to me all
questions distinctly. You see he is talking to me now.
A conversation followed in which G. P. apparently acted
as amanuensis, though shortly afterwards Stainton Moses
seems to have " controlled " himself. On March 3, 1903,
in a conversation quoted in the Appendix, p. 530, the com-
municator says to the sitter, " I heard you splendidly, that
time my dear."
The Bennie Junot sittings offer several clear examples of
the communicator hearing the sitter, and of the difficulties
that occur. Thus on March 28, 1900 {Proceedings, Vol.
XXIV., p. 426), Bennie says to Hodgson :
Bennie. Do you hear me or do you see me or how do you do ?
R. H. {Explains how a writing sitting is conducted.}
Bennie. Well that is queer too because I hear you and I see
you very clearly.
174 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
On June 28, 1904 (Vol. XXIV., p. 608), Bennie says to
his brother :
I hear every word you say R but Helen got her
words so mixed I could not U.D. very well
On November 20, 1905 {Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 655),
Bennie says to his father :
I U.D. every word you say dad you speak so clearly. I
wish I could speak to you that way.1
The communicator " John " said on January 16, 1905,
through Rector as amanuensis :
Let me first explain to you that I am not a long way
off
2
and that although I speak to another spirit who
takes my words to you I do see you dear and I hear
your voice.
Again on March 12, 1907, when Hodgsonp was communi-
cating through Rector, E. M. S., replying to a remark of
his, said :
E. M. S. I am very glad, Mr. Hodgson. Will you tell him so,
Rector ?
Rector. Yes he U.D. what you say.
Rector makes what seems a very explicit statement
1
There is a curious conversation on November 21, 1905, between
Bennie and his mother concerning communication between them when
no medium is present (Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 659). Mrs. Junot says :
" When I think of you, does it bring you to me ? Bennie : Almost invari-
ably and is a great help. * * * Every thought is registered upon what
you call air it is ether really, and your thought waves reach me just
as mine do you. U.D. Mrs. J. : Yes Bennie I understand. But are both
good and evil thoughts registered ? Bennie : Evil thoughts become puri-
fied by the ether before they reach us.'' For registering of thoughts,
compare Rector on June 30, 1902 (see above, p. 165). Selection
among thoughts by the ether, as spoken of by Bennie, based on the
significance of what is said as well as on its sound, seems to open
the way to much possible misrepresentation and confusion !
2
It will be remembered that John said six months earlier :
" You seem
to think we are just close to you when we are speaking, but this is not so
really " (see above, p. 166).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 175
about all the sitter's words being heard by the com-
municator on February 26, 1902, when he says to the
sitter, who has been explaining her want of certainty
as to the communicator being really what he claims
to be :
Remember friend if statements appear which seem inco-
herent and unsatisfactory it is in part due to the over-
anxious state of his {the communicator's} own mind also.
And remember doubting on thy part doth not improve
matters. Not one word from thy mortal lips escapeth
him or his hearing especially when he is not speaking
himself.
Some further instances of the hearing, but imperfect
hearing, of the sitter by the communicator will be found
in the Appendix, pp. 528-533, and it is perhaps unnecessary
to multiply examples further.
It may be well to call attention here to the fact that the
control's difficulty in hearing the sitter is represented as
similar in kind to that of the communicator. Thus on
April 1, 1897 (when no communicator is concerned),
Rector says to Hodgson, who is recording and has been
complaining of indistinct writing :
We hear ofttimes your voice in the same way, indis-
tinctly. At times the words sound very distant, and we
do not grasp what you are saying.
(4) In writing sittings a fourth source of confusion in
communicating arises from the difficulty the sitter is liable
to have in reading the writing, which is never good and is
worse at some times than at others, and which is apt to
be worst of all in giving names or statements that might
be evidential. Rector on March 27, 1905, asserts that he
writes one word over another and so forth, because he
finds it impossible " to listen and register carefully at
the same moment although " he tries "to do so at all
times." Also he says on April 29, 1907, " perhaps you
will read better next time * * * I can't register unless
you U.D. well " {Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 164).
176 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
With the process of communicating bristling in this way
with difficulties real or alleged, it is, of course, easy to find
excuses for the frequent failures of communicators. The
question is, Are these excuses valid ? We know that there
are genuine communications—this paper is, as already
stated, based on this assumption—and their imperfection is
doubtless due to difficulties of some sort in communi-
cation, whether the controls' account of the nature of the
difficulties is correct or not. But there are other cases
where it is quite certain that the communicator is not
what he professes to be, and where the communications
are false or worthless. I think hardly any one well
acquainted with the facts would deny this ; but it is
never admitted by the controls, who try to explain away
even the worst failures. We are, therefore, obliged to
assume that all their elaborate statements about the
difficulties may either be consciously fabricated to cover
up failure, or be a form of self-deception to account for it
to themselves.
At this point it will be desirable to give instances of false
communicators. I referred at the end of Chapter IV. to
one bad failure—that of the supposed Captain Burlington
—which may serve as a specimen, and in the Appendix
(p. 533) will be found another case, from Hodgson's records
(in 1902), of dissatisfaction with the communicator
strongly expressed by a sitter, Mrs. E., and commented
on by Rector. The full record of the sittings on which
Mrs. E. comments certainly seems to bear out what she
says. I may add that she expresses well the impression
produced on me by a good many sittings. As a specimen
I give, in the Appendix, p. 536, the record of one at which
I was myself present as recorder in 1907. HodgsonP was
the communicator, and he apparently failed to recognise
the sitter, an intimate friend of Hodgson's in life, or to
understand any clues she gave him, so that it is very diffi-
cult to suppose that his claim to be Hodgson was justified.
Yet—and it is for this reason that I have chosen this par-
ticular example—in the midst of all the confusion and the
feeling about for facts and indications, occurs a flash of
supernormal perception, or so it appears, in the form of
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs, Piper's Trance Phenomena. 177
part of a cross-correspondence. 1
Another variety of failure
(on December 19, 1898) is referred to in Chapter III.,
p. 108, a propos of the blame being thrown on Rector. In
this case it is difficult to make out whether the control
regards any one communicator as having tried to express
himself, or whether crowds of relations and friends are
represented as having been clamouring incoherently.
We are not, however, limited to inference from the failure
of communicators for evidence that they are sometimes not
what they profess to be, for Dr. Stanley Hall in 1909 took
a short cut to positive evidence by deceiving the control
Hodgsonp ,
2
and asking for a niece, Bessie Beals, who had
never existed, but who was nevertheless produced at several
sittings. She said little at first, but communicated more
fully by the third sitting, and connected specific memories
with the sitter—mainly, though not entirely, such as might
be suggested by his statements and questions. When in
the end Dr. Hall told HodgsonP that he (Hall) had been
deceiving him, and that there was no such person as
Bessie Beals, Hodgsonp maintained her reality. The
following is the report of the conversation (Studies in
Spiritism, p. 254) :
Dr. Hall. Well, what do you say to this, Hodgson. I asked
you to call Bessie Beals, and there is no such
person. How do you explain that ?
Hodgsonp
. Bessie Beals is here, and not the —
{Note by Miss Tanner.}
[At this point we laughed and I made some remark
to the effect that that was just what we had
said Hodgson would do, and the hand continued
thus,]
1
The cross-correspondence on " Cup " described by Mr. Piddington in
Proceedings, Vols. XXII., p. 179 ;
XXV., p. 304. There is also some reason
to think that the communicator showed knowledge of the name of the sitter's
husband (see Vol. XXII., pp. 186, 188). For other almost certainly false
communicators, see Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 37-42 and 57.
2
Studies in Spiritism, p. 171, etc. Dr. Hall's investigation, intended
to be limited in duration and scope, did not impose on him any need of
retaining the confidence of the trance personalities (see above, Chapter I.,
pp. 13-14).
M
178 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PART
HodgsoNj,. I know a Bessie Beals. Her mother asked about her
before. Mother asked about her before.
Dr. Hall. I don't know about that, Hodgson. Bessie Beals is
a pure fiction.
Hodgsonp
. I refer to a lady who asked me the same thing
and the same name.
Dr. Hall. Guess you are wrong about that, Hodgson.
Hodgsonp . Yes, I am mistaken in her. I am mistaken. Her
name was not Bessie, but Jessie Beals. 1
We can only say about this explanation that it is not
plausible. Like G. P.'s explanation of the appearance of
the false Imperator (see above, p. 90)—also a communi-
cator, by the way—it breaks down over the details of the
communication. Dr. Hall might accidentally have hit on
the name of a previous communicator, but it is very
unlikely that this communicator would have had memories
appropriate to Dr. Hall's fictions and have admitted him
as her uncle.
It must, then, be admitted that some communicators are
not genuine, while other communicators offer evidence of
identity which, if it does not necessarily come from the
spirits they claim to be, at least shows knowledge of those
spirits which cannot have reached Mrs. Piper's mind by
normal means. This being so, is it possible to find a
formula which will express the relation to the control of
all communicators—both successful and unsuccessful ? Are
they or are they not essentially different ? Is the unsuc-
cessful communicator a figment of the control's imagina-
tion, while the successful communicator is an independent
entity ? If so, can we draw a definite line between them ?
Are we to judge a communicator, rej)resenting himself as
the same, to be on some days a figment and on others
an independent centre of consciousness, according as he
is unsuccessful or successful in producing a plausible
semblance of the person he professes to be ? And if the
communicator is a figment, is the control conscious of it, or
1
It is noticeable that notwithstanding this explanation Mrs. Piper seems
to have seen Bessie Beals in the waking-stage of this sitting. " Hello
—
there's Bessie," she said (op. cit., p. 257).
»
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 170
is he himself deceived ? In other words, what is the
degree of independence of control and communicator ?
Are two more or less independent centres of consciousness
involved ; whether consciousnesses of separate individuals
or different centres of consciousness of Mrs. Piper ? Or
is the communicator a dream or hallucination of the
controls 1 Or is the dramatic presentation of him pure
play-acting by the control ?
There is no doubt that the dramatic distinction between
control and communicator was in general maintained with
much consistency, though there were cases—as is natural,
perhaps, on any hypothesis—in which it was difficult for
the sitter to distinguish between them. In general, control
and communicator each plays his appropriate part at
sittings where both are stated to be present, and some-
times incidents occur which show that to each is at least
attributed an independent memory. For instance, on
March 26, 1902, Hodgson tells Rector at the beginning
of the sitting that it is intended to ask the expected
communicator, whom I will call Phil, to find in the other
world a Mr. Hackley, and explanations are given as to
who Mr. Hackley is and why it is desired to get into
touch with him. This was before Phil was supposed to
be present. When later in the sitting Phil himself, who
is communicating through Rector, is spoken to about it
he appears not to know who Mr. Hackley is, and the
explanation has to be given over again.
But it is difficult to find anything in all this beyond the
scope of acting. The dramatic form might be assumed, and
what we want to know is whether it is ever anything more
than the way in which the control chooses to present what
he has to say. We want to know whether the control ever
really feels the communicator to be a being with a con-
sciousness and a will independent of his own, and whether,
when he attributes to him a bodily form and a definite
position in space, he really seems to himself to see him ;
and, similarly, whether when the communicator is repre-
sented as speaking, the control ever really seems to himself
to hear him. If the externality from the control's point of
view is established, we must further ask to what extent
180 Mrs. Henry Sidgioich. [pabt
if at all, it is reciprocal. Is there ever a separate con-
sciousness which in any degree feels itself to be actually
taking the part in the drama which the control attributes
to the communicator ? Or are the control's perceptions
merely hallucinations—representations of its own ideas
veridical or otherwise ? For if the communicator does seem
to the control external to itself, as our dream personages
often do, this would, of course, not solve for us the
question whether it is anything really external. A Bessie
Beals might appear as real as a G. P. to the control. And,
on the other hand, if the whole dramatic form were play-
acting, it might still be the framework in which veridical
communications come to us. In fact, the question of what
is the nature of the communicator as dramatically pre-
sented to us, is distinct from the question whether there
is any real communicator in the background. A real com-
municator—say G. P.—might be the source of information
displayed, and even the model for its dramatic presenta-
tion, without being either an actor in the drama presented
to us or in any way responsible for it.
It will simplify matters if we concern ourselves for the
present only with what I may call the dramatic communi-
cator and his true relation to the control. We may put the
question as to what the control's impressions are in the
form : Does the trance control see and hear the communi-
cator with the same degree of externalisation that Mrs.
Piper evidently does in the waking-stage ? The externalised
quality of the waking-stage visions is, as will be seen in the
next chapter, so manifest that it gives us a useful standard
of comparison. I think it hardly possible that any one
should read records of waking-stage visions without
realising that to the seer they are entirely objective—that
she really believes herself to be seeing and hearing, as
outside herself, what she describes. I am quite sure that
no one could be present during a waking-stage of any
importance without realising it. There is no acting
about it any more than there is in the hallucinations
of delirium, or, for that matter, than there is in our
ordinary dreams.
The trance controls are more sophisticated than the
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 181
waking-stage Mrs. Piper. On any hypothesis as to what
they are, we can hardly, after what we have seen in
previous chapters, exonerate them from a tendency to act
a part (even if they believe it to be their own part), and
to make what they affirm about their experiences conform
to a theory. It is therefore much more difficult to feel
sure that when they speak of a communicator as external
to and independent of themselves, as occupying a definite
position in space, and so forth, they are expressing the
simple truth as it appears to them at the moment.
Nevertheless, I think there is sometimes evidence, apart
from their assertion, pointing to its being true, even
allowing for good acting. Such evidence is naturally
more easy to find in voice sittings, when—the whole
upper part of the body coming into play—a greater range
of expression is possible than in writing sittings.
Perhaps the most striking case is one given in Hodgson's
first report on Mrs. Piper (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp.
104-5). The sitting took place on December 28, 1888,
and the sitter and recorder was the Rev. W. H. Savage,
brother of the Rev. Minot J. Savage. Phinuit was, as
usual in those days, controlling, but in his notes, contrary
to the custom that has been usually adopted, Mr. Savage
speaks of Phinuit as Mrs. Piper, and uses the feminine
pronoun. He reports as follows :
After several remarkable sayings she {i.e. Mrs. Piper
as Phinuit} suddenly said " Ah ! Here is somebody
from outside—he says his name is Robert West.1
He
wants to send a mesage to your brother." Then, after
a moment, " I wrote an—he is writing it and I am
reading for you—an AR-TI- article A-G-A against his
W- work in the AD-V- Advance. What the dickens is
the Advance V I said "It is a paper." * * * I said to her
" Can you see him ?
" " Yes " she replied. " How does
he look ?
" I asked. " He has greyish blue eyes, a beard,
a rather prominent nose, a firm mouth, a large forehead,
and he brushed his hair up, so," brushing my hair with
1
Robert West, as we learn from Hodgson's report, had previously
communicated directly and indirectly for another sitter, Miss E. G. W.
182 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
her hand, to show the fashion of his. " He is of medium
build, rather tall." * * *
{So far is quoted from the account of the sitting written
on the same day. The following was added by the sitter
on July 5, 1890.}
When Mrs. Piper began speaking of Mr. West, she turned
with a surprised look, as at an unlooked for interruption,
with the remark " Ah ! here is, etc." When I asked for
a description she turned in the same direction and said,
" Hold up your head and let me look at you." Then she
went on to describe as given in the statement.
It is a pity that these last touches, so important from
our present point of view, were not included in the
original record, but if we can trust the accuracy of Mr.
Savage's observation and memory, Mr. West must have
appeared to Phinuit as a realistic human figure capable
of movement and standing in the room. The appearance
must have been what we should have called, if Mrs. Piper
had had her eyes open (which she doubtless had not),
a waking visual hallucination. Whether it also affected
the sense of hearing is not clear, but the somewhat
unusual feature of writing by the communicator for the
control to see 1
suggests that it was not auditory.
Another instance of what appears to be a vision by
Phinuit of the communicator as standing in the room
occurred on March 18, 1892 (see Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
p. 558). Phinuit, who is talking for Ruthie, the baby
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Thaw, says :
" There she is
standing by Aleck. See!" and a little later remarks:
" Here's this little girl talks just as if she were alive."
Compare also Phinuit's description of G. P.'s position
on April 13, 1892, quoted above (p. 171), and the following
on April 22. 1892, as noted by Mrs. Howard :
[When George went out and stood beside Phinuit and
"rested" for a while {after controlling}, while Phinuit
was talking he (Phinuit) took up the little screen for
the lamp that G. had given me and turned it round
1
For an instance of this in a writing sitting, see extract from sitting
of April 20, 1897, Appendix, p. 544.
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 183
so that the flowers on it should be seen by anyone
standing behind him. He, Phinuit, then said " he is
much pleased that you brought this, he wants me to
hold it up so that he can see it, he is smiling " * * *
]
1
The localisation in the actual surroundings is less clear
in the following two cases, but the detailed description in
other respects makes up for this. The first is from Pro-
ceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 66-67. Hodgson, ' after reporting
a strikingly accurate description given by Phinuit on
January 20, 1888, of a peculiar mark in the colouring of
one of the eyes of his friend " Q," continues :
I asked Phinuit how he obtained the information
about the eyes. He said that " Q " was standing close
to him and showing him her right eye so that he could
see it clearly, and saying that that was what I wanted.
This peculiarity in the eye was what I had in mind
when I asked Phinuit for a detailed description of
"Q's" face.
The second is from Professor Newbold's paper (Proceed-
ings, Vol. XIV., p. 37), and is a description by Phinuit of
seeing W. Stainton Moses on June 22, 1895 :
Ph. Do you know Billie, George is talking to such a
funny looking man ; he has a long double coat with
a large collar and cape,—a long beard, large eyes
with drooping lids, [fairly shouts with laughter.]
George is shaking his fingers at me.2
Instances of Phinuit apparently seeing the medium's
spirit while he is controlling are given in Chapter II.,
e.g. " talking to an old lady "
(p. 68), " got an ugly
scowl on her "
(p. 69). Though this is not a halluci-
natory vision of a communicator, it is in some ways
analogous.
1
In this case, however, though Phinuit certainly describes G. P. as though
he saw him, he appears to locate him behind himself. For examples of
this kind of vision, see Proceedings. Vol. III., p. 114, and Vol. X., p. 90.
2
Professor Newbold tells us that this description of Stainton Moses
answers to the notion he had of him at the time, derived from portraits.
184 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
There is similar evidence for Rector as control in voice
sittings seeing the communicator as external to himself.
Thus on April 9, 1902, sitter and recorder G. B. D. :
[Hand stretched out and moves circling round.]
Rectoe. She passes round on that side.
Communicator. " I think I'll have to— "
G. B. D. What ?
Rector. I did not catch that friend. Oh, she comes back to
repeat it ; she says "I do not want you to lose
anything ! I was coming a little closer, going round
on the other side."
Earlier in the same sitting, Rector's language and
actions seem to show that he is really seeing a figure of
a lady, though whether she is a communicator or a
casual intruder is not clear from the extracts from the
record which are all we have. Rector had been speaking
for a male communicator, and the record proceeds thus :
[Rector to G. B. D.] His voice seems faint somehow.
[Rector, not to G. B. D.] Why of course I know you ! [Smiles
and then explains to G. B. D.] I just recognized
this lady. [As before to other personality] Why, I
was so absolutely [word lost] in what I was saying
that I did not really notice you. [To G. B. D.
again] There are two things of the utmost import-
ance, friend ; and those I will clear up, or endeavour
to do so, at our next meeting.
Again on June 17, 1902, sitter and recorder G. B. D , we
have :
R. This spirit is very near to me, friend.
G. B. D. What spirit ?
R. Thy brother. G. B. D. My brother ?
R Yes, there are three—thy father, thy mother, thy
brother, and just near, right behind thy mother,
is another lady. Would to God, friend, that thou
could see them as I can this minute !
There are no gestures of Rector reported in this last case,
and for this reason it resembles the kind of evidence fur-
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 185
nished in writing sittings, which, as already said, is usually
less strong for the reality of the externalised vision of the
communicator which the control professes to have. Still
there are instances in writing sittings where the circum-
stantial details given, or gestures of the hand alone, add
something to the mere statement that the communicator is
seen, and give an air of reality to the vision. We may take
as an example an incident on December 28, 1905 (see
Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., p. 7), during Hodgson's first
appearance after his death. Rector writing says of him :
He holds in his hand a ring . . . He is showing it to
you. Cannot you see it, friend ?
1
Two incidents on April 26, 1898, give a dramatically vivid
impression of externalised visions by the control—the second
being of a deceased pet dog. The control was a private
control, the young son of the sitters, Mr. and Mrs. B., and
Miss Edmunds was taking notes. The control's grand-
mother had been communicating, and the sitters had just
changed places and rearranged themselves. The record
continues :
Control, don't walk over Grandma, don't walk over Grandma
dear do not walk all over Grandma.
Sit tees. We are so sorry
Control. Yes dear all right now.
Sitters. We did that so that Papa could sit dowD more.
Control. I am so glad. Yes Bonnie Bonnie
Sitters. What Bonnie is that. What is that once more ?
[Hand pointed to Mr. B.]
Control. Paw on Papa. Paw on Papa.
Sitters. Have you something more to say to Papa ?
Control. Come here sir sit down and wait hold him Ruth
{control's dead sister} until I get through Mamma
Mamma come and see him as he looks now.
[" Bonnie " {the sitters note} was {control's} St.
Bernard dog. He had a habit, when sitting on his
haunches near one of us, of putting his paw up
1
Compare Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 71, where Rector writes of MyersF :
'
He holds up a circle."
186 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
against us for recognition. The " Come here sir
'
is very characteristic of {control}, and also Mrs.
Piper's hand as she beckoned the dog at the same
time. Bonnie died * * * a year after {control}
passed out, and since his death had not before been
mentioned at any sitting.]
Other examples of seeming externalisation in writing
sittings are given in the Appendix, pp. 544-546.
From the communicator also we get similar statements
defining the place in the room which he occupies. Thus
on April 15, 1898, the sitter having changed her place, the
communicator says through Rector writing :
Yes now you walked right over me Auntie . . . did
you not see me holding up my hand to you.
And again on January 28, 1907, when HodgsonP was
communicating through Rector writing, Mr. Piddington
got up suddenly to move something, whereupon HodgsonP
said :
Hodgsonp
. You must not step so near.
J. G. P. I'm so sorry ; I forgot.
Hodgsonp
. I am where you went then while I am speaking.
The following is also, perhaps, an instance—on February
26, 1902 :
Dearest do you know what I am doing here. I am
standing beside Rector telling him what to say for me.
Another example is given in the Appendix, p. 546. In
the present connexion, however, the value of what com-
municators say is difficult to estimate, for as we can
only know their sentiments through the controls, we can
hardly take what they say as evidence of separate and
independent consciousness of localisation.
Moreover, we must in any case be cautious in our inter-
pretation of mere description without action, even when
details are given, for they may be intended to be sym-
bolic and not to represent anything actually seen ;
as, for
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 187
instance, when the communicator, Isaac Thompson, says on
December 13, 1905 (see Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., p. 165) :
I hold this bottle in my hand for identification * * * I
had much to do with them when in your world.
The control in this case says nothing about seeing the
bottle.
In cases like those I have quoted, the control in the
trance proper, like Mrs. Piper in the waking-stage, seems
clearly to conceive a communicator outside itself with an
independent consciousness of its own and a definite position
in space. The control conceives itself as in occupation of
Mrs. Piper's body, and the communicator as outside that
body and with a body or semblance of a body of its own.
It sometimes sees the communicator and sometimes hears
him, and sometimes both.
But things occur at other times which are very diffi-
cult to reconcile with this conception of a communicator
in no way concerned with Mrs. Piper's organism—things
which, in fact, suggest either some confusion or fusion
between itself and the communicator in the mind of the
control, or some sort of joint control. One of these
things is that communicators are apt to affect the
handwriting. An example of this on December 2, 1898,
will be found in the Appendix, p. 528, and the follow-
ing on November 15, 1899, is a case in point. The sitter
and recorder was Hodgson, and Rector was the control
who acted as amanuensis. The trance-personages had
been prescribing for an absent lady who had asked for
medical advice, and, this being finished, the conversation
proceeds as follows :
.Rector. Unless thou hast further inquiries to make this day
we will release this directing spirit {presumably the
doctor} and pass on to other things
R. H. Yes, very good.
Rector. Gone.
Communicator. Could I speak a word. [This and the following
few sentences written slowly and crampedly as if
the hand was being restrained.] I think I know
188 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
you and I long to speak. {The communicator goes
on to explain that he is a recently deceased friend,
the father, in fact, of the lady for whom Imperator
and Co. have just been prescribing} * * *
R. H. 1 am so glad my dear Mr. D to receive your
greetings from your new world. All your dear
children have been hoping to hear from you through
this light.
Comme. I promised I would return to them, [excitement . in
hand becomes more marked]
R. H. Yes, Mr D . Mr D kindly keep very calm.
* * * Take your time and do not hurry. Think
quietly what you would like to tell me, what you
would like me to tell your children, and then
quietly, as you used to do, you remember, you
were quiet and calm in your thoughts and speech,
usually, just sweetly tell Rector and he will tell
me. [Writing begins again calm and regular, but
later shows restraint again.]
* * * *
Communicatoe {after further conversation} I want you to know
how I have been helped by your good friends
Rector Imperator and Prudens. When I told them
to let me speak they said thou shalt do so and
we will arrange for thee.
* * * *
Goodbye for the present
* * * *
[Slight disturbance in hand.]
Rector. Friend we have been preparing this friend for a meet-
ing with thee for some days, and as he will soon
be freer he will be clearer also. Listen, here is thy
mother and friend. [Pause.]
{Q. then communicates, and after she and Hodgson
have conversed for some time and she has taken
leave }
Rector. Friend the light is going. May God lead and protect
thee always. Farewell -f I.S.D. [R]
{Hodgson annotates as follows} : [The influence of the
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 189
communicators on the writing was very noticeable
in the case of Mr. and Q. The writing was
much restrained and in different ways. Thus when
Rector was writing for Q. the writing tended to
approximate to that produced in previous years
when Q was producing the writing directly herself.
But to-day apparently Rector was really the im-
mediate amanuensis.]
I take it on Hodgson's authority that Rector was
acting as amanuensis, for as he was present his means of
judging were better than ours are. But I confess that from
the record alone, omitting Hodgson's comment, I should
not have felt at all sure that Mr. D and " Q." were
not regarded by the trance consciousness as controlling
and writing for themselves. Either way they seem to be
conceived as in some way influencing the organism, for it
is difficult to suppose that cramped handwriting was
intended merely as an imitation of their manner. In
certain cases it is perhaps possible to suppose something
of the kind. When HodgsonP communicates, the hand-
writing is sometimes larger than when Myersp does (in
neither case is it like the handwriting of the supposed
communicator 1
), and it might be said that this is because
the control is trying with the hand to indicate Hodgson's
more boisterous manner.2
But a cramped handwriting
hardly seems a good way of imitating the manner of
Mr. D—— or of " Q." If deliberately adopted by the
control it can only be symbolic, not imitative ; and if
due to direct influence of the communicator on the writing,
then—if control and communicator are distinct conscious-
nesses—there is some sort of combined control.
An incident related in Miss Verrall's " Report on the
Junot sittings of Mrs. Piper" {Proceedings, Vol. XXIV.,
1
Some have thought that there was sometimes a faint approximation
to Myers's handwriting, which was known to the medium and had
some marked features.
2
On June 2, 1907 (see Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., p. 253) the small
handwriting appears to have been only adopted for Myersp when Rector
was writing for him in the first person, not when he was reporting
in the third person what he said.
190 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PAET
p. 530) illustrates the point still more clearly. It occurred
on February 23, 1903. Miss Verrall notes :
At this point with the appearance of Hugh Irving {Mr.
Junot's deceased black coachman}, the writing changes
and " there is a tendency to make extra curling loops
to the strokes." When the sitters complain of illegibility
{"owing to the curious looping"} Rector apologizes on
the ground that " he (that is H. I.) speaks queerly." It
appears that peculiarity of speech on the part of a
communicator is here represented by peculiarity of writing
on the part of the control.
This curly writing was used, it should be observed, only
during Hugh's first two remarks. When its illegibility is
remarked on, it is given up. Hodgson notes on his original
transcript that presumably Hugh gave these two sentences
direct to Rector, and that afterwards apparently G. P.
acted as intermediary—intermediary between Hugh and
Rector, I suppose he means. When Hugh had once
previously communicated (on February 11, 1902), no such
peculiarity in the handwriting seems to have appeared.
Sometimes the effect of excitement in the communicator
is represented as producing illegible writing on the part
of the control. The following extracts illustrate this and
also Hodgson's acceptance of the theory :
(Feb. 26, 1900.)
Hodgson recording for several sitters, friends of the com-
municator called above Phil. Rector writing.
[Writing very scrawly and not read at the time through-
out.]
R. H. Rector, please explain to Phil that he must be abso-
lutely calm. Otherwise the writing cannot be read.
We cannot possibly continue unless the writing is
better, and the machine will not produce this clearly
unless all is peaceful.
R. We . . . we . . . will call our leader. Wait for us.
[Slight pause. Writing resumes more slowly and
clearly.]
{Two days later. February 28, 1900, same sitters and
communicator.}
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 191
R. H. Rector, please, the writing seems to be deteriorating.
R. Well I am absorbed in his sayings which accounts
for it. I am anxious to keep him quite calm and
clear as I am giving all my attention to him. But
speak kind friend if I am not clear in my own
duty.
A similar fusion of control and communicator seems to
be implied when the communicator uses the hand for
purposes other than writing. An instance of its being
used to represent the communicator looking round the
room is given by Sir Oliver Lodge in Proceedings, Vol.
XXIII., p. 188. It occurred on November 12, 1906, at
one of the Isaac Thompson sittings in England, Mr. E.
Thompson being the recorder :
Mrs. Thompson. Can you remember this room ?
Commune. Give me time and I'll see. [Hand waves about and
seems to look round everywhere] Can it be the
nursery, Sue dear.
Mrs. T. Yes it's the old^nursery, where^we have been so often
together.
It might be asked in this case whether Isaac Thompson
was not himself controlling, but I think it is clear that
it is not so conceived by the trance personality. The full
record shows that Isaac Thompson said at the beginning :
" Remember if you cannot see me, I am standing here
beside you, impressing my thoughts upon this sensitive
plate"; and that a little later he complained of not being
able to make Rector write the pet name by which he
used to call one of his daughters. The sitters apparently
assumed throughout that Rector was controlling.
An instance of a more ambiguous kind is recorded by
Hodgson on April 8, 1903, as follows :
Commr. I had a red mole on my shoulder * * * I'll show
you . . .
[Hand touches over my left shoulder, and presses a
point at back.]
R. H. Back of left shoulder ?
Commr. Yes where Rector put his head.
192 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
R. H. " His hand."
Comme. head. Wait I'll watch him.
R. H. Yes. [Hand feels again in same place on my left
shoulder.]
Commr. Yes there.
This looks to me suspiciously like a change in the point
of view in the middle—the communicator beginning
by conceiving himself as touching the spot and then
remembering that it is not he but Rector who should
control the hand. There is perhaps a similar ambiguity
on March 26, 1902, when, as recorded by Hodgson, a
gesture of affection (this interpretation is mine) seems to be
made with the hand by the communicator. It is stated
that the " hand draws block book back and rests a moment
on wrist of sitter "—the sitter being the communicator's
father.
Another way in which the hand is affected by the com-
municator is seen when the latter's excitement is expressed
by movements of the hand. Perturbation of the hand is
often mentioned in the records, and often concerns, or may
concern, the control only—as, for instance, when it occurs
with a change of control or a change of communicator, or
when the control at length succeeds in grasping what the
communicator is trying to say, or perceives that the com-
municator has grasped some idea, 1
or when the sitter fur-
nishes a piece of information. But there are other times
when it is obviously the communicator's excitement which
is represented by the perturbation of the hand. For
instance, on December 13, 1905, at a sitting recorded
by Hodgson when Rector was the control and Isaac
Thompson the communicator (see Proceedings, Vol. XXIII.,
p. 166):
R. H. I am an old friend of Professor Lodge
Commr. LODGE.
R. H. Yes.
1
For examples, see Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 373, where Rector grasps
the name Abt Vogler, and Appendix, p. 533.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 193
Commr. What my old neighbour in L I V . . .
[Excitement in hand which cramps and twists about
somewhat.]
Rector. Calm friend. [Between spirits.]
Commr. L I
[Excitement stops the writing again.]
Commr. Drugs ... Do not go. Wait for me. LIVERSTOOL.
etc.
And further on in the same sitting :
R. H. I am interested in Psychical work and sent Mrs.
Piper many years ago to England,-—don't you
remember seeing Mrs. Piper ?
Commr. Piper ?
R. H. Yes and the [Perturbation in hand.]
Commr. Oh yes I remember Piper. Was Mrs. Piper a medium,
an American lady ?
In cases of the communicator affecting the movements of
the hand, whether in writing or otherwise, it seems probable
that the control is aware of the fact ;
indeed, he sometimes
clearly is. But the question remains, Does he consciously
exercise volition in the matter ? If not—if, for instance, he
is surprised when the hand goes through motions of looking
round the room, or when queer speaking results in queer
writing—there must either be a telepathic influence from
the communicator expressing itself through the control as
a " motor automatism," or there must be something of
the nature of joint control by two or more distinct centres
of consciousness. In either case something must happen
like what happens in automatic writing without trance,
when the normal consciousness of the writer is aware that
writing is going on, but not aware of directing it. It will
be observed that this joint control, if there be joint control,
is different from the divided control described in Chapter
II. There there was a division of the organism between
two controls ; Phinuit was said to occupy the head and
some other control the hand. In joint control, control
and communicator affect the same motor centres concerned
with the same hand and affect them simultaneously, so that
the action of the communicator modifies that of the control.
194 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
On the other hand, if the control is solely responsible for
the movements of the hand, he is playing a part. He is
apparently " trying to imitate " the communicator, as
Phinuit said to Dr. Thaw (see above, Chapter III., p. 82) ;
and as in a writing sitting action is limited to the hand, the
imitation becomes partly symbolic. But there is of course
yet another possible alternative. The appearance of in-
fluence by the communicator on the movements of the hand
may be an artifice more or less consciously employed by
the control to make the drama clearer to the sitter.
There is a passive form of apparent fusion of control and
communicator in connexion with Mrs. Piper's organism—
a
form not concerned with motor centres—of which the con-
trol is undoubtedly aware. This is the experiencing by the
control—so it is alleged—of the pain suffered by the com-
municator in his or her fatal illness. It is liable to happen
in voice sittings and at a communicator's first appearance
—
not, I think, at subsequent appearances. Controls also
sometimes suffer from a recurrence of their own pain (e.g.
the case referred to in the footnote to Chapter I., p. 26), and
this is sometimes represented as the result of association on
returning to earthly conditions. But it is not at all clear
why it should happen to the control when the person who
suffered was the communicator. Symptoms accurately re-
presented serve, of course, as evidence of identity, but for
evidential purposes description would generally serve as
well as acting—as in the case of " Kakie " Sutton (Decem-
ber 8, 1893, see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 485)—and in the
cases I now refer to the control represents himself as not
merely acting the part of a sufferer, but as suffering. A
good example of this is recorded in Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
p. 537, as having occurred on February 14, 1892, at Dr. and
Mrs. Thaw's first sitting, when their little girl Ruthie com-
municated through Phinuit. I give the relevant part of the
record in the Appendix, p. 548.
There is another variety in the relation between control
and communicator which further complicates matters, which
we may call assisted control. The communicator is some-
times represented as controlling to the extent of doing the
writing or talking himself with assistance, or sometimes
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 195
apparently without assistance but while Rector " holds the
light." This appears to be different from either joint
control or divided control. One type of assisted control is
reported by Miss A. M. R. in Proceedings, Vol. VIII.,
p. 113, as follows :
When my friend H. takes control of the medium it
seems to be quite a different personality {from Phinuit},
although there is something in the voice and manner of
speaking that is like Dr. P. The voice, however, is not
nearly so loud. When I asked him why this was, he
told me that Dr. P. was right by him and that he
could not stay a moment without his help. In a great
many little ways he is quite like what my friend used
to be when living. * * *
Another interesting case of assisted control—an important
case in its bearing on the whole theory of the process of
controlling—occurred on March 3, 1894, and is quoted by
Hodgson in Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 505-510. 1
On
p. 504 the sitter, Mr. Charles Heywood, gives his description
of what occurred as follows :
{The sitting} was devoted wholly to automatic writing.
Phinuit was very quiet, and " George Pelham " seemed
to be the controlling and directing intelligence. Of course,
nearly all the writing was done by the " D. P. B.
"
intelligence, but Pelham seemed to supervise, and at times
took the pencil himself and assured me that he was
looking after things. D. P. B. spoke of Pelham as
standing within " ear-shot," if such a term may be used.
It must be noted about this case that Hodgson, who was
present during part of the sitting, expresses the opinion (Vol.
XIII., p. 505) that " Probably G. P. was acting as amanuensis
throughout," which illustrates the difficulty of interpreting
the relations of control and communicator in certain cases,
and shows that different sitters may take different views of
the dramatic situation. It is possible that Hodgson's view
1
I have already quoted from it in discussing the control's conscious-
ness of writing in Chapter II., p. 48.
196 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
of this case was influenced by the conclusions he had come
to as to the modus operandi in general, for the report of
the sitting, so far as it is given, certainly seems to me to
fit best with Mr. Heywood's view of what was supposed to
be occurring. And this view seems to be definitely sup-
ported by other cases. For example, on February 17, 1903,
when Hodgson was himself sitter and recorder, a com-
municator, who had communicated on a previous occasion,
rather unexpectedly turned up and wrote a message to his
mother. Hodgson asked :
R. H. Rector, did he write himself ?
Rector. He did while Prudens held him. He U.D. wonder-
fully well.
For a similar case on November 22, 1905, see Appendix,
p. 523.
The amount of assistance given in assisted control seems
to vary, and sometimes consists apparently in little more
than Rector being needed to open and close the sitting.
Different degrees of it are represented in a sitting on
May 24, 1904, at which Miss A. M. R., whose description
of the nature of her friend H.'s control is quoted above,
was sitter and recorder. It was a voice sitting,
and she took down what was said stenographically. At
one point Dr. Oliver communicating says :
" Rector is
repeating for me my sentences as best he can." Yet
when Dr. Oliver takes leave and Rector returns, he asks
the sitter :
" Friend hath the doctor finished," as if he
did not exactly know what was going on. (For fuller
extracts from this part of the sitting, see Appendix to
Chapter III., pp. 490-491.) Then a recently deceased friend
of the sitter's communicates—Rector introducing him
and then stepping aside—and in answer to some question 1
says :
Oh Rector is holding the light : I could not, they
would not let me do that, dear. Not quite now, but I
may be able to later. But they have to support the
light, some friend has to look after it.
1
The question is not recorded, but the sitter thinks she asked whether
the communicator was talking through Rector.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 197
The exact significance of this, however, is doubtful, for
after a long conversation " Rector returns " saying : "I
came to close the light." Some conversation between
him and the sitter follows, in the course of which Rector
says :
I have been talking for thy friend and I may use
some of his expressions. He teaches me much in
language.
So perhaps it was Rector talking all the time, in spite
of his having " stepped aside " when the friend came. A
deceased relative of the sitter's communicates after this,
and in his case Rector changes from reporting what he
says in the third person to speaking for him in the first
without any transition—with no " stepping aside " or return-
ing. I think that in a sitting such as this it is difficult not
to suppose that there is some shifting in the point of view of
the trance consciousness.
Light is thrown on the possibilities of assisted control
and the views of Rector regarding it in extracts from another
sitting of Miss A. M. R. (December 20, 1904) given in the
Appendix to Chapter II., p. 434.
In later years this arrangement of Rector appearing at
the beginning and end of the sitting, and presumably man-
aging the light, while some communicator writes himself in
the middle, became more marked—or rather it is recognised
more definitely as a change of control. This development
happened especially as regards the Hodgson communicator.
In the early days after Hodgson's death Hodgsonp did not
apparently contemplate acting as control at all. Thus in
a sitting recorded by Mr. Dorr in 1906 1
(see Proceedings,
Vol. XXIII., p. 160), the following conversation occurs :
G. B. D. I wanted to ask whether you ever controlled the
organism of the light yourself, or whether it is
wholly done by Rector.
1
1 do not know the exact date of this sitting, but it must have been in
the first half of 1906, I think. Mrs. Piper came over to England at the
beginning of November, 1906, and it was her usual practice to take three
or four months' holiday in the summer and autumn. Hodgson died
December 20, 1905.
198 Mrs. Henry Sidgiviclc. [part
Hodgsonp
. It is wholly clone by Rector and it will continue
to be. I shall take no part in that.
G. B. D. Then it is he who is speaking ?
HodgsoNj,. It is Rector who is speaking and he speaks for me.
I have no desire to take Rector's place. I trust
him implicitly and absolutely.
G. B. D. And he constantly reports for everyone ?
Hodgsonp .
Everyone. There is no question about that. In
the first place he is more competent to do it, he
understands the conditions better than any indi-
vidual spirit ; he is fully capable and is under the
constant direction of Imperator. When I finished
with the conditions in the earthly life I finished
with my control over the light.
Nevertheless, at Hodgsonp's very first appearance, Decem-
ber 28, 1905, eight days after his death, he had either
controlled or in a very marked way affected the hand (see Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XXIII., p. 7). Sitter and recorder, Miss Pope :
Rector had been writing, when the hand dropped the
pencil and worked convulsively several seconds in a
very excited manner.
Miss P. What is the matter ?
[The hand, shaking with apparently great excitement,
wrote the letter H., . . . bearing down so hard on
the paper that the point of the pencil was broken.
It then wrote " Hodgson."]
Miss P. God bless you !
[The hand writes "I am"—followed by rapid scrawls,
as if regulator of machine were out of order.]
Miss P. Is this my friend ?
[Hand assents by knocking five times on paper pad.]
Rector. Peace, friends, he is here, it was he, but he could
not remain, he was so choked. He is doing all in
his power to return . . . Better wait for a few
moments until he breathes freer again. * * *
Presently he will be able to conduct all here.
{Rector then describes him as showing the sitter a
ring. See above, p. 185.}
Again, on July 3, 1906, HodgsonP says things which
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 199
leave the question whether he is controlling himself or not
rather confused. The sitter and recorder was Professor
W. R. Newbold. I quote from Proceedings, Vol. XXIII.
p. 73 :
HodgsoNj,. * * * I am not wholly conscious of my own
utterances because they come out automatically,
impressed upon the machine.
W. R. N. Perfectly clear.
Hodgsonp . Yes, I am standing beside you. {This looks as if
he was not controlling.}
W. R. N. Can you see me Dick ?
HodgsoNj,. Yes, but I feel your presence better. I impress
my thoughts on the machine {This suggests con-
trolling} which registers them at random, and which
are at times doubtless difficult to understand. I
understand so much better the modus operandi than
I did when I was in your world.
That HodgsonP sometimes took Rector's place seems
clearly indicated on November 23, 1906, in a sitting
recorded by Sir Oliver Lodge (see Proceedings, Vol. XXIII.
,
p. 243), when Hodgsonp says :
I am Hodgson, but I cannot take Rector's place to-day.
However I will make a poor attempt to speak through
him.
In 1908, at Mr. Dorr's sittings, Rector seems regularly to
open and close the sittings, but MyersP or HodgsonP appar-
ently often, if not always, control in the middle. HodgsonP
says explicitly on April 21, 1908 : "I am writing for
Myers." On March 17, 1908, an indication that Rector is
really supposed to be away and to come back to close
the sitting is rather curiously given. Myersp, who is com-
municating and apparently controlling, says :
Myeesp
. I am getting a little weak.
G. B. D. Had you not best stop now ?
Myersp . Soon. I think I saw Rector a moment ago,
G B. D. You had best go now I think.
MYERSp. I do not think we ought to go on. Let us end. I am
too weak to go on. Good bye. More anon.
200 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick [part
Rector. We cease now and may the blessings of God rest on
you + R Farewell (R)
On July 16, 1910, there can hardly be any doubt that
Rector's stepping aside and afterwards returning means that
he leaves the communicator to write himself. Sir Oliver
Lodge and Miss A. Johnson were present. Rector opened
the sitting with his usual greeting and then wrote :
Rector. A friend is here who wishes to greet you. I will step
aside and let him speak.
A. J. Who is it ? Rector. One you desire A. J. Yes.
Rector. Goodbye -f (R.)
{Strong excitement in hand follows, knocking pencil
and pads off the table. Then enter HodgsonP , who
continues to write till the very end of the sitting,
when he says " Adieu—R. H." and goes ; then
re-enters Rector :
}
+ I return to close the light. Peace patience and
trust -f Farewell (R.) 1
It appears, then, that neither is the line between assisted
control and full control a very clear one, nor the line between
assisted control and communication through a control.
Through different degrees of assisted control, communicator
and control, or, as Hodgson would have expressed it, in-
direct and direct control, seem almost to merge into each
other.
In all the above examples of partial control by the com-
municator, or of ways in which the communicator affects
the organism of Mrs. Piper, it is difficult to suppose the
control unaware of interference, and in some cases he
admittedly is aware of it. But there is a joint use of the
organism, inseparable, I think, from so-called indirect com-
1
In Vol. IV. of the Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical
Research, Prof. Hyslop records several sittings in which Hodgson is
represented as taking actual control during part of the sitting, and on his
saying '
Good-bye,' Rector describes himself as returning (see op. cit.,
pp. G17, 627. 700, 720). Compare also Dr. Stanley Hall in May, 1909.
He asked Hodgson to lift Mrs. Piper's left arm. Hodgson said he
could not. " You do anything you want to with this right arm and
hand," said Dr. Hall. " That is my head, you stupid, head," replied
Hodgson (Studies in Spiritism, p. 239).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 201
munication of which the control may be unaware. I mean
the use of the medium's organs of hearing. In a voice
sitting the control admittedly hears the sitter in the
ordinary way through the ear, and in a writing sitting,
even if the existence of an organ of hearing in the hand
be credited, the control still hears through the organism.
Communication between control and communicator, if and
so far as these are separate centres of consciousness, is, as
already said (p. 163 above), presumably telepathic. But how
does the communicator " hear " the sitter ? Does he
become aware of the sitter's remarks by direct telepathy
with him, or by telepathy with the control who has heard
the remarks through Mrs. Piper's organism, or does the
communicator also hear through the ears ? The third of
these hypotheses is the only one universally applicable. The
first is at least sometimes inadmissible, because mistakes
are made which are obviously mistakes of hearing not mis-
understanding of ideas, and the second also because the
mistake of hearing is at least sometimes not the control's.
An auditory mistake can only occur where there is actual
transmission of sound ; if the mistake is not made by the
control, it must be made by the communicator to whom,
therefore, the sound must be transmitted directly ; and to
receive it directly he must use the medium's organs of
hearing.
Examples of auditory mistakes which are clearly not the
control's are naturally rare, but we find one, I think,
recorded in Proceedings, Vol. XXIL, p. 88, when on
March 11, 1907, MyersP communicating mishears "Dwarf"
as " Wharf." The words Giant and Dwarf had been
chosen by Mr. Piddington on February 19, 1907, as a
cross-correspondence message to be taken to Mrs. Verrall,
and had been given by him to Rector when MyersP was
not supposed to be present. On March 11, when MyersP
was communicating through Rector writing, Mr. Piddington
recurred to the subject. MyersP did not understand, and
the following conversation took place :
Myersp . Could you explain a little about first word. I do
not feel sure of it.
J. G. P. " Giant " Myeesp
. Oh Giant yes yes.
202 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
J. G. P. Yes ; and " Dwarf."
Myersp
. Thank you. I U.D. Wharf (hand {i.e. presumably
Rector} makes negative gesture. J. G. P. remains
silent.
)
Myersp {or Rector} no Dwarf
J. G. P. Yes ;
quite right.
Rector. Yes. I U D. Giant and Dwarf. R.
If we accept the drama here as genuine, Rector through-
out understands " Giant and Dwarf," but in spite of this,
and in spite of the probability that through association of
ideas " giant " would suggest " dwarf " rather than " wharf,"
Myersp judges from the sound that "wharf" is meant, and
Rector writes it for him. It is clear, therefore, here that
if the mistake of MyersP was genuine he was led to it
neither by the ideas of the sitter nor by those of the con-
trol, but solely by the imperfectly apprehended sound of
the sitter's words.
We find another instance of mishearing by MyersP on
April 29, 1907 (Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 158), when
he failed to catch the word " author " in a remark of
Mrs. Verrall's, and asked first if it was " water " and then
if it was " Arthur," showing that he had partially grasped
the sound;
but not the meaning. 1
Instances in which the communicator congratulates him-
self and the sitter on the correctness with which the latter
reads aloud the communicator's remarks strongly suggest
direct hearing by the communicator of the sitter's reading,
though it is conceivable that this was apprehended tele-
pathically through the control. A case occurred on February
19, 1901 [Proceedings. Vol. XXIV., p. 463) :
(R. H. reads the whole sentence {Bennie Junot's com-
munication through Rector} over in a natural
manner as if speaking it himself and not merely
slowly deciphering it.)
Bennie. Yes, this is exactly right, how did you do it 1 How
did you happen to hear me so distinctly, I am
delighted
.
1
The argument depends, of course, on the mishearing being genuine,
which it may be rash to assume.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 203
R. H. Well, Rector made the machine work, and although
I could not read it at first, it was all well done
by him.
And similarly on May 23, 1906 {Proceedings, Vol. XXIII.,
p. 172), on the script representing a remark of Isaac
Thompson's being read out, he says :
" Correct. Oh my,
I hardly realized I could speak so well."
Indisputable instances, showing that hearing by the com-
municator is meant literally, are not easy to find. But I
think any one studying the records, or even the extracts I have
given (above pp. 173-175 and Appendix, pp. 528-533) illus-
trating the difficulties of the communicator in " hearing " the
sitter, will agree that a considerable amount of straining would
often be required to enable us to attribute a metaphorical sense
to the word. I think it is almost certain, therefore, that
the communicator as dramatically represented
—
i.e. the
intelligence responsible for the communicator's side of the
conversation—really hears the sitter's remarks, and, if so,
he must, like the control, use the medium's organs of hear-
ing. This, if control and communicator represent inde-
pendent centres of consciousness, implies of course joint
control, though neither centre of consciousness need be
aware of it.
I am afraid it will be felt that in this chapter, even more
than in others, questions have been raised without being
definitely answered ;
and, in fact, the evidence does not
enable us to answer all definitely. It may, however, be
useful to sum up here a few of the points which I think
have been made clear by the evidence presented in this
chapter. First, although there have been veridical com-
munications, communicators cannot be taken at their face
value, as they are sometimes manifestly false, though even
when false, the dramatic distinctness of communicator and
control is maintained. Secondly, suspicion is thrown on the
alleged machinery of communication both by its manifest
adaptation to concealing of ignorance, to hedging, and to
covering up false tracks ; and by the inconsistencies and
absurdities in the accounts given of it. Thirdly, there is,
however, evidence that the dramatic communicator is, on
some occasions, something more than a conscious dramatisa-
204 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
tion by the control, since the latter sees him apparently as
an externalised vision. Fourthly, on the other hand, there
is also evidence for more merging of control and communi-
cator, especially in the matter of joint control of Mrs. Piper's
organism, than the trance personalities admit.
All these points being taken into account, grave doubts
are thrown on the genuineness at any time of the dramatic
presentation of the communicator. Veridical communica-
tions are received, some of which, there is good reason to
believe, come from the dead and therefore imply a genuine
communicator hi the background. But the dramatisation
of even genuine communicators, with the whole dramatic
machinery employed, is probably merely dream-like.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance Phenomena. 205
CHAPTER VI.
The Waking-Stage and the Corresponding Stage in
going into Trance.
The waking-stage, as we have called the stage passed
through in coming out of the trance, and the corresponding
stage preceding the trance proper, deserve rather full treat-
ment here because they are but little discussed in Hodgson's
papers about Mrs. Piper. Indeed, it was only in the
latter part of the period covered by his second Report
that they began to assume importance. These stages, more-
over, which are obviously similar in kind, are of great in-
terest in the study of the trance consciousness, especially
as in them the relation of the intelligence in possession
of the organism—which usually, if not always, regards
itself as Mrs. Piper herself—to the other personages in
the drama is simpler and less sophisticated than in the
trance proper. There is no indication of artificiality about
it, no suggestion of acting, and it has no theory to conform
to. Its behaviour is more spontaneous—in this resembling
our ordinary dreams. It does not perform for an audience,
whereas the consciousness of the trance-proper necessarily
has the sitter in view in all it says.
I have already described in the introductory chapter (pp.
15-27) the process of going into and coming out of trance
as it has appeared of late years. In the present chapter,
besides examining as far as we can the states of conscious-
ness involved, we have to consider the changes and develop-
ments that have occurred in the process in the course of
Mrs. Piper's mediumistic history.
Since the beginning of the Imperator regime in 1897, going
into trance appears to have been pleasant to Mrs. Piper until
206 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
the latest sittings (1910-11), when it had become difficult
and uncertain and was approached with some anxiety. And
coming out of trance was also accompanied by pleasant sen-
sations, though just before normal consciousness returned
she was distressed by the contrast between the bright world
she seemed to herself to be leaving and the grimy one she
returned to. She also appeared to suffer some discomfort
from a dazed feeling which lasted a little while after she was
otherwise normal. 1
On March 23, 1897, when just back
into her normal state she expressed to Hodgson her feelings
about it. " Oh how dreadful this is. I used to think it
was horrible to go to sleep, but now its the awakening."
Hodgson's record continues :
" Mrs. P. enlarges on this,
saying that it is now a pleasure to her to go into trance, 2
whereas she once used to dread it. But she doesn't like
coming back." At any rate, since early in 1897 the
process both of going into trance and coming out of it has
been a quiet one, and has evidently been accompanied by
the sensation of pleasant sights and sounds.
In these respects the Imperator regime introduced a
marked improvement on what used to occur before. In
the Phinuit days both the going into and the coming out
of trance were generally accompanied by convulsive move-
ments and grinding of teeth very unpleasant to witness,
and probably unpleasant to go through, and one cannot
wonder that Mrs. Piper dreaded it. The following is a
description given by Sir Oliver Lodge of a typical case on
November 30, 1889, (Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 444) :
3
I sat facing Mrs. Piper in a partially darkened room.
1
This is, I suppose, equivalent to saying that the state of dissociation
involved in trance is not completely removed. By a dazed feeling we mean
a want of complete confidence in our prompt apprehension of our surround-
ings, of the milieu in which we find ourselves, as manifested to us through
our senses in the normal way.
2
On May 1, 1899, Mr. Dorr records similarly: "In going into trance
Mrs. Piper said that the feeling which came to her was like the shutting
down of day, the descending of twilight. She used to have, she said, a
sensation of falling, but now '
I never feel more calm in my life than
when I am going to sleep '
—passing into trance. '
It is very pleasant
to me—just for a moment while I am able to realise it.'
3
Cf. also Prof. Richet's account, Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 618.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 207
* * * Mrs. Piper sat still, leaning forward in her chair,
and holding my hands. For some time she could not go
off, but at last she said, "Oh, I am going," the clock
happened to strike one (for a half hour), and she twitched
convulsively, ejaculated " don't," and went into apparent
epilepsy. [I had seen epilepsy several times before and
recognised many of the ordinary and obvious symptoms
;
not, of course, pretending to speak medically.] Gradually
she became quiet, and still holding my right hand, cleared
her throat in a male voice, and with distinctly altered
and hardened features, eyes closed and unused the whole
time.
Phinuit once—at the beginning of a sitting on June 22,
1895, in which the trance had come on unusually suddenly
and while Mrs. Piper was actually carrying on a normal
conversation with the sitter-—said :
I took the medium quickly, I saw the light long ago
and was hurrying to it. Sometimes I'm there long before
she goes. When she goes out I see her spirit and I go
in on a string while she goes out. Sometimes she sees
me as we pass and she tries to go back and fight with me,
unwilling to move out.
It is possible that this account represented a real struggle
on the part of Mrs. Piper's subconscious self against
entrancement, notwithstanding the deliberate decision of
her normal self to go into trance, and that this struggle
caused the convulsions ; while in the Imperator days
the subconscious self may have become more amenable.
Against this, however, it must be noted that before 1897,
coming out of trance was also often accompanied by
convulsions, and indeed that violent convulsions would at
times seize the writing arm while the communications
were proceeding (see Proceedings, Vol. XIV., p. 7).
We have not, however, much description of the coming
out of trance in the early days. The details of the process
do not seem to have been thought interesting, and in the
English sittings of 1889-90 I find no ordinary case described
in detail. Here is a brief record of that on November 30,
1889, by Myers (Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 469). Phinuit says :
208 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
I begin to feel weak. I must go. Myers ! Myers !
(and gradually Mrs. Piper came to herself.)
The following account by Dr. Walter Leaf evidently refers
to an exceptionally bad waking-stage on January 1, 1890,
after a sitting he had superintended (Proceedings, Vol. VI.,
p. 599) :
After this Dr P[hinuit] became incoherent, and kept
calling out, " Walter, help me, help me ; I can't turn
round." 1
The trance passed off very slowly and with
unusual symptoms. The medium, on coming to, appeared
to be very prostrate and distressed.
Nor is there very much about the coming out of trance
in Hodgson's first Report (Proceedings, Vol. VIII.). The
earliest case mentioned occurred in May, 1886, when
Mr. Barrett Wendell reports that " Mrs. Piper's recovery
from the trance state was, perhaps, the most shocking sight
I ever witnessed " (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 97).
Mr. J. F. Brown, who had sittings with Mrs. Piper 2
in
June and October, 1888, reports (op. cit. p. 87) that
Phinuit having taken leave (on June 11),
the medium twisted, groaned and grated her teeth just
as she did when going into the trance, then stared about
wildly and appeared to be coming to herself. She seemed
surprised to see me, and said, " Are you here ? I didn't
know you were here." She acted bewildered for a moment
and in answer to my question said she felt dizzy.
Mr. Brown also tells us (p. 92) that after his final sitting
on October 20, 1888 :
When the medium was coming to, she saw snakes on
my hands and kindly pulled them off. She complained
1 " Turning round " in trance parlance means getting out, or perhaps
something preliminary to getting out, of the medium's body, i.e. ceasing
to control. Compare, for example, Rector on Hodgson in 1906, as quoted
by Sir Oliver Lodge in Vol. XXIII., p. 236.
2
It should be mentioned that Mr. Brown wrote in 1891 that he was fully
convinced that Mrs. Piper's dealings with him had been false and fraudu-
lent throughout, and Hodgson understood that he thought the trance
simulated (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 85).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 209
of being pricked on the hand, said, " Don't prick me so," or
something like that, and after she was entirely herself
asked me two or three times if I had pricked her. I
assured her that I had not.
Miss Gertrude Savage also describes both the going into
trance and the coming out of it at a sitting she had on
October 23, 1888 {Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 101, 103).
After a moment or two of conversation Mrs. Piper, who
had complained of a headache, said :
" I only hope I can give you something satisfactory, for
when my head aches so, it is rather apt not to be so
successful." We then went into the darkened room adjoin-
ing, and she took my hand in hers. Immediately her
fingers began to twitch and then her whole body, and she
groaned and ground her teeth, and constantly muttered,
" Oh, what's the matter ? What is the matter ?
"
# $
On going into the trance state Mrs. Piper's voice became
guttural, harsh, and she spoke with a decided accent. 1
Keeping my hand in hers, and pressed against her fore-
head, she began instantly to speak. * *
At the end of the sitting, Miss Savage says :
Mrs. Piper then came out of the trance, with a face
drawn and haggard, and with a dazed look in her eyes.
" Who are you ? " she said. "I do not know who you
are, do I ?
" I said, " No, but I will tell you now."
Mr. Rogers Rich writes {Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 127) :
My first sitting with her was on September 6th, 1888.
With little trouble she went into the trance—a state which
was entirely new to my experience—and after a moment's
silence, which followed her rather violent movements, I
was startled by the remarkable change in her voice—an
exclamation, a sort of grunt of satisfaction, as if the person
had reached his destination and gave vent to his pleasure
thereat by this sound, uttered in an unmistakeably male
voice, but rather husky.
1
That is, Phinuit's French accent, or imitation of French accent.
o
210 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
" A moment's silence " after the convulsions, here
mentioned, presumably corresponds to the few minutes
of seemingly deep sleep which sitters became familiar
with later.
The process of going into trance continued, as already
said, to be disagreeable till 1897. The following is a
description given by Mrs. M. E. P. {Proceedings, Vol.
XIII., p. 499) of March 2, 1894 :
The passing into the trance state was disagreeable to
witness. It seemed to me like a person inhaling ether 1
very unwillingly, and with more or less struggle.
There are few records of the duration of the convulsive
movements in going into trance. I only know of one. Dr.
Thaw records about the first sitting at which he was present,
viz. February 14, 1892 :
" Convulsions strong ; continue ten
minutes " {Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 537). The duration
as well as the violence of the struggle varied, and a struggle
does not seem to have been a necessary or invariable accom-
paniment of going into the trance. The following two cases
apparently show a gradual loss of consciousness without
struggle, or an approach to the trance condition not obvious
to the sitter. The first was on November 19, 1888 {Pro-
ceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 106), when the sitter, Miss Z., before
the sitting began, showed Mrs. Piper a stone which she
had brought as a test object concerning which the trance-
personality might give information. Miss Z. reports :
She took it in her hand, put it between her teeth, and
then said, " It was given you by a gentleman, a great
smoker * * * A man I have the impression has been to
me, and whom I call very fascinating." Upon my deny-
ing that the man had seen her, as I thought then was
true, she said, " I cannot have made a mistake ; but
come quickly into the other room, and sit down as soon
1
Compare January 23, 1907, when the comparison of going into the
trance to the inhaling of ether seems to have occurred to the medium, as
here to the onlooker. Mrs. Piper going into trance says, " I'm going round,
d you see ? Can't you smell it ? " J. G. P., " Smell what ? " Mrs.
Piper, " Ether." (Heavy breathing follows.) There are other references
to ether in this sense in waking-stages.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 211
as you can, for I can't wait long." She afterwards told
me she was then partially in the trance condition.
The second case occurred on December 21. 1893, and is
reported by Mrs. Sutton from notes taken by Mrs. Howard
during the sitting. The report says (Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
p. 489) :
Mrs. Piper was sitting talking with us, not ready to be
entranced, when she suddenly put her hand to her head,
rose, and moved toward the window. Before reaching it
she staggered and would have fallen but that we supported
her to a chair. For an instant only she seemed lifeless,
then as suddenly rose full of animation under the control
of G. P.
With this we may compare a case reported by Hodgson
in which an undesired trance was averted on April 25, 1894
{Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 344).
This morning, one of our members, Mrs. R., was trying
experiments in crystal gazing and automatic writing.
Mrs. Piper had her hand resting occasionally on Mrs. R's.
Mrs. P. felt some pushing, etc., in her hand. I put pencil
in and we went on talking. Turning to talk to another
lady present, a Mrs. G—,
my attention was attracted
suddenly by Mrs. P.'s breathing. She was on the point
of being entranced, and while I was managing to keep
her out of trance successfully, her right hand with pencil
was dashing off * * * " Add lo instead of and." 1
The seeing of " spirits " in the waking stage, definite
externalised visions or hallucinations, 2
which was so
characteristic of later waking-stages, evidently sometimes
occurred in the earlier period, for we have the following
description by Miss A. M. R. (Proceedings, Vol. VIII.,
p. 112). It relates to the end of the sitting of
December 17, 1888, from which I have already quoted an
1
It was afterwards made clear that this referred to a name given in trance
the day before, and meant that Rollo was to be substituted for Roland.
2
The snakes described by Mr. Brown (see above, p. 208) were apparently
an instance of hallucinatory vision, though not of spirits.
212 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
extract in Chapter II., p. 30. A friend of Miss R.'s was
controlling :
I asked my friend if he would not get my sister, who
seemed to be there, and Dr. P. and all to stand back
of me when the medium returned, to see if she could
not see them. So when half out of her trance she
exclaimed at something which she saw. She described
afterwards three persons whom she saw—two gentlemen
and one lady—and also some beautiful flowers. I have
had a similar experience with her twice before. On one
of these occasions she described my friend (referred to
above) in general terms, and added :
" His nose was just
a little bit crooked." This amused me, as my friend and
I, before his death, frequently disputed as to the straight-
ness of his nose, and I always maintained that it was
slightly crooked. I am satisfied that Mrs. Piper could
have known nothing whatever of this.
It was, however, under the G. P. regime (1892 onwards)
that waking-stages with visions by the medium began to
be at all common, and that speech by the medium during
them was gradually developed. It was on April 28, 1892,
that occurred the incident of the name Peirce, which
G. P. had failed to give in the trance, being called out
in what we should now call the waking-stage ; and it is
noteworthy that from Hodgson's remarks about this it
seems to have been the first waking-stage in which he
heard Mrs. Piper speak. At any rate it led to his first
description of this. The contemporary record says (Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 305) :
Finally Phinuit said he had to go, and Mrs. Piper began
to come out of trance. Convulsive movements worse than
usual, and then whispered voice muttering some words
indistinguishable * * * Further unintelligible sounds, among
which the name Peirce was alone distinct. This name was
spoken twice, and was not in either Phinuit's or Mrs. Piper's
ordinary voice. Shortly after this Mrs. Piper came to
herself.
On this Hodgson, whose paper was published in 1898,
remarks (Proceedings. Vol. XIII., p. 306) :
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 213
Since this sitting I have frequently heard Mrs. Piper
speak during the interval between trance and waking, on
the borderline of waking. On rarer occasions I have
heard her speak just as she is losing consciousness before
the trance. At both these times her voice, though slightly
different from the ordinary voice in conversation, is not
different to the extent that the remark in my contempor-
ary note above seems to suggest. Sometimes it is a whisper,
more commonly not ; but it always sounds dreamy or
automatic, i.e. it sounds just as I should imagine Mrs.
Piper's voice would sound if she were talking in her
sleep, either aloud or in a whisper.
I do not, however, find records in 1892 or 1893 of
Mrs. Piper in the waking-stage speaking to spirits or
repeating the observations of spirits (unless it occurred on
November 28, 1892, as suggested below, p. 220), though
several cases of visions are mentioned, chiefly—as was also
the case under the Imperator regime—visions of controls or
communicators who had played a part in the trance.
At the sitting on November 28, 1892, such a vision of
G. P. is mentioned, and a subsequent selection of G. P.'s
photograph as that of the man she had seen. 1
This
sitting is also notable because, after this vision, Mrs. Piper
went into trance again and later in the sitting there were
apparently two abortive beginnings of waking. The sitting
is described in Proceedings, Vol. XIII. (pp. 416-417). I
quote from a somewhat longer stenographic report the
account of the waking-stage that occurred in the middle
of it. The sitting took place at the house of Mr. and
Mrs. Howard, who with their daughter Katherine were
present as well as Hodgson and the stenographer. G. P.
had been controlling when :
[At 9.16 the medium comes out of trance but before
wholly out exclaims—" There is the man with the beard."]
R. H. What is he saying %
1
On December 22, 1892, we learn from the stenographic report that " When
partially out [of trance] she seems to see something and when asked what
it was, she says she saw the same gentleman she saw once before ;
just
saw him smile ; did not see him do anything." This was doubtless again
a vision of G. P.
214 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [pabt
Mrs. Piper. Did you see him ? I dreamed that I saw a
gentleman with a book and a pencil in his hand
and he was writing.
R. H. Would you know him if you saw him again ?
Mrs. Piper. Do you know where Mr. Howard is ?
Mr. Howard. Yes.
R. H. Was it Mr. Howard you saw,, or did you see me ?
Mrs. Piper. Oh no, I did not see either of you. Oh no, I
was dreaming, I think. I saw a bright light and
a face in it, a gentleman with a beard on his face
and he had a very high forehead and he was writ-
ing. I saw it just as distinctly as it could be.
R. H. Would you know it again if you saw it do you think ?
Mrs. Piper. Oh yes, I would know it, I think.
R. H. Well, try and recall it.
[Medium says she feels queer and as if she could turn
right round and go into the trance again. Does
not know what is the matter with her. After
saying this she becomes entranced again very
quickly at 9.22 and Phinuit appears shouting :
—
]
Ph. You know you don't play that on me. George
Pelham is a very clever fellow but I am going to
tell you he passed by me, and do you know what
he did, he let her go without signalling to me at
all ; he did it by mistake ; he told me afterwards
and so I come back to tell you. Now he wants
me to tell you {A message from G. P. follows}
* * *
R. H. George went out without telling you to get ready to
come in, is that it %
{Phinuit does not reply at once but talks about other
things . . . Presently he says}
Ph. Hodgson, now I want to tell you what this is. He
passed the medium, you know, when the medium
came in he went out, then he passed me and he
apologized to me and I come in here for a
minute.
{After further talk, in the course of which Phinuit
gave a message from G. P., Mrs. Howard said :
" Tell him we had a lovely talk with him this
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 215
evening." This message to G. P. apparently led to
his return. Phinuit replied}
Ph. You take that Hodgson, give it to him.
R. H. Is he going to write ?
Ph. He is going to do something, he has got hold of my
hand taking it right away from me.
{Writing begins, but is illegible} * * *
R. H. Is this George's writing, Doctor ?
Ph. George is writing that for a lady that speaks Italian.
I can't speak it.
$ $ $ 4
Ph. Au revoir. A bientot. Here she comes [Mrs. Piper
is apparently about to come out of the trance when
another control takes possession for a few minutes,
who is thought by Mrs. Howard to be Madame Elisa,
and who whispers something in Italian to Mrs.
Howard. 1
Again Mrs. Piper apparently is about to
come out of the trance when Phinuit returns for a
moment to say au revoir. * * * After Mrs. Piper
comes out of trance she is shown a collection of thirty-
two photographs, nine of them being of men, from
which she selects a picture of the person whom she
saw when coming out of trance {the first time}. The
likeness that she first picked out was an excellent
likeness of {G. P.} She afterwards picked out another
photograph of him. She stated that she never
knew the gentleman when living. 2
]
3
1
Apparently only a few disjointed words.
1
G. P. had, however, in life had a sitting with Mrs. Piper under an
assumed name.
3
Breaks such as here occurred in the trance are not common. For one
deliberately arranged by the control Phinuit see Proceedings, Vol. VIII.,
pp. 43-44. And for a relapse into trance with convulsions after Mrs. Piper
had begun to come out (on November 18, 1893), see Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
p. 483. (This case is quoted below in Chapter VII., p. 290). For a brief
interval of apparent sleep during a sitting between two controls (Gurney
and Phinuit), see Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 553. I think that in later years
intervals longer than a few seconds—such, for instance, as would be involved
in holding "the healer's influence" (see below, p. 310)—were avoided.
Perhaps it was as a means of avoiding them that, when a control or com-
municator temporarily withdrew the interval was filled with general talk
by Rector, or by a brief episode concerning some other communicator. It
216 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
On December 7, 1892, a vision again occurred in the
waking-stage. G. P. had been writing, after which
Phinuit talked, and then Madame Elisa controlled and
talked in a whisper for a short time to Mrs. Howard.
From this point I quote the stenographic report, which
is rather fuller than that given in Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
pp. 426, 427 :
[At 10.17 the medium comes out of trance. When
partially out she appears to see something and reaches
out her hand as if to take something.]
R. H. See anything ? What is it you see ?
Mrs. Piper. It is a lady.
Mrs. Howard. What did the lady look like ?
Mrs. Piper. I dreamed
Mrs. Howard. What did you dream ?
Mrs. Piper. I saw a lady with a lot of flowers in her hand.
Where am I ?
Mrs. Howard. With Mrs. Howard in the library
Mrs. Piper. Do you know Walter Leaf ?
1
Mrs. Howard. Yes.
R. H. What about Walter Leaf %
Mrs. Piper. Oh nothing.
R. H. You asked Mrs. Howard if she knew him ?
Mrs. Piper. I could not think where I was.
R. H. Don't you remember asking Mrs. Howard if she
knew Walter Leaf ?
Mrs. Piper. Yes I remember saying something. What did I
say about him ? I could not think where I was.
Isn't it funny.
R. H. Did you see Walter Leaf in a dream or anything
of that sort ?
Mrs. Piper. No, I did not, I don't know why I asked her that.
I tell you what I do remember, of seeing a lady
is possible that any long pause might in these later years have brought the
trance to an end. There was a case after a voice-sitting with Mr. Dorr
on April 17, 1905, of Mrs. Piper coming out of trance with the usual kind
of waking-stage, and going back into the trance to write a message to
Hodgson. (See Appendix, pp. 595-596).
1
Mr. Leaf, it will be remembered, had taken charge of some of the
sittings in England in 1890.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance Phenomena. 217
with something in her hand, I don't know what
it was.
R. H. Would you recognize the lady if you saw her picture ?
Mrs. Piper. I don't know, I think I could. She had dark
curly hair, not very much curly, crinkled a little
up here (forehead) brushed back like that. She had
a very pronounced looking face, very fine looking
face, quite large eyes, quite a large mouth.
R. H. What sort of flowers ?
Mrs. Piper. I can't tell you, it is going from me now.
The consciousness—or perhaps I should say memory—of
the waking-stage impressions here seems less broken up
than was usually the case in more recent sittings, but it
is possible that we have here only part of the waking-
stage recorded. Whether the description of the halluci-
natory lady resembled Madame Elisa or any other person
known to the sitters we are not told.
Another definite waking-stage vision is reported by Miss
Edmunds on November 22, 1893, as I find from unpublished
notes. She writes :
As she came out of trance Mrs. Piper described a
man standing, placing the fingers of one hand on the
other and stroking his whiskers etc.—characteristic of {one
of those who had controlled during the sitting}.
On March 14, 1893, i.e. between the two waking-stages last
described, Mrs. Pij)er underwent a serious operation, already
referred to above, p. 19, and it is interesting to note that
in coming to herself from the influence of the anaesthetic
she seems to have gone through a waking-stage resembling
those in coming out of trance. Hodgson had gone to the
sanatorium and remained in the building while the
operation was performed, so that he might be of assistance
in case of any unusual occurrence. He writes (Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., p. 479) :
After the operation, and while Mrs. Piper, who had been
taken to her room, was still under the influence of the
ether, and apparently unconscious of any person present,
Dr. Ingraham requested me to enter the room, as Mrs. Piper
218 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
was calling for me. I went in and spoke to her, but
she seemed to be quite unaware of my presence, although
she moaned occasionally, and several times called out
spasmodically " Mr. Hodgson." During this interval of
unconsciousness her attention became fixed as upon an
object of interest, and she exclaimed :
" Who is that
old man ? Take him away." Then came a pause as if
she was listening, and she then added, " Oh, no. He's
a nice old man. He can stay." This naturally caused me
to think of Phinuit.
Another instance of a " waking-stage " after an anaes-
thetic will be found in the Appendix to this chapter,
p. 579. It occurred on April 24, 1901, nearly eight years
later than the one just described, and it will be observed
that here it is Imperator, the chief control of this later date,
who appears.
The waking-stages of the sittings of June 25 and 26, 1894,
are described by Dr. Newbold in Proceedings, Vol. XIV.,
pp. 25 and 27. In the second of these occurs hearing of
spirits by Mrs. Piper and repetition of what spirits say,
both common features of later waking-stages, but here
perhaps developing ;
though, on the other hand, there
may have been more of it before this than the records
clearly reveal (see next page). It is curious that the
talking for spirits on June 26 was followed by a relapse
into unconsciousness from which there was considerable
difficulty in getting Mrs. Piper to wake.
In a waking-stage of November 9, 1894, of which Miss
Edmunds gives a brief account, Mrs. Piper has again auditory
as well as visual hallucinations :
On coming out of trance Mrs. Piper said :
" Oh I hear
some one calling '
Water !
' He says '
Oh I want water
!
'
"
She also gave a very good description of Mr. C. excepting
the nose. Said she saw a gentleman with very clear eyes,
etc.
Phinuit had during the sitting commented on the com-
municator's " eyes as clear as a bell," and the latter had
himself referred to his calling for water in his last illness.
In 1895 we have in the records of Dr. Newbold's sittings
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 219
several notable waking-stages. I quote first those of April
24 and May 8, both recorded by Hodgson
{April 24, 1895.)
[After Phinuit goes, there is whispering, Pttee p'see
repeated frequently, then Euthee and papa repeated
—
other sounds possibly, but these were all I could hear.
Mrs. Piper in coming out bent forward as though seeing
something and murmured in her own voice :
" Mrs. Dow
and the baby." On questioning her immediately after-
ward she said she had seen Mrs. Dow with " two little
ones."] 1
(May 8, 1895.)
Present W. R. N. and R. H.
At end of trance, after Phinuit left there were signs
of another "control." There was a murmuring which N.
thought sounded like Walter, but which R. H. thought
was Water.
Mrs. Piper appeared to have a vision as she was coming
out of trance, and on being questioned said she saw a
gentleman arm in arm with Mr. Pelham. They were
laughing and rocking from side to side.—She didn't re-
member having seen the gentleman before. —He was not
very much larger than Newbold, had a pointed beard very
dark brown, dark eyes,—glasses. " His moustache was
put out this way " [indicating that it was pushed up and
out from the upper lip]. His glasses were spectacles and
the wire went over and behind the ears.
Both these accounts begin with partially heard whispering
or murmuring regarded by Hodgson at the time as signs
of another " control " taking possession when Phinuit
left, and therefore as occurring during the trance proper.
Judging from later experience, however, it seems very
possible that these words are part of the waking-stage
1
These names and phrases belong to communicators in the sittings of
Dr. and Mrs. Thaw in 1892 (see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 384, 385, and
536-582). The names recurred in several waking-stages (see below, p.
256, and Appendix, p. 550).
220 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
and spoken by Mrs. Piper in propria persona—perhaps
repeating after spirits. The waking-stage of later years
usually began in this way ;
1
and there was no doubt
about its being the waking-stage, because it followed the
period of apparently profound sleep which succeeded the
closing of s
the sitting by Imperator and Rector, and it
only began after Mrs. Piper had raised her head from the
pillow and opened her eyes.
But if these whispered words in April and May, 1895,
are really part of the waking-stage, it would seem not
improbable that the whispered Italian words on November
28, 1892 (see above, p. 215) were also part of a waking-
stage, notwithstanding Phinuit's brief apparent return to
say au revoir. At any rate, so far as one can judge from
the almost necessarily imperfect description, there is a good
deal of likeness between the two cases ; and it seems
to follow that the distinction in the state of consciousness
between the trance proper and the early part of the
waking-stage is not in essence so marked as is suggested
by what we now regard as typical cases, or perhaps the
one may intrude into the other. We shall presently see
that there are some other things pointing in the same
direction. In the Phinuit and G. P. days there certainly
seems to have been a less obvious division between trance
and waking-stage than under the Imperator regime, but
one would like to know exactly what symptoms led the
recorder on November 28, 1892, to say " Mrs. Piper is appa-
rently about to come out of trance."
In a sitting of Dr. Newbold's on June 14, 1895,
the whispering is definitely placed by him in the waking-
stage. The description is interesting also because I think
it is the first we have of the gradually waking Mrs. Piper
seeing the sitter as a black and horrible object—which
she commonly did later. Dr. Newbold's record is as
follows :
[Coming out Mrs. Piper whispers, nearly all unintelligible]
Better give me my own body ... I want my husband.
Elliott [?] I want . . . Sallie . . . my father was with
1
See description in Chapter I., p. 22.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 221
me ... I want—everybody to go away—[to N.] you
look blacker than the ace of spades—horrible . . . [Draws
away from him with expression of loathing.]
Oh dear [relapses several times] Oh yes, Dr. Newbold,
Oh I am so sleepy and stupid. I heard all sorts of
voices calling to me. There was a lady who kept pulling
and picking at me and txy'mg to say something but I
couldn't understand her. It seemed as if my mind and
hers were trying to get together but could not. I was
deaf to her and I felt I had to go somewhere, where I
did not know. She had beautiful dark hair, a little
silvered, black eyes, very small hands. I saw the same
lovely lady I saw yesterday. She had light hair, dark
eyes. The other one seemed more earnest or serious, and
kept all the time talking to me, or trying to.
When Mrs. Piper talks, as represented in the latter part
of this record, of what she has seen or experienced—describes
it as one might a dream from which one has waked up—she
is, of course, in a nearly normal condition. When quite
herself, the memory of the dream has generally disappeared
(see, e.g. a remark by her, p. 217). The reference to seeing
the same lovely lady as yesterday seems to show that while in
the waking-stage she has memory of previous waking-stages.
It is to be noted that sitters' friends when described by
Mrs. Piper, whether in the trance proper or in the waking-
stage, are apt to be described in flattering terms, said
to be lovely or the most beautiful spirit she ever saw,
etc. This can hardly be a strictly accurate description
of her visions, because these, when we can test them,
resemble the originals as known on earth. But I think
that, at least since 1896, the " spirits " seen in the waking-
stage do share the beauty of the waking-stage visions.
In the trance proper the flattering descriptions may be due
to a desire to please sitters, though there is something of a
more general character in a remark such as Phinuit made
about K. F. on December 12, 1896 :
" She's a beautiful
creature. You don't know how beautiful a beautiful soul
is till you come over here."
We may observe one distinction between waking-stages
of this period and later, that there is a distinct tendency
222 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
in 1895 for the waking-stage impressions to be in part at
least disagreeable—to be bad dreams.
(June 25, 1895.)
Hodgson and Dr. Newbold present.
[Mrs. Piper coming out, whispers hoarsely gasping
between every two or three words. N. takes all down
nearly verbatim. 1
] Christ (H. Who was he ?) Our Saviour
. . . Oh-h-h-h ... be merciful to me ... to all . . . my
soul . . . goes out . . . goes to sleep . . . my mind . . .
my thoughts ... go to sleep ... I go out . . . and
see all the world ... I see the trees ... I see flowers
. . . the birds . . . the cattle . . . the beasts . . . but
oh . . . not any longer beasts . . . they live . . . they
live . . . they live . . . they hear, they know, they
speak . . . my soul takes a flight . . . my body is
used by that old man . . . look at that old man . . .
oh let me go . . . the line that connects the soul with
the body (What is it like ?) [She shivers and her
teeth chatter.] Oh I am cold (What was the colour of
the line ?) A line of light . . . (What is it made of ?)
Oh I have two distinct brains . . . Oh I'm so cold . . .
(What do the brains look like ?) One looks like sulphur
burning and the other looks like flesh . . . Oh I've had
such a horrible dream (What was it about ?) Don't I
feel dreadfully . . . Oh but it is a dreadful thing. (What
was the dream about 1) I was dead, my body was dead
and then after I died I saw an old hump backed man
pick it up. 2
(Pick what up ? How did he pick it up ?)
With his hands ?) Picked my body up, not with his hands,
he picked up the upper part of it and shut himself in and
went walking all about with my body and I couldn't
help it. (And what did you do ?) I went with a lot of
other people. (Did you know them?) No, but I saw
1
It must be remembered that what is said in the waking-stage, being
spoken, not written, has to be taken down by the sitter ; and as it is generally
almost impossible to get down every word the records of waking-stages are
seldom quite complete.
2
Presumably Phinuit, though I do not remember any other statement
about his being hunchbacked.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 223
very many and we -went everywhere. (Did they show
you the animals?) Oh my body feels bad . . . yes I
saw animals . . . they looked like . . . they were very
real but they had bodies all outlined . . . They were
transparent and you could see through them. (Did they
try to attack you or were they peaceful 1) Oh no, they
were peaceful . . . they had once been animals . . . the}7
were the shadowy forms of animals that had once lived.
I saw these. (Did you see anything else that was strange ?
[She suddenly sits upright and looks at H. with an air
of recognition. Speaks aloud, but not in her normal
tones.] Did you hear something snap in my head, Mr.
Hodgson ? [She is quite herself again in a few minutes
and later remembers from this point, but has forgotten
all that preceded.] I want to tell you the strangest thing.
I had two distinct pairs of eyes. I used one pair behind
the other and looked through these eyes [touching her
own] as if they were spectacles. They looked like marbles,
but I knew they were my own eyes all the time though
I don't know how I knew it. Sometimes I would see
very clearly with the other eyes, sometimes I couldn't
tell what I saw, then I heard something crack. I forgot
I was in the room but it is all clear now, I was giving
you a sitting wasn't I ? And Mr. Hodgson when I saw
you first it was through the other pair of eyes and you
didn't look as you do now. You looked as I have some-
times seen myself look in the glass [she refers to double
reflections] it seemed to me you were double, there was a
sort of shadow outside your real self. Then something
snapped in my head and I got my own eyes again.
Bad dreams like this seem to have disappeared with
the convulsions under the Irnperator regime, as did also
unpleasant impressions in going into trance—for instance,
the one on June 20, 1895, when Mrs. Piper going into
trance says : "in a tone of horror '
Take him away ' "
;
immediately after which Phinuit controls.
There are several things to note about the waking-stage
just described, as illustrating waking-stages generally.
First, in the earlier part the dream seems to be going on.
Then a different stage of consciousness comes on and she
224 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
begins to describe the dream of which she has given frag-
mentary indications while it was proceeding. 1
Hodgson's
questions probably prolonged this stage by keeping her
mind on the dream. I should surmise, however, that the
questions were answered without any distinct consciousness
of who was asking them, and that full consciousness of
this only came on at the point when she sits upright and
looks at Hodgson with an air of recognition, and it is
probably to this moment, before the snap, that belongs the
further impression of seeing with spirit eyes, through her
bodily eyes, the spirit body as well as the mortal body of
Hodgson.
Waking-stages, or rather the earlier parts of waking-
stages, seem to vary in the degree of consciousness ex-
hibited of the presence of the sitter. In some cases the
presence of the sitter does not seem to be recognised. An
example of this will be found on p. 559. On the other
hand, in a case such as is recorded on June 17, 1895 :
Sallie said give my love to the boys. Oh how many
Uncle Williams. Who do you suppose that old lady can
be ? She is persistent. She is always here ; was standing
with her hand on your shoulder.
the spirits and sitter seem to be brought into definite
spacial relation with each other.
The subject-matter of the waking-stage dreams or impres-
sions can often, perhaps generally, be traced in recent
trances. 2
Thus the occupation of the medium's body by
Phinuit, and seeing with spirit eyes, etc., had been spoken
of in the trance from which Mrs. Piper was waking on
1 Compare a note concerning waking-stages made by Hodgson on
December 26, 1896: "There appear to be two somewhat separated stages
of Mrs. Piper's subliminal {subliminal = waking-stage}. (1) Where she
bears the same relation to the '
invisibles '
and the sitter as the ordinary
speaking 'communicator' {= control} does, e.g. Phinuit. (2) Where she no
longer is seeing and hearing the '
invisibles '
but only remembering what she
has just passed through. Both of these stages are frequently observable,
but often only one. There is nearly always a trace of (2) in the beginning
of her normal-consciousness return, a dreamy rapidly-fading recollection."
In neither stage, it may be remarked, do we get the whole of what waa
dreamt.
2
For some exceptions, see below, p. 245.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 225
June 25, 1895, and the survival of animals and their real
existence and development in the spirit world had been
discussed in the trance of June 20.
Another noteworthy point about the waking-stage of June
25, 1895, is the snap in the head. It is the first record, so
far as I know, of Mrs. Piper remarking on this sensation at
the time of its occurrence, and expecting the sitter to hear
it. The snap was, however, spoken of on June 21, 1895
(see Appendix, p. 549)—after a waking-stage which, by the
way, again seems to have been a bad dream experience
—
and spoken of in a way that shows it was not an experience
new to her.
For comparison with the waking-stage of June 25, 1895,
I may give that of February 19, 1907, where all seems
bright and pleasant except the returning to this dark
world. I select this one from among others because it
illustrates well the breaks of consciousness in the waking-
stage. The Bennie Junot incident is apparently quite
disconnected from the rest, and Bennie had not been
mentioned during the trance.
(February 19, 1907. Waking-stage.)
Sitter and Recorder, J. G. Piddington.
[Pencil dropped at 12.37 p.m. Head lifts 12.43. The left
hand is stretched out, and appears to take hold of some-
thing between the first finger and the thumb. The hand,
still with the thumb and first finger pressed together, is
brought close to the nose, and Mrs. Piper sniffs several
times and then (12.45|) says :]
Mrs. Piper. Beautiful ! I do. I see him . . . Ah ! Ah ! all
right. I'm glad. Annie (?) —know you. Ab ! it's
all right. Ah ! (smiling) Where did you find them ?
Yes. She does. (Smiles and breathes quickly.) . . .
exactly, (smiling) Beautiful. I like to go with
you. (Points.) George P'lham. Ha ! A long time
since I saw you. I don't understand it. They're
[or, 'like'] Dutch . . . Millie (?) Millie (?) well . . .
Maple (?)
J. G. P. '
Maple '
?
Mrs. Piper, tut—Mabel loyal
p
226 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
J. G. P. '
Mabel loyal ' ?
Mas. Piper. That's right. That's an awful noise. Oh ! look
here. A little white mist gathered all over them,
and they're gone. Oh ! that's too bad. What ?
They told me to say that if he didn't write, it's
his own fault. George Pelham is in there, shaking
both hands at me and muttering a kind of a
language, and they say that they tell you things in
your dreams some day some time. Here they are
giving me flowers to take.
They get so dark I can't see them.
J. G. P. What ?
Mrs. Piper. They get so dark I can't see them.
And I wish they wouldn't go.
Why I don't like this room. It has bugs on it
—
spiders.
(Looking at wall.)
I had such a good time. (Sighs.)
J. G. P. Head snapped ?
Mrs. Piper. Ha ! I thought—I didn't know where I was.
Yes. I heard something. Do you know who Bennie
Junot is ? Oh ! I did want to send my love to
Dad. Just over the end of the cord.
I heard this when my head snapped. Mr. Piddington !
Oh ! I forgot where I was.
I wanted to tell you something very much before and
I forgot it.
J. G. P. Was it about Bennie Junot ?
Mrs. Piper. I don't know what you mean. What are you
trying to tell me ?
J. G. P. You don't know about Bennie Junot ?
Mrs. PiPtfR. I never heard of it. Are you making that up to
fool me ? You mustn't joke with me now because
I'm silly.
(Trance ends, 12.55 p.m.)
Judging from the frequent absence in the records, before
the Imperator regime began, of any mention of a waking-
stage, talking during it was not before that a habitual
phenomenon. And it did not become an invariable, or
very nearly invariable, occurrence till about the middle
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 227
of February, 1897, which suggests that its development,
at least partly, depended on the cessation of the habitual
use of the voice in the trance proper. This, as we have
seen, was one result of the departure of Phinuit and taking
over of the direction of trance utterances by the Imperator
band. Talking while going into the trance remained only
occasional to the end. Nothing would be gained by
quoting every case of talking either in going into or
coming out of trance. I give in the Appendix to this
chapter a selection from among the more interesting or
typical cases, chosen to illustrate various points, and
chosen from different years so that the reader may have
the opportunity of following the further development.
But it may be well to give here some further general
description of the waking-stage during most of the
Imperator regime. I pointed out in the introductory
chapter—-and it is illustrated by various waking-stages
referred to in the present chapter—that in the earlier part
of the waking-stage Mrs. Piper conceives herself to be in
a world of spirits brighter and better than this, and is
unaware apparently of her actual surroundings. In that
other world her own spirit walks about among other
spirits, as, for instance, on April 3, 1900, when she says
(see Appendix, p. 571) :
Say, Rector took me into the other world and I've been
all round through the garden with Mrs. Hodgson and that
little boy.
Or on December 24, 1906, when she says (in the passage
quoted in Chapter II., p. 70, in another connexion) :
I met Dr. Hodgson walking in the garden and I was
taking a message for him ; and then Myers came and
interrupted him ; and then I came down and down on a
cord.
The spirits she thus meets may be false communi-
cators ;
e.g. she appeared to see " Bessie Beals " in the
waking-stage (see above, p. 178, footnote). But though
her own spirit is there, I do not think that she ever
meets there the spirit of any other living person. On
228 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
the other hand, her visions of spirits sometimes persist
into that part of the waking-stage when she begins to
return to this world and to be aware of her real surround-
ings, and thus get mixed up with these. For instance,
on November 17, 1902, Hodgson reports that Mrs. Piper
remarked to the effect that the silk robe swirled over
her, and on my asking her what it was, she said that
when he (apparently Imperator) turned, the silk robe went
over her pillow.
Or again on December 8, 1902, Mr. Dorr reports :
[Staring at G. B. D.] Well, who is that lady with her
hand on your shoulder—something misty shut down right
over it—That's no dream, Mr. Hodgson !
Or on February 20, 1901, after one of the Bennie Junot
sittings :
See that cord I came in on ?
There was a young man almost in my way. I did not
step on him, did I ?
Or on April 16, 1901, R. H. and G. B. D. present:
I felt so numb
[To R. H.] If you'd put your head over a moment ago
you'd have hit Rector right in the mouth !
Compare also the waking-stage of March 5, 1897
(Appendix to Chapter III., p. 499). This intrusion of
spirits into the semi-normal consciousness of the later part
of the waking-stage is not necessarily accompanied by any
complete recollection of the part these spirits have played
in the previous dream or even of their having played any
part at all. There is generally a distinct break in memory
when the consciousness of actual surroundings begins, and
very often such breaks will also appear in the middle of
the part before this point, or of that after it, or both.
In fact, Mrs. Piper seems to come to herself through a
varying number of strata of consciousness as it were.
The tendency to absurd misinterpretation of what she
sees is another dreamlike characteristic apt to exhibit itself
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 229
in the second part of the waking-stage. I gave some
instances in Chapter I. as illustrations of probably
blurred vision. But it requires absence of normal power of
judgment as well as blurred vision to suppose that a fur
coat on a chair is a cow in the room (see above, p. 24),
or that Mr. Hodgson's arm is an elephant's trunk, as
Mrs. Piper did on January 22, 1901 :
You hear my head snap ?
I thought you were an elephant. I thought that was
an elephant's trunk [pointing to R. H.'s left arm lying
across the table] Oh is that you, Mr. Hodgson ?
1
There is generally, I think, throughout a waking-stage a
sort of framework of the dream common to most of the
waking-stages of about the same period, though varying
without marked transition from period to period. Thus
the general religious atmosphere and the idea of edifying
instruction being given by Imperator to the medium con-
stantly occurs in 1897. And the same phrases are often
used. I think the kind of similarity I mean can be
observed in those waking-stages of March, 1897, quoted
in the Appendix. In 1907, when Mrs. Piper was in
England, a vision of a kind of temple with archways in
which apparently the spirits were grouped was frequent.
In the later part of the waking-stages after 1898 the
coming in on a cord is very frequently spoken of—and so
forth. Flowers constantly played an important part
in waking-stages of all periods, and were often perceived
through three senses—sight, smell, and touch. Some
imagery or remarks indicating that Mrs. Piper regarded
herself as visiting a heavenly region, conceived in various
ways, occur in almost all waking-stages under the
Imperator regime. But nothing about these waking-stage
dreams is invariable, and there are cases where the ideas
are apparently entirely derived from the immediately
preceding or recent trances proper, and the scene of
the drama is in this world, though not in the actual
surroundings—visits to Mexico and to Myers's medium in
1
A tendency to illusion in a minor degree was exhibited in occurrences
on December 12 and 17, 1906 (see Appendix, p. 601).
230 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
England are instances (see below, p. 247, and Appendix,
pp. 551-553).
It remains to try to make out something about the intelli-
gence concerned in the waking-stage talk or in that going
into trance, and what its relation is to the personalities of
the trance proper and to the normal Mrs. Piper.
In the detailed description of the going into trance, which
Hodgson gives in Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 397-399, he
seems to conceive of two distinct consciousnesses in Mrs.
Piper, one aware of this world and the other of another
world. His theory put shortly seems to be that in going into
trance the subliminal consciousness first mixes itself with
and then ousts the supraliminal consciousness, and finally
itself disappears, taking the supraliminal consciousness
with it and leaving the " spirits " free to act in its
absence. This process he conceives as occurring in reverse
order in coming out of trance. In his typewritten records
of sittings he always heads his account of the waking-
stage with the words :
" Mrs. Piper's subliminal speaks,"
or some similar phrase ; and the waking-stage came to be
called by him and other sitters " the subliminal."
I think it is possible that Hodgson would himself have
admitted that he used the term " subliminal," both in the
passage in Proceedings, Vol. XIII., just referred to, and
in his records, a little loosely. 1
For though the dream
consciousness of all of us, and Mrs. Piper's waking-stage
consciousness—which, as I remarked in the introductory
chapter (p. 27) have obviously many points of resemblance
—may, as compared with the normal waking consciousness,
be more open to influence from the subconscious, and
have more access to subliminal memories, the differences
1
He says, in introducing his description (Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p.
397) : "I shall use terms as far as possible which are familiar to the
readers of our Proceedings, even although they may not be strictly
accurate in their application." A friend who frequently discussed the
phenomena with Hodgson tells me that he doubts whether by '
sub-
liminal '
he meant to imply more than '
not included in the memory of
the normal consciousness '
but I think the description I have tried to
summarize above is difficult to reconcile with this as the whole meaning
of the word.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 231
more constantly in evidence are of the nature of limita-
tion rather than extension. The confusion, incoherence,
and frequent absurdity arise largely from the absence of
perception of the actual surroundings, from unstable and
rapidly shifting memory, and from partial abeyance of
the critical faculty—the faculty of judgment. These are
hardly the results one would expect from the combined
operation of consciousnesses aware between them of two
worlds.
When two more or less independent consciousnesses are
at work, as in automatic writing, one must be subliminal
to the other if both belong to the same individual. But
in dreams it is difficult to say what is subliminal and what
is not. At any rate, I prefer to avoid difficult questions
about the subliminal consciousness and to put the question
to be determined in the form :
" Does the intelligence which
speaks in the waking-stage conceive itself as being Mrs.
Piper ?
" This question, I take it from Hodgson's use of
the word subliminal, he would have answered in the affirma-
tive. 1
In the later part of the process of waking—when the
experiences of the earlier part are being described—there
is, of course, no doubt. It is Mrs. Piper herself who de-
scribes them. And whenever these experiences take the
form of vision, it is Mrs. Piper herself who sees. Again,
the spoken remarks in the earlier part are often obviously
addressed by Mrs. Piper to a spirit or to an impersonal
auditor, or occasionally to the sitter.
2
Thus we sometimes
get Mrs. Piper's side only of a conversation with spirits.
For example, on February 12, 1897, the record of the
waking-stage begins :
I will be good. I will be good. I'll do the best I can.
I do try. Yes, I do. Yes I do. Oh yes I do. Yes I
will. Yes, and in this world too.
1
1 think, in fact, that what he means when in his records he describes
the waking-stage as " Mrs. Piper's subliminal speaking " is simply that the
speaking intelligence does not conceive itself as an independent spirit, as
it does in the trance proper, but that at the same time it is not the normal
waking Mrs. Piper.
2
Sometimes the sitter, though realised as an individual, is not recog-
nised. See e.g. p. 247 (April 16, 1897), and Appendix, March 29, 1897,
p. 559 ; May 22, 1900, p. 572 ; March 26, 1902, p. 585 ; March 1, 1905, p. 594.
232 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Which sentences are followed by a remark showing that she
has conceived herself as conversing with Imperator. (For full
record see Appendix, p. 553.) Or, again, on March 23, 1897,
the record begins with one side of a conversation which
Mrs. Piper appears to be holding with Mrs. Dow during
a sort of morning call in the other world—Mrs. Dow 1
having been one of the communicators during the trance :
Who told you that ? . . . Yes, she has. She has grown.
She's quite a large girl. 1
Whose boy is it % He came here
first, did he ? ... Oh I see. He's a very good man,
don't you think. That's Rector. Well, I think I could
stay with you, Mrs. Dow, but I'm going back. 2
Other instances in which Mrs. Piper's side only of a
conversation is uttered aloud will be found in the
Appendix.3
As an example of Mrs. Piper herself being the sole
speaker, but describing what she sees or hears to an
earthly auditor apparently without consciousness of whom
she is describing it to, the waking-stages of February 23,
1897, and May 22, 1900, may be referred to (see Appendix,
pp. 553, 572). Sometimes in the first part of the waking-
stage Mrs. Piper is obviously the sole speaker whose remarks
are given, but she addresses some of her remarks to the
spirits and some to the earthly auditor. For instance, on
March 27, 1897 (see Appendix, p. 559), she begins by de-
scribing what she sees, and when she comes to the words
" Would you please let me go sir " is apparently addressing
Imperator.
In most waking-stages—even the early parts of them
—
at least some of the remarks are obviously the remarks of
Mrs. Piper in propria persona. But there are a certain
number of cases where the remarks of spirits to Mrs.
Piper are given in the first person, unaccompanied by any
remarks of Mrs. Piper's own—where we have, in fact, the
1
See above, p. 219. The girl who has grown is doubtless Ruthie Thaw.
s
The passage quoted on p. 206 above about Mrs. Piper's dislike of coming
back, etc., follows immediately here in the record.
3
See March 24, 1897; April 15, 1897; May 11, 1897.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 233
spirit's side of the conversation but not Mrs. Piper's. For
instance, on April 8, 1897, the record begins :
Come here spirit and answer me [?]
I am the messenger of God, the Life, the Light. I will
guard thee well.
Go spirit, take up thy body.
Say to him these are the paths of light and truth, and
may God be merciful to you.
[Almost normal.]
Mr. Hodgson, I saw that gentleman with the cross
again {Imperator} and he gets so small, 1
and when I get
into this room again, oh I feel so horrible ...***
They're pouring . . .
(R. H. Heard the snap yet ?)
Oh I just heard it. I felt as though they were pouring
something over me. 2
Are we in cases like this also to suppose Mrs. Piper to
regard herself as speaking, repeating the remarks of
spirits ? Hodgson apparently did so, and I believe that
in most cases this interpretation is right. The reasons for
thinking so are that the voice, when more than a whisper,
is like Mrs. Piper's when she is undoubtedly speaking for
herself or clearly acting as intermediary for a spirit,3
and
that in other cases, in which both spirits and Mrs. Piper
herself speak, the fact that she is repeating for spirits is
sometimes made clear, the manner being much the same
as when it is not made clear. 4
There are many instances
in which we have the remarks of both Mrs. Piper and of
spirits, where the question whether she regards herself as
repeating the spirit's remarks, arises just as it does in
cases where the remarks are all those of spirits.5
And
1
Compare Chapter I., p. 25.
2
For other examples see Appendix, March 8 and 12, 1897.
3
For a definite example of this see Appendix, May 26, 1898.
4
See, for example, Appendix, April 26, 1897.
5
See, for examples, Appendix, March 4, 13, 17, 22, 26, 29 and April 1,
1897 ; March 20, 1907 ; also Vol. XXII., p. 302, May 7, 1907 ;
Appendix,
May 13, 1908. On April 26, 1897, and March 31, 1897, there are indica-
tions that she knows she is repeating for spirits.
234 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
there is at least one case (June 10, 1897, see Appendix)
where the question is raised by a conversation that occurs
between Mrs. Piper and a spirit hi going into trance.
There is one phenomenon which occasionally occurs
which may possibly throw some light on this question of
repetition for spirits in the first person—namely, the
repetition by Mrs. Piper in the waking-stage of the
sitter's remarks—what Haidenhain and Charcot, when they
observed it in hypnotised subjects, called echolalia. Accord-
ing to that school of hypnotism, the repetition was due
to a mechanical reflex—to action of the nerves without
volition. The more modern view is, I believe, that it is
the result of volition and due to mental suggestion of some
sort ; the hypnotised person repeats parrot-like because
for some reason or other he thinks that is what he is intended
to do. 1
This kind of mimicry is recorded at least twice by
Hodgson, on June 20, 1899, and March 10, 1902, and
once by Dr. Stanley Hall in the spring of 1909. The
following are Hodgson's records :
(June 20, 1899.)
Present, R. B. J. and R. H.
[inarticulate]. God is spirit [?]
There's that same one. There's the same one . . .
before
Oh I don't know. I won't ache.
Who's * * * [inarticulate] There he is. I want to go
out. That's that other one.
(R. H. Hallo) Hallo
(R. H. Mrs. Piper) Mrs. Piper
(R. H. Are you all right ?) Are you all right.
(March 10, 1902.)
Present, Mrs. B. and R. H.
" That's Katie . . . That's Katie . . . That's Katie." (R. H.
What Katie ?) I don't know [R. H. says :
" Hello !
" " Good
morning." " All right." " It's a fine day." " Alta quite
1
Mrs. Piper similarly automatically imitated speech and gesture when
put into semi-hypnosis by William James (see Appendix to Chapter I., p. 334).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance Phenomena. 235
well ?
" and several other analogous phrases to stimulate
the return of Mrs. P.'s ordinary consciousness ; she repeats
automatically after me the words I say. Finally she
becomes normal, and to my query " all right ?
" replies
"Yes, thank you."]
Dr. Hall's record I give in Appendix, p. 612. It will
be seen that some of the remarks repeated after him were
rather longer than Hodgson's, also that the mimicry
occurs in a longer waking-stage, which continues after it
for some little time before complete normal consciousness
is recovered.
As Mrs. Piper clearly has in the waking-stage vivid
auditory hallucinations, as well as those of sight and smell,
it seems just possible that she may sometimes mimic her
own hallucinations, as in the instances just quoted she
mimicked Hodgson. Against this, however, it must be
observed that the instances we have of repetition after
the sitter occur in a later part of the waking-stage—
a
part more near to normal awakeness than the instances of
repetition of the remarks of spirits. And, moreover,
repetition for spirits is certainly in many cases intelligent
and deliberate, as, e.g. on March 16, 1908 (see Proceedings,
Vol. XXIV., p. 67), where, in the midst of allusions to
the Mneid, she says to the sitter :
" Don't you hear me ?
Mr. Myers is whispering in one ear and I am trying to
get it out at the other."
On the whole, as I have said, I have little doubt that the
speaking intelligence of the waking-stage not only generally
but practically always regards itself as Mrs. Piper
—
sometimes speaking for herself and sometimes repeating
what she hears spirits say. There are, it is true, certain
extreme and comparatively rare cases difficult to reconcile
with this view. These, or some of them, may perhaps,
however, represent lapses into something resembling the
trance proper after the marked break between trance
and waking-stage. One of these peculiar cases occurred
on January 16, 1907 ; it is quoted in full in the Appendix.
On this occasion the waking-stage began with the clear
utterance in the first person, and in a deep voice like a
man's, of a communication substantially and unmistakeably
236 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
the same as one which Rector had given in the third
person during the trance proper as a message from Mr.
Joseph Marble. It is very difficult to distinguish this from
a brief voice communication with Mr. Marble as control.
The case just referred to is, I think, the only one the
record of which mentions a change of voice in the waking-
stage,1
but there are others where a spirit seems to con-
verse with the sitter in the waking-stage without any
acknowledged intervention of Mrs. Piper. Something of
this kind seems to have happened on April 8, and on
October 21, 1901 (see Appendix, pp. 577, 582), when
there was a short conversation between MyersP and
Hodgson. Again, on April 2, 1902 (see Appendix, p.
585) Bennie Junot seems to speak himself to Hodgson in
the waking-stage, and gives veridical information—or, at
any rate, information which leads to the recovery of the
lost dog Rounder. 2
It happened on April 27, 1908,
when Myers is represented as speaking, and as answering
directly when Mr. Dorr asks a question. The following
is an extract from Mr. Dorr's record of this waking-stage :
Have no doubts, no fears ; I am Frederic Myers that
once lived among you, among men * * * I said the
Doctor would recover from his rheumatism.
(G. B. D. Who is that ?)
Dr. Verrall. Do you know him \ He is a friend of mine.
It apparently happened again on May 12 and 13, 1908
(see Appendix, pp. 609, 610, for the full account). On the
latter date Mr. Dorr, who was again the sitter and recorder,
writes about the waking-stage :
R. H. appears, talking in the first person to G. B. D.
1
We have possibly another example in the waking-stage of February
26, 1907 (see Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 95). Immediately after vain
attempts by Mrs. Piper to say the word " laurel " distinctly, the words
aphasia, aphasia " were uttered. Mr. Piddington, who was the sitter
and recorder, recalls these words as having been said in a hurried whisper
coming out in a way very different from that in which Mrs. Piper's utter-
ances in the waking-stage usually do. It gave him the feeling of having
caught a remark by MyersP or G. P... which the speaker had not meant
him to overhear.
2
For the details of this case see Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., pp. 515-518.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 237
in a direct way unusual in the subliminal of these sittings.
What he talks about, however, is merely the Latin verses
which he is endeavouring to translate, attempts at transla-
tion and questions about the words he has misunderstood.
In the following two waking-stages, reported by Miss
Theodate Pope, we again have Hodgson seeming to con-
verse directly with the sitter and in the first person,
but nevertheless Mrs. Piper's remarks in propria persona
seem to show that she regarded herself as present
throughout.
{Dec. 21, 1908. Waking-stage.)
{HodgsonP,
Myersp, and others had communicated during the
sitting. There had been a good deal said about the
desirability of writing in Greek, Latin and Italian for
test purposes. Shortly before the end of the trance
proper, Miss Pope had asked HodgsonP to give her some
" Greek words in the subliminal " and he had promised to
try. The remarks in square brackets are Miss Pope's
notes.
}
Italian Italian
Signa tak et Waterman oramen Alphus U.T.A. dek
Groda,
in God we trust.
Laudig.
Hello George, I meant to put Boodle on the end of
those nonsense 1
—I am Richard Hodgson, speak to
me.
(T. P. You said Boodle.)
I want one more word, Poodle.
How are you first rate ? You look charming. I want
to see you again.
Scipio palenten viren
(T. P. Translate)
T herist (?) go now.
(T. P. Translate)
1 " Those nonsense " refers no doubt to a string of nonsense words,
" Spoodle, goodie, eoodle, doodle," given by HodgsonP during the sitting
as a cross-correspondence message.
238 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
That is it I say I must go, I say to you good morn-
ing arsano logano you see I know.
Oh [looking up delightedly] it's the minister. Good-
bye, we're up the mountain climbing, climbing.
I don't like it here.
Oh dear, oh dear, what is it, what is it ? Oh [almost
crying]
Oh [seeing T. P.] you, you, you [distressed]
Begone [R. H. to light.] [Insane look in eyes]
Miss Pope
Where did Mr. Myers go ? N. D.'s father with a book
all in the light and in a row. Mr. Hodgson pushed
N. D. almost into my face and said go up and
have a look at her and Mr. Hodgson wanted Mr.
D. to read something out of the book and Mr.
Myers was saying such queer talk.
[Notices T. P. writing] Oh I forgot I must not talk.
The changes here are decidedly confusing. Judging from
what Mrs. Piper says in the last paragraph, some of the
absurd attempts at a foreign language are to be attributed
to a Myers personality. Then with the words " Hello
George," a Hodgson personality comes in. " George
"
is probably Mr. Dorr, and, if so, there is an illusion as to
who the sitter is, such as not infrequently occurs in the
waking-stages ;
only it is generally Mrs. Piper in propria
persona who addresses Mr. Dorr as Hodgson e.g. on Dec. 8,
1902 (see above, p. 228), or as Mr. Piddington in 1908. 1
The remarks about Boodle, etc., show a knowledge of what
has occurred during the sitting. Yet, after Miss Pope has
spoken and the Hodgson personality apparently recognises
her identity, he greets her as though they had not met for
some time, although just before the trance proper ended
they had been talking like old friends. Mrs. Piper clearly
comes in herself with the first " Oh." The minister is Im-
perator or Rector. Who it is that says " We're up the
mountain, etc.," is not clear. The same line is quoted by
1
In all cases, probably owing to habit acquired in recent sittings or to
association of ideas.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 239
the Hodgson control in the course of the sitting on the
following day as a message given to Mrs. Holland.
(Dec. 22, 1908. Waking-stage.)
The 'cusative went into ablative, plural
He means to
Sailing, sailing
Thanatopsis
I [I could not catch some words that seemed to be in
Greek]
Musarum ?
They said the soldiers of the Trojan war
—
You don't collect my passages, you only get the frag-
ments M (?)
I must do better so they will make sense
Give me time
(T. P. Send her back quickly)
I will, I will, thank you.
Begone. Scampe, scampo.
Oh you are Mr. Hodgson, aren't you funny.
[She stretched her hand out and shook it as if in some
one's face]
Begone
Yes I am going
Good bye
[She has the insane look.]
On the cord
I forgot you were here I almost had a fall I came
sliding in on a cord. My head snapped.
Here, again, there are changes in the personage apparently
speaking. The " I will, etc.," seems to be a reply by
Hodgson to Miss Pope, and the next words to be addressed
by him to Mrs. Piper, and then comes a conversation
between her and him.
Direct speaking by Hodgsonp seems to have occurred again
in the waking-stage of Mrs. Piper'sTlast sitting—July 31,
1911—recorded by Sir Oliver Lodge,r and which is quoted
in the Appendix to Chapter III. \ (p. 516). And here
also Mrs. Piper would ajDpear to have regarded herself
240 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
as present if we attribute the words " There's Mabel
"
and " I got that through " to her, as I think we should.
The waking-stage record begins :
[She waved her hand and said :
—
]
There's Mabel.
I wanted to speak but I couldn't. God bless you
you dear old thing. I love you always always. We
shall meet again. By bye.
I brought her Lodge I want you to know who she
is. I'm Dick
[O. J. L. whispered into Mrs. Piper's ear, " Yes, J know, Dick
Hodgson, and you brought Mabel." * * *]
[Satisfied sigh.] I got that through. Good-bye.
It is clear in all these instances that the sitter had
the impression of conversation with a control or com-
municator other than Mrs. Piper, like that in a voice
sitting, and it seems probable that a tendency to some
sort of assimilation between the method in trance proper
and in waking-stage was being developed in the later
years of Mrs. Piper's trance. Perhaps the remark in the
waking-stage of May 12, 1908, " I'm half myself and half
somebody else " (see Appendix, p. 609), points the same way.
In connexion with these cases, where spirits seem to be
conceived as conversing directly with the sitters, we may
notice some, where the beginning of the waking-stage carries
on, without apparent recognition of any interruption, the
last part of the trance—notwithstanding the interval of deep
sleep that has intervened. This happened, for instance, on
June 3, 1898 (see Appendix, p. 565), when the trance having
ended before Imperator could write his accustomed prayer,
it came early in the waking-stage.
Probably a similar making up in the waking-stage for an
omission in the trance proper is illustrated at the sitting of
July 2, 1902 (see Appendix, p. 587), when, as it was the last
sitting before prolonged summer holidays, various frequent
communicators send farewell messages of affection to their
friends. One would have expected this to be done in the
trance proper, as happened e.g. at the corresponding sitting
in 1903. But most of the trance communication was taken
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 241
up by discussion and what one may call reconciliation between
Hodgson and Rector, who had had one of their not very
infrequent misunderstandings about the management of the
sittings, and there was apparently little time for anything
else. Imperator and Rector take their leave, and then,
when the waking-stage begins, come the omitted greetings
from communicators to their friends.
Clear continuity occurs on March 13, 1901, when Hodgson's
record describes the end of the trance and beginning of the
waking-stage as follows :
(March 13, 1901.)
{Rector and Imperator take leave. Hodgson writes :} [I was
about to take the pencil out of fingers when the hand
bent somewhat spasmodically holding pencil tight, and
wrote in strong characters, contrasting with the immediately
previous faint writing] Remember * * * [Pass-sentence]
Hyslop 1
{The waking-stage begins :
—
}
That's my test to him. I am not I unless I give it.
[1 make a sound of interrogation, not being quite sure
of all the words.]
I am not I unless I give it.
[The foregoing apparently from Professor Hyslop's
father.]
I will. Tell Hodgson there's more truth than poetry in it.
There's Fred and Doctor Myers. All transparent. That's
pretty,
Etc.
On March 20, 1901, again, at the end of the sitting
Hodgson was reading to Rector a letter from a previous
sitter to a communicator, but had to stop half-way
through because it was time for the sitting to end. The
waking-stage begins :
That so ! All I could do to stay and hear it. Better so.
Farewell.
1
Presumably Professor Hyslop's father. Professor Hyslop, in con-
nection with a medium he was experimenting with, had been spoken of
during the sitting.
a
242 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
This kind of continuity is occasionally strikingly shown
in going into trance. One instance of it is given in the
Appendix to Chapter III., p. 448, the case where Proctor,
who on July 3, 1895, made his first and only appearance
in the trance proper, is also introduced as making remarks
in the preceding going-into-trance-stage.
On March 15, 1897 (see Appendix, p. 556), the exact words
said by Mrs. Piper going into trance, perhaps repeating after
Imperator, are said by Imperator to Hodgson as soon as
the usual greetings have been exchanged.
In the following case, recorded by Hodgson, Imperator
seems to play successive parts of the same drama in the
stage of going into trance, in a somewhat ambiguous early
part of the trance before the writing begins, and in some
of the first written sentences
:
(March 29, 1897.)
[After a short time she breathes heavily, and this is
followed by repetition in low voice of what seems to be
a prayer which she is repeating after some one. Following
this is heavy breathing again. Entranced completely.
Attempt to speak. I finally caught what sounded like
" Imperator Servus Dei," but couldn't hear anything else.
The hand made sign of a cross and touched the (Mrs. P.'s)
forehead and apparently assented when I repeated " Imper-
ator Servus Dei." Soon the attempts at speech ceased,
and the hand gave indications of being " more seized."]
[Imperator writes]
Imp. -|- Hail R. H. Hail, Imperator.
Imp. Friend, we greet thee Should we not inspire the spirit
of this body with the Holy Spirit, we should at times
be subjected to other spirits not preferable [?] . . .
from other spheres. We know of higher and better
spirits whom we prefer to bring. We have faith that
we shall be all powerful.
A few weeks earlier, on March 5, 1897, something of the
same kind happened with George Eliot as control (see
Appendix to Chapter III., p. 491). Mrs. Piper going into
trance said, " I'll never be able to remember that," and
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 243
appeared to attempt to recite some poetry. Then George
Eliot begins the trance by announcing herself and writing
fragments of verse in an almost illegible hand, after
which she greets Hodgson and explains that she was
reciting poetry to a lady whom she saw passing over the
boundary line. In both these last- mentioned cases, the
going-into-trance drama is continued into or repeated in
the beginning of the trance proper, which beginning is
also more inchoate than is usual.
But the most curious case of the trance following up
the indications of the going-into-trance-stage occurred on
April 20, 1897 (see Appendix, p. 562). Mrs. Piper going
into trance had a vision apparently of Dr. Newbold.
She said, " I think that must be Dr. Newbold, and he's a
bad cold too." The first control in the trance is G. P., who,
immediately after greetings to Hodgson, says, " Just left
Newbold, saw him in chair reading, not feeling any too
well physically either." What are we to suppose happened
in this case ? Did G. P. show Mrs. Piper a vision of Pro-
fessor Newbold, or did he take her there with him ? Or
did she have a telepathic impression from G. P. ? Or
were the two intelligences, Mrs. Piper in the going-into-
trance-stage and the G. P. control, in effect the same, only
in a state of, so to speak, broken up consciousness with
discontinuity of memory ? Mrs. Piper not infrequently
appeared to see spirits as she was going into trance, and
the spirits she saw were often those who controlled or
communicated in the ensuing trance, especially those who
did so immediately the trance began. But the vision of
April 20, 1897, just described was different. What she
saw was not a spirit, but a living person, and the same living
person that the spirit who immediately afterwards con-
trolled said he had been seeing.1
Study of the connexions between the ideas of the trance
proper and of the waking-stage is of the greatest importance
as bearing on the nature and relations of the consciousnesses
involved. In the cases just described, the connexion con-
sists in a continuation in one state of what has been begun
1
There is no indication that she placed this living person in the spirit
world (see above, p. 227).
244 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
in another, or of the making good in the waking-stage of an
omission in the preceding trance communication. But there
is much other evidence of connexion—indeed, there is some
in almost every waking-stage. As a rule, there is no
evidence that any connexion is recognised by the intelli-
gences concerned, no avowal of knowledge in the waking-
stage of what has occurred in the trance or vice versa.
The cases where such recognition is affirmed are, of
course, very important, but it will be convenient to
reserve them for discussion in connexion with a fuller
discussion of the memory relations between Mrs. Piper's
various states in Chapter VII.
Where the connexion between the ideas of the two states
is not explicitly recognised in either, the commonest case
is simply the appearance of the same personages in both.
It happens in most waking-stages that at least some of
the personages Mrs. Piper speaks of seeing or hearing
have figured as controls or communicators in the preceding
trance proper, and that this presence in both states is
not accidental is confirmed—if confirmation be needed—by
finding that on one occasion at least the absence of
Imperator is noted in both. On February 27, 1897, he
did not appear at all in the trance proper, and Stainton
Moses who controlled during the last part of this said he
was sent in his place, and that he (Imperator) had £:
been
called in another direction." Accordingly Mrs. Piper
very properly sees nothing of him during the waking-
stage, and remarks towards the end of it, "I didn't see
the man with the gown on," i.e. Imperator.
The identity of personages in trance and waking-stage is
by no means complete. All the trance personages do not
necessarily appear in the waking-stage, and, on the other
hand, characters sometimes appear in the waking-stage who
have no connexion with the trance proper that immediately
preceded it. I think, when this is so, they have always
appeared in some earlier trance, at least I do not know of
any clear case of a communicator appearing for the first
time in a waking-stage. This may, however, be an
accident, for ideas other than the recognition of a person
as present, do sometimes appear for the first time in a
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs, Piper's Trance Phenomena. 245
waking-stage. The reference to Ajax in the waking-stage
of October 28, 1896 (see Appendix, p. 456), is perhaps an
instance, as I know of no previous reference to Ajax. The
statement by Bennie Junot in the waking-stage on April 2, 1902,
that " John Welsh has Rounder " (see p. 236, and Appendix,
p. 585) is certainly a case in point, and instances that
occurred in the English sittings of 1906-7 and Mr. Dorr's
sittings of 1908 have been published in Proceedings, Vols.
XXII. and XXIV. The Rufus Miller case (December, 1905)
presents the same feature—the Christian name coming out
first in the waking-stage. It is an interesting case, because
the erroneous idea that Rufus Miller was still alive is com-
mon to two trance communications and an intervening
waking-stage—not the waking-stage of either trance ; but
there is no knowledge explicitly shown of the waking-stage
in the trances or vice versa, though the second trance com-
munication refers to the first across the ignored waking-
stage. A note on the case, with quotation of the records,
will be found in the Appendix, pp. 598-601.
A marked and almost verbally exact correspondence of
ideas without acknowledgment is shown in the trance and
waking-stage of January 16, 1907 (Joseph Marble), already
referred to above in another connexion (pp. 235-236, and
quoted in the Appendix, p. 602). Another good instance
occurred on December 12, 1896. Doctor, who at this time
suggested that his name was Lydgate,1
controlling, said at
the close of the trance proper :
" Well we draw our forces
from our own world." In the waking-stage Mrs. Piper
said :
" Doctor Lindrum (?) [stumbling over name] says
draw forces from our world." A case occurred again on
January 28, 1902, in connexion with the sphere-spear cross-
correspondence (see Proceedings, Vol. XX., pp. 213-216).
The following is an extract from the trance proper—sitter
and recorder Hodgson. MyersP is communicating through
Rector :
R. H. Can you try and make Helen see you holding a
1
See December 8, 1896, Appendix, p. 552. Rector, however, aJso
claimed the name Lydgate apparently (see November 14, 1896, Appendix
to Chapter III., p. 471). On that day Doctor represented himself to be
Homer.
246 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
spear in your hand ? Would that be the kind of
experiment you think would be suitable ?
Yes and no why a sphere I prefer some symbolism
of this life for instance a cross or a star.
Yes, I said spear.
All spear. R. H. Yes.
Yes significant of death so-called [I was not thinking
of it in this way, was thinking of Shake-speare]
All right, since there is no death I'll try it. My
interpreter is calling me to go.
Yes, all right. Keep trying Helen with the spear for
a week.
A week, all right.
# # * #
{This extract is at the end of a longish conversation
with Myersp communicating through Rector, which
formed the bulk of this sitting. The waking-stage
record is as follows :}
Waking-Stage.
I have [had ?] it sphere [spear ?]
I'm Fred Myers * * * [not caught]
(R. H. He what «)
I saw you both * * * [not caught] over there. All
right.
Mr. Myers was making all manner of fun of you.
Dr. Myers was with him. Why does he hold him
by the shoulders when he talks ? Why does Im-
perator all the time pray ?
[Pause]
Oh Mr. Hodgson I forgot you were here . . . nice
day isn't it ?
1
An interesting case of another kind, exhibiting general
correspondence between the ideas of trance and waking-
stage occurred on April 16, 1897. During the trance
1
For other examples of correspondence of ideas, without acknowledgment,
between trance proper and waking-stage, see below, and App., June 22,
1895, March 26, 1897, March 1, 1905 ;
App. to Ch. V., Jan. 1, 1907, p. 524,
and Proceedings, Vol. XIV., p. 27 (June 26, 1894), and Vol. XXII., pp.
126, 150 (March 6, 1907), p. 279 (April 29, 1907), pp. 379, 382 (May 1,
1907), p. 392 (May 7, 1907).
MyebSj,.
R. H.
Myersp
.
MyerSj,.
R. H.
Myersp
.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 247
proper spirits professed to be flitting to and fro between
America and the haunted house in England where Myers
was having sittings with a medium, and bringing to
Hodgson descriptions of what was going on. Hodgson
suggested that they should take Mrs. Piper's spirit there,
and accordingly they professed to do so, and described
her being seen by the English medium. Of this visit to
England Mrs. Piper was apparently aware in the waking-
stage, which is recorded by Hodgson as follows :
I saw every one of them
(R. H. Every one of whom ?)
I saw every single one of them.
I saw Myers as plain as day.
(R. H. Did he see you ?)
Who's that speaking to me ? Is it you ? . . .
A lady did. 1 But isn't she nervous, terribly nervous.
You just let me alone now. I can remember just
as well as you can.
I don't see why they have the flowers all on the
table . . .
Oh—is that you Mr. Hodgson ?
(R. H. Yes.)
I don't think much of that pot of flowers. It doesn't
belong to that world [?] I've seen much more
beautiful flowers than those.
(R. H. Were they earthly flowers ?)
Yes. I think they were.
(R. H. Was Myers near them ?)
I don't remember. Yes. Myers was there. [? Doubtful.
Low murmur, hard to catch] 2
We should here have very interesting evidence tending
to support the assertion that Mrs. Piper's spirit is removed
by spirits during the trance, if there had been any truth in
her account of what she saw. As it is, this account must
share with the statements in the trance proper Myers's
1
It had been stated in the trance that Myers's medium had seen Mrs.
Piper's spirit.
2
A vase of flowers in Myers's own room had been casually mentioned
in the trance, but not in connexion with Mrs. Piper's spirit.
248 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
condemnation of the whole series of descriptions of what
went on at the English sittings as absolutely without
truth. 1
This being so, who was the dreamer or inventor
who manufactured these stories ? If it was not some ele-
ment of Mrs. Piper herself that was originally responsible,
did she share the dream telepathically ? Or did a deceiving
spirit persuade her that she had been at the English sitting ?
It seems easier to suppose that Mrs. Piper dreamt through-
out—in one form appropriate to the occasion in the trance,
and in another, corresponding to some extent with the first
but not identical with it, in the waking-stage.
Something of the same kind happened before the
Imperator regime began, in connexion with the search for the
lost boy in Mexico (see waking-stages of November 16 2
and
18, and December 8, 1896, in the Appendix, pp. 551, 552).
There had been no profession in the trance proper of taking
Mrs. Piper's spirit to Mexico, but her waking-stage per-
sonality seems to have conceived itself as sharing the
search and seeing the persons and buildings which had
been mentioned in the trance. It is noticeable that on
December 8, 1896, she acts in the waking-stage as though
being shown a building—apparently one described in the
trance proper at a previous sitting—then and there. As
before said (p. 112), there is no reason to regard any of
this Mexican business as veridical.
Another variety of connexion was shown on February 18,
1903 (see Appendix, p. 591), when Mrs. Piper in the waking-
stage had a vision—the first for many years—of Phinuit,
who had been spoken of during the trance. This instance
differs from the others in that the vision of Phinuit seems
to have been the result not of any experience of the control
or communicator during the sitting, but merely of its being
mentioned that the communicator had seen him.
The waking-stage visions of personages who control or
communicate in the trance are often very vivid and definite.
For instance, visions of Phinuit, Rector, and Imperator are
described in a way that shows that their appearance is
1
See Appendix to Chapter III., p. 507.
2
The waking-stage of November 16 presents the curious feature of Mrs.
Piper being very much out of breath owing to imaginary running.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance Phenomena. 249
vividly conceived. A description of Phinuit on October 12,
1896 (p. 551), of Imperator and Rector on June 29, 1898,
and of Rector on June 20, 1905 (p. 566), will be found
in the Appendix. As regards Rector it must be admitted
that he appears to have shaved hi the interval between the
two descriptions if they both refer to him.
But one of the most important and interesting points
about Mrs. Piper's waking-stage is that the visions of
people that occurred in them were apparently sometimes
veridical. She appeared to see friends of sitters as the
latter knew them, when she cannot possibly have seen
them in life herself. There is a good deal of evidence
pointing to this. Not only were her descriptions of their
friends—often given with great detail. 1
and sometimes
including peculiarities of movement and gesture—generally
admitted by sitters to be wholly or in the main correct,2
but she has on several occasions picked out from among
other photographic portraits that of the person thus seen.
I have quoted above her recognition of the photograph of
G. P. (pp. 213-215).
We have another case among Hodgson's unpublished
records, which occurred in 1900. A new sitter had three
sittings in succession—June 11, 12, and 13, 1900. Her
deceased husband wrote a little himself, and then com-
municated through G. P. and Rector. The communications
were confused and their evidential value difficult to
estimate, 3
but some description of the communicator was
given in all three waking-stages, and Mrs. Piper picked
out his portrait in a photographic group of thirty-one men
in the waking-stage on the 11th and in another group of
seventeen on the 12th. The records of the waking-stages
of the 11th and 12th are given in full in the Appendix,
1
There was sometimes, I think, a little feeling about for details. See
e.g. the remarks about moustache and blue eyes on June 11, 1900,
Appendix, p. 573.
2
In this power Mrs. Piper in the waking-stage resembled Adele Maginot
(see above, Chapter III., p. 83).
3
The communicator could not remember his own profession or the name
by which he called his wife, and—what is worse—made bad shots at both ;
and yet there were some good things evidentially in the course of these
and later sittings, besides the recognition of the portrait.
250 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
pp. 573-576. The mention on the 12th that the com-
municator " laughs one-sided " is an instance of correct
description of peculiarity of movement. It is to be
noticed that the photographs were on both days sub-
mitted to Mrs. Piper before she had completely recovered
her normal consciousness, and that on the second day,
after fixing on the likeness, she seems to have gone back
again into a somewhat deeper phase of the waking-stage.
The G. P. photograph was selected by Mrs. Piper after the
waking-stage, when apparently quite normal again. And
so it was in the Joseph Marble cases (December, 1906, and
May, 1907) described by Sir Oliver Lodge in Proceedings,
Vol. XXIII., pp. 275-278. G. P. had, however, been seen
in the waking-stage and the fact was remembered, and in
the second Joseph Marble case the same is true. The first
Joseph Marble case is somewhat different, because he had
undertaken in the trance to show himself, and because,
notwithstanding this, there is no indication of his having
been seen that day in the waking-stage. I shall return to
this case in Chapter VII. pp. 273-276.
During Mrs. Piper's last series of sittings a very interesting
experiment is reported by Sir Oliver Lodge, which throws
light on the waking-stage consciousness and memory, or,
at least, suggests possible answers to questions. At a sitting
on December 2, 1910, a locket which had belonged to one
of the communicators had been brought out by the sitter
and remarked on by the communicator. At the end of the
waking-stage, when Mrs. Piper was almost normal again,
though not quite—she had apparently felt a snap, and she
had just talked about the darkness of the room and about
feeling numb—Sir Oliver handed her the locket in its case.
The sight of it seemingly put her back into the waking-stage
dream. Sir Oliver reports as follows :
(Mrs. Piper pounced on it with interest saying,)
That was the little girl's. That was what I saw. The
lady was trying to tell me about it. She said
something about putting hairs in it.
The little girl held it up before her eye (Imitating
the action of an eye-glass,) like as if she wanted
her eye-lash in it.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 251
There is a lady there looks like aunt, but very young
when she went over.
(Referring again to the locket,) It's a pretty thing,
isn't it ? Is that glass or iron on it %
(O. J. L. I don't know.)
They were trying to figure it out what it was, and
they thought it was flowers.
Oh dear I'm afraid I'm not very intelligent. I wish
I could remember what they said but my thoughts
are going.
They were all there, I never saw anything so pretty,
such a happy group. And all of a sudden they leave
me. Why do they ?
I feel my head going round and round and then
there's a snappy sound.
I got it in my head that you were going to leave me
and I hadn't strength to speak and tell you not
to go. My thoughts had begun to go. I wanted
to say Don't leave me, but I couldn't. I felt that
if you left me to-day I didn't know what was to become
of me.
{This about her fear of being left, refers to an incident
that occurred at the beginning of the sitting when Mrs. Piper
was going into trance but was only partly off. After a little
conversation about this Mrs. Piper said, referring to the locket
again :
}
Do you know I saw all that, or I saw a representa-
tion of that. It's a funny thing but there's a little
girl up there and she was going to put something
inside it. She wants her mother to put her hair
in it. Where's her mother ? I don't know what
it means at all. I saw a perfect representation
of it just like that. It's queer, I don't see how
you got it down here so quickly. Isn't that queer %
It's transfiguration.
Well now that's quite clear.
(Mrs. Piper here looked round over her shoulder. There was
no one else now in the room, and she said—
)
I thought Briscoe was there. {Mr. Briscoe had been
there just before she began to go into the trance.}
252 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
Do you know who that gentleman is that stands
just in front of me here i He has a dark moustache,
a very striking face, a tall gentleman with square
shoulders. He constantly stands here just in front
of me. I don't see him now you know.
I think I'll get up and sit in the armchair by the
fire. My feet are cold.
(This being done and her back turned, 0. J. L. looked through
first some volumes of Proceedings and then in " Fragments of
Prose and Poetry " for a portrait of Gurney {who had also
been one of the communicators during the sitting and had
been mentioned by name earlier in the waking-stage.} Hiding
the name, he brought it and put it in front of Mrs. Piper
to see whether she would remark on it. She pounced on it
instantly.)
That is the very same man, the very man. Oh I'm so
glad you showed me that. It's the same man * * *
He is a tall man with square shoulders. He's very
earnest. He spoke to me. I wish I could remember
that a little while longer. He had rather a stoutish
lady with him, a motherly looking lady. His face
is clear and younger than that, and he seemed to
be working hard, so busy.
You knew who I meant. You guessed it from the
description. How did you know ?
(O. J. L. Well I guessed.)
It isn't your brother, is it ? Excuse me asking, but
he seemed very near to you when I was over
there. That little girl had a little round thing in
her fingers and she kept telling me to tell somebod}^
to put something in it.
(0. J. L. here went to the table for the locket and said
" Was it this % ")
Yes, only it had something to it ; it was hanging.
(Holding up her hand as if dangling something.)
I saw them all and a beautiful form [or % face] of
a little girl.
{She described the little girl more or less, and then described
a lady. 0. J. L. showed her a likeness of his mother, and
she said :
—
}
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 253
That's the one, yes.
(But this identification did not carry conviction. It was not
at all secure and certain like the other one. All it could mean
was that the lady spoken of in the waking-stage had been
something like that.)
After some time spent in ordinary conversation with
Mrs. Piper and her daughter, who had been called in,
Sir Oliver Lodge asked her :
O. J. L Did you ever know Mr. Gurney ?
Mrs. Piper. No I never knew him.
O. J. L. No, I suppose he was dead before you came over to
England.1
Mrs. Piper. I don't know. I never saw him. I don't know
what he looked like. I should not know him if I
saw him. Perhaps Miss Johnson has a picture of
him in her room ?
O. J. L. Yes.
Mrs. Piper. Oh well I suppose I have seen it, but I never
identified it or knew which it was. I don't feel to
know his appearance properly.
It is the locket experiment I chiefly wish to call atten-
tion to here. In the trance proper the little girl as
communicator had spoken about the locket and about
something inside it, but in the record of the waking-
stage, before it was shown, though the little girl is
mentioned the locket is not. We cannot, however, be
sure from this that it did not form any part of the
waking-stage dream, for Mrs. Piper probably does not
mention all she sees, and, moreover, some of the waking-
stage utterances are almost always too inarticulate to
be caught. Mrs. Piper cannot have seen the locket itself
until Sir Oliver Lodge showed it to her as described above.
Her right hand doubtless handled it during the trance when
it was produced, but she could not have seen it then, as
her face was turned away on the pillows. Nor, again,
was there, so far as we can judge, any knowledge in
1 Gumey died in 1888, and Mrs. Piper's first visit to England was in
1889.
254 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
Mrs. Piper's normal mind of the little girl, who was to
her at the moment of the experiment therefore probably a
forgotten dream, recalled by the sight of the locket. Why
and how did the locket recall it ? How did a never-before-
seen locket get appropriately associated with an un-
remembered dream-child ?
In trying to answer this we have first to observe that the
recognition of the locket, and the recognition of likenesses
of sitters' friends, are phenomena resembling each other
so much as to make it probable that they are both to
be explained in the same way. If this be so, then the
recognition of the locket cannot have depended on its
having been actually present and handled during the
trance proper, for this possibility is absent in the case
of sitters' friends. We need not, therefore, consider either
whether vision without eyes (clairvoyance) of a material
object ever occurs, or whether a sense of touch may be
so delicate as to make construction from it of an exact
visual image possible.
There remain explanations by telepathy either from a
sitter or a spirit. What exactly would have to be telepathi-
cally conveyed ? If there really was a visual hallucination
fully representing the locket before the actual locket was
seen, the telepathy must have come in there ; the vision
must have been telepathically produced. We have no evi-
dence of this in the case of the locket except Mrs. Piper's
statements after seeing it, and this might have been a
pseudo-memory, produced by the association of it with
the little girl telepathically derived in a sudden and con-
vincing way from Sir Oliver Lodge at the moment of his
showing the locket. A hypothesis of this kind was
suggested by Hodgson as an explanation of the utility of
" influences " (which are to be discussed in Chapter VIII.),
and it was as an " influence " that the locket was intro-
duced at the sitting. The hypothesis might, perhaps, be
stretched to include the cases of selection of photographs
of friends, although the sitter does turn away while the
selection is made. But in these cases there generally has
been some description of a vision given before the photo-
graph afterwards declared to resemble it has been pro-
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 255
duced. And that Mrs. Piper does have vivid visions in
the waking-stage will not, I think, be doubted by any
one who has followed this chapter so far.
On the whole, I think, the hypothesis that these visions
are sometimes telepathically produced and veridical, repre-
senting a person or thing so well as to be recognisable, is
the one that fits the facts best. Who the telepathic agent
is, or whether there is a single agent or more than one, are
questions about which it is more difficult to come to a decision.
It is much to be regretted that Sir Oliver Lodge had no
further opportunity of trying these important experiments,
and that so few are recorded by Hodgson.
Questions of conscious memory in the waking-stage of
the trance, and vice versa, I propose, as already said, to
defer to the next chapter. But it will be well to say a
few words here about memory from one waking-stage to
another. There is some evidence of this, though not, I
think, a great deal.
Of course the recurrence of similar ideas and images in
different waking-stages about the same period, which I
mentioned above (p. 229), cannot be accidental. There
must be a causal connexion of some kind, either memory
or similar external facts. But it need not be the
conscious memory of the waking-stage intelligence. This
may not be aware that it had had the same ideas, the
same dream experiences, before. To be sure that there is
such a memory we want it stated plainly, or at least
apparently implied in what is said. There are very few
clear statements of this kind, and the stratified memory
during the waking-stage tends, by making the communi-
cation fragmentary, to reduce the occasions for them.
There are, however, sometimes indications that the experi-
ences of the waking-stage which Mrs. Piper is going through
are not new to her. A very definite one occurred on
November 13, 1900 (see Appendix, p. 577), when she
said
:
I wish I could remember where I go. Sometimes I go
farther away than others, but I can't be dead, can I ?
There are also references to having seen waking-stage
256 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
personages before, as on December 22, 1892 (see above,
p. 213, footnote) :
she saw the same gentleman she saw once before ;
just
saw him smile ; did not see him do anything
and on June 14, 1895 (see above, p. 221) ;
I saw the same lovely lady I saw yesterday,
or on April 8, 1897 (see above, p. 233) :
I saw that gentleman {i.e. Imperator} with the cross again.
And there are comparisons, as on October 12, 1896 (see
Appendix, p. 551), when she says she has seen
that man again. That must be Phinuit. I never saw
him so clearly before.
The statement "Margaret and Ruth grown much larger
than when I saw {them} before" made in the waking-
stage of June 15, 1895, and in substance again on June 24,
1895 (see Appendix, p. 550), must refer back to some
previous experience either in a former waking-stage or
otherwise, and if we had more complete information it
might throw interesting light on the relations between
Mrs. Piper's different states of consciousness. Ruthie and
Margaret were twin children of Dr. and Mrs. Thaw (see
Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 384-385 and 536-582). Ruthie
died at the age of fifteen months near the end of 1891
and Margaret earlier. Mrs. Piper had never seen them or
known anything about them in life. In the first half of
1892, Dr. and Mrs. Thaw had sittings with her, and the
records of Ruthie's communications through Phinuit are
among the most interesting evidential matter concerning
Mrs. Piper that we have. This was before the days of
regular waking-stages, and we have no records of any in
connexion with these sittings. How then did the waking-
stage Mrs. Piper know about these children ? Of course,
if she did know about them in 1892. it would be natural
that she should think of them as grown much larger in
1895, but we can hardly suppose that this experience
referred to the difference between them as seen in the
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 257
waking-stage of April 24, 1895 (see above, p. 219), and
in those of June, 1895, and I do not think we have
records of any waking-stage mention of them earlier.
There easily may, however, have been waking-stage
visions unmentioned by Mrs. Piper, or unrecorded, and
perhaps the easiest hypothesis to make is that she remem-
bered such a vision.
Another possibility is that the recollection was derived
from the normal Mrs. Piper's knowledge or dreams, for
though no account of Dr. Thaw's sittings had been published
in 1895, it is practically certain, I think, that Mrs. Piper
had been told about them in her normal state, since she had
stayed with Dr. and Mrs. Thaw as their guest, and there
would have been no advantage—rather the reverse—in con-
cealing from her, at any rate after the first few sittings, that
communications were believed to have come from the
children. Then, again, we may ask whether the recollection
could have been derived from Phinuit;
filtered through
from his consciousness—whether he is a phase of Mrs. Piper
or a separate entity—to the waking-stage consciousness,
so as to appear to the latter a memory of its own. Or,
again, we may ask whether Mrs. Piper's spirit, or that part
of her which constitutes the waking-stage consciousness, is
present with communicators and controls during the trance
proper. But as regards this it must be remembered
that there is no indication that the controls conceive it as
present when they are acting as intermediaries between
communicators and sitters—in fact the contrary is, on the
whole, suggested (see Chapter II., pp. 67-70). Altogether
the case under discussion does not by itself furnish
sufficient data for arriving at a conclusion as to its
interpretation
258 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
CHAPTER VII.
Relation to each other of Mrs. Piper's Different
States of Consciousness.
The relation to each other, especially as regards memory,
of Mrs. Piper's normal consciousness, her trance state
proper, and the waking-stage that precedes and follows
it, is of great importance, and has not in the preceding
chapters been dealt with at all fully.
Investigators are generally agreed that the normal Mrs.
Piper has no conscious knowledge of what passes during the
trance. Statements on this point by Sir Oliver Lodge and
by Hodgson will be found in Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 445,
and Vol. VIII., p. 54. The absence of conscious knowledge
would not of course imply that there was no subliminal
memory of what had passed, or that portions of this
might not be brought into the supraliminal consciousness
by suitable stimuli and thus affect actions or thoughts. I
do not think we have positive evidence that this happens,
but it would be rash to assume that it does not. I can
imagine, for instance, that association of ideas might
induce the emergence of some memory of a trance
incident into the normal consciousness in the same way
that—as most of us probably have occasionally had to
surmise—a forgotten dream is responsible for a pseudo-
memory, an erroneous impression, obtruding itself into our
waking life. And I can imagine that if in her normal con-
dition Mrs. Piper came across, e.g. a name or a poem that
had been referred to in the trance, her attention might be
attracted to it, and information or ideas about it might
be then intentionally or unintentionally acquired by her
in a way that would not have happened but for a sub-
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 259
conscious interest in the subject due to the trance happen-
ings. At any rate, it would be unsafe to assume either that
no subconscious knowledge of the trance exists, or that
no interpenetration from the subconscious can occur while
Mrs. Piper's conscious knowledge of the trance happenings
is limited to what she has learnt through the talk of
sitters or through published statements.
The normal state is less cut off from the waking-stage,
of parts of which there is often, as we have seen in the
last chapter, an evanescent memory as the normal con-
sciousness returns. The waking-stage happenings apparently
vanish in the same sort of way that our dreams often do,
and by special effort or attention can sometimes be made
to persist longer, and even perhaps permanently. Some
measure of the duration of these evanescent impressions
is afforded by Sir Oliver Lodge's experiments on the
recognition of the photograph of Joseph Marble (see below,
pp. 274-276).
The converse question, whether the controls—that is,
the consciousness of the trance proper—share the know-
ledge possessed by Mrs. Piper of what she thinks and
does, or of what happens to her in her normal condition,
is more difficult to answer, and different views on the
subject have been expressed. It is discussed by Sir
Oliver Lodge in Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 448, and Vol.
XXIII., pp. 177-181 ;
by Dr. Walter Leaf, Proceedings,
Vol. VI., p. 560 ; and by Hodgson, Proceedings, Vol.
VIII., p. 55. Up to a certain point there is agreement.
I do not think that any one doubts that Mrs. Piper's
habitual or memorised knowledge—her general stock of
acquirements, or what we may call memory transformed
into habit 1
—is to a very large extent if not completely shared
by the controls. They share, for instance, her knowledge
of language and of writing, and apparently her general
information ; and that these acquirements as used by
1
Readers of M. Bergson's works, especially Matiere et Memoire, will
recognise the distinction here assumed between two kinds of memory :
(a) the recalling of facts and experiences as events in time and space, and
(b) what I have called memorised knowledge, or memory transformed into
habit.
260 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
the controls are Mrs. Piper's acquirements is shown by
their limitations. The controls cannot apparently use
languages with which Mrs. Piper is unfamiliar, although
some of the persons they profess to be spoke such
languages on earth ; and the general statements about
science or historj^ or philosophy or contemporary politics
show, broadly speaking, as we saw in Chapters II. and III.,
limitations of knowledge natural in Mrs. Piper, but not
natural in the professed controls. I think that few investi-
gators who have thought about the subject would greatly
disagree with this ; and on the hypothesis that the controls
are spirits distinct from Mrs. Piper, it would be explained by
the necessity of using an organism trained in a particular
way. Thus Hodgson, describing a discussion with Phinuit
on the latter's inability to speak French, though claiming
to be a French doctor, says {Proceedings, Vol. VIII..
p. 50) :
I replied that this explanation {i.e. the one offered by
Phinuit} was very surprising, and that a much more
plausible one would be that he was obliged to use the
brain of the medium, and could therefore manifest no
more familiarity with French than she possessed. This
—trite enough-—suggestion appeared to Phinuit also more
plausible, since a few days later he offered it himself to
another sitter as an explanation of his inability to sustain
a conversation in French !
But the possession of Mrs. Piper's memorised knowledge
is also, of course, shared by the waking-stage conscious-
ness, while yet there are undoubtedly breaks of some
sort in memory between the trance and the waking-
stage, within the waking-stage itself, and also between
the waking-stage and the normal state that follows it.
None of these breaks go so deep as to cut off Mrs.
Piper's memorised knowledge, which evidently persists
through all the changes. The question which it is difficult
to answer is whether the break which there clearly is
between the trance and the preceding normal state—if
it is true that the working of the trance-consciousness
is unknown to the normal consciousness—cuts off anything
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 261
from the trance-consciousness. Does the trance-conscious-
ness, potentially at leasts know all that is known to the
normal consciousness—not only memorised knowledge, but
recent facts and experiences ? And, if not. can we in
any way distinguish what will and what will not be
carried on into the trance-consciousness ?
It is on these questions that the evidence is uncertain.
Sir Oliver Lodge says in 1S90 (Proceedings, Vol. VI.,
p. 448)
:
So far as my present experience has gone, I do not feel
sure how far Mrs. Piper's knowledge or ignorance of
specific facts has an appreciable influence on the communi-
cation of her trance personality.
In 1909 he goes rather further and says (Proceedings,
Vol. XXIII., p. 177) :
It seems to me that * * * her normal knowledge has in
reality very little if any influence on the information
that is obtained during her trance. The trance personalities
appear to be ignorant of, or to be groping after a
number of things that Mrs. Piper knows quite well.
And again, p. 181 :
I myself am unable to trace much, if any, connexion
between the trance knowledge and her normal knowledge.
For instance, a sitter introduced by name is no more
likelv to have his name mentioned during a sitting than
one who is introduced as an anonymous stranger. I make
a general statement of this kind believing that careful
analysis will bear it out, and as a challenge to any one
who will bestow time and labour upon the work of
analysing the records from this point of view.1
Dr. Walter Leaf in 1890 took a view somewhat different
from Sir Oliver Lodge. He says (Proceedings, Vol. VI.,
p. 559) :
1
Notwithstanding this challenge, I have not undertaken the proposed
analysis for the same reason that leads me to the conclusion that Hodgsonr
s
unpublished records cannot be made much use of for evidential purposes
—namely, that our knowledge of what Mrs. Piper's probable normal
knowledge was, is too incomplete.
262 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
The question of the amount of communication existing
between the two states is in the nature of the case
obscure, and the evidence, so far as I have been able
to see, is mainly negative. Dr. Phinuit makes many state-
ments which may easily have been learnt by Mrs. Piper ;
* * * on the other hand knowledge about {the sitters}
and their surroundings which Mrs. Piper certainly possessed,
was not as a rule given by Phinuit. * * * One observation
bearing on this point was made by Mrs. Verrall. In her
three sittings, her eldest girl was frequently mentioned, but
her name, which she had never mentioned to Mrs. Piper,
was not given. After her last sitting, No. 63, she purposely
took an opportunity of calling the child Helen in Mrs.
Piper's presence. At the very next sitting where Mrs.
Verrall was mentioned, that of Mrs. B., No. 66, Helen was
named by Dr. Phinuit. There is therefore ground for
supposing that * * * the abnormal state is conscious of
what goes on in the normal, but not vice versa ; but that
this connexion is purposely obscured.
An observation made on one occasion (February 27,
1907), perhaps points in the same direction. Before the
trance began a half joking conversation was started by Mrs.
Piper about the pencils used, and Mr. Piddington remarked
that very few had been broken during the trance writing
lately, and added, " Of course, you'll break a lot to-day on
purpose." Whether by pure coincidence, or as the result
of this remark, four or five pencils were broken by Rector
during the sitting that followed. Mrs. Piper had never
referred to the pencils before.
Hodgson writing in 1892 (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 55)
did not agree with Dr. Leaf, and was inclined to the
view that " the change to the trance personality involves
a partial obliteration of the facts known to the normal
waking self." He says (p. 54) :
I have not been able to trace any continuity of
memory between Phinuit and Mrs. Piper. I have already
stated my belief that Mrs. Piper is entirely ignorant of
what occurs during the trance, and Phinuit is, or pretends
to be, equally unaware of the knowledge possessed by
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 263
Mrs. Piper, and of the incidents which happen to her in
her ordinary life. On one occasion, not long before a
sitting (June 30th, 1888), Mrs. Piper was startled by a
very near sudden clap of thunder, and Phinuit, on being
afterwards questioned, appeared to have no knowledge of
the circumstance, and apparently tried to guess at what
had occurred. Similarly on questioning Phinuit at one of
my early sittings concerning the life of Mrs. Piper, he
professed ignorance on the subject, but said that he
would "find out things" about her.
* * * *
I have also met with several cases where Mrs. Piper
knew not a little of the sitter's ordinary environment,
names of friends, etc., and yet this information was not
given by Phinuit. Further, indeed, I have known Phinuit
under such circumstances to be confused and to make
mistakes upon points well known to Mrs. Piper. Still, all
this " ignorance " may be " the perfection of acting " on
the part of Phinuit, * * *
It is the sophistication of the control, the impossibility
of feeling sure that he is not acting, the certainty that
he sometimes is, and also that he is apt to say, regardless
of consistency, whatever he thinks will support any
theory he has advanced, or will impress or please the
sitter, that makes it impossible to arrive at a definite
conclusion on the question under discussion—without, at
any rate, an opportunity of comparing a great many more
cases bearing on it than we have. Hodgson believed
that in these respects G. P. and Rector & Co. were
more trustworthy than Phinuit, but as the reader already
knows, I am unable myself to see much improvement.
The difficulty of coming to any conclusion is increased
when we take account of other possibilities, besides a
clean cut between what is known on one side and on
the other, of the division between the normal state and
the trance. There may be ordered selection, either of
things that are remembered out of a general forgetfulness,
or of things that are forgotten among a general recol-
lection. It is possible for instance that, as I suggested
264 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
above, subliminal interest in the topics of previous trances
may cause isolated facts like the name of Mrs. VerralTs
daughter to be carried on into the trance-consciousness
without general memory. It is possible, similarly, that
suggestions connected with trance procedure, as in the
pencil case above, may select themselves for persistence.
And, on the other hand, it is perhaps possible that a
general memory may be accompanied by forgetfulness of
things immediately connected with the train of thought
broken off by the trance, so that the impression made
by a clap of thunder just before the trance began might
vanish with the normal consciousness. 1
All this is con-
jecture. Some study of hypnotic memory has doubtless
been made which might indicate whether the conjectures
are plausible or not. But I do not know where to find
such a study, and as experience would, I imagine, vary
with different hypnotic subjects and with different hypno-
tists, as it certainly does with different mediums, we
should still in the end have to judge each case on its
merits.
The controls constantly profess ignorance of Mrs. Piper's
state of health or state of mind, of the effect on her of
prolonged sittings, and so forth. But there appears to
be some inconsistency in the things they say. For
instance, on April 28, 1902 (see Appendix, p. 614), while
professing to depend on the sitter for information about
her health, they also say that they have themselves
discovered that she has eaten injurious food. At other
times they profess to know about her when not con-
trolling, though not when they are. Thus Mr. Dorr
reports on March 20, 1905 :
I asked some questions which I had in mind regarding
the extent to which they were able to perceive the
physical condition of the medium during the trance, in
answer to which Rector said that they only became
conscious of it after leaving the light—which was the
1 This would be analogous, except that it lasted through the trance only,
to the loss of memory of immediately preceding events liable to occur in
cases of concussion of the brain.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 265
reason why it was necessary for them to depend upon
us on this side for observation of the passage of our
earthly time. {This means that the controls did not
always know when the sitting was going on so long as
to exhaust Mrs. Piper.}
On the other hand, with the help of some object
belonging to Mrs. Piper—an "influence'' (see next chapter)
—the controls, or perhaps I should say the medical
member of their band, diagnose her case when she is
unwell, and prescribe for her as they would for another
person. This is done, of course, while the sitting goes
on, but it is not explained why her own body will not
serve as an " influence." After thus prescribing on
January 14, 1907, "Dr. Oliver" adds: "I quite under-
stand her case and will look after her "—agreeing with
Rector's remark above that he becomes conscious of her
condition after leaving the light.
As to knowledge of Mrs. Piper's thoughts and feelings,
the view maintained by the controls is curiously exemplified
in the sittings of April 28 and 29, 1902 (see Appendix, pp.
614. 616), where Hodgson acts as go-between between them
and the normal Mrs. Piper. Whether the professed
ignorance is altogether genuine, it is, of course, impossible
to say. Perhaps a possible view is that the trance
personalities really are largely ignorant of the normal
personality's thoughts and feelings, but are capable of
realising them in part by, e.g. directing special attention
to them. An instance was quoted above (Chapter II.,
p. 68) in which on December 25, 1889, Phinuit did show
knowledge of Mrs. Piper's feelings, though not of the
cause for them, but as he professed to have learnt what
he knew by meeting her spirit going out crying as he
came in, it should perhaps count among instances of
lucidity in moments of transition, to which I refer below.
In considering the value of the controls' assertions of
ignorance concerning Mrs. Piper, it must be kept in mind
that their theory that they are external spirits tem-
porarily occupying Mrs. Piper's organism, but otherwise
quite independent both of her and of other living people,
makes them anxious to show that they neither share
266 Mrs. Henry Sidywick. [part
Mrs. Piper's normal knowledge nor acquire knowledge
telepathically from the sitter, and emphatic declarations
are made on both points—declarations so sweeping as to
overshoot the mark. The following is such a declaration
about Mrs. Piper's knowledge made by G. P. on January 4,
1894 (sitter and recorder, Hodgson) :
G. P. But sometimes there is bound to be confusion, which
often I cannot prevent * * * Sometimes, when
I am here, throwing my thoughts, or in other words,
trying to express them through this medium, I not
only express my own words, but I sometimes hear
others speaking, and now and then put in a word
wrongly.
It is the times that you don't hear distinctly
—
understand, there is a conglomeration of words all
mixed up together, but believe me, it is no fault
of ours. Yet, if there was the least remembrance,
or trace even, of the medium's own brain, or
thoughts left to be mixed up with ours, she would
not write as badly as we do sometimes. Yet I do
know—Do you understand this 1 Consequently it is
no fault of hers, and if she was the most intelligent
person on earth . . .
R. H. It would make no difference.
G. P. No not the slightest.
It is worth noting as evidence that the trance, including
the waking-stage, fills a gap of which the normal con-
sciousness is unaware except from external signs, that
the idea in Mrs. Piper's mind just before she begins to
sink into trance is apt to recur as soon as she is normal
again. As she put it to Mr. Piddington on January 28,
1907, immediately after the sitting and quite spontaneously,
" What I think about last when I go to sleep 1
comes
back to me first of all when I wake." Mr. Piddington
asked her what she was thinking about then, and she
replied, " Oh, about your writing to Professor Hyslop."
She had just before settling down to go into trance
expressed strong annoyance at an article by Professor
1
That is, go into trance.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance Phenomena. 2ti7
Hyslop which had appeared in an American journal.
Other instances of this were noted by Mr. Piddington
both before and after this conversation. For instance,
before settling down to the trance on February 20, 1907,
she told a story about Sir Oliver Lodge, and after the
trance spontaneously referred again to this story.
Leaving the normal consciousness, we have to study
the memory connexions between trance proper and waking-
stage. But first we may observe that the memory in
one trance of what has happened in preceding trances
is very good—much better than that of most sitters.
The controls are very seldom mistaken in assertions as
to what has occurred, and when they have once connected
the appropriate communicators with a sitter, very seldom,
if ever, fail to do so again. Also, there is very little
tendency to mix up one sitter's affairs with those of
another, except perhaps in putting out feelers with a
new sitter. In one respect the memory works too well
and seems sometimes to inhibit, as it were, corrections
which the communicator, if really communicating, should
be able to make. For instance, in the case of one sitter
who had a good many sittings and got a good deal that
was evidential, Rector after various attempts fixed on
a name as the one by which the sitter's husband called
her. It was not right, but Rector, having once decided
on it, stuck to it. To the end, I think, he failed to
learn what the name really was. Another instance is the
repeated calling of a family friend of the Junots "Judge"
instead of "Major," by Rector writing for Bennie Junot
(see Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., pp. 443-470). Miss Verrall
attributes this to uncontrolled association of ideas, also
noted by Hodgson in his second report. She says (Vol.
XXIV., p. 352) :
One clearly marked characteristic is the large part played
in the trance utterances by the association of ideas. Dr.
Hodgson has referred to this characteristic in his Report
on Mrs. Piper (Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 333),1
and
1
When Hodgson wrote, his opinion was that it was when the com-
municator became exhausted and stupefied that irrelevant associations
268 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PAET
frequent traces of it are to be found in the sittings now
under consideration {i.e. the Junot sittings}. If a group
of names has been once associated together, an allusion
to any one of them is very likely to produce allusions to
the others. The human mind in its normal condition is
largely influenced by such associations, but their force is
controlled by conscious and deliberate choice. In the case
of Mrs. Piper's mind, during trance, this control is appar-
ently lacking, so that associations once formed will often
recur without regard to their immediate relevance. This
characteristic will also explain the tendency to repeat a
mistake once made. For instance, the confusion between
"Judge" and "Major" persists through the sittings, in
spite of the fact that some part of the medium's mind
is apparently aware of it.
That there is some continuity of memory between
waking-stage and waking-stage is sufficiently shown by
the evidence adduced in Chapter VI., pp. 255-257, though
the instability and incoherence of the waking-stage make
the continuity less obvious than it is between trance and
trance, and^also probably make it less complete.
We now come to the more important question of
memory between trance and waking-stage. I gave in
Chapter VI. evidence of continuity of some kind between
the two—the same persons, the same topics, and some-
times almost verbally the same sentences appearing in
both. But I have deferred till now the consideration
of cases where the trance-consciousness shows awareness
of what has passed in a previous waking-stage, or where
things come . out in the waking-stage in accordance with
what has been promised in the trance.
The first cases of the kind occurred before the waking-
stage was fully developed, and the first I know of con-
sisted in a name that had been asked for in the trance
being called out just as the trance came to an end.
Dr. C. W. F. reports on May 17, 1889 (Proceedings,
Vol. VIII., p. 99) :
of ideas took effect. But this is certainly not the case with the two
persistent mistakes as to names referred to in the text.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 269
At my first seance {January, 1889} Dr. P{hinuit} said :
" Your friend William is here, and * * * is determined
to give you his whole name before I go out." As Mrs. P.
began to come out of the trance, " Pabodie " was spoken
with great force, and Mrs. P. gave a start, saying,
" Somebody spoke right in my ear." I thought she
seemed to think I had done so. At my third seance
Dr. P. said spontaneously, " William Pabodie sends his
love to you * * * "
A similar incident reported by Hodgson in Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., pp. 305-8, occurred on April 28, 1892, and
has already been partly quoted in Chapter VI., p. 212,
in connexion with the development of waking-stages.
The sitter, Mr. Peirce, whose name is believed to have
been unknown to Mrs. Piper, was apparently recognised
by G. P. during the sitting, but a difficulty was made
about giving his name. When Mrs. Piper was coming
out of trance, among unintelligible sounds " the name
Peirce was alone distinct. This name was spoken twice,
and was not in either Phinuit's or Mrs. Piper's ordinary
voice."
At the next sitting on the following day, G. P. (writing)
explained :
G. P. I could not speak to Dr. [Phinuit] to make him under-
stand what I wanted him to say, so I tried to tell
the medium just as she was coming into her body
again, and I hope she told you the test you asked
for. Please answer me, did she tell you ?
R. H. Yes, she gave us the name.
G. P. That is all you asked me for. I will now explain.
I had so many things in my mind about . . .
and other things which you had asked me to do
for you. The fact is I really had no time or
strength to tell you anything about anybody else.
And again later in the same sitting apparently :
G. P. Do tell Peirce how I tried to tell the medium, but I
don't know you got, whether you got it or no.
R. H. Yes, we got it.
270 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
G. P. Good. You see I saw her spirit just as she was going
in and as I could not tell Dr. I took the
chance.
The claim of the controls in these cases that they
are responsible for the message given through the returning
spirit of the medium is clear. An exposition of this plan
of communing with her soul, as G. P. calls it, given by
him on November 30, 1892, will be found in the
Appendix, p. 616. Also Phinuit's views on the subject
expressed on December 7, 1896, will be found in the
Appendix, p. 617.
A similar case, where not only a name but a message
was given, as Mrs. Piper came out of trance, is described
by Hodgson in Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 372. He
" understood, as it was described later, that * * * G. P.
gave it to the '
returning consciousness '
of Mrs. Piper."
These cases before the full development of the waking-
stage are clearly of the same nature as the later ones
when the dividing line between trance proper and waking-
stage had become more marked, and the waking-stage
longer and more important. The utterance of the name
Peirce, and G. P.'s subsequent claim that he had given
it to the medium as she was returning to her body is,
for instance, very like a case described in Proceedings, Vol.
XXIV., pp. 556-557, when a name which had been asked
for—Miriam—was uttered in the waking-stage of February
25, 1903, and Bennie Junot claimed at the next sitting at
which he communicated to have given it "to a spirit
returning to its body."
A rather interesting case of the same kind occurred in
1900, the sitter being Professor Hyslop, and Hodgson
recorder. It was interesting because the success was
incomplete though sufficient, I think, to make it certain
that an attempt was made. On February 5, 1900,1
a
name had been asked for but not given. The name
wanted was Carruthers. The record of the waking-stage
begins
:
1
The record of this sitting has been published by Prof. Hyslop in
the Proceeding* oj the American S.P.B., Vol. IV., pp. 391-402.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance Phenomena. 271
Clarrakther
Sitter (to R. H.) Clarkthur
Clarkther. Say Clarkther. Say Clarkthurs . . .
Clarrakthurs.
Robert Hyslop. I don't know . . . Robert Hyslop said it.
At the next day's sitting G. P. said :
He sent me in for a moment to say I told it to the
spirit of the light as she went out.
In the following case, January 5, 1899 (sitter and
recorder, Hodgson), it is claimed that a vision seen was
the work of the controls. Rector writes spontaneously
immediately after the usual greeting :
Our dove as shown to the removed spirit meaneth Peace.
[On two recent occasions {notes Hodgson} Mrs. P's.
subliminal at end of trance spoke of a dove circling
round her.]
On one of these occasions, December 29, 1898, the
following occurs in the waking-stage record :
There's the same white dove. Go. [as if repeating a
command].
Did you see that white dove flying round my head ?
There are cases of promised communications through
Mrs. Piper's returning spirit, and of asserted attempts
which came to nothing, which have some interest in
showing the ideas of the trance personalities on this
matter. On May 24, 1904, at the end of the voice
sitting recorded by Miss A. M. R. from which I have
already several times quoted, her brother-in-law com-
municated 1
through Rector, giving his relationship, but
when asked for his name saying :
1
It is worth noting that Miss A. M. R. reports that this brother-in
law, recently dead, who had never seen Mrs. Piper, but to whom Miss
A. M. R. had spoken of her own sittings with her, had said on his death
bed that " if he did find himself on the other side he was going to
try and find some of my {Miss A. M. R's.} friends and was going to try
and find Mrs. Piper."
272 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
I will tell you before I go, I will whisper it to the light
as I see it return.
In the waking-stage which followed shortly, Mrs. Piper
immediately after the first snap of her head said :
Oh did you hear my head snap ? Don't you hear it
at all ? Who was that gentleman speaking to me ?
Miss A. M. R. I don't know, how did he look ?
He looked as though his beard had grown and his
face
—
Miss A. M. R. Young or old ?
Young, and he had a little moustache, and he had
—rather light, his eyes were blue and he had and
rather a high forehead and a full here [pointing
to cheekbones] and thin here [pointing to lower
part of face] and long face down here on his chin,
and he seemed so anxious to tell me something and
he said it over and over again and a funny name
he gave me.
Miss A. M. R. Can't you remember that name ?
He kept saying it over and over to me [evi-
dently listening again] I wish I could think what
that was he said, and he repeated it—I think it
was—no, I don't know what it was. What was
Robert ? It was Bert, or Elbert—I can't hear it any
more—yes it is Bert. Oh how anxious he was to
tell me. I can't tell you how anxious he was to
tell me that. Did you hear my head snap ? I
was talking to you a moment ago— It has gone
now.
{Miss A. M. R. notes :}
[My brother-in-law had an odd name, but he has a
brother living * * * called Bert. * * *
The description of the thin face, light hair, blue eyes,
full cheeks or high cheek bones, and thin pointed lower
part of face, beard and moustache, was a good description
of my brother-in-law, whom Mrs. Piper never saw or knew.
He was decidedly light and pale and thin.]
The following is a case recorded by Hodgson of an
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 273
asserted attempt by a communicator to appear in the
waking-stage, and of ignorance whether it had succeeded.
(January 19, 1904.)
R. H. Have you any news to give of Dr. Blodgett in your
world ?
Rector. We shall refer to him later as he hath tried many
times to appear to the spirit of the light while
returning to the earthly body. * * * dost thou
know whether he hath succeeded in showing him-
self.
(January 20, 1904.)
R. H. I looked through all my notes of the words of the
light while returning during this season, but can
find nothing to indicate that she saw Dr. Blodgett.
Rector. We are glad to know friend as it helps us to U.D.
how near the spirit must be to be seen.
These extracts about Dr. Blodgett are worth studying
in connexion with the very important case reported by
Sir Oliver Lodge of the recognition of the photograph
of Joseph Marble. His account of this case will be found
in Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., pp. 276-277, but he does
not mention the detail—unimportant from the point of
view of his paper, but important in the present con-
nexion—that the experiment was proposed by Joseph
Marble communicating and Rector controlling in the
trance proper of the day on which the recognition was
first made. The relevant extract from the record is as
follows .
(Dec. 3, 1906.)
Sitter and recorder, Sir Oliver Lodge. Rector writing,
Joseph Marble communicating through him.
J. M. As a proof of my identity I will show my face to
the spirit of the light when it returns, so that it
can be recognised by the same spirit before it quite
re-inhabits its body, from twenty photographs of
men resembling myself. U.D.
s
274 Mrs. Henry Sidgvrick. [part
O. J. L. Yes, I understand ; he will show himself to the
medium before she has completely recovered con-
sciousness, in the expectation that she will after-
wards have sufficient recollection of his appearance
to pick out a photograph of him from among
others.
Rector. Yes, we did this for our friend Hodgson occasionally
when he was in the body
In regard to this statement of Rector's T know of no
instance of selection of photographs before this date
except those discussed in Chapter VI., namely, the G. P.
case (p. 213), and the case of June 11 and 12, 1900, which
is quoted in the Appendix to that chapter (pp. 573-575).
There may, of course, have been other cases of which
we have not got the records. In the G. P. case, which,
by the way, occurred some years before the Imperator
band came on tha scene, Mrs. Piper was apparently normal
when she recognised the photograph. In the 1900 case the
recognition occurred during the waking-stage, and I think
that this is what Joseph Marble really proposed in the
present case, though Sir Oliver Lodge apparently understood
it otherwise. Joseph Marble's proposal to appear was
made in the earlier half of the sitting, and a considerable
variety of communicators and communications followed ;
Myers being the last person spoken of in the trance. In
the waking-stage, which is given in full by Sir Oliver in
Proceedings. Vol. XXIII. , p. 276, no mention of Joseph
Marble nor reference to the proposed experiment is recorded,
and it was perhaps for this reason that Sir Oliver did not
immediately pursue the experiment. It was about an hour
and a half after the sitting, lunch having intervened, that
he showed Mrs. Piper eleven photographs of men, and asked
her if she had ever seen any of them.
She looked over them, hesitating on the one representing
Mr. Joseph Marble for some time, and then picked that
out and said she had seen that man somewhere, but she
could not remember where.
This must be regarded as only a partial success. A
much more definite one was obtained at Sir Oliver Lodge's
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs, Piper's Trance Phenomena. 275
next sitting five months later, May 19, 1907, when a
number of photographs were placed before her just as
she came out of the waking-stage {Proceedings, Vol.
XXIII., p. 278), and she immediately pounced on one
without the slightest hesitation saying :
That is the man I saw. I saw him. That is the man I
saw. I saw him up there : such a nice face. I could see
him. I could see Mr. Hodgson pushing him up to the front.
She had said in the waking-stage :
Fine looking man, his name is Joe. Mr. Hodgson keeps
pushing him in the front row. Foreground.
When an hour or so later the photographs were again
put before her, she looked at them as if for the first
time and said, "I do not know the photographs." She
then hesitated long over the right one, saying she had
" seen him somewhere," but finished up by saying, " No,
I do not know."
The degree of recollection here seems closely to resemble
that after about the same interval of time on December 3,
and I think it probable that if Sir Oliver had shown
her the photographs on the first occasion as immediately
after her normal consciousness returned as he did on the
second, the recognition would have been equally vivid.
Would this imply that she had the promised vision in
the waking-stage of December 3, although she did not
mention it ? We cannot tell. There is no reason to
assume that she describes out loud all she sees in the
waking-stage, and, in fact, indications of the contrary
may be found in the waking-stage records. See, for
instance, the locket case above, comparing pp. 250 and 253.
The question is not unimportant, because if she really
had no impression of Joseph Marble in the waking-stage,
the degree of recognition of his photograph which she
exhibited must have been j:due to some recollection by
the normal consciousness of the trance 7
proper, though only
an^ evanescent recollection, as by the evening of the next
dayJfit had entirely disappeared. Sir Oliver Lodge says
(Vol. XXIIL, p. 277) :
276 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Next day, in the evening, I tested Mrs. Piper again
with another set of photographs of men, partly the same
and partly different, but containing among them the critical
one. This time, however, it was looked at without com-
ment and without interest, and no remembrance of the
appearance seemed to persist. She remembered the fact
of having recognised one before ;
1
but when asked to do
it again, she picked out, after much hesitation, a different
one as a possibility, and said that she thought it had
been found in America, that the memory evaporated in
time, and that it was strongest within an hour of the
sitting.
Sir Oliver Lodge's experiment with the locket, and its
context, described in Chapter VI., pp. 250-255, should be
studied in connexion with this question of vanishing
memory, and, indeed, from one point of view, the whole
of the latter part of Chapter VI., pp. 240 to the end, belongs
to our present subject.
Under the influence of the cross-correspondence experi-
ments in the English sittings of 1906-7 and Mr. Dorr's
sittings of 1908, both the expression in the trance of
intention to communicate through the waking-stage, and
the recognition in the trance that such communications
had been attempted in a preceding waking-stage, became
more frequent than they had been before. This was,
doubtless, at least pai'tly due to the recognition of the
importance of the waking-stage by those in charge of the
sittings, and to their consequently encouraging it more
than Hodgson ever did.
Two instances in 1907 will be found in Proceedings, Vol.
XXII. On February 26, in the waking-stage which is
quoted in full (Vol. XXII., pp. 94-96), Mrs. Piper spoke
about laurel wreaths, and indicated apparently that G. P.
had said he would tell " her " (presumably Mrs. Verrall)
about laurel wreaths. On the next day, during the trance
(Vol. XXII., p. 96), MyerSp communicating, said :
Myebsp
. I gave Mrs. Verrall Laurel wreath.
1
This recollection adds to the certainty that she was in possession of
her normal consciousness when making the recognition.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 277
J. G. P. Yes, quite right ; she got it.
* * * *
Myebsp . Yes I gave her that and as the spirit of the light
returned to its body I tried to grasp it * * *
grasp the spirit, so as to give it you last time.
J. G. P. Yes I heard it quite well ; laurel wreath.
On March 6—in the waking-stage—also given in full
in Vol. XXII., pp. 150-152, Mrs. Piper quoted " moaning
at the bar when I put out to sea," and also spoke of
Arthur Hallam. On March 13, the next sitting at which
Mr. Piddington was alone, MyersP said a propos of the
quotation from Crossing the Bar having appeared in
Mrs. Verrall's script :
Myeesp
. I did quote those lines to her. I also quoted them
to this light * * * while Hodgson held it for me.
And later in the sitting he said about the name Arthur
Hallam, " I gave it to the spirit of this light while it was
returning."
In the sittings of 1908 the waking-stage was still further
developed under the influence of Mr. Dorr, who, having
been told about the evidential value of some waking-stage
communications in the English sittings of 1907, laid great
stress on waking-stages. He began to do this on March 23
1908, when he urged HodgsonP , who was communicating,
to give him all they could " through the subliminal." The
hand bowed assent and wrote, " We gave Laurel Wreath
through the subliminal when we could not do so through the
hand," referring, no doubt, to the incident of February 26,
1907, just described. At this same sitting of March 23,
1908, Mr. Dorr asked MyersP what the word Lethe sug
gested to him, and obtained important elements of the
answer in the waking-stage as well as some in the trance
proper. Full particulars and copious extracts are given
in Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., pp. 86-95, but what concerns
our present subject is that MyersP made statements on
March 24 in the trance proper as to what had occurred
in the waking-stage of March 23. Mrs. Piper in the waking-
stage had seen a vision of a lady with a bow and arrows.
278 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
which she described with some detail (see Proceedings. Vol.
XXIV., p. 89). To this HodgsonP refers without any
prompting on March 24, saying, " he {i.e. Myers} drew
the form—a picture 1
of Iris with an arrow
'
' ; and later
in the sitting it is again mentioned, apparently by MyersP :
Myebsp
. Did the light quote Picture 1
I made for her spirit as
it returned ?
G. B. D. The picture of Iris ?
Myebsp
. Yes.
G. B. D. Yes, she did. But I thought it was Diana. She
told me about it very clearly.
* * * *
Myersp or Hodgsonp
.
* * * I was given the lines by Pidding-
ton which I gave to the light's spirit to make you
understand my meaning of Iris.
The lines which had been repeated in the waking-stage
were an incorrect version of the first two lines of Long-
fellow's weU-known song beginning " I shot an arrow into
the air." Mr. Piddington had quoted the first line of this
to HodgsonP on February 25, 1907.2
That the trance
personalities on March 24th knew something about the waking-
stage on the 23rd is here clear. And it is also clear as
regards " Sybil " in the same waking-stage. MyersP says
on March 24 :
I told the Light to say sybil last time.
G. B. D. Yes, the Light did say Sybil in the subhminal.
Important and interesting references in the trance writing
to preceding waking-stages occur in many of these sittings
of Mr. Dorr's, but it was not his object to trace the relations
between trance and waking-stage consciousnesses, and his
1
What Mrs. Piper described was not a picture but an apparently solid
figure in the air pointing an arrow at her. Probably " picture " should
not, however, be taken too literally.
2 This was the day before the mention of laurel wreath in the waking-
stage —an approximation of dates which suggests that association of
ideas may have led to the quotation of this line in the waking-stage
of the sitting at which the laurel wreath incident had been again
referred to.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance Phenomena. 279
habit after March 24 of reading to the trance personalities
the record of previous waking-stages—unobjectionable from
his point of view and in some respects enlightening—is apt
to invalidate the evidence for the independent memory of
the facts by the trance personalities. 1
This is all the more
the case, because while claiming knowledge of what was
attempted in the waking-stage, they generally profess not
to know how far the attempts succeeded.
Of memory the other way—memory in the waking-stage
of the trance, or, at least, of promises made in the trance
being carried out in the waking-stage—there are several
instances. Thus on March 31, 1908, Mr. Dorr,—after reading
some lines from the invocation to Zeus in the Agamemnon
translated, as he told MyersP ,
by his brother, Mr. Ernest
Myers,—said
Now I want you to try whether you cannot give me
later, in the subliminal perhaps, the name of the old
Greek play from which these lines are translated * * *
[Hand bows assent.]
The waking-stage shortly followed, and the first audible
word was " Agamemnon."
On April 13, in the waking-stage, which is quoted in
full in the Appendix to Chapter VI. (p. 605), four
questions which had been asked in the preceding trance
proper are more or less answered, and in the case of
three of them MyersP had undertaken to try to give the
answers in the waking-stage. These three questions are
given on pp. 607-608.
There is an interesting case on April 6 and 7, 1908, where
the promise is made to attempt a communication in the
waking-stage. The attempt partly succeeded and was com-
pleted in the trance next day. Mr. Dorr had on March 23
asked the communicators for a translation of a certain
Greek line. It is quoted (and translated) in Fragments of
Prose and Poetry, p. 48. The English is " striving to save
my own soul, and my comrades' homeward way." The
1
An earlier case, on January 14, 1897, in which the evidence for
independent memory was invalidated in the same way, will be found
in the Appendix, p. 618
280 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PART
first half had been more or less successfully given, and
on April 6 Mr. Dorr asked MyersP if he could not give
the rest.
G B. D. Now try whether you cannot get the rest of that
liue through to me. kcu vottov eTu'ipwv
Myebsp
, I am not sure that I can get it through to you
clearly but perhaps a few words will do. I'll try
to give it through the sub. will try it as the spirit
leaves.
Accordingly in the waking-stage is said :
On the homeward way —striving to save my soul and on
the homeward way.
On April 7, immediately after the first greetings, comes :
Myeesp
. Comrades' homeward way.
{after some discussion by G. B. D. " of how much
is lost in the subhminal " and the reasons for it}
Myebsp . We are trying our best to make her understand
to-day, and we feel if we do not remain too long
in the hand we may be able to do better in the
head. Let us try.
G. B. D. I am greatly pleased at getting what you have just
written,
1
Comrades' homeward way.' This gives me
now the rendering of that whole fine.
MYEBSp. I gave it in the subhminal again and again last time.
That is why it comes out now.
These two statements by MyersP are, I think, of consider-
able importance in the light they throw on his conception
of the relation of the consciousness of the trance proper
with that of the waking-stage. The first statement almost
identifies them, for the expressions " in the head " and
" in the hand " are habitually used of the method of control
hi voice sittings and writing sittings respectively ; so that
the implication is that MyersP is thinking of himself as
using the medium's vocal organs in the waking-stage in the
same direct way that it is asserted the control does in a
voice sitting. Of course, the statement may have been an
accidental slip ; but a slip of this kind would indicate a
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 281
want of stability in MyersP 's view as to the process of
communication.
The second statement, implying that efforts to get a
thing said in the waking-stage lead to its coming out
in the trance, is again an unexpected admission in view
of the theories put forward by the trance personalities.
It is more easy to reconcile with the view that in both
states the mind directly expressing itself in speech or
writing is Mrs. Piper's, in more or less successful telepathic
relation with other spirits, than that it is in one case
Mrs. Piper's and in the other an alien spirit using her
organism directly.
That these reflexions are not irrelevant to our present
subject we see at once when, granting that there, is
evidence of some memory connexion between what is
said in trance and in waking-stage, we ask whose memory
it is. There is nothing in most of the instances given
to show whether it is Mrs. Piper's or that of another
spirit—say, Myers or Hodgson. On the theory that the
controls in the trance are independent of Mrs. Piper's
spirit, and say what they have to say without its inter-
vention, the memory exhibited is that of the controls or
communicators. They remember what they said or wrote
in the trance and what they tried to say to Mrs. Piper's
spirit in the waking-stage. On the theory that the
controls are always Mrs. Piper playing a part, though at
times inspired by real communicators, it may still be
the communicators who remember what they said through
Mrs. Piper in each state ; but it is equally tenable that
it is some part of Mrs. Piper which remembers. When
there is evidence of supernormal knowledge, she may
remember in one state knowledge telepathically received
in another, just as she may remember from one state
to the other knowledge otherwise acquired. This would
give us a natural interpretation of the sentence, " I gave
it in the subliminal again and again last time, that is
why it comes out now."
The same ambiguity as to whether it is Mrs. Piper's
mind operating throughout or that of the controls doing
so, manifests itself in another kind of case—the case of
282 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
suggestion in the trance proper affecting the waking-
stage. Hodgson, and other sitters also, when desirous of
shortening the waking-stage, not infrequently asked the
controls, before the trance ended, to send back the spirit
of the light quickly ; and the suggestion certainly some-
times took effect. In Hodgson's view this was because the
control was an independent spirit concerned with managing
the return of Mrs. Piper's spirit and willing to oblige
Hodgson. But it may equally well have been suggestion
of the ordinary kind affecting Mrs. Piper herself directly.
Before trying to decide between these rival hypotheses,
there are other things to be considered in connexion
with the waking-stage intelligence. In all the cases so
far discussed of professed communication outside the
trance proper, it is the returning spirit of the medium
which is said to be the channel of communication. But
there is another plan, namely, that the communicator
should catch the control as the latter leaves the medium
and make clear to him what the desired word or name,
which he has failed to give, are, so that he may be
better able to write it next time. This was a plan which
Myergp professed to use several times in April and May,
1907.
But before describing these cases we may observe that
this plan, like that of communicating through the returning
spirit of the medium;
seems to be foreshadowed in two
instances, mentioned by Hodgson, before the full develop-
ment of waking-stages. In both a final effort, as the
sitting ended, to give a name that had been asked for
was made through the control and not through the
spirit of the medium." The first was the Mannors case,
May 17, 1892, of which particulars are given in
Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 471-2, and also p. 310.
Hodgson says :
The writing ended * * * Suddenly Phinuit called out
"Who's M-AN-N-O-R-S. I got that for H-O-D-G-S-O-N.
Tell Hodgson I gave this to you as I could not stay there
longer on account of Elisa." This was G. P.'s message
apparently through Phinuit. " Mannors " was the surname
of Madame Elisa.
Lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 283
The second case was M. Paul Bourget's on December 11,
1893 (see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 310). Hodgson writes:
After the writing apparently was finished and the hand
dropped, it was seized again suddenly and violently, and
wrote a name beginning with A, but the other letters
were indecipherable. This was followed by the name
Venice.
These, Hodgson understood, were, as far as they went,
answers to test questions put by M. Bourget to the
chief communicator at his sitting.
Hodgson says {op. cit., p. 311) about such final efforts :
The explanation offered is that the communicator's mind,
when the act of communicating is broken, regains the
balance which it lost while communicating, realises more
fully the questions that were put, and recalls more clearly
the answers. The swift resumption of communication while
the answers are " on the mind," and before other thoughts
can intervene, is likely to result favourably.
This explanation will not as it stands apply to the
more or less analogous cases of 1907, but so far as it
implies a moment of special lucidity as the trance proper
comes to an end, I think there is something in it.
The case in 1907 of speaking to Rector as he left
the light, about which most was said, occurred on April 17
and it was also, I think, the first case of the kind. The
relevant passages from the records will be found in
Proceedings, Vol. XXII., pp. 369-373 and 305.
The investigators were at that time trying to get
Myersp, who seemed to have referred to Browning's
Abt Vogler, to give the name of the poem from which
his words came ; and I, being in charge of the sitting
on that day, asked him whether he professed to have
given it. He replied through Rector as amanuensis, " No,
I have not been able to get it through, but I hope to
do so." At the very end of the trance he made another
reference to the subject as follows :
Myersp . Mrs. S. I shall see you again and as soon as Rector
leaves the fight I will catch him and spell out letter
284 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
by letter the poem to him. and give it to you at
once when I see you again. I'll wait for him to-day
M.
E. M. S. I shall see you on the third after coming {i.e.
translated from trance language, April 24} alone.
MYEBSp. I'll surely give it then if not before.
In the waking-stage of the same day, which quickly
followed, Mrs. Piper said :
" Mr. Myers has got Rector
by the ear, whispers into it." Note this apparent know-
ledge by the waking-stage consciousness of what is going
on. At the next sitting (April 22) I was not present,
and nothing concerning the matter occurred except that
in the waking-stage Mrs. Piper gave as a message from
Myers :
" Mr. Myers says I must keep my promise " ;
with words indicating that the promise referred to was
the promise to give the name of the poem. On April 24,
some time after the beginning of the sitting, a clear
and nearly successful attempt to keep the promise was
made through Rector. After getting as near as "A B
Volugevar," Rector remarks :
I can't quite repeat the last two letters, but he caught
me after I left the light and told me what it was. R.
After some further talk in the course of which MyersP
says, " I gave Rector one more letter. How do you
pronounce ABt " ; and after Rector has got " Abt " and
I have finished " Vogler " for him, he says :
Rector. He pronounced it for me again and again just as
you did, and he said Rector get her to pronounce
it for you and you will U.D.
He whispered it in my ear.
E. M. S. Just as you were coming out 1
Rector. Just as I left the light
It is clear here that MyersP stated his intention of
impressing the name of the poem on Rector as the latter
" left the light " on April 17 with a view to his repeating
it to me on April 24 ; that the waking-stage consciousness
affirmed that it saw on the 17th that something was
being said to Rector ; that on the 22nd MyersP sent a
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 285
message concerning the matter through
' ;
the spirit of the
light " ; and that on the 24th in the trance script an
unmistakeable attempt at the name was made, Rector
stating that Myers had given it to him at the time
specified.
Later in the sitting of April 24 MyersP said about
another point, " I will catch Rector again and whisper
all to him." But nothing seems to have come of this.
On the same day, however, an answer had also been
asked from MyersP about his associations with certain
Greek words, and he had said he would reply to this
next time, and accordingly a reply is given on April 30
(which was not the next time, but the next but one x
)
to Miss Johnson at the beginning of the sitting, and this
reply was prefaced by the words :
I promised to give my reply to the Greek words and as
soon as I saw the light departing I caught Rector and
gave it to him and he will now give it to you.
Later in the sitting Rector corroborates, saying :
I have seen Mr. Myers and he gave me his reply to your
Greek words, and I gave them to the other lady {Miss
Johnson} before you appeared
On May 1 the subject of the Greek words was again
referred to, and MyersP promised that he would yet
make it clear, but said nothing about speaking to Rector
about it. However, in the waking-stage Mrs. Piper said,
" What do they say to me. Got Rector by the ear "
—
the same expression she used on April 17. At the next
sitting, May 6 (see Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 170),
MyerSp gives as his answer " Plotinus," and says, " I
caught Rector at our last meeting and spelled it out to
him clearly."
Very shortly after this at the same sitting, May 6,
1907, MyerSp was asked for a particular line in Abt
1
Mr. Piddington gives reasons for thinking that there was an attempt
to answer the question about the Greek words on the real next time,
April 29, but that owing to confusion Myers,, was headed off from it
(see Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 161). For further extracts from the
Bitting on April 30, see Proceedings, Vol. XXII., pp. 165, 168.
286 Mrs. Henry SidgivicJc. [part
Vogler which specially answered the " Latin message," to
which he replied :
I shall have to give it to Rector as I did the Greek
* * * then I can get it through clearly. * * * It is very
clear to me my only difficulty is in making it quite clear
to R. * * * You may be quite sure I will go over this
carefully and tell R.
A good deal later in the sitting, after talking about
Abt Vogler, he says :
I shall make it clearer after talking it over with Rector.
The talk with Rector was apparently not completely
successful, for it was only after prolonged effort at the
sitting next day that the word " scale " in a line from
Abt Vogler which MyersP tried to quote through Rector
was got through, though he said, " T gave it to Rector
when 1 left." 1
No instances of talking to Rector as he came out
occurred, I think, in Mr. Dorr's sittings in 1908. Perhaps
this is because MyersP and HodgsonP seem in those
sittings to have written themselves, without the inter-
vention of Rector as amanuensis, so that if the greater
facility of getting through what was wanted, which
apparently exists at the moment of transition from trance,
was to be made dramatic use of at all, it could only be
through the waking-stage communication.
It is to be observed that whether this telling things
to Rector as he comes out is or is not, in fact, the same
process as telling them to the waking-stage consciousness,
at any rate the dramatic distinction is consistent^ main-
tained. The things professedly said to Rector do not
come out till Rector controls again, and the things pro-
fessedly said to the " spirit of the light " generally come
out at once in the waking-stage. The two things seem,
however, to be bound together by MyersP's remark on
April 7, 1908 (see above, p. 280). And further it must
be admitted that, considering how many words—let alone
1
For further extracts from the sittings in question, see Proceedings,
Vol. XXII., pp. 382-92.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 287
letters—Rector apparently successfully grasps and trans-
mits while writing, it is difficult to imagine why a process
of literally spelling a name to Rector " letter by letter
"
should be easier behind the scenes than during the trance
script ; and this difficulty necessarily inspires some doubt
whether the process is accurately described. But if it is not
accurately described, what becomes of Mrs. Piper's seeing
Myers taking Rector by the ear and whispering to him ? Is
this a recollection in the waking-stage of what has been
promised in the trance ?
I think the giving questions to the communicator at
one sitting to think over for communication at the next
—
a course recommended by the trance personalities— is very
likely also connected with special lucidity at the moment
of transition. It is, perhaps, significant that G. P. recom-
mends it (April 29, 1892) in the midst of explaining the
utterance of the word Peirce. He says :
The better way for you ... to get things from me is
to ask me to look up things for you and then let me
tell them to you quite clearly (see Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
p. 308)
The following instance is of some interest, though
nothing came of it, because it is Rector who undertakes
to see that the communicator gives a name (through him,
of course) instead of the communicator trying to teach
Rector to do so, as in the cases we have been considering.
It was on March 2, 1903 ; those present were two sitters,
with Hodgson recording. Rector says towards the end
of the sitting :
R. Better give him {the communicator} some things to
think over
R. H. Will he tell us something about this knife, for one
thing.
R. Yes. {And a little later}
R. H. She asks if he can tell her first name.
R. I'll see that he calls it on his return. Rector.
Neither the name nor facts about the knife seem to
have been produced at the sitting next day—and, of
288 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
course, the professed advantage of thinking over things
may have been, on this and other occasions, a mere
device for postponing admission of complete ignorance.
On the other hand, it is quite possible that a genuine
communicator might find it advantageous to have an
interval for thinking over answers to questions and for
reviving memories—and even to a false communicator,
a mere personation by a phase of Mrs. Piper, an oppor-
tunity for reflexion and putting two and two together
might be useful. I am inclined to think, however, that
when the plan succeeds it is probably generally due to
a moment of special lucidity at the transition out of or
into the trance state—a moment in which the trance
intelligence succeeds in grasping ideas transmitted tele-
pathically, either from the sitter or the communicator,
to which it has previously been impervious. It is possible
that greater lucidity at the transition moment may be
due to the trance personality being then relieved from
the effort of acting parts. What portion of the waking-
stage should be regarded as included in such a transition
moment it is, of course, difficult to say.
Activity between sittings is sometimes alleged to take
the form of the control conversing with the communicator
to get information from him. The following is a successful
example of this plan in which some of the things said
suggest that the transmission really occurs at the time
of ending the trance. On January 17, 1905, at a sitting
at which Hodgson was recorder and a lady sitter present,
the sitter asked the communicator "John" for a certain
name, and on its being only partially given—Edgerley
for Edgerton—Hodgson said to Rector :
R. H. It would probably be better for him to give that
as well as names of his other friends, to George
between this meeting and next, and let George
come in at the beginning of next meeting and give
all.
R. Very good. Poor George has his hands full so to
speak in keeping his {presumably the communi-
cator's} thoughts clear over this cord.
{G. P. was apparently helping the communicator.
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 289
A little later—just at the end of the sitting—when
the communicator takes leave there is a disturbance
in the hand, and G. P. writes}
G. P. Adieu H. I'll go with him and have a chat.
The next day, January 18, the same sitters being
present, Mrs. Piper in the going-into-trance stage says
" George," and, after the usual preliminary greetings by
Imperator and Rector, Rector says, " We bring George
this day for a few moments." G. P. begins with greetings
and breaks off a sentence to write :
G. P. EdgERton
Sitter. Good enough, John, that is splendid, that's right.
G. P. I got him to tell it me after we left.
{Later in the sitting he said}
G. P. I can do so much better with him in this way and
he U.D. so much better when he is not speaking.
{and later still}
Sitter John, it is splendid that you got Edgerton's name
through correctly.
John. I owe this all to our good friend who helps me
to-day and the gentleman present with you who
made the suggestion to George.
Sitter Can you give Edgerton's first name ?
John. Yes I'll give him in the same way and he will take
it to the light as I go out.
{I gather, however, that he failed to do so.}
Two cases from Hodgson's published reports of what was
possible lucidity at the moment of going into trance have
been already quoted in Chapter VI., pp. 210, 243.
An incident in a sitting on November 18, 1893, is an
instance of lucidity at the moment of Phinuit going out,
though in this case the effort to communicate produced
re-entrancement. It is described in Hodgson's Report,
Vol. XIII., p. 483. The sitter was Mr. A. A. C, who
expected communication from his brother Harry, owing
to a message having been sent to him by the latter through
G. P. some months before. Hodgson was recording. Amid
some confusion communications came successively which
T
290 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
were appropriate to previous sitters, but not to Mr. A. A. C.
Then Phinuit talked further, but the only relevant matter
was " young man named Harry—I want to see my
brother," and Phinuit complained of confusion. Hodgson
continues :
Mrs. Piper had begun to come out of trance, but was
strongly convulsed again, and the hand moved to write. I
put a pencil in it, and a very direct personal communi-
cation was written to the sitter, who was addressed by his
first name. The full name—first, middle, and surname
—
of his brother Harry, from whom the communication
purported to come, was written several times, with great
violence tearing the paper of the block book. The wild
anxiety of the communicator, as shown in the writing and
in the movements of Mrs. Piper's hand and arm, was very
striking. * * * Phinuit stated on November 23 that when
he " went out " he found this young man, who begged most
earnestly for the opportunity of speaking to his brother,
and that he, Phinuit, had " helped him in," etc.
The existence of a greater capacity or of more favour-
able conditions for receiving impressions supernormally at
the moment of transition into or out of the trance state
would not in itself throw light on the question of whose
memory connects the trance proper with the waking-stage.
And, in fact, I am disposed to think that the cases of
conscious memory in one state or the other, of the kind
which have been discussed in this chapter, can be explained
equally well as due to the memory of some part of
Mrs. Piper, or of the controls or communicators ; and
the claim of the trance personages, of course, is that
it is their memory which is concerned.
There are, however, a few cases which seem definitely
to point to the memory being that of some element of
Mrs. Piper. They may be divided into two classes :
(a) cases where there is specific reason for thinking that
the control professing to remember is not genuine ;
(b)
cases where the knowledge in the waking-stage which shows
connexion with the trance is claimed by the waking-
stage consciousness as acquired by direct experience.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 291
Of the first kind the case of January 13 and 14, 1897.
given in the Appendix (pp. 617-618) is a specimen, and I
am not sure that there are any others. In this case
" Hannah Wild " controlling on January 14 repeats a
line of a hymn which had been uttered in the waking-
stage the day before, and on being asked by Hodgson
whether she had sung it "to the medium when she was
coming into her body last time," replied that she had.
The evidence for conscious memory here is vitiated by
Hodgson's leading question, but it is quite possible that
the conscious memory existed, and in any case the repeti-
tion of the same line is conclusive evidence of some
kind of continuity. Now " Hannah Wild " was, it will be
remembered, an old communicator, and the attempts
made to obtain evidence of her identity, as described
by Hodgson in his first Report,1
were extremely interesting
and afforded important evidence of the supernormal acquisi-
tion of knowledge. But, as Hodgson says,2
the evidence
" seems to be very far from proving the presence of Hannah
Wild " ; and I should go further and apply to the whole
series of sittings what he says at an early stage of it, viz.
that the result " suggested that however Phinuit succeeded
in obtaining the names and other impressions which proved
to be more or less correct, he at least did not g;et them
from the '
spirit '
of Hannah Wild." Later appearances of
" Hannah Wild "—the one we are dealing with among them
—did not make it more probable that the real Hannah
Wild was concerned.
But if it was not Hannah Wild herself who claimed on
January 14 to remember singing that hymn to the returning
spirit of Mrs. Piper the day before, who was it ? It must
have been either some phase or element of Mrs. Piper
herself, who somehow in both states associated the hymn
with Hannah Wild, or it must have been a personating
spirit.
The argument hi a case of this sort is briefly that
the fictitiousness of the trance personage implies that
1
Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 10-16 and 69-84; see also Professor
W. James on the subject, Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 657.
2
Op. cit., p. 15.
292 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
communication by it with Mrs. Piper in the waking-
stage is fictitious also. In the second class of case the
argument is in a sense reversed. It is that as Mrs. Piper
in the waking-stage claims immediate knowledge of facts
or ideas common to the two states, it is probably some
phase or element of her mind that has the knowledge in
both states. Examples of this class have been given in
Chapter VI. The claim of Mrs. Piper's waking-stage
consciousness to have visited England and Mexico in
spirit are cases in point (see Chapter VI., pp. 247-248,
and Appendix, pp. 551, 552). The case of her seeing
Professor Newbold while going into trance, and G. P.
professing to have done so as soon as the trance began
(p. 243), again seems to be of the same kind. And
the case described on p. 248, and Appendix (p. 591),
of Mrs. Piper in the waking-stage seeing Phinuit, for the
first time for years, on the day when the trance com-
municator had spoken of meeting him in the other world,
is, I think, analogous—the idea of Phinuit in the trance
having probably suggested the vision to the waking-stage
Mrs. Piper.
These cases are not numerous, but they are, I think,
sufficient to show that the interdependence of trance
and waking-stage ideas is sometimes at least due to
Mrs. Piper's mind operating in both states and carrying
ideas from one to the other. This implies some under-
lying memory connexion, though not necessarily a conscious
memory in either state of the other. That it is not
always a conscious memory is shown by such indications
as, e.g. Mrs. Piper's surprise at seeing Phinuit " away
up there " in the case just mentioned, and by the frag-
mentariness and dreamy futility which sometimes char-
acterises the waking-stage expression of the idea carried
over. Myersp—to take him as an example of communi-
cators—when claiming that it is he who is responsible
for the connexion of ideas between the two states, gets
over the difficulty of the fragmentariness by professing
ignorance of what exactly he has got Mrs. Piper to
understand or to utter in the waking-stage (see e.g. p. 278).
This is quite possibly true ;
—indeed, if a real Myers is
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 293
communicating, he may well be attempting to do so
through Mrs. Piper in both states and not know how far
he is succeeding in either. But I think it is clear that
in some cases there is connexion of ideas between the
two states without a MyersP to carry them over.
294 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
CHAPTER VIII.
Effect of Sitters and of so-called " Influences " on
the Trance Phenomena.
It is impossible to study the voluminous records of Mrs.
Piper's trances without perceiving that the nature and
quality of the communications vary very much. The
extracts already given in this paper show this, and it
becomes still more manifest if those given in previous
reports are taken into account. They vary, of course, with
the controls, as we saw in Chapter III. ; but they vary
also with the sitters ; and they vary in style and manner
as well as in evidential and other qualities.
That the sitters must influence the trance communica-
tions to some extent is, of course, obvious. For one thing,
they are themselves personages in the drama, and the part
they play in it and the way they play it must affect
the way the trance personalities play theirs. This happens
in ordinary conversation. We all of us inevitably talk to
different acquaintances differently and on more or less
different topics, and the complaisance of the controls,
their desire to please, would tend to develop this tendency
strongly. And in the trance drama the sitters not only
largely determine the subjects of conversation, but the
personages who shall take part in it. They explicitly or
tacitly demand that their own friends shall manifest
themselves and produce evidence of identity, or give
information on particular points. Then again, besides
playing a part in the drama and influencing the selection
of the other characters, the sitters are the audience. It
is all played for them, and their presence and participation
very likely help to prevent dreamlike wanderings, such
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 295
as occur in the waking-stage when, generally speaking, no
audience is assumed to be present ; or incoherences, such
as are liable to occur in automatic writing done in solitude,
when the automatist exercises no deliberate influence on
what is written.
It is clear also that the controls at times deliberately
adapted their remarks to sitters with more regard to
expediency than truth. I give an extract in the Appendix
(p. 619) from the record of a sitting on November 23,
1899 from which it appears that assurances of an opposite
nat re had been given to two sitters. I suspect that in
{ ! is particular case Rector was advising somewhat morbid
people, and that in trying to smooth over difficulties in a
complicated situation consistency was sacrificed. This is
conjecture, but there is no doubt that Rector did sometimes
act with a good deal of success as adviser and helper in
cases of mental trouble and difficulty.
In cases such as that just referred to, what the control
says is influenced by what he learns about the sitter by
means of normal tact and observation. But there are other
differences in the sitters which have to be considered.
The controls speak of some sitters as giving them light
—
meaning that with them communication goes easily. 1
But
what qualities in the sitter produce this result is not clear.
Probably anything that puts the controls at their ease does
so, and they have very likely not analysed further. It is
sometimes alleged that mediumistic power in the sitter works
this way ;
e.g. on February 22, 1900, Rector says :
" Mrs.
X is a light and gives us light always, therefore she cannot
but help the light under such conditions as she brings."
And again on January 1, 1907, " B. has some light herself,
which is a help to us." But the opposite is also asserted,
for we learn from Miss A. M. R. (Proceedings, Vol. VIII.,
p. 113) that Phinuit stated that a certain sitter "was very
mediumistic herself, and weakened him when talking with
her." However this may be, it seems certain that some-
thing in the sitters affects the evidential value of the com-
munications. As I said in my previous paper on Mrs. Piper
(Proceedings, Vol. XV., pp. 35, 36) :
1
See above, Chapter IV., pp 152-154.
296 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvick. [part
Differences in the veridicality of the communications are
evidently at least partly due [to] the sitter. The success
of sitters in obtaining interesting communications varies, as
we know, enormously, and there are persons who sit
with Mrs. Piper—have even sat often with Mrs. Piper
—
who though they receive plenty of communications, receive
none which there is the slightest reason to suppose
supernormal at all. It is, I think, the case that the
sitters who obtain most evidence of supernormal communica-
tion of some kind are those whose sittings afford evidence
of supernormal communication of all kinds, both of thought-
transference from the sitter and of communication with the
dead or with distant living minds. If it were only a question
of information derived by Mrs. Piper telepathically from
the sitter, it would be easy to attribute the failure of an
unsuccessful sitter to his being a bad agent ; but a good
sitter seems in some way to make the process of trans-
mission easier, even when he does not seem to be the
source of the information.
Hodgson (see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 371) recognised
this difference, but was inclined to attribute it merely to
want of tact and sympathy in the sitter, or to what we may
perhaps call want of will to be communicated with. But
though defects of this kind in a sitter doubtless have some
effect, they will not, I am sure, account adequately for
much of the failure, any more than such differences of
mental attitude will account in thought-transference experi-
ments for the complete failure of some agents in com-
municating ideas to percipients with whom other agents
succeed. There must be a quality of mind or brain, not a
mere mental or emotional attitude, which makes a person
a good telepathic agent, and it is highly probable, I think,
that the quality making for good agency also makes for
good percipiency and vice versa, some kind of attunement
between the two incarnate minds concerned being also per-
haps needed. I suggested in my previous paper that this
psychical quality, whatever it may consist in, may cause
the sitter possessing it to serve, not only as a telepathic
source of information to the controls, but as a possible
telepathic channel of communication between his com-
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance. Phenomena. 297
municating friends in the other world and the controls.
If this last point could be established it would certainly help
to remove some of the difficulties connected with supposed
veridical communications through Mrs. Piper—at any rate
the difficulty of accounting for the selection of communi-
cators. But it does not specially concern our present
subject and I do not propose to say more about it now.
I discussed it somewhat more fully in the paper referred
to. The other point, the sitter as a telepathic source of
information, requires further consideration here, because on
this the controls at various times expressed views, though
not always quite consistent ones.
First we may remark that the evidence for thought trans-
ference from the sitter does not solely consist of cases where
the sitter as a source of information is an alternative to the
spiritistic hypothesis. There are a certain number of in-
stances of thoughts at the moment in the sitter's mind, or
which have been in his mind recently, being reproduced
in or affecting the trance communications in a way that
can hardly be attributed to chance. As examples may be
mentioned the cases I called attention to in Chapter III.,
p. 85, of the first appearance as controls of Sir Walter
Scott and of D. D. Home following promptly after
Hodgson had been reading about them, and of Madame
Guyon's first appearance occurring similarly in connexion
with a sitter who had been reading about her. 1
A case
of knowledge of what Hodgson and Professor Newbold
had been thinking is mentioned on p. 86. A case of a
reply being given at a sitting on December 8, 1893, to pre-
vious thoughts of the sitter, which had not been mentioned
in Mrs. Piper's presence, will be found in Proceedings, Vol.
XIII. , p. 489, as follows :
The day before the sitting Mr. Sutton had questioned
whether it was right or desirable for them to bring them
back for our gratification. It did not occur to him during
the sitting, but Alonzo said, " Do not think it wrong to bring
us back—we love to come."
1
In this last case there may, however, have been a cross-correspondence
(see Chapter III., p. 123).
298 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
In the same way Hodgson records on December 2, 1902,
that a subject he and a previous sitter had discussed two
days before—a fourth dimension of space—turned up at
the sitting.
Hodgson several times notes the uttering by the controls
of a thought at the moment in his mind, but in some cases,
e.g. in one on March 19, 1897, quoted in Chapter IV.
(p. 151), and perhaps in one on July 1, 1895 (Appendix, p. 627),
the coincidence might result merely from the same idea being
suggested to both by what had been said. Professor Hyslop's
case quoted below, however, p. 299 (October 10, 1906), seems
free from this objection. And a somewhat similar case
(January 24, 1893) is described in Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
p. 438, when G. P. divined what Hodgson was going to
ask him to do, and said he heard him say it. Hodgson had
not done so—at least at the sitting—and replied that G. P.
must have heard his thought.
Thought-transference of this limited kind the controls
sometimes admit, but they are chary of admitting even this
much, and go so far on other occasions as to deny that they
get ideas from the sitter's mind at all. Their dislike of the
telepathic hypothesis is probably due to the fear that it
would militate against a spiritistic hypothesis. This comes
out, for instance, in passages from the sittings of May 23
and 24, 1905, which will be found in the Appendix, p. 620.
And these passages also bring out inconsistencies in which
the unqualified denial of telepathy from the sitter involves
the controls. On May 23, G. P. is very emphatic in his
assertion that the sitter's " mind has nothing to do with
it." The next day Rector expresses amusement at the
sitter's idea " that we were able to pick out of thy
mind * * * words or names of friends, etc." The sitter
says she is not alone in this opinion, which leads Rector
to say rather inconsistently :
No mortal could possibly be more conscious of this
attitude toward [us ?] than we ourselves are. Remember
friend we are in no wise dead or asleep to the realisation
of the thoughts of mortals concerning us. We not only
understand fully what they think but we often hear
conversations which actually take place between mortals.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 299
The fuller extracts from these two sittings in the
Appendix will be found interesting, and with them should
be compared Rector's remarks on April 15, 1897 (Appendix,
p. 621).
One way in which the controls seek to limit the admis-
sion of telepathic help from the sitter is by granting that
they borrow words from the sitter but not ideas. See
e.g. February 13, 1897 (Appendix to Chapter III., p. 477):
R. H. These words suggested to me a misappreciation of
what you really meant.
Impekatok (writing). I am not responsible for my words. I
am obliged to borrow more or less of your own.
R. H. That is to say, you have a thought, and the words
depend in part at least on your interlocutor.
Imp. Yes
This same idea was expressed by Rector (as reported
by Mr. Dorr) somewhat more fully on March 20, 1905
(see Appendix, p. 622). Mr. Dorr had suggested that
communications were influenced by the mind of the sitter,
and Rector replied that the language in which the thought
was expressed was often largely borrowed from the sitter's
mind, but that the thought itself was not.
In 1906, on the other hand, HodgsonP,
controlling or
communicating, franldy admitted mind-reading on more
than one occasion. Thus on March 21, 1906, the following
remarks are recorded by Professor Hyslop (see Proceedings
American S.P.B., Vol. IV., p. 682) :
Prof. Hyslop. I have seen evidences every now and then that
you get my thoughts which I do not utter.
Hodgsonp. Indeed I do. I am as clear in reading your
thoughts as you are in thinking them.
And again on October 10, 1906 (op. cit., p. 719) :
Hodgsonp .
Hyslop I am going to tell you something private.
I do not want you to remarry that woman with
the children.
Prof. Hyslop. To whom do you refer ?
HoDGsoNp. I mean the one in your life now.
300 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Prof. Hyslop. Good, I did not want to open that matter
first.
Hor>GsoNp. Good. I hear you think almost. I almost hear
you think.
Possibly, however, HodgsonP retained some anxiety lest
the idea of telepathy from the sitter should be carried too
far—at least, this may be the implication in the following
conversation on April 25, 190G (o}). cit., p. 696) :
{Reference had been made to a correct statement by
Hodgsonp about something said in a conversation
Hodgson had had with Professor Newbold.
}
Prof. Hyslop. Yes Hodgson, and you told me the same thing
twice.
Hodgsonp. What thing before I came over do you—
Prof. Hyslop. Yes Hodgson.
HoDGsoNp. Oh yes I remember it well.
Prof. Hyslop. Good.
HoDGsoNp. There is no telepathy in this except as it comes
from my mind to yours.
Prof. Hyslop. Good. Then telepathy is at least a part of the
process by which you communicate with me ?
HoDGsoNp. Most assuredly it is and I had a vague idea before
I came over.
Prof. Hyslop. Yes, you did.
Hodgsonp . You remember our talks about the telepathic
theory of our friends' thoughts reaching us from
this side telepathically—[correct] communicating tele-
pathically from our side to yours.
To the influence of sitters—not necessarily telepathic
—
we may attribute, I think, a remarkable difference in
quality, varying apparently with the country in which
they occur, in the communications of GurneyP ,
MyersP ,
and HodgsonP , whether as communicators or controls.
GurneyP was a much more interesting communicator in
England than in America, while with HodgsonP the reverse
was the case, and the importance of MyersP as a communi-
cator was greatly enhanced when Mrs. Piper came to
England in 1906. The effect of place was, I imagine, acci-
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 301
dental, except so far as Mrs. Piper's associations may have
made Myers seem to her a more appropriate communicator
than Hodgson in England, and thus have helped sub-
liminally to bring him into comparative prominence.
But it is probable, indeed practically certain, that the sitters
—different in the two countries—had hi various ways an
important influence on the communications, and this might
well account for the greater interest of what MyersP had
to say in England.
The case of HodgsonP is more difficult to understand.
During the first few months after Hodgson's death he
appeared to be a most vivid and impressive communicator
to marry of his friends in the United States, as readers of
William James's Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson Control
[Proceedings, Vol. XXIII.) are aware. Why in England,
only a few months later, HodgsonP should have almost
entirely failed to recognise intimate friends of Hodgson's,
or to be put on the track of memories which one would
suppose Hodgson must have retained, one does not see.
The fact that it was three or four years since Hodgson
and his English friends had met in the flesh hardly seems
a sufficient explanation.
The Gurney case is still more curious. Gurney died in
the summer of 1888, and a Gurney control made its
appearance through Mrs. Piper in America on several
occasions in March, 1889, when Professor William James
was present. He gives some account of it in Proceedings,
Vol. VI., pp. 655-6, which was published in 1890, calling
the control " E.", and says " neither then, 1
nor at any
other time, was there to my mind the slightest inner
verisimilitude in the personation." Hodgson, who was
present at at least one of these sittings, also describes
this control in Vol. VIII., pp. 44-45, agreeing that it was
not like Gurney. He adds :
If we assume that this control was the " make-up " of
Mrs. Piper's secondary personality, it apparently involved
some very subtle use of information drawn telepathically
1
That is at the first appearance, when GurneyP purported to communicate
through Phinuit. On other occasions he "'
controlled " himself.
302 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
from at least the minds of the sitters, and at the same
time the most extravagant ignorance and confusion con-
cerning other facts, some of which were known to the
sitters, and which we should expect to be vivid in the
remembrance of " E."
Mrs. Piper visited England in the winter of 1889-90, and
there the personation was good. Some very private
things, too private for publication, which could not
possibly be known to Mrs. Piper, were referred to—first
in the presence of sitters who were aware of them ; and
the control as witnessed by Sir Oliver Lodge was vivid
and plausible, and to some extent evidential. Extracts
from Sir Oliver Lodge's sittings at which Gurney appeared
are given in Proceedings, Vol. VI., and more fully in
Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., pp. 140-1 02. I have quoted
one passage in Chapter II., p. 60. The pseudonym " E." was
adopted in reporting in 1890, partly because of the
extremely private nature of the more evidential matter,
and partly because of the badness of the American mani-
festations. For the two reasons together it seemed better
to wait for further developments before bringing any
Gurney communications as such before the Society. That
these further developments were to be expected was
clearly indicated in the passage referred to above, and
again in such passages as the following (evening of
February 3, 1890, op. tit., p. 158) :
Well Lodge I must be going. Good-bye. Stick to a good
thing and don't give it up. Go on with the investigation.
I will help you. This will be the thing of the future,
and will increase people's happiness. More mediums will
arise, and communication will be easier. Good-bye.
Phinuit professed to think highly of Gurney's capa-
cities as a control, as is shown by a remark he made
(morning of February 3, 1890, op. cit., p. 160) to Sir Oliver
Lodge who had asked that a certain communicator should
control instead of only sending messages, and was told it
was too difficult. He pleaded that Mr. Gurney did it,
to which Phinuit replied :
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 303
Yes, Mr. Gurney does, but Mr. Gurney is a scientific
man, who has gone into these things He comes and turns
me out sometimes. It would be a very narrow place into
which Mr. Gurney couldn't get.
After Mrs. Piper's return to America, however, nothing
further of interest seems to have occurred. Gurney com-
municated and controlled occasionally, but in a brief and
ineffective manner, and other controls seemed to assume that
this must necessarily be so. G. P. said on November 30,
1892 :
G. P. He has not been allowed and not had the power to
come back as I do.
i|e 3|e 3fe a|c
He would like to have been a help to you but he
has not been allowed through this medium or any
other.
R. H. Well, Phinuit told us that Gurney told him that he
would give us a long article.
G. P. I think he will be able to do a few things like that,
but never do what I do.
And again on June 15, 1895, G. P. said of him to
Professor Newbold :
G. P. A brighter man never existed, yet when he tries to
speak he is all balled up.
'
Balled up '
is, I understand, American slang for confused.
G. P.'s view must therefore be held to be in contradiction
to the facts if it was Gurney who controlled in the English
sittings of 1889-90. But GurneyP in America himself sup-
ported G. P.'s view, for he said to Hodgson on January 25,
1897 :
Gurneyp (writing). I have been very much interested in your
friend George. He has just taken my place and
done what I should have liked to have done.
R. H. He's been a jewel.
GuBNEYp. Yet I fear my [undecipherable] was too shaky to do
so. My head was not clear, and is not yet, when
I speak to you.
304 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
And again, in the course of a brief communication
through Rector on October 31, 1900, he said :
I am out of my general haziness into light at last.
This he repeated on January 29, 1902, saying :
I have passed out of my haziness since Myers and
the rest of the comrades joined me.
Between these two last-mentioned sittings, on April 8,
1901, Mrs. Piper, in the waking-stage, made the curious
remarks recorded as follows (see Appendix to Chapter VI.,
p. 578) :
[To R. H.] That's a queer tiling. I'll tell you some-
thing. R. H. What ?
There's Mr. Sidgwick, and they've taken Mr. Gurney
out of a hole. They found him and took him out.
You never saw a man so pleased as he was. He's
nearer than he was. He's getting {next words
apparently lost.
}
What change had occurred to put GurneyP into a haze,
or a hole, or to cause him to be " balled up " after he
had been so clear in 1889-90, does not appear. Nor does
his coming out of the haze appear to have led to improved
communications.
In England in 1906-7 he did not, I think, put in an
appearance, and I believe that after 1903 his next mani-
festation was in England in 1910-11. He was then
expected by one of the sitters introduced by Sir Oliver
Lodge, and, after being asked for, communicated clearly
and with a good deal of appropriateness to the occasion. It
will be remembered that Mrs. Piper in the waking-stage of
December 2, 1910, after a sitting in which GurneyP had
communicated, described a visionary man she saw in a
way that fitted Gurney, and when shown a photograph
of him recognised it with a decision that impressed Sir
Oliver Lodge as genuine. The incident is described fully
above, Chapter VI., pp. 252-253. What was also apparently
a vision of him had occurred two months earlier on October
10. There had been a similar one on October 31, 1900,
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 305
after the sitting quoted from above. Mrs. Piper said in
the waking-stage :
There's a great tall man with a large moustache.
{Hodgson appends the note} [E. G.?] 1
It is certainly difficult to put all these communications
from and concerning GurneyP together so as to make a
consistent personality, and the easiest explanation of the
discrepancies seems on the whole to lie in the different
expectations of Hodgson in America and Sir Oliver Lodge
and other sitters in England.
From the influence of sitters we may pass to the
supposed influence at sittings of objects connected with
particular persons, whether dead or living. Such articles
or objects are often in the conversations between sitters
and trance personalities simply called " influences," and I
shall use this term in what follows. Influences are supposed
to bring the control into touch with then owners or former
owners, and are sometimes spoken of as a source of infor-
mation which may be used to prove that the presence of a
sitter is not necessary. Thus, on April 27, 1904, Hodgson
records the following remarks, elicited through an " in-
fluence " of Mrs. B. being presented to Rector who had
expressed a wish to hear from her :
R. + {i.e. Imperator} before the light permanently closes
on the earthly side of life would like to use it for
fifteen or sixteen Sabbaths {i.e. weeks} for the purpose
of obtaining messages etc. from our world from influences
alone, for the express purpose of proving to mortals the
fact that it is not necessary for them to be present at
the light to obtain such. 2
Sitters wishing for some particular communicator, or
desiring information about some distant living person, are
generally advised to bring to the sitting some article
connected with him, one that has been much worn or
1 It is not of course unlikely that Mrs. Piper in her normal state
had seen a likeness of Gurney in England in 1889-90.
2
Influences were much in use about this time for medical diagnosis.
u
306 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
handled by him being preferred. This " influence " is
put into the hands of the medium or placed close to the
writing block. In a voice sitting it can be held by the
medium all the time, and in a writing sitting it can be
felt and grasped at intervals. During the G. P. regime,
when divided control was the usual condition—or at least
was supposed to be—an " influence " would often be given
to the left hand to occupy Phinuit's attention and enable
G. P. to write with the right hand uninterrupted by
Phinuit. Influences are not represented as always necessary,
nor are they always asked for, but their absence is some-
times an excuse for failure.
One's first impression naturally is that all this must be
nonsense, but the evidence on the whole seems to show
that some effect is produced by influences, though probably
not in the way the controls say and perhaps think.
Hodgson says in his first Report (Proc, Vol. VIII., p. 21)
that he thinks Phinuit
is much more likely to succeed with the help of such
objects than without them. It is quite conceivable, of
course, that Phinuit's belief that such articles act as clues
may itself influence his success, even though that belief be
merely subjective.
Again {Proc, Vol. VIII., pp. 56-57) :
Possibly Phinuit may be assisted in some way by in-
animate objects which have been much worn or handled by
specific persons, and, as I have said, they seem to add to
the chances of his success. * * * Phinuit apparently claims
that such objects bring him into relation with the persons
who have handled them, whether such persons be living or
dead. Now where the sitter knows the circumstances con-
nected with the object, the associations will probably form
a specially vivid cluster of experiences in his mind, con-
scious or subconscious, owing to the very presence of the
object within the field of his perception, and this may help
Phinuit to discover and disentangle these associations by
direct thought-transference. Where, on the other hand,
the sitter is ignorant of the circumstances connected with
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 307
the object, it may, at any rate, form a sort of point de
repere enabling Pbinuit to get telepathically, through the
mind of the sitter, at the mind of the distant living
person from whom the object was obtained, and who
knows of its associations.
I do not think further experience has thrown much
more light on the subject, and perhaps that is why
Hodgson does not discuss it again in his second report.
A good deal has, however, been said about it by the
trance personalities since his first report was written, and
it may be well to give some account of their statements.
Accordingly, I quote in the Appendix various general
accounts given by them, and also particular cases of the
use of influences connected with dead or living people,
which illustrate or throw doubt on their theories. These
are arranged in chronological order. The fullest account
in some respects is that given by Doctor on February 8,
1897 (see p. 628), but he confines himself almost entirely
to the use of influences from the point of view of communi-
cators. From this point of view he, with the assistance
of Hodgson, attributes five uses to an influence. It attracts
its former owner, stimulates his associations, makes him feel
at home, and, owing to " its own light," in some way gives
him strength to communicate. It also helps " him to avoid
being telepathically acted upon by spirits," whether in or
out of the body apparently. This last is presumably what
Rector means when he talks of the influence holding " the
desired spirit apart from others avIio might otherwise un-
consciously interrupt " (Dec. 2, 1902, see Appendix, p. 637),
and keeping " the communicators clear " (May 6, 1903, see
Appendix, p. 638).
G. P., in his account given to Professor Newbold on
June 20, 1895, and to Hodgson on July 1, 1895 (see
Appendix, pp. 624, 626), looks at the matter from the point
of view of the control who, it is said, gets from the influence
an impression of the owner, living or dead, which enables
the control to recognize him in the spirit world ;
or,
in the case of a distant living owner, to diagnose,
medically or otherwise, his case. G. P., as control on
Dec. 26, 1896 (see Appendix, p. 628), confirms this idea
308 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
that recognition by the control of the spirit owner of an
influence is an important object to be attained by pre-
senting it, for he says the absence of the influence after
the first sitting will make no difference, " I would know
him anywhere after this."
It is interesting to note that G. P. and Doctor both
deny, or at least are very sceptical about, the possibility
of what is called psychometry—the learning from an
object its own history without the intervention of a spirit
connected with it (see Appendix, pp. 625, 634).
We are told various other things about influences, such
as that their effect diminishes with use (see Appendix,
February 8, 1897, p. 632), and with lapse of time (Appen-
dix, June 20, 1895, p. 624, and April 11, 1905, p. 642) ;
that they deteriorate from being carried across the water
—i.e. the Atlantic Ocean (Appendix, November 22, 1905,
p. 643), and, again, from having been handled by many
people (Appendix, June 20, 1895, p. 624), or being much in
contact with other influences. These difficulties, whether
genume or not, obviously afford excuses for failure.
It will be observed that the effective part of an in-
fluence is sometimes described as its " light," or as
" etherial." This part is sometimes said to be taken to
the other world for use apart from the sittings apparently.
Thus, on March 7, 1900 (see Proceedings, Vol. XXIV.,
p. 409), Bennie Junot says :
You see I took all my influences with me. [At end of
previous sitting the hand fingered some of the articles
{that had belonged to Bennie} and acted as if " drawing
some influence" from them, after the writing ceased.—R. H.]
And I am better now and perhaps I can tell you more.
And again, on March 27, 1900, Bennie says (Proceedings,
Vol. XXIV., p. 425) :
He who is helping me is calling me to take my influences
and give it up for now.
Compare also Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 492, where
Phinuit is said, on December 21, 1893, to make a motion
of drawing something from a living child's lock of hair and
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance Phenomena. 309
giving it to the child spirit, Kakie, saying, " Now she has
it. She can get nearer her little sister with it."
It is rather bewildering to find on Jnly 5, 1904
(Appendix, p. 639), that the spirit of the influence cannot
thus be taken to the spirit world unless the influence
is held by the medium before the control begins to depart
—notwithstanding that the presence of an influence during
the waking-stage tends apparently to keep its spirit
owner hanging about against his will (see April 14, 1908,
Appendix, p. 643). Rector, having failed to take the spirit
of Mr. D.'s influence away with him on July 4, 1904,
has to show the influence itself to Imperator during the
sitting on the 5th, as well as to take away its spirit at the
end of the sitting.
Various views as to the influences of living people will
be found expressed in the cases quoted in the Appendix.
Phinuit's theory on January 24, 1893 (p. 623), apparently
was that the perspiration of the body on the influence is
carried on the air and that he follows it to the person's
spiritual body ; —an explanation which, as one of the
sitters, Mr. Howard, remarks, " is very obscure." Rector,
on October 28, 1902, takes a more spiritual view apparently.
The influence brings the spirit of its living owner almost
as close to him as the sitter, he can see it so perfectly
(p. 636). It is, however, the body of Mr. X. that he sees
so plainly on December 8, 1902 (p. 638), and on December
19, 1904 (p. 640), it was " the astral light which the
article carried with it which brought " him " in immediate
touch with " the owner's organism. On February 7, 1905,
several erroneous guesses having been made about the
owner of the influence which had been in Hodgson's pos-
session for some weeks, Rector opines (p. 641) that
We see his condition from the objects presented at the
time when they were connected with him. This is a
trifle confusing as the case stands now.
And on April 24, 1905 (p. 643), the control, owing to a
special sympathy between a father and daughter, is able
" to reach her aura through his objects."
Altogether, what the controls say is not very explanatory.
310 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
nor I think does it add much to the data Hodgson
had before him when he framed the telepathic hypothesis
quoted above. That hypothesis still seems to me plausible,
though I learn from Professor Newbold that Hodgson had
definitely abandoned it.
1
It involves, of course, the active
part in the telepathic process being taken by the controls,
who must get out of the sitter's mind certain ideas, con-
scious or subconscious, which are grouped together there
and marked off by the presence of the influence. The in-
fluence in its effect on the sitter's mind may even form a
kind of frame into which ideas derived by the controls from
elsewhere may or may not be found to fit—a sort of touch-
stone by which the appropriateness of ideas can be tele-
pathically tested before they are selected for utterance. It
is not at all incompatible with this hypothesis about in-
fluences that they are by no means used with uniform
success, and that communicators may sometimes claim as
theirs articles presented by sitters, and yet fail altogether
to give the slightest evidence of identity, or to offer any
plausible communications.
But influences were resorted to and apparently found
useful in Mrs. Piper's trances in cases where the useful-
ness cannot have consisted either in the things G. P. and
Doctor claim for them, or in their being aids to tele-
pathic selection. For instance, when Mrs. Piper was in
England in 1906-7, and also later, the trance controls
professed to get strength and help when the hand grasped
a handkerchief, known as " the healer's influence," which
had belonged, I believe, to a lady in America—a mental
healer (see Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 308). It would
be grasped at moments of seeming weakness, not because
any communication with its former owner or her friends
was sought for or obtained, but for the strength to be
derived from it. We can hardly, however, suppose that
the handkerchief was an important and persisting store-
house of strength, especially as, according to the control's
views, it must have lost some of its effect in crossing the
1
1 do not know what hypothesis he put in its place, given, what I think
was the case, that he believed in the efficacy of articles in attracting " spirits
and in tapping a stream of veridical communications.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 311
ocean. Influences, again, connected with a constant com-
municator like Hodgson can hardly have been required for
any effect in facilitating selection from the mind of the
sitter, though their presentation by a sitter may sometimes
have indicated in a normal manner that communication
with Hodgson was desired. Nor, though it is asserted
that Hodgson's influences did attract and hold him,
apparently by a process he found it difficult to resist
(see April 14 and 21, 1908, Appendix, pp. 643, 644), would one
suppose them necessary either to attract him, or to make
him feel at home, or to stimulate associations.
It is possible that the use of influences was sometimes
a piece of ritual. Of ritual—forms and ceremonies to be
observed—there is a good deal in Mrs. Piper's trance
procedure, as will be obvious to readers who have followed
my examination of it so far, and ritual may have an im-
portant subjective effect both on medium and sitters.
But there is another possibility to be considered. The
use of the healer's influence, if not of Hodgson's, suggests
that holding an object for a few seconds with the hand
may have had a kind of steadying effect on the trance
condition—helping perhaps to fix the attention and avert
some tendency to dream-like instability. It may have
helped in some such way as holding a friend's hand helps
some people to maintain self-control when in pain. Or the
mere pause involved in grasping an influence, slight as it
was, may have been helpful in some way, as is suggested,
for example, by the following passage in Mr. Dorr's record
of March 17, 1908 (Mr. Dorr it will be remembered was
trying to draw out reminiscences of classical literature from
MyersP ) :
MYEBSp. VENUS
[Written haltingly and pausing between letters to
grasp influence of healer and hold it for a moment.
This was repeatedly done during the sitting in get-
ting difficult words through.]
G. B. D. Good. Write it again.
Myebsp. Wait until I get fight VENUS.
[Takes influence again and holds it for another
moment.]
312 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Myeksp . Beauty. Apple angered Juno.
An incident is recorded on May 8, 1908, at another of Mr.
Dorr's sittings, of a longer pause partly filled by grasping
influences, which, if it was not mere acting, perhaps illus-
trates the point further. After HodgsonP has translated the
Tavern Club motto with considerable energy :
[The hand now rests, limp and cold, without move-
ment for some time, then writes very faintly :]
HoDGsoNp. Exhausted . . . wait.
[A long pause now follows, G. B. D. placing in the
hand the Healer's and R. H.'s influences, which
it holds tightly for a while, then writes :]
HoDGsoNp. That took so much light, George.
It somewhat confirms the idea that one object of
influences was to have something to grasp—whether with
the desire to secure a pause or for some other reason
—
that when Dr. Stanley Hall substituted on one occasion
for Hodgson's influences some similar articles of his own,
the change was not seemingly noticed by the Hodgson
control, who held Dr. Hall's influences with apparent
satisfaction (Studies in Spiritism, pp. 236-253). This is
what one would expect if all that was really wanted was
something to grasp at intervals. That it was the accus-
tomed form of the article associated with Hodgson that
counted rather than any real connexion of it with him, is
indicated by an incident on December 31, 1906, reported by
Mr. Piddington. Rector writes
:
R. We want the influence friend.
(J. G. P. gives skull cap, and hand rejects it.)
J. G. P. Both are Hodgson influences ; but the one you had last
time and the time before is not here.
R. Too bad why do you change them. We wish him to
become accustomed to the same it will help much
to avoid confusion.
At some periods of the Piper history the same advantage,
whatever it was, seems to have been obtained by resting
the hand on the head of the sitter. This happened very
frequently in 1896 and 1897 with various controls and
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 313
sitters. It is asked for as giving strength. I give two
examples from these years in the Appendix (November 17,
1896, and November 10, 1897, p. 644), and also a later one,
March 17, 1908. See also March 5, 1897 (Appendix to
Chapter III., p. 498). On at least one occasion, March 3,
1897, a pause is secured by another plan—Rector asks to
have something read to him. He says, " Read for me a
moment * * * not my statements. Anything to give me
strength." Hodgson recited some lines of poetry, after
which Rector proceeded with his discourse 1
(see Appendix,
p. 645). Perhaps the object here and in other cases may
have been to gain time to think what to say next.
In the cases so far referred to it was the control who
apparently desired a pause ; but the need for one, or for
rest of some sort, is constantly said to be felt by com-
municators. This is sometimes attributed to the difficulty
of remaining in the suffocating air of this world (see Chapter
V., p. 160), sometimes merely to fatigue and weakness.
Whatever the cause of the exhaustion—whether, as the
controls say, it is due to the quasi-physical difficulties of
communicating or to the strain of making the control under-
stand ; or whether, as we must suppose if we think the
communicator's part as represented to us is an acted part,
it is due to the mental effort required in the case of a new
communicator or one trying to give evidential matter
—
whatever the cause, the result is that the communicator
" goes out " for a shorter or longer time. An example will
be found in Chapter V., p. 162 (May 24, 1904). In this
instance the intervals during the communicator's absence
were filled in one case by a silence, in the other by a more
stereotyped communicator who said nothing of special in-
terest. My impression is that such intervals are usually
filled up with talk of a kind involving little effort, either by
the control or a familiar communicator, but it would b
rash without further investigation than I have made to
affirm this as a fact. 2
1
1 understand from Professor Newbold that at one period Hodgson
thus recited poetry to the control not infrequently.
2
For a note about breaks in the trance of a more marked kind—definite
interruptions in the trance state—see p. 215, footnote.
314 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
I think it is clear from the cases considered that plans of
various kinds were adopted by the trance personalities which
had the effect, and very likely were intended to have it, of
producing a pause, short or long ; and that it is at any rate
plausible to suppose that the grasping of an " influence
"
may sometimes have had the same object.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 315
CHAPTER IX.
Conclusion.
In the preceding chapters I have tried to put before the
reader a fair and adequately full account of the material
available for judging of the Piper phenomena from a
purely psychological point of view—omitting that part
of the case which had been the main topic of previous
papers, namely, the evidence for a supernormal element in
the communications received. This supernormal element
I take for granted, and its existence must therefore, of
course, be taken into account in briefly summing up the
conclusions to which the examination of the material may
lead us.
The principal questions to which we want answers
are :
(1) Is there reason to think, as was maintained by
Hodgson in his second report, that any spirit independent
of Mrs. Piper exercises at any time direct control over any
part of Mrs. Piper's organism ?
(2) If not, or indeed in any case, what kind of divided
consciousness is manifested in Mrs. Piper ? Are the con-
trols secondary personalities and in what sense ?
To the first question my answer is probably already
plain to the reader, even if it has not been explicitly
stated. The intelligence in direct communication with the
sitter, whom we have called the control, is not, as it
professes to be, an independent spirit using Mrs. Piper's
organism, but some phase or element of Mrs. Piper's own
consciousness. This conclusion rests chiefly on the evidence
set forth in Chapters II. and III. and the Appendices thereto.
I do not see how on any other hypothesis we are to
316 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
account for absurd personations like, e.g. Julius Caesar,
which, it will be observed, is in no way distinguished by
other controls as different in nature from themselves.
Nor on any other hypothesis can we easily account for
the absurd statements made and the ignorance exhibited
by these other controls. We cannot, for instance, reason-
ably suppose that the limitations of Mrs. Piper's organism
not only inhibit the getting through of scientific informa-
tion, but alter what does come through into nonsensical
statements dressed up in pseudo-scientific jargon. Even
if we ought not to expect Rector and Imperator, who
profess to have lived on earth in more or less remote
times, to be acquainted with modern science—any more
than we can expect it of Mrs. Piper 1
—we should still less
expect these exalted spirits to use scientific nomenclature
in a way that shows total want of understanding of what
they are talking about.
And the ignorance is not confined to science. Mrs. Piper
might easily have given little attention to Old Testament
history or the history of Christianity, but that Imperator,
if the great spirit he professes to be, should undertake to
instruct Hodgson in the true inwardness of these things,
and contrive even while confining himself to vague gener-
alities to talk so much nonsense about them, is difficult
to conceive. Again, Mrs. Piper might well have erroneous
notions concerning Adam Bede and imagine him to be
a real person whom she might meet in the other world,
but it is hardly possible that George Eliot should make a
similar mistake and report having met him without
expressing any surprise. G. P.'s philosophical talk (see
Proceedings, Vol. XV., p. 26) is another case in point.
But I need not multiply instances in which the trance
1
It must be allowed, however, that some of the nonsense talked
(e.g. monkeys in the sun, p. 86) is not what we should expect the normal
Mrs. Piper to utter, and must, if a centre of consciousness of Mrs.
Piper is responsible, be attributed to a dream-like abeyance of the inhibi-
tory faculty. We all in our normal state refrain from saying some things
of which we feel doubtful, for fear of making fools of ourselves ; in doing
so we often conceal ignorance, but also, no doubt, fail to give ourselves
credit for knowledge which we more or less possess, or could make a good
guess at.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 317
utterances are natural enough as coming from Mrs. Piper
but not as coming from the supposed control, even
if allowance be made for confusion and difficulty.
Communicators are not supposed, like controls, to
influence Mrs. Piper's organism directly, but I may as
well say here that, in the case of what I have called
the dramatic communicators—communicators as manifested
at the sittings—(see p. 180), there are much the same
arguments for refusing to regard them as entities inde-
pendent of Mrs. Piper as there are in the case of the
controls. Dramatic communicators, like controls, are
sometimes clearly false, and no criterion is offered in the
representation itself, or in its relation to the control, by which
a false communicator may be distinguished from a true one.
The existence of false communicators is not admitted at all.
There are, however, two respects in which the com-
munications both of controls and communicators appear
at times to transcend what the normal Mrs. Piper could
produce. First, they sometimes show greater capacity in
certain directions than she probably possesses in the normal
state—as, e.g. when advice is given, impressive to the
recipient of it both in form and matter. And, secondly,
they sometimes give evidence of possessing information,
connected with special persons dead or alive, which is
not accessible to the normal Mrs. Piper, and which may
even be, as in the G. P. case, sufficient to enable so
successful a personation to be produced that some of his
friends found it easier to suppose it not a personation
at all, but G. P. himself. It is these powers which
have led investigators like Hodgson to accept the trance
personages' own account of themselves at its face value
—
at least, to a large extent. But, though these powers are
of great interest and importance in the study of the case,
they are, it seems to me, quite as compatible with the hypo-
thesis that the trance personalities are phases or elements
of Mrs. Piper as with any other. The increased capacity is
a phenomenon frequently observed in the case of hypno-
tised persons, and presumably is not due to a real or funda-
mental increase of mental power, but to the removal of
something—as, e.g. want of confidence or of power of atten-
318 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
tion—which inhibits a power always there, though generally
latent. About this there is, of course, nothing supernormal
in the psychical research sense.
As to the supernormal knowledge, its source is an
important question. If it all came telepathically from
living persons near or distant, no one would be likely to
regard the interposition of an alien spirit controlling Mrs.
Piper's organism as a necessary hypothesis. Up to the
date of his first report—dealing with the evidence to the
end of 1891—Hodgson was of opinion that the evidence
was not sufficient to prove more than this. He wrote
(Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 57) :
Putting aside all the facts which can be explained by
direct thought-transference from the sitter, and considering
simply the information given which was not known to the
sitter and which purports to come from " deceased
"
persons, but which was known to, and afterwards verified
by, distant living persons,—is there sufficient ground for
concluding that Phinuit is in direct communication with
" deceased " persons, and that he is a deceased person
himself as he alleges ? I think that the evidence here
presented, together with that previously published, is
very far from sufficient to establish any such con-
clusion.
Later, the evidence that some of the knowledge super-
normally acquired comes from the dead became stronger,
chiefly owing to the G. P. case, and it has been further
strengthened by more recently published evidence. Does
this alter the argument ? Surely not, if communication
with the dead is also telepathic. And unless telepathy
between the living is a physical process, a hypothesis
which becomes more and more improbable as our know-
ledge increases, it is natural to suppose that telepathic
communication between spirits in the body is similar in
kind to communication between spirits out of the body,
and between spirits in the body and spirits out of it ;
the main difference being that the body is a great
hindrance to any awareness, or full manifestation, of such
communication.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 319
I do not forget that to some people the remarkably
successful personation of dead persons which sometimes
occurs seems difficult to explain by telepathy, but I have
already given reasons in Chapter III., pp. 81-84, and in my
previous article, Proceedings, Vol. XV., pp. 21, 22, for
believing the material necessary to successful personation
to be within the range of what telepathy can produce.
I may add here that I think the difficulty sometimes felt in
admitting this arises partly from a tendency to limit the
scope of telepathy which has been fostered by the use of
the terms " agent " and " percipient " to denote respectively
the mind which is the source of the information transferred
and the mind which receives it. These technical terms,
introduced in the early days of the S.P.R., had their origin in
thought-transference experiments in which the person from
whom the idea is to be transferred tries to concentrate his
mind on it with a view to transferring it. But the term
agent is not very happily chosen, since it assumes that this
effort of concentration is an effective part of the process of
transference, whereas for anything we know it may have
no effect except that of ear-marking the idea it is desired to
transfer. It is possible that the so-called agent's part is
purely passive, while the percipient has to play the active
part and extract the idea or combination of ideas from the
" agent's " mind. It is more probable, perhaps, that the
active part may be played by either of the two minds con-
cerned in the transmission, or sometimes by both together.
At any rate we must be careful to remember that we know
very little about the process of telepathy, and not to assume
that the conditions and limitations of telepathic com-
munication can be inferred from those under which
the communication through the senses, with which we are
familiar, occurs.
To the a priori reasons for thinking that evidence
pointing to communication with the dead does not in
itself support the hypothesis of a control which is not
a phase or element of Mrs. Piper, we may add the obser-
vation that evidence for such communication has also
been obtained through other automatists whose automatic
script is produced without eclipse of the normal conscious-
320 Mrs. Henry SidgivicJc. [part
ness, and therefore clearly without its temporary removal
to another sphere while the control takes its place. 1
Of course, communication with the dead, when it occurs,
must imply a real communicator in the background, but
the point is that this does not necessitate either the
dramatic communicator or the control being other than
phases or elements of Mrs. Piper. Nor does it exclude
the possibility that the dramatic communicator is a
fiction, or a dream, or a hallucination, of the control,
each of which things it sometimes appears to be. That
it is with phases or elements—centres of conscious-
ness—of Mrs. Piper, and not with entities independent of
her, that the sitter is in direct communication seems to me
for the reasons given to be the hypothesis which best
fits the facts so far as we know them : that under which
they most readily fall into an intelligible order and are
most easily interpreted. And it is also a hypothesis
against which no valid arguments have, so far as I have
seen, been adduced.
There is a point about the veridical information offered
which tends to confirm this hypothesis and is worth
considering in the light of statements by the controls
themselves. It is the usually scrappy and imperfect nature
of the information. Neither this nor the excuses made for
it fit well with the idea of a well-informed control in
communication with other spirits, but hampered in expres-
sion by an imperfect machine. The excuses made, as
described in Chapter V., seem to interpolate the machine
difficulty between communicator and control as well as
between control and sitter, though, if the machine be
Mrs. Piper's brain, it is not easy to see how it comes
in there. What the attempts to give evidential communi-
cations constantly suggest is a striving of the control
1 1 do not wish to be taken as affirming dogmatically that no influ-
ence of a telergic kind can ever be exercised by an external mind,
i.e. that an external mind can never affect our nervous system in
'the same way that our own mind does. I think there is practically no
evidence for it at present. But we know so little about the whole
subject, including the way our own minds affect our bodies, that dog-
matic assertion is best avoided. It is even possible that telepathy and
telergy may merge into each other.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 321
after information from all sources, guessing sometimes,
fishing for information from the sitters sometimes, piecing
slight hints together, and eagerly seizing on any impression
or information obtained, whether normally or telepathically,
without always knowing how it is arrived at or whence
it comes. Mental groping of this kind, omitting what
depends on conversation with the sitter, is what the
percipient appears often to feel he is doing in thought-
transference experiments. Among crowding impressions he
has to pick out the right one. It certainly seems, therefore,
more appropriate to attribute such feeling about for
information, which in the end comes in an uncertain and
fragmentary fashion if it comes at all, to some part of
Mrs. Piper's mind than to an alien spirit.
Of course, that there is this groping is an inference from
what comes out, but it is based on a general impression
derived from a good many records of sittings, and occasion-
ally the controls make remarks which suggest that it is a
fact and even that they are aware of it. Phinuit once, so
Hodgson reports (it was at the end of the sitting of April
29, 1892 ; see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 309),
made a few remarks about the difficulty of seeing things
clearly, etc. "It is like looking through a keyhole into a
room and trying to find out about the people passing
backwards and forwards."
The illustration so aptly describes what, as I have said,
the communications constantly suggest that I think this
was probably a candid account of Phinuit's experience.
Rector on one occasion asked whether a name he had
got right—the family name of a sitter—had been given by
the sitters, as it in fact had, or by the communicator.
Here, again, it seems quite possible that the question was
as innocently asked as it appeared to be, and that he
really did not know how he had learnt the name. The
incident occurred on April 24, 1907, at a sitting at which
I alone was present. Rector's opening remark after the
usual greeting was :
R. Friend we wished to correct an error if error it be.
i.e. regarding the spirit who spoke last {at the
x
322 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
previous sitting}. Was it he gave us the name or
was it given on your side first ?
E. M. S. Which name, Rector ?
R. I'll ask him. Forbes 1
E. M. S. I told you some time ago that Mrs. Forbes was
coming again to a sitting, but I only told you after I
believed you knew her quite well. [Her name had
not, however, been previously given and mentioning
it was a slip on my part. E. M. S.]
R. I knew her from the moment I saw her light friend
and when her companion spoke first
E. M. S. It was because I thought you knew her that I spoke
to you of her as a friend.
R. Yes quite I U.D. it so far as I could U.D. anything,
but I can't always be quite certain, just how much
I am registering of what is said in the body,
E. M. S. I see.
R. or on our side, therefore I may register things which
you say as well as those spoken by friends on our
side.
E. M. S. Yes, I think you do sometimes, but very seldom.
R. I do try not to do so.
This explanation of Rector's is interesting, but not
relevant to the point in question, for it was on April 17
that I had given away the name, and it was not referred
to in the script till the next sitting, April 23. When I
first mentioned it, HodgsonP , who was communicating
through Rector, responded intelligently and appropriately,
as understanding whom I was speaking of, and without
surprise at the mention of the name. He conversed, in
fact, as if he had known it all the time, but he did not
repeat it.
The same idea of the difficulty of selecting among many
confused impressions is suggested by the rather frequent
reference to a crowd of unmannerly 2
spirits trying to get
to the " light " and having to be kept back. The following
1
This is substituted for the name actually given.
2
The adjective is mine.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 323
is an instance of this on March 11, 1897. Rector is
speaking of Iraperator and says :
I am his assistant and follower always. He is capable of
keeping the others back and preventing much unnecessary
interference.
The struggle to find out things is referred to by Mrs.
Piper in rather a curious way towards the end of the
long waking-stage of April 10, 1907. I was again myself
the recorder. She had been talking disjointedly about the
communicators of the trance proper when she turned to
speak to me, though whether to me as other than an im-
personal auditor I do not know. The record goes on :
(Confidentially to E. M. S.) People in the body never
tell me anything [I think this was in contrast to the
spirit people. E. M. S.] They seem to expect me to
find out things and I don't [know how they expect me
to do it.]
1
It is to be noted here that in the waking-stage Mrs. Piper
seems to identify herself with the personages of the
trance proper—for it is they who are expected by people
in the body to find out things. This should be kept in
mind hi seeking the answer to the second question to
which we now turn.
The question is, granted that the controls are not alien
spirits but some phase or fragment of Mrs. Piper, what
kind of divided consciousness is manifested ; are the
controls secondary personalities, and if so, in what sense ?
This question is a good deal more complicated and there-
fore more difficult to answer than the one just discussed.
It cannot be answered by a simple yes or no.
Hodgson, in a passage from which I quoted in Chapter
in., p. 80, says (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 57, and com-
pare Vol. XIII., p. 286) :
The hypothesis which for a long time seemed to me the
most satisfactory is that of an auto-hypnotic trance in
1
These last words are doubtless in square brackets in the record,
because I failed to put her exact words down at the moment of speak-
ing, and therefore was only certain of the meaning.
324 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
which a secondary personality of Mrs. Piper either
erroneously believes itself to be, or consciously and
falsely pretends to be, the " spirit" of a deceased human
being, and further fictitiously represents various other
personalities according to the latent ideas of some of the
sitters.
He had apparently already abandoned this hypothesis
when he published his first report. Nevertheless, I believe
it to be at any rate an important approximation to the
truth. I am disposed, however, to demur to Hodgson's
use of the word " secondary personality," or at least to
say that it is not very clear how he applies it. Does he
mean that Mrs. Piper's hypnotic self is a secondary per-
sonality which imagines itself to be, or pretends to be,
Phinuit ? Or does he conceive the hypnotic consciousness
split up, and if so, how ? I think he really means that
it is the hypnotic self as the dominant centre of con-
sciousness for the moment that takes itself to be, or
pretends to be, Phinuit. And this is what appears to me
to agree best with the facts. The hypnotic self, or some
element of it, successively personates a number of different
characters—Phinuit, G. P., Stainton Moses, Rector, George
Eliot, etc., but I think that there is no divided off part
of Mrs. Piper which has assumed and permanently retains
the character of, say, Rector, and is in that sense a
secondary personality. Rector has no more persistent
existence than Hamlet has. When the part of Rector is
not being played he has no existence, just as Hamlet,
however well the part is acted, ceases to exist as soon
as the actor leaves the stage. That part of Mrs. Piper's
mind which is used in acting as Rector may act as a
different control when Rector's part ends, and is doing
something else when the trance is over.1
1
I do not say that by suggestion and education a Rector or a Phinuit
might not have been developed, who could manifest as a secondary per-
sonality in Mrs. Piper's ordinary life, doing things her normal self was un-
aware of and might have objected to, as Leonie.2 did in the well-known
case of Madame B. (see Myers, Human Personality, 230a). But there
is no sign of this in Mrs. Piper's case, unless we regard as such her impres-
sion of the presence of Phinuit or Imperator when recovering from the
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 325
The comparison to a part played on the stage must
not, however, be carried too far, for whether or no Mrs.
Piper's trance self sometimes deliberately plays a part, there
are at other times elements in the trance drama which seem
to preclude conscious acting. I refer especially to what
happens in the cases described by Hodgson (see Chapter
II., p. 35) in which two controls carry on simultaneous
but independent conversations by voice and writing respec-
tively, and in the cases where the control sees the com-
municator as external to himself (see Chapter V., pp. 181-186).
Both these phenomena require us to suppose the trance
self split for the time into two centres of consciousness
acting more or less independently, just as we have to
suppose this when a negative hallucination is experienced
by a hypnotised person (see Chapter II., p. 51), and such
splitting up cannot, so far as we know, be brought about
by the conscious act of any centre of consciousness
dominant for the moment.
While, however, these things show that sometimes at
least there is division of personality of various degrees
of completeness and complication during the trance, there
are other considerations supporting the view stated above
that this particular division exists during the period of
trance only. For one thing, any splitting up that involved
a relatively permanent separation of as many centres of
consciousness as there are controls, with new ones con-
stantly emerging, and each continuing along with the
normal Mrs. Piper to believe itself a separate personality
and each liable to take in alternation the dominant position,
would be a form of divided consciousness not hitherto
classified. Moreover, such a hypothesis would be attended
by some of the same difficulties as that of alien spirits
controlling Mrs. Piper's organism. It would be almost as
difficult to reconcile one as the other with the evidence set
forth in Chapter IV. for artificiality in particular controls,
especially artificial peculiarities of language not consistently
maintained, and common memories and associations of
ideas in controls who ought to be entirely distinct ; or
influence of an anaesthetic
—
i.e. when in an artificially produced state of
dissociation.
326 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
again with the evidence, such as is given in Chapter III.,
of inconsistencies in the make up of controls, and con-
tradictions in what is said of them by themselves and
others at different times. And it must be noted further,
that the view that some centre of consciousness is present
throughout, which at least during the waking-stage realises
itself as Mrs. Piper, and which during the trance proper
acts or dreams the trance personages, is supported by
the indications of a tendency for the waking-stage, in
which the dominant personality conceives itself as Mrs. Piper,
to develoj) in the direction of resemblance to the trance
proper (see Chapter VI.), and the consequent difficulty of
drawing theoretically a definite and permanent line between
the two ; and also by the indications, such as they are, that
the Mrs. Piper of the waking-stage sometimes identifies
herself with the consciousness of the trance proper.
The best analogy to the controls of Mrs. Piper's trance
is probably to be found in the personations that can be
obtained through suggestion with some hypnotised persons.
I called attention in Chapter I. (p. 27) to the superficial
resemblance between the two. It is not unlikely that
with some hypnotic subjects it would be possible to
imitate Mrs. Piper's trance phenomena further by making
them see a hallucinatory communicator while they them-
selves were personating some one else ; or even by getting
them to personate two characters at once, one speaking
and the other writing. There does not seem to be any
obvious reason why this should be more difficult than the
simultaneous working of arithmetical problems and reading
aloud, which Mr. Gurney obtained by post-hypnotic suggestion
(see Chapter II., p. 35).
Whether a hypnotised person adopting a suggested
character really believes himself to be that character is
difficult to determine. It probably varies with different
hypnotic subjects and at different times. And, similarly,
Mrs. Piper in a state of self-induced hypnosis may some-
times deliberately and consciously personate the control,
and at others believe herself to be Rector or Phinuit, while
at still other times something between the two may occur
and she may have a more or less hazy consciousness of
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 327
being Rector but also of being Mrs. Piper. That such
mixed states of consciousness are possible we all know from
dreams ; and we may also observe them in children in a
normal waking state. Children may, e.g. be genuinely
frightened by a wolf, knowing all the time that it is not a
wolf, but their own father assuming the character at their
own request. It seems not unlikely, though difficult to
prove, that a child's normal state may resemble that of an
adult in hypnosis in the fact of the subliminal self being
freer to act—less kept under by the supraliminal—than is
the case with normal grown up people. Such mixed or dual
consciousness was perhaps what led to Phinuit's description
(see Chapter II., p. 31) of his inability sometimes to get
complete possession of Mrs. Piper. He may have been
referring to the occasions when the trance-personality felt
itself to be simultaneously Phinuit and Mrs. Piper. An
interesting case will be found in Proceedings, Vol. XL,
pp. 309-316 (see especially p. 314), where Mr. C. H. Tout
describes his experiences in falling into semi-trance and
in this state involuntarily personating some one else while
partly retaining his normal consciousness, so that he
seemed to himself to be two persons at once.
It is not only in the likeness of the controls to hypnotic
personations that Mrs. Piper's trance resembles hypnotic
trances. The dream-like incoherence of the waking-stage
with its sudden breaks of memory, and the tendency both
in waking-stage and trance proper to hallucination, are
features which may readily be observed in hypnotic trances
in which different stages of consciousness occur ; and the
realisation by the hypnotised person of his own identity, as
with Mrs. Piper in the waking-stage, is what ordinarily
occurs when no personation is suggested. Also the trance
dream, if I may call it so, recurrent in its general outline,
and the order of succession of consciousnesses manifested
in the course of it, could doubtless be produced in a
suitable hypnotic subject by appropriate suggestion and a
little education.
It is certain that such suggestion was present in Mrs.
Piper's case and may therefore have operated. Mrs.
Piper wills to go into trance with a definite idea,—originally
328 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [paet
derived from her sittings with Mr. Cocke (see p. 9),—that
her own personality is to disappear and its place to be taken
by various other spirits whose function is to converse with
the sitter, advise him, and put him into communication
with the spirit world. Accordingly, in a typical sitting of,
say, 1907, she conceives herself during the going-into-trance-
stage as gradually withdrawing and consequently losing
her awareness of the actual surroundings. When she con-
ceives herself as quite gone, a brief interval of deep sleep
occurs during which no consciousness at all seems to be
present so far as external manifestation goes, but during
which nevertheless there is reason to think that ideas may
be received through the senses by some element of con-
sciousness, and may act suggestively in the subsequent
trance proper (see e.g. Chapter IV., p. 142). From the
deep sleep awakes a consciousness apparently conceiving
Mrs. Piper's spirit as absent and itself as another spirit
who is there for the purpose of conversing with the
sitter. Who this other spirit is to be and also what
he is to begin by saying is sometimes foreshadowed in
the utterances and gestures of the going-into-trance-stage,
as though it had been suggested beforehand,-—and it is, of
course, quite likely that the normal Mrs. Piper does some-
times suggest it to herself consciously or subliminally as
she goes off. There is a similar relation between the ideas
of the trance proper and of the waking-stage which succeeds
the deep sleep that follows the withdrawal of the controls.
During this waking-stage the consciousness present again
realises itself as Mrs. Piper, who conceives herself as coming
back to this world from the spirit world. In the latter she
meets personages of the trance proper, whose company she
sometimes enjoys up to the moment when she feels her
retiirn as complete, and fully realises herself as back in
the actual surroundings.
This succession of events corresponds with the ideas
with which the trance was entered upon, and there is an
underlying unity of plot in the story notwithstanding the
dream-like incoherence of the waking-stage. Details suit-
able to the occasion would naturally be suggested on any
particular day, and we can sometimes see in the records
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena. 329
how from time to time changes in the controls and other
modifications of the trance dream were apparently suggested
by the sitters or by the desires of the trance consciousness
itself.
The states of consciousness in trance and waking-stage
are, as we have seen, very different. In the waking-stage
we have consciousness of her own identity together with
unawareness of the actual surroundings ; in the trance
proper no apparent consciousness of herself and complete
and keen awareness of the sitter and surroundings ;
during
the waking-stage incoherence and instabnity with discon-
tinuity of memory ;
during the continuance of the trance
proper complete coherence and, notwithstanding changes
of assumed personality, apparent stability. It is probable
that the direction of attention to the sitter and the need
of carrying on a conversation satisfactory to him has a
steadying effect ; but there is also some reason to think that
(as suggested in Chapter VIII., p. 311) the maintenance
of stability and coherence sometimes involves an effort.
The evidence published by our Society seems to show
that dissociated states—hypnosis, trance, automatic writing,
ordinary sleep—are favourable to the emergence of tele-
pathic impressions, and such emergence may occur in any
of the stages of Mrs. Piper's trance, other, of course, than
the deep sleep. But as we saw in Chapter VII., the transi-
tion stage at the end of the trance proper, " when Rector
goes out," which may perhaps be the deep sleep itself, seems
more favourable to the effective receipt of telepathic
impressions than the trance proper. It may be that the
effort just spoken of, to remain coherent and to satisfy
the sitter, acts as a hindrance to telepathy. On the other
hand, the Avaking-stage, if favourable to telepathy in one
way, appears in another to hinder its manifestation, for
words and names telepathically learnt may be uttered in
that stage while the ideas to which they should be
attached are through the dream-like incoherence turned into
nonsense.
I have been endeavouring to show the resemblances be-
tween Mrs. Piper's trance and hypnosis as regards changes
and divisions of consciousness. But what psychical pro-
330 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [PAET
cesses are involved in these changes and divisions, either
in hypnosis, or in the Piper trance if it differs from hypnosis,
we do not know. We may perhaps usefully represent
it to ourselves as some sort of shuffling and rearrange-
ment of centres of consciousness, interconnected, but to
some extent independent, with one of them sometimes suffi-
ciently dominant to keejD order, as it were, and secure the
kind of stability exhibited in the trance proper. But how
far, if at all, such a representation has any true resemblance
to the facts, our present state of knowledge does not enable
us to say.
To sum up very briefly my own conclusion about Mrs.
Piper's trance, I think it is probably a state of self-
induced hypnosis in which her hypnotic self personates
different characters either consciously and deliberately, or
unconsciously and believing herself to be the person she
represents, and sometimes probably in a state of conscious-
ness intermediate between the two. In the trance state
her normal powers transcend in some directions those of
her ordinary waking self, as is often the case in hypnosis.
And further—what makes her case of great importance
—
she can obtain, imperfectly and for the most part frag-
mentarily, telepathic impressions. Or rather, as it would
perhaps be more correct to say, such impressions are not
only received by her as the result of her own telejmthic
activity or that of other spirits—spirits of the living or
may be of the dead—but rise partially or completely into
the consciousness operating in the trance communications,
and so are recognised.
I have in attempting to expound and justify this theory
and in discussing the facts on which it is based, used very
frequently such words as " probably," " perhaps," " some-
times." That is because it seems to me impossible at
present to prove any theory on the subject. Provisionally
the one I have put forward is what seems to me to fit the
complicated facts of Mrs. Piper's case best. But it would
be rash in so elusive and difficult a subject to try to come
to any final conclusion on this case alone. Much more study
is required of hypnotic and other dissociated states in
different people, including of course cases of automatic
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance Phenomena. 331
writing produced while the normal consciousness is appa-
rently in full operation, especially those in which there is
the same kind of evidence for supernormal powers as in
Mrs. Piper's. Such investigation might lead to an entire
revision of my interpretation of the relations of Mrs. Piper's
states of consciousness.
If my attempt to study the psychology of Mrs. Piper's
trance phenomena suggests any lines of observation or ex-
periment to be pursued in other cases, it will have served
a useful purpose. And in any case, the length and detail
of the essay I am laying before the Society is, I hope, justi-
fied by the great importance for our investigations of gaining
all the light we can on the way the consciousness works
—
in all of us, but in automatists in particular.
332 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PAET
APPENDIX TO CHAPTER I.
Instances of Prophecies concerning Hodgson's living
on after Mrs. Piper ceased to give Sittings.
(April 27, 1897. Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.)
(George Eliot writing.)
* * The light will burn {i.e. Mrs. Piper's sittings will go
on} only for few years here * * * you {i.e. Hodgson}
will be called upon to take charge of it to the end.
(April 28, 1897. Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.)
(Rector writing.)
* * present light {i.e. Mrs. Piper} * * will be over here
{i.e. in the spirit world.}
R. H. Before I get there ? [Assent.]
(Nov. 30, 1898. Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.)
(Rector writing.)
R. H. Do you think [it] probable that you will be able to
return for three or four years of our time %
R We do, from the time when we first gave thee know-
ledge of this
* * * H<
R. H. And you expect afterwards to meet me through other
lights.
R. We do.
(Dec. 2, 1898. Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.)
(Rector writing.)
R. And thy life for the benefit of man will be greater than
any others to whom our attention hath been drawn
* * * *
Thy life is only in its beginning.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 333
{Dec. 15, 1898. Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.)
(Rector writing.
)
R. We have thou wilt remember given our promise to find
a light for thee through whom we will act after
we have finished here, and as we do not promise any-
thing without certainty, we will ask thee to accept
this.
{Oct. 31, 1899. Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.)
{First sitting after holidays. At this time Mrs. Piper was
rather ill and fearing an operation might be necessary.}
R. And after we have developed another light sufficiently
for our work and continuance of it, we will cease
here forever * * i.e. thou shouldst make known to all
mortals that as soon as our work has ceased with
thee we cease with all.
R. H. Yes I mil.
R. And this should be done at once.
{June 29, 1905. Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.)
(Mrs. H. communicating.)
In your light I see you marrying, and some one whom
you love I see two children for you. Now no
matter what happens you will find out that I see
clearly on this point too.
{Oct. 31, 1905. Rector writing.)
Understand friend that the light is now nearing the
close of our reign and in order to prolong its use
we must exercise the utmost care.
Professor William James on Mrs. Piper in Semi-Hypnosis,
and Comparison of this with Her Trance State.
{Extracted from the Proceedings of the American Society
for Psychical Research, Vol. I., pp. 104-5.)
At the time this was written—1885—the writing sittings
and the " waking-stage " had not developed. It will be
observed that some of the symptoms in the semi-hypnosis
occur in the waking-stage—indistinct speech constantly, and
334 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
automatic imitation of speech and gesture occasionally (see
Chapter VI., p. 234, and Appendix to Chapter VI., p. 612).
Curious to ascertain whether there were continuity between
the medium-trance and the ordinary hypnotic trance, I made
some observations ad hoc upon Mrs. P[iper]. My first two
attempts to hypnotize her were unsuccessful. Between the
second time and the third, I suggested to her " control " in
the medium-trance that he should make her a mesmeric
subject for me. He agreed. (A suggestion of this sort made
by the operator in one hypnotic trance would probably have
some effect on the next.) She became partially hypnotized on
the third trial ; but the effect was so slight that I ascribe it
rather to the effect of repetition than to the suggestion made.
By the fifth trial she had become a pretty good hypnotic
subject, as far as muscular phenomena and automatic imitations
of speech and gesture go ; but I could not affect her con-
sciousness, or otherwise get her beyond this point. Her
condition in this semi-hypnosis is very different from her
medium-trance. The latter is characterized by great muscular
unrest, even her ears moving vigorously in a way impossible
to her in her waking state. But in hypnosis her muscular
relaxation and weakness are extreme. She often makes several
efforts to speak ere her voice becomes audible ; and to get a
strong contraction of the hand, for example, express mani-
pulation and suggestion must be practised. The automatic
imitations I spoke of are in the first instance very weak,
and only become strong after repetition. Her pupils contract
in the medium-trance. Suggestions to the " control " that he
should make her recollect after the trance what she had been
saying were accepted, but had no result. In the hypnotic-
trance such a suggestion will often make the patient remember
all that has happened.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 335
APPENDIX TO CHAPTER II.
Theoeies of Controls as to their Relation to the
Body and Spirit of the Medium.
The extracts from records of sittings of which this Appendix
consists are supplementary to those given in the text, and
form an important part of the evidence on which statements
in the text are based. In some cases they give the con-
text of quotations in the text. The arrangement is strictly
chronological all through, and the six sections into which the
Appendix is divided are marked by important divisions of
time. The chronological order has the disadvantage of
mixing up the different topics dealt with in the chapter,
so that in reading the Appendix through the reader would
have the feeling of continually jumping from one subject
to another. On the other hand, topics could not be kept
apart without cutting up many of the extracts given. More-
over, the chronological development is in itself of some
importance.
Remarks in large print and those enclosed in { } are
notes or comments of my own.
A.
Extracts from Stenographic Reports of Five Sittings,
May 26—June 30, 1888.
These are the sittings referred to by Hodgson (Proceed-
ings, Vol. VIII., pp. 2-3), as given gratuitously by Mrs.
Piper, for the purpose of enabling him to find out what he
could from Phinuit in any way he chose, concerning his own
personality, his knowledge, his relations to Mrs. Piper, etc.
Hodgson used the results in his Report, and seems at one
time to have intended to publish rather full extracts, though,
as he says, " the results were decidedly unsatisfactory so
336 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
far as regards the receipt of any exact explanation." I
agree with him, however, " that in the task of estimating
the general character of the trance personality," " certain
portions of these accounts are worth reproducing." The
portions bearing on Phinuit's theory of " control " are what
are here quoted. In what follows, Ph. stands for Phinuit
and S. for Hodgson or the stenographic reporter. The
latter was herself interested and had had a good many
sittings with Mrs. Piper. The record does not distinguish
between the two questioners, but no doubt in the great
majority of cases S. here stands for Hodgson.
(May 26, 1888.)
* * * *
S. You make me so tired ; is it etherial energy you draw
from me ? Do you use my ^etherial body as a
sort of reservoir ?
Ph. Oh oui ; I will take you over here with me one of these
days.
S. What do you do with it when you have got it ?
Ph. I absorb it through the medium. You cannot see me but
I can see you. Sometimes I cannot see you and
sometimes I can.
S. How do spirits there regard mortal beings here ? Are we
as invisible to them as they are to us ?
Ph. Certainly. * * *
Sometimes when they come to the medium—the medium
is my instrument—when a friend comes to me and
speaks to me and gathers round me they see me
because I look just the same when I control the
medium as the medium looks before I get here. I
have to use the ears, the eyes of the medium, to
control her tongue to speak to you. Those friends
gather round and when I say to them " There is
your friend here "—I say this quietly ;
you do not
hear me say this ; I say this to the friends that
gather round me, and make motions to them.
Sometimes when I come here, do you know, actually it
is hard work for me to get control of the medium.
lxxt.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 337
Sometimes I think I am almost like the medium,
and sometimes not at all. Then I am weak and
confused. 1
Then they won't recognize their friends,
and that is the way they go on.
* * * *
(June 2, 1888.)
* * * *
S. What is the explanation of mediumistic power ?
Ph. It is effervescing light.
* * * *
S. From your point of view, you see the difference in
mediumistic power as a difference in luminosity ?
Ph. Certainly.
S. Can't you explain how it would appear to me, supposing
I investigated a medium's body for the purpose
of ascertaining the difference in structure ?
Ph. You would see a very sensitive organism, you would see
a very large, peculiar, undeveloped brain ; what I
mean to say, the brain is too large to be used by
the natural mortal mind of the medium.
S. Do you mean there is a certain part of the brain which is
used by the etherial organism and can be filled by
the etherial organism of the spirit ?
Ph. Certainly.
S. The reason why all people are not mediumistic is because
they crowd out others and fill it all up ?
Ph. Yes.
S. You are not likely to expect of a person that uses up
every bit of himself, to be mediumistic ?
Ph. That was never found in your country.
Now you see when I come here, the medium passes into
the spirit, as it were. The medium's etherial organ-
ism goes through the spirit world, or various parts
of the spirit world ; she wanders about like a spirit ;
she gropes about that way (putting out hands).
Just when I get ready to come here, she goes out
I drive her out. She takes my place, as it were, in
the spirit world.
1
This passage is quoted in Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 9.
Y
338 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
S. How does she appear to the spirits ?
Ph. Well, she looks strange to the different spirits and they
look strange to her probably.
S. What characteristic does she exhibit that marks her off
as still inhabiting a material organism ?
Ph. She looks darker. S. Like an evil spirit ?
Ph. Oh, not like an evil spirit, but not so shining, gleaming.
S. Is it a matter of common knowledge that persons who
look like that have to go back to the body ?
Ph. Some of them do not understand it ;
they think it is
curious.
S. The same as white people who inhabit a certain country,
suddenly see a black man ?
Ph. Yes.
S. Is she conscious all the time that she must return ? Is
she like a lost bird ?
Ph. She goes round ; when I get ready to go out I leave the
medium's organism weak, in a certain sense ; then
while her spirit is roaming about it has gathered
strength enough to put back into that what I have
exhausted. She gathers up a certain amount of
energy. She is helped on by various spirits and
good spirits too. Then when I begin to leave the
medium, I get weak, have exhausted all the material
energy I could get from her, she begins to return
and she gets nearer to me. I can actually some-
times, when I am here, see the medium.
S. How do you communicate with her ? How does she
know ?
Ph. Don't you see, I am leaving the organism.
S. How does she know it ?
Ph. Because she lingers, in a certain sense, near me. At the
same time, your spirit mother comes here and tells
me she is here, only I can tell her from the other
spirit because she is a little darker.
S. She comes and tells you you must go ?
Ph. Oh no. Her spirit would stay in the spirit forever and
live there if I should stay here too long, but I have
only a certain amount of strength given me and
when I have exhausted that I have to go whether
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 339
I like it or not, and she comes back, and she
actually stands by me pulling on me to get me out,
and then she gradually gets back again.
S. Didn't she have great difficulty at first to get back ?
Ph. She was afraid of me I guess at first.
S. I mean to get back again ?
Ph. Sometimes people have asked me what made me make
the medium suffer so. You know, sometimes she
realises the fact that I am getting here and is kind
of afraid to let me come, for she is afraid she won't
get back again, but I talk to her and tell her she
will get back all right, so she comes right back and
takes my place. Then when I have the medium's
organism, I can feel sometimes. In the first place,
the medium's body, the hands, arms, head, feet,—
I
itch tremendously—they feel heavy to me, hard
work to get them round, and then I try to force
energy ; still they are heavy. Then I exert a great
deal of will power and I can do anything. (Stretches
out hand.) Then again, I can see you ; I can see
your etherial ; I can see a fac-simile of yourself,
but I cannot see the material only as I touch you.
I have a sense of feeling and can feel. I use the
medium's organism as my instrument, exactly as
she uses it. Then I hear with the medium's ears.
Sometimes I do not get so much control.
S. To all intents and purposes you use the medium's organ-
ism precisely as you would if you were a human
being ?
Ph. Exactly.
S. How is it that you do not use the medium's eyes ?
Ph. I do use the medium's eyes.
S. You told me the last time that you used them about
there (pointing to spot over the eyes).
Ph. Oh, I mean to say that I use the medium's brain ; I do
not need eyes.
S. Could you use the eyes if you tried ? Have you ever
tried ?
Ph. One time a gentleman in the body wanted me to open the
medium's eyes. They are closed now, are they ?
340 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
Yes. Open them and look at me. Can't you open them ?
You have not any control over the muscles of the
eyelids ?
(Feels of the eyes.) No, I think if I should practise I
think I could do it.
Well now, try that and practise it, won't you ?
I will try very soon.
Is it because you have not got quite perfect control of
the organ ?
(Trying to open them.) I do not see how you do it.
You open my eyes.
The eye-ball, the iris, appears to be turned right up
toward the nose, as though you were asleep, just as
though you were in an abnormal state. Do you
understand ?
Now I tell you that is the hardest work for me. Half
of the time I do not comprehend what you say.
# * # *
Now I have got no smell ; I cannot taste. I have tried
to taste but I cannot.
* * * *
{June 9, 1888)
S. Why doesn't the medium remember, when she comes back
to her body, what she has been doing ?
Ph. How could she remember when I am here ? She goes
away when I come.
S. You told us last time that she wandered about in the
spirit world ;
why doesn't she remember ?
Ph. Because I take all the strength out of the medium's body,
out of the brain.
S. Doesn't she bring back strength with her ?
Ph. She does, but you know she comes right back where she
left off when I get here.
S. I don't understand why she does not remember all the
same.
Ph. Remember what ? Remember me ?
S. You talk with a sitter's friends, and you come into the
medium's body, and you tell us what they have told
you. Now, why can't I say to the medium, " You
s.
Ph.
s.
Ph.
S.
Ph.
s.
Ph.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 341
go and talk with, my spirit friends and when you
come back tell me what they have said ?
"
Ph. Because I have exhausted the medium physically. I have
taken away all the light.
S. When will she remember the experiences in the spirit
world ?
Ph. When I get her all used up, I guess. I have tried so
many times to make the medium remember. For
instance, when I go out I say to her, " Do you
think what you have seen ;
enjoy it ?
" Don't
she remember ?
S. No, she never remembers anything. Why can't you make
her remember ?
Ph. Because I paralyse the brain, I guess.
S. Supposing the medium went out of her body. . . .
Ph. Well, you go and take a dose of ether and see how much
you remember when you get out of it.
S. What happens when I take a dose of ether ?
Ph. Your brain gets numb.
s. I can't remember what has been going on in that time
because nothing does go on ?
Ph. Even so, but the power in the brain has been exhausted.
At the same time, your etherial goes out of yourself.
When you go to sleep you dream.
S. My etherial does not go out then ?
Ph. I tell you it does. S. Always ?
Ph. Yes. When you wake up you remember, because your
etherial was acting on your brain all the time.
For instance, when you go to sleep your etherial
wanders about, but at the same time,—your etherial
sees your mother in another part of Australia, and
that is, your mind exercises that in your brain, puts
that single incident. That is a dream in your mind.
Well, when you awake, your normal self again, and
your brain is no more being used as in a dream,
then you remember that you dreamed a certain
thing. Well, sometimes it is true and sometimes it
is not.
S. What makes it not true, if dreams are always realities ?
You say that in dream life the etherial body always
342 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
passes out of the organism, and then the dreams
represent real experiences ; is that what you mean ?
Then follows a long discussion, very confused on Phinuit's
part, about sleep. Hodgson wants to know the explana-
tion of dreams, and what is the difference between a veridi-
cal and a purely imaginary dream. Phinuit says the
" etherial " always goes out of the organism in sleep and
apparently maintains that it sees the thoughts that the
sleeper has had while awake, mixes them up and impresses
them upon the brain, but that it also sometimes really com-
municates with distant people and impresses what it learns
on the brain. Hodgson also wants to know whether another
spirit could take possession of the sleeping organism and
permanently keep out its own spirit, and if not why not.
Phinuit seems to reply that no spirit would wish to do so,
and that it could not if it would, because the etherial is still
holding on to the brain. Also that the sleeping body is
as useless for purposes of communication as a dead body.
Moreover, if a spirit did get possession during sleep or other-
wise it could not remain long because the light and strength
get exhausted.
It is perhaps noteworthy that Hodgson in this conversa-
tion introduces the idea of a chain or cord, binding the
etherial body, when it goes out in sleep, to the physical,
—an idea which plays so large a part later on, especially
in waking-stage utterances. Phinuit does not use the
metaphor himself here, though he does not exactly reject
it. The following are the relevant passages :
Ph. I cannot come and control the medium when the medium
is asleep. At the same time, it is still there ; I
cannot use it to articulate, to speak to you. Then
again, you see the light is not sufficient ; it is not
strong enough, powerful enough, bright enough for
me to follow it. Well, invariably, people that have
not the mediumistic light, of course there is nothing
there for the spirit to use. Your etherial is still
holding on to the brain.
S. How do I hold on to the brain ? How does my etherial
organism hold on to my brain ?
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 343
Ph. What makes you move ? S. I desire to.
Ph. That is what I do when I leave the body ; I desire to
keep the soul (?) in my own possession. The brain
and the etherial, which controls the physical, are
linked together and there is no use for a spirit to
come in there between.
S. He cannot separate that from it ?
Ph. No sir, he cannot ; when you are in the sleep state your
brain is in a very different way ; it is in anything
but a natural state when you are asleep. For
instance, your brain is acting when you are awake ;
you are learning, studying, reading something ;
well,
when your eyes are closed and that is gone from
your view, your brain is at rest.
S. Now supposing here is a very strong etherial organism,
which is spirit, and he watches the organism of a
person in the body, and he sees that person going
to sleep. Gradually the organism of that person
becomes still, and he sees the etherial organism of
that person come out of the body and begin to
walk round, and he sees the chain of communication
between that person and his own body. Very well,
that strong spirit thinks, " I will have a good time ;
I will murder that man," and he goes and breaks
the chain and { ? that } binds the etherial organism
with the mortal body, and he takes possession of
that body. Why can't that happen ?
Ph. Because the etherial and the brain are connected when
you are asleep. If your etherial should let go the
brain and the body would be dead.
s. You mean to say that if this strong spirit broke that
chain of communication, it would not do him any
good ?
Ph. I mean to say that you would pass out of the body
for ever.
S. Do you mean that the body would be dead ?
Ph. I mean to say that when you sleep the nerves of the
system, the entire system is dead, as it were ; the
etherial is there just the same ; it wanders about
;
for instance, it is like a thought. Your etherial
344 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
certainly controls the physical. When your brain is
at rest the etherial dances about, wanders about
;
at the same time clings, as it were, to the brain,
never leaves the brain, and no spirit power is
strong enough to break it.
S. It requires too much energy ?
Ph. No spirit is mean enough to want to kill anybody when
they are asleep. Common sense ought to teach you
that any of your spirit friends would not want to
come and use your organism when you are in the
unconscious state ; to begin with, he has got no
use for it.
S. But this is the idea ;
suppose this is Mr. A., and we will
say A. has a strong, healthy body, and we will say
that A. has killed B. in the mortal body. Very
well, we will say B. is an elderly man and A. is a
young man. A. kills B. and takes possession of
B.'s property. B. is a spirit then, isn't he ? Suppose
that B. is an evil spirit. B. Avatches A. going to
sleep, and he sees A.'s etherial body beginning to
dance round, as you described it just now, but still
keeping hold of his own brain. Then B. says "A.
has murdered me ; he has driven my etherial
organism out of my body and I cannot enjoy the
mortal life, but all the same I shall have my
revenge now, and I will simply cut that thread off
from A., and I will go into his body instead of A.,
and I will enjoy myself in A.'s body." Do you
understand ?
Ph. Yes.
S. Do you mean to say that that is an impossible thing,
that for some reason or other B. cannot do that ?
Why can't he ?
Ph. Certainly he cannot. Although you are asleep, your body
is at rest, but it is rest from sleep, from a natural
sleep which is ordained. You are in a very different
condition from what you are when you are awake
;
your etherial has ceased to act ; it is exhausted
;
jowv etherial has not the power to grasp a thought,
an impression, that is on your mind during the day.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 345
Your spirit simply watched your physical while you
are resting ; then it can in a certain way com-
municate with the etherial, and when you are awake
you can remember it. But the spirit has no reason
and no power to lift up the physical when it is
asleep, and make use of it.
S. Why can't B., who is a spirit, drag the etherial organism
out of A.'s body, or if A.'s gets out, why can't B.
keep it out ? Is it a thing that you cannot under-
stand yourself ; is it beyond you ?
Ph. Oh no, I know all about it ; I know I cannot control
the medium's organism when she is asleep. The
etherial is on the outside instead of in the inside.
S. Now supposing you come to the medium, and you say
" Come out of that, come out of that," and she says
no and you say " Come out of that ; I will make
you come out," and then you make her come out
and you say " I am not going back here any more ;
I will stop here in the body."
Ph. I cannot stop here in the medium's body ; when the light
and the strength are exhausted, I have to go.
S. So that if a man broke the thread of connection between
A. and A.'s body, and if he could get into A.'s body
for a short time, then he would be there only just
as long as this reservoir lasted, and then he would
be dead a second time ?
Ph. That is all.
S. Is it in accordance with the laws of the universe that a
spirit cannot break the chain that binds the living
organism with the etherial body ?
Ph. Certainly. S. But you do not know why ?
Ph. Certainly, I do ; when you are asleep it is just the same
as if it was dead. Now if it is dead how is the
spirit going to take hold of it ?
S. Because in the case I am supposing, I am supposing that
the spirit uses it just as the etherial is about to
return to the body.
Ph. Your etherial still clings to the brain, but it leaves the
other portion of the body. Then there is nothing, no
spirit power can sever that from the brain.
346 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [pabt
S. But why can't they ?
Ph. Why, because there is life there.
S. I can sever an etherial body from the body.
Ph. Certainly, because you can take his life, but a spirit
cannot do that.
S. Why can't he ? I believe I have got an idea of the
reason now myself. My idea is this, that the spirit
can act upon the etherial part of the bond con-
necting the etherial organism with the ordinary body,
but that part of that bond consists of more gross
matter which can only be acted upon by a person
who is on the material plane, and that therefore a
person who is still in the body can break that link,
but a spirit cannot.
Ph. But why can't he ?
S. Because he cannot act upon that matter unless that
matter happens to be connected with a mediumistic
person. Is that right ?
Ph. Where does the life come in, the life of the brain ?
At this point Hodgson changes the subject, or at least
tries to approach it from a different side, by asking if there
is such a thing as murder in the spirit world.
Later in the sitting the following occurs :
S. Now tell us how it was that the medium first came to
go into this state, and who first controlled her ?
What made her mediumistic ? Was there any
event which made her body mediumistic ?
Ph. Any event ? No.
S. Has she always been mediumistic from childhood ?
Ph. It is born with you when you are put into the body, and
children sometimes are controlled by spirits if their
brains are strong when they are very young, but if
they are not strong physically and mentally there is
not enough there for the spirit to control it, and
never will until it can handle it and handle it
right.
S. Now tell us the history of your own control and the
other spirits that controlled her, etc.
Ph. Oh, there are several different spirits that I am not
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 347
particularly acquainted with. They call them a
band of spirits, but they are called that in the body
more so than in the spirit. For instance, when I
or any spirit finds that there is a medium, that is, a
light, every spirit that can will follow that fight to
see if they cannot handle it, use it. For instance,
you try to lift a stone and you are not strong
enough to do it ;
your brother tries and some one
else tries, and finally there is some one strong
enough to do it. That is the way I got here.
S. Other spirits had tried before you ?
Ph. Only one or two. S. What others really succeeded ?
Ph. There was Loretta Ponchena, an Italian girl : then there
was,—I don't know,—Henry Longfellow, I believe.
S. Who else ?
Ph. I don't remember ; it was the spirit of Mr. Longfellow,
just the same.
S. Was it the real spirit of the poet ? (Think the answer
was yes.)
Ph. Then there used to be a Mrs. Sarah Siddons.
S. What did she do ? Ph. Oh, nothing.
S. What sort of a person is she ?
Ph. I don't know ; I guess she used to be an actress ; I do
not know her very well.
S. Who else ? —Beethoven ?
Ph. Musical ? S. Yes.
Ph. No. S. Did Admiral Blake come ?
Ph. No, never heard the name before. S. Commodore Wiley ?
Ph. No, never heard the name. S. Who came ?
Ph. Chief Justice Marshall ; that is all.
S. Did you ever know any naval officer that came ?
Ph. Commodore Vanderbilt ; he was not a naval officer
;
Commodore is his name. He is a decent sort of
fellow ; nice old fellow, but he is profane ; used to
swear like a Turk.
S. None of those could manage the medium's body as well
as you %
Ph. No. S. Who is the leader of this band of spirits ?
Ph. There is no leader at all.
S. That is what the mortals call it.
348 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Ph. Certainly ; it is a various number of people that try to
use the medium's organism.
{June 16, 1888.)
4 % % $
S. Have I got any light about my brain ?
Ph. Certainly, a great deal. S. Luminosity ?
Ph. Yes. S. What impressions am I subject to ?
Ph. I do not know as I can illustrate that to you clearly
but I will try. If you had a friend that was ill
you would know it, you would feel impressed, but
it would be done through the spiritual influence.
Do you call that one mind acting on another ?
S. Yes, we call that telepathy.
Ph. Well, I tell you it is not at all. You get an impression
through some disembodied spirit, or it may be a
very powerful action of your own etherial.
S. That is what I think it is likely ; tell me how I can act
in that case. You mean it is the action of me on
the other person, that my etherial really takes
cognizance of what is going on ?
Ph. Oui, that is the idea. I can tell those that are in
sympathy with me when I first see them. I can
look right through them. They do not believe I
am here. And another thing I go on talking to
them ;
they sit perfectly indifferent ; if they would
put some feeling and some sympathy and give them-
selves up in earnestness, and were desirous of getting
something from the spiritual world, it is an un-
mistakable fact that they will get it every time,
and I will guarantee it. But even that lady that is
dreadfully sad ; now she has got feeling, she is sad
and sorrowful in the material, but she has got no
sincerity in really calling up her friends, because
she thinks it is impossible, and it is just as hard to
break through that ice as it is for you to break
an iron. I will guarantee that if you will bring a
sympathetic lady, a lady that is anxious to get
something and will put her soul and heart into it,
her soul particularly, I will guarantee you that if
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 349
she has got friends in the spirit I can talk with
them. Now for instance, Ella Brown; you take that
name ; that name will come to me and that
person will say she is Ella Brown, but that friend
does not start up and be glad to see her, but
simply sits cool and quiet and does not say whether
she knows Ella Brown or not.
* * *
Sometimes, don't you see, they won't listen to me. They
put themselves so hard and stern and so within
themselves, no feeling, no sympathy, no belief, no
nothing, and it is just as impossible for their friends
to reach them, because I am so sensitive. For
instance, I can talk, criticise, lecture from one
year's end to the other, generally speaking ; at the
same time you can say a thing to me which makes
me deucedly weak, in a cold, hard, stern, unsympa-
thetic, unkind tone. But I will guarantee that if
a lady or gentleman comes to me with sincerity,
and anxious for me to tell them something, I will
guarantee to tell them what they want to know.
And I do not care if I get here forty times. You
may do whatever you have a mind to. Do as
another gentleman did ; he got me to come here
and he went and got a cloth bandage and tied it
all over my head. Well, you can do the same if
you like.
S. To see if you can see anything ?
Ph. No, no ; then bring in your friend, your American friend,
and if they are sympathetic I will guarantee to tell
them their friends. You can do all you like to me ;
I do not care.
* * * *
{Here were made the experiments in localising pinches,
and in smelling and taste, referred to in Proceedings, Vol.
VIII., p. 5.}
* * * *
S. That sense of effort, that feeling of struggle, does that lie
in the connection between the etherial organism and
the ordinary organism 1
350 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
Ph. You see I control the medium.
S. But supposing another spirit was looking on at your
feeling of effort, what would they see ? What does
the effort consist of ?
Ph. I make an effort because I have the use of the medium's
hands.
S. Is that effort in order to make your etherial catch hold
of the medium's physical ?
Ph. Oui, you know I have got hold of it all the time.
S. If that connection were more perfect the effort would not
be so great ?
Ph. No.
S. The more imperfect the connection is, the greater the
effort is ?
Ph. Certainly. The medium is matter and I am etherial.
S. What sort of shape has the etherial organism ?
Ph. Fac-simile of the one in the body, mouth, nose and eyes.
S. What is the etherial mouth for ?
Ph. Supposing that I should come to you without the medium,
how do you suppose I could talk to you ? If I had
not any mouth I could not whisper, I could not talk
to you.
S. But there are a great many people who do not come to us
with their mouths ?
Ph. That is very true.
S. Then you can hear us without any ears, can't you ?
Ph. Certainly ;
oh, I have got etherial ears.
S. You can hear without etherial ears ?
Ph. Certainly.
S. What is your nose for ? You do not go snuffing about
in your etherial body ?
Ph. Oh no. S. Then what is the good of it ?
Ph. The etherial retains that shape because it has had that
shape in the body. You must remember I am like
a little boy, like learning my lessons over again. Do
you know, I do not believe there is a spirit comes
back to earth through any medium that is stronger
or more learned about different things than I am.
I do not believe you will even find a spirit that is
stronger to bring back friends than I am. I say
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 351
that because I have seen so many spirits that really
have been back to earth, and I have never found
one that said that they could use the medium, and
I do not say this because I am conceited ; I tell
you because it is the actual truth. I have talked
with a good many of them and they say they
cannot use the medium to hear. But I am not a
very good hand to lecture, I am not a very good
hand to explain, unless you put the question very
quietly, slowly, and very simply to me. But when
you get on to your fandangoes, a little bit of French,
a little bit of Italian, a little bit of German, all
mixed up together, I cannot understand what you
mean.
* * * *
(June 30, 1888.)
*H *t* ^fi
Ph. Did you know everything has a mind, every single object,
a tree, a stone, a hill, a field,
—
S. And a fence and a man's nose ?
Ph. You throw a stone into the air and it falls. What makes
it fall ?
S. Gravitation.
Ph. Well, that is the idea. The centre comes down and
strikes. What is that thing you have got there ?
That body ?
S. It is matter ?
Ph. Well, that is all.
S. Do you mean to say that the stone has a mind, an
etherial body ?
Ph. Certainly.
S. Every portion of matter has an etherial ?
Ph. Certainly.
8. You say every portion of matter has a mind, and some-
times the mind leaves it ?
Ph. Certainly.
S. Well, then you have a portion of matter that has not an
etherial ?
Ph. There is a powerful action of the etherial, of the life over
352 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
the matter ; that is, the matter that is flesh and
bone and sinew and blood, all that sort of thing
;
it is more powerful to act and handle and con-
trol the objects of matter in the stone than the
stone's mind is to control you. It is a sense, it is
an etherial power, a natural, normal, intellectual,
human mind, whereas the stone has a mind that is
dull ; there is no sense in it.
S. Is it of the same nature as the human mind ?
Ph. No, it is different entirely.
S. Don't you mean that it is different in degree ?
Ph. Certainly, in degree, and in degree only.
* # * *
B.
Extracts from Stenographic Reports of Sittings,
November 22, 1892, to January 30, 1893.
These extracts are chiefly illustrative of theories as to
writing, and are supplementary to those quoted in the
text. Extensive extracts giving evidential matter from
these sittings will be found in Hodgson's paper, Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., pp. 315-322 and 413-441.
(Nov. 22, 1892.) Extract from record of sitting at the
Howard's house. Present Mr. and Mrs. Howard, Hodgson and
stenographer. {This was the first sitting after May 29, 1892,
at which G. P. communicated.
}
* * * *
Phinuit. Here comes a friend of yours. R. H. Yes.
Ph. I am going to step out.
R. H. You are going to step out, you say, Doctor ?
Ph. He is going to take that.
R. H. Take what, the pencil ? Oh, he is going to take the
hand, gently, gently, gently. Here you are [medium
taking pencil in hand].
R. H. Steady, steady. Tell him to be steady, Doctor ; tell
him not to be in such a fuss.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 353
Ph. He is doing first-rate.
R. H. He is doing first-rate, is he. Oh, he is doing it for
strength ?
1
Ph. Ha ! He says he can't get it.
Mrs. Howard. Gently : now don't be in a hurry.
Ph. Ha ! He says he is much obliged to you. Hodgson !
R. H. Yes.
Ph. You can help him if you will.
R. H. Yes, I am trying to {Presumably by holding the arm
to steady it.}
Ph. Ha ! He is fussing. I will give it to him. [Medium
begins to write, H. tearing off sheets of pad and
reading for reporter what is written.]
G. P. (writing.) Haloo Hodgson, you know me,
R. H. Who are you ?
G. P. George Pelham. R. H. Yes, I thought so.
Ph. (speaking.) Where is Jim, he says.
Mrs. Howard. He is here. [Mr. Howard coming over near the
medium.]
Ph. Speak to Jim, he says, speak to Jim. Speak to him
Jim.
Mr. Howard. Well, George, go ahead.
R. H. We are very glad to see you again.
G. P. Haloo, Jim, old fellow, I am not dead yet. I still live
to see you. Do you remember how we used to
ask . . .
Mrs. Howard. Gently George.
Ph. He says he is doing the best he can.
Mrs. Howard. You tell him, Doctor, not to hurry himself.
There is plenty of time.
R. H. We can't get the word after " ask."
G. P. Each other for books of certain kinds, about certain
books, where they were, and you always . . .
R. H. Gently, take time, George, take time.
G. P. Knew just where to find them.
* * * #
1 Compare Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 292-3. All this reads as if the
violent motions were going on which automatic writers often experienced in
early attempts ; but several writing sittings had occurred before this, and
G. P. had acted as amanuensis for other communicators.
z
354 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
Hulloa, I know now where I am. Jim, you dear
old soul, how are you %
R. H. Gently, gently George, take time.
G. P. Whom is this, Louis ... he wants me to tell you for
him . . . Louis he wants to see Billie.
Ph. Ha ! He wants to know something.
Mbs. Howard. Can't he come and ask us himself ? He does
not seem to write very well.
R. H. Who is Louis ?
Ph. He is . . Who is that gentleman, that German fellow
talking to you George, can't you tell them ?
R. H. He wants to see Billie, does he ?
Ph. Who is he talking about ? I am all jumbled up.
R. H. George, can you spell the name ?
Ph. He will answer you.
R. H. Tell George to give us his other name besides Louis.
G. P. (writing) Well, wait just one minute.
Ph. George is talking to that gentleman and he is writing
to you.
R. H. Well, Doctor, why can't you talk to us and get George
to talk to us instead of writing.
Mrs. Howard. We can get so much more in the time.
G. P. Hodgson, it is I, go out and tell him to come. Good
day, you know me ;
George Pelham.
R. H. Yes, we know you George, very well. Are you coming
to talk to us ?
G. P. Yes, yes.
{Some further conversation with Phinuit follows, then :
—
}
R. H. Are you getting your hand back, Doctor ?
Ph. I will have it in a minute.
{Phinuit talks for G. P., writes a name in mirror
writing. Further conversation with Phinuit, then :
—
}
Ph. Can't you help me turn round.
Mrs. Howard. Yes, how do you want to turn ?
[Medium breathing hard and clinging to Mrs. H.]
Ph. Hodgson ? R. H. Yes
Ph. You help me get out.
R. H. All right [placing hands on medium's head]
Ph. Change that, that is right
[At this point there is a change of control. The new
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 355
control is recognised as George who has taken control
at previous sittings. The voice is so low that only-
snatches of sentence can be caught by the reporter.]
{Conversation with G. P. talking follows.}
{Nov. 30, 1892.)
* * * *
G. P. (using voice). The medium was given to us to use.
I find that the spirit comes back and uses its
natural expression. If a man is a born liar he
'will come back and lie through the medium.
Mrs. Howard. Then he yields to the temptation of lying just
as much there as here ?
G. P. Only when expressing himself through the medium ;
that brings back the same earthly conditions.
Mrs. Howard. It is the body that brings back the same
character that he had here ?
G. P. Exactly.
R. H. What first drew you toward the medium ? How did you
find the medium out ?
G. P. It was by light, light alone : to me her body was light.
R. H. Why did you come to her instead of some other medium ?
G. P. Because the light was stronger and, to tell you the
absolute truth of the thing the body of the medium
is moral, and unless the material body with the
spiritual in it is willing to give up to it and is moral,
then we can use it in no possible sensible degree.
* * * *
R. H. I thought that perhaps when Hart came to the medium 1
perhaps some of the articles that he brought acted
as a sort of magnet to you to bring you there.
G. P. That is true , I have explained it, that the more objects
that you give me acts as the needle did.
{Dec. 5, 1892.)
{Other names and initials are substituted for the real
ones in this sitting. The extracts are given not only as
the context to passages referred to in the text, but as
1
Referring to the first sitting at which G. P. communicated, see Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 296-299.
356 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
affording a good example of the possibilities of shuffling in
communications by writing.}
R. H. (reading question suggested by R. T.). Can you tell
what R. T. wrote you about and what verbal
correction you made in your reply ?
* * * *
G. P. (writing). Yes, I wrote R. T. that I would correct it
for him and explain by my next letter . . . and I
in the first wrote more or less in the negative * * *
Then I replied and said I would see and I told him
I had seen it philosophically. And then I ended.
Ph. (speaking). He wants you to read that question over
again.
R. H. {reads question}. Ask him if he knows who R. T.
is ? George, do you know R. T. ? Write it in full if
you can.
{G. P. after attempting an answer again, writes of
other matters}.
sjc )fc j^c s}c
R. H. Now George can you tell me the full name of R. T. ?
G. P. I can't quite hear all you
Ph. (speaking). He does not hear all you say. Will you
speak slowly, not so fast.
R. H. Yes. George will you
G. P. Whom is K D is she better now and where.
[Another word written]
R. H. Tadworth is that ?
G. P. No Thornton
* * * *
R. H. George can you listen to me ? Can you hear ?
Ph. You help him Hodgson.
G. P. [An entirely illegible scrawl]
R. H. Yes, will you write the full name of R. T. who
asked that question ?
G. P. No. R. H. Does he hear that, Doctor ?
G. P. Yes. R. H. Won't you do it ?
G. P. Oh yes to be sure.
R. H. Well, why won't you write it, George, because it is a
good test ?
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 357
G. P. For obvious reasons which I will explain to you and
Marte.
{This sort of fencing with the question goes on for
some time. G. P. writes Reuben with an illegible
word after it.}
R. H. Well George that is not the R. T. that I am talking
about. * * * Perhaps you have got on to a wrong
question altogether
G. P. Oh no, I ans. you. [Scrawl like Reuben]
Fi. H. Reuben is all wrong, George.
G. P. Oh no, it is not that.
R. H. Oh it is something else you want to write about ?
G. P. That is absurd—why can't you read this—I know now.
* * * *
R. H. I can't read that—steady, be patient, no use in
writing too fast, can't read. Can't you write in
capitals ? Do you want Mrs. Howard to come in ?
Will that help ?
G. P. No ;
you are all right Hodgson. But I don't quite
hear all you say, cannot you talk slower please, and
it is easier for me to write.
R. H. * * * I want you to give {that name} to me before
Mrs. Howard and Jim come here, or else it loses
its value.
G. P. Yes I see. What name ? R. H. The name of R. T.
G. P. I don't understand what you mean.
R. H. The R. T. who wrote to you and for whom you made
a verbal correction. He wrote to you something and
used bad grammar of some sort and you made a
correction in your reply,
G. P. I told him it was to be corrected in this way, / am not,
instead I is not (?) Now you know.
Ph. Why don't you speak to him ?
R. H. Well, where is he ? Ph. Over there.
{Some more conversation about the supposed correction
and some more illegible writing.}
R. H. (to Phinuit.) Tell him that I think it is desirable that
he should give me the full name of this person for
whom he made this correction.
[More writing.]
358 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [PAET
R. H. We can't read this, Doctor.
i|C jfc i|C s|c
Ph. Now you have got it
R. H. No, I have not, cannot read anything there.
Ph. Oh dear, why not 1
R. H. Can't read anything. Tell him to spell it out in capitals.
That looks like Tout but that is wrong that is
not the person.
Ph. You have not got that right.
R. H. Well, it is nothing like the name George. * * * I think
you are thinking of some other person altogether. * * *
3p *I* •'fc
G. P I did not write Tout.
R. H. Well what is it then * * * Can you write distinctly the
name of the person in full. * * * Can't read that,
George, is that intended for Robinson ?
% sje % $
G. P. No it is not Robinson.
R. H. Well what is it ? Now George if you don't remember
this name
G. P. I don't know what you say I don't think at all.
Ph. You speak to him, don't speak to me.
R. H. Well, where can he hear that ?
Ph. He is over there by you.
R. H. Well George I have asked you a question about a
certain correction in grammar or something of that
sort—
—
Ph. He says he has answered that for you.
R. H. Well, very well then. It is about a certain person and
I want you to write me in full the name of that
person with whom the incident occurred, whose initials
are R. T.
Ph. Oh that— G. P. Robert
—
R. H. I want you to write it out. Robert is not right.
Ph. Who are you talking about, his friend ?
R. H. I am talking about R. T. I want him to write the full
name of R. T.
Ph. You hear George what he says—you help him.
G P. I don't know R. T.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 359
R. H. Why but, George, that is the question I have been
asking you all the time.
G. P. Nor never did.
R. H. Well, but you just now explained, George, that
G. P. I truly don't know but one person in your world and
that is Tucker
R. H. Do you mean that is the only person beginning with a
T, is that it ?
G. P. Tucker and he is the one to whom I wrote.
* * * *
R. H. Well, that is not the person that I have been asking
the cpiestion about. * * * Can't you think of any
other person beginning with a T. ? I did not say he
was a special friend of yours, George.
G. P. Well, who was it, * * * I don't remember any T. but
Tucker that is I cannot recall to mind any but he.
k. H. Well now, I will tell you, George the person that I am
asking you about is Rowell Tracy. Did you ever hear
of Rowell Tracy ? Now I will read the question
again. Can you tell what R. T. wrote you about and
what verbal correction you made in your reply ?
G. P. I do and he was not a friend of mine at all and the
whole thing to me is vague. I think you had better
get something more closely comiected with me.
R. H. Well, George, I asked that question because it was
given to me by Rowell Tracey as a specially good
test.
G. P. But I answered it correctly, I remembered the circum-
stance and to whom I was sure of Tucker sure
was Tucker
R. H. You mean you told Tucker about it ?
G. P. Yes, and he remembers it well. I cannot stay.
{Dec. 7, 1892.)
At this sitting G. P. explained that he had while alive
been justly annoyed by something R. T. had said, and
therefore would not give his name. Hodgson in his paper
(Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 424) appears to accept this
explanation of the failure to give the name as satisfactory
360 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
but what he said to G. P. at the time is, I think, more
to the point. It was as follows :
R. H. Well, George instead of running round and writing
various names like Reuben and Tucker, last time,
why didn't you write out " I decline to have any-
thing to do with R. T. or any questions coming
from him ?
"
G. P. But it is of special importance to me that I should
not I do wish you could understand my reason for
acting thus.
R. H. No, I can't George ; I can understand your declining
to answer the question or to have anything to do
with R. T. but I can't understand your giving a long
elaborate description of a mistake.
{Dec. 16, 1892.)
{Phinuit has been talking.}
R. H. He is taking your hand isn't he ?
Ph. My hand—it is gone out—I have got to let go of my
hand. I will give it to him. * * * You take it George
You take it if you want it. I will help you in a
minute if you want me to.
^ *
Will you help George, some of you, to give him a
little bit of strength ? He has got all of mine.
{After another sentence spoken by Phinuit, G. P. begins
to write.}
R. H. George, do you prefer writing to talking ?
G. P. (writing). Yes I do now for obvious reasons which I
will explain to you.
R. H. Good. G. P. Is that you Hodgson ?
R. H. Yes it is. I am following your hand George.
G. P. All right I could not distinguish the voices exactly.
G. P. Now I want to tell you what I have for you.
Mps. Howard. What is it ?
G. P. First you asked me to pump Phinuit.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance. —Appendix. 361
Ph. You better shut up about me.
{Mrs. Howard then exchanges a few remarks with
Phinuit who is speaking while Hodgson does so with
G. P. who is writing, but there is no evidence that
the voice and the hand were used actually simul-
taneously and the remarks of the controls are few.}
Ph. {handling articles}. Oh, somebody is ill.
Mb. Howard. I am sorry to hear that. Do you get anything
more definite than that, doctor ?
Ph. Oui, what do you want ? [Phinuit seems to be having
a struggle with the hand. George in the mean time
is trying to go on with the writing.]
G. P. This is a tabula rasa.
Mrs. Howard. Who has got the hand, doctor ?
G. P. George, I am going into the head.
{He continues to write for some time however, before
he takes control of the head and says :
}
G. P. (speaking) Ha ha ! Here I am myself. How are you * * *
Well how goes it ? I have been writing.
Jfc 3fc
G. P. This is the most difficult thing to do, to express one's
thoughts through the * * *
Mrs. Howard. George couldn't you do it easier by writing ?
G. P. Much easier. I came this way first and I got to know
the real 1
by writing. I am a little more accus-
tomed to it ; it is easier.
R. H. Will it always be easy for you to write ?
G. P. I shall be able to write clearly by and by. Still, I am
getting farther away from you each time : I am
going on ; * * *
* * * *
{After some more talk he says in reply to a question:}
G. P. * * * Let me think—let me write it for you will you.
* * * I -will go out a minute ;
just let me relieve
myself a minute and I will come back and tell you
what it was if I possibly can recall it ; I think I
can. {Illegible writing}.
R. H. What is that you have just written George ? Wait a
1
The " real " means life in this world.
362 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
minute—I am afraid we cannot read any of that ;
you will have to write that all over again.
* * * *
[George trying to write.]
Ph. (speaks) George was weak that time. Wait a minute;
you help him, will you, and he will write it for you
and then he will explain it to you.
if! i|C jJj
G. P. (writes.) All I ever knew I will tell you.
Ph. He is talking to me. Wait a minute till he—oh, he
says if he ever knew he will tell you.
{Dec. 22, 1892.)
{Present R. H., Mr. and Mrs. Howard, stenographic reporter,
and at first Evelyn Howard. Phinuit has been talking for
some time to Evelyn Howard especially.}
Ph. That fellow wants to shake hands with that little girl.
He has got my hand and he has carried it away
somewhere.
9(! 5JC S|C »JC
That is very funny ; he is going all round the lot. I
don't care what he does with it ; I give that to
him.
Me. Howard. Hello, George, good evening [medium has
shaken hands with all in turn.]
Ph. Now you wait on him and let me alone and I will give
him all the strength I can, do you see ?
{G. P. then for a hour or more carries on a conversation
in writing, in the course of which occurs what
Hodgson describes as " perhaps the most dramatic
incident of the whole series," Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
p. 321. When G. P. has taken leave Ph. takes
control again.}
Ph. * * * You help him give me my hand back will you ?
{This means, I think, that Hodgson is to rub it.} He
has got a tight hold on it, very tight. Oh you
want to go back do you ? {To G. P.} He is the
greediest fellow ever I see * * *
R. H. Have you been in the head all the time ?
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 363
Ph. I have been in the head all the time.1
I have been
just hanging on to her all the time and giving
him all the strength I can, but I try not to say-
anything to him to bother him, and I tell you one
thing {advice about how to talk with George—not
interrupting him and so forth—follows}.
* * * *
Ph. You see if he should happen to recognize things—
I
have got it {i.e. the hand} all right ; that is mine ;
it feels good to get it back again—Well, if he should
recognize that for instance, let him go on and tell
all about it without interruption : don't stop him in
the middle of it. I listen to you fellows sometimes
and you make me kind of disgusted with you
because you don't give him a chance, and he writes
because he is more used to it. * * *
{Phinuit compares his own powers and G. P.'s.}
Ph. I am only illustrating. And he does not like it {i.e.,
apparently, controlling the whole organism} it is kind
of distasteful to him, so I just assist him and hold
the body while he takes my hand, and he knows
how to use my brain through the hand just as well ;
he takes the whole hand away from me absolutely ;
what do you think of that ?
* * * *
c.
Extracts from Professor W. R. Newbold's Sittings in
1895.
The extracts here given illustrate theories of controls about
writing and about the process of controlling. Other extracts
from this series will be found in the Appendix to Chapter
III. (Sir Walter Scott and Proctor), and in that to Chapter
1
The body had been sagging down, " as it were limp and lifeless," supported
by Mrs. Howard (see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 322). The plan of cushions
had not been invented yet.
364 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
VIII. about influences. Professor Newbold's article in
Proceedings, Vol. XIV., is largely concerned with this series
of sittings.
(June 14, 1895.)
Sitter and Reporter, Professor W. Romaine Newbold.
W. R. N. Are you ready to tell me of your life over yonder ?
G. P. (writing.) Yes I am. . . . the life . . . yes, yes, cer-
tainly . . . yes sir what about my life . . . quite.
W. R. N. What is the state of mind after death ?
G. P. What is the state of your mind ? Confused for a
time
W. R. N. How long ?
G. P. It depends upon the condition of leaving the body.
Next
W. R. N. Does sudden death confuse one more ?
G. P. Certainly.
W. R. N. Does expectation of death and willingness tend to
make confusion less ?
G. P. Very much.
W. R. N. In case of insanity, does confusion last long %
G. P. Not very long.
W. R. N. Does attempt to communicate through a medium
confuse you ?
G. P. Terrible . . . very bad sometimes . . . yes sir.
W. R. N. Does it tire you ? G. P. Oh no indeed.
W. R. N. Why does it confuse you ?
G. P. Because we cannot grasp the light sufficiently to
express clearly all of our thoughts.
W. R. N. Does this confusion begin when you get into the earth
region before taking hold of the medium's light ?
G. P. No.
W. R. N. Can you see the earth ? G. P. Oh yes.
W. R. N. What do you see ?
G. P. Our friends as viz. I saw my father distinctly
and saw him go to the photographer's. {See
Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 304.}
W. R. N. I know of that, Mr. P{elham}. Can you see objects
too ?
G. P. Our friends of course interest us more than objects . . .
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 365
our memory fails somewhat i.e. in recalling all our
past (and I am sure I am quite pleased to lose . .
forget mine).
W. R. N. Do you see material things ?
G. P. Indistinctly, vaguely.
W. R. N. For example what does this paper look like ?
G. P. Paper looks like a large light surface . . . looks as
above described.
W. R. N. Then you see much as we do, but not so clearly.
Can you see me, i.e. my body ?
G. P. Certainly if I desire yet it does not seem to me that
it is a body I discern ... a very dark surface
or shape as it were ... as it is seen by me I
realize a distinct shape . . . hear you me ?
W. R. N. Then you come to earth without any inconvenience ?
G. P. Certainly. Why ?
W. R. N. I thought otherwise. Can you go through the solid
earth itself ?
G. P. Certainly or [it] seems the nearest and easiest way
by which I can make you understand would be
to use your own words . . . expressions and say
it seems like flying.
W. R. N. What a comfort it must be to get rid of this
heavy carcase.
G. P. Comfort ? Well I should think so.
W, R. N. How does a medium seem to you ?
G. P. Very light.
W. R. N. All over, or through the bodyi
?
G. P. Depends.
{June 15, 1895.)
Present W. R. N. and A. W. G.
W. R. N. What makes one communicator more confused than
another ?
G. P. (writing.) It is due to different causes 1st perhaps the
light may be poor, perhaps the person took his
own life, perhaps it is due to the number of
friends present, but there is always more or less
confusion in the mind of the spirit present owing
to the state in which he is when communicating.
366 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Then again there are a volley of test questions
thrown slap into the present communicator's face
before he has really had time to free his thoughts.
2nd. When the spirit is attracted by and drawn
into the light so termed—for convenience sake I
use the expression
W. R. N. (interrupting). Then it is not like light ?
G. P. It is, but into it I [mean]—there are a various number
of persons following up the communicator with a
multitude of questions and all wishing to see some
friend. It is a thousand times more difficult to
express one's thoughts then. Consequently there
is bound to be a confusion.
(June 18, 1895.)
W. R. N. and H. W. 0. present.
W. R. N. I want to ask you about the two elements, light and
the ego.
G. P. (writing) Certainly. Light and ego. A part of the
etherial ;
question ?
W. R. N. When the ego separates, does the light stay behind ?
G. P. Behind or before, as you may choose to term it . . .
certainly.
W. R. N. Does the light hold the ego in the body ?
G. P. Light hold ego in the body ? No.
W. R, N. What does ?
G. P. Only a material cord. W. R. N. What is this cord ?
G. P. The last thread existing . . . which exists . . . that
so called by you.
W. R. N. Perhaps you cannot make me understand.
G. P. I only use words such as you would use to express it,
i.e. for your understanding. In other words, the
etherial body is used by us as a medium.
W. R. N. What is this etherial body which you use as a
medium ?
G. P. Light, luminiferous ether.
W. R. N. Is this light conscious ?
G. P. No . . . yes . . . that,—but your first question . . .
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 367
consciousness ... no has no consciousness ... is
dead, for the time being it dies. 1
% ^ * *
W. R. N. In the act of communicating, can the medium's
machinery contribute to what you say ?
G. P. Oh not in the least. When I am present and in the
act of communicating nothing concerning the material
body, or as you term it, machinery, can arrest
—
interfere with my thoughts or actions in any degree
whatever. Should there be any interference of any
kind it would be due to interruptions from
other voices. 2
$ $ $ $
W. R. N. When you are communicating do you talk to the light
or put your hand into the light ?
G. P. Follow it and use it as you would a typewriter, only
my thoughts must act instead of fingers.
W. R. N. Can you explain this ?
G. P. Explain ? Well, it is like speaking through a ... let
me think . . . what was it we used to speak.
W. R. N. Telephone ? G. P. Telephone, yes.
W. R. N. Then how do j^ou make a difference between writing
and talking %
3
G. P. I do not understand. [Question repeated.] There
seems ... is no difference to me. I only know
that I am writing by having been told so by Hodgson.
W. R. N. So that is purely accidental ?
G. P. Certainly. Did you not see me bow my head to H. ?
W. R. N. When H. went out ? G. P. Certainly.
W. R. N. But George you didn't bow, you waved your hand.
G. P. Don't you understand the difference between a fellow's
head and feet for instance ?
W. R. N. Did you try to bow ?
G. P. Did. Certainly, bowed my head of course, so [Hand
rises and bends towards imaginary Hodgson]
1
Apparently G. P. here goes off to the use of the word " light " to mean
Mrs. Piper herself as the medium.
' But compare Chapter II. above, p. 33.
3
Note Phinuit's answer to this same question next day (p. 369).
368 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PART
W. R. N. Well it did not look like a bow here.
G. P. What then ? That's my head, you goose [we both
laugh]
W. R. N. Well, in fact, the medium's hand rose up and bowed
or waved.
G. P. Well, I'll be hanged, if that doesn't get me . . . Well,
I'll have to give this up as beaten ... I am beaten.
W. R. N. Never mind, we understood.
G. P. Well, you are clever if it looked that way . . .
Well I am glad to know you any way. Question ?
W. R. N. What is Phinuit about while you talk to the light ?
G. P. Phinuit ? He's talking to John H. and a little
million others at the same time helping me hold
them back and keep them from interrupting me.
Yet, he helps me hold the light.
W. R. N. Is it hard to keep hold of the light ?
G. P. Yes, just as it would be for you to hold a box contain-
ing a telephone while your friend here talked
through one end of it and your other friend the
other.—it is like a double telephone. Got it ?
What is it ?
W. R. N. I think so. When I touch you, do you feel a touch ?
G. P. No, but I see it. W. R. N. See it ?
G. P. Certainly. W. R. N. Do you see my hand ?
G. P. Think I am blind ?
W. R. N. When we shake hands, how does it seem to you ?
G. P. I see you assent and touch my head . . . Certainly.
W. R. N. When I touch you, you don't feel it ?
G. P. No, I see it.
W. R. N. What tremendous problems this would open to specu-
lation !
G. P. Certainly, I understand it and wish you did as well,
yet there are a million things which I under-
stand perfectly, but cannot explain to you, so
that you could understand them as I do.
W. R. N. Have you any sense of touch at all ? G. P. No.
W. R. N. What senses have you ? G. P. See, hear.
W. R. N. Your consciousness is exclusively visual and auditory ?
G. P. Certainly.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 369
[Takes another pencil from N. after rejecting three
or four from 0.]
G. P. Thanks.
W. R. N. Why did you throw away those pencils ?
G. P. Leads. [This is misunderstood and N. asks]
W. R. N. How did you know that the leads were bad ?
[Hand then writes three times] leades me, leades
LEADES [evidently putting on the e to mark
intended pronunciation] me to see other things.
W. R. N. What things ?
G. P. Your friends or some ones friends other than those
of whom I am speaking, in other words it has
its own light, etc., like any other object that
has been worn or handled by others, or some-
times it abstracts thought.
# #
I cannot do more as the light is going out. Adieu
until I ... we meet again. G. P.
{June 19, 1895.)
Present W. R. N. Control Phinuit.
* sj» * *
W. R. N. You know, Doctor, most scientific men don't believe
in you spirits at all.
Ph. I know that. But what do they think I am ?
Don't they believe in me ?
W. R. N. They think you are just one of the medium's dreams.
She goes to sleep and dreams she is a French
Doctor.
Ph. Oh my ! [with infinite disgust] people had better
say it again. I'm individually, distinctly, abso-
lutely my own self, I have nothing to do with
that woman : the body is light to me, it is
illuminated.
W. R. N. Are you talking to the light ?
Ph. I'm right inside the body.
W. R. N. But George says he isn't.
Ph. You see my hand, [holding it up] that's my hand.
When George comes I'll go out to keep the
people away and hold the machine. When I
370 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
take the hand [?] you can divide the light. He
takes that part of the light and uses it. I'll
tell you another tiring. While George talks to
you, if it was not for interruption I could talk
at the same time. George's thoughts have no
more to do with mine than yours have.
* * * *
Ph. Here's George whistling around, he wants to write.
[Hand has been twitching for some time. I ask
Phinuit if George is coming in]
Ph. No, he's only walking around the light and just
whistling and singing and talking to himself.
W. R. N. How does he make the difference between writing
and talking ?
Ph. He can talk closer than I can, he has no ties and
no weight to hold him down, like this (indicating
body of medium)
* * * *
{Presently G. P. writes.}
W. R. N. (to G. P.). Do you see the hand %
G. P. (writing). I see the hand ? No not quite. Yes I
know that there is a hand present, yet it looks
to be yours [touches mine]
W. R. N. It is mine. G. P. Your own
W. R. N. [I touch medium's hand] Is this your head ?
G. P. Yes, this is my head, or where my head is.
W. R. N. Did I actually touch you ?
G. P. Certainly, you put your hand on my face.
W. R. N. How is your thought transformed into writing ?
G. P. Well, this is all my own doings—I think my thoughts
and speak them and the light within me uses the
light within the material object, if it be a hand,
as a telephone, yet it really has no meaning to me.
W. R. N. Do you will to turn the pages ?
G. P. No, I see that you have not heard all that I have said,
I consequently repeat, and if I move pages it
is because I take this method of explaining but
the mere fact of my moving the pages is not intel-
ligible to me.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 371
W. R. N. Does not this seem as if the " light " understood
and suitably interpreted your thought ?
G. P. The light. I do not see it so.
W. R. N. The hand moves as if it were acting intentionally.
G. P. Yes, but, you goose, I have two spirit hands myself,
and they act through my own will as I wish.
W. R. N. Do you use them to turn pages ?
G. P. Certainly I do.
W. R. N. But you said you didn't know there were any
pages.
G. P. Yes, but you have just explained to me what I
really did not realise before, that the actual
paper was present. I find it extremely difficult
to realize that I express my thoughts on paper,
yet I am here altogether, head, ears, heart and
hand. I use the hand, if you so term it, as my
head, hand, feet and everything.
W. R. N. Let's experiment on this.
G. P. Good. Capital. [Hand rises and bends slowly forward
twice.] Bowed my head. [I explain.] Well,, that
is strange. Oh, yes.
W. R. N. Well ?
G. P. I said Oh yes. Didn't you hear me ?
W. R. N. You wrote " Oh yes."
G. P. What ! Wrote "Oh yes " ? [I read all written
from the first " oh yes."] [I touch inner side of
hand and outer side with my fingers in lifting it
to turn pages. Hand instantly writes.]
G. P. You took my ear and my nose.
W. R. N. Is this your nose [touching inner side of hand] ?
G. P. Yes.
W. R. N. And this your ear [outer side] %
G. P. Yes . . . certainly—what are you doing now ?
W. R. N. Kick your feet.
G. P. Good. [Arm rises and elbow strikes table.] [I tell
him.] No thunder, well that's strange. Well you
will say that I have grown small.
W. R. N. It reminds me of Alice. Do you remember how she
ate the comfits—wasn't it—and shrank ?
G. P. Yes, and Walrus and Oyster. Now I am going to
372 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [part
shake hands. [Does it.] Hands that was. Now
I will bow my head again. [Does it, as above
described.] See you me ? Well you see I can do
anything I wish.
W. R. N. Now note what I do and describe it. [I grasp
hand, lift it about a foot in the air, turn a page
and put it in place again.]
G. P. It seems as though you covered up my head.
W. R. N. We do that all the time don't we ? Do you know
why we do it ?
G. P. Yes, certainly, because you do not hear me.
W. R. N. Not at all. G. P. What then ?
W. R. N. It means that I picked up the medium's hand and
turned a page.
G. P. Oh go on ! That is not the medium at all, what in
thunder are you talking about ?
W. R. N. It's a fact. You see I am teaching you a thing or
two for once.
G. P. O.K. I can stand it.
W. R. N. You see the hand runs off the paper if it is not
watched.
G. P. Well I don't see. . . . Well, I told you I wasn't
conscious of paper.
W. R. N. And when it gets to the end of the sheet I take
it up and turn the sheet. That's what you see
as covering your head.
G. P. Well. Well, that's a sticker, isn't it ?—Well do you
now ?
1
W. R. N. Don't let the light go out altogether.
G. P. Well, I think not by Jove, I wish to speak to you
again old man.
W. R. N. Sometimes when we don't understand, the hand
thumps the table. What do you do ?
1
In the sittings in England in 1906-7 it was not necessary to lift the
hand. If the control did not of himself facilitate the tearing off of the
sheet from the block, it was only necessary for the sitter to say " Wait a
moment while I tear off the sheet." Note also that in earlier G. P.
sittings the control himself tore off the sheets (see Proceedings, Vol. XIII.,
p. 322).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 373
G. P. I nod my head of course. ... No ... So. (thumps)
[I tell him.]
G. P. Well, well, I am beginning to think that I don't
know much after all.
W. R. N. How's the light ? G. P. Getting a little poor.
{June 20, 1895.)
W. R. N. alone.
i|e '
$ $
[Hand spends a minute or more carefully feeling
paper,—edges, surfaces, turning leaves, etc.]
G. P. (writing). Well, well, I begin to understand it. Now
I see the white surface. Now I am ready for
emergencies.
{Here follows the discussion on " influences " quoted
in the Appendix to Chapter VIII., p. 624.}
# $
W. R. N. How do you underline your words if you are not
conscious of writing 1
G. P. I really do not have the material sense of writing,
but sight more particularly.
W. R. N. How is the light ? G. P. Fair.
W. R. N. Well do you will to underline ?
G. P. Oh no, I express one or some words more
emphatically.
W. R. N. Do it. G. P. I do it ?
W. R. N. Yes, say something emphatically.
G. P. Certainly. [I tell him what is done.] Ah well, I see
and hear, but it is mighty difficult to recognize
. . . yes . . . get . . . your [I read this George]
No George there . . . There's no such word as
George there ... [I had grasped medium's arm
about 4 inches in front of elbow]
W. R. N. What did I do ?
G. P. You have your hand on my knee . . . yes . . .
[I tell him.] Thunder. Well I'll give it up.
Perhaps I have turned into an arm.
W. R. N. Hardly. G. P. Oh that's a joke simply.
374 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
W. R. N. Now spell slowly aloud.
G. P. Well, you hear it ? joke. Speak it.
W. R. N. It was just written like other words. What makes
the hand print 1
G. P. Because I hear the word from Hodgson. Print it George.
W. R. N. You will to. G. P. Certainly.
W. R. N. How ? G. P. Because I say print and it is.
W. R. N. I think the hght must be intelligent. 1
G. P. Well of course I have intelligence. Do you think
otherwise ? [I explain what I mean.] Well enough.
May be, but I do not understand it.
W. R, N. The light is going out ? G. P. Yes.
{June 21, 1895.)
W. R. N. and H. W. 0 present. G. P. writing.
[Hand gesticulates and twists so as to get O.'s
mouth close to outer side of hand just below
the root of little finger.] My ear. [W. R. N.
explains he means that his spirit ear is located
there.] Certainly, my ear. (See Proceedings,
Vol. XIV., p. 46.)
{June 25, 1895.)
Present, Hodgson and Prof. W. R. Newbold. {The record
leaves it uncertain whether the first four questions attributed
here to W. R. N. were asked by him or R. H.
}
[Phinuit speaks . . . after a few ordinary remarks.]
VV. R. N. Tell us how you found Stainton Moses.
Ph. George Pelham gave me his description and told me
he used to have a hght. I saw him talking to
an elderly gentleman, a very important looking
gentleman, looks something like Hodgson's material
body. People here who had light in the body
look lighter here. There's a greater degree of
1 " Light " here, and throughout passages here quoted, is used by
Professor Newbold of the etherial light, said to fill the body of the
medium when her spirit is removed. The control evidently uses it
of this and also of the medium herself.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 375
attraction, and they can come back to the earth
again.
W. R. N. Where did George send you to look for him ?
Ph. Another place, far away from here. The people who
live in it call it Mars.
W. R. N. But there must be millions and millions of people
there.
Ph. It's like a hall filled with people. You start in the
entrance and go clear away round until you come
to the limit. Then you take another start and
go round and through again and find him with
difficulty.
W. R. N. What did you say to him when you found him ?
Ph. I said, " You come here I want to tell you some-
thing," and then I brought him here to the light
and then George took him and told him what he
wanted of him.
W. R. N. Do you live right in the planet Mars ? [N. asking
questions, R. H. taking notes.]
Ph. No. I'm ahve you know. I see, hear and feel.
I'm conscious all the time when I'm not on the
earth. I live in another sphere called Mars, not
a substance, more like being in your air, more
like a bird in the atmosphere, not on this solid
plane. I see very funny people there sometimes.
W. R. N. Can you go to the stars ?
Ph. Oh yes Some of these places are intensely hot, but
that doesn't make any difference to me.
W. R. N. Did you ever go up to the sun ?
Ph. I could go if I wished to. I can't say I've ever
been there.
W. R. N. Isn't it very bright there ?
Ph. Everything that's material looks dark.
W. R. N. What do you see when you're in Mars looking at the
earth ?
Ph. Lots of dark objects.
W. R. N. Does it look round ?
Ph. I don't know. I see objects moving, people.
W. R. N. Do you see the trees and houses on the earth ?
Ph. I don't notice those things much.
376 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
W. R. N. When you try to, can you distinguish them ?
Ph. I can discern one object from another. They don't
look so large and massive as they did when in
the body.
W. R. N. What does the medium look like ?
Ph. One big light.
W. R. N. Do you see her head and hands and feet ?
Ph. Not specially.
W. R. N. Can you feel now her head and hands and feet ?
Ph. It's difficult to support the surface . . . heavy.
W. R. N. What do you see when you're in the medium's body ?
Ph. See lots of people.
W. R. N. Do you see me clearly ?
Ph. I can touch you.
W. R. N. When you touch me what do you see ? [Hand
touches all over N's. head.]
Ph. I see spirit eyes and spirit head and spirit thought
and spirit nose and spirit mouth.
W. R. N. Don't you see my body ?
Ph. I can get your body and see the difference between
your material body and spirit. I can see your
material body better [than when not in the
medium's body] [Feeling over head] I see your
whole spirit now.
W. R. N. How do you feel the medium's body ?
Ph. The frame is very solid, very heavy sometimes. It's
hard for me to reahze that I possess her, that I
get her frame. Yet I know that I'm not so free,
so active.
W. R. N. How's the light ? Ph. That's all right.
[N. asks Phinuit to show himself in other lights, i.e.
through other mediumistic persons if possible.]
Ph. I see a good many but they're undeveloped. I can't
get over their material obstinacy. Their material
is stronger than the hght. You don't know how
real and beautiful it is to see the light in any
one. .It makes them look more like ourselves,
you know.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 377
D.
A Dream of Mrs. Piper's on February 22, 1896.
This dream occurred when Mrs. Piper was in hospital for
an operation for hernia, and presumably after the operation,
but I do not know how long after. The account of it
was taken down from Mrs. Piper's lips by Miss Lucy
Edmunds, Dr. Hodgson's assistant, on February 24, 1896,
and signed by Mrs. Piper. It is of interest, as showing a
resemblance between the dream ideas and those of the
trance imagery (compare, e.g. below, June 3, 1903, p.
422 ; December 14, 1904, p. 431 ; March 5, 1897, p. 494 ;
March 30, 1897, p. 499).
On two occasions, when recovering from an anaes-
thetic, Mrs. Piper had experiences suggestive of her trance
life. The first occasion was on March 14, 1893, and
Hodgson's description of it is quoted on p. 217. The
second occasion was in 1901, and the description will be
found in the Appendix to Chapter VI., p. 579. It
resembled in many respects a waking-stage.
Massachusetts General Hospital, February 24, 1896.
Mrs. Piper gives an account (with frequent pauses and rests)
of a vision which she had on the night of Saturday, February 22
[L. E. taking notes].
[Mrs. Piper explained that her recollection of the vision was
becoming dim ; that she could have given a better account
had she told it to Dr. Hodgson on the day after it happened.
To-day it was an effort to remember, and she could only give
a somewhat fragmentary account.]
On Saturday night I went to sleep and at about one o'clock
-
—I think it was one because I awoke soon after—I had a
dream or vision. The first experience I had was as though I
was being raised from my bed while still in my body, that is
to all intents and purposes I was in my body. Then I felt
a strong hand clasping my arm on the left ; it seemed like
the hand of a man. On my right I was being lifted apparently
without any contact.
378 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
I saw a man with long wavy hair and stoop-over shoulders.
I think it was Phinuit. I saw George {i.e. G. P.} 1
also. It
was he who seemed to be holding me up.
Then I heard voices saying, " Come, we wish to take you
with us ; we wish to give you a rest from your tired body,"
and without further sound I was raised. There was a break
between my hearing the voices and my being lifted or raised
above my bed. I was conscious of not being on my bed.
Then I was carried in space until we came to a delicate blue
drapery hanging in folds as though blowing in the breeze.
It seemed to be immovable until we passed through when it
parted, and I was not conscious of there being any sides to it
;
I then heard a rustling sound as of people approaching, but I
didn't hear the footsteps. It was like the rustling of garments,
and then I saw a light as though all space—the whole earth
was aglow—such a light !
—I never saw anything like it before.
Then I heard children's voices as though singing, and a
chorus like young ladies' voices ; I was surrounded by them ;
they were everywhere and they then seemed to form a ring
around me. They were all very beautiful, and passing around
from one to the other was what seemed to be a silken banner
or sash which they seemed to be holding. It was soft and
silky and entwined about with flowers, and it was held from
one to the other so that the silken band helped to form a
ring. They had beautifully sandalled feet. I heard the rustling
of their garments (something like the rustling of tissue paper)
—loose, Greek, flowing garments. They danced about as they
formed the ring ; then the ring seemed to separate and they
dispersed. I felt it was a sort of greeting to me as it were,
that is, the ring and their dancing and singing.
We passed on along a smooth walk hedged on either side
with flowers. We came to pillars—they looked like real
pillars, but were not solid-looking, almost transparent. The
pillars seemed to be an entrance to what seemed to be a
1
How much Mrs. Piper in her normal state knew about G. P. at
this date I do not know, but she had been told in 1892 that sittings at the
Howards' house were held there because communications were expected
from " George " (see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 316). She had in
1892 had visions of him in the waking-stage and afterwards, when
normal or nearly so, had recognised photographs of him. And she had
had later waking-stage visions of him.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 379
large building. It seemed as though one whole side of the
building was open, the pillars forming the entrance. Inside
the building as we passed, I saw a long bench or table around
which many men were writing ;
they were each one sitting
back one to the other and did not seem to pay any attention
to me. It seemed as though some sort of educational work
was being carried on. I looked into their faces as we passed
the building ; their faces were smooth and devoid of all
wrinkles,—they had very clear complexions.
I suddenly saw an elderly gentleman. He was gray-haired
and had bluish-gray eyes, heavy moustache—no beard—dis-
tinguished looking,—face rather small. He said he was not
lame now ; he took hold of his robe and began to dance,
saying, " See, I am not lame now." 1
A young lady was with
him ; she was very lovely. She had dark hair combed back
away from her forehead, pompadour fashion—large eyes and
intelligent, sweet face.
Then I saw an elderly gentleman with hair white and a full
white beard-—clear eyes—intelligent—large distinguished nose.
He resembled Mr. Hodgson, but Mr. Hodgson has more dreamy
and spiritual expression about the eyes. I said to Mr. Hodg-
son : "I could take that gentleman to be your father."
I also saw a dark-complexioned gentleman with pointed
beard—very intelligent looking—but rather small. He ap-
proached George. I saw them shake hands and heard them
say, " Hulloa, old fellow," or something of the kind. They
discussed, but I could not hear what they were discussing. All
seemed so happy : I also saw an aunt of mine who died of
cancer and also a cousin who died of consumption. I got
along so easily and did not seem to walk, but made progress
without stepping—I stood erect.
I saw two of Mrs. Thaw's children. I was conscious that
they were hers but did not see Mrs. Thaw's mother.
A thin-faced young man came to me who was anxious about
a friend of his ; he wanted information which I could not
give him. He was about 30 or 35. He may have been Dr.
Thaw's brother. He was perhaps looking for his wife—This
was my impression.
1
Most of, if not all, these specifically described persons were, I think,
friends of sitters and had previously figured in Mrs. Piper's trances
380 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
I think I saw Mr. D. (L. E. " Did you know Mr. D. ? ")
Yes, I saw him once or twice at Mrs. D.'s house.
I saw Mrs. S.'s husband and her son and her aunt, and
she seemed to be doing something with her hands as though
she were picking something to pieces. I seemed to see every-
one I had ever known who has died.
I saw a very tall gentleman ; he was extremely tall. They
called him Charles.
As I was beginning to see a great number of people ap-
proaching, I felt as though some one had stabbed me in the
back. When I was first being taken up, I seemed to follow
a streak of light ; it seemed to be a ray of light, similar to
a ray of light from the sun through a knot hole, and we
followed that light. When I felt the stab, I felt that the
same light was behind me, and it seemed to be a cord or
string but nothing tangible, and it seemed to be the same ray
of light which led me off away from this sphere. As these
people approached me, some one seemed to be pulling on the
cord, though I could not say it was a cord—it looked like a
light and felt like cord. Some one kept pulling and I was
being lowered and taken from my feet—(I had been standing
erect)—to a position of lying down, and then I awoke and I
had a feeling that I had not been asleep but had been awake
and had had this experience while awake—and yet my body
was so heavy I could not move—my body seemed so dark
and heavy as though it did not belong to me ; I had to
struggle for breath. I felt depressed to think that I had got
back. I could not move a limb at first.
L. E. Piper.
As regards the stab mentioned in this record, compare
the waking-stage of November 29, 1905, when Mrs. Piper said :
Mrs. P. Isn't that awful. Coming down on the cord ? I got
stabbed, and a pain in my heart.
Sitter. Who stabbed you ?
Mrs. P. Cord stabbed me. {Hodgson notes : Detachment of
etherial cord ?
}
Sitter. Well tell us about it.
Mrs. P. Well I don't know ... I slid down ... I slid on it.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 381
On May 24, 1905, the back is spoken of in the waking-
stage as the point of attachment of the cord.
Sitter. What did you dream ?
Mrs. P. I was in the air.
Sitter. Go on.
Mrs. P. I slid in mischievously on a cord.
[Stumbling and smiling, chuckling as it were, over the
word mischievously.]
Sitter. Go on.
Mrs. P. Well there were . . . they pulled it out of my back
. . . they pulled it out of a hole in my back. I
slid down on it before I [they ?] went out.
On other occasions the heart or the stomach are spoken
of as the points of attachment of the cord. Thus, in the
waking-stage of July 4, 1904, Mrs. Piper says, " Rector
took a cord out of my stomach," (Appendix to Chapter
VI., p. 593 ), and in the sitting of June 3, 1903, the com-
municator says (p. 424), "the spirit of the medium passes
out on a cord which is attached to the heart or solar
plexus I should say " (see Chapter II., pp. 71-74, for a
discussion of the cord).
E.
Extracts from Sittings, October, 1896, to June, 1897.
This period includes a number of sittings chiefly occupied
with questioning the Imperator Band as to the process of
controlling, etc., as seen from their side. Most of the follow-
ing extracts are from these sittings, but some others are
added. Hodgson was the sole sitter, except where it is other-
wise stated, and the recorder in all the sittings quoted from.
He had all the sittings to the end of this section before him
when he wrote his second report, published in Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., though he did not include in the report more than
a brief reference to those in the period covered by this
section E.
382 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
{October 14, 1896.)
Control, J. Hart. {J. Hart (pseudonym) was the friend of
G. P. who first obtained communication from the latter
(see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 296). He had died in the
interval and had communicated and controlled on various
occasions before October, 1896.}
9|e a|e a|e a|e
J. H. (writing). Do you see my head ?
R. H. No I don't see you at all. All the movements you
make are with the medium's hand.
J. H. Well I cannot believe it.
R. H. I don't hear you. The pencil in the hand writer.
Now you are putting the hand up near my
lips.
J. H. Well I hear this way. Face me H. Well, H. is your
face all over your body ?
[R. H. touches the ends of fingers of medium's hand.]
J. H. This is my head.
R. H. Where is your foot ? J. H. Below.
R. H. Move it. [The elbow rises and knocks on the table.]
That's the medium's elbow.
J. H. You are going crazy H.
[R. H. moves his hand along the medium's arm from
wrist towards the elbow.]
J. H. Legs and feet. Cannot you see, H. ?
R. H. This is hand, wrist, forearm, elbow. [R. H. touches
these parts of the medium's arm as he speaks.]
J. H. Not much. I need my . . .
R. H. [lifting the arm from the table] You are all crowded
into the medium's arm, and I lift you up so.
J. H. No, but you do not understand that my body is here,
and I am speaking through the telephone and this
is my mouth and head at its mouthpiece.
R. H. You seem to be talking ? J. H. Yes. Exactly.
R. H. Well, all the manifestations that you make with any
part of you are represented to me by the move-
ments of this hand and arm of the medium.
J. H. Oh I see . . . well my thoughts . . .
R. H. Come out in writing with the pencil in the hand.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 383
J. H. Oh I see . . . strange to you I should say, yet it is
all quite natural to rne H.
R. H. It's natural to us now. J. H. Oh I see.
(Nov. 13, 1896.)
{Mentor, one of the Imperator band, makes a first
and somewhat futile attempt at controlling. G. P.
intervenes and writes}
G. P. Give him another chance H. I had to come in to
give a clear light. Better now H.
{After a succession of controls have written ending
with G. P.}
[Hand and arm gives a jerk and drop on table as
usual. Phinuit talks.]
R. H. Got your hand back ?
Ph. Not yet. When they leave it there's no life in it,
and it flops away. They haven't got it and I
haven't got it. Then I get it.
{Nov. 14, 1896.)
Doctor {one of the Imperator band, controlling for the second
time and claiming to be Homer, writes} Strong
light, light, strong light, too much light, I am dizzy.
(Dec. 5, 1896.)
{Stainton Moses is trying to explain things, when
there is a wild scrabble of hand, and thrash of arm
and Doctor intervenes}
Doctor (writing). I will answer this for you. I take his
place for a moment, let him get free, because I
{?am} monarch of all I survey.
R. H. " Monarch of all I survey " ? [Assent]
D. I was peeping in and felt that my presence was
necessary.
Ht $ 4
R. H. I would like very much for you to give a description
of how this communication appears to you from
your side.
D. I will, sir.
384 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H. Just as I would describe a new scene to a friend who
hadn't been there. First let me explain in detail
how it appears to me.
(R. H. proceeds to describe what happens at a
sitting }
D. Rather uncanny is it not ?
R. H. Not to me now. It is to strangers.
D. Well fl] think I understand your side. Now I give
you a synopsis of my side.
The first recollection I have of communicating with
you was when I was induced to appear through the
influence of my friend Moses. He was influenced
by a young gentleman named George.
Now as it would seem to your vision we are in space,
and in form and feature like our former selves, yet
there is nothing tangible about us i.e. to . . . Are
you tired ?
R. H. Oh no, indeed I'm listening "with the greatest interest.
D. Thank you . . . the human being.
R. H. I can't touch you.
D. Not at all. Now then when we are first conscious
of speaking or in any way making ourselves . . .
making [hesitancy] . . . not visible, but. . .
R. H. " Making ourselves " ?
D. Understood. R. H. Manifesting.
D. Manifesting ;
exactly . . . We first of all are attracted
by a soft bright light.
R. H. You in your world see a light jxist as I might see a
star and you go to see what it is.
D. This is exactly—exactly. This is precisely what we
do see and absolutely true to the letter. We say
to one another see that light over yonder. Come
lets look [hesitancy]
R. H. Let us look [assent]
D. And see what it is. Suddenly we find ourselves as it
were nearing the earth. Well the earth so to speak
is stifling in its atmosphere. We however venture
on and on, which takes us but a few of your
earthy (sic) moments, when suddenly we find ourselves
right in front of an open window or as it would
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance —Appendix. 385
look to you a door. One gentleman having spied
this eons (sic) ago, he rushes forward and stands in
the centre of the doorway. We feeling interested to
know what is going on inside so to speak, we all
rush in beside him, or when the doorway is not
sufficiently lighted, we stand back a short distance
and wait until we are signalled. While we are thus
waiting, the gentleman of the Committee [not read
at first] . . . jury if you prefer the expression
. . . over. [R. H. reads committee on the previous
page of the writing]
R. H. The centre-of-the-doorway man.
D. Yes you have it . . . beckons us to step forward.
We rush all at once, longing to peep behind or
inside. Immediately we find ourselves standing in
the doorway speaking to some one or more of our
friends in the body, this light being clear enough for
several of our party to speak and get replies. Is
this clear to you ?
R. H. What makes the light ? If this world is dark, why
is the window light ?
D. Exactly. Yet we instantly see other lights which
are those of our friends like yourself, for instance.
Hence the law of attraction. I will tell you exactly.
We are not exactly conscious of its being a medium
in mortal body until we have appeared or used
the light a great many times. At first the atmo-
sphere is so bad we can scarcely speak. Now this
is due, as I see it, from natural conditions, i.e.
to say the light is due . . . which seems the easiest
way for you to understand. It seems [?] like an
etherial or electrical light.
R. H. If I could see it, it would seem to me like an electric glow.
D. Exactly, and we not only see it here, but we see
others also. Imagine yourself standing on the earth
surrounded by a million other persons at midnight,
You for the first time glance upwards and suddenly
discover a star—in fact several. One seems brighter
to your vision than the rest. Now supposing you
could go to that one star at will, and the remaining
386 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
persons were also anxious. You give a signal and
then fly, as it would seem to you, on . . . on . . .
upwards . . . onward, which would take but a few
moments of your time there. Now then you have
reached the star. You find it vacated,—in other
words hollow.
R. H. That is to say the medium has gone away ?
D. Quite, consequently shell, only very bright.
R. H. A bright shell. D. Very, inside.
R. H. It's bright because she's gone away.
D. Yes, yes. R. H. Not so bright at other times.
D. No. Now if you could only get my idea and question
me it would save light.
R. H. You get into this hollow bright shell.
D. Yes. I find the shell is transparent.
R. H. You can look through it.
D. Quite, yet there is still a slight smoky appearance
before us, in other words it is a kind of film or
veil. Understand ?
R. H Yes.
D. This is why I am not always as near as I may
seem. Have you a clear conception of what this
light seems to me.
R. H. Yes I think so, but what I specially wanted to know
if possible was about the details of the actual
process of communicating. Why, when you talk,
does the hand write ? If you were in the head
of the medium's body and trying to speak, it seems
intelligible that you should talk with her muscles
by using her brain, but how do you affect the hand
and arm ?
D. Yes, but this is only a branch of the tree or a point
of the star.
R. H. It's a very bright point ?
D. Yes, more so than the body of the tree : for instance,
you walk through your fields or woodland paths.
You spy a large tree, the body is apparently sound,
healthy etc., yet you find on close examination
that it is not altogether as healthy as one or more
of its branches may seem.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 387
R. H. Here is a shrub. The main stem has many flowers,
but one of the side branches is more thickly covered,
laden down with flowers.
D. Yes exactly. You have it. Any more you wish of
me ?
R. H. Can you tell me exactly what you do when you
communicate here ?
D. Yes we sit on the limb. . . quite. We hold our
heads [?] We lay . . .
R. H. When you speak and the hand writes ? the details ?
D. Yes, I am going . . .
R. H. I see, you sit on the limb ?
D. Or lay our heads on the limb, while we hold it
quite tightly with our hands, and shake it about
signifying words.
R. H. You shake it about.
D. Yes, exactly. Our thoughts are expressed by the
movements of the branch of the tree at our will.
I will say YOU.
{Hand seizes R. H.'s left hand close to wrist, and
makes three movements. The control dissatisfied
with R. H.'s description of them repeats them.
R. H. notes " once down, once to the right and once
to the left " to which the hand assents. 1
}
D. I hear you speak through my spiritual ears.
R. H. I am speaking into the palm of the hand of the
medium.
D. Well the facts are I do not believe that you will
ever understand how we see you nor how you see
us.
R. H. Possibly not.
D. It will never be fully understood by me, that is,
your side not your explanation.
{Dec. 8, 1896.)
# $ * *
Doctor (writing). {Explains that spirits look for means of
1
1 suppose the movements represented the letter Y.—E. M. S.
388 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
returning to earth and} find a light viz. a medium
* * * they now follow it * * * Well after a time they
begin to make themselves understood by seizing
the spirit of the medium and pulling him or her
out and
Out of the body ?
Of the body of course. Then they walk in. Well
here they are between the spiritual and material
worlds.
* * * *
(Dec. 9, 1896.)
Sitter, R. H. Doctor writing.
j|S S(I ijC if!
R. H. What does light consist of ?
D. Etherial or spiritual substance.
R. H. How is it developed ?
D. By being used by disembodied spirits—by the mode
of living [?]
R. H. But how exactly is it developed ? For instance, I
make a fire by taking a magnifying glass, a lens,
and I concentrate the rays of the sun on a piece
of paper and so light it.
D. Yes, but the spiritual light in this instance pre-
dominates and when called upon concentrates its
thoughts on the or near the body of the medium,
understand ?
R. H. No. I don't think you have got my question. * * *
I want to know * * * how this light in the
medium starts. {Further illustration by Hodgson
to bring home to Doctor the meaning of his question.
Then Doctor writes}
D. Exactly so. I begin to understand your question.
Well, according to my knowledge of this light, I see
the body is inhabited by two distinct lights, one
the normal or natural spirit which keeps the body
or machine, in normal working order, the other is
the light of the spirit which once lived in another
body on the earth, viz. Phinuit. He picked up this
body at its birth. Now for instance you may for a
R. H.
D.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 389
better understanding . . . join two lights, the positive
and negative. What would be the result ?
R. H. Do you mean if I make a circuit %
D. Yes precisely. R. H. I would get a current.
D. Here we have it.
R. H. Phinuit's etherial organism.
D. Also understand with the medium's spiritual organism.
R. H. Her etherial organism has such a relation to his that
it's analogous as it were to that between two poles
used for the production of an electric current ?
D. Quite.
R. H. And between them they made a kind of storage
battery.
D. Precisely. R. H. It glows and wastes as it glows.
D. Yes, becomes exhausted by being used by other
etherials.
R. H. Does it literally consist of so-called electrical energy ?
D. No, I only use this expression for your understanding.
R. H. Some etherial energy ?
D. Yes it is etherial power surely not electrical. I
only supply this expression for your understanding,
as you would not realize or understand it by any
other.
R. H. In this case Phinuit got a foothold early, but in
others it is not so ?
D. Oh no, they are frequently taken up by etherial
intelligences later in life according to the develop-
ment of the etherial.
R. H. But they cannot take them up unless the material
organism has already developed some " light."
D. No. This is just what I have been trying to convey
to you.
R. H. But what is the origin of the light that enables the
spirit to seize the organism ?
D. She or he attracts ... he or she . . .us.
R. H. How ? the material organism is dark. When one
has a light, then the spirit can seize it.
D. Because of the light being developed or brought
forward from its latent sphere—before the spirit
goes.
390 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H. But how does the light originate before any spirit
seizes the organism at all ?
D. I do not grasp this. Illustrate by yourself. What
do . . .
R. H. All right. Suppose I have " light " and have not
been controlled by a spirit. How come I to have
any " light " at all ?
D. Because the . . . Ah ! Ah ! this is where the sub-
liminal comes to the front . . . latent, or has been.
R. H. The subliminal has " light " of its own, etherial.
D. Yes, always in all cases is a powerful etherial in
itself.
R. H. What is the relation then between the subliminal
and what we call the supraliminal ?
D. Yes. I explained this to you before.
R. H. Yes, but on a different aspect, not on this. There
are different aspects. You may see them all at
once, but I don't.
D. Yes, it is true. My own thoughts travel very rapidly.
R. H. Is there something in the nature of some subliminals to
make light at the beginning ?
D. Yes, but this is generally due to the conditions under
which the child is born.
R. H. Combinations of small conditions.
D. Combinations of various elements.
iji sj( sfs
Hodgson had prepared a short series of questions to put
to Doctor about the nature, origin and development of
" light," and its growth and decay. The above is the first
part of the interrogatory, which is continued on December
10 and 11, 1896. Little progress is made on the 10th, and
on the 11th Doctor's replies are very confused, but the follow-
ing statements seem to be affirmed :
(Dec. 11, 1896.)
Doctor. Supposing you were a little child and were controlled
by spirits from our sphere, and so you grow con-
tinually until you are fully grown. Well then your
Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—-Appendix. 391
spirit grows also, your own and that of your con-
trol becomes established i.e. to join hands as it
were with your own spirit controlling completely
both your own spirit and body. * * * The spirit con-
trols the body enough so as to be able to take away
completely the living or normal spirit of the body.
* * * I see here two spirits, one whom I have
met in my own sphere, one whom I recognise as
the medium or light. I see her pass out completely,
while the interior light is being acted on by one
of our spirits. * * * Without the physical body in
this case we could not appear * * *
[Drawing of circle] see that, that is an empty brain.
I mil fill it with light. I have done so. I wish
to use it. Others wish to use it. We divide it.
I use one part or one side. Doctor somebody uses
another. George somebody uses another. There are
four sides to an ordinary light
Like the sides of a square.
Yes. You come and sit on one side, your brother
on another, your sister on another, your friend on
another. You wish to read or study something by
it, your friends also. You can do so very easily,
all using the same light at one time * * * you
finally see the light growing dimmer * * * the
material has become exhausted, nothing remains.
{Hodgson explains that he w ants to know the whole
history of the light during the medium's life time
and presently asks :
}
Does the light reach its maximum with the body's
maturity 1
Yes. Then, it is due to the natural growth of the
interior.
But the interior does not diminish with the decay
of the body ?
Exactly. But it grows higher in itself, consequently
does not require the use of the disembodied. I am
trying to explain {how} your own spirit grows.
But if the spirit grows why does the light fade ?
Why, if the spirit grows ?
392 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
D. I do not know.
R. H. Do you think because its energy is dependent on
the bodily organism ?
D. Yes, somewhat.
* * * *
R. H. On each particular visit the light gets used up * * *
in twenty four hours there is fresh light. How is it
manufactured ?
D. From our own sphere.
R. H. What causes its manufacture ?
D. What causes its manufacture ? This I will explain
another time, when I am a little clearer
R. H. The light is not so good to-day ? D. No.
R. H. Is the medium exhausted physically ?
D. I think her spirit is weak. I saw it as it was being
removed.
She, unlike most persons draws from our world an
abundance of light to her, and when . . . she has
drawn sufficiently it takes another form of light
than ours, different.
R. H She lays up a store of energy by the fact that her
interior draws from your world ?
D. Yes, exactly, why this is the only thing I have
conveyed to your understanding clearly.
R. H. When she is weak, owing to the relation between her
interior and her material organism, she does not
draw so much ?
D Yes. yes. Have you it now ?
R. H. I think I've got that clearly
3 * * *
{Later at the same sitting, when Doctor leaves, G. P.
writes, and asks}
G. P. H. what is up with him ?
R. H. He's not up to scratch to-day.
G. P. Too dark for him ?
R. H. The light's a little dark for him, I suppose.
G. P. He is not so used to it as I am, and he would get
confused when I would not. * * * What can you
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance.—Appendix. 393
make out of my answers H. ? Were they at all
coherent ?
R. H. When ? G. P. Always.
R. H. Very good for the most part.
G. P. Well, his will be.
R. H. He went to pieces awfully to-day. He went to pieces
somewhat yesterday. The light's dim ?
G. P. Yes, there is not as much as usual
sji j{c igS SjS
(Dec. 14, 1896.)
Imperator writing.
9|C ^ ¥ *M
{Hodgson says " the writing is so faint and scrawty,
with words omitted and then inserted, etc.," that
he wrote them himself on the edge of the paper to
save difficulties in deciphering afterwards.}
R. H. I don't hear you speak.
Imp. Because we speak by thought.
R. H. You hear me speak. Imp. Yes.
R. H. But I do not hear you speak.
Imp. Because I am invisible to you. Your spiritual eyes
are closed while in your present environment.
R. H. I might possibly hear you speak without seeing you.
Imp. Yes, indeed, and under possible conditions your
spiritual eyes might be opened and you might see
me. [Hand bows as in prayer.] Pardon me.
R. H. But how is your speech transformed into writing ?
Dr. Phinuit acts upon the muscles of speech I
suppose in the ordinary way, and he speaks with the
medium's mouth and I hear him.
Imp. Yes, yet he does not prevent others from entering
one of the branches.
R. H. But when you enter the branch, how exactly, by
what exact process does your speech come out in
written words ?
Imp. I do not know.
R. H. * * * I think of moving my fingers, and I move
them. We can say in general terms that a change
394 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
in the brain is followed by other changes in nerves
and muscles, and the result is movement of the
fingers. * * * I suppose there is something analo-
gous here ?
Imp. Yes, quite. I follow. I think independently when my
thoughts are registered * * *
R. H. Your independent thought acts upon the branch, and
the branch functions as it is in the habit of
functioning.
Imp. Yes, exactly, like your own.
R. H. Well I should like to ask another question. How is
the light renewed day by day ?
* * * *
Imp. Light is spirit force drawn up by the interior or
normal [?] spirit of the medium from our own world.
The whole atmosphere of our world is light or
spirit. There is a crevice through which the forces
escape, drawn from the battery of the medium.
R. H. A crevice into your world ?
Imp. No, into your own. Let me speak.
Supposing your room or mortal dwelling was filled
with smoke. It was power. Supposing it were
inhabited by spirits. Now then in an adjoining
compartment there lived mortals * * * desiring to gain
some knowledge * * * concerning the inhabitants
of the adjoining dwellings * * * supposing there
was a crevice * * * through which more or less
of the smoke could pass. * * * Supposing there was
one (or two, for instance, persons) within this
mortal dwelling who was more sensitive to the
smoke than the others, by or due to the laws of
attraction. Well, supposing the one or more sensi-
tives received into their organisms superabundance
of smoke. Now then, by so becoming impregnated
with this amount of smoke, their organisms become
attractive to the spirits living in their own sphere.
* * * Now then there is such a quantity taking
[entering ?] the organisms of those sensitives that by
natural law * * * they attract the spirits. Now then,
the spirits say to themselves, there beyond ... or
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 395
behind this crevice or opening there is or has escaped
some of our own atmosphere or light. This being
intermingled with their own natural light or lights,
changes its colour and condition so completely that
it gives a brighter glow to the spirits. Understand ?
R. H. Yes. I think so. Those organisms that have absorbed
some of your atmosphere, * * * become more brightly
luminous and draw the attention of spirits in the
other world.
Imp. Yes. Now then, they wish to use their own power
of speech, and in order to do this they gather
from their own sphere, light, strength etc. and
with this they enter the adjoining room, seize the
person who has become filled with their spiritual
atmosphere, power. Then they suddenly find that
they have power to use the entire system. Now
they begin to seek light for your world. * * *
They live on it until it becomes exhausted.
{Dec. 15, 1896.)
Imperator writing.
R. H. Has your atmosphere any direct relation with what
we call luminiferous ether ?
Imp. Oh yes indeed it is and all spiritual beings are
luminiferous ether, also the atmosphere of our
world. * * * The spiritual part of mortals is
composed of luminiferous ether, and when the
spiritual eyes open, they are able to discern spirits.
For instance the spirit presents itself to the spirit
vision—can be easily seen. The impression is re-
ceived through the retina. Have you my idea ? I
do not think you have.
R. H. I think I have it now. The spirit sees another spirit
owing to etherial action on the etherial retina, just
as I see a material body owing to etherial vibra-
tions on my protoplasmic retina.
Imp. Yes . . . yes, yes, exactly.
Now, then, should (under favourable conditions),
the spiritual ear open, one could easily hear the
voice of the spirit.
396 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H. But there is a difference there, isn't there ?
Imp. Yes. I will explain. The eye is better able to see
than ear is to hear, because the words are given by
thought impression.
R. H. Not by actual waves. Imp. No sounds.
R. H. But in case of seeing there are etherial vibrations.
Imp. Yes. I am waiting. You must question me, my
friend, for my understanding as to what you most
wish to know.
Is *i* H*
R. H. The interior consciousness of a mortal writes auto-
matically as we call it.
Imp. Yes, and when it is unaccompanied by a trance or
other coma it is bound to be more or less un-
reliable. UD.
{Imperator has just explained that for the word
" understand " he will in future use UD. and will
teach others to do so.}
R. H. If the medium's etherial is still there, some of his
own thoughts may be confused with the message.
Imp. Quite.
R. H. Sometimes it may be a dissociated fragment of the
writer's ordinary mind that writes ?
Imp. Quite.
R. H. When the interior consciousness writes it is sensitive
telepathically. Imp. Yes.
R. H. Now (1) It may be influenced by a spirit or spirits
Imp. Yes indeed
R. H. (2) It may be influenced by the exterior conscious-
ness of an incarned person present.
Imp. Yes.
R. H. (3) It may be influenced by the exterior conscious-
ness of an incarnated person not present.
Imp. Yes.
R H. (4) May it be influenced by the interior consciousness
of an incarned person present or absent ?
Imp. Not so.
R. H. Why no, when a spirit can influence it ?
Imp. Because we are free to act.
R. H. And the interior of the incarned person is shut up
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 397
Imp. Exactly.
{Hodgson elicits, however, that the interior conscious-
ness may in certain cases leave the body, and is
then practically a spirit, capable of acting on the
interior consciousness of the medium. Also the
medium's own interior consciousness may sometimes
go out and get a " peep " into the spirit world,
and come back and write as a higher self}
R. H. It's analogous to the medium's speech on her return
{i.e. in the waking-stage}. If she had been differ-
ently constituted she might have written it.
Imp. Yes.
* * * *
(January 1, 1897.)
Rector writes.
{This is the account of Rector's first important
appearance. He had previously controlled on Nov.
14, 1896, confusedly (see Appendix to Chapter III.
p. 470), and again on Dec. 17, 1896, two days after
Hodgson had referred to him, in the course of a
sitting, as having acted as Imperator's amanuensis
for W. Stainton Moses. He is introduced by Doctor
and described as a very serious fellow.}
R. Who are you. I am Rector.
R. H. How does it seem to come into this light ? Tell me
how you got here.
R. I will. I saw a Jack o' Lantern. I am its light.
R. H. What do you do ?
R. I am inside of an empty shell filled with spirit air.
I breathe, see, live, exist.
R. H. In the shell ?
R. Of course. Yes and whisper to or through the holes
in the shell, and the air from your world receives
the sound of my voice and registers it for your
vision.
R. H. Not the air, Doctor, the medium's arm.
R. I am not doctor. R. H. Rector I should say,
R. It does. It is crude indeed, yet it is the clearest way.
Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
[Hodgson explains about movements of medium's
hand and arm, etc., touching the elbow, forearm,
tips of fingers]
Hsad [forefinger] that's my ear.
afE $ $
[Elbow bumps a little]
What are you doing ?
Well I was simply changing my position in the shell.
Now when you speak you don't affect the air in our
world. You may affect the ether in connection
with the protoplasm of the medium's arm and so
cause it to move.
Yes, precisely.
*K *fc *i* i|s
I speak as you would hear the wind blow
And that acts upon the nervous system of the
medium's arm and it writes ?
Yes because it has passed under the control of my
voice spiritually
* * * *
I see the mortal body of a woman—I see her spirit
rising way above the body, I see ... it seems to be
coming closer to our world * * * After it has come
into contact with the outer edge of our world, we
rush
Can't read
Step forward, since all is transparent to us, we
raise the veil namely ether * * * and allow her
to enter while we pass out beside her.
She passes into the spirit world and you pass into
the material world ?
Exactly. Her body is like a fountain or large reser-
voir which becomes filled with the etherial atmo-
sphere of our world. This looks like our own light
{Passing into the atmosphere of the medium} we by
the two forces are able to speak.
Two forces, your own and the medium's.
Yes, the material and etherial. We then speak as
we should to one another before we have passed
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 399
through this change [?] well [?] we find the fountain
which at the time of communication is filled with
our own ether. We find our thoughts are being
registered by the machine. Although we do not
see our thoughts written, we are conscious of using
the machine.
i{C ijl SjC Jjc
This is how it seems. Is it clear to you ? Do you
know any more than you did before you asked ?
R. H. No, I don't think I do. Doctor gave me pretty
nearly the same account.
{January 12, 1897.)
Present, Hodgson and Mrs. Blodgett.
{Hannah Wild 1
has been controlling, and then G. P.,
to whom Hodgson explains about her. G. P. then
talks to her, his side of the conversation getting
recorded.
}
[Between G. P. and invisible. Hand listening, etc.]
Will take care of that . . . yes you keep that in
your mind until next time . . . yes and give it
yourself . . . yes, very good ... of course I will
. . . certainly . . . most assuredly.
[G. P. apparently explaining to Hannah Wild about
the writing, the block-book, the leaves, etc. The
finger moves along paper as though tracing lines,
and writes near the bottom of the page] all.
[Next page.] Commence on the top like this and
write down . . . see . . .
[Hand and arm jerks back suddenly] but, well now
you came near putting me out {and so forth.}
(January 29, 1897.)
Doctor controlling for the first time since December 11th,
—
except when he came to introduce Rector on January 1
and very briefly on another occasion.
* * * *
1
Hannah Wild, see p. 291.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PABT
D. (writing). I wish to take up where I left off.
R. H. I forget at this moment just where it was.
D. We were discussing the peculiar condition of man's
interior exterior etc. * * * I weakened and left
suddenly * * *
R. H. I remember now, it was about the growth of the
light. What causes improvement of the light and
what causes its decay ?
D. The growth age and declining years of the medium
. . . growth, the advancement. . . .
R. H. Not specific enough. What causes its growth ?
D. Ah the light which we use comes from our own
sphere and is improved by keeping away all evil
or outside influences.
R. H. What do you mean by evil influences ?
D. I mean disturbing elements such as idle curiosity
seekers.
* # * *
(January 30, 1897.)
Imperator writing.
i|S 9fS S|S 3f!
R. H. When the medium's spirit leaves her body, does she
carry with her her exterior consciousness %
Imp. Thoroughly. The spirit, 1
as I term it for your
understanding removes the exterior sense.
R. H. What becomes of the intermediate or animal or
sense mind ?
2
Imp. Lies dormant, unused.
R. H. As though it were sealed up ?
1
Probably the spirit of the medium.
2
Imperator had explained on December 15, 1896, that : —There is an
intermediate self. Exterior acting mind, interior or only occasionally acting
mind. (R. H. That corresponds to the ego ?) Imp Yes exactly. . . .
The material mind or (R. H. That's the intermediate ? * * * There are
three minds, the exterior, the interior, and the material or intermediate.)
Imp. Yes, yes. Call it sense (R. H. The intermediate mind sense ?) Imp.
Yes {He goes on to say that the intermediate mind always acts for evil,
and that it is this which is the perishable part of mortal man, though its
effects on the interior may remain for long afterwards.
}
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 401
Imp. As though it were, to use one of your own terms,
dead.
R. H. Is there no chance of that affecting any controlling
spirit ?
Imp. Absolutely none in this case.
R. H. In some mediums it might ?
Imp. Yes, especially where * * * the spirit has not al-
together removed the normal or exterior sense
* * * Consequently the threads of normal thought
remain unbroken by the spirit which in such cases
causes an entanglement.
R. H. In this case they're all removed ?
Imp. Every vestige.
R. H. The interior or spirit of this medium leaves the
body ?
Imp. Yes and with it takes the exterior altogether, while
in some cases.
R. H. There are fragments of the exterior left.
Imp. Thes 0 are not wholly removed.
R. H. The controlling spirit clears these away.
Imp. Yes, quite. R. H. Or he should do so.
Imp. Yes, and when he does his complete and faithful
work he has done this.
R. H. Do they go with the medium's interior consciousness
and the rest of her exterior ?
Imp. Yes, making the spirit and exterior completely * * *
excluded, and as it were combined.
* * * *
{R. H. asks concerning origin of the interior and
exterior and the animal or sense mind in the
course of evolution}
Imp. Of course you will understand that evolution is the
working of spirit.
R. H. I regard all the successive material changes in Evolu-
tion as the manifestations of spirit.
Imp. Yes, this theory is the only correct one. Now with
the horse the material matter is of a coarser origin
than that of man, consequently cannot by spirit
be developed into anything higher, while in the
act of inhabiting matter be anything but a horse,
•2 c
402 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
* * * and purposely made so for the use and
convenience of man. * * *
R. H. But birds and monkeys have an interior consciousness.
Imp. Yes, and evolute according to the laws of God after
the disposition of the material form. They are
specimens to denote the higher part of man.
R. H. Typical ?
Imp. Yes, for instance, the spiritual part of man is repre-
sented by the bird, while the lower nature of man
is represented by the lower animals for instance
the lion tiger etc.
(February 1, 1897.)
Rector controlling.
* * * *
[Hodgson tries different positions of the hand for
hearing]
R. As you are . . . Better so. [He prefers the position
with back of hand upward]
R. H. What position is your body in ?
R. My ear is at your mouth. I have my head placed
upon the light and I say move [?] speak
* * * *
{Rector states that the spirit body, e.g. Rector's own, is
composed of luminiferous ether. Foolish talk follows
about gas—made from coal—and Hodgson explains
the meaning of molecules and the formula H20.
Rector continues :
}
I think I will take gas {not water} for your under-
standing. Supposing your spirit was composed of
gas. Its action on the body would not be the same
as it is to-day. It would produce as you would term
it suffocation. Well then the body would be dormant,
or in your own words dead. Very well, so would the
gas be also * * * Now we will take the ether, as
there is no similarity to gas, in the spiritual sense. The
spiritual ether is composed as we understand it of
both [?] hydrogen and oxygen.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 403
R. H. Can't read that. R. Oxygen and hydrogen
R. H. Composed of oxygen and hydrogen !
R. The spiritual ether is not composed of oxygen and
hydrogen.
R. H. I know it isn't.
R. It is composed of the finer tissues termed lumini-
ferous ether because it is or can be seen by the
spiritual eyes of mortals. UD.
R. H. No you've got off the track. * * *
R. What do you mean by that ?
R. H. [reads some sentences proceeding]
R. Oh I see you do not get only half of my thoughts.
{R. H. changes the subject. Later in the sitting
he asks}
R. H. Is the light ebbing ?
R. Yes I think it is, yet I wish to go on if my
light remains.
* * * *
R. {later} I now at this moment have a fresh current of light.
# Hs * Ns
(February 2, 1897.)
Doctor writing.
R. H. [trying experiments as to best position of hand for
hearing.] Do you hear with your (right or left
ear ?
D. Left of course.
R. H. [turning the hand over to other position] and now with
your right.
D. Yes.
R. H. Is your spirit body as big as mine. I mean is it
about the size of an ordinary human form ?
D. Yes.
R. H. Does it occupy space ? D. Yes.
R. H. And remains the same size ? D. Yes.
R. H. Where is your head ? D. Near your own.
R. H. Where are your heels ?
D. Strange question * * * on the lower extremities of
my body.
404 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Here are your ears ? [touches the inside of palm and
the finger ends.]
Yes.
What part of your body am I touching now ? [squeezes
wrist a little]
I do not understand you.
Now ? [squeezes elbow]
You are not touching my body at all, Sir.
* * * *
R. H. [swings the arm up and down several times with the
elbow-joint as hinge] What did I do ?
D. You have simply tossed my head about in the
suffocating air of earth.
* * * *
R. H. Can you shake hands with me ?
D. Yes, but you will not realize it
R. H. Well try. [R. H. holds out his hand. Pause.]
D. Do you feel me ?
R. H. No. You could change your position and shake
hands with me as some of my friends do.
D. Ah. I will turn around if you wish. [Curving move-
ments of hand and arm. Then shakes hands]
Speak.
R. H. Were you conscious of shaking hands ?
D. I used the instrument of the material
R. H. You have to change your position to do that ?
D. Yes. * * * I will turn back. [Slight movements of
hand and arm again]
R. H. Are you now in your original position ?
D. Yes.
R. H. The spirit body is not compressed or diminished in
size in the act of communicating ?
D. Not at all. I simply bow my head, and at the same
time hold the hand and arm of the medium while
I speak to you, with you.
R. H. You seize the arm and hand of the medium with
your hand ?
D. Yes, one hand, and when I wish to hear your voice
I place my head upon that hand also.
R. H.
D.
R. H.
D.
R. H.
D.
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance.—Appendix. 405
R. H. Do you seize one hand of the medium with both
of yours ?
D. No one hand * * * I have one free which I move
in assent to other minds. [Hand speirs.]
R. H. Head going forward ?
D. Yes, quite. For example, [Hand speirs and gestures
a little] speaking and listening to Rector.
R. H. Is the spirit body always the same size ?
D. Yes, indeed.
R. H. Always looks like a human being ?
D. Yes, or more like a shadowy form of a human being.
R. H. Does it look to you like a shadowy form ?
D. No, but to mortals.
R. H. But I want to know how it looks to you 1
D. Ah yes, like a mortal very much improved.
R. H. Is it luminous ?
D. Yes indeed.
R. H. Are some more luminous than others ?
D. Yes. Depends chiefly upon their advancement from
earth.
#
R. H. You have a spirit body, but I have also one just
like it.
D. Yes indeed, only you have still a mortal covering as
it were.
R. H. What is the origin of that spirit or etherial body ?
D. I have already explained it.
R. H. Not to me.
D. Not to you
R. H. No.
D. Moses [The writing here begins to show signs of
dreaminess] You are the image of God and he
alone understands the development of the etherial
body. No spirit understands this.
{After a little more talk Doctor is " called away "
and Imperator intervenes}
Imp. What means this confusion of thought ? The
light is not so good * * * I am looking the situa-
tion over. No, it is due to the undevelopment of
my advisers, undevelopment of the controllers.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Want of development. That will pass away ?
Yes, most, surely. I am advised by God. The spirit
of man is or begins with the beginning of the
covering or body, begins as a spark of light. It
contains heat, light, is like in beginning to a little
spark of light
The beginning of the etherial body ?
Yes, or the spirit
{He goes on to say that it develops and grows as
does the protoplasmic body.}
On February 4, 1897, in the course of conversation, Hodg-
son reminds Doctor that he was dazed when, in replying
to his question concerning the growth of the spirit body or
etherial body, he said that no spirits knew how they
developed, etc., and that Imperator had to come and put
matters right. Doctor thereupon writes :
" I have here-
tofore told you distinctly that I was not as yet familiar with
the workings of this light, have I not ? " Hodgson explains
again that he has at present no means of determining what
statements can be relied upon and suggests : "I think your
confusion the other day may have been my fault, and may
have been caused by my shaking your head about in the
suffocating air of earth " (see above, p. 404). Doctor accepts
this explanation at once, and says : "it disturbed my line
of thought so completely I could not finally hold on to the
light." We must observe, however, that there was no sign
of disturbance or annoyance at the time, that Doctor and
Hodgson conversed for some time afterwards, and that the
explanation was not suggested by Doctor.
{February 5, 1897.)
Imperator writing.
H* •(* H*
Imp. The etherial or spiritual body is composed of air,
light and a large amount of hydrogen which is the
lightest of anything known to us. It has sense of
hearing, feeling, seeing and speaking. It is composed
of heat, light, air, hydrogen, is light and exquisitely
fine, the finest of anything possible. Etherial . . .
406
R. H.
Imp.
R. H.
Imp.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance.—Appendix. 407
fibre, and the most delicately constructed parts of
light. UD. ? Do you hear me ?
R. H. I can't harmonize that with anything which we
know.
Imp. Very good. Very well. It is as it is and will be
made known to you in later years. You have
materially speaking a knowledge of luminiferous
ether, have you not ?
R. H. We know something about it.
Imp. It is obscure.
R. H. We know something that it isn't, we know that it's
not air nor hydrogen
Imp. Not air of your planet. There are different kinds of
air ;
light.
jl sfc *(•
Imp. I do not feel sure that you hear all I am saying. It
perhaps does not register well.
R. H. It is difficult to read chiefly because the marks are
nearly always extremely faint when you speak.
Imp. It cannot be otherwise. I am not so near your
planet as are some others.
SjS !(S SfS
R. H. Luminiferous ether is vastly more subtle than air or
hydrogen.
Imp. Yes, so it is, but it is beyond your comprehension
. . . hydrogen I mention the word * * * so that
you may know how delicate and exquisitely fine
it must necessarily be. Hydrogen according to
your crude science is at least 14 or 15 degrees
fighter, finer than your air, * * * while ours is
many times more fine than this which is known to
you as hydrogen.
R. H. Your hydrogen.
Imp. Yes.1
SjS SfS ifc 5|i
Imp. Vacium. I must dwell on vacium.
R. H. Something known to you and not known to us ?
1
On February 1 1 Lmperator wrote : Thou hast misunderstood my com-
parison of Hydrogen. R. H. Your thoaght was not expressed. Confusion
owing to bad machine. Imp. Yes I am not yet in rapport with it.
408 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PAET
Imp. Yes, termed by you hydrogen.
R. H. Is vacium the name for what we call hydrogen or
what you call hydrogen ?
Imp. We call hydrogen. Our constitution has no such
thing as your hydrogen.
R. H. And what you call vacium is a constituent of your
etherial body ?
Imp. Yes, you can only ... I do not at present know
how or what I can compare it with * * * in fact
the only expression for it is spiritual. 1
* * * *
{R. H. puts his difficulty again re the statement that
the etherial body was composed of air and hydrogen,
dwelling especially on hydrogen.
}
Imp. Ah yes. Thou hast made it clear to me. I wish
vacium used instead.
R. H. Vacium is the chief constituent of the etherial body ?
Imp. Yes, this will explain it.
* * * *
R. H. You mean that the ether consists partly of vacium
and partly of something else ?
Imp. I do. Light is true. Light is real.
R. H. Vacium is a kind of subtle matter ?
Imp. With which our bodies are composed.
{Feb. 6, 1897.)
Imperator writing.
Imp. * * * O friend the machine is imperfect. I find it
battered and worn. There is a barrier in my path.
^ % ^
The spiritual body is composed of love and wisdom,
and the relations which it bears to the material
are as cause is to effect.
[About here {R. H. reports} I asked if he meant that
they were the real things of which the material
1
Further on he says Vacium " is a body thoroughly spiritualised and
pure, a part of God. . .
."
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 409
represented our objective perceptions. Hand assented
strongly.]
Imp. Love is a substance * * * It is purer lighter higher
and more real and exquisite than anything else
known to mortal man. It is truth purity and
sincerity * * *
Remember that the chief substance is vacium known
as love. It is the part of man which prompts him
to rise or fall. * * *
When the spirit of love is wakened it is the first
real sense which {man} perceives of God. This is
real spiritual ether.
R. H. Ah yes. From the idealistic point of view. Ether
is the shadow, or the representation on the material
plane, the physical analogue, of love,—which is the
real thing. [Strong assent.]
Imp. Yes . . . yes. There can be and is none other. This
is the substance of the spiritual and is the true
and real thing.
* * * *
{Imperator explains further that in time the spirit,
" which is composed of love, wisdom, truth," and
" is light and life," " will sever its connection with
the body and will return to God who gave it. It
will then become a distinct part of God * * *
It will still continue to live, as it is the life in
itself. Yet it will continue to resemble the body
which it now controls." Then follows a long and
somewhat obscure discussion concerning the etherial
covering of spirit and mortal body. So far as can
be made out, it is apparently asserted that while in
the mortal body the etherial network or spirit has
(1) a protoplasmic covering or earthly body, (2) an
etherial covering, similar to the membrane within
the shell of an egg. This etherial covering is re-
tained by the spirit after severance from the mortal
body. When the etherial spirit temporarily leaves
its mortal habitation, as in Mrs. Piper's case, the
etherial covering is left behind, otherwise the mortal
body would die.}
410 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H. She goes out.
Imp. No.
R. H. You take her out.
Imp. Yes, through the heart.
R. H. Is there some connecting link between her and the
covering ?
Imp. Yes.
R. H. Composed of etherial, I suppose. Is that the cord ?
Imp. Yes, known to us as a cord also, etherial.
R. H. If the cord were destroyed, the medium would pass
away altogether.
Imp. Yes we could no longer operate.
{February 11, 1897.)
Imperator writing.
* * * *
Imp. Didst thou ask where Heaven is ?
R. H Yes * * *
Imp. It is an etherial canopy. It surrounds and is close
to earth, a little above it, separated only by an
etherial veil or canopy, through which we are
permitted to see the earthly plane below.
* * * *
{The veil is} analogous to the covering of an egg
* * * There are openings through which we some-
times pass * * *
R. H. What is it that makes the openings in that ?
Imp. The pressure is very great, due to the power of the
spirit of the medium which presses as it were
against the covering, and presses with such force
that it is allowed to enter by a thread. When this
is being done the thread is taken up by some
spirit and used.
* * * *
R. H. A spirit acting from your side of the veil draws out the
spirit of the medium and draws it to the veil. The
pressure then upon the veil carries the spirit through.
Through that aperture the spirit from your world
passes.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 411
Imp. Yes, yes, yes, passes through to you.
R. H. Can you not yourselves, I refer to ordinary spirits
developed or otherwise, pass through that veil to
earth without help of a medium ?
Imp. Yes, attracted by love, which is part of our own
being, only love of some one.
R. H. Do you mean that no one can pass back through
the veil unless drawn by love ?
Imp. I do.
S|S S|S (! Sfl
R. H. This veil between you and us, is it many miles above
the earth ?
Imp. Would seem many to you, millions as it were, yet
to us it is near.
* * * *
(February 15, 1897.)
Rector controlling [very wild at first].
R. Rector, I am Rector, sent here by Imperator . . .
excuse me ... to see a man named Hogman.
R. H. Do you think that's my name ?
R. Yes.
R. H. It isn't. My name is HODGSON
R. Hodgson, excuse me
R. H. Quiet, quiet, keep quiet. Restrain yourself
R. Too much
R. H. Too much light ? [assent]
'
#
R. {Concerning|j]
physical phenomena of spiritualism.} In
some cases {i.e. as appears later when the light is
very bright} we are able to remove the spirit of
the medium entirely and use our own etherial
instead. In cases where we make ourselves manifest
by rappings etc. we act on the strength which we
gather from the medium's own spirit * * * The
fountain is filled with light, too much so.
R. H. This one is now ?
R. Yes
R. H. You mean that when you produce what we speak of
412 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
as physical phenomena, you do it by being or
remaining without the medium's body and by using
drawing ... I beg your pardon
by drawing the etherial energy 1
from the etherial
body of the medium.
I do, and this is precisely what we do. * * *
(February 16, 1897.)
Doctor writing.
Sjc ij£ ijc *f£
R. H. Could you tell me how much you see when you are
in this room but not in connexion with the body ?
D. Material things, such as objects etc. ?
R. H. Yes.
D. Yes, indeed, I see the articles which in appearance
are like dark shadows. For instance, I see what
appears to me as a table. I see also chairs. I
could not at this moment tell you how many. I
should be obliged to try the experiment of standing
apart from the medium and look about specifically
and then return to the light which I put into action
by my own thought
* * * *
R. H. You see objects very dimly as though looking through
a murky glass ?
D. Yes.
R. H. When you are communicating {controlling}, as now,
do you see more or less ?
D. Less.2
* * * *
R. H. Do you see this book on which you write ?
D. No not at this moment.
R. H. Do you see the pencil which is in the medium's
hand ?
D. I do not distinctly.
R. H. Do you feel it ?
1
Described by Rector as chemical energy on February 18.
2
But compare Stain ton Moses' statement on March 2, 1897 (see below
p. 414).
R.
R. H.
R.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 413
D. No.
R. H. When I give you the pencil what do you feel ?
D. I feel the slight pressure of your own etherial.
R. H. When you come first and show your readiness to
begin to express your thoughts to me, what do you
do ?
D. Owing to the extension of the etherial which surrounds
the medium I am enabled thereby to express my
thoughts, using the surplus etherial.
R. H. When you first come you usually act so that the
medium's hand sticks out in front, and the fingers
spread a little so as to suggest that they are
waiting for me to place a pencil between them.
What in your mind corresponds to that specific
motion ?
D. Speaking as it were to another spirit * * * I have
no way by which I can speak to you other than
picking up this material hand, and when I speak
to it, it replies for me.
R. H. What are you conscious of in that first motion ?
D. Asking for a pencil.
R. H. But you do not say that in words do you ?
D. Yes certainly ; I express this as ... I ask Rector
a question, or any other spirit.
{At this sitting Hodgson suggests that when "the other
light "
—
i.e. the one Myers is sitting with in England—be-
comes more developed so that her spirit is entirely removed,
the spirits of the two mediums might interchange bodies
and each communicate through the other. Doctor declares
this quite possible and safe, and is strongly in favour of
having the experiment tried.}
{February 19, 1897.)
Rector, {excusing himself for interrupting Hodgson earlier in
the sitting} when I enter here the light burns
brightly and after I have been here a short time
it begins to expire. Consequently I try to take
advantage of it and I do my very best to hear
414 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
you also register my thoughts and your UD. before
the light burns out.
(March 2, 1897.)
W. Stainton Moses writing.
W. S. M. There is a great difference in lights. Through some
we may be able to speak directly while through
others we must send our messages to our friends
through the controlling spirit, and in this case it is
never so clear. Neither can we see our friends as
clearly. 1
{March 31, 1897.)
George Eliot writing.
G. E. Did you see the fountain filling ?
R. H. No, I don't think so.
Q. E. I did plainly
R. H. Can you describe the operation ?
G. E. Yes I think so. I saw several of the higher order
of spirits rushing forward towards the opening in
the veil of etherial light which separates our world
from yours. I saw the incarned spirit of this body
brighten with the etherial light from our own world.
I saw them whisper to the incarned spirit. I heard
them whispering Come with us and let us send
friends from our world to take up thy body ; and
speak to those below. I saw the incarned spirit
passing out and saw it enter through the opening
through which I have just passed. The instant this
change took place the whole body became filled
with etherial light ; and I heard one voice, of our
commander in chief, say " All is ready for thee to
go forth and take up thy work. Kindly now pass."
I did so, using the etherial light through which to
act. * * * You will understand that if we had
nothing etherial with which to act, we could not
do so.
1
But compare Doctor's remark on February 16, 1897, about difficulty
of seeing while controlling (see above, p. 412).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 415
R. H. I understand.
G. E. When we are in the act of communicating with you
or in fact anyone we draw ether from our world
continually * * * We act as long as we can keep
the incarned spirit out. We are intelligent enough
to know and understand just how much we can
do, and when we have finished we simply withdraw,
and as we return to our own world, the incarned spirit
which has been temporarily removed by us, returns
again to its body without being injured in any way.
And I would further say by way [of] explanation
that when the spirit has taken up its body again,
it is no longer fight to us i.e. for 1
some time.
Of course in this case there is nothing to which
we are attracted * * * There should be nothing
whatever mysterious about it. The same conditions
have existed from the beginning of your world.
{That is, as explained later, since the evolution of
man.}
{Later in the sitting we get apparent localisation
of spirits, as follows:}
G. E. I am specially requested to ask you to assist Rector
in placing the body
sfc
Go over there please Rector, and I will remain here.
The machine is not registering so well for me I
think.
& * *
I repeat for one who is standing near {i.e. Imperator}.
May the grace of God be and abide with thee for
ever and ever. Amen. Imperator. G.E.
{April 1, 1897.)
{Rector controlling, and writing as amanuensis for Imperator.}
igC !|S Sj! S$S
[Hand twists block book round, and speirs out to
listen nearly in direction of my organism instead of,
1
The i.e. was first written after and above the for, but it was explained
that it was to be read before it. It was a case of a word inserted.
416 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
as previously, almost directly in front of Mrs.
Piper's.]
R. H. Is that position more convenient for you ?
R- I was following him {presumably Imperator}.
R. H. {Complains of the difficulty of reading because} the
whole word is more or less slurred over by the
organism and presents a hazy outline.
R. What do you mean by the organism
R. H. The medium's hand and arm.
R. We do not understand what you mean. Kindly
explain will you ?
R. H. You talk i.e. speak articulately, or perhaps I should
say, you think in the form of words which you
wish to convey to me. Do you not ? [assent]
R. Certainly
R. H. The structure of the medium's arm and hand, in the
fingers of which there is a pencil,—the structure,
I say, in some way unknown to us on this side,
and unknown apparently to you on your side, takes
up the words which you impress upon it as thought,
and reproduces them in the form of written words
on the paper which I provide. These written words,
if you think your words too rapidly, are written too
rapidly, and are therefore more or less abridged
and blurred. Some strokes or letters are omitted.
Sometimes a whole word is omitted.
R. We understand what you mean now, we think.
(May 7, 1897.)
Rector writing.
{Sitting coming to an end.}
We must now depart. We cannot remain longer. It
is impossible. We will break the spiritual covering.
(May 11, 1897.)
Rector writing for communicator, Mrs. Dow.
R. H. ... you dictate and he {Rector} writes.
Mrs. Dow. Yes. I am standing beside him while I am speak-
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 417
ing and the Holy Father {Imperator} is covering
him with spiritual light, the same Heavenly light
as that which we are now living in.
{May 26, 1897.)
Rector writing.
R. We draw from thy material strength unavoidably,
not intentionally, yet such is the case. In entering
into thy world we must have help
{June 9, 1897.)
Rector writing for Imperator.
Imp. We give thee this allotted time for the express purpose
of clothing the medium with more light, putting
the broken threads into repair. Thou wilt under-
stand that the whole spiritual covering consisteth
of a network of fine threads. Unless they are
each and every one of them in perfect repair, our
thoughts must necessarily be registered imperfectly.
F.
Extracts from Sittings after June, 1897.
{June 29, 1898.)
Sitter and Recorder Mrs. C—. {Control, probably Rector,
writing.}
Mrs. C. What is mediumship and the " light " ?
R. The body is a reservoir which becomes through our
desires filled with ether through which we pass and
give expression to thought.
{January 3, 1900.)
Sitter and Recorder Mrs. L. {Her friend, whom I will call
the communicator, is apparently communicating through
Rector, the latter acting as amanuensis.}
# if 4!
•2d
418 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
[Some disturbance in the hand]
Com. I am coming near to you dear, so I can hear you
better are you very near the medium dear.
Mrs. L. I'm sitting close beside her while you write and when
I speak to you I hold her hand near my lips.
Where is that head of yours ?
Com. It's in front of you dear. Do you not see me staring
at you ?
Mrs. L. No, I can't see or even feel you.
Com. I am right here and Rector is helping me to speak
to you and when I speak to him he whispers it
over the head of Imperator and it is repeated to
you.
Mrs. L. Yes, dear, where does the medium come in ? How
do you use her ?
Com. Rector is holding his hand over the medium's whole
body, and he has covered it with the light from
our world, and Imperator has called the spirit to
our world and sent Rector in its place * * * The
whole body of the medium becomes a reservoir
which, through the efforts of I. S. D. { = Imperator}
becomes filled with ether and is covered with ether
and remains so while we operate with it. Do you
U.D. this dear ?
Mrs. L. Yes I understand your description but it can't be
thoroughly understood from my side, I suppose.
{March 20, 1901.)
Sitter and Recorder Hodgson. Control Rector {acting as
amanuensis for Myersp.1
}
Myersp
Now I wish to say that I have waited patiently to
speak and tell you I have much matter collected
which will be of help to you in your search for
truth concerning our life here. Myers.
R. H. Good. I am listening.
Mybrsp
. There are I find great difficulties in sending com-
munications through this light known to us as
1
Frederic Myers had died on January 17, 1901.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance. —Appendix. 419
R. H.
MYERSp.
R. H.
MYERSp.
R. H.
Myersp'
R. H.
Myersc
Piper and the one chief obstacle is pressure of
material against the etherial.
The body of the light is precisely a machine and it
is not easy for the spirit to handle it sufficiently
well to prevent pressure, do you U.D.
I understand in part, but not . . .
What is it that you do not U.D.
Where is the pressure ?
It is in the spirit inhabiting the body, and as it is
removed by the Messengers it is lingering near the
communicator and cannot be removed entirely, i.e.
for any distance without breaking the cord. Is that
clear to you, this would mean what we used to
call death.
Yes. That is clear. How does the near presence of
Mrs. Piper's spirit interfere ?
The spirit does not interfere consciously but it pro-
duces a pressure against the clamouring mass of
spirits who are trying to reach your side, it stands
in the open doorway and cannot be removed beyond
it without severing it from the body, therefore all
who wish to speak must necessarily pass it. This
causes partial suffocation and is a decided obstacle
so far as our entering completely through to your
world is concerned. Does this clear up anything
in your mind.
Not anything special. Let me repeat. You say
that one cause of the confusion or tendency
to confusion is that the communicator must
crowd past Mrs. Piper's spiritual or etherial body
which is close to her fleshly body. Is that
correct ?
No, not at all correct. It entirely leaves the fleshly
body and remains dormant whilst we are present,
—
but it passes over the threshold and we must pass
it to enter here.
As I become accustomed to the necessary course
to pursue to enable me to speak I will be able
to impart much information to you which will
enable you to better U.D. the conditions which
420 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
were so perplexing to us both when I was with
you.
* * * *
Rector. Friend I am responsible for this communication.
Rector. I took it precisely as he gave it.
{February 19, 1902.)
Sitter and Recorder Hodgson. Control Rector {acting as
amanuensis for MyersP and then Sidgwickp.}
* * * *
MYEESp. Sidgwick is with me to-day can you possibly help
him.
[Hodgson gives hat lining out of parcel from bag.
Hand holds it a moment or two.]
Myersp {?}. All right
[Hand places hat lining on block book in front.]
SiDGwicKp . Well well I think I never saw you more clearly.
Our thoughts are registered through vibration.
Hear . . .
R. H. Yes, but vibration does not explain much.
SiDGwicKp. Well I hope to be able to explain. There are numer-
ous . . . [Pause]
Imperator. Hurry while the light burneth clearly. +
SiDGwicKp. Numerous fine network like wires or threads reaching
out from the object known and spoken of as light,
hear [Hodgson tries to decipher.] Anything left out
speak quickly
R. H. " Wires or threads " something.
SiDGwicKp. Sounds reaching out.
R. H. " Reaching out
"
SiDGwicKp. Yes extending out. These appear to be illuminated
. . . and as we are directed to them and approach
them we find by speaking directly over them the
sound is being registered on your side
R. H. Yes.
SiDGwicKp. and not infrequently do the sounds appear some-
what jumbled.
R. H. " Somewhat " ?
SiDGwicKp. Confused. R. H. Yes.
Sidgwick . We find that as time goes on we will be better
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 421
able to U.D. the exact conditions sufficiently well
to give you a more clear precise and scientific
explanation of it.
R. H. Yes.
SiDGwicKp
. The desire is so great on our part to reach you
U.D.ly that at times it [is] seems next to impossible
for us to prolong it and we feel like smashing the
threads almost. Yet we philosophise and think
better of it and wait on patiently studying closely
* * * into the conditions.
Rector. Is it clear friend. R. R. H. Yes, quite clear.
SiDowicKp. The sounds as repeated by the amanuensis known
as Rector are sometimes very wide of the mark
and might I have no doubt give rise to much
questioning on the part of scientific minds as to
the reality of our being present at all. U.D.
R. H. Yes.
StDGwicKp . Yet as a matter of fact we are present and studying
into the conditions while our expressions are being
repeated.
R. H. Yes.
SiDGwicKp. It is a long and difficult process, and I trust will
be made so . . . [wavering of hand] lost it . . .
[Hand moves as if for article. I put hat lining
in contact with it. Hand takes it for a moment,
then lays it down in front of sheet] perfect in . . .
lost it wait a moment.
{Myers then takes Sidgwick's place and talks of some-
thing else.}
May 27, 1902.)
Sitter and Recorder G. B. D. Control Rector speaking with
the voice for Imperator.
The Vibrations are such that, where the light in the
material world is clear and burneth as clearly as
this light doth, the thoughts of the beloved ones in
the unseen can be so clearly registered on the
mechanism as to produce an absolutely clear com-
munication and perfect understanding between the
two minds, the mind of the mortal and the thought
422 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
of the spirit speaking. In other words, the vibra-
tions are constantly in motion although perhaps
the mortal at a distance from the light may not
perceive that the thoughts of his friends in the
spiritual world are being registered upon his own
* * * #
These communications all come in consequence of
the etherial vibrations ; the thought becomes regis-
tered upon my mind and I give it out to thee just
as it comes. I borrow from the earthly side the
language which I use, to a certain extent. If I
were to speak to thee as we speak to each other
thou wouldst not hear it.
(Oct. 28, 1902.)
Sitter and Recorder G. B. D. Rector controlling using the
voice.
* * * *
R. Understand, friend, that the light is a reservoir
which is filled with etherial light from our world
and as long as I remain in the light I am drawing
constantly the etherial strength from our world ;
thereby I am helped by the communications.
(June 3, 1903.)
Sitter and Recorder Hodgson. {Communicator Mrs. H., a
friend of Hodgson's, who had recently died. She had sat
with Mrs. Pij>er and was interested in the phenomena.
Rector was acting as amanuensis for her.}
^S* *** *H
Communicatoe. I want to tell you that coming over is not so
hard. It is delightful to leave the body behind.
R. H. I wish you would give me as clear an account as
possible of your actual transition, your last moments
in the body, and the whole detail.
Com. I'll try. At the very last I did not realize
anything at all. I was unconscious for a short
time. When I recovered consciousness I was taking
leave of my body. I saw my Mother and my
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.-—Appendix. 423
little boy who had grown to manhood, he spoke
to me first and lifted my hand ... he said come
with me and I will show you where I live. I felt
his touch perfectly his voice was like some melody
I saw all round me illumination I felt cool and
indescribably free. I felt light in weight. I seemed
to move without difficulty. I came up into the
cool refreshing etherial atmosphere until my head
touched something quite movable like a [not com-
pleted. Then a pause.] ... to your U.D. a thin
curtain, it parted. We entered. And I was fully
awakened, to the reality of this life. While passing
up and over my body it was like being in a swing
. . . and being raised into the air above.
R. H. Yes ?
Com. it was exactly in sensation like this.
[Hand points to previous sentence.]
R. H. Yes.
Com. I had no thought of my body at the time I was
being led through the etherial height, it only
dawned upon me that my body was left behind
as I entered behind the etherial veil. Is this
understandable
.
R. H. Yes. Now tell me just when and how you came
here so soon after you left the body.
Com. I while passing into the etherial height suddenly
thought of my body and when I looked back to
see it I thought why that is the world below where
my body is I wonder if I can find some friend
whom I knew while on my way. I looked for you
especially as the thought passed over me that I
would acquaint you with my leaving. I saw the
spirit of a mortal which had been taken out of its
body on an etherial cord. I said I'll follow that
and see if I can find him. I followed it and said
tell him I am here I am leaving the mortal world
behind.
R. H. Yes ?
Com. I saw your etherial body shut up in darkness I
tried to speak with you but I could not make you
424 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
respond. I did catch the spirit of the mortal while
it was returning and I made it see me.
R. H. Yes ?
Com. I saw the spirit enter the dark receptacle and I
turned and went on with Mother and Pete until I
entered this world, the passing was only for an
hour or so. I am now speaking to you through
the opening in the open veil.
R. H. Yes ?
Com. others are near, whilst I am speaking
R. H. Yes ?
Com. What more can I tell you of my departure.
R. H. Did you come here before your head touched the
etherial curtain and it parted for you to enter ?
Com. Yes on my way through the veil I caught the spirit
leaving from the other side of the veil.
R. H. Did you recognize it ?
Com. the spirit . . .
R. H. Yes.
Com. Yes at the moment. I saw the most interesting
performance I ever witnessed I saw two clergymen 1
releasing it.
R. H. Yes ?
Com. they stood one on each side, and held it until they
were ready to release it then one of them repeated
a prayer to it and said I release thee go take up
thy life in the body.
R. H. Yes %
Com. I caught sight of it and followed it until it reached
the darkest enclosure I ever saw excepting when I
looked back and saw my body I then for the first
time recognized who the spirit was and I vaguely
saw you.
R. H. Yes.
Com. The spirit of the Medium passes out on a cord which
is attached to the heart or solar plexus I should
say.
R. H. Yes ?
1 Presumably Imperator and Rector or Prudens. On December 4, 1904,
a communicator speaks of " Rector and the other priest."
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 425
Com. it enters precisely the centre of the body.
R. H. Yes ?
Com. the cord is detachable, and is only placed there by
these clergymen.
R. H. That's very interesting. Go on.
Com. It moves slowly outward, held by them, until the
spirit follows out on it . . .
R. H. Yes ?
Com. it follows it until it reaches the Veil I speak of.
then the veil parts, and we are able to com-
municate through it along this cord to which I
refer.
R. H, Yes ?
Com. After a period of time the cord is extended a little
and the spirit is sent back and we are not allowed
to follow it after it once enters the body, the veil
closes and the spirit is back again to earth.
R. H. Yes ?
Com. What more can I tell you.
R. H. What happens when she feels as if a cap was put
over her, or her head cracks or snaps ?
1
Com. the cord is being detached, or attached in the
beginning it is attached when the sensation of the
cap is being donned or put on . . .
R. H. No, the . . . [Hand assents twice rapidly as if to
say that the obscurity would be cleared.]
Com. Wait a moment, then when the spirit returns and
the cord is being detached the Snap is heard.
R. H. Yes, that last part is all related, but she also some-
times at the end speaks as though a cap or
bonnet had been put over her, suggesting a sort of
extinguisher.
Com. Oh I U.D. it is when the mind is returning and
becomes possessed of its full material faculties, it
is only the sensation of recovering consciousness.
I know.
R. H. Well, it is the other aspect probably. That is, it is
not so much the sensation of recovering her material
1
For these sensations in the waking-stage see Chapter VI. below.
426 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PAKT
consciousness as the feeling of losing her spiritual
consciousness.
Com. Well this may be of course I do not actually experi-
ence with her but I do know what takes place.
R. H. Yes. First, after she returns, she is for a short time
conscious of you and the other friends in spirit,
she sees and hears you to some extent and repeats
things said to her.
Com. That is when the clergymen are nearest the body
waiting to detach the cord and the veil is open.
R. H. Yes. Then, she . . . the vision fades, the light she
sees disappears, or she says the window shuts, and
sometimes she says they put a bonnet over me.
Com. this is at the time when the clergymen are passing
through the veil and when they close it. She feels
the light is being extinguished * * * this is the
last process of removing the light or power for the
time being.
R. H. Yes I understand.
Com. anything more.
R. H. There is lots more, but . . .
Com. what did you say.
R. H. I say there is lots more, but I like to get as much
description as possible of how the whole thing
appears to you, what you do when you start to
come here, why you start, how you get here,
whom you speak to, how you speak, what the
process of communication looks like to you, and so
on. For example, I describe in detail how it seems
from my side, the beginning, how I leave my rooms,
go to the station, take train, then carriage, arrange-
ment of rooms, books to write in, pencil, Mrs.
Piper's going into trance, and so on in detail, and
some time I should be pleased to have any further
description from you of what it looks like to you,
because you know something of how it appears
from this side, and you are only recently on that
side, and your perception would probably be nearly
what most of us would see it as. Understand ?
Com. I think I do quite.
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 427
R. H. All that you have told me is very interesting.
Com. Well I have told you exactly what happened to rue
my experience and what takes place with the light.
R. H. Yes. The clergymen ... do they hold the spirit
in one place all the time that I am getting com-
munications ?
Com. Yes in one place they hardly move at all. and one
enters at the end on which the cord is attached
to the light : . .
R. H. Yes.
Com. this is the third.
R. H. Yes.
Com. clergyman.
R. H. I understand.
Com. he remains stationary also, he takes the place of the
spirit which has been removed, and a supply of
ether is furnished him over the cord during his stay
at the material end.
R. H. Yes. How long is the cord %
Com. I do not know exactly but I should think it was
about a quarter of a mile long.
R. H. Well, are you a quarter of a mile away from me
now ?
Com. Yes about this distance. I should say.
R. H. And where is Rector ? How near ?
Com. he is as near you as the body of the absent spirit
appears.
R. H. Yes. [Hand turns suddenly to Sp.]
Com. I hear over the cord at which he is at its end.
R. H. And my voice travels to you on the cord 1
Com. Yes if it were not for this I could not U.D. you.
R. H. And how does your thought reach Rector ?
Com. it reaches him over the cord also, it vibrates, to
him. and he speaks it to you . . .
R. H. Can you see what ... or rather how he speaks, to
me ?
Com. Yes. quite clearly. [Hand turns to R. H.]
R. H. Yes. I mean for you to describe it.
Com. Oh I see he is in full control at your end or his end
of the cord and he holds the hand of the body
428 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
using it as his . . . head and makes it vibrate
thereby registering my thoughts by writing. [Hodg-
son reads the sentence over slowly and distinctly a
second time.]
Com. I am a little weary . . .
R. H. Yes, better stop, the light is dimming.
Com. now and I will take this up some other time.
R. H. Yes. Time's up.
Com. The clergymen are beginning to get the spirit ready
to return. Good bye for the present. . .
(October 26, 1903.)
Sitter and Recorder R. H. Rector writing. {This is the first
sitting after the vacation, and Mrs. Piper, who has had
family trouble, is apparently not in good form for a sitting.
After a few remarks have been exchanged :
—
}
R. The power is weak and we are far off. We regret to
find it thus we may be able to come nearer presently
we know not friend until we try.
{A good deal later in the sitting Rector says}
R. We are supplying light now every moment. [Hodgson
interpreted this as meaning that special effort was
being made from moment to moment to make up
for the deficiency of '
light '
of Mrs. Piper.]
(February 24, 1904.)
Sitter and Recorder Hodgson. Rector writing, says immedi-
ately after greetings :
" We had a little difficulty in
attaching the cord this day." {This perhaps refers to the
fact that Mrs. Piper was rather slower than usual, after
the trance began to come on, in becoming completely
entranced.
}
(May 24, 1904.)
Sitter and Recorder Miss A. M. R. This is a voice sitting.
{Miss A. M. R., it will be remembered, had been a
frecpaent sitter in the Phinuit days (see Hodgson's first
Report, Vol. VIII., p. 111). Rector is controlling and
speaking for the communicator, a friend of Miss A. M. R's.}
A. M. R. How long does it take for you to come to me ?
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 429
Com. I would seem some distance from you if you could
see me as I am. When you have a desire to speak
with me,—there are spirits here who know every
mortal on the face of the earth ; that is, the same
one does not know, but the different ones know
every mortal, and they say, here is a friend, I
think she is a friend of yours . . . there the light is
beginning to burn, it is open, we have attached the
etherial cord and we will remove the spirit from the
light, take it to our world or out on the cord,
attach the cord to the shell, as it were, fill it with
our etherial light, and you can enter into it and
see if it is your friend and if so you follow Rector,
follow those that are used to the cord, and go to
the end of it and speak over it to Rector, who is
actually within the shell himself, and he will trans-
mit your message to you, to your friend. It takes
in all I suppose of your time five or ten minutes
perhaps for me to reach you.
{May 25, 1904.)
Sitter and Recorder Hodgson. Rector writing.
^ % ifc 5fc
Rector. I have at times great difficulty in holding my position
in the light and taking messages at the same time,
therefore if mortals can appreciate and U.D. the
difficulties I shall be grateful indeed.
R. H. We can understand only in part. I supposed that
when a communicator is giving names say to George
or yourself, and you or George may be thinking
these over again through the light and the writing
mechanism is reproducing what the sounds are
like, there is often much mistake somewhere in
one or other of the links, even where the
communicator is quite clear and is giving the name
correctly, and I thought that it might be a better
plan instead of doing this,—to go out, yourself
or George as the case might be, and take the
communicator also away and find the name from
him and return and give it yourself from memory.
430 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. I U.D. Apart from my registering, as I often do
unconsciously what is said on our side. I am sent
here for the purpose of holding the end of the cord
which is attached to the light while we are operating
and it would never do for me to release it until
the light began to grow dim. This with the many
many interrupted messages often keeps me in a
state of almost despair at the time when I am
supposed to give clear messages from really clear
talking spirits.
R. H. Yes ?
R. Realise what such a position means to me and thou
wilt U.D. me better.
R. H. Yes Rector I was suggesting a plan that might
perhaps cost more light and involve pauses, and
perhaps other costs or wastes that I do not know
about, but the results of which would be better
on this side, even if much less were obtained and
the communicator could talk only half as much.
R. [makes gesture of assent] Yes we often think our-
selves if they could say less in general and give
clear and good test messages the proofs would be
far more clear and . . . They would be proofs really
whereas general communications means little to those
who do not U.D. the conditions.
R. H. Yes.
R. We have talked all this over between ourselves and
tried many times to get the communicators to talk
less about trivial matters, and get down to facts
so to speak. We hope to accomplish something in
this line later on in time.
R. H. Yes. For . . .
R. George says if only one name or incident is given
even understandingly [?] well it is infinitely better
for those on thy side than all the general messages
we can give. U.D.
R. H. Yes for example, what I mean. Suppose Mary asks
for the names of John's brothers. You say at once
" I will go." You go out, and suppose George
takes your place, and talks to the ... to Mary
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 431
about general matters. He says John has gone
away with Rector and Rector will ask him about
the names of your brothers and return. In the
meantime can I ask . . . answer any general enquiry
about this life and so on. Then you finish with
John ;
you find out that his brothers names are
so-and-so and so-and-so, and you return and you
once more take the place of George, and say I
have talked with John and he tells me that his
brother's names are Arthur and whatever it is.
Then . . .
R. This is what George always tries to do. and since we
are learning all the time we hope to do better
from time to time instead of worse indeed we do.
{December 14, 1904.)
Sitter and Recorder Hodgson. Mrs. H. communicating through
Rector as on June 3rd, 1903, above.
#
R. H. You said you could be talking with me here, and
at the same time looking over and instructing some
one in your world.
Com. Yes. did I explain about the two clergymen who
helped me ?
R. H. You said a very little about that, but it was very
interesting. You said one of them was managing
the body of the light.
Com. Yes & he is at the moment.
R. H. Is he inside the body ?
Com. Yes . . .
R. H. Just like the incarnate spirit ?
Com. Yes . . . only he exists in the ether which he pro-
duces, let me explain in my own way.
there is a cord attached to the body of the light
about the centre of the so called stomach, the
cord is attached to the body by Rector. +{Imper-
ator} stands on one side at this end of the cord
& sends waves of ether over the cord into the body
of the light which after the cord is attached to the
body becomes for a moment an empty, shell.
432 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
immediately the waves of ether are sent over the
cord into the shell until it is completely filled with
ether directly this is filled Rector enters over the
cord enters into the receptacle or shell.
& begins operations. While he is operating with the
organism we stand at this end of the cord trans-
mitting messages over the cord to him. while he
registers our messages to you U. D.
R. H. Yes ? When does Mrs. Piper leave her body ?
Com. the moment the cord is attached to it.
R. H. Where does the cord come from ?
Com. our side.
R. H. Is it a loose cord so to speak ?
Com. No it is a long etherial cord similar or analogous to a
stream of light, sun fight . . . streaming into a
small round hole in a shade which has been drawn
down over a window U. D.
R. H. Yes, exactly. What I want to know is who makes
this cord ? Is it a fresh cord every time ?
Com. certainly. Just as the sun rises each day & produces
a new fresh light as it were.
R. H. Yes. Rector comes into our world and so to say
weaves . . .
Com. does what ?
R. H. weaves.
Com. Weaves . . . yes.
R. H. a cord . . . does he begin at your end or at the
body ?
Com. our end. U.D. he steps up to the etherial veil which
separates our world from yours, he touches it with
+ {Imperator's} help, it separates. & the ether
flows in a cord like form until it reaches the body
of the light, the body opens in the center & draws
in the ether, until it becomes filled. Then Rector
enters op . . .
R. H. No ! you forget about the medium.
Com. Oh yes. there, is a cord similar to .
R. H. Yes.
* * * *
Com. Rector stands at one end . . . listen.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance.—Appendix. 433
and the moment the cord touches the body of the
light, her spirit passes out over the cord, and
is cared for by + {Imperator} Prudens. etc. after
she is removed from her body. Rector enters &
begins operations is it clear.
R. H. Yes. Then, at the end.
Com. at the end or close + {Imperator} bids her return
Rector passes, over the cord until he enters our
side after which she passes over the same cord 1
into the body again.
R. H. Yes ?
Com. the passage closes, or. I will use a very ordinary
term for your U. D. our. veil is drawn together,
the hole, or opening in the body of the light
closes the instant the cord is detached.
R. H. You haven't said yet when or where the cord is
detached. After . . .
Com. I do not U. D. you.
R. H. Listen. After Rector returns, Mrs. Piper goes back
along the cord to her body. Then what takes
place precisely next ?
Com. the remaining ether is removed with the detachment
of the cord by + {Imperator} Rector.
R. H. Not clear. Listen.
Com. I do not U. D. you clearly. Put your question as
clearly as the rest. Do I U.D. you to ask how
the cord is removed ?
R. H. Yes.
Com. the cord is detached by + {Imperator} R. & Doctor,
they simply draw the cord with their hands.
[Hand makes motion of drawing away a cord.]
R. H. from their side ?
Com. from our side, when the light enters the body, her
spirit, enters the . . .
R. H. Yes I understand.
1 But cf. an assertion in the waking-stage of January 22, 1900, when
Mrs. Piper says " I will tell you how it is—there is a space that opens into
that other world, and then my spirit goes out on a cord into that world, and
then Rector comes in on another cord. Only they can't keep the ether.
It goes away."
2e
434 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
the cord is instantly detached by + {Imperator} R.
etc.
I understand,
is this clearer.
Yes that's what I wanted.
Oh yes I am glad to U.D. you. I wish to explain
precisely what happens, without saying it is like
this that or the other.
Yes ?
I wish you to U.D. exactly what does take place.
Yes that's right.
& I have told you.
It's very interesting.
Well it is a fact, the body of the light is a magnet,
as it were.1
Ah ! now you're saying what it's like and not what
it is !
Yes. I U.D. this but I have previously explained
what it is. & I am now making comparisons.
Yes ?
I simply was obliged to. describe the ray of sun-
light, for your U.D g.
(December 20, 1904.)
Sitter Miss A. M. R. Voice sitting recorded stenographically
by sitter.
Rector. I shall be here to close the light at the end * * *
A. M.R. Rector, wait a moment. Through whom is my friend
going to talk now ?
R. He will try and speak direct to thee, if this be possible ;
if not I shall remain, as it were, a non-entity, giving
his messages.
A. M.R. You have allowed him to do that ?
R. Yes, I have, through the advice and command of our
leader, and before his departure this day he saith to
me, " Ere I return through [to] the light, goest thou
forth, give light and help ; I leave thee in the hands
1
That the medium is to a spirit as a magnet to a needle is a very frequent
comparison.
Com.
R. H.
Com.
R. H.
Com.
R. H.
Com.
R. H.
Com.
R. H.
Com.
R. H.
Com.
R. H.
Com.
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 435
of Prudens ;
bring the messages from the friends to
the mortal in the body whom we hath summoned
before the light this day. If according to thy wisdom
the spirit be fully prepared to take up the light,
standest thou beside him and aid him in transmitting
his messages. If he be not clear or be not of suffi-
cient power to hold the light independently, remainest
thou near repeating the messages for him."
A.M.R. That is splendid. Now, Rector, my friend is really
and truly here almost exactly the same as if he were
in his own body, is he not ?
R. Almost the same, and if thy spiritual eyes could open
thou wouldst see him standing here beside the etherial
cord, waiting his turn to enter into the light upon
the cord.
{After the sitter's friend has talked for nearly H hours
—and taken leave the record continues.}
[Rector takes control 11.50 a.m.]
R. Hail! A.M.R. Hail, Rector
R. Thy friend hath passed along the line while I enter
here again. * * * I have been waiting, attending thy
friend during his long speech with thee. * * * It is
my privilege to return and close the light. I enter
and close it, and the light is sinking, and I shall soon
have to depart. {He however continues to talk till
12.7 p.m.}
(February 22, 1905.)
Sitter and Recorder Hodgson. Rector writing.
* * * *
R. H. Rector the light, so far as I can tell, is very poor
this time, and it was also very poor on the last
occasion after two days with the voice. The writing
is not clear, and most of what comes is of little or
no importance, just talk. Can you kindly look into
this matter later ?
R. We shall be very glad to do so. We wish to U.D.
how the light appears to thee always. For some
time we have wondered if the voice did not use up
much of the light.
436 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H. I think probably the time is greatly exceeded with
Mr. D. The light was confused after his meeting.
She feels always much better after Mrs. X. than
after any.
R. We shall try and U.D. Mrs. X. is a light and gives
us light always. Therefore she cannot but help
the light under such conditions as she brings. * * *
Neither are we capable of using up the light when
she is present.
(April 17, 1905.)
Sitter and Recorder G. B. D. Voice sitting. Control and
Communicator Rector. G. B. D. reports :
" I asked him
{Rector} if they were now satisfied with the working of
the shorter sitting {agreed on on March 1} and its effect
upon the condition of the light. * * * Rector replied that
they had encountered one difficulty in the matter in the
removal of the etherial light from the body of the
medium after a short sitting which had not used it up.1
This seemed to me very interesting in connection with
what Dr. Hodgson wrote me as to the lengthened period
during which Mrs. Piper's subliminal utterances lasted as
she was coming out of trance since the sittings have been
shortened."
1
Compare waking-stage of March 1, 1905, Appendix to Chapter V., p.
594, where it is said that " It would not be well to prevent the light burning
out [?] it would bring sorrow to all who look to us for light."
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 437
APPENDIX TO CHAPTER III.
Specimens of Individual Controls.
A.
Sir Walter Scott Control.
Two specimen sittings, June 27 and 28, 1895.
Sitter and Recorder, Professor W. Romaine Newbold.
{June 27, 1895.)
[Writing changes to characteristic Scott hand.]
W. S. Good morrow my friend I am now prepared to
finish my discourse or description of spiritual beings,
existences etc. Do you remember where I left off ?
It was, that is to say we were, in the planet Mars.
The lines by the way sir,-—come with me again, are
you ready— Well the lines or spots, so to speak,
are not satellites. They are reflections from the
sun.
W. R. N. Reflections of what ? [hand ignores the question and
pursues the calm and even tenor of its way]
W. S. Well now we wish to see something of the habitations
of the gentlemen who inhabit this planet. Their
houses are similar to those on earth yet more modern
and much less complicated in structure. Do you
wish to speak to me sir as we pass ?
W. R. N. Yes, of what are they made and how ?
W. S. They are made from various kinds of material such as
brick, stone, etc.
438 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
W. R. N. These are the houses on the planet Mars of which you
are speaking ?
W. S. I am, yet we do not compare them exactly with those
on earth They are made according to natural causes
and such atmospheric conditions as it is necessary
from such materials.
W. R. N. Tell me more about the atmospheric conditions.
W. S. I think that I have done so upon other occasions sir,
and were you the gentleman to whom I gave them ?
W. R. N. Not to me, Sir Walter, but to a friend of mine. I have
read what you said, and I think you did not say any-
thing of the atmosphere.
W. S. Well, pardon me sir, I will then. The planet, as we
see it materially is rather cold. For instance, there
are icebergs and many of them on this planet i.e. on
some parts of it ; in others it is warmer and enough
so to produce vegetation. There are some very beauti-
ful trees, flowers, etc.
W. R. N. You mean it is fair in the torrid zone of Mars ?
W. R. N. Are there inhabitants in other planets ?
W. S. Such as Jupiter ? Well let me ask what you are dream-
ing about sir [I misunderstand and think writer is
reproving me for asking such a question of Jupiter,
since I knew well that it was not in a condition to
support life, so I say]
W. R. N. I said nothing of Jupiter, Sir Walter ; I merely asked
whether there is life in any other planets.
W. S. There was a little misunderstanding I think, as we are
now riding through the air.
W. R. N. I beg your pardon ;
go on.
W. S. we now leave the planet Mars and we wish to visit others.
First we think of Jupiter. Well as we ride we begin
to discern—[for pencil]—Thanks something which
to us looks like a dark jagged ball or rock. Well as
we draw nearer we seem to discover smoke as it seems,
then still more of the darkness. Now we are nearing
the planet. As we draw nearer we begin to see sparks
W. R. N.
W. S.
Is the climate fair or cloudy ?
Very fair, it is in the torrid zone.
W. S. Yes, this only.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 439
which remind us of fire. Now we pass through a
tremendously stifling atmosphere
W. R. N. Not stifling to you ?
W. S. Oh no sir, I am the spirit or life, you are the material
man whom I am taking with me as my guest. You
seem choked, and yet you ask me to go on. Well,
now we wish to pass through this fog of seemingly
smoke, fire, electricity, as Mr. Pelham terms it. I
borrowed the phrase sir, and now we begin to reach
the planet Jupiter. We pass around the surface peep-
ing into it . . . onto it . . . and we see nothing of
any importance except the continual sparks, so called,
which conglomerate together and as yet are in a very
unsettled state
W. R. N. Take me further.
W. S. This all seems to us strange and interesting. We see
all in one mass a conglomeration of atmospheres which
when settled in one body looks like a planet.
W. R. N, Then Jupiter is not solid ?
W. S. Not at all solid.
W. R. N. Take me elsewhere, especially where there is life.
W. S. What is the general idea of Jupiter on your planet sir 1
W. R. N. I know little astronomy, Sir Walter, but I think Jupiter
is believed to be a red hot solid surrounded by dense
clouds
W. S. But it is not at all solid as we can pass through it.
W. R. N. Take me where there is life.
W. S. Venus— W. R. N. Good.
W. S. so termed is inhabited [Medium's head falls from the
cushion. I say]
W. R. N. Wait a moment Sir Walter while I fix the head of the
medium in place.
W. S. Yes sir. [Hand stops writing until the head is again
firmly set in place. Phinuit thanks me in stifled
tones. I ask whether the light is going out. Hand
replies]
W. S. The fight so called ? No sir. Now sir, we will leave
Jupiter and visit Saturn. Well as we have nothing
much to see there we will first visit Venus. Venus
you will remember on earth looks like a very beautiful
440 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [paet
and bright star. Well now we wish to learn all we
can concerning this planet so now we start. We
pass through a long ... of light, so called sky and
we pass on very rapidly until we begin—are you tired
sir ?
W. R. N. No, indeed. Go on.
W. S. —to feel very much pleased with the atmospheric con-
ditions through which we are passing. We smell the
most delightful odors possible for the human mind
to understand or sense. Now all is life, light, the
air is as balmy and soft as a spring morning on
earth. Now we realise that we are approaching Venus.
We pass on still in this delightful atmosphere. Now
our eyes are open and we see insects of all kinds and
descriptions, birds of every known [hand hesitates
for some time and then writes] description
W. R. N. You had species in mind, had you not ?
W. S. species, yes sir, this was exactly the expression which
I wish to express or use—their plumage is to you
something magnificent and indescribable. We see them
flitting about from one place to another, apparently
in space, yet as we move on we begin to realize that
we are approaching something more tangible. Now
we see the heavens aglow with light, the perfume
heavenly. The atmosphere warm, balmy, beautiful,
too much so to put in words and express. Now we
feel a slight breeze and we are wafted through the
outer rim as it were into a perfect little heaven by
itself. Nothing ever realized on earth could com-
pare with this. Now we see no one, i. e. no living
being so to speak, only these beautiful creatures the
trees like wax, the flowers like the true soul as it were,
they are so really beautiful, the fields are one mass
of green, the flowers of various hues, yet we see not a
man anywhere. We wonder where they all are, we
travel for miles and miles, yet we see nothing but
insects and birds i.e. living. We wish to ascertain
why this is thus . . . yes sir . . . we breathe the
delightful odor while we remain, yet we still see no
living being . . . why . . . why . . . because of the
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 441
marvellous atmosphere. They are sensitive to this
and cannot survive it.
W. R. N. Did they ever exist ? W. S. Oh no, sir.
W. R. N. You mean then that Venus is passing through a stage
analogous to the carboniferous era on the earth ?
W. S. I do, only it is more perfect and real at this stage.
Birds, insects and flowers grow in this atmosphere
only when the time comes for the flowers to decay
they simply droop, wither and fall, then immediately
others spring up and fill their places. Now we stop
for a moment and wish that we could remain here for
always, yet we are not satisfied, we long to see more.
Now we must go . . . pass ... on and leave this
beautiful godlike heaven or planet as it were [my
hand is resting on the paper. The writing hand col-
lides with it, stops, feels it, finger by finger, writes :]
What is that please, sir ?
W. R. N. My hand.
W. S. Best not disturb me [I, misunderstanding, explain that
I lift the writing hand while I turn the pages of the
block book] Oh thanks not that sir ; it was here
[tapping the spot where my hand had rested] it's
all right sir, pardon me if you please.
Now we wish to visit other places yet we long to remain
here, however we must not, we must go on or in other
words pass on. Now we wish to find the sun. We
move out of Venus, slowly, unwillingly, yet on we
pass until we have reached the outer sphere again.
Now we move on towards the sun, but at first we
feel extremely uncomfortable after having left Venus,
yet we begin to become accustomed to the atmos-
phere and now on we go . . . on we move ... in
our air vessel towards the sun. We draw nearer and
nearer until we begin to feel as though we were suffo-
cating again and as we move on we still continue to
feel uncomfortable until we reach this planet, when
the atmosphere begins to clear a little. Now we
—
excuse the mixture of nouns and pronouns, sir, we
then reach the sun, and we feel cold
W. R. N. Cold %
442 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
W. S. Yes sir we have passed beyond the limit of the former
planets and we feel the various changes as we move.
Now the extreme change takes place, & we feel in-
tensely hot, as we approach it. Now all is fire, the
fire is intense we do not wish to move on, so now we
find this one centre of heat
W. R. N. Can you, a spirit, feel the heat ? [Finger points de-
liberately at me, then hand writes,]
W. S. You, yet I [I express comprehension] pardon, yes sir,
yet I wish you to imagine yourself a spirit well
now. . . .
W. R. N. Sir Walter, is the sun all fire, or has it a solid core ?
W. S. The word is not familiar to me, sir. [I explain] Oh
There is a solid body, sir, which I am now going to
take you to see. We feel destined to reach this foun-
dation i.e. you desire to do so. Well now we move
on towards this fire, now reach its borders and not-
withstanding the extreme heat we pass through it and
we find ourselves upon a solid bed of hot clay or sand.
This is caused by gravity understand where we are
we have now reached the limit, we find it very warm
and deserted like a deserted island. We wish to find
its inhabitants if there are any i.e. if it has any. Now
we see what we term monkeys, dreadful looking crea-
tures, black extremely black, very wild. We find
they live in caves which are made in the sand or mud,
clay etc. Now, sir for that I will be obliged to dis-
continue our journey until some future time.
W. R. N. Will you come again ?
W. S. Yes, I will look down upon your planet and find you
out. Good morrow, my friend. Leave the sun or
in other words we will remain in it. Adieu
W. Scott.
{June 28, 1895.)
W. S. [Writing] I am here to take you to . . . for the
purpose of continuing our journey together.
W. R. N. Before we start, Sir Walter, I would like to ask some
questions.
W. S. Ah. I see that you remember me.
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 443
W. R. N. You told nie the canals or lines which we see on Mars
are reflections. Of what 1
W. S. Yes, sir, but let me say sir that before I left you I found
out afterward that I had taken you through the
planet, viz. sun and that we had followed it all the
way to the earth. Well sir we were beginning to see
monkeys, don't you recall ?
W. R. N. Yes, and this I could not understand and meant to ask
you.
W. S. No you do not understand my idea [The left hand
begins to gesticulate rapidly,—I think it was trying
to use the deaf-mute language] We went to the sun
and experienced heat. Well then we found it un-
bearably hot.
W. R. N. Won't you tell that other spirit to go ?
W. S. He is going sir. Then sir. Well then we began to
follow its light as far as the tropic of Capricorn, when
we reached the earth of course, here we saw the
monkeys flying in and out of sand caves. There I
began to lose my grasp on the light.
W. R, N. May I ask a question ? W. S. Yes sir.
W R. N. Is the sun a mass of incandescent vapor or does it con-
tain a solid centre ?
W. S. It is simply as a planet a mass of heat and lava.
W. R. N. What are the sun spots ?
W- S. This is the shadow of the earth sir.
W. R. N. You are thinking of eclipses. I understand this, but
I mean the black spots sometimes seen on the sun ?
W. S. Oh I beg pardon sir, I did not understand your
question, thoughts,
W. R. N. I beg your pardon.
W. S. No sir, I understand now the spots on the sun are . . .
yes sir . . . are the so called satellites which sur-
round it, this produces a dark mass of spots. [I ask
again about the canals of Mars] First sir let me ask
what is your meaning. Why do you use the term ?
W. R. N. Some astronomers have supposed these marks to be
canals.
W. S. What definition do they give to the word, sir ?
W. R. N. A canal is a large trench or ditch, cut that water may
444 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
flow through it. These marks are supposed to be
something of the kind.
W. S. On Mars and discernible from earth ? Well they are
not openings at [all] sir, but are reflections caused
by certain lights from the sun sir which brings to
the eye a dim aspect which looks like straight lines
yet they are the peaks and shadows of the moun-
tainous region in the planet Mars and can only be
seen under certain conditions of light from the
sun.
W. R. N. Let us go on to Saturn and then tell me of the destiny
of the human spirit.
W. S. Yes sir, delighted, this is as much a pleasure to me as
to yourself sir, as to you. Remember we were
following the sun and we finally came to earth because
more particularly of exhaustion. Well do you under-
stand now that we do not find animal or vegetable
life in the sun.
W. R. N. I am glad to hear that, for it troubled us.
W. S. Oh you could not have thought that I wished to con-
vey the idea that there were actually monkeys living
in the sun, sir.
W. R. N. Take me on further.
W. S. Yes sir, I will now take you to the moon which
is opaque. We find here mountains and valleys only,
consequently we do not wish to remain. Excuse me,
sir, a moment. Who was the gentleman with whom
I saw you seemingly laughing over my journeys with
you ! Actually laughing . . . yes sir . . . and roar-
ing enough to split the canopy of heaven
W. R. N. That was Dr. Hodgson who is doing more to establish
the truth of spirit communication than almost any
one living. We were laughing chiefly at the state-
ment that there were monkeys in the sun. I beg
your pardon.1
1
Dr. Newbold says about this (Proceedings, Vol. XIV., pp. 48-49) :
" That night {i.e. June 27} while writing up the sitting at Dr. Hodgson's
rooms, ten miles from Mrs. Piper, Dr. Hodgson and I fell to laughing
over this preposterous statement {about monkeys in the sun} ; so loudly
indeed did we laugh that I finally cautioned Dr. H. that we should be
wakening the whole block. * * * I confess I was much taken aback
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 445
W. S. Not at all sir. Thank you sir, . . . exceedingly kind,
sir, No intelligent spirit would convey for a moment
this impression. It was due to my following this
planet to earth
W. R. N. I beg your pardon, won't you go on ?
W. S. Yes, sir, certainly disabuse your mind of this theory
altogether. Now we will leave the moon because of
its lack of interest and we now sail along in our air
ship towards the planet Mercury. Here we find
—
W. R. N. Dr. Hodgson was asking me whether you spoke of
Mercury.
W. S. I heard it ... a beautiful blue light and we follow
it until we enter . . . [at this point I lifted my hand
to rub my face] attention, my friend . . . until we
enter a large round ball like we pass through the rim
or surface so to speak and now we find ourselves in
another planet without habitation and apparently con-
ditions of temperature etc. excepting those which
from its shape substance which help to make it a so-
called planet yet to us it is rather a pleasing atmos-
phere for one to exist in to us . . . yes sir . . . being
i.e. with exception of this one feature, we find it un-
interesting
W. R. N. Is it solid or gaseous ?
W. S. Gaseous. W. R. N. Altogether so ?
W. S. Yes, sir. I have been through and around it very
many times
W. R. N. Can I do this when I come to your world ?
W. S. Why certainly.
W. R. N. Just to dream of such a thing !
W. S. You can begin to realise what our real spirit existence
means to us.
W. R. N. Do you see them well ?
W. S. Certainly, very well. Well I will now take you to
Saturn, another planet extremely red. This, strange
to say has begun to take form and shape, apart from
its gaseous condition. We see various lights, first
dark, then light, now very dark and red, i.e. in regard
by having my sins thus unexpectedly brought to light " {at the sitting
on the 28th}.
446 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
to color. Here we are after a long journey [I mis-
understand] after a long [hand puts parentheses
round the immediately preceding words] at the sur-
face of the planet Saturn we wish to visit its interior.
Now follow me and I will take you through it. Now
are you with me ? Well look now and see those
species of mineral trying to form from the conditions
of atmosphere etc. It will from its present condition
take about one million years to become solid, then
in time it will take pattern as it were from other solid
or material planets. We feel damp, warm and cold
all at once, you realize what it is like . . . imagine
being very many feet underground in a large mine.
Well, yoii will begin to realize what the atmosphere
is like, i.e. Go into the mine and then come out on
top of earth in some very hot country. Well, this
is the present condition of Saturn.
W. R. N. What are the rings ?
W. S. Rings—do not understand. [I explain the appearance
of the rings, without suggesting any theory as to
their constitution] Yes, sir, this is so sir . . . it
is caused by the large amount of varying atmos-
pheric condition It becomes first warm and then
extremely warm and then cool and smoky. This
throws out rings or circles of heat and smoke, not
exactly smoke but alike [Hand tries to write] sim
W. R N. [I suggest] " similar."
W S. Yes, sir. Now you begin to feel very heavy dull,
choking and you wish to return to our own sphere.
So on we go.
W. R. N. In passing over these immense distances are you
conscious of the lapse of time and of the distance
you go ?
W. S. Oh no, sir. yet I must necessarily term it so to you
or for your understanding.
W. R N. I have heard that thought carries spirit whither it
wishes to go.
W. S. This is true, quite sir. Now sir, I may not be able
to take you much further and complete it, so what
would you have me do, sir ?
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 4:4:7
W. R. N. I am much interested, but I wish to have a few words
with Mr. Pelham before the light goes out.
W. S. I would say sir, that if you wish me to take you as far
as possible I would be pleased to do so sir . . .
W. R. N. I merely wish to say Goodbye to Mr. Pelham.
W. S. Yes, sir. . . . You see I am conscious of this fact
and I do not wish to be selfish or intrude
W. R. N. Oh not at all, not at all, I am your debtor.
W. S. but for want of time and which according to your
own statement, sir.
W. R. N. I only want to say a few words to Mr. Pelham before
the light goes.
W. s. Oh I see . . . very well I will go on for a while, yet
I wish to know before it is too late sir. Would you
kindly let me know sir.
W. R. N. Can't you tell ?
W. S. Not very well. Well now we have had a nice long
trip, and we wish now to visit ... no [hand strikes
out " visit " ] leave the actual planets and visit our
own planet, i.e. Heaven. Well, sir, come with me
and I will take you through it with me. Imagine
yourself without the material body grasping me by
the hand i.e. as real to us as though it was really the
material hand, we now ascend. We are leaving
earth, our bodies and we realize that we are. Now
we are still leaving, struggling somewhat. Now we
shut our eyes for an instant no matter how sudden
the so-called death. We shut our eyes for an instant.
Now we open them. We see light. Our spirit is
being led along by some kind and tender hand. We
are ascending all the while. [Hand rises slowly as
if to indicate the ascent] Now quick as a flash we
have passed behind the curtain. It closes behind us
from natural causes. We now see persons moving
about. We see them as to us shadows . . . they
ascent [assent] our coming . . yes they ascent our
coming—they greet sanction our coming, they recog-
nize us and we them. They come nearer to us, caress
and whisper to us. They are saying we are in
heaven, we will be happy and we realize that we
448 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
are. We hear music, we see our families if we have
any here. We think no more of troubles, pain,
care. We are free, conscious, immediately we are
happy, we know that we are in Heaven. We can
walk as real as on earth we can fly if we wish, we can
speak to one another, we can see fountains, trees,
flowers, birds, streams, lakes, walks, etc. The air is
like a beautiful dream, the mellowness of the light
is indescribable, absolutely. The perfume fills the
celestial city.
W. R. N. Go on, only leave time for Mr. Pelham.
W. S. Yes, sir. Now realize all this above your earth.
W. R. N. " Eye hath not seen nor ear heard neither hath it entered
into the heart of man the things that God hath pre-
pared for them that love him."
W. S. Quite so and never can. Never will man materially
realize just what heaven is like.
W. R. N. Will you continue this subject when my friend comes ?
W. S. Yes I will, I will indeed, ... * * * I must now
return to heaven, wishing you all the happiness that
it is possible to fall to the lot of man. With love
and best wishes for ... I am yours in spirit, Walter
Scott.
B.
Proctor Control.
(July 3, 1895.)
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson.
[As Mrs. Piper began to lose consciousness, her head
peered forward as it were, her eyes seemed fixed,
and she murmured " Proctor—Proctor—I see Proctor
—listen, listen—In the front of your eye forms a lens
which collects the rays of light which project from
an object and it registers itself upon the retina. That's
how you see me." There may have been some addi-
tional words. Mrs. Piper then went into trance
under what was obviously a " new control," i.e. other
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 449
than Phinuit. The attempts to speak failed ; then
the hands and arms made movements as if holding
a telescope, looking through it, directing it upwards,
turning it in a sweep, drawing it out, adjusting it,
turning round the eye-piece, working a side screw,
etc. I suggest writing. Hand feels my head and
fingers] [Proctor writes] [scrawls] Proctor [scrawls]
Phinuit takes control. Hand becomes more per-
turbed. Ph. says :
" there's a gentleman there. I
saw him talking to the light of the medium." [I
give Phinuit a hat lining of deceased person to find
details about while I am talking to Proctor.] What's
the . . . help. [I hold the hand by the wrist gently
but firmly and keep it near the table.] Oh thank
you sir, Oh thanks. I used to study and teach
astronomy.
R. H. Are you Mr. Proctor ? Proctob. Yes, sir, Proctor.
R. H. I heard you lecture once in England [Much excite-
ment in hand. Wild scrawls]
Proctob. England—well—I know England very well . . . England.
Oh England how sweet to hear the sound of England
and be able to discriminate the difference between
the immortal and the mortal. I wished to have had
some one see me
R. H. here ?
Proctor. Yes when I came with my magnet. I produced some
of our . . . [illegible, a word apparently beginning
pra and looking like Pranasie, several more attempts
below to give this word.] lights
R H. Can't read the word before '
lights '
. . . [illegible]
Proctor. Rainbow
R. H. I understand, a special color.
Proctor. . . . [illegible]
R. H. Some spectrum color, I suppose.
Proctor. Yes, sir, scientifically speaking [two more attempts at
the word] come nearer—somewhat nearer [I bend
my head close to the block book] Praynasic
R. H. Praynasic ? Proctor. Yes ... I am . « 1
R. H. Name of a color ?
Proctor. Yes, in heaven . . . heavenly color.
2f
450 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H. Appearances in heaven ?
Proctor. Yes, sir, we live in it.
R. H. It's the kind of light in which you live ? [much per-
turbation of hand]
Proctor. Yes sir [?] I brought a ray with me, sir, in hope that
some mortal intelligence would see me, sir
R. H. You hoped that you would be thus able to make your-
self visible ?
Proctor. Exactly. My magnetic current is too strong.
R. H. What's the word after " magnetic " ?
Proctor, current is too powerful, sir. [Throughout the Proctor
writing the hand is unusually perturbed and irregular
in its movements. At this point it runs wild.]
R. H. It'll be all right directly
Proctor. I think so . . . you see [?] that I but have discovered
. . . that have . . . that I have just discovered that
this is a decided magnet which is constantly throwing
off its current without being seen or otherwise dis-
coverable. I picked up the light as the magnet picks
up the loadstone. Have my ideas come out^yet.
R. H. Yes I think I understand.
Proctor. This, sir, is like speaking through a phonograph. One
realizes that they are speaking and what they are
saying is being registered, yet one can not actually
see the process,
R. H. As though you talked into a machine where a carbon
point traced your words on a revolving bobbin.
Proctor. Yes, sir, yet the sound is being registered continually,
also the sound of the communicator as well as the
operator. For instance, I hear your voice, you know
that I am speaking also, yet you do not see but
hear
R. H. I don't hear you.
Proctor, no not hear. ,1 would say read the contese [? intended
for contents]
R. H. Can't read that word [Another similar attempt ; then
attempt at]
Proctor, communication on the cylinder, sir. Well, now by
natural and spiritual laws combined [?]
R, H. Can't read that. [Perturbation]. Go back to '
by '.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 451
Proctor. By spiritual and natural laws you should be able to
see me.
R. H. I am unable to see you.
Proctor. Haven't you eyes sir
R. H. Yes, but my retina is not adapted to the vibrations
which emanate from your etherial organism.
Proctor. Oh indeed. So. Extremely sorry because of the
actual loss which this must necessarily be to you.
R. H. Some persons apparently can see sometimes their friends
who have passed out of the body.
Proctor, indeed do they see into planets also ?
R. H. Do you mean;
do they see through planets ?
Proctor. Yes, sir, into them, for instance.
R. H. There's evidence that some persons on rare occasions
have seen through opaque substances as it were.
Proctor. Yes, well [?] I—Matter such as this, [apparently indi-
cating blockbook and table by touch] scientifically
known to the senses.
R. H. Yes, such as a brick wall.
Proctor. Ah, I understand you, sir, thank you. What a most
wonderful and interesting case this must be
R. H this light ?
Proctor. Yes, sir I mean my [?] magnet i.e. which I have just
picked up, sir.
R. H. Do you remember about the Society for Psychical
Research, and do you remember the magazine Know-
ledge which you started ?
Proctor. I . . . my why yes, certainly I do, sir. I am not
asleep.
R. H* Do you remember that some stories of apparitions and
accounts of other psychical experiences were published
in Knowledge.
Proctor. Oh yes_. sure enough, but they had entirely slipped my
memory. ... It is a decided magnet, sir, the
R. H. What kind of a magnet ?
Proctor. Not an artificial magnet exactly, but a natural magnet.
R. H. The medium's body does not attract needles.
Proctor. Oh no, sir, but the light of the magnet does attract us,
myself for instance.
R. H. Then you use the word magnet metaphorically ?
452 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Proctor. Yes, only metaphorically.
R. H. Do you wish to free your mind of anything, or will
you answer some questions ?
Proctor. Well, sir, I first shall have to become accustomed to
the working of this magnet before I can express my
thoughts scientifically
R. H. You think perhaps you'd better not try to answer
technical questions at present. [Perturbation.]
Proctor. I feel like a person in mortal body having an attack
of nightmare, sir. I am all in a whirl
R. H. Perhaps|you'd better not stay too long.
Proctor. No, sir. I wish to have you . . . [illegible] understand
R. H. I wish to have you ..." something " understand.
Proctor, fully
R. H. I know it must be difficult for you to keep clear and
concentrated.
Proctor. Yes I wish to have you recognize me as being what
I . . . [illegible] am, a scientific man
R. H. " as being what I " ?
Proctor, really am, a scientific R. H. man.
Proctor, yes sir. My thoughts are somewhat clouded. Con-
sequently I am not in the best possible condition to
[illegible] to you much valuable information
R. H. Can't read that, but I understand your meaning. Not
in a condition to impart
Proctor. Yes, sir, impart to you
R. H. much valuable information.
Proctor. Yes, sir. Consequently I prefer to wait until I can
express myself naturally, sir. I'll bid you good day,
sir.
R. H. I hope you'll come again, Mr. Proctor.
Proctor. Most assuredly I will, sir, thanks.
R. H. I am specially anxious to get some information from
you about the canals of Mars, and should be grateful
if you can tell me when you come again.
Proctor. Yes, ex—certainly [?] Yes, sir.
{This was I believe Proctor's only appearance.}
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 453
C.
Stainton Moses Control.
{Oct. 27, 1896.)
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson.
G. P. I am here. The message by Joseph they say is not right,
and I have seen Moses and he says it is one of his
helpers in this world, Imperator.
R. H. I heard from Myers yesterday. Joseph is absolutely
wrong, has no relation to the matter.
$ $ $ 4
[R. H. talks of the importance of Imperator, and how
absurd it is for Imperator to pretend to be a great
spirit and not to know his own name, etc.]
G. P. And ... he is ... he does know his own name . . . and
I will take care of the whole thing.
{Oct. 28, 1896.)
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson.
R. H. Now for Imperator and Moses G. P. Now
R. H. Wait a minute. I want to speak first. Moses and his
Imperator have made an awful mess.
G. P. Rot
[R. H. talks at some length about the necessity for getting
the real Imperator, if there is any such person. He
condemns the apparent wickedness of Moses in claim-
ing different persons for Imperator, and he condemns
the alleged Imperator who claims to be Imperator
and Joseph, etc., etc.]
G. P. Listen, H. I was sure from his incoherency that he did
not remember anything about his experience in the
body.
R. H. But you yourself thought that he had given you the right
name at last. Who is this spirit that calls himself
Imperator ? What sort of a rascal or rapscallion is he ?
454 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvick. [part
G. P. Now listen. As a matter of fact, H, he is really Joseph
and is a friend of Moses, and he is really a gentleman
and not a rascal and is and will be a help to you in
many ways as in regard to his prophecies etc etc,
etc. and is.
R. H. Well, his prophecies are exceedingly improbable. At first
it looked as if he meant that there would be a great
European war, but it appeared that he meant only
that America would go to war with Spain and Turkey.
Spain and Turkey are small powers any way. And
while this looks improbable, the only thing that we
can judge him by is the positive statement that he
made that he was Imperator, and with the cross-
mark attached. This being wrong, what value can
be attributed to his prophecy ?
G. P. Yes, but I would not question so difficult a problem. Let
it come as it will, H. Do not question his state-
ment, as he is a truth and authority on certain things.
[I comment further on the difficulty of reconciling the
existence of these errors with the alleged fact of com-
munication from the other world.]
G. P. Well, H. Yes. I see it all and after all my efforts to
prove my identity and keep my promises to you, H.
Of course this would be counted against me, for
instance,
R. H Exactly. The evidence for identity and spirit-com-
munication all comes on your shoulders. Apart from
what you have done, the evidence seems to me to be
entirely inadequate. Communication from the other
world was the subject that was dearest to Moses in
life, and he is helping to spoil his life's work by his
actions now. If he had refused to give the name of
Imperator it would have been intelligible, though
I daresay that I personally would not have been satis-
fied. But to declare that he is giving us the name
and then to give us a false one, is another matter
altogether. I hoped to get the names of Doctor
Rector and Imperator from him, but Imperator is
the most important, because only Myers knows it.
G. P. Well then why is [he] not willing to tell me. Why is he
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 455
... and why does he try to deceive me as well as
you. He says that was a secret which he would never
make known to any one on earth, and always said
that the world should never know his secret, yet when
I beg of him to tell me and explain the importance
of his telling me, he then takes this course, and
I do not know who his friends were, in earth or
out.
R H. Well, then Moses must be a liar ?
G. P. I must rely upon his sincerity.
R. H. How can he be sincere, can't he and all his exalted guides
manage to get a thing like this straight %
G. P. and yet I do know that he tries to reach the earth, yet
when he does, his intelligent thoughts all leave him,
so to speak. In other words, every person whom he
has ever known dashes through his mind, and then
there is no use in trying to hold him here.
R. H. And we get nothing but lies and swindles.
G. P. Yet I feel sorry for him because he is willing to do the
best he can remember, and he is no liar, H., and he
calls . . . you had best . . .
R. H. Why in thunder does Joseph claim to be Imperator ?
G. P. because as a matter of fact he is called High Commander
by thousands of intelligences here. Now does
R. H. Well, the most important thing of all is to find out
Imperator, if possible.
G. P. How about D. {the lost boy in Mexico.} ?
That's important, very ; but it might still be said that
it involved only clairvoyant vision in this world.
Your world comes in only to the extent of knowing
that D. isn't with you. Success wouldn't prove spirits,
and failure might be interpreted to mean only that
spirits were not so familiar with this world of matter.
But in the case of Moses and Imperator the person3
concerned are supposed to be in the spirit-world, and
moreover, some of them to have very high powers
there. The knowledge of what we seek is with them
if the spirit-claims are true, and it seems to be a thing
that ought surely to be obtained. Failure therefore
is a condemnation of the spirit hypothesis.
R. H.
456 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
G. P. Yes, I understand it all, H., and no spirit (I acknow-
ledge I am one) ever worked more faithfully than
I have to keep Moses' mind clear and get him to recall
all of his earthly experiences for the sole benefit of
your researches.
R. H. I know it. I'm talking to you in this plain way, but I
don't mean to talk at you. But I want you to know
exactly how I feel, so that you can go to Moses and
let him have it.
G. P. Well you need not have any fears but what I shall do
that all right.
R. H. It is important that this should be cleared up as quickly
as possible.
G P. For your special report or some other, H.
R. H. Well, I suppose I shall mention it in my present report,
but I wasn't thinking of that at the moment. I
want to get rid of some of these points that have
been troubling us, and have a chance at some con-
versations about your world and philosophy etc., if
you would like that.
G. P. Yes of course I do of all things ... yes exactly. Well
you know how long old was in trying to obtain
the name of Q for instance, and even now [she] will
not give it him. Well, here is another. And I wish
to find the spirit myself of . . and the only
imperator
R- H. The spirit, whoever he was, that was Moses' chief guide,
that Moses always called Imperator.
G. P. Yes. He never signed himself this way H. It was
Moses who did that, and not the spirit.
R. H. If you can't rely on Moses, how do you know that ?
G. P. I know from of him because there is not one person whom
I have met with Moses who would answer to this
name.
R. H. But Joseph answered to Imperator.
G. P. Yes, who as matter of fact was and is called
R. H. Imperator ?
G. P. [yes] here, and has been for years and years.
Well, I am sure, H., I am more sorry than you
* * * *
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 457
[I refer again to the mess ]
G. P. Of course I know it all, my friend, words will be
R. H. Wasted.
G. P. [yes] I pity Moses when I reach him after I leave
here now.
R. H. Let him have it.
G. P. You bet I will. I will make him sorry that he ever met
me and kept his secrets. Auf Wiedersehen.
{End of writing. Waking stage follows.}
[As Mrs. Piper is recovering, she murmurs " Ajax, Ajax, I
think Ajax (Who's Ajax ?) George says that's an
imaginary god." Mrs. Piper becomes nearly normal,
enough so to recognize me as Hodgson, and asks
" what is helmet and armour ?
" " Tin clothing,
like divers wear." I surmise that G. P. was making
some joke in connection with Ajax and his famous
defiance.]
(Oct. 29, 1896.)
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson. G. P. writes.
G. P. H., I feel as though I had committed a grievous sin, and
I feel that I could go and . . . wait sir . . . hide
myself in some remote corner of this world of space,
to think that after all my efforts to keep all things
straight, I should take the word of a comparative
stranger and accept it as true without pulling him
over, so to speak and making him realize more fully
what was expected of him. Now I stand here and
acknowledge my fault and wish you to give me a good
slap so to speak for my stupidity.
R. H. Well, George, I'm not going to blame you, because 1
know you did the best you could.
G. P. I did not know this man. I never saw him in life, and
I knew little if anything about him. [Hand gestures
towards invisible.] He is not the Moses we have
been looking for at all, but he is Moses sure enough,
but not the one whom Myers knows. Imperator
was as a matter of fact the name given to Joseph
aeons ago. He was always called High Commander
here, and is now.
458 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H. Well, if that's not the Moses we want, the hash is ten
times worse than ever.
G. P. Yes, but there are two distinct Moses here H. There
are two Moses here and they are both intelligent men
and one is at this moment with Dr. Myers, and the
other is here also and they are together. The elder
of the two
R. H. Can't read. Wait.
G. P. Listen. Here is doctor Myers and he will answer all of
your questions. Now Stanton Moses is Stanton Moses
always and he is in the presence of Myers now.
R. H. I want to say something. Don't write while I'm talking.
G. P. Now make your statement, H. I am interrupted, H very
often when you speak, and I have to act between
the two.
[I had misunderstood the first statements at this sitting
about Moses, and supposed that I was being informed
by G. P. that the Moses he had got hold of before
was not the Moses I intended to interrogate. I here,
and shortly after also, explained very emphatically
that the Moses we had been dealing with had shown
by his knowledge of the words Doctor, Rector and
Imperator, by his asking about Speer, by his know-
ledge of our Society, Myers, etc., that he was the
Moses we wanted or else was a fraudulent person,
and that this pseudo-explanation made the confusion
ten times worse confounded.]
G. P. Well, who is this gentleman ? Listen. I personally do
not know ... I do not know Moses personally, yet
I do know that this gentleman claims to be Moses
and I personally do not know him, and I feel very
much to blame for not being able to tell you . . .
[I repeat my difficulty.]
G. P. No it is . . . Oh well why do you not say so, H. No,
but you do not understand me at all, H. Now listen.
This gentleman, so far as I know, is your friend, but
I do not claim to know, and I never knew him alive,
I mean when in the earth. I could not recognize
him. Well, I cannot say now as he is the Moses you
wish. You must treat him as you have treated me
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.-—Appendix. 459
and give the poor devil a chance to say who he is.
I am only interpreter for any straggler who wishes to
speak here. [In the meantime I am turning up the
early sheets of the writing to repeat to G. P. the words
he wrote in referring apparently to some new Moses.]
G. P. Read [I read the last sentence written.]
R. H. Now wait, George. Wait till I see what you said.
G. P. I will wait. H. [I find that I had misconceived the mean-
ing of G. P.'s words in early part of the sitting.]
R. H. I understand now. I take it all back, George [Hand
seizes R. H.'s in energetic clasp, then goes on writing.]
G. P. I am talking of doctor Myers' friend Stanton Moses.
R. H. Is there another Moses there now, a new one ?
G. P. I do say it, and it is true. I am sure that doctor Myers
has your own man here. I am so ... I say, doctor,
—help the doctor, H. . . . doctor Phin. [I speak to
Phinuit, re-arranging Mrs. Piper's head on the cushion,
and Ph. says that he nearly slipped out of the body.]
G. P. Now I find doctor Myers here with Moses, and he is
Stanton Moses, an English gentleman, whom we call
a gentleman of the clergy. Is that he ?
R. H. Yes.
G. P. Well, now, here is his father also . . . and William . . .
the whole family as a matter of fact.
R. H. Good.
G. P. Now listen to these Moseses.
R. H. To the Moseses ?
G. P. Yes, by way of a joke, H.
R. H. Yes, the Moseses. Good.
{Then Dr. Arthur Myers intervenes—writing seemingly
first through G. P. and afterwards himself.}
A. T. M. I am doctor A. T. Myers, and I will answer to any of
these charges against my friend Mr. Moses. No one
is more intelligent than he is, and no one is more
anxious to prove his identity than he, yet he has not
been able to reach here clearly as he could and does
wish. So he asked his father to take some messages
for him, and in so doing my friend has been a little
disturbed by it. But it need not trouble any one.
He will prove his identity with me, and give to my
460 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
brother Fred all the information he needs without
any mistake if you will only give him half a chance.
* * * *
{Later in the sitting} [W. Stainton Moses writes.]
[The hand does not begin to write at once, but " speirs
"
about somewhat. I begin to explain that the hand
will write his thoughts as his hand when he was in
the body wrote the thoughts of the spirits that used
to control him, etc. But I do not use the words
paper or pencil. Probably A. T. M. or G. P. was
explaining to him also and used these words.]
W. S. M. Well I have been trying to think out some . . . what
are you talking about ? I am . . . what are you
talking . . . Paper . . . pencils . . . well is it pos-
sible . . . real pencils with which . . I am Stai
where . . . Stainton . . . where . . . Stainton W Moses,
author of Spirit teachings etc. in book, form. Where
. . . I . . . where ... in book form.
R. H. I have a copy of your Spirit Teachings in my room
now.
W. S. M. Oh your . . . well I am all that is immortal of Stainton
Moses the medium. They wish . . . [undec] of my
identity. Well I sent them through ... I wish to
collect my MSS. and put them into book form. Where
am I ?
R. H. Your friends are doing that for you, C. C. Massey and
Mr. Speer and Myers. Myers has had articles em-
bodying a lot of your Mss. in the Proceedings of our
Society, and Mr. Speer has been publishing a lot more
of your Spirit Teachings in the magazine Light, which
you used to edit. Do you remember it ?
W. S. M. Oh yes, oh what a help, oh what a help. I will be
glad to do anything that I can for you to prove that
I am really Moses. What does it all mean, anyway ?
I have no pain, no sorrow, but still I cannot remember
as I wish I could.
R. H. You will later on.
W. S. M. Those friends of yours hear me ? I do not think I
made my messages clear. I see, I begin to see, I do,
oh how glad I will be if I can bring into this open
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 461
door ray friends . . . father will . . . [Pencil is
dropped. Three in succession are rejected, the fourth
is taken. Probably A. T. M. or G. P. says " No
pencil "] No pencil . . . No pencil . . . Yes. I
see, so familiar to me. My father, the dear old
fellow, could not do anything for me. I wrote spirit
teaching. I used to call one friend 1. Rector 2.
Doctor . . . [wild scrawls] I am thinking . . . spirit-
teaching . . . spirit teaching ... I will teach them.
Now Rector come here and tell my friends in this
body who you are. I say,—Moses, wish it.
1. Rector 2 Doctor. [Scrawl] Imperator. All come
to me at once. [Scrawl]
% % % %
W. S. M. Well if you only knew how glad I am to see this light.
I am so happy. I will in a few visits know where I
am and say anything I wish. I Stainton W. Moses
still live. Well, you will know me in time. Wait,
for me You will know me in a few visits—S. W. M.
It is to be observed that the great confusion exhibited
here is new. The Stainton Moses control was coherent in
1895 (see Proceedings, Vol. XIV., pp. 36-41.).
(December 4, 1896.)
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson. W. S. Moses writes.
He sfc sfc sN
W. S. M. I wish very much to see you and hear more, also give
you more light.
E. H. Moses ? W. S. M. I am he.
R. H. Shall I go on reading Mr. Speer's biography of you ?
W. S. M. Not just at present, but I would like to answer some
of the questions put to my friend Doctor. He has
been telling me something about them.
R. H. Shall I put them to you, the ones that Fred Myers
sent ?
W. S. M. Very good. Would you wish me to answer.
R. H. Of course I shall be very glad. Doctor has already
answered the first and second. I'll read them to you.
462 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
" Have you any recollection of any existence before
the terrene ?
"
W. S. M. None whatever.
R. H. No recollection of an existence which didn't exist, eh ?
W. S. M. Not at all. You may assure of this.
R. H. How about the " existence of a governing subliminal
self during life " on this earth ?
W. S. M. This is the spiritual germ, the higher and nobler quali-
ties of man.
R. H. In a large number of persons this is undeveloped ?
W. S. M. Quite right, and never becomes developed while within
its environment.
R. H. In other persons it does grow and develope while still
in the body ?
W. S. M. Yes wonderfully.
R. H. How far can the subliminal be a guide and controller
of the ordinary, supraliminal ?
W. S. M. Just how to answer this question, to make it clear to
you I am at the moment meditating
R. H. Do you wish me to wait ? W. S. M. Yes
[Pause of two or three seconds.]
W. S. M. I can explain it to you in this way.
Read the question once more. [I repeat as above.]
Excuse . . . well this depends upon its development.
In some cases it has the advanced control, in others
primary
R. H. You mean elementary ? W. S. M. Yes elementary
R. H. You're thinking of primary etymologically
W. S. M. Yes in the beginning R. H. not dominating.
W. S. M. in embryo. I have a very good knowledge of the
power of the subliminal.
R. H. You must have.
W. S. M. It is what interests and attracts me particularly.
R. H. How about the increased control of the lower func-
tions of the body, the vaso-motor system—the thera-
peutic aspects. Is this by the subliminal ?
W. S. M. Yes, quite. In the more spiritual and high minded
man it is seen by the wonderful control which such
a man has so to speak over, for instance a large con-
gregation. Do you understand ?
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 463
B. H. That is one of the effects of the subliminal ? But
that is not the particular question I meant to ask.
W. S. M. I do not think I fully understand the question. Speak
more slowly if you please. [I begin to repeat.]
W. S. M. Yes and over his physical organism as well.
R. H. It's really part of his higher self that controls his lower
physical organism ?
W S. M. Yes, quite. It is exactly, making such a person the
ideal man so to speak.
R. H. Then Myers's illustration of the spectrum, beyond the
violet end the higher powers, clairvoyance, spirit-
communication and so on, and below the red end,
control of the lower functions of the body, etc., etc.,
is quite justified ?
W. S. M. It for a mortal man to solve could not be more so,
i.e. to say he has solved the problem to a wonderful
extent in this one particular. He has been helped
and impressed by higher spiritual intelligences for
many years ;
Myers in particular. This is of the
most intense interest to me, in fact all my guides
also.
R. H. Now " organic and other subliminal memories, how
far recovered in post-terrene life ?
" First organic
W. S. M. I understand fully. I understand. They are disposed
of entirely, only used while inhabiting the mortal
body
R. H. How about the other subliminal memories ?
W. S. M. Exist always.
R. H. Things which have lapsed out of my ordinary con-
sciousness ?
W. S. M. have been grasped by your higher spiritual conscious-
ness, yet may never be discernible, and may never
be recalled by the human exterior mind. Have you
this ?
R. H. Yes.
W. S. M. Some of my words are entirely inadequate or left out.
[I repeat what he has written.] Exactly. After
leaving his body they will all come back to him, at
least be uppermost in his mind.
464 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H. They will be recallable.
W. S. M. Yes, indeed. He will find his mind full of earlier
recollections, and after having finally severed his
connection with the body, he the real man has com-
plete control of the whole entire senses.
R. H. I don't understand senses quite.
W. S. M. not senses but former latent or hidden consciousness.
I have forgotten none of Myers's theories.
R. H. Myers says that he rather gathers " that memories are lost
and not regained.'"
W. S. M. Not necessarily so, and are not frequently lost.
R. H. Not frequently lost ? W. S. M. No, on the contrary.
R. H. His reason for thinking so is that it seems very hard
to get old memories reproduced from spirits.
W. S. M. But this one difficulty I will attempt to explain. I
know the special reason of this. For instance, you
may wish to communicate with some special friend.
Your mind may be impressed with various incidents.
You may attract this one special friend to you. He
or she will appear. While in the act of communi-
cating with you, he or she may have their minds
impressed with various other names not the same as
those within your own mind. Now then they are
conscious all the time of what they most wish to
express. They are also conscious of your presence.
They are ready to give you some possible description
of their former recollections. You are at that moment
thinking of something totally different, you being
still in your environment and more liable to have
forgotten other circumstances of which they, he or
she for instance, are trying to [slight pause] narrate.
. . . You have not always followed them through
life. You are not and never have been thoroughly
acquainted with their sayings and doings. Some you
have forgotten, while everything that they ever did
or ever thought of doing has been recalled by them.
They now are trying to express one or more of their
remembrances, while you are thinking of something
else. This is given. You have forgotten. They be-
come bewildered. You are sure you are right. They
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 465
are disappointed. You are also disappointed. You
at once feel sure that they must have forgotten all
their earthly remembrances, while they have not
forgotten anything, but are remembering . . . [undec.
more ?] no, all, every thing.
R. H. But I can't read that other word
W. S. M. it is obvious.
R. H. Oh yes. I understand your meaning perfectly but I
wanted to know the word that I couldn't read.
W. S. M. Yes, but it does not read as I wish it.
R. H. Oh, all right.
W. S. M. Well, while, as a matter of fact, it is a delicate and
difficult matter to be able to use the mortal organism
and light of mediums, it produces not infrequently
confusion. [Hand rests on my head and hands a
few seconds.] Have I answered all ?
R. H. I would like to put a specific case.
W S. M. Very well. We at the time however feel that possibly
we may ourselves have forgotten.
R. H. Well now suppose that I asked you to tell me some-
thing about Dawson Rogers, and you told me a lot
of things that would be true about John Page Hopps,
but kept using the name of Dawson Rogers, saying
that he was a clergyman and preached and one thing
and another that would apply to Hopps but not to
Rogers at all.
W. S. M. Well, you see this may be due to several causes : 1st
the poor light of the medium. 2nd the communi-
cator having been gone from earth a very long time.
3rd the communicator having (when being present)
when communicating . . . having in mind one person
while the friend in the body has another entirely
different person. 4th the long absence of a friend
. . . the longer the absence of a friend the more diffi-
cult it is for them to convey to you their meaning.
5th the communicator may have some special person
or circumstance in his or her mind which may have
had or played an important part in their lives. This
may be the one thought which at the moment may
impress their mind, and which has or may have been
2g
466 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
a great source of distress to them. Should such be
the case it would almost invariably [Four attempts
at invariably before I deciphered it. Then a pause.]
Read [I read the sentence from the beginning.] remain
the one thing uppermost in the mind until there had
been some explanation given by the friend or friends
in the body to give them assurances and comfort.
I have found it so upon several occasions.
R. H. Suppose that Hopps had done you a wrong, and it was
on your mind when you passed out of the body, and
I asked you about Dawson Rogers, you might describe
the things about Hopps, and yet use the name of
Rogers ?
W. S. M. Injury, exactly. Exactly. Quite, because of my in-
ability to express other things,
R. H. Where there is a strong disturbing influence before
leaving the body, there is sure to be confusion unless
the spirit has an opportunity of freeing his mind.
W S. M. and almost invariably due to no fault of the spirits.
R. H. Part of the laws of nature ?
W. S. M. Exactly, in one way, yet it is due mostly to the pure
and devoted friends here while communicating to
some one or more friends in the body. I am inter-
rupted [?] and weak. I must go out. I can no longer
speak coherently. S. M. I will take up this subject
later R. H Good.
(December 5, 1896.)
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson. W. S. Moses writes.
W. S. M. I am Moses, Hodgson. I am a little discouraged in
trying to express my thoughts.
R. H. You mustn't be discouraged. You feel better and
clearer every time, don't you ?
W. S. M. Yes I do certainly, but I cannot always keep my
thoughts clear and uninterrupted.
R. H. When you are no longer clear I can generally tell, and
you can generally tell, and then you can have a rest.
W. S. M. Yes. I am so anxious, so very anxious, you see, to
be able to enlighten you.
R. H. It will all come in time.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 467
W. S. M. Now before you hear from Imperator please go on with
our former subject. It is clear to you ?
R. H. Clear as far as it went. It was only your last sentence
that was not clear. We were talking about a dis-
turbing influence before death, and how it produced
confusion.
W. S. M. Yes, quite, I fully realize this. . . . Read my answer.
R. H. I haven't got it here.
W. S. M. Never mind, then. I will endeavor to proceed.
Once in the act of communicating with one's friends
one is liable to make many mistakes because of the
lingering thoughts of some former suffering or dis-
appointment. This will explain a vast amount in
itself. The soul so to speak is fully conscious of its
earthly troubles. Yet after once having disposed of
the mortal body it no longer retains this suffering, yet
when commimicating, the first thoughts are of the
past. This is not so in all cases however, yet it is
so with many. Well now if suffering is discarded
with the body, you would ask why one's spirit should
refer to this, would you not ?
I will answer this.
Because with the spirit exists love ever, it is the soul
or goes to make up the soul so to speak. The last is
my idea.
R. H. Goes to make up the soul ?
W. S. M. helps ... I have left out a few words yet . . .
R. H. You mean that Love is the essential element of the
soul ?
W. S. M. quite, and without love we should be all at sea. Con-
sequently the spirit feels, realizes feeling, and this
accounts for so many affectionate messages being
given.
R. H. Its emotional nature is not so barriered in as it is in
this world ?
W. S. M. Not so. No indeed, it is freer much, and the whole
spiritual world so to speak is embalmed with diviner
love. [Difficulty in deciphering embalmed.]
W. S. M. I think you have the idea which I am trying to
give.
468 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
The whole of your atmosphere is full of tender love
and solicitous care and affection.
Absolutely. The coarser nature has been laid aside.
Hence the subliminal . . . understand.
I don't quite. Not if that's a complete sentence. Per-
haps it's only the beginning of a sentence. " Hence
the subliminal " and then, what follows ?
Oh excuse me, I thought you were not understanding
me . . . the
Subliminal ? W. S. M. is the true spirit or soul.
I dont see that that follows as a conclusion.
I have left out one whole sentence. Go back. [Hand
gestures as if to know what I am doing with my
right hand. I explain that I am writing down what
I myself say that there can be a complete record.]
Understand ?
Oh I do now. [I begin to state what Moses has been
saying.] I wish my statement to you to be as simple
and brief as possible.
[Wild scrabble of hand, and thrash of arm.]
{And here comes in Doctor, see Appendix to Chapter
II., p. 383.}
D.
The Imperator Band.
(Nov. 11, 1896.) Imperator''s first appearance.
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson.
After the usual greeting Phinuit says :
Ph. There's a man there wants to speak to you. He's a
peculiar man. He has 3 or 4 or 5 other gentlemen
with him and two ladies. There's a whole basketful
of flowers for you. George went to get him with
another man with a long beard. {Stainton Moses.}
He's a great writer. He's got a poetical turn of mind.
He's got ... do you^know what a priest wears when
he is in the body . . . well, he's got that.
R. H. Do you know who he is ?
R. H.
W. S. M.
R. H.
W. S. M.
R. H.
R. H.
W. S. M.
R. H.
W. S. M.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 469
Ph. Well, you speak to him and he'll tell you who he is
himself. * * * You speak to that man.
[I move right hand {i.e. the medium's} slowly on to
the table, and explain :
" You are in contact with
the light in the hand and arm. I'm touching you
with my hand. This is my head (placing hand on
my head). Your thoughts will come out in writing.
I put a pencil, so, between the fingers of the medium's
hand. This hand is now on the book with sheets of
paper to receive the writing," etc.]
[Imperator writes.]
Imp. 4 Imperator.
R. H. I'm very glad to have your presence here.
[The writing is faint, not heavy. The pencil moves very
slowly. I continually have my hand, sometimes my
left, sometimes my right, in contact with the medium's
hand. The usual tendency to omit letters or strokes
is here specially marked. There are frequent short
pauses as though from exhaustion. Nothing suggests
incoherence of thought, but there seemed to be much
difficulty in producing clear writing, or indeed in pro-
ducing any writing at all. The daylight in the room,
the shutters being closed, was not very good, even
when I pulled up the window blinds. In copying the
automatic writings of Mrs. Piper I do not as a rule
reproduce any misspellings, omissions of letters or
strokes, repetitions owing to difficulty of deciphering,
etc. But this first communication of Imperator I
reproduce in more detail than usual.]
Imp. Oh holy father, teacher of divine goodness and wisdom,
we beseech that thou wilt guide us in our desires to
enlighten this people. Help us 0 father.
R. H. Amen.
Imp. Amen. Guide us. Give us light . . . more strength . . .
more strength.
Thou knowest our longing
R. H. I can't read that.
Imp. thou knowest our lo
R. H. I can't read it [Much pausing here ]
Imp. thou
470 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H. show [Pause. I repeat show.]
Imp. us the way and keep us ever in the right path. Help
oh allwise [It looks like onalwise. I interpret " help
on. What comes next ? "]
Imp. Al wise R. H. Help on all wise ?
Imp. Help oh allwise [Still written alwise] and mighty God
our heavenly father to speak thrths
R. H. truths ?
Imp. thy heavenly truths. [Note the " portmanteau " word
thrths in relation to the problem of connection be-
tween thinking (i.e. their speaking) the words and
the reproduction of them by the writing mechanism.
Similarly, strokes are omitted from each of the words
thy heavenly truths.]
R. H. help us.
Imp. We are now ailed upon R. H. Can't read.
Imp. called upon to give light to our fellow men. Wilt thou
give us strength I beseech thee Oh our father, in the
name of all that is good and holy. Amen.
I will now sign my name as thou art my witness in thy
omnipotent presence. I. S. D.
{A good deal of confused and fragmentary writing
followed, including several attempts at names
—
among others Dante. The following sentences also
were written :
}
lair. Do you remember our old preach L. Martin Ma Luther.
* * * *
I wish to be understood. Oh God lead me. Julius
Caesar is my friend. He will not falter by the way-
side. Not he.
S}l «|t 3|E Jj4
I will return to thee again my friend.
(Nov. 14, 1896.) Rector's first appearance.
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson. Rector writing.
[Forearm moves up and down and about, from elbow
joint, feels about on block book, clutches it and appa-
rently wishes to lift it to the head of medium. I take
it away and replace it on table, also slightly pressing
on the arm, saying :
" You will do better in this posi-
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 471
tion, etc." Finally the arm takes up a position with
elbow well back against medium's side. The writing
is strong and heavy but not large specially, and shows
a tendency to the back slope.]
R. Who are you ? R. H. My name is Hodgson
R. My name is Lidgates [?] and I am a graduate of Oxford
College in England, sir, and I am glad to meet you
here. What is all this about ? I am myself, sir.
I am Rector, sir, Rector. I am Rector, sir, Rector
Rector I am Rector. I am here on a mission for
some friend of mine. I am a good friend + help me
Oh God to clear my mind. I was so happy to be sent
on this, am so happy to be sent on this errand of
love light and recognition. I was for years the only
surviving * * * member of a large family when on
earth and I went to Oxford for a long term of years,
and I am glad to wake up I know [?] here. I am
Sir Thomas [?] L and John Lidygate [?] a brother
[?]*** I am Sir Thomas [?] Liggate [?] yes, sir
all right ... of Christ College . . . yes Rector * * *
brother to John [?]... What is it ?
R. H. Can't read
R. I am Sir . . . [undec] Ludgate [?] I am Sir . . . [un-
dec] I am he. I am he. I am here. I am he.
{End of Rector's communication.}
It is noteworthy that on December 8. 1896, Doctor claims
the name of Lydgate, apparently John (see Appendix to
Chapter VI., pp. 552, 553). On November 14 Doctor com-
municated as well as Rector, and asserted that he was
Homer, and that he sang of Troy.
[February 13, 1897.) Imperator on Evolution.
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson.
+ H AIL
R. H. Hail, Imperator.
Imp. God in his mercy hath been good to thee.
Well, friend, I am in readiness to speak with thee on
the subject of the first revelation of God to men on
earth. Thou hast read in the history of old of the
472 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
appearance of God in the form of man to Moses.
Hast thou not ?
R. H. Yes, in the Bible.
Imp. Yes, well, now go back with me to the more ancient
stages, in the beginning of the world, so to speak.
He made himself known to man by giving signs and
carrying out or fulfilling promises which he instilled
into the soul of man. In those days of ancient
history the world was more perceptive of God and his
presence, due to the fact of their being purer and
more spiritually developed.
They were much more so than they have ever been
since. They were so perfected as to be able to see
into heaven, so divinely spiritual were they in those
stages [?]. [I read it days at time.]
After this period God divided the mind of man into two
distinct parts viz. the will and U D. After this the
world became thoroughly changed and then for the
first time began to corrupt. Before, however, I wish
thee to U D that man was so thoroughly a part of
God that he could see and hear him speak to his
followers. Heaven was so well known to them that
they had no doubt of any thing.
R. H. The spirit-world and a future life were matters of
common knowledge.
Imp. Yes, in fact they were so pure in themselves that they
were godlike.
I weary. Thou shalt speak.
R. H. Was this spiritual state the natural development from
the lower state of savagery ?
Imp. It is known to us to have been one of the first condi-
tions according to the natural laws of the divine being
God from his first creation of man.
R. H. I am thinking of the evolution of man's body and do
not understand a special creation independently of
some evolution.
Imp. Yes I U D. There is a point on which I wish thy
thoughts to centre. When God first created the
natural body he was so distinct a part of it that
speaking of man as the first spark of matter was so
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 473
distinct a part of him as to enable him to be able to
discern his presence. So pure and holy did he first
evolute man. Is this clear to your U D.
R. H. I think I understand your words.
Imp. I am teaching thee what actually was. I am not teach-
ing theology, neither am I teaching mythology. I
am teaching thee true facts as they are known to me
from the first stages of evolution. Should your mind
not be in readiness to U D this, speak.
R. H, I think it will help me to understand better if I express
briefly what is the common view now. You can
then point out precisely where that is erroneous
and where the new teaching is markedly different.
At present the common view among educated
persons
Imp. theologians
R. H. No not theologians, scientific men.
Imp. spiritually developed or from more subtle minds, i.e.
those who have had simply a natural scientific
training ?
R. H. I think that it is a view generally held by the highest
minds of all types to-day.
Imp. thinking minds . . .
R. H. There are many theologians of narrow school who do
not accept this view, but the broadest and highest
spiritual minds that I know of do accept it. That
is process of evolution. This is the way in which
I myself would put it. Some scientific men would
omit the appreciation of the divine purpose. Now
in accordance with God's workings there arose, just
how we do not know, but we suppose by gradual
steps
Imp. Yes, exactly
R. H. a simple form of what we call living matter, that in the
course of millions of years that was succeeded by
higher and more complex forms of organism, that
correlated . . .
Imp. Thou art putting my own knowledge into expression.
Hast thou not U D ? Read to me all if thou wilt.
[Hand indicates previous sheets. I read from the
474 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
beginning down to "so divinely spiritual were they
in those stages "]
Imp. Yes, quite right. This is true. Thou needst not read
if thou wilt give thy idea of what I thought to have
explained to thee.
R. H. The difficulty that I had was, what you said seemed to
suggest that man in some way, without preceding
gradual steps, was in a much higher state than now,
and I was anxious for you to make quite clear to me
how that superior state arose, when we have been
thinking that there has been a gradual development
throughout. In other words what you said seemed
to be very like the old theological dogma of a perfect
state of man in some paradise ignoring the general
process of evolution.
Imp. Then my friend thou hast not followed me throughout.
In one of my previous conversations with thee, my
friend, I spoke to thee of evolution caused by the
spirit.
R. H. Yes, spirit behind everything.
Imp. Yes. Well, I had taken up my present conversation
from where I left off.
R. H. What I wished was that you should emphasize how it
came about if possible that in those ancient days
man was higher spiritually than now.
Imp. because in the beginning of the ancient stages at the
time of Melchizedek, he was one of the first to whom
God revealed himself ... I have taught this again
and again . . .
according to the . . . divine laws of God, he, after the
creation of man, desired to make himself known to
him that he should know of a superior being,
in . . . [undec] he had made him a part of himself.
Dost thou not hear me ?
R. H. I can't read it.
Imp. I give thee a clear idea of the evolution of man due
to the divine laws of God, viz. spirit. Man has
ignorantly supposed that he evoluted from the lower
savages according to the laws of nature, has he
not ?
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 475
R. H. A great many persons would put it in that way only.
But I . . .
Imp. Thou doest not maintain that theory. Dost thou not
accept the higher idea of spirit, man's evolution
according to spiritual . . .
R. H. No other is thinkable [Assent.]
R, H. I have held that just as my present body has been evolved
from a simple cell in a few months, and years, so the
bodies as it were of the human race as a whole have
evolved from simple cells during some perhaps millions
of years.
Imp. Yes. Well, my friend, what I am most anxious to have
thee know is that there was a time when man had
according to evolution a better idea and knowledge
of God in past ages than he has in the present. This
is the truthful idea which I wish to convey to thee,
to thy mind.
R. H. What I wished you to do was to explain where and how
that higher knowledge arose. I do not mean in every
detail, but in general.
Imp. It arose according to the construction of men in those
days and through higher development of spirit and
prayer. The whole atmosphere was at one time per-
meated with spirit, and it is now evoluting to the
same standard. Is that clear to you ?
R. H. It is clear as a statement.
Imp. Yes, but it cannot be explained otherwise unless thou
canst put thyself into the position of being with [?]
God and feeling God is speaking to thy spirit, is guard-
ing thee in every word, thought, and action, as did
his followers of old. After the period of evolution
R. H. can't read
Imp. I have so much difficulty in making thee U D me.
Oh God help me. Speak.
R. H. Do you mean this, namely, that as man began to
develope as man
Imp. give me strength. [Hand rests lightly against my head]
Imp. Yes, I will try once more, using analogy.
+ Take the child from its earliest state, when it is
simply the struggling etherial spark in its covering.
476 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Its mother weaves around it a covering. It is born
into the world. It is then called an infant. Its first
knowledge of life is when it first begins to perceive
fight. Then for the first time it appears conscious.
It is from day to day nursed and tended by its mother.
Then comes the rational
R. H. Can't read.
Imp. It becomes rational as it grows to man or womanhood.
Then appears the intellectual. Trained, educated
according to natural laws. There it stops. It has
its own scientific training but no knowledge of God.
It is filled with knowledge of earthly education, but
has no knowledge of spiritual things or God. It has
its own dogmatic theories, etc. Not so in past ages.
After this period of development God made him-
self known to man as he is doing to-day. The soul
of man has clearer and higher perceptions than ever
since the days of Abraham and Moses. Do you fully
[?] U D my meaning ?
R. H. I would like to put it in my own way to see if
I do.
Imp. You remind me of Moses. I had much difficulty in
making him U D me. You must and will.
R. H. I'm sure I will.
Imp. It will enlighten thy soul. Thou knowest little of God
yet.
R. H. Very little indeed.
Imp. After I have made this teaching clear to thee I wish to
speak further of the supremely selfish beings. How-
ever, not as yet Now let me hear thee, pray. I
am desirous to know of thy U D of me.
R. H. Do you mean this, or more than this, namely that—or
I should perhaps say less than this—that in the pro-
cess of evolution, which is of course under the
guidance of God's Holy Spirit
Impc Amen
R. H. in the course of that evolution, as man began to exist
as man rather than merely an anthropoid ape, that
in that stage, before his intelligence became so to
speak, self-conscious, he was more as a child, and
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 477
that in certain sections of the human race they were
open to the influences from the spirit world, to in-
fluences from possibly messengers who had come
from other planets or other regions under God's
special arrangement
Imp. direction, yes friend, I mean nothing more.
R. H. and thereafter, as their self consciousness grew, and the
exterior consciousness became more active they
neglected these spirit influences
Imp. and teachings . . .
R. H. And followed the desires of their bodies and so their
mediumship was dimmed, they had fewer and less
burning lights, and so their own darkness brought
a greater darkness, until later in the process of
evolution, there has been a possibility, owing to growth
of spirit in the body, for fuller communication from
your world.
Imp. Yes, it is well,
R. H. At the first I somewhat misunderstood you because the
words which you used savoured somewhat of the
words which have been used so long in the world to
express a view of God's working which has been con-
demned as erroneous by the best minds. I mean the
references to creation of man, and in the beginning,
and the perfection. These words suggested to me
a misappreciation of what you really meant.
Imp. I am not responsible for my words. I am obliged to
borrow more or less of your own.
R. H. That is to say, you have a thought, and the words
depend in part at least on your interlocutor.
Imp. Yes.
R. H. There will doubtless as time goes on be less misunder-
standing on my part.
Imp. It has been known to me that my thoughts were not
clear to you, which is more or less of a sorrow to me,
as I am one of God's messengers sent here to give thee
light, and when thou misunderstandest me it grieves
me.
R. H. In time . . .
Imp. Your world is coming into contact with ours according
478 Mrs. Henry Sidgiviclc. [part
to the desires of God. I am pleased to know that
thou hast finally U D me.
R. H. The time is nearly up.
#
{February 26, 1897.) George Eliot on Imperator.
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson. Control, George Eliot.
G. E. He knows and understands fully every desire of your
heart. He is of God, and is ever ready and patient
to follow him. When his messengers are confused
and imperfect he feels every pang of yours, every
feeling of regret or disappointment, yet as he is of
God he accepts it and bears the sorrow patiently,
enduringly, and goes through it all with your own
soul. Yet he teaches them to be patient, not hurry,
make every sound audible, every expression as per-
fect as possible, assuring them that they will in time
be able to deliver his messages clearly. Should you
know what his work is, you would not feel your own.
Every word thought and deed of your own is under-
stood by him. He sees your patience, he sees the
struggle you are having with his messengers, your
disappointments, the little despites, and all. When
he appears himself he is in constant communication
[connection ?] with the Most High and as he labours
with the machine he only asks for help and goes on
in loving trust in him who governs all things wisely.
He feels the injuries which you feel thoroughly, yet
he is a Saint and was a martyr of God when on
the earth.
{March 10, 1897.) Imperator on Old Testament history {specimen).
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson.
+ HAIL
R. H, Hail, Imperator.
Imp. Oh God our father, divine and Holy Worker [?] on high,
watch over us and lead us into thy divine truth.
Give us light and knowledge, oh father as we are thy
children. Keep us ever in thy loving and tender
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 479
care. We are thy servants and would do thy holy
will. Trusting ourselves in thy hands, we will pro-
ceed with our teachings of thy truth 4 •
Friends of earth, we are pleased to meet thee and what
thou desirest to know of God and his revealing him-
self to his creatures on earth we will make known to
thee.
Dost thou not recall the Levitical kingdom.
R. H. Yes
Imp. After the reign of M { Melchisedek } what dost thy
book teach of this ?
R. H. First Abraham, then Isaac, then Jacob, whose name
became Israel, then the sons, then Moses, then Moses
led the Israelites out of Egypt and gave them the
commandments which he received on Mt. Sinai.
Imp. Left them where ?
R. H. Received, the commandments.
Imp. Whence did he lead them ?
R. H. From Egypt.
Imp. According to thy book
R. H. According to the Biblical account Moses led the Israelites
out of Egypt.
Imp. Whence . . . Whither did they go ?
R. H. To Canaan
Imp. Dost thy book teach this ?
R. H. I think so.
Imp. Is this supposed to have been during the Levitical so
termed ?
R. H. I do not remember surely whether that was called the
Levitical or not.
Imp. This should be known by thyself. Thou shouldst
question on points not understood as did Moses that
I may set thee right.
I will continue on all important points not yet under-
stood b; thee. [?]
M{elchisedek} taught the people to know of God . . .
that he was a direct descendant of God ... a direct
messenger of God's. He therefore set the people right
and they understanding and believing in him and
his teachings became, as a multitude, followers of God.
480 Mrs. Henry SidgtvicJc. [part
Before he ascended he told them that there should
be another kingdom called the Levitical. This was
all through his teaching and he also warned them
against any thing evil. He gave them laws and rules
which they were under all circumstances to follow.
He sent forth prayers which were answered in the
eyes of the people, which so inspired their confidence
that ever after his teachings were handed down from
one kingdom to another until the ages when Christ
appeared.
M{elchisedek} having realized the higher spiritual per-
ception in Abraham, he blessed him and gave him
much power to . . .
[Hand moves slowly backwards and forwards several
times, as if suggesting that the block-book should
be put in a different position. I alter it about.]
I am distressed.
[I re-arrange Mrs. P.'s head slightly, and move the table
slightly.]
R. H. Is that better ?
Imp. I am pleased . . .
... to act among the people. He was not disreputable
as thy book teaches.1
Such theorizing is an abomina-
tion. Neither did he forsake or cast out his wife.
This teaching is a mere theorizing or conjecturing of
the people, and according to my knowledge of Abraham,
I consider him to have been a great and good man
and an honest upright follower of God. Such is our
knowledge of him and we know this well. He was
inspired in his work and followed out in every par-
ticular the laws of God, guided by the spirit of M
—
even after his ascension.
R. H. Yes. I understand.
Imp. We explain this in the following way. He was inspired
or controlled by his spirit all through his life. Then
Moses received the direct inspiration whereby he was
enabled to write on the tablets of stone the command-
ments of God which were given clearly to him. U D
1
This refers to Abraham's denial that Sarah was his wife, which Hodgson
had mentioned.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 481
R. H. Yes, quite well.
Imp. So far the teachings are correct and reliable. After
this thou wilt recall the reign of David.
R. H. Yes, much later [Assent.]
Imp. After the Levitical. R. H. Yes.
Imp. Between these periods there is little to say of the direct
inspirational teachings of the messengers of the Most
High.
Wouldst thou wish to speak of any of the people of these
ancient periods between the days of M— A— or
Moses. I would command thee to ask me now. We
know not just how much truth thou hast obtained
from thy book, and what we most desire is to set
thee right.
R. H. I do not know what to accept as true from the Bible ;
I have long ago ceased to regard it as trustworthy.
Imp. Yes I U D this, my friend, but the points between the
dep. of M. and the reign of David is where I wish to
give thee light.
R. H. I simply do not know. e.g. I should be glad if you
could give me an account of the line of spirit-teaching
during these periods ;
e.g. you have referred briefly
in your teaching to Stainton Moses and have said
that Melchizedek inspired Abraham, also Moses, that
Moses inspired Elijah, and Elijah inspired Elisha.
You have not gone into any detail so far as I know.
Imp. Thou dost not U D that it would take ages upon ages
to do so. We must give thee light in brief. There
is so much to relate to thee my friend that the light
would never last long enough for us to give thee a full
detailed account of the lives and workings of the
mediums of God, never friend. Could we have taken
up this light in its earliest stages, we could have given
thee this information, but it is too far gone for this.
So I would ask thee to hasten and get all the infor-
mation concerning them viz. the messengers of God.
There is not time enough for details in full. So we
must give thee all we can.
R. H. I shall be glad if you will give me the outline in as brief
a form as you think desirable. I did not quite under-
2h
482 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
stand what you wished me to do. You asked me if
I wished to know anything about the persons between
Abraham and David.
Imp. Yes I meant by this the specific antecedents of any
special one.
R. H. No. I . . .
Imp. Let me repeat once more that the very first + appear-
ance or revelation of God was when M— appeared.
I have given thee knowledge of his goodness and
power. Yet he ceased not to live, but did five and
so act upon the earth, manifesting himself in different
form, that he actually reigned all through the days
of Abraham M. [Moses] E. [Elijah] And E. [Elisha]
down to the days of King David.
First he inspired A. then after his ascension he inspired
Abraham . . . Moses. He was the Most High and
powerful spirit and assisted the spirit of A. . . . To
return to M.— he was the controlling spirit all
through the Levitical kingdom as well as during his
own Priesthood. U D.
R. H. Melchizedek was the spiritual leader after his ascension
all through the time of the Priesthood as rulers among
the Jews.
Imp. [Assents] Yes and he was the direct messenger who
inspired A. even after his departure from the earth.
The wondrous workings of M.— will never be blotted
out of the history of the early Church. He inspired
the spirit of A. the spirit of M. . . . The spirit of
E. E. and also David, Samuel, dost thou know of
Samuel and his wonderful prophecies ?
R. H. Yes.
Imp. All this is known to us to have come through M.
—
R. H. Do you mean that M.— personally inspired all these
persons ? [Dissent]
Imp. He inspired their spirits.
R. H. Yes, that is what I meant by my question. I did not
mean to ask if he incarnated in them, but if he per-
sonally acted on Elijah as he did on Abraham.
Imp. He did. Do not mistake.
R. H, For example. Melchizedek saw Abraham in life. After-
X XI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 483
wards he directly inspired Abraham. Later he
inspired Moses, but Abraham did not so inspire
Moses ?
Imp. He inspired Moses through the spirit of A.
R. H. After Abraham left his body ? [Assent] but not per-
sonally ? [Dissent]
Imp. Thou art just beginning to U D.
R. H. Then the figure or apparition seen by Moses, was this
really the etherial of Abraham ? [Assent] Acting
under instructions from Melchizedek.
Imp. This is our knowledge.
R. H. Then, later, the etherial of Moses was visible to Elijah,
and Moses acted under orders of Melchizedek.
Imp. M. and A.
R. H. That is, Abraham was above Moses so to speak. [Assent]
Imp. He had passed to the higher and more godlike con-
dition.
R. H. When was the last appearance of Melchisedek per-
sonally ?
Imp. When Christ appeared, Melchizedek departed altogether.
R. H. I still do not quite understand. I mean by personally,
not as the . . .
Imp. He ceased to inspire any one after God sent Christ. He
then left his work to him.
R. H. But what I meant rather was, when was the last time,
I mean roughly, when his . . .
Imp. I will give thee a brief account of the last inspirations
of M. when we meet again. We will take this from
the days of Elijah. We will give thee the last and
final account of his direct inspiration on any one.
Before the appearance of Christ. We will take this
up from Elijah. I will give thee more knowledge
of King David. I do not think that thy book has
given a truthful account of him We have met many
here who have preached wrongly about David. I
will return to thee and give thee an account of M
—
and his last reign.
Be patient, believing in the power of the Supreme. Let
him be thy guiding star. More when we meet here
again.
484 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
God be with thee. +. I. S. D.
{Here enters G. P. and writes about Imperator.}
R. H. Halloo George, glad to see you.
G. P. Glad to see you, old chap, how are you ?
R. H. First rate.
G. P. I am still your friend H, and . . . light is not good
just now.
[I tell him briefly about the sympathetic messages
of some of his friends, etc.]
G. P. Very nice. I am delighted.
How is his Holiness getting on, H ? He is very high,
farther from the earth than anyone who comes
here.
R. H. He does not seem ever to get confused, but some-
times it seems as if he did not give his information
in the way, for example, you would. As if his
mind was different in some way from ours.
G. P. Well if you could see him as I do you would say it
was. In what way does it seem different, H ? He
is nearer the sight of God.
R. H. Perhaps it is, I suppose it is, due to the difficulties
in communicating.
G. P. Answer my question, old man. R. H. Can't read that.
G. P. Answer my question. I have been so near to you and
told you so much about our life.
R. H. For example I have asked about the course of Spirit
teaching from the beginning, on Jewish lines.
G. P. Well he knows if any one does.
R. H. Exactly. He seems to know, but he does not convey
it to me in the straight way in which I would
convey it to you in a brief outline history.
G. P. Yes he will in all probability if he returns a few times
in succession.
R. H. It is very general as he gives it.
G. P. He is a great deal with your friend Moses and talks
with him in the very same way.
R. H. Well, George, Moses is a very dear fellow, but his
mind is very different from mine. It may be a
superior mind in many ways, but Moses had not a
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 485
scientifically trained mind, and he placed much
more credence in the biblical history than I do.
G. P. Yes. I know, H, unlike ourselves, and is very narrow
I call him in many things.
R. H. George Eliot's type of mind is more like the kind of
mind we wish to influence, and the kind of informa-
ation, or perhaps I should say the form in which
the information is given, she would be a good judge
of, if she, as I suppose she does, still retains the
kind of mind she had when incarnate.
G. P. Can you not judge from what she says. R. H. Yes.
G. P. Very well. Imperator knows this as well as any one,
and he has sent her here because he knows this,
and I assure you, H, that beyond His giving you
the history of the . . . what is it ?
R. H. The early course of spirit-teachings.
G. P. Revelation eh ? R. H. Yes.
G. P. He cannot, neither can Moses, nor any the rest of
them give you the scientific knowledge which you
wish, H.
R. H. They can't do it ?
G. P. No. I know they are much higher and far beyond
G. E. and G. P., but they cannot handle this
machine as we can.
R. H. I supposed it was due in some way to that.
G. P. Yes, H. They are very high and religious and this
is my path.
R. H. I hope mine too.
G. P. I know you will get better things of the kind you
wish in time
R. H. Good.
G. P. Yes. But do not forget me. R. H. Not much, I won't.
G. P. Yours ever. G. P.
G. E. is in England, working like ... on another
light. G. P.
[Mrs. Piper murmured something too low for me to
catch, and as she recovered normal consciousnes
said that she saw George Pelham grinning at her.
" I haven't seen him for a long time."]
486 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
(March 29, 1897. Imperator on Old Testament history (further
specimen).
Sitter and Recorder Hodgson.
[Imperator writes]
+ HAIL
R. H. Hail, Imperator.
Imp. Friend, we greet thee.
Should we not inspire the spirit of this body with
the Holy Spirit, we should at times be subjected
to other spirits not preferable [?] . . . from other
spheres. We know of higher and better spirits
whom we prefer to bring. We have faith that we
shall be all powerful. We are working in faith.
And without faith we would indeed be lost
We move in many different ways. We act upon the
minds of mortal men in many ways, unlike to those
of the earth-bound spirits. We do not and will
not allow those to subject themselves to anything
evil or carnal. We not only purify the souls of
men upon thy earth, but we purify the air which
they breathe. The air being the breath of life and
a symbol of God, we must begin purifying and
cleansing this. Then we act directly on the soul
of man. We have so carried on our work ever
since we departed from the life known as earth
life. So we continue evoluting the minds of men.
We will speak of evolution in due time.
R. H. I follow.
Imp. We intend before very long to bring such spirits into
thine own surroundings as may be seen by thee.
We know our power well. We worked out our
own salvation upon the earth. We obeyed the
direct laws of God as given to Moses upon the
Mount. We changed not the laws of God, as has
so been stated. But we have known from the
beginning of our lives that God so sent his Holy
Messengers to teach his word to men, that they
should keep his laws. From the beginning unto
the end he has and ever will reveal himself to his
people. We are now obeying his laws, and should
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.-—Appendix. 487
we at any future time not be heard, we should not
cease to live and act. We should be elsewhere
. . . acting according to his desires. We have not
always been understood, neither were any of the
prophets.
M. — [?] has from the beginning inspired the whole
number Viz. twelve Jacob Abraham Moses [?] . . .
[undec] . . . [undec] Levi . . . the twelve i.e.
through Melchisedec. And in consequence of his
being in direct communication with them, the
whole world was . . . [undec] ... in a state of
exhilaration, especially among our people, viz. Jews.
When we choose to reveal ourselves to thee, friend,
thou wilt have no further doubt of our identity
or teachings. We know of all the sayings and
doings of our High Priests. We know that it was
through the constant communion with God and
ever abiding faith which they had in the Most
High that enabled them to carry on their work
and obey His divine laws.
Friend, we would ask thee not to accept other teach-
ings than ours, as we are of the Most High ; and
have obeyed his holy word from our earliest history.
R. H. I am not following any other teachings.
Imp. We wish to so help thee in thy work as to purify
thy whole spirit throughout thy existence like as
we did with Moses.
The body of man is a good servant but a very bad
master. The spirit is ofttimes poisoned through
the flesh. It is a pity that such sin should exist.
We so possessed our bodies as to become masters of
them. We have become exalted in consequence.
We find it difficult to make thee hear clearly, friend.
We have faith that this will not last for all time.
Dost thou recall the mention of the promised land ?
R. H. Yes, indeed. Canaan ?
Imp. Dost thou remember where [?] the Jews walked
through the Red Sea ?
R. H. Yes.
Imp. and the Egyptians were lost.
488 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Yes. I remember well.
We know this better than any one. We know the
truths of many such sayings. We had but to obey
his laws and through our faith in him we were
followed by his people and we worked with the
children of Israel and indeed we were followed by
them. Dost thou not see the drift of our meaning ?
Are you speaking now of your own personal embodi-
ment ?
It is well.
No man loveth God more. No man ever descended
to earth that could give thee more light.
We find at times a poor quality of light, at which
times our sayings are incoherent and vague, yet
we are nevertheless present, and we see and feel
thy feelings of j>ossible doubt. We would ask thee
to put thyself in our place.
I will try.
By so doing thou wilt be able to understand us better.
We follow out the instructions given us before we
enter here, as did the prophets of God.
* * # *
(May 31, 1897.) G. P. on Imperator.
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson. G. P. writing.
G. P. How is everything going on since I left you so to speak.
R. H. First rate, George. A good deal different in some
respects, as you know, much less disturbance and
everything quieter and calmer and clearer under
the arrangement of Imperator here.
# $ . $ $
G. P. He had been watching us for some time, I have since
learned, but could not and would not take charge
unless he could be trusted implicitly to do so. He
is all that he professes to be as you will know in
time.
(April 2, 1900.) Rector as preacher (specimen).
Rector {using voice} — — — this we state from absolute
R, H.
Jmp.
R. H.
Imp.
R. H.
Imp.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance.—Appendix. 489
knowledge, as in communion with the Allwise God ;
He has sent us as His prophets to teach His people
that if they will live in Him and follow Him He
has done all everything for them. This is no longer
hidden from thee, is it, friend ?
Sitter. Says that, to be frank, it's not as clear as he could
wish.
Rector. Our teaching is — our aim beneath all this is to teach
thee how thou mayest find God, to teach thee to
live in Him and obey His laws, to teach thee that
thy life has been mapped out for thee and that we,
as prophets, are enabled to see it and foresee it.
We are sent to enlighten thee and teach thee how
to live so as to best meet what lies before thee.
(Dec. 8, 1902.) Claims of Rector.
Sitter and Recorder, G. B. D.
Rector {using voice} What we claim, if we be understood,
is as simple as the reading of a book. Our desire
is that all mortals should understand that we are
possessed of a power that is far-reaching and is
the power of the Most High, and if any mortal
hath put himself under our guidance and care and
is willing to follow our teaching he will not look
for error and error will not overtake him. That
is so, friend, and thou wilt see it if thou dost see
us as we are.
#
Ask thyself one question, friend, why we should return
here and inspire thee with a thought which hath
not been a thought from the Most High ? He is
thy Creator, He hath created thee, friend.
(March 17, 1903.)
Sitter and Recorder, G. B. D.
Rector {using voice}. Under our care and guidance it {the light}
may continue for a long time to come ; but its con-
tinuing will depend absolutely upon the use that is
made of it—if it be used for spiritual purposes only,
490 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
to give spiritual help and guidance and knowledge of
the laws of God to those whom we may call before
us for this purpose, the light will continue and
we do not see the end of it ; but if it be used for
the purpose of material tests it will not last, no,
not at all. Friend, we will destroy the light our-
selves if there is any further so-called testing and
probing for proof of immortality ; there has been
sufficient proof given, both along the spiritual line
and the material. Now if we cannot sustain the
light and use it for giving spiritual teaching and
advice and for the accomplishment of the destruc-
tion of unpleasant earthly conditions, then we cease
to act.
(May 24, 1904.) Dr. Oliver on Rector.
Sitter and Recorder, Miss A. M. R.
A voice sitting. Control, Rector. Communicator, " Dr.
Oliver," who has been prescribing medically for the sitter.
The following is part of their subsequent conversation :
Dr. O. Yes, Rector is repeating for me my sentences as best
he can. Rector is an important personality, for
the reason that he knows how to care for the light,
how to support it and how to keep it. He is
appointed by Imperator to look after it. He knows
every organ of the body and knows how to use
all the organs that are necessary for him to use,
and he knows how to keep the light replenished
and how to keep others from using it to the
detriment of it. Therefore he is exceedingly im-
portant to us, although he is a little old fashioned
in his language, but he is learning—as we come
over here and find out the light and return to it
we are teaching him how to use different language.1
Sitter. Well is it because he lived so long ago ?
Dr. O. Yes, he is very quaint, lived many years ago as you
would term it.
1
This may portend a change from " thou " to " you," but the change
did not take place till October, 1905 (see Chapter IV., p. 137).
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 491
Sitter. Well I am very grateful to you
—
Dr. O. I will be off, I have other duties to perform and I
must keep to my duties, but I am very glad to
have met you and hope you will profit by the
advice which I give you * * * They tell me,
Rector and the other priest, that they are going
to close the light very soon
—
Sitter. You mean for the season.
Dr. 0. •
in consequence of that I would like to hear from
you before if it is convenient. Meanwhile may all the
good in that world be yours, health, wealth, pros-
perity, especially health and all that goes to make
a perfect life. Goodbye, God be with you.
Sitter. Good-bye.
Dr. O. If I can be of service to you at any time please call
upon me
Sitter. Thank you.
[Hector returns.]
R. Friend, hath the doctor finished ? Sitter. Yes.
R. Very well, then here is a friend for you.
Sitter. He is a friend ?
R. Here is a friend. I will step aside.
E.
George Eliot Control.
Also Failure of Cross-Correspondence Experiments.
(March 5, 1897.) 1
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson.
[Mrs. P's subliminal murmured some words to the
effect " I'll never be able to remember that,"
followed by words that sounded like two or three
lines of poetry, but I was unable to catch what
was said.]
1
1 give the whole record of this sitting and of the next quoted
(March 30, 1897), including the going-into-trance and waking-stages,
to serve as specimens of complete records.
492 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
[George Eliot writes]
G. E. I am yours most truly, George Eliot.
When the pains of life are over . . .
[?]
and from the earth you . . .
[?]
when you bereft of earthly cares [?]
R. H. Can't read any of that except " George Eliot ".
G. E. from earthy care bereft . . .
and from thy body . . .
[?]
[The hand quivers a good deal, and the writing is
hurried and bad. I take the hand and hold it
gently and explain that the writing is not legible,
etc. From what follows it appears that G. E. was
not talking to me, but to Mrs. P., and that the
words were written by her unintentionally.]
G. E. Pleased to see you. I am yours most truly George
Eliot. I was speaking to a lady whom I saw
passing over the boundary line. I was reciting
poetry to her.
We are going at the suggestion of His Holiness to
take the spirit of the medium through space to
another channel. He is preparing for this journey.
Do you remember me well.
R. H. I remember your works very well.
G. E. I had a sad life in many ways, yet in others I was
happy. Yet I have never known what real happi-
ness was until I came here.
What errand can I do for you %
R. H. Do you think you can take a message yet to the
other light ?
G. E. I have just returned from there and find the arrange-
ment and conditions are not completed yet.
R. H. Have you any further news about the other light ?
G. E. I have.
R. H. I shall be glad to hear anything you have to
tell me.
G. E. Did you know that I had had several conversations
with my old friend Myers ?
R. H. Do you mean since . . .
G. E. No. I have seen you here before a long time ago,
and after that I went there
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance,.—Appendix. 493
R. H. Yes, he told me that he had received a message
through that light informing him of the message
which you gave here so long before.
G. E. About his work ? R. H. Yes.
G. E. Yes I gave it.
R. H. I have the precise words as written by my friend
Miss ... [Q ... ] for you
G. E. Yes I have this one pass-word which I will give there
viz. Adam Bede. My reason for this is because it
is original and would not be liable to be taken up
by any other spirit from our world.
R. H. But you gave me your pass-word before. Do you not
remember it ?
G. E. Yes, indeed, and this is my introduction.
R. H. You do not mean that you will put aside the longer
one. [Strong dissent.]
G. E. Not at all. Oh no indeed, but this is for recognition.
R. H. Yes. I understand.
G. E. and to so attract his attention that he will pay strict
attention to my longer * * *
R. H. Yes. I see.
G. E. You must understand that it is not always easy to
attract one's friends through a medium i.e. in cases
like hers, where we only gain partial control.
R. H. Under ordinary circumstances I suppose that you have
no means of determining in her case whether you
can give your messages or not.
G. E. No, indeed, it is a thing which remains for experiment
. . . which remains to be seen . . . leave out thing
please it was dropped by accident.
R. H. It remains to be shown by experiment, you mean.
G. E. Yes. So faint was the light at first that it was
scarcely discernible, yet with keeping our eyes open
and feeling so strongly the desire to send some
message of comfort and proof of our existence, we
finally succeeded in discovering the etherial glowing
around the body of the young woman.
All friends have more or less etherial light, especially
when they are earnestly seeking to find some friend
here
494 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
R. H. Can't read. G. E. from here, i.e. spirit
R. H. What do you mean when you say " All friends have
more or less etherial light ?
"
G. E. I mean to say when the soul has been inspired with
the desire to reach some friend here, there is then
the first spark of light which beams forth from the
soul of the friend and by its own law attracts some
friend here.
I was an unbeliever, in fact almost an agnostic, when
I left my body. But when I awoke and found
myself alive in another form superior in quality,
that is, my body less gross and heavy, with no
pangs of remorse, no struggling to hold on to the
material body, I found it had all been a dream.
R. H. That was your first experience.
G. E. Yes, so free did my thoughts flow, so light and free
was my etherial being, that I almost immediately
understood the change and what it really meant.
R. H. This was your very first feeling ?
G. E. It was. I had the most beautiful and indescribable
feeling of freedom. I found that the longings which
I had had previously were absolutely a material
thing. The moment I had been removed from my
body, which had always been a great puzzle to me,
I found I was at once . . .
Read ... I think I have left out two words. I am
not sure. Read please. I wish you to understand
me well ... [I read above] [" I found "] I had
been thoroughly mistaken in my conjectures. I
looked back upon my whole life in one instant.
Every thought word or action which I had ever
experienced passed through my mind like a wonder-
ful panorama as it were before my vision. You
cannot begin to imagine anything so real and
extraordinary as this first awaking. The balmy
air of spirit life which we immediately enter into
is indescribable and beyond your power of com-
prehension. No mortal man can ever know or
realize what it really is. It is simply impossible
to convey this extraordinary life to the under-
lxxi.J Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 495
standing of mortal man. He must have the experi-
ence before he can even picture it clearly in his
mind. I had at times sat in my own room absorbed
in the reverie of thought and fancied that there
must be an indisputable something, but just what
I could not conceive. So my life in the material
went on. I never knowing or realizing more than
the mere fancying, until (as I have said before) I
passed out of the material life, which was so puzz-
ling and mysterious to me.
You must not think my friend from anything you may
have heard or known of my life, that I was not a
thinker. Should you think this you would be
mistaking me altogether.
R. H. George Eliot, I have always had the most profound
admiration not merely for your psychological work
in fiction, but for your clear philosophical insight
and originality.
G. E. Thanks to you, my friend, for such pleasing thoughts
of me.
R. H. I had thought with regret that it did not so happen
that you met with convincing proofs that another
life was waiting. I had my own doubts and
struggles, and probably from the same standpoint
as yourself, having become familiar with the general
principles of modern scientific work, especially
perhaps being affected by biological studies ; and
the natural effect was for the mind to be impressed
with the negative side, and the apparent absence
of any evidence of a positive sort from our friends
who had departed. It . . .
[Disturbance with the head of Mrs. P.]
G. E. Rector holds the other side and begs me to ask you
to assist the material while he holds the spiritual.
Then I will go on with you. Pardon any inter-
ruptions that may occur. [I re-arrange Mrs. P.'s
head with cushions, etc.]
Better so. Thanks to you. His Holiness watches over
all and will not allow any thing but the very best
conditions here.
496 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H. I only wished to add that I understand your former
point of view, the origin of the quasi-agnosticism,
having been there myself, but having been blest
in receiving evidence which brought the heaven
as a reality to my mind.
G. E. You cannot realize what a consolation it is to us
here to wake and find all so clear and beautiful.
R. H. Your first feeling was of lightness and freedom.
G. E. Yes, indescribably free. There are no words in the
Anglo Saxon dictionary, . . . vocabulary, with which
we can describe our experiences. It is impossible.
R. H. Better take another pencil.
G. E. Are you speaking ?
R. H. Change this please [pencil].
G. E. You may ajjproach it, but that is all.
R. H. Can you kindly go on.
G. E. Yes certainly, nothing could give me more pleasure.
I wish you to know the best there is to know,
so far as the human mind can understand com-
prehend [substituted for understand]
After having left my body (which seems but yesterday
in one sense, yet in reality must have been a
much longer time) [Hand makes movements as if
trying to turn over the leaf with the end of the
pencil, the page being nearly finished. Occasionally
a writer has turned over the page himself] I
passed as it were in an instant behind a cloud
beyond the sight of mortal eye, realizing fully
what had taken place.
R. H. This was after you recovered your coherent con-
sciousness.
G. E. Yes . . .
which was far sweeter than waking from a refresh-
ing sleep. [I interpreted tvaking at first as recover-
ing] waking. I like this word better. You must
not make my words out wrongly.
R. H. When I decipher incorrectly, kindly draw my attention
as now.
G. E. I will try.
I, as I said before, saw everything and realized every
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 497
thought I ever had. Then from this moment up
to the period of . . . How can I express it to
you ? ... A few days I had a feeling of remorse,
but it did not last long. When this passed away,
I began to feel happier than I had ever been through
the whole course of my earthly existence. Nothing
remained to trouble my soul. I was free and
content. I immediately sang songs of love, realizing
I was a part of love itself.
I cannot tarry much longer with you, my friend, but
if you would have me say more of my life here,
call for me in spirit, i.e. in thought.
R. H. I should be very pleased for you to go on some time
and give me so to speak a complete detailed
history of your experiences since your first reaching
the world where you now are, whom you first and
afterwards met, who told you of the new life, etc.
G. E. Ah but my spirits were not so depressed but what I
knew and realized fully what had taken place. I
knew almost immediately, as I have previously
stated. My life while in my body was filled with
love.
R. H. I know it.
G. E. No woman on your planet to-day ever expressed more.
Love is spirit, love is everything. Where there is
not love . . . Where love is not, there is nothing
« . . there nothing is.
R. H. " Where love is not, there nothing is." [Assent]
G. E. Man's soul is love.
R. H. Yes, in its nature. [Assent]
G. E. woman's also. Yes, it is the one thing universal. We
pour forth light over our own mediums, and act
thereupon until we reach you. I think my thoughts
must pour to higher realms than this.
R. H. Feel yourself getting dim ?
G. E. I feel like . . Soar. My thoughts must soar. I feel
like one blinded.
R. H. Perhaps you had better not stay longer now.
G. E. I will meet you here again.
R. H. I shall be very pleased.
2 i
498 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
G. E. I have been happy in speaking with you, because
it may be the means of reaching some other friend
who perhaps has known me not since I left the
earth.
R. H. Yes, indeed.
G. E. Could you not give me strength to remain ?
R. H. Perhaps you can take some from me [I rest the hand
against my head] You have literally joined " the
choir invisible," but invisible only to ordinary
mortal eye, not invisible because non-existent.
G. E. Thanks for the strength received.
I may not be visible i.e. in body, but I am determined
to blow the bugle so long as I can reach a friend.
George Eliot is not one to be embarrassed by the
loss of a word. She will cling to her friends for-
ever and anon. Many were the walks she had in
life and many are those she is taking now, and
one she must take is at this present moment.
Adieu until we meet again. Yours ever, George
Eliot.
R. H. Adieu.
[Rector writes]
Rector. May the blessings of Heaven rest on you . . . [Hand
moves out to Spirit] thy head. + I. S. D. (Rector)
[Leaves hand—returns again] No more.
R. H. Doctor ? [Finger traces] Rector ? [Assent]
[Mrs. Piper's subliminal speaks] {i.e. Waking-stage}
The Bishop . . .
I the Bishop tell you to go forth to thy body and
inhabit it and take this message for me. May the
Supreme Being watch over guide and protect thy
footsteps all through thy life and forever . . .
. . . listen to the teachings of thy friend I. S. D. and
be patient. I must leave thee now . . . Go forth
and take up the duties which are set before thee,
in patience.
Scent of lilies
[My head is bent over the table writing, and Mrs
P.'s attention apparently is drawn to it]
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 499
Your hair isn't as fine as the rest, is it ?
R. H. As fine as what ?
It isn't so fine as the other people's here in this
room . . .
R. H. People in this room ?
[Normal] Oh what am I talking about ?
{March 30, 1897.)
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson.
[Mrs Piper's subliminal.] {i.e. Mrs. Piper going into trance}
Those are the loveliest flowers I've ever seen. I want
a few.
[George Eliot writes]
G. E. George Eliot. R. H. Pleased to see you.
G. E. Very happy to return. [Arm moves a little about
table]
G. E. I wish plenty of room. I have it where I am. [I
touch cushions and push them a little further away
from writing-table]
R. H. All right ?
G. E. Yes, all is very satisfactory, thanks.
Now returning to our former subject I would say it
would be just as well to go on from where I
left off . . . Beginning from where I left off
. . . Do you know a gentleman by the name of
Rector.
R. H. Yes.
G. E. He will take charge of the body here. R. H. Good.
G. E. I was speaking about the palace, into which I had
been escorted by a gentleman.
We passed on through the long corridor up a flight
of stairs as it were to the first reception room.
In passing through we passed several very dis-
tinguished-looking gentlemen, with the most perfect
forms and faces I had ever seen.
[R. H. notes : Occasionally in the writing a word will
be added afterwards, and some indication of its place
given, e.g. in the above :
" distinguished gentle-
men." Then " looking " was written, and hand
gestured to the words above, for me to read it in
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
its right place. I read " distinguished-looking gentle-
men."] [Assent]
Among those whom I recall were Shelley, of whom I
used to be very fond.
Now listen because I am trying to give you an
absolutely true and accurate account of my experi-
ences and naming the gentlemen whom I met.
Chaucer . . . Shelley and Chaucer the original . . . and
only writer of Canterbury tales.
Then Burns.
Robert Burns ? G. E. Yes
I can't read the word before Burns.
Also . . . then. Is it important for you to interrupt
me, friend ?
Let me explain [Hand moves as if to write] Let me
explain. If I cannot read the words, it is obviously
impossible to go on until I know what you are saying.
I must therefore interrupt and ask you to repeat until
I understand. If you will be a shade slower, I hope
that there will be no need of interruption.
Thanks, very much. But it is difficult indeed for spirits
to control and be patient because we know we can-
not have light long at a time. We desire to make
the best of it also take advantage of it while it lasts.
The more haste the worst speed.
Very good. We will do the best we can. You will
kindly return to Burns.
I saw him in the same building with the before
mentioned spirits. I also saw the original Adam
Bede. You perhaps can imagine my delight in
meeting spirits of whom I had thought so much
when in my body. I also met Homer our dear
old Greek poet, and I stopped and spoke with each
of them. This was to me the most delightful
experience I had had at all.
They instantly arose from their seats as we approached
them, and extending their hands to us, gave us
their most cordial greetings, expressed much delight
in seeing us and began speaking of things which
interested them the most. They showed us about
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 501
the palace and gave us full instructions, illustra-
tions, of their lives since entering spirit.
We passed on from one to the other, until my mind
was satisfied with its longings, and then we bade
each good bye and left the palace of the writers
and poets, returning to our own home and friends.
Such a perfect life of harmony and peace no mortal
mind can comprehend. There they were, each at
his own work in a palace of beauty indescribable
to mortal minds. However no one could give you a
clearer description of this life, its laws, its sur-
roundings, its beauties, than George Eliot. I do
not speak in egotism, but I have had a beautiful
experience since I came here. I know and under-
stand your desires too, as well as any one can.
I will give you another description of one of my
experiences.
One does, as perhaps you can imagine, long to see
those of whom they have heard and read a great
deal.
R. H. Yes, indeed.
G. E. This you will find will be one of the things you will
desire first.
R. H. That seems to me highly probable for most people.
G. E. Yes, it was in my own case most certainly.
Now I wished to see and realize that some of the
mortal world's great musicians really existed, and
asked to be visited by some one or more of them.
When this wish was expressed, instantly several
appeared before me and Rubinstein stood before
me playing upon an instrument like a harp at first.
Then the instrument was changed, and a piano
appeared and he played upon it with the most
delightful ease and grace of manner.
While he was playing, the whole atmosphere and his
strains of music were . . . the whole atmosphere
was filled . . . [Hand gestures for me to read the
words into a sentence]
R. H. The whole atmosphere was filled with his strains of
music ?
502 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
G. E. Yes. And they were accompanied by the most delight-
fid songs from heavenly spirit birds ... As the
strains of music ascended, they seemed to awaken
these beautiful songsters, and if you can place
yourself in imagination with me you perhaps will
be able to realize in part what these beautiful
sounds so melodiously poured forth meant to myself
as a listener.
R. H. Very wondrous.
G. E. The whole spirit world as it seemed to me was filled
with music. No mortal mind, as I have many
times said before, can ever realize it until they have
become spiritual beings.
Just his playing brought forth all this beautiful chorus.
There never was anything like it, as I thought. I
stood like one spell bound. When he had finished
playing, he arose from his seat, placed a little white
flower upon my hand and bowed most graciously
to me, smiled and disappeared to his own retreat.
You see I have not forgotten some of my earthly
expressions.
R. H. No, indeed. Very interesting description.
G. E. First, my friend, these are absolute facts. There is
not one iota of fiction written here.
R. H. Good.
G. E. You will one day verify this to your satisfaction, and
when we meet I will remind you of these facts.
R. H. I shall be delighted.
G. E. Now then since you are tranquil I will go on and
tell you of other experiences.
R. H. Yes. I shall be very glad.
G. E. I had no thought of being fatigued, not in the least.
In fact I have never, since I first came here.
I then thought I would like to know more of the
different kinds of music, which they understood
so much about. I thought I would like to hear
something like a choir of voices from the beautiful
singers of whom I had heard and read when in
the body. Well, friend, I expressed this thought
silently, as I had done previously. When a lady
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 503
stepped forward Martino by name. She bowed she
addressed me with a smile and whispered " listen."
Well, first I will describe in part her appearance.
She was the most saintlike looking creature I had
ever seen, the most beautiful woman, as I thought.
Her eyes were aglow with light. Her voice like the
soft and mellow sound of a silvery lute. This was
when she addressed me. She was slight of stature,
large eyes, oval face, more of the Greek, of which
I had fancied in my mortal mind . . . Yes, but
my fancies were like a hideous nightmare in com-
parison with the real beauty of the face.
She then smiled and began to sing. Oh such a
heavenly sound I had never even had the faintest
idea of. It is simply impossible for me to describe
it. I could never do it. Analogy there is none.
But she sang ... to me, and the song was of spirit-
life in a state of perfection. I will ere long give
you some idea of the nature of the song.
R. H. You mean the words.
G. E. Yes. I hope I will be able to make you understand it.
When she had nearly finished her song, as in the
case of Rubinstein's playing, she was accompanied
by a chorus of voices, but unlike R ,
they were
young ladies instead of birds. Oh friend, how will
you be able to realize this chorus of young maids'
voices ? They were like so many . . give it
up . . . Cannot illustrate it. Impossible.
Yet I did " listen." I assure you. I had been
entertained royally, as I thought, before, but I
fancied I had been only half entertained when I
heard them singing. The whole etherial atmosphere
was one echo of song. I said as soon as I col-
lected myself and my thoughts sufficiently to
realize who and what I was ;
well, this is Heaven
in reality. I then wondered why I had not gone
before. I passed along a few feet in front of them,
and the whole pathway was literally strewn with
flowers, sending their scents up before me and the
charming singers. There were six in all, young
504 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
ladies, besides their leader Martino. They were
standing just beyond the path of flowers, and were
in rotation, the lady herself being in the centre,
and three on the . . .
R. H. Three on one side and three on the other.
[Assent]
G. E. ranging in size from a full grown lady down to a child
of about twelve years old.
The younger of the two smallest ones to my right
stooped, picked six little blossoms, after they had
finished their song, and stepped in front of the rest
and decorated the brows of the others, placing the
largest flower upon the brow of their leader, and
then stepping back to her former position they were
signalled by their leader, the lady herself. And
raising their sweet faces towards my own, they
smiled, then placed their finger tips to their hps
and throwing me a kiss, vanished before my very
eyes.
I was left in meditation and my soul was filled to
its utmost capacity with delight.
R. H. Yes. I can understand.
G. E. I hardly know as there is enough light remaining for
me to continue.
R. H. The time will soon be gone, and perhaps it is wiser
not to force the end of the light as it were.
G. E. Yes. We agree, as we cannot do as well, when we
return again.
R. H. You mean that if you get confused now, it will tend
to make you incoherent the next time you come.
[Assent]
G. E. Yes, yet I have many interesting experiences to narrate
to you.
R. H. I hope there'll be plenty of time for all.
G. E. When it will be convenient.
Imperator wishes me to say that he bestows his
blessings on you, and will ever be a faithful servant
of God. I will bid you adieu.
R. H. Adieu. G. E. I am yours in spirit. G. E.
[Mrs. Piper's subliminal speaks] {i.e. waking-stage}
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 505
Go, take up thy spirit [body ?] believing in God. No
harm can befall thee. We are thy friends always.
Are you Saint Paul ? . . .
That's Imperator, sure . . .
I don't know who the lady is.
{April 17, 1897.) Failure of alleged cross-correspondences with
Myers and a Medium in England.
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson. George Eliot writing.
G. E. You do not mind my speaking, I trust.
R. H. I shall be very pleased. This George Eliot ? [Assent]
G. E. I have been to see Myers several times. He at first
was not inclined to take much stock in the mani-
festations because there were so few clear and
distinct ones given. He got a little impatient and
said he thought he would not try again to-day,
but as the conditions were better, he changed his
mind and decided to remain and go on. But
Imperator visited them and things have been going
better. Mentor and Doctor accompanied me and
on my way I met Miss F . I heard Myers reciting
or quoting some verses in his own room during the
interval between the lights . . . burning of the lights.
Do you hear me distinctly ?
R. H. Yes, quite.
G. E. They placed some material flowers upon a small table
and we saw them distinctly while we were there.
The name of your friend George Pelham was
mentioned also.
They cannot seem to account for the rumbling sounds
which are heard so distinctly over their heads.
Now here is one thing which happens [written with
one p. Hand after finishing word returns and adds
a second p just after the first] always. The candle
goes out and leaves them in darkness. This was a
trick of the old gentleman when in his body, and he
continues to keep it up.1
1
In this paragraph G. E. is professing to describe the doings of the
ghosts in the haunted house in which Myers was having sittings.
506 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Apart from that I have already mentioned I heard
Myers reciting poetry . . . [undec]
R. H. What's that ?
G. E. I repeated it for you simply.
Your two lines were given to the medium and noted.
R. H. Which two lines ?
G. E. Two which you gave to Mr. Pelham some time ago.
They are not correctly spelled, but they were
received there by her. This is the best opportunity
we have had in any way whereby we were able
to give the messages.
We have had no better opportunity to give our
messages than the present one. The conditions have
never been more favorable, and we will be able to
do much good in consequence. We will be able
to remove all unpleasant spirits from their earth-
bound spheres.
Have you any questions you would ask, please. I
must be going soon, as there is very little light
left for me.
[Hand bows to sp. and seems particularly respectful.
I infer that Imperator has arrived.]
He has returned, and we will repeat what we have
previously stated that there was some difference
in time.
We have done the best we could.
R. H. Yes, thank you very much. The light is getting very
dim now.
[Assent]
G. E. and as Miss F and others are there and will be for
some time, we will bid you good bye for the present
and keep watch over all.
(May 14, 1897.)
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson. George Eliot writing.
G. E. Friend, did you wish to see me ?
R. H. Yes, I shall be glad to talk to you.
G. E. I wished to say something more about my life here.
R. H. Yes. I shall be very glad.
* * * *
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper
1
s Trance.—Appendix. 507
G. E. There has not been much going on with the second
light of late.
R. H. I have something to say about the second light.
G. E. Yes, we wish to know what the state of her spirit is
now.
R. H. I cannot give you much light directly upon that.
But you will recall that you personally are one of
those most responsible for all our relations with
the second light.
G. E. Yes, quite. I admit I am.
R. H. Well, I yesterday afternoon, since I was here last,
received a postal card from Myers concerning the
greater part of the series of sittings when they were
in the so-called haunted house. He writes these
words.
G. E. Read to me, as I know him well.
R. H. He says " Yours up to April 23 inclusive "—-that
means the records which I sent him—" received.
Very disappointing. Not a vestige of truth. No
messages received : none could be sent : whole
description erroneous : nothing recognizable."
[Hand starts to write]
R. H. Let me finish ? [Hand comes back and listens] " The
only one of the controls mentioned who even pro-
fessed to control at B "—that's the name of
the place—" was E. G. and he said nothing—only
whispered his name." [Hand starts to write] Let
me finish ? [Hand comes back and listens] " No
good spending more time on attempted rapproche-
ment at present. On our side we must go on as
we can trying to work up the mediumship : on
yours there is grave doubt (it seems to me) on
reality of some controls by " . . .he means grave
doubt thrown—" by their assertions of success or
misdescription." Now you are all in a pretty
pickle.
G. E. No one could be more certain of their conditions
and statements than G. E. I know for a certainty
(although I assure you I do not in the least desire
to contradict or in any way deny one word uttered
508 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
by my friend Myers) that our messages were
most sincerely and honestly taken to the light there.
Nothing could be more earnestly and sincerely done
than our work has been. We felt sure at the time
that our thoughts were being registered there,
because in many cases there was assent by the
medium's spirit. It is a true light, as I have
been there and in part used it, yet it is not well
developed, and if our messages were not received,
we have been deceived ourselves. No band of
workers ever worked more faithfully than we did.
I truthfully say this, my friend. The material
surroundings are always difficult to see clearly, but
the spiritual is not.
R. H. Myers also informed (sic) that the description [that]
was given here of the house and the phenomena
was also erroneous.
O. E. We saw the workers there, and I as sincerely as ever
spirit could possibly be, visited there and saw the
spirits described. Now [you ?] one day, and while
you still remain in the body, will have cause to
realize in part about the truth we have told you.
We have been sincere and faithful always. Myers
will see in time. We not only gave the messages
which you gave us, but gave our own also.
Whether they were received or not.
R H. And how also about the numerous messages that you
brought back from Myers ?
G. E. Yes, we would ask you to ask him to consider care-
fully what his thoughts were, i.e. those not put
into actual speech.
R. H. But that is no good, since he did not receive any
message, and did not send any ; he may of course
and doubtless did have thousands, millions of thoughts
through his mind in one way or another, which he
would never be able now specially to recall.
G. E. We feel sorry for that, but we feel if he were able
to recall any thing in this way, he could determine
where we erred.
R. H. I understand from what you say that you offer as
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 509
an explanation of what really happened, one which
naturally occurred to myself also. That is to say
you, and the other messengers,—I of course refer
to you all—you delivered your messages to the
interior, or as we commonly speak of it—not
exactly identical however with interior—we say
subh'rninal—you were delivering messages to the
subliminals and possibly getting replies from those
subhminals and were entirely unable to distinguish
between what was going on in the subliminal world
and the ordinary material world.
G. E, Yes, as Miss F communicates with her friend,
* # # #
And in this other case we just as sincerely gave your
messages as you exist. We of course could not
and would not say this unless we were sure of our
work.
R. H. Well now, what is there to say about your descrip-
tions of the phenomena manifested by the earth-
bound spirits there ?
G. E. We as sincerely saw them there and saw their move-
ments as described to you, by ourselves, and if
there had been a specially fine and sensitive spirit
incarnate there, they would surely have heard and
seen what we described.
My friend, let me say once and forever that I am all
that I profess to be and nothing on the material
earth could allow me to profess to be anything
only what I am, George Eliot. Besides, if I cannot
be trusted in what I am most sincere in saying
and doing, I would prefer to remain away altogether.
I feel sorry for my friend Myers and am surprised
that he should feel we were not present.
R. H. Now, George Eliot, he would surely be extremely
foolish, quite irrational, if he were to conclude that
you were present. Listen for one moment. How
does he know where and what you, any of the
messengers, may be ? He . . .
G. E. I am sure I have seen him there.
R. H. Listen. I have made as you know verbatim reports
510 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvick. [part
of your descriptions, my messages, all our doings
through this light during those two weeks. These
do not correspond at all with what they were
actually doing. The description of the house is
wrong, the description of the phenomena which they
witnessed is wrong. They received no message,
although you said that they had received various
messages. They sent . . .
G. E. We felt sure of this, my friend, otherwise we should
have said so.
R. H. Exactly ; and therefore the surer you were, the more
you were actually in error. But I am not now
driving this upon you, and merely seeking to show
you how absurd it would be for Myers or any other
intelligent person to suppose for a moment that
you and the others were there —I refer of course
on the ground of the evidence of that period. You
have made a series of statements of one kind or
another which were to be, so to say, proofs of
your presence. They are all incorrect. You, if
there was a meeting of friends in the body in a
certain room, you if you asked an invisible voice
through a tube about the room,—if the voice replied
to you " I am your friend Herbert Spencer, and I
have been in that room and I have seen so-and-so
and such and such, and these things are occurring,"
and if you went then to that room and found
that such things were not occurring and had not
occurred, and if you then saw things and heard
things yourself, and got further statements through
the tube which Myers sent you and said to you,
this voice says it is Herbert Spencer and says that
such things are and have been going on, and you
on receipt of the message, found nothing whatever
true, absolutely i.e. practically every item without
verification, do you not think that you would be
irrational to suppose that Herbert Spencer had
been in the room or was Herbert Spencer at
all ?
G. E. I might say, knowing as I do, more or less of ou
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 511
conditions, that perhaps Herbert Spencer was
actually there in spirit, and did actually do what
he said he did or professed to do, so far as the
spiritual side was concerned, yet so far as the
material side was concerned he had unmistakably
deceived himself.
R. H. Yes, I mean what would you say were you still in
the body ?
G. E. Oh I see, you wish me to picture myself
R. H. in the position of Myers or myself.
G. E. in the body for instance. R. H. Exactly.
G. E. Why yes, my friend, I should say Herbert Spencer
was not there at all.
R. H. Well, you cannot expect Myers to say any differently
about you.
G E. No, he is justified in feeling as he does. Yet I know
that he does not understand just what did take
place with us. It also helps me to feel that when
we see the light there and are speaking to it, it
does not hear.
R. H. Yes, well, the most important . . .
G. E. I [Hand listens]
R. H. Go on please.
G. E. I will try no more because I know who and what I
am, and if I cannot be understood it would be
useless for me to try there.
R. H. I do not think you should say that. You remember
that you did succeed in giving some very clear
statements some time ago. And the important
[lesson] to be derived from these recent circum-
stances seems to me to be this. I frequently
urged this upon the old control here Phinuit, and
also upon my friend Pelham. And there seems to be
a curious inability among all of you, to discriminate
between what possibly goes on in the subliminal,
and what goes on in the normal consciousness which
we know, or our full material world. Statements
have frequently been made in the past which seem
explicable only on the supposition you cannot
distinguish, or at least, cannot with any certainty
512 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
distinguish, between the subliminal and the ordinary.
Do you understand clearly ?
G. E. Yes. I think I do perfectly, but I found when I was
speaking there, there was a constant interrupting
stream of thought, for which I could not account.
Now, friend, no one understands this better than I
do, and in replying I would ask to have him
accept the possibility of my being present, only
this,—and you will both one day know for a
certainty that what I have said and done was not
false.
R. H. George Eliot.
G. E. Yes, my friend, I hear you.
R. H. Of course the question from the evidential point of
view is—What proof is there that any supernormal
beings of any kind are communicating through
this so-called light. Among the answers that might
be given is that there are some intelligences which
are deceivers, pretending to be George Eliot, Rector,
etc., and of course if I were convinced that you
and the others were consciously trying to mislead
me, I naturally would not place any reliance upon
you. But taking your statements exactly for
what you offer them, regarding you as George
Eliot and K P as K F , and so
on : it is of course clear that however pure and lofty
and sincere in every way in your desires to help
humanity and Myers and myself as among the
means and so on,—it is, I say, clear that there
are some regions where it is very difficult for you
to see clearly yourselves just what transpires, and it
therefore follows that I cannot be certain of the
statements that you make, although recognizing
your profound sincerity and goodness and earnest-
ness and sacrifice. Is this clear ?
G. E. Yes, perfectly. [An arrival apparently here, probably
Imperator]
R. H. I am not in your world, that is, to see and be con-
scious of it in any way analogous to my knowledge
of the material world.
i
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 513
G. E. We feel that we are the ones who have been deceived
in a way.
Oh friend, we feel it much, and it only helps us to
know and confirm what we once experienced, that
we cannot trust ourselves when coming in contact
with the material world. We thank you for your
kindly attention and sincerity and will repeat that
we feel more sinned against than sinning. We are
not evil in the slightest possible thing,
ft. H. I do not suppose that you are.
G. E. Friend, if there ever was a band of sincere and faithful
workers, we are that band.
* * * *
Friend, we thank you for every vestige of attention.
We only feel that we have deceived ourselves. We
will be the better for it in the end. We ought to
understand more of the material.
(January 28, 1898.) Another failure in cross-correspondences.
Sitter and Recorder, Mrs. L. {Hodgson was at this time in
England}
Mrs. L. My friend Hodgson and I have confidence that you
are what you say you are but it becomes more
and more evident that you do not see our world
as you think you do. You are all at sea in regard
to the details of my home life during the past
months. You recall the experiment we made here in
sending violets to Hodgson by " Q " ?
Rector. Yes in no time after we had ceased to speak we saw
our mistake in his meeting the light there.
Mrs. L. But my friend you described a scene which did not
take place. Now tell me as near as you can why
you thought you saw Hodgson with the light and
gave me a detailed description of his sitting.
R. Different locality entirely and different surroundings
through which we passed and our messengers were
wrongly located in the surroundings of our earthly
friend.
* * * *
2 K
4
514 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PART
Mrs. L. Hodgson sat in his own room in London during all
the time I was sitting here. * * * and what was
told me, viz. Q. seeing Mr. Myers, Hodgson, the
light and so forth, never took place at all. There
was no sitting as we call it, no light—no Mr.
Myers—no other lady. Hodgson was absolutely
alone in his own room. You thought you saw what
never took -place at all. It is as bad a failure as
there could be, do you not think so ?
R. We answer not Mrs. L. Why ?
R. We do not care to answer to such misunderstanding
of our work and we have again and again explained
the difficulties in reaching the other light and we
may not locate distinctly all earthly surroundings
but we do see what we describe yet we say this
yet we may ofttimes mistake persons or places.
Mrs. L. * * * explain to me what you saw. Let me see if I
cannot understand the cause of the failure.
R. We can only reply to this by saying in future we shall
decline to take messages to other lights for anyone.
We did see what we described and we did see it in
another part of your world most certainly we did.
If there has been a mistake it is a case of mistaken
identity because we do not return for such mistakes
as you have described
* * * *
F.
Mrs. Piper's Last Trance Communication.
(July 31, 1911. End of sitting.)
Sitters, Sir Oliver and Lady Lodge. Hodgson control writing.
$
Hodgsonp
. The great difficulty is in getting in and out over
that cord. When Hall rapped her on the head
with that instrument he snapped it That was just
what happened. 1
O. J. L. Well then I expect it is rather dangerous.
Hodosonp. Yes and + thinks I ought to give it up + thinks
I ought
1
See note at end of sitting.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 515
O. J. L. Is that Rector that thinks so ?
HODGSONp .
-j-
O. J. L. Oh you mean Iniperator.
HodgsoNj,. I am shockingly disappointed as I had hoped to
repair the damage but I am really afraid to take
the responsibility after all I implored God to guide
me and He has done so.
O. J. L. Well, you will take care of the machine, won't you ?
HoDGsoNp. I will. He made special help for me to-day so I
could keep my promise to Mary {Lady Lodge.}
O. J. L. Don't you think you could develop automatic writing
in her if this method ceases ?
HoDGsoNp. -{- told me if I would make constant attempts it
would come out in other phases. He has long since
promised this but he feels as I do the body ought
to be left normal so it can take care of itself so it
will not be left to the mercy of any one in the
body.
O. J. L. We should be careful anyway.
HoDGsoNp
. You would I am sure. But the danger lies in the
snap [?] [? rap] I got by that instrument on the
head This was where the trouble began.
O. J. L. Hodgson, I am afraid it is time to stop.
HoDGsoNp. I am going because it is time quite I have done my
very best to build it up and go on but it's no use
taking chances taking chances when + forbids.
O. J. L. No, I am sure you are right.
HoDGsoNp. Mme. {i.e. Mme Guyon} will get through in any case,
this we are sure of. We are sure of. Send my love
and farewell messages to all my friends and tell them
I am grateful to them all. Good-bye Lodge May
Heaven bless you
O. J. L. Good-bye Hodgson.
HoDGsoNp. May Heaven bless you one and all
M. L. Tell them I thank them for all their help.
Hodgsonp . You are welcome Good-bye again. R. Hodgson.
Imp. I am come to close the light for good and all May
the Grace of God be with you Farewell I. S. D.
516 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [pakt
Waking-stage.
[Mrs. Piper was a long time coming to, and there was
some anxiety about her breathing. We had Alta
{Miss Piper} in out of the garden, and fully a
quarter of an hour elapsed before the waking-stage
began. Mrs. Piper had had an idea of bringing a
bottle of eau de Cologne with her, and this was
now brought into use on a handkerchief ; it cer-
tainly seemed to revive her, causing her to take
deep breaths, whereas there had been long intervals
without any breathing at all.
Presently the waking-stage began, and she waved her
hand and said :]
There's Mabel.
I wanted to speak but I couldn't. God bless you,
you dear old thing. I love you always—always
We shall meet again. By bye.
I brought her Lodge I want you to know who she
is. I'm Dick.
[O. J. L. whispered into Mrs. Piper's ear :
" Yes, I know, Dick
Hodgson, and you brought Mabel." This message is
about a recently deceased friend, known to Mrs. Piper
also. It is quite appropriate.]
(Satisfied sigh.) I got that through. Good-bye.
Run along [evidently addressed to the medium
herself.] Go back.
Oh dear—oh dear—Jack and the beanstalk—I climbed
up. Oh what does it all mean I feel so choked.
[putting up her hands to her head and rocking
violently.]
Oh I had such a bad snap.
Oh there's another.
[both appearing to be painful—an unusual feature.
Then she looked at her daughter who said, " It's
all right, Mama, you are back now."]
Oh Alta I thought I was dead. I had such a dread-
ful fall.
Miss Pipeb :
" Yes, but it's all right now, and you are back with
us."
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 517
[Presently Mrs. Piper came to, but for the next twenty-
four hours had rather a bad head-ache.]
Note about " rapped on the head " with " that instrument."
There is no doubt some imagination about this. Dr.
Hall used no instruments except the esthesiometer and
algometer (to test sensitiveness), and these were used on
the hand. By head, however, the Hodgson control prob-
ably meant hand, as he was pleased to call the hand his
head. The experiments in sensitiveness were not objected
to by the control at the time, nor apparently by the normal
Mrs. Piper later, after they were explained to her. But
they produced temporarily unpleasant after-effects about
which, before they were explained, her daughter wrote in
some distress. Dr. Tanner writes, summarising Miss
Piper's complaints (Studies in Spiritism, p. 246) :
" It
appears that some time after the sitting red spots appeared
on Mrs. Piper's palm, and her index finger was numb for
two or three days, the red spots being the after-effects of
the esthesiometer pressure, and the numbness probably
due to the pain-pressure experiments. Her lower lip was
also blistered from the camphor used." It seems absurd
to suppose that temporary physical effects such as these
should permanently affect Mrs. Piper's mediumistic powers.
It is much more likely that, if Dr. Hall is responsible at
all for the failure of her powers, it was the psychological
effect of his deceiving the trance personality that did the
harm (see above, Chapter I., p. 13). But I think the
failure had been gradually coming on, and would have
occurred in any case.
518 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
APPENDIX TO CHAPTER IV.
Some Passages about Speaking by Thought. See p. 132.
{Dec. 8, 1893. Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 487.)
Sitter. Can he hear and speak in that life ? [He was a mute.]
Phinuit. He can hear. We talk by thought here.
{April 30, 1894. Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 520.)
{Communicator having " borrowed Phinuit's hand " writes
herself :}
I cannot tell myself just how you hear me, and it bothers
me a little . . . how do you hear me speak, dear,
when we speak by thought only ?
{April 1, 1897.)
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson. Rector writing.
R. H. You need not trouble about the exact words of course.
Just the idea.
R. Yes, this is all we can ever give. We do not
warrant doing anything more ever . . Identical
words are always difficult to carry. Our own work
is carried on in this way in our world, in ideas.
R. H. You mean not in words.
R. No. Not in words, as we did of old when in mortal
body.
{April 5, 1897.)
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson. George Eliot writing.
I would first impress upon your mind that we speak by
thought alone ; as when we impress our thoughts
upon the mind of another spirit. We are not sure
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 519
always that the exact sounds have been received.
We feel however that if we impress our thoughts
sufficiently upon the communicating spirit and it
receives in part the thought, we are quite satisfied.
In this case, i.e. our having been present there
{with Myers's medium in England} and communicat-
ing,—we may not, and in fact we do not, feel that
we impress our thoughts sufficiently enough for her
to get every word.
{April 28, 1897.)
Sitter and Recorder, Hodgson. G. P. writing.
R. H. I suppose that you did not communicate among one
another by precise words.
G. P. No, never.
See also extracts from records of December 14, 1896,
(Appendix to Chapter II., p. 393) ; and of March 15,
1897 (Chapter III., p. 117 footnote).
520 Mrs. Heyxry Sidgwick. [part
APPENDIX TO CHAPTER V.
Communicators.
The order in which extracts from records are placed in this
Appendix is in the main that in which they are referred to
in the text.
The chronological order is as follows :
February 14, 1892, P- 548 March 3, 1903, p. 529
April 20, 1897, P- 544 March 4, 1903, P- 531
January 20, 1898, P- 536 December 21, 1903, P- 545
June 20, 1898, p. 545 July 6, 1904, P- 526
December 2, 1898, P- 528 January 24, 1905, P- 521
January 3, 1900, P- 546 May 2, 1905, p. 527
February 6, 1900, P- 524 November 22, 1905, P- 523
February 13, 1901, p. 525 November 29, 1905, p. 523
February 20, 1901, P- 545 December 18, 1905, p. 532
February 26, 1902, P- 520 January 1, 1907, P- 523
October 28, 1902, P- 525 March 6, 1907, p. 546
December 3-17, 1902, p. 533 March 18, 1907, P- 536
March 16, 1908, p. 546.
Examples of G. P. or?Hodgsonp acting as Intermediary
between Communicator and Rector. (See p. 165.)
(Feb. 26, 1902.)
Hodgson was recording for the sitter at first, but was out of
the room when the following occurred :
Rector writing.
{Various attempts at a name communicator is trying
to give—Duncan, Duno [?] . . . Dono Donw [?]
son}
Sitter. Domson.
Commr. Not quite dear
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 521
[Sitter asks him to go and get George to spell it for
him Hand turns over and lapses on the table for
a moment or two.]
G. P. Good morning my friend I am here to help you
Sitter. Thank you.
G. P. I will spell it for him. Sitter Thank you.
G. P. It is D A N ... yes ... I E L.
Sitter. Right, quite right, thank you very much.
G. P. Welcome. Sitter. Thank you.
G. P. DANIEL ... Dr. Sitter. Quite right.
G. P. I wish I could remain but you see I have my own
work here, but call me when you need me.
Sitter. Many thanks.
G. P. Not so Aufwiedersehen * * * [Perturbation in hand.]
Commr. I am here again darling. I feel so grateful to you
for asking him to help me.
The intervention of G. P. here to help to convey a name
to Rector is unusual in form. It would seem that Rector
is controlling throughout, whether the sitter's friend com-
municates or G. P. communicates for him. It is curious
that the communicator fetching G. P. leaves the hand
unoccupied as it were. Perhaps it is intended to indicate
that the control fetched G. P. After the latter's
departure, however, the communicator represents himself
as returning, and his doing so produces perturbation in
the hand. For another request by a communicator for
G. P. to be asked to come in and help, see Proceedings,
Vol. XIV., p. 15 ; in this case Phinuit goes to fetch him.
{January 24, 1905.)
Two sitters present with Hodgson recording.
Commr. I got a long list of things I want to remind you of
before I finish.
Sitter2
(to R. H. in low voice). Who's this writing ?
[R. H. shakes head negatively, not understanding at
the moment. It was Rector acting as amanuensis
and G. P. assisting the communicator.]
* * * *
522 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
S.o No I don't remember that Charles. I wish he'd
give his last name.
{R. or G. P.} It is Edwards . . .
R. H, Rector, that is Edwards, but . . .
R. It is not quite right friend. I hear it so clearly yet
I am unable to reproduce it clearly.
{G. P.} I get many facts from him. Don't you recall
Edwards or similar . . .
S.2
No I do not.
{G. P. } Strange. Well I cannot help it. I will follow him
up and have a talk with him and if I see you
later I try [?] and tell you more about him and the
rest of the messages reminders etc. later
* * * *
Anything you give me to do I shall be glad.
R. H. Why George we shall be glad for that person to make
himself known, and apparently there is something
wrong about his name. And the only way, as I
have explained fully before, is not to attempt any
name at all in this way, but to take the person
away, talk with him, get the name, both first and
last if possible, come back and give it. One thing
done in that way without any previous mistakes
is worth ten times all the trials and general talk
about things which cannot be such tests as the
straight name.
{R.} Yet you say names indicate nothing, and facts
incidents indicate more. It is difficult indeed for
me to listen and repeat at the same time getting
all clear I have explained many times however I
will do my best not to make mistakes in names
etc. when I hear them
These extracts illustrate (1) G. P. assisting communicator
(to communicate, not control) while Rector acts as amanu-
ensis. (2) A new form of Rector's difficulties—he can hear
communicator clearly yet not be able to reproduce the name.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 523
(3) Hodgson's very reasonable desire that the spirits should
get things clear behind the scenes.
(Nov. 29, 1905.)
A sitter, with R. H. recording, Rector writing for com-
municator, Miss P .
[Miss P 's gloves given, felt, held up, placed near the
hand.]
Miss P. Good morning again. I am glad to see you. Let
me locate myself. When you hear me speak.
Can you tell me how the wor[?] . . .
Rector. Sounds like School is progressing. Repeat as I
hear both George and the lady speaking, he repeats
for her to-day.
R. H. " Can you tell me how the School is progressing
"
Rector. Yes sounds like school
Sitter. That's right.
Miss P is the communicator who a week earlier,
November 22, 1905, furnished a good example of assisted
control (see p. 196). She gave in writing a message about
which Rector wrote :
R. She said it herself with the help of George {G. P.}
and John {a frequent communicator at this time}
#
this lady is a most interesting spirit and when she
speaks herself I find she does not say awfully,
but George doe^ repeatedly * * * He supplies words
often to help out a new communicator.
(January 1, 1907.)
Sitter and recorder, J. G. P. Rector writing.
{In this example Hodgson seems to be represented as a sort
of general intermediary between communicators and Rector,
not as acting for some particular communicator. Compare
a statement about Prudens, Chapter III., pp. 106-107.}
J. G. P. Rector, I want to ask that great care should be taken
to distinguish one spirit's messages from another's.
Several things said at the last meeting and at the
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
meeting before that would have been true if attri-
buted to another spirit. For instance, things were
said by Hodgson in the first person which were not
true coming from him, but if they had been given by
or in the name of other spirits they would have been
correct.
Remember friend that Hodgson himself acts almost as
a Medium on our side and receives many messages
from friends of the sitter so called, which he repeats
to me as I register them therefore I cannot take time
or light to explain (Pause.)
The source of them ? (Hand assents.)
Therefore I leave this to the honesty of the mortal
present to explain to you
Yes, I follow that. But tell Hodgson that confusion
of this kind weakens the evidence.
It is not confusion friend but is really facts which he
collects from them.
Note that in the waking-stage of that day Mrs. Piper
says :
Dr. Hodgson says he is not guilty. Is that the word ?
not guilty of conclusions—confusions.
This is an instance of correspondence between ideas of trance
proper and waking-stage (see Chapter VI., pp. 243-255).
Five Examples of the Control's Difficulty in Hearing
the Communicator.
The following case not only illustrates the apparent diffi-
culty of the control in hearing the communicator, but also
what looks like an attempt by the control to bring round
his original hearing or mishearing to a word suggested by
the sitter.
{February 6, 1900.)
Sitter, Prof. Hyslop. Hodgson recording.
Communicator. I had her go with me to have a Silhouette.
Sitter [in a whisper to R. H.] I'll tell you in a moment
. . . daguerreotype.
524
R.
J. G. P.
R.
J. G. P.
R.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 525
[Hand listens towards R. H.]
R. H. I'm listening.
Rector. Not that I cannot U. D. the word friend. Wait and
I will see if I can get it . . . Silotype . . . Slogotype . . .
Degeotype taken and we had it . . . any way it is
near enough.
{The incident is stated by Prof. Hyslop to be mv
verifiable.}
(Feb. 13, 1901.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson. Rector writing.
R. In receiving communications from friends here we
are not infallible as thou canst [?] * * * and if
errors occur it will not be through lack of care or
intelligence on our part. We do in all cases do
our very best to keep all as quiet and peaceful as
is possible for spirits to do. It is not possible at
times for us to hear distinctly all that is being
said, and were we to allow the friends to use the
light it {would} ultimately destroy it entirely. This
is the reason why we are appointed or have been
to look after it and take messages from them U. D.
R. H. Yes, you mean using the organism of the light
directly as intermediary. R We do.
It appears sometimes to be Imperator's function to keep
all " quiet and peaceful." Thus on February 26, 1902
—
when Rector wishes Hodgson to leave the room so that the
sitter may receive communications by herself—he says :
Imperator is present this day and will remain through-
out consequently all will be given slowly peacefully
and U. Dy.
[October 28, 1902.)
Voice sitting recorded by G. B. D. Rector speaks :
Rectob. Thy mother spoke to me and said, '
Tell—all thou
canst ' (pause) I am catching it '
which will help
him '
* * * What a beautiful influence this is.
'
I am very happy—you will be glad to know
'
526 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
* * * '
All is better, infinitely better than I dared
to hope [almost whispering] I always thought that
they knew a great deal more than they could tell
us—I used to tell you so—I find it is so '. [voice
very low]'
Going ! How near this spirit comes to me ! How
strong and vigorous, to use an earthly expression,
this spirit is ! How clear in thought !
—it is quite
beautiful
'
Our messages will always come in fragments,—the
conditions are such it cannot be otherwise. Accept
the little . . . with great . . . great love.' [Spoken
with apparent difficulty]
It is not easy, friend, to repeat from the voice of
the spirit as it comes near to me—though I love
to do it ; as while I hold the material organism
filled with the etherial light it is more difficult
to hear the voice than when I am apart from the
light. The voice ceases
—
(July 6, 1904.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson. Rector writing.
R. We wish now to point out one more thing which is
of great importance to all on our side. We have
noticed for a long time thy anxiety for tests when
a communicator is present and speaking. We also
notice that when tests are not given thou art
restless in spirit and mind, this will not do friend,
as the condition reacts and often causes a mistake
or false communication. The spirit or spirits com-
municating are in a very sensitive state and oft-
times confused themselves with the thoughts of
others who are trying to render them assistance
For instance when George is present and trying
to hold a communicator he often speaks to them
when we who are registering repeat his words as
given to them instead of their words to us. is it
clear ?
This often appears in lengthy and seemingly unneces-
sary words or sentences as registered by us.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 527
We shall endeavour from time to time (trust us for
this) [to] do our very best to avoid registering con-
versation between spirits when we are seeking tests.
It is a most difficult thing for us to do friend, as
we often hear not only what is said by those
communicating but we hear the conversation of
others at a distance. * * * It requires the com-
bined efforts of all our helpers to prevent this con-
versation between spirits when we are registering
the thoughts of others U. D
It is a thousand pities that such should be the case
yet is truth nevertheless. But when such is the
case do not seem restless friend. Be patient and
good things will come and remember we are doing
all in our power to make the conditions what they
should be even though we may at times fail.
(May 2, 1905.)
Present a sitter, with Hodgson recording. Immediately after
the initial greetings Rector writes :
R. We have a word to the lady ere we continue with
the messages. + Pv.
Remember friend whereas it is our privilege to return
to earth for the purpose of giving proof of the
immortal life. We do not guarantee anything at
any meeting with us. but at all times we are ready
and willing to do the very best we can and answer
any and all inquiries so far as we are able.
Remember also that during these communications there
must be necessarily the human element in them 1
besides when the expressions seem unlike the friend
or friends on our side we do not hold ourselves
responsible for such. We are obliged to borrow
from your side many expressions for your U. D.
1 Cf. Proceedings, Vol. XXIII., p. 12 (January 23, 1906), HodgsonP says :
'
Remember every communication must have the human element " ; Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 384 (May 6, 1907), MyersP says :
" In all our
messages through both lights there is always more or less of the human
element in them, which cannot be avoided, for your U.D., but you must
discriminate and dissect the spiritual from the material."
528 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
otherwise you would be at a loss to U. D. much
that is said.
If the communications seem fragmentary or discon-
nected we cannot hold ourselves responsible for
them, as we often fail to U D. the utterances
both of yourselves and the spirits communicating
U. D. ?
For examples of control's difficulty in hearing communi-
cator, see also January 24, 1905 (above, p. 521), and March
3, 1903 (below, p. 529).
Examples of Communicator " Hearing " Sitter.
{Dec. 2, 1898.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson. Rector writing.
Rector. Wouldst thou speak whilst thy mother cometh here.
[Pause. Hand apparently labours under suppressed
excitement. Writing much perturbed and irregular,
hand much cramped in its movements.]
Mrs. Hodgson. Where oh where is my son.
R. H. Dear mother
Mrs. Hodgson. I see the light I see the way I see the way.
R. H. Quiet,—quite quiet please.
Mrs. Hodgson. My boy [?] far [?] away I am your mother.
I am receiving help. R. H. Yes dear mother
Mrs. Hodgson. Richard is it you I am far off.
* * * *
R. H. Take time dear mother and feel quite calm and tell
me all you wish to say to me
Mrs. Hodgson. Do you hear me. Can you know my thoughts.
* * * *
but I am living and father came to meet me * * *
R. H. And you recognised him ?
Mrs. Hodgson. Yes at once. I heard you so plainly then,
and I knew it was your voice as I knew father's
when I came here.
2$€ ifC
Do you hear ? who is helping me to speak with
you.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 529
R. H. Rector, a kind friend, is acting as intermediary
between you and me.
Mrs. Hodgson. Yes, and he hears me well now only I am a
little confused dear . . .
The above extracts are from the first communication from
Hodgson's mother, who died in 1898. They illustrate not
only the hearing of the sitter's voice by the communicator,
but influence of communicator on movements of the hand.
{March 3, 1903.)
Hodgson recording for Sx
and S2 .
Rector. Hail friends. I find it difficult to hear the voice of
the spirit also of the mortal couldst thou not
arrange it differently and allow the lady to change.
R. H. to S. Suppose you change places. [Sx
and S2
change
places. Hand turns to Sp. I. Cross in air.]
Rector. I think we can U. D. better, and he can see better.
[Sitters have put knife and watch on edge of table
some time before]
Communicator (?). I hope you will say good night and good
morning as you usually do. [Hand seeks as for
articles. R. H. puts knife in front of sheets ]
Commr. I am coming never fear
S2
. We have both come this morning hoping to speak
with you.
Commr. I hear you well * * *
[Hodgson sent out of room]
* * * *
Commr. Tell me dear do you remember MA.
S r I do not know just what you mean by MA.
Commr. MO. it should be MO. Sr That is right.
Commr. i. Sr can you finish that ?
Rector, if I register too quickly speak to me and I will
stop . . . Rector * * *
Commr. MO. Sr Yes.
Commr. [undeciphered suggests a mixture of L and R.] MOO
Sr Yes that is right, go on and write the whole
Rector. Speak it as I register it. R. S2
. Yes we will.
Rector, he is spelling it out to me. MOR ey [? or J ?]
2l
530 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
S2 . If it is too hard do not try.
Rector. Sounds like S. Speak as I speak. S. MOR
S. No. No.
Sr M O That is right, now what is the rest ? [very
slowly] M O is right so far. Can you go on
with your name.
Commr. I heard you splendidly, that time my dear. W[?]
let me tell you something else first then he will
U. D. it. My name is M 0 . . .
* * * *
{Presently Sx
as well as R. H. leave the room, S2
remaining alone. Some talk not relating to name
follows.}
* * * *
Commr, Do you remember ... M 0 ... N [W?] [Dots made
and much hesitation on third letter.] F . . .
[There is also what looks like a not quite finished
capital N, probably written after the N or W.
R. H.]
Commr. Do you hear me say it. Please speak, as I want to
tell you a great deal about myself.
* * * *
Commr. Speak N. I did not intend to say MUSIC. {This
refers to an inappropriate memory of a music desk
earlier in the sitting, or to another irrelevant intro-
duction of the word later.} I meant to say MO
[tapping with pencil]
Rector. I can't U. D- that other letter.
S2
. If I tell you the next letter perhaps you will think
of the rest, but if you do not it is of no con-
sequence. It is another 0.
Rector, he speaks it to me R. [= Rector. R. H.]
Commr. I put it M 0 and then 0 long ago.
S2 . True, you did, I remember.
Commr. or Rector, then R . . . it is I . . . who is saying R. . . .
E. [{Note by sitter} Moore is not correct. S.]
{On the latter part of this conversation Hodgson comments}:
—
[I surmise that when Rector got Music earlier in this
sitting it was a mistaken reproduction of Moody
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 531
{the name wanted 1
} ; also that the letters deciphered
by S2 above as M 0 N are really MOW, and that
the W may have been Rector's misapprehension of
double 0. There is a misapprehension by S2
just
below in connection with Rector's initial R. She
apparently interpreted this as the next letter of the
name, and perhaps said " then R." Rector repeats
" then R " and understands the mistake she is
making and tries to explain it to her, "it is I
who is saying R." But she fails to understand,
and thinks that the name MOORE is given.
—
R. H., March 8, 1903.]
Regarding Hodgson's note, it seems to me more natural
to suppose that it was the communicator (through Rector)
who said, " then R ... it is I who is saying R," and that
the point of the remark was that he did not wish the R to
be taken for Rector's signature.
It is interesting that in the going into trance stage
the next day, March 4, when the sitters of March 3 were not
present, Mrs. Piper said the name Moody in an uncaught
context as follows :
Mrs. Piper. * * * [Not caught] * Mr. Moody * and * * *
R. H. Mr. who ? Mrs. Piper. Mr. Moody *
R. H. Mr. Moody what ? Mrs. Piper. * * * [Not caught.]
Moody put in an appearance as communicator later in the
sitting, Rector introducing him by " Moody wishes to speak
to you," but what he said was incorrect. I have quoted
these extracts as illustrating several points : (1) the " hear-
ing " of the sitter by the communicator ; (2) Hodgson's
acceptance of the view that the control actually (not meta-
phorically) " hears " the communicator, and is therefore
liable to auditory mistakes
—
W for double 0 ; (3) the mode
of fishing for a name in a writing sitting. Observe the re-
peated request to the sitter to speak the letters after Rector,
which would, of course, help him to know if they were right
or wrong and give him chances of^correcting them ; (4) the
1
Moody would not have been appropriate in either place where Music
came.
532 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
emergence of the correct name first in the going into trance
stage, which is unusual. We cannot regard the correct
giving of the name the next day as necessarily more than
a guess, considering the limited number of names beginning
with MOO, and that Moore had been tried and rejected.
But whether arrived at by telepathy or guessing, it is im-
portant and probably significant, from the psychological
point of view, that what the control failed to get at on
March 3 should on March 4 have reached both the waking-
stage consciousness of Mrs. Piper and the control.
Sitter:
on March 3 and 4, 1903, was the same as on
December 19, 1898, when Rector nearly got dismissed for
his bad management of a new communicator (see Chapter
III., pp. 108-109), and also the same as on November 15, and
December 18 and 19, 1905, when a correct name came out
first in the waking-stage (see Appendix to Chapter VI.).
She and a friend had a good many other sittings. Extracts
from that of December 18 follow.
(Dec. 18, 1905.)
Hodgson recording for the same two lady sitters. Rector
writing.
* *
[Hand perturbed slightly, and cramps a little, and seeks a
moment as for articles.]
{Change of communicator here takes place.}
sfc *! *fc H*
Sitter. She {i.e. communicator's wife, not present} would
like to have me ask you if you can tell her where
the other certificate is. She has found one of them.
R. He does not quite get that neither did I R. one
word I failed to catch. R.
R. H. She says his wife asks him if he can tell her where
the other certificate . . . certificate ... is.
R. Spell it kindly.
R. H. Certificate... certificate. [To Sitter.] What
sort of certificate ?
Sitter [to R. H.] I do not know, but she thought I would
be told here.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 533
R. Can you repeat the word once more that I may be
quite sure of it. [Sudden perturbation.] he has it.
* * * * he U.D.s.
Communicator, (through Rector) She will find it in a long . . .
Rector, {for himself} See if you can U.D. this word friend.
Communicator. ENVELOPE, in the drawer of the safe.
{Further descriptions and directions for finding the
certificate followed, but led to nothing.}
I quote this passage as illustrating three points discussed
in Chapter III. : (1) the joint hearing of sitter by control
and communicator, but by communicator perhaps less well ;
(2) Rector's anxiety lest the word Envelope should not be
caught. Was this an instance of his own alleged difficulty
in catching words because of his long absence from earth ?
(see p. 167) ; (3) the cramping or perturbation of the
hand when the communicator changes and when a point
is grasped (see p. 192).
Examples of Communicators almost certainly False.
General Comment by Mrs. E. on sittings of December 3, 10, and
17, 1902. Dated December 20, 1902.
Only one who knows the facts can appreciate how thoroughly
these alleged communications ring false. I freely made suggestions
which in every case were adopted by the communicator with
a claim of full recollection and understanding ;
yet the re-
sponses, while appropriate to the general situation, lacked
every shred of individuality, and miscarried whenever the
least additional statement was ventured in the response.
Most of my suggestions were reintroduced, at one time or
another, by the communicator, as original matter,—in some
cases as evidence of identity. But in every case there was a
lack of knowledge of the context that defeated the attempted
allusion. On the third sitting I asked leading questions which
were calculated to mislead ; and in every case the communi-
cator fell into the trap, with a result that would have been
ludicrous had it not been so disgusting.
While I gave a good many suggestions purposely, I gave
some by accident and without realizing that I had done so
until long afterward. For instance, the word Pet, page 51,
534, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
original document, of December 3rd Sitting, I must have read
as Pern, at the time, as it was with difficulty that Mr.
Hodgson persuaded me, in going over the original writing,
that the T was not an M. But by commenting on it as M.,
as I think I must have done, I gave away a private name
which at the time greatly startled me. At the time I believed
that this name proved thought-transference, if nothing more.
But I now see that it simply means that the communicator
was quick to catch up my suggestion and adopt it as if
original.
If the communicators had been fragmentary and incoherent
in his (or her) utterances, I should have considered the evi-
dence inconclusive, and should have assumed it to be possible
that people were speaking across ^the grave who could not
make themselves articulate. As it is, I am convinced that
some intelligence was impersonating, deliberately and with
considerable ingenuity, and yet on the whole doing it so ill
that the deception is proved beyond a peradventure.
G. P., by the way, was as signal a failure as the other
alleged speakers in saying a single word that smacked of in-
dividuality, or met the situation. He undertakes to be a
trained communicator, yet he was as helpless as the novices
in saying anything to show any one's identity.
To attribute the inappropriateness of the communications
to a lack of full consciousness in the communicators seems to
me to simply torture the evidence. It is incredible to me that
any one could make this claim who has any knowledge of
the persons who it was alleged were speaking.
E. G. E.
Mrs. E. had told the controls at the end of her last sitting
what she thought of the communications, and accordingly
at Hodgson's next sitting (December 24, 1902) Rector
introduced the subject, and the following conversation
gives the views put forward by him :
R. We feel sad because Mr. E. could not realize how to
express himself better, but it may be the case
occasionally unavoidably . . . unavoidably ... as we
cannot do for every mortal alike.
* * * *
txxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 535
She will not be comforted friend ?
R. H. She feels I think quite sure that what came is
j
the
manifestation of some false deceiving intelligence
pretending to be her husband and showing, as she
believes, to her conclusively that it is not, using
her suggestions and trying to trick her into the
belief that it is her husband.
R, Sad the thought for any mortal to maintain. We
know that Mr. E. and none other was present but
he could not be made to U.D. the conditions of
speech, and what we required of him. He in other
words is dreaming and only half conscious of her
presence. But so far as deceiving spirits are con-
cerned we can truly say there are none such repre-
sented here. No matter how vague and incoherent
the messages may appear * * * Some time when thou
art to meet us alone we would ask thee to give us some
article of his that we may see what help we may
be able to give him * * * He can be awakened to
realize what is desired of him without relapsing
into a state of coma whilst attempting to speak.
Therefore we wait his coming with patience and
faith in his being able to speak clearly. +.
Have we ever deceived thee friend ?
R. H. No. I understand, I think, the situation clearly, but
of course I know little about the states of mind
of communicators. What little I know it took me
years to learn. Scarcely any one on this side has
even such little appreciation of the conditions as
I have acquired, and the conclusion of Mrs. E. is
probably that which nearly every person would
reach if dealing with her own experiences here alone.
R. Where we may meet with one failure we meet with
more that are not. Of course communications will
always be given in a fragmentary way. It cannot
be otherwise through any light.
I am myself unable to see how a state of confusion or
dreaming or coma can account for the kind of communi-
cation complained of by Mrs. E., which seems to require
a consciousness sufficiently alert and acute to seize any
536 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
indications which may enable it to personate with plausi-
bility a character about whom it starts in almost complete
ignorance.
The following comment by the sitter—a Mr. D.—on the
communications of January 20 and 21, 1898, are worth
comparing with Mrs. E.'s, though the cases differ in that
in Mr. D.'s case his friend seems to be represented as writing
himself—not through Rector—though the latter was assist-
ing him or at least superintending the process :
In sentences of from six to twelve words, he ought to
have been able to have given one clear cut and un-
mistakable experience, name, or thing well known to us
all, or known only to himself, to be verified afterwards.
Perhaps we expect too much. The cautious and ambigu-
ous manner of introducing names, and the use made of
the unconscious cues we furnished, all shew the acuteness
of Mrs. Piper's supernormal mind, if nothing more.
Sitting of March 18, 1907, in London.
The sitter, a lady introduced without name after the
trance had begun, was an intimate friend of Hodgson's.
It was her first sitting, but her husband had-—also
anonymously—had four sittings during the preceding fort-
night with little or no success. E. M. S. was present as
recorder and in charge of the sitting. HodgsonP was the
communicator, with Rector as amanuensis. Rector inter-
polated remarks of his own, and sometimes it is not
quite clear whether some particular thing is said for
himself or for HodgsonP . I have assigned the remarks as
seems most plausible. The frequent repetition of " yes
"
by the control is in acknowledgment of the reading out
by the sitter or E. M. S. of the preceding written sentence.
Before the sitter came in HodgsonP had been talking of
cross-correspondence experiments with Mrs. Verrall and
other matters.
[Sitter enters.]
E. M. S. The friend is here.
Hodgsonp . Very glad where is he. Where is he ?
Hello old chap are you first rate ? I am very glad
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 537
to see you old ch [?] tell your Old chap U.D.
me I do not think he did absolutely, but if you
U.D. better than he did we shall get on finely
first rate together. Sitter. " Understand " ?
Hodgsonp
. Yes you remember how I used to walk up and
down your dining room explaining my ideas to you
and him ? Sitter. Generally.
Hodgsonp .
(illegible word)
E. M. S. What is the last word ? The friend says you did
walk up and down.
Hodgsonp
. I said explaining my ideas to you and him.
Sitter. Yes.
Hodgsonp
. You used to think I was a little over sanguine
but 1 think I was mostly right, nearly right
after all. Do you remember. Sitter. Yes.
HoDGsoNp. how you laughed at my illustration of a
E. M S. " my " what " of a " ?
Hodgsonp. illustration of Medium Sitter. Yes, I do.
Hodgsonp . whom you thought pretty good, whom you thought
pretty fine [or fair] had some light
I am delighted to see you again.
Sitter (to E. M. S.) I wish he'd know me.
HoDGsoNp. I shall give me time, and so soon as I place you
you will see I am your old friend.
Sitter. That's better.
HoDGsoNp. I am certain that I know you but want to make
sure before I make a botch of it.
Sitter. That is like you.
HoDGsoNp. I want to recall a few incidents and then I shall be
sure of being (?) understood.
E. M. S. We can't read.
HoDGsoNp. You are a stupid lot if you cant U.D. when I am
shouting at the top of my voice, to make you U.D.
Don't you remember how I used to Shout when I
got excited and interested.
Sitter. Yes.
HoDGsoNp. Cup used.
CC 1
1
See Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 179, and XXV., p. 304, for the cross-
correspondence of which this forms a part.
538 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
Sitter. Is it somebody else now ?
HoDGsoNp
. No not at all. M e .
Sitter. " C " ?
HodgsoNj,. No I never used bad grammer. it is I it is I instead
of Me. speaking, speaking to you Mrs. [?] Mc [?]
I remember
[Probably the sitter made some remark.]
Hodgsonp
. Don't bother me so. listen, do you remember
Buddhist.
Rector. He is very impatient with me. R.
HoDGsoNp. Wilson E. M. S. Wilson, did you say ?
Rector. Yes. he said Wilson.
Hodgsonp . Do you remember Buddhist.
E. M. S. & Sitter. " Buddhist " ?
HoDGsoNp . and how we used to laugh about it.
Sitter, (referring to " laugh about it "). I don't remember
specially.
HoDGsoNp. Don't you UD. Don't you remember.
Sitter. So sorry.
HoDGsoNp. (hand thumps.) you must U D. or loose lose
much. B Sitter. " B." There it is again.
HoDGsoNp. uddhist.
Sitter. I understand the words.
HoDGsoNp. but not what I am driving at % Sitter. No.
HoDGsoNp. Do you remember what I said about being in
trick ? Sitter. You showed me lots of tricks.
HoDGsoNp. I do not mean that at all.
(E. M. S. explains what she thinks he means, viz.
that if the evidence was not genuine he must be in
the trick.)
HoDGsoNp. (Hand thumps assent.) Yes exactly, and you
laughed but you would U D. my ideas, yes. Now
follow me and we shall get on famously.
Do you remember Jackson Sitter. No.
HoDGsoNp. Yes Jack E. M. S. " Jack " ?
Sitter. Jack, of course. Is it Jack ?
HoDGsoNp. Well of course it is. Jack.
Sitter. Of course I remember Jack.
Rector. Son was inadvertently spoken, he says inadvertently
spoken in a. the son. I mean son
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 539
Sitter. I don't know Jackson.
Rector. Yes it should be Jack only.
Sitter. Yes, I know Jack.
Rector. Yes. now I say that was a mistake,
(read over.)
Hodgsonp . yes it should have been Jack only, got it ?
Sitter. Yes. Hodgsonp. All right now Mrs. L
Rector, give me his influence. R.
[Hodgson's hat was doubtless here given to the hand,
but it is not recorded.]
HoDGsoNp
. I repeatedly said Jack, now do you remember ?
also my idea of you. as reasoning (?) S let (illegible
word) and his law. got it ? Sitter. No
HoDosoNp. impressions (?) officially (?) and his law. Scott (?)
don't you U D. Sitter. No.
HoDGsoNp. he says dont you remember about (?) your (?)
(illegible word) impressions and his law.
Rector, too bad he seems so clear.
HoDGsoNp. yes. do you remember Lan ban.
E. M. S. Could you print it, Rector ?
Rector. BAN . N E R.
E. M. S. Whose Banner Rector ?
HoDGsoNp. Willy's (?) Banner E. M. S. Willy's banner?
HoDGsoNp, Oh dear. What shall I do. do you remember how
I used to shake my fist and explain about the Ban
E. M. S. Banner ? (Hand thumps.)
Sitter. I can't remember any banner.
HoDGsoNp. Do you remember, the last time I saw you I told
you about the skeleton. (E. M. S. reads over.) yes.
Sitter. I am so sorry I don't remember.
HoDGsoNp. Do you remember about the Rings linking together
and how we tried to catch him.
E. M. S. " Linking together " is it ?
HoDGsoNp. Yes Don't you remember.
Sitter. I remember a puzzle.
HoDGsoNp. Don't you remember, how we tried to get him
open it, and one with long sticks with two rings,
and how hard we tried catch (?) him. Anna.
Oh dear oh dear
E. M. S. (correcting reading of sitter) It is " Oh dear."
540 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Rector, listen. I dont think you U D.
R.
Hodgson says he talked about the medium who tried
to cheat him about a banner and the key rings, he
said he could have broken him into
Hodgsonp
. Do you remember Mr [or Mrs] Mc
E. M. S. " Mr Mac " ? [I think I said '
Mac '
not M.C., but
am not sure. E. M. S.]
Hodgsonp
. Yes. Sitter. No.
HoDGsoNp
. Who was the Medium we had such a disgusting
experience with.
Sitter. I have never been near a medium.
HoDGsoNp. I told you about it one evening in your house.
Sitter. You told me so many stories.
HoDGsoNp. and you were very much amused over my explana-
tions of the banner.
Sitter. No, I don't remember anything about a banner.
HoDGsoNp. Dont you remember my expression he ought to
have a Prize Banner for his
Sitter. I'm sorry I can't remember.
Hodgsonp
. I remember how amused you were over it.
Sitter. It may have been so, I can't remember.
HoDGsoNp. Let me remind you of something else.
Sitter. Yes do.
HoDGsoNp. Do you remember HOME
Sitter. I know Home's name.
HoDGsoNp. and my explanation of the experience, do you
remember Cadoodled. Caddoodled.
E. M. S. Cadoodled ? Hodgsonp. Yes. Do you ?
Sitter. It sounds like one of your words.
HoDGsoNp. Why dont you wake up and listen to me, if you
will I can prove that I am Hodgson.
(Last sentence read over.)
Rector, that is what he said. R.
Sitter. Tell me my pet name for you.
Rector. I wish you would not stick to any one special word
or its meaning. R.
Just let him ramble on about what comes into his
mind and after he recovers from (illegible) he
will be clear and you will U D. (read over) yes.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance. —Appendix. 541
recovers his U.D. he will tell you all. Surely he
will.
Hodgsonp . Do you remember (illegible)
Rector. Remind him of something something that will do no
harm to tell him. I wish you would U D. remind
him of
do not ask him any questions but remind him of
something.
Sitter. Cripplegate.1
HoDGsoNp . Oh you mean where we were ? Sitter. Yes.
HoDGsoNp. Oh you mean where where we were. I remember
walking with (several illegible words) and playing
yes there, Do you remember. Father
E. M. S. " Father " is that ?
Hodgsonp . Pa Confessor. Sitter. No.
HoDGsoNp. and there I used to sit and smoke and tell stories
until it was long past bed time.
(Sitter reads "midnight," E. M. S. says "bedtime.")
HoDGsoNp. Oh I should say I remembered
(Pencil which had worn down is changed.)
Rector. It is not going well ? Yes better
he says he used to sit there and smoke and tell
stories until midnight, when he used to talk (?)
about (?) garden and return to his room he liked
it so much there, he liked it.
HoDGsoNp. Do you remember Dock. Sitter. Yes, Yes !
2
HoDGsoNp. Wake up then. and I hear you say it now
(E. M. S. reads over.) now clearly, in my mind.
love to D
—
Sitter. Love to whom ? Is it P or D ?
Rector, all right. I heard him so
DOCK
yes. got it.
Sitter. I can't give love to Dock.
HoDGsoNp. I did not say it. love to you. the D came in as
1
The name of a former home and house of the sitter and her husband,
and, she believes, the place where she last saw Hodgson.
2
Docky was the nick-name used by the sitter and her husband for a com-
mon friend (deceased) of theirs and Hodgson's, but on reflexion she does
not think Hodgson ever used the name.
542 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PAKT
being registered at Mrs W s. at Mrs V s again
today E. M. S. I understand.
Rector, he got G. P. to give it. in his place. Dock is
correct for the lady, as he reminds her of it.
Sitter. Yes, I remember Dock.
Hodgsonp
. I wish you to remember also. C
E. M. S. Is that a C ? Hodgsonp. yes Cat
Rector, not quite R. C is right C a r 1 1. C
HoDGsoNp. you remember, the lane. E. M. S. " Is it lane " ?
Rector. Sounds like it
HoDosoNp. where we got the C a 1 1 Colt E. M. S. " Colt " ?
HoDGsoNp. (illegible word) Cold. E. M. S. " Cold " ?
HoDGsoNp. yes speak and S Swim. E. M. S. '
Swim '
is that ?
Rector, yes and it right, time excuse me. R. yes
E. M. S. " cold " what " and swim " ?
HoDosoNp. Cold swim. Oh I did enjoy it. so much
Rector, ask him if you like now R.
E. M. S. " Ask him if you like more " ? Rector, now
HoDosoNp. do you remember how I used to recite poems to
you. Sitter. Rather.
HoDosoNp. Remember one that went like this
How knowest thou aught of God
How knowest thou aught of God
of His favor or His wrath
Of His favor or His wrath
can the little fish.
E. M. S. " Fish " is it ? (Hand thumps assent.)
HoDGsoNp. fish, etc. etc. Do you remember it ?
Sitter I don't remember that poem.
HoDGsoNp. and the flowers. E. M. S. " Flowers " ?
HoDGsoNp. yes
Map out an Eagles Path.
I used to recite it again and again.
Sitter. I'll try and remember it. I remember your reading
poetry most of all.
HoDosoNp. Yes I said reading or reciting. DON Skeptic.
E. M. S. " Don Skeptic " ?
HoDGsoNp. Yes. It was part of the Poem.
I think till I'm weary
Sitter. " Weary " ?
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 543
Hodgsonp.
Weary yes U D it. Sitter. You are tired ?
HoDGsoNp. the Poem.
How knowest thou aught of God.
(E. M. S. here says to Rector that they ought to be
going.)
Yes I shall have to come again Mrs L. and talk
with you. I shall be clearer I think.
E. M. S. Then if the friend comes to-morrow, he will meet
her. Rector, he says he will
HoDGsoNp. I (illegible word) speak so I can U D. you and
speak a little slower if you can Sitter. Yes.
HoDGsoNp. you U.D. I am no longer in the body so I can
shout out at you. as I used to Shout
Sitter. I wish I could hear you.
HoDGsoNp. if you U D. Eliza that old lady says it.
Sitter. I know nothing about Eliza.
Rector. I do not either. R.
HoDGsoNp. I remember where we spent many days together
and the good time we had there.
I remember the poems well Also Dock and Jack.
Sitter. That is quite plain.
HoDGsoNp. I UD. much more besides.
Sitter. Let me ask you a question.
HoDGsoNp. yes give me something to think over, give me
something to think over.
Sitter. I want to know where Dock is.
EoDGsoNp. he is here. Sitter, yes.
HoDGsoNp
. and speaking to you. hear him shout (?) Hone(?)
E. M. S. near his home ? Hodgsonp. He is here
Sitter. Dock, speak to me
Dock. I am speaking I was caught by a friend of ours and
he brought me here. I was caught up by Hodgson,
and he brought me here and told me to say Dock,
and she would U D.
HoDGsoNp . He sends (?) love (?) Now we must close but I will
speak to you again.
E. M. S. Tomorrow.
HoDGsoNp. (?) Yes. Next time. Don't you get discouraged
with me.
Sitter. Tell me what to do to understand better.
544 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Hodgsonp . You spoke splendidly just then, and I heard you
best of all best of all H.
Rector. We are going now. and will ask you to speak a
little slower and a little more distinctly it will help
us so much, will you try ?
Sttter. Yes, I will do anything to help.
Rector. Amen, that is all we ask. It will prevent confusion
and we can U D. better.
{The trance proper then ends with farewells.}
Six Examples op Apparently Externalised Visions in
Writing Sittings.
(April 20, 1897.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson. Rector writing. G. P. com-
municating through Rector what purports to be a
message sent by Myers sitting with a medium in
England.
G. P. " Out of the d—g [?] past
R. H. Can't read. Slow.
R. He writes it for me. let me have a look.
OUT OF THE DEVESTING PAST.
R. H. Write the preceding word again, the word before past.
R. DEVESTING.
R. H. Something wrong. There's no such word as dimning.
R. Yes but you have not got it all. Wait till I say it
is right. OUT.
R. H. Don't mind the first part. I've got that.
R. Oh. DREAMING PAST.
R. H. Dreaming ?
R. Yes. Wait. Let me have one more look. He is now
spelling it for me. It is not easy to see when one is
in the light. —
DREAMING. Yes. Right.
The weak point of this case is that a suspicion suggests
itself that " dimning " really was what Rector wished to
write, and that he changed it because Hodgson would not
admit the word. " Dimning," if one may coin a word,
would make more sense than dreaming.
liXXi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 545
(June 20, 1898.)
Sitter, Mrs. Howard. Recorder, Miss Edmunds. G. P.
controlling, writing.
G. P. Yes and all the little groups. I see the [Hand points
to corner of the room as if he could not realize
that I did not see them as he did.] See those
little groups all here. One and the many are here
" one and the many "... are here
Mrs. H. Was not " one and the many " the title of the book
you meant to publish ? Do you apply it to those
who have passed away ?
G. P. Yes but to them in particular
This, perhaps, also illustrates the Piper G. P.'s failure to
understand the meaning of the title proposed for the book
(compare Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 428, and Vol. XV.,
p. 26).
(February 20, 1901.)
Sitter, Mrs. Junot. Recorder, Hodgson (see Proceedings, Vol.
XXIV., p. 465). Control, Rector, writing for communicator,
Bennie Junot.
Bhstnie. Do you see cousin Frank.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, is he here ? [Hand points to right front.
J
Standing over there.
Beistnie. Right by my side. I do not believe I can keep him
long.
Here the hand pointing is presumably Rector indicating
the position of Cousin Frank. 1
(December 21, 1903) Hodgson recording. The communi-
cator, a friend of the sitter's, is represented as leaving for a
moment to rest. In his absence Rector writes :
He takes up a lot of room . . . Look at what he has got
in his hand ; he has a large square—piece of glass—or
something like it with pictures all over it showing it to
me Rector 2
1
Cousin Frank presently communicated himself, but his messages to his
mother were not understood by her (Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 467).
' This is not explained. It is perhaps meant to indicate a stained-glass
•2 M
546 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
(March 6, 1907.)
Sitter and recorder, J. G. P. Myers communicating through
Rector.
Myebsp. Yes I go farewell.
J. G. P. Goodbye. [I was a little late with my goodbye
;
which may explain what followed. J. G. P.]
Myersp. and may all good be yours. Myers.
Rector. We cease now and may the divine and holy blessings
of the Most High rest on you.
+ Farewell. R.
J. G. P. '
The divine and '
what '
blessings '
?
R. holy
(Hand points towards place where the communicating
spirit is supposed to be.)
J. G. P. There is no one there.
R. Speak to him.
J. G. P. Yes. To whom ?
R. Myers.
J. G. P. Goodbye, goodbye, Myers. I shall see you again.
(Hand drops.)
(March 16, 1908.) Mr. Dorr recording :
[Sidgwick's name is mentioned and the hand points as
though to an unseen figure in the room.]
G. B. D. Is he with you ?
Myersp . He is attracted and comes to understand and help me
in helping you.
[On Gurney's name being read, the hand again points as
though to a person in the room.]
A Case of Position in Space affirmed by a
Communicator.
(January 3, 1900.)
The sitter's husband communicating through Rector as
amanuensis.
window. The removal of a stained-glass window from the sitter's dining-
room was discussed at later sittings. The idea of such a window might,
moreover, have been (erroneously) suggested by a statement made by the
sitter, just before the communicator " went out " and Rector wrote as
above. The sitter had told the communicator that her business in Boston
related to something to be done in memory of him.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 547
[Some disturbance in the hand.]
Commb. I am coming near to you dear, so I can hear you
better are you very near the medium dear.
Sitter. I'm sitting close beside her while you write 1
and
when I speak to you I hold her hand near my
lips. Where is that head of yours ?
Commr. It's in front of you dear. Do you not see me staring
at you ?
Sitter. No, I can't see or even feel you.
Commr. I am right here and Rector is helping me speak to
you and when I speak to him he whispers it over
the head of Imperator and it is repeated to you.
Sitter. Yes, dear, where does the medium come in ? How
do you use her ?
Commr. Rector is holding his hand over the medium's whole
body, and he has covered it with the light from
our world, and Imperator has called the spirit to
our world and sent Rector in its place. Do you
U.D. me dear ? Sitter. Yes in a way.
Commr. The whole body of the medium becomes a reservoir
which, through the efforts of I. S. D. becomes filled
with ether and is covered with ether and remains
so while we operate with it. Do you U.D. this
dear.
Sitter. Yes, I understand your description, but it can't be
thoroughly understood from my side I suppose.
Commr. Well dear listen. Often times the spirit will be
removed from the body and the body become
apparently lifeless for a long time and when the
spirit returns it is often conscious of where it has
been and who and what it has seen, but in such
cases the body is not being used by other invisibles
U.D. 2
Sitter. Yes.
1
The sitter appears to be under the impression that the communicator
is controlling, but he presently makes it quite clear that this is not his view
of what is going on.
2
But compare Mrs. P.'s apparent knowledge in the waking-stage of
April 16, 1897 (see Chapter VI., p. 247) that she has been to see
Myers's medium in England, which is what the controls, alleged to be
using her body in America, say in the trance is the case.
548 Mrs. Henry Sidgwiclc. [PART
Commb. while in this and similar cases it is used while the
body remains quiet.
Instance of Control apparently feeling Pain of Com-
municator's Last Illness (from Proceedings, Vol.
XIII., pp. 537-8).
{Feb. 14, 1892.)
Present Dr. and Mrs. A. D. Thaw and Mrs. Holmes.
Dr. Thaw taking notes. Phinuit controlling.
Ph. [in a child's voice, for Ruthie]. Tell Mamma not to
trouble so [Here, and at times later, there seemed
to be great physical distress and pain in abdomen,
throat and head.] It pains me so here [Hands on
abdomen.] [Correct. Child had dysentery, with sore
throat.] My throat hurts. The powder ! Take it
away. I don't like it. Take it away. [Bismuth
was given through entire illness of two weeks, and
was always given with trouble.] {N.B. the child
was only 15 months old when she died and could
say only two or three words, so the language
attributed to her here is not that which she used
during her illness. So far Phinuit may be conceived
as imitating Ruthie 1
but after more talk he appears
distinctly to suffer himself.}
Ph. This is dreadful. This little girl will take me out
with her. She's tearing me to pieces. [Great pain
apparently.]
1
Conscious acting on Phinuit's part, in imitation of Ruthie, does
occur, e.g. on May 19, 1892, when he pats Dr. Thaw and remarks,
" She says I don't do it right I'm not gentle enough. I don't do it
the way she used to do " {Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 570). See also
Vol. XIII., p. '489, for cuddling*up doll in neck and singing in imitation
of Kakie Sutton on December 8, 1893
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 549
APPENDIX TO CHAPTER VI.
The Waking-Stage and the Corresponding Stage in
going into Trance.
The arrangement of the records in this Appendix, whether
of waking-stages or of going into trance, is almost purely
chronological. Most of them have been referred to in
the text, but I have also added a few notes partly to
call attention to particular points, partly explanatory, and
partly to show the connexion with the preceding trance.
Remarks inserted in the records by the recorder are
enclosed in square brackets. Remarks by myself in {}.
Asterisks in almost all cases represent words the recorder
could not catch.
(June 21, 1895.) Waking-Stage.
Professor W. Romaine Newbold sitter and recorder, and
H. W. O. present.
[Mrs. Piper coming out] There's a deep hole, go in
to it. [Describes it in response to questions.] Very
large, big enough to go into, very dark like a cave
. . . they put me into it. [Is much confused and
very cross ; talks thickly.] I tell you the least
any one could do when I fall is to pick me up
[Gets clearer, says she feels better as soon as she
has felt something snap in her head.]
[June 22, 1895.) End of Trance and Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Professor Newbold.
[Phinuit returns, speaks with difficulty.]
Ph. George has been teaching that man {Stainton Moses}
a lesson showing him how to use the light. Help
him out of that arm Billie like Hodgson does.
He's stuck there. [Arm is feebly twisting and
550 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PAET
moving in aimless fashion. I rub it.] There he's
out. It's mine now, I'll take it with me.
[Coming out Mrs. Piper holds out her left hand,
palm upwards hollowed.] I've brought you all
these flowers from the other gentleman. George
says they are for you with his compliments. [Gets
a little clearer, but is still unnatural.] Oh I had the
queerest dream. I thought I saw the gentleman
with the hat and cape and he said '
I shake him
up,' pointing to you. He had a basketful of flowers,
he was picking them out and giving them to me.
Part of this sitting is quoted by Professor Newbold in
Proceedings, Vol. XIV., pp. 37-39. " Billie " = Professor
Newbold ;
" that man " and " the gentleman with the hat
and cape " = W. Stainton Moses. The cape had been
referred to by Phinuit with amusement during the trance
proper (see above, p. 183).
(June 24, 1895.) Waking-Stage.
Present, Hodgson and Professor Newbold.
Mrs. Piper [coming out] I think you have grown to be
quite a girl.
R. H. Whom do you see ?
Mrs. P. Ruth and Margaret grown to be quite a big body,
aren't you. And Mrs. Dow and Mr S— and Caroline
is with her too. Very glad to see you Mr P— . . .
John Hart and George Pelham are talking to me.
I wouldn't take the rest of those books if I were
you. John Hart has not finished everything.
R. H. Tell him I'll talk to him later on.
Mrs. P. Don't go. Oh my God, my God, my God. [Takes
some imaginary object from her mouth with ex-
pressions of great disgust ;
spews it out.] Cigars !
R. H. Who put the cigar in your mouth ? Who's been
smoking cigars ? Was it a spirit cigar ?
Mrs. P. That gentleman with the beard put a cigar in my
mouth.
R. H. Was it Hart ?
[She makes no reply. Upon regaining consciousness
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance,.-—Appendix. 551
a moment later she has no memory of this, and
when questioned says :] Nobody put any cigar in my
mouth, unless you did, Mr. Hodgson. Did you 1
Part of the trance proper of June 24 and the going
into trance is quoted by Professor Newbold in Proceedings,
Vol. XIV., pp. 39-41. There was not, I think, any mention
in the trance of Ruthie and Margaret, nor of Hart, but
the latter wrote on June 15 and 17. For Hart (pseudonym)
see Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 296-9, 353-7.
{Oct. 12, 1896.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
[After a few words with Phinuit at the end of the writing,
Mrs. Piper begins to come out of the trance, and
her eyes open, but stare vacantly, while her right
hand seizes the pencil and writes OUT from right
to left in capital letters, mirror-writing (out). Re-
peated (out). Again repeated. " Who is out ? ",
I say. Then " Dr. Ph " is written in mirror-
writing similarly. " You've got out all right,
Good," I say. The pencil drops, and the hand
loses its stiffness, and Mrs. Piper very quietly
regains her consciousness and then says she has
seen " that man again. That must be Phinuit. I
never saw him so clearly before." She described
him as having long hair, a broad face, heavy eye-
brows, full eyes that seemed to be grayish-brown,
with a very large nose.]
Writing during the waking-stage is a very unusual
feature. This writing is in Phinuit's mirror-writing
manner (see p. 32, footnote), which suggests that it may
perhaps have been done automatically, without the know-
ledge of the waking-stage consciousness.
(Nov. 16, 1896.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
[Mrs. Piper on recovering pants very heavily as though
from violent exercise, and says :] Oh I ran as fast
552 Mrs. Henry Sidg wick. [part
as I could or they would have caught me. I saw
D— {the boy lost in Mexico}. They took me.
There was a round mirror on the wall, and the door
had big hinges.
[By questioning her I gathered fragments suggesting that
John Hart had been chasing her to make her tell
me something. When she completely recovered con-
sciousness she complained for a short time of a pain
in her lung.]
There was no mention during the trance proper of this
sitting, nor, I think, at any other time of Mrs. Piper's
spirit being taken to Mexico. But Mexico and the lost
boy had been spoken of during the trance, and a prison
or other building in which he was said to be.
(Xor. 18, 1896.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
[Mrs. Piper's subliminal speaks with a tone of some fear :]
They took me into an awful place
R. H. What sort of a place ?
Mrs. P. A gaol. He was sitting on a seat. He's very young.
I can't bear to look at him. Chloral they gave him.
Tell him to release him, that dark complexioned
man with glasses, Seeans, Seeints.
The propriety of looking for the lost boy in a prison
had been spoken of in the course of the sitting, and the
name Cintz mentioned by Hart (writing) as that of an
official concerned. This was the sitting during which
Julius Caesar controlled (see p. 114).
(Dec. 8, 1896.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Mrs. P. John, [stumbling then over a name very like Lydgate.
I repeated several similar names as close to the
sounds made as I could imitate, such as Luggate,
Ludgate. but she still made fresh efforts, but accepted
the name at once when I said Lydgate, and she
added] Poet. Writer.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 553
[She then drew her body back slowly, staring in front of her,
and said that gentleman with the pointed beard (Hart) had
been taking her to see some pillars. (Probably reference to
pillars described by Phinuit in a previous sitting as in front
of building where D— is said to be).]
The Mexican search, but no pillars, had been mentioned
during the trance proper of December 8. Doctor, giving
his name as " J. D. L. I am John," had controlled in
the latter part of the trance.
(Feb. 12, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
I will be good. I will be good. I'll do the best I
can. I do try. Yes, I do. Yes, I do. Oh yes I
do. Yes I will. Yes, and in this world too.
Imperator's voice sounds like a silver note in the
music of that place in heaven.
My body's so dead. Where are you going % . . .
That's a funny way to talk to any one.
You look as black as anything. Are you Mr. Hodgson ?
R. H. Yes. Who was talking to you ?
That gentleman with the large eyes,—that wears the
cross. Oh you never heard such a voice as that.
R. H. What sort of a voice ?
Like when you pull on the thin thread of an instru-
ment . . . goes through me . . .
Do you know I feel sometimes . . . just like water
bubbling in my brain.
Imperator had controlled throughout the sitting.
(February 23, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
[Very indistinct. I keep asking what she sees.]
There's a wreath ... A wreath of Ascension lilies . . .
Imperator put on his head,—on George Pelham's head
. . . Oh is that you, Mr. Hodgson, talking to me ?
R. H. Yes.
Oh you've got the worst voice . . .
554 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
(March 4, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Oh yes. Oh I will . . .
Take him into thy confidence, and trust him.
Trust in me and I will lead thee . . .
0 my soul . . .
Beautiful . . . Beautiful . . . What are those ? Are those
praises ? Praises they're singing ?
Please give them to me [Hand moves forward as if to
ask for something.]
That's the finest thing I ever saw.
A circle of light, three different faces in it, they've all got
loose sort of gowns on. . . . One on each side a
little behind the one in the middle. He waves his
hands back. They're vanishing . . .
1 don't think my brain can remember that.
Imperator, the central figure, had controlled throughout.
One of the others was doubtless Rector.
(March 8, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
I, W. Stainton Moses . . . [unintelligible]
(R. H. What's after Moses ?)
Go, spirit, and repeat this for me.
1, W. Stainton Moses, standing in the light of God,
assisted by the higher power, will use these forces
to prove to my friends there is no death. Frater-
nally yours, W. Stainton Moses for I. S. D.
I'll blow the breath of heaven on you.
Oh my God . . .
Oh what's the difference between my soul . . .
Oh I don't know.
Stainton Moses had been the principal control during
the trance, followed by Imperator.
Note that though Hodgson's question near the beginning
is ignored, it apparently suggests the repetition that
follows.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 555
(March 12, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
[Can't catch the first words.]
I'm very happy in this world.
(R. H. Who says that ?)
Go tell him George Eliot is working through all the
different spirits to reach him in reality, and I
present him with these little flowers to let him
know they are reality.
Go right along about your business into that body and
don't forget this message on the way.
That looked like Mrs. L. senior.
George Eliot had been the control during the last part
of the trance.
[March 13, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Doctor A. T. Myers . . .
I didn't want you to send me back,
and I didn't want to go. I didn't want to go in
there.
Tell him what ?
go and tell the man in the body what ? I can't
hear you . . . what
All rewards ... all is in my hands. I am conducting
it accordingly. Rewards will be yours for ever [?]
God bless you.
I don't want to go down there . . . [crying voice.]
I don't want to go down there.
Be home in May . . .
Is that you George %
Oh I'm blind . . .
Mr. Hodgson, that's George Pelham sure enough. He's
the brightest looking man you ever saw. He must
be very fond of double white violets. He moves
them about this way ., . . [Hand indicates.]
[Normal] There, did you hear that ?
R. H. What ? Snap in your head ?
Yes. Mr. Hodgson I forgot that you were here.
556 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Rector, George Eliot, and G. P. had controlled during
the trance, but there had been no mention of A. T.
Myers I think, though Frederic Myers had been spoken of.
(March 15, 1897.) Going into Trance and Beginning of Trance.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Mrs. Piper (going into trance). (What . . . What's that ?
Let not thy spirit be troubled. God watches over all.
[Imperator writes.]
Imp. + Hail R. H. Hail Imperator
Imp. Friend of earth, we greet thee R. H. I'm very pleased.
Imp. Let not thy spirit be troubled. R. H. No.
Imp. God watches over all. R. H. Amen.
Imp. It is with pleasure we greet thee. Art thou troubled ?
We feel we see and know thy earthly conditions.
Hodgson then explains to Imperator that he had just
learnt from the medium that a long account had appeared
in the papers about what had been said in the trance
about the boy in the Mexican prison, and that he and
the medium were both grieved about it.
Observe (a) the connexion of pre-trance thoughts and
communications, and (b) words in going-into-trance stage
exactly the same as words in trance. This might, if this
case stood alone, be represented as Imperator comforting
Mrs. Piper as he met her going out, and Hodgson directly
he (Imperator) came in, but should probably be interpreted
in the light of other cases. See above, Chapter VI., p. 242.
(March 17, 1897.) End of Trance and Waking-Stage.
Sitter and Recorder Hodgson.
{The trance ends with :
—
}
[Rector writes].
(Rector)
Let not thy soul be troubled. Ask for faith and it
shall be given thee, -f- I. S. D. (Rector)
[Mrs. Piper's subliminal speaks.]
I didn't know it ... I didn't know it [crying tone].
I, Imperator, servant of God, watch over you always.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 557
The Lord is thy shepherd and thou shalt not
want.
Go, spirit, take up thy duties and worry not. God
is with thee
Oh my head . . .
I saw the man with the cross distinctly. He was
making passes over my head.
Oh it's hard to wake up, I tell you . . .
[Practically normal] Did you ever have the mumps,
Mr. Hodgson ?
(R. H. I did when I was a little boy.)
Minerva's 1
got them, and I think Alta's 1
getting them.
(March 22, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter, Mrs. D., and recorder, Hodgson.
Mr. D— That's Mr. D—. He does look so beautiful.
I'm glad to see you.
The clergyman's with you.
I don't want to go back.
Go, spirit, take up your duties.
I don't want to take them up.
Don't go.
I saw a light. And I saw that gentleman that wears
a long gown. And I saw your husband.
There is definitely conversation between Mrs. Piper and
a spirit here.
(March 24, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
I don't think I could possibly have got down here if you
hadn't helped me. I'm very grateful to you George.
I can't take every one of them. I can't take them all.
God is good . . .
Where didlyou find him %
G. P. was the last control at the sitting, and had
talked of flowers at the end.
1
Mrs. Piper's children.
558 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
(March 25, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
[I heard the words said which formed a connected message,
but could not get them all written.]
I, Imperator servus Dei say we have received ... go
tell him we have received his prayer, have taken
it to God . . . presented in due time. Worry
not . . .
May God . . . watch over you . . .
Repeat it slowly and distinctly . . .
I am a Priest of the Holy Church most High ... I
once lived in a body like you.
Is this my room ? (R. H. What's the matter ?)
I was wondering what the spell was over me
[Spoken with some difficulty.]
[Unusually long passing from {this second state} to normal,
after which she says she was trying to recollect
something, but couldn't, refers to Imperator and
wonders why he is so far away.]
Imperator had closed the trance proper.
It appears that the effort to remember prolonged the
waking-stage.
(March 26, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Come nearer to me father, and I'll tell you [?]
I command thee to go, spirit, take up thy body.
I am a Holy Father of God most High.
I lived [?] in the Priesthood after the order of Mel-
chisedek [?]
See that there shall be more light . . . more light whereby
we reveal the truth [?]
Go, spirit, and may the blessings of God rest on you.
Take that down to earth.
Do you put the cross on my spirit ... as an emblem
of truth.
Yes, I hear all you say. Yes, I will be good. I will be
good.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix, 559
Rector and Imperator had closed the trance proper, and
Rector had been controlling and talking about Melchisedek,
etc., and saying that Melchisedek had " inspired " all the
" priests of the Most High." Among the priests are Moses,
Aaron, Elisha, Elijah, David, Daniel.
(March 27, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
There's .*.*.*.* and Moses and George Eliot.
There's Rector, and Moses and Dr. Speer and George
Eliot and [H. C.]. There's a whole crowd of them,
as beautiful people as ever you saw. * * * *
Well I declare there's Doctor Myers and his mother and
there's Brandon [?] [sound like Brandon. Who is
it ?]
Would you please let me go, sir ?
Would lyou please let me go, sir ?
Could you make me much lighter 1
That was Imperator because he took my hand. He said
take my hand and put it up there. He would
make me hold my head up.
Imperator, Rector, and George Eliot have controlled, the
latter closing the trance proper.
{March 29, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
(R. H. Halloo, Mrs. Piper, Halloo.)
Halloo. Who's that talking to me ?
There's the lame man, the man that was lame, but
he isn't lame now.
There's two ladies with him this time.
Well, we're all very much better off, and much happier.
This is the life * * *
I'm M— B— if you please, but my name is not
known to everybody. There's Elisa on that side.
***** j)r Myers ...***
Hold up your head . . .
(R. H. See anything ?)
There's a veil over my face.
560 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
[Just normal] Did you hear that snap ? [to R. H.].
I saw something. Give me a pencil while I remember
it.
[Mrs. Piper then printed off
HAVE . FAITH . IN . GOD .
She saw these "on a board or something."]
In this case it is clear that Mrs. Piper hears and
responds to Hodgson's call without recognising him.
(March 31, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
4* J(J l{C lj!
Better be very good.
What's that . . . listen to me . . .
Have faith in God. He governs all things well [then with
a snap, as though she had not heard clearly and
was being corrected] wisely, wisely.
May the blessings of God be with you forever.
Tell him that . . .
Will you come with me . . .
How do you do, George % I didn't know you. * * *
changed . . .
(R. H. Is he changed ?)
[Just normal] Why, Mr. Hodgson. Why didn't you
speak to me ?
(April 1, 1897.) End of Trance and Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
{Record of the trance proper ends thus :
—
}
[W. S. Moses writes.]
I have thought it all out and will give it to you the
next time we meet.
Ever your friend, W. S. M. No more light.
[Mrs. Piper's subliminal speaks.]
I am William Stainton Moses, but I've passed through
so many stages since I came here that * * * [hard
to get back again], but with the help^of God and
my guardian angels * * * * will be given.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 561
(R. H. What will be given ?)
I will repeat.
You go back to your body and say that all proofs
of identity will be given.
I am not of the earth, earthy, but I'm beyond it
with God . . .
Please let me go. I dislike to be between.
(April 3, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter, Mrs. D., with Hodgson recording.
{During the trance proper Mrs. D.'s friends had partly
used the voice and partly communicated through George
Eliot (writing), who explained, " because there was neces-
sity for a little more light I came. The dear elderly gentle-
man who has just been here * * * had not enough strength
to remain."}
# * * *
Where will they find my body.
I can't ... I don't know where it is. Why do you talk
to me about my body ? If you all stand in my
way I can't get in.
(R. H. What do you see ?)
I didn't want them to close the place up !
(April 15, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Do you call those ascension lilies ?
What you say to me is so clear, but I can't hear it,
you know.
But I don't want to go ... to go down there [in
tearful voice].
That's a good way to get out of it.
The funniest thing happened. Did you see what that
gentleman did ?
(R. H. No, what did he do ?)
He kept reaching out some flowers to me and I
couldn't reach them. And he put a lily up and
he was behind it, and the lily disappeared and he
wasn't there at all.
2n
562 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [pakt
The trance had been occupied with imaginary accounts
of the English sittings with no mention of lilies or any
flowers.
{April 20, 1897.) Going into Trance and Beginning of Trance.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
[Mrs. Piper's subliminal speaks.]
I think that must be Dr. Newbold, and he's a bad
cold too. [I had a cold. W. R. N.]
[G. P. writes.]
[Shakes hands.]
R. H. Halloo George
G. P. How are you H. ? [The H as Rector usually makes
it, type W\
R. H. First rate, George, old chap. What's the news ?
G. P. Just left Newbold. Saw him in chair reading, not
feeling any too well physically, either. [About this
time I was sitting in my chair in my room at the Uni-
versity. I do not know what I was doing. W. R. N.]
Go [?] shake hands with him, H. [Hesitation in deciph.]
[H first made as Rector makes it, ffl, then as if with
slight effort, as G. P. used to make it, H or j6^-
type.]
R. H. I don't understand what you mean.
G. P. Are you well ?
R. H. Yes I see. I have a cold but it's getting better.
Etc.
As regards the letter H, see Chap. IV., p. 148. It is to
be observed that G. P. had not controlled since March 24,
I think, whereas Rector was a frequent control, and had been
the principal control for some days before this. The notes
in square brackets signed W. R. N. are taken from Pro-
fessor |Newbold's [copy of the^fsitting and are approximately
contemporary, made a few days after the sitting took place.
(April, 26, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
$ $ $ $
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance,—Appendix. 563
Go forth spirit into thy body and give these messages to
the stranger.
Tis I, Imperator, instructs thee. Have better sense, not
to worry, spirit. Why worry, it is thy mission.
Go, have courage. I am astonished. It is thy
mission. God requests it of thee. These teachings
to be sent broadcast all over the material world,
and help God's children.
Did I say it all for you ? You're a good man.
Oh, don't go now. Don't go now.
* * * all the messages for you ?
They're as busy as bees.
She had beautiful hair.
Closing over my very face.
Oh dear me ! . . . Well really.
Is that you Mr. Hodgson ?
I didn't know was resurrected . . .
This room's all so black.
There is no obvious connexion with the pi-eceding
trance proper in this waking-stage.
(May 11, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Oh that's George Pelham. How you've changed.
* * * Excuse me, I mean Mr.
What are you going to do with those ?
Won't you please tell me 1
Is that you . . . Moses. * * *
if * * * came so near. * * *
They smell lovely, don't they ?
Would it be a boy, would it be a girl.
I didn't know that. It's something new.
Goodbye . . . goodbye . . .
Oh Mr. Hodgson there's feathers all over my face.
(R. H. There's what ?)
Little light fluffy things all over my face . . .
Did you hear my head snap ? Did you hear that
shut down ? I know what they do.
(R. H. What ?)
They put a bonnet on me.
564 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
1 think this is the first appearance of the bonnet,
which was frequently mentioned in later waking-stages.
(June 10, 1897.) Going into Trance.
Sitter Mrs. D— Recorder, Hodgson.
# * # *
I don't think I know you.
My name's D—. Don't consider yourself above me.
No I don't, [apologetically]
Coming, coming, coming.
Mr. D— communicates almost at once when the
trance proper begins. Some such remark as " Coming,
coming, coming " was frequent in going into trance about
this period.
(May 26, 1898.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Mrs. Howard.
[Mrs. P. coming out of trance says :] I see your
father [describes him and then says :]
I see that beautiful young lady.
Mrs. H. What is her name ?
Mrs. P. Edith D— ; she wants to give you the lilies she holds.
She says '
Take these lilies as an emblem of my
love.'
Mrs. H. You dear Edith, I wish I could take them ; I will
gladly take them though I can't see them. When-
ever anything happens to me that is good I want
to tell it to you.
Mrs. P. She laughs at that, she is so pleased to hear you say
that.
Mrs. H. I often think of Wordsworth's sonnet when I think
of you :
" Surprised by joy impatient as the wind
I turned to share my transport all with whom
But thee deep buried in the silent tomb."
Mrs. P. 'No no,' she says, 'no, no' to that last, she does not
like you to say that.
Mrs. H. No, dear Edith, I know you are not in any tomb
but here with me.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 565
Mrs. P. She is smiling now, she likes that. She says again,
'
Take these lilies, etc.' Why there is George ! I
see George.
Mrs. H. What flowers has he ?
[Mrs. Piper suddenly starts, comes to herself a little,
recognises me and says, " Oh why didn't I get
that big bunch of violets he wanted to give you !
"
Then she begins to cry as a grieved child at
having to come back " to this dark place "—" I
don't want to come back, oh I don't want to
come back !
"]
The record of the trance proper, which is not, however,
complete, does not mention Edith D—
.
{June 3, 1898.) End of Trance and Waking-Stage.
Sitter, Mrs. Howard and her daughter. Recorder, Miss
Edmunds.
G. P., who has been controlling, takes leave.
Mrs. H. Good-bye everybody. Give my love to Edith.
[After a pause the hand makes feeble signs of writing,
but is unable to make any mark.]
Mrs. H. Imperator is trying to write a prayer.
[Trance ends 12.12 and Mrs. Piper tries to speak.]
Waking-Stage.
Mrs. H. What do you see ?
Mrs. P. All there
God guard and keep them through our Lord.
Mrs. H. It is the blessing that he could not write. Now he has
given it. Tell us whom you see ?
Mrs. P. Very pretty. Mrs. H. What is it ?
Mrs. P. That's you Imperator makes all the flowers in
a minute.
Mrs. H. Whom do you see ?
Mrs. P. Edith. .
Mrs. H. Who else ?
Mrs. P. George another man here's Mr. L
—
Mrs. H- You see his whiskers and moustache ?
Mrs. P. Mrs. D— and her daughter. Jim's cousin Mrs.
Coriston [?] [Not recognized] Mr. Z-
—
Mrs. H. What ! my grandfather ! Perhaps it is my cousin with
my grandfather.
566 Mrs. Henry Sidgiuick. [part
Mrs. P. makes all the flowers in a minute on top of that
lady's head in the body.
Mrs. H. Who else is there ? What was Mrs. Z.
—'s first name ?
Mrs. P. Hodgson's mother is in the front—she says she is
with him all the time ; the efforts of prayer will
bring peace to the soul.
Go thou take up thy body and blessings rest on
thee. This is really Heaven. I am so blind [Cries.]
Mrs. H. Don't cry, you'll go there again very soon. Don't
cry.
Mrs. P. All gone away. [Cries.]
Mrs. H. It must be hard to go to Heaven for an hour every
day and not be able to remember anything about it.
Mrs. P. [Lifts up cushions, looks at hands and under cushions.]
Mrs. H. What are you looking for ?
Mrs. P. I want the basket with the handle made of gold
things with pearls in the end. I can't find it.
Mrs. H. What is in it ?
Mrs. P. Two songs written with forget-me-nots.
Mrs. H. Who wrote them ?
Mrs. P. Big man with side whiskers.
Mrs. H. What were the songs called ? That was Mr. L
—
Mrs. P. Is that you Miss Edmunds ? Your voice is not
musical. Your voice [to Mrs. Howard] sounded like
a trumpet. There was a wreath of something wound
round my hand and arm. They wound it round
and they took it off. It is something white. They
put it on and take it off.
Descriptions of Rector and Imperator given in Waking-Stages
of June 29, 1898, and June 20, 1905.
(June 29, 1898.)
Sitter and recorder, Mrs. C.
[She said: "Oh, must you go now?" (to them), and said
she saw a man sitting and writing in a large book.
He had a very high forehead, a dark beard, a
rather large nose inclined to be hooked, and a very
pleasant expression. He was dressed in light colored
clothes of some material like linen. This was
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 567
evidently Rector, though I think she did not
mention his name.
Then she said to me, " You have never seen Imperator.
have you 1
" and described him as tall, looking
like a priest, with no hair on his face. He was
dressed in long flowing garments looking like soft
white silk, and had a silver cross on his breast,
hung by a cord. He was being carried through the
air and had a halo about his head.]
(June 20, 1905.)
Sitter and recorder, Mrs. X.
[The following is Mrs. X.'s record of Mrs. P.'s description
{in the waking-stage} of Rector :]
Arched eyebrows—large dark blue eyes—nose large-—rather
raised—a round firm face—a little spot over right
eyebrow—long dark hair—Greek nose—hair brushed
back—grayish hair going through it—high forehead
—no beard—full chin—little curve in his chin—Oh
I can see him so plainly—he has such a nice face
—hair falls over right ear a little.
(September 13, 1898.) Waking-Stage.
Sitters, Dr. and Mrs. Thaw. Recorder, Miss Edmunds.
They took him—he was all bloated up—they took
them all away.
I wonder where my head is ?
I don't want to see you at all [to Dr. Thaw]
Do you know who that tall man was ? A tall man
kept shaking hands with you. He did not have
his glasses on. He took them off. Did you know
where he put them ? He was trying to tell them
when he wanted to go. Man who has taken them.
Little girl with them. She was not the same one.
Sitter. Did the tall man say anything 1
He shook hands all the time with you. He told me
to tell you what he said. It will come to me in a
minute.
Sitter. Tell me.
I wish I could think. I don't know.
568 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Sitter. What did he look like ?
A nice looking man. He had the brightest eyes
—
darker than yours.
Sitter. What was his name %
He told me. I kept hearing it all the time. Did
you see his hands kept going ? I was too far away
when I tried to reach him. I could hear him.
Sitter. Wanted to speak to any one else ?
I want to know who that little girl was too. She
was in front of him.
The man with the cross came and now all the whole
place is closed over.
Is that you Dr. Thaw ?
Dr. Th. Who did you think I was ?
You looked so black to me. Did you hear my head
snap ? Did you see the light ? Something goes
down and shuts over my head. So glad to see
you. I didn't know where I was. I have four
eyes and then I can see you with two. 1
There are
eyes at the back of my eyes. Why didn't you
speak to me ? I see you and yet I can't see you.
I feel so funny, etc. etc.
There is no obvious connexion between this waking-
stage and its trance proper. I do not know whether it
had any for the sitters. We have here a case of bringing
the spirits into special relation with the sitters.
{Oct. 13, 1898.) Waking-Stage.
Sitters, Mrs. Dorr and Hodgson, the latter recording.
{This was the first sitting Hodgson attended after his return
from England, where he had been for about a year.}
* * * Imperator * * * take care of thee . . .
* * * take it away if you wish.
oh, oh, oh, beautiful. Oh take me with you—I want
to go. Oh take me with you—See the wreath. Is
that a wreath ? Put it on her head. Good-bye,
good-bye, good-bye, good-bye. Oh I want to go.
Will it be all right ?
1
Compare Chapter VI., p. 223.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 569
There's Imperator, he's in a chair, made in a minute,
and Rector and Doctor, and a lovely lady taking
through the air, and they're going to take away in
the chair.
R. H. Take whom away ?
take Imperator away in the chair.
Oh I don't want to stay here. * * *
They say I mustn't feel badly because they go.
D'you hear that ? silvery voice ? mustn't worry because
they go.
I wondered why I didn't stay where I could see the
light. I heard the little whistle, and I heard the
voice say that I must go, and uncomplaining.
[The " little whistle " was probably a whistle which
I heard also and which apparently was a call to
workmen engaged in building behind Mrs. D.'s
house.]
There, did you hear that, did you hear my head
snap %
Is that you, Mr. Hodgson ? Oh, is this Mrs. Dorr's ?
[Mrs. P. now normal.]
(Oct. 31, 1899.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
[Inarticulate.]
My love to my son.
R. H. Yes, dear mother.
All ... all ... all .. . all's well.
[With beaming smile.]
Yes. Waited for the prayer, didn't he ? . . .
I feel queer.
There are two priests. One was a teacher. He wrote
many books, and taught in the old school.
R. H. Which one is that ?
That's Rector . . . Rector. The other's . . .
I'll tell you again . . . I'll tell you by and by.
Well ... I heard my head snap. Didn't you hear it ?
There had been no mention of Mrs. Hodgson during
the trance proper.
570 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
{Dec. 4, 1899.) Waking-Stage.
Voice sitting. Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
[After this Mrs. Piper gradually comes to herself, describ-
ing certain things she sees and repeating certain
words she hears while in the half-way state, which
were of a character intensely personal to myself.
At last she tries to tell me something which she
suddenly loses, then says :]
You look like a shadow—you looked very dark to me a
moment ago. Some one with a very earnest face
was reaching out something for me to give you
—
I can't remember what it was.
This illustrates breaks of memory.
{January 15, 1900.) Waking-Stage.
Voice sitting. Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
Yes, I see them, they're roses.
I will, I will certainly.
From whom ? Mr. W— ? Are you Mr. W— ?
Thank you ! —I see the star.
There's Mr. —, and his sister, and Mr. W—, all standing
in a row, and there is — with roses, and Imperator.
—And Mr. — has grown younger
—
If that cord is long enough, I'll be there
—
[She snuffs the air ] I smelt those flowers plainly. —
When the light goes, Imperator puts up his hands
that way and holds up the cross, and the light
all goes out. But the flowers remain, but they're all
going to pieces !
— Oh, Mr. D— I saw you
standing outside that black form a moment ago.
{Jan. 22, 1900.) Waking-Stage.
Voice sitting. Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
I will tell you how it is—there is a space that opens
into that other world, and then my spirit goes out
on a cord into that world, and then Rector comes
in on another cord.
Only they can't keep the ether. It goes away.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance.—Appendix. 571
[To me.] I want you to think you are a very black
looking creature ! It is all closed over !
[To me.] Are you somebody ?
G. B. D. No ! I am nobody !
Nobody ! Nobody ! That's queer !
Note here the two cords.
(April 2, 1900.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
Yes, I hear !
There are two Mr. D.s in Rector's arms and there's a
ring over the young man's head ! Oh I can see so
plainly !
[Repeats what some one says.] " Oh I am just as happy
as I can be !
"
I can see those little flowers all made in a minute !
I don't want to be made to go !
—
I see there is a light all open, and there is a cord attached
to my heart [puts hand on heart]. I go out on
that cord and I go in on that cord. But when I
am there I am so happy ! And I see such beautiful
things !
Do you hear the bell !
[Coming back to herself and seeing me.] You seem too
black to live ! That one here, this one, is black, but
the young man over there — He went into that
light when Imperator pulled the curtain — — —
What am I talking about, any way ? Oh, how queer !
{April 3, 1900.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
I'll produce Mrs. Hodgson with Eric.
R. H. produce Mrs. Hodgson with what ?
I'll produce Mrs. Hodgson with Eric.
There's old Mr. Hyslop and * with him.
R. H. Who with him ?
Uncle Clarkthers with * * * will be here soon.
Say, Rector took me into the other world and I've
been all round through the garden with Mrs. Hodgson
572 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
and that little boy. * * * And I smelt incense
burning * * * and when I came out that old gentle-
man followed me in all the way.
That's funny isn't it ?
That's no dream. Where have they all gone to \
You look as black and as ugly as anything [to
(May 22, 1900.) Waking-Stage.
Voice sitting. Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
Oh let me see your face again ! [Hand raised, eyes open.]
Ah, ah . . . I don't know you. Oh, I am glad
to see you.
I want to see that other lady that is walking on the
side of her who was trying to reach me ; that is
her sister ! She told me so.
[Smiles.] There's that lady with those lovely eyes, right
up in the air.
Oh, there is Imperator ! he is going to take them all
away !
There is that same little crescent again, with two stars
on it ! That is no dream.
I want to tell you something whoever you are. That
light goes right into the other world, and when my
spirit goes out it goes out on that cord. [Describes
Imperator and his coming in, but too rapidly for me
to get it down.] I am going to tell you something :
that is no dream, no dream. But that is what
makes me numb, and that is all just as I see it.
There's that little white dove again ; that dove is
Mr. — and it's the prettiest little thing you ever
saw !
I am just so happy
!
[She then describes a face she sees and ends by saying
with emphasis] I think I know. Sh ! Sh !
[Then after a pause, during which her face changed from
R. H.]
Did you hear my head snap ?
Don't you smell something ?
Hear my head crack ?
Do you feel sleepy ?
R. H. No.
R. H. No.
R. H. No.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance. —Appendix. 573
the expression of absolute ecstasy which it had
just had to one of horror :] This place is Hell !
This place down here is Hell !
[Then to me, a little later :] You look whiter to-day don't
you ?
What's that bell ringing for ? I did not want to come
back here.
I see that man over there. [She says this looking at me.
I ask her what the man looks like.] He looks all
right, only he's heavy looking.
(June 11, 1900.) Waking-Stage.
A new sitter S., with R. H. recording.
{During the trance the sitter's husband wrote a little
and then communicated through Rector with the assistance
of G. P. The communication was confused.}
* * * [unintelligible]
Eyes bright enough [?] There's George Pelham.
All right. All right sir. Oh . . .
R. H. See anything ?
Who's that gentleman with the dark moustache ?
Do you know that gentleman with the blue eyes ?
S. Tell me about the gentleman with the blue eyes.
He's got a light blonde moustache and blue eyes,
and a very handsome face.
S. Tell me some more.
Hair up that way [motion of hand which I did not
fully see.] He's gone with George.
S. Would you know his photograph ? if I were to show
you his photograph ?
I didn't see his photograph. I saw him know him
anywhere. I know him in that light coat, and that
little cravat with a little light stripe in it.
[S. asks about possibility of her recognizing him again.]
Well I don't know.
R. H. Well, do you remember that gentleman you saw ?
Who was that that had the broad shoulders ?
S. Would you know him if you saw his photo ?
Oh it wasn't Mr. Hodgson at all.
574 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
[Mrs. P. seemed to be forgetting the appearance of the figure
as she was recovering full consciousness, and I couldn't make
full record of question and answer. She seemed here to lapse
back partly into her subliminal again, and when I asked her
what sort of moustache the gentleman with the blue eyes had,
she referred to G. P.'s having moustache and beard, and
implied apparently that the blue-eyed gentleman with the
broad shoulders did not have moustache. During this time
S. was behind Mrs. P. and shaking her head, indicating to
me that there was no moustache. S. gave her a photograph
with a large number of faces in to pick out the one she saw,
and I requested S. to turn away so as not to influence Mrs.
P.'s selection by any ordinary means. Mrs. P. very quickly
picked out one, and S. on being shown it, said it was right.
The photo was a military group taken at Netley, England,
and contained 31 figures, of which five were clean shaven
and two others Hindus. The only bearded figure is one of
the Hindus. Shortly after this, Mrs. P. apparently became
normal, and had no recollection of the figure or the photo-
graph. R. H.]
{On the above, the sitter comments :} [I did not understand
Mrs. P. to say at any time that the gentleman with the
blue eyes had a moustache, and by shaking my head I
intended to convey to Dr. Hodgson that I personally did
not think she said he had. Up to 1891, my husband was
clean shaven. In 1892, he grew a moustache which he shaved
off at my desire, immediately before our marriage.]
{June 12, 1900.) Waking-Stage.
{Same sitter as on previous day and Hodgson recording.}
[Unintelligible mostly. Some words with sounds of
K and R in it repeated again and again.]
George says tell Hodgson * * * [K ... R]
[Repetition, probably an attempt to repeat the name
Karachi mentioned by S. {during the sitting}]
There he is.
There's Imperator and Rector. There's the gentleman
with the beard. And there's a little boy with
short light hair. There's the gentleman with the
blue eyes, high forehead, presses mouth up like that
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 575
[puffing lips somewhat] [{Note by sitter} unintelli-
gible]
laughs one sided [{Note by sitter} characteristic]
Tell Hodgson that's all right. I'll meet him next day.
S. Know that man again ?
Know him anywhere. Rector's taking the bonnet
off. Pins and needles all in it.
[R. H. gives Mrs. P. another photo group, and requests
her to pick out the gentleman with the blue eyes. S. turns
away, and R. H. can see only back of photo which he has
not previously inspected. Mrs. P. picks out almost immediately
one that proves to be correct. The group is of football players
17, taken at Netley, England ;
four, perhaps five, of whom are
clean shaven, the rest with moustaches, none with beard.]
Do you know that man said something to me for you.
R. H. What was it ?
It sounded like a funny word. R. H. What was it ?
Something like sherry. * * * Soft sound of C. Sh
* * * Don't you think I could go back and find
it ? Well why does he keep saying that over and
over again. Its Cashia Cashie . . . something like that.
S. What sort of sound did it end up with ?
i . . . e . . .
S. What sort of sound would that make,—a k and an
s and i e ?
It wasn't Katie
{Perhaps it was Cashmere, a name the sitter had mentioned
in an important connexion during the trance.}
(November 12, 1900.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
John . . . Hyslop. R. H. John Hyslop ?
says ... he says ... I say it. R. H. John Hyslop ?
Three Hyslops. R. H. Three Hyslops ?
Robert Hyslop. I'm as stubborn as a mule and you
can't change me.
Survival after death is as sure as God. You'll
understand it better soon.
I'm all right. Tell them I'm going on. My work is
only just begun. Hyslop.
576 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Beautiful . . .
0 don't do that. Will you please take me 1 . . . O—o.
Well there's Philip S sure enough.
1 want to go with them, with the Doctor.
That's not a dream. Oh dear.
Was that you talking to me ? R. H. No.
Did you say it's all right now ?
Did you say you'll feel better soon ? R. H. No.
What's Mr. Newbold got to do with it ?
Oh do you hear that ?
Mr. Hodgson, I thought you'd grown very old.
(November 13, 1900.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Yes I will. I remember. This is my son George.
Tell James I won't forget him. Imperator prays
all the time. Well there's Mrs. C . [Mrs. P.'s
face smiling] I don't know Rebecca, who Rebecca
is. Will you all take me ? Who's Miss Dunn ?
* * * [not caught] too.
R. H. Who ?
O Lord have mercy on . . . you.
Yes I will. You take two flowers. One's an orchid,
a pink orchid, one's a forget-me-not, put them in
some water, and they cannot die.
See the candles. There's one, two, three, four, five,
six, seven.
I'm all numb.
Who's the Bishop ? Who's the Bishop ?
[Mrs. P. looks towards me, and moves her forefinger up to
my forehead and touches it lightly, as if to see what it is.
Then she looks up, then looks at her hands, then looks in
front of her,—then begins to weep, but soon stops weeping and
begins to smile.]
[To R. H.] I want you to see the light when it
went out. Did you see all the pretty things I saw ?
Why didn't they stay here % Why did it all get
dark so suddenly ?
Did you hear that ? [Snapping in head.] It's not so
dark now.
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 577
* * * [Here came several apparently normal remarks,
followed by a lapse again into subliminal.]
I wish I could remember where I go. Sometimes I
go farther away than others, but I can't be dead,
can I ? R. H. No.
What's transition ? do you know ? R. H. Yes.
What is transition ? It goes again. [The snap in
her head.]
(March 12, 1901.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
[Opens her eyes and nods her head]
This is my mother. Tell him Myers says this is my
mother.
Are you happy, Mr. Myers ?
[Gazing in front of her, then turning her eyes towards
my right, then lifting them upward.]
Mr. Myers has just gone out of the passage with a
lady. He's grown younger. He's transparent and
goes quickly.
Mr. Hodgson do you see a cross ? R. H. No.
It's gone. Do you hear that crack ? R. H. No.
What was that cross doing in the air ?
[Then some remark about its being heavy and she
wondered how they could lift it.]
(March 13 and March 12, 1901.) Going into Trance.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
[Mrs. P. going into trance] " I feel that same thing
now shutting down all over me." {She had said in going
into trance on March 12,
<:
I feel something shutting
down all over me." And then after a pause, " Good
morning, Bennie . . . good morning, Bennie."}
(April 8, 1901.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
{During the trance proper Imperator had come in to promise,
in reply to Hodgson, to regulate the length of sittings better.}
Well ? Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. All right.
2o
578 Mrs. Henry Sidqivick. [part
I'm Imperator Servus Dei, very remote from the
earthly sphere.
I understand fully, will [?] guard watch pray for you,
and [?] for all God's children.
Hallo Mr. Myers.
Tell him I understand the [?] modus operandi [a
little stumbling over these words] very well.
How are you, Hodgson ? R. H. First-rate.
It's a slow process, but it's as sure as my taking
off. We're going to have infinitely better conditions.
Stick to it. I'm weak yet. Good-bye.
R. H. Good-bye.
[To R. H.] That's a queer thing. I'll tell you
something. R. H. What ?
There's Mr. Sidgwick, and they've taken Mr. Gurney
out of a hole. They found him and took him out. 1
You never saw a man so pleased as he was. He's
nearer than he was. He's getting * [?]
Go, take up thy body and fear no evil. I am thy
rod and thy staff and thou shalt be comforted.
Farewell.
Did you hear my head crack ? R. H. No.
This waking-stage is noticeable for the conversation
of Hodgson apparently direct with*Myersp.
(April 10, 1901.) Going into Trance.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Funny, wasn't it, I saw Mr. Myers in my dream. I
think they must be making a desperate effort to
get here ... to get in
{April 16, 1901.) Waking-Stage.
Sitters, G. B. D. and Hodgson.
That's . . . that's . . . [Smiling] There's . . . I'll
put . . . I'll put this cross here for an emblem
of peace and love. Imperator. See that little
white dove. It's to denote purity. No cross no
1 See Chapter VIII., p. 304.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 579
crown. Come unto me all ye that are heavy
laden and I will give you rest. May the Grace of
God rest on thee evermore. Farewell. We meet
again. Good-bye, George.
That's Mr. Sidgwick. Tell Mr. Hodgson I'll see him
by-and-by . . . by-and-by. R. H. Yes.
All is well here. I wish to God it was as well with
you. Don't forget us. R. H. No.
I have much to do.
[Turning to R. H.] Mr. Hodgson, everybody's after
you. [With a slight laugh "Ha [Ha"] Imperator's
put out the light.
[Looking at her hands, then turning to R. H.]
They were too black for anything.
[To G. B. D.] I saw you double.
G. B. D. You saw me double, did you ? What did the other
one look like ?
I never saw you before. I felt so numb.
[To R. H.] If you'd put your head over a moment
ago you'd just hit Rector right in the mouth.
[To R. H. in a whisper.] Is that Mr. Dorr ?
R. H. Yes. [Pause.]
Oh Mr. Dorr I didn't know you. . . .
[To R. H.] Did you hear my head crack ?
Record by Hodgson of Mrs. Piper's utterances when recovering
consciousness after being under ether for an operation.
{April 24, 1901.)
Morning of operation for hernia by Dr. Maurice Richardson
at Massachusetts General Hospital.
[Operation about 8.30 a.m. I was with Mrs. Piper till she
became unconscious under ether. She was taken about 9.45
a.m., after the operation, to her room in the hospital where I
awaited her. The following is the record made at the time
by me of our conversation until she became normal about
11.45 a.m. I was able to record practically everything said
by Mrs. Piper, but did not record every question put by the
nurse, Miss Rogers, or myself. Nothing of significance was
580 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
omittecL from my record, only the reiterated questions by the
nurse or myself to some such effect as :
" Mrs. Piper, do you
feel all right now ?
" R. H.] {The remarks in round brackets
are those of Hodgson or the nurse so far as recorded.}
[Questions to Mrs. P. by nurse and Pv. H. {between round
brackets} ]
Don't disturb me. . . I don't want to leave those people
. . . Oh dear me ... I want to go back to those
people . . .
(Who are those people ?) He pronounces a benediction.
(Can you remember what he said ?) Yes.
(Tell me what he said.) Peace and plenty.
(What else did he say ?) I'll care for you.
(What else did he say ?)
Peace and plenty ... If you'll let me stay a minute
. . . There they go . . . There they go . . .
[Pause.]
(Feel all right now ?)
Imperator'll take care of me. He said a benediction . . .
a benediction. Farewell.—I'll be with you.
(What was it he said ?) I'll be with you.
—
(What else ?) Peace and plenty.
(What else ?) I am . . .
(I am what 1)
I am the servant of the Most High. All is well that
ends well and this is well.
[Pause.]
Farewell. Oh dear ... I [or we] will leave thee now.
[Pause.]
All is well . . . [Pause.] Good-bye . . .
(All right now ?) [repeated]
Don't worry about me, I'm all right.
[Pause.] Well. Well there's no doubt about it after all
that. I wouldn't care to live a minute . . . All
gone. Oh dear, where am I ? It's all over. We'll
take care of you. Now we'll go. . . . Good-bye.
How black it is . . . Oh how black it is. I'd
give anything to go back there. If they could
just take me back a minute I'd be all right.
(Why, you'll be all right now.)
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 581
All right now. [automatically as if repeating my words.]
I've been taking care of * * * all right.
You needn't worry about that.
[Pause.] Well I'm sorry to have you go . . . Thank
you very much. I'll be able to * * * in a moment.
[10.48 a.m.]
(Mrs. Piper—)
Good-bye . . . Farewell.
(Do you feel all right, etc., Mrs. Piper ?) [Repeated
several times.]
Yes. They've gone. Where am I ? [11.11 a.m.]
(Why don't you wake up ?) [11.21 a.m.]
They told me to rest. [?] Oh dear . . .
(Feel all right ?) Yes, thank you. [11.25 a.m.]
(How are you ?)
1
$ $ $
(Feel all right ?) Yes, thanks.
(Hallo !) What, hallo . . .
(Well ?) I'm all right now.
[Mrs. P. looks towards the nurse.]
(Do you know this lady ?)
You see some persons are brighter [lighter ?] than
others.
(Remember me 1) Yes. You're Doctor Hodgson.
(How are you ?) Well, I don't know. I'm exhausted.
(Feel pretty tired ?) Very.
(Know this lady ?) You're head nurse in Ward B.
(Feel all right ?)
Why do you talk so much always ? Why won't you let
me rest ? Would you mind ? Now please would
you ? Your name's Rogers and your name's Dr.
Hodgson and my name ... I wish I hadn't any
... Oh I am so cold. [11.35 a.m.]
(Feel all right ?) [Nods assent.] Very tired.
(Do you remember anything ?)
No, nothing . . . Remember anything ?
(Yes.) Not much of anything, don't want to.
(How are you now ?) Sleepy.
(Know this lady ?) Miss Rogers . . .
582 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
I wish I could have an extra pillow under my head.
[Nurse arranges pillows, etc.]
[R. H. leaves about 12 noon.]
{October 21, 1901.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
{First sitting after operation in April, 1901—also after a
statement made by Mrs. Piper that she wished to leave
off her trances and free herself from the Society and from
Imperator.
}
* * * operation [?]
* * * Myers * * * Myers and Doctor Myers.
Hallo Doctor Myers.
You ought to be ashamed of yourself.
R. H. Who says that ?
That's Myers.
R. H. Whom does he say that to ?
I'm talking to the light.
Go and clear ... go and clear ... go and clear
the cobwebs out of your brain. Begone with your
folly.
[These remarks apparently made by F. W. H. M. to
Mrs. P.]
Imperator servus Dei. If * * * on earth the sins of
mortals are greater than * * * mercy * * * I tell
thee to beware * * * warnings to thee * * * warn
ings to thee * * *
going . . . going . . . four rows of . . .
R. H. Four rows of what ?
people.
[To R. H.] I was wondering where we were. You
didn't see the black thing they drew over me. I
never saw that before. Mr. Hodgson, I went to
sleep, didn't I ? I didn't think I was going to
sleep this morning, did you 2
R. H. Oh, I don't know.
This is another case of apparently direct conversation
between Hodgson and Myersp .
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 583
(January 22, 1902.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Miss A. M. R.
Yes, I see them.
A. M. R. Who do you see ?
Imperator, Rector, all, in prayer, all praying, Inipera-
tor is leading. Looks like a church. Oh, how-
beautiful. Oh such a light. See how beautiful that
is. Imperator's prayers, the voice is like a bell,
oh so soft. He is praying for somebody that is in
the dark w orld.
A. M. R. Yes.
See his robes ? See his cross ? Oh, he stands up.
He pronounces a benediction. Fear no evil, we
will be with thee. Farewell. Hear the choir all
singing amen. Going. Good-bye.
[Looking at her hands and^ at me, but no recognition
yet.]
Did you know all those people that I saw a moment
ago were doing something to protect you ?
A. M. R. Yes.
They lifted a very dark veil all up and after they
took that away everything looked so light.
A. M. R. I see.
And I thought that perhaps that dark came off, of
you.
A. M. R. I guess so.
Well, it is a long robe like black thingj and they
pulled it all away and made it light. It was
transparent, as it were. They prayed and then
they went away.
A. M. R. Yes. Lovely, isn't it %
More beautiful than anything I could describe to
you. I faintly remember it.
[Did not seem to be fully herself or have the light of
recognition in her eyes until this point.]
Well, Miss R , I did not know you. Did you
hear my head %
A. M. R. No, I did not.
Why, it went just like that apart [separating hands]
and then seemed to join together again. You must
584 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
laugh at my crude descriptions, but if you could
feel it and were powerless to express it as I am,
perhaps you would express it in as crude a way.
(March 24, 1902.) Waking-Stage.
Present, a sitter, with Hodgson recording.
[Smiling
young lady . . . Fine eyes . . . Oh-h . . . It's all going
away.
going away. * * * [not caught]
My love to mother.
That's the young lady.
[looking at her hands] strange . . . hands . . .
[looking at R. H.] oh yes I see. Well that's Mr. Hodgson.
I was trying to make you out. I couldn't see you
at first.
My hand ached all the time.
Oh well Mr. S. {to sitter} I forgot that you were here.
Did you hear my head snap ? You see I was
asleep and when I woke up my head snapped.
Did you hear my head snap ?
I quote this for the comparison of return to normal
consciousness to waking from sleep.
[March 26, 1902.) Waking-Stage.
A sitter, with Hodgson as recorder.
All right I will.
Phil says tell . . . mother . . . Florence sends her
love.
It's all right.
Oh I don't mind.
Well I see them.
Well they all went out so quickly.
Well that's a . . . that's a . . .
[Sniffing up strongly several times as though smelling
at flowers.]
R. H. What are they ?
Lilies of the valley.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 585
R. H. Who's . . . [R. H. was going to say " Who's got
them ? "]
Who said what are they ? a funny sound . . .
Well I couldn't think.
Well I thought I saw a young man with a young
lady walking close to me when I forgot what they were.
I keep thinking.
Well—oh Mr. Hodgson I couldn't see you at all for
a moment.
I thought there was something over my face.
My hands and arms are as numb as anything.
[Then recognizes sitter and speaks of her head
snapping.]
The names are those of communicators during the trance
proper.
{April 2, 1902.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
John Welsh has Rounder.
R. H. John Welsh was round her.
John Welsh has Rounder. Tell this . . . tell . . .
tell . . . John Welsh has Rounder.
R. H. John Welsh is round her ?
Has . . . has . . . It's I, Benny, don't you see me ?
I, Benny.
R. H. John Welsh has Rounder. Yes I understand.
[I here recalled Mr. Junot's enquiry about the dog
Rounder in sitting of {February 11, 1902}]
Tell Dad.
R. H. Yes. I'll tell him.
[Pause]
Imperator took that tall j'oung man with the light
hair and put him out, put his hand round him, and
pulled the shade right down ... I always see . . .
the cross . . .
I didn't know you Mr. Hodgson. Do you hear my
head snap ?
This is included as part of the Junot series in Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 516. The sitting was not
586 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
however, held with any view to the Junots, and the only
mention of them during the trance proper was by Rector
in the course of remarks on the differences among sitters
in their effect on the success of the controls. He said :
R Others bring before us great light and peace. Friend
we must not fail to refer especially to Benny and
his dear ones especially his father and mother.
They bring infinite light and peace. Their spiritual
lives are beautiful considering they are still mortals.
This waking-stage is of special interest, on account of
the resemblance of Benny Junot's communication to the
manner of the trance proper, and because the name of
John Welsh, which served as a clue to the recovery
of the dog Rounder, was here given for the first time.
{May 28, 1902.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Don't hurry me so.
* * * [a few words in low voice indistinguishable.]
Don't hurry me so.
I didn't know you were there.
What ?
Yes I'll take it.
I am F. W. H. Myers. Tell Hodgson I left a sealed
envelope with a Greek word written inside of it as
a test for me to give from this side.
Good. Go.
Mrs. Myers, Mrs. Myers, Mr. Myers, H. C, Doctor Myers,
his father, and brother, all in a row.
Imperator said . . .
They took me out, showed me several different spirits.
Then Imperator came up with a long stick, like,
—made of light. Then they all went out, every
one of them.
This is the blackest place I ever was in.
You know I just hate this place.
Mr. Hodgson I thought you'd grown very old, but you
haven't, have you.
Well my head went with a bang that time, didn't it
!
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 587
(July 2, 1902.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Hurry up !
Love to mother, Dad, Bennie.
Love to father, mother. Phil.
Love to * * *
(R. H. Who ?)
Mary . . . Hugh . . . Bonnie, Mollie . . . Hugh.
Love to Richard. Jessie, Mother, Fred, Rebecca.
Good-bye. (R. H. Good-bye.)
J. G. D. [?] Ad infinitum . . . Ad infinitum.
Imperator. There's George. All right ... I do.
[Smiling] Yes its . . . John Hart ... I know you.
Laura H . . . good-bye—dear, my love always.
Going.
Where . . . stay ... I thought you almost was going
to fall . . . you would if you hadn't hurried away.
I saw Mrs. C and the baby * * * [not caught]
I came in on a string.
[to R. H.] well I didn't know you. I thought you
were Mr. Myers.
This is the last sitting of the season. The trance
proper ended with farewells from Imperator and Rector,
but had been so much taken up by discussion of
Hodgson's relations with the controls that there was
little in the way of messages from any communicators
except Myers. The omission appears to be made up in
the waking-stage.
The confusing of Hodgson with a spirit (Myers) is worth
noting.
[October 14, 1902.) Waking-Stage.
Voice sitting. Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
[Hand raised.]
[Whispers] Puss ! [more clearly] That is all right, George !
We are not so far removed from the earthly life
after all. — How is puss ?
—{almost whispering]
It's all well with me !
—
588 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Those are roses, aren't they 1 I don't see how they make
them !
" It's this way !
" but that doesn't teach
me anything. Are they all fresh ? —It's going to
fall. Mr. Hodgson
!
1
It's going to fall ! You catch
that, please ! Look at that pretty white rose.
—
Oh ! [staring at G. B. D.] Well, I thought that you'd
grown very thick ! — It's too horrible for anything !
to come down into this black place.-
—
I saw Mr. Dorr and Mrs. Dorr— and a dear little lady
with a whole room full of roses ! There was a
little white rose came down from all the rest. I
reached for it and then it all went
!
This waking-stage brings out clearly what seem to be
successive strata of consciousness, but yet with a recol-
lection of the whole immediately after waking.
{November 10, 1902.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
Yes, I do ! Can't you come with me % Oh, oh, oh look
— oh, look at that. Oh, what a pretty light !
There's Mrs. Dorr and Mr. Dorr, and a tall man,
and another lady ;
all in a row ; and there's Im-
perator ! Oh, how I wish I could stay there for
ever. Look at that little dove — — little white
— — and there's a beautiful lily all made in a
minute !
— •
— — -
—
Well, [looking at G. B. D.]—Oh, there's two ladies
—
one lady told me something to tell you when I
came away but I can't remember what it was.
[Looking hard at G. B. D.] that's a black kind
of a looking man —
Well did you hear my head snap ? I thought I was
coming a long way on a string and if I left that
string I was going to fall. When I left that place
I was so happy—but it doe3 not look very happy
here, does it ? That's queer ; when I first saw you
just now I thought you was [sic] two persons
—
Note that Hodgson was not present.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 589
you looked very much lighter in the one body than
in the other
!
(February 4, 1903.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
[Several words not caught. Then many repeated attempts at
a name which her words " It's George saying " indicated that
G. P. was trying to get her to give. The name approximated to
Martha {Barton.} Martha was quite distinctly given at least
once, but the Barton was not quite reached. This name as
she gave it sounded—not clearly—more like Barralen or Parralen,
and on my saying " spell it," the letters she gave sounded more
like P.a.r. than B.a.r. She did not get any further in the
spelling than the r. I suggested {Barron} and {Barran} and
{Parson}, but none of these was accepted, she continued trying
to repeat the name. No assent was made either to Martha
or Mother which I suggested for the other sound. When
I said Martha {Barton}, she stopped repeating the sound, a
smile broke over her face (which previously had a strained
look forward while she was automatically repeating the name)
and she said " that's it, sure. George says sure." This
note is made practically from memory on the afternoon of
the day of the sitting, Feb. 4, 1903. What follows is from
my shorthand record.]
Hear it ! That's his sister.
R. H. Whose ?
[Pause.] James's sister ? George says Hannah's sister.
Here's George, and Mr. Myers, and oh a lovely lady.
She has beautiful hair.
They're all going into the light.
There's a man with a kind of a beard. There's a
man went into this world shot himself. He didn't
mean to do it. There's a little old lady with gray
hair kind of wavy parted in centre and put around
like that off her forehead.
[Mrs. P. makes motion with her right hand suggesting
curvature in front part of hair. I asked her to
repeat the description, which she did in nearly the
same words, but I did not get every single word
down in the above.]
590 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
I guess I know. I can see her.
R. H. Do you know her ?
No, she's with a man.
I tell you, Mr. Hodgson, there's a light up there,
but when the light goes out it's awfully dark here
in this world.
I want to go up in the other room ... in my room.
[Pause.] I thought that was Mrs. C .
Oh ! All gone. I wonder how many ... I was
drawn in . . . like being drawn in on a tube . . .
on a cord. It's an awful day, isn't it %
R. H. Yes. [The day is dark and rainy.]
Don't you know that the light in this room seems
very dark sometimes.
The name Barton is a pseudonym I have substituted
for the real one, and I have altered Hodgson's attempts
at the name accordingly, while trying to keep equivalent
approximations to the sound.
At the end of the trance proper, friends of a previous
sitter named {Barton} had communicated, and among
others, a cousin had appeared, but not spoken, whose
name G. P. had promised to find out and let Hodgson
know " after I go." Presumably " Martha Barton " is
the result. Mr. Barton, the previous sitter, however, who
thought some things in the trance communications good,
said, "We know of no Martha {Barton}. We have a
cousin Martha ——, nee {Barton}, but she is alive and
well."
I have quoted this waking-stage for the sake of the
Martha Barton incident, which seems of interest in con-
nexion with the waking-stage consciousness. The con-
fidence of the waking-stage intelligence in accepting the
name, though a name of no significance, which is suggested
to it is interesting, but might be due to Hodgson's own
conviction conveyed in his tone.
The case is also interesting as an example of failure
to carry out successfully a promised attempt to get a
name or other word in the waking-stage. Successful use
of this method is discussed in Chapter VII., p. 268, etc.
Lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 591
(Feb. 18, 1903.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
That's Mrs. H . . . and Edmund Gurney.
There's Mr. Sidgwick with him . . . Sidgwick . . .
Mrs. H . . . Mrs. H . . . and [in sudden surprise]
who is . . . Oh-h . . . there's . . . there's Doctor
Phinuit [stumbling several times over the name,
sounding at first somewhat like Finley.~\
R. H. Who ?
Doctor Phinuit.
He's away up there !
[Then, with a slight change of direction of gaze, and
a reverence in voice and manner.]
There's Imperator.
Good-bye . . . good-bye.
[Feeling her hands.]
Came pretty near taking me along with them.
There's a little lady up there got an awfully thick
head of hair . . . long brown hair awfully thick.
[After staring at R. H] Hallo ! Mr. Hodgson.
I was waiting to see what that sound was in my
head. It's cold in this room, isn't it.
R. H. Not specially. [It was rather cold, but not so cold
as it had been on several recent occasions.]
Don't you know I can't remember, when I go out,
hardly what this place is when I wake up.
During the sitting Gurney had communicated, also
Mrs. H. who had communicated at the end of the sitting
just before Imperator's and Rector's farewells. She had
said :
Mrs. H. I have seen Phinuit.
R. H. Well, well ! What about him ?
Mrs. H. he is no more like what he was than you are like
me.
R. H. Really % [Assent] Improved ?
Mrs. H. Of course he has improved he is just splendid.
R. H. Well, I shall be delighted if you will come again and
tell me all about Phinuit's past and present. I
92 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
remember he was always somewhat of a favourite
of yours.
Mrs. H. I thought if I could really find him I would be
really happy he's a long way from your world
now.
There had been no news of Phinuit for a long time
before this, I think. Mrs. H. was an old friend of
Hodgson's, and had been present at sittings with Mrs.
Piper while in life.
(May 5, 1903.) Waking-Stage.
Voice sitting. Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
Rector's there ! Take him quickly ! He will let me in
when he goes out. I can see my arm all numb !
I can see his head on my hand. He has his head
on my hand now. He takes the ether out of it.
I can see. him go into the air. I can see the cord
on which I came in.
He looks like a priest ! I can see the light so well—too ;
three, four, five, six, seven, they are all going in the
light ! Isn't it dark here ? Well I was out ! I
was having a happy time of it before it got so
dark. They were telling me some pretty things.
I felt, I saw, a male {? veil} going up, going up,
lifting.
That is Mr. Dorr ! But you looked so queerly to me
before I saw you clearly. You looked so heavy,
you looked so thick.
Rector had been the sole communicator as well as
control during the sitting. In this case we find described
as going on a part of the waking-stage dream which is
usually only described as a recollection and with less
detail.
(July 4, 1904.) Waking-Stage.
Present a sitter, with Hodgson recording.
McVickar [repeated several times before I caught it
clearly] Mr. Hodgson
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 593
(R. H. Mc Vickar.)
$ He $ $
That's what I want . . .
(Ft. H. I remember you.)
I want to tell you something ... (R. H. All right.)
You pretty well ? (R. H. Yes.)
I'm much happier than I was and I want you to
know it and to do something for you.
(R. H. I'm glad to know it and shall be glad of your help.)
* * * beautiful place.
# s|c $
Why can't we reach you better, more clearly.
[Pause]
There's a lady over there trying to tell me something
. . . rather large . . . blue eyes ... I couldn't
hear it at all. She says he's [?] . . . C . I
send my love to . . Sarah.
[Pause.]
Rector took a cord out of my stomach.
Hands are numb.
(R. H. All right.)
I forgot who you were, Mr. Hodgson.
McVickar had not communicated during the trance
proper, but I do not know whether he had any connexion
with sitter or communicator, nor indeed anything about
him. Note the apparently direct conversation between
him and Hodgson.
(March 1, 1905.) End of Trance and Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Most of the trance had, through Hodgson's initiative,
been occupied with conversation between him and Rector
about the advisability of lessening the duration of the
trances with a view to lessening the strain on the medium.
Rector had listened sympathetically and had promised
that " After we make this a study with your help and
are fully competent to judge we will give you full know-
ledge of the conditions as we understand them." Towards
2r
594 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
the end of the trance other things are referred to, and
Rector ends :
R. We give our message as we leave ... as we leave.
We cease now. + Farewell (R).
R. H. Amen. Farewell.
[Mrs. P's. Sublim.]
[Mrs. P. repeats the following injunction monotonously
—much as I myself say my own words while writing
them down at the sitting,—but more rapidly, and
some of them too low for me to catch.]
Be ye wise in thy judgment.
It would not be well to prevent the light burning
out. [?] it would bring sorrow to all those who look
to us for light.
* * * I will * * * from his interests in those whom
he loves in the earthly life.
Hearest thou me % . . . I say it. Hearest thou me ?
(R. H. Yes.)
God in His Wisdom and * * * sends us to the earthly
world to prevent sorrow, suffering, and we obey
His laws.
May His spirit go with you this day and His blessings
rest on you. (R. H. Amen.)
* * *
gQ * * * [Pause.] Oh! light! Stars in heaven?
sometimes . . . sometimes.
There's Benny.
[Looking at R. H.] A man ? A man ? are you a
man ? (R. H. Yes.)
I had a beautiful dream. I want to say to you man
they told me that there was great affection from
son Benny to his father and mother that the
affection would never cease, they must be cheerful
and * to it.
I lose the words I think.
God knows best. Those were the words. I was too
far away to . . .
Mr. Hodgson ! (R. H. Yes.)
Small * * *
You hear my head snap then ? (R. H. No.)
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 595
This is clearly, I think, a case of the trance com-
munication carried on into the waking-stage. Note also
the impersonal recognition of Hodgson.
Compare this waking-stage with that of April 17,
1905, which is quoted next.
(April 17, 1905.) Waking-Stage.
Voice sitting. Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
In the course of the sitting Rector had expressed a
wish that G. B. D. instead of R. H. should accompany
Mrs. A. to the sitting arranged for her on the following
day, and had said that at the close of the sitting they
wished to go into the hand and send a message to the
earthly friend (=R. H.) regarding this.
Influenced by none ! I want to tell you — —
beautiful !
— —•
— — Will you take a message
to Hodgson % [All this said quite slowly and
brokenly ; not with the directness of the voice in
trance.] I wish to work in my own field ! Will
you without prejudice take a message to my friend ?
G. B. D. Who is speaking ?
I am Rector servant of God. The power should be
individually free and active, according to the divine
laws of the most High. Say that to him. No
feeling of prejudice or dissatisfaction should enter
into these communications. But they should be
approached with a feeling of sincerity and freedom
of thought and feeling. And the more charitable the
attitude the finer and clearer and higher the result
of the communications. That which ye give shall
ye also receive ! If thou dost not trust thy friends
thy friends will not trust thee. Practice what thou
dost preach and the — Don't go ! and
better conditions will grow out of it. That is the
high commander — — the high commander !
—
— — They hold me in this state ! Thus may his
blessing and mine go with thee ; PAX vobiscum !
— — go spirit take up thy body, and our blessings
on thee — —£ [Mrs. Piper coming into consciousness
of her surroundings.] Pillows ! — hands ! — table !
596 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
— Mr. Dorr ! — if I live — — that is Mr. Dorr
— — 'tis he ! It is a day — — daylight !
—
Darkest clouds before daylight — Oh ! Oh, Mr.
Dorr — I thought you were a small man but you
kept expanding ! [Becomes quite normal again.
Influence then passed into hand and wrote message
for Dr. Hodgson.]
{The written message was two or three sentences, by
direction of Imperator, expressing the wish that G. B. D.
should accompany Mrs. A as they desired to use
the voice.
}
Note that Rector appears to reply directly to G. B. D.
(May 23, 1905.) Waking-Stage.
A sitter, with Hodgson recording.
* * * She lost you all right. Tell my mother * * *
cease. [Pause.]
Say Willis ... I will stay with him. Are you all
going ? * * * awfully pretty light.
What'd you get the funny lot [?] I want to say
Willis * * * for me.
There's Imperator over there. * * to take up the
body . . . good work.
[Pointing with her left forefinger in left front.]
[Looks up to right.] There's Mrs. H.
Tell Willis to * * like a friend. There's dark
* * in a door. [Pause.]
Funny. There's George and John will be with the *
[Pointing at R. H.] That is the same type of man
as Mr. Hodgson . . . same kind of beard.
Sitter. What did you dream ?
They came on a line down to me and took me out.
Then Rector slid in on the line. Then Mrs. H
and Mrs. F [?] and John were all saying some-
thing about records.
I don't know ... I see . . . then they came to
pull me out . . . that was a dream . . . that was
a dream.
S. What else did you dream ?
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 597
Well ... I dreamed that they were ... I didn't
dream at all. S. Yes you did.
I saw it. S. What did you see ?
I saw Mr. Pelham up there holding on to a lady
and trying to make her talk, but I don't know
who the lady was.
S. Didn't George say her name ?
Well I thought so but my head is mixed up.
S. What else did you dream ?
I didn't dream anything. Dream ?
My hand is numb . . . did . . . that's my hand
surely but it's numb [feeling her hands]. [Pause.]
Hallo, Mr. Hodgson. R. H. Hallo !
You see I knew you instantly. And the lady too.
Did you hear my head snap ? S. No.
Well I feel a nausea sometimes when my head snaps.
[Then an ordinary remark about the weather.]
(Nov. 20, 1905.) Waking-Stage.
Present, Mr. and Mrs. Junot, and Hodgson recording.
* % sf: ^ ifr
I knew it all the ... all the while.
Say . . . say * * *
I want to ... I don't want to go ... I don't
want to . . .
Head . . . [feeling her head with her left hand.]
[Looking up and smiling] I think you'll know me
. . . next time.
[feeling her right hand with her left and then looking
about her]. It's a world. What's the . . . what's
the . . . what's that gentleman talking about that
didn't want to go. What was it ? I guess it's all
right.
Mr. Hodgson !
R. H. Hm !
What were you doing over there ?
[Rubbing her cheek.] My face is asleep.
See [hear ?] it snap.
Well I thought I was on the string. I thought I
was on a ... on a wire ... on a wire cord . .
598 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
what would you call it ? a wire cord . . . not a
wire cord but a wire . . . Oh yes.
I want to ... I want to change this table and put
it round the other side.
[Looking at R. H. Then at J.]
That's all right. I just remember ... I just re-
member about it. Is the lady gone ? [Mrs. J. is
on the left side of Mrs. P. who has been looking
to her right, where Mrs. J. was at the beginning
of the sitting.]
Were you cold here, Mr. Hodgson ?
R. H. No.
My face felt just like your foot when it goes to sleep-
Do you know what I mean ?
R. H. Yes.
It prickles.
Case of Rufus Miller.
(Dec. 18, 1905.) Beginning of Waking-Stage.
Present, S x
and S 2
with Hodgson recording.
* * * Rufus * * * love to him.
Tell Rufus I'm all right * * *.
* * * Rufus * * * I want to see him.
He's * * *
Tell Rufus I'm all right. I want to see him. I want to
send him my love.
* * * He's a good man. Oh I can't hear you.
* * * Miller [heard by Sx
and S 2
but not clearly by R. H.
who only noted the sound as like an approximation
to Merlin.]
what [?] I will feel for him. That's all.
(December 19, 1905.) Extract from record of trance proper.
Same sitter as on December 18. Rector writing.
[Glove of Mr. {Taylor, who had communicated on
Dec. 18} given. Hand feels it after turning it
inside out, lays it close at top of sheet.]
Taylor (through Rector). I have been trying to find an old
friend of mine. Is he all right think ?
Lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance.—Appendix. 599
Yes.
can help
Sj. Can you . . .
[Hand has been writing, and stops as Sx
speaks.]
Taylor. I wish [?]
S r Can you tell his name or describe him in any way.
Rector, friend you will please note if I get this right and
help me as I register it. R . . .
{Rector proceeds to write the letters of the surname
letter by letter in capitals, Hodgson reading each
out as written. After E has been read :}
[Hand reaches forward as if to get glove. R. H.
moves block-book nearer hand, which just touches
glove lightly.]
R. R. . . R. H. R.
Rector. Is that L. R. H. Yes.
R. sounds like MILLER . .
8V Yes. Miller.
R. Is it MIR or L.
R. H. Miller is all right.
T. I wish to find him as he
comes over.
S r Do you mean Henry Miller or . . .
R. No ... I am not sure of this friend.
What is this ? I mean ... R . .
R. H. R.
T. I mean R Miller RU . . . R. H. R.U.
R. F . . . R. H. F.
R. U S. R. H. U.S. Rufus.
Sr Rufus Miller is not living.
T. I know I want to find him now as he can tell me.
help me I mean. Don't you U.D.
S r Rufus Miller senior is not living, but he has a nephew
by the name of Rufus Miller who is living.
T. I want to find my friend over here U.D. I want him
to help me ... he is far off they say . . .
R. H. How can Mrs. C—— help you to find Rufus Miller
in your world ?
T. Can't she help me by asking -)- find him ? I want
very much to bring him here ... I want to help
him to know how to speak . . .
S,. Yes his friends would much like to hear from him.
me before he
listen R.
600 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [pabt
T. I shall find him soon I hope. I heard you talking
about him not long ago.
S2 . Perhaps we did.
T. do you remember how I tried to tell you about him
when I first tried to speak ?
S2
. Yes. You spoke the name and we read it Mellor
instead of Miller, so we did not understand.
T. Well I will find him and help him all I can. God
bless you all. T.
[Hand scrabbles slightly on table-covering.]
R. friend you would better if possible obtain some object
belonging to him and we will teach him how to
speak. R.
Taylor had first communicated — writing himself —on
November 15, 1905, and at the end of his short com-
munication said :
T. Is [?] Mil . . . All right
R. H. " Is Mel all right."
T. Mel
[Pencil dropped. Hand scrabbles somewhat on paper.
Taylor's writing large and scrawly. Pencil given.
Rector writes.]
Rector (for T.). Tell Mellor I live I live I live I hope I live.
I live I am glad. Who is it speaking to me. Is it
Mrs. C.
I had to return. R.
Sr Yes it is Mrs. C.
I have substituted pseudonyms for the surnames in
the above records.
Rufus Miller, the sitters note, and Mr. Taylor were
formerly clerks in an office together. Mr. Miller's death
occurred a great many years before the death of Mr.
Taylor.
The above are, so far as I know, the only references
to Rufus Miller. The case presents several features of
interest :
(1) The name so imperfectly given on November 15,
1905, that it was not understood by the sitters, was given
much more clearly in the waking-stage of December 18,
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 601
more than a month later, and the message then given
was further dwelt on in the trance the next day—December
19. Taylor had communicated on the 18th in the trance,
but had not mentioned Rufus Miller, so that the first
clear mention of him and the first mention of his Christian
name was in the waking-stage.
(2) Rufus Miller, though he had really been a friend
of the communicator's, is erroneously supposed to be
alive both by the waking-stage intelligence on the 18th
and by the trance intelligence on the 19th—until the
latter has been clearly told by the sitter that he is dead.
Taylor living could have been under no misapprehension
about this, and Taylor as communicator repudiates the
mistake—shuffles out of it not very plausibly. If there
was really, as he claims, no n)istake in idea, the same
confusion in expression must have occurred in waking-
stage and in trance.
(December 12, 1906.) Ooing-into-irance.
Sitter and recorder, Mr. Piddington.
(While but half entranced and with eyes open {Mrs. Piper}
says, pointing in the direction of the mantelpiece :
" That
vase worries me. It looks hke a head." J. G. P. removes
two vases.)
(December 17, 1906.)
Sitter and recorder, Mr. Piddington.
[Before sitting down Mrs. Piper took a round vase off the mantel-
piece because, she said, it had worried her the last time, as
it looked like a face. J. G. P. then told her that just before
going into trance on December 12, she had spoken of her
dislike of the vase. Mrs. Piper replied that she did not know
she had done so ; but that on December 12, directly after
sitting down preparatory to going into trance, and while
fully conscious, she had thought of asking me to remove the
vase, but did not do so because she thought such a request
woiild seem foolish.]
I quote these incidents as exemplifying the gradual
loss of normal consciousness, the partial development of
602 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
an illusion (compare Chapter VI., p. 229), and the con-
tinuance into the beginning of the trance of the ideas of
the normal or almost normal state, but failure to remember
a week later what had occurred in what was evidently a
very light stage of trance.
(January 16, 1907.) Extract from Trance and Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, Mr. Piddington.
{During the trauce, about a third through the sitting,
there was an interlude while waiting the return of spirits
who had gone, so it was alleged, to try and give a
message through Mrs. Thompson. The interval was
occupied by Rector in giving a message from Joseph
Marble (see Proceedings, Vol. XXIII. , pp. 255-279) entirely
unconnected with anything else in the trance proper.
The following is the conversation :
}
Rector. The friend and spirit Joseph M says he is ex-
tremely anxious to reach an old helper of his named
Rodney Smith. He was in his employ for a long
time and is now unable to help himself much.
J. G. P. Please ask the spirit Joseph M to tell me every-
thing he can about Rodney : where he lives, for
instance, and so forth.
R. He lives at or near Durham.
J. G. P. Durham ? (Hand assents)
R. A place called that and he is in poor health. He
wishes to reach and help him.
{The following is the record of the waking-stage, which did
not occur till much else had been said about other
matters :}
Pencil placed deliberately on table 12.50 p.m.
Hand feels the Healer's influence.
Hand and head drop 12.50J p.m.
Head begins to rise 12.53 ;
entirely raised 12.53J
;
relapses on to pillow 12.54 ; then raised again
almost at once. J. G. P. slightly supports head for
a little while.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 603
Speaking begins.
I want that man who was in my {employment} for
he helped me I must now help him. You will
find him if you look. I am not free until you do.
(repeated) I know what I am saying. It's up to
you to help me through. (Up to this point the
voice spoke in unusually deep tones, like a man's ;
about as deep as the tone of voice of Rector.)
I rest in peace. I know all is well.
There's Mr. Myers, (smiles, points, and breathes
heavily) Joseph M—— old lady Mary—Dr. Hodgson
—{a statement about an individual omitted here}.
Oh ! God is good to all. (smiles) Little old man
Charles ; he's so persistent.
J. G. P. Well, what does he say ?
I should like to know what you all think I'm doing
here. I want to reach my people. I know what I
know and I want to say I'm glad to see the
children. I go—you better listen to me. Aches
(Pats hands ; looks at ceiling ; then at J. G. P.)
Oh ! Lord. That's awful. (Groans and rubs fore-
head.) tut—tut—tut—tut—tut-—(looks sideways at
J. G. P.) Why ? Oh ! Why here ? Why do you
look so—ump. Oh ! (looks at her hands) Hands
black—must be hands—can't make it out—can't
seem to help it. Ha ! Ho ! Ha ! Mr. Piddington.
J. G. P. Yes ?
Ha ! something went round and round in my head
and then it snapped. I saw such a beautiful light
and I saw a long walk—like a garden walk—paths
—and I saw blossoms along each side and I saw a
gentleman something like Mr. Myers, and he tossed
me out like that ; and there's a little old gentleman
who followed up in front of him who began talking
like anything ; and when
—
Another snap ! This is your room, isn't it ? I had
something on my mind I wanted to tell you. Why
didn't you ask me % It went away all in a
minute.
Trance ends 1.5 p.m.
604 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Of the persons mentioned in the waking-stage, Joseph
M (as we have seen) and Myers had communicated in
the trance ;
Hodgson had been mentioned ; and the old
lady, Mary, and the little old man, Charles, were previous
communicators.
The deep, man-like voice is very unusual in the waking-
stage. I know of no record of any other case.
{March 20, 1907.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, E. M. S.
[I called Miss Newton in when the trance proper ended, and
most of the words that follow were heard by her. I could
not distinguish the words till the voice got stronger towards
the end.—E. M. S.]
Donald. Pipin. Harriet, lonely, wonder.
(?) London. Wandered—heavenly shore.
Patience. Faith. (Points up.)
Pipin (Miss Newton says that is the third time she
has said that.)
Heavenly
Annie—mother—Arthur—Oh ! I didn't know you
—
Roses—Glad I am.
I know—well
She's—too ha-rd. Tell Arthur to send her away. She
spoke too hard. She talked too hard.
[The words heard as "spoke" and "talked" were
perhaps " worked;" I think, if we consider what
follows.—E. M. S.]
Overwork. I am afraid of her.
You say you are afraid for her.
Tell Arthur to give her a rest. Henry.
Nearer and nearer—give her a rest.
Arthur—I must go.
Give her a rest she's tired. She talked too hard. She
talked too hard. She's overwork—talked. She's a
bright girl.
Ring—leaves
—
withered leaves and then Springtime then Springtime
such is life with us.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 605
I don't know what else you want me to do. I can't
hear you.
Gone.
Where is he gone ? (pointing.)
Lily % Rome—Dark
—
What is that man with a long beard.
Arthur must give Eleanor a rest—she talked too hard,
I was afraid that she would suffer.
I saw Mr. Myers and Dr. Myers and Mr. Myers's
mother and I saw Mr. Hodgson and his cousin
Fred and Fred Hyde, and I saw Rebecca and a lady
with a spot in her eye. All in the light I saw them.
But I saw Dr. Hodgson writing on the board—words.
What's that noise I hear.
E. M. S. Nothing [the blinds were rattling noisily.]
But I hear it. E. M. S. Only the wind.
[Here the notes cease. She awoke completely imme-
diately afterwards.]
[{Contemporary Note} It may be worth noting apropos to the
name " Arthur " that I had heard on the evening before this
sitting that Arthur Sidgwick could come to sittings on Monday
and Tuesday, 25th and 26th, and had definitely written to
arrange it. It was in my mind at the sitting. E. M. S.]
For comments on this waking-stage, Proceedings, Vol.
XXII., pp. 430, 431, may be referred to.
(April 13, 1908.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
Ernest wrote it.
[See question asked towards end of sitting.]
Oh Zeus ! Ernest wrote it, translated it—my brother.
The wings of Pegasus ! He opened them and flew,
and he closed them and was an ordinary horse. He
kicked—hoof
—
Perseus cut Medusa's head off ! Do you think that I
have forgotten !
[This is the first time that the name has come clearly through,
though tried for in the subliminal by Mrs. Piper on several
occasions.]
606 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
God of thunder
—
Roses
—
He's got a rock in his hand—-and he sat ages on
top of it.
1
He wrote it on a card and the rock
had a crack in it and he put the paper in it.
Tell George if she doesn't understand I'll hit her on
the head with the rock and that will beat sense
into her head ! Peace of all ages
They say he is sitting in a chair representing a
throne.
[This is an answer to G. B. D.'s question, asked during
the sitting, as to whether the figure of Jupiter in Phidias'
statue was erect or seated. Care was taken in asking the
question to give no indication which it was.]
Twelve foot high pedestal.
I want to tell you all I can ! And I want you to
understand that I know the difference between the
Odyssey and Homer's Iliad.
[Here a fresh attempt was made by Mrs. P. to get
the name of Aeschylus, but without better success
than previously,]—wrote.
[Some words are now lost through indistinct utter-
ance and the first that are caught again are :]
Anchises funeral.
Discus hit him—killed him.
[This goes back to the "Discus hit me" of a former subliminal
which G. B. D. had asked to be told more about]
Quoits !
Hodgsonp. Begone with you ! Skeedaddle !
I don't like you to talk like that, Mr. Hodgson
—
Hodgsonp
. Makes little difference whether you like it or not !
Go down to your dim world, begone with you.
[G. B. D. had asked {HodgsonP} at the beginning of the sitting
to watch that the light did not stay too long in the sub-
liminal, as he could not control it from his side.]
Mr. Myers is as handsome as a picture
!
Mr. Hodgson thinks he knows everything
—
HoDosoNp. No matter whether you like it or lump it, begone
1 Reference to the Rock of Ages, which had been spoken of during the
trance proper.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 607
with you into your black world ! We're not ready
for you.
He had an ox's head and a man's body—centaurs.
[Apparently there is a confusion here between the Minotaur,
spoken of by G. B. D. in a former sitting, and the centaurs.]
Sphinxes—woman's head and a lion's body—it's
getting dark ! Oh beautiful ! I saw a star and I
saw a big bowl of valley lilies in the star and the
star was beautiful.
The ideas referred to in this dream-like way in this
waking-stage had almost all been mentioned or led up
to in the trance proper of the same sitting.
Note in relation to Chapter VII., p. 279, that three
questions asked by Mr. Dorr in the trance proper of
this day, April 13, 1908, and which MyersP undertook to
try to answer in the waking-stage, are answered directly
or indirectly. The relevant passages in the record of the
trance are as follows :
I.—G. B. D. {just at the end of the trance} Now I want to
read you something and see if you can tell me who
wrote it [{Note by Mr. Dorr.} G. B. D. then reads
again the invocation to Zeus {from the Agamemnon}
translated by Ernest Myers. When it was read
by him two weeks before G. B. D. had stated in
introducing it that it was written by Ernest Myers,
and asked that the name of the play from which
it had been translated be given him in the sub-
liminal if possible, and the first word uttered in the
subliminal that followed was : Agamemnon.1
The
attempt to-day is to see whether the recollection
of the lines themselves, whether as read previously
or from former memory, was clear enough to
identify them as their author's.]
Myeesp
. I'll tell her.
The answer is in the opening words of the waking-stage
record.
1
See Chapter VII., p. 279.
608 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
II. —G. B. D. {reading record of waking-stage of April 7
}
" Pefeus took him through the air and the blood
dropped to earth." You see it is rather confused,
name and all. Try presently and see if you cannot
get it through to me right.
Myebsp . I'll clear it later.
G. B. D. Get the name through clearly if you can.
Myersp .
Perhaps I can spell it to her. I'll try.
For answer, see " The wings of Pegasus " to " forgotten."
III.—G. B. D. {still reading the record of the waking-stage of
April 7} Next she said that "a lily came up
out of the blood. Don't you remember the flower
that grew out of the drop of blood %
" I want you
to tell me some other time what flower this was
and whose was the blood.
sfc Jfc ^ ^
MYERSp. I'll tell her as she returns.
For the answer, see " Anchises' funeral . . . Quoits,"
which, though it does not give the name, refers unmistakeably
to Hyacinthus.
(May 12, 1908.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
[The subliminal took on to-day at its beginning a more con-
versational character than usual, as though R. H. were trying
to use it for further talk, not simply for sending things through.
But Mrs. P. whispered so low and so disjointedly that it was
impossible to catch more than scattered words, which showed
recurrence to the Latin verses {i.e Tavern Club motto} and
questions as to words not understood. After that came this :]
I said take the bitter with the sweet and she wrote
it. Deepest thinking—-I am in a state of deepest
thinking, trying to think [More was said but was
not clear]
Don't you remember in mythology where the golden
Bough comes in ?
G. B. D. But that is what I want you to tell me.
I am thinking it over. I shall not forget anything.
Golden Bough is a good word for me to get through.
I
lxxi ] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 609
G, What is the difference between Snakes' Head
—
Medusa's head—-and the Golden Bough ? [Appar-
ently correcting this] I say I know the difference.
You must not hasten me.
G. B. D. There's no haste at all, take as long as you want.
I want to assure you that I am not forgetting my
days of fun. [This evidently refers to the Tavern
Club toast.] {and comes from Hodgsonp}
Do you know my friend Tennyson ? {This is from Myersp }
[Mrs. P. referring to herself.] I am stupid to day. I
can't hear what they say at all. Mr. Myers [drew]
trees, and rocks and angels, dance of Cupids, and
round balls. And he wrote bullets. And they told
me to take Winged Victory, and Spire, conformation,
Altar—ALTAR—and chancel. {These ideas had all
or almost all appeared in previous trances.}
I have travelled many miles to get these to you,
George ! Goblet, and Euthanasia.
[This last word was given with considerable difficulty
by Mrs. P., who repeated it a number of times,
but it was still perfectly clear to G. B. D. from the
first what word was meant.]
[Mrs. P. beginning to return to consciousness.]
It's a blessed place and when I think I cannot stay
in it, it makes me sad. More later Addio.
Rock bound coast is all right ;
that^has
1
'got "through.
You don't mind aphorisms do you ?
[Points across the room] There's
1
Mr. j
Myers and he's
found Mary James.
G. B. D. Who is Mary James ?
I don't know. It was said.1
Mrs. V. said Tablet and Fame Circe.
I'm half myself and half somebody else ! I had a
very good time. I'm sorry it's over.
1
On the next day, May 13, 1908, in the trance, Mr. Dorr going through
this waking-stage with the control, asked about Mary James : G. B. D.
Then she said "He has found Mary James." Mybrsp or Hodgsonp . Very
good indeed. We brought her before his vision purposely, to see if she
could recognize her. That is good. G. B. D. Who is Mary James ?
Communicator. William's mother.
2o.
610 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
[To G. B. D.] You will come with me next time,
^ won't you ?
G. B. D. Yes, we'll take the train together.
You don't take a train ;
you just take a cord and
hold on to the end of it.
What does Hodgson mean by Marcus Aurelius ?
Marcus wide of the mark !
[Rather crossly] I can't tell when he is fooling and
when he isn't. And if I don't hear what he says
he does not like it. And then he suddenly breaks
forth and talks all sorts of nonsense. Mr. Myers
is easier. And when Mr. Hodgson thinks I don't
hear him he keeps writing a lot of things on bits
of paper and sticks them up in my face.
You know everything seems to be so well regulated
there, and it's chaos here—all mixed up. Do you
know what Rector meant when he put up a cross
and a 3, a figure 3 ?
I have a feeling of ecstasy go all through me at the
light ! If I had more of this in real life it would
be better for me.
(May 13, 1908.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
[R. H. appears, talking in the first person to G. B. D. in a
direct way unusual in the subliminal of these sittings. What
he talks about however is merely the Latin verses 1 which
he is endeavouring to translate, attempts at translation and
questions about the words he has misunderstood. This was
difficult to take down and did not seem important, G. B. D.
saying nothing further than recorded previously. He or F. M.
then speaks of the Golden Fleece, which had come up spon-
taneously at the sitting—brought in by association with the
Golden Bough. Whether this was R. H. or F. M. was not
made clear, but whichever it was spoke of " writing about it
"
when here. Then something is whispered about " celestial
fields," and then this came :]
1
I.e. the Tavern Club motto. See Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 78,
footnote.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 611
Helen, Sappho—harp I drew. I said " chain him
down and let them feed on his liver."
I said "fire." I said "music." I said "say Princess
Sappho. At her feet a wreath of laurel."
[Somewhat more was said here but so brokenly and
low as to be impossible to catch clearly.]
If I can get my utterances through; you will find
a conglomeration of ideas which will astound
you when they are through all Lights. There-
fore it is important that you understand every
word I say. And when I say Sappho, Princess,
feet, laurel wreaths, music [rest could not be
caught.]
And I said " Maidens fair, twining their golden locks."
And Mrs. Sidgwick said " You go back and tell
that to Mrs. Piper and then see what comes of it."
That is as I understand it, and I think she is very
clear in her enunciation.1
Oh, if I only had my
body again I'd show [rest lost]
Took me seventeen weeks to get that other message
through, how do you suppose [rest said too low
to catch.]
Those were blessed days, those old days in Cumber-
land.
Romulus—I will give it in both ways. We're getting
on very nicely and when you see the results you
will be very pleased. Only we have so much to
do we do not know what to do first. Well, we
are pleased. Good-bye.
May the blessings of the All-wise rest on you and
give you peace. And if you trust in Him a ter-
mination of all good will come to you—An all-
wise, almighty and all-powerful God.
Farewell, my friend, and may the hand of good
fellowship go out to you.
I don't like this place, you know. It's like going
from summer into winter. And the hills seem far
away, don't they ?
1
Reference to what had been said in trance about Comus. See Pro-
ceeding*, Vol. XXIV., pp. 196-199.
612 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [paut
[Mrs. P. returning to herself and looking for her
handkerchief.]
We have pockets in this life, don't we !
G. B. D. What do they do there without them ?
You see they don't have to have them ;
they have
everything they want without them. You see there
is a cool atmosphere and it is ether, and ether is
life—electrical life.
During the trance proper of this sitting, HodgsonP and
MyerSp had both communicated, and the Tavern Club motto,
the Golden Fleece, Helen, and Comus had been referred to,
and as regards the Golden Fleece the communicator said :
" I am trying to recall what came out of the Golden Fleece.
I ought to have told you before. I'll tell it to her." I.e.
doubtless to Mrs. Piper in the waking-stage.
A Case of Echolalia.
Spring of 1909. Extract from Waking-Stage. Dr. Stanley
Hall's fourth sitting. Recorder, Dr. Amy Tanner.
(The record is quoted from Dr. Amy Tanner's Studies in
Spiritism, p. 232.)
After a record of some not very intelligible talk without
apparent consciousness of her surroundings, the record pro-
ceeds :
[She catches sight of Dr. Hall, who is standing directly
in front of her, and exclaims with the utmost
disgust :]
A-a-a-ah !
S. H. Pretty bad, isn't it ?
A-a-h !
S. H. You know me, don't you, Mrs. Piper.
What's the noise ?
S. H. You recognise me, don't you ?
You recognise me don't you ?
S. H. Yes.
Yes.
S. H. I'm afraid you're going to be tired.
I'm afraid you're going to be tired
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 613
S. H. I should be sorry to have you go into a sleep now.
I should be sorry to have you go into a sleep now.
[This mimicry was given with Mrs. Piper looking
at Dr. Hall and varying his inflections just enough
for it to be very ludicrous. At this point Dr.
Tanner who was sitting close to Mrs. Piper and to
one side, began to laugh, and Mrs. Piper turned
toward her and scrutinised her intently, as she had
Dr. Hall just a few minutes before.]
A. T. How do you do, Mrs. Piper ?
You look like an owl.
S. H. Yes, and she makes faces like that, too. [And Dr.
Hall twisted his own face into a thousand wrinkles.]
Oh, no, she doesn't ! [said Mrs. Piper in a shocked
way, and the two of them had quite an argument
over it.]
You're getting nearer to me now—I don't care. I
saw that lovely light with the rainbow in it. Did
you hear my head snap ? O-o-oh, you're Dr. Hall
aren't you ? You looked so small a minute ago,
so very far away. Did you hear that ? [Referring
to another snap of the head.] Why I recognised
you quite soon didn't I ? That shows I'm getting
better acquainted with you.
This should be compared with the other cases of echolalia
mentioned above, pp. 234, 235. It will be noticed that it
occurs here after she has become partially conscious of her
actual surroundings, but before her consciousness is normal
and before the first head snap. The waking-stage continues
for some time after it. In Hodgson's cases it occurred in
response to an attempt on his part to rouse Mrs. Piper to
normal consciousness, and, at least on the second occasion,
this result apparently immediately followed.
614 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
APPENDIX TO CHAPTER VII.
Relation to bach other of Mrs. Piper's different
Case illustrating the supposed relation of the trance personality
to the normal Mrs. Piper (see pp. 259-266).
In April, 1902, Mrs. Piper had been ill from what her
doctor called nervous indigestion and in bed for several
days, and when attempts at sittings were resumed she
failed twice to go into trance. On April 28 (Hodgson
being alone present) Rector wrote immediately after the
usual greeting :
R. Speak friend and give answer to the question we
put to thee this day. There hath been great
cloudiness over the light which hath debarred us
from entering it. We found it impossible to return.
Hast thou any knowledge of its condition ?
{The physical symptoms, dizziness, etc., are then
described by Hodgson, and Rector intervenes :}
After our last meeting with thee we discovered that
the light hath partaken of either meat or fish of a
very poisonous nature and we had forbidden either.
This we found had caused great disturbance and
done great harm.
{The controls proceed to prescribe a suitable diet, and
discussion follows about the discontent which Hodgson
describes Mrs. Piper as feeling and for which,; he
suggests reasons of which Rector disapproves. The
following conversation then takes place :}
R. H. Shall I talk specially with the light and ask her to
tell me briefly and plainly what her mind is towards
you and towards the whole situation and bring
this to you ? Perhaps you could ask her just what
States of Consciousness.
R. Let us speak here -)-.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 615
you wish and I will place it before her for her to
make a clear confession to you herself.
Rector. Amen. We wish to know precisely what her state of
mind is towards us. What her real belief is concerning
us and our work. What her wishes and ideas are
concerning material gain or on the question of so
called money. We wish to know how she feels
concerning our use of the organism. Absolutely.
We wish to know what we can do to help her to
feel that we are truth love and wisdom, that our
work is God's work and His only.
Chiefly the question of our uses of the organism her
belief and the question of future gain from a
worldly point of view. This is all.
$ $
Doth she desire us not to return at all doth she
fear us do we exhaust her is she dissatisfied
because of money.
We want the truth. +
Friend we are sad. We must and will lead kindly the
light into light or destroy it. It would be well for
thee to talk with it at once and return to us that we
may U.D. once and for all the true facts that never
again (whilst we are sent here) there can be any
misunderstanding or dissatisfaction. We desire her
to be happy, most happy with us if it be
possible.
# * # *
Ask her any and every conceivable question which
may occur to thee whilst speaking and note down
on material paper the answers received from her and
bring them before us. It will we think be the direct
means of unearthing all the difficulties which
obstruct our way.
R, H. Amen.
R. We have long felt that there must be some cause
for the darkness which at times surrounds us in
our work. Although there are many difficulties
on our side yet we would like to understand those
on the earthly side.
616 Mrs. Henry Sidgioick. [part
Hodgson accordingly had a talk with the normal Mrs.
Piper, and reported to Rector on April 29, 1902. The
following is an extract from the conversation :
R. H. Until lately she thought that you were severe with
her and requested her {through Hodgson of course}
to do things without realizing what her environment
was, that you did not understand the cares she had,
the trouble with her family, and her trials generally
as a wife and mother
R. Perhaps there may be a little truth in this but we
doubt if we have not seen much and it is not of
us to be severe.
In these two sittings together, we have a clear assump-
tion of ignorance on the part of the trance consciousness
of the thoughts and feelings of the normal Mrs. Piper,
and also of her surroundings and physical symptoms,
except so far as the controls had learnt these by external
observation.
0. P.'s explanation of information being given as the
medium's spirit returns (see p. 270).
(Nov. 30, 1892.)
Present, Mr. and Mrs. Howard and Hodgson.
G. P. (using voice) I want to tell you another thing, it
is not always that I can come here, the medium
is not always in condition. I can't always get
through the medium's or into the medium's body
and there are some times when I am wandering
and bewildered but it depends upon the medium's
condition. Then I am liable to make a great
many mistakes. I cannot always recognize my
friends ; when I can't then the better way is to
commune with the soul ... I like that better . . .
of the medium, when I am leaving the body and
find I can't recognize my friends I commune with
her and have her repeat it as she comes back.
As a note to this Hodgson says, " see report of sitting
with Prof. Pierce," which, perhaps, implies that that is the
only case he remembered at this time.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 617
Phinuit's view about messages given to the returning spirit
of the medium (see p. 270).
(Dec. 7, 1896.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
At the beginning of the sitting apparently Phinuit says :
Phinuit. It's no good giving the medium a message when she's
going out.
R. H. Who's doing that ?
Ph. That lady, Kate. [Phinuit laughs a little.] Why
didn't she give them to me. I'll give her a talking to.
R. H. Of course she ought to give them to the medium
when the medium's coming back.
Ph. Yes, that's no good giving them to her when she's
going along with them.
R. H. In the spirit- world ?
Ph. Yes.
R. H. You tell her to give the messages when the medium
comes back to her body, and to give them to you
when you are coming in.
What the messages were, or whether there were any,
in this case, we do not know. The possibility of their
being remembered by the outgoing spirit of the medium
and uttered later does not seem to be contemplated,
nor does Phinuit apparently recognise the advantage of
messages being given to him as he goes out, as
Myersp gives them to Rector (see pp. 282-288). Messages
must apparently in Phinuit's view be given for immediate
delivery.
Case of false communicator (" Hannah Wild ") remembering
in the trance the waking-stage of the previous day (see
pp. 290-291).
{For Hannah Wild and sittings concerning her, see Pro-
ceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 10-16 and 69-84; also Vol. XV.,
pp. 30-31.}
(January 13, 1897.) Waking-Stage.
Sitter, Mrs. Blodgett {H. Wild's sister}, and Hodgson
recording.
618 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
[Mrs. P. sings a few notes and then talks.]
I want to be a missionary. [First line of a hymn that
Hannah used to sing a great deal * * *] I am prepared
to go and meet my God. I feel my work is done. I
will help if I live my life work shall go on. I write
this. I am too weak. I am prepared to meet my God.
My life work shall go on. I have done the best I could.
[The last sentence probably Mrs. Piper's own]
Most of the words of this waking-stage are probably
an attempt to reproduce a sealed letter, futile attempts
to reproduce which formed an important part of Hannah
Wild's communications. Attempts to do this were made
in the trances of both January 13 and 14, 1897.
{January 14, 1897.)
Sitters the same. Hannah Wild writing :
H. W. Bessie my sister I am here to repeat the few lines
as nearly as possible which I wrote down on paper
during my illness. I spoke of my work, also of
my future hfe,
{More said here about the contents of the letter :
}
H. W. I want to be a missionary.
R. H. Did you sing that to the medium when she was
coming into her body last time ?
H. W. I did two [altered into twice]
R. H. She got it. We heard her.
The leading question, of course, prevents there being
evidence here of independent conscious memory of the
waking-stage.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 619
APPENDIX TO CHAPTER VIII.
Effect of Sitters and of so-called " Influences "
on the Trance Phenomena.
(A) Extracts Concerning the Influence of the Minds
of Sitters.
{November 23, 1899.)
Sitter and recorder, Z. Rector writing.
Z. Why did you tell my C and me different things
at the same time ?
R Ah—we explained this to thee before.
Z. Is it not that our desires are reflected greatly when
we come to you strongly desiring something ?
R. No—and that is wherein we are often misunderstood.
We cannot be affected by any material desire.
Z. And it has seemed to me that some few of us have
invariably come away from the light satisfied,
having got the assurance of what we desired. My
C and mj^self received at the same time assur-
ance of an opposite nature.
R. Speak out plainly friend.
[Z. repeats]
R. We do not return to assist from thy side friend, but
from our own, and we teach from the spirit only,
but if we see that thy desires on the material
side are wrong, we at once place a barrier before
thee and thy desire. But if we see that they are
light {? right} we act at once through prayer to
assist thee to accomplish. U.D. fully !
Z. Shall I help my friend who lives in — by going ?
R. We will direct thee through thine own spirit, and what
doth seem wisest to thee, feel that it is from us,
and it will be well.
620 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
(May 23, 1905.)
Sitter, with Hodgson recording. G. P. writing.
Sitter. Mr. Pelham * * * if you want to be kind to me,
you will get the name of the lady's husband, that
is, the name of the owner of this influence who is
in the body.
G. P. I will certainly try. Remember these friends are
talking to an influence only. Suppose you talk to a
chair your grandmother sat in and see how far
you get.
Sitter. Mr. Pelham, but if his name is in my mind, can't
you or she, pull it out ?
G. P. Why no your [sic] a lunatic. What good do you
suppose that can do me ? Your mind has nothing
to do with it. You'll find it out in time. The
more you think about it the less likely I am to
give it to you.1
What queer ideas you do get about
us over here.
This subject is referred to again by Rector on the
following day when the same persons were present as
follows
:
{May 24, 1905.)
R. We were somewhat amused at thy remarks to one of
our co-workers at our last meeting regarding the
impressions (wholly erroneous) that we were able
to pick out of thy mind, as thou dost express it
words or names of friends etc. etc. We can only
say thou hast much to learn meanwhile we are
greatly amused.
S. I am glad you speak of this because I would like
to say I am not alone in this opinion.
# * # #
R. No mortal could possibly be more conscious of this
attitude toward [us 1] than we ourselves are
remember friend we are in no wise dead or
1
Compare with this statement Mrs. Verrall's experience with Mrs.
Thompson, who seemed able to get things from the sitter's mind,
provided the latter did not fix her attention on them. (Proc. Vol. XVII.,
p. 174.)
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance.—Appendix. 621
asleep to the realization of the thoughts of mortals
concerning us. We not only understand fully what
they think but we often hear conversations which
actually take place between mortals who have never
even conversed with us through the light.
* * * *
If thoughts reach us and are transmitted through the
subconsciousness of the light as you express it what
power have you to say that we do not also receive
thoughts from those who are in the discarnate form.
* #
S. One more question. Please tell me why Mr. Pelham
said that he could get a name through better for
me if I did not think of it myself, because in that
case my mind does seem to affect the phenomena
in some way. It would seem as if I must keep
my mind as free from any special thought. Is
that so ?
R. Certainly the less you think about those matters the
better tests you will receive as when you are not
troubled in mind we receive spiritual help and light
from you. And we get power from your organism
as we draw from the organism of the friend present.
* * * *
When they go so far as to say we read your mind
ask them to explain whose minds we are reading
when we have but a simple object present.
(April 15, 1897.)
Hodgson recording. Rector writing.
Rector. Friend we would ask if you think we say what you
think ? We were told to ask you this. Speak.
R. H. That is one form of the theory which has been applied
to such manifestations as these, viz. that in some
way the utterance of the trance personalities may
depend primarily on the minds of persons still em-
bodied in flesh and blood. I do not now think that
this hypothesis is a plausible one.
R. We would say in reply, or in other words by way of
622 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
explanation, that when the conditions are the very
best, we are scarcely able to reach your own mind at
all. We are an independently thinking and acting
band of disembodied spirits, and we do not, except
in very exceptional cases, reach the minds of mortal.
We do however reach them in some cases, and occa-
sionally reproduce their thoughts, but they are never
connected ones and not registered by us unless the
thought disagrees with our own. Then we do at
times register some one or more of your own thoughts.
But it must and does in all cases when we do so,
disagree with ours.
{March 20, 1905.)
Sitter and recorder, G. B. D.
[I also asked some questions with regard to the apparent
inconsistency of attitude and comment on their part between
what came to different sitters, which would seem to indi-
cate thought not wholly independent on their side but
more or less influenced by the mind of the immediate
sitter. Rector in reply to this answered that the language
in which their thought was expressed was necessarily often
largely borrowed from the sitter's mind but that the
thought itself was not, though the language used might
sometimes seem to imply it. Rector spoke on the train of
thought so started at considerable length and with much
earnestness but it was impossible to take down what he
said.]
(B) Concerning " Influences."
Extracts from Sixteen Sittings in Chronological Order.
{Jan. 24, 1893.)
Present, Mr. and Mrs. Howard. Stenographic report.
{Hodgson has gone out and G. P. is supposed to be
following him to report what he does. Phinuit
talks meanwhile.}
Ph. Don't give me anything belonging to George because
if you do it will call him back and I don't want
to disturb him.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 623
{An object belonging to a living lady is given to him}
Ph. Oh, she is lovely and really a very true friend
* * * *
She is kind of stout.
Mb. Howabd. Oh no.
Ph. Well you don't know the word that I apply to that ;
what is the word ? Strong ? No firm.
Mbs. Howabd. Yes, she is firm ; she has got a very firm
character.
Ph. Well that is what I mean ; her principles are very
firm, stout. Oftentimes they misunderstand me
because I can't find words to put my meaning
;
it bothers me a little ;
oh, very stout friend, one
of the stoutest friends you have got, and oh, just
as lovely and sweet as she can be, and I like that
influence very much ; there is no twishy-twashy
about her.
* * * *
Mbs. Howabd. She is very delicate but she has got lots of
spirit.
Ph. Oh, she is very stout and strong.
Mbs. Howabd. Courage.
Ph. Courage, that is it, stout-hearted ;
awfully nice influ-
ence ; I don't know when I have seen an influence
that I like so much, and sometimes they are horrid
to me. I don't like to take them at all.
V *i* ¥
Mb. Howabd. , Now you say you get an influence ; does it
seem to be as though it was a moral good, or
an agreeable light ?
Ph. It is an agreeable light and a thoroughly moral
light ; it takes me to the individual spiritual in the
body ;
you see I sense this, and by their having
handled it, and the perspiration of the body is
carried in this particularly on the air, and I follow
this to the person themselves inwardly ; I com-
municate, in other words, with their spiritual body ;
you see what I mean.
Mb. Howabd. Of course I don't see how you do it ; it is
very obscure.
624 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
Ph. But I can't explain it any other way.
Mas. Howard. It is like going on a telegraph wire.
Ph. Yes, what do yon call your telegraph wires ? It is
like the wires in your country.
* * * *
See also, for this period, November 30, 1892, quoted in
Appendix to Chapter II., p. 355.
(June 20, 1895.)
Sitter and recorder, Professor W. Romaine Newbold. G. P,
writing.
G. P. Objects carry with them a light as distinct to us as
the sunlight is to you. The instant you hand us
an object, that instant we get an impression of its
owner, whether the present or the past owner and
often both. In some cases the impression is as
clear as possible, in others it is vague, and I find
upon examination that almost invariably the object
presented to us for information has been of long
standing, or otherwise unhandled—untouched by its
owner for a period of long duration, or sometimes
it may have been handled often and by a great
number of persons. This often causes confusion.
—
End.
Any questions ?
W. R. N. Does influence resemble light ?
G. P. No, not exactly, but similar.
W. R. N. Can influence be conferred by one who has no light ?
G. P. Certainly. Oftentimes it will attract its former owner,
i.e. if he has passed out of the material body.
W. R. N. Why does it attract him more in the presence of the
medium ?
G. P. It does not . . . it . . .
W. R. N. You mean it is then only that we know he is
attracted ?
G. P. Certainly—only this.
W. R. N. What does Phinuit do when he carries away in-
fluence ?
G. P. Describes the object to one or more persons present
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 625
and makes various inquiries as to the article or
object.
W. R. N. In how many ways is the article useful ?
G. P. No, I do not understand your meaning.
[I explain.]
G. P. Oh, I catch your idea.
W. R. N. [I read from paper of questions " It attracts its
owner." ]
G. P. Yes, the article at times attracts its owner etc. i.e.
if he has passed out, etc.
W. R. N. I understand. 2nd. " Does it contain influence that
can be used ?
"
G. P. Such as what ?
W. R. N. To hold the spirit in communication ?
G. P. Well, this explains it.
W. R. N. Then its only function is to attract and hold, much
as a magnet does ?
G. P. Certainly. The article ... an article belonging to a
person when still in the body also has its own law
of attraction which I for instance can discriminate,
because it carries its light.
W. R. N. Is this light or influence used up when the spirit is
communicating ?
G. P. Yes, somewhat, or at least we so term it, but really
it is ourselves losing hold of our light.
W. R. N. When Phinuit describes the article to the spirit, does
he describe the material object or the influence
that is on it ?
G. P. The article, also its influence or light as it appears
to him.
W. R. N. Can you make me understand the differences that you
discern between influences %
G. P. I do not know, I will do the best I can. The object
carries with it its owner's light or influence as the
Dr. particularly terms it. Well it has an influence
—
we will use this for convenience—The object to us
appears like the person or its light conveys to us
the impression of its owner.
W. R. N. Can such an influence be derived from places ?
G. P. I cannot answer—I do not know.
626 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
W. R. N. I mean does an article carry with it elements so to
speak of its former surroundings which you can
perceive, or must such influences be drawn from its
owner exclusively ?
G. P. Oh yes I do, it does bring with it a decided picture
of a place.
W. R. N. Can this be got from a place or must it be through
a person ?
G. P. Oh without the intervention of a person because it
has light enough to give us the impression of its
former surroundings.
W. R. N. E.g. when I showed you the letter yesterday you
'"
got an inkling of the writer's feelings.
G. P. Certainly, almost immediately.
(July 1, 1895.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson. G. P. writing.
R. H. Now I wish to ask you something else.
G. P. Are you in a hurry ?
R. H. Not specially.
G. P. O.K. Go on.
R. H. How do you distinguish between the " lights " of
two objects, one of winch belongs to a living person,
and the other to a person who has passed out ?
G. P. They convey their thoughts to the object which
enables [R. H. interprets " makes " during the sitting,
and reading it over says it isn't clear, hence change
of construction after the word medium below] the
spirit-intelligence communicating through the medium
[to] grasp their idea by producing the object's light.
R. H. That's not clear. I'll explain at great length what
I mean. Wait.
G. P. No, not necessary.
R. H. I bring
G. P. I get it ... I get it . . . some [object] belonging
to a person who has passed out.
R. H. Yes. I also bring an article belonging to a person
who haf not passed out. Explain the difference
between their " lights."
G. P. Well, the article belonging to the spirit when being
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance.—Appendix. 627
handled by the spirit in communication, attracts
its owner while the object or article belonging to a
person still on earth attracts no one in particular.
R. H. How does an object suggest its previous surroundings 1
G. P. It would be by thought.
R. H. If a human being were present instead of the object
it would be easy to understand.
G. P. Yes, you think.
R. H. But an object doesn't think.
G. P. No. Yet the object has been found and handled by
some person still in the body. Well, first the spirit
sees the object, secondly, its owner.
R. H. Or some one who has handled it ? [In noting this
question, " handler " came into my mind, and I
wrote on back of the previous sheet, " or some
handler," bixt did not say the word]
G. P. Yes, exactly. Well, if an object has been handled
at all it receives what we term influence for con-
venience, yet apart from seeing the handler [see note
above] of it we see a light also which portrays
to us a picture.
R. H. But the object itself hasn't a picture.
G. P. No, not at all.
R. H. The picture comes from its connection with the owner ?
G. P. Yes.
R. H. The owner has the mental picture ?
G. P. Yes. Yet we see distinctly the light which to us is
connected with the object.
R. H. Are the pictures in that light ?
G. P. No, but it connects us with it.
R. H. It comes from persons who have handled it ?
G. P. Yes. For instance, we get a clear or otherwise picture
from the person to whom it belongs.
R. H. Good.
G. P. Well, what does this explain ?
R. H. Well, some persons maintain that objects themselves
have a kind of memory, they seem to suppose that
inanimate objects carry with them mental pictures
like those of developed human beings.
G. P. Scientifically not. No, not at all.
628 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [pabt
(December 26, 1896.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson. G. P. controlling.
[Signet-ring given. Hand moves slowly about holding
ring, as though showing it in different directions.]
G. P. I am attracting him. There are so many stragglers.
5fc H< % ifc
This gentleman comes forward and whispers.
Commr. I am trying to see the light. I am not far from you
now * * * my ring my ring.
G. P. I am going. H.
[Hand scrabbles etc.] [New writer]
[Hand closes on ring and swirls round and round
on table with wist as hinge. I finally restrain it
and talk into hand, explaining that the speech is
registered in writing * * *]
{Conversation with the new control writing follows, but
what was written was of no significance. After
a time, confusion being apparent, Hodgson inter-
feres }
R. H. You had better go out and come back.
[Hand scrabbles]
G. P. What is the trouble. Can he not keep clear ?
R. H. He seemed to be dreamy then and kept repeating
the same thing. I thought it was better for him
to take a rest.
G. P. Quite right, H. A bright man and yet he * * * * *
He is bound to be all right in a little while.
R. H. I'll have to return the article.
G. P. It won't make any difference, I would know him
anywhere after this, so if he is not quite O.K. he
will be.
I do not think anything more was heard of this com-
municator, who, it may be observed, himself controlled
most of the time he was in evidence.
(February 8, 1897.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson. Doctor writing.
[I enquire about the purposes subserved by articles
worn or handled, etc., when brought to a sitting]
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 629
Doctor. I may not be able to answer this question in detail,
and yet I will give you my answer according to my
experience. Articles worn by a person when in the
body contain a certain form of magnetic power.
[I object to the word magnetic,1
referring to the
technical uses of scientific terms and the lax popular
uses, etc.]
Doctor. Ah but it is and is known to us as magnetic. We
are attracted to the hght which the article carries
with it, and which it has received by having been
used or worn by a spirit when in the body. It
attracts in nearly the same way as a magnet
attracts a needle. It carries with it its own sphere.
It has hght of its own. It has an etherial cover-
ing which is to us attractive or magnetic. It has
a slight etherial covering as it were.
R. H. Firstly, then, such an article has some portion of
etherial attached to it. Has that etherial been
left there by the owner ? Is it a fragment so to
speak of his etherial ?
Doctor. Yes, it is. For instance, had it not been worn by
him when in the body it would not have any
attraction for him.
R. H. Is that etherial on the article, has that been shed,
so to speak, by the etherial covering of the spirit
when in the body %
Doctor. Yes it has.
R. H. And not by the spirit etherial inside the covering ?
Doctor. No.
R. H. Just as there is perspiration from the skin of the
ordinary body, so there is etherial emanation from
the etherial covering ?
Doctor. Yes, which can only be discerned by your spirit
when out of your body.
R. H. Under ordinary circumstances.
Doctor. Under all circumstances.
R. H. Perhaps I had better say, in ordinary cases.
1 This is a little hard on Doctor, as the word magnet had been used
in connexion with influences by Hodgson himself on November 30, 1892
(see p. 355), and by Professor Newbold on June 20, 1895 (see p. 625).
630 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Doctor. Yes better.
R. H. I was thinking of the case of a seeing spirit still in
the body.
Doctor. Yes, depends however upon the development or . . .
[undec.] of the spirit when in its body.
R. H. Of what service is it to the spirit coming back and
communicating ?
Doctor. It so attracts him that he is enabled thereby to recall
and relate some incident which was well known to
him when in his body, . . .
R. H. Does it act in any other way, on this particular
point, than as a stimulus to his associations ?
Doctor. Not to my knowledge.
R. H. I bring an article of A, unknown to me. The con-
trolling spirit gets the person ? How ?
Doctor. [According] to my understanding it is by joining the
two lights.
R. H. Can't read.
Doctor. Bringing together the two lights.
\I misinterpret.]
Doctor. No. joining the two, the controlling spirit being one
light, while the article carries its own light, and
when being held by the controlling spirit he is
able to words [?] vague [?] vague [?] attract the
owner by it precisely as you for instance attract
your friends by being present when the reservoir
is filled with ether, only this is chiefly done by the
controlling spirit instead of the article alone. I
will illustrate. I am the controlling spirit. I have
my own light. You hand me an article worn by
A. I hold it with my own light. The two are
dissimilar. I am surrounded byd spirits. I attract
them by the light of the article which I hold. I
do not see any one who seems to recognize the
article. I may then see some friend of my own
to whom I may speak and ask him to make a
search for the owner. When he does this he
describes the light, i.e. as it appears to him when
this is visible to him. He searches for the owner,
and by the power of the spirit that you eouid
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.-—Appendix. 631
not U D, he finds its owner among many, and brings
him forth. Instantly he recognizes his article. I
have seen your friend Pelham do this again and
again.
R. H. Just as a dog might find its master in a crowded
building, so the spirit can find the owner of the
article, but in a much more, to us, marvellous
fashion.
Doctor. Repeat. This all sounds strange to me.
[I repeat] Yes, more complex. You may use this
analogy for your understanding
R. H. Having got him here, then ?
Doctor. I have seen it done repeatedly. Personally I have
done very little if any of this attracting spirits by
articles worn by them when in the bodies, yet I
have been an onlooker many times.
R. H. Having got him here, then the article serves as a
stimulus to his associations ?
Doctor. Yes, independently of his friend.
R. H. But suppose I bring the article. I don't know
anything about the person to whom it belongs,
but we have got him here.
Doctor. Ah yes. He sees his article or better the fight of
his article with etherial
R. H. Clinging to it.
Doctor. Clinging to it, taken from his body, etherial covering
of his body.
R. H. It has served the purpose of attracting the spirit
and stimulating his associations. Has it any other
effect ?
Doctor. I do not U D. Put your question differently.
R. H. I bathe in the sea. It cleanses my organism but
it also invigorates otherwise. I might cleanse my
organism in my room with soap and water, but I
wouldn't get the same invigoration. The bathing
in the sea has more than one effect.
Doctor. Do you mean does it affect him in any other way
than by simply attracting him ?
R. H. Yes, any other than by attracting him and stimulat-
ing his associations.
632
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.]
Doctor.
Not known to me.
Does it help to keep A's thoughts . . .
clear
. . . clear ?
Yes, because he feels sure that he is being welcomed
and is anxious to speak of his remembrances. It
makes him feel at home in other words.
Does it supply actual temporary nutriment which
aids him while he is in the act of communicating ?
Yes I thought I had told you this.
"No.
If it is a stimulant—which it is—does it not tem-
porarily nurture him %
Not necessarily.
Why % [To Spirit ?] Yes. I do.
You may be interested in giving information but if
there's no light you can't give it.
I see very little sense in your remark.
You want to say something here, suppose, but the
light is all used up, you can't say it.
I do not think it is applicable. [I enlarge] Yes,
quite. Yet in the case of the article it has its
own light that is strength-giving to its owner.
Exactly, that's what I meant.
Yet you had a different way of expressing it which
I did not U D. Yet when he has expressed one
or more thoughts he has exhausted the hght and
must return. In consequence he could so use up
the etherial hght of his article so it would in the
course of time be useless. In fact he has removed
the etherial covering, providing I am able to attract
its owner.
Well then the etherial on the article serves to find
its owner, it acts as a stimulus to his associations,
and it provides a certain amount of nutriment for
him while communicating. Any other use ?
No, only that he is, at times, as the case may be,
overwhelmed with joy
can't read
delight joy at the thought of being able to express
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 633
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
Doctor.
R. H.
himself to some intelligent friend or otherwise
relative [?]. At times he may be so overjoyed
he gets muddled or confused, so anxious is he to
express himself. When he has fully recovered
consciousness the light may have become exhausted
without his being able to clear his mind at all.
Well, never mind about that. That's another thing.
That's a side-issue.
Pardon. Repeat. Perhaps I did not hear you dis-
tinctly.
Well, we've got to this, that the etherial on the
article, besides attracting and stimulating, also sup-
plies food
energy so to speak
Yes energy. Does it prevent his mind from being
directly] affected by the thoughts of other
persons ?
Yes, it is more liable to prevent confusion than as
though some one of his friends were present.
The etherial energy helps him to keep his grip . . .
hold.
... on his own mind to the exclusion of other
minds in the body.
Yes, indeed.
Also in the spirit ?
Yes. It attracts himself alone, whereas his were one
or more of his friends present would attract more
[hand speirs two or three times a little] i.e. a larger
number of friends in spirit providing there were
more than he here. I was disturbed a little.
Excuse me.
What I meant was did it help him to avoid being
telepathically acted upon by spirits ?
I answered yes.
It helps him to remain unaffected by the current
of my thought ?
Yes.
Moses was speaking to me. All right now.
Can you think of any other use which that etherial
remnant might have ?
634 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
Doctor. There are none others known to me. No. Have
you other theories ?
R. H. I don't recall at this moment.
Doctor. If you have I wish you would explain what they
are because I do not wish you to get a wrong
idea. There are none others known to me.
R. H. If I think of any other use that occurs to me as
possible, I will ask you another time.
Doctor. Very good, my friend, I am sure there are none,
because I watched very earnestly and carefully
this proceeding with articles, with your friend
Pelham.
R. H. We've been talking of the use of the etherial on
articles to the communicator who owned them.
Does there cling to such articles anything like a
record of the articles' history independent of the
person who owned them ?
Doctor. I do not UD [I repeat] Any spirit you mean ?
You say person. Do you mean in the body or
spirit ?
R. H. Take a glove that was owned by a person in body
or in spirit. Certain persons are said to be able
to describe the owner and some of his experiences
by the help of the glove alone.
Doctor. Do they do it ? or do they pretend to do it ?
R. H. I have never seen it done to my satisfaction.
Doctor. Ah my friend, we warn you to be careful, I do not
think it. We know of no such cases, unless by
chance or some falsifying remark.
R. H. Some persons are said e.g. to take a piece of ore,
—
ore, from which a metal may be produced . . .
Doctor, ore
R. H. and describe the mine or locality, other lodes, where
the veins run
Doctor, from which it came.
R. H. Yes.
Doctor. It is not safe to trust such persons.
R. H. The crux of the enquiry comes to this. Do objects
as such carry with them scenes independently of
persons ?
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance.—Appendix. 635
Doctor. Not to my knowledge. More advanced spirits might
be better able to enlighten you on this point. I do
not think it however. I believe in such cases the
interior consciousness of the person holding such
articles as named by yourself viz. ore, is more or
less impressed by some spirit intelligence who was
formerly connected with the locality from which
the ore was produced.
Would it be possible for the interior consciousness
of the person holding the ore, let us call this
person the percipient,
very well
to see the locality herself ?
As it were clairvoyantly as you would term it ?
Yes.
Yes, impressed however by some spirit.
Not by her own power ?
No. This is where persons on earth are ignorant.
A distant percipient is given an article by a person,
belonging to B, and the percipient describes the
character of B, and perhaps special incidents. Is
that possible ?
Yes, providing the person possesses light. Otherwise
not, and would be untrustworthy.
It is a possible thing ?
Yes, indeed. The person possessing light can be
impressed by a spirit to describe such scenes and
surroundings
and give a description of character ?
yes also.
But she can't give it herself ?
No.
Here is a woman in a distant city. Call her X. A
person known to me gives to X a letter by me
and asks X for an account of the writer. She
offers an account of my character, habits, etc.
Would it be possible for her to do that correctly
without the assistance of a spirit from your world ?
Doctor. Possibly the person by whom you sent the letter may
be present and if so such might be his or her
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
636 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
R. H.
Doctor.
condition to enable the person named X to read
alone [?] the interior thought of the person . . .
Let me fully U D you.
X is the percipient, Y the person who gave my
letter. Under what circumstances can X, suppose
honest and not knowing me, give a true and detailed
description of my character 1
By possessing light only.
I understand that if a spirit tells X, X can get
it that way. But I refer now to possibilities of
obtaining information without the aid of any other
spirit but her own.
Yes, this would . . . [undec] of telepathy
can't read
of thought
You've written those words over one another
pardon . . . the interior consciousness might be able
to perceive the impression of your own light, i.e.
X's, her spirit might.
That is to say, X's interior consciousness might
through the light of the article get into rapport
with mine.
Yes, but it must necessarily be very light to enable
her to do so.
She must be quite advanced ?
Yes, quite developed.
The time's nearly up.
Yes. I feel weak already.
{Oct. 28, 1902.)
Sitter and recorder, G. B. D. Rector using voice. {Letter
from a living woman given to Rector.}
Rector. This is the best influence which thou hast ever
given us !
* * * *
There is something so remarkable in the influence
thou hast given us that it brings the spirit almost
as close to us as thou thyself art. We can see it
so perfectly ; it makes me quite happy.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 637
G. B. D. Who?
R. I, Rector, to see it so clearly. I don't think I ever
mistake influences. I think I can see them almost
perfectly. This influence is inspired by the higher
and wiser spirit and therefore it is beautiful and
it is true—I wish, friend, thou wouldst take my
love to her.
G. B. D. Who is speaking ?
R. I, Rector, I love to see this spirit.
{Rector proceeds to give messages from various
communicators to the owner of the influence.}
(December 2, 1902.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson. Rector writing.
R. Also friend let us advise thee that it is infinitely
wiser to have present some object once worn in the
material world [by] the spirit or spirits who repre-
sent themselves as being present. It is not necessary
to produce the articles until it hath first been
announced as to the type of spirit present i.e.
whether gentleman or lady.
R. H. Yes, yes. I understand.
R. as it might be more satisfactory to the friend on the
earthly side.
But when it hath been once announced as to the
type of spirit present if it be rightly U.D. by the
mortal present then articles should be produced,
this will assist us greatly in our efforts to hold the
desired spirit apart from others who might other-
wise unconsciously interrupt.
R. H. Yes. That is the special use of articles ?
R. with us yes. Besides it gives additional help to the
spirit in recognizing his own objects.
R. H. Yes. [Cross in air.]
R. Besides there is an unmistakable light surrounding
each object which hath been used by spirits when
dressed in mortal covering. We observe almost
immediately the object as it sends forth a perfect
reflection of its size shape etc. which is seldom
mistaken by the former owner.
638 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
R. H. Yes, I follow.
R. Remember one thing of vast importance is the
producing of objects.
R. H. Yes.
R. and we may add that all such should be those
handled as little as possible by other hands than
those to whom the object belonged.
R. H. Yes.
R. This will help thee greatly in thy future research.
(Dec. 8, 1902.)
Sitter and recorder, G. B. D. Voice sitting. Rector
speaking.
[Mrs. X.'s influence.]
Rector. I think this is the companion's 1
influence, friend, and
not hers.
[Note : I gave the influence, a handkerchief, as Mrs.
X.'s own, which I supposed it to be myself.]
Rector. I know it is. — —
{An account of Mr. X.'s symptoms and character
follow. Whether these were correct and if so what
previous opportunity of knowing about them Rector
may have had, I do not know. E. M. S.}
^ * * *
Rector, the condition can never be wholly removed. It hath
taken such a vital hold ! There is acid all through
the blood. Why, friend, I can see this as plainly
as I can see thee. How much better it is for thee
to always bring an object like this ! Each object
hath its own astral light which is so clear and
distinct to us as to enable us to see the mortal
himself.
(May 6, 1903.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson. Rector writing.
R. H. S.— writes that so far as he can see all the statements
from Mr. H y are incorrect. He is anxious
for a meeting to be devoted again to clearing up
the mystery if possible.
1 " Companion " = husband or wife.
LXXI.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 639
Rector. We must have influences another time friend, in
order to keep the communicators clear. It is as
important as life.
R. H. Yes ?
Rector, and unless we can have them and have them good
we can guarantee little. We have made this clear
so many times it doth not seem necessary for us
to reiterate.
R. H. Yes.
Rector. The minds of communicators cannot be kept clear
without some law of attraction.
R. H. Yes ?
Rector. Now then bring us some fresh or at least good
articles and we can make as clear a communicator
of him as we did of Bennie.
R. H. Yes?
Rector. We cannot keep his thoughts clear and undisturbed
otherwise.
{The communication from the professed Mr. H y
had taken place on April 8, 1903, and had been
very clear and detailed, though wrong.}
(July 5, 1904.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson. Rector writing.
Rector. Imperator was surprised that I failed to take up
Mr. D. at the close of our last meeting therefore
I shall be obliged to look at him first and at the
end also.
R. H. But I did give you his influence as usual at the end,
and you held it.
Rector. Yes but I was so far out. He did not receive it fully.
Therefore I must let Him see it one moment now.
R. H. Yes. Here it is. It is the same. [Assent] I have
not received fresh one to-day. [Assent.]
[Mr. D.'s article, handkerchief, given. Hand feels it,
holds it up, then bows to table, holding it a short
time, 10 or 15 seconds, then makes cross in air.]
Rector. We are thankful. +R
{Mr. D. was a hving man for whom the controls
were giving medical advice}
640 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
In Hodgson's record of the previous sitting (July 4,
1904) we find just after the leave-taking of Imperator and
Rector.
[Hand seeks as for article. I give Mr. D.'s influence, a
handkerchief. Hand feels it, lays it down, lapses.]
(Dec. 19, 1904.)
Sitter, with Hodgson recording.
{Dr.—presumably Dr. Oliver—apparently communi-
cating through Rector. Hodgson certainly regards
Rector as writing throughout}
[Disturbance in hand, which thumps on table.]
Dr. I wish to speak a moment to my patient while the
gentleman {previous communicator} takes a rest.
[Hand speirs about just in front of S.'s chest]
Dr. I see infinitely better blood, less indigestion better
circulation.
S. Yes that is true.
* * * *
S. How did you make that diagnosis from my glove?
Dr. Why my dear lady that is the least of my difficulties.
I saw your condition from the astral light which
the article carried with it, which brought me in
immediate touch with your organism.
S. Then the soul impresses itself upon everything we
touch ?
Db. Yes and we are extremely sensitive to the touch
when operating through the light.
* * * *
[hand touches lightly about left temple of S.]
Dr. had any pain over temples with this cold ?
S. Not much. Very little.
Dr. I see a slight inflammation in left side etc.
(February 7, 1905.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
Rector (writing). + feels the importance of looking into the
case of Mrs. [R.] for a few moments.
R. H. Shall I give the influence of her Uncle Rob ?
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Pipers Trance.—Appendix. 641
Rector. Kindly do so
[I give glove and flannel from two separate parcels.]
R. We are glad to be able to throw some light here
friend. Of course when we say that restoration is
not possible it doth not mean that we cannot
give help because we can do so. He is weak
and in a state which is incurable. When was this
given thee friend.
R. H. I received it I think before Christmas.
R. We think her special desire is for us to give some
light concerning the future connected with him. Is
this not so ?
R. H. No.
R. She referred to this. Or are we to find him.
R. H. She did not specify what she wanted when she
originally sent it.
[Hand feels articles again, turns to spirit.]
Rectoe. No certainly not unless thou dost wish. [Between
spirits.] Reference was made to our giving him
assistance before he passed over to his changing [?]
his affairs. [Hand feels articles again.] It [sic]
impossible for us to get this clearly now we will be
obliged to take it up again presently. [Hand moves
articles to right of block-book and rests on them
in a covering manner for several seconds, suggesting
that they were not to be disturbed.] We see his
condition from the objects presented at the time
when they were connected with him. This is a
trifle confusing as the case stands now. Therefore
we leave it until a little later when we will return
to it. Kindly leave the objects.
I do not think anything further was said about these
influences. On February 14 Hodgson makes the following
note :
[Note. Mrs. Piper told me * * * that she had received
a letter from Mrs. [R.] this morning in which Mrs. [R.]
told her that her—Mrs. [R.'s]—Uncle had recently died.
I inferred from what Mrs. Piper said that Mrs. [R.] in
her letter had commented adversely on the fact that no
642 Mrs. Henry Sidg wick. [part
reference to this death had been made at the sittings.
—
R. H, Feb. 14, 1905.]
From this note and Hodgson's remarks quoted above I
infer that the influences, though clearly taken by Rector
for those of a living man, belonged to one who was dead
at the time of the sitting.
(April 11, 1905.)
Two sitters, Sx
and S2 , with R. H. as recorder. Rector writing
as amanuensis for communicator.
Commb. I heard you say I wish he could tell me about those
letters etc. etc.
S„. Yes we did say that, but it is not very important,
other things will do as well.
Commr. Remember, influences have their light as mortals
theirs. But after a long period of time some
objects lose their light or it diminishes to such an
extent that I am unable to see through it clearly
enough at the moment what it is or to whom it
belonged. This is no excuse but a fact.
(April 24, 1905.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
{Gloves belonging to S., an old sitter, are given to
Doctor who prescribes for him. Then :
}
Doctor. Do you see anything which indicates a new child
connected with his family ?
R. H. No.
Doctor. Will you keep this private for a few months, and
then ask him
R. H.
I think {S.'s daughter H. } is going to have a child,
* * * I see and would like you to obtain an object
from her and present to me. * * * I wish this
before telling him.
[I turn to S.'s list of questions to see if there was
anything about H.]
He says :
" Does know or wish to say anything
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 643
about H. and her present condition ?
" That is one
of his questions.
Doctor. Well I have just told you. * * * Will now let me
straighten things out a little. I see through his
influence {her condition} * * * there is special
sympathy between those two, i.e. father, daughter,
son-in-law etc. which enables me to reach her
aura through his objects
(November 22, 1905.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson. Rector writing,
{By request of the controls an article belonging to
Mrs. J. had been brought.}
R. H. That is all I have at present. What will you take
up first %
Rector. Mrs. J.
{He begins to prescribe for her. Then :
}
[Hand turns for article. Glove given. Hand turns
it inside out and feels it, lays it under wrist.]
Rector. We find objects which have crossed the water no
matter how carefully they may be protected lose
their light and influence.
R. H. Hm. Yes.
Rector. So that when they reach us they are dark in com-
parison and have lost the chief influence upon which
we work.
(April 14, 1908.) Waking-stage.
Sitter and recorder, Mr. Dorr. The last thing recorded :
Hodgson wants something holding him here taken away.
[G. B. D. removes R. H.'s influences from hand.]
Good, you begin to understand ! Did you hear me say
begin ?
HodgsonP had been the communicator and apparently
the control throughout the sitting on April 14. This is
the only case I know of " influences " being referred to
in the waking-stage, and it may be regarded as a further
instance (see p. 240) of the approximation of the waking-
stage procedure to that of the trance proper.
644 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
(April 21, 1908.)
Sitter and recorder, Mr. Dorr. {He goes over the record of
the waking-stage of April 14 with the trance personages,
who on this day represented themselves as Hodgson writing
for Myers, but himself intervening when appealed to. Mr.
Dorr records :}
[R. H.'s request at the end of the subliminal to
have his influences removed from the Light's hand
is spoken of]
HoDasoNp . Yes, they often attract and hold me
(C) Strength sought by resting the Hand on the Sitter's
head. Three Examples.
(Nov. 17, 1896.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson.
# * * #
Hart (writing). Wait a moment, H., until I get a little more
strength. Help me now. [I put the hand on my
head] Yes, thanks.
jji $t sfs s|s
Hart. Listen. Strength a little. Give it so I can finish
about my list, H.
[I take the hand and hold it on my head for a
short time]
Hart. Yes, thanks. How do you do it, H.?
R. H. I don't know. You take it from me.
(November 10, 1897.)
Sitter and recorder, Mrs. L. Rector writing.
* * * *
[Hand holds mine in a curious beseeching way, and
faintly writes :] Strength
—
[I place the hand on my head, where it remains a moment
or two, gives me a little pat and takes up the
pencil.]
(March 17, 1908.)
Sitter and recorder, Mr. Dorr. HodgsonP writing. Proposed
cross-correspondences are being rehearsed.
lxxi.] Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance.—Appendix. 645
[Pause. Hand twice reaches out and rests for a moment
on G. B. D.'s head.]
(D) Strength sought by hearing Verses recited.
(March 3, 1897.)
Sitter and recorder, Hodgson. Rector writing.
Rector. This explains to you in part the condition of sleep.
You will understand that the spirit always is
conscious, no matter what the state of its environ-
ment or body may be. When the body has be-
come fatigued, the spirit departs, yet hovers over
it until it has rested. This is not as I wished it
exactly. Read for me a moment.
R. H. Yes I will.
Rector. Wait . . .
Yes read if you will, but not my statements, anything
to give me strength.
R. H. Do you mean for me to ask questions ?
Rector. No.
R. H. But to read or recite something to you.
Rector. Yes.
{Hodgson then recites a couple of verses (8 lines)}
Rector. Very beautiful and appropriate. No. [to Spirit ?]
Now expressing thanks I will go on.
In 1908 the controls encouraged a good deal of reading
aloud by Mr. Dorr.
646 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX OF PAGE REFERENCES TO
SITTINGS.
1888.
January 20 : 183.
February 20 : 31.
May 26 : 31, 60, 336.
June 2 : 30, 31, 58, 60, 67, 337.
„ 9 : 71, 340.
„ 11 : 208.
„ 16 : 348.
„ 30: 263, 351.
September 6 : 209.
October 20 : 208.
23 : 209.
November 8
19
December 17
28
30.
210.
30, 211.
181.
1889.
May 17 : 268.
November 30 : 206, 207.
December 24 : 32.
„ 25 (two sittings) : 32,
60, 68, 265.
1890.
January 1 : 208.
February 1 : 32.
3 (two sittings) : 302.
1891.
May 23 : 33.
1892.
February 14 : 194, 210.
March 10 : 33.
„ 12: 33.
18: 182.
April 11 : 39 footnote.
13 : 40, 46, 171, 182.
„ 22: 182.
„ 28: 212, 269.
29 : 41 footnote, 42, 269,
287, 321.
May 10 : 82.
14 : 42.
16 : 38, 42, 53 footnote.
17 : 42, 282.
19 : 548 footnote.
22 : 40, 42 footnote.
29 : 30, 39 footnote.
November 22 : 43, 352.
28 : 43, 45, 213, 220.
30: 26 footnote, 43,
46, 58, 61, 68, 113,
270, 303, 355, 616,
624, 629 footnote.
December 2 : 43, 46.
„ 5 : 40,43, 44 footnote,
47, 52, 61, 78 foot-
note, 112, 355.
7 : 43, 53, 164 foot-
note, 216.
9 : 43, 47/61, 78 foot-
note.
16 ; 43, 45, 47, 69.
1
lxxi.] Chronological Index of Page References to Sittings. 647
December 19 : 43, 59, 69.
21 : 43, 47, 53.
22: 43, 46, 58, 213
footnote, 256, 362.
1893.
January 24 : 43, 53, 61, 69, 298,
309, 622.
30: 43.
March 12: 19.
14: 217, 377.
November 18 : 215 footnote, 289.
22: 217.
23: 290.
December 8 : 194, 297, 518, 548
footnote.
11 : 283.
16 : 116 footnote.
21 : 211, 308.
1894.
January 4 : 266.
9: 47.
14: 80.
March 2 : 210.
„ 3: 48, 195.
April 25 : 127 footnote, 211.
„ 30: 48, 518.
June 24 : 173.
„ 25: 171, 218.
„ 26 : 164, 218, 246 footnote.
November 9 : 218.
1895.
March 18 : 34.
April 24 : 219, 257.
May 8 : 219.
June 14 : 71, 220, 256, 364.
??
15 : 70, 71, 256, 303, 365,
551.
99
17 : 224, 551.
99
18 : 44, 49, 52, 59 foot-
note, 71, 366.
97
19 : 35, 369.
99
20 : 127, 223, 225, 307,
308, 373, 624, 629
footnote.
June Z 1 :
99?; **74 549
93
LL :
fi7 173 183. 207,
9dfi -f nrvfvnofcft 549.
79
24 : 30, 256, 550.
99
OK.
zo :
«5 Sfi 922 225 374.
99
1 7 86 437
99
86 437 442.
July 1 : 87, 298, 307, 626.
93
•1 : 87.
9 9
6 -
qi qq 949 448.
99
5 : 87.
99
8: 86.
1896.
February 22
October 1
12
14
16
17
19
27
28
29
30
31
November 9
10
11
13
14
L6
17
18
24
December 3
4
5
7
72, 377.
89.
89, 249, 256, 551.
89, 382.
90, 143.
: 90, 108, 120 foot-
note.
: 85.
: 90, 453.
: 90, 245, 453.
: 90, 91, 139, 457.
: 91, 112 footnote.
: 91, 92.
: 92.
: 92, 93.
: 93, 95 footnote,
100, 112, 133, 468.
: 72, 94, 100, 383.
: 96, 100, 106,
245 footnote, 383,
470.
: 113, 248, 551.
: 37 footnote, 93
footnote, 113, 133,
313, 644.
: 50, 114, 248, 552.
: 66.
: 106.
: 96, 461.
: 67,72,96,383,466.
: 94 footnote, 270,
617.
648 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
1 896
—
continued.
December 8 : 70, 72, 133, 245
footnote, 248, 387,
471, 552.
February 22 : 133.
23 : 103, 232, 553.
24: 103, 104.
26 : 478.
9 : 388. 27 : 23, 244.
10: 390. March 2 97, 412 footnote, 414.
11 : 59, 70, 390. 3 66, 132, 313, 645.
?
)
12 : 66, 221, 245. 4 107, 233 footnote, 554.
> j 14 : 101, 393, 519. 5 18, 50, 107, 228, 242,
15 : 72, 395, 400 foot- 313, 377, 491.
note. 6 23.
21 : 36. 8 233 footnote, 554.
26 : 224 footnote, 307, 9 91 footnote, 108.
628. 10 103, 104, 478.
11 66, 107, 134, 323.
1897. 12 233 footnote, 555.
January 1 52, 58, 72, 397. 13 233 footnote, 555.
5 36. 15 117 footnote, 242,
7 157. 519 556
12 399. 16 104.
13 291, 617. 17 1 58, 233 footnote, 556.
14 279 footnote, 291. 18 107.
618. 19 14 footnote, 134 foot-
16 65, 96, 115. note, 151, 298.
19 49, 149. 22 233 footnote, 557.
20 116, 150. 23 147, 206, 232.
21 97, 115. 24 104, 232 footnote,
25 63 139 303 557 562
26 11 84 98 110 139 25 558.
29 106 399
1
26 233 footnote, 246
30 400. footnote 558
February 1 24, 64, 402. 27 232 559
2 67, 403. 29 231 footnote 233
4 97, 406. footnote 242 486.
5 64, 66, 406. 559.
6 64, 70, 71, 110, 408. 30 49, 107, 139, 377, 499.
8 307, 308, 628. 31 70, 108, 233 footnote,
11 67, 72, 407 foot- 414, 560.
note, 410. April 1 118, 175, 233 foot-
12 102, 133, 231, 553. note, 415, 518, 560.
13 103, 299, 471. 2 97.
15 411. 3 •
71, 561.
16 : 412, 414 footnote. 5 : 36, 107, 139, 172, 518.
18 412 footnote. 7 •
147, 172.
19 413. 8 : 25, 233, 256.
20 103. 12 167.
lxxi.] Chronological Index of Page References to Sittings. 649
April 15
:
16:
17 :
20:
22:
23:
26:
27 :
28 :
May 7 :
11 :
14:
26:
31 :
June 9 :
10:
28 :
July 3
:
November
>»
December
232 footnote, 299,
561, 621.
231 footnote, 246,
547 footnote.
505.
148, 168, 182 foot-
note, 243, 544, 562.
16 footnote.
65 footnote, 81, 109
footnote.
57, 233 footnote, 562.
332.
332, 519.
416.
232 footnote, 416, 563.
506.
417.
488.
417.
234, 564.
144.
84 footnote, 101.
4 : 145.
10 : 313, 644.
13: 23.
1898.
536.
536.
134, 513.
January 20
21
28
April 15 : 186.
26 : 185.
May 14 : 134.
26 : 109, 233 footnote, 564.
June 3 : 138, 240, 565.
8: 135.
9 : 135.
20 : 545.
29 : 249, 417, 566.
July 1 : 169.
September 13 : 16 footnote, 567.
October 13 : 568.
November 12 : 152, 153.
21 : 169.
30: 332.
December 2 : 187, 332, 528.
December 5 : [54.
15 :
^333.
19 : 108, 177, 532.
24 : 109.
29 : 271.
May
1899.
January 5 : 271.
: 72 footnote.
56.
206 footnote.
169.
160, 234.
56.
333, 569.
15: 187.
20: 138.
23 : 295, 619.
4 : 570.
18 : 120.
26: 25.
13
18
1 :
June 19 :
„ 20:
„ 22:
October 31
November
December
1900.
417, 546.
570.
22 : 433 footnote, 570.
February 5 : 270.
: 271, 524.
: 295.
: 190.
: 190.
308.
163.
308.
173.
488, 571.
149 footnote, 227, 571.
135.
22 : 231 footnote, 232, 572.
5 : 148.
249, 274, 573.
249, 250, 274, 574.
249.
304.
575.
255, 576.
January 3
15
6
22
26
28
March 7
„ 19
„ 27
„ 28
2
3
9
April
May
June
11
„ 12
„ 13
October 31
November 12
13
650 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
January
February
March 6
„ 12
„ 13
„ 20
April 8
„ 10
„ 16
„ 24
October 2
1901.
24, 229.
525.
169.
166, 202.
228, 545.
22
13
18
19
20
24.
577.
106, 241, 577.
70, 241, 418.
236, 304, 577.
578.
228, 578.
218, 579.
1 : 236, 582.
1902.
January 21 : 171.
99 22 583.
99 28 245.
J9 29 : 304.
February 4 : 139.
99 11 : 190.
99 17 : 140.
19 : 74, 420.
26 : 175, 186, 520, 525.
March 10 : 234.
9 9
24 : 584.
99 26 : 171, 179, 192, i
footnote, 584.
April 2 : 236, 245, 585.
99 9 : 170, 184.
99 28 : 264, 265, 614.
99 29 : 265, 616.
May 27 : 421.
»> 28 : 586.
June 17 : 184.
J 9 30 : 165, 174 footnote.
July 2 : 240, 587. -
October 13
14
28
November 3
10
17 :
137, 161.
587.
309, 422, 525, 636.
138.
588.
228.
November 24 : 141.
25: 141.
December 2 : 298, 307, 637.
'I
10 : V176, 533.
17 sj
8 : 228, 309, 489, 638.
24: 534.
1903.
February 4 : 74, 589.
99 17 : 196.
99 18 : 170, 248, 591.
99 23 : 190.
99 25 : 165, 270.
March 2 169, 287.
99 3 173, 528, 529, 532.
39 4 164, 531, 532.
99 17 489.
99 25 56.
April 8 54, 191.
May 5 57, 592.
99 6 307, 638.
9 i
20 101.
June 3 70,72,73,110footnote,
170, 377, 381, 422.
99 8 170.
October 26 : 428.
December 21 : 545.
1904.
January 19 : 273.
20: 273.
February 23 : 74, 164.
24: 73, 428.
March 2 : 18.
„ 30: 160.
April 18 : 146, 150.
27 : 305.
May 24 : 73, 74, 108 footnote,
137, 162, 164, 196,
271, 313, 428, 490.
25 : 73, 108 footnote, 167,
429.
June 28 : 174.
lxxi.] Chronological Index of Page References to Sittings. 651
July 2 :
4:
5:
6:
„ 11 =
December
172.
309, 381, 592, 640.
309, 639.
166, 526.
166.
4
13
14
19
20
424 footnote.
150.
58, 72, 110 foot-
note, 377, 431.
309, 640.
73, 138, 197, 434.
January 1
6
17
18
24
25
February 7
8
14
22
March 1
1905.
174.
288.
289.
521, 528.
108 footnote.
309, 640.
37.
50.
435.
231 footnote, 246 foot-
note, 593.
99 20 : 16 footnote, 24, 264, 99
299, 622.
99 27 : 108 footnote, 160, 175. 99
April 11 : 308, 642.
12 : 24. 99
99 17 : 25, 216 footnote, 436, 99
595. 9 9
99 24 : 309, 642.
May 2 : 160, 527.
99 23 : 298, 596, 620.
99 24 : 25, 298, 381, 620. January
June 20 : 249, 567.
99 21 : 73, 101.
1 9 29 : 333.
July 6 : 50.
October 30 : 136.
>) 31 : 333.
November 13 : 23, 25.
>> 15 : 532, 600.
20 : 24, 74, 174, 597.
21 : 174 footnote.
November 22
29
December 1
3
18
19;
28
January 23
136, 137 footnote,
154, 196, 308, 523,
643.
380, 523.
187, 192.
20, 532, 598, 600.
137, 532, 598, 601.
185, 198.
1906.
527 footnote.
March 21 299.
April 25 300.
May 14 144.
J i
23 203.
99 26 106.
July 3 198.
October 10
November 11
12
16
23
26
December
298, 299.
23.
191.
137.
199.
144.
3 : 155, 273, 275.
12 : 138 footnote, 229
footnote, 601.
17 : 55 footnote, 229
footnote, 601.
19 : 22.
24 : 70, 227.
31 : 312.
1
2
14
16
21
23
28
30
February 19
20
1907.
23, 107, 246 foot-
note, 295, 523.
172.
265.
110, 235, 245, 602.
110.
210 footnote.
186, 266.
24.
201, 225.
23, 25, 267.
652 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part lxxi.
1 907'—continued.
February 25 : 63 footnote, 278.
99 26 : 236 footnote, 276,
277.
99 27 : 262, 276.
March 5 : 24.
99 b :
l/^K lftj ICQ O/ift
1U5, 104, JLoo, z4d
tootnote, Ail, o4o.
99 11 :
OA 1
99
1 o . T H A
174.
99 13 : 73, Z77.
99 18 : 7o, 11Z, ODD.
J 9
OA
ZO : Zoo iootnote, oU4.
April y :
1 A A
144.
99
i a .
1U : ozo.
99 17 :
OOO OQ A OOO
Zso, ^84, oZ4.
9 9
alt .
OQ4
Z84.
99
oo . OOO
99 24 : 284, 285, 321.
99 29 : 175, 202, 246 footnote,
285 footnote.
99 30 : 285.
May 1 : 246 footnote, 285.
9 J 6 : 168, 285, 527 footnote.
>> 7 : 168, 233 footnote, 246
footnote, 286.
19 : 275.
June 2 : 163, 166, 168, 189 foot-
note.
July 3 : 142.
1908.
March 16 235, 546.
99 17 199, 311, 313, 644.
99 23 277, 278, 279.
99 24 277, 278.
99 31 279.
April 6 49, 279, 280.
1 J 7 279, 280, 286.
A nri 1
J. o .
°7Q fi AF> fi07
99
1 4. •
at: . OUS7, Oil, U*±0.
99
91 •
1 QQ 9.1 1 (\<td.
±VO, Oil, Uit.
99 27 : 236.
May 8 : 312.
99 12 : 236, 240, 608.
9 9 13 : 233 footnote, 236, 609
footnote, 610.
December 21 : 237.
22 : 239.
1909.
January 13 : 23.
Spring, Dr. Stanley Hall's Sittings:
12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19, 20,
54, 55, 144, 177, 178, 200
footnote, 227, 235, 312,
517, 612.
1910.
July 16 : 200.
October 10 : 304.
23 : 123, 124.
December 2 : 250, 304.
1911.
February 8 : 124.
May 24: 13, 124.
*June 4 : 127.
„ 10 : 125.
July 3: 13, 124, 125.
31 : 13, 20 footnote, 21
footnote, 73 foot-
note, 125, 239, 514.
*September 20 : 127, 128.
October 8 : 128.
* 11 : 128.
* 28 : 128, 129.
Note. —Those marked * were cases of automatic script without
trance.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX to VOL. XXVIII
(PART LXXI)
1915.
Astronomy, Statements about, by Controls - - 85-88, 437-448
Biblical history, Statements about, by Imperator
102-105, 316, 478-488, 559
Cahagnet, Alphonse, Experiments with Adele Maginot - - 83
Cocke, Mr. (medium), consulted by Mrs. Piper - - 9, 77, 119, 327
" Communicators," Definition of ..... 7
„ Theories of, about themselves - - - 159 et seq.
„ Their relation to Mrs. Piper - - 317-331, passim
,, Individual Communicators
—
C, H. 57
Dow, Mrs. .... . 232, 416
Gurney, E. .... ^124, 300-305
H., Mrs., 50, 58, 72, 74, 170, 172, 422-428, 431-434,
591.
Hodgson, R., 11, 12, 106, 186, 197-200, 277, 300, 301
Junot, Bennie, 160, 163, 164, 169, 173-174, 202,
226, 236, 270, 308, 545.
Myers, F. W. H., 70, 139, 140, 163, 168, 199,
201-202, 245-246, 277-281, 283-286, 300, 418-
421, 546.
654 Index to Vol. XXVIII. [PAKT
" Communicators," Individual Communicators
—
Oliver, Dr. ... 196, 265, 490, 640
Sidgwick, H. - - - 74, 161-162, 171, 420
Taylor, Mr. 598-601
Thompson, Isaac - - 142, 191, 192-193, 203
West, Robert - 181
" Controls," Definition of ....... 7
„ Theories of, about themselves - - - 29-74, passim
„ Their relation to Mrs. Piper - - - 315-331, passim
See also Memory.
,, Individual Controls
—
Bach, J. S. 9
Bridgman, Laura - - - - - - - 113
" Chlorine " 9
D., Annie - - 34, 38
Doctor, 59, 67, 70, 72, 79, 100, 105, 245, 307, 308, 310,
383-392, 399, 403-405, 412, 553, 628-636.
Eliot, George, 11, 18, 36, 49, 65, 76, 78-79, 107, 108, 115-
119, 131, 139, 147, 149, 150, 172, 242-243, 316, 332,
414, 478, 491-513, 518, 555, 561.
F., K. 11, 56, 117
Gurney, Edmund - 60, 75, 123, 139, 301, 302, 303
Guyon, Madame - 13, 77, 85, 119, 123-129, 130,297, 515
Hart, J. 113, 382, 552, 553
Hodgson, R., 11, 12, 13, 54, 77, 78, 84, 125, 126, 129, 198,
200, 236-237, 239, 299-300, 301, 312, 514, 606.
Home, D. D. - - - - - - 85, 297
Imperator, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 29, 64, 66, 67 (foot-note), 72,
77, 79, 84, 89-112, 131, 242, 393-397, 400-402, 406-
411, 468-488, 554, 556.
Imperator Band, the 77, 79, 98
See also Doctor, Imperator, Mentor, Prudens, Rector.
Julius Caesar, 67 (foot-note), 76, 78, 80, 112-115, 119, 131,
316, 552.
Longfellow, H. W. - - - - - - 9, 347
Mentor 79, 100, 105, 383
Moses, W. Stainton, 9, 30, 67 (foot-note), 78-79, 88-98,
119, 153, 414, 453-468, 554, 560.
" Moses of Old " - - - - 78,80,119-122,131
Myers, A. T. 91, 459
Myers, F. W. H. - - - 49,199,236,311,607-608
Oliver, Dr. 105, 137, 150
"Pelham, George " (G. P.), 8, 10, 15, 29, 35, 36, 38-48,
51, 52, 53, 56, 61, 77, 78, 84, passim.
Phinuit, 8, 9, 10, 15, 17, 18, 29, 30, 31, 32-48, 53, 60, 61,
77, 80, 82, 84, passim.
LXXI.] Index to Vol. XXVIII. 655
Controls, Individual Controls—
Ponchini, Loretta - - - - - - 9, 347
Proctor, R. A. - - - 30,78,87-88,119,448-452
Prudens - - - - - - 79, 106, 107, 196
Rector, 8, 9, 11, 14, 18, 36, 50, 52, 54, 56, 57, 79, 100, 105,
107-110, 397-399, 402, 411, 413, 415-436, 470, 488-
491, passim.
Scott, Sir Walter, 17-18, 78, 80, 85-87, 119, 297, 437-448
Siddons, Mrs. 9, 347
Vanderbilt, Commodore - - - - - 9, 347
Wild, Hannah 291, 617
Cross -correspondence Experiments, Failures in
57, 65, 98 (foot-note), 115-118, 247, 505-513
Echolalia, Instances of 234-235, 612
False Communicators 176-178, 533-544
Gurney, E., Experiments in Post-hypnotic Suggestion - - 35
See also Communicators, Controls.
Hodgson, R., Investigation of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena
1, passim
See also Communicators, Controls, Sitters with Mrs. Piper.
Hypnotic Phenomena compared with Mrs. Piper's Trance Pheno-
mena 35, 51, 323-330
" Influences," Effect of, on the Trance Phenomena, 305-314, 622-644
Language of Controls, Artificialities of - - - - 130-147
Locket Case 250-254, 276
Maginot, Adele, compared with Mrs. Piper - 83
Marble, Joseph, Case - - 83, 236, 250, 259, 273-276, 602, 604
Memory Relations of different States of Consciousness
148-158, 179, 258-293, passim
Mexico, Case of Boy lost in - 67 (foot-note), 112-115, 552, 553, 556
" Miller, Rufus," Case of 598-601
Myers, F. W. H., Sittings for Cross-correspondence with Mrs.
Piper ... 57, 65, 98 (foot-note), 115-118, 247, 505-513
See also Communicators, Controls.
Operation, Mrs. Piper's, Incidents connected with
217, 377-381, 579-582
(
656 Index to Vol. XXVIII. [part
Photographs of Persons seen in Trance recognised by Mrs.
Piper 215, 249, 250, 273-276, 573-575
Piper, Mrs., the Trance Phenomena of, by Mrs. Henry Sidgwick - 1-645
Podmore, F., on Cahagnet's Experiments - - - 83 (foot-note), 84
Prophecies given in trance - - - -
3, 90, 120-122, 332
Psychometry doubted by G. P. and Doctor .... 308
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, A Contribution to the Study of the
Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena - - - 1-645
See also Sitters with Mrs. Piper.
Sitters, Effect of, on the Trance Phenomena - - - 294-305
,, with Mrs. Piper
—
Individual Sitters
—
Bancroft, Miss Margaret - - - - - 12, 56
Blodgett, Mrs. 617, 618
Brown, J. F. 208
Dorr, G. B., 12, 16 (foot-note), 24, 25, 26, 184, 197-198,
199, 236, 264, 277-280, 436, 489-490, 546, 570, 571,
572, 578, 587, 588, 592, 595, 605-612, 622, 636, 638,
643, 644.
Dorr, Mrs. 568
Edmunds, Miss L. 34
" Forrest, Richard " .... 155-158
Hall, Dr. Stanley, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19, 54, 55, 177-
178, 200 (foot-note), 312, 514, 517.
Heywood, Charles ----- 195-196
Hodgson, R., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 16, 18, 20, 26 (foot-
notes), 29, 34, 36-39, 45, 51-53, 69, 137, 139,
335 ff ., passim.
Howard, Mrs., 38, 40, 46-47, 53, 69, 109, 110, 213-217,
352-355, 360-363, 545, 564-566, 616, 622.
Hyslop, Prof. J. H., 4, 11, 12, 200 (foot-note), 270-271,
299-300.
Ingraham, Dr. Lena V. - - - - - 19
James, William, 2, 5, 10, 12, 28, 78 (foot-note), 79, 106
Junot, Mr. and Mrs., 4, 11, 189-190, 267, 545, 585, 597
Leaf, Walter 208, 259, 261
Lodge, Sir Oliver, 12, 19, 20 (foot-note), 21, 23, 32,
60, 68, 123-129, 206, 261, 514-517.
Marte, Robert 43
Newbold, Prof. W. R., 1, 10, 17-18, 29, 35, 44, 51,
70, 153, 199, 219, 221, 222, 364-376, 437-448, 549-
551, 624-626.
Peirce, Prof. J. M. 212, 269
Piddington, J. G., 12, 225-226, 262, 266, 312, 546,
601, 602.
LXXI.] Index to Vol. XXVIII. 657
Sitters, with Mrs. Piper
—
Individual Sitters
—
Pope, Miss Theodate - - 23, 138, 198, 237-239
R., Miss A. M., 30, 33, 73, 75-76, 162, 195, 196, 197,
212, 271-272, 428, 434, 583.
Rich, Rogers 30, 209
Savage, Miss Gertrude ..... 209
Savage, Rev. W. H. 181
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, 25, 283-286, 321-322, 323, 536-
544, 604.
Sutton, Mrs. 211
Tanner, Miss Amy - - 12, 16, 17, 19, 20, 612
Thaw, Dr. and Mrs., 82, 182, 194, 210, 219 (foot-note),
256, 257, 548, 567.
Thompson, Isaac ...... 32
Thompson, Mrs. Isaac - - 13, 32, 125, 142, 191
Vance, Miss 43, 47
Wendell, Barrett 208
Telepathy from the Dead, Question of 5, 7, 81, 82, 83, 317-321, 329
,, from the Living, Question of
6, 7, 81, 83, 296-300, 310, 318, 329
Tout, C. H., Automatic Personations of 327
Trance, Mrs. Piper's, General Account of - - - - - 15-21
,, History of -------- - 9-14
„ Bibliography of ------- - ii
Visions seen by Mrs. Piper after Anaesthetics - - 217-218, 377-380
„ ,, ,, during Sittings - - - 544-546
in the Waking-stage, 212-217, 218-229, 248-
257, 551, 566, 567.
Waking-stage, General Description ------ 21-28
,, Development of 205-258, 549 et seq.
Visions seen by Mrs. Piper in, 212-217, 218-229, 248-
257, 551, 566, 567.
GLASGOW : PRINTED AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
-
Part LXXt* Vol. XXVIII. December, 1915. Price 12s. net.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
A Contribution to the Study of the Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance
Phenomena. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick :
Preface, . . . . . . i
List of Papers concerning Mrs. Piper, previously published, . ii
Synopsis of Contents, ...... v
Chapter I. Introductory, ...... 1
,, II. Theories of Controls as to their Relation to the
Medium, ...... 29
,, III. Individual Controls, . . . . .75
,, IV. Language of Controls, and their Common Memories
and Associations of Ideas, . . . 130
,, V. Communicators, . . . .159
VI. The Waking-Stage, . . . . .205
,, VII. Relation of the States of Consciousness to each other, 258
,, VIII. Effect of Sitters and of so-called "Influences," . 294
,, IX. Conclusion, - 315
Appendix to Chapter I. Some Prophecies, . . . 332
,, ,, II. Theories of Controls, . . 335
,, ,, III. Specimens of Individual Controls, 437
,, " ,, IV. Speaking by Thought, . . 518
,, „ V. Communicators, . . . 520
,, ,, VI. Examples of Waking-Stages, . 549
,, ,, VII. Relations between the States of
Consciousness, . . . 614
,, ,, VHI. Sitters and "Influences," . . 619
Index to Vol. XXVIII., . . . .". . .653
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED,
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW.
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON: FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebonb, W.
GLASGOW: JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St : Vincent Street.
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
I
All rig/its reserved.
The Society for Psychical Research.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1915.
PRESIDENT.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D.
VICE PRESIDENTS.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Right Rev. Bishop Boyd
Carpenter, D.D.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
COUNCIL.
W. W. Baggally.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
Professor L. P. Jacks, D.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, F.R.S., M.B.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
J. G. PlDDINGTON.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
H. Arthur Smith.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
V. J. Woolley, M.D.
Maurice B. Wright, M.D.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - - - - - - 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart,. F.R.S., - - - - - 1885-1887.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, 1888-1892.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., - - - 1893.
Professor William James, - - - - - - - 1894-1895.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., ------ 1896-1899.
Frederic W. H. Myers, .... - - - - - 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., 1901-1903.
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, 1905.
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, - - - - 1906-1907.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 1908-1909.
H. Arthur Smith, 1910.
Andrew Lang, LL.D., 1911.
The Right Rev. Bishop Botd Carpenter, D.D., - - 1912.
Professor Henri Bergson, 1913.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, 1914.
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the various subjects which
are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Society, or
from others. Communications to be addressed to the Secretary,
Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
The Rooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday,
when they close at 1.30 p.m.
Proceedings of
The Society for Psychical Research.
Principal Contents of Parts LXVI.-LXX.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.]
Part LXVI. —November, 1912. Price 3s. net. page
I. Some Types of Multiple Personality. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D., 257
II. A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality, with Report of a
Case. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D., . . . .286
III. A Note on the Unconscious in Psycho-Analysis. By Professor
Sigm. Freud, M.D., LL.D. (Vienna), . . .312
IV. The Theory of the Subconscious. By Boris Sidis, M.A., Ph.D., M.D., 319
Supplement : Reviews
:
Mr. M'Dougall's "Body and Mind, a History and a Defence
of Animism." By the Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, . 344
Prof. Dr. E. Bleuler's "Die Psychanalyse Freuds." By
V. J. Woolley, M.D., . . . . . .367
Dr. Edwin Ash's "Faith and Suggestion." By C. Lloyd
Tuckey, M.D., . . . . . . .370
The Liverpool Psycho-Therapeutic Clinic. By A. Betts Tap-
lin, L.R.C.P., . . . . . . .373
Part LXVIL—July, 1913. Price 3s. net.
I. A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper on "Cross-Correspondences
and the Experimental Method." By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, .
Appendix I. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, .
•
,, II. By Alice Johnson, .
,, III. By J. G. Piddington, . . . .
II. Andrew Lang and Psychical Research. By the Rev. M. A.
Bayfield, . . ......
III. A Study of Dreams. By Dr. Frederik van Eeden,
IV. Presidential Address. By Professor Henri Bergson,
Officers and Council for 1913, ......
List of Members and Associates, . .
Index to Vol. XXVI.,
Part LXVIII. —January, 1914. Price 4s. net.
I. A Reconstruction of some " Concordant Automatisms." By Alice
Johnson.
Synopsis, . . . . ... . 1
Introduction, ........ 4
Chapter I. Cross-Correspondence: "Ave Roma immortalis," . 11
,, II. The Theory of Cross-Correspondences and the
Latin Message, ..... 24
,, III. Cross-Correspondence: " Hope, Star and Browning," 28
,, IV. Cross-Correspondence: "Alexander's Tomb," . 50
V. The avrbs ovpavbs clkv/jluv Incident, . . .77
,, VI. Cross-Correspondence: "The Clavigers," . . 127
,, VII. Some General Conclusions, .... 143
List of Illustrations, . . ... . . . 156
II. Presidential Address. By Professor Henri Bergson. Trans-
lated by H. Wildon Carr, D.Litt., .... 157
Supplement :
'
Review: Mr. Hereward Carrington's "Personal Experiences in
Spiritualism." By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, . 176
Thought-Transference, —Experimental. By John E. Coover,P1i.D., 186
Proceedings of the Society.
—
Continued.
Part LXIX.—July, 1914. Price 4s. net. page
I. Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research : A Presidential
Address. By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, . . . 191
II. Some Recent Scripts affording Evidence of Personal Survival.
By The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, . . . 221
III. Note on the Same Scripts. By the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, . 244
IV. A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. By Helen de G. Verrall, 250
V. Experiments in Thought-Transference. By Clarissa Miles and
Hermione Ramsden, . . . . . , 279
VI. To Clear the Air. By the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, . . 318
VII. The History of Marthe Beraud. By Helen de G.. Verrall, . 333
Special Medical Supplement.
VIII. Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice. By Sidney Wilkin-
son, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., . . . . .370
IX. Some Auto-Suggested Visions as Illustrating Dream-Formation.
By V. J. Woolley, M.D., . . . . 390
X. Pseudo-Physical Phenomena in the Case of Mr. Griinbaum. By
Alice Johnson, . . ..'v. . . 400
Review. Professor S. Freud's " Psychopathology of Everyday Life"
(Translated by Dr. A. A. Brill). By Constance E. Long, M.D., 411
Part LXX.—May, 1915. Price 3s. net.
I. Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. By Helen
de G. Verrall, ....... 415
II. A Discussion of the Willett Scripts :
I. By Hereward Carrington, .... 458
II. By Ivor Lloyd Tuckett, M.D., . . . . 466
III. By The Rev. M. A. Bayfield, . . . .474
Review ;
Dr. Morton Prince's "The Unconscious: The Fundamentals
of Human Personality, Normal and Abnormal." By F. C S.
Schiller, D.Sc, . . . . . .492
Officers and Councillor 1915, ...... 507
List of Members and Associates, ...... 508
Index to Vol. XXVII., ^548
Bound Copies of Volumes I. -XXVII. of the Society's Proceedings, or any
Part separately, can be obtained through any Bookseller, from Mr. Francis
Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London, W., as above.
Members and Associates can obtain bound copies of volumes, or separate Parts,
at half-price, as below, on application to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. Or, in America, to The W. B.
Clarke Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass. -
Vol I
„ II
„ HI
„ IV
„ v.
„ VI
„ VII
„ VIII
„ IX
„ x
„ XI.
„ XII.
„ XIII.
„ XIV.
(Parts i.-iv.) pp. 336. 5s.
.
( „ v.-vii. ) pp. 340. 5s.
( ,, vm.-ix.) pp. 500. 5s.
( „ x.-xi.) pp. 605. 4s.
( ,, xn. -xiv.) pp. 606. 5s.
.
( ,, xvf-xvii. ) pp. 707. 5s.
.( ,, xvin.-xx.) pp. 442. 4s.
.
( ,, xxi.-xxm. ) pp. 647. 5s.
.( ,, xxiv.-xxv.) pp. 407. 4s.
. (Part xxvi.) pp. 466. 4s.
(Pts.xxvn.-xxix.)pp. 637. 5s.
( ,, xxx.-xxxi.)pp. 391. 4s.
( ,, xxxii. -xxxiii. )pp.653. 6s.
(Pts.xxxiv.-xxxv.) pp. 436. 5s.
Vol. XV. (Pts. xxxvi.-xl.) pp. 522. 6s.
„ XVI. (Part XLi.)pp. 650. 6s.
,, XVII. (Parts XLii.-XLV.)pp. 468.
6s. 3d.
,, XVIII. ( ,, XLVi.-XLix.)pp. 548. 7s.
„ XIX. (,, L.-Lii.)pp. 508. 6s. 6d.
XX. (Part liii.) pp. 444. 6s.
„ XXI. (Pts. liv.-lvi.) pp. 584. 6s.
„ XXII. (Part lvii.) pp. 445. 6s.
„ XXIII. (Pts.Lvni.-Lix.)pp.602. 7s.
„ XXIV. ( „ lx.-lxi.) pp. 758. 7s.
,, XXV. ( „ LXii.-LXiv.)pp. 540. 6s.
,, XXVI. ( ,,
Lxv.-Lxvn.)pp. 544. 6s.
„ XXVII. ( ,, Lxvm-Lxx.)pp.562. 6s.
Cloth-lettered Covers for binding most of the Volumes, price Is. each.
The Society also issues a Monthly Journal for Private Circulation
among Members and Associates only.
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
