{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1943__anonymous___silence_of_dr_lang.pdf","mytitle":"Silence Of Dr Lang","mylang":"de"}
The
Silence of Dr. Lang
*
Psychic Press Ltd.
ONE SHILLING
THE SILENCE
OF DR. LANG
PSYCHIC PRESS LIMITED
144 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON W.C.r
BOOK
PRODUCTION
WAR ECONOMY
.. STANDARD
TlilS BOOK IS PRODUCED IN COMPLETE
CONFORMITY WITH THE AUTHORISED
ECONOMY STANDARDS
First Impression
Second Impression
March 1942
December 1943
MADE AND P RINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
EBENEZER BAYLIS AND SON, LTD., THE
TRI NITY PRESS, WORCESTER, AND LONDON
THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG
OVER four years ago, the Primate of All England,
The Most Rev. Cosmo Gordon Lang, appointed a
committee to investigate Spiritualism. After two years
of patient and systematic inquiry, the committee made
its report. It was sent to the Archbishop of Canterbury.
It was circulated among the diocesan bishops. And
there, in the archiepiscopal .and episcopal archives, it
rests. For over two years, Spiritualists, responsible
Churchmen, and public opinion, as reB.ected in the
clamour of the Press, have demanded that the report be
made public. But Orthodoxy remains obdurate. The
report is favourable to Spiritualism.
THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG
T HE committee was appointed in 1937 after the Rev. G. Maurice
Elliott, the well-known Spiritualist, and Dr. Francis Underhill, then
Dean of Rochester, had interviewed Dr. Temple, then Archbishop ofYork,
now Archbishop of Canterbury, and pleaded that the time was ripe for the
Church of England to investigate Spiritualism.
Dr. Temple, despite his statement, three years earlier, that "It is positively
undesirable that there should be experimental proof of man's survival after
death," was broad-minded enough to agree.
Dr. Lang thereupon nominated his committee. After it had been sitting
for about a year, its chairman, Dr. Underhill, then Bishop of Bath and
Wells, stated in an interview that it comprised "a number of men and
women amply qualified to hear and weigh evidence," whose "sole aim is
to arrive at the truth."
Yet, when they arrived at the truth, a veil of silence descended on the
committee's labours. Spiritualists, Churchmen and the Press reached the
only possible conclusion-that the ban placed upon publication was in
reality a resounding victory for Spiritualism.
Two years after the committee began its deliberations, the Editor of
Psychic News addressed this letter to Dr. Underhill:
"I write to you because you were the chairman of the committee set up
to inquire into Spiritualism. I understand that the report was completed
some months ago.
"It is now being freely stated that the reason for the report not being
published is due to the fact that it presents Spiritualism in a favourable
light. The suggestion is also being made that the report is deliberately
suppressed for this reason.
"As this is a matter of great interest to Spiritualists, I ask you to be good
enough to confirm or deny the allegations being freely made."
Dr. Underhill replied:
"The report of the Archbishop's Committee on Spiritualism, of which
I was chairman, was presented to the archbishops and diocesan bishops of
England some months ago. The report itself disclosed much difference of
opinion, and it was consequently felt that there was need offurther careful
investigation into the subject. On that account it was decided that the
report should not be made public."
Simultaneously with the request made by the Editor of Psychic News,
three leading Spiritualists, Mrs. M. A. St. Clair Stobart, G. H. Lethem, and
Ernest H. Hunt, wrote to Dr. Lang in these terms:
"In the interests of truth, we ask whether the report is to be made public,
and whether it may soon be looked for.
6 THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG
"We are sincerely concerned that the nature and value of the facts for
which Spiritualism stands should be made known. For we cannot believe
that those facts will c;lo other than form an impregnable base on which, even
as in the earliest days of the Church, a living Christianity may ground
itself, and to-day immensely widen its appeal.
"The world suffers in such dire straits that we consider that anything
which truly helps the mind of men to take courage and comfort in the
spiritual verities should be made patent and available to all."
Replied the Primate's Chaplain:
"It is not proposed at present (our italics) to publish the report. When it
came up for review it was felt that further investigation was required,
and that premature publication would be liable to give rise to misunder-
standing."
Prominent personalities in the Spiritualist movement continued in no
uncertain strain to state their views on the withholding of such an historic
document.
"I am confident that the report would have appeared if it had been
adverse," said Frank Hawken, secretary of the Marylebone Spiritualist
Association, voicing the opinion of many Spiritualists. .
Maybe it did not appear because its contents provided Dr. Lang with
no valid reason, to quote his own words in a letter written after he received
his committee's report, why "spiritualism and spiritualistic services are not
countenanced or encouraged in the Church of England." That was the
official reply made to Martin Liljeblad, a Swedish pastor, who had inquired
the position of Spiritualism in England.
Said a leading Churchman to Arthur Findlay, author of many widely-
circulating books on Spiritualism:
"Spiritualism has won a great victory."
The fact, he added, that the bishops had turned down the findings of
their own committee meant that the committee decided in favour of
Spiritualism, and the bishops were afraid to make the findings known.
"The Nazis suppress any news which is not favourable to their creed,"
said Findlay. "So do the Anglican bishops. That is why they will not publish
the findings of their own committee on Spiritualism.
"It was stupid of them.ever to set up a committee, but dictators always
do stupid things. Doubtless they thought that the report would be adverse,
and that they would kill, once and for all, this ever-recurring menace to
their creeds and doctrines."
Nor was the Press slow to comment on the suppression of the report.
Said the Daily Sketch, to cite one instance, after quoting from Psychic News:
"Hundreds of clergymen, waiting for a lead, are disappointed by the
decision. Spiritualists are jubilant. They believe that suppression of the
report is clear evidence that the war against Spiritualism has crumbled
in the face of facts. They will press for immediate publication of the
·report."
Soon there followed the first newspaper announcement to contain any
THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG
details of the report and its cir-
culation among the bishops, to-
gether with the names of the
committee and its terms ofrefer-
ence. Psychic News, indeed,
added an epoch-making chapter
to psychic history when it an-
nounced in February 1940:
"The Church of England, by
nine votes to three, has decided
that Spiritualism is true. The
nine were all the influential
members of the Archbishop of
"RECANTERBURY"?
"JP the committee comes 'out
on the side of Spiritualism,
I suppose the Primate will then
be called the Archbishop of
Recanterbury"- Maurice Barbanell
in Psychic News, April 17,
1937·
7
Canterbury's Committee on Spiritualism. The three, unimportant and
unknown, merely 'reserved their opinions.'
"Our authority for this statement is someone who has seen the com-
mittee's secret report. The statement is confirmed by a member of the
committee itself. Both are famous. Both bear unblemished reputations.
"Yet, for over a year, these historic findings have been hidden from the
world, smothered by Orthodoxy!
"They were arrived at after over two years of patient and systematic
inquiry, after sitting with mediums, hearing witnesses and examining the
evidence.
"Then the report was printed. It was circulated to every diocesan bishop
of the Church of England.
"Yet it was kept back from the world.
"We challenge the Archbishop of Canterbury, Primate of All England,
to dispute these facts. He can only reply by publishing the report, in full."
Psychic News subsequently corrected its fust-published figures, to read
"seven votes to three," upon being informed that one member of the
committee had resigned and that only eleven had inquired.
The signatories to the majority report which we are asked to believe
disclosed so "much difference of opinion" are:
Dr. Francis Underhill, The Bishop of Bath and Wells.
Canon H. Anson, Master of the Temple.
Dr. W . R. Matthews, Dean of St. Paul's.
Canon L. W . Grensted, Examining Chaplain to the Archbishop ofYork.
Dr. William Brown, the celebrated psychologist.
P. E. Sandlands, K.C.
Lady (Gwendolen) Stephenson.
The three signatories to the minority report included the Bishop of Bath
and Wells's secretary and the Bishop of Derby's wife.
The committee's terms of reference were "to investigate the subject of
communications with discarnate spirits and the claims of Spiritualism in
relation to the Christian faith."
Its members did not confine themselves to the examination ofthe evidence
8 THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG
presented by Spiritualists. They considered the views of witnesses who
were unfavourable to Spiritualism, and incorporated their statements in
the report.
They went in a body to seances. They asked questions of mediums and
the spirit intelligences who manifested through them. Some obtained
surprising results.
Ernest W. Oaten, Editor of the Two Worlds, and a Spiritualist for forty
years, addressed the committee. With great fearlessness and courage Oaten
told the Church representatives a few home truths. His address was followed
by an hour of questions and answers. Some of Oaten's most cogent points
are reproduced as an appendix to this booklet.
The committee's findings are printed in two sections. The bulk is taken
up by the majority report, signed by the seven most influential members.
The minority report, which the three remaining members signed, occupies
less than half a dozen pages.
The majority report, based on impartial and wide-ranging inquiries, is
drawn up by Canon Grensted. Though written from the Church point of
view, and occasionally sounding a note of caution, it is a lucidly expressed
document confirming the case for Spiritualism. Its language has been highly
praised.
It cites some of the eyidence for Survival obtained through mediumship,
and includes an account by a judge of the Appeal Court whose testimony
to psychic phenomena is remarkable. This majority report, states one
informant, also makes a suggestion for an alliance between Spiritualism
and the Church which, if it could be effected, would lead to a religious
renaissance.
The announcement made exclusively in Psychic News and extensively
quoted, was quickly succeeded by publication in the same newspaper of
the committee's main conclusions. Rightly describing the occasion as
"Spiritualism's Greatest Triumph," Psychic News printed these findings:
"Spiritualism cannot be disregarded. It fills gaps in our knowledge. It demon-
strates that communication with the dead has been effected.
"After making every allowance for alternative explanations and theories, there
remains a residuum which can only be explained on the ground of discarnate
intervention.
"We have been unable to prove the existence of Spiritualism's physical
phenomena, for we have had no evidence of materialisation, the direct voice, or
apports.
"The Church should set up a body ofpeople who, under its direction, shall keep
in touch with responsible Spiritualists."
The Daily Telegraph, after reading this account, telephoned Lambeth
Palace and was informed, "The statement is both unauthorised and
inaccurate.''
. Despite this disclaimer, Psychic News insisted on the accuracy of its
account. It joyfully admitted, on the other hand, that its disclosure was
"unauthorised." Not one member of the committee, when approached by
II
THB SILENCE OF DR. LANG 9
Psychic News, challenged the accuracy of its published account of their
verdict.
After the main conclusions ofthe report were thus revealed, Dr. Underhill
was quoted by the London Evening Standard as saying: "The position is
rather delicate and uncertain now, and will not be clarified until the further
investigation has been completed." Has it ever been begun? [Note.-The
majority report was unanimous. It was signed by the Bishop of Bath and
Wells himself! Yet publication was "considered to be unwise." What a
volte face!]
Opined the Daily Mirror at the same time: "It is expected that as a result
of this disclosure (by Psychic News), the Archbishop of Canterbury will
make public the entire findings of the investigation."
This expectation still belongs•to the realm of fantasy.
Said the Sunday Dispatch: "Some members of the committee feel that the
report should be published without further delay, because their names are
being quoted as signatories to it, without it being made clear what their
individual views are."
We will tell you what those views are-the views of the Seven Wise
Men.
Dr. Matthews (in a public address): A number of people had found in
mediumship "a confirmation of their Christian faith, and even a way from
agnosticism to belief." (This, he says, is an "unexpected fact" as disdosed
by the evidence taken by the committee.)
Canon Ansori (also in a public address): "Spiritualism is the scientific
explanation of the Christian belief and faith in survival of life after death."
And, in Psychic News after the decision had been reached not to publish the
report:
"I have made no secret of my own conclusions regarding Spiritualism."
Canon Anson is the author of The Truth About Spiritualism, published
in 1941, in which he says:
"I want to impress upon professing Christians the importance of not
pouring scorn upon evidences and experiences which are in great part
similar to those upon which the events which formed the foundation of the
primitive gospel rest, and wWch must always form the core ofour Christian
hope and trust."
Canon Anson sums up Orthodoxy's attitude towards Spiritualism in
three categories-the common belief that there is no evidence of Survival;
that if the belief is accepted there is no contemporary evidence; and those
who declare it is desirable that there should be no evidence.
"It is largely with such people in mind, and they are a very considerable
number," he says, "that I should wish to put forward in a very simple
form the accumulation of evidence for survival which (for many people)
goes so far to confirm the faith of the Church that there is a spiritual body
which survives death and carries on with it into a world beyond time and
space the experiences, whether good or bad, whii:h the spirit has garnered
in its passag~ through this terrestial life."
JO THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG
Of evidence for Survival obtained through mediumship, he says: "If we
reject this evidence we ought also logically to reject the evidence upon
which the great facts of our Christian faith are founded." ·
Canon Anson has had several seances with a woman friend who possesses
the gift of automatic writing. Through her, he has testified, evidential
messages from the Other Side have been transmitted.
Canon L. W. Grensted, yet another prominent signatory to the majority
report, accepting the invitation ofPsychic News to say "What I Think About
Spiritualism," wrote:
"I hold that there is some passage of real and authentic communication
through the veil which separates us so thinly with that which lies beyond.
Those who are simply credufous will miss the message just as surely as
those who refuse to read at all. But there is a message to be received. I
believe there is sometimes given to us a real and personal contact with those
who have passed beyond death."
The man who wrote that is the same man who drafted the majority
report.
Other members of the committee had their Spiritualist backgrounds.
Dr. Underhill, who has since passed on, was a psychic, having proved his
faculty of water divining. More, he frequently attended seances.
Dr. William Brown, another of the Seven Wise Men, has devoted a
quarter of a century to psychic research. He makes no secret of his interest
in Spiritualism, for he has publicly revealed that he is his own automatic
writing medium.
No wonder some members of the committee chafed-and still chafe-
at Dr. Lang's decision. It was as a direct result of the disclosures made
by Psychic News that some ofthem pressed for the report to be made known.
They could see no reason why their findings should be withheld from
the public.
Lame explanations that spoke of "further investigations" ... "premature
publication" . . . "differences of opinion" ... "misunderstanding" ...
"delicate and uncertain position" . . . served only to astonish these men
who had carried out the task assigned to them and who expected the public
to be told all about it.
It is now two and a half years since their majority report was completed J
and signed. Yet in all that time they have not been asked to conduct any
of those "further investigations" that has since become one of the stock
answers to baulk awkward inquiries!
Dr. Matthews, publicly protesting against the findings being pigeon-holed
by Dr. Lang, based his remarks on the statement we have just quoted.
Does his declaration-that a number of people had found in mediumship
"a confumation of the Christian faith, and even a way from agnosticism
to belief"-provide any basis of logic for the statement that "further
investigations" are desirable?
Faced with these protests, with the known views on Spiritualism of
several of the Wise Men,· will all the two score odd diocesan bishops
THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG II
be content to go on standing idly by while this historic report is with-
held?
Is Dr. Barnes, Bishop of Birmingham, famous for his frankness, a party
to the ban?
What about the Bishop of Liverpool? Not long ago, he recommended
Man's Survival After Death, a Spiritualist book written by the Rev. C. L.
Tweedale, to the clergy of his diocese for Lenten. study, and wrote to
Tweedale,-saying: "Now we must leave the leaven to work."
Dr. Pollock, Bishop of Norwich, boldly proclaimed: "The evidence
for Spiritualism is too strong, too widespread, and accepted by too many
sober-minded people for a hasty rejection. Scientific men accustomed to
deal coolly and accuratelr, with phenomena have pronounced in favour of
the truth of Spiritualism. '
"The evidence for Spiritualism cannot be disregarded," said the Bishop -
of Chelmsford.
Dr. Hensley Henson, a former Bishop of Durham, recommended to
clergy in his diocese Talks With The Invisible, a book written by the
Rev. H. T. lovejoy, summing up his proofs of Survival obtained in thirty
years of investigation.
The Bishop of Lincoln recommended candidates for ordination to study
The Challenge of Spiritualism, written by the Rev. G. Maurice Elliott, a
pioneer in getting the committee appointed.
Take, too, Dr. Cyril Garbett. Though, in 1938, when Bishop of Win-
chester, he questioned the validity ofpsychic evidence, in 1921, as Bishop of
Southwark, he opined:
"It is impossible to regard Spiritualism as confined to a few fanatical
people. I would say at once, genuinely believing what I say to be true,
that there are spirit messages from 'beyond the veil'."
And has not Dr. William Temple so changed his views as to declare
that "the most important political questions of the day are the questions
whether God exists and whether man survives after death"?
In 1920 Orthodoxy at large was thinking the same way. Then, the
Lambeth Conference appointed a committee of two archbishops and
thirty-five bishops "to report upon the Christian faith in relation to
f Spiritualism." They declared:
"It is possible that we may be on the threshold of a new Science, which
will, by another method ofapproach, confirm us in the assurance ofa world
behind and beyond the world we see, and ofsomething within us by which
we are in contact with it. We could never presume to set a limit to means.
which God may use to bring men to the realisation of spiritual life."
The Church of Scotland, too, has inquired into Spiritualism. After the
Rev. William A. Reid, of Glasgow, petitioned the General Assembly, a
committee was appointed in 1920 to investigate psychic phenomena. Two
years were spent on the inquiry, with the result, to quote Dr. Norman
Maclean, an ex-Moderator:
"The Church decided that psychical research was not contrary to the
12 THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG
teachings of the Christian faith, and that members of the Church were not
forbidden to exercise their minds in this field."
"The present position of the Church of Scotland," says Reid, "is that
ministers and laymen have a perfect right, if they please, to investigate
psychic phenomena and to believe that human survival is now proved."
Now, a Church of England committee has come out "on the side of the
angels." It finds proofof Survival. Yet what happens? Shsh! says Lambeth
Palace. Put it away! Don't publish it! Investigate, investigate, investigate!
But we won't tell the public!
Meanwhile all the churches are facing the problem of dwindling attend-
ances, "a drifting away from religion," as Dr. Lang called it.
IfDr. Lang wanted the public to "drift back" to religion, then there was
no surer means of persuading them than through the issue of the hitherto
suppressed report.
Fifteen thousand Anglican clergymen, bewildered by Dr. Lang's decision,
know that mourners desert the Church because it cannot give them comfort
in the hour of sorrow. The world to-day wants proof, not creeds nor
theories.
Loyalty to truth, wherever it leads, should be the paramount consideration
ofall Church leaders. Many of them realise that dissemination of the truth
in this case would spell materialism's greatest defeat.
Strange, is it not, that Dr. Lang, so adammtine himself in this matter
of publication, should presume to tell journalists that "a primary part of
your business is to circulate news"?
Dr. Lang was addressing members of the Institute of Journalists in St.
Bride's, Fleet Street's own church, nearly a year after his committee's
report had come into his hands. And there was the Press being gratuitously
told to publish the news when he himself was withholding a news story
that would have sent circulations rocketing if there hadn't been a paper
shortage! Can you make sense of it?
Three newspapers already have published their readers' verdicts in favour
of Spiritualism. Daily News (now News Chronicle~ readers voted 58 per
cent that Spiritualism was true. Asked to express their opinion on "Do The
Dead Come Back?" 52.75 per cent ofDaily Sketch readers said "yes." Then
the Sunday Pictorial instituted a similar inquiry. Their readers, too, gave a
majority vote for Spiritualism. ·
It wasn't only the Press that used its best endeavours, in the interests of
truth, to prevail upon Dr. Lang. In her official position as chairman of the
Confraternity, comprising Spiritualists, clergy, ministers, and laymen of all
denominations, Mrs. Stobart wrote to Dr. Lang:
"I have had communications from over 2 00 clergy, expressing their
views upon the desirability of the publication of the committee's findings.
Of these clergy, three-fourths have intimated that they are anxious for the
report to be published. In the words of one, 'The clergy and the people in
general have a right to receive such guidance as the authorities ofthe Church
of England can g;ive'."
THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG IJ
Mrs. Stobart concluding by discussing the likelihood of Dr. Lang com-
plying "with this widely-diffused demand."
One hundred and 'fifty Anglican clergymen, including thirteen holding
high office in the Church, had replied in the affirmative to a questionnaire
circulated by Mrs. Stobart. Some were "very insistent" on the report being
m~p~k .
Forty-five thought it should be withheld; five did riot express an opinion.
Announcing this news in World's Press News, the journalists' own news-
paper, Hannen Swaffer wrote: "Publication ofthe report is being demanded
by hundreds of clergymen, including ten canons. If all the canons go off,
what will happen to the report?"
Replied the Primate's Chaplain to Mrs. Stobart's appeal:
"The Archbishop is giving consideration to the suggestion that the
question of making public the private and confidential document submitted
1 to him and his brother bishops on the subject of Spiritualism should be
reconsidered.
"This is a matter which does not concern the Archbishop alone, and
some time (our italics) will elapse before he has an opportunity of consulting
the others concerned."
The Chaplain's letter ended with these words: "Until that time, probably
... June (1940), he will be glad to be spared further correspondence on the
subject." ·
Thus did Cosmo Gordon Lang throw the onus of deciding the question
of publication on the forty-one diocesan bishops.
Adroitly sidestepping the archiepiscopal plea "to be spared further
correspondence," Mrs. Stobart answered with the suggestion, "as one who
has the interest of the Church at heart, and who does understand the diffi-
culties involved," that if Dr. Lang could see his way to an early release of
the contents of the report, before the world had a chance of saying it was
forced from him, and had only been withheld because the result was not in
ac~ordance with preconceived hopes, it would remove a widespread
grievance.
It would establish the fact that Dr. Lang was not yielding to public
,
, clamour, but responding to the great need, felt by so many of his clergy,
for guidance on a subject which forms the basis of religion-"namely, life
after death."
Mrs. Stobart concluded by asking for an interview. Well, Dr. Lang had
not asked to be spared that, too ... But she was refused.
Dr. Lang's next supplication, succeeding swiftly on his expressed distaste
ofcorrespondence, was stranger still. It was no less than to ask Mrs. Stobart
to "use her influence" to "suppress the Press clamour" (in other words,
public demand) for the publication ofthe report. To this request Mrs. Stobart
quite rightly made no direct answer. Dr. Lang should know his Press better
than that. Had he not recently urged them to circulate the news? Was he
now, in effect, endeavouring to retract and tell them that his advice to them
was all wrong? ·
'
14 THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG
BISHOPS' DECISION
FORETOLD FROM
OTHER SIDE
MTHE Church will not have
the courage to reveal to the
world what they really feel about
communication with us. Many of
them have visions, but lack courage,
and are filled with self-conscious-
"
ness.
Thus, at a seance held in June,
1938, when the committee was still
sitting, was forecast from the Other
Side the subsequent reaction ofthe
Church to its own report.
This fact was revealed by Baron
Palmstierna, formerly Sweden's
Minister to this country, in a letter
to "Light."
What lead, one wonders, did
he give his bishops when, in
July 1940, they did eventually
discuss the question of the pub-
lication of the report? Did they
bear in mind Dr. Lang's own
widely-reported words of three
months earlier, that a news-
paper's job was to circulate
news? Were they conscious of
the fact that it was equally their
own duty to circulate the news
-the news that man survives
the grave?
Apparently not. For the
bishops favoured continued sup-
pression. Very loyally, in fact,
after a secret conclave, they
agreed to smother the report
and to try to keep the world safe
for Orthodoxy. The reason
given for the continued clerical
ban was that "in respect ofprac-
tical guidance to Christian
people on a subject fraught with grave dangers, the report does not seem to
be so clea~ as to make its publication desirable"!
That is what Dr. Lang's announcement said. The report itself
says nothing about Spiritualism being "a subject fraught with grave
dangers."
It is hard to understand why Lambeth Palace should circulate this attack
on Spiritualism, seeing that its own committee did not reach that con-
clusion.
Indeed, the committee carefully considered this question and dismissed
it. It is not their view. One member at least was more than surprised to
£nd the bishops resorting to this subterfuge as a reason for holding back the
report.
If Spiritualism is "gravely dangerous," why did not Cosmo Gordon
Lang come out into the open and say so several months earlier, when
his hand was so far forced as to £nd and put out "reasons" for suppression?
Then the "position" was no more than "delicate and uncertain," and merely
needed "further investigations" to clarify it. But, if, apparently, you are
bent on evading an issue, what does a phrase here and there matter? One is
as good as anothel'.
That the report was "not unanimous," for example, was another of the
"reasons" draggeq up in support of its concealment. Yet the Church has
a precedent. Fot1r years ago it published "Doctrine in the Church of
THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG IS
England", the report of a commission appointed by the Archbishops of
Canterbury and York. Its twenty-five leading theologians met for fifteen
years, and on practically every Christian doctrine they agreed to differ! Yet
Orthodoxy did not consider that the publication of their findings, expres-
sing contradictory opinions on all its beliefs, was "fraught with grave
dangers."
Commenting on the ban at a meeting of the Society for Psychical
Research, Dr. Matthews, one of the Seven Wise Men to sign the document
that was to become such a source of embarrassment to Dr. Lang, suggested
that the findings had found their "final resting place in the archiepiscopal
pigeon-holes, if not in the archiepiscopal mind."
Is his mind the best judge? What of the public, the millions who in war-
time are crying out for spiritual sustenance and comfort as never before,
sustenance and comfort and healing that the Church will not and cannot
provide? Is not their mind better calculated to decide whether Spiritualism
is fraught with "grave dangers," on the nature of which Dr. Lang's spokes-
man is not unsurprisingly silent? Give the public the report and let them
accept or reject it!
By what right do the archbishops and bishops set themselves up· as sole
arbiters in the affairs of the soul? Have they not pathetically confessed
already to the failure oftheir own antiquated theology, as seen in the drifting
away from the Church? One word from Dr. Lang, and the drift could
have been halted before it developed into an avalanche. One word from
Dr. Lang, and there might have been a religious renaissance, not alone in
this country but throughout the western world. There is much, meanwhile,
that Dr. Lang can tell us.
Were, firstly, all the diocesan bishops unanimous in their verdict that
suppression of the report should be upheld? Was the Bishop of Liverpool
a "yes man"? And the Bishop of Norwich? And Chelmsford? And
Lincoln? And his Grace the Bishop of Bath and Wells himself? Spiritualists
would like to know. We invite Dr. Lang to follow Parliamentary procedure
and publish a list of "Ayes" and "Noes." Or would that be "premature"?
Would it lead to "misunderstanding"?
What, secondly, has been the reaction of those clerical members of the
committee who are known to believe in Spiritualism since the bishops,
according to Lambeth Palace, decided that the ban should not be raised?
Has Canon Grensted retracted his published conviction that "there is a
message to be received"? We haven't heard so.
Has Canon Anson recanted his statement that "Spiritualism is the scientific
explanation of the Christian belief and faith in survival of life after death"?
Has he denied "the accumulation of evidence for survival" which he
mentions in his new book, The Truth About Spiritualism? We haven't
heard so.
Has Dr. Matthews gone back on his asseveration that a number ofpeople
had found in medium>hip "a confirmation of the Christian faith, and even
a way from agnosticism to belief"? We haven't heard so. Has the Church
16 THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG
ORTHODOXY'S BEST
"SUBSTITUTE"!
THE diocesan bishops, after
agreeing to suppress the report,
proposed that "a pamphlet should
shortly be issued setting out the
positive teaching of the Church on
the subject of eternal life"! This
was to be written by Dr. Temple
in collaboration with others.
Did the bishops seriously think
that its "positive teaching" on
eternal life, which cannot beproved,
would bring one grain ofcomfort to
any mother whose son has been
killed in the war?
If our Press cuttings are any
criterion, the pamphlet apparently
caused little or no stir. Small
wonder. Dr. Temple is frank
enough to admit it is an "in-
d " ,.{ "
a equate treatment oJ so great
a theme." We sorrowfully agree.
disciplined these outspoken
members of its flock? We
haven't heard so.
Have those 150 Anglican
parsons concerned for the swift
dissemination of the report been
told by their sees to go and be
good boys and "spare" their
superiors any further embar-
rassment? We haven't heard
so.
If any party to the proceed-
ings was entitled to be embar-
rassed it was surely the hard-
working, long-suffering com-
mittee. It received Dr. Lang's
decision with mixed feelings.
Some of its members were dis-
appointed-at least one was
angry-that the fruits of their
labours should be dismissed in
such an off-hand manner and
then concealed from the world.
Unfortunately, they were
bound to secrecy. The pledge
to leave the decision on pub-
lication to Dr. Lang was
given before they started their
inquiry!
Had they known how the report would be dismissed, because'it conflicted
with Orthodoxy's preconceived theories, it is unlikely that they would all
have agreed to a pledge ofsilence. Now, ofcourse, they are in an impossible
position. They cannot make any public comments.
Not so the Anglican Canon Gerald H. Rendall who, in a letter to the
Modern Churchman in the autumn of 1941, roundly denounces the sup-
pression. He writes:
"The ill-advised fulminations or injunctions of reverend 'Fathers in God',
or the hush-hush policy which prompted suppression of the findings of the
Archbishop's Committee·oflnquiry, reflect the timid clericalism which has
so often been the bane of the official Church. Few realise the extent and
weight of the resentment which action of this kind provokes. Taboos on
free discussion not only irritate: they give colour to the slogan, 'Clericalism
is the enemy'."
Yet out of Dr. Lang's very refusal to publish the report there emerges
a great triumph for Spiritualism. If the committee, after its methodical
inquiry, had prodticed a result antagonistic to Spiritualism, we repeat
that it is extremely
pressed.
THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG 17
doubtful whether it would then have been sup-
Very unwisely, Dr. Lang and his bishops have decided to defend
Orthodoxy rather than circulate a document which would have marked a
turning point in Church history, one which, by demonstrating that the
psychic phenomena recorded in the Bible are being repeated to-day, would
give guidance to thousands of loyal members of the Church.
Unlike Paul, Dr. Lang has decided, "Concerning spiritual gifts, brethren,
I would rather have you ignorant."
FOOTNOTE BY THE EDITOR OF PSYcmc NEWS
SINCE this booklet was first issued there have been some developments. Early in 1942,
when Dr. Temple succeeded Dr. Lang as Archbishop of Canterbury, I addressed an
Open Letter to him in Psychic News.
I asked Dr. Temple to publish the suppressed report. "You are a courageous man," I
told him. "You have already revealed that you are not afraid to change your opinions."
I reminded him that he had condemned the narrow outlook of some of his colleagues as,
for example, when he said: "I think that one of the worst criticisms of our religious in-
struction is that we have created the impression that God was singularly active in one part
of the world, namely, Palestine, until A.D. 66, but that He did not do anything anywhere
else, and has not done anything since."
We Spiritualists, I said, were proving that God was still active to-day, that the power of
the spirit was still available and still descended through many instruments.
"The publication of the report," I wrote, "would dispel the beliefthat the Church resorts
to evasion and suppression rather than face up to Truth." I ended with these words: "I
urge you to make the fruits of this committee's labours known to the world, reminding
you that Truth cannot hurt Religion. Indeed, I hope you will forgive me if I say that your
attitude towards this suppressed report will be regarded by many as a test of your sincerity.
You have an historic opportunity. Will you take it?"
The result of this Open Letter was a vigorous but friendly correspondence. I would like
to tell you what Dr. Temple wrote, but unfortunately I cannot. His first letter is marked,
"Not for publication", and his last letters are prefaced by the word, "Confidential".
In my last letter to him I wrote: "At a time when we are engaged in fighting for freedom
-and you have spoken very eloquently about what the post-war world must be lik~it
ill-behoves the Church to use the weapon of suppression."
Dr. Temple drew my attention to his pamphlet, "The Christian Hope of Eternal Life",
which the bishops had asked him to write. This pamphlet begins with a reference to the
fact that in these days of bereavement "many turn to spiritualistic practices in the hope of
gaining the assurance which they so deeply desire". He himself has "the gravest anxieties
about these practices". He prefers "the Christian doctrines of eternal life" which, together
with the Gospel, he believes give "more inspiring confidence than any recourse to spiritual-
istic seances and the like".
Yet this same Dr. Temple has declared : "The tradition of the inerrancy of the Bible
commonly held in the Church until the beginning of the nineteenth century cannot be
maintained in the light of the knowledge now at our disposal."
Soon after his appointment as Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Temple, interviewed by
a newspaper, said that when any member of the armed forces passes on "bis spirit remains
with his dear ones always". Yet when Spiritualism proves that fact, and the Church
confirms that it is s6, its findings are suppressed I
It is strange, too, to learn the different excuses advanced for the smothering of the
Church's report. When, in July 1943, Dr. Temple was questioned about it at a London
meeting of workers in an ordnance factory, he said the report was not prepared for pub-
lication and t~ere was never any idea of publishing it. Here I comment that no member
of the committee was told .b.efotehand that the report would nf!ver be published. They
were informed that the deCJs10~ on publicatioi;i would be left to br. Lang.
Dr. Temple also st~t~d at. this rneeting that if the report. were J
;mblished it might not be
welcomed even by Spmtualists. And it would be bewildenng to the public if it were made
available to them. A few members of the committee were in favour of Spiritualism and
18 THE SILEN'CE OF DR. LANG
some against it. If the report had been unfavourable, he added, it would not have been
published.
To say that some members were in favour of Spiritualism and some against it is to give
a curio?s ~terpretation .to the facts. Of the ten members, the seven m?st influential signed
the maionty report, which takes up the bulk of the document, declanng that Spiritualism
had been proved. The minority of three, the most unimportant members, merely sat on
the fence.
A different excuse for non-publication was given by Dr. Underhill, the chairman of the
committee. He said: "The report itself disclosed much difference of opinion, and it was
consequently felt that there was need of further careful investigation into the subject. On
that account it was decided that the report should not be made public".
Incidentally, no member of the committee was ever asked to undertake any further
investigation--despite the fact that Dr. Underhill later stated: "The position is rather
delicate and uncertain now, and will not be clarified until the further investigation has been
completed".
Dr. Lang's Chaplain also made the need for "further investigation" the excuse for non-
.publication. As Pvchic News has already revealed, members of the committee were sur-
prised to learn about these official excuses.
Canon Anson, speaking at the London Spiritualist Alliance in October 1943, contra-
dicted Dr. Temple. Whereas the Primate had said that some members of the committee
favoured Spiritualism and some were against it, Canon Anson stated-and the report was
drawn up in his house: "It was an exceedingly sympathetic report." This makes Dr.
Temple's statement that publication would bewilder the public rather puzzling. How can
an "exceedingly sympathetic report" bewilder the public?
When Pvchic News exclusively revealed the contents of the report, Lambeth Palace said
that this newspaper's statements were inaccurate. Canon Anson, however, said publicly
that Pvchic News "proceeded to publish large parts ofthe report". How can the publication
of large parts of the report be inaccurate?
Then Canon Anson also said: "I don't think bishops, as a whole, are hostileto Spirit-
ualism, but I must own that at the present moment I don't think they are deeply interested."
Yet they were sufficiently interested to agree to suppress the report, and this agreement is
surely evidence of their hostility. It seems extraordinary that bishops should not be inter-
ested in proving Survival, which is the foundation of Christianity and every religion in the
world. The truth is that the revelations made by Pvchic News about this suppressed report
have caused such a fluttering in the theological dovecotes that leading clerics now speak
with confused voices.
As far as the Church is concerned, it would have been better if"Dr. Lang had not decided
to keep silent.
APPENDIX
"THIS THING IS OF GOD," OATEN TELLS COMMITTEE
W HEN Ernest W. Oaten, Editor of the Two Worlds, addressed the
·committee, he presented Spiritualism's case with dignity, eloquence
a.nd knowledge. Here are some of his most trenchant observations:-
"There are thousands here, and in the next life, whose happiness would
be enhanced if they could be assured that reunion is a certainty. Many
.serious persons who have passed behind the veil are anxious to transmit to
those who remain some knowledge of what they have found-and they
find means to do so.
"Communication is possible, it has been established beyond doubt. The
Church may debate tb.e point, 'Is it lawful? And iflawful, is it good?' "
The Church might continue arguing, but it could not stem the flowing
.tide.
THE SILENCE OF DR. LANG 19
GUESS WHO!
'RELIGION attracts,
churches repel."
Who said that?
but the
Dr. Cosmo Gordon Lang, be-
lieve it or not!
Who was in control of the
Church?
Dr. Cosmo Gordon Lang.
"When," he added, "you talk
about spirit communion being
a matter for careful considera-
tion, we don't argue-we just
smile!
"You are living in a self-
constructed internment camp
ringed round by doctrines. You
don't know the large and beauti-
ful world outside, and dare not
trust yourselves to explore ii:.
"You fear that new know-
'ledge may upset your well-
established anchorage: that new
information may mean the
abandonment ofwell-established-even well-tried- traditions and doctrines.
But truth will prevail, with your consent or without it."
Spiritualism could and did prove beyond doubt that life persisted after
death.
Despite the opprobrium of the Church, the persecution of the law, the
misconceptions and sneers of the ignorant, and the neglect of the official
scientist, Spiritualism was steadily changing and moulding the mind of man
towards the future life.
We had the most important truth in this world, and the hosts of heaven
were behind us.
"The time must come," continued Oaten, "when a universal religion
shall supplant creedal differences, and Spiritualism offers a broad basis for
such religion in the demonstrable fact ofsurvival for all mankind.
"This thing is of God. You may retard its progress, but you cannot
prevent its ultimate success."
He told the committee how, in well over 20,000 homes in Great Britain,
the family meets weekly, with no professional or outside medium, to hold
actual living communion with deceased relatives. The old-fashioned family
worship was nearly dead, but the home circle had replaced it.
PSYCHIC PRESS BOOKLETS
BY POST
THE PRAYER BOOK X-RAYED
By MRS. ST. CLAIR STOBART 3d. Price 4d.
BIBLE BLUNDERS
By REV. G. MAURICE ELLIOTT 1s. Price 1s.1d.
TO THE GREAT SPIRIT
THE PRAYERS OF SILVER BIRCH, Spirit Guide of
HANNEN SWAFFER'S HOME CIRCLE
ls. Price 1s. 1d.
Obtainable from-
PSYCHIC PRESS LTD., 144 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON
W.C.1
SPIRITUALISM'S NEWSPAPER
l)spcbic ~cws
containing
THE LATEST NEWS ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
THE BEST EVIDENCE FOR SURVIVAL
THE FINEST EXPOSITION OF SPIRITUALISM
BY ITS LEADING THINKERS
3d. EVERY THURSDAY
Obtainable on order from any newsagent or bookstall; or write for free
specimen copy to
"PSYCHIC NEWS," 144 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, w .c.1
Annual Subscription 17s. 4d. (America $4)
