{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1942__wills___life_now_and_forever.pdf","mytitle":"Life Now And Forever","mylang":"de"}
LIFE. NOW AND FOREVER
A g----- ■
- ■ Psychic Research, its new discoveries and their meanings.
w ritten and compiled by
ARTHUR J. WILLS, G.E., Ph.D.
President, U.S. College of Psychic Science and Research
i
THE PSYCHIC BOOK CLUB
144, High Holborn, London, W .C .i
“During the last century man has concentrated on material th ings; during the next century he will
concentrate on spiritual things.”
Dr. St e in m e t z , U .S.A .
" I t (psychic science) is the most im portant work in the world to-day, by far the most im portant.”
Wm. E w a rt G l a d sto n e , late Premier, G reat Britain.
‘Knowledge is the distilled essence of our intuitions, corroborated by Experience.”
Made and Printed in Great Britain at St. Albans by
The Mayflower Press (of Plym outh). William Brendon & Son, Ltd.
1942
CONTENTS
1»AGK
I vnooccnoN . . . . .
.L Bb u c a l Evidences . . . .
3 H n u s> x ss of Spirit Entities
_ ScEXCE . . . . . .
IN SA N IT Y . . . . . .
f Ht a ipk . . . . . .
Ho w to S it, and Ectoplasm .
1 - » * — — T J T A T m M . . . . .
_ Apports and Levitation
Y : :c ri. T rumpet and I ndependent
TuaER-VOYANCE-AUDIENCE-SENTIENCE .
z Psychic Photography . . . .
: j A i l as and R ays . . . . .
pEVCHOMETRY AND TELEPATHY
: r Prevision . . . . . .
:t T rance . . . . . .
: - Speaking w ith T ongues
: 8. Projection . . . . . .
: e Inspiration . . . . . .
?: 5 : me Suggestive Philosophic C onsiderations
; The R e a lity o f th e Psychic Body
A* 5
9
14
22
32
4 7
52
66
76
9 °
9 7
105
111
” 5
120
124
130
136
142
148
151
160
CONTENTS
PA G E
6
CH APTER
22. “T emporary” Projection of the Psychic (or Spiritual)
Body . . . . . . . . 163
23. Permanent Projection of the Spiritual Body (so-called
“Death”) . . . . . . .. 1
24. And After—W h a t ? . . . . . . 171
Appendices “A ,” “B,” “ C” . . . . 177,178^179
Conclusion . . . . . . . . . 181
“I f certain facts occur, they ‘must be accepted as such*
— whether we can explain them qt not, and whether
or not they happen to fit into the particular scheme of things which we may hold at the time. — H erew a r d
Ca r r in g to n , Ph.D.
“I t is the height of folly for any m an to ridicule or lightly dismiss a subject on which he is either ill-
informed, or of which he has had no personal experience.”
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
- ae writer acknowledges, with great appreciation and thanks,
■e q ce derived from the following sources :
the
B«c Briash Lz liege of Psychic Science” ; Mr. H arry Edw ards of the Balham Psychical Research
jm x z y sor r~ “ :hic Research (all of London) ; Two Worlds , M anchester; Progressive Thicker ;
> m m r i r Dr. Dunmore ; Em il Dasing, B.Sc. ; Frederick Lentsch (of Chicago) ; Psychic
N.V. ; Edw in Parkinson (Vancouver, B.C.) ; the late Dr. and Mrs. T. Glen H am ilton
& ii. Rosemary Records, by Dr. Frederick H. Wood (Blackpool); Spirit Teachings; A
* Spnr-a Lands; Letters from J u lia ; Truths from the Spirit W orld; Not Silent— i f Dead ;
M cLcm : Spirit Intercourse.
> :~ t of the above books are out of print, but too valuable to be lost
r:;-.: and future generations. It is hoped that a renewed demand
kad to their being reprinted.
C h a p t e r i
INTRODUCTION
i research problem is not solved by apparatus : it is solved in a man’s
zd The laboratory is the means by which it ispossible to do the solving
the idea has clarified in his mind.”
C. F. K e t t e r i n g .
H
OUDINI, the stage magician, who spent years ingeniously
exposing spurious mediums (and often spuriously exposing
rrr.aine mediums), making a fortune out of his stage imitations,
m ark e d : "There is a residue for which I cannot account.” This
—
tir1 for which the master trickster could not account, is formed of
•- _ne phenomena, which are the subject ofpsychic research. Many
-eccle ire bamboozled and misled by tricksters and fraudulent claimants
i - - idle t>owers, as they are in other human ventures.
When I was a boy I saw Stuart Cumberland (another remarkable stage
—-:— --- ■dring ingenious tricks on the stage, which he claimed were the
is psychic phenomena, and being young I took it for granted that his
rreater knowledge and experience warranted my taking his word for it.
>: I gave no attention to the subject for several years until various un-
- r— happenings, ruling out the possibility of trickery, turned my
-t—:_s attention to the subject.
N : . after forty years (the last ten of which were almost wholly given
--a study), spending much time, labour and money in acquiring a
- -art: cal knowledge of psychic phenomena, both through the scientific
n :rk of others and my own experiences, I feel that all this would be
n asat-a if I kept it to myself; and, recalling my own preliminary difficul-
nts- when a book like this would have been a godsend in starting me
years before I did start, I write in the hope of helping some other
earnest and sincere “seeker after truth.”
There are great diversities ofpeople looking for the truth of this matter
a: have not time, training, money or any other facilities to explore it for
isnselves, and good mediums (there are, of course, all sorts of people
—this, as in all human activities) are scarce. Many people never have,
»-■i -ever will have, the opportunity to learn directly of this vital subject,
they hear of it and wish to know, and to such this book will be in-
-Sle Because of the variety of possible readers this book is not a
rrv. learned, literary treatise, not a profound and difficult scientific
v:._—e. but simply a number of experiences, comments and information,
rankly stated, as noted from time to time, that will inform and help
9
the beginner, the student, the man-in-the-street and perhaps refresh the
memory of the expert in psychic research, or suggest a pathway not yet
explored.
Unless intelligence is shown phenomena are of little value. Messages
evidence their own value and are often of a high order. But more than mere
intelligence is required to prove survival. There must be proof (not mere
assertion) of identity. This necessity existed from ancient days. “Try
the spirits and prove them.” But the proof is subjective, appealing to the
intuition, which transcends reason and the objective physical senses, though
these have their auxiliary part. Each phase would take a volume to deal
with at any length. A list of valuable books detailing various phases is
given at the end of this book.
The material scientist merely has “a job” ; nothing beyond ; while
the psychic or spiritual seeker is inspired with a glorious and infinite ideal,
beyond physics. A selfish, sensual, materialist world has sunk to a point
generally where one who speaks of the finer spiritual things, especially if
not along stereotyped orthodox lines, is looked upon with suspicion.
The cult of the day is the cynical materialism of the current man-ape and
his tinsel gilt ideology (long discredited by genuine civilization), “might
makes right,” the gospel of Nietzsche (who died insane). “After me the
Deluge,” “Death ends all,” and the rest of the materialists’ creed. But
supposing we don't die! as more enlightened scientists have learned ?
Naturally the materialist furiously fights the truth, “ w h a t s o e v e r a
man soweth, t h a t shall he also reap,” here or hereafter ; for him there
must be no hereafter. “ Men deal with life as children with their play, who
first misuse, then cast their toys away.” But life is not like that. Life is,
n o w and f o r e v e r , a fact man cannot change. Why should he change it,
to fit his infinitesimally limited notions ? Not sensible enough to govern
himself and unable to fathom the depths of his own ignorance, he would
change nature’s immutable laws, to fit his own petty concepts ?
During the first world war the soldiers on the front, facing the sudden
stoppage of their physical being, naturally asked (in the slang of the
soldiers) : “Where do we go from here.” (See page 171.) Material
science of that day answered : “Nowhere, it is the end of the road.”
Various other “authorities” also asserted that only blank oblivion followed.
Turning to the professional “spiritual advisers,” they received even more
bewildering guesses, for they had no spiritual direction to give, only
theories based on theological mental gymnastics, founded on ancient
traditions, etc., coming down from the more ignorant past. As one frank
and honest minister said, at the funeral of a friend of mine : “We 'DO
NO T KNO W' where ourfriend has gone, but we r e a d this, we are t o l d that,
we b e l i e v e the other and we h o p e that all is well with him.” Just a wild
guess. No wonder that the godless ideologies of to-day (1930-40) con­
temptuously sneer : “Religion” (ofthat kind) “is the opiate of the masses
to keep them in subjection.”
The new revelations of Psychic Research have provided and still do
provide great quantities of facts bearing on the enigma of life here and
hereafter, but entrenched science and ecclesiasticism not only turned
(and still turns) a deaf ear, but garbles the facts, misinterprets the new
knowledge, twisting it, when not denying it point-blank, into false forms
10 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
- meanings, or pooh-poohed it away as a minor incidental of the old
trtbodoxies.
~j:—" •- r'.am m arioa, the great French astronom er, w ro te:1 “ There are other crim inals besides
— sg 3 rTz>::zs— nam ely, cultivated men who know truths they do not venture to reveal, for reasons of
■-- or fear of ridicule. A p art of the clergy is hostile to this sort of investigation (psychic
-T-Eamr in i sriritualism ) and considers th a t the Church should monopolise such quests. . . . to m aintain
Star n e :n= s:::n of the nature of the Soul and its survival, which interests so personally each one of us,
- ^ ^ serv ed to a caste of mere casuists, who appropriate to them selves the rig h t to judge between
n x —j : m i me : between God and the D evil—such, indeed, is a strange w ay of thinking and an
mmszjr-mzn. carrying us back to th e D ark Ages.”
The psychical research student, studying “where do we go from
here,” is able to say definitely that this knowledge can be, and is being,
- - V obtained, and can put others in the way of verifying it, under
i e essential proper conditions. The majority, however, for various
reasons, may not be able to contact a suitable medium and must therefore
ibade by the cumulative records and proofs of others, as they do regarding
-■
—rr.smy, radium and other natural phenomena.
One primitive superstition, surviving from the ignorant past, is that
ievils are responsible for these unusual phenomena. This is similar to
h e attitude of savages in the jungle on experiencing their first contact
« -_n the phonograph. They were fascinated and delighted with the
—use, but stipulated that the operator, before opening the box to put
- a new record, should give them time to run and hide behind the
neighbouring trees, their idea being that there were devils making the
- _J:c in the “devil box” who might escape when it was opened and get
-■
=
—
<if they did not hide behind the trees. When the signal was given
•-.a: all was safe, the box closed, they returned to enjoy the next number.
An astoundingly large number of apparently sensible people, on other
abjects, still cling to the superstition of devils. Actually the only devil
r need to worry about is the devil in (or rather that is) ourselves, for whose
r:od behaviour and reform we are personally responsible.
A childish objection generally is, with much sage and super-wise
i rad-wagging, pulling a long dismal face of pity at the same time, to
—
-eak the magic shibboleth “Familiar Spirits.” Of course they are
'ia r spirits, thank God, the familiar spirits of loved ones, friends and
teachers attracted to us by kinship of spirit. That is why it is a matter
:: ruch joy and enlightenment, and, to those who know by experience,
these lugubrious wiseacres seem ridiculous as well as mistaken.
Jesus used to have familiar spirits come to his help, “angels (spirits)
- --np and ministered unto Him,” as did all the prophets and seers of old,
•.sell as since, Joan of Arc, John Wesley, Alfred Russell Wallace
Darwin’s collaborator) and countless others to-day.
“The appearance of w hat we erroneously call ‘dead m en’ (or spirit form) is a real fact in nature
Ez i snbject to natural laws.” — H e n r i B e r g so n . “ The spirit was w ith us la st night and heard by m any
■x fam ily.”— W e s l e y s . “ I was convinced against m y m il th a t we are approached by some unearthly
■r -ykich seems trying to im part to or receive from us some inform ation.” — H ow ard T h u r sto n ,
M atcdan.
Practically all our misunderstanding comes from our obsession with
--e physical as the whole, plus the superstitions and false concepts handed
i rr.vn to us from the past. If we once realize that we are just as much
irits living in eternity now, as we ever will be when out of the physical
: :edition, we shall more easily grasp the truths, now being revealed to
1Death and Its M ystery. Vol. 2. Fiam m arion.
INTRODUCTION 11
us by psychic research, and the true philosophy naturally evolving there­
from. (See Chapters 19, 20, 24 and Appendix C for notes on this sublime
philosophy as given by numerous spirit teachers.)
The returning friends and teachers show a keen and unselfish eager­
ness to instruct and inform us ; they remark that, incidentally, their
service to us enables them to progress further. This, too, is specifically
in accord with nature’s laws, both in the physical and spiritual (beyond
physics) state of life, for experience shows that the best way to learn is
to try to teach another, as this necessarily involves study and keeping
more informed than the pupil, thus the teacher progresses. And so in
every walk oflife, to help others is to help oneselfincidentally, the helping
of others being the primary purpose.
We must remember that we are not magically transformed (fairy-tale
fashion) when we pass into the other condition of continuing life. We
are the same one minute after passing as one minute before, but with
added vision and intensity of consciousness. The departed can only
speak as they themselves comprehend; a comprehension increasing with their
progress, as they continue their being under the new conditions. Hence
each gives us only that aspect which they are able to understand, and as
there are innumerable people with numberless degrees of understanding,
we have to study, analyse, compare, classify and evaluate the numerous
messages and assign to each its value, this again being limited by our own
capacity to comprehend. As instances of our difficulties, refer to page 28,
where the old grandmother could not grasp the nature of spirit clothing
until the grandson translated the idea figuratively into the limited terms
the old lady understood, and page 29, where the spirit friend saw the
“essence” of a picture, an idea we none of us were able to grasp. So
each must use his own best efforts to understand and, as is quite usual,
what is not understood to-day (Kindergarten) will be clear to-morrow
(Highschool) as our capacity to comprehend enlarges by study, expe­
rience and spiritual growth. Many people may contact one or several
phenomena, but the vast majority will not. The mediums are too few
for all to contact them. Hence, this book will enlighten them indirectly,
but none the less effectively, if they study and, as the guides tell us, “use
your own brains.” The most instructive and important phases ofpsychic
phenomena and instruction are to be found herein. The rest is with the
reader. If you wish to try to directly co-operate with the spirit persons,
some instructions are given in the Preface to Chapter 7, on “How to Sit
at Home” and develop mediumship in your family or friendly circle.
No need ofspecialists, priests or anybody else, only “two or three gathered
together in one place, with one accord” and the instructions herein
given. Particularly, “no” treating the matter as mere amusement ;
that way lies injury to your medium, whether professional or in your own
family ; but sincere and earnest desire and endeavour to learn the way
to contact advanced spirits of the higher life and develop a sensible
understanding of what is before us when we progress into the next con­
dition or state of life, advancing both ourselves and spirit friends who
return to co-operate in our progress and who thereby advance their own.
If this is not your purpose, let it alone, it is not for you. -------------
The following brief list of world-famous scientists, who have searched
i2 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
for ar.d learned much of the truths of psychic research, will refute the
—:e and plausible plea that only ignorant and foolish people are interested
m this vital study.
“Fools deride, Philosophers investigate.”
B R ITA IN
Prof. Alfred Russell W allace, LL.D ., collaborator w ith D arw in; Prof. Sir W m . Crookes, D.Sc.,
a s c rre re r of thallium , inventor of Crookes’s Tube, e tc .; Prof. Sir Oliver Lodge, D.Sc., M.A., P .R .S .;
-rr^. J. W. Crawford, D.Sc., D ublin U niversity ; Prof. Sir W m. B arrett, D.Sc., Roy. Coll, of Surgeons,
Iri-iz d ; Prof. E lliott Coues, M.A., M.D., Norwich U niversity ; Prof. H erbert Mayo, M.D., King’s College,
Laetfce ; Dr. J . W. Kilner, M.D., St. Thom as’s H ospital, L ondon; Dr. J . M. G ully, M.D., College of
Sbes- cos, London ; Dr. R ichard Hodgson ; F. W. Myers ; Prof. H enry Sidgwick ; Frederick Bligh Bond,
* B A .; Stanley de B rath, M .Inst.C.E. ; Prof. Jas. C oates; T . Glen H am ilton, M.D., W innipeg,
FRAN CE
Dr. G ustave Geley ; Dr. Baraduc ; Dr. Paul Joire ; Dr. Eugene O sty ; D r. Chas. Lancelin ; Prof.
I Grimard ; Col. A lbert de Rochas ; Com m andant D arg et; Prof, and Mme Curie ; Prof. Richet.
GERM ANY
Dr. Von Schrenck-Notzing ; Prof. Z ollner; Dr. Constantin O esterreich ; Dr. Carl du P re l; Dr.
• Schw ab; Prof. H ans D reisch ; Prof. F ritz H om m el; D r. M attiesen.
HOLLAND
Dr. J . L. M atla ; Dr.^Van Z e lst; |D r. Frederick Van E e d en ; Dr. P. W. Koning.
ITA LY
Dr. B ozzano; Prof. C hiapelli; Prof. V azzani; Prof. F . B o ttazz i; Prof. L om broso; P rof.
M coeili.
M ISCELLANEOUS
Dr. G. J . Pagenstecher, Mexico ; Prof. Aksakoff, Russia ; Prof. Fukurai, Univ. Kohyassan, Jap an ;
Z r Ocaorowicz, P o la n d ; Dr. Miguel San Benito, Barcelona, S p a in ; H err Max Seiling, Helsingers ;
Psxrf. G. H annesson, Reykjavik, Iceland ; H. M ontague Crane, New Zealand ; Prof. Flournoy, Geneva,
Switzerland ; Prof. Eugene W itry, Tunis ; Dr. R. J. T illyard, Canberra, A ustralia ; Prof. H eysm ann,
Belgium ; D r. N. C. Marvis, Lagazig, Egypt.
[U.S.A.
Dr. W . H . Bates, H erew ard Carrington, P h .D .; D r. J. W . H yslop ; Prof. R obert H are ; Dr. Carl
W k i a n d ; Sylvan M uldoon ; D r. Paul G ib ie r; Dr. H allock ; D r. M orton Prince, etc.
“Is anything of God’s contriving endangered by enquiry ? Was it
the system of the universe, or the monks, that trembled at the telescope
:f Galileo ? Did the circulation of the firmament stop because Newton
laid a finger on its pulse ? ”—Lowell.
Here is a poem, coming through an inspired little girl g years of age,
regarding the death of a little baby, which completely refutes the scoffer’s
haim. Notice the childlike simplicity, combined with the beautiful
r.-mbolism of a bud, expressed in language our self-sufficient objector
may well envy. Further comment is needless.
“I think the angels leave their starry heights,
And come to earth on quiet, tranquil nights,
To search among the gardens lying there,
Some flower, fair enough for God to wear.
“Last night the angels’ errant footsteps strayed,
About the spot where baby feet had played,
And scanning o’er the treasure garden there,
They chose a wee white bud for God to wear.
“O, tiny baby blossom in that place,
Where you can look into the Father’s face,
Ask Him to ease the grief of those below.
The bitter grief of those who love you so.”
INTRODUCTION 13
Chapter 2
“/ will pour out my spirit upon all flesh ; and your sons and your
daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young
men shall see visions.”
T
HE mass of people give little heed to the subject of Psychic
Phenomena, and when they do, they look at them through the
distorting glasses of unreliable traditions and weird superstitions
and, being prejudiced, they naturally fail to understand and grasp th
phenomena as realities. There are four aspects of human life, physical,
mental, psychical and spiritual, manifesting in various ratios. Psychic
science (the master science) is beginning to relate these intelligibly. A
person (variously known as a psychic, seer, medium, prophet, etc.) is
necessary to the production of these phenomena ; the subject may
himself be psychic and experience the occurrences alone. In early times
one who possessed the faculty of mediumship was regarded with awe
and looked upon as a demigod, whose utterances were unquestioned
as being the infallible words of an omniscient deity, as variously con­
ceived by the different peoples ; from the mumblings of the jungle
priests of primitive and backward races, to the supposed prophetic
messages of the Delphic Oracles, Roman Augurs and alleged saints or
holy men of the West. Later experience and efforts of man to evolve
a clearer understanding resulted in the curious notion of a special order
of supernormal beings, created as servants or intermediaries (angels or
mediums) between ignorant man and a supernal ruler or god. These
mediums were thought to bring messages from the supreme being. This
idea, more or less modified by racial characterizations, has continued
down to comparatively recent times, and only during the last century has
Psychic Research proved that the so-called “dead” return, not as gods
but as themselves.
N .B.—The word “supernorm al” is used, not th e common m isleading word “ supernatural,” for
there is nothing above or beyond nature. Supernorm al or super-usual is the correct word. T h at we do
not yet know and understand, m erely m arks our current super-ignorance. F ifty years ago radio would
have been ignorantly term ed supernatural, b u t to-day we know that, like all other things, w hether under­
stood a t the m om ent or not, it is natural.
A good general definition of the term angel, messenger, medium, is :
“One whose organism is sensitive to vibrations from the spirit condition
or state of being, and through whose instrumentality, intelligences in
that state are able to convey messages and produce psychic phenomena.”
While people of every race and age have experienced (and misunder-
BIBLICAL EVIDENCES
>4
r.:-:d according to their several limitations) these phenomena, in Western
ax-ds that strange collection of books, the Bible, written from hearsay
-ben and by whom nobody knows), is taken by many as the ultimate
—:erion. We can, therefore, usefully reflect upon a few incidents drawn
ir:m that source.
An idea has been taught that angels, or guides, are a special order of
teings, different from the human. There may be such beyond our
miwledge and capacity, but the word “angel” simply means a messenger
r spirit. In the Bible a messenger is called a variety of names, all mean-
mg the same thing, “angels, angel of the Lord, holy spirit, spirit of the
Lord, God, ghost, etc.” Guides are repeatedly described as wearing
n an clothing, “Clothed in white linen,” “in bright clothing,” etc.
jecasis xxxii, 24-30 : “A nd Jacob was left alone, and there wrestled a ‘m an’ w ith him until break of day."
25th verse : “ This ‘spirit-m an’ p u t Jacob’s thigh out of joint.” 26th verse : “ Jacob would not let
this ‘angel’ go until he blessed him .” 28th verse : “Thou hast striven w ith ‘God’and w ith m en . . . ”
This “ m an.” “spirit,” “ angel,” is called God, all referring to the same person,
jc a s s s xviii, 2 : “ And he lifted up his eyes and looked, and lo, ‘three m en’ stood by him .” Verse 3 : “ And
he said : ‘My lord’ . . .” addressing the three men in the singular as “ My Lord.” They washed their
feet, rested and ate like men. In this chapter, these m aterialized spirits are called “ Lord” twelve
tim es and “ God” twice. In the 12th verse Sarah calls A braham “ Lord,” th e custom being to call
a superior “ Lord,” a mere title of respect and not meaning God.
i-Exm s iii, 2: “ And the ‘angel’ of the Lord (not the Lord, but his angel, spirit-m an) appeared to him in a
name of fire.” Verse 6 : “ Moreover,” he said, “ I am the ‘God’ of A braham . . . ” H ere the spirit-
messenger claim s to be the Jew ish tribal God also.
Ix m el ix, 21 : “A nd w hile I was speaking in prayer ‘the m an G abriel,’ whom I had seen in the vision,
touched me.” Luke i, 26 : “ . . . ‘the angel G abriel’ was sent from God . . .” Luke i, 19 : “ I
am Gabriel th a t stand in the presence o£ God.”
Joshua v, 13 : “ . . . There stood a ‘m an’ over against him w ith his sword draw n in his hand . . .”
Verse 14 : “ . . . as ‘captain of the host of the Lord’ am I come. . . . ”
x, 30 : Cornelius tells of “ m an in bright clothing.” In verse 3 this same spirit-m an was called an
“ angel of God.” Verse 4 : “ Lord.” Verse 7 : “Angel.” Verse 22 : “ H oly Angel.” Verse 30 ;
“ M an.” A ll one man.
--.relation xxii, 8 : “ . . . and when I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the
‘angel’ (spirit) which showed me these things.” Verse 9 : “ Then said he unto me, ‘See thou do it
n o t; for I am “thy fellow servant” and “of thy brethren” the prophets . . . worship God.’ ”
xxiii, 20 : “ Behold, I send an angel (Guide) before thee to keep thee in the w ay.”
rsafzn xlviii, 14 : “ For this God is our God for ever and e v e r; H e will be our Guide even unto death.”
xxvii, 23 : “ For there stood before me this night the angel of the Lord (Guide), saying . . .”
i n ? xvi, 7 : “ They assayed to go into Bythnia, b u t the spirit ‘o f je s u s ’ (Guide) suffered them n o t.”
Angel of the Church : A messenger or medium ofthe Church through
horn spirit-messages are received. “Saint” was a word applied to all
^embers of the early churches, not specially to some. “Saint” means
good, as does holy, holy spirit—good spirit, good (holy) ghost, the physically
disembodied soul of a deceased person, conceived as a dweller in the
-nseen world or condition, appearing, to those living in the physical
state, in bodily likeness, hence an apparition, shade or phantom. “Seer,”
:-e who sees, or foresees and foretells events. “Prophet,” “one who
-taks forth,” a teacher. Samuel founded a school of the prophets, i.e.
Teachers, i Samuel ix, 9 : “ . . . for he who is now called a prophet
-as beforetime called a seer.” “Man of God,” 1 Samuel ix, 9 : a
medium, who one has developed spiritual faculties. “Word of God,”
a spirit-message, or thought of God. 1 Samuel ix, 27 : “Stand thou still,
that I may cause thee to hear the word of God.”
Prophet and prophesying meant other things than mere foretelling.
Exodus vii, 1 : “See, I have made thee ‘as a God’ to Pharaoh, and Aaron,
dry- brother, shall be thy prophet” (or medium). The reason, given in
Exodus iv, 10-16, was that Moses was slow of speech and needed a
.pokesman as medium between him and the people. Incidentally we
am that the term “God” did not specially mean the Creator, as generally
BIBLICAL EVIDENCES 15
assumed, but a person in authority as was Moses in his mission to deliver
the Israelites.
Nor is the psychic faculty necessarily hereditary. As above noted,
Moses was a great medium (intuitive awareness), but a poor speaker, and
his brother Aaron a good speaker (prophet, teacher : one who “speaks
forth” other’s ideas), but not a medium. So Jesus was a great medium,
but his four brothers, James, Joses, Simon, and Judas, and his sisters
(several : Mark vi, 3, Matthew xiii, 55) having no special faculties, are
barely mentioned.
Also, a medium is not different from, or better than, anybody else,
“solely” by reason of the psychic faculty, any more than is a painter,
inventor, or other person. False ideas on this point mislead ignorant
and superstitious people into grave errors. Psychic power does n o t
make a “saint” (though its beneficent use becomes sublime and spiritual) ;
nor does its absence indicate a “sinner,” though wrongly used it becomes
diabolical.
A criminal may have great powers of mediumship, enabling him to
evade capture r Rasputin, the Russian monk, priest though he was, was
a most undesirable individual, yet he possessed great psychic powers, while
Father Damien, the heroic priest of the leper island of Molokai, had none
to speak of. Superior virtue, high character, reliability and integrity
are independent of these faculties. Hence we have to-day as of old, to guard
against fraud, by the corrupt and unscrupulous trickster. Every man must
“try the spirits” (and the mediums or alleged saints) whether they be true
or not. This is a difficult task for even the expert, each must use his own
common sense.
The merepossession of such faculties is no guarantee of their value, or that
they are what is claimed, for there are good, bad and indifferent mediums
to-day as of old. To go no further than the Hebrew records :
I Kings xxii, 23 : . . Jehovah h ath p u t a lying spirit in the m outh of these th y prophets.”
Jerem iah v, 30-31 : “ A wonderful and horrible thing is com m itted in the land. T he prophets prophesy
falsely and the priests bear rule by their means ; and w hat will ye do in the end thereof?”
Jerem iah vi, 13 : “ For from the least of them even unto the greatest, everyone is given to covetousness ;
and from the prophet even unto the priest everyone dealeth falsely.”
We have priests and prophets (mediums) of the same type to-day, pro­
fessing to be spiritual directors and having no direction to give.
Ezekiel xiii, 3 : “W oe unto the foolish prophets, th a t follow their own spirit and have seen nothing.”
The power ebbs and flows from time to time, hence the temptation
to falsify “for a price.” In contrast, there were true mediums then, as
now :
N um bers xxii, 18 : “ And Balaam answered and said unto the servants of Balak, ‘If B alak would give
me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the word of the Lord (spirit message) to do
less or more.”
M a t e r i a l i z a t i o n (see page 76)
Daniel x, 5 : “ Then I lifted up mine eyes and looked and behold, a certain m an clothed in linen, whose
loins were girded w ith fine gold of U phaz.”
D aniel x, 10 : “ And behold, a hand touched me, which set me upon my knees and upon the palm s of
my hands.”
Daniel x, 16 : “ And behold, one like to the sim ilitude of the sons of m en (i.e., a m aterialization) touched
m y lips.”
Daniel x, 18 : “ And there came again and touched me one like the appearance of a m an (a m aterialization),,
and he strengthened m e.”
16 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
BIBLICAL EVIDENCES 17
r t-ujs r, 5 : “And in th a t same hour came forth the fingers of a ‘m an’s hand’ (m aterialization) and wrote
crrsr against the candlestick upon the plaster of the w all of the king’s palace, and the king saw
tie p art of the hand’ th a t w rote.”
:=- iu, 1 : “ And he showed m e Joshua, the H igh Priest . . who had been “ dead” (physically)
at th a t tim e 907 years.
■ c s xit- 7 : “ And behold, an ‘angel of the Lord’ stood by him (m aterialization) and a light shined in
the cell (psychic light as we often see it to-day). Verse 9 : “ A nd he knew not th a t it was true
which was done by the angel, b u t thought he saw a vision.”
Mediums are frequently dazed, like Peter, when coming out of
zrance.
ix, 29-30 : “A nd as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raim ent was
w hite and glistening.”
This is known to-day as transfiguration, a form of materialization in
which ectoplasm overcasts and alters the face or whole form, as in this
case luminous ectoplasm also makes the garments to “shine” as well as
the face.
---- r t1 30 : “ A nd behold there talked w ith him two ‘m en’ w hich'w ere Moses and E lias.”
These were no specially created angels, they were two “dead” men.
Moses had passed on 1482 years before, according to Biblical chronology,
i-c Elias 948 years before. Theologians profess to believe the above
r-ent, yet deny that the “dead” return. Luke says : “the next day they
ime down from the hill.”
1 ii.r Lx. 32 : “ B ut P eter and they th a t were w ith him were heavy with sleep and when they were awake,
they saw H is glory and the two ‘m en’ th a t stood w ith H im .”
That is, they were partly in trance, supplying ectoplasm for the
—-.terialization of the two “dead” men as well as the luminous material.
Whatever the ancient, self-interested and more ignorant priests of
-.he Hebrews thought, it is evident that Jesus, Moses and Elias under-
r : xl and approved of mediumship, for we find them here participating
in a splendid seance, aided by the three most psychic disciples, as they all
did on less striking occasions.
-rss 33 : “ . . . P eter said unto Jesus, ‘it is good for us to be here ; let us make three tabernacles (cabinets)
one for thee, one for Moses, and one for E lias,’not knowing w hat he said.”
Peter was still dazed from the trance, like most mediums, and did not
know that one cabinet (or none) was sufficient for the purpose.
L xxiv, 13-16 : Jesus appeared on the w ay to Em m aus, to two of them , “ . . . b u t their eyes were
holden th a t they should not know H im .”
Frequently the materialized forms are not at once recognized until
die last moment of the seance.
Verses 30-31 : “ And it came to pass, as He sat a t m eat w ith them , He took bread and blessed it, and
brake, and gave to them . And their eyes were opened, and they knew H im , and H e vanished
out of their sight.”
As long as they did not know him they were calm, natural and
i mposed, but, suddenly recognizing him, they immediately became
excited, which destroyed the essential conditions, so that he vanished
from their sight. This often occurs to-day with emotional people. Some-
-mes overwhelming emotion on part of the spirit-person manifesting
reuses dematerialization of the spirit’s form in the same way as above,
and for the same reason, breaking the necessary conditions.
If the medium is outside of the cabinet and can be seen, we often see
the form evolve from the ectoplasm, drawn from the body of the medium,
and this “cloud (of ectoplasm) receives them out of our sight” when they
depart.
Luke xxiv, 4 : “ A nd it came to pass, as they were m uch perplexed thereabout, behold tw o ‘m en’ stood
by them in shining garm ents.”
Luke xxiv, 36 : “ And as they thus spake, Jesus him self stood in the m idst of them . B ut they were terrified
and affrighted and supposed th a t they had seen a ‘spirit.’ ” (M aterialization, of course.)
Verses 39-43 : H e proves the reality of his appearance, physically m aterialized, as is sometimes done
to-day, when conditions perm it.
People who are not accustomed to the manifestations, are naturally
affrighted as of old, but this is merely due to lack of experience, just as the
first trip in an airplane usually is an ordeal.
Luke xxiv, 10 : “ I t was M ary M agdalene, and Joanna, and M ary th e m other of Jam es, and other women
th a t were w ith them , w hich told these things unto the apostles after going to the tom b of Jesus.”
This unexpected stance occurred “very early in the morning” ; one
version adds, “while it was yet dark”—splendid conditions for such a
fine manifestation to such a group of sincere and loving friends. In one
version Mary did not recognize the materialized form ofJesus till later,
a not unusual incident of to-day.
Exodus xxxiv, 29 : "T he skin of Moses’ face shone and they were afraid to come near him .”
This was luminous transfiguration, occasionally seen to-day.
18 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
Levitation (see page 94).
Acts viii, 39 : “ And when they were come up out of the w ater, the ‘sp irit of the Lord’ caught away Philip,
th a t the eunuch saw him no more,” b u t Philip was found at Azotus (thirty miles aw ay).”
Ezekiel iii, 4 : “So the spirit lifted me up and took me aw ay.” (He was carried to Tel-abib.)
Ezekiel viii, 3 : “ A nd he p u t forth the form of a hand, and took m e by a lock of mine head , . . and
brought me to Jerusalem .”
Writing (see page 138).
I Chronicles xxviii, 19 : “ A ll this, said D avid, the Lord made m e understand ‘in w ritin g / b y his hand
upon m e.”
II Chronicles xxi, 12 : “ And there came a w riting to him (Jehoram) from E lijah the prophet, saying . . ,”
E lijah had been “ dead” four years at this tim e.
Exodus xxxi, 18 : “And he gave unto Moses . . . two tables of stone, w ritten w ith the finger of God.”
Exodus xxxiv, 1 : “A nd the Lord said unto Moses, Hew thee two tables of stone like unto the firs t: and
I will w rite upon these tables th e words th a t were in the first tables, w hich thou brakest.”
T rumpet (see page 97).
Exodus xix, 16 : “ A nd it came to pass on the th ird day in the morning, th a t there were thunders and
lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the m ount, and the ‘voice’ of the trum pet’ exceedingly loud, so
th a t all the people th a t was in the camp trem bled.” Verse 19 : “ And when the ‘voice of the
trum pet’ sounded long, and waxed louder and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him ‘by a
voice.’ ”
Note two different versions of the giving of the ten commandments,
by writing and by trumpet voice.
Revelation i, 10 : “ I was in the spirit on the Lord’s day, and'heard behind me a g reat voice, ‘as of a
trum pet.’” Chapter iv, 1 : “ A fter th is I looked, and behold, a door was opened in heaven, and
the first voice w hich I heard was as it w ere of ‘a trum pet’ talking w ith me.”
V oice (see page 99).
Daniel iv, 31 : “ W hile th e word was in the king’s m outh, there fell a voice from heaven, saying . .
Acts ix, 7 : . . hearing a voice, b u t seeing no m an.”
Kings xix, 12 : “ . . . and after the fire a still, sm all voice.”
BIBLICAL EVIDENCES r9
Languages (see page 136).
Speaking w ith T ongues
t_rs a. 4 : "A nd they were all filled w ith the H oly Ghost (spirit influence or control), and began to ‘speak
w ith other tongues’ as the spirit gave them utterance.”
Im a th ia n s xiv, 18 : " I thank God I ‘speak w ith tongues’ more than ye all.” Verse 21 : " In the law it
is w ritten, W ith ‘men of other tongues’ and other lips w ill I speak unto this people . .
Verse 23 : “ If therefore the whole church come together into one place, and all ‘speak w ith tongues,'
and there come in those th a t are unlearned (not fam iliar w ith speaking in tongues), or unbelievers,
w ill they not say th a t ye are m ad (insane) ?”
Some think one insane to-day when “speaking in tongues,” while
rthers know it as a proof of spirit manifestation.
T rance (see page 130).
Z Zsdras x, 28-37 : “ W here is U riel th e angel, who came unto me a t the first ? For he hath caused me
to fall into many trances. And as I was speaking these words, behold the angel (Uriel, the m aterial­
ized spirit-m an) came unto me, and he looked upon me, and, lo, I lay as one th a t had been dead
(cataleptic condition of deep trance) and m ine understanding was taken from me, and he took me
by the right hand, and com forted me and set me upon m y feet, and said unto me, W hat aileth
thee ? W hy are thou so disquieted ? A nd w hy is thine understanding troubled and the thoughts
of thine heart ? And I said. Because thou hast forsaken me : y et did I according to th y words
and went into th e field, and, lo, I ‘have seen and yet see th a t w hich I am not able to express' And
he said unto me, Stand up like a m an and I w ill advise ye. Then said I, Speak on, m y Lord ; only
forsake me not, lest I die frustrate of m y hope, for I ‘have seen that I knew not and hear that I do not
know.' Or is m y sense deceived or m y soul in a dream ? Now therefore I beseech thee to show
thy servant concerning this trance.” He still could not understand his condition of conscious trance.
We see that this medium became unconscious, physically, and
iwaking in the higher condition, was troubled and disquieted by the
rerception of things beyond his capacity to understand and interpret,
j not unusual phase of trance to-day, and he was reassured or comforted
by his guide, Uriel, who proceeded to explain the messages received, as
mediums experience the phenomena frequently now.
Lfrthariah iv, 1 : "A nd th e angel (guide) th a t talked w ith me came again, and waked me as a m an that
is wakened out of his sleep"—brought him out of trance.
This spirit-guide then explained what was seen.
x, 10 : “A nd he became very hungry, and would have eaten, b u t while they made ready, he fell
into a trance.”
Many of the best phenomena to-day occur when the medium is
msring ; many good mediums do not eat during the day they intend
to sit for phenomena, and, as described above (Esdras), are nervous and
disquieted until the seance is over. Naturally, afterwards food is required
:3 retore the strength expended. It is no light thing to fulfil the exacting
and often thankless) duties of a good medium.
I"-iiel viii, 16 : “A nd I heard a m an's voice—w hich called and said, Gabriel, 'make' this m an to understand
the vision. So he came near where I stood, and when he came I was afraid, and fell upon m y face
(trance), but he said unto me . . "Now as he was speaking w ith me, I was in a deep sleep
1
trance) on m y face tow ards th e ground : b u t he touched me, and set me upright, and he said . . . ”
Here Gabriel is the “guide” and co-operates with some other communicator,
■
■
•ho for some reason cannot directly influence the medium. We often
f.r.d this to be the case to-day.
20 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
Clairvoyance and Clairaudience (see page 105).
Jo b xxvi, 4 : “ To whom hast thou uttered words ? and whose sp irit came from thee ?”
Job xlii, 3 : “ W ho is he th a t hideth counsel w ithout knowledge ? Therefore have I uttered th a il understood
not, things too wonderful for me, which I knew not."
John i, 47-48 : Jesus sees N athanael clairvovantly, under the fig tree w ith Philip.
Acts x : Practically all clairvoyance and clairaudience.
Samuel i i i : Relates the clairaudience of Samuel.
Inspiration (see page 148).
Jerem iah i, 7 : “ . . . thou shalt go to all th a t I shall send thee, and 'w hatsoever I com mand thee thou
shalt speak.’ ” Verse g : “ Then the Lord (spirit-guide) p u t forth his hand, and touched m y m outh.—
Behold, ‘I have put m y words in thy m outh.’”
Luke xii, n : . . take ye no thought how or w hat thing ye shall answer, or w hat ye shall say, for
the holy ghost (spirit-guide) ‘shall teach you in the same hour w hat ye ought to say.’ ”
A cts xxi, 4 : “ A nd finding disciples . . . who said to Paul, 'through the spirit,’ th a t he should not go
up to Jerusalem .”
Prophecy (see page 124).
Samuel xxviii, 14 : Saul com m unicates w ith Samuel. “ . . . and Saul perceived th a t it was Samuel . . .”
Verses 15 to 19 : They talk together, and Samuel prophesies “ and to-m orrow shalt thou and thy
sons be w ith me . . . ”
Kings xiv, 12 : “ Arise thou, therefore, and get thee to thine own house, and when th y feet enter the
city, the child shall die.”
M atthew xxvi, 34 : “ Jesus said unto him , Verily I say unto thee, th a t this night, before the cock crow,
thou shalt deny me thrice.”
Acts xxvii, 22 : . and now I exhort you to be of good cheer, for there shall be ‘no loss of any m an’s
life’ am ong you, b u t (only) of th e ship.”
T elepathy (see page 122).
The king of Syria, finding that the king of Israel was warned of his
plans, suspected a traitor amongst his own people, and failing to find one
learned :
II Kings vi, 12 : “ Elisha, th e prophet th a t is in Israel, telleth the king of Israel the words th a t thou
speakest in th y bedcham ber.”
Ecclesiastes x, 20 : “ Curse not . . . ; for a bird of the air shall carry the voice and th a t which hath wings
shall tell the m atter.”
M atthew xii, 25 : “ And Jesus knew their thoughts, and said unto them . . .”
H ealing (see page 52).
I Kings xvii, 17 : “ A nd it came to pass, after these things, th a t the son of the woman, the m istress of
the house, fell s ic k ; and his sickness was so sore th a t there was no breath left in him ” (cataleptic
trance). E lijah restored him.
M atthew ix, 24 : “ And he said unto them , Give place, for the m aid is not dead hut sleepeth. And they
laughed him to scorn. B ut when the people were p u t forth, he w ent in and took her by the hand
and the m aid arose.”
These are two outstanding cases of catalepsy (not dead, but sleeping)
mistaken for death (not unknown to-day), as also the arousing to normal,
and living for years afterwards (see page 51).
M atthew iv, 24 : . were possessed w ith devils (epilepsy); and those which were lunatic ; those th a t
had p a lsy ; and he healed them .”
M atthew xvii, 15 : “ Lord, have mercy on m v so n ; for he is lunatick, and sore vexed; for ofttim es he falleth
into the fire, and oft into the w ater.” (So-called falling sickness indicated epilepsy.)
M atthew xii, 22 : “ Then was brought unto him one possessed w ith a devil (?), blind, and dum b, and he
healed him .” (Epilepsy or falling sickness.) Verse 24 : “ B ut when the Pharisees heard it, they said,
This fellow doth not cast out devils b u t by Beelzebub, the prince of devils.” Verse 27 : “ If I by
Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them o u t? ”
Here Jesus not only refutes the primitive “devil” theory, but reminds
them that “he is not the only one who can cure epilepsy,” but that they
have their own healers, who can do it also. Another case is described in
BIBLICAL EVIDENCES 21
^ " E, : to 45, where Lazarus is revived from a cataleptic trance of
day; duration (see page 95). Such cases are occasionally known
•-day. even up to thirty days’ duration.
— -x : Epilepsy is described and cured,
a n a * i-53 : A bsent healing.
■ffln rx : - r : Bhnd E a a healed. A uthorities credit the devil, as usual.
sass ▼ i f : Peter heals many.
--=* — : r Paul heals by m agnetized cloth. A ll these things are known to occur to-day by those
• s n c v psychic phenom ena,
far* x 5* : M ister, we saw one casting out devils (curing epilepsy) in th y nam e (by th y method) and
-- :;h :w e :h n :: u s ; and we forbade him, because he followeth not us. B ut Tesus said, ‘Forbid
He knew that others could heal, it is a psychic faculty and “ not the
-■ ~r.:<possession” of any oneperson or group, though not common.
Htre we have ample proofs recorded of every phase of psychic pheno-
known to-day, existing in Biblical times and Chinese, Egyptian,
Indian, and other still more ancient historical records are permeated with
the =
2me recorded facts if natural psychic occurrences, variously under­
b i d and misunderstood) according to the mental and spiritual develop-
asent of the peoples of those times.
“You are a spirit 'nowjust as much as you ever will be, and one
minute after the change, called death,you will bejust whatyou are now,
with ‘immensely greater’ possibilities.”
T
HERE is one mistaken idea, common to the primitive savage and
his modern so-called more civilized brother, that is, the idea that
when we lay aside the physical body (or fleshly overcoat) and
pass on into the state or condition of continuing spiritual life, or being,
we become different, something mysterious and superhuman. This
is due to primitive ignorance and the preference for fairy tales instead
of simple facts, so common to the undeveloped and Oriental mind for
centuries and brought down to us in their spectacular fables, making a
mountain out of a molehill of matters offact, beyond their capacity to
assimilate.
When we study the phenomena of spirit return over thousands of
instances, ancient and modern, we are struck with the fact that they
demonstrate, as well as teach, the humanness of their lives and being,
regardless of their added vision and the higher aspects of their new
condition.
For instance, they have to learn to adapt themselves to different
circumstances. On one occasion a spirit person remarked to a sitter :
“I heard your father talk to you through the trumpet last night.”
“Yes,” said the sitter, “why didn’t you speak through it, too?” “I
can’t. I don’t know how,” was the answer. “Will you try next time ?”
asked the sitter. Next time, at a trumpet seance, this entity spoke through
the trumpet a little awkwardly at first, then easily, remarking : “It’s
easy when you know how.”
They are also limited and have none of the marvellous omniscience
and omnipotence too often attributed to them. Frequently, when asked
things, they frankly say : “I don’t know,” sometimes adding : “I’ll try
and find out,” which they often do later on. We must remember that they
have “diversities of gifts,” just as we have. The ditch-digger may not be
an artist, the inventor may not be a financier, etc., each to his own
faculty, whether physically embodied or discarnate.
I have entered a room with a friend and the medium, a stranger, at
once said to him : “You have a pound note in your vest pocket, the
number is ------” On examining the bill the number was found correct.
“The number on your watchcase is------” This, too, was right. On the
other hand, in other cases, when the spirit was asked what was in the
C h a p t e r 3
THE HUMANNESS OF THE SPIRIT ENTITIES
22
-7-:.LANXESS OF SPIRIT ENTITIES 23
‘ cr ma. De . 'I don't know. I haven’t looked,”
:: lo ti the ccrrect answer will be given. Others
r.“ c.-jdently not able or desirous offinding
a :: ~ tr.: with some and not with others.
~_n n-c— v cedar :: nam a.sledge ar.v message from
" oa "proof5of her identity, by her telling him the
at her faiw al. As if such a casual and trivial
L If she had told him he would have been no further
,far he am id have a id "‘
Telepathy,” and remained unconvinced,
e a i * iatM ily of the spirit to tell him disposed of telepathy in
me,far hit mind, being full of the name, it would seem the easiest
fa the world to tell him. Curiously enough, his very obsession
ns dxrd .i t : zi a sprclfic name militated against it coming through,
t far some reason, are always hard to get through (seepage 157
jfa a d m from spirit-persons). YVe have been told that the first
it the label of the individual, the second or family name
-- .-redd, tribal or common to all the family, hence they more
:t: :r remember the specific personal name and see no point in
eri. ramay name. Names often come in a roundabout way, for
s a j - : A spiri: calling herself “Sophy” once came through,
:rely :arm in Oklahoma. A young man present remarked :
l - r : m a . :t The answer was : “Yes, you knew me.” The
:: _ld rot remember any Sophy. The spirit asked : “Don’t
creek, running past your farm ?” He did. “What did
-re t: 1: the creek ?” she asked. “Oh, paddle round, fish and
a:.r a : cold her. “YVhat kind of fish did you catch ?” she asked.
trout------ YVhy Trout is your name. You are Sophy Trout.
you now,” he said, and the girl was overjoyed to be recognized
jw m -W .-KnnT method.
Tims eird Sophy Trout, strikingly illustrates the humanness of the
■ m .i»7 scIra. Living on a lonely farm, too poor to get proper clothing,
mm. r e through the entranced medium, was idly stroking the dress of
far m c m . when ;de broke off talking in astonishment, saying : “ Why
I never had a silk dress, only calico. How did I get this ?
and was thoroughly happy to be so richly clothed.
t r : a ;ec the shoes and stockings she was wearing, via the medium,
mg delightedly : “Real leather shoes and lovely silk stockings,
c I c them? I never had shoes or stockings. I always we'nt
Ann again later, fingering a bead necklace of the medium’s,
pleased as a child. This occurred a few times, but later the
£f and she took these things for granted, being then more
sd .n giving information to the circle.
-"n-:r r medium persisted in asking a man : “Is your father a farmer ?
Does n r a—a p :entry, etc.,” getting “No” for an answer to each query.
r_ sand the medium, wearying of asking, “your father is here
■1—mg and he is holding up a male duck. Does that mean anything
“Yes,” said the man, “that’s my name—Drake.” If the
am dad described what she saw in the first place, instead of trying
cm with her own ideas, it would have saved time and avoided
n c : : rave been an error.
Sometimes, when they cannot get a'name through, the spirit-person
will tell us to forget it for a while, and pass on to other things. Later,
when occupied with other things, and no thought of the name in mind,
out comes the name desired, in the midst of other, quite irrelevant,
matters.
When a Cardinal of the Roman Church came through on one occa­
sion, he was recognized by a former parishioner of his, who addressed
him as “Cardinal ------” ; but he said : “Please do not address me as
Cardinal. That is merely the title of the office I held as the then incum­
bent, and is not mine. Call me D r.------, that belongs to me. I earned
it.” (He was a D.D.) Thereafter when he came he was addressed as
Dr. ------, not Cardinal.
Though Cardinals, Bishops, priests and nuns came through at times
(as also ministers of other denominations) they frequently remark that
the forms, ceremonies and prayers are of little or no importance. “It is
what you are that really counts.” Yet generally they would end their
visit with the characteristic ecclesiastical sign and formula of benediction,
to which they were accustomed in earth life. On inquiry, the explanation
given was that when in earth life they gave the benediction, they were
mediums, vehicles or instruments, for the flow of spiritual influence, and
by repeating the familiar motions and words from habit, they more
readily entered into the spiritual state by which they were able to transmit
to us the spiritual blessing.
A woman propounded a personal problem to a spirit asking for
advice. The spirit-person discussed the problem very intelligently, so
that anyone could see the proper course to pursue. But the woman
evidently did not listen, for, when the spirit finished, she said : “But tell
me what to do,” plainly thinking that we are rubber stamps in the hands
of the spirit entities. The reply came, rather severely uttered : “Who
am I to interfere with your life? You must use your own brains and do
what you think right.” “But,” she protested, “I may make a mistake.”
“That,” came the firm reply, “is a part of your necessary experience.”
So we learn by our mistakes, in a varying length of time, depending on
ourselves, just as a child, learning to walk, tumbles and tries again, thus
developing muscle, co-ordination, judgment, calculation and self-reliance.
After all, we are only overgrown children.
In a dark stance, the voice of a little girl of about three years was
heard calling: “Daddy, Daddy.” A man present sobbed : “Yes,
darling. Why did you leave me ?” The child replied, as if hurt and
astonished : “I did not leave you, Daddy, I am here with you and my
pretty Mamma.” The man said : “I took some flowers out to put on
your grave to-day.” The child answered : “Yes, Daddy, I know.
They are very pretty. But they will soon die. Don’t take flowers out
there. I am not there in that box with the pretty satin lining. I am at home
with you and pretty mamma. Make her happy. Give her the flowers
you make me happy, too. Live ones, in a pot, last longer. Make my
mamma happy.” It seems the man was so wrapped up in his own grief
that he forgot that the mother was also feeling the loss of the child, pro­
bably more than he was, and needed his comfort. This the child evidently
knew. But the man still said : “Why did you leave me,” and again the
24 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
HUMANNESS OF SPIRIT ENTITIES 25
: hid said : “But I did not leave you. I am with you. I am going home
with you and my mamma. When you go to bed to-night I will come and
pct my arms around your neck. I shall be with you even thoughyou can't
a me. Make my mamma happy.” Later she interrupted the other
messages to say : “Don’t cry, Daddy, you make me sad. I am with you all
me dme.” In the dark the child knew that the father was weeping.
My wife, brought up in an orthodox ecclesiastical institution, was
srrified in childhood by weird, superstitious stories of imaginary devils,
c r . told by ignorant persons (and others!). Though she could never
nmg herself to attend a seance and learn first hand of spiritual realities,
me sensed in her heart the value of seeking the truth and would listen
a: me detailing experiences on many occasions of my study of psychic
rmenomena and their meaning. After she passed away she came to me
m a seance and was asked if the little I had been able to tell her of future
:seditions had helped her. She replied : “Yes, it helped me very much,
:at n hat apity that we did not know more ofit when I was with you physically.
>r should have been very much happier and I should be so much
ruRTHER advanced now.” Evidently this knowledge, though little, was
i valuable help.
Later, I was sitting in a class, when a lady opposite (not the medium)
said : “What do they call those women in the Roman Church who
•vear uniforms and flaring white head-dresses ?” Being told that they
were called “Nuns” or sisters, she said to me : “I see four of these Nuns
bringing a baby to you and putting it in your lap.” “Yes,” cried the
medium, “and it’s a boy, Mr. Wills.” It later appeared that to my
daughter in Canada was born her first child, a boy, as said. Though
n r e of the family or the doctor in charge belonged to the Roman
Church, yet on account of the skill of the sisters of this hospital the
doc1or had recommended the daughter to go to it. The sisters wear the
daring head-dresses described four days before. This was striking, but
another incident in this connection even more illustrates the human
tdaracter of those who have passed on.
My wife had passed away three years before and had sometime pre-
iotisly told me that she had adopted a little four-year-old French boy,
Davy, to care for in spirit life, and the child came to see if I also would
adopt him and was then delighted to have both a daddy and a mamma.
I ■ssn s the child for some reason could not find its parents and had
■: : 1 thus urovided for. On the above occasion, after the episode of the
hrtle boy’s voice was heard, mournfully and almost weeping,
Daddy Arthur, I expect you won’t want me any more.”
not ?” he was asked. “ Because,” he replied, “now that the new
baby is coming you won’t want me,” and he seemed to be heart-broken.
I assured him that it would make no difference at all, that the new baby
htl mged to my daughter and her husband and that I had only a sort of
second-hand interest in it, but that Davy belonged to me direct. Almost
exrited to talk the little chap said : “Is that how it is, Daddy Arthur?
Oh, I am so glad. It is so wonderful and I love you so much I can’t tell
you,” and his happiness was so unbounded he could not find words to
express himself. This is a most interesting demonstration of how child-
lie and natural children are “over there,” as it is commonly expressed.
B
It has been most instructive and interesting to follow his development
since then. Now he is about fourteen years with the mental development
of a boy of eighteen or nineteen years of age. He is full of vim, humour
and the joy of life, always trying to be helpful, and as my wife says some­
times : “He is such a comfort to me.” This without lessening her interest
in her children, still in earth life. As her splendid father once remarked
when someone asked how he could love all his children alike : “God
makes your heart grow bigger every time.”
At a private seance with another medium (just before the above
incident) she said : “Your wife is here holding a small baby. Did you
have one that passed away ?” I said : “No.” She replied : “Well, it is a
spirit-baby and has no body.” I said : “My daughter expects her first
baby this week.” “That is it,” she replied. “ That’s why it has no body.
It is not born yet and your wife is caring for it already. Your daughter
will quickly get over it and the baby will be with you in a short time. You
have nothing to worry about.” (See page 154 for explanation.)
“When the baby came,” Davy said, “it would have blue eyes (correct)
and that my sons would enjoy the child so much.” (Later they did.)
He doesn’t like it tagged (in hospital) and put with a lot of other babies.
He says : “I’ll see that they don’t mix them up. Why can’t they let its
mother have it ?”
March, 1941. Mrs. Birkner’s seance. Medium described Davy as
drawing on a blackboard, a book and “J ” 13, which she supposed referred
to this book.
Usually I am the last to receive messages, as the visitors go round the
circle and Davy comes first to me. This time my wife came first, evidently
enjoying a joke, saying that she came first while Davy was preoccupied
with other things, gave me messages and, still amused, let my Dr.
guide take her place. He, too, was amused at the little joke on Davy
who followed him, puzzled by this unusual event, asking : “Am I last,”
and speaking as if greatly surprised and trying to figure out why it
happened so.
My wife came another time and said :
" I am so happy th a t you rem em ber and love me and th a t you don’t grieve, and don’t go to the
cem etery. I t’s a little over two years now since I sat in the garden and saw you working am ong the
flowers (I had taken some w ith me to th e m edium ’s seance), they are so lovely and we both had our hands
in the soil working w ith them . I love to come home where you all love me. I am preparing a home here
for you and you are the architect, w ith love, good thoughts and deeds, teaching and helping others all
you can, and we shall together look on our children and inspire them w ith love and happiness.”
This is the general characteristic of their joy in participating unseen
in our everyday life, as in other cases where they speak of being saddened
by the grief of those left behind ; symbolically, as if a cloud cut off the
sun for a time, until the earth friends learn to mitigate their grief.
One spirit-m an, after joking for a w hile w ith his wife, said: “ I t w ouldn’t be me if I didn’t joke
and be n atu ral.” A nother spirit said : ‘‘I try to be as norm al and natural as I can, though m y voice
through this instrum ent (the medium) is not ju st as you recall it.”
A lady sitter regretted th a t she had not been able to pay her respects to a friend who passed away
ju st a week before, by attending his funeral. He s a id : “ T hat does not m atter. Y our coming here now
and giving me a chance to talk and contact earth again helps me a hundred times more th an paying respects
to m y body.”
A lady was greeted by a boyish voice calling himself Leonard, saying :
“I told Leonard so and so,” and when asked which Leonard, a man’s
26 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
: :t replied : “Me.” On the lady making a remark the boy’s voice
replied : “No, that’s me.” And so they kept the lady puzzled for a
m ment, then introduced into the conversation a third Leonard, an
■ade of the lady, living on earth. This made the talk more hopelessly
:: rrhiing, to the evident enjoyment of the two lively jokers, who presently
err ained and straightened out the confusion, apologizing for their fun
ur 1 h :ning that their merriment had cheered the lady up and helped her.
On one occasion a young lady was startled by a touch. She asked :
that you, Grannie ?” and receiving the answer “Yes” she hastily
m :re d : “Well, don’t you do that again.” The grandmother never
r c it arain, nor did she come back, hurt at the rebuke, when kindness
si was her motive, obeying a rule or law not to interfere with others’
earth lives, especially against their will. I have known other dear ones
repelled and driven away by the sudden ignorant resentment of a too
iasrv sitter who did not understand. This same cause in earth life too often
pres rise to needless heartaches and trouble. Here is where Andrew
hckson’s “Magic Staff” comes in. “ Under all circumstances keep an even
mmdn
A man spoke through the trumpet at Mrs. Bessie Woodworth’s and
2 he had been shot: “Call it an accident.” I gathered from his further
— :o his sitter friend, that his chum was a quarrelsome fellow who
rar. shot him and was now in jail, and the “returned victim” did not
•w
---h im executed, only imprisoned to prevent further crime. He said :
vben a life is taken for a life, it causes a repetition of the crime, injuring
h e victim also, who grieved over it.”
A little girl, asked by her mother if she was happy, replied : “Honest
n goodness, cross my heart.” This was just her natural way the mother
sue This child sent a message to her former six-year-old playmate
r~ih tided : “Mamma, your dress is so pretty and I love you, you are
>: rretry.” This, too, was a characteristic way that the child talked.
A spirit once came and said that about 85 per cent over there were
az :e-cause theirfriends here “did not” get in touch with them. It makes them
xappy and helps them to progress when loved ones here communicate
r nra cgfa a desirable medium.
A man came through by trumpet to his wife. The medium said she
-a - - m putting on spectacles and looking at the trumpet. He said : “I
_m not used to this thing and I am trying to get in the horn. It is queer.”
1; a seance a Polish woman questioned her father in Polish. He
-re Leu in English and asked her to speak English as that was the vibration
: r e circle, expressed great pleasure in her coming to speak to him.
The father of a man next to me came to him (he had only passed on
: m:rch ago) and told the son that he passed away over the ocean and
- •as hard to talk through the horn. The son had frequently written to
- rr about spirit return, but the old man would not then accept the fact.
Hi su-d : “I know now.”
The grandfather of one man came and remarked : “I am not used to
ccH-g through a horn,’ but glad to talk to grandson.” He gave the man
r r : good advice on what he was doing.
Dr one occasion I remarked to one of my brothers that I had been
t see his grave in England. He replied : “Yes, it is not very well kept,
HUMANNESS OF SPIRIT ENTITIES 27
but what docs that matter. My body is gone now. I am the same, but have
progressed very much.”
A strange spirit manifested to see his boy. None recognized him, and
a guide then explained that this spirit passing, saw the light, as the circle
is like a lighthouse attracting them, and they came, looking for a chance
to talk with their friends.
In one circle a man asked a guide about diet and the reply was :
“Eat what you will, in moderation, and avoid liquor and tobacco. Keep
physically fit, and about avoiding meat, forget it. Eat what you need to
keep fit.” This guide told another man to take a vacation. He said that
all should take at least a few days each year among the trees and scenery
and commune with nature for spiritual and physical benefit. Children
should have solid breakfast, cereals are not enough.
A boy giving his name as Charles came, but was not recognized. He
kept saying : “Oh, Mother.” The medium asked a woman sitter if she
had a premature child and she said : “Yes.” The medium asked if it was
a boy. The woman did not know. The voice then said : “That’s me,
Mother, I am a boy. I am grown up now. They call me Charles over
here and I love you, Mother, and will help you.” A still-born child
frequently returns to his puzzled parents.
On one occasion a little girl of four materialized to talk to her
brother of five and a half. The two children were so excited at the
reunion that both became a little hysterical and wept. Then one, child­
like, accused the other of crying. “I’m not, you are,” was the reply.
“Well you did first,” etc., just as small children will, and their excitement
grew so great that the little girl with her beautiful brown curls, vanished
into the cabinet. Later she came out again when they were calmer and
they chattered about their small affairs quite naturally.
A boy came through to his mother, singing : “Let me call you sweet­
heart, Mother, I love you.” After a conversation he left and we heard a
boy whistling. Then her other son came through saying : “Bill said,
‘I bet you can’t go through and whistle for Mother,’ so I showed him that
I could.”
Some people endow the returning spirits with all sorts of imaginary
super-qualities, instead of merely with human faculties, with a wider
range of knowledge, proportioned to their adjustment to their new
conditions. Others cannot get away from the physical criteria to which
they are accustomed. Of the latter type was the old lady who wanted
to know if her grandson “over there” was properly clothed. For some
time he tried to describe the new clothing and conditions, but finding
that it was “over her head,” she could not grasp what he meant, he
finally said : “Well, Grandma, it’s like this. I have a blue serge suit with
a red silk stripe. The old lady, assured of the propriety of her boy’s
dress, folded her hands in her lap, visibly gratified. We can only grasp
what we are fitted to comprehend.
An Eskimo might find it hard to explain to an African jungle dweller,
who had never seen ice, about walking across a lake ; so the spirit-beings
find a similar difficulty in making us understand new realities beyond our
usual physical experience. The attention of a spirit, speaking through a
medium whose eyes were closed, was drawn to a fine picture on the wall
28 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
—t room and he was asked if he could see it. He replied : “Yes, I
ee the oicture, it is very beautiful.” Asked if he saw it as we did, he
i~ "No, I see the essence of the picture,” adding : “I could open the
r r s ofthis instrument (the medium) and see it as you do, but her guides
me that it would injure her, so I must not.” This is an instructive
------- of the care taken of the medium, which we should be sensible
e r c jh to follow. He could not define, clearly enough for our under-
----what was meant by the “essence” of the picture, but it was
cridtmrly some finer apprehension of its qualities than our ideas, limited
as rhsy are to the physical pigments, perspective, composition, etc. What
■as the essence of the picture ? Its beauty ? The artist’s original idea,
—are or less inadequately portrayed in physical terms?
At a materialization seance, the grandmother of one lady appeared,
— - a walking-stick as she seemed slightly lame. She was greatly
mtrrested in the new silk dress her grand-daughter was wearing and
sat-jtrd on feeling the material, commenting favourably on the design,
Ena then asked the lady to go farther from the cabinet so that she could
w
es. the whole dress as the lady revolved like a mannequin. At this point
a ; ;Id. lady vigorously objected : “It’s too short. We never wore such
r r i - dresses in my time. I don’t like it. It’s not decent. I’m ashamed
a: : - " And turning around, the scandalized old lady stumped indig-
back into the cabinet, her manner expressing her displeasure at
ttt t : her) unseemly short dress of her grand-daughter, grown up and
married.
A child manifested and said : “A man is holding me up so that I can
r e i through the lady (medium). Asked if it was Z------(a valued guide,
■»- : in earth life was a priest of the Roman Church), she laughed and
— - : "No, he never had any children of his own and knows nothing
them. It is the lady’s (medium’s) father holding me up.”
Another child, when her mother referred to putting flowers on the
—. -b- grave, said : “Yes, I have seen them. They are very pretty.
9on don’t put any more out there to die, buy some warm stockings for
tt—
-> sister. She needs them this cold weather and I don’t want her to
| » 53
One woman asked the spirit visitor if she could see the Hindoo guide
« :m e to the querist. Answer : “No, I am in the talking vibration
m e 1: not want to open that door.” (Sight.)
A child, who passed away in infancy, came to her sister, who asked
ne :hbi her name, as the mother did not understand spirit return. The
— 5-aid : “Tell Mother a merry little girl came.” The medium said :
“ Her name must be Mary.” “Yes, my name is Mary,” said the child.
be one occasion a fully developed figure materialized and came out
sr a* cabinet, looked round the circle ofsitters inquisitively and remarked
a ucDnishment : “ This is a funny place,” and disappeared into the
«t again.
A man who passed away by drowning, came to a doctor-friend and
— be had been a good swimmer but cramp got him, adding : “It was
lex a bad way to go.” The doctor said : “Yes, as good a way as any,”
mi- the mint friend replied, with dry humour : “Can’t say, I never tried
bo ttrzr way.”
HUMANNESS OF SPIRIT ENTITIES 29
A mediumistic sitter, leaning forward, was pushed upright by a
materialized form and told that “we are going to use your solar plexus
to help us.” The spirit came in and gave a good test message, remarking :
“It is not so much ‘a testforyou asfor m e I wanted tosee what all this meant—•
what ‘P could do.” They often tell us that they draw on the sitters for
power to reinforce that of the medium.
A little spirit-girl, during the depression, encouraged her mother,
saying : “Heavenly banks don’t break and close their doors, and they are
filled with pure thoughts and good deeds.”
One woman said to her little spirit-child : “I am not sure whether what
I did was right.” The child answered : “Didn’t yourself tell yourself it
was right ? When yourself tells yourself it’s right, that’s God telling
you.” (Conscience.)
A small boy came with long curls and the medium mistook him for a
girl. The boy said, humorously : “Calling me a girl ! Do you think
that’s fair. Men aren’t girls,” and he laughed at the joke.
A girl calling herself M. came through to a circle, calling her medium
“my lady” in an affectionate, possessive, not honorific sense, and on a
later occasion asked if she might call her “lady” mother, and was pleased
as a child when permitted to do so, saying : “Now I have two mothers.”
She did not trouble about names of the usual sisters, calling one, a
treasurer, “the money man” ; and another “the teacher lady.” I was
Mr. Writing Man because I took notes. Addressing one sitter who did
not reply, she said : “He’s asleep.” When he said : “No, I am just
dumb,” she laughed merrily at the idea. Later she tried to interrupt
and come in again, and the guide, with an indulgent chuckle, remarked :
“She wants to apologize to Mr. X. for saying ‘he’s asleep.’ ” When she
came in Mr. X. said, humorously : “I can’t help being dumb,” at which
with a merry laugh of appreciation and quick “Good-bye” she left.
This girl M., one day in a circle, said to her medium : “Lady, you
didn’t get it.” The medium said : “No, not yet.” M. said : “I want
it.” The medium explained to us that it was a blue dress M. admired
when the medium was shopping several weeks before and wanted the
medium to wear it at the seance to please her, the spirit-girl.
The medium was not always in trance and could then talk to M.,
but when the medium was in trance M. was troubled because her “lady
mother” was “asleep.” On my explaining that, in the circle, the sitters
gave strength and enabled the medium to remain conscious and talk,
but in a private sitting, where only one or two were present, she had to
supply all the power and was in trance, or, as M. put it, “asleep,” M.
said : “Oh,” as if satisfied, and then said to me : “I like you, Mr. Writing
Man. Good-bye,” and left.
At one seance a man came through to Mr. A., saying : “I was buried
at sea. We were at Fort Washington together and you were on guard.
You gave me privileges. Corporal ------- was too damn smart. I was
left behind when you went over. Later I died of ’flu and was buried at
sea.” All verified by Mr. A., who thus learned some details he did
not know before about this man.
At a time when I was attending a Masonic reunion, for several days,
the guide greeted me as a Mason in a private seance. When the medium
30 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
out of trance, not knowing this she described a great golden symbol
ink wondered what it was. This symbol was used later in the day at a
—":ing. On another occasion, when two other Masons were present,
ir ::her guide came and asked questions, not intelligible to others present,
xnd is they did not anticipate this unusual happening, the other two were
r _rzled, until afterwards I privately reminded them of the meanings.
At one materialization a little girl came out and talked awhile, then
•-ent back in the cabinet and continued to talk, asking several times :
“.Am I still there ?” When “No” was the answer, she said : “They
have taken the material away, so that I can only talk.”
Another time a spirit-person remarked that he had been cremated
zrd he had wondered how it would affect him. He said : “When my
body was put in the oven I felt a sort of electric shock, and was immediately
happy and free from it.”
A girl came and her sister remarked to her : “You hated spiritualism.”
I-_-:antly came the reply : “But not now ; I know.” She said that, when
earth, she had not wanted to come back to earth, but now was glad
:: some to her loved ones.
Two Worlds, March 15th, 1940. “War victim’s return” through Mrs.
Esselle Roberts, famous English medium. Flying Officer Henry Emden,
;.A F., who was one of the first casualties of the war, manifested. He
was killed in the famous air-raid on the Kiel Canal, September 4th, and
was given a military funeral by the Germans at Kiel. He announced
- —
.self by saying :
~Sonny, this is H a l; can you hear me ? I t is H al, your brother.” A fter he had been acknow-
m- 7=-- he added: ‘‘I w ant you to give my love to m y wife. I t seems such a short tim e since I died—
c~:hs, isn’t it? I crashed in an aeroplane,” and then he ad d ed : “ I am so excited. Thank you
fer aposdng after m y wife and baby.”
The recipient of the messages was his brother, Mr. W ill Em den, who asked : “ W hat would you
w rbe baby to be called ?” “ I would like it called H al.” He then added : “ I can’t rem em ber much,
1 . . . then oblivion.”
. hen followed the usual question : “ Are you happy ?” and the reply : “ No, not really. I w anted
az scsy -^ith m y wife and child.”
H al Em den seemed perfectly fam iliar w ith the fact th a t since his death his wife had a child. He
wzs. aware of the fact th a t the event occurred about six weeks previously, and he said : “J was there,
-i I could have taken those pains I would have done so.”
These items show how natural and human the returning spirit-friends
HUMANNESS OF SPIRIT ENTITIES 31
Chapter 4
SCIENCE
“We possess such a large amount of information on human beings that
its very immensityprevents usfrom using it properly.”
D r . Alexis Carrel i n Man, the Unknown.
A
S Dr. Carrel says in the quotation heading this chapter, we have
“mental indigestion.”
l. There is a pertinent story, even if apocryphal, of the industrialist,
one of whose “learned” college-bred engineers complained of Jones, a
less educated, practical engineer-assistant. “Jones wanted to do so and so,
but I explained all the theories to him and showed him all the formulas,
proving that it could ‘not’ be done ; and then the crazyfool went ahead and
‘did it’ !” This, as Dr. Carrel says, the very immensity of the college
man’s knowledge prevented him from progressing farther, as his less-
informed brother engineer did. This is not to belittle great knowledge,
only to emphasize the mental indigestion, due to choking the initiative,
and ability to use acquired knowledge for further progress. So in spite of
the learned “text-book” scientists, these far-seeing “crazy fools,” the
psychic researchers, go ahead and “educe” amazing wonders beyond
physics. The materialists’ physical yardsticks are useless in connection
with psychic phenomena, though, in their place, they are indispensable.
A true scientist will not limit himself to his own speciality as being all-
important and all others secondary ; and hence a few, such as Carrel,
Crookes, Geley, Schrenk-Notzing, Richet, and their open-minded
fellows, seek to widen their field and try to link up their accumulated
knowledge of physics with other equally important phases of psychic
science, and gain a wider vision of truth. Whatever fragments of truth
any man, or body of men, may have, none can have the whole of it. Nothing
is finally fixed and static. We are constantly “tuning in” to newer and
more sublime truths, both objective and subjective, as we enlarge our
capacity to understand, be it scientific, social, religious, political, econo­
mical or any other aspect. Newton realized this when he said : “I feel
like a child playing with the shells upon the shores of time while the
great ocean of knowledge lies unexplored before me.”
Augustine wrote : “ Miracles do not happen in contradiction to the laws
of nature, but only in contradiction to what we know of the laws of nature.”
In psychic science may perhaps be found the key to more compre­
hensive understanding, linking up and reconciling the present medley
of sciences into an intelligible and useful solidarity ; for psychic research
32
udes physics, and physiology, chemistry, electricity, biology and
-u u m y , psychology and philosophy, as well as (and not the least)
wing a brilliant and revealing searchlight on the various theologies
rich have plagued and misled man from the earliest ages.
In 1811, a homesick 20-year-old boy from Connecticut wrote back to
his mother from England : “I wish that ‘in one instant’ I could tell you
:z my safe arrival, but we are three thousand miles apart and must wait
i x r long weeks to hear from each other.” This boy was Morse, a brilliant
artist and scientist, who brooded on the idea for a third of a century
md finally, in 1844, the first electric telegraph of his invention was
: rerated using the “ raps” (dot and dash) Morse code of communication,
tad in 1866 the first Atlantic cable was laid, thus realizing his boyhood
L':im of sending messages three thousand miles “in an instant.”
The primitive attitude of masses of people towards new discoveries
"sembles that of the old Scotchwoman to the new-fangled cable. Soon
idter it was first laid a young man left Scotland for New York. In those
days it took weeks to cross, and, like Morse, this young man longed to
.-t: his grannie’s mind at ease “in an instant” and sent her a cable (at
meat cost in those days) announcing his safe arrival. The stubborn and
rorant old lady refused to receive it, “because it was ‘impossible’ to
send a message across the Atlantic ‘in an instant’v/hen a ship takes several
eeks.” When the matter was explained to her she still refused to
accept it, superstitiously asserting that “the ‘devil’ must be in it.”
Strangely enough, this same infantile idea largely obtains now regarding
me equally material (and in the early stages by the similar method of
.--a p s ”) way of communicating across the borders of the physical and
psychic, ethereal or spiritual states of continuing life.
Remarkably enough, it was only four years after Morse used “raps”
that two lively little girls (the Fox sisters) in New York discovered that the
"raps” heard in their house responded intelligently to their playful
read-clapping signals, and announced to their mystified parents and
retghbours : “It sees, it hears and it understands and answers,” to their
extemporized code of raps. Thus was born an intelligent and practical
method of communication between the physical and psychic phases of
:emg, strangely similar to the Morse method of raps and at nearly the
:m e time. This is now known as a manifestation of mediumship, of the
physical order. They finally learned, by this code, that the raps were
:r used by the spirit of a pedlar who was murdered in that house and who
gave his history in detail, which was unknown at that time, but later
verified.
We find an amazingly similar attitude to that of the Scotchwoman,
: :ward this new discovery, amongst scientists, or rather among the
cxrage scientists who limit themselves to the accepted orthodox notions
iihin the covers of their text-book fetishes, and who resent the necessity
:f having to go over the matter again and absorb new knowledge beyond
physics when they had already comfortably arrived at a somnolent
finality.
For instance, Sir George Stokes, Secretary of the Royal Society,
refused even to consider the discoveries of Sir William Crookes, or check
-7 his experiments, though Sir William offered all his facilities to help
SCIENCE 33
Stokes. (Sir William Crookes, the discoverer of the Crookes’s tube, which
gave us the X-ray branch of science.) Stokes’ limited idea was that it
was impossible, i.e. not in accord with his infallible fetish, the orthodox
method.
In scientific, religious, political, and all other walks of life, as my
mother used to humorously say : “There are none so blind as those who
won't see.” The scientist, who suffers from an “infallibility complex”
about his “method,” will never know the truth.
The facts of psychic science are more “experiential” than “experi­
ment/” and must be so dealt with. An Eskimo may be given all the
scientific physical (i.e. external) facts about an orange, strange to him,
its colour, weight, size, etc., but no scientific description will enable him
to enjoy the taste, thirst-quenching and vitamin benefits, etc., of the
orange, unless “he” eats it. Experience alone can prove these things.
D r. W althier, in an address, refers to a scientist who soberly announced th a t he was not interested
in “ m edium istic p rattle,” and then, in certain tests w ith a world-famous medium, unw ittingly proceeded
to dem onstrate rem arkable evidence of the truths of mediumship. Thus (indicative of the reality of trance
control) he found m arked changes in the m edium ’s blood-count, blood-pressure, h eart action, and in
testing her reaction to certain m edical drugs, both while in her normal state and also while under trance control
of distinct spirit entities. Startling differences. H er blood-pressure, while she was under control of her
guide, Abdul Latif, for exam ple, corresponded to th a t of an old man, whereas Mrs. G arrett at the tim e
was in her early forties. She was also strongly inclined to bronchitis and accustom ed to m edicine con­
taining adrenalin ; b u t when Abdul L atif was in control, the reaction against this medicine was so severe
th a t the physicians were badly frightened. H ere is indisputable scientific evidence th a t Mrs. G arrett’s
organism was actually in control of an individual entirely separate and distinct from herself.
We are often loose and careless in our speaking and thinking and so
are led into mistaking the appearance (or phenomenon) for the reality
(or noumenon) which it merely shadows. For instance, we say : “I saw
the sun rise,” when in fact it does not rise, but only “seems” to do so,
because of the earth turning on its axis, the reality being different from
the appearance or phenomenon. So we unthinkingly speak of strange
and unusual things that we do not understand as super-natural or miracu­
lous, as if transcending nature. Everything that occurs in the universe,
seen or unseen, occurs in accordance with nature’s physical and spiritual
laws, and our understanding or not understanding has nothing to do with
the matter. There is not nor can there be any supernatural, as we
misname it, only super-natural or super-usual, that is beyond our present
understanding, strange to us, but all in accord with nature’s immutable
laws. Some of you may recall a remarkable exhibit at the World’s Fair
(1933) showing a metal bar floating in the air, unsupported, about six
or seven inches above a table. If you are superstitious you say it is impos­
sible, a miracle, supernatural or of the devil. Nothing of the sort. It is
simply supernormal, that is beyond your current knowledge, just super­
usual. The explanation is simple and in accord, as usual, with natural
law. Below the table is an apparatus developing a current repelling the
bar, which, tending to fall by gravity, is upheld by the repelling force and
supported at the neutral plane where the two forces are in equilibrium.
Just as simple as a piece of wood floating on water, gravity makes it
fall until it reaches the plane of equilibrium where gravity is neutralized
by the density of the water. Natural law in both cases. The word
supernatural is used merely to camouflage superignorance.
Sir William Crookes, when he spoke of some of his experiences and
experiments, was told : “It is impossible.” He simply replied : “I do
34 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
r :t say that it is ‘possible.’ I say it happened.” It is childish to assert
arssibility” concerning an accomplished fact. “Impossible” is out of
::_m It merely admits incapacity.
A French scientist was similarly told : “It is absurd.” He replied :
“O f course it’s absurd. But it’s true.” Absurdity again is merely conven­
tional opinion, for we shake hands on greeting a friend ; on the Con­
tinent they kiss cheeks, while the Maori natives of New Zealand rub
n:>es. Which is absurd and why? What does absurdity matter? It is
that is all that matters.
Even in the region science claims as peculiarly its own special field,
- :s at fault. When Galileo demonstrated the law of gravitation by
ar: ruing unequal weights from the leaning tower of Pisa, the scientists
:: his day refused to admit the actual “
facts” because they disproved the
then accepted “theories.” Only a few years ago, when Prof. Langley
-•ns, experimenting with heavier-than-air flying machines, scientists
«TO te and discouraged him, insisting that any machine of a greater weight
arm with a greater wing spread than they calculated could not possibly
fir. To-day we smile in retrospect at these infallible scientists, as a giant
:: mmercial airplane, many times beyond the limits they set, speeds over
:or heads. I can recall the hearty laugh of the wise ones when, some
;try years ago, the idea was suggested of sending messages through the
a_r without a wire (radio, etc.).
Severe jolts of this sort, often repeated, have modified the attitude of
me more open-minded scientist.
Scientists point with pride to mathematics as the only “exact science,”
bat even mathematics has its weak points. We know the old saying,
frares won’t lie,” but then, “liars will figure.” Witness the gigantic
financial swindles of the past (and, alas, the present also). The symbol
x is used in mathematics to denote infinity (the limitless and uncon-
i. timed) and our mathematical juggler will multiply one infinity by
mother to produce an infinity of infinities (?) thus conditioning the
unconditioned ! “ Mathematical fairy tales.”
In the last century thought was conceived of as “a secretion of the
train,” and held to be “a product of the functioning of matter,” thus
settling the subject for the scientist of that day. But he overlooked the
vital point that matter, composed of “ultimate atoms,” was dead or inert
:f itself and therefore could not “function” to “produce” anything, even
a thought without some separate outside influence or entity acting upon it.
Hence the theory fell to the ground of its own inertia.
To-day these imaginary ultimate atoms have been disintegrated into a
myriad of invisible miniature solar systems, composed of electrons,
ttentrons, etc., of which nebulosities we know very little and that little but
indirectly.
We handle earth with a steam shovel, but we have to use very different
means to handle electric currents ; similarly the means we use to investi­
gate objective physical phenomena are entirely useless to investigate sub­
jectivepsychic phenomena. Just as we cannot measure a ton of mother love,
a yard offriendship, a quart oftruth, etc., for these actualities are spiritual
rijoerties, so we must devise fitting and different means to investigate
and appraise the intangible and obscure facts in nature, the none the less
SCIENCE 35
real and all-important psychic phenomena with which we are surrounded,
and which are inextricably bound up with spiritual values. We must
use a different yardstick.
Glance at the spectrum for a moment and reflect. We see a small
strip of the spectrum called the visible spectrum, because only in this
range of vibration can we normally see anything, but notice that the rest
of the spectrum on either side of the visibility area is approximately sixty
times more than the visible strip. Time was when we knew nothing of
even this small visible strip, and there is much yet to be learned of it.
We know something of the rest of the spectrum shown, the invisible (and
perhaps infinite) vibrations above and below are beyond our present
ken, we have scarce touched the fringe of what is to be known. There are
untold possibilities for us yet to learn about its uses and actions, revolu­
tionizing our concepts and outlook on life as we develop our knowledge,
vision and capacity to understand that which seems (at present) impos­
sible. On the other hand we have X-rays, Cosmic-rays, etc., just dawning
on our consciousness. The secret of Psychic Phenomena lies somewhere
in these newly discovered regions.
Not so very long ago it was considered that anything beyond the range
of the five senses was of little importance, and man considered himself to
be the perfect instrument. To-day, scientists are inclined to believe that
only activity beyond the range of thefive senses is of any value. Modern research
reveals the imperfection of the physical organism. Einstein says : “Space
will have to be regarded as ‘Primary,’ and Matter derived from it as a
‘Secondary’ product.”
Professors Rabi, Kusch and Millman announced to the American
Association for the Advancement of Science (1940) a radio microscope,
which reveals an entire new world of unseen rays.
The radio device is actually a radio-frequency spectroscope. It does the sam e thing for cool, non­
glowing m atter th a t the spectroscope does when it reveals the kind of atom s th a t m ake the stars.
The discovery shows th a t every atom and every m olecule in nature is a continuous radio broadcasting
station. T h at hot atom s broadcast rays has long been a proved fact. B ut this new broadcasting is by atom s
n o t only a t room tem perature, b u t in any degree of cold.
Thus even after death, the substance th a t was m an’s body continues to send out delicate rays. The
w ave-lengths of these rays range from shorter than anything now used in broadcasting to the longest
kind of radio waves. A single very large molecule m ay give off a m illion different w ave-lengths at the
sam e tim e. H ere is th e first scientific proof of the existence of invisible rays w hich really travel from
one person to another. (Is this the secret of telepathy?)
There is one am azing difference between the new radio waves and fam iliar rays like light. This is
th e prolonged tim e, am ounting to thousands of years which these radio waves w ill keep on em itting from
undisturbed m atter.
The present known practical uses of the radio-frequency spectroscope are lim ited to studying the
m ake-up of atom s and molecules. T he m ethod is as com plicated as the spectroscope w hich took scientists
nearly fifty years to fully understand.
“ You m ust understand th a t the two w orlds are composed of m atter not only m oving at a different
rate of vibration, but charged w ith a different m agnetism . I t is said th a t two solid objects cannot occupy
the sam e space a t the sam e tim e ; b u t this law does n o t apply to two objects—one of them belonging
to your world and the other to ours. As w ater can be hot and w et a t the sam e tim e, so a square foot
of space can contain a square foot of earthly m atter and a square foot of etheric m atter.”
L e t te r s fr om a l iv in g D ea d M an .
There is only one way to approach this subject (or any other), that is,
the true scientific way. “Here is something we do not understand, let us
inquire,” and then, proceeding with an alert, unbiased, inquisitive mind,
seek the exact facts and their meanings regardless of preconceptions and pet
theories. The “open” mind is more than is generally understood, it is the
setting aside of stereotyped ideas to make room for the expansion of one’s
36 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
-xr-Tiencc and knowledge to include various new ideas, promptly
sacrificing “cherished convictions” not in accord with the newer and
—
_er revelations. We never know anything fully, there are so many
ic nroaches and viewpoints. We can expand and grasp a multiplicity of
•ir.vpoints and so get nearer to a true understanding of actualities. The
ricsed mind is a “dead” one.
We often hear of great actors who suffer from “stage fright” no matter
h :w often they go on the stage. A good actor completely identifies himself
with the character he represents and on his full and entire identity with,
:r submergence of his own normal personality in, the character, depends
his success. In so submerging himself he is undergoing a “psychic experi­
ence,” and it is not mere “nerves” that account for his “stage fright,”
trough they are more or less a factor. Previous to a medium demon­
strating any phenomena, a similar psychic activity takes place, sometimes
several hours or days in advance, in preparation for the seance. If the
phenomena involves trance, the “identity” with the force or spirit entity
is more complete, though never entirely absolute. Always some residue
:f the medium’s characteristics is in evidence however remotely ; the
less they are so the more valuable the demonstration. In dealing with the
medium, it is vital to consider this incidental psychic activity. Probably
er.eof the difficulties is the scientists’obsession that the rules and methods
irplicable to physics apply also to psychics. A little thought and much
experience dispels this illusion. For success in psychic research it is
essential that the scientist (or any other inquirer) enter into “rapport”
or “identity with,” and understand and share the medium’s psychic
icrivity (or stage fright), just as does the successful actor, for the truths
m the psychic domain are as much “experiential” as factual, and facts
may be completely misleading without the saving grace of personal
experience to redeem them from being (supposedly) the effects of merely
mechanical and automatic functioning. We often hear a medium, when
mked how he or she “knows” a statement to be true, say : “I feel it here,”
m.d point to the heart or solar plexus, indicating a realization of its truth
within, not possible to demonstrate through crude physical mechanics
and functioning. It is not till the inquirer enters into this “identity with”
the essence of the phenomena that he can begin to adequately understand
what he is observing, and, with an intuitive sympathy, sense the essence
:f matters which transcend the physical strata of our being, in somewhat
the way the medium senses or feels them.
“ It is inevitable th a t the study of astronom y should make im possible the retention of certain theo-
.rc c a l (m is?) conceptions of yesterday. Religious ideas m ust grow and expand with the maturing of the
•tee, as they do w ith the maturing of the individual.
“W hatever the universe is, it comes into the consciousness of a physical scientist only as it touches
ljs three-dim ensional world. H is ability to reason to where consciousness becomes hazy suggests th a t
-5.n’s m ind all b u t leaps a little w ay from the w orld of the m aterial into another world not restricted by
ma^er and the three dim ensions.”
St e t s o n .
“ I believe in intuition and inspiration. Im agination is more im portant than knowledge. For knowledge
w
r limited, whereas imagination embraces the entire universe, stim ulating progress and giving birth to evolu-
ooo. It is, strictly speaking, a real factor in scientific research.”
P r o f . A l b e r t E in s t e in .
"W hile it m ay appear th a t science is all-inclusive in its searching from the microcosm to the macro-
ream, it is w orth w hile to consider th a t physical science has its lim itations. The very tools of the physicist
ir f beginning to appear too cumbersome to lay bare the innerm ost secrets of the electron. If we would
vrtzt its movements, we m ust be content not to know just where it is. If we would know just where it is.
SCIENCE 37
we m ust be content not to know just how it moves. Strange dilem m a. A t best our m ost exact measure­
m ents are b u t approxim ations, and the m ost fundam ental laws of science can never be more than approxi­
m ations to the truth. We m ay never know w hat inform ation m ay be broadcast from the stars in a form
not detectable by our physiological senses."
The following extract from a spirit-message is of interest : “ The w ay you approach things affects
vour outlook. You m ust have m any approaches to properly orientate and relate things in true persective.
Y our physical ‘m easuring sticks’ do not fit our conditions. A fact m ay exist though you cannot understand
it. T h a t’s your misfortune, not nature's fault, and does not in any way change the fact to a ‘m iracle’ or
im possibility.”
We must learn to understand, that is our job here.
38 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
Electricity
When the ancient Greek philosopher Thales (640 b.c.) rubbed a piece
of amber (Elektron) and found that it attracted light particles of matter,
his wildest dreams never soared to Radio, Light, Power, etc., the common­
places of to-day. Yet the essential laws and means for these things existed
from the beginning and so do many other things of which we are as
ignorant as was Thales of what his discovery would lead to.
When sitting for materialization we often feel the hair of our heads
seeming to rise, and popularly this is ascribed to fright. This is wrong ;
fright there may be, due to ignorance of the subject, but the cause is
electrical. In rare spontaneous phenomena, when, as it is popularly
expressed, one sees a ghost, the hair also rises for the same reason, though
fright, with the uninitiated, is also to the fore. But we find the same
result in connection with static electricity, as, when passing under a
rapidly moving belt, sparks may be drawn from the fingers, and the hair
is similarly raised.
The hair of Florence Cook would emit sparks at times before a
sitting.
Though we know much about electricity, yet as to what electricity
actually is we are as ignorant as our old friend Thales.
Hertzian waves existed from time immemorial, yet it is only in recent
years that man has learned to use them for matter-of-fact purposes
(radio, etc.), which would have been characterized by our less-informed
forefathers as miraculous, merely because they were new, strange, and
beyond their knowledge.
There is an interesting analogy in radio, where the artist’s or sender’s
message passes to the transmitting instrument (controlled by an engineer),
thence through space, via the Hertzian waves, to a receiving instrument,
loud speaker, and thus to the recipient or hearer. Similarly in psychic
messages, experience and research inform us that there is a “sender” (a
living incorporeal person) desiring to communicate ; a “control” or
“guide” (a living incorporeal person, also) who uses the more or less
entranced corporeal body of the medium (or, as the controls sometimes
call him or her, the “instrument”) to deliver a direct message, or relay
one from another spirit-person, to the sitters. But neither the medium
nor the sitters need necessarily to be expert in all the processes involved
in the transmission of a message, any more than a child tuning in on the
radio. Of course there must be experts in both radio and psychic com­
munication who do understand the processes, but that does not mean
that everyone must be an expert radio engineer in one case, or a medium
in the other.
It is interesting to note in the Two Worlds, March ioth, 1939, that at a
Ftrdio Society’s meeting experts held that :
^psychic pictures are made possible by a short wave, at present unknow n to scientists,” and in the same
B eating a keen investigator, Countess Nora W ydenbruck. says in an illum inating article : ‘‘The medium
.s - r; only a ‘transm itter’ of the unknow n force (like the copper wire) b u t also forms a ‘generator’ like
i copper and zinc plate im mersed in acid. One m etal contains a higher co-efficient of electricity than the
icier,* ‘a difference of potential.’ N aturally there m ust be a trem endous difference of potential between
li e universe and a hum an body. The connecting and disolving acid on the m aterial plane is represented
i - the peculiar conditions prevailing at seances ; the medium wills him or herself into a state of extrem e
r^ax atio n , elim inating as far as possible the protective arm our of the conscious m ind ; everything is
coadncive to this relaxation, for the sitting is held either in the dark or in red light, there is rhythm ic
s iz in g or music and the sitters present m ay link hands and thus form a circle (com parable to the coil
c=c-h in electric phenomena) which collects and transm its the power.
“ The medium’s vibrations (th at is, the rate at which the electrons revolve around the ion) are slowed
and this perm its the releasing of the energy. W e note how the m edium ’s hands become icily cold,
irrat'zing stertorous, pulse irregular, sometimes the trance is actually cataleptic. W hen there is also a
Srw cf ectoplasm , we can affirm th a t the speeding up or slowing down of the original rate of vibration is
aersally causing a disintegration of prim ary m atter.
"W hen these conditions are present the well-known phenom ena of the s6ance-room occur, which
r n s i a t m any common characteristics, regardless of the individual medium or sitter. There are crackling
spends in the air (extraction of electricity) ; cold breaths of wind (extraction of heat energy) ; ‘tele-
aesis’ (the moving of objects w ithout physical contact) ; ‘levitation’ (the free floating in the air of
streets, large or sm all, sometimes of the m edium ’s actual person) ; ‘direct voice’ (the production of sounds
w ithout a visible instrum ent) ; ‘m aterializations’ (the building up of phantom s) ; and finally ‘apports’
im ;Ie s brought into a closed room from outside).”
Sitting, some ten years ago with Mrs. Middleton, of Iowa (a splendid
materializing medium who sits from four to six feet outside of the cabinet,
in plain sight), I was permitted to handle the clothing of some figures at
various times, and noting a great variation in the material, I asked the
nremist in the cabinet (whose name is never given) why this was. He
replied : “We draw the material for the clothing from that worn by the
sitters present, so in cold weather, when you wear warm, rough materials,
:ur clothing is similar, and in summer when you wear silk and fine goods
our dress is fine and silky.” Materializing mediums frequently remark
mat their clothing, curtains and fabrics in the seance-room soon
interiorate, as it were rot, and do not last as long as they normally would,
showing that constant drawing from them wears them out rapidly. This
is very logical, since the particles of material undergo wear and tear and
are not changed, only reassembled in accord with some natural law not
yet known to us.
The chemist added : “We draw from the solar plexus of the medium
the material (nerve-aura ?) to build up the forms themselves, though all
5:r.ers contribute more or less, principally those nearest to the cabinet.”
Sometimes conditions occur spontaneously for manifestations and
we say : “I saw a ‘ghost,’” as it is called, i.e. a materialized form. We
ire usually told of the blood running cold and hair standing on end from
fear. This is a misunderstanding ; needless fear there may be, if the
experience is new, but the coldness is due to heat energy being drawn
£r:m the person near, to help the demonstration and the hair on end is
rue to electricity being drawn also, for that purpose. The latter point is
verified from the experiments of Zetla and Van Zelst of Holland, who
rd 6o,ooo-volt induced currents in some experiments and found that
the medium was far less exhausted than usual afterwards. A curious
mrident in my own experience corroborates this. A figure came out of
the cabinet (Mrs. Middleton, medium, five feet outside). It stooped to
trie up some articles from the floor and as it did so a slight crackling
SCIENCE 39
was heard. Someone jokingly remarked : “Hear his bones creak.”
The chemist (as he is known) in the cabinet seemed greatly astonished
at such ignorance and said, somewhat indignantly : “Bones indeed,
his bones have mouldered long ago. The crackling you hear is the elec­
tricity we use in building him up.” It is frequently noticeable, in a good
seance, that the hair of the sitters is stirred and even stood on end due to
the withdrawal of the needed electricity
Mediums sometimes remark that they like certain people to come as
they make “good conditions.” Seemingly, such persons act as reservoirs
of psychic power and help the phenomena, while others seem to absorb
the psychic energy (psychic sponges), who hinder or even destroy the
necessary factors. In my own experience I often find that, with first-
class phenomena occurring, when I sat near the cabinet my legs, from
the hips down, would gradually grow cold, so much so that I would long
for the seance to end and give me relief. I can understand some mediums
groaning as an outlet for their feelings under the drain upon them. It
is a safety valve for the surcharged nervous system, much as a good cry
saves a woman (or man, either) from hysterics or other nervous outbreak.
The sensation of cold grew so strong as to resemble acute rheumatism or
neuritis and it would be some time after the seance before my legs became
normal. As such sensations are not experienced by me at a vaudeville
or conjuring show, it seems additional proof of the genuineness of the
phenomena in addition to the usual precautions and observations taken.
On one occasion a little child came out of the cabinet, medium visible
outside the cabinet at same time, and said to me : “Uncle Wills, I haven’t
much strength to-night, will you give me some ?” I said : “Surely,
come and help yourself,” not knowing what was required. She came and
put her little hand on my knee for a few seconds. It felt like a 2-inch bit
of chemical ice (carbon dioxide) on the bare skin, in spite of the clothing
between. Then she said : “Now I am all right,” and went about her
business ofdemonstrating. The cold extended down my already seemingly
half-frozen leg and was excruciating along the nerve course. Though I
rubbed the knee and leg, it was some time after the seance before the leg
felt more normal. Evidently not only was the heat energy abstracted,
but vital or nerve energy as well. I also noted that when an entity
specifically came for me (mother or brother, etc.), its advent was preceded
by a feeling of “gooseflesh” from the knees down.
The after effects of such experiences carried over into the next day.
I found myself tripping over slight irregularities on the pavement, if
over an inch high (ordinarily I step fairly high). The nerve impulses
were, apparently, sent out from the brain as usual, but the exhausted
muscles were unable to respond, and I was not aware of the difficulty
till stumbling occurred. I also found that, instead of the usual alert and
analytical frame of mind, necessary in my work, that I tended to reverie
and reflection. These conditions did not disappear until the second day
after. It took two nights’ rest to fully recover, thus proving that definite
and important changes take place in the organism of the sitter.
40 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
SCIENCE 4i
Chemistry
The Hindoos tell of a more subtle chemistry than that we now know
and this is in accord with what many intelligent controls tell us, adding
that our obsession with the physical chemistry to which we are accustomed
diverts our attention from the more ethereal elements around us, such
as the cosmic, radio and other vibrations a hundred years ago.
Water, live plants and flowers are about the only things we can use
in the seance-room to help, except electricity (by experts). Freshly cut
flowers are a great help, contributing some property almost equal to
another sitter’s presence, but living plants are even better. Often faces
are seen, formed in the “aura” of the flowers or plant. Generally cut
flowers wilt rapidly, during a seance, by reason of the drain upon their
“essence,” and living plants tend to droop from the same cause and should
be removed after the seance to fresh air and sunlight, with proper care to
revive them, giving them two or three days to recover. In this they
resemble the medium, who also must have rest and refreshment to
recover the residue of vitality used in demonstrating the phenomena.
Many careless or ignorant mediums injure themselves and their medium-
ship by neglecting this duty. Water is important in a stance-room.
There is much water used up and the medium and sitters do not always
have enough available. In any case, it saves her (or him) some stress, as
does suitable electricity before-mentioned. Usually after a seance the
first plea ofa medium is for a drink ofwater to replace that which has been
lost. Just what the function of a bowl of water in the room is we do not
know, but it is not fit for use afterwards. It is flat to the taste and often
disagreeable both to taste and smell. Something has been taken out of,
or imparted to, it in the process of its use by the controls. However, on
instruction from the spirits this water may be used beneficially in healing,
after being properly “magnetized” (impregnated with some essence by
them for that purpose). During materialization the presence of ozone,
sulphur, phosphorus and other chemicals may be detected.
Once I asked the chemist if it would help for me to bring some
chemical or biological substance to be used and save drawing on the
medium so much. The reply was : “No, your biological products have
no ‘livingness’ in them, and we use finer chemicals than your chemists
know of. They have not yet reduced them to their final elements and
many of your chemicals are still compounds.” This was eighteen years
ago and since then science has discovered “heavy oxygen” and “heavy
hydrogen,” while the giant Cyclotron (atom smasher) has developed two
new elements, 93 and 94, of whose nature, functions and uses nothing is
yet known ; also a new type of helium. Last year it was announced
that visible matter is only 1000th part of invisible matter. Also that
there are 1800 different kinds of electrons. So science is beginning to
look “beyond physics,” and as Faraday said : “Look not at the atoms, but
look at the space between them, there is where the phenomena occur.”
Albert Einstein, in a new book, predicts that science is on the verge
of discovering that matter is not the fundamental reality of nature. The
one great reality, he says, will be found to be “the field,” something that
c
both permeates and surrounds matter and man. Everyday examples
are cited. Gravitation is a “field” that every one feels.
Magnetism is another field. A person in a strong magnetic field feels
nothing ; but his watch feels something, a force that stops it. Another
example is the electro-magnetic field. Radio is an illustration of that
field. Light is another sample of the electro-magnetic field.
“ We could regard m atter,” Prof. E instein states, “ as the regions in space where the field is especially
strong.”
Some day we may be able to utilize the higher vibrations of the
spectrum, just as we are able not to use the Hertzian waves for radio.
Last year, during experiments in infra-red photography (infra-red
does not disintegrate ectoplasm as the white light does), the spirit entity,
instructing the experimenter, remarked : “You are using the 9000
Angstrom unit band of the photo-spectrum (just in the infra-red). If you
had a film sensitive to the deeper infra-red, 40,000 Angstrom unit band,
you would get wonderful results.” Then he added : “I am using the
4000 Angstrom unit band of the spectrum to demonstrate.” (Just in the
ultra-violet band of the spectrum.)
It has been surmised that these returning entities function in the
higher ranges of vibration and they often speak of “lowering their
vibrations” to contact our range. It would seem that the medium raises
his or her vibration into the ultra-violet band, in some way, thus enabling
these entities to contact them on a common ground, so to speak. The
spirit-persons often speak also of the difficulties of their doing so, some­
times comparing the conditions they face with those of a deep-sea diver,
hampered as to sight, hearing, movement and capacity to function
normally, by the pressure of water. The medium in her turn is function­
ing under abnormal conditions, like a fish out of water. Thus the
remarkable thing is that we get anything at all from them, though the whole
process is quite natural, but unusual and difficult. But so, a few years
ago, was flying, anaesthesia, X-ray, and other now commonplace and
matter-of-fact wonders.
42 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
Light
We know much of the effects of light, and many people, rather
unreasonably, object to dark seances, though not to the photographer’s
dark room, sleeping in the dark, the germination of seed, life itself and
other natural processes and phenomena occurring in the dark. Why
then object to a dark seance seeing that it is in accord with natural law ?
Of course, the argument is the liability of fraud, but on the stage the
magician’s quickness of the hand deceives the eye, even under glaring
stage lights, so that sight alone is not reliable. We have learned (see
Ectoplasm, page 66) that the strange substance used for physical mani­
festations is extremely susceptible to the action of light. The compara­
tively recent discovery of the use of infra-red rays, for photography of
materialized structures, enables the scientist to obtain remarkable facts,
without injury to medium or destruction of the psychic structures, the
former crude and primitive methods of flashing a light, grabbing the
figures or structures at the peril of the unfortunate medium, become
criminal outrages in the light of newer knowledge and experience.
On one occasion a medium, giving “independent voice” phenomena
see page 99) in public, sat on the platform behind a screen, shielding
tier from a single 60-watt light about fifty feet away at the end of the hall.
The voice being faint, the medium reached her fingers round the screen
and put part of her head beyond it, anxiously asking the sitter : “Did
you hear it ? ” Next day, where the fingers and head had been exposed
to the feeble light, they were red and inflamed as if sunburned. The
removal of “ectoplasm” also removes the protecting pigment in the skin,
hence the burns. The controlling spirits (we may as well use a simple
word for physically disembodied entities) know these things. At another
seance a request was made to the chemist for more light and he agreed
to increasing the light, “but first,” he said, “let me protect my instru­
ment,” as they often call her. The medium was five feet outside of the
cabinet, and another figure, not the unknown chemist, came out of
the empty cabinet and taking the end of a nearby curtain covered the
exposed hands and face of the medium, saying : “Now she is safe,” and
the light was increased without harm to her. The spirit operators tell
us that light injures the medium when she is in trance, except under special
conditions, which they can at rare intervals prepare for.
Recently, a medium in trance was touched by a sitter (whether
accidentally or not I do not know). Instantly the entity speaking, through
her, left her and as instantly her own controls took charge as she cried
out in pain. In answer to questions on the subject, we were informed by
the controls that when the medium was in complete trance the shock
of being touched was transmitted to the entity then in control, who was
violently driven out, but if the medium was only in partial trance she
received the painful shock. It is instantaneous, like the instant discharge
cf an electroscope by a touch. When the entity is manifesting, the
medium’s condition, physically, is as though he or she had no skin to
shield the nerve ends, hence the shock, but if they are requested to
allow touch, the controls can in some way insulate the medium against
shock. The medium’s vibrations being raised to a higher degree than
normal, the touch of one vibrating at the average normal rate, suddenly
changes the potential of the medium, with more or less disastrous
results to him or to her, unfortunately. If the stupid investigator
got the shock there would be far more care exercised in these matters.
The medium described her feelings as though everything about the
abdomen and solar plexus was gone, even sudden movements of sitters
not in contact gave slight shocks. No medium in trance should be
: juched on any pretext by anyone, without the consent and by instructions
from the control. When on rare occasions the proper conditions obtain,
they will readily co-operate with a reliable and experienced research expert
and no one else should tamper with the subject, actively, at the risk of
the medium’s welfare). The matter cannot be forced, and ignorant and
:~.niscient amateurs are dangerous, but real inquirers are gladly given
rrportunities to gather new facts.
Once I was given the opportunity to touch one of those mysterious
structures (see page 69), a “psychic arm” formed of vibrant ectoplasm. I
SCIENCE 43
had known the medium for nearly two years, so that she could trust me
not to stupidly try to grasp, tug at it, or otherwise endanger her welfare.
The medium sat five feet outside of the cabinet on one side, I sat (eight
feet away) next to the cabinet on the other. The psychic arm was to
pick up a small object on the floor and place it in my hands as I was
instructed by the chemist, or cabinet control. As the object was placed
in my left hand, my right hand was extended and the psychic arm rested
in it. Gently holding the structure, I could feel the shape about the size
of one’s arm, but differingfrom a human arm, in that it did not taper to a
wrist, but was of uniform diameter, so far as I could feel it. The surface
was smooth like skin, thin rubber, or the sheerest silk, yet with a velvety
feel. Slight pressure showed it to be resilient, though, paradoxically,
rigid as a bar, not a fibrous, muscular structure, but seemingly a dense,
heavy, viscous substance, through which was surging and pulsating some
force far greater than that required to lift the small object. These
pulsations alternated about forty per minute. I had no opportunity to
check whether the medium’s pulse, at that time, had been reduced to
that number. Normally it was around seventy. There seemed to be no
movement or displacement of the particles composing the arm, but a
vibration like that which passes through a log of timber balanced in the
middle, when struck on one end. Intelligent co-operation with these
unseen entities, is the way to learn, scientifically, of these natural, though
none the less wonderful, phenomena.
I have held gently in my hand that of a materialized figure. It was
firm and natural, but very cold, compared with my own warm hand.
Again I have had a materialized hand laid in mine, but this one was soft,
velvety and very flexible, the fingers fluttering in constant vibration, like
a frightened bird, as if each member was alive in itself.
Psychic structures are formed of ectoplasm, drawn from the medium
and, in a less degree, from the sitters. Tests show this to be formed of
animal substance, unorganized, when first proceeding from the medium
and then organized by the controlling entity, or spirit, to fulfil whatever
purpose is in hand. This ectoplasm is drawn slowly from the solar
plexus and orifices of the body, and, at the close of the seance, slowly and
harmlessly returned. Simple common sense (far too uncommon in many
investigators of psychic phenomena) tells us that it would be dangerous
to suddenly and violently force this substance back into the medium, by
flashing lights, grasping the form, or similar crude and brutal methods
of so-called research. When a blood transfusion is given, the new blood
is slowly and most carefully injected into the patient’s blood stream, for
the same common-sense reason that shooting it all suddenly and violently
into the patient’s body would injure or kill that unfortunate person.
Evidently only experienced and carefully-trained research experts should
be allowed to deal with such obscure, delicate and complicated processes.
It is desirable to keep the seance-room reserved exclusively for stances
and so conserve the “magnetism” or forces accumulated. Dr. T. Glen
Hamilton, of Winnipeg, got wonderful results to which his special
seance-room largely contributed. We are told that spirit operators build
up (as they symbolize it) a series of “wires,” connecting the medium with
each sitter, and that the introduction of a stranger, or the absence of a
44 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
regular sitter, makes it necessary for them to revise their arrangements
and that it takes time to do this. Also such changes alter conditions and
add further difficulty and uncertainty as to whether they can do what
they want to do.
SCIENCE 45
Sound
Supersonics are sounds beyond the range of the ear, and when first
observed, not many years ago, they were regarded as curiosities. Now,
however, in the last year or two, these sounds, which no one can hear,
have been applied in various departments of science and industry.
It has been discovered that by playing a supersonic note over a
photographic plate while the light-sensitive silver emulsion is being
distributed, the particles of silver bromide are laid on with an evenness
and lack of clotting impossible to obtain in any other way, thus ensuring
a sharpness of definition in the photograph.
The same vibration is also an incomparable detector of flaws in steel.
The note is passed through the steel, which is touching an oil film
illuminated from below. The beam oflight is finally trapped by a screen ;
if the steel is true the note breaks the light into the various colours of the
spectrum ; if not, the prismatic play becomes confused, and the steady
arc of colours flies into a tangle.
Thus with instruments constructed to pick up vibrations beyond the
range of the physical senses we are exploring a world to which our eyes
are blind and our ears deaf.
The connection between these two illustrations and psychic pheno­
mena is obvious. The medium is an instrument possessing the ability to
tune into a world of which the average person is unaware, and is able
to interpret (more or less correctly) the impulses and vibrations received
into everyday language. If a message is incorrect, remember the steel­
testing device : the supersonic note was transmitted correctly, but a flaw in
the medium (the steel) blurs the colours (confuses the message).
Normally music and voices in harmonious sounds are required to
assist in the production ofphenomena. We are told from the “other side”
that these sounds, in some way not easily explained, enables the entities to
come in. “A good laugh makes a hole in the fog about you through which
we can slip in.” Hence there is method in the frivolous messages (so
scorned by the superminds) which give rise to a good laugh and aid
the development of phenomena. The momentary abandon and self-
forgetfulness relieves some tension that obstructs psychic action, and blends
vibrations. Our early ecclesiastical mentors have insisted on an outlook
of forbidding gloom and melancholy regarding the next phase of our con­
tinuing life and it is hard for most people to readjust themselves to the
idea of a natural, vigorous, simple and happy condition when we “shuffle
off this mortal coil.”
Music is a spiritual language and can stir our souls to their highest
flights and naturally helps to bridge the gap between here and the here­
after. Sometimes when the singing has been poor, owing to the tuneless
drone of some tone-deaf sitter, the guide or control has remarked : “My,
that is terrible. Don’t sing any more, count instead.” So we counted,
i, 2, 3, etc., in unison, as, after all, what is needed are unified vibrations,
emanations from the sitters, not necessarily physical air waves, only as
they serve as a vehicle to provide some psychic property needed. It is
not necessary to sing dismal, melancholy tunes as so many people
mistakenly think, but bright, lively music gives an atmosphere of natural­
ness and helps immensely. On the other hand, weird jazz and shallow
frivolity are to be avoided, if worth-while phenomena are to be developed.
In short, be normal and natural.
A sudden violent sound may shatter the conditions and destroy the
collected force, and end the seance with shock to the unfortunate medium
(see page 73). This must be avoided. On one occasion a woman was
present who had a bad cold and could only speak in a hissing whisper.
A figure came to her and when she tried to speak to it the figure hastily
withdrew to the cabinet. The cabinet control then requested her not to
speak as it destroyed conditions. Later another figure came to her and
in her natural anxiety to communicate she tried to speak again, but the
hissing whisper drove the figure back again and ended the seance.
The sounds of raps vary ; external (as when a hard substance strikes
another hard material) ; internal (as when an explosion seems to occur
within the hard substance itself).
Sounds of music may also be heard in the air without any apparent
physical cause, and varied emotions may be expressed by a single mono­
syllable. Sometimes musical phrases or sounds may be used as a signature
announcing special controls. A peculiar and characteristic musical
voice is the signature or identification of an ancient guide who comes to
me at times.
The varying stages ofdevelopment are sometimes symbolized as similar
to that of fishes adapted to varying depths of water comparable. If the
shallow-water fish could descend to the greater depths it would be crushed
by the pressure, and, similarly, if the deep-water fish rise too near to the
surface it would expand from lack of the great pressure to which it is
adapted, and so go to pieces and die. Thus each spirit entity finds its
“own place” in the spirit-life to which it has adapted itself by its develop­
ment here and cannot attain, beyond certain limits, the state or condition
to which it is unfitted, “until” it evolves or progresses to the higher state
and so finds its “own place” again further advanced. Temporarily, for
special purposes, it may lower its vibrations and contact one on earth
who has raised his or her vibrations to a similar degree, but only for a
limited time. Those in the spirit-life tell us they are similarly helped by
others of a higher development on their side of being.
46 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
Chapter 5
INSANITY
“And many of them said, ‘He hath a devil, and is mad ; why hearye
him ?’ ” John x, 20.
I
T is a common libel against psychic research, spiritualism and other
sincere attempts to learn of things “beyond physics” that such studies
lead to insanity. Because the facts of the matter are not readily
obtainable, the libel carries undue weight, even amongst scientists,
medical men and those who should know better. “A lie will run a mile,
while truth is putting on its boots to pursue,” hence it is hard to overtake
and combat the lie, once it is started. Why single out psychic and spiritual
beliefs as a cause ? Why not include those of orthodox religious
groups ? Religious mania is not the monopoly of any one cult.
According to the official report (England and Wales) 1911, the pro­
portion of the insane per 10,000 persons is 4-94 per cent. But the clergy
of the Anglican Church averaged 10-3 per cent per 10,000 clergy, which
is more than double the average of all other occupations. The clergy of the
other denominations, curiously enough, gave the same yearly average,
medical men being practically the same percentage as the clergy.
Average T ables for T wenty Years
Anglican Clergy Physicians and Surgeons
Total . ■ 520 T otal. 600
Recoveries 176 Recoveries . 204
344 396
Deaths 35 Deaths • 39
Remainder detained • 309 Remainder detained • 357
Quoting H . J . Osborn, London1 : “ The Commissioners in Lunacy . . . drew special attention to
three causes of insanity, nam ely : alcohol, syphilis and m ental stress ; under the la tte r are included all
cases of religious m ania. It is a curious fact th a t for the m ost p art, the charge th a t spiritualism leads to
lunacy come from either ecclesiastics, doctors of an orthodox trend, and a few others—laity—who are
ecclesiastically m inded.”
One of the medical superintendents w rote : “A very considerable proportion of the persons certified
as insane suffer from a high degree of em otionalism . I t is perfectly obvious th a t anything tending to
foster or increase such em otional content in their nervous m ake-up w ill be deleterious as regards healthy
m entality in such persons.
“ Ireland is, in the main, a Rom an Catholic country, so th a t it is hardly to be expected th a t spiritualism
w ill have much hold. I t is, however, singularly confirm atory of the spiritualist view th a t the Irish figures
on ecclesiastical insanity, so fully confirm those for the rest of the U nited Kingdom.”
A nother m edical superintendent said : “ Religious m ania is a popular expression for cases of insanity
manifesting certain sym ptom s, and cannot be regarded as a cause.”
1 Does Spiritualism Cause Insanity.
47
From the British Medical Journal reports in 1878 we learn that of
14,500 cases of insanity examined in U.S.A. there were 3789 cases of
religious mania, but only four cases attributed to spiritualism. That
is, there were almost one thousand cases of religious insanity against
only one due to spiritualism. Thus the facts flatly and completely con­
tradict the libels of the prejudiced and untrustworthy objectors, who do
not want to know, or to let others know, the truth.
In all ages religious mania ran riot at times, with the wholesale
shedding of innocent blood for some trivial religious quibble, supposed by
various current “authorities” (?) to be important, which in later, more
enlightened time is recognized as non-existent or valueless. In the Dark
Ages were the homicidal-religio-dictators of the infamous Inquisition,
Torquemada in Spain, the Duke of Alva in the Netherlands, Catherine
de Medici in Paris, Emperor Charles V in Germany, Henry VIII
in England, the diabolical priest who ordered : “Kill them all, the Lord
will know his own.” There were the witch-burnings of Salem, and an
appallingly long list ofother wars, persecutions, etc., by the religio-maniacs,
temporarily in power (allegedly “by divine right”). We also have our
current anti-religious Dictators, Communi-Nazi and others, equally
bloodstained and insane with power they lack the capacity to com­
prehend and use rightly for the benefit and happiness ofmankind, gratify­
ing their own unbalanced superegotism, to the loss and misery of others.
“ I t is a fact, however, th a t if persons m entally unstable, superstitious or hysterical take up anything
very exciting or involving m ental or em otional strain, w hether it be religion, spiritualism , picture shows,
radio, etc., it m ay upset them and such persons should avoid any exciting or disturbing subject. The
tendency first exists and the particular subject th a t excites undue em otion is secondary, and common-
sense spiritualism is far less disturbing th an religious fear and excitement, for it relieves naturally the m ental
anxiety as to the hereafter, which, like a nightmare, burdens so m any sincere b u t m istaken and well-meaning
orthodox religious people.”
Some years ago I observed a strange case of religious mania in a
Philadelphia hospital. The man was highly educated and intelligent,
and could discuss art, science, literature, business, etc., instructively,
but if one mentioned Jesus he would jump up and shout : “Get out ofmy
way, you------, I am Jesus Christ,” cursing and blaspheming, a danger
to any who obstructed him while the frenzy lasted, about five minutes,
when he would calm down and be as sane as one could wish, until he
was again upset.
If one is unstable mentally, anything may upset the mental equili­
brium, whether church, science, ditch-digging or spiritualism. The trouble
is in the original defective make-up of the person and not in the specific
occupation or creed of the victim.
It is a fact that a person may be mistakenly considered insane, because
those about him or her do not understand how to distinguish mental
defects from genuine and invaluable psychic manifestations. A lady,
some few years ago, in England, suffered from fits, from some unknown
cause, and the M.D.s could do nothing for her. An intelligent medium
became acquainted with her, took her into her own home, where she sat
in a developing circle, became an excellent medium and a perfectly
normal woman, no fits, no trouble. The psychic power of this lady (who
did not know how to co-operate and use it) seeking expression caused the
erratic actions, mistaken by the M.D.s for fits.
48 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
So with others. I know a medium who visited an alleged insane
friend in the Psychopathic Hospital, Cook County, Illinois. The medium
convinced the authorities that this friend was not insane and obtained
her parole, taking her into her own home. After only three weeks’ train­
ing in a developing circle the supposed insane woman became a fine
medium, normal in every way. She married, and became a happy wife and
mother.
In an address before the psychiatric section of the American Medical
Association Dr. E. N. Webster stated : “I often see the spirits who cause
insanity. At times I even hear their voices. Insane persons who are
spoken of as hopelessly insane are frequently lost under the overwhelming
control of a spirit or crowd of spirits.
Cases in which verification of the identity of obsessing spirits is made,
from information given by them, are detailed by Dr. Carl Wickland in
his books (Thirty Years among the Dead, etc.).
Nona, through Rosemary, says : “It is not true that all cases of
insanity are due to obsession by some evil or undeveloped spirit. . . .
In certain cases, particularly the type of mind which has no strength to
forge ahead on a clear route of its own, these attendant spirits can find a
lodging. This then causes general deterioration of the individual con­
cerned.”
In those who claim knowledge, power and authority to control the
welfare of others, such ignorance can only be termed criminal. They
have no right to such powers, until they grow wide-visioned enough to go
beyond the merely physical, mechanical and materialistic concept of
being and include thefar more important psychicfactors.
There is some hope of an awakening to the vital necessity of these
things, as shown by comment and discussions in recent months, by
medical men and psychologists. In the January Forum, 1939, Sir Auck­
land Geddes pleads for more consideration of the “Psychic Factors in
Health,” and along a different line in the March Forum, Alvin F. Harlow
in “When Doctors are Wrong,” also points to serious flaws in the admin­
istration of the practice in hospitals, showing much room for amendment.
In Light, March 16th, 1939, the Indian Spiritualist Society quotes
a message from spirit helpers :
“ M ediumship w ill not produce madness where the germ of madness does not already e x is t; b u t where
th a t germ exists (which is easily known), common sense would suffice to show the necessity of avoiding
every kind of m ental excitem ent—S piritualist ideas are not more likely to produce cerebral excitem ent
than others ; but madness brought on by such ideas would take its character from them , ju st as it would
assume the character of religious m ania if it has been brought on by the excitem ent atten d an t on an excess
of devotional practices ; and spiritualism , in such cases, would naturally, though unjustly, be held respon­
sible for th a t result. The best thing to be done, w ith everyone who shows a tendency to fall under the
influence of a fixed idea, is to direct his attention to som ething altogether diSerent from th a t idea, so as to
give rest to the organs which are the seat of the excitem ent.”
INSANITY 49
In an article entitled “A Ticklish Problem for Materialists,” by
Hermann von Holzhausen, he asks : “Is mind a function of the brain,
or did mind construct the brain ?” /
Dr. Ennem oser writes : “ Careful observation has proved th a t there are instances of severe injuries
involving com plete destruction of the brain, where reason and will-power were not lost nor even altered ;
and H ufeland recorded one case in which a paralysed m an down to his last hour exhibited not one single
sym ptom of m ental derangem ent though a subsequent autopsy revealed th a t his cranium was completely
empty except for a little water, not a vestige of brain m atter rem ained.”
“ H artm ann m aintained th a t there is not any portion of the brain th a t has not been discovered to
have been ossified, or enlarged, or paralysed, w ith no accom panying m ental disturbance. The famous
architect, Schinkel, died alm ost fully conscious, yet his skull was found to be completely empty ; and Dr.
Schliech has placed on record th a t am ongst his m any cases of head injury during the W ar, he came across
a num ber of instances where injury to the brain had caused no change w hatever in the m ental faculties.”
A tlantic City, N .J., Septem ber 14th, 1939 (Special) : Surgery for .the rem oval of brain tum ours has
brought to light th e paradox th a t half a brain is as good as the whole and much better than three-quarters,
according to a report presented to-day before the International Cancer Congress by Prof. B yron Stookey,
brain surgeon of th e Neurological In stitu te of New Y ork City.
Dr. Stookey reported th a t studies of persons in whom one of the two frontal lobes in the forebrain,
seat of hum an intelligence, had been completely removed, indicate actual im provem ents in personality.
Such persons, he said, are able to make quicker decisions th an when th e whole brain was functioning.
On the other hand, D r. Stookey reported, when one of the two frontal lobes was only partly rem oved,
th e operation “was followed by em otional instability, listlessness, indifference and failure o f m ental
adjustm ent to any b u t sim ple situations.”
The two frontal lobes fill the entire forward half of the brain cavity and are regarded as the seat of
all the higher functions of hum an intelligence.
50 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
American Psychiatric Association, Chicago. R eport, M ay 20th, 1939 : “ Loss of frontal lobes of the
brain does not affect general intelligence, b u t dim inishes ability to handle problems and plans. P atient
w ithout frontal lobes lost touch w ith groupings, sizes, shapes, colour, etc.”
“ Again, in our insane asylum s there are numerous records of patients who for years were com pletely
imbecile, b u t who shortly before death recovered their normal mental powers and an excellent memory ; b u t
whose cranium , nevertheless, in the subsequent autopsy revealed th a t it contained only putrefying matter.”
Dr. Ivor Beaum ont, London, England, w rites, 1940 : “ I was called to a m an who had all the signs of
a tum our on the brain. I sent him to a famous brain surgeon, and heard he was being operated on. I
hoped his life would have been saved, b u t was not very optim istic about his future condition if it was.
“ Three m onths la te r the patient w alked in to see me. H e w as perfectly fit, no paralysis, perfect
memory, eyesight, nothing wrong w ith him . A nd he brought a letter from the surgeon saying, th a t one
frontal lobe of his brain had been completely removed. A ll I can say is th a t he seemed ju st as w ell off w ithout
D aily Mirror.
Sir Frederick Treves, a famous English surgeon, related a case in which he had to operate on a young
officer, whose head had been seriously injured. There was a depressed fracture of the skull, and he had to
rem ove some of the bone and several teaspoonfuls of the brain also. Years afterwards a t a party, a gentle­
m an came up to him , and said : “ I am afraid you don’t rem em ber m e? ” “ Oh, yes, I do,” Sir Frederick
said, “ you are the gentlem an on whom I operated after a hunting accident a long tim e ago, but, to tell you
the truth, such was the quantity of your brain I had to remove th a t I was alm ost afraid to m eet you.” “ Oh,
don’t bother about th a t,” replied his form er patient, “ I am the head of the Intelligence Department 1”
Hence the question arises : How were such people, with only partial or
defective brain substance, able to carry out their thinking ? How can a
brain function when it no longer exists ? Surely no one would dare to accuse
such a number ofmedical authorities ofhigh repute oftelling lies. Nothing
will be left to the materialist but to say, with a shrug of his shoulders :
“I don’t know” ; but “to know” is the purpose for which Science exists.
So Science finds that the brain is not the whole ego, that there is something
“beyond physics” (subjective) and that the “I” is separate from and inde­
pendent of the mere brain cells, claimed as the whole person, by the
biologist and psychologist. “There is a spirit in man,” or rather, “ Man
is a Spirit.”
Psychic Science “seeks to know” and going beyond the mere
mechanical, physical brain learns of the realities “beyond physics.”
The foregoing facts show that the human being (a spirit) is more than the
physical instrument through which it becomes physically manifest, that
even without the brain it still “IS” and continues to function. Man is
more than his physical instrument and thinks and carries on, even when the brain
has become impotent through accident or disease. The self-limited material­
ist and his obscurantist brethren may refuse to advance, but that is no
reason for the rest of humanity standing still and marking time behind
them, merely because they insist that what is beyond them is necessaril y
false, wrong or impossible ; they are not omniscient nor are their notions
the ultimate criterion. The wider visioned scientists and medical men,
who are giving attention to the psychic factors in life, belatedly though
it be, are wise beyond their more backward fellows.
Trance, in the deep cataleptic stage, so closely resembles death that
both friends and expert M.D.s may be deceived and pronounce the
person “dead.” Many cases are on record where a person was resus­
citated and lived for many years after such an error. There is no positive
proof of death until decomposition is evident, and if it does not appear
the body should be kept seven days under observation.
My friend, Mr. Hoskins, told me that when he went to England some
years ago his mother was taken ill, and later the regular physician and
two others with the trained nurse pronounced her “dead” at 5 p.m. and
she was “laid out.” Fortunately, embalming is not commonly used there.
About midnight my friend entered his mother’s room and stood at the
foot of the bed, on which the body lay. Suddenly his mother sat up and
began to talk to him. He sat on the bed, holding her in his arms till
6 a.m. when the astounded nurse entered. During that time his mother
told him a great many things that had happened and that she had
learned while “projected from her physical body.” Mind wandering,
temporary insanity, according to the wise M.D.s and the nurse, ignorant
of psychic science, but my friend does not agree. There was too much
sound sense in it. A strange after-effect was that his mother, who lived
eight years after this experience, was able to read his thoughts and
answer his questions before he could ask them. Telepathy. This psychic
faculty had developed.
Eager to study the brain of the mind-reader, Washington Irving
Bishop, several years ago, surgeons began an autopsy, and found, too
late, after piercing the skull, that he was still alive, but in deep catalepsy.
If the M.D.s were not too dumbfounded on this occasion to note what
was going on, this would have been a good chance for them to record the
effect of trance on the living brain, alterations in tension, form of con­
volutions, congestion or reverse, etc., which might inform later students
of the physical mechanics of trance conditions, while life still obtains.
Man is more than a mere physical brain.
INSANITY 51
C h a p t e r 6
HEALING
“The only condition indispensable to the occurrence of the phenomenon
(Spiritual healing) is prayer. But there is no ‘need’for the patient
himself topray, or even to have religiousfaith. It is sufficient that some
one around him be ‘in a state ofprayer.’ ”
Dr . Alexis Carrel, in Man the UnknownS
VIDENTLY healers in ancient days were poorly paid and (as
to-day) it is not a profitable job.
There are a number of meanings to the word heal, as, to make
whole, to purify or strengthen, to remedy or counteract by salutary means,
to restore, to save from ill—hence a saviour, healer, teacher.
From the earliest times man has naturally sought to remedy the bodily
disabilities with which he was afflicted, to cure sickness, heal wounds
and ameliorate the effects of accidents. In his earlier groping attempts
he all too frequently made mistakes due to ignorance of the cause and
nature of his ailments and of the various means he used experimentally
to remedy his trouble. Ignorance, neglect, wrong methods, the use of
herbs, berries and other means of which he knew little, must have been
responsible for a terrible mortality among the early families and tribes.
Century after century, however, he noted results, learned from them,
handing on this knowledge, inadequately, by word of mouth, to the
succeeding individuals of his people.
Later, through tribal intercourse, this knowledge was exchanged
and its range enlarged, confused also by the inevitable inaccuracies of
verbal transmission. Among the remains of primitive men we find
evidence of surgical operations, effected with rude flint instruments, and,
coming to ancient Egypt, we find bronze instruments used and records
of medicines, jumbled up with their customary superstitions of charms,
amulets, etc. What could be expected in an ignorant age when sickness
was ascribed to a visitation of divine wrath for some sin, or when some
filthy, infectious rag, alleged to be holy, was applied to the healing of a
wound, even late in the Dark Ages ?
Glancing at the high points of progress in healing we find in 460 b .c.
Hippocrates known as the “Father of Medicine,” but it was near a.d. 200
before Galen published his great work on Anatomy and a .d . 1616 before
Harvey discovered the circulation of the blood.
The priests of early times saw in this subject of healing a chance to
supplement their power and restricted it to their own several close
organizations, particularly as they were the only educated persons of
those days. Kings also reinforced their temporal power by assuming
priestly sway, and in some eras that of being Gods. Even as recently
as the Roman Empire this idea was set forth, and as late as the seventeenth
century the French, English and other kings were thought to possess
a magic touch in healing “King’s Evil,” or scrofula as it is now
known.
Not till the age of printing did such knowledge become general and
free from the inaccuracies of oral transmission, yet, owing to continuous
changes in the various languages, it was not until Latin became a “dead”
language (fixed in meaning, which medical authorities adopted on that
account) did the exact transmission of medical and surgical facts become
interchangeable among civilized nations. Unfortunately, they also became
fixed in other ways, being reserved, like theology, as the special right and
privilege of a close corporation, restricted to medicine and surgery, and
refusing the aid of newer knowledge and wider experience along different
lines.
When a man is ill he wants to be healed. It is of no importance
whatever to him whether he is healed by the conventional medicine and
surgery or by unorthodox chromo-therapy, osteopathy, hydro-electro­
pathy, massages, coue-ism, faith healing (Christian Science or Lourdes),
magnetic healing, or spiritual healing (they are different). All that
matters to the patient is that he is healed.
But a close corporation of M.D.s has grown up, claiming a monopoly
of the healing art (while they admit that 50 per cent of their diagnoses
are wrong), and now seek to exclude all other healing methods and
persons, so that if “Granny” advises her daughter to use goose-grease
on baby’s sore throat or put iodine on a scratch she will be liable to fine or
imprisonment for infringing on the prescriptive rights and vested interests
of the medical profession, by practising medicine.
When the “barber-surgeon” was the scientist he treated all and
sundry (whether apoplexy or anaemia) by phlebotomy (blood-letting),
the cure-all of his day. When the more thoughtful students sought to
learn more of the human anatomy and arrive at intelligent ways of
treatment, the foolish “authorities” of their day childishly argued that
God made the body perfect, therefore it was sacrilege to dissect and
study it, even for beneficent purposes, and, therefore, they persecuted the
seekers after more knowledge who were forced to pursue their work in
secret cellars for fear of the homicidal religio-fanatics who then dominated
public affairs.
African savages have come to represent to us the lowest rung in the
ladder of civilization. For more than four hundred years the medicine
men of the Iramba tribe in Tanganyika were sending their patients,
suffering from general paralysis, to the mosquito swamps for malarial
infection to cure it. Yet it is only about thirty years ago that Sir Donald
Ross “discovered” the cure of paralysis by malaria germs.
HEALING 53
The Walsimbu tribe in Tanganyika practised vaccination for small­
pox hundreds of years ago, injecting serum into small cuts on the arms or
hips of healthy people. Yet it was only some hundred and forty years
ago that Jenner “discovered” this method and the learned M.D.s long
resisted its introduction.
Chalmoogra oil, the only known effective treatment for leprosy, was
used medicinally by savages long before its curative powers were “dis­
covered” by white scientists. What were they doing during all those
long years, while the savages had the benefit of what is now called
“modern” medicine ?
Harvey was imprisoned for promulgating his discoveries about the
blood.
Pasteur was ridiculed for years as also was Rontgen and his X-rays.
Many others could be cited, persecuted by the exclusive M.D. trade
unions. The M.D.s bar out all other methods and deny their patients
the “right to be healed” by any other means than their officially accepted
medical union, drug and lancet orthodoxy, inhumanly and unrighteously
condemning to continued ill health or death any patient whose trouble
does not yield to these limited treatments. So far from honestly and
intelligently seeking more knowledge of the admittedly imperfect science
of healing, the universities exclude from their courses “everything that
relates to psychic phenomena” (psychiatry barely touches the fringe of
these), thereby ranging themselves with the Professors of Padua, who
refused to look through Galileo’s telescope lest they should learn new and
strange truths, upsetting their former smug theories. This conduct in
the eyes of any sensible person is not only irrational, but a crime against
humanity. Every patient has the inalienable right, in equity and common
sense, to have every resource of human science invoked on his behalf,
regardless of the wilfully exclusive methods of the static M.D.s.
It is “not by any means” urged that the medical profession should not
continue to study and use the orthodox means of healing, but that they
should also include the, at present, unofficial methods (that evidently
work when rightly used), while they study such processes and learn more
of them.
In 1831 the French Academy of Medicine admitted the phenomena
of medical clairvoyance. In 1844 Dr. Joseph Haddock’s housemaid
revealed this faculty of X-ray clairvoyance. Looking at the heart, she
called the auricles “ears,” and the ventricles the “meaty part.” She
distinguished between arterial and venous blood in the heart, calling
one the light side and the other the dark side. In 1844 Dr. Larkin of
Wrentham, Massachusetts, also had a servant who diagnosed her own
state and the diseases of the doctor’s patients with remarkable precision
while she was in trance.
Daniel Offord, a nine-year-old boy, wrote prescriptions in Latin,
which language he did not know. He predicted the cholera epidemic in
1853* two months in advance, and prescribed an antidote.
The will, imagination, etc., all help, but the magnetic treatment is
also effective, especially in combination with the others, some magnetic
force seeming to pass from the superabundance of the healer to the
needy patient. There is also the method of passes and touch combined
54 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
with the magnetic and hypnotic influence. The most startling and
remarkable means is known as spiritual healing to distinguish it from the
others. This is rare and often confused with the others. They may be
in combination, which is very effective.
A rather small medium I know possesses this faculty. A clairvoyant,
watching her, described her as being immersed in a golden glow while
operating, and from her fingers, as her hands moved about the patient,
not touching, but about two inches away, there proceeded rays of a
similar golden light. The patient experienced an inflow of something
and at once was greatly benefited.
When I first knew a certain lady in Chicago she had had several
operations and the M.D.s could do no more for her. Her face was pale
and drawn, with an expression of chronic suffering and weakness. Con­
tacting this medium she was told : “You have had several operations.
They did you no good as the doctors did not know what was wrong. You
should not have been operated on.” The lady asked if this healer could
and would help her and placed herself under her care. In a few weeks
she was wonderfully benefited and in three months looked ten years
younger and was quite well again. Some years after I again saw her
looking as if she never had a day’s illness in her life. Another lady,
having a lump in her breast, three M.D.s urged an immediate operation.
She was referred to this healer and was treated a few times, the lump
disappearing. Four years after she was well and happy when I saw her
and had no trouble since.
The conventional Victorian materialistic view of life is greatly in
error and misleading. The material side of nature is but one, and by no
means the most important side of being.
On page 104 of the general report of the International Spiritualist
Congress at Hague, 1932, amongst the papers read was one citing “Mr.
A. C. Simpson, engineer of New Zealand, who found that he was a healer
and whose control, Dr. Lascelles, later compelled him to give himself to
healing. The report quotes hopeless cases of cancer, tumour, deafness,
pernicious anaemia, arthritis (twenty-year), duodenal ulcers, T.B., and
internal injuries (some given only two weeks to live by the M.D.s) which
were cured in a short time through this spirit healer, and who lived for
years afterwards.”
Jesus, Peter, Paul and others were not M.D.s, yet they healed where
orthodox methods failed. Verbum sapienti sufficit . . . or does it suffice ?
The laying on of hands, prayers, whether audible or mental, have
absolutely nothing to do with the art of the certified M.D. and do not
compete with him, since the healer proceeds in a different manner. But
“the law was conceived in days completely ignorant of psychic pheno­
mena,” which are as old as the world itself. Christian, Moslem, Buddhist,
Taoist, so-called Pagan, all prove the fact, in all times and places. Every
spiritual healer feels the imperative necessity to collaborate with the
unseen, call it intuition, inspiration, spiritual influence, spirit of God, call
it what you will.
It was a primitive notion that sickness was a punishment for not
observing “man-made” ceremonial law, instead of a natural consequence
of ignoring nature’s laws, whether through ignorance or not. This /
HEALING 55
infantile idea still obtains in some parts of the world, even to-day, as
in the Dark Ages of Europe, as well as Biblical times in Palestine.
Jo h n ix, 2 : “ And his disciples asked him , saying, ‘Master, who sinned, this m an or his parents, th a t he
should be born blind.’” Verse 3 : “ N either did this m an sin nor his parents. . .
A striking instance of healing in connection with Mark Twain is
related concerning the girl who later became Mark’s wife. A friend of
Mark’s by the name of Langdon had on his dresser a beautiful picture of
his sister. Mark, then a young man unmarried, greatly admired the
picture and wanted it for his own. It was then that his friend Langdon
told him about his sister, Olivia.
“We were skating one night in Elmira,” he explained, “when she fell
and hurt her spine, following which she was in bed in great pain for two
years. Dad called in the very best doctors, but nothing helped her.”
The lad then continued to explain how they had built a pulley arrange­
ment by which they raised the girl so slowly that it took an hour before
they could bring her halfway to a sitting position, and even at that she
fainted.
It seems that one day they carried Olivia on to a boat in preparation
to taking a trip, hoping the sea air and change would lessen her pain.
The wind blew into the girl’s stateroom a scrap of paper advertising the
name and address of a faith healer. The family was not interested in
this type of thing, but talked over the matter of their being any possibility
of help for the girl. The father was much opposed to faith healing.
The mother was more credulous and was glad to try anything, ifby chance
some help could come to her stricken daughter. She and the girl finally
won out and were permitted to invite the faith healer to Olivia’s bedside.
The healer came—“A thin man with flaming eyes.” The room was
dark, but he quickly made his way to the windows, saying : “Let there
be light,” and threw up the curtains. He presently bent over the girl
and prayed. He then placed his arms around her and told her to sit up.
“And Olivia sat up. We could not believe i t !” explained Langdon.
“The next day the healer came and told Olivia to stand up. She got out
of bed without any pain or effort and stood looking at us,” reported her
brother. “And the third time the healer came,” he went on to say,
“Olivia walked the end of the room to the healer. At which the healer
remarked : ‘Health and strength will now abide with you.’ ”
Langdon continued to explain that his father offered to pay the healer,
but the stranger absolutely refused any money for his gift. Freely he
had received this power and freely he wished to share it with others.
They never saw the healer again. “But from that time until this, Olivia
has been well,” declared Langdon.
It was then that Mark Twain ventured the words : “I would like to
meet your sister sometime—that is the most remarkable cure I have
ever heard of.” Some six months later Mark met Olivia. She was
attractive in every way to Mark ; consequently, he immediately fell in
love with her. When he came to visit her people, it seems, her father
did not think the rough Western young man good enough for his daughter.
Time somewhat changed the minds of the family, however. Olivia
married Mark, and the father gave them a house in which to live. They
had thirty-four years of happy married life before she passed. During
56 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
these years the work done through the spiritual healer was not forgotten.
Olivia never experienced any return of her illness that had been due to
her fall. The healing was a perfect, permanent work. When, at length,
Mark Twain’s time came to join his wife in the life beyond the grave, the
great American humorist was not unhappy to pass through the experience
of so-called death to be with her. He wrote in his diary : “Wheresoever
she was there was Eden.”
As recently as December, 1938, a Bill was introduced into the British
Parliament to prohibit all persons, not M.D.s (Jesus, Peter, Paul, etc.),
from diagnosing or treating cancer, even if the help is given “free of
charge” (the last straw). If the M.D.s cannot cure the patient, he must
die, even though other healers and methods have proved cures to their
credit.
Of the hypnotic treatment we find in certain cases it works well, but
owing to its obscure and little understood effects on the psychic entity
ofthe patient it should only be used by trained experts and then cautiously,
because of the unexpected consequences in special cases. The Coue
method of self-suggestion is akin to that of the Christian Scientist and
both have a recognized place, unofficially, in the community. This may
be termed mental healing as it operates through the mind being acted
upon, and, in turn, acting upon the body.
Chromo or colour treatments may be termed more physical than the
others noted, as its effects are obtained by its influences through finer
wave-lengths affecting the nerves and emotional centres. It is a not
yet fully developed branch of science.
Magnetic healing is by the laying on of hands, imparting some of the
surplus and magnetic force of the healer to the patient.
A magnetic healer is usually a person of a firm, stout build, having
an abundance of vitality and energy, so that he (or she) can project a
surplus of magnetism. A patient can only absorb so much magnetism,
varying with the need.
The difference between magnetic and spiritual healing, regarded
separately, is that in magnetic healing a physical magnetic influence
proceeds from the body of the magnetizer, who thereby imparts some of
his vital force or energy to the patient. This depletes to some degree the
magnetism by the withdrawal of this energy. A magnetizer may (but
not always) feel exhausted to a greater or less extent after treating a
severe case drawing largely on his surplus power, or after treating many
patients.
In spiritual healing the power does not reside in the spiritual healer,
but he (or she) becomes a medium or channel or conductor, through
whom the spirit force is concentrated and transmitted to the patient,
with or without contact. The spiritual healer is not necessarily a strong,
stout, robust person, as is the magnetic healer, but may be, and often is, a
slightly-built, high-strung person, apparently not strong, who generally
experiences benefit in exercising the faculty of healing by reason of a
surplus of power being left in his or her system after the healing. Even
illness of the spiritual healer is not a bar to spiritual healing, though such
instances are rare. The magnetic healer, however, must be healthy to
share his personal force with the patient, otherwise the tendency is to
D
HEALING 57
reverse and the positive patient would lose power to the negative healer,
if the difference in potential was great enough.
In general a healer senses the seat of the trouble and directs his forces
to that centre unconsciously without exactly knowing what he treats or
why he does so. When the healer is also clairvoyant he may see into the
body of the patient and describe the condition in ordinary words or, if
educated, in technical phrases. If also clairaudient he may hear the
condition described as well and may also hear instructions on treatment,
etc., from the spirit healer attached to him and through whom the
power comes. A healer may have one or all these faculties, the most
striking and efficient being the combination of all the methods. Some
have a more restricted power and diagnose from changes in the aura,
in a similar way to that of Dr. Kilner seeing the aura by the aid of his
coloured screens at St. Thomas’s Hospital, London, the colour and shape
of the aura being affected by the illness. Psychometric spiritual healers
do not require the presence of the patient at all. A lock of hair or piece
of cloth will supply the means of contact. Sometimes the mere name will
be sufficient. The medium, however, often suffers by vividly experiencing
the bodily conditions and pain of the patient.
Sometimes the patient may be able to diagnose his own disease. This
is termed autoscopy and is very rare.
Dr. Lascelles and Dr. Beale, who work through C. A. Simpson,
England, followed the medical profession when on earth. The strange
cure of Madame X. (S.P.R. Proc., Vol. IX) was effected by a spirit doctor ;
and the Indian controls who heal appear to have been medicine men in
their tribes. As no mediums work alike, these various spirit doctors have
their different ways of working. We find also that there are degrees of
knowledge on the other side and in difficult cases the healer’s guide will
call in the assistance of expert specialists on the spirit side to help and
instruct.
In general a spiritual healer does not need to touch the patient, as
does the magnetic healer, and the patient may or may not feel the inflow
of spirit power.
Jacob, the Zouave, actually saw the spirits ministering to his patients.
J. H. Conant ascribed his powers to the spirit of Dr. John Dix Fisher.
The late Frank T. Blake, internationally known healer of Bourne­
mouth, England, says :
“ The healing practised by the m agnetic healer is founded on the fact th a t the hum an bodv lives in
a psychic envelope upon which it is dependent and through which it receives the vital forces ensuring its
health. Disease, of w hatever nature or character, interferes w ith the harmonious relationship between
the body and its psychic envelope and interrupts the flow of the m agnetic currents upon which the body’s
health depends.”
“ The purpose of m agnetic treatm ent is to adjust the disturbed relationship and thus allow nature
to effect her own cure. There is no curative effect in the passes made by the magnetizer, they are means
for readjustm ent only, and as such, except in m inor cases or under exceptional circum stances, are cum u­
lative in their effects.”
Psychic healing is possible by those coming under the following headings :
(A) “ The entranced medium or a normal clairvoyant able to diagnose, give m agnetic or manipu­
lative treatm ent, suggest diet, exercises and other remedies and take com plete charge of the
case.” (Very rare.)
(B) “ The trance medium or a norm al clairvoyant able to diagnose only, but capable of directing
a m agnetizer.”
(C) “ The m agnetizer who is able to work under the instruction of (A) and (B).”
“ Experience shows th a t no two bodies re-act in precisely the same way to magnetic passes. A mag­
n etic healer m ay give great benefit to one patient, yet to another sufferer from the same com plaint he m ay
58 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
add to the body's distress or even feed the m alady and encourage its development. This is especially the
case w ith patients suffering from nervous disorders and functional weaknesses. Hence, no magnetic healer
unable to diagnose should give treatm ents except under the efficient instructions of (A) or (B).
“ W here a female m agnetic healer fails with a female patient, a male healer will often succeed and vice
versa : this change of sex magnetism has proved useful in cases of nervous debility and functional weak­
ness. Should such a change fail to produce the results desired, sim ultaneous treatm ent by a man and a
woman, who should link the left hands for the purpose, will often prove effective. In such tw in treatm ents
care should be taken to select those whose m agnetism blends, or the patient m ay be seriously affected
adversely.” (This is sim ilar to the well-known necessity in blood transfusion, to carefully select the
supply from those persons only whose blood, on being tested, shows characteristics sim ilar to those of the
patient.) “ In all cases of nervous debility and functional disorders, th a t are not due to the presence of
active disease or structural fault, the first treatm ent is to cleanse the aura by making long upw ard passes
over the whole length of the body, the m agnetizer frequently bathing his hands during the passes. This
not only cleanses his hands of the stale magnetism draw n from the p atien t’s body, b u t increases the flow
of his own. This is im portant. A fter cleansing, the patient is ready to receive a charge of new m agnetism ,
which is given by passes made down the whole length of the spine. T he num ber of treatm ents necessary
is decided by the reaction obtained. A change of m agnetism w ill sometimes hasten recovery.” Y et in
some cases retard recovery further.
“ When a definite disease is diagnosed, the affected p art is treated in such a m anner as to draw out the
poison affecting the body. The magnetizer’s hands are made to act as a sponge and thus attract and draw
off the poison. (The hands should be vigorously flicked or shaken after each pass, and others should
stand clear of the space around the operator to avoid receiving the poisons.) A fter such treatm ent the
afflicted part is heavily charged w ith magnetism, either by laying on of hands, using the right hand to
cover the afflicted part and placing the left in a direct line on the other side of the body, or by breathing,
in which last case (for hygienic purpose) the afflicted p art should be covered w ith a clean, unstarched cotton
cloth and the left hand placed as previously directed.”
“ In cases of rheum atism and sim ilar com plaints the same cleansing process is given followed by
treatm ent to the spine and special attention to the lim b or limbs affected, after which the patient is given
passes covering the whole of the back and front of the body. These treatm ents are sometimes followed
up w ith a course of physical exercises which the patient is expected to perform daily.”
Every spiritual healing organization should have a healing group or
guild and give treatments to patients at proper agreed upon times during
the week. Treatments should if possible be given in screened-off portions
of the hall or room to secure the mental peace and quiet that add to the
effectiveness of treatment in all cases, especially nervous patients. The
practice of making a show of healing before an audience is to be con­
demned, not only as being a bore to the onlookers, but as largely destroy­
ing the efficacy of the treatment through disturbance of the mentality
and psychic nature of the patient particularly, as well as that of the healer.
Of course, in certain cases the treatment must necessarily be in the home
of the patient.
Liebault, by treating children under four and curing some under
three, proved that magnetic healing was not due to suggestion. Similar
successes by Ochorowitz on children under two also showed this, thus
indicating that a magnetic influence was the active factor. Liebault came
to the conclusion that a living being can, merely by his presence, exercise
a salutary influence on another living being, quite independently of
suggestion.
The healer usually has no knowledge of the details of the process.
Hence the need of records as noted above for study of this little known
and less understood subject.
The healer may be likened to a catalyst in chemistry, which exerts a
thousandfold multiplying power on the energy of other chemicals.
Fermentation is an example. One unit of yeast will release the energy
in a hundred units of sugar and turn it into alcohol and carbonic acid.
The energy of the sugar is not only released, but vastly increased, without
using up the energy of the yeast. There are similar catalysts in every other
:jrm of energy, inyour body, that give you strength at times far beyond the
normal. So the spiritual healer resembles the catalyst, causing increased
HEALING 59
energy, to aid that of the depleted patient, and yet not lose the healer’s
own energy. No miracle, just natural law, but little understood.
Mrs. Leonard (Eng.) says : “ W hen N orth S tar controlled me for healing he always appeared to appeal
to some one far higher than himself before commencing his treatm ent. He never spoke, b u t he used to
hold his hands upw ard and outw ard as if he expected som ething to be put or poured into them. His
attitu d e was very obviously one of prayer, or supplication, though he was usually in a standing position.”
Prof. Bozzano records the case of M. Paoli Rossi receiving, in London,
from a private medium, a message to go to Italy and sit with a certain
private medium there to receive a most important message concerning the
health of a friend very dear to the Italian medium’s deceased son. Shortly
after, when in Italy with this medium, as instructed, the control came
through. He spoke for half an hour, gave a masterly diagnosis of a disease
of the blood called “leucomia.” He told the cause of the disease and
prescribed a cure, then ordered the sitting closed. The diagnosis was
absolutely correct and the cure prescribed brought back health to a
person whose precarious condition had been a mystery.
Healing at a distance is also on record. Centurian magnetized water,
paper, cloth or other articles may be used to convey the effect. Suggestion
has its part here. There are cases where suggestion does not come in.
A letter from E. W. Capron notes that on the occasion of his first visit
to the Fox sisters in Rochester he mentioned that his wife was suffering
from a severe and troublesome cough. Leah Fox in trance suddenly
declared : “I am going to cure Rebecca of that cough.” She then gave
an accurate description of Rebecca and declared her cured. Returning
home Capron found her extremely well and the trouble did not return.
“ The faith which has healing power,” says Dr. Charcot, “ seems to me to be the greatest of medicines,
for it m ay succeed where all other remedies have failed. B ut why should faith, which works on the soul,
be considered more m iraculous than a drug which acts on the body ? H as anyone yet understood how a
drug can cure ?”
J. B. Mclndoe, lecturing at the British College of Psychic Science,
speaks of ectoplasmic surgery.
“ It is an accepted fact of psychic science th a t ectoplasm is a m aterial substance exuding from the
physical make-up of the m edium. It is a further accepted fact th a t th a t substance is present in every
hum an beiug.”
Mr. Mclndoe proved by definite cases that a psychic healer can
withdraw from the patient’s body their ectoplasm, bringing with it the
injurious matter of a cancer.
This striking point was confirmed by a well-known member of the
audience, who testified that he had seen the actual stain upon a towel of
cancerous matter withdrawn from a body.
A man suffered a great heart shock. Several M.D.s and his brother
(an M.D.) and a heart specialist gave him up, the specialist asserting that
“only a miracle could save him !” He was treated by a spiritual healer.
He was unable to move in bed, owing to the abnormal swelling of feet
and legs. The guide applied passes over the body, never touching the
patient. After ten treatments the patient got up and walked about.
Four more treatments touching the patient’s body were applied and cure
completed. Diet was prescribed, drugs abandoned gradually, and now
this man, given up by the M.D.s, enjoyed a strenuous motoring holiday
in August.
The Orientals do not believe that the power of healing, known to
60 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
them from time immemorial, is the result of some special creed or meta­
physical belief. He is taught from childhood that the power of healing is
but one of the many forms of energy in nature, which may be used by all
men who take the trouble to understand the operation and effect of
natural laws.
In Two Worlds Alex Leo Sein notes :
“ I t has been established th a t a hum an body has an individua w ave-length, somewhere around the
three-m etre band ; radio experim enters using this w ave-band sometimes suffer severe headaches and a
‘sinking’ feeling if they allow their short-w ave sets to oscillate. To-day, three-m etre transm itters are
being used m edically to affect deep-seated nerves in the hum an body.”
“ Science and radiology now distinctly support the fact, though unw ittingly, th a t th e hum an body
possesses a surrounding ‘aura,’ aura being a term applied as synonymous w ith ‘electro-m agnetic field of
force,’ and m any of its properties and powers, which is the possession of every living being, w hether hum an
being, anim al or onion.” (See Chain of Life, by Dr. Guyon Richards.) “ We find radiology bridging the gap
between m aterialistic observations and spiritual findings.”
Dr. J . Braun (in Light, March 9th, 1939) describes w ave-length measurem ents. H e finds th a t the
healer’s vitality increases during healing and returns to norm al a t the close, sometimes, however, being
several units higher. The patient's vitality goes up several units and rem ains above pre-treatm ent level,
showing continuing im provement.
In a case of absent treatm ent, the patient several miles away, Dr. B raun attended before eleven
o’clock, when by agreem ent the control of the healer would act—he found as follows :
10.45 : P atient’s vitality 7 metres 63 ; her polarity feminine.
11.05 : Polarity masculine, vitality 7.67.
11.25 '• P olarity masculine, vitality 7.72.
11.30 : P olarity feminine, vitality 7.72.
11.35 : Polarity feminine, vitality 7.70.
H ere the patient was unaw are of w hat was going on, so no outside personal ideas could affect th e m atter.
Second, Dr. B raun did not know the m inute when control would be effective. Asking the control later,
he wa3 inform ed th a t the patient as well as the medium was partly controlled, owing to the great power
utilized, hence the patient’s polarity change to masculine during th a t tim e.
Regarding w hat sort of treatm ent to advise he rem arks : For those of a religious tu rn of m ind church
healing seems most suitable ; to spiritualists a medium ; while those of a more m aterialistic way of thinking
the m agnetic treatm ent would probably be more suitable. In concluding he says, the clergym an thinks
th a t he will heal by laying on of hands’ the m edium ’s guide thinks th a t he w ill help the person, the m ag-
netizer thinks th a t the vital fluid he projects wili help, and groups praying send out collective thoughts
for th a t purpose. These thoughts are waves or vibrations.
“ The universe is full of vibrations ; we do not see them , m ost of us do not even perceive them , b u t
they are there all the same, going from one plane to another, radiating strength and eternal power.”
People are tiring of purely scientific formulas and are “ turning their thoughts” to som ething of a more
dealistic (or spiritual) nature, able at last to give com fort, not m erely to their brains, b u t to their souls.
April 5th, 1940 : Social illness, a new medical term which describes
persons who are sick for no other reason than unhappiness over their
environment, was recognized to-day by the American College of
Physicians.
“ A third of those who see a doctor do not have any definite bodily disease to account for their illness,
and another third seem to have sym ptom s th a t are partly due to emotions.
“ The ill-health arises from long-standing dissatisfaction in the business, social or home life of the
individual, and this failure of adjustm ent to environm ent is m anifested by a disturbance in some p art of
the personality, either as bodily sym ptom s of various kinds, capable of mim icking alm ost any disease
or as effectations of the spirit.
“ Em otions are capable of affecting not only th e heart and digestive system b u t the whole network
of blood vessels.
“ A study of 1,500 persons adm itted to the Colum bia-Presbyterian M edical Centre for cardiovascular
disease, diabetes, broken bones and allergy showed th at approxim ately 80 per cent were affected by
some psychic factor th a t probably contributed to the illness.”
Here is a vast field for psychic and spiritual healers, not drug and
knife treatment.
“ A person’s fam ily is one of the im portant units in this social illness.
“ Once illness has been seen in the light of a com plete fam ily situation, it can never again appear as
a sim ple m atter.
“ Illness from its social aspect, when viewed in such a light, m ay require a complete reorientation on
li e p art of physicians and social agencies.”
“ Medicine must recognize man in his spiritual aspect as well as his physical. Spiritual healing takes
7 ’
.ic e under spiritual law just as surgery finds its place under physical law .” “ Advances in thermogenics
sJlow conclusively th a t electric and para-electric fields offer ways of help for m ankind yet unexplored. If
riiie u ts can be ‘tuned in’ to harmonic powers such as cosmic rays, universal life energy will be given to
hum anity. These natural forces are there to be tapped 1 The basis of all spiritual healing is m an’s oneness
~.zh God and the adoption of th e power of the God-consciousness in working tow ard perfection.”
D r . R ib l e t H o u t.
HEALING 61
62
Jesus generally told those whom he healed : “See thou tell no man.”
Only the striking and sensational is recorded : it is quite probable that
much was done privately that passed unrecorded. Publicity is not
desirable, such as healing in a church before a crowd, making a “stunt”
or a pompous formal ceremony of it, distracting the attention of healer
and patient. In peace and quiet the healer can concentrate his efforts
and effectively enter into the necessary “state of prayer” and the patient
become receptive to the healing influence. A private healing centre,
which becomes magnetized (holy ground) and accumulates power, is
far more effective and desirable.
An article of mine in Light, February 3rd, 1938, is of interest along
these lines :
“ Much study is rightly given to the physical effects of medicine, and also some of its m ental effects
b u t little has been given to its psychic effects. Alcohol has the effect on some norm ally kindly persons of
changing them to cruel brutes (to p u t it baldly) and also of changing hard, violent characters to m audlin
sentim entalists, tem porarily. Of other drugs, those of the barbituric bases have the property of changing
a gentle, happy person to a sullen, resentful type, when long adm inistered. Many other could be men­
tioned, but these few raise the question : ‘W hat perm anent effect do they have on the psychic self?’
“ Foods are studied as to calories, vitam ins, etc., but w hat of the psychic effects? W hen m y daughter
was a sm all child her am bition was to go away from home and eat a t restaurants. In tim e she did go for
a year or so, and on returning frequently expressed pleasure at the superiority of the things ‘mother*
m ade, com pared w ith the restaurant foods. I ventured the thought th a t it was because her m other
‘cooked love’ into it.
“ In other words, when preparing food for her loved ones w ith thoughts of the good and pleasure it
would give them , etc., she sent out and incorporated in the food certain psychic em anations, which no
mechanical, machine-m ade food can have, nor food prepared by those who merely do it as a ‘job.* In
a restaurant also some of the personnel m ay not be desirable, psychically, morally o r physically, and
off-duty private quarrels, fights, hatred and loose living m ay develop noxious psychic states which con­
tam inate the foods they handle w ith undesirable psychic properties. As a consequence, on eating such,
indigestion, nervous irritability, instability and erratic behaviour follow, which cannot be accounted
for by the victim or his medical advisor, due to lack of knowledge of these aspects of food effects.
“ Of slum dwellings, saturated w ith the auras of poverty, unhappiness and vice, psychical researchers
know the evil effects. Others occupying these places later suffer from these influences w ith unfortunate
results not always recognized or understood. A sensitive person feels at once on entering such dwellings
the repulsive atm osphere w ithout knowing why, how much more so the unfortunates who are compelled
to live there constantly ? H ere is a field of study—psychic as well as physical—in great need of scientific
research."
LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
In the January Forum, 1938, is an interesting and thought-provoking
article by Sir Auckland Geddes, calling for consideration of the “Psychic
Factors in Health.” He pithily states :
“ I have been attended by doctors who never even found out th a t I had any m edical training ; in
fact, they never found out anything about me at a ll. They were concerned to treat ‘the Injury' or ‘the
Disease’— not m e , the p a tie n t; they were, in short, dealing w ith a pure abstraction and thinking th a t they
were being very scientific.
“ The more I have seen of life and death, of pain and suffering, the more clearly I have realized th a t
there is never (in the real world outside the walls of the medical school and teaching hospital) a d is e a s e
to be treated ; there is never an i n j u r y to be dealt w ith ; there is just a sick child, woman, man to be helped
to get well. In short, the real business of clinical medicine is not science. It is, in the case of each sufferer,
a personal relationship into which sincerity and m edical knowledge are suffused by the physician, and trust
and some dependence by th e patient.
“ Please do not im agine th a t I am ignorant of or underestim ate the advances in technique and in the
sciences which underlie the practice of medicine. W hat I am speaking of is w hat seems to me to be a lag
in development in the preparation of the m edical student for th a t strangely close personal relationship
into which he as a practitioner will have to enter w ith each of his patients one by one, alone and separately
— I am not questioning the fact th a t the more a physician knows, the better equipped he is to do the job.
B ut no am ount of scientific knowledge, unless it be subordinate to an understanding of individual man,
can ever make a m edical man a true healer.”
W hat happens in disease ? The body is exhausted of m uch of its energy and needs help. The patient’s
psychic body, not being able to operate as fully as when no disorder exists, the psychic ‘transform er’
(spiritual body) of the healer is, as it were, connected in series with th a t of the patient, whose defective
condenser (or psychic body), is thereby supplem ented and strengthened for the time being to the point
of restoring it to’a norm al condition tem porarily, and enabling it to build up the physical defects to the
point of natural action. Where the healer is not properly trained he or she m ay feel a loss of force after­
ward, b u t a good experienced healer feels benefited by a residue of surplus force left to him. His own
condenser is also recharged during this little understood process. We m ay recall the healer of N azareth,
who being secretly touched by a woman for healing, said : “ Who touched me ? Virtue (force) has gone
out of m e," showing th a t the abstraction of force (by difference of potential) was im m ediately felt.
Carrington w rites1: “ The hum an body reaches a point where it refuses to evolve energy no m atter how
1 Vitality, Fasting and Nutrition. H erew ard Carrington, Ph.D.
much fuel (food) is forced into it, or how full a draught (breathing exercise) is turned Into it. The mechanical
engine does not recuperate and restore itself duiing its period of r e s t; the hum an body does. The engine
continues to wear out and can never replace its parts ; the body can. Thus the great difference between
them is th a t the one (the body) is self-recuperating and hum an and needs sleep in order to effect this ; the
other (the engine) is not self-recuperating and needs no rest so long as it works at all.
“ Food does not cause or create bodily energy, but merely repairs the body through which the energy
flows, hence the equivalence but not the causation.
“ Life is a power separate and distinct, capable of existing independently and outside of the body. This
life force merely uses the body for its external m anifestation—being transm itted through the body just
as light is transm itted through a glass prism. On the health of the body depends the completeness of the
m anifestations of vital, psychic or spiritual power.”
The renewal of vital, psychic energy or spiritual power takes place when we sleep, a process of which
we are largely ignorant. B arrv’s idea is th a t “ We shall never arrive at a satisfactory theory of sleep until
we adm it the presence of a vital force and the existence of an individual hum an spirit which withdraws,
more or less com pletely, from the hum an body during the hour of sleep, and derives spiritual nourishm ent
and invigoration during its sojourn in the spiritual w orld.”
Thus the human body resembles, not the mechanical engine, but
rather the storage battery, which must be recharged with electricity (energy)
when exhausted, as well as have the water and chemical (food) replenished
from time to time. Muldoon urges th a t: “You never would recuperate
the nervous energy if the psychic body conformed everlastingly to the
physical, and the two were in exact coincidence.” For when the spiritual
body goes out of the physical body during sleep, the vital energies are
renewed and the body recharged through its condenser (the psychic
body) collecting energy from the Infinite Spirit (of which we know prac­
tically nothing). During dreams or spiritual flights some of this energy
is used up and we awake not as fully refreshed as when no dreams or
flights occur.
HEALING 63
A Study of the M.D. Dictatorship
This is a statement of a number of experiences, pointing to the urgent
and immediate need of reorientating the attitude of the M.D. branch of
science in accord with experience and the better welfare of the public.
I have the highest respect for the old type of family physician (a valued
friend of the patient and his family), now almost extinct unfortunately.
The honest M.D. openly admits, in his various conventions, that his
diagnoses are only 50 per cent correct. This is not to be wondered at
when he has fifty to a hundred patients a day to study and treat. If to
this is added the fact that so large a proportion of M.D.s are mere per­
functory “text-book parrots,” whose main job is to get ’’all the money
the traffic will bear,” we cease to wonder at it, though the thoughtful
person must deeply regret this condition.
Reports in a Chicago newspaper, March, 1941, record th a t a m an was medically examined and sent
up for induction in the arm y, when it was discovered th a t he had a wooden leg, a fact not discovered by
the dulv registered M
.D. exam iner, and in the sam e issue another m an had a glass eye, not disc >vered by
another M.D., yet these careless and incom petent members of the medical totalitarian trades union are
the ones who certify people to the lunatic, asylum and occasionally certify a cataleptic person to burial.
(In the latter case decomposition is the only final proof th a t life is extinct.)
My father at twenty married and went to an insurance company to
take a policy. He had just had a cold. The M.D. cheerfully informed
him : “You have chronic pleurisy and will not live to be twenty-one.”
This M.D. died forty years before my father, who lived to be seventy-six
years old.
A few months ago a Chicago newspaper reported the death of a man
1Projection of the Astral Body. M uldoon-Carrington,
at ninety-four years of age who was rejected for army service seventy-five
years before, because of rapid pulse.
A lady of thirty was told she had T.B. and was dieted on raw meat,
etc. Two years later, moving to another place, another M.D. examined
her and told her she had no T.B., only nervous indigestion, which he
treated. To-day the lady is approaching her eightieth year.
I have been advised to have two different and serious operations,
warned that if I did not I had only two years to live. One such advice
was eighteen years ago, the other four years back. Using my own
judgment to treat myself along common-sense lines, I find myself at
seventy-four more fit and healthy than when I was forty.
A report says a lady was ill and the M.D. could not help her and gave
her up. She heard of a nature cure healer and was treated by him for
two months and improved remarkably. Her people (M.D. fetish wor­
shippers) insisted that she return to the M.D. fold. The new M.D.
insisted on an immediate operation (strenuously objected to by the nature
cure healer). She was taken to a hospital, operatedon and buried in ten days !
Usual report : “The operation was eminently successful . . . but the
patient died ! ”
In an address to the American College of Surgeons (Chicago news
report, 1941) Dr. Foss said :
“ H undreds of unnecessary operations are performed daily in this country. . . . The trouble applies
to sm all unregulated hospitals mostly. He charged th a t for every w ell-trained surgeon there are probably
twenty who do incom petent work. We all know this but have been loath to talk about it. W hat goes on
behind operating-room doors is rarely known but to the surgeon and his assistants. To the patient and
to his relatives an operation, perhaps one entirely unnecessary, m ay appear as a life-saving accomplishment
for which the surgeon receives the blessings of the fam ily and the everlasting gratitude of the patient.
The problems confronting a surgeon who opens the hum an body are impossible to solve w ithout sound
training and basic laboratory science and extensive experience. The situation is a delicate one and so
seriously im portant th a t it is coming to the attention of the public w ith increasing force.”
Another text-book quack M.D., treating a high-strung, nervous lady
told her that she had low blood pressure, and that she should be depressed
and brooding over suicide, and seemed to resent it that the lady did not
fit in with the infallible text-book. Naturally the lady was greatly upset
by these morbid suggestions of the “expert” and qualified (?) M.D. Her
family reassured and encouraged her and pointed out that she did not
have to follow out the false ideas and (criminal) suggestions of the M.D. ;
yet these are the men who would make themselves by law the infallible
totalitarians in healing, abolishing the real healers.
But why go on? The point is that healing is a calling to which one is
born, and the schools, instead of taking any and all who have the cash
and can memorize the text-books for a job as M.D., should check up on
the personal equation of candidates (the teaching profession also fails on this
vital matter), not only as to their common sense, but also (and most
important) their uncommon sensitivity that feels the needs of the patients
by a sixth sense, in place of relying on a perfunctory and rapid text-book
diagnosis ; recognizing patients as human beings, not as “exhibit A.”
A test is also imperative for eliminating the sadist. We have God-given
anassthetics to relieve pain, etc., yet I have read an M.D.’s article urging
that “nature intended people to suffer” and refusing “twilight sleep” to
a woman, regardless of her demand and inherent right to this merciful
relief.
64 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
Let us have, not M.D.s, “mere Doctors of Medicine and Surgery,”
but H.D.s, “Doctors of healing,” using without restriction every known means
to alleviate suffering and save life ; a drug and lancet skeleton with psychic
factors plus common sense as the flesh and blood, figuratively speaking.
The problem is four thousand years old, the solution of Hammurabi
(2050 b.c.) is drastic :
“ If a doctor has treated a m an w ith a m etal knife, for a severe wound, and has caused the m an to die,
or has opened a m an’s tum our with a m etal knife, and destroyed the m an’s eye, his hands shall be cut off.’’
“ If a doctor has treated the slave of a plebeian w ith a m etal knife, for a severe wound, and caused him
to die, he shall render slave for slave.”
Still the code “gives the devil his due,” so to speak, thus :
“ If a doctor has treated a Freem an w ith a m etal knife, for a severe wound, and has cured the Freem an,
or has opened a Freem an’s tum our with a m etal knife, and cured the Freem an’s eye, then he shall receive
ten shekels of silver.” (Approx, six dollars, or £1 5s. iod.)
HEALING 65
Preface to Chapter 7
HOW TO SIT
To Do anything we mustfirst learn HO W.
D
ESCRIBED from the “other side” in our feeble language, in the
easiest way ; in the development of mediumship, the circle of
sitters is compared to a nest prepared for the egg by the parent
birds ; the sensitive medium compared to the egg, and the psychic
forces concentrated on the medium, likened to the heat of the parent
bird’s body, developing the young chick, which development takes place
within the egg and the sitters cannot force it, nor alter the natural laws
controlling psychic and spiritual, as well as physical development, they
can only aid and assist. As different species of birds have different lengths
of time for development, according to endowment, stage and kind of develop­
ment orfaculty, so we vary in the length of time necessary to bring us to
full development. But we have to do our sharefrom within, they can only
aid us, not force us.
If the sitters try to force the pace, it is like the bird prematurely
chipping the egg-shell before it is ready, and is harmful. When in the
fullness of time we are far enough developed “from within,” we chip
our own shells. They, spirits, do all that is possible from the outside, but
we m u s t do our part to develop to a higher condition or vibration and so
contact them in every way in our power.
Mr. E. W. Oaten, editor of The Two Worlds, England, writes :
“ The path of professional mediumship is a hard and stony one. Talking to H unter Selkirk some months
ago, we suggested to him that he m ight extend his activities over a larger area. He is certainly one of
the finest clairvoyants in the kingdom, but he said : ‘I have to be in the pit on Monday morning, and I ’m
not going to lose my work for the platform . Cutting coal in the pit is a great deal ea sier than practising
as a public clairvoyant.’ The same attitude is being taken by a number of physical mediums we know,
and while the world is sadly in need of good mediums, it must not be forgotten th a t the path of Spiritualism
has been strewed with broken reputations of good mediums for ninety years, who have been the victim s
of a system which condemned them to occasional failure and upon whose shoulders the whole blame
for such failures was put. We agree th a t the world does need mediums, but it is also true th a t the world
sadly needs people who have suriicient intelligence and spirituality to give a medium decent conditions
a t least, under which to exercise those powers of co-operation w ith the spirit world which make phenom ena
reliable and evidential.”
“ Like attracts like, and the silly, curious inquirer, who asks from no desire for inform ation, but only
to gratify a whim or an idle curiosity, or to entangle us in talk, is answered, if at all, by a spirit like
him self.” Spirit Teachings.
“ The higher and more spiritual beings here will not come in contact w ith those who do not care for
the spiritual in these phenomena. W hen curiosity, am usement, business, or any m aterial good is the
object in view, then there are always wandering, border spirits, ready to pander to such desire. B ut to
use psychic gifts so is to debase them , and often serious harm results to those who use them .”
Speaking across the Border.
“ W hen ailing or worried, seek not to com mune w ith the spheres. A sick, or m entally disturbed
m em ber of a circle is a bar. The aura is vitiated, and objects take a distorted appearance. H arm onious
and loving minds, pure and holy thoughts, healthful and cheerful bodily conditions, earnest seeking after
truth, these are our best^aids.”
66
“ W hat hurts m ost is jealous m istrust, angry feelings, unhealthy conditions of body or m in d ; chief
©f all, a prying, suspicious mind, bent on believing nothing and on trying to prove all to be an elaborate
lie.” ’ More Spirit Teachings.
M.A. (Oxon) advises :
“ If you can get an introduction to some experienced spiritualist on whose good faith you can rely,
ask him for advice ; and, if he is holding private circles, ask permission to attend one to see how he conducts
seances, and what to expect. There is, however, difficulty in obtaining access to private circles, and in any
case, you m ust rely chiefly on experience in your own fam ily circle, or am ongst your own friends, all
strangers being excluded
“ Form a circle of from four to eight persons, half, or at least two, of a passive tem peram ent, and
preferably of the female sex, the rest of a more positive type. Sit, positive and negative alternately, secure
against disturbance, in subdued light, round a sm all uncovered table. Place the palms of the hands flat
upon its upper surface. The hands of each sitter need not touch those of his neighbour, though this is
frequently done.
“ Do not concentrate attention too fixedly on expected m anifestations. (A detached attitude, alert
to note occurrences, is desired.) Engage in cheerful, b u t not frivolous conversation. Avoid dispute or
argument. Scepticism is no deterrent,but a bitter spirit of opposition m ay totally stop or impede mani­
festations. (The latter type of person is useless and time-wasting.) If conversation flags, music is a great
help, if it is agreeable at all, and not if a kind to irritate the ear of a sensitive person.
“ Patience is essential, and it m ay be necessary to meet ten or twelve tim es at short intervals, before
anything occurs. If, after such a trial, you still fail, form a fresh circle. An hour should be the lim it of
an unsuccessful seance.
“ If the table moves, let your pressure be so gentle on its surface th a t you are sure you are not aiding
its motions. After some tim e you will probably find th a t the m ovem ent will continue if your hin d s are
held o v er , but not in contact with it. Do not, however, try this until the m ovem ent is assured, and be
in no hurry to get m essages/
“ When you think the tim e has come, let someone take com mand of the circle and act as spokesm an.
Explain to the unseen Intelligence th a t an agreed code of signals is desirable, and ask th a t a tilt m ay be
given, at the right letter, as the alphabet is slowly repeated, forming the word th a t the Intelligence wishes
to spell. It is convenient to use a single tilt for n o , three for y e s , and two for doubt or uncertainty. (In
answer to questions.)
“ W hen a satisfactory com m unication has been established, ask if you are rightly placed, and, if not,
w hat order you should take. A fter this, ask who the Intelligence purports to be, which of the com pany
is the medium and such appropriate questions. If confusion occurs ascribe it to the di.ficulty th a t exists
in directing the movements at first, w ith exactitude. Patience will rem edy this. If you only satisfy your­
self a t first, th a t it is possible to speak w ith an Intelligence, separate from th a t of any person present,
you will have gained much.
“ The signals m ay take the form of raps. If so, use the sam e code of signals, and ask th a t the raps
become clear, th a t they tnay be made on the table, or in a p art of the room where they are dem onstrably
not produced by any norm al means, but avoid any vexatious im position of restrictions on free com muni­
cations. Let the Intelligence use its own means. I t rests greatly w ith the sitters to m ake the m anifestations
elevating, frivolous or even tricky.
“ Should an attem pt be made to entrance the m edium, or to m anifest by any violent methods, ask
th a t the attem pt be deferred until you can secure the presence of some experienced psychic or spiritualist.
If the request is not heeded, discontinue the sitting. The process of developing a trance-m edium is one
th a t m ight disconcert an inexperienced inquirer.
“ Lastly, try the results you get by the light of Reason. M aintain a level head and clear judgm ent.
Do not believe everything you are told, for though the great unseen world contains many a wise and discern­
ing spirit, it also has in it the accumulation of hum an folly, vanity and error, and this lies nearer to the surface
than th a t which is wise and good; D istrust the free use of great names. Never for a m om ent abandon the
use of your reason. Do not enter into a very solem n investigation in a spirit of idle curiosity or frivolity.
Cultivate a reverent desire for w hat is pure, good and true. You will be repaid if you gain only a well-
grounded conviction th a t there is a life after death for which a pure and good life before death is the best
and wisest preparation.”
HOW TO SIT, AND ECTOPLASM 67
Suggestions
(1) “ Endeavour to retain the sam e sitters a t each m eeting.”
(2) “ Music, vocal or instrum ental, helps to open each sitting, b u t is not an absolute necessity.” _
(3) “ Avoid excitem ent or fatigue for some hours before attending the circle. N ever indulge in stim ulants
previous to a sitting. The forces used are draw n from the physical and psychical parts of our nature,
and are therefore affected by the bodily and spiritual states of all concerned.”
(4) “ Do not sit w ith, or adm it to your circle, anyone whom you dislike, or in whom you have not perfect
confidence. Avoid acrimonious dispute. H onest scepticism is no barrier to the enquiry, but prejudice
and suspicion are undesirable anyw here.”
(5) “ Absence of visible results is no proof th a t no advance has been made. O ften m ost is done when
the least is evident to any of our senses. Much m ay have been done by the spirit operators before the
object of the m eeting is accomplished. They are the workers ; therefore it is not unreasonable to ask
th a t you bring to each m eeting of your circle the requisitions most desired, patience and perseverence.”
(Experienced mediums are often told to w ait days or weeks, for preparations to be made by them
and the spirits for special purposes.)
(6) “ If you have any deep-rooted religious objection to the subject, or any bigoted aversion to it, leave it
entirely alone. You are unsuited to the enquiry, and will derive no benefit therefrom . W hile the facts
crave no one’s favour, they fear no opposition ; but a scientific enquiry, as this is, is no place for the
ventilation of intolerant opinions or prejudices, religious or scientific.”
“ If the medium does not go under control, he m ay describe w hat he sees clairvoyant]y. At first the
results m ay not b« very m uch, but, as the m edium progresses, wonderfully evidential messages w ill
b« given.”
68 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
N otes for Sitters
Do not flash a light under any pretence, nor touch the entranced
medium, nor interrupt or disturb a seance once begun. Serious results to
the medium may follow such useless, ignorant and unnecessary acts.
When proper instructions are given by a guide for a special purpose,
light and touch may be allowed, strictly as directed by the spirit.
Do not talk or whisper and spoil the messages being given to others ;
you would not want your messages spoiled. Nature’s laws will not change
to suit you, so if you have not patience and willingness to follow necessary
and essential rules, stay away. Ask brief questions, but do not make long
speeches about your affairs and waste precious minutes and the force
that the spirits need.
“ In sitting, seek not anxiously for a n y th in g ; it m ars our plans to have a strong feeling present,
fixed on any point. M aintain a serious, attentive mind. Above all, be earnest and prayerful, ready to
hear, anxious for higher knowledge ; soaring up, not down to earth.”
“ A t tim es it is desirable to isolate the medium in a cabinet, to preserve her aura in tact.”
“ Music, if good, is well, but not necessary. We prefer quietness and attention.”
“ Retirem ent, m editation, fasting and prayer are so often the attendants on successful spirit influence.
We have frequently told you th a t the body should be in quiescence and the m ind at peace.”
“ W hen the brain is active, then the vital force is draw n to the brain. W hen the brain is passive, the
force flows to the nerves and we can then use it. W hen you eat, the stom ach attracts the force and we
cannot use it well.”
“ D evelopment should only be undertaken in connection w ith a properly conducted developing circle
a t which a powerful medium is present. U ntil developm ent has passed a certain stage, exercise of medium-
ship powers outside the lim its of the developing circle should be strictly avoided. The guides can be
trusted to signify when this stage is reached. Some guides refer to it as the stage when they are able to
place a ‘canopy’ over the medium to act as a shield against all psychic influence outside of the control
of the spirit guardian. Young developing mediums should not sit in indiscrim inate circles, nor on public
platform s before the canopy stage has been reached. This m ight take some years, five or six years is not
uncom mon. If this rule is not followed the m ediumship would either rem ain semi-developed and un­
reliable, or would quickly burn itself out, and the m edium ’s health m ay suffer.
“ M any unstable minds are attracted to the mysterious. They fancy they would like to penetrate the
veil from mere curiosity. They are vain and seek power and knowledge which others have not. ‘t o
s u c h is d a n g e r .’ ‘t o t h e t r u t h - s e e k e r n o n e .’ Avoid those of im m oderate, unreasoning, excited
minds. You will need to appreciate the d e l i c a t e c o n d itio n s under which alone true com munion is
possible.” F rom More Spirit Teachings.
“In vain shalt thou, or any, call
The spirits from their golden day,
Except, like them, thou too canst say,
My spirit is at peace with all.”
Chapter 7
ECTOPLASM
“ There are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamed of in
ourphilosophies.”
P
SYCHIC, from Psyche, the Greek for spirit or life, refers to the
ethereal part of man’s make-up, as distinguished from his material
body. Research, of course, is to search again, or to search more
deeply.
Materialization—Etherealization—T ransfiguration, and self-
luminous forms. These occur by reason of the spirit person building up a
presentiment of him- or herself, and becoming clothed upon with a sub­
stance called e c t o p l a s m . Ecto, Greek for “outside” or “external to,”
and Plasma, the lymph or liquid part of unaltered blood. A proto­
plasmic substance exuding from the body ofthe medium, by manipulating
which the intelligent discarnate entities produce partial or complete
materializations. Teleplasm denotes this substance when acting at a
distance from the medium’s body, and Ideoplasm means moulding the
stuff into the likeness of a self. Psychic Science studies the nature and
properties of ectoplasm, the effect of its withdrawal from the medium and
how it is used. This ectoplasm is slowly withdrawn from the psychic
person or medium and is used to make visible the form of the spirit
person present. It is slowly and carefully returned at the conclusion of
the manifestation.
Our psychic or ethereal bodies may be projected, consciously or uncon­
sciously, and may, under proper conditions, be seen by others, as well as
by psychic persons. There are many other phases of psychic phenomena,
but before going further let us clear our minds of some rubbish about
these obscure, but natural phonomena, that has accumulated during the
past centuries of ignorance and superstition, and try to understand
the reality of these things, as we study without bias or prejudice and learn
the natural and spiritual laws concerned.
Ectoplasm is matter, invisible and intangible in its primary state, but
assuming vaporous, liquid or solid conditions, according to the stage
of its condensation. It has its own peculiar ozone-like odour.
The conditions required are a dim red or blue light (more rarely
ordinary light, which usually tends to dematerialize the ectoplasm
violently, to the injury of the medium). This can be understood if we
reflect that having been drawn slowly from the orifices of the medium’s
body, when an ignorant investigator flashes a white light, or grabs at the
form, the ectoplasm is suddenly shot back into the medium’s body,
with disastrous results.
Dr. Crawford found by measuring the weights of both medium and
sitters, that the sitters contribute to the flow of ectoplasm. The weight
lost by the medium averaged, usually, 10-15 lb. On one occasion, how­
ever, it amounted to 54! lb., the normal weight of the medium being
128 lb. The withdrawal of her bodily susbtance went on with difficulty
in surges, as if an elastic resistance had to be overcome. The sitter’s
contribution is shown by a case where a tobacco addict was present at a
seance, his body saturated with nicotine poison, and for some days after­
wards the hapless medium (who did not use tobacco) suffered the effects
of nicotine poisoning, her clean ectoplasm being contaminated by
contacting the poisoned ectoplasm of the tobacco addict.
Speaking of Bien Boa, Prof. Richet says :
“ A t certain mom ents it was obliged to lean and bend, because of the great height it had assumed.
Then suddenly his head sank, sank right down to the ground and disappeared. He did this three times
in succession. In trying to compare this phenomenon to something, I can find nothing better than the
figure of a jack-in-the-box, which comes out all of a sudden.”
The phenomena of the birth of human organs or of complete bodies
is twofold as it is followed by an equally mysterious dissolution of the
temporary organization. There can be no question of delusion when a
HOW TO SIT, AND ECTOPLASM 69
spirit hand is held tightly and melts away in the sitter’s grasp. Frank L.
Burr, Editor of the Hartford Times, says of such a seance :
“ Turning this strange hand palm tow ards me, I pushed my right forefinger entirely through the
palm , till it came out an inch or more, visibly, from the back of the hand. W hen I withdrew it, the place
closed up, much as a piece of putty would close under the circum stances, leaving a visible m ark or scar,
where the wound was, b u t not a hole. W hile I was still looking a t it, the hand vanished quick as a lightning
flash.”
H. D. Jendsen, before the Dialectic Society, said :
“ I have once been enabled to subject a spirit hand to pressure. The tem perature, so far as I could
judge, the same as th a t of the room, and the spirit hand felt soft and velvety, dissolving slowly under
the greatest pressure to which I could subm it it.”
John King was seen by Florence M arryat to “ hold a slate so th a t both hands were visible, and then
et one hand dem aterialize till it was no larger than a doll’s, w hilst the other rem ained the norm al size.”
Florence Marryat gives the following account of the dissolution of a
spirit form :
“ She (K ate King) took up her station against the drawing-room wall, w ith her arm s extended as if
she were crucified. Then three gas burners were turned on to their full extent in a room about sixteen
feet square. The effect upon K atie was marvellous. She looked like hers If for the space of a second only,
then she began gradually to m elt away. I can com pare the dem aterialization of her form to nothing
b u t a wax doll melting before a hot fire. First the features became blurred and in d istin ct; they seemed
to run into each other. The eyes sunk in the sockets, the nose disappeared, the frontal bone fell in. Next
the lim bs appeared to give way under her, and she sank lower and lower on the carpet, like a crum bling
edifice. At last there was nothing b u t her head left above the ground— then a heap of w hite drapery only,
which disappeared with a whisk, as if a hand had pulled it aft r her—-and we were left staring by the light
of the three gas burners, at the spot on which K atie King had stood.”
Dr. Vezzano once noticed the disappearance of the lower limbs of
Eusapia Palladino. “John King” claimed to have dematerialized them
in order to gain more power.
Florence M arryat was led by a m aterialized spirit behind the curtain to see the m edium, Miss Showers.
“The first sight of her terrified me. She appeared to have shrunk to half her usual size and the dress hung
loosely on her figure. H er arm s had disappeared, b u t putting my hands up the dress sleeve I found them
dim inished to the size of those of a little child— the fingers reaching only to where the elbows had been.
The same miracle had happened to her feet, which only occupied half of her boots. She looked in fact
like the mum my of a girl of four or six years old. The spirit told me to feel her face. The forehead was
dry, rough and burning hot, but from the chin w ater was dropping freely on th e bosom of her dress.”
From the evidence of fifteen witnesses Aksakcf describes the disap­
pearance of the lower part of a medium’s body, from the waist downward.
In Mme d’Esperance’s account she says :
“ I relaxed m y muscles and let m y hands fall upon m y lap and then I found th a t instead of resting
against mv knees they rested against the chair in which I was sitting. This discovery disturbed me greatly
and I wondered if I were dream ing. I patted my skirt carefully, all over, trying to locate my lim bs and
the lower half of my body, but found th a t although the upper part of it—arm s, chest, shoulders, etc.—•
was its natural size, all the lower p art had entirely disappeared. I put my hands where my knees should
have been, but nothing w hatever was there but m y dress and skirts. N evertheless, I felt just as usual—
better than usual in f a c t; so th a t if my attention had not been attracted by accident, I should probably
have known nothing of the occurrence. Leaning forward to see if m y feet were in their proper place I
alm ost lost my balance. This frightened me very much and I felt that it was absolutely necessary to assure
myself w hether I was dream ing or the victim of an hallucination. To this end I reached over and took
Prof. Selling's hand, asking him to tell me if I was really seated in the chair. I awaited his answer in perfect
agony of suspense. I felt his hand ju st as if it touched my knees ; but he said : ‘There is nothing there,
nothing b u t your skirts.’ This gave me a still greater fright. I pressed m y free hand against m y breast
and felt m y h eart beating w ildly.” F our other persons verified this occurrence by passing th e ir hands
below her trunk. Fifteen m inutes later her skirts filled out and her lower lim bs reappeared in full view of
th e spectators. This exam ination caused her great distress and she was ill for three m onths afterw ards.”
Relation of medium to the forms manifesting.
Mrs. Mellen says :
“ I feel as though I was th a t form, and yet I know I am not and th a t I am still seated on my chair.
It is a kind of double consciousness—a far-aw ay feeling, hard to define. A t one m om ent I am hot, and
th e next mom ent cold. I sometimes have a choking, fainting, sinking sensation, when the form is out.”
Mr. Thurston speaks of Mrs. Thompson :
70 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
HOW TO SIT, AND ECTOPLASM 71
"A ll the w hile Mrs. Thompson is in full consciousness, b u t she kept exclaim ing th a t she felt 'all hollow’
and the thing she noticed th a t whenever ‘Clare’s’ fingers touched anyone, she distinctly felt a pricking
sensation in her body, very sim ilar to her experiences when she had been placed on an insulating chair
and charged w ith electricity and persons had touched her to make sparks come from her.”
When Florence Marryat was conducted into the cabinet (which is a
small space enclosed by curtains) by a materialized spirit of Miss Showers
(the medium), she was told :
“ You will see th a t Rosie (the medium) is half her usual size and weight. I have borrowed the other
half from her, which, combined w ith contributions from th e sitters, goes to make up the body in which
I show myself to you. If you increase the action of the vital half to such a degree th a t the two halves
did not re-unite, you would kill her. You see th a t I can detach certain particles from her organism for
m y own use, and when I dem aterialize, / restore these particles to her, and she becomes once more her
norm al size. You only hurry the reunion by violently detaining me, so as to injure her.”
Thus we see the danger of ignorant persons trying primitive methods
to see if the figure is genuine, by grasping it, etc. Psychic Research has
more effective and quite safe ways to verify the reality of the phenomena.
Col. Olcott, in his experiments with Miss Compton, shut the medium
up in a small cabinet, passed threads through holes bored in her ears and
fastened them to the back of her chair. When the figure appeared from
the cabinet, he asked it to stand on a weighing machine platform. Twice
this was done, the records showing 77 and 59 lb. Olcott then left the
figure outside and went into the cabinet. The medium was gone.
Stepping out he again weighed the figure. This time the record was
52 lb. The spirit form then re-entered the cabinet from which other spirit
forms emerged. Finally Olcctt went into the cabinet with a lamp and
found the medium just as he had left her at the beginning of the seance,
with every thread unbroken and every seal undisturbed. After the return
of consciousness the medium was weighed. Her weight was 121 lb.
Mme d’Esperance, speaking of ectoplasm as a solid, says :
"A s soon as I have entered the cabinet my first im pression is of being covered w ith spider-webs. Then
I feel th a t the air is filled with substance, and a kind of w hite and vaporous mass, semi-luminous, like
steam from a locomotive, is formed in front of the abdom en. After this mass has been tossed and agitated
every way for some m inutes, sometimes even half an hour, it suddenly stops, and then out of it is born
a living being close to me.” At another tim e she says : “ I t seemed th a t I could feel fine threads being
draw n out of the pores of m y body.”
This is not always limited to the medium. The sitters also provide
much of this substance, though they may not be aware of it. Such
threads can be seen at times reaching from the sitters to the medium and
are sometimes evident in photographs of telekinetic phenomena. Dr.
Geley noted that the form of this substance varies between threads,
cords, rigid rays, membranes and fabric or woven material, with inde­
finite and irregular outlines.
The ectoplasm may be coloured, but white is most frequent, perhaps
because most easily materialised, but black, grey, purple and other colours
are to be seen. Sometimes the visibility is clear and sharp, at other times
hazy. The impression to the touch is sometimes moist and cold, some­
times viscous and sticky and more rarely dry and hard. At times, when
a materialized figure has placed its hands on my head, I have observed
that the drap. ries which hung down touching my cheek, were like exceed­
ingly fine soap bubbles and I could see the iridescent colouring where the
light struck it, such as a soap bubble displays ; the touch on the cheek
appeared to break some ofthese minute bubbles, causing a slight crackling,
as when the hand is thrust into a mass of fine soapsuds, and, on the with­
drawal of the spirit person, the cheek was wet enough to cause an
involuntary wiping off. On other occasions the material was of the nature
of thick, heavy white silk, beautifully woven and having considerable
body and substance. Frequently the visitor would hold up the robes and
call attention to their beauty, whiteness and wonderful texture, inviting
me to examine and notice the fact that there was no seam in it anywhere.
Conan Doyle was permitted to take a bit of material for examination
microscopically, and it was found to resemble a bit of skin, such as peels
off after severe sunburn. On the other hand, a lady I knew was permitted
to take a bit of material, which was of a silky character, and on submitting
it to an expert silk merchant, for testing, he informed her that it was a
rare kind of material, such as he had never seen. Ordinarily the silk
filaments, as produced by the silkworm, are spun into fine threads and
these are then woven into the silk fabric of commerce, but this sample
appeared to be composed of the fine, unspun filaments themselves, not
woven into a fabric, but laid crossing one another and adhering naturally
with unfinished ends, and his opinion was that to make such a material
it would need to be done slowly and carefully by hand and would
cost around $500 to $600 per yard, instead of the ordinary $1.00 or $5.00
per yard. The substance often appears mobile, slow and reptilian in
movement, or quick as lightning. It is extremely sensitive to light. The
room temperature is affected (cooled), especially near the medium and
the materialized figures.
We speak of spirit forms, etc., but it must be remembered that spirit,
as such, cannot be seen physically. What we see is the form built up by
the spirit person, using the ectoplasm from the medium, etc., just as we
do not “see” each other, only the temporary physical form in which we
are encased and through which we, as spirit entities, become manifest
to other physical beings.
Dr. Geley found five striking analogies of the ectoplasmic process in
the known organic realm : the chrysalis in which the body of the cater­
pillar is resolved into a creamy mass and re-formed into a butterfly ;
the cold light of insects and microbes ; the pseudopods of some protozoa,
and certain similarities in the evolution of animal forms and dermoid
cysts.
Conan Doyle suggests that the psychic rods, in telekinesis, may not be
strong in themselves, but may carry strength, as a copper wire carries
electricity.
According to all indications the ectoplasmic lines convey feeling and
emotion also, as well as will power, not only between the medium and
the materialized figure, but also between the medium and sitters also.
Mme d’Esperance writes, in Shadowland :
“ I felt conscious of the thoughts, or rather the feelings, of every one in the room, b u t had no inclin­
ation to as much as lift a finger to enable me to see anything, m y brain apparently becoming a sort of
w hispering gallery, where the thoughts of other persons resolved themselves into an embodied form and
resounded as though actual substantial objects. W as anyone suffering ? I felt the pain. Was anyone
worried or depressed ? I felt it instantly. Joy or sorrow made themselves in some way reproduced in
myself. If anyone left his or her seat, thus breaking the chain, this fact was communicated to me in a
m ysterious but unm istakable m anner.” Again : “ I lost physical strength, but no particle of my indi­
viduality. On the contrary, the loss of physical power seemed but to intensify th a t of the senses. D istant
sounds, beyond hearing at other times, became painfully audible ; a m ovem ent of any of the sitters sent
a vibration through every nerve ; a sudden exclam ation caused a sensation of terror ; the very thoughts-
of the persons in th e room made themselves felt as though they were m aterial objects.”
72 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
I have found some unusually sensitive mediums who suffer such painful
exaggeration of sound, etc., for hours or all day before a good seance, a
whisper seems a shout and a slight sound is heard as a thunderclap. An
incautious movement in a seance on my part, unheard and in the dark,
when ten feet from the medium, would cause her to cry out, “Oh, don’t
do that, you pull my insides out,” while a cough seems like a blow in the
face to her.
As some sitters contribute more largely to results than others, the
medium welcomes such, as it saves her much exhaustion. This fact and
the importance of proper conditions is indicated by the following
experience.
At the time appointed the medium was marooned at a distance, with
a defective car. Arriving late, fretting and flustered by the annoyance and
delay, she was not in the proper condition of “an even mind” until after
half an hour’s rest, and even then the after-effects continued in her
mind. Consequently, we were about half an hour after commencing the
seance, before getting results. There were nine people present, in horse­
shoe formation, two women (mediums) on the right-hand end, two women
with a year-and-a-half-old child on the left, and also a medium next to
them, two women (new to this work), myself betwen them, at the crown
of the horseshoe, the others between.
When, at last, materializations occurred, seven figures came out to
the two women on the right (a second figure tried to come out at the same
time at another opening of the cabinet, but was not quite able to). Then,
the child being restless, the mother interrupted proceedings to retire.
This made more difficulty.
Apart from the disturbance caused by the restless child, experience
shows that children should not be admitted to circles, for, like everyone
else, they are drawn upon, and until the age of adolescence (or, better
yet, maturity) their mental make-up has not acquired stability, and
though unobservant parents may not notice it, undesirable nervous and
mental conditions may be set up to the detriment of the child. Even
where natural mediumistic faculties show in a child, forcing premature
development is harmful.
Resuming our efforts to attain the essential “even mind,” figures
came to all but three of the sitters, with evident effort, as, in addition to
the previous interruption, the two women who had seven figures come to
them now wished to leave also. Though they were persuaded to remain
and support the forces, their discontent diminished the power. It is
strange that mediums, as these women were, are so ignorant of spiritual
laws, or callous of others, that they do not co-operate with their fellows.
Figures came to the two between whom I was sandwiched, and the
meeting closed. None came to the medium on the left, who had been
squirming and twisting in his seat most of the time, nor to myself and
another. So strenuously did they draw upon this medium for power
that, when I walked a short way with him afterwards, he was taken ill
in the street, and he said to me : “If I had known that the forces would
use me so much I would not have gone.” The guides said that they
made a special effort to demonstrate for the two new inquirers.
It would seem that these events were a proof of genuineness. A
E
HOW TO SIT, AND ECTOPLASM 73
fraudulent medium would not have been affected by the delay of a car, the
interruption of the woman and child leaving, the mental effect of the two
women impatient to leave, nor would the other medium have suffered
so much. Such failures contain lessons for us in the “gentle art” of what
not to do in seances.
At one of Mrs. Mellon’s seances in Sydney a form, after walking about,
lay down on the platform, stretched out the limbs in the presence of all,
and each member of the body separately dematerialised.
When matter passes through matter, or when apports are brought into
the seance room, the process of dematerialization may be identical. The
following account is given in Shadowland by Mme d’Esperance :
“A lady brought a brilliantly coloured Persian silk scarf. Yolanda (the control) took great delight in
it. She could not be induced to part with it. W hen she had disappeared and the seance closed, the scarf
also vanished. The next time she was asked w hat she had done with it. Yolanda seemed a little non­
plussed a t the question, but in an instant she made a few movements w ith her hands in the air and over
her shoulders and the scarf was there, draped as she had arranged it on the previous evening. She never
trusted this scarf out of her hands. W hen she herself gradually dissolved into mist, under the scrutiny
of tw enty pairs of eyes, the scarf itself would gradually vanish in the same m anner as its wearer, and no
search we m ight make afterwards ever discovered its whereabouts. Yet Yolanda assured us gleefully
th a t we failed to see it because we were blind, for the scarf had never left the room. This seemed to
am use her and she never tired of m ystifying us by m aking things invisible to our eyes.” (See page 83.)
K atie King, in answer to a question : “ W here do you go when you disappear?” answered : “ Into
the medium, giving her back all the vitality which I took from her. W hen I have got very much from
her, if any one of you were to take her suddenly round the waist and try to carry her, you m ight kill her
on the spot, she m ight suffocate. I can go in and out of her readily, but understand, I am not her—not
her double ; they talk a deal of rubbish about doubles. I am ‘myself’ all the tim e.”
Dr. T. Glen Hamilton (Canada’s Sir William Crookes) (Psychic
Science, January, 1933) on the building and photographing of a three-
dimensional ectoplasmic ship in the Winnipeg circle. “John King” and
“Walter” were responsible for the experiment. Coming through mediums
Mary M. and X. they carried on a dialogue pretending that they were
aboard John King’s pirate ship and amongst a crew of piratical ruffians.
It was hinted that this play-acting had a psychological purpose, the
recovery of past memories and the creation of the thought-image of a
sailing-ship. Eventually the ectoplasmic ship was built, but, owing
to some indecision in giving the signal to take the photograph, it “came
into port badly damaged.” Dr. Hamilton remarks :
“ No m atter how great we m ay conceive the unknow n powers of the hum an organism to be, we cannot
conceive of it giving rise to an objective mass showing purposive, m echanistic construction, such as that
disclosed in this ship-teleplasm . We are forced to conclude th a t the supernorm al personalities in this case
(by some means yet unknown to us) so m anipulated or otherwise influenced the prim ary m aterializing
substance after it had left the body, or was otherwise brought into its objective state, as to cause it to
represent the idea which they, the unseen directors, had in view, nam ely, the idea of a sailing ship.”
The notes of Archdeacon Colley, of dematerialization at a seance in
1877, are of great interest.
“ As I brought m y sweet companion close up to him (the medium), th e gossamer filam ent or cord again
came into view ; its attenuated and vanishing point being, as before, towards the heart. G reatly
wondering, yet keen to observe, did 1 notice how, by means of this vapoury cord, the psychic figure was
sucked back into the body of the medium. For, like a w aterspout at sea, funnel-shaped, or a sand column
such as I have seen in E gypt—horizontal instead of vertical— the vital power of our medium appeared
to absorb and draw in the spirit form, but a t my desire, so gradually th a t I was enabled quite leisurely
thus closely to observe the process. For, leaning against and holding my friend w ith my left arm at his
back and my left ear and cheek at his breast, his heart beating in an alarm ing way, I saw him receive back
the lovely birth of the invisible spheres, into his robust, corporeal person. As I gazed on the sweet face
of the disintegrating spirit form, w ithin three cr four inches of its features, I again marked the fair linea­
ments, eyes, hair and delicate complexion, and kissed the dainty hand, as, in process of absorption, it
dissolved and was drawn through the texture and substance of his black coat into our friend’s bosom.”
The Archdeacon once spoke to a materialized figure, before her
extrusion was complete, and he saw the recognition in her eyes and
74 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
heard her whisper, during the psychic parturition : “So glad to see
you.”
On one occasion a minister friend of Dr. Monck (the medium)
materialized. By common consent the medium was carefully awakened.
Dazed for a moment, and most astonished, our aroused friend looked
inquiringly at the materialized spirit form, and, jumping up from the
sofa, on which we had placed him, he excitedly rushed forward to his
one-time fellow-student, shouting : “Why, it’s Sam,” and then there
was handshaking and brotherly greetings between the two. When both
friends were about to speak at once there was a momentary impasse and
neither seemed able to articulate, the medium’s breath appearing needed
by Samuel when he essayed to speak, while the materialized form checked
in his utterance when the medium began to speak.
One spirit explained why the voices did not always sound like the
friend’s remembered voice. He said : “What you call ectoplasm is drawn
from the throats of those in the circle, to form a new speaking organism,
and it did not always combine chemically so that they could reproduce
the exact tone. The medium is the catalyst (essential to complete blending)
and the spirit chemists did all they could, but differences of ehemistry
among the members present, made it hard, except when all present had
nearly the same composition.” Again this is strikingly like blood trans­
fusion, where the blood injected must be of the same “type” as that of
the patient to secure the proper effect.
Once my sister came and began to sing a hymn. I tried to join in
and found my throat clogged and she stopped. She had been drawing
on my throat and when I tried to use it, it stopped her singing.
HOW TO SIT, AND ECTOPLASM 75
C h a p t e r 8
MATERIALIZATION
“All night the spirit of Patroclus stood by me and enjoined me in every
particular and was wonderfully like himself”
Achilles, (iooo b.c.)
M
ATERIALIZATION, the making visible of something normally
invisible, as, for example, a jet of superheated steam in a hot
room would be invisible and one might be badly scalded by
walking across its path, but if the jet is shot into cold air it at once becomes
visible as an apparent solid—the building up of a temporary structure
to form a figure or part of a person who has progressed into the next
condition of continued life.
Of the modus operandi little is yet known, but the reality of the fact is
beyond dispute, based on innumerable recorded experiences.
In materialization, the substance used is drawn or exuded from the
body of a psychic or medium and in a less degree from all the sitters
present at a seance. This invisible substance, called “ectoplasm,” which
becomes visible when condensed or materialized, may be formed into
various shapes resembling the spirit entity manifesting, or forming limbs
for the purpose of moving objects at a distance from the psychic where
“psychic rods” or pseudopods, as Crawford calls them, are extruded from
the body of the medium to cause telekinesis (movement of objects at a
distance) and to form temporary vocal apparatus as in independent
voice and trumpet manifestations.
The solid, dense phenomenon is generally understood by the word
materialization ; in “etherealization” the phenomenon is diaphanous
and intangible, the furniture being frequently visible through the figure,
which is often more self-luminous than the more dense manifestation.
Sometimes the objective figure is so attenuated as to be invisible to all
but a clairvoyant. “Transfiguration,” in which the ectoplasmic material
transfigures or covers the face or person ofthe medium, taking on the form
of another.
Transfiguration of the medium by overcasting or overshadowing
him with ectoplasm is not infrequent. The face or the whole person may
be “changed into another man.” For example, some years ago I was
visiting some friends in Davenport, la. We were sitting round a dining-
table (about eight persons in ordinary bright light, chatting on general
subjects) when my attention was attracted to a clean-shaven young man
on the opposite side of the table. As I looked at him casually I saw a dark
76
moustache gradually form on his shaven lip, his hair receded from his
forehead and next instant I realized that I was looking into the face of
my younger brother, killed four years before at Vimy Ridge. Presently
this distinct phenomenon faded.
The most wonderful of all phases of materialization is a face or full
figure appearing in complete darkness, as if formed out of self-luminous
material, or moonbeams. This is rare. Out of over two thousand mis­
cellaneous seances I have rarely seen it. However, I have seen this
amazing and beautiful phenomenon half a dozen times in stygian darkness
in my room alone.
There are various sorts ofin-betwen demonstrations and combinations.
Conditions and mediumistic peculiarities govern them.
Wax moulds have been obtained of the hands, feet and even the face
of the spirit person manifesting. To prevent fraud the investigators have
brought their own wax, coloured without the knowledge of the medium,
so that if he introduced any it would be apparent by the difference in
colour. This special wax did not affect results. Rubber gloves filled
with air or water have been tried, to duplicate these spirit hands, but
fail, as they are distorted and have no characteristic lines, creases and
marks of the human hand. Finger-prints from these wax moulds show
different markings from any of the finger-prints of the sitters, thus proving
a different source.
Just how the appearances are built up is not known. They appear
in various ways. Some have described the process as analogous to
electro-plating, wherein a thin shell is deposited on a mould. Other cases
seem to lack depth, the third dimension, and appear like a print or
drawing—
-flat. This has given rise to the idea of their being faked. In
other cases they evolve in a more or less complete form and solid to the
touch. On one occasion a face appeared incomplete. Perfect in other
respects, the face had no eyes, only sockets, and no teeth. The voice
having a hissing sound, the mouth was partly marred as if by the cicatrix
of a burn and a small bit of unorganized ectoplasm hung from it.
Generally the medium is in trance, but not always, and the trance
condition may be preceded by apparently painful groans and contortions,
but as development progresses these disappear and an experienced
medium may go into trance as easily as in going to sleep or apparently
not even go into trance at all during phenomena.
Sir William Crookes was the first modern scientist to seriously investi­
gate materializations. Katie King offered him every opportunity for
investigation. She even allowed Crookes to enter the cabinet where,
armed with a phosphorus lamp, he saw both the medium and Katie at
the same time. Some sixty years later Katie King came to Dr. T. Glen
Hamilton, of Winnipeg, who was enabled to obtain excellent photographs
of the materialization of this beautiful young woman, and much valuable
instruction.
The next systematic investigation was by Prof. Richet. “At the Villa
Carmen I saw a fully organized form rise from the floor. At first it was
only a white opaque spot like a handkerchief lying on the ground before
the curtain ; then this handkerchief quickly assumed the form of a
human head level with the floor, and a few moments later it rose up in a
MATERIALIZATION 77
straight line and became a small man enveloped in a kind of white
burnous who took two or three halting steps in front of the curtain and
then sank to the floor and disappeared, as if through a trap door. But
there was no trap door.”
Dr. Hereward Carrington, one of the keenest fraud-hunters among
psychical researchers, writes :
“ I myself have observed m aterializations under perfect conditions of control, and have had the
tem porary hand m elt w ithin my own, as I held it firmly grasped This hand was a perfectly formed
physiological structure, warm, likelike, and having all the attributes of the hum an hand—yet both the
m edium ’s hands were securely held by two controllers, and visible in the red light. L et m e repeat, this
hand was not pulled aw ay, b u t somehow melted in my grasp as I held it.”
Mme d’Esperance, control Yolanda, at one time, carried her arm as
if in pain, Mme d’Esperance having burned her arm, previous to the
seance, yet at another time Mme d’Esperance had dislocated her shoulder
and wore a surgical bandage for several days, Yolanda appeared with
both arms uninjured, nor did she exhibit any sign of weakness, for she
lifted a pitcher of water with her right hand, a feat which under the
circumstances would have been impossible for the medium, who supposes
that Yolanda got enough strength and material from the sitters (there
being twenty), while on the other occasion there were but ten.
At a meeting I attended some twenty persons were assembled and
ready to proceed when the medium spoke to the host of the group, and
said that he could not sit as conditions were not right. Thereupon a
number left. I was privately asked to wait, and when only twelve were
left the sitting proceeded, with a single white light at the side of the
room. It transpired that four of those who left had been drinking at a
party, and though the effects were not specially apparent, they were
only looking for amusement and mischief, a most undesirable condition
in which to attempt contact with the other world, both for themselves,
the sitters, and most of all for the medium.
A large clothes-closet in the room had been emptied for use as a
cabinet, and a black curtain hung in front of it. A black cloth, of a rough
texture, was laid on the floor, extending from the back of the cabinet to
eight feet outside. A committee of three, one being myself, was invited
to enter the cabinet. We did so, and caused the medium to remove all
his clothing, stripped him to the skin. He was then seated on a plain
wooden chair, his hands, filled with flour, on his knees ; his feet in a
shallow pan, with half-an-inch of flour under them. I secured all his
clothing, including especially his white shirt and collar, dark tie and
shoes, and took them out into the main room, placing them on a table
in the rear of the sitters. Immediately the committee was called to the
cabinet curtain and greeted, a hand, projected from within, vigorously
striking each one on the shoulder several times, the sound being heard
by all in the room. If this had been the medium his flour-covered hands
would have marked the dark coats of the committee, but examination
showed no sign of flour.
Various phenomena took place, the last item as follows : I was
directed to stand at the end of the black cloth, farthest from the cabinet.
A figure, alleged to be my brother, came close to me out of nowhere in
particular. I did not recognize his features, nor were they those of the
medium. The figure wore a dark suit, white shirt, and collar, and a dark
78 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
red tie. I was then told to follow the figure to the floor as it dematerialized.
This I did, going down on my knees as it went down two feet in front of
me till it vanished, apparently into the black cloth on the floor. I at
once pinned my handkerchief to the vanishing point.
On the conclusion of the seance, measurements showed that the
distance was eight feet from the medium. He would have had to take
several steps to reach that point, but no marks were found on the rough,
black cloth or adjacent floor. On entering the cabinet with the medium’s
clothes he was found as he had been left, with no marks about the cabinet,
the flour in contact with his hands and feet just getting “doughy” from
perspiration, showing continuous contact.
Some years ago, when sitting with a well-known materializing
medium, the late Mrs. E. A. Tomson, in Chicago, I was in a front seat,
able to observe closely. A figure appeared, apparently a guide or teacher,
clothed in long flowing white robes, after the manner of the ancient
Greeks, the bottom of the robe being embellished with a Greek fret or
key pattern, in rich purple-coloured lines. As an architect and C.E. I
was specially interested in this design, frequently used in architecture,
and leaned closer to observe whether it was woven as an integral part
of the fabric, or applied by stitching on the surface.
Imagine my astonishment as I looked to see this 8-inch wide fret
pattern become blurred and foggy, and then as the fogginess faded the
fret pattern had disappeared and in its place was a 5-inch solid band of the
same rich purple colour, the whole thing being in movement, billowing
and undulating as the figure waved its arms.
As I was mentally active and keenly interested, measuring mentally
the width of the border, noting its colour, studying its construction, etc.,
I was not in the proper state for hallucination. The room was bare, save
for the usual cabinet (examined), chairs of the sitters, and red light, usual
on such occasions. The medium had been stripped and examined by a
committee of ladies, clothed in a loose dressing-gown (examined also),
and her hands held by some of the committee until she was seated in the
cabinet.
An old-fashioned “dissolving view,” or a cinema apparatus, might
imitate this on a flat surface, but no such apparatus was in the room, and
even then it could not produce the effect on the constantly undulating
robe border, which would at times be out of focus, as well as fail to
register on the edge, with such an appliance.
Here i? a complete report of a remarkable seance :
On Sunday, October 6th, 1935, I was invited to a private house to
take part in a seance with a visiting medium from Seattle, Washington—
Clarence Britton. The room was an ordinary one in the house, with an
alcove about 4 feet by 6 feet, used as a cabinet. As an architect and
civil engineer, I naturally examined the place, and in addition, the
household cat having located itself under the chair set for the medium,
the whole cabinet was turned topsy-turvy to oust her. The curtains were
pulled aside, the medium’s chair was turned face down, etc., all being
rearranged under my observation. Beside the cabinet curtain there was
a folding card-table, on which was a zither, a small mouth-organ, and a
concertina, the latter tied together with strings and sealed with wax, so
MATERIALIZATION 79
that it could not be operated normally. Previously I sat in the cabinet
about five minutes, in the medium’s chair, with curtains open and also
closed, and inspected all possibilities of operating the articles on the card-
table. I found that the large arm-chair placed the medium forward of
the table, so that if he wished to touch things on it he must sit up straight
and twist himself awkwardly a half turn to the rear. Such a movement
would be heard by me 5 feet away, but I heard no such sounds.
The medium, dressed in a black suit and shirt (no white clothing),
first addressed the small group, stating that he went into complete trance
and did not know what happened, if anything, and when told by people
afterwards, he wondered whether to believe the strange things they related
or not. Also, he could not say if anything would happen, and if nothing
happened no fee would be expected. In case of a successful seance,
five shillings was the moderate fee for each person. Conditions governed,
and the sitters made the conditions. He asked me to tie his hands behind
him, with a bandage of non-slipping material, and another sitter also
took part in the tying. He then sat in a folding chair, temporarily placed
within the opening of the cabinet curtains, his head projecting through,
and asked a lady, seated opposite to him, to come up and lay both hands
on his head. Then he said : “Take firm hold of my coat collar and pull
steadily,” also requesting the group to count slowly. Before 20 was
reached the lady staggered back in the space before the curtain, exclaim­
ing in astonishment : “His coat is off,” as she held it for all to see. The
medium at once came out of the cabinet, coatless, and turned for every­
one to note his hands still firmly tied behind him, and asked me to
release him. This I had some trouble in doing, as he was so firmly tied.
I noticed that his hands were half closed, rigid and cold as marble. This
is not an unusual condition in trance, but I feared that I had drawn the
bandage too tightly, stopping the circulation. No harm ensued, however.
I examined the coat in full light. It was of good serge, well tailored,
and there was no evidence of trick sleeves or other stage “properties.”
The light used was a green light at the back of the room, directed full
on the cabinet and of greater brightness than is usual in materialization,
everyone present being visible. The ordinary light bulb (of which more
later) was removed from the central ceiling fixture, to ensure against the
accidental turning on of a strong light and harming the entranced
medium.
The medium now entered the cabinet and sat in the cabinet chair,
the temporary one having been removed, and during the singing of a
hymn went into complete trance, several voices being heard consulting
within the cabinet.
The curtain being bulged at one side admitting some light, the nearest
lady reached forward to correct this, but a slender, white woman’s hand
slid out from the cabinet and adjusted this, almost touching the hand of
the sitter, who gave a startled cry of surprise.
This slender, white hand was then thrust t h r o u g h t h e f a b r i c o f
t h e c u r t a i n , away from the opening, and moved horizontally back
and forth several times in front of it, the folds of the curtain, clearly
visible, remaining hanging straight down, u n m o v e d , though the hand
moved some 16 inches across the folds.
80 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
See Page 77.' [Photo by Dr. T. Glen Hamilton, Winnipeg, Canada
F igure 1.—MATERIALIZATION
“ Katie King” materialized above the medium, who is in deep trance. Note the temporary
emaciation of medium due to withdrawal of needed ectoplasm. For detail see Figure 2.
F igu re 2.
Enlargement of materialization of “ Katie King” shown in previous picture.
Note the beautiful face, long wavy hair, delicate veiling of ectoplasm and
patches of unorganized ectoplasm not being used.
See page 89.]
Infra-red ray
her mother's
[Photo by E m il Dasing, B.Sc., Chicago
Figure 3.—MATERIALIZATION
photo of medium’s spirit daughter, materialized, and sitting on
lap, after walking round the room and talking to sitters.
Mrs. Musa, medium.
See page 89.] [Photo by Em il Dasing, B .Sc., Chicago
Figure 4 —MATERIALIZATION
Infra-red ray photo of H ypatia, guide to Mr. Dasing.
Mmes Dasing and Musa, mediums,
See page 112.] [Photo by Harry Edwards, Balham Psychic Research Society
F igure 5.
Infra-red ray photo of medium (the late “Jack W ebber") in trum pet seance. Note the
ectoplasm tubes, one from mouth, one from solar plexus of medium to the two trumpets.
Medium tied to chair. Sitters hands held.
See Page 112.] [Photo by Dr. Dunmore, Chicago, III.
F igure 6 —PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPH
Mrs. A rthur J . Wills (affectionately known to her intimates
and to the spirit world as Lady Jane). Top right-hand face.
S e e P age 113.] [ P h o to b y F . N . F o s te r , C hicago
F igure 7.
Mr. Frederick Lentsch's portrait surrounded by psychic pictures of near
relatives (all recognized) and his guide.
See page 113.] [Photo by Edwin Parkinson, Vancouver, B.C.
F igure 8 —PSYCHIC PHOTO.
Two young airmen, killed in the world war of 1914-1918. Parents in group of sitters. Note
double picture, one showing plane in air, with the two peeping over the side; larger picture
of plane grounded with the two men standing by. Very unusual photograph.
Five times during the seance we were told to observe the medium,
the slender white hand drew back the curtains, revealing the medium
sprawled in the chair, apparently in a cataleptic condition, slightly
turned away from the room hands on knees, no change of position or
condition being observable at any of these exposures. The slender white
hands flitting gracefully about the edges of the curtains at the same
time, with gentle touches.
Next, the curtains being closed, the control within requested that the
mouth-organ be held close to the curtain, aside from the opening, when it
vanished apparently through the fabric of the curtain, and an instant later
a tune was heard being whistled within the cabinet, accompanied at the
same time by the music of the mouth organ.
After that the zither was played as it lay on the table outside, no
hands or other means being visible, and the curtain folds, plainly visible,
being unmoved.
On request from the control, the sealed concertina was passed in at
the opening of the curtains and voices consulted, one saying : “ Put it
on the floor till we build up strength.” In a moment it was playing
vigorously. On examination afterwards, I found the strings and seals
unbroken, and the marks noticed on the first inspection also intact.
Next, a well-rendered song was heard in the sweet voice of a young
woman. I noted at this point (being seated about five feet in front of the
cabinet and clearly seeing and hearing every detail) that the medium
was breathing somewhat stertorously, with some apparent difficulty, as if
a rather thick, glu inous fluid obstructed his throat, causing slight gurgling
and choking sounds. The singer continued right on, however, only the
notes being blurred, so to speak, when the momentary paroxysms of
choking occurred to the medium.
One fine-looking man, about six feet high, came in the blue broad­
cloth uniform of a military officer of half a century back, with shoulder-
straps, leather belt and three-inch metal buckle, cap with metal insignia.
He was promptly recognized as a relative by the lady of the house, and
as he disappeared a musket shot was heard within the cabinet, apparently
in the corner near the medium’s feet. Not the sharp crack of modern
smokeless explosive, but the more dull heavy bang of a musket of the
sixties.
Some figures disappeared into the floor and some, as the head vanished
into the floor, held up their hands and waved a farewell as the hands
melted into the floor also.
To me the most striking manifestation was the appearance of Edison,
his well-known face being instantly recognized by everyone present, his
rather long white hair brushed over one side and one unruly lock hanging
over the temple, as was its wont when he bent over his work. He asked
for the electric light bulb which had been removed from the central
fixture, and on receiving it retired into the cabinet, coming out next
instant with the bulb lighted, not, be it noted, uniformly and fully lighted
as is usual via wires, etc., radiating the accustomed yellow-tinctured light
around, but, as he held it by the base at an angle of forty-five degrees,
the strange light appeared only in the lower portion of the bulb. It will
be objected that this was luminous paint, put on the outside ? Not a bit
MATERIALIZATION 81
of it. Luminous paint has its own characteristic greenish-yellow phos­
phorescent colour, with somewhat blurred edges, and is opaque, so to
speak, and would be applied outside.
This was a bright, pellucid, blue-white light distinctly inside of the
sealed bulb. It is difficult to describe, but imagine light as a liquid and that
a tablespoonful of this “liquid” light was poured into the sealed bulb,
gravitating to the lowest level and lighting up only that lowest part with
which it was in contact. Curiously enough, the light varied in intensity,
being much more brilliant at the bottom of the “spoonful” and grading
off towards the surface ofour imaginary “liquid.” Differing from a liquid,
however, in that it did not change the position of its surface plane when
some movement of the bulb occurred, adhering apparently to the bulb
surface where it was originally “materialized.” Its cold, star-like radiance
seemed to travel only a few inches from the bulb, yet its apparent
brightness and intensity would normally illuminate objects several feet
distant.
The seance was wholly unexpected, and close observation at the time,
and notes made immediately thereafter, are the basis of this item.
Some use an ordinary light in the next room, more or less shaded to
avoid direct actinic action. Good results are also obtained in soft moon­
light, which is weak in actinic rays.
The following unexpected, open-air demonstration is of interest :
About three years ago I attended the masonic funeral of a friend.
There were some two hundred brethren present, surrounding the grave,
and for some unknown reason I found myself standing alone about four
feet within the circle. I also became aware that I was standing at the
foot of my wife’s grave, which was within the circle ; the open grave of
the deceased brother being in line with and about twenty feet beyond the
head of her grave. Naturally, I thought deeply of her. During the
beautiful masonic service the W.M. spoke o f: “The severing of a link
here below but binds us more strongly to those above,” when I felt the
distinct pressure of a hand on my left shoulder, which, for about a foot
of area, at the same time became numb for a few moments.
Presently the W.M. again expressed a similar beautiful and inspiring
thought, when I again felt the pressure and numbness. Surprised, I turned
to see who touched me, but no brother had moved or was near enough to
touch me ; all were deeply intent on the service. This, in the bright
sunlight and open air, is rare. Doubtless, there were quite a number in
the double row encircling the grave (gathered together in one place,
with one accord, unified by the common loss) who were psychic without
being aware of it, and provided the great power needed in daylight to
manifest by touch, though not by sight.
Now for the sequel. The next day I visited a medium who knew
nothing of the matter. My wife came and talked to me, and I thanked
her for emphasizing the fine thought of the W.M. by touching me. To
my astonishment, she said : “I did not touch you, my dear ; I was not
there. I do not like that place. I never go there. It was your mother who
touched you. I was with you at home later when you burned the toast,”
and her gentle, amused laugh followed. There was no telepathy here,
for the medium knew nothing of the matter, and the message flatly con-
82 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
tradicted any ideas in my mind, which was naturally filled with the
thought of my wife touching me.
Hence, telepathy and the subconscious will not fit the facts, much less
explain them. Here an independent entity is in evidence with ideas
foreign to those of the persons experiencing the phenomena.
Another shibboleth of the wise ones is exploded also. They allege that
all communications received are trivial and childish, and will no doubt
cite the burned toast as a case in point : that, however, was a singularly
apt and welcome message to me. When my wife was with us, I sometimes
invaded her kitchen and professed to tell her how to cook, and was play­
fully run out of the kitchen at the point (figuratively speaking) of a big
kitchen spoon and sometimes with the remark : “I shall let you do the
cooking yourself some day, and thenyou willfind out.” My failure at such
a simple thing as toasting would naturally give rise to her happy little
laugh and point the moral of the incident.
On another occasion, in spite of unfavourable weather conditions and
only four men present, the usual sitters being kept away by the severe
thunderstorm, we had splendid results. A figure came out of the cabinet,
passed in front of the medium, who was seated five feet outside of the
cabinet, and continued round the circle towards me, bearing a message
on a slate. When it had gone five feet beyond the medium, I said to the
partially entranced medium : “Do you see this figure, Mrs. M., coming
towards me ?” The figure instantly stopped, turned facing the medium,
shuddered and became rigid as a marble statue. The medium, slowly
and with difficulty, said : “Yes, I see it, but when you speak to me you
interfere with the vibrations.” I apologized for interfering and the
medium became silent. In a few seconds the rigid figure again
shuddered, straightened up, faced my way and went on with its purpose
of giving me the slate. We see that the medium, even when not fully
entranced, is under great stress and upon her condition depends the
completeness of the manifestations.
At times this medium would talk to the entities, when conditions were
good, and took as much pleasure in the phenomena as did the sitters.
Strange to say, however, she strongly objected to their touching her and
would tell them to “Go away from me. Don’t touch me,” when some
figure would pretend to touch her in a teasing way, knowing her objection,
and the figure would then turn away from her chuckling merrily at the
little joke. They never actually touched her—except .vlien she was in
complete trance, to heal a toothache.
On June 12th, 1929, my wife passed into the higher life and among
her belongings was a favourite silk scarf, dark maroon colour, twelve
inches wide and six feet long, with embroidered and fringed ends. Some
months later I attended a materializing seance, Mrs. Elizabeth Allen
Tomson, medium. (Incidentally, this lady, like many others, had been
arrested for alleged fraudulent practices ! On one occasion she challenged
the judge, jury and legal lights, to hold a seance in the judge’s chambers,
successfully proving her genuiness as a medium by this impromptu
manifestation.) My wife appeared, but I could not recognize her at
first, until, just as she returned into the cabinet, she threw a kiss to me
and her face was as real and natural as I ever saw it. Next time I took
MATERIALIZATION 83
the silk scarf, putting it in a small hand-bag of hers. On appearing this
time she said : “What have you got for me ?” I gave her the scarf and
the returned to the cabinet coming out smiling in an instant wearing the
scarf around her neck, the ends hanging loosely down, as was her custom.
Turning to the group of sitters she remarked : “I love this scarf, because
it reminds my dear husband of me.” Then she asked : “What’s in your
hand ?” I said : “Your old hand-bag, in which you carried your purse,
pencils, paper, etc.” Taking it she felt around inside of it remarking
thoughtfully : “I don’t need any of those things now.” After she retired
the scarf was found on the floor in the cabinet. A week or so afterwards
I again attended a seance and as I went direct to the meeting place
from downtown Chicago (about eighteen miles from my Riverside home)
I did not have the scarf. When my wife materialized, she seemed to
sense that I had no scarf, for she asked, rather accusingly : “Where’s
my scarf?” I explained that I had not time to go home and get it so
left it behind. Without reply she vanished in the cabinet to come out an
instant later wearing the scarf (or its double) lightly dusted over with ecto­
plasm, and joyously smiling at my amazement. It occurred to me that
this was an apport, so I asked if I could take it home with me. Mis­
chievously shaking her forefinger at me she merrily responded : “You
naughty boy,” and vanished into the cabinet (see page 83).
For about a year I visited this medium, sometimes with, sometimes
without, the scarf, and on the latter occasions she would delight to
mystify me by appearing with the materialized scarf, always dusted with
a thin layer of ectoplasm. Unfortunately this happiness was cut short
by the transition of Mrs. Tomson some time afterwards.
On June 6th, 1933, near the anniversary of my wife’s passing
(materializing seance with Mrs. Charlotte Birkner), I took the scarf, to
see if the above experience would be repeated. My wife appeared,
draped the scarf around her neck, as usual, and disappeared into the
cabinet. When the meeting closed no scarf was to be found anywhere.
Nor did I again see it until I found it in the clothes closet next to my bed
at home four years later, again within a few days of the anniversary of her
passing, June 8th, 1937. She calls it her “birthday” into spirit life.
In the interval, at an independent voice seance at Mrs. Birkner’s, I
had been told that the spirit people would endeavour to put the scarf
back in my room if I would sit several times a week, using the clothes
closet near my bed as a cabinet. This I did, but nothing happened. Later,
again at Mrs. Birkner’s, my child guide said : “Why don’t you clean up
your room ?” I told him I would, thinking that he referred to my
untidy desk. On June 8th, 1937, my son asked me to look for something
mislaid, that might have been put in the closet. Searching for this article
I found the missing scarf on the floor, against a portrait painting of my
wife (which had been discarded as unsatisfactory). The scarf was as
perfect as ever, except for a few loose threads of silk.
It is curious to note that four years after she passed away the scarf
disappeared and four years later was returned, each time close to her anni­
versary. This medium, not being very strong, rarely held meetings, but
my little guide told me to look in the closet for it a week before it was
found. He said they were trying to bring it back to me at home.
84 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
During the intervening four years I found another fine materializing
medium, Minnie Reichert Pederson (also falsely alleged to be a fraud,
as the following will show). The scarf having disappeared, I expected
my wife to come without it, but was dumbfounded when she appeared
wearing the double of the missing scarf with the ectoplasmic dusting and
smiling happily at my bewilderment.
I visited this medium a score of times, with the same result, witnessed
by perhaps one hundred and fifty people at various times. This has also
occurred since the scarf was returned to me. The most marvellous and
inexplicable manifestation occurred November, 1938. At this seance
(Mrs. Pederson, medium) my wife appeared without the scarf. It suddenly
occurred to me to say : “You forgot your scarf,” when she appeared to
be confused and embarrassed, and, looking down where the scarf would
have been, she began with nervous haste to stroke her hands down as if
feeling for it, and, to the amazement of the sitters, there appeared at each
stroke a dark maroon streak three inches wide, but she was receding into
the cabinet and vanished when the scarf was about three-quarters
materialized. I was so petrified at this unthought of and instantaneous
marvel that I had not presence of mind enough to ask her to stay outside
of the cabinet and let us see its completion.
There can be no question of fraud here, for the thought came to me
on the instant to refer to the scarf, rather as a playful joke, and
the materializing of it piecemeal before our eyes was instantaneous and
unpremeditated.
On the same occasion one of my guides materialized unexpectedly.
He is very tall, about six feet. The medium is about five feet seven inches.
He is sinewy and lean, the medium is well built. His skin was burned
red with the sun, the medium is very fair skinned. He has dark, piercing
eyes, the medium’s are blue and mild. He was in no way like the
medium, who never before heard of him.
Typical of alleged exposures re this medium, one reporter alleged that
the medium knelt within the cabinet, and came out on her knees, posing
as the reporter’s mother, who was described as a slight woman o f; bout
one h ndred po, nds. Now the medium is a well-built woman. I doubt if
she could get down on her knees without assistance in the first place. Ifshe
did, and so remained during a two-hour seance, the knees would become
so stiffened and the muscles so strained that it would take a couple of
men to lift her again, and walking would be out of the question for days.
Yet the medium walked about immediately afterwards. Evidently this
irresponsible reporter was making up a “good (?) story” to sell to some
gullible editor and fool the public, for a price.
I was present at an excellent materializing seance by moonlight
(Mrs. Elizabeth Tomson, medium). The room was brightly lighted by
the moonbeams ; I sat second from the side of the cabinet (curtains as
usual) next to the wall. In the course of the demonstration a figure came
out of the centre opening of the curtains and went six or seven feet out to
the middle of the row of sitters. While this went on another figure pulled
the curtain aside from the wall and came partly out to talk to his mother
sitting beside me. This was a young man in uniform, who was killed in
the war 1914-18, and he was holding his national flag in one hand as
MATERIALIZATION 85
the other held the curtain from the wall, so that he could talk to his
mother. Being next to her, this was very clear to me by the bright moon­
light, and at the same time I had seen the other figure go out of the centre
opening to the middle of the row of sitters and also saw that figure go
back again, as the young soldier bade adieu to his mother and dropped the
curtain.
At a seance a Hindoo came out of the cabinet to a doctor-friend of
mine sitting by me. He went up and walked about the space before
the cabinet with the figure. On returning he said : “That is strange.
His clothing was dripping wet as if he had just come out of a tropical
storm.” A few minutes later his sister came and he walked with her.
Again he said : “How strange, her clothes were perfectly dry.”
Some years ago in a materializing seance with a medium, Mrs. Eva
Middleton Higgins, who sat some five feet outside of the cabinet on the
left, the circle, extending to the cabinet on the right, ended with a man
next to the cabinet who was developing as a physical medium. I sat
next to him and several times saw, close up, his wife, who had passed on
a few weeks before. Then on a later occasion he was absent, and his chair
was left vacant between me and the cabinet. He intended to come, but
changed his mind, we learned afterwards.
His wife came out, and stood close to me. In the red light I could
plainly see the white-clothed medium sitting in her chair, some eight feet
beyond. The figure was about three feet from me, clearly visible, so
that I could examine her in detail for quite a time. Now, the medium
was short, stout, pale complexion, about forty to forty-five years of age.
This figure was markedly different, being slender with the softly rounded
features of youth (about twenty or twenty-one years, I would judge),
smooth skin, healthy, lovely olive complexion, finely modelled brow and
delicately chiselled nose—a very beautiful young woman.
Though she seemed to look at the vacant chair beside me, which her
husband usually occupied, to which she pointed, saying several times :
“He’s gone,” yet she had no eyes, only empty sockets, and no teeth or
tongue, which last accounted for the hissing whisper as she spoke. The
right side of the mouth was apparently scarred as from a burn, and the
skin tapered off into filmy ectoplasm, like that of the enveloping robe,
and a pad of unorganized ectoplasm was attached to that side of the chin,
looking like a bit of surgical cotton. The part of the hair visible was
fine and dark, ifferent from the medium’s hair.
I was too interested in the unusual opportunity of studying this
remarkable manifestation at close hand to reply to her question. Presently
someone in the circle said : “Yes, he is not here to-night.” The figure
said : “Oh !” and slowly receded into the cabinet.
Thus far the cold-blooded, scientific observation of the physical side
of the phenomenon. But there is more than the mere mechanics of
orthodox science. The very essence of the matter lies elsewhere. Words
cannot convey the feeling injected into that brief monosyllable “Oh !”
and the deep sigh accompanying it. The anguish of disappointment and
grief expressed was simply heart-rending.
At the time we could not account for it, but later learned that the
young man was absent in company with another woman, whom he
86 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
married a few weeks later. It may be that, contacting the absent one,
via the accustomed vacant chair, the returned wife, by some psychic
process, became aware of the reason for the husband’s absence and of the
impending marriage and was overwhelmed to find herself so soon for­
gotten. There is more than mere intelligence here. There is a profound
depth of the human feeling of an independent entity, having its own
standards, reactions and values and capable of its own individual
experiences. Physical science ignores these higher factors of being.
Seven years later, again visiting the city of Iowa, I took pains to follow
up this case and found that the marriage had turned out badly. The
heart-rending grief of the returning first wife may therefore have been due
to previsioning the unhappiness that would follow for her loved one, and
not grief at being herself so soon forgotten. This is of striking interest and
seems to open up another aspect of our relationships with those who have
progressed higher in the scale of being than the physical.
At a materialization, medium five feet outside of the cabinet, a figure
came out of the side of the empty cabinet and stood beside the medium,
saying : “See, see,” to make us note both medium and spirit-form
together. Another time a trumpet was laid on my extended arms and,
while talking, a golden beam shone out of the empty cabinet and took
the trumpet at the small end, withdrawing trumpet and all through the
curtain material, not the usual opening. This dematerialization was plainly
visible to all. Trumpet was later brought out by a form and used.
I keep my bedroom pitch dai k and have a habit of awakening from
3 to 4 a.m., which is a usual time for me to get, at rare intervals, some
wonderful manifestations. Once, in particular, my wife appeared and
kissed me (the touch as gentle as a rose petal) and I saw (by the luminous,
silky, gauze-like cloud surrounding her, white as snow and with a beauti­
ful sheen of its own) that columns of mist, about the size of an average
person, were arranged in a circle around my bed with two- to three-feet
intervals of space between. Evidently a psychic circle was being held by
those on the other side to enable my wife to manifest so splendidly.
One morning I awoke 3 a.m. ; saw blue-white mist near closet I use
as a cabinet, and I asked my wife if she had come to me as promised.
Suddenly a white robe was thrown across my right shoulder (away from
cabinet). It was self-luminous, room pitch dark. I turned to see better
and the white robe was flicked away. The robe was bright, like moonlight
••rith a golden tinge. At a later seance she asked if I had seen anything.
I said : “Yes, a bright, luminous mist.” She said that it was her at home.
In January, 1925, two of the crew of the tank ship Watertown died and
•■•.ere buried at sea in the Pacific. It was reported that the pair (Jas. T.
Courtney and Michael Meehan) were following the ship. Soon all on
bcard declared that they saw the apparition—-just above the catwalk,
where the bodies had been lowered into the sea. Then Captain Keith
Tracy exposed a six-film roll. Five ofthe photos revealed nothing unusual.
The sixth showed aface just over the catwalk floor, the pale features being
easily identified as Meehan’s.
Sir. S. Searle, a noted psychic investigator, writes :
T h e success ackeived by Sir W illiam Crookes set me to thinking and longing to try m y hand at
^cecsEra^hing a m aterialized form. W hen the opportunity occurred, I arranged for a visit of Mrs.
I-:—~r rierence Cook) and through her kindness and generosity she w illingly consented to give me a
MATERIALIZATION 87
chance. A t seances during the week I had some conversation w ith ‘Marie’ and she prom ised to do her
best to gratify my am bition. The photograph speaks for itself.
“ W hen I photographed ‘M arie’ on the Sunday evening, I prepared m y two cameras, a ten-by-eight
and a half-plate, getting everything in readiness and carrying out the whole experim ent w ithout any
assistance.
“ A ltogether I exposed six plates : th a t is, one in each camera three times. F irst exposure ‘Marie’
alone, very good ; second exposure, ‘M arie’ and frie n d ; third, not satisfactory, for the form seemed as
if it were dem aterializing.
“ Focusing the cameras I had done by the aid of th e gas-light beforehand. W hen all was ready
the gas was turned off sufficiently to leave the room in sem i-darkness, but enough to be seen clearly. For
the exposure I used m y powerful flashlight lam p. The light for exposing was very brilliant and for a
w hile I was quite blinded from its effects, but im m ediately proceeded to close my lenses and slides.
“ I had to feel my way so as not to disturb the cameras. Judge m y surprise when I found ‘M arie’
had walked across the room, placed her hand on m y shoulder, and spoke these words ‘Mind the camera
legs,’ thus proving th a t while I was blinded, she could see”
The Rev. Jas. J. Dickson, of San Francisco, is a somewhat different
medium. The forms that appear are perfectly visible, but not solid. If
one attempts to touch them, the hand passes through them, but they are
brilliantly illuminated, and one distinctly sees the folds of the drapery in
which they are clothed. The forms often appear in colour, and the jewels
they wear are distinct and colourful.
Mr. Frank Speaight writes :
“ W hile I was talking to him (apparently in th e norm al state) two forms appeared, in full light, the
faces very clear. In recent seances, the cabinet is a curtain across the corner of the room, with two bare
walls behind it. The light is a w hite electric light, w ith a gauze top, reflecting the light to the ceiling
giving a diffused light, and the chair I sat in not more than four feet from the cabinet. Mr. Dickson entered,
the door was locked, and we were alone. He took his seat, dropped the curtain and apparently fell asleep.
There was no heavy breathing—not a sound. A fter a few seconds the clear voice of his guide rang out.
I t was a m ature woman’s voice, powerful and distinct. She is ‘Minnie Brown,’ and said she had been with
the medium all his life, and would continue w ith him till he joined them on the ‘other side.’ Then she
appeared, she was about four feet in height. She said she always likes to appear as she was when she
left the earth, ninety years ago. She is a Virginian of the old colonial days.”
When this book was partly written, I had hoped to obtain some
instructive infra-red photos to use. In September (1939), at a stance, I
expressed regret at not succeeding, and my wife told me : “Do not worry,
you will get more than you expect before you finish the book.” In October
I mentioned to my friend, Mr. Emil Dasing, that I was experimenting
with infra-red and he expressed great interest and invited me to meet
Mrs. S. Musa, a fine materializing medium, of whom I had never heard
till then. In November the infra-red apparatus was set up in Mr.
Dasing’s home and the medium agreed to permit photos to be taken and
made no restrictions, being a powerful physical medium and relying on
our experience and carefulness. Usually no cabinet is used by this
medium, and a subdued red light was used, enabling everything and
person present to be seen the whole time. The infra-red light—1500 watts—
consisted of six infra-red lamps, enclosed in a housing, the front having
Wratten No. 87 infra-red screens ; distance nine feet from the medium,
the two f2-5-lens cameras at the same distance ; one-second exposure.
The ectoplasm evolved in wisps some two to four feet from the
medium, gradually forming a column. The colour was a luminescent
golden tint. Presently the medium’s daughter in spirit (who is her
opener-of-the-door—preparing her for the manifestations) materialized
in the column of ectoplasm. She had previously been talking in inde­
pendent voice and now came over to the cameras, eagerly interested as a
child naturally would be in “those funny boxes” (the cameras), and asked
various questions about what was going on. Then she asked us to take
her picture as she stood two feet in front of the cameras and was greatly
disappointed when it was explained that she was out of focus and must
88 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
zo further back. She retired and sat on her mother’s knee, looking up
into her face. We then took the photo shown, Fig. 3.
As soon as the full glare of the 1500-watts infra-red light was turned
:n the golden-tinted ectoplasm became the purest white, intensified by a
slight bluish tinge and still luminescent and seemingly as rigid as a block
: marble, suggesting an iceberg under bright, cold sunlight. The second
of exposure rime was too short to study this remarkable fact. Other
materialized figures came out, but the above was the best of the group,
though the features are not distinct.
On this occasion we also had trumpet and independent voices,
together with apports of flowers, a yellow rose being my gift (see page
93 . The house was locked up back and front, and the room closed
ir:m the rest of the house in which there were no flowers previously.
Ever.- :ne was visible all the time, except during the moment of apporting
the flowers.
After this we were informed by the guides that we should have no
more photos for some time. It was January, 1940, when the next
: t t rramity was given us. We had been informed that the spirits would
use Mrs. Dasing (who is being developed as a physical medium) as the
rmncipal, and Airs. Musa was to stand by and take care of her. The
:mmera was focused at a point about two feet in front of the corner of
the rc am, the comer walls being hung with black cloth giving a contrast-
ins : ackground. The two mediums were seated together four feet from
this ::mer. The usual subdued red light was used throughout and
every one was plainly visible all the time, the two mediums talking and
enjoying the manifestations, except when photos were actually being
mktr.. when they were silent, possibly because of the extra drain on their
vitality.
S:me twenty pictures were taken, of more or less value, Fig. 4 being
the best one. This was Flypatia, so she informed us, a guide of Mr. Emil
Eating, our host and collaborator. No photo of her is available to check
mis, but the distinctive features of this fine face are quite different from
that of the mediums and also different from the five sitters. The same
characteristic wavering wisps of lumin scent, gold tinted ectoplasm
materialized into a column, four feet from the mediums and solidified
m :: a beautiful white, blue-tinted, luminescent form during the second
:: met-:rare to the infra-red ray and at the instant the light was turned off,
reserved again into the golden-tinted cloud of ectoplasm, which was
~~a v absorbed back into the mediums’ bodies.
Many of the figures that were photographed, including Hypatia,
.: : : : ; d c d us and curiously examined the cameras, etc., asking
m:til:gent questions, though, evidently, the whole process was new to
them. :ne or two suggesting good ideas. The mediums were plainly
viable, a: the other end of the room, during these discussions with the
materialized persons.
Thus my wife’s assurance in September, 1939, that I should get some
g:-:c and unusual pictures in time to put them in this book was realized.
MATERIALIZATION 89
F
Chapter 9
APPORTS AND LEVITATION
“Discovery of truth requires an independence of thought, originality ;
the savant withdrawsfrom the usual custom of the time and concentrates
alone, pursuing his own ideas. Hefeels the emotion ofjoy in a new dis­
covery or a new revelation
"PORTS are objects brought from one place to another. It may be
through walls or apparently through impenetrable matter. During
the last century many such phenomena are reported to have
occurred under strict test conditions by people of standing. But so few
have occurred under strict test conditions that the matter is generally
held open for further proof. While seemingly contradictory to accepted
scientific ideas and experiences, more recent discoveries in general science
are showing that these phenomena are not contradictory after all.
Some theories to account for them are based on the modern hypothesis
of the fourth dimension, also disintegration (or dematerialization) and
re-integration of the apported objects. The first explanation was suggested
by Zollner and approved by Lombroso, Flammarion, Whately Smith and
Malcolm Bird. It means that there is a higher form (or condition) of
space of which we know nothing as yet. The objects to be apported are
transferred into this dimension, brought to the desired spot and then
precipitated back into our three dimensional space ; as we may imagine,
beings in a two-dimensional space would experience the disappearance
of some object raised above the plane of their two dimensions of length
and breadth only, into the third dimension of height, of which they were
not conscious. To them this would be a mysterious apport.
According to the second explanation, spirits, by an act of will power,
disintegrate (or dematerialize) the object to be apported into its molecular
elements without altering the form. In this state the object may pass
through the interstices of intervening matter and become re-integrated
by a second act of will power.
This was agreed upon as the method followed when I inquired of a
spirit-person during a manifestation and we were also informed that
spirits, as we do, take the line of least resistance and if it is easier to dis­
integrate a hole in the intervening wall or obstructing matter, they do
this in preference to working on the object to be apported—as where a
living thing is to be apported. This seems eminently reasonable. The
theory means that there is another, to us unknown, aggregation of matter
(etheric), beyond the physical solid, liquid and gaseous states, to which
90
we are accustomed, a fluidic, fourth state in which matter (as we know it)
disappears from the range of the visible spectrum, becomes impalpable,
ar.d possessing, conjointly with an expansion of volume, great molecular
malleability (the quality of being shaped). It appears to be a state of
inertia and requires strong thermo-dynamic efforts on part of the operators
to effect the return to the solid state.
If the disintegration theory is correct, in consonance with the law of
transmutation of energy, a thermic reaction should be expected. This
appears to be the case. Stones and metallic apports, especially bigger
objects, are burning or scorching hot on arrival. Some objects are cold,
however, and the disintegration of a hole in the wall or obstruction as
indicated above is thus reasonable.
Some spirit-operators do not claim to dematerialize the apport.
They say a fissure or crack or opening is needed for the object to pass
Trough. Dr. Ochorowitz received this explanation through a medium.
I: is significant that the apport of a key was described by the medium as
; rmething long and whitish. It did not become a key with its character­
istic colour and shape until it dropped. She also stated, in trance, that
metals become hot because of the friction of the particles in contracting
agim to solid form. In darkness an apport can be accomplished without
dematerialization if the passage is free. This type is distinguished as
Transportation. In such cases the spirit-hand holding the object must
be materialized. In the light, dematerialization is usually necessary.
On July 28th, 1928, Prof. Ernesto Bozzano reports a seance at Mille-
simo Castle, Italy, during which a small silver box, which had been
stilen, was restored as an apport.1 A metallic body was heard to fall
into the large end of the trumpet, which then approached Prof. Bozzano
2nd the apport was deposited in his lap. The Professor states that it was
a small, round metallic box and that it was hot. He passed it round to
the titters. A lady opened it and inside she found some small, mint
tenges, which were extremely hot. She recognized the apport as a
stolen silver box. The two mediums complained of the excessive amount
ofpower, which was being drawn from their bodies during the occurrence.
Experience proves that greater amounts of energy are used up, the greater
the distance of the object to be apported.
Apports are often noted in Poltergeist cases, when stones may be
thrown through a window without breaking the glass. S.P.R. Journal,
Vti. :2, reports the case of Mr. Grottendieck describing stones passing
through the roof of his hut in the Sumatra Jungle, without making a hole.
Tot;, were so hot that he at first believed them to be meteorites.
dime time ago I sat in a private circle with an unpaid medium. In
the centre, on a small table, was a vase containing a dozen dark red
roses. A special light fixture over the roses threw a blue light on them,
--hen the other lights were out, making them look nearly white, clearly
_
_ minuting them and enabling all in the room to be clearly seen. About
d ; minutes after the circle opened the roses were seen to slowly rise out
is the vase about four inches, the longer part of the stems still in the
*i : A few quick jerks occurred. An unseen force was evidently trying
ti draw out one rose, but the thorns, which naturally hooked into the
1Modern Psychic Mysteries. Gwendolen H ack.
APPORTS AND LEVITATION 91
other tangled stems, hindered this. (Several persons had passed between
the medium and the roses after she was seated.) Suddenly, with a
stronger jerk, the selected rose was lifted clear and moved horizontally
over towards the medium, but when it had gone about three feet (the
medium being six feet away) the power seemed to fail and the rose dropped
to the floor. At that instant the medium doubled up with a cry that she
had a sudden sharp pain in her stomach (solar plexus ?) and that she was
weak and trembling from shock. Sitting next to her I could see that this
was the case and the effect did not pass entirely away until some time after
the circle was closed.
Rarely the arrival of apports can be seen. I have a photograph of
five grapes, sent to me by a very reliable friend, who writes : “I saw
these, by means of a good blue light, come through the wall as I watched,
and drop upon the table.”
It speaks for the previous preparation of apports that Mrs. Barkel, a
medium, saw in the room of the British College of Psychic Science (1926),
in which Heinrich Melzer was to hold a seance, the shadow of a bunch of
violets near the light fixture. At the seance that evening a quantity of
violets did indeed appear.
Stainton Moses records, 1872 :
“ In the dining-room there was a sm all bell. W e heard it commence to ring, and could trace its
m ovem ents by the sound as it approached the door which separated it from us. W hat was our astonish­
m ent when we found that, in spite of the closed door, the sound drew nearer to us. It was evidently now
w ithin the room in which we sat, for the bell was carried round the room, ringing loudly the whole tim e.
A fter com pleting the circuit of the room, it was brought down, passed under the table, coming up close
to m y elbow. I t was finally placed on the table.”
One must suppose that in this case a hole must have been dematerialized
through the door, to open a free passage to the bell. Naturally, the dis­
integration should not be conceived in the same sense as atomic disin­
tegration is considered. Otherwise we should have to ask : “What
becomes of the enormous quantity of energy which must be liberated ?
How is it prevented from being dissipated and how is it collected again and
recondensed into matter ?” Whately Smith can see only one way out, to
suppose that, in some mysterious manner, the liberated energy is stored
in a reservoir, so to speak, which is not situated in our space at all. This
leads him back to the fourth dimensional theory. The speculation cannot
be easily dismissed, as we know little about the actual process of
dematerialization and recondensation. The spirit-operators sometimes
speak of the difficulties they have to overcome.
“ I w anted to bring you a photograph in its fram e w ith the glass, b u t I cannot manage it. I will
bring it to you w ithout the glass,” says Cristo d’Angelo, in a stance, July, 1928, at Millesimo. Another
}ime a large ivy plant, about 1 m etre 50 centim etres in height, was apported in three parts. F irst came
th e earth, then the plant w ith clods sticking to it, and finally the pot.
That preparation in advance is often necessary seems to be suggested
by similar experiences in Mme d’Esperance’s mediumship. On instruc­
tions from Yolanda, her control, white sand and plenty of water were
always held in readiness in the cabinet. On August 4th, 1880, in the
presence of William Oxley, of Manchester, she directed Mr. Reimers to
pour sand into a long-necked water-bottle which he did until it was about
half-full. Then he was instructed to pour in water. Yolanda then took
it, placed it on the floor, covering it lightly with the drapery which she
92 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
took from her shoulders (ectoplasmic). The circle was directed to sing and
-•■
.-hile the singing was in progress they observed the drapery to be rising
from the rim of the bottle. Yolanda several times came out of the cabinet
to examine the thing growing under the drapery. Finally she raised the
drapery altogether and disclosed a perfect plant, its roots firmly grown and
■sacked in the sand. She presented it to Oxley. Through raps instructions
•
••.ere given not to discuss the matter, but to sing something and be quiet.
They obeyed. More raps told them to examine the plant again. To
'.heir great surprise they observed a large circular head of bloom, forming
a flower fully five inches in diameter, which had opened itself, while the
plant stood on the floor at Oxley’s feet. The plant was twenty-two
inches high with a thick woody stem, which filled the neck of the bottle.
11 had twenty-nine leaves, each smooth and glossy. It was impossible
to remove the plant from the water-bottle, the neck being too small to
allow the roots to pass ; indeed, the comparatively slender stem entirely
filled the opening. The plant was a native of India, an “Ixoria Crocata.”
It had some years’ growth.
‘We could see where other leaves had grown and fallen off, and w ound m arks, which seemed to have
ia d grown over long ago. B ut there was every evidence to show th a t the plant had grown in the
sa a i in the bottle, as its roots were naturally tw isted round the inner surface of the glass, all the fibres
and unbroken as though they had germ inated on the spot and had apparently never been disturbed.”
in e plant was photographed and lived three m onths and then shrivelled up.
Striking experiments were carried out at the British College of Psychic
Silence in 1929, with T. Lynn. He was searched, stripped and put in a
: i p Many small articles, a cheap pearl necklace, a reel of cotton, a
b _::on, a shell and a screwnail were apported and photographed at the
m intent of their arrival. During the sitting the medium lost ten to twelve
ounces in weight. The objects grew out of the body of the medium.
The same phenomena has been reported upon by Prof. Karl Blacker of
Riga University, with the medium D. X.
In apports by transportation a small crevice or opening is required
and we learn that the apported article is brought through this opening.
In one case (Mrs. Tomson) the upper sash of the window was opened
- ■
1 inches for this purpose. A vase was examined and found perfectly
it*.' and placed in the cabinet. The medium then entered it, the curtains
ere drawn and lights put out for a few seconds, when we were told to
'i n on the lights and open the cabinet. A beautiful bouquet of various
irwers was found in the vase, dripping wet. These flowers were dis-
rrlb .ird to those present, and on the conductor asking what flower he
should give to me he was told “a rose.” Asked what colour rose, the
esw
ct was, “a yellow rose.” But what was my surprise on receiving the
fi : rr and, naturally, smelling it, to find that it smelled strongly of camphor,
and. a: the close of the seance, again smelling it, there was no perfume at
a Iis texture, colour and form, however, were perfectly normal. Why
fie strong smell of camphor ? and what became of the natural perfume
*c the rose ? and the camphor ? Both camphor and rose are lingering
odours.
This yellow rose conveyed to me a message, reminding me of the last
—at tribute I was privileged to pay to my wife, as she lay in her casket
:n aa-r day of her funeral. I plucked the only rosebud on a bush in the
arid placed it on her breast. If it had been left on the bush, it
APPORTS AND LEVITATION 93
would have opened late in the day or on the next day. It actually opened
in an hour, as it lay on the cold body, and it wasyellow.
When in Winnipeg, Manitoba, 1938, I visited a spiritualist church,
and on the rostrum was a large bouquet of various flowers (not apported).
The medium (Mrs. Northmore) at the end of the service, passed round the
room, giving flowers to people present, without looking to see who the
persons were. To me came a yellow rose.
In January, 1939, at a seance at Mr. Dasing’s home with Mrs. Musa
(medium), Chicago, when infra-red photographs were being taken, flowers
were also apported into the room and dropped at the feet of those present.
To me came &yellow rose.
In February, 1940, Chicago, at a spiritualist church, various flowers
(not apported) were on the rostrum. When distributed to those present,
I received a yellow rose.
In May, 1940, at a seance with Mrs. Musa, at a private house, a
dozen corn-flowers were apported to a gentleman who had that day been
planting some corn in his garden, there were also many sweet peas, daisies,
etc., for others and a yellow rose (the only one) to me. Our host, Mr.
Dasing, assured me that there were no flowers in the house at that time.
Another time (Mrs. E. A. Tomson, medium), when a heavy rain was
falling outside, a jonquil, its leaves, roots and a piece ofwire grass growing
close to it and whose roots were entwined with it, were dropped on the
table in the dark. When the lights were turned on, wet earth was revealed
clinging to the roots, raindrops on the leaves and in the “cup” of the
flower and the fork of the glass blades at the junction of the stem, just
as if it had been that instant hastily torn up by the roots from the neglected
garden outside and dropped on the table. All doors and windows were
locked. The rain drops, still clinging precariously to the flower and grass
indicated some unknown way of transporting them. Normally they
would have been shaken off.
Prof. Bozzano gives this striking instance of an incomplete apport,
due to failing psychic power during a seance :
“ In March 1904, in a sitting in the house of Cavaliere Peretti, the m edium, an intim ate friend of
ours, I begged the com m unicating spirit to bring me a sm all block of pyrites, which was lying on my w riting
table, about a mile away. The spirit replied (through the entranced medium) that the power was alm ost
exhausted, but th a t all the sam e he would make the attem pt. Soon after the medium sustained the usual
tw itchings, which signified the arrival of an apport, but w ithout hearing the fall of any object on the table
or the floor. We asked for an explanation from the spirit operator who informed us that, although he
had managed to disintegrate a portion of the object desired and had brought it into the room, there was
not enough strength to enable him to re-integrate it. He added : ‘Light the light.’ We did so and found,
to our great surprise, th a t the table, clothes and hair of the sitters, as well as the furniture and carpet
of the room, were covered with the thinnest layer of brilliant, impalpable pyrites. W hen I returned home
after the sitting I found the little block of pyrites lying on my w riting table, from which was missing a
large fragment, about one-third of the whole, this having been scooped out of the block.”
Apports in the light are peculiar, in that they do not appear before
the eye, but wait until the attention is, for a moment, diverted.
The arrival in our circle of a priestess of Isis is usually preceded by a
strange incense-like perfume, which she informed us was used in their
ceremonies.
94 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
Levitation and T ransportation
Levitation, the movement of objects and (more rarely) of persons by
other than normal means. In experiments with Eusapia Palladino, the
investigators noted several times that she would put out her hand and
move the object on the table, and of course decided that she was a fraud,
but one of them said : “Perhaps our method is wrong. Let us try con­
trolling her hands and feet so that she cannot use them.” This being acted
up-on, the entranced medium struggled and groaned for a moment and
then completely relaxed. This was the proper condition for phenomena,
and the psychic arm, or lever was then formed and projected from the
medium's solar plexus and moved the object. The medium was genuine,
in spite of previous appearances due to wrong methods. Palladino
sometimes remarked that the sitters were responsibleforfraud, as they came
:o the seance with mindsfilled with idea of fraud, thinking fraud, expecting
r t ud and the whole atmosphere was filled with the “aura” of fraud, and
in her state of trance, supersensitive to influences around her, she was
unconsciously affected to do tricks, as was indeed sometimes desired by
fanatical obscurantists. Her remark is instructive and indicates the
-am of investigating the investigator before relying on his statements. Not
every one is fitted for this work, and great qualifications in other lines are
ait necessarily criteria of qualifications in this line of research.
Transportation of human bodies over a considerable distance or
through closed doors is comparatively rare, but a well-authenticated fact.
I: is a composite phenomena between levitation and apports. It is by
e : means new, the history ofvarious peoples often record such occurrences.
Izrkiel xi, 1 : “ Moreover the spirit lifted me up, and brought me to
the East gate of the Lord’s house, which looketh eastward.” When
Philip baptized the Ethiopian : “. . . and when they were come up out
: the water, the spirit of the Lord caught away Philip that the eunuch
saw him no more. . . . But Philip was found at Azotus,” the distance
between Gaza, the scene of the baptism, and Azotus is thirty miles.
A remarkable example of levitation is related in connection with the
awakening of Lazarus from a cataleptic trance, after being (supposedly)
"1 ad” for four days. John xi, 43 : “ . . . he cried with a loud voice :
Lazarus, come forth.' ” Verse 44 : “And he that was ‘dead’ (?) came
fzrzh. bound hand andfoot with graveclothes and his face was bound about
with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them : ‘Loose him and let him go.’ ”
Since Lazarus was lying, bound hand and foot, unable to move, his
see covered so that he could not see, and appeared in the doorway of the
b a rock cave, the tomb of that locality, verse 38), he was evidently
_m.:z.vi from his resting-place within to the doorway, by the psychic
::r:r :-f the medium, Jesus. Such manifestations, levitation of persons,
-ztn they occur to-day (as they occasionally do) are an immense drain
:c. the physical resources of the medium, as well as on his psychic force,
izc we read, Verse 33 : “Jesus groaned in spirit,” and verse 38 : “Jesus
therefore again groaning in himself, cometh to the grave.” Powerful
•
•
■
.ere being drawn from him to accomplish the levitation, plus
the resuscitation of the cataleptic Lazarus.
Prof. Haraldur Neilsson, in an account of experiences with an Ice-
arc x medium says :
APPORTS AND LEVITATION 95
• several occasions we had the experience of m atter being brought through m atter, and one
rise medium herself was taken through the wall into a room th a t was locked and in darkness.
_ :_z= bzet-Zsi incredible, but m any things occur in the presence of physical mediums which m ust seem
u k t : m mm. who have not themselves investigated them . B ut they are nevertheless true.”
Prof. Bozzano makes a report, attested by ten witnesses, of a case in
1928 : 1
D uring the course of the sitting Marquis Centurione Scotti, the medium , exclaim ed, in a frightened
voice : “ I can no longer feel my legs.” The gramophone was stopped, an interval of deep silence followed.
The medium was addressed w ithout any answer, then felt for. His place was em pty. They turned on
th e lights. The doors were still securely locked, but the medium had disappeared. All the rooms of the
castle were searched w ithout result. Two and a half hours passed when they tried to get into com muni­
cation w ith the spirit-guide of another medium by autom atic writing. They were told : “ Do not be
anxious, we are w atching and guarding him ,” and “ the medium is asleep.” L ater they got : “ Go to the
right, then outside of wall and gate. He is lying on hay, on soft place.” The place indicated was a granary
in the stable yard. The great entrance door was locked and the key was not in the lock. They fetched
ft and entering found a small door previously overlooked. This was also locked, the key being on the
outside. They opened it carefully and on a heap of hay and oats found the medium lying comfortably asleep,
W hen awakened and finding himself lying in the stable he feared th a t he was out of his mind and burst
into tears. This occurrence was unexpectedly confirmed through a m edium in New York, a m onth before
it was published in Ita ly or elsewhere. The medium described his impressions as follows : “ At this
instant I could not feel m y legs any more, having the impression of going into trance. I asked Fabienne
for her hand, which 1 took eagerly to reassure myself. A fter having taken the hand I felt something
descending over my brain and f ;e— and felt myself light— light—b u t of such a lightness— I felt myself
as if fainting and I—then I reu .il nothing more—nothing.”
Miss Kohn, Lecturer at Bombay University, notes the following :
At 9.45 a.m. on April 23rd, her sister writes : “ The boy, Ram chrishna Bapat, suddenly m aterialized
in front of me In your doorway like a rubber ball. He looked bright, but am azed, and said : ‘ 1 have just
come from K arjat.’ He didn’t come through any door. The posture of the boy was most rem arkable.
W hen she looked up from her w riting she saw him bending over ; both his arm s were hanging down
aw ay from his side and the ands hanging lim p— his feet were not touching the floor, as she saw a distinct
space between his feet and the threshold. It was precisely the posture of a person who has been gripped
round the waist and lifted a d therelore makes no effort, but is gently dropped at his destination.” This
account is unusual as in no other records was the actual arrival of the transported m an seen.
I have personally experienced the return of a paper, which had been
removed by supernormal means. On that day I was alone at home and
had written an article of several pages, arranged them in order, title page
on top, for correction, and was called to the front door by a pedlar, being
away about three minutes. When I returned and took up the article I
found the title page gone. There was no draught to blow it away, nor
could I find it by close searching. I recalled that a little guide of mine,
Davy, full of innocent mischief had said he would play some tricks on
me to prove his presence. Speaking aloud, I said : “Well, Davy, you
have played one on me, but I will play one on you,” and I sat down and
re-wrote the missing title page. Again I assembled the pages in order,
but was again interrupted and called out of the room, by a caller, for
about five minutes. Then as I re-entered the doorway of the room I
saw a fluttering, about a foot above the desk near the papers, and a sheet
ofpaper was plainly visible as it wavered down to the desk. On approach­
ing I saw the neatly arranged papers for correction, the duplicate title
page on top, and lying beside them was also the missing title page.
Speaking later to Davy through a medium, he was delighted with the
success ofhis little trick, demonstrating his reality and presence, according
to a promise he made to me weeks before and which I had forgotten.
Mr. Thos. Blyton writes, April, 1931:
“ I was present on one occasion at a private home stance at H ackney, in London, when w ithout
w arning or preparation in total darkness Mr. Frank H earne was suddenly placed in the m idst of the sitters,
and after recovering from his surprise and resuming the seance, Mr. H earne’s overcoat, hat and um brella
were dropped on the table. John Kin?, the control, speaking in the direct voice, explained th a t his band
of spirit people had found an unexpected opportunity to transport Mr. H earne from where he had been
with friends, witnessing a theatrical performance th a t evening. On his appearance at H ackney he was in
a semiconscious condition.”
96 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
1 Modern Psychic Mysteries. H ack.
C h a p t e r io
“/ was in the spirit on the Lord’s day, and I heard behind me a great
voice, as of a trumpet.”
T
HESE interesting manifestations need some definition for the
benefit of the inexperienced student, before he can grasp and
appreciate what it all means. Briefly, ectoplasm, a filmy, cob­
webby substance, is drawn from the circle, but principally from the
medium, and blended with certain chemicals, too subtle for our chemistry,
t : form a new larynx or “voice box.” The entities describe the procedure
bv which they are enabled to use it as forming a plastic mask, into which
thev thrust themselves, by means unknown to us. This is described as an
_r_r'.easant proceeding, restricting them and giving a sense of slowing
np :heir vibrations, as, for instance, in a moving picture we see a ball
r ifdv thrown, almost too fast for the eye to follow it. Yet a slow-motion
7::r_re of the same ball-throwing shows a ponderous, difficult effort
slowly made in throwing the ball. It is all a matter of fast or slow speed.
5eemingly, an analogous condition obtains in effecting the slowing down
of the vibrations to come within the compass of our perception and
bearing.
The phenomena of direct voice through a trumpet involves ectoplasm,
and physical force on part of the spirit person, to handle the trumpet.
The trumpet is made of light metal, fibre or other like material. It is
i :: 7t three feet long and three-quarters of an inch diameter at the small
end, and three to four inches at the large end. The weak voice comes
through the small end and is amplified, as through a megaphone. Some-
r t ; s several trumpets are in operation at once, made visible by means of
t ominous band around the large end. Several voices may be heard
it once, ventriloquism, the common explanation by the inexperienced of
>mat is not understood, will not apply where several voices speak at once,
far a ventriloquist’s voice is heard by all uniformly, whereas these voices
lot g-ftierally indistinct around the room, but the recipient of the message,
it whom the trumpet is directed, can plainly hear, when conditions
are good.
As usual, the ignorant, but omniscient, “exposer” gets things wrong.
He assumes, falsely, that the medium is holding the trumpet and therefore
proves it by “grabbing” the instrument, and, finding resistance to his
efforts, not unnaturally, assumes that the medium is actually holding the
- . r t r i . As shown in the illustration the trumpet is connected to the
medium by a cord or tube of ectoplasm, through which the spirit entity
VOICES, TRUMPET AND INDEPENDENT
97
operates it. The ignorant “expert,” pulling and tugging at the trumpet,
under the false impression that the unfortunate medium is holding it,
inflicts intense suffering on his victim, the medium. The contact with
the grabber, or any other person, changes the potential between the
“expert” and his helpless victim, dematerializing the ectoplasmic cord
or tube instantly, like touching an electroscope, the ectoplasm being
suddenly and violently shot back into the medium’s body, after the jerk
first given by the “grabber” ; and the shock, naturally, has a serious
effect on the medium, often lasting for weeks afterwards.
In direct, or trumpet voice, a trumpet is used to amplify the faint
sounds of the spirit-voice, which issues from a visible (rarely) or invisible
“voice box” as the temporary larnyx is called. The movement of the
trumpet about the room and from one member of the circle to another
uses up a certain amount of energy, and though splendid results are
obtained it is not quite as satisfactory as the more rare independent voice,
so-called because the voices are plainly audible independent of a trumpet.
Trumpet voices are far from being a new thing. They were known,
but misunderstood, in the most ancient times, to Moses they were a matter
of course (page 18).
When the circle is held in the dark, which is usually the case, the
movement of the trumpet may be traced by a luminous band around the
large end. This is often objectionable, as it interferes with seeing the
psychic lights floating round the room, which phenomenon often accom­
panies the manifestation. The trumpet may swiftly travel around the
room, occasionally caressing one or another of the sitters, which is either
to draw power by contact, or to bring some entity closer to the sitter.
To illustrate the naturalness of the returning entities, a mother was
talking through the trumpet to her daughter, who asked : “Is Father
there ?” The mother said : “Yes,” and the daughter asked why he did
not speak to her. The mother replied : “He says he never talked through
a tin horn when he was on earth, and he won’t make a fool of himself
now.” However, at a later meeting, he was persuaded to forget his
dignity and try, and on succeeding he was so pleased that he joked,
whistled, and sang, and “cut up” like a small boy with a new toy.
Another unusual experience was with a medium in bright light, who
applied the large end of the trumpet to her solar plexus as she sat opposite
to me, the small end being applied to my ear. Messages came through
distinctly, and I closely watched the mouth and larynx of the medium,
not two feet from me. There was no movement ofthe lips, which appeared
glued together, as when one is exceedingly thirsty, nor was any vibration
of the larynx to be seen. It appears that the trumpet formed a small
dark chamber in which the “voice box” was formed, and thus the entity
could give messages.
At a trumpet-seance in the light the medium stood in the middle cf
the room, her face turned to the right, her left hand extended straight out.
The trumpet was laid with the small end on the open palm of the medium,
the listener holding the large end. Voices came through, clearly audible
at the large end, but only a low murmur was heard at the small end. I
placed the trumpet, balanced on my shoulder, with the small end as before,
and heard the voice close to my ear, as if a small microphone was in the
98 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
middle of the trumpet, the voice clear at the large end, and a low murmur
at the small end, and at my ear the thin, squeaky voice, as if a dictograph
or gramophone without the amplifying horn was sounding.
There was no wiring available, and as the medium’s open hand was
Dlainly in sight, no connection or appliance was visible. Ventriloquism
•••.•ill not explain, for ventriloquial sounds would be uniformly heard by
all present, not clear at the large end of the trumpet, and a low murmur
at the small end, nor the thin, squeaky sound at the middle. Needless to
say that the trumpet was closely examined, both collapsed and extended,
before, after and during the demonstration.
Many people, even those claiming some knowledge of psychic pheno­
mena, insist that conditions do not matter. They are really essential to
success. One has only to reflect that natural laws apply equally to
psychics as to physics. It is “possible” to sleep in a noisy boiler shop, but
not as “likely” as in a comfortable bed in a darkened room.
In these phenomena conditions are as vital for the best results. The
ideal arrangement is : When two or three are gathered together in one
alace with one accord, that they be experienced and understand the
matter, calm, ready to receive what comes (and argue about it, if they
must, afterwards), keeping a pleasant, helpful friendliness of mind
during the manifestations. It is one of the many mistakes of the beginner
due to false, early teaching) that we “call the spirits from their vast
abode.” That is of little use. We have “nothing to do with the matter,”
except to make favourable conditions, then, if they can and if they desire
-3 come, the spirit loved ones and teachers may make themselves known
and give messages. The open-minded sceptic is no bar (or help) if his
amitude is “here is something we do not understand, let us investigate,”
and he quietly observes without bias for or against. But the stubborn
a arson, whose mind is made up and “knows” that it is all a fake, or
obstinate individuals who reject everything that varies from their mis­
taken preconceptions, these people should not waste their time or other
aeople’s, for they cannot be satisfied themselves and hinder or prevent
others from progressing. Vaudeville and circus “stunts” are more suited
t: their development.
I ndependent V oice
In independent voice phenomena the trumpet is not required, thus leaving
the whole energy to be used in communicating, without using up a part
rf it to manipulate the trumpet. It is a more rare phenomenon, but much
—are striking and satisfactory.
Several years ago Mrs. Birkner’sson (in spirit) was her guide. He was a
very bright, studious boy, far in advance of his age. He said that he was
r::r? to school to learn more and left his little still-born sister, Pansy, to
aake his place.
Later, Mrs. Birkner got a letter from a stranger in California, asking
if -he had a boy named Roscoe, as this boy had come to her as a guide
-a a given his mother’s name and address that they might become
ar-ruainted with each other.
On one occasion my wife came through (Mrs. Birkner circle) and
VOICES, TRUMPET AND INDEPENDENT 99
1 0 0 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
said that she had been looking over my shoulder when I was reading the
Rosemary Records and she wanted to comment regarding children who
came through.
Then she interrupted herself to say : “I tried to come through just
now, but could not. Speak to me all of you and help me get strength.
There is a negative influence, on one side ofthe circle, that makes me weak
and nervous” (here the medium exhibited signs of nervousness, in speech
and manner). Every one spoke to her encouragingly and I explained that
those on the negative side had not read the Rosemary Records and so did
not understand her reference. She said : “Oh, I was not sure that I was
making myself understood, I am stronger now,” and showed it in voice and
manner.
She then said that the children who came over were developed and
taught on that side of life, and having no burden of earthly, imperfect,
and often false ideas to unlearn, they advanced rapidly and being free
from evil and undesirable impressions, were far advanced spiritually
and able to give us valuable lessons in the midst of their childlike chatter,
the latter helping to make harmonious conditions and relieve any uncon­
scious tension in the sitters. The children in the circle had a much
greater value than we knew and we should ask them to come in freely.
Sometimes the spirits may be heard discussing some problem sub­
mitted by a sitter. At other times, a rapid change of persons may take
place, as two spirits, each eager to talk, use the “voice box” alternately.
A man came through to speak to his wife, remarking : “The boys
have been-doing all the talking at other times and I think it is time I had
a chance to talk to you. They are helping me.” It was his first attempt,
and, as he spoke, the sound of the voice would change distinctly, as first
one, then another, of his boys strengthened his occasionally weakened
force, the utterance being uninterrupted, regardless of the changing voices.
At a seance (Mrs. Musa, 1940) several spirits were heard talking in
independent voice on a variety of topics. Dr. Claflin came and talked
with Mrs. Mabel Jackman (a noted Chicago medium of ten years back).
Dr. Claflin was a great benefactor of the poor. He left his house to his
long-time friend, Mrs. Jackman. He remarked : “It is a long time
since we met,” and in reply to questions we learned that they were on
different planes (or in different conditions), not ordinarily contacting
each other, though they were close friends in earth life, and that our
stance provided a state or condition in common where they could easily
contact one another. They conversed with each other with evident
pleasure about old times for some ten minutes.
At times the spirit entity can talk to us, but is not in complete
“rapport,” and though his voice comes through as a loud shout, he will
anxiously ask : “Do you hear me, can you hear me ?” The guide on
this occasion came through and explained that the spirit-person did not
know he was shouting, but as he could not “tune in” to hear us, he
thought we could not hear him.
Another time the guide came through and said a spirit was there
“thinking that he is talking,” but forgetting actually to talk, so that we
could not hear him, though he could hear us, and he thought he replied,
but only did so mentally, so the guide gave the message.
In these cases they were seemingly only partly in the medium’s
vibration, effecting a one-way connection only.
Ir. all cases the cheerful, firm voice of the sitter, greeting the visitor
nr.i iking brief questions, builds up the power so that they can speak
—:re clearly. They often come very weak, and a new sitter, not knowing
the process, does not answer or help and the spirit will say : “Speak to
a x and give me strength.” Sometimes the surprised and nonplussed new
sitter will keep repeating : “Who is this ?” even after being told it is
father, mother, etc., and this weakens the force ; or he persists in asking
:’:r 2 name (names, for some reason, are hard to get through—see page
: -- . This hinders the spirit communication. If sitters will try and get
22? message, that will often prove who is coming to them without any
same.
On one occasion my wife broke off speaking to me and began to sing
2 rare old hymn, little known. So far as I know she did not know it when
:r_ earth, and it was closely woven with my connection to an old friend,
*a: :::en called me his son. Immediately a mediumistic sitter described
2 srer.e inseparably connected with this friend and the event. I asked
r v wife if this man was present and she said: “Yes.” No name was
reeded in this case.
Ir. cases without the trumpet the “voice box” may be formed resting
:a the shoulder of the medium, as in the case of the famous Boston
r a ir m , Margery, or floating at a distance from her. This latter I have
experienced scores of times with Mrs. Birkner, whom I have known for a
2_22ber of years. Sitting with my ear within a foot of the medium’s
21: uth I listened to her quiet, undisturbed, regular breathing, and an
occasional sigh, while at the same time the firm, loud, vigorous voice of a
2 22. - 23 heard over the table, five feet in front of the medium, giving a
nessage to a sitter. It would be succeeded by the voice of a woman, then
_ :22c. all speaking clearly and distinctly, sometimes laughing or singing,
without interrupting or changing the quiet, natural regular breathing
f the medium throughout the sitting. As the several entities came and
vit' 2. the “voice box” projected or receded from the solar plexus of the
~rditiip, the voices gathering or losing strength, as it swung out over the
222 7 2t.d back. It would remain over the table for several minutes,
■vhk riving a message.
June, 1940, at Mrs. Birkner’s seance, while a spirit-man was talking
: hii wife in independent voice, I silently stood up beside him (the
221v2•:e of the medium in my long experience permitting this). I
2; _2 distincdy feel him beside me and he seemed to look round inquir-
22 me as he continued to talk, just as a normal person would. I
22•sd that his voice was on the same level as my mouth and on his saying
“ Ikcd-bye,” the medium instantly began speaking, unmistakably
277 that she was seated four feet behind the man and her voice at
-2 two feet lower level. I was the only man present out of eight
2*
225022. Her high soprano voice was markedly different from the deep
voice of the spirit-man.
Sotredmes they speak of the voice box as a mask, into which the
2 7222 visitors have, in some way, to thrust themselves, and it is described
m -t-7?2 77 ’
unpleasant experience. One spirit-visitor, commenting on
VOICES, TRUMPET AND INDEPENDENT ioi
this method of communicating, said : “Davy” (the child guid.e of mine)
“is still ‘wiping his mouth’ after it,” indicating that some psychic contact
was made, via the mouth, the impress continuing on the other side for a
moment.
Davy himself said later : “Daddy Wills, remember this was our first
attempt through this lady, and we got some of the scientific part mixed
up, as it was pretty nearly too deep for us. But you will admit that we
are good amateurs. Good-bye, Daddy Wills.” A guide then explained
that Davy, bewildered with his new experience, “did as a child in earth
life would do if a stranger kissed him. You have seen children wipe their
faces and pause and look at the persons who kissed them.” This also
shows the continuing natural instinct of the child on that “side of life.”
At Mrs. Birkner’s independent voice seance, November, 1940, my
child guide, Davy, came through saying, amongst other things, that he
would be with me at a public dinner on Saturday night. He said :
“They will have a lot more ice-cream than they need so ask for two
plates, one for me.” I remarked that I had another invitation for the same
night and he suggested going to one and then slipping away to the other.
I told him that they were twenty miles apart and proposed that I go to
one and he to the other. He promptly and unthinkingly assented : “Yes,”
then in a hasty, panic-stricken way, cried o u t: “No, no, no. I can’t eat
if you are not there.” So we agreed on one dinner for both of us. This
bears out the idea that, while they can see and hear independently, they
cannot contact our physical earth, except through the material person of
one to whom they are attached.
The instant that Davy said : “Good-bye, Daddy Arthur,” a man’s deep
hearty chuckle began and stopped off suddenly. Recognizing the voice
of one of my spirit-teachers, I said : “Hello, Doctor.” He then came
through, somewhat abashed it seemed, and said : “I did not know that
I was in the ‘voice box.’ Lady Jane” (my wife, who usually precedes him)
“was coming through, but I had to laugh at Davy’s boyish ideas and
did not know that you would hear.” This is strikingly like the sound room
of a radio studio, where casual sounds and incautious asides are instantly
broadcast. Then the Doctor withdrew and my wife came through, greatly
amused both at Davy’s comical ideas and the Doctor’s accidental “slip
of the tongue.” One of the mediumistic sitters had seen my wife, as
the meeting started, standing in her wedding-dress beside my chair and
had described her to me. My wife expressed her appreciation of this
lady’s mediumship and graciously thanked her for telling me. After
speaking of other matters she retired very happy and still amused.
Then Dr. B. came back to give his message regarding the need,
value and success of this book. He was still upset at unintentionally
intervening between my wife, and the “voice box,” again remarking :
“I did not know that you would catch my laugh.” Because I had
instantly recognized him on hearing his well-known laugh he came
through, temporarily, to explain why he had preceded my wife, contrary
to his usual custom. Seemingly he was so amused at Davy’s ideas that he
did not realize how close he was to the “voice box” when he laughed and
which Davy had just left ready, apparently for my wife to use. These
instructive points are of great interest, showing that they laugh, talk,
102 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
etc., independently of earth and are only able to reach us audibly when
a “voice box” is available, constructed from the ectoplasm drawn from
the medium (chiefly) reinforced by that drawn from suitable sitters.
When the S.S. Queen Mary made her first trip, my sisters (interested
in ships from having made several trips across the Atlantic) inspected her
the day before she sailed. When the ship was in the middle of the Atlantic,
I was at an independent voice stance (Mrs. Birkner, medium), and my
wife, who had passed away six years before, came through and said that
she had inspected the Queen Mary before it sailed (probably with my
sisters who were childhood friends of hers) and that it was a wonderful
ship, adding : “I took part of the trip on her and then came on to tell you
that there is something wrong with her and important changes will have
to be made before she is satisfactory.” The ship arrived three days after­
wards and the papers then announced that, owing to excessive vibrations,
four new 45-ton propellers of a different pitch would be put on before the
next trip, to remedy this defect.
Evidently my wife was on the ship at sea, as she said, or she could not
have given this information days ahead, which was then known only to the
experts on board, in mid-ocean some three thousand miles from Chicago.
Because proper conditions obtained at the seance and at the same time
she was able to manifest and inform us of the trouble on the ship.
A most unusual and striking spontaneous manifestation occurred in
1938, when the brother of the medium (he had been ailing for some time),
sitting beside her in the seance, became ill and slid from his chair to the
floor unconscious. The unfinished meeting was briefly closed and
attention given to the patient. As the medium, Mrs. Birkner, knelt beside
her brother anxiously calling : “Brother, brother,” another voice was
heard, that of her other brother, Frederick, who had passed away some
years ago, calling in crisp, energetic tones : “Harry, Harry, snap out
of it.” This voice came from beside the medium, away from the light,
and no one near that side. From frequently having heard this spirit-
brother come and talk in circles, I had no trouble in recognizing his
well-known voice, the tone, manner, etc., characteristic of him. This
was repeated several times, until presently the patient recovered enough
to be taken home. Here was an unpremeditated demonstration of the
return of a brother to assist in the recovery of his sick brother and to com­
fort his sister, the medium, with evidence that he was there helping in the
emergency. The voice was heard plainly by the group standing by after
the shortened sitting to see if they could help. Such occasions are rare,
especially as the medium’s disturbed mentality at the time was a very
unfavourable condition for the production of phenomena. Possibly, as the
meeting had just prematurely closed, and the sitters were still present,
there was a sufficient residue of power, which this entity, the brother,
accustomed to manifesting, was able to use on this notable and urgent
occasion.
In independent voice (no trumpet) the voice comes directly from the
ectoplasmic “voice box,” built up apart from the medium. The particles
of ectoplasm, however, tend to take the shape of the medium’s larynx,
as if polarized to that condition, so to speak, like the bits of a jig-saw
puzzle which only fit in a special place and form. This causes the duplica-
VOICES, TRUMPET AND INDEPENDENT 103
tion of the tones of the medium’s voice, or that of some sitter contributing
a large share of ectoplasm, and an inexperienced inquirer will often say :
“That is not my mother’s voice, etc.” This is a natural objection, but
wider experience shows that when conditions are perfect the spirit-
operators can overcome this tendency, or polarization, and then there is
no doubt as to the identity of the speaker. The medium is generally in
trance and cannot talk normally, while the new larynx is being used by
the spirit-operator, but when other sensitive sitters are being used, they
also feel difficulty in their throats, caused by the drain on their psychic
power, resulting in dryness, coughing and inability to speak clearly.
The medium can, in such case, speak at the same time as the spirit.
Sitting with a splendid trance and clairvoyant medium, my wife
came through in a remarkable manifestation. We sat in an inner room,
opening out into a larger room, which was brightly illuminated by the
afternoon sun, reflected into the place where we sat, through a large
arched opening. The medium sat in the full bright light and I sat in
shadow, where no direct light could dazzle my eyes, an excellent position
to see sharp and clearly defined detail. As my wife spoke to me through
the medium, that lady’s face became overcast with a mist of ectoplasm,
which cleared away in a moment and I found myself looking into the happy
face ofmy wife, smiling at my amazement. As she continued to talk to me,
she suddenly interrupted herself to exclaim : “Do you notice that I am
talking to you with ‘my’ voice ?” evidently overjoyed at the splendid
opportunity of such close contact. I had been noticing the fact for some
time, and she did not want me to miss it. This was an excellent demon­
stration of overcoming the tendency to duplicate the medium’s larynx,
and thus I heard again “the sound of a voice that is still.” Also to see the
transfiguration of the medium’s face into that of my wife so unmistakably.
(See page 76 on Transfiguration.)
104 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
C h a p t e r i I
“The phenomenon of supernormal cognition is reproducible at will
provided that its processes are known. It ‘does not depend’ on any
faith in the witnesses, nor any belief, whether positive or negative,
but on ‘exact observation’ and on experiments that can be renewed at
any time. Dr . O sty, Supernormal Faculties in Man.
T
HESE phenomena are so similar in operation that we may con­
sider them together. They are not often found together in one
medium ; on the contrary, one may be clairvoyant and not clair-
audient, etc. or vice versa, and again one medium may have more than
one faculty developed. Clair, meaning clear ; voyance, meaning to see ;
audience, hearing ; and sentience, sensing or feeling. The development
of the clairvoyant and related faculties depends upon the partial libera­
tion or freeing of the spirit from the body, and the stimulation of the
corresponding psychic sense organs to a higher degree of activity, and
so permit their use. The “freeing of the spirit” begins with correcting
the common false idea that “I have a spirit or soul” and realizing that
“I AM ” a spirit or soul and “have a body” through which I manifest
physically.
Regarding clairvoyance, many mediums use a crystal ball as a centre
to focus upon. Of itself, the crystal does not possess any “magical”
powers, as was thought in olden times. Any such power is due to its
becoming imbued with the “magnetism” of the person using it constantly,
just as psychometrists find any article so magnetized, by the touch of
persons or the auric impressions of events, etc. Water, ink, jewels, etc.,
are also used for the purpose of focusing the attention. Experiments to
determine what happened to the eye, when seeing in the crystal, show
that the subject is not looking in the crystal at all, in many instances,
while seeing the visions apparently in the ball, his eyes were focused
beyond or short of the crystal, while he actually thought he was looking
steadily and carefully into it. When the seer began to strain, to see more
clearly, myopia or astigmatism resulted. Hypermetropia was noted
when the seer was trying to see a moving object at a distance. So we see
that the crystal is merely a convenient starting-point, or focus.
Clairvoyance “a supernormal mode of perception, which results in a
visual image being presented to the conscious mind.” The perception
may be of objects, scenes, or forms, distant in space or in time, past or
future. There is a coincidental truth in the visual perception, in some
cases ; as in dreams, or principally in trance, when consciousness is
G 105
CLAIRVOYANCE ; CLAIRAUDIENCE ; CLAIRSENTIENCE
absent, and the forms may not only be distant in time or space, but be
altogether on another plane of existence (spirit-forms).”
Job xlii, 3 : “Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge!’' (Who
gives Job the wisdom he utters, beyond his normal power.) “Therefore
have I uttered that I understood not, things too wonderfulfor me.”
We often hear a medium say : “I see a spirit.” This is a very common
error for spirit, by its very nature cannot be seen. What is seen is the
form in which the spirit-person clothes himselffor the purpose ofbecoming
manifest on a lower range of vibration or condition. It may also be a
vivid impression received by the medium, so distinct as to give the idea
ofa solid object. Clairvoyant and similar experiences may be spontaneous,
or induced by hypnotism, or auto-suggestion as in crystal gazing.
The principal phases of clairvoyance and kindred faculties are four :
X-ray, medical, travelling and platform clairvoyance. The first is the
faculty of seeing into closed spaces, boxes, sealed envelopes, rooms, books,
etc. ; the second is the ability to see the inner mechanism of the human
body and diagnose disease ; the third involves a mental journey to a
distant scene and giving a description of same or events occurring there ;
the fourth is seeing the forms used by spirits for the purpose of being seen
and recognized. These may be invisible to any. ne but the medium.
In X-ray clairvoyance, the seer reads sealed letters, when the contents
are unknown to the medium or written in a language unknown to him.
The medium has sometimes to handle the envelope, but not necessarily.
If the message is rolled up into a pellet it may, or need not, be touched
at all, it may be burnt and the message given afterwards. Conscious
effort, anxiety, etc., usually result in failure.
Edison, experimenting with Reese, wrote in a distant room on a piece
ofpaper, “Is there anything better than hydroxide of nickel for an alkaline
electric battery ?” Returning to Reese, Reese at once said : “No, there
is nothing better than hydroxide of nickel for an alkaline battery.”
Shrenck-Notzing wrote on five pieces of paper the questions, “What
is my mother’s name ?” “Will my book be a success ?” “What is the
name of my eldest son ?” And two other intimate questions. He mixed
the papers and presented them, without knowing which contained which
question. Reese hardly touched them and answered correctly each
question. Dr. Geley wrote on a visiting-card, under the table, “There is
nothing more moving than the call to prayer, by the Muezzins,” and
put it in an envelope. Ossoveitzky, feeling the envelope, said : “There is
a feeling of prayer, a call from men who are being wounded or killed------
No, it is not that—nothing gives rise to emotion more than a call to
prayer, it is like a call to prayer, to whom ? A certain caste of men,
Mazzi—Madz—— A card. I can see no more.”
Sleepwalkers and dreamers give evidence of this faculty at times.
Stainton Moses shows that the clairvoyant vision is independent of the
normal eyesight and is exercised by the mind without the help ofthe senses.
“ In the m idst of the stance, when perfectly clear of influence, I saw Theophilus and the Prophet.
They were as clear and palpable to the eye as hum an beings would be in a strong light. Placing my hand
over my eyes made no difference, but turning aside I could see them no longer. This experim ent I repeated
several tim es.” H is attention was directed aw ay from them when be turned.
106 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
The clairvoyant may see objectively an ectoplasmic appearance.
invisible to the normal bystander, or subjectively as a mental concept
or he may sense or feel it so clearly that he can describe it as if objective.
Darkness presents no obstruction. Mme d’Esperance could sketch
in the dark, the paper before her appearing just as well illuminated as the
spirit-face which she sketched.
The nature of the perception is unusual and varies. In some cases
they are smaller than life size, sometimes only a few inches in height,
though perfectly proportioned. Sometimes they appear gigantic, even a
face covering a large area. I have seen a single, kindly, intelligent and
beautiful blue eye about four feet long in my bedroom, one morning.
Alfred Vout Peters writes : “In the clairvoyant state all bodily sensations
seem merged into one big sense, so that one is able to see, hear, taste,
smell and above all ‘to know.’ Yet the images stand out clear and
strong. A clairvoyant may give a perfect character delineation of a
stranger seen for the first time.”
Medical clairvoyance is first referred to in 460 b .C. by Hippocrates :
“The afflictions suffered by the body, the soul sees with shut eyes.” The
case of Andrew Jackson Davis’s striking psychic development includes
medical clairvoyance. Well-attested early cases are of interest.
With the revelations of psychic science, medical clairvoyance became
one of the lesser wonders. The power of healing soon tended to put the
power of diagnosis in a second place. Mediums were often employed
professionally for medical purposes (and still are by the more advanced
M.D.s). Bessie Williams, E-ray medium, was a doctor’s assistant for
years and Dr. Kilner’s discovery of the human aura, as a visible fact and
its colour and other changes as bearing on a patient’s health and
indicating disease, further developed this valuable subject.
From time immemorial the medicine men, priests and wise men of all
primitive, as well as more advanced peoples, practised travelling clair­
voyance, and Sir William Barrett holds that the reputed evidence for it
is more ancient and widespread than for telepathy. Swedenborg’s vision,
in 1756, when he was in Gothenberg, of a fire in Stockholm, is a case
of spontaneous travelling clairvoyance, not purposive. Apollonius of
Tyana, while lecturing at Ephesus, broke off to announce that the
tyrannical Emperor Domitian had just been killed in Rome. The first
carefully investigated travelling clairvoyants were the French, Alexis
and Adolphe Didier and Adele Maginot. President Seguer, without
giving his name, called upon Alexis Didier, who made an imaginary
journey across Paris to the President’s room and saw a small bell on the
table. The President denied the bell. On returning home, however, he
found that while he was absent the bell had been placed on his table.
An early record is curious. Dr. F. magnetized Jane and warned
Eglington that he would send her to see what he was doing between
eight and ten that evening. Jane said :
• “ I see a fat m an w ith a wooden leg. He has no brain, and he is called Eglington. He is sitting before
a fire, where there is brandy, but he is not drinking.” The fact was th a t Eglington had m ade a fa t dum m y
and dressed it in his clothes.
Prof. Richet gives the following instance of travelling clairvoyance.
Leonie B. was put in trance by Pierre Janet, after Richet had left for
Paris. She suddenly declared that Prof. Richet’s laboratory was burning
down, which actually happened at the time of the vision.
CLAIRVOYANCE-AUDIENCE-SENTIENCE 107
Vincent Turvey says :
“ In m ental body travelling, the 'I* (spirit) appears to leave th e ‘me’ (body) and to fly through space
a t a velocity th a t renders the view of the country passed over very indistinct and blurred. The ‘I ’
appears to be about two miles above the earth, and can only distinguish w ater from land, or forest from
city ; and then only if the tracts seen are fairly large in area. Sm all villages or rivers would not be
distinguishable.”
Sometimes the travelling clairvoyant may go into the future. Robert
James Lees’s vision of the crimes which Jack the Ripper was going to
commit the following day, with an exact description of the locality, is of
this order. But it must be remembered that clairvoyant vision is not the
same as projection of the astral or etheric body to the distant place. This
latter is different and far more rare.
Sir Oliver Lodge’s deceased Aunt Anne said that “Charlie had eaten
the bird (the chicken) and made himself sick.” Later a letter from
Charlie in Manitoba said that he had shot a prairie chicken, he ate most
of it and was ill at the time of the message.
Psychical research can offer no solution ofthe problem ofclairvoyance.
Dr. Herbert Mayo, King’s College, London, suggests an exo-neural
action of the mind.
“ I bold th a t the m ind of a living person in its m ost norm al state is always, to a certain extent, acting
exo-neurally or beyond the lim its of the bodily person, and in the lucid state this exo-neural apprehension
seems to extend to every object and person around.”
Sir William Barrett writes :
“ It m ay be th a t the intelligence operating at a stance, is a thought projection of ourselves—th a t each
of us has his sim ulacrum in the unseen. That with the growth of our life and character here an etheric
im age of ourselves is growing up in the invisible world ; nor is this inconceivable.”
This agrees largely with the spiritualist view, that the sense organs
of the etheric, or spiritual, body come into play, through which the
information is impressed on the seer’s physical mind by the spirits. It
has been suggested, also, that in travelling clairvoyance the “double”
travels to the scene. The difficulty here is that where the “double” leaves
the body behind it, the body is unconscious and memory is rare, but in
travelling clairvoyance the subject describes, at the time, in the living
voice, what transpires at the distant place. Theosophists speculate on an
“astral tube” which clairvoyants construct for themselves from astral
or psychic matter, to see through.
Vincent Turvey says :
“ In long-distance clairvoyance I appear to see through a tunnel, which is cut through all intervening
physical objects, such as towns, forests, m ountains, etc. This tunnel seems to term inate ju st inside Mr.
Brow n’s study, for instance, but I can only see w hat is actually there and am not able to walk about
th e house, nor use any other faculty but th a t of sight. In fact, it is alm ost like extended physical sight
on a flat earth, void of obstacles. (This tunnel applies to tim e as well as space.) In astral or etheric
body travelling, the T is actually on the spot and sees, hears, moves about, smells and uses all the other
senses of the ‘me’ (body) which rem ains a t home ; although if physical force be needed this is, as a rule
borrowed from a third party .”
Theosophists also suggest that the clairvoyant may see thought pictures.
Mediums themselves are at variance as to how they do it. Bessie
Williams claimed that clairvoyance is vision by our spirit. W. H. Bach
thinks that both clairvoyance and clairaudience are impressional. Conan
Doyle suggested that the special atmosphere of clairvoyance might be the
result of ectoplasm emanating from the sensitive’s body and enabling
spirit to impress it.
In a recent private circle Mr. Keller said : "I see a large number
108 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
‘ooooo’ and a man with a black cap and bandage over his head. He
seems to have been executed. I get A.B. Prison” (in an eastern state).
Later : “This man was executed and now comes back as a missionary
to save others from crime. He wants to warn ‘ooooo’ not to return to his
old haunts and friends or he too may be executed.” With this information
we wrote to the warden of A.B. Prison asking about this number. In
reply the warden said : “This is not one of our numbers, but looks like
the series number of C.D. Prison (in the same State). Write the warden.”
The C.D. warden in reply wrote : “Number ‘ooooo’ was paroled from
here in 1932, write the parole board in X------.”
“As they are not permitted by law to give any information about
parolees (to safeguard the person from old criminals) I wrote all the
information we had received, explaining what had happened and the
message. The parole officer consulted his director ; instead of throwing
our letter in the waste-basket, as a less broadminded and understanding
person might ; and then they wrote us thanking us for the interest we
had shown in this parolee and saying that they would give the matter their
consideration.
“This was not a ‘rescue circle’ for the purpose of aiding such mis­
sionaries to atone for their past errors and rehabilitate themselves ; so
that they can again progress spiritually ; but simply an ordinary develop­
ing circle which this reformed and awakened soul, found suitable to
co-operate with him in his necessary steps towards regeneration and
amendment. The privilege of co-operation with such a reclaimed soul
is rare.”
An old lady, who was in despair at the loss of her only daughter and
who was then entirely alone in the world, came to a Spiritualist Church
meeting. The medium’s message to her was : “Ada is here. She is now
always with you to help you. Do not grieve. She says she is very happy
and wants to make you so. She will often come to you. Ada says you
must give me that little bottle in your purse and never think of such a
thing again. It would separate you from her terribly.” The old lady was
quite taken aback at this, but reluctantly took a small vial out of her
bag and gave it to the medium, who said : “Ada is very pleased now and
can come close to you again and assures you of her great love for you,
you will often communicate with her.” The heart broken old lady had
intended to commit suicide that night with the small bottle of poison,
but from that time on eagerly attended meetings to receive comforting
and helpful messages from her daughter, with great joy and renewed
interest in life, in spite of her loneliness, now that she realized that her
daughter still iived and could communicate with her.
An interesting question arises. Can blind people see clairvoyantly ?
If they were born blind, the brain has no visual education, but if they lost
the sight later, they may thus see. Bilocation of the senses, seems to point
to this possibility.
Clairaudience
Clairaudience was known from the earliest times. Joan of Arc is a
comparatively recent instructive example of note. A biographer of
CLAIR-VOYANCE-AUDIENCE-SENTIENCE 109
I I O
Cowper, the poet, writes : “The most important events of Cowper’s
later years were audibly announced to him before they occurred.”
Clairaudience is either spontaneous or experimentally induced. Sea
shells are used for the latter purpose. The clairaudient medium soon
distinguishes other voices, may hear distant friends speaking, may hear
part of a conversation he has already heard or will hear presently, and
may interpret them as messages from the deceased or from the living.
The clairaudient may hear objectively a voice from an ectoplasmic
“ voice box” invisible to others, or hear it as a “voice in my ear” sub­
jectively as if inside the head, or may sense the thought intended to be
conveyed, so clearly that he can give it form in words, if the words them­
selves are not also sensed definitely.
“ Yes, my voices were of God ; they have not deceived me,” said Joan of Arc, in reply to her
homicidal-religio-fanatical persecutors.
LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
Phone-voyance
Phone-voyance or phone-audience are interesting variations. It
involves psychic vision or hearing, telephone wires and instruments, and
simultaneity of clairvoyance or clairaudience with physical contact.
Turvey possessed the phone-voyance faculty intermittently from 1905
to 1908. He found that it was a great strain on the brain and its too
frequent use would lead to brain injury. He seemed to see “through
a halo or aura of bright heliotrope or pale violet-coloured fire, the flashes
or sparks of which do not cover all the (psychic) window, so to speak,
but leaves the centre clear and colourless, and in the centre appears
the person or object seen.” Another extraordinary thing is, that
. . occasionally p art of m y m entality seems to ooze out of me, and to run along the line for a
little distance, say for a yard or two, and as ‘I ’ (the spirit) go, so little pieces of the copper wire, which
lay together, as A.B. seem to turn over to B.A., th a t is, to reverse their polarization or position as if on
a hinge. These pieces appear to be about four inches in length. At other tim es phone-voyance seems to
be very like m ental-body travelling, because the ‘I’ (psychic or spiritual entity) appears to be in the room
at one end of the line and, by a sort of cord, to com m unicate w ith ‘me’ (the physical body) a t the other
end to make ‘m e’ speak about th a t which ‘I ’ see.”
Several years ago I called on a fine medium in Chicago, and while
talking to her the telephone bell rang. A lady in one of the suburbs,
some twenty miles away, was speaking to the medium, who suddenly
exclaimed : “Wait a minute. What does ‘Gynaecocracy’ mean ?” The
lady replied : “I don’t know. I never heard ofit. Is there such a word ?”
The medium did not know either and asked me but I was equally ignorant
of it. I looked it up in a dictionary while the lady waited and found that
it meant “Government by a female,” in a disparaging sense, petticoat
government. The moment the lady heard these two words she exclaimed
delightedly : “That’s my father, that’s my father.”
It appeared later that the lady’s mother used to fuss round her father
when he was going out, insisting that he put on his scarf, rubbers, etc.,
and the father would shrug, with pretended impatience, and repeat :
“Petticoat government, petticoat government.” This waggish method of
communicating also illustrated his continued natural cheerfulness and
sense of humour when apart from the physical body. And why not ?
C h a p t e r 12
PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPHY
“Exact science," in Prof. Eddington’s opinion, “is a system of
‘
pointer readings' telling us amazingly definite things ‘about' those
aspects of reality that can be measured, but having no interest in those
that cannot." Psychic Phenomena for instance. Poincaire, a
great mathematician, warned : “The mathematical method, by its
very rigour and inflexible course, often inspires in us a confidence nothing
warrants and ‘
prevents' us looking about us."
T
HIS is not the same as photographing a visible materialized figure.
The faces and forms are not normally seen at the time of the
photographing, though sometimes a clairvoyant can see them.
Usually, but not necessarily, the sitter is present in person and the
invisible etherealized figures buiid up around him sufficiently to make an
impression on the sensitive plate or film. Of course, spirit cannot be
photographed. What is obtained is the form built up by the entity being
clothed upon with ectoplasm, more or less materialized, etherealized
or condensed. They tell us, through mediums, that this is both a difficult
and unpleasant process, slowing down their vibrations and working with
this, to them at least, repellent ectoplasm.
Colonel Cushman is a celebrated American chem ist, and founder of the In stitu te of Industrial
Research. Agnes Cushman died on Septem ber 20th, 1920. On Saturday evening, July 2^rd, 1921, Colonel
and Mrs. Cushman arrived in London ; on the following Monday m orning Colonel Cushman im m ediately
inquired how he m ight get in touch with Mr. Hope, of Crewe, the medium whose success in spirit photo­
graphy had attracted wide attention. He was informed th a t Mr. Hope happened to be in London, and
w ithout making an appointm ent Colonel and Mrs. Cushman went alm ost im m ediately to the address
given to them. Mr. Hope was not there ; and Colonel Cushman was about to leave when word was brought
to him th a t Mrs. Deane, a medium, who had often assisted Mr. Hope, would make an effort in his behalf.
Colonel Cushman himself marked the photographic plates and inserted them in the cam era. He and
Mrs. Cushman sat as for an ordinary photograph ; and he, with the medium, developed the plates in
the dark room. Each of the four plates showed traces of som ething “ extra” which did not belong to
norm al photography, b u t the fourth showed plainly, though faintly, a face ju st above the face of Mrs.
Cushman. It proved to be a perfect likeness of their daughter. Mrs. Deane, the medium, had no warning
of Colonel Cushman’s v is it; she did not know his nam e, nor w hat sort of picture he hoped to secure—
w hether of a son, a daughter, or a departed friend.
Here the recognized medium for psychic “extras” was absent and
another took his place in the emergency, to save the sitters from dis­
appointment. The Colonel handled, marked and developed the plates
personally, the medium merely standing by as above stated. Mrs.
Deane, the emergency medium had no notice of the visit or knowledge of
the parties.
Dr. Dunmore of Chicago, now incapacitated by blindness caused by
an accident, took a photo of a lock of hair of my late wife. Eight
faces appeared, none recognized. He then took a photo of me, as sitter,
111
112
and ten faces appeared all but one strange, this one having a resemblance
to my wife, but a strained look. I asked her at a seance some time after
why this was, and she replied : “There were so many trying to get in
that I got angry and pushed myself in.” Hence the strained and unusual
expression. A couple of years later I tried again and got eleven faces,
none recognized.
Finally, I went direct to his office from an independent voice seance,
with Mrs. Birkner, thinking that some of the power, ectoplasm or con­
ditions would continue with me for a time and help. Surely enough,
this time among the nine faces appearing was an excellent one of my wife,
in her thirties, in the top right-hand corner. My family not being inter­
ested in the subject at the time, I said nothing to them about it, but laid
the photo before my daughter and asked if she knew anyone on it.
Immediately she pointed to this particular face, saying : “Why, there’s
Mother ! How did she get on that photograph?” My sons were also
shown it separately and agreed that it was a good photograph of their
mother. The woman and her daughter who did housework for several
years with us also immediately recognized her and marvelled at the
excellent likeness, not knowing how it came there. There can be no
fraud here for the doctor never saw my wife nor a photo of her and this
photo differs in the pose, light and shade, from any I have or have seen.
The expression about the mouth, the eyes, and the shape of the nose and
brow and face is characteristic, unmistakable and conclusive.
Dr. Dunmore discovered his faculty by accident. In his younger
days he was assistant in a small-town drugstore and used his spare time
in amateur photography. One day he took a photo of a friend, in the
rear of the store, and observing an apparent defect in the plate, when in
the dark room developing it, he said : “This is no good, I will throw it
out.” A large spot had begun to appear, but his friend said : “No finish
it and see what it is.” When developed and fixed an “extra” face
appeared near his friend, who exclaimed : “Why, that is my Uncle
---------, in New York.” (Living at that time.) Though he usually got
several faces on a plate, they were not always recognized by the sitter.
The remark of my wife seems to indicate that many are trying to
demonstrate regardless of the sitter. Dr. Dunmore also notes that when
the photograph is immediately developed the psychic faces are not so
clear, as when he leaves the negative in the holder for two or three weeks
to mature, or intensify, or incubate. Some slow action seems to continue
during that time, giving much better results.
Prof. Coates, Seeing the Invisible and Photographing the Invisible, gives
valuable information in detail of this subject. I quote one item :
“ Mrs. Coates, then living in Scotland, sent locks of hair, belonging to herself and her husband, to
Mr. Edw ard W yllie, California. These were fastened to a background and photographed. On the plate
appeared two hum an heads, a sheet of paper and the letters E D.G., all of which became very significant.
On the earth plane the m edium -photographer, a total stranger and as far off as California from Scotland,
had only as a nexus the above articles to photograph.”
The following is another case of this description (see photo) for which
I am indebted to my friend Mr. Frederick Lentsch of Chicago. On
Christmas Day, 1897, Mr. Frederick Lentsch had his photograph taken
in Louisville, Kentucky, and carried a copy in his pocket until the third
week in January, 1898. Then he mailed it to F. N. Foster, a psychic
LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
photographer in Chicago, Illinois, with a request that it be used as a point
of contact in endeavouring to secure “psychic extras” through this
magnetized photograph. The resulting picture was mailed to Mr.
Lentsch from Chicago, on January 27th, 1898. The photograph of
Mr. Lentsch was fixed to a black background and the “extras” appeared
as shown. They are excellent portraits and show the following relatives
of Mr. Lentsch, who have passed to spirit-life and are clearly recognized
by him and others who knew them. His Aunt Hulda, on the upper
right ; Sister Rosie on her left; Cousin Mamie Wagner at the bottom,
and on the left above her is Dr. Schaeffer, a guide, whom he had not seen
and who was identified to him at a seance afterwards. Of course, the
three relatives are all that can be positively vouched for.
The following facts are important in this fine demonstration : Mr.
Lentsch was not present ; did not know the photographer, nor did the
photographer know him or his deceased relatives. The only point of
contact was the photograph of Mr. Lentsch. Whether the entities
manifesting materialized visibly or not is unknown. Apparently they
were sufficiently material to affect the photographic plate and produce
accurate portraits of themselves.
This early photograph is particularly interesting for comparison
with many such of to-day. Recent photographs often show exuding-
ectoplasm from the psychic present, which is used to build up the form
and often patches of unorganized ectoplasm appear, giving us the
opportunity, not only to study the source of the ectoplasm, but also various
stages of its development.
The above complies with the conditions insisted upon by Whately
Smith, viz. : “If it could be shown (1) that a given “extra” was
unmistakably recognized as a portrait ofa deceased or even a living person,
and (2) that the medium concerned could not possibly have obtained a
likeness of that person to work from, then we should be obliged to attach
great weight to this factor, even if the conditions were not such as to
exclude fraud. For such a result could not be fraudulently produced.
In Light, September 9th, 1916, Mr. Hales writes :
“ My wife died five years ago in Buenos Aires (November n th , 1911). Since then we have received
m any messages from her, for my daughter is a psychic, as is Miss Jean Reid, a friend of the fam ily through
whom the portrait was obtained. None of the fam ily know m uch about photography—Miss Reid
nothing.
“ L ast year, about December, my daughter was strongly impressed to ask me for a cam era, w ithout
any clear idea of w hat for. I obtained a camera from a lellow journalist engaged in photography and
w ith it he sent me plates, and these, with the cam era, I handed to my daughter, who. with Miss Reid,
tried to get a ‘spirit photograph,’ w ithout result. Later, after hanging a couple of sheets for a background,
the cam era was placed in front of it. Shortly afterw ards, while in the kitchen, she heard a voice say :
‘Go and take the photograph now.’ She supposed it was Miss Reid speaking from another room and
w ent to her. B ut Miss Reid knew nothing of it, and, judging it to be a ‘message,’ they went into the room
where the cam era was. My daughter p u t the slide in w ith a couple of plates, and looked a t the sheet.
B ut even to the eye of clairvoyance nothing was visible. However, hopeful of some result, my daughter
took off the cap, exposed the plates, spoiled one by accident, and sent the other to a photographer to
develop.
“ The portrait is clearly recognizable as th a t of m y wife, wearing, however, a much brighter expression
than she habitually wore before passing aw ay. There is no similar p o rtrait of her in existence. It is a
splendid likeness of her as she was two years prior to her death.”
PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPHY 113
The Psychic Faculties proved by this unique photograph are :
(1) Psychic Impression by spiritual telepathy from an Intelligence in
the Invisible to the daughter—vague, perhaps, but effective. Object to
get a camera. Purpose not at first made clear.
(2) Glairaudience, veridical hallucination of a voice, clear to the
percipient : “Go and take a photograph now.”
(3) Prompt obedience to “the voice” being rewarded by the daughter
obtaining an excellent portrait of her mother, as the latter appeared
in earth life two years before passing to the higher life. The whole
furnishing conclusive evidence for the supernormal faculty and the
reasonable deduction that it was employed by the arisen mother in the
Invisible, to strengthen the conviction of her husband in her previous
messages, and to console her daughter for her mother’s physical absence
from the sense perceptions of those she loved on earth.
There are cases in which the thought of a person is projected and
appears, as in the case of a man whose photo was taken sitting down and
there appeared behind him a figure of himself standing up. This seems
accounted for when the man remarked that as the photo was being taken
he suddenly and strongly wished that the photo was being taken of him
standing.
PsYCHOGRAPHY
This resembles Psychic Photography except that no camera is used.
The practical photographer cannot grasp this unusual fact and insists on
light as essential to affect the chemicals on the plate or film. Actual
facts, however, do not stop for theories.
In Amateur Photography (November, 1898) the following experiment is
related :
“ Mr. W. Inglis Rogers, in the surgery of Dr. Bowhay, visualized a sim ple object for the purpose.
W hile in the light he gazed for a m inute at a postage-stam p, and then w ent into a darkened room and
gazed intently at a sensitive plate for tw enty m inutes. On the plate being developed, two im ages of the
postage-stam p were plainly visible. W hy tw o? W hen Mr. Rogers was thinking of one? The thought
was of one, but two distinct images, as impressed on each eye were reproduced. Mr. Rogers concluded
th a t this was a thought photograph. Dr. Bowhay was, however, of opinion th a t as no photograph can
be taken w ithout light, the image of the stam p was p u t on the sensitive plate by the light absorbed when
Mr. Rogers was looking a t the stam p.”
114 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
The experiment may have other bearings, but what we have to do
with is the fact that the picture got on the plate. We also know that
pictures get on plates in the absence of all light, which the practical
photographer regards as essential. That the camera records things
invisible to the human eye is a fact even a moderate acquaintance with
the art will make clear ; but the foregoing experiment suggesting that
the human eye itself is a camera, causes one to pause and think of the
many possible powers which may be wrapped up in the latent powers of
humanity, and of which we still know little or nothing.
Chapter 13
AURAS AND RAYS
“And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin oj
Moses’
’face shone.”
HE aura is a glowing, ethereal radiation surrounding and permeat­
ing the human body. The beliefin its existence goes back beyond
history. Artists from time immemorial have represented saints
and other special persons as having a halo or nimbus about their heads,
or an aureole or glory surrounding them. This was generally ascribed
to the desire of the artist to embellish their creations and not as real.
Clairvoyants, however, asserted the reality of these auras, etc. Recent
research has proved that they are right, the physical body is immersed
in, and permeated by, this aura or psychic, ethereal or spiritual body.
In medieval times several different types were recognized. The
nimbus, streaming from the head, as also the halo. The aureole radiating
from the whole body, and the glory, a combination of the other two.
Clairvoyants frequently refer to seeing the aura of people and from its
colours determine the character or emotions of the person observed.
Dr. Kilner, of St. Thomas’s Hospital, London, between 1847-1920,
conducted experiments with coal-tar dye compounds, very unstable,
with which screens were made. Looking through the screen for a moment
in daylight and then turning the eyes on a person, nude, in a dim light
with a black background, three distinct radiations became visible, all
lying in the ultra-violet end of the spectrum. The first dark and colour­
less, surrounded the body approximately half an inch. The second, or
inner aura extended three inches beyond. The third, or outer aura,
extended almost a foot. The depth of the aura was found to be influenced
by a strong magnet. It is affected by electric currents, vanishing entirely
when subject to a strong negative charge and increasing in bulk 50 per
cent on recovery. It is affected by chemical vapours and loses brilliancy
under hypnosis. Illness affects size and colour, and mental disturbance
causes diminution in size and distinctness which also occurs in nervous
diseases. Dr. Kilner concludes that the higher brain centres are closely
concerned in the output of auric emanations. With the approach of
dissolution the aura gradually shrinks and round the corpse no trace can
be discovered.
This is in agreement with clairvoyant’s description of the passing from
the body of a dying person of the psychic, auric or spiritual body. The
aura is sublimated matter, as shown by its being affected by chemical
vapours, electricity, etc., and Drs. Zetla and Van Zelst of Holland,
mathematically calculated the weight of this etheric body as two and a
half ounces approximately. Other experimenters, taking all precautions
to secure accuracy, noted the weight of dying persons, by placing the bed
on which they rested on scales, and found that at the moment of passing
out the scales showed a weight suddenly removed averaging two and a
half ounces, thus experimentally confirming the Dutch physicists’estimate,
proving that a something ponderable passes from the body at the moment
of dissolution.
Dr. Kilner finds that during good health the dominant colour of the
aura is blue or blue-grey and the more grey the less mentality. Indifferent
health causes an addition ofyellow, the worse the illness of the patient the
nearer the yellow approaches Roman ochre. The inner aura is usually
darker and warmer than the outer. The inner aura may be yellow
while the outer is blue and is the most frequently changed locally (with
health conditions) but the outer aura never contains yellow as long as
the inner remains blue.
Interesting in this connection is the following spirit communication
from The Rosemary Records—Dr. F. H. Wood—which bears upon the
colours of the aura :
Query : “ How does the aura register our em otions ?”
“A person suddenly overcome w ith fear em its a greenish light, dull and fitful. It becomes an unhealthy
yellowish-green when the fear is past. Again, a person in sudden anger em its a dull red light. All the
baser emotions give an effect of dirty colouring. A pessimist shows a thick dark greyish mist. People of
cruel and selfish natures em it a dull, drub, dirty yellowish light. I have sometimes seen th a t em anation
coming out like greasy waves. Very little aura can be seen when people are in deep sorrow. Intense
em otions, however, w hether bad or good, are always vivid and shot through with sparks. The whole
aura becomes vitalized, and the body is surrounded by waves or vibration. T h at explains why one who
easily gets angry, for instance, can influence the atm osphere of a whole dwelling. A stranger entering
m ight feel the unrest w ithout knowing the reason.”
Query : “ You haven’t mentioned the blue, golden, or rosy tints.”
“ The blue light is purely spiritual, and is seen when you on your side are closest to ours. I have seen
it when a num ber of people are gathered together in prayer. Golden light is brought by happiness, and a
bright rosy light indicates pure love."
To other mediums slightly different characteristics are ascribed to
the colours. The personal equation may count in arriving at such
interpretations of colours from the other side.
The use of “ power” (psychic) is described by Nona (Rosemary Records) : “ There is a light above your
heads, large, bowl-shaped, and of pale golden colour. From it are darting sparks of deeper golden shades.
I t seems to expand and contract, and is never still. Inside is a still brighter life of fire brilliance, and
from this a cord descends to your heads and links you up w ith the light.”
Is this the “silver cord” and the “golden bowl” of Eccl. xii, 6?
Another communicator explained that the bowl
. . sprang from the fusing together of the auras. Sometimes th e light became elongated like a
pillar, and when the sitting is over it gradually fades aw ay.” Nona adds : “ There is also a ‘cord’ of
light which passes from the m iddle of the m edium ’s body” (solar plexus) ; “ a cord sensitive to every
vibration of emotion.
Another communicator says :
“ A spirit which has no love has no light. I t languishes in the dark places near the earth sphere
(outer darkness ?) or becomes active for evil. A round your world is a thick veil of black cold thoughts, and
we have great difficulty in penetrating it sometimes. B ut here I find a brilliant light ! Now tha reason
for this Is twofold : First, because you have found a medium who does not really belong to your world,
for her natural inclinations are all of this side, and I do not know how she bears with m aterial things at
a ll; secondly, the light is generated by harm onious conditions.” N ona added : “ Your circle makes a
broad beam of light. Goodness and love are light. All evil is darkness. Your light is a light not only
for us— your friends— but also for your enemies—no, I ought not to call them th a t— the poor misguided
souls (undeveloped spirits) on our side who would sometimes seek to use you to your hurt. B ut they cannot
do this unless you allow them to do so.”
116 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
AURAS AND RAYS J I 7
Nona says:
“ Did you know th a t all rooms are full of the influences of those who have lived in them ? People can
change n o t o n ly their auras, but also the atm ospheres of their homes. They can throw out from their
own auras all undesirable influences. Spirits form erly congenial find themselves no longer welcome and
are obliged to leave the changed aura. This is equally true of atm ospheres.”
“ H ave you noticed when some spiritually-m inded person enters a room full ot m aterially-m inded
people how the atm osphere becomes lighter ? He has brought with him bright spirits from whom the
darker spirits flee. Christ m eant this when he said : ‘L et your light so shine before men, th a t they m ay
see your good works, and glorify your F ath er which is in heaven.’ H e knew he was safe w herever he w ent.”
“ The auras of h a p p y p e o p le are of a genial brightness, as if lit by some invisible sun. T h at is the
type of aura which produces the best mediumship. I find it easier to contact people in th a t vibration.
Good spirits, even i n th e b o d y, appear radiant. Some are a lm o st as those who have passed over, by reason
of their brightness.”
She also gives a suggestion of danger to a sensitive in-m ingling w ith crowds : “ I find her aura so
p e rm e a te d with the auras of the holiday crowds she w ent into to-day, th a t I c a n n o t get th ro u g h . She m u s t
k e e p a w a y from all contam inating and unpleasant influences.” —“ N o n a .”
Dr. Kilner claim s th a t all organic structures have a special form of nerve aura. “ Though sub-
sensible, observation and experim ent alike seern to indicate th a t the nerve-aura is m aterial—an im ­
ponderable nervous ether, possibly related to odyle. It is thus at once a force and a medium (a vehicle)
susceptible of control by the will o f the operator and capable of sensory im pression : an atm osphere to take
shape at his com mand and to dissolve the m om ent volition ceases, or, when the habit of the m edium ’s
will has become fixed in th a t direction, to come and pass in visible apparitions, w ithout conscious objective
im pulse on his p art.” Thus the doctor attem pts to explain in term s of nerve aura em anations of the super­
norm al m anifestations in mediums, an idea supported later by the hypotheses of Morselli, Geley, Carrington,
Flournoy.
It is this emanation or nerve aura impressed on substances of various
kinds which enables the psychometrist to sense the events in connection
with the substance or article.
Allan Kardec thinks that the aura could be called “intelligent-
matter” and says :
“ From another point of view, this fluid (the aura) m ay be classed as forming p art of the m aterial
elem ent, it is nevertheless distinguished from it by certain special properties of its own. If it could be
classified sim ply and absolutely as m atter, there would be no reason why spirit should not also be classed
as m atter, it is the interm ediary between spirit and m atter—and susceptible of being made, through
its innum erable com binations under the direction of spirit, to produce an infinite variety of things of
which we know b u t a sm all portion. This universal, prim itive or elem entary fluid, is the agency em ployed
by spirit when acting on m atter. It is the principle w ithout which m atter would rem ain for ever in a
state of division and would never acquire the properties given to it by the state of ponderability.”
The manifold properties of the aura are far from being exhausted.
In Dr. Crawford’s experiments it assumed the form of sensitive rods,
strong as steel, yet so alert that they seemed endowed with a special con­
sciousness and will power.
The aura is a vital factor in mediumship. Sitters who are harmonious
and whose auras blend into beautiful colours are excellent members of a
circle, as the clairvoyant may see. If any fail to blend with the rest, a
gap is formed and seats must be changed till the auric or psychic circle
is balanced and complete, otherwise the inharmonious sitters must retire,
or poor results or none follow. A strange sitter brought into the circle
may destroy conditions, or, on the other hand, if harmonious, may help
the manifestation.
Drs. Zetta and Van Zelst found that electricity aided the results and
reduced the exhaustion of the medium and Kilner notes the effect of
electric currents on the aura, apparently dispersing it, or concentrating
it within the body of the patient to reappear with increased brilliancy
after the current ceased. This is a valuable point for the psychic research
student to develop.
Dr. Blondot, of Nancy, found that the human brain and nerves give
off rays which are capable of penetrating aluminium, black paper and
other opaque objects. He named them N-rays after the town of Nancy
and believed them to consist of four groups of ether vibrations. They are
said to be of long wave-length and near electro-magnetic waves in point
of frequency.
The discovery of N-rays was followed by the N '-rays and by the
demonstration by Lebon that all bodies emit psychic emanations, which
he called dark light (infra-red). Baraduc photographed the emanations
of the human hands. In psychic hands he found the luminosity radiating
from the lower base of the palm. Mental states had great influence over
the lines of light which he thus obtained. Mental distress was disclosed
by confused lines. Baraduc also photographed holy water at Lourdes
after a miraculous cure and a sacred wafer in a Catholic Church. He
found light effects on his plates, indicating psychic phenomena.
Prof. Cazzamalli, of Milan, constructed a delicate instrument by
which to register emanations given off by the brain. Enclosed in a
chamber impermeable to electro-magnetic vibrations from without,
with a medium in trance, the indicators reveal electro-magnetic waves
which evidently did not emanate from the medium.
In 1930 Dr. Jos. Bieniedel records experiments on the effect of
emanations on chemical solutions. The well-known green fluorescence of
uranium salt was employed and it was found that whilst in darkness no
fluorescence was visible, but when Frau Silbert took a glass of this solution
in her hand, a green fluorescence promptly appeared, and this was so
strong that the glow could be seen ten metres (eleven yards approximately)
away and the outline of the glass was plainly visible. If other persons took
up the glass no fluorescence was seen.
Sir Oliver Lodge in a lecture said :
“ H ere is a room where a tragedy occurred, w here a hum an spirit was strung w ith intense anguish.
Is there any trace of th a t agony still present, and able to be appreciated by an attuned or receptive
m ind ? I assert nothing except th a t it is not inconceivable. If it happens it m ay take m any forms—
th a t of vague disquiet, perhaps a dream or picture of the event as it occurred, or even im aginary sounds
or vague visions.”
The following is a personal experience of a close friend of mine.
Years ago my friend arrived at a small obscure village in the middle of
England, about 9 p.m., and engaged a room in the village hotel (a
glorified boarding house). Tired with travel, he at once went to rest
(as he expected) and soon fell asleep. About 11 p.m. he suddenly
awakened feeling freezing cold, trembling and cold sweat breaking out
all over him.
It was a warm summer night with a brilliant moon making everything
as clear as daylight and he saw the bedclothes covered with blood, drops
falling from the ceiling and walls dripping with more blood. Nauseated,
he quickly sprang out of bed, dressed and went out into the open air.
There being no other place available, he decided to spend the rest of the
night smoking and wandering about the pleasant lanes, enjoying the
beauty of the moonlit scenery, as it was impossible to rest in that room.
The next morning, returning for breakfast, he was asked how he had
slept and on describing what had happened, was told : “We are very
sorry, but that was the only room we had vacant and we did not like to
tell you that the landlord committed suicide three weeks ago, in that
room and bed, by cutting his throat.”
118 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
In the course of my business I have built all kinds of buildings, includ­
ing prisons and have noticed that, whereas a new prison has no specific
characteristics differing from any other new building, when I have had
occasion to measure an old prison for the purpose of altering and improv­
ing it, I found that, though it was vacant and scrupulously clean and
orderly, it has a peculiar and repulsive atmosphere, that tended to make
“the gorge rise” in a sensitive person and an almost irresistible desire to
get out of it as soon as may be. On leaving, the outer air seems doubly
fresh and sweet and one breathed deeply to “air out” one’s breathing
system, and only after a bath did one feel free from the contamination of
the degenerate crime atmosphere.
In an old combination court house and city hall, saturated for years
with an atmosphere of corrupt politics, leagued with crime, a similar nauseat­
ing aura affects a sensitive person on entering. The same desire to get
out and breathe the purer outer air is felt, even though the outer air is
physically diluted with gasoline fumes, etc., it still feels cleaner psychically.
On the other hand a concert hall or similar room, though empty,
give rise to pleasant and agreeable feelings on entering, as if the vibra­
tions still reverberated harmoniously in its atmosphere. Similarly a
house of worship, regardless of its specific orthodoxy, mosque, synagogue,
cathedral or temple, pervaded by the highest aspirations of thousands
of people, through several generations, inspires exalted longings and up-
reaching, happiness and peace, so that one feels “it is good to be here.”
AURAS AND RAYS 119
“It is not so much evidence that convinces men of something entirely
foreign to their habit of thought, as the discovery of a link between the
old and the new.”
P
SYCHIC soul, and metron measure. “A psychic power possessed
by certain individuals which enables them to divine the history of,
or events concerned with, a material object with which they come
into close contact.”
The exercise of this power is coupled with a community of sensation
of varying intensity. The physiological effect of the experimental objects
is very strong. When Mrs. Cridge examined a piece of lava from Kilauea
volcano, she was seized with terror and the feeling did not pass off for
more than an hour.
On examining a fragment of a mastodon’s tooth, Mrs. Denton said :
"M y impression is th a t it is a p art of some m onstrous anim al, probably a tooth. I feel like a perfect
monster, w ith heavy legs, unwieldy bead, and very large bones. I go down to a shallow stream to drink.
I can hardly speak m y jaws are so heavy. I feel like getting down on all fours. W hat a noise comes
through the woods. I have an im pulse to answer it. My ears are very large and leathery and I can
alm ost fancy they flap m y face as I move my head. There are some older ones than I. It seems, too,
so out of keeping to be talking with these heavy jaws. They are dark brow n as if they had been com­
pletely tanned. There is one old fellow, w ith large tusks, th a t looks very tough. I see several young
ones, in fact there is a whole herd."
Some influences prostrate the psychic and make her very ill. For
instance, an emetic held by a medium, caused vomiting.
There are many cases on record in which the bodies of “dead” men
have been traced through psychometry. A man came to Mrs. Middleton
Higgins, Davenport, Iowa, in great trouble because his brother was
missing. From the cap of the missing man she described him and said
that he had stumbled, when walking at night by the riverside and fallen
in and drowned. (Search had been made and dynamite used, but the
body had not been recovered.) She told him that the current of the river
had wedged the body between two rocks, and said if he would take her
along the river she would indicate the place. At a certain spot she said :
“He is here.” But after some dredging and searching no body was found.
She told them to go and get a long pole and search among some rocks she
pointed out. Something soft was touched and eventually the body was
recovered there, the head having caught between two rocks and anchored
the body. All parties were strangers to the medium.
From a shell picked up on the beach at Vera Cruz, a Mexican woman
gave the following reading :
" I am under w ater and feel a great w eight pressing on my body. I am surrounded by fishes of all
kinds, colours, shapes and sizes. I see w hite and pink coral. I also see different kinds of plants, some of
C h a p t e r 14
PSYCHOMETRY AND TELEPATHY
PSYGHOMETRY AND TELEPATHY 121
them w ith large leaves. The w ater has a dark green, transparent colour. I am am ong th e creatures,
b u t they do not seem to notice m y presence, as they are not afraid of me in spite of touching me as they
pass by.”
From a piece of leather from the casing of an army revolver, carried
in the war by a sergeant, the psychometrist learned :
“ I am in a tannery evidently. M any skins hanging on the walls—” (then the vision changed). “ It
is a cold, grey, foggy w inter day. I see a group of uniform ed men w earing grey coats. I hear the sound
of bugles, the rattling of rifle shots, the roaring of cannon and sharp words of com mand. I t smells of
gunpowder. U ndoubtedly a b attle is raging.”
Many psychometrists assert that they are simply instruments and
spirits do the reading. But others repudiate spirit intervention and
consider psychometry a personal gift, a sensitivity to the influence
possessed by various objects. This influence or emanation is likened, by
Dr. Waseilawski, to the rhabdic force which bends the dowser’s rod.
The method is individual. The percipient is lax and passive. When
the clue is given them some psychometrists feel themselves to be immedi­
ately at the place, others travel there. As a rule a clue, containing an
“influence,” is indispensable, but may sometimes be replaced by a name
written on a piece of paper. This, however, is very exceptional.
It is usually said that by psychometry a medium cannot get a reading
for herself, but an incident related in Light is of interest. Mrs. Cannock
was handed an article worn by herself, without her knowing its origin.
She not only gave a character reading ofherself, but also made a prediction
which proved correct.
Psychometric impressions may come so spontaneously as to seriously
annoy the sensitive in ordinary life. Frau Plaat could not go into the British
Museum, for the objects were literally “shouting” their histories at her.
Psychometry is just a label or word and explains nothing. Conan
Doyle compares psychometric impressions to shadows on a screen. The
screen is the ether, “the whole material universal being embedded in and
interpenetrated by this subtle material, which is too fine for wind or other
coarser material to influence it.”
Messages are frequently given in answer to a question on a folded
paper held by the medium, not only the answer, but other related matters
concerning either the writer of the question or some surrounding con­
dition. How these things occur is a problem to be solved by experiment,
study and reflection.
If certain psychic vibrations, or rather influences, are set up in the
ether, we, the mass of men, have not the proper faculties developed to
perceive and apprehend them, just as an unconscious person would not
see or hear the flash and sound of a gun, only the sensitive medium can
become aware of the fact and give its message to their less unfolded
brethren.
In the East, where ages of deep study has prepared the mind of the
psychic student to grasp these (to us) abstract facts, they have learned
that there is a complicated anatomy of the human body of which our
Western scientists know nothing. In connection with the special unfold-
ment of a medium, we have been instructed, from the spirit-world, that
“we are changing your chemical composition, to enable you to open your
psychic vision ; not the chemicals you know, but chemicals beyond the
scope of your present knowledge, psychic chemicals.”
H
For some time previous to a manifestation of phenomena, especially
physical, the medium will be uneasy and oppressed, or “on edge,” so to
speak. This may last but a short time previous to the demonstration, or,
as in some special and unusual experience, days and even weeks ahead.
When a seance is in progress the medium is, more or less, irritable,
excitable and “upset.” As soon as the seance is over, however, the medium
is immediately relieved, often experiencing a complete reversal of this
condition and being languid and passive, the effect of the psychic as well
as physical drain upon her. These conditions make a medium at times
hard to get on with and show the need for special consideration and care.
We are often told by the spirit-people that they have to prepare the
medium in advance for the production of psychic phenomena, as well as
the sitters and the room in a less degree.
Every message should not be blindly accepted or rejected ; common
sense is necessary in dealing with psychic matters as in dealing with any
other.
When the Rosemary Records were first issued I wrote to Dr. Frederick H.
Wood (we were complete strangers) and he handed my letter, unopened,
to Rosemary (the wonderful medium for the amazing recovery of
the pronunciation of the Egyptian language of 3500 years ago). (See
Thirty Centuries After and Ancient Egypt Speaks.) She gave him twelve
items regarding me. I found eleven points quite accurate, but the
twelfth I could not confirm, relating to my frequently taking offmy glasses.
But on mentioning the matter to an interested friend I was told that it was
quite correct, that I had a habit of often touching and removing my
glasses to wipe them, when I was deeply interested in what was being
said. This habit I was not aware of. So Rosemary’s psychometry was
proved 100 per cent correct, though it is but a minor phase of her remark­
able mediumship.
122 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
T elepathy
Telepathy : The transfer of thought by other than normal means,
without contact, and regardless of space and time. So much has been
said and written of this phase of psychic phenomena that reference is
made to the latest scientific investigation proving its actuality, Extra
Sensory Perception, by Dr. Rhine of Duke University, and his later Frontiers
of the Mind, along the lines of orthodox psychology, not psychic under­
standing.
It seems somewhat related to Psychometry, as it requires contact of
some sort through similarity of tastes, environment or relationship for its
best manifestation.
Spontaneous experiences may be ofinterest. When I first left England
for U.S.A. I wrote a weekly letter to my mother on Sunday afternoons
and she wrote to me Sunday evenings, the difference in time making the
letters simultaneously written. I would ask questions relating to affairs
in England and receive letters, which had crossed mine in mid-ocean,
giving me the information, at the time she received mine asking the
questions.
At lectures I often knew what was coming a sentence ahead, and on
PSYCHOMETRY AND TELEPATHY 123
occasion, when the speaker paused to mentally select a word, five suitable
words would flash into my mind and I mentally selected the best for the
purpose, on the instant that the speaker spoke that very word. Was I
getting his ideas or was he getting mine ? We know that a sympathetic
audience amazingly helps an actor, speaker, etc., by harmony ofvibration
and ideas, and probably there is a psychic co-operation on part of the
audience, tending to carry his efforts beyond his normal standard.
Often my wife and I would start to say the same t’ ing, at the same time,
and using the same words, and would break off, laughingly asking :
“Who is going to say this ?”
Telepathy has been alleged, in less instructed days, to account for all
spirit-messages, but that idea is exploded, since in telepathy one can only
get out of another mind what is actually in it. Hence, when we get some­
thing, from discarnate minds, unknown to anyone and have to verify
it afterwards—telepathy being the means of communicating between
discarnate minds, we are told by them-—-it is evidently telepathy between
physically embodied and discarnate minds (spirits).
Chapter 15
PREVISION
“Your sons andyour daughters shall prophesy.”
P
ERHAPS the most striking and interesting of phenomena, to most
people, is prophecy, foretelling, prevision, premonition, seeing or
“knowing” events before they happen, in visions, dreams or by
intuition. Sometimes a forecast may be made, but the time cannot be
given, others can also give the time with varying accuracy.
“ For w hether there be prophecies, they shall fail.” i Corinthians xiii, 8 (see page 16).
Much heart-burning and consternation have been caused among
large numbers of sincere and earnest people, because of the failure of
many prophecies to the effect that there would be no war (1939) and yet
war is here. Perhaps the old legend of Cassandra may be instructive.
Cassandra, the most beautiful of the daughters of Priam, King of
Troy, and his wife, Hecuba, was courted by the god, Apollo. She asked
and obtained the gift of true prophecy, but on her failure to carry out her
promise, the god added the curse that she should never be believed. Her
true predictions of her country’s history, including the downfall and
destruction of Troy, were regarded as the ravings of a lunatic and laughed
at, though if her advice had been taken the disaster would not have occurred.
But in that case her prophecies would not have come true !
This is the dilemma of prophecy. Or the prediction must be so
symbolic and obscure as not to be clear till after the event has occurred.
A prediction was given to Dr. Geley, noted psychic researcher, of death
in an airplane accident, which was not clear until after his death in a
plane soon after, yet it did not warn him as applying to himself. If it
had and he had not gone on the journey, the prophecy would have been
falsified.
There are so many factors involved in prophecy that it is far from being
the simple thing it seems to the unthinking. It is natural to ask why have
otherwise trusted guides given us wrong ideas on the matter ? (Or,
giving them right, they have filtered through the medium wrong ?)
After all, isprophecy goodfor us ? What a curse it would be if I learned that
I was to die in one year from an incurable disease, suffering meanwhile
the tortures that might accompany such disease ; or to lose my nearest
and dearest by a sudden accident ? How enervating to my character would it
be to know that I have no need to fear, as I am destined to live in comfort
and good health without any trouble ? Those who have lived in the
Orient, where belief in an unavoidable fate is common, know how it
124
saps the energy and courage and even the desire to struggle for better
things.
One thing the mistaken prophecy proves—thatfree will exists and the
future cannot be foretold with finality, even by those with more than
human vision and wisdom. One good thing derives from these errors,
that it will tend to stop or reduce the constant attempts to “live in
advance of ourselves” by prying into the future. y
Why should there be such consternation because of this incorrect
forecast ? Such occurrences were known of old.
Jerem iah and H ananiah prophesied flat contradictions, one urging the people not to accept slavery
under the King of Babylon, the other trying to induce them to submit (Jerem iah xxviii, 9-17). They
could not both be right. . . they speak out of their own heart—not out of the m outh of the L ord”
(Jerem iah xxiii, 16).
“This generation shall not pass aw ay till all these things are fulfilled” (Luke xxi, 32). This was a
false prophecy, never fulfilled, and there are m any ethers.
Some of the more outstanding guides indicate that they are, like our
weather forecasters, judging from conditions and the trend of events as
they see them. They are not, and do not claim to be, omniscient and infallible.
One guide illustrated the condition to me as : “Imagine yourself on a
mountain, with two roads going down and meeting at the bottom. A
motor-car is travelling down each road at a speed that will bring them into
collision at the bottom, as the drivers cannot see each other. The observer
prophesies this apparent collision in prospect. But one or both cars may
turn off on a hidden road, or one car may stop due to car trouble, and
thus no collision occurs, and you say the prophecy was false. The
prophecy was true as observed, but later developments changed the con­
ditions and the events falsified the prophecy.
The strong and confusing influence which the sitters’ fixed ideas have
on the medium is too often overlooked by the inexperienced. When in
trance the medium is often affected by the sitter, ignorantly and uncon­
sciously, but none the less effectively, destroying the even and neutral state
of mind essential to her, or his, receiving accurate and correct impressions
from the guides. The medium’s problem is difficult enough without this
interference, a fact too little understood.
Many of the more advanced guides refuse to give prophecies, and not
only because of liability to error, but, more important, as one puts it :
“Who am I to interfere with your destiny,'you must use your own brains
and decide for yourself.” These are the same words in which Nona,
through Dr. Wood’s medium Rosemary, refused to prophesy : “Who am
I to interfere with your destiny ?” (Rosemary Records.) These remarks
were given several years and five thousand miles apart. When it was
objected that the sitter might make a mistake, the answer was : “That is
part of your necessary experience.”
Fortune-telling and fatalism have no place in mediumship. If, as an
occasional incident in some more important message, prevision occurs, it
is to be looked on as a minorfactor, and the reality of the vital message kept
to the fore.
On the day I left Davenport, Iowa, I met a man with whom I was
slightly acquainted. I knew he was a spiritualist, though not a recognized
medium. I mentioned that I was leaving permanently for Chicago that
day. He told me at once : “You will not live in Chicago, but in a small
PREVISION 125
town west of the city. You will not get any business until the beginning
of November.” It was then mid-August. Actually I did not get any
business until the last week in October. I intended to reside about six
miles north of Chicago, to give my children the advantage of the lake-
front for boating, etc., but one son (an electrical engineer) joined the staff
of the Western Electric Company. The works being ten miles west of the
city, the time and expense of daily travel from the six miles north was
against this. During the next ten months I found this pretty English type
of village, Riverside, twelve miles due west of Chicago, and convenient
to the Western Electric offices. I had never heard of the village when the
prophecy was made, and it was quite contrary to the plans I had in
mind. As I looked a little surprised at his message, he added : “I don’t
know what I am talking about, but your mother is standing at your left
side. She is telling me this,” and he then accurately described her. She
had passed away eight years before.
Some years back I was supervising the construction of a large building
in Davenport, Iowa. A medium at a seance said to me : “I see a large
building unfinished, and a man falling from the roof truss. Do you have
anything to do with buildings ?” I said : “Yes.” She added : “I see
snow flying. This accident will happen when the weather gets colder,
near Christmas.” It was then mid-August. Being busy, I noted the
message and then forgot it until a man did fall, in December, not from the
roof truss, but, being sent to clear off an unusually early blanket of snow
from the concrete balcony, he slipped and plunged headlong over the
edge of the main floor twelve feet below. His instinctively extended
arms saved his head, but one arm, one wrist, and one leg were broken,
from which he recovered after some months in the hospital. I saw him
two years afterwards, when revisiting Davenport, and he was quite
recovered and is in charge of the heating plant of that building.
About that time I was sitting talking one evening, in bright light,
with a group of friends, not a seance, merely a friendly visit. As I looked
across the room at a little girl of ten years of age, who was in the room,
she looked worried, and said to her mother : “ Mamma, what is the matter
with that man ? (pointing to me). Why is his head wrapped up in a white
cloth ? Did he hurt it ?” The mother looked at me and said : “I have
been seeing that for some time, but did not like to mention it. Are you
working where something might fall on you ?” “Yes,” I said, “I am
inspecting a building, and a brick or plank might fall on me.” She
answered : “I think something will happen to you in the next week.
Be careful of your head.” Three days afterwards I was bitten between the
eyes at the root of the nose by some insect. The wound was poisoned, and
the doctor had to put a pad of cotton on it, fixing it in place with strips
of sticking-plaster over the head. The child foresaw the incident, though
the mother incorrectly interpreted it.
Dreams have a varying value, from the solving of problems to the
revelation of events, but are usually too vague or symbolic to be of
practical value.
When I was a young man, starting in business on my own account as
architect, one of my first buildings was a church. The roof design I
proposed was a novel one to me and in figuring out the stresses and strains
126 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
involved, I found myself at a standstill. Abandoning my efforts for the
day I went home. That night I dreamed of working out the roof trusses
and solving the whole problem, and I sprang out of bed at 2 a.m. and
made notes of what I had learned in my dream. The next day I found it
quite simple to finish the roof design from these notes.
Dreams may be symbolic or literal. In 1894, when living in St.
John’s, N.F., my mother and two sisters dreamed, on the same night, in
November, that all the banks had failed. The recital next morning so
disturbed my father that he determined to send all our funds to England or
New York for safe keeping. The sons, including myself, laughed at the
idea of taking notice of a mere dream, even a triple one, and induced my
father to dismiss the matter. We thought we were wise. Three weeks
afterwards, alas, all the banks did fail, causing untold distress and loss
to the inhabitants of the whole island ! One bank took thirteenyears to pay
Jive cents on the dollar, and even the Government had to borrow money at
ten per cent in New York to carry on. We, of course, were badly caught
in the crash.
The two principal bank buildings were located within sight of our
house and we later learned that, for months before, the groups of worried
directors had been anxiously studying ways and means to avert the
catastrophe. It would seem that their anxiety was (unconsciously) broad­
cast mentally, and that my mother and sisters picked up the thoughts in
their sleep on the same night. Mass telepathy, so to speak.
Sa v ed b y a D ream
In the October num ber of Blackwood's Magazine, 1930, the first officer of a subm arine relates a rem ark­
able incident. A fter a very strenuous tw enty hours in a very rough sea, the ship had dived to the bottom
to give everyone a rest. Ten p.m. was fixed for surfacing again ; a w atchm an was set. The w riter had
a dream in which he saw his sister (who had a responsible post in a m unition factory) in her office apart
from the m ain workroom. To his surprise she was dozing. Then, to his horror, he saw a snake of fire
creeping towards the main room ; next m om ent, a violent explosion occurred. The noise and the horror
awoke him ; he found himself sitting up, having hanged his head violently against the bunk above him.
I t cleared his brain, he saw everyone else lying round dead asleep, the w atchm an too ; glancing a t the
clock, he saw it was ten o’clock, th e hour they were to surface. H e felt his heart ham m ering, and knew
fresh air m ust be got im m ediately. He m anaged to shake a few others awake and got sufficient help to
raise the ship. At the surface, he found, to his surprise, th a t it was daylight ! They had slept the clock
round. “And but for your dream," said the captain, to whom he related it, “ we should never have waked up."
When, after further adventure and dangers they reached harbour, he found a letter from his sister
inquiring anxiously after his welfare, and telling him th a t there had been a terrible accident in her works
by an explosion ; that, ordinarily, she would have been in the m ain room at th a t hour, b u t quite inex­
plicably, had dozed off in her office ; in th a t sleep she had seen him and all the crew asleep in his sub­
marine, knew they were not dead, b u t sensed a dire peril and willed w ith all her m ight to awaken him.
The next mom ent the explosion awoke her. I t was ju st ten o’clock.
During the depression a large concern employing about 25,000 laid
off some 10,000, among them an expert graduate electrical engineer.
Mentioning this to a fine medium, she said : “Isn’t there an airport near
your place ?” (There is about two miles away.) “He can get something
to do there,” she said. “Tell him.” I did so, but he did not think it
worth while to try as he was not an airman. A couple ofweeks afterwards
he sent some models of engines, etc., to a model show, and there met a
department head of the airport, who was so interested in his work on his
hobby that he urged the young man to join their staff, which he did,
being engaged in inspecting gauges, gyro-compasses and other fine and
intricate instruments essential to safe flying, just the work he was fitted
for. Mentioning his appointment to the medium some time afterwards
she said that he would not stay long as he would be called back to his old
place soon. Six weeks later he was recalled, but a physical examination
PREVISION 127
was required, and, being anxious to go back, his pulse when tested was
“too rapid,” owing to his anxiety, and he was not passed. He tried four
times, the medium repeatedly asserting that he would be taken back.
On the fifth test he was accepted, as she had said. (At that time a news
report said that a man had just died, aged ninety-four years, who had been
rejected for the civil war seventy-seven years before because of “rapid heart­
beat !”) Thus when this young man did not even go to look for the airport
job, it came his way, as the medium said, in spite ofthis. Also, he returned
to his former position, as she said, in spite of unfavourable appearances.
The Celtic, Lapps, Finns, Gypsies and other races have this remark­
able faculty more commonly than most others. The jungle dwellers also
are thus endowed.
A friend told me of a personal experience at the time it happened,
partly telepathic and partly premonition. He had gone down to the beach
for a swim one Sunday morning and sat on the sand a moment before
going into the water, when he suddenly had a vivid feeling that something
was wrong at his home and that his wife needed him badly. Without
waiting for his swim he at once returned home, to find his wife in tears with
a telegram on the table notifying her that her brother had just been killed
in a motor-car accident out of town.
Premonition : “When one feels or senses an event about to happen.”
A young man, returning from the war 1914-18, told me that he had been
on duty for an extra long period and being thoroughly tired out, sat down
on the fire-step of a trench to rest. Presently he felt like moving away
from that spot, but was too tired to make that much effort. He said :
“Something made me feel that I must move at once.” So he reluctantly
got up and moved farther down the trench. When he had gone some dis­
tance and rounded a bend, he heard a great crash behind him and, turn­
ing back to see, he found that a shell had exploded and destroyed the
trench where he had been sitting scarcely a moment before. Telepathy
from the enemy will not explain, and even so the gun was probably not
loaded at the first premonition ; owing to distance the enemy did not
know within yards of where it would fall, so they had no knowledge to
“telepath” even if inclined to do so, and they had no psychic cord of
rapport with this young man.
Predictions. A few years ago I was planning to take a vacation to
Winnipeg, Manitoba, about nine hundred miles, my son driving. Meet­
ing Mrs. Goult, a psychic lady I knew in Chicago, on the sunny street,
I paused to greet her, remarking casually that I was taking this trip.
She at once said : “Your wife is here, she will go with you. You will
have a pleasant time, but will meet an unusual storm on the way.” (My
wife passed on six years before.) It was June. Weather perfect all the
way, except the second day out. We stopped for lunch about noon, and
on resuming our journey I remarked to my son : “This weather is per­
fect. The prediction was wrong !” But in an hour, a small cloud
appeared right ahead, which rapidly spread over the sky, and about
3 p.m. we were in the midst of a subtropical deluge, up to the hubs in
water, where we had to pass under bridges and the road dipped. We
passed others who were stalled, but we had no trouble. By 4.30 p.m. the
sudden storm had passed and was followed by a wonderfully beautiful
128 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
sunset. Except for this storm, “out of the blue” so to speak, the trip was
most pleasant. Thus the prediction of a week before was literally fulfilled.
As the previous incidents show, events can at times be accurately
forecasted in various ways. Generally, the best type of medium is the
vehicle or mediator for a teacher or guide, more intent on giving the real
and wonderfulphilosophy of life that will aid us in right living here and when
we are freed from the physical body, and which may or may not be of
concrete value to us now. Others again are occupied wholly by the
earthly conditions and these introduce prophecies from time to time,
seemingly to convince those who are more dense and material in their
concepts.
Again “majorities are not always right.” Some years ago I purposed
entering upon a certain course. A number of medium’s guides (and my
own through them) said that I should do so and that the work would be a
success.
Incidentally, I was writing to a medium about eight hundred miles
away and mentioned this work. Twice he wrote and urged me to wait
several years before starting it. He was quite right. The others were not.
Impressed by the half-dozen local mediums, through whom approval
came, I went ahead and the thing ‘fellflat." The local mediums, knowing
me, more or less, were subconsciously influenced to say what was in my
own mind, perhaps, or what, out of goodwill to me, they would like to
happen.
It is common for mediums to say : “I can get more for a stranger I
never saw before than for a well-known friend.” That is because their
minds are indifferent to, and unbiased, by the stranger, which is not the
case with persons known to them.
Another curious thing, the guides very rarely give personal messages
to their mediums directly. I have heard a guide give instructions to the
husband of an entranced medium concerning her health, to relay to her
when she came out of trance. On another occasion a guide gave some
information with the remark : “Do not tell my ‘instrument’ (medium)
as she does not like this.”
Again a message was being given through a conscious medium, when
the guide interrupted himself, to remark to the listener : “My instrument
is strongly disagreeing with me on this, but it is so, nevertheless.”
Sometimes a medium will ask someone in the class or circle to ask
the guide for some personal information or advice she needs for herself.
The information will be given when the medium is in trance and later
given to her by the sitter. Thus the medium gets things indirectly for
herself. They often remark : “I can never get anything for myself.”
Just as many trance mediums never hear themselves, so physical
mediums are sometimes handicapped. I knew an excellent materializing
medium who told me she had never seen a materialization. It seems that
she herself was so powerful that when she went elsewhere to a material­
izing seance, the other medium objected to her presence, because, in
some way, she crippled the manifestation by drawing all the strength
from the demonstrating medium, and so, this visiting medium never got
a chance to see others giving materialization.
PREVISION 129
C h a p t e r 16
TRANCE
“He hath said, which heard the words of God, which saw the vision of
the Almighty,falling into a trance, but having his eyes open.”
Numbers xxiv, 4.
“For more than once when I
Sat all alone, revolving in myself
The word that is the symbol of myself,
The mortal limit of the self was loosed,
And passed into the Nameless, as a cloud
Melts into heaven. I touched my limbs—the limbs
Were strange, not mine—and yet no shade of doubt
But utter clearness, and through loss of self
The gain of such large life as, matched with ours
Were Sun to spark-unshadowable in words,
Themselves but shadows of a shadow world.”
T ennyson.
B
ECAUSE ofits resemblance to trance and misunderstandings arising
from this, it will help to glance at Mesmerism and its later sequence,
Hypnotism. About 1770, Anton Mesmer, a medical man ofVienna,
experimented in a novel way and discovered certain mental and physio­
logical conditions, analogous to trance, and used this knowledge for the
purpose of healing certain types of disorder. He applied magnetic plates
to his patient’slimbs and effected cures. Later he went to Paris to become
famous as the exponent ofa new system ofcure, through animal magnetism.
Puysegur followed, attributing many curious phenomena to “rapport”
and a magnetic effluence from the operator. The patients could see it
radiating as a brilliant flash of light from the operator. A young peasant
of twenty-three fell asleep in the operator’s arms and began to talk. On
awakening he remembered nothing. This was the discovery of somnam­
bulism.
Deleuze insisted on the magnetic fluid theory and pointed out its
analogy to nerve force. Abbe Farier (1813) propounded the theory of
the power of imagination, developed later by Coue ; Montravel dis­
covered transposition of the senses in the somnambule and posited the
sixth-sense theory. Dr. J. R. Buchanan developed a theory of nerve-aura
as the connecting link between will and consciousness. Andrew Jackson
Davis was started on his career of seership by experiments for medical
purposes.
130
Braid evolved animal magnetism into hypnotism. He produced the
results of mesmerism without a magnet. Dr. Charcot, in France (1879),
began his work at the Salpetriere Hospital, Paris. He claimed that
hypnotic conditions could only be obtained with neuropaths or hysterical
subjects. The school of Nancy claimed suggestion as the potent cause.
Boirac says that there is a natural unity in the three orders of phenomena
(animal magnetism, suggestion and hypnotism) as in heat, light and
electricity. In 1921, Dr. Sydney Alrutz, Upsala, claimed to have proved
by experiment, that there is a nervous effluence, and Prof. Frany, ofZurich
showed by electrical tests an emission from the fingers and called it
“Anthropeflux,” verifying experiments by an engineer, E. K. Muller.
The indiscriminate use of hypnotism by amateurs is a grave menace
to the subject. Studying the practice of hypnotism, some forty years
ago I noted that a subject, constantly being used by the instructor,
became a mere echo of the operator and seemed to have lost his initiative
and independence, relying on the operator for every action, like a feeble­
minded child. Sufficient is not yet known of the Psyche and its activities
to deal loosely in this matter.
Trance, “to pass over,” a “temporary suspension of sensation and
volition, while the heart and lungs continue to act.” “A state in which
the soul seems to have passed out ofthe body, into another state of being.”
It is now generally understood that trance is a natural condition, but like
sleep, which it resembles, it has its proper time, place and conditions.
No one would try to sleep while working out a mathematical problem,
driving a motor-car, etc. So with trance, under proper conditions of
time and place, these phenomena are natural and proper, differingfrom
sleep in that trance (as least for the purpose of manifesting psychic
phenomena) uses energy, while sleep restores it. Also those present are
drawn upon, more or less, to supply some of the energy and reinforce
that of the medium. This is why the sitters should be carefully chosen
and investigated, they being, in their degree, as essential as the medium,
who is also a unifying and blending influence. No two mediums are
alike in their mediumship or in its methods.
In ancient times, sleep, trance and so-called death (the “arising out o f' the physical body to a state
of continuing spiritual life) were ignorantly confused w ith each other, because of their superficial resem­
blance (phenomenon). Psalms xiii, 3 : “ the sleep (?) of death.” 1 Kings ii, 10 : “ A nd D avid slept (?)
w ith his fathers.” Acts xi, 5 : “ . . . and in a trance I saw a vision . . .” Acts xxii, 17 : “ . . . and while
I prayed in the Temple, I fell into a trance.” Genesis xxviii, 16 : “ And Jacob awaked out of his sleep (?)”
(i.e. trance). M atthew ix, 24 : “ . . . She is not dead, b u t sleepeth” (cataleptic trance). Luke ix, 32 :
“ Now Peter, and they th a t were w ith him, were heavy w ith sleep (?)” M ark ix, 6 : “ . . . for he wist not
w hat he said” (heavy with sleep describes deep trance and dazed on arousing is common when coming
out of trance).
Tertullian in his De Anima (a.d. 220) says wonderingly :
“W e have to-day among us a sister who has received gifts in the nature of revelations which she
experiences in spirit in the church am id the rites of the Lord’s D ay, falling into ecstasy” (trance) “she
converses w ith angels, sees and hears mysteries and reads the hearts of certain people and brings healings
to those who ask. Among other things she has said : ‘A soul was shown to me in bodily form and it seemed
as if it m ight be touched, soft, lucid, of the colour of air and of the hum an form in every detail.’ ”
A great medium is here indicated, and she is treated with reverence and
awe by a leader of the early Church. What a contrast to his successors.
And about a century and a half later Eusebius laments that the phenomena
were declining and that the Church had become unworthy of them. From
one hundred years before, the Church neglected the spiritual realities to
TRANCE 131
build up power and wealth and became a mere commercial, politico-
ecclesiastical corporation, though nominally a Church.
Trance conditions may be so slight as to be practically imperceptible
or so complete as to become rigid catalepsy. This last condition is not
unusual in materialization and so closely resembles transition or, as
commonly termed, death, that even physicians may be deceived.
D. D. Home testified :
“ I feel for two or three m inutes in a dream y state, then I become quite dizzy and then I lose all
consciousness. W hen I awake I find m y feet and limbs cold and it is difficult to restore circulation. W hen
told of w hat has taken place during the trance, it is quite unpleasant to me and I ask those present not
to tell me a t once, when I awake. I m yself doubt w hat they tell me.”
Lord Adare, when speaking of Home’s trance state, says :
“The change which takes place is very striking ; he becomes, as it were, a being of a higher type.
There is a union of sweetness, tenderness and earnestness in his voice and m anner which is very attractive.”
Mrs. Mellon says :
“ I feel a cold shivering, a sensation as of w ater running down m y back, noise in m y ears, and a feeling
as if I were sinking down into the earth. Then I lose consciousness.”
132 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
Mrs. Piper describes her sensations as :
“ I feel as if som ething were passing over my brain, m aking it num b ; a sensation sim ilar to th a t
experienced when etherized, only the unpleaasnt odour of the ether is absent. I feel a little cold, too; not
very, ju st a little, as if a cold breeze passed over me, and people and objects become sm aller, until they
finally d isappear; then I know nothing more until I wake up, when the first thing I am conscious of is#
bright light, a very bright light, then darkness, such darkness. My hands and arm s begin to tingle, just
as one’s foot tingles after it has been ‘asleep’ and I see, as from a great distance, objects and people in the
room ; b u t they are very sm all and very black.” She also notes th a t on awakening from trance, people
around her look so thick and heavy th a t she wonders how they can move.
She notes three stages : (i) in which the medium was partly conscious
of her surroundings, but saw things distorted and grotesque ; (2) when
she was influenced by spirits and lost contact with the physical world ;
(3) deep trance, when loss of consciousness was complete and the body
became anaesthetic and automatic writing commenced.
Prof. James found her lips and tongue insensible to pain, while she was
in trance. Dr. Hodgson confirmed this by putting salt on her tongue
and applying strong ammonia to her nostrils. Prof. James made a small
incision on her left wrist. During trance it did not bleed, but no notice
was taken of it. Afterwards it bled freely and she bore the scar for the
rest of her life. Prof. Sir Oliver Lodge pushed a needle suddenly into
her hand, while another test caused numbness and paralysis in the right
hand for some time afterwards. It is necessary to say that these tests
were conducted by experts in this study, with a powerful test medium
md under special and proper conditions. It would be inhuman for the
inexpert amateur to attempt any physical tests and dangerous to the
medium. The spirit-controls have also to be consulted and their advice
followed on such occasions.
Describing Mrs. Piper’s trances, Sir Oliver Lodge writes :
“ In the old days the process of going into trance seemed rather a painful process, or, a t least, a process
involving muscular e ffo rt; there was some am ount of contortion of the face and sometimes a slight tearing
of the hair ; and the same actions accompanied the return to consciousness. Now the trance seems nothing
more than an exceptionally heavy sleep, entered into w ithout effort— a deep sleep w ith the superficial
appearance of th a t induced by chloroform ; and the return to consciousness, though slow and for a time
accompanied by confusion, is easy and natural. For half an hour or so after the trance had disappeared
the medium continued slightly dazed and only partly herself. A record was also made of the rem arks
of Mrs. Piper, during the period of aw akening from trance—-part of them nearly always consisted of
expressions of adm iration for the state of experience she was leaving, and of repulsion—alm ost disgust—
a t the commonplace terrestrial surroundings in which she found herself on returning. Even a bright day
was described as dingy or dark, and the sitter was stared at in an unrecognizing way, and described as a
full and ugly person, or sometimes a negro.” It is im portant to quote from among the m um bled rem arks
during her return to consciousness : “ I came in on a cord, a silver cord.” Before she became conscious
she heard a snap, sometimes two. They were physiological experiences. She s a id : ‘‘Sounds like wheels
clicking together, then snaps.”
When I first sat with Mrs. Middleton Higgins for physical phenomena
(she sat outside of the cabinet), a great deal of writhing and twisting took
place, with groaning as if in great pain, difficult breathing and distress,
and similarly on returning to consciousness. During the course of the
following year, however, these disturbing symptoms gradually disappeared
and the process became more like falling asleep and in a shorter time than
before. Sometimes, with a good congenial circle and other good con­
ditions, she remained apparently fully conscious and would sometimes
talk during the materializations.
Swedenborg believed that his powers were connected with a system
ofrespiration. He said that in communing with spirits he hardly breathed
for half an hour at a time.
Regarding Rudi Schneider, Price writes :
“ I have tried to sim ulate the deep and rapid breathing of Rudi in the trance state. This breathing
has been likened to a steam engine, a tyre being pum ped up, etc. Taking oS my collar and tie and w ith
m y w atch in my hand, I found th a t in six and a quarter m inutes of sim ilar breathing I was exhausted
and could not continue. I have known Rudi to continue this hard breathing, interspersed w ith spasms
and the usual clonic movements, for seventy-five m inutes w ithout cessation, and this w hile being held
and in a m ost uncom fortable position, while of course I was quite free.”
Trance does not always come at will and may come when not desired,
though this is not usual. The medium brings back no remembrance of
what has passed. Seemingly he is an entirely different being, for all
practical purposes, while in the state oftrance. His physiological functions
vary widely from his normal ones. Florence Marryat says that Bessie
Williams ate like a sparrow and of the simplest things normally, but
“Dewdrop,” her guide, liked indigestable food and ate it freely, yet the
medium felt no inconveniences from it.
To be roused from trance by a materialized spirit is rare. Katie King
roused Florence Cook, her medium, when the time of her farewell arrived
and a tearful scene was witnessed between the two at parting. Florence
Marryat describes a similar scene she witnessed with Miss Showers.
‘‘The spirit ‘Peter’ roused Rosie by shaking her and calling her nam e, holding me by one hand as he
did so. As Miss Showers yawned and woke up from her trance, the hand slipped from mine and ‘Peter’
evaporated. W hen she sat up I said to her gently : ‘I am here. Peter brought me in and was sitting
by m y side, on the m attress until ju st this m om ent.’ ‘Ha, H a !’ laughed his voice, close to m y ear. ‘And
I’m still here, m y dears, though you can’t see me.’ ”
Monck was once awakened by common consent of the materialized
spirit and the sitters.
A medium is often called an “instrument” by the spirit-operators
and as often the spirit-visitors speak of seeing “your light” and describe
a light as being visible to them in and over the seance-room. Dr.
Hodgson comments on this “light” :
‘‘The statem ents of ‘com m unicators,’ as to w hat occurs on the physical sidd, m ay be p u t in general
terms, as follows : We all have bodies composed of ‘luminiferous ether’ enclosed in our flesh and blood
bodies The relation of Mrs. P iper’s ethereal body to the ethereal world, in which the ‘com m unicators’
claim to dwell, is such th a t a special store of peculiar energy is accum ulated in connection with her organism,
and appears to them as a ‘light.’ Mrs. Piper’s ethereal body is rem oved by them , and her ordinary body
appears as a shell filled w ith this ‘light.’ Several ‘com m unicators’ m ay be in contact w ith this ‘light’ at
the same tim e. There are two chief masses of it in her case, one connected w ith the head, the other in
connection w ith the right arm and hand. L atterly, th a t in connection w ith the hand has been ‘brighter’
TRANCE 133
134 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
than th a t in connection w ith the head. If the ‘com m unicator’ gets into contact w ith the ‘light’ and thinks
his thoughts, thev tend to be reproduced by the movements of Mrs. P iper’s organism. Very few can
produce vocal effects, even when in contact w ith the ‘light’ of the head, but practically all can produce
writing movements when in contact w ith the ‘light’ of the hand. Upon the am ount and brightness of this
‘light’ the com m unicator depends. W hen Mrs. Piper is in ill-health, the ‘light’ is feebler, and the com­
munications tend to be less coherent. It also gets used up during a sitting, and when it gets dim , there is a
tendency to incoherence even in otherwise clear com m unication. In all cases, contact w ith this ‘light’
tends to produce bew ilderm ent, and if the contact is continued too long, or the ‘light’ becomes very dim,
the consciousness of the com m unicator tends to lapse com pletely.”
Mediums sometimes consciously co-operate during inspirational
addresses, but cannot recall a word of their speech afterwards. Medita­
tion on the theme a day or two later will enable them to regain its sub­
stance. It thus becomes part of their normal consciousness and advances
them along the line of individual development.
One guide described a process in which he said that the spiritual
body of the medium was standing beside the physical body, while he (the
guide) was operating on the base of the medium’s brain from behind and
through it, controlling the medium’s speech mechanism so that he could
speak to us directly. Others described the projection of their thoughts
on to the mind of the medium as on a mirror, and she puts them into
her own words as best she could for our information. If the medium is
not educated to the point of having a considerable vocabulary, she did
the best she could with her equipment and often gave the message in a
confusing and roundabout way, as an X-ray medium, describing the
heart as she saw it clairvoyantly, spoke of the red (arterial) side and the
black (veinous) side, not knowing the proper scientific terms to describe
these different sections of the heart.
On one occasion a little child guide was describing something and
stopped, saying to me : “You know the right word to say what I mean,
but I can’t say it.” So I said what seemed to be the word wanted,
judging from the context of her remarks, and she said : “That’s right, I
can’t say that big word, but I know it’sjust what I mean.” Thus borrow­
ing a sitter’s vocabulary to help out the limitations of the medium.
Sometimes a little child guide will give a remarkable discourse, far
beyond the knowledge and ability of the medium, on science, philosophy,
etc., and taxing the mentality of the most advanced sitters present. On
such an occasion I asked the child : “How does a child so young as you
are come to have such profound ideas ?” “Oh,” she said, “I don’t
know, it’s the man standing beside me who is telling me what to say, but
I learn as I tell you.” This seems to account for child guides developing
so much more rapidly than in earth life. A spirit child’s development
is from five to ten years beyond that of an earth child of the same age.
Evidently the child (often calling herself the “doorkeeper,” who prepared
the medium for others to use) was acting as intermediary for some spirit
entity not able, or not willing, to engage in the mechanics of com­
munication and using the child spirit as operator, much as we would use
the telegraph operator to transmit our messages.
We hear much about planes and spheres (more accurately states and
conditions of awareness), and we learn that the entities in one state or
vibration are unconscious of those in a different state of vibration,
though beings in the higher states may be aware of those in a lower
condition.
An instance occurs to illustrate this situation. A lady was asked by an
entity controlling an entranced clairvoyante medium if she could see her
father in front of her. She answered : “No.” The control then said :
"Y our father is holding up som ething for you to see, and he laughs about it, and w ants to tell you . .
here he relayed the message, adding the following inform ation : "Y our father thinks th a t you can see
and hear him , as he can see and hear you, but as he is in a different vibration than you are, you cannot
see or hear him . Sim ilarly, he cannot see or hear me, though I can both see and hear him and you, and
so I am able to give you the message which 'he thinks' he is giving to you as he does not realize th a t you
cannot see and hear him ." So we see th a t m any m ay be present and trying to reach us (and even thinking
th a t they do so, not understanding the conditions), b u t w ithout the help of those able to reach both them
and us, we cannot get their messages, not because they are not there, or are not trying to reach us, but
because of the difference in the conditions.
Confusion is often caused by great names coming through. A farm
boy was very elated because “Queen Victoria” came to him (with
messages of no particular importance). As his mentality and education
did not seem to be the type to attract such a personage, I questioned the
guide, and was informed that it was a girl-friend of the young man named
Victoria coming to him, whom they affectionately called “Queen
Victoria.” This was more in accord with the messages.
At a private seance in 1940, Mrs. Rose Keller, medium, Riverside,
a man came through the entranced medium to greet his brother and was so
overjoyed to talk to him that he grew excited and too energetic. The
voice of the medium’s Indian guide was heard, cautioning him to be more
self-controlled, and we heard the visitor respond : “All right, Big Wolf,”
and he became more normal in his conduct.
In rare instances the trance does not interfere noticeably with the
normal consciousness and then it is difficult to realize that trance occurs,
except by the character of what is said or done. This makes it hard
for the medical man, steeped in materialism and ignorant of psychic
phenomena (though having knowledge of orthodox psychology, a very
different thing) to judge of the mentality of a patient, mistaking for insan­
ity the strange acts and utterances of the conscious or unconscious, yet
entranced, medium he is dealing with.
TRANCE 135
SPEAKING WITH TONGUES
“ . . . began to speak with other tongues as the spirit gave them
utterance.” Acts ii, 4.
I
N this unusual phase of psychic phenomena, the medium speaks a
language unknown to him or her. A curious example in my own
experience was an illiterate woman of German extraction, who spoke
broken English. In a circle she suddenly began to give out a torrent of
clickety-clack sounds. One of the sitters laughed, saying : “That must
be a Chink” (American slang for Chinaman). But another sitter spoke
up : “No,” she said, “it is a Choctaw Indian giving me a message. I
was born and raised on a Choctaw reservation and understand plainly.”
After the seance the astonished medium was told that a Choctaw had been
speaking through her, and she said, wonderingly : “Choctaw—is it good
to eat ?” evidently confusing Choctaw with chocolate. She did not know
there were such people as Choctaw Indians.
My friend, Mrs. Ethel G. Aldrich (a private medium, who helps her
special friends gratuitiously with her several gifts of mediumship, some­
times speaks in an obscure Norman-French patois and sometimes in a
little-known Italian dialect), was talking to a friend, who came from Italy.
She suddenly began speaking in this Italian dialect, understood by the
hearer. Presently she began to laugh and remarked : “What am I
laughing at ?” The hearer said : “Why, you have just told me a good
joke.” Later Mrs. Aldrich said : “Why am I so sad and wanting to
weep ? ” The hearer replied : “You have just described the funeral
of a dear friend of mine.” But this medium does not speak either Italian
or French normally, and yet, this was pure Sicilian, a difficult and unusual
dialect.
One of the most marvellous examples of clairaudient Zenoglossy is
that of Rosemary. (See Rosemary Records, etc., by Mr. F. H. Wood,
listed at end of this book.) Rosemary is a remarkable medium, and
Dr. Frederick H. Wood is the recorder of her messages. Her guide is
Lady Nona, an Egyptian lady from 3500 years ago, whose fascinating
philosophy, history and descriptions of her time are most extraordinary.
Rosemary clairaudiently heard some strange syllables, which she repeated
aloud. Dr. Wood promptly recording them phonetically in short­
hand. Many such were received and being published attracted the
attention of a famous Egyptologist, Mr. Howard Hulme, who studied
and analysed the sounds, comparing them with the hieroglyphic word-
pictures of Ancient Egypt and translated them into English. Thus was
C h a p t e r 17
136
found the proper pronunciation of the Egyptian speech of so long ago,
the picture-writing of Egypt, at that time, like the ancient Hebrew,
having no vowels, and the pronunciation was lost with the disappearance
of these ancient peoples. This astounding recovery of a lost speech after
3500 years places the mediumship of Rosemary in the foremost ranks of
those who speak with tongues and hardly less admirable is the pains­
taking work of Dr. Wood, who spent years, gathering these messages as
spoken, classifying, indexing and arranging all, as a matter of love and
service to mankind. No student should miss these extraordinary and
instructive documents.
Recently, through the mediumship of Mrs. S. Musa, various spirits
came and talked with foreign sitters in their own languages : Polish,
German, Bohemian, Finnish, Slovene, Yugo-Slavic, Russian and
Armenian. One spirit humorously discussed with a sitter the different
pronunciation of words in Polish and Russo-Polish dialect. The medium
only speaks English.
This phase of the mediumship, termed Zenoglossy by Prof. Ernest
Bozzano (see his fine book on the subject, Polyglot Mediumship), comes in
various ways, clairaudience, speaking, automatic writing, trumpet and
independent voice and direct writing.
SPEAKING WITH TONGUES 137
Pictures
Pictures drawn or painted are still more rarely received in the same
way. There is a singularity about these pictures, even when, as is often
the case, the technique is crude, in that there is a curious and impressive
nuance and feeling about them. In the rare case of the Bangs sisters
(1894) the pictures were “precipitated” in the light as follows :
Two identical paper-mounted canvases in wooden frames were held
up, face to face against the windows, the lower edges resting on a table
and the sides gripped by each medium with one hand. A short curtain
was hung on either side and an opaque curtain drawn down to the top
of the canvases. With the light streaming from behind, the canvases
were translucent. After a quarter of an hour the outlines of shadows
began to appear and disappear as if the invisible artist made a preliminary
sketch, and then the picture began to grow at a feverish rate and when
the frames were separated, the portrait was found on the paper surface
of the canvas next to the sitter. Though the paint was greasy and stuck
to the fingers on being touched, it left no stain on the paper surface of the
other canvas which closely covered it. The sitters were asked to bring a
portrait of a departed friend, but not produce it. The precipitated
portraits were not copies of the photographs, but the precipitated pictures
resembled them closely. Vice-Admiral Moore noticed, in his experiments,
that details were added if he did not look, and once, when he mentally
desired that a gold locket should be enlarged and decorated with a
monogram, the thing was done as requested. He brought his own frames
and canvases, sealed the window and searched the premises and closely
watched every movement of the mediums, yet the pictures appeared as
usual.
I
138 l if e , n o w a n d f o r e v e r
I have examined one of these pictures, painted by precipitation in
thirty-five minutes, which an artist says would have taken several days
or a week. There were no brush marks so that it looked like air-brush
work. The colours were wonderfully soft and blended and a remarkable
effect of depth and semi-translucency. But above all, this picture I saw,
of a guide, was permeated by a marvellously spiritual atmosphere that
fascinated, by her beauty, the calm, farseeing eye and sense of quiet
power, sympathy, exaltation and understanding. Marvellous is the only
fitting word to describe it, and the artistry was excellent.
Automatic Writing
In this phase of psychic phenomena the medium may be in trance and
messages be spontaneously written, or the medium may be conscious, ask
questions and get information needed. More rarely, the writing may
be written by a pencil, not held by any person, in the dark generally
or in the light. The pencil is seen to move and write. Sometimes the
pencil may be supported loosely in the loop of a scissors handle, to save
output of energy, and the pencil writes. At other times the writing may
be “precipitated.” I have a letter sent by me, sealed, to a Winnipeg
group, asking several questions. The letter was later returned to me,
seal unbroken, with answers to my questions “precipitated” on the back
of the enclosed letter. I cut the end of the envelope to take out the letter
and still have the envelope, seal unbroken in evidence of there having
been no tampering with it.
Recently at a seance in dim red light, I placed upon a small table in a
corner of the room, some marked papers and coloured pencils. I sat
with my right elbow on the table, other sitters on my left. Medium
(Mrs. Musa) out in front on a line with the table, but with a chair between
on which were two glasses of water. The medium from five to six feet
from the table. Presently I heard the faint sound of writing on the paper.
A firm pop as a stop was placed at the end. On the conclusion of the
seance, lines and writing was found on the paper in two colours, an
incomplete “I love you” from my little guide Davy. No one could reach
the table at my elbow and other trumpet phenomena were occurring at
the same time.
Recently my little guide, Davy, came through Mrs. Birkner, and asked
me to get a slate on an easel, like children play with. “I don’t want you
to spend a lot of money, Daddy Arthur,” he said. “It will cost only
25 cents at the dime store.” I got it and later, as it stood out of reach of
others, on a small table three feet in front of me, a loud squawking of
the pencil was heard. Later Davy came and said : “We tried to write
and I tried to draw a picture. We . . . I hope we got something.”
Evidently he was very anxious and interested as to the result. Then my
wife came and said : “I helped Davy and he helped me, so that we
could learn by trying.” (That is sound good sense.) “I hope we suc­
ceeded.” On examining the slate several lines were found, apparently
an attempt to draw a picture, and also the words : “I love you,” the
‘I” and “l-o” rather faint and shaky, but the remainder, “v-e you,”
firm and well written. Below and diagonally was faintly inscribed in
printed, block lettering the name “Dav----- ,” in a childlike scrawl.
Another time, having lorgotten to bring the slate, I placed paper and
pencil on the table, four feet away. At the end of the seance I found the
words, “Love to all, Davy,” scrawled on the paper.
On a later occasion, tired of sitting I stood up, and immediately the
pencil was heard scratching. When Davy came through I said : “I did
not feel you drawing on me for power.” “No,” he said, “I impressed
you to stand up and that straightened out your solar plexus so that you
did not feel it.” (Often people are told to sit up straight, so that the solar
plexus is not crushed. Often sitters do not know that they contribute
to the phenomena and thus reinforce the medium.) He then discussed
the spelling of his name, saying: “I don’t know how to spell yet, and
Mamma Jane (my wife) says my name is spelled ‘Davey,’ but I sped
it ‘Davy.’ ” I told him to use the latter spelling and I would recognize
him. Later my wife came and commenteid on his work. She seems to
get a lot of comfort and enjoyment out of helping this merry little lad,
who is so full of life and eagerness to help my researches.
Last year when in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, I was given the
opportunity to sit with Mrs. Olive, an automatic writing medium. Dr.
D. McKean Reid, a retired Presbyterian minister, the medium and
myself were present. The medium wrote several messages for us from
various spirit-people, in different handwritings. Then she indicated that
a message was coming for me. Her hand began to make large circles
over the paper, without the pencil touching it, as if limbering her arm up
for action. Then these circles grew smaller and suddenly the word
“Edison” was written in a fairly large round hand and very clear. It then
continued : “Tell your son that I will be with him and tell him to call
on me for help in his problems and I will help him.” Neither the
medium nor Dr. Reid knew that I had a son who is a graduate electrical
engineer, and both my son and Edison were quite out of my thoughts at
the time. I was expecting a message more personal to myself which did
not come.
Mr. Emil Dasing, referred to on Plates 3 and 4, receives remarkable
music by inspiration, far beyond his normal capacity as an amateur, as
also Mis. Aldrich, who besides receiving music and “speaking with
tongues” (page 136) receives messages via the typewriter, not the pen,
and the following “Amazing Human Document” is one of the startling
messages received through her faculty. It certainly gives us “furiously
to think.”
SPEAKING WITH TONGUES 139
Prehistoric Life
“One morning about one month after the medium was given her
gift of speech, I was able to come through her and give some of the details
of my hie. I have never come through an individual before ; and before
I go further I will say that I have learned to speak the English language
from her. My first speech was very limited in both flow and enunciation.
I will try to give the story of my life when on the earth and endeavour to
make it as clear as possible.
“I lived in a country that was of a rather cold climate. Since I have
been in this spirit-life, I have no sense of feeling, only now as I am with
the medium, I derive a certain thought from her mind as to the temperature—
and “the thought” of heat and cold is just as forceful to us in this life “as
the actual experience” when in the human body. The country in which
I lived was rocky and barren to a great extent. The food we had was
of the most primitive kind ; fish, which we caught in small streams. We
had no method of fishing as you do to-day—no implements or conveniences
to use as the modern people do. We caught our fish by putting obstacles
in the path of their course and in that way trapped them. My life was
before there was any fire and all the food we had was just as nature gave
it to us. We used the roots and seeds and various berries that grew just
as they were in their natural state. Some of these we dried for the colder
times of the year. The summer season as I understand the term now,
was of very short duration. My sense of time has completely left me, and
we had no way of measuring time or days, either by seasons or weeks or
months. I wish to say that our lives were lived without any knowledge of
anything except for the daily struggle for existence, the struggle of the
primitive man for life. The sustaining life of God as I see it now, the God
of all, who knows no distinction between the black and the white race,
of this I knew nothing. All I can say is that I think I was a member of
one of the most early tribes.
“We lived near the ocean, salt water, and the land was not anything
like I am seeing now, through the eyes of the medium. It was dark
soil and of rocky nature. We lived in underground caves mostly dug in
the earth and piled up with rocks. These we packed together with wet
mud which dried and formed a firm covering. We dug these quite deep
in the ground and made them large enough for many to live in. We had
no marriage laws and we all lived together as one family. I, myself,
was born deafand dumb, as were many of the rest of my people. Many were
blind and others of a limited understanding. From the medium’s mind I now
get the thought of insanity through intermingling. In fact, most of the
men of our race were afflicted in one way or another. For all of these
centuries I have never conveyed my thoughts to another. I have pro­
gressed mentally in understanding, and my knowledge of the modern way
of living gives me the idea of wrongs that were committed when I was in
the flesh. I had great difficulty at first in giving the sound of my voice
to the medium for not having ever heard a voice from my own throat I did not
have the correct thought to convey it to her. I am now giving her my
thoughts as she transfers them in writing and will do the best I can to
elucidate the details of my life so that, perhaps, someone may determine
just when and where I lived.
“Our language was very limited and the only thing which we knew
about to talk about were the trees, birds, flowers and nature. Our chief
amusement was singing. I can convey the song to the medium in the
exact words which we used when we sang and she has the tone of our
voices as I would have thought them to have been. We can go back over
our lives in the twinkling of an eye. We have told the medium that we
can recall small incidents in her life, which she had apparently forgotten
and now remembers, as we remind her of them ; so in my case, I can
14o LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
look back into my life and tell a good many things. Some of them have
become obliterated by time of centuries. I cannot tell, myself, whether
I was a man or a woman. Time has eradicated from me the thought of
gender. Whether this statement will make the facts of what I have to
say doubtful, I do not know ; but what I tell I remember exactly.
There are many things it seems that I might give, but I do not wish to
have the medium misjudged for making any statements through her that
would be considered false.
“We had a head to our tribe which I will try to give the word to the
writer—‘Trankalau.’ She has pronounced it exactly as I would speak it.
We had no writing in our time, so as to the way it is spelled I can only
say that she has written it as I have given it to her. The head of the tribe
gathered us all together and we would sing and dance. Our religion
was of a very primitive nature. We merely worshipped the sky and sun and
stars. The elements such as lightning and thunder and earthquakes were
things we did not understand. We only thought they were the wrath of God
being sent down upon us. We had no images to worship, neither had we
any false gods as many of the ancient tribes worshipped. Our religious
views were not anything, because we did not know of anything to believe
in, except the work of securing food to eat and a place to sleep. The
displeasure of something was conveyed to us in the lightning and thunder
—perhaps now I say God, because I know of the God of Supreme Intelli­
gence, but at that time we did not call it God, for the name of anything
pertaining to a supreme being was not known to us. When we pass to this
spirit-life we know that there is a God. I have believed in God, the guiding
intelligence of all things, so long now, that it is difficult to try to look back
and remember when I did not believe.”
SPEAKING WITH TONGUES 141
C h a pter 18
PROJECTION
“We know things and we know that we know them, but ‘HO W’ we
know them is a mystery indeed.”
HE separation of the psychic or spiritual body from the physical
body, temporarily or permanently.
Numberless cases on record show that this is often done
involuntarily and more rarely voluntarily, while for every case so recorded
still greater numbers pass unrecorded. There are marked differences
between dreams and “projections,” quite unmistakable. The best, most
practical and instructive book on this phase is Projection of the Astral Body,
by Sylvan Muldoon and Hereward Carrington.
There are several types of projection of the psychic self. One may
project and see and know what happens oneself, but have no verification
by others ; or unconsciously project, yet others can tell of the occurrence,
having seen or heard you, or both.
In 1938, when in Canada, I tried to send a message to a circle in
Chicago who were keeping my usual chair vacant. It being warm in
Winnipeg (nine hundred miles away) at the time ofthe meeting, I removed
my coat and laid down on the bed, vividly picturing myself seated in the
vacant chair, falling sound asleep in the progress. I awoke refreshed and
that was all I knew about it at my end of the line. On my return I was
informed by the circle that they had seen me seated in my usual chair
(as I had visualized myself), but in my shirt sleeves (subconscious detail),
and asleep. The last two items quite unexpected and unknown to the
sitters.
This is a one-way projection. The more satisfactory way, however,
whether projecting voluntarily or not, is when one is conscious of what is
going on “at both ends of the line” and it is checked by the evidence of
others as to the facts.
The Rev. Dale Owen gives this two-way example :
“ R obert Bruce was m ate of a ship sailing between Liverpool and New Brunswick. On one voyage,
when near the banks of Newfoundland, after taking bearings w ith the Captain one day, he returned to
his state-room , w hich adjoined th a t of the Captain, to make notes. H aving finished he turned to the
Captain’s cabin to ask him to check the calculations. He saw w hat be thought was the Captain bending
over his desk, b u t receiving no reply he repeated his question. Again he asked and receiving no reply
walked up to him , b u t when the supposed Captain raised his head he saw, to his am azem ent, the features
of an entire stranger, whose silence and fixed gaze alarm ed him and he rushed on deck to report to the
incredulous Captain. They descended to the cabin, finding no one, and the Captain said the m ate m ust have
been dreaming. B ut the m ate said the m an was w riting on the slate, and taking it up the Captain saw
w ritten ‘Steer N or-W est.’ The Captain charged the m ate with joking, b u t the m ate protested th a t he was
not. The Captain asked the m ate to w rite the same words, b u t the w riting was different. He then had every
m an on board come and w rite the same words, but the writing was different. A search of the ship showed
no strangers aboard. The Captain then decided to change his course to th a t w ritten on the slate.
“ A bout three hours afterwards they sighted a wrecked ship, frozen to an iceberg, decks swept by
seas, provisions gone, crew and passengers perishing w ith cold. W hen the men were brought on board th e
PROJECTION 143
am azed m ate saw the very m an whom he had seen w riting on the other side of the slate the words ‘Steer
N or-W est.’ W ithout the m an’s knowledge the Captain turned the slate to show the original w riting, asked :
‘Is this your w riting ?’ ‘Yes,’ answered the man. The Captain again turned the slate and the man, in
astonishm ent said : ‘W hat does this mean ? I only w rote on one side of the slate.’ The Captain asked
if he had dream ed of w riting on the slate, and the m an said : ‘No.’ On asking the Captain of the wrecked
ship w hat this m an was doing at noon, he replied : ‘This passenger, being very exhausted had fallen into
a deep sleep about noon and on awakening had told his Captain : ‘We shall be rescued to-day,’ and des­
cribed the rescuing ship exactly. The m an said th a t he was astonished on reaching the ship to recognize
everything as being perfectly fam iliar.”
This living man materialized, was seen and wrote on a slate, though
he had no memory of doing so, yet could tell his friends that rescue was
at hand and accurately describe the rescuing ship and recognized it on
going aboard.
During the last illness of Mrs. Tomson, a splendid materializing and
trumpet medium, she invited a half-dozen congenial friends to sit with
her, as she said it helped her. We sat in a small room opening by an
arched opening into the large one where she lay on her bed unable to
rise. On July 3rd, about 9 p.m. (3 a.m., July 4th, in England), I was
asked by her husband if I knew anyone named M. I replied that I had
a sister by that name, but she was in England. He said : “She is asleep
there. She is here and wants to talk to you.” Immediately her voice
came through the trumpet, expressing joy at being able to reach me, and
saying : “I am sending you a letter, etc.” The clear, crisp tones were so
characteristic of her that I could, but for its impossibility, have imagined
my sister sitting four feet away talking to me. One ofthe group remarked :
“She’s English all right.” I promptly sent a letter to inquire if anything
unusual had happened on the night ofJuly 3rd-4th.
A letter from another sister crossed mine in mid-ocean telling me that
M. had been taken very ill on that night and the doctor next morning
had ordered her to the hospital. Later, in reply to my letter, she wrote
me that M. had no recollection of anything that night, being too much in
pain to think of anything else. Pain, however, ebbs and flows, and
between paroxysms she no doubt fell into a sleep or trance, and, reaching
out to her only brother for comfort, was able to contact me because the
time and conditions were so perfect at this seance. Fraud here is out of
question, the dying medium (who passed away about six weeks after­
wards) would not be likely to deceive, also the experience itself rules it
out. I had no knowledge of my sister’s illness. It was purposely kept
from me. Fortunately she recovered soon afterwards. This is a receiving-
end proof, unknown to the involuntary projector, my sister in England.
In December, 1940, an air-raid on London destroyed the premises of
Rider & Company, the English co-publishers of this book, together with
the original manuscript and illustrations of this volume. Preparation
of a new copy enables me to insert the following experiences.
September 28th, 1940, Mrs. Musa, medium. My sister “ M.” came
through the trumpet. I asked if she had passed on, but she said she was
asleep at home in England and was temporarily out of her body and came
to see me. She said : “Don't write, I won't getyour letters." Also said that
my other sister was well and asleep.
Later, letters informed me that they had not received any letters from
me since October 21st. I had written fifteen letters to them meanwhile,
all missing. The one received October 21st was written about September
28th, approximately when “M.” came through the trumpet.
January 17th, 1941, Mrs. Musa. “C.,” my other sister, came through
trumpet, said no more bombs had touched the house since last contact
(November), both sisters doing well under conditions. Next day, 18th,
at another meeting my wife mentioned that “ ‘C.’ came to you yester­
day.”
I cabled my sisters next day, January 23rd, 1941, and received the
answer : “All safe, both well.” Letter received later, dated January 12th,
saying : “The last letter we received from you is dated October 21st,
1940.” We write every week and wonder if yours are lost.” I receive
theirs fairly regularly, but my fifteen are missing. Then a letter, dated
January 16th, says that they have just received my special air-mail letter
(one of three) dated December 12th, taking a month instead of nine days to
travel.
February 10th, 1941. We heard Patsy, the spirit-daughter of Mrs.
Musa, talking to some spirit-doctors about an operation (injection of
some necessary chemicals). The medium gave a gulp and Patsy said :
“That’s one, now one more,” and again the medium gulped and sighed,
Patsy telling her it was all right. Then my other sister “C.” spoke through
the trumpet. Said “M.” was asleep at home. She came to tell me all
was well at home, no further bombing (their house was severely damaged
in November). I asked if she was conscious of where she was and if she
would remember, she said : “Yes, I will write about it.” Then she called
“Arthur” several times in an anxious tone and seemed not to hear my
reply, again saying : “No damage,” and ceased to speak. Here the
medium, in a low voice, said : “What is that bed over there ?” Patsy
said : “That is where ‘C.’ is lying.” Medium asked : “Why am I lying
on it too ?” Patsy : “Because you are taking her place.” “C.” then
described small stove ; picture of “Arthur” on wall, no glass in i t ; also
one of Pater, Mater and three others with only half a glass in i t ; pitcher
with broken handle on table ; quill pen also.
“C.” returned (Patsy said, in an easier way) no longer anxious in
manner, said glass was replaced in windows again, repeated that she would
write, I said I would also. She said she was conscious of all that was
going on and again said she would write, and left.
Medium dazed and exhausted, Patsy said the spirit-chemicals used
made her intestines painful after the effort. Asked how she took her
mother across so far she said, “I took her by a lock of her hair.”
Ezekiel viii, 3 : “ And he p u t forth the form of a hand (materialized) and took me by a lock of mine head
and the spirit lifted me up. . . . ”
Gulps and deep sighs as she came back to consciousness. Became
normal ten minutes after, none the worse.
In the above instances deep anxiety was the moving cause of the
manifestations. The September 28th item indicates apparent pre­
monition that my letters would not be received.
February 10th item notes the spirit-doctors using spirit-chemicals to
enable the phenomena to be carried out, and speaking of an operation,
very interesting, though not as informing as we could wish. Also the
medium taking charge of my sister’s body while she was temporarily out
of the body and across the ocean.
Each time a seance was being held (9 p.m. Chicago equals 3 a.m.
144 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
England) at the same time as the projection of the ethereal body of the
sleeping subjects, enabling conscious contact to be made.
Here is a most remarkable and complete demonstration where a person
projects the psychic or spiritual body voluntarily and materializes, by
previous agreement, at a seance hundreds of miles away. Remarks of
projected person verified by sitters who saw and heard her. Projector
carefully observes and records process as it occurred.
From the National Spiritualist :
“ T he experim ents were undertaken by Mrs. M ary C. Vlasek, Mrs. Lucy W ebb, a trum pet m edium ,
and Mrs. Z. J . Allyn, a m aterializing m edium.
“ The members of her class, knowing of Mrs. V lasek’s ability to m anifest after she had left her body,
requested her to m anifest a t Mrs. Lucy W ebb’s T rum pet Circle on M onday evening, Septem ber 27th, and
at Mrs. Z. J. A llyn’s M aterializing Circle on Tuesday evening, Septem ber 28th. On both of these dates
Mrs. Vlasek was on the Union Pacific train en route to Toledo, Ohio, yet appeared in California.
“ Mrs. Vlasek made no special preparations for the experim ents other than to eat nothing b u t easily
digested foods. She rem ained up until nearly the tim e at which the circles were to be held, naturally
taking into account the difference in tim e between where the train was and Los Angeles tim e. After going
through the process of leaving her body, she directed herself to Mrs. W ebb’s T rum pet Circle. Arriving
a t the Circle she saw Mrs. W ebb, Mr. W ebb, an unknown lady and gentlem an, and felt th a t there were others
in the room.
Before attem pting to speak through the trum pet she touched Mrs. Webb, first on the head and then
on the shoulder. A fter touching Mrs. W ebb she was attracted to a lady b u t did not touch or go near her,
as the lady appeared startled. She now directed her attention to the trum pet and found a group of spirits
around it. The T rum pet Guide held the trum pet balanced in his right hand and whenever the vibrations
produced by the songs of the Circle were propitious for the phenom enon he would beckon to a spirit to
approach and tell the spirit to speak into the sm all end of the trum pet.
“ W hen Mrs. Vlasek tried to obtain the trum pet the Guide objected, m otioned her aw ay and said :
‘You are a m ortal.’ A fter explaining her reasons for desiring to use the trum pet, the Guide instructed
Mrs. Vlasek to use the large end, ju st the reverse of w hat he instructed the disem bodied spirits ! She then
grasped the large end of th e trum pet w ith both hands and spoke into it saying : ‘I am here. This is Mrs.
Vlasek. I t is very hot where I am. I am still in Arizona.’
“ A fter rem aining a little longer, she returned to her body. Upon awakening she experienced an
exalted spiritual feeling, which rem ained w ith her throughout the next day. It was probably planned by
the spirit th a t she should be in a state of increased vibration ; for th a t evening, Septem ber 28th, she was
to attem pt a still more m arvellous experim ent, nam ely, to materialize.
“ Mrs. Vlasek retired a t 9.30 p.m ., train tim e, on the evening of Septem ber 28th. The train at this time
was in Utah. A fter leaving her body, she directed herself to Mrs. Z. J . A llyn’s M aterializing Circle, Los
Angeles, California.
“ Upon arriving a t the Circle, Mrs. Vlasek perceived th a t she was late as the Circle was already in
progress, hence she im m ediately entered the cabinet. There were m any spirits in the cabinet, others above
the cabinet. Those who were to m aterialize stood on the floor of th e cabinet. The Cabinet Guide, a young
girl, said to her : ‘Oh ! You are welcome to come. B ut you are a m ortal. You m ay look on.’ Mrs. Vlasek
then looked at the Medium, Mrs. Allyn, and saw th a t she was entranced, her body stiffened, half-sitting,
half-reclining in a chair.
“ She next became interested in the process of m aterialization. There were three spirit chem ists in
the c a b in et: one, a ta ll dark-com plexioned m an ; another a short m an of advanced age ; and the third
a short dark-com plexioned man. The tall m an first attracted her attention. H e stood a t the entrance of
the cabinet waving his arm s and was apparently collecting something. Upon closer observation she
noticed a band of light, of bluish-grey vibrations, resem bling heat waves, passing around the Circle and into
the cabinet. A peculiarity was, th a t while this band passed around the Circle, all of the members of the
Circle did not contribute to it. It m ight be continuous for two members and then skip the third, etc.
“ The stream of vibrations started from Mr. Allyn, who sat by the rig h t side of the cabinet, and it
flowed around the Circle to the left side of the cabinet constantly increasing in size as the various members
of the Circle contributed their vibrations to it. The stream started below Mr. A llyn’s right knee and was
about two inches in w idth and six inches in depth and kept increasing as it passed the members of the
circle un til it had grown to be about a foot in w idth and eighteen inches in depth when it entered the
cabinet. This band of vibration entered the cabinet about two feet from the floor and was collected by the
ta ll chem ist. There were also several spirits working am ong the members of the Circle to draw strength
from them to m aintain a steady stream of vibrations.
“ W hen the ta ll chem ist had collected a sufficient am ount he would pass it to the short chemist, who
took it and poured it into the back of the head and neck of the Medium. A t the same tim e th a t the light,
bluish-grey vibrations were being poured into the back of the head and neck of the Medium, a white
substance began to emanate from the M edium’s chin, throat and chest. This em anation, which seemed to
be of a tangible form, was taken by the third chem ist and p u t over th e spirit to be clothed. A ll the tim e
th a t this chemist was pouring the substance over the spirit, he was saying in a firm positive voice : ‘Think
your features ! T hink your face ! Think your eyes ! T hink your form ! Think positively ! T hink your
form as you were on earth ! Think your arm s ! etc.’ As the spirit thought these things a form gradually
built up over him.
“ D uring the tim e the Circle was singing ‘Old Black Joe.’ Suddenly they stopped and someone began
‘M arching through Georgia.’ This im m ediately changed the vibrations and the substance fell from the spirit.
The chem ist im m ediately beckoned to another spirit and commenced to clothe it. The song was again
abruptly changed and this spirit failed to materialize. H e tried to clothe another spirit, and again m et w ith
failure. All this tim e the other spirit chem ists were busy collecting the substance, and pouring it through
the Medium to be vitalized. (Note, vibrations changed when singing changed, interfering with manifestation.)
“ D uring all of these failures Mrs. Vlasek was in th e cabinet b u t could not get her feet to the floor.
PROJECTION 145
There was a pause in the singing after which someone started to sing ‘Shall we G ather a t the R iver.’ Im ­
m ediately her feet touched the floor and she stood before the chem ist. He said : ‘You are a mortal. You
cannot go.' He then asked her w hy she w anted to manifest. Mrs. V lasek replied : ‘I do so wish to go out,
as I w ant to learn, and I hope to go good for the Cause.’
“ W ith th a t the chem ist said : ‘This way !’ He turned her around w ith her back tow ard him . He
then began pouring the substance draw n from the Medium over her, at the same tim e saying : ‘Think
your features positively, just as you are ! T hink your hair !— Your eyes ! T hink your form ! Think your
arm s ! Think your hands ! T hink your f e e t!’
“ Then he placed some more substance over her and formed her dress. This was a creation of the
chem ist; not of her thought. The dress was a beautiful garm ent of w hite lace.
“ Ju st as she was about to step from the cabinet the Rev. Geo. H. Brooks stepped to her side and
said : ‘I am going out w ith you.’ (The Rev. Geo. H. Brooks, a noted lecturer in Spiritualism , lost his life
in an Arizona hotel fire last year.) As he hesitated a little, Mrs. Vlasek did not w ait for him , b u t stepped
through the opening of the curtains into the Circle. Here, a surprising thing took place. Instead of seeing
the people in the Circle, she seemed to be blind. She tried very hard to see and after a few moments,
sight came to her. She first saw the little daughter of Mrs. A llyn ; next, she tried to speak b u t could
not u tte r a sound.
“ Presently, as a m an approached her, she received from him a strengthening vibration w hich struck
her chest and she was enabled to speak. She said : ‘This is Mrs. Vlasek !—I am Mrs. Vlasek ! It was
Mr. A llyn who had come forward and as he now stepped to her side, all of the Circle rose and gathered
about her. She then said : ‘N ote the tim e ! Look w hat tim e it is ! I greet you all. I am glad th a t I have
been given this privilege. Keep up the good work !’
“Suddenly the vibration of the Circle was broken. Mrs. Vlasek felt as though her breath had been
knocked out of her body by a blow in the solar plexus and she said : ‘I feel m y breath going ! I m ust say
good-bye.’ She then stepped backward tow ards the curtains. The shock was so great th a t she m om entarily
lost consciousness and cannot recall w hat became of the substance w ith which she had been clothed. She
next rem em bered being in the cabinet again. There she rem ained for some tim e watching the failures
and successes of m aterializing the various spirits.
“ From her observations, the substance w ith w hich the spirits were clothed dissolved and returned
again into the light, bluish-grey vibrations which were coming from the Circle. She could not discern
exactly when the forms began to dem aterialize. All of the forms began to dissolve outside of the cabinet
and, by the time they passed through the curtains, m ost of their substance had disappeared. W hat little
was left fell to the floor and flowed towards the incoming stream of light, bluish-grey vibrations. After
returning to her body, she experienced an exalted feeling of reverence.
“ This is the first authenticated case of a person making arrangements to m aterialize at a M aterializing
Circle and successfully performing the experim ent, w hile still in the body.
“ Regarding the T rum pet Circle in Los Angeles, Mrs. W ebb testified th a t she saw Mrs. V lasek clair-
voyantly ; th a t she felt her touch her head and shoulders ; th a t Mr. W ebb also felt the touches. The lady
who appeared startled was Mrs. Reddy who was surprised when she saw Mrs. Vlasek clairvoyantly. For,
although she knew th a t Mrs. Vlasek was on her way to the Convention, she did not know of the arrange­
m ents to m anifest a t the Circle. H ence she thought some accident had befallen her. This was w hy she
appeared startled to Mrs. Vlasek.
“ Mrs. Reddy said : ‘Mrs. Vlasek is here. I see her. She is dressed in grey. Do^you think she could
have been hurt in a wreck ?’
“ Mrs. W ebb then explained to Mrs. R eddy th a t she had seen Mrs. Vlasek b u t knew th a t she was not
injured because she had promised to atten d the Circle th a t evening and try to speak through the trum pet.
“ In a little while the Circle heard a voice in the trum pet say : ‘This is Mrs. Vlasek ! I am in Arizona.
Oh ! I t is hot. Be faithful. I w ill not be gone long.’ Then Mrs. Vlasek sang one verse of ‘Be H appy,’
and said : ‘I m ust go.’ B ut before going she touched them . Mrs. W ebb also noticed (clairvoyantly) th at
she used the large end of the trum pet instead of the sm all end, as the other spirits do.
“ Mr. Allyn gave the following account of the M aterializing Circle : ‘W hen Mrs. Vlasek came through
from the cabinet she was very real and very plain. She came out the same as the other spirits. Every
action was natural. It was a few m om ents before she could speak. Then she said: “ I can not speak plainly.
Made a record of the tim e. So glad to be here. I m ust go. Good-bye.” The songs were as she says.’
“ Testim ony of others who were a t the Circle, verified Mr. A llyn’s statem ents. Mrs. Lippencott 'Saw
her very plainly. She was dressed all in w hite.’ She noticed her hair which was not covered w ith a white
veil as some of the other forms b u t was combed as she usually wore it. Mrs. Rosebrook ‘saw her the same
as the others. She looked natural in both features and size.’
“ Mrs. Atkinson testified th a t prior to Mrs. Vlasek’s m aterialization, Dr. H. H . Turner stated th a t he
had'seen (clairvoyantly) Mrs. V lasek’s body on the train and th a t the train was on the desert. Mrs.
Atkinson was seated a t the left of the cabinet and was the first to recognize Mrs. Vlasek. She asked Mrs.
Vlasek : ‘W hat is your m essage?’ Mrs. Vlasek replied : ‘M ake a record of this. Look at the tim e.’ At
which Dr. H. H. Turner suddenly increased the light in the room so th a t he could make a note of the time.
It was four m inutes of nine. This sudden increase of the light was w hat gave the shock to Mrs. Vlasek. Mrs.
Atkinson further testified th a t Mrs. Vlasek stepped backward, swayed a little, said ‘Good-bye’ and de-
m aterialized outside of the cabinet. T he Rev. Geo. H . Brooke also came out of the cabinet while Mrs.
Vlasek was m aterialized.
“The testim ony th a t Mrs. Vlasek dem aterialized before reaching the cabinet explains Mrs. V lasek’s
statem ent th a t increasing the light suddenly broke the vibration on w hich she was m anifesting and th a t
she does not recall w hat became of the substance w ith w hich she was clothed.”
This is one of the most remarkable and instructive cases of projection
yet recorded, giving closely observed details from the “inside,” as well as
from that of the observers of results, properly checked by all parties.
The full and detailed observation of facts, carefully recorded, of the
differences noted between the physical (or mortal) processes of mani­
festing, and those of the spirit-persons, are extremely valuable to scientists
and all who study these vitally important facts of nature.
146 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
Note these important facts : increasing the light dispersed (outside
ofthe cabinet) the ectoplasm ofwhich Mrs. Vlasek’s temporarily material­
ized body was formed and gave her a violent shock, stopping the con­
tinuance of her manifestation ; that she had to satisfy the chemist as to
her reasons for wanting to manifest before he would consent to do his
p a rt; changing the song (thus changing the vibrations) before material­
ization was complete destroyed the partly-built-up figures, depriving
several spirits of their opportunity to manifest ; Mrs. Vlasek normally
and intelligently conversed with the spirit-operators, who were able to
distinguish her from themselves and the other spirit-friends as “mortal” ;
the sitters contributed, in varying degrees, some of the material (aura ?)
required to be poured into the medium’s head and neck, which then
emanated from her in the form of the ectoplasm necessary for materializa­
tion ; this ectoplasm was poured over the spirit-form of the person
manifesting (as over a mould), who thus became visible to the material
eyes of the sitters.
It is evidently a complicated process requiring expert skill and know­
ledge and our crass ignorance (after all these centuries) must be a sore
trial to the patience of the competent spirit-workers, as we constantly
nullify their efforts with our inept interference and stubborn, stultifying
refusal to admit new facts, that conflict with our previous experience and
with the supposed infallibility and finality of our currently accepted
scientific methods. True science is not so limited and adjusts itself to
any new methods necessary to understand new facts.
PROJECTION 147
Chapter 19
INSPIRATION
“ Therefore have I uttered that I understand not, things too wonderful
for me, which I know not.”
“If thou couldst empty all thyself of self,
Like to a shell dishabited,
Then might He find thee on the ocean shelf,
And say, ‘This is not dead’—
And fill thee with Himself instead.”
T homas E. Brown.
I
NSPIRATION, an inbreathing; an awakening of thought or mental
activi y by some specific external influence, inexplicable cognition,
as the knowledge of an axiom : “It is ever an exspiration, God only
knows whence ; a sudden, undated perception ofeternal right coming into
and correcting things that were wrong ; a perception that passes through
thousands as readily as through one.” Emerson, Misc., page 408.
“Any one is inspired, as we now speak, just as far as he is raised
internally, in thought and feeling, perception, or action, by a divine
movement within.” Bushnell.
I nspiration is found in various degrees of trance, from the imper­
ceptible, when the speaker is fully conscious of all he says ; in deeper
trance, when the speaker is conscious, as if hearing another person
speaking, though through the speaker’s lips ; and total trance, where the
speaker knows nothing of what occurs. Sometimes the subject matter is
of deep scientific, philosophic or religious interest, far beyond the normal
capacity of the medium, but with others, again, it may be poor and
commonplace, yet none the less inspired. The ability, training and educa­
tion ofthe medium greatly affects the result, just as a defective instrument
will prevent the most accomplished musician from doingjustice to himself
and his composition. There are rare exceptions where the subject-
matter is beyond the normal bounds of the medium and at times the
listeners also, as in the case of strange tongues. Great musicians, painters,
engineers, etc., are all indebted to inspiration, though they may not be
aware of it and assume that the brilliant effects are due to their own
unaided intellect.
Schiller “wondered where his thoughts came from ; they frequently flowed through him independently
of the action of his own m ind.” M ozart said : “ W hen all goes well w ith me, when I am in a carriage,
or walking, or when I cannot sleep a t night, the thoughts come stream ing in upon me m ost fluently ;
whence or how I cannot tell.” Beethoven stated : “ Inspiration is for me th a t m ysterious state in which
148
the entire w orld seems to form a vast harm ony, when every sentim ent, every thought re-echoes within
me, w hen all the forces of nature become instrum ents for me, when my whole body shivers and my hair
stands on end.” H arriet Beecher Stowe, of Uncle Tom's Cabin fame, said th a t ‘‘it seem ed to her as though
w hat she w rote was blown through her m ind as w ith th e rushing of a m ighty w ind.” E dgar W allace
w rote : “Are we wildly absurd in supposing th a t hum an thought has an indestructible substance, and
th a t m en leave behind them when their bodies are dead, a wealth of m ind th a t finds em ploym ent in a new
host ? I personally do not think we are. I am perfectly satisfied in m y m ind th a t I have received an
im mense am ount of help from th e so-called dead. I have succeeded far beyond th e point m y natural
talents justified. A nd so have you. I believe th a t m y m ind is furnished w ith oddm ents of intellectual
quipm ent th a t have been acquired I know not how.”
Perhaps tie best way to reveal spiritual inspiration and philosophy
as we get it to-day, through the finer mediums, or instruments, is to
quote freely from actual messages.
“Nona,” from Rosemary Records, wrote (Dr. Wood) :
“ You think I have been passed for ages, D octor,” she once said to me. “ B ut it is nothing in the
developm ent which is before us. If only we could make people believe th a t life is eternal ? On our side
time is gone for ever. We live solely in action. My own happiness is the result of ages of developm ent
and yearnings of the spirit. I desired greatly, and worked and hoped. N o longings are unrealized th a t are
of the spirit and good. W hen a knowledge of th a t becomes one’s possession, life really begins and time is
no more.
“ You are lim ited by the density of m atter, which makes your physical body subject to tim e and
?lace. We are ju st the opposite. We ourselves are the only lim itations ; we have none of tim e or place.
can, w ith practice, project m y thought self anywhere, and be conscious of w hat is taking place anywhere
in your w orld.” (This she proved by reporting a shipwreck on the coast, then taking place, and afterwards
the inform ation was verified.)
“ I t ’s a developed faculty,” said Lady Nona. “ If you, Doctor, were to pass out to-night, your guides
would awaken you here, after a brief rest. You would be as you are now. You would have instinct, intellect
and m otive power which uses the physical self. B ut you would have no m ore power to project m ind and
personality than you have now. I t all comes by training.”
“ You lead tw o lives a t the sam e tim e ; and a m an m ay make a nam e and a reputation in both worlds
a t once, or in one only ; for it often happens—indeed, it is m ost com monly the case—th a t men, whom
we think the m ost of, are the least thought of by you. Many a poor m an is a power in the spirit world,
and w ill have a nam e aw aiting him when he enters spirit life, w hich kings m ight envy.”
Life Beyond the Grave.
“Surely this is an incentive to w ork and to work hard in the world, knowing th a t all you learn here
on earth as a beginning, you will carry forward more and more fully as you gradually ascend to other spheres
(or states). The love th a t you lavish on earth will be a golden chain binding life with life, and opening
into a fuller glory in the ‘by and by.” ’ Teachings.
“ D on’t you, who belong to the Church of England, say in your Creed, you believe in th e ‘com munion
of saints’ ? W hat is the good of saying it i f you don't believe it, and if you do believe it, why affirm that
it is only bad spirits who return, and not the good?” Not Silent— i f Dead.
“ Rem ember there are degrees of proof, and th a t evidence, very insignificant in itself, m ay be vastly
enhanced by preceding or succeeding facts or argum ents.” Spirit Teachings.
“ There is an underlying tru th in every wrongly transm itted message. T reat us not as fraudulent,
because we cannot always pierce the darkness of your m aterial m inds. Do you always receive your tele­
phone messages correctly?” Not Silent— i f Dead.
“ Think individually, and do n o t let your m inds be a looking-glass reflecting from the m inds of others.”
Truths from the Spirit World.
“ M any think th a t obedience to law is a curtailm ent of free will. N ot so. The m an who breaks the
laws of nature finds himself in turn enslaved by those very laws ; the great universal law of cause and
effect metes out to him due punishm ent (consequences) for his violation or disobedience of any natural law
w hilst the m an who acts in harm ony or obedience to the highest w ithin him , finds himself a law unto him ­
self, in th a t the Spirit is above law .”
“ It is n o t his brain power th a t stam ps a m an as a spirit, but his character—in other words, the quality
of his soul, w hether good or evil. H e m ay be as able-m inded as you like— that will not help him build up
his spirit body ; it is the amount of love in his com position, not the am ount of mere knowledge he possesses,
which helps to form the spirit body—though love should be based on spiritual knowledge, if it is to be
properly directed. W hen th a t is the case knowledge becomes wisdom.” Life Beyond the Grave.
“ There is no end to spirit life. There are changes, no d o u b t; b u t there is no end. I was Ja n Steen
when I entered this life ; I am still Ja n Steen, and will be for ever—so far as I can see. You m ay be sure
you will be yourself and not someone else, in th e life of the spirit. You w ill never lose your individuality."
Hafed.
Rosemary Records (Sylvester) : “ W hen the physical body is asleep the spiritual p art is free, as after
death ; but, of course, the control cord is not severed. Your souls often pass for a few mom ents on to the
spiritual plane ; there to meet and converse w ith loved ones. And who shall tell how m uch of one's spiritual
strength has not been gained a t these meetings ? Therefore, if you would avail yourself of the help, com fort
and spiritual refreshm ent such contact can give, free your spirit by thinking and doing only those things
of w hich your spirit would approve.”
INSPIRATION 149
J .D .W .: “ la sleep those who suffer terribly when awake are brought to w hat I ’ve heard you call ihe
Sum m erlands, and there for a brief space their spirits are free. Their conscious m inds know nothing of
th is ; but it is a fact which enables tnem to go on bearing pain.” “ Often when people visit us in sleep
they are able to spend a long tim e w ith friends, enabling them to do w hat would take hours on your side.”
“ Clothes, w ith us, are not worn to protect a physical body from cold or heat, b u t as a sym bol of the
spiritual condition of the wearer. Thus, clothes in the spirit world serve the double capacity of clothing
tn e spirit body and indicating the spiritual state of the person wearing them .” L ife Beyond the Grave.
“Do not wait till you come over here. Set to work at once. There is no time to lose. Gain control of
self. Then retain control by em ptying yourself of self. All thought of lust and passion, greed, hatred, envy
and above all selfishness, passing through the m inds of m en and women, generate a ‘condition’ called
H ell. Purgatory and H ell are different ‘states.’ We all m ust needs pass through a purging, purifying
process after leaving earth life.” Private Dowding.
“ E very attribute of the soul, m ental and m oral, has its corresponding ray of colour, and the blending
of these forms the beautiful and varied tints of the rainbow, and, like it, they m elt into one another to
form the perfect whole.
“ In some souls, the developm ent of certain faculties will take place more rapidly than th a t of others ;
in some, certain seed germs of intellect and m orality w ill lie fallow and give no sign th a t they e x is t; but
they are none the less there, and either on earth or in the great hereafter they w ill begin to grow and to
blossom to perfection.” A Wanderer in Spirit Lands.
“ I t is a false doctrine to say th a t love exists only on the lower planes (that is mere passion) th a t when
one has risen, all thoughts of personal affection, of individual desire for one soul’s com pany more than that
of another, will d e p a rt; th a t we shall care, or rather n o t care, for ail alike, th a t we shall eventually be
merged in the G reat Wisdom, keeping our intellectual personality, b u t w ith all the affections gone. Such
ideas are false." Truths from the Spirit World.
“ By life-work, we do not mean any great and particular work, b u t a sm all portionof a great work,
perhaps— and, indeed, m ost often—entirely unknow n to the workers them selves.” Teachings.
J.D .W ., through “ Rosem ary,” answering Dr. F. H. W ood’s rem ark th a t “ It was a disadvantage some­
tim es to be a ghost.” “T h a t’s w hat w e think,” he retorted. “ B ut y ou are the ghosts, because only part
of your personality is functioning through m atter ; whereas w e are free to function fully. Ah well. Perhaps
you’ll be real’ some day.”
“ I t is n o t the sudden words of affection th a t are the truest gold, b u t the sym pathetic, steady everyday
reality th a t weighs best am ong the good.” Teachings.
“ T ruth itself is inextinguishable. E very word and every earnest desire for truth, sets in m otion
vibrations which go on for ever in w idening circles.” Messages from Meslom.
“ It is noticeable th a t as a spirit has thought, so has it become. H ere pure thoughts have wrought
spiritual revolutions, and now, as an integral possession of consciousness, have become efficient aids in the
realization of sublim e and useful wisdom.” A Celestial Message.
“ H ere on earth, the individual is endowed w ith free will, and can choose one particular sphere (state)
in which he w ill work.” Messages from Meslom.
“ E vil thoughts can be repelled at once by those whose m inds are not in a state of vacant haziness,
which allows enemies to enter.” Truths from the Spirit World.
“ E very evil thought m ust be cast out immediately.” A nd Tiberius is even more em phatic: “Do
not be satisfied as long as your m ind harbours one unw orthy thought.” A nd Dr. W ood’s brother, J.D .W . :
“ Look after your thoughts. They come to life sometimes, and can do great harm .” Nona further ex­
plains : “ A sudden thought can flash out and pass in and through the aura. Sometimes thoughts are
definitely infectious. You m ay be sending them out, unconsciously, to others. On the other hand, by
exercising your will power, you can shut out every other aura from yourself, and so make yourselves immune
from external evil. Consciously to do this, day by day, is to m aintain and im prove physical health and
general happiness.” A nd of evil thoughts Nona further says : “ M entally sweep your m ind clear the
second the thought appears.” (Replace w ith a noble thought filling the mind.) “Deliberately call upon your
will power to overcome it.” Rosemary Records.
“ Very few there are who realize in any great degree the m agnitude of the forces which surround
m en as they go about their business day by day. These forces are real, nevertheless, and close at hand
—nay, they mingle w ith your own endeavours w hether you w ill or no. A nd these powers are not all good,
b u t some are malicious, and some are between~wise, neither definitely good nor bad.
“ W hen I say ‘pow ers’ and ‘forces,’ it is of necessary consequence th a t personalities be present with
them to use them . F or know this, not as of form al assent, but consenting there to exanimo, th a t you
are not, and cannot be, or act, alone, but m ust act and will, and contrive in partnership, and your partners
you do elect, w hether you do so willingly or not.
“So it behoves th a t all be careful in their selection, and this m ay be ensured by prayer and a rig h t life.
T hink of God w ith reverence and awe and of your fellow-men w ith reverence and love ; and do all things
as knowing th a t we w atch you and m ark down your inner m ind w ith exact precision, and that, as you
are and become now, so will you be when aw akened there.” Va le O w e n . Here is Food for Thought.
150 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
C h a p t e r 20
SOME SUGGESTIVE PHILOSOPHIC CONSIDERATIONS
“Philosophy is the kind of thing to which we arejust now returning. It
is the thing you must do ‘AFTER’ you have been scientific. Science
‘DOES N O T’ give thefinal truth : we must beforever seeking that
truth ‘BENEATH AND THROUGH’ the knowledge which science
discovers.”
P
ROBABLY the first (and worst) stumbling-block to man’s progress
and sane understanding of man’s relationships, is the Materialist
and his twin brethren the Atheist and the Agnostic and their
cousins the Rationalist and the Authoritarian.
“ The m aterialist often refers to the tendency of one class of his opponents to p u t aside law and reason
and fall back upon faith and miracle ; b u t if ever there was an appeal to the miraculous, it is found in the
belief th a t ‘matter’ the slave, ‘created m ind' the m aster.”
The tides of knowledge and understanding, during the last fifty years
are rapidly undermining the foundations of nineteenth-century material­
ism. Dr. Rudolph Tischner quotes many German fellow-scientists as
declaring that “Telepathy is impossible,” and Jodi, the philosopher,
speaks of “the fabulous and sentimental idea that there should be such a
thing as telepathy. Such a direct transmission of ideas from one mind to
another, without any physical method of communication, would indicate
a crack in the very foundations of all our views of nature ; and if, because
the proofs were so conclusive, we had to recognize its existence, it would
lead to a complete revision of fundamental principles.” That is, the
mirage of materialism would vanish and the science of “things beyond
physics” would take its proper place at last.
Dr. H. H. Price, Professor of Logic, Oxford University, in a recent
address said (of telepathy and clairvoyance) : “the evidence for them is
so good and abundant.” He suggests that, instead of asking : “Why
does telepathy occur sometimes ?” we should say : “Why doesn’t it
occur all the time ?” That would be distracting and paralysing to
action. Any organism which has survived must have developed some
“Repressive mechanism” whereby the majority of telepathic “impacts”
are prevented from reaching the consciousness. This would account for
the spontaneous cases, which almost always occurs during a state of
lethargy or relaxed attention, when the repressive mechanism is suspended
temporarily.
In Life beyond Death (Rev. Drayton Thomas) is described the process
“whereby the thoughts of distant persons always arrive within the aura
of the person to whom they refer, but usually fail to penetrate into his
151
conscious mind.” This agrees with some experiences of my own when
sitting in a circle ; the medium would say : “Give out what you are
getting, Mr. Wills,” but on my protesting that I was not conscious of
getting anything, she would say : “Yes, you are, I can see it registering
in your aura and the guide tells me he has impressed it upon your brain.”
Yet I was not conscious of anything as expected.
Prof. Price can suggest no theory, yet it emerges that :
“ Sense-experience, or som ething like it, is not necessarily connected w ith an organism or nervous
system . There can be sense-experiences, or som ething like them , from places n o t a t the m om ent occupied
by sense-organs and brain.”
Prof. Ernest Bozzano, in his Animism and Spiritism, indicates :
“ th a t Extra-Sensory Perception points directly to the possession by m an of interior organs of con­
sciousness which can function independently of his physical sense organs and, therefore, to the existence
of an etheric or spiritual organism presum ably capable of surviving the death of the physical body.”
So the dawning ofpsychic science is enlightening the narrow academic
materialists, who are still groping in the gloomy cloisters of the immature
past.
The word “psychology” is misleading since, like the absent-minded
nurse who threw out the baby with the bath water, the psychologist
throws out the (baby) “psyche,” or soul, and limits himself rigidly to the
study of the constitution, mechanics and functioning of the mind, which
is merely the instrument used by the soul. “ Mentology” is the proper
word for this wilfully limited science misnamed psychology.
Study the materialist’s physical brain idea. In a medical museum we
see a brain, preserved in a bottle. Suppose that was the brain of Socrates,
Abraham Lincoln, or some other unusual man. Considered as a unit of
the whole physical body the materialist would say : “It thinks,” not
“He thinks.” But why does “It” not think now ? And where is “He” ?
Anciently the seat of the mind was variously, the liver, kidneys and
other viscera. But the viscera were not the persons.
The brain to-day is exalted to the important status of the “seat” of
the intellect, but though the brain is an essential “part” of me, physically,
it is not “Me,” the real individual. It is an instrument through which I
express myself on the physical plane of being.
Suppose a composer evolving a sublime piece of music, expressing his
conception through a violin. If the instrument is perfect, we, who hear,
can become conscious of the sublimity of the harmonies. But if the
instrument is not perfect, the strings slack or other defect, a discord
results destroying the expression of the harmonies and we may say the
composer is crazy to produce such harsh sounds. But the fault is in the
instrument, not the composer, who still evolves the music he “wants”
to produce. He is not the violin, just asyou are notyour brain, and defects in,
or destruction of, your brain do not affect the real “you.”
Pages 47-163 give scientific proofs that a damaged brain, or even one
wholly degenerated, does not always, or necessarily, destroy the capacity
for individual expression, proving that the essential individual is superior to
andapartfrom his brain instrument as the composer above noted is superior
to and apart from his violin.
We are something more than a materialistic body, or a “fortuitous
conglomeration of atoms,” and, as shown in previous chapters, man is
152 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
SUGGESTIVE PHILOSOPHIC CONSIDERATIONS 153
composed of a physical, a psychic or ethereal body, and an individual
spirit. As Socrates once put it : “Thou art a living soul, burdened with a
lifeless body,” the body being inert and lifeless when the soul (psychic or
ethereal body and spirit) forsakes it for another phase of continuing life,
just as a motor-car is “dead” when the living operator leaves it, but the
operator continues other activities.
Your body consists of about twenty gallons of water and a few pounds
of chemicals, worth five shillings. But is “ t h a t ” actually—“YOU ?”
There being nothing beyond the senses to the materialist and his
brethren, they revive the ancient sensual hedonist’s doctrine of despair :
“Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die.”
It is mere assumption and belief (superstition) based on the observation
of external physical phenomena, that we “die.” Psychic phenomena,
spiritual evidence and the reality behind the psychic manifestations,
prove that we continue to live, the physical state being merely one brief
phase of manifestation in a continuing life of many phases or states of being.
From the earliest times man has felt that death is not the end. The
savage does not even think about it, he “knows” and is not afraid ofdeath.
When a chief died and a human sacrifice was offered, the new chief
would whisper a message in the ear of the victim to be given to the old
chief in spirit-life. Archaeologists have found records of contracts wherein
it was provided that if the debt was not paid on earth, it would be paid in
the next world (or next phase of life), so natural was continuing life
understood. They “know” that life continues, hence they send along
(by sacrifice) wives and slaves, food and implements to continue the happi­
ness of their friends and loved ones, as a common-sense sequence, always
limited by their physical experiences, mental and spiritual development.
Man has always aspired to, and more or less dimly visioned, a more
exalted state or condition beyond the material, and accordingly tried to
formulate rules of conduct, enabling him to rise above the “beasts that
perish.” The urge to a nobler status has its ebb and flow, on the whole
steadily advancing. The noted archaeologist, the late Dr. Breasted, in
his valuable but much neglected book, The Dawn of Conscience, traces
most instructively its slow advance in Egypt ofold. But, with the dawn of
the nineteenth century, able thinkers set forth the evolution of organized
life, and unfortunately their less far-seeing followers failed to grasp the
true inwardness of the teaching and injected their own mistaken notions,
making an academic cult of materialism, blotting out higher ideals and mis­
leading the generations that followed into accepting those low, false and
degenerate values that have culminated in Nazism.
Some are so obsessed with materialistic ideas that they are unable to
grasp the spiritual factors involved, which transcend the physical, and
look forward to continuing existence in a resurrected material body and a
future of “wine, women and song,” in a supposed “Paradise of Houris”
as the ultimate aim of being. I have some good friends who cannot
conceive of meeting their friends hereafter, without bodily shaking their
hands, eating as at present, and so forth. Like Raymond’s friend,
they want cigars and whisky in the spirit-world !
“A t first, people cannot appreciate the difference in vibration and the absence of physical barriesr.
They behave as they did on earth, and develop slowly.” Rosemary Records.
K
Page 164, indicates that the pains we mayfeel, while using the physical
body are non-existent while the psychic body, or soul, is “projected”
(temporarily absent) in trance, anasthesia, etc. Physical consciousness
ceases, and the spirit or psychic individual, through the “silver cord,”
maintains the physical functions of breathing, circulation, etc., to con­
tinue physical-life conditions for the return of the “living soul” to the
dormant shell. Physicalpain and sensuouspleasure are impossible, except when
the soul is united to and permeates the physical body. So the physical
urge of sex (to propagate the species) does not belong to the spiritual state of
being. It is only one of the physical incidentals of the finer spiritual being
and, like pain and pleasure, is manifested only in the material condition. Yet
we find crude materialists, who camouflage their physical misconceptions
with a tinge of spiritualism, insisting that there is “marrying and giving in
marriage,” birth of children, etc., in the spirit-world, an attenuated
duplicating of the physical, despite the numberless contrary teachings of
those who know, “over there.”
“ A ll earthly concepts of sex are more or less vitiated by the fact th a t sex union is localized in the physical
organs—we do not increase and multiply— we neither m arry nor are given in m arriage—but are free to mingle
and merge our being in their whole to tality w ith any other being, w ith whom our own souls coincide.”
Letters from Julia.
“ The prim ary purpose of sex on the m aterial plane is to provide for the perpetuation of the species.
no su c h n e e d e x is t s h e r e . You leave behind you all the physical sex differences and dem ands. Man
acquires on his upw ard career w om an’s tenderness and w om an attains m an’s strength.
“ Those who have loved one another m ust meet here, they cannot avoid it. B ut not so with mere sex-
attraction, which even on your little planet soon fades.” Johannes.
i 54 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
Birth
“ The genesis of life is the instant of conception. W e cannot see or feel the dew in the air, b u t see it
when precipitated, b y the cold night air, on the flowers and grass. So the im m anent spirit is only m anifest
to us when prevading the vitalized em bryo at birth, and takes on form and m anifests qualities. The baby
cannot see or hear, when born, b u t only feels, and sim ilarly through feeling, we can contact our fellow-
men, identify ourselves w ith them , so to speak, in an intim ate w ay th a t seeing, hearing and m ental contacts
cannot do. We m ust learn to contact through our fellow-feelings, ‘n o t’ physical senses, then we can reach
them and help, teach and influence them .
“ We are individual atom s of ineffable spirit. We are as motes, com pared w ith the universe at large,
b u t distinct individual particles, continuing as such.”
At the moment of conception life begins (in the sense of “livingness,”
vitality, not consciousness) in the physical embryo, and also in the
etheric or psychic state and in the spirit, all developing simultaneously.
These phases evolve parallel to each other, the physical—not having yet
reached the stage of developed nerves to transmit sensation, or brain to
register or enable the soul to permeate it and become conscious and in­
terpret the brain records—has only vitality to continue normally to that
ultimate stage at actual birth.
As the physical embryo develops so does the soul (psychic body and
individuated spirit). The soul, as in adults, is the reality independent of
the physical envelope to which it is attached by the psychic cord (silver
cord ofthe Psalmist) through which the life force passes, as electric current
through a wire. It is cared for in the spirit-world by those best fitted to
care for and foster its progress, parallel to that of the physical body, until
birth takes place. (See page 26.) At birth (the physical vehicle being
then fully formed and developed), simultaneously with thefirst breath and cry,
the spirit enters into and permeates its earthly temple and the child becomes
“a living soul,” no longer attached to the mother. The very first breath
and cry show the first rudimentary physical consciousness responding to sensa­
tions via the newly developed nerves and brain.
The child in psychic life, though otherwise living, has no physical
body until born into its new tenement of flesh, coincidentally developed.
(See page 26.) Though the embryonic physical body of the child perishes
unborn, the individual, spiritual, real life continues and develops like all
others. This is why children, who pass away prematurely without living
physically, still continue to exist and develop in spirit-life, to the surprise and
amazement of mothers who have forgotten the loss, when their unknown
children return and talk to them, through a medium. Years afterwards
the “grown up” child they never knew, talks and joys with them like their
other normally born children, ask to be given names and participate in
the family life, which they have shared unseen, from the time ofthe separa­
tion of the “silver cord,” which released them from the immature physical
body. They come to gain some necessary contact with earth life, through the
medium, by contacting their loved ones.
“ The experience of earth life cannot be dispensed with. The absence of experience and knowledge
requires to be rem edied by training and education by spirits whose special care it is to train these tender
souls. It is not a gain to be rem oved from earth life, save in one w ay— th a t the misuse of opportunities
m ight have entailed greater loss and have more retarded progress. M any a child spirit leaves the earth life
pure and unsullied who would have been exposed to tem ptation and grievous tr ia l; and so it gains in
purity w hat it lost in knowledge.
“ The spirit who has fought and won is the nobler one. Purified by trial it rises to the sphere set apart
for proven souls. Such experience is essental. To gain it m any spirits elect to return to earth, and, by
attaching themselves to a medium, gain the special phase of experience which they need. To one, cultivation
of the affections ; to another, m ental culture, to another, suffering and sorrow ; to another, curbing and
restraining of the im pulses of the spirit—evenness of balance. All who return, save those who, like ourselves
are charged w ith a mission, have an object to gain ; and in being associated w ith us and w ith you they
gain their progress.” Spirit Teachings.
“ Children are never allowed to forget or lose their love for their earthly parents. Often and often
they are brought to m eet them in the appointed meeting-place, where m any separated souls are reunited
—during the hours of sleep.” Teachings of Love.
“ Man is composed of the essences of God and N ature. The com pletion of the hum an form is an
indication th a t these essences have become focalized and individualized. Hence the conclusion is clear,
th a t even w ith those children who are still-born, the spirit has unfolded sufficiently to have fixed its
individuality. I t is an immortal being.” A n d r e w J a ck so n D a v is .
Our forefathers knew only what they were prepared to comprehend.
We have developed further and comprehend things beyond their capacity.
We are preparing the way for those who come after, to develop still
further and comprehend what is now far beyond our capacity.
“What is truth ? Vaguely stated it may be defined as what is com­
patible with reason. This is a deification of reason and leads to the rejec­
tion of all that is beyond the grasp of the human understanding.” This
is academic psychology’s idea of mind as the ultimate.
The trouble lies in concentrating too exclusively on phenomena, the
outward manifestation, and ignoring the noumena, the reality, the essence
behind all manifestation.
The mind is an instrument through which the real entity, the or
spirit, contacts the brain and, operating through it, causes the physical
phenomena we recognize as life, thought, action. Matter and mind are
different phases in the manifestation of one and the same being, which is
neither mind nor matter, but spirit, immanent in, yet transcending its
physical and mental instruments.
The individual or noumenon or entity, being a something of itself,
apart from and independent of mind, its instrument (as the body is also
its physical instrument, via the mind and brain) is, at least at present.
SUGGESTIVE PHILOSOPHIC CONSIDERATIONS 155
156 l if e , n o w a n d f o r e v e r
equally indefinable and transcends, the limits of the mind it uses, being
an individuatedpoint, as it were, of infinite spirit with infinite gradations and
combinations between such point and the mental and physical components
of man as we normally cognize him. The “I” is not merely the summation
of our fluctuating memories.
We generally confuse the internal quality character (what one really is)
with the external reputation (which is the opinion of others), which latter
may be widely different and erroneous ; so we also confuse the selfwith the
artificialpersonality which masks andhides i t ; so, too, we experience difficulty
in grasping the (to us) strange conditions of the essential entity of
using the mind as a tool merely, not as an integral part of itself as we are accus­
tomed to think ofit.
Consciousness, the awareness of being (as, I am that which I am becom­
ing ; since we are never static), and of other individual beings is
inherent in the essential individual entity, and is therefore apart from the
mind which memorizes and formulates ideas in earth terms, impressing
them on the brain, which receives the ideas impressed upon it by the
mind, its nearest of kin, so to speak.
We have the “I,” the individual point of Universal Spirit, the essential
entity, operating through the mind and its adjunct the memory, and
controlling the body through its influence and reactions on the physical
brain. The exact process of this mind-brain activation we do not yet
know. In short, the “I,” does not go “ WITH” the body, though that is
our accustomed and habitual impression from appearances. The “/ ”
moves the body to go where it, THE “/,” desires or need calls it. Our bodies
are subject to us, to our “real selves” and not we to them. The body
does not even influence us, the “real selves,” only as it is more or less
the inadequate and imperfect instrument of the actual and real spirit,
which permeates that physical envelope which we know as the body.1
Spirit, Mind and Body
We live several lives or phases of life. The bustling business-man is
one person to his fellow-workers, another to his club and social friends,
still another to his wife and family, and yet again different to himself
in his secret heart, his spiritual life an enigma to himself and hidden from
all others. Yet he is one man, both his hidden and his visible self, however
little he may realize it.
It is on this point that most people stumble. The Christian Scientist
errs by speaking of the Divine Mind as the ultimate of being, as many
Spiritualists do also in speaking of Infinite Intelligence similarly, for
intelligence is only the result of thefunctioning of mind and is not the ultimate
of being. The truth is that the ultimate of being, which we label God, Allah,
Brahma, Amun, Jehovah, etc., is ineffable. We can only predicate “Being”
and let it go at that. As one of our poets expresses it :
“That somewhat which we name, but cannot know,
E’en as we name a star and only see
Its ceaselessflashings forth, which ever show
And ever hide Him and which is not He.”
1 Appendix “ A ” .
SUGGESTIVE PHILOSOPHIC CONSIDERATIONS 157
Someone has said : “He who attempts to define God is as foolish as he
who denies Him.”
As “the Spirit of God dwelleth in you,” in the last analysis, the real
spirit of man is equally ineffable. Only by his manifestations can we know
anything of man, any more than we can know anything of God.
It (Being), transcends its complicated instrument the mind, and can
function independently of mind, becoming directly or intuitively aware of
knowledge and may utilize it apart from mind and its functions, though these
are the normal means of its manifestation on the physical plane of being.
Sir James Jeans expressed it rightly, though he did not mean it just
that way, when he said of the universe : “It is a thought in the mind of
God.” The manifestation of a thought in the mind-instrument of God,
would be better.
Suppose that you are the director or manager of a large enterprise.
You have a secretary, whose duty it is to gather up information, assemble
and analyse it and present it for your consideration. As an aid the
secretary has a filing room, in which is stored, for reference, data and
records of past activities. The secretary refers to this stored material to
assist in connecting present with past data and make a summary for the
manager’s information and guidance. But there are times when the
manager is given information from other sources, outside of his own
organization (of which information the secretary is ignorant), and the
manager acts upon this information and so instructs his now bewildered
secretary, who can find no such information or data in the filing room, to
guide him.
In like manner, the real self, spirit (or manager) has a mind (or secre­
tary), and also a memory (filing room), through which the real self
ordinarily acts. But at times the real self (manager) gets information by-
intuition (sources outside of his own constituent organization, as far as
we yet know it), independently of the now confused and amazed mind
(secretary) and which has no counterpart in the memory (filing room). Thus
we see the difference between the controlling spirit or real self (manager)
and the mind instrument (secretary) with its adjunct memory (filing room).1
That the ultimate “I” or being is an essence wholly independent of
the physical and mental phenomena, by means of which we ordinarily
become aware of it, is, strangely enough, well put in an illuminating
message from “over there,” quoted in the Two Worlds some time ago.
From a mother to her daughter :
“ Love, dear, from us all, m o t h e r . At last I have got m y nam e through. It is strange w hy it is so
difficult. It is when we try to recall old memories th a t we fail. You see, dear, w e— the r e a l s e l f I mean
— a r e n o t m in d , and m em o ry b elo n g s to m in d , otherwise you would not say *1’ w ant to rem ember.
You see the *i* is so m et h in g a pa r t fr o m m ind or there would be no need for the ‘i ’ to t e l l t h e m ind
to rem ember. H ave I made this clear ? It is so im portant, because % ’ as all souls, do n o t u se m ind h er e
as y o u d o . m em o r ies b elo n g so l e l y to m in d . T h a t is the reason you so often think we forget nam es
and details, b u t t h e y se r v e us no lo n g er as w e pr o g r e ss, so w e d isc a r d t h e m , it is difficult to recall
them , just as it would be difficult to recall a lesson learnt at school—all im portant at the tim e, but of no
use to the advanced student, or an aged person— I w ant this used. It w ill help m any. This is so beautiful
after a ll t h e t r iv ia l it ie s w h ic h m a k e u p e a r t h l if e . I learn m uch now, dear, and w ant to teach
you !”
The Two Worlds, quoting a message (Rosemary Records) from a lady of
Elizabethan times on her Earth Memories :
“ They are far, far aw ay, hidden am ong thick m ists where light b u t penetrates in occasional flashes.
Indeed, to talk at all is strange to me. To be here is strange. I like it not, b u t this great guide (Nona has
1 Appendix “ A .”
begged of me to assist.” N ona herself says she had the help of her own higher guides to revive her own
memories "by a t h o u g h t pr o c ess y o u w o uld n o t u n d e r s t a n d .” " I t is not a simple, but a very difficult
matter, to revive these things. T hat is w hy it is seldom done. The language (ancient-Egyptian) came back
to me along w ith m y m em ory ; b u t it would be po s s ib l e fo r m e to r em em b e r facts of m y Earth-life,
and yet r em em b e r n o n e of the spoken w o r d s. Y et I did manage also to rem em ber t h r o u g h spe c ia l
t h o u g h t pr o c e ses, some of the language once used.” "E very m ind can receive only th a t w h ic h it has
t r a in e d it s e l f to c o m pr e h e n d . No one can tap any source of knowledge just by so wishing. Therefore,
there is no such thing as acquiring knowledge at will here, any more than on your s id e ; the difference is
th a t here—being unham pered by a m aterial body— w e can so d e v e l o p o u r fa c u lt ies as to reach out
and absorb far more into our consciousness than could the acutest m inds on your side.”
Again in Light, October 19th, 1939. Mrs. M. L. Cadell records the
following message from her son, asking her to “tell people this” :
"T he longer I live here, the more I understand about the things th a t m atter. So m any things we
thought were im portant to us when on earth are not important now. This is the reason th a t when you
first com m unicate w ith us we don't always give you the evidence you think we should. The very things
‘you’ think we should rem em ber are unim portant; and the wonderful things we are contacting sweep
them aw ay in some cases. W e do try to rem em ber them for your sakes.”
“ Listen ! It m eans making an effort to remember things unimportant in our new lives. D on’t let
people think th a t we disregard the past. Those things, which were concerned with our love, m atter, but
the test messages which we have left in an envelope to be opened after our passing— the nam e of a person
connected in some rath er im portant w ay—we m ay have forgotten his name, b u t we remember what he
meant to us. A nything th a t has happened on earth that has helped to form our character, build up our lives,
help our spiritual progress, and bind us to the people we love—■
those are the things th a t rem ain in our
consciousness.”
"T he things th a t m atter to our souls, we rem em ber. F or instance, the nam e of a place where we
w ent to school m ay elude us, the nam e of a m aster, th a t m ay go ; b u t th a t which we experienced there,
which taught us the fundam entals, which built up moral and spiritual principles—•
these remain. Tell people
this !”
We speak of consciousness, referring generally to what we may
distinguish as the normal consciousness. Yet there are times when we
become aware of a larger essential life ; as though our individuated
spirit being was, symbolically, a great sphere, one minute part only of
which contacts our physical means or facet of local awareness, the limited
normal to which we are accustomed ; the other facets, parts, and, indeed,
the whole being continually active, but not within the compass of our
present understanding. Our complete consciousness appears to include
far more than we think, know or can now comprehend. I have been
informed by my wife that :
"Y ou are developing spiritually far more than you are conscious of doing,” and, “ W e took you to a
great centre of knowledge last night in your sleep.” On objecting th a t I knew nothing of it I was told :
“ No, you cannot now understand, but your larger consciousness does and you w ill understand and benefit
by all this when you arrive here.”
“ Each of us is, in reality, an abiding psychical en tity far more extensive than he knows— an indi­
viduality which can never express itself completely through any corporeal manifestation. The self manifests
through organism ; b u t there is always some part of the self unm anifested; and always, it seems, some
power of organic expression in abeyance or reserve.” — Message from F. H. My e r s .
“ We do not send the spirit out, as a dove from the ark of our earth life. It unfolds, evolves, expands
and contacts infinitely more extensive consciousness, becomes directly aware of knowledge, needing no
physical or mental instruments of perception and com prehension.”
We may define man as a physical body, a psychic or spiritual body
with mind as the instrument correlating them, and the real self (spirit),
which latter is independent of and can function not only through, but
apart from, either, when sufficiently evolved under proper conditions.
The transcendence and independence of the individuated spark of
ineffable spirit, man, is illustrated by an incident in the world war,
eulogized by John Masefield in a poem. A soldier had accomplished a
daring deed and was rewarded by the highest symbol of bravery, the
Victoria Cross, but feels unworthy of it, because he thinks he “did it
against his will” ; not understanding that moral and spiritual courage
surpasses all other.
158 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
He tells of the physical loathing of the gruesome scenes around him,
his reason sets forth the terrible menace of the situation and reinforces
his urgent and natural desire to turn and flee to safety, and his will to do so.
But the higher spirit self overrules these instruments of action and, in spite of
horror and fears, carries him through in spite of conditions. Of course
he might have been killed, instead of wounded, but, in his continuing
life beyond the physical phase, he would know that he had done his part
as an individual spirit.
Here we see that the spirit dominates conditions physical and psychic,
overcoming physical aversion and controlling psychic apprehension,
resulting from reason realizing the dangers, controlling also the desire
to escape and the will to act upon these physical and psychic urges. But
all dominated and controlled by the higher spiritual self, the ultimate real
man.
“ The w ill is only one of the servants of the spirit. J u st as your arm s and legs are necessary to the
proper functioning of your body, so your spirit cannot function w ithout the use of your will. T h at is
the beginning of all development. P rotect yourselves by an atm osphere of goodness and purity of thought.
W ith such an aura, nothing can touch you.
“ E very fellow has to do his own fighting and clim bing and his own atonem ent (or consequences)._ It
helps nobody to save them from the consequences of their own choice. M aking a buffer of yourself ju st
batters up your own good m aterial, for no gain in force or purpose. The w ay to help is to call to their
own constructive purpose and give them a chance. Suggest, enlighten, encourage, b u t don't try to
carry the burden of another’s life. E ach develops himself somewhere. W hy delay the process by vicarious
labour, especially when it only ‘exhausts’ you and ‘does not develop’ him .” Seven Purposes.
“ It is necessary th a t you should recognize th a t the spirit world is a realm of law and order—not of
supernatural magic— and th a t character persists—after death ; th a t by no possible means can one cut
him self from his past. An interesting case will illustrate this. I attended the ‘awakening’ of an old
m an who ‘passed over’ to our side very suddenly. W hen he awoke to consciousness he protested vehem­
ently th a t he was n o t dead, calling us all liars and fools. He had been cynical and conceited and believed
th a t m en were honest and women virtuous, only so long as they were not found out. He im puted the worst
intentions to all and having no sympathy w ith others he had no friends, so th a t he found him self a stranger
in a strange land. He was isolated, hemmed in by his own mental state, and could neither see nor hear the
real spiritual world, as his own conditions were his own surroundings.” Death and Beyond.
And so we find ourselves, as F. W. Myers put it, “on our way to a
goal unthinkably remote,” and it is an upward way.
SUGGESTIVE PHILOSOPHIC CONSIDERATIONS 159
C h a p t e r 21
“ There is a physical (or animal) body and a spiritual body . . . each
equally natural.”
UMBERS of newly discovered facts relating to the subjective
THE REALITY OF THE PSYCHIC BODY
Psychic, Ethereal, or Spiritual body and its relation to the objective
physical body, how each affects and is affected by the other,
bring us many steps along the way of understanding, only limited by our
capacity to comprehend intelligently what we find and our ability and
willingness to cast out past errors and accept new truths.
Dr. Blondlot, of Nancy, France, discovered rays emanating from the
body which he called N-rays. Dr. Bose, India, found evidence of sensi­
tivity in trees and plants, showing them to be affected by poisons and their
antidotes, injuries and healing, etc. Dr. Durville and other French
experimenters have added much to our knowledge of the Psychic,
Ethereal, Auric or Spiritual body. Here is one such experiment.
Dr. Guyon Richards, London, England, studied the complicated
structure of auras in detail by electrical resistances, finding strata in the
aura which disappear in trance and sleep, first the outer layer, then the
next in order, etc., which return in reverse order as consciousness returns.
A healthy aura shows rays at right angles to the body, a diseased aura
showing drooping rays, patches due to disease, etc. He finds that every­
thing has characteristic reactions and lists them as follows : Mineral
one-ring biomorphs ; Vegetable two rings ; Insects and reptiles three
rings ; Mammals and birds three and four rings ; Man four and five
rings. These he claims are due to life in the object, and he asks the
interesting question : “Will man or another race have six or seven rings
in the course of evolution,” indicating functioning in higher strata
of the spectrum vibrations. He checked his findings with a clairvoyant
and by means of the Kilner screens. Clairvoyants have also described
the psychic, ethereal or spiritual form leaving the physical body tem­
porarily during sleep, trance and anesthesia and permanently at so-called
death. See “Projection” (temporary-permanent), pages 162-168.
Dr. Richards remarks : “Seeing ghosts (or forms) of the living, or
of the so-called dead, is only an extension of auric vision, which is existent
in at least one in ten persons to a limited extent.”
Dr. Kilner, of St. Thomas’s Hospital, London, England, found that
by means of certain chemical screens which he invented, he could see this
aura, proving it to be as much a fact in nature as the physical body to
which we are so accustomed. After some months experimenting he
found that he could see this aura without the screen, that he had developed
THE REALITY OF THE PSYCHIC BODY 161
a latent faculty of sight, analogous to clairvoyance, and that the aura
was no mere fancy, but a proved fact. Numbers of his fellow medical
men, students, nurses and others experimented with the same results.
Dr. Kilner says that ninety per cent can see the aura ofpsychic body and
reports from persons using the improved screens now on the market show
that this per cent is successful, in seeing this psychic body, in which the
physical body is immersed. Long continued use of the screens made
Kilner’s eyes sore and he had to limit the time he used them to half an
hour each day. Evidently changes were taking place in his eyes developing
this latent faculty of auric sight.
Naturally in a hospital, experimenting with patients as subjects, the
experimenters soon noticed the differences in the auras ofpersons suffering
from various diseases and by close observation and study were able to
diagnose different ailments. They also found differences in form,
structure, colour, etc., in different diseases. The aura is affected by the
emotions as well as the state of health. Joy, sorrow, anger, excitement,
depression, fright—each has its characteristic influence ; a fact also
corroborated by the experiences of many good mediums. There is no
distinctive difference between the auras of boys and girls before puberty.
It is not till after that development that changes occur. That it is matter
refined, sublimated or ethereal, is shown by the effects ofa magnet brought
near to it, the magnet attracting and drawing out to a point the portion
of the aura to which it is brought near. The auric emanations from the
fingers do not form a field, but remain separate and individual, showing a
difference between psychic and electro-magnetic forces, indicating a
different form of matter from that to which we are normally accustomed.
There is no aura about a “dead” body, the aura, psychic or spiritual
body has departed from it, leaving only the inert physical shell which it
formerly permeated and encompassed.
Oscar Bagual, B.A., has since carried the subject further and largely
overcome the instability of the chemical used to make the Kilner screens.
He introduces many new details.
Drs. Van Zelst and Zetla, of Holland, in the course of their psychic
researches, invented machines enabling them, as they believe, to weigh,
measure and directly communicate with the surviving spirit of man,
without a recognized medium. This means of course that they are them­
selves psychic, as, so far as is now known, the communicating entity
cannot affect material things without a somewhat derived form a living
person. They also ascertained the chemical and molecular structure
(the composition) of the astral, or psychic body. The atoms composing
the psychic body are extremely small, widely separated, heavy and
arranged in strata (see note re Drs. Richards, Kilner, etc.) the molecules
held together by a yet unknown force. They calculated the weight of the
psychic or ethereal body mathematically as two and one quarter ounces.
This weight was verified about the same time by Dr. McDougall,
experimenting in an Eastern hospital. Certain selected patients, who
were passing away from illnesses which caused no struggling, were placed,
bed and all, on large scales so that any change in weight could be noted
without disturbing the patient. Allowance was made for loss of weight
due to perspiration, etc., that might affect the scales. It was found that
at the instant of death a something ponderable (that is having weight)
passed from the body. This weight varied from two and a half to two
ounces, the average thus checking with the weight found by calculation
in Holland. This agrees with the evidence of the magnet that the auric,
psychic or spiritual body is composed of a sublimated physical substance.
The next problem was to see the psychic body as it left the physical
body and thus verify the claims of the clairvoyants. This has been done
recently by Dr. Watters, who utilized the methods of physical science,
using the cloud chamber, by means ofwhich physicists study the electrons.
Small animals were used for these experiments, such as mice, frogs, etc.
Placing one in the proper space for the purpose, the animal was instantly
killed, by suitable means, and in the vapour chamber there was visible
for an instant the duplicate or psychic body of the animal, thus rendering
it possible to photograph its psychic counterpart. Much more research
is required to fully elaborate these remarkable discoveries.
A certain amount of gas leaks- into the cloud chamber and this
“ionizes” part of the cloud. Some influence causes this to assume, more
or less vaguely, the form of the animal, sometimes as if disintegrated into
several (recognizable) pieces. This suggests the modus operandi as demon­
strated in materialization, where the ectoplasm, varying from invisible to
solid, is acted upon by the spirit to form various structures and whole
forms, recognizable and temporarily capable of intelligible and intelligent
action and communication. In the cloud chamber researches much
remains to be done along this line and Dr. Watters’ difficult and remark­
able work merits high commendation as well as Dr. Carrington’s who
first put forth the idea of the cloud chamber research.
Thus psychic research has accomplished the supposed impossible and
given us the following facts :
(1) That there is a psychic, ethereal or spiritual body.
(2) That it has form, colour and structure.
(3) That it is a sublimated kind of matter and has weight.
(4) That its characteristics vary with the emotions and health
conditions.
(5) That it can make known its presence, though invisible, by its
action on chemical screens.
(6) That it passes from the physical body at death.
(7) That under proper conditions it can be seen and photographed.
(8) That it is intelligent, can hear, see and understand requests for
movements and act independently.
(9) That it is an actual entity, separate from, and independent of,
the body and of other human beings as we ordinarily know
them, yet possessing the faculties of normal persons plus others
of which we yet know little.
(10) That it can see, hear and communicate with those who have
permanently separated from the physical body (commonly
called the “dead”) participating, temporarily, in their state
or condition, as these so-called “dead” can temporarily enter
into our material condition, through a medium or human
instrument, in a similar way.
162 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
C h a p t e r 22
TEMPORARY PROJECTION OF THE PSYCHIC
(OR SPIRITUAL) BODY
“We hear—it is a frequent boast— the Scientist rejects the Ghost;
but it may be the Ghost exists, and disbelieves the Scientist
T
HE psychic, ethereal or spiritual, body being demonstrated as an
actuality, the question then arises : “Since it is independent of,
though temporarily permeating the physical body, can this psychic
body leave the physical body temporarily during everyday life, manifesting
itself apart, as a normal incident of its functioning, and return ?”
Camille Flammarion, the famous French astronomer, conducted
experiments along this line. A friend living twelve miles away from
Flammarion’s home agreed to sit at midnight and see what happened.
Flammarion and another friend sat together, the friend “willing” that the
distant receiver should see him. Sitting with his sister at the time agreed
upon, the receiving friend looked up and saw the sender, but the sister did not.
This case Flammarion calls a “thought form” because, being impressed
on the consciousness of the receiver, it was subjectively sensed or visioned
only in his mind.
At another time they tried it, but this time the sender went into a
trance (now recognized as a natural condition as is sleep, which it
resembles), and this time, not only did the receiver see the sender, but his
sister also saw him, and the dog, sleeping on the rug, awoke and saw some­
thing, for, exhibiting signs of terror it ran from the room, not in a direct
line to the door, but crouching close to the wall as far as possible
from the figure. This case Flammarion calls an “objective form,”
because it was material enough to be seen by more than one person.
It appears that sufficient ectoplasm was gathered from the two sitters
and the dog to enable the psychic body of the sender to become objectively
visible.
Clairvoyant surgeons frequently see the psychic body of the uncon­
scious patient, however, hovering over the physical body on the
operating table, and later the patient tells of the experience while out
of the body.
In one case a nurse’s cap was deranged during the operating and the
“double” of the patient laughed at the comic effect and remembered it
afterwards, the incident being verified by other nurses. One lady says she
met her grandmother near the ceiling and they went off together to a
glorious land, and saw, heard and talked of amazing and wonderful
163
things in the new state of life, but she had to come back to her physical
body, much to her regret.
Mr. Battersby relates that his wife determined, when undergoing
an operation, to visit in her psychic body, a friend living in the country,
and did appear to her at the exact moment when she was unconscious under
the surgeon’s knife, in the hospital.
Sometimes patients watch the operation and can describe it after­
wards and assert that they feel nopain, as long as they are “projected out” of
the physical body.
These incidents indicate that the “real person” (the me), continuing
conscious life in the psychic, ethereal or spiritual body, cannotfeel the pain
of physical operations, etc. Evidently pain is merely a reaction inherent in the
physical nervous system, which the spiritual being can onlyfeel when embodied
in the physical form or shell. This fact is constantly demonstrated in
psychic phenomena. The physic body is the vital body, the physical
body itself is only “living” when animated by the psychic person, having
neitherfeeling, movement nor life without the psychic reality. When the psychic
person leaves the physical, temporarily, the psychic is the “power­
house,” maintaining life in the inert physical body, by means of the
“psychic cord” (silver cord ofthe ancient writer) ; just as a distant power­
house maintains the light, heat and power in the lamps and appliances
of the home, through the connecting wires. Similarly if the home is
destroyed or wires cut and the appliances cease to function, the power­
house continues active and unaffected, as is the psychic individuality, when
the physical tenement (the body) is injured or cut offfrom its power-house,
the real me, by so-called death.
Dr. Rose, of Cheltenham, England, reports that :
1‘A fter being throw n from a horse and badly injured he was ‘picked up for dead’ by two men who
witnessed the accident and after five hours he regained consciousness. ‘Although I was insensible,’ he
w rites, ‘I could see my body lying there on the ground. I could see the men pick me up and heard them
say I was dead and carry me into the house. I was able to see the doctors trying to bring me to, and all
the tim e I was able to see myself lying there. I seemed to be floating in a sum m er sea. I cannot describe
the sensation of peace and happiness and y et someone seemed to tell me I had to go back. A nd th a t
is w hy I told the doctors th a t I was not going to die.’ ”
He com ments thus : “ Now the points I wish to m ake are—F irst, I had never seen the men who
picked me up and have never seen them since, as they were strangers to the district, just passing through,
yet I was able to describe them, their clothes and also their horses, which they had tied to a fence when they
w ent to pick me up. Secondly, although I was totally unconscious, I was' able to tell the doctors every­
thing th a t had taken place and w hat m y injuries were. I am convinced th a t I was outside of my body,
yet I was able to see and hear. It makes me certain that there is a life after death, which does not require
a m aterial body for us to be able to see and hear, and th a t we shall retain our personality
A friend in Canada, Mr. Alcorn, who is a keen student of psychic
matters, permits me to quote from a letter he sent me, recording an
excellent case of projection of the psychic body :
“ I somehow discovered th a t I had the power of projecting and was anxious to try it out. I knew
th a t a friend of mine, Mr. Foster, in Victoria, B.C. (about 1,200 miles away), was sitting each week-end.
I w ent to bed about m idnight and very soon w ent into a dream state. I found myself walking about
m y apartm ent and when I came back to m y bedroom I saw m y wife asleep in the bed, and then I saw
myself, as if asleep or dead lying on the bed. I could not understand, b u t suddenly became conscious of
travelling in space and soon found myself in Victoria, B.C., near a sm all house on high ground and I
w ent around to the back door. Entering, I passed through the back room (kitchen) and into the middle
room (dining-room) where I saw a table w ith several people sitting around it and in one corner I saw what
appeared to be a tall cupboard, the door of which seemed to be missing. I could not see anything inside,
nor could I see my friend, Mr. Foster. I m ade notes of this experience and had them witnessed, as I
felt sure th a t I should hear from my friend shortly.”
A subsequent letter from Mrs. Foster, wife of Mr. Alcorn’s friend,
reads as follows :
164 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
“ We were a t a private sitting on th a t date and the gentlem an in charge had each one present sit in
the cabinet in turn. The room was in sem i-darkness and the front of the cabinet wide open so th a t all
could see the spirit forms building around the persons as they sat in the cabinet. The sitter seemed to
disappear and the spirit forms took their place. W hen my husband’s turn came to sit in the cabinet I
distinctly saw a soldier in khaki uniform. He stayed a few seconds and then, Mr. Alcorn, strange as
it m ay appear, your own'face and figure took Foster’s place. You can im agine how I felt, you were there
while I counted* five. One or two others appeared, strangers to me, but you appeared three different times.
This occurred around one a.m. W innipeg tim e when you would be sound asleep.”
She also wrote that Mr. A. as they saw him, had a black moustache.
This puzzled them as they never saw him with a moustache. Mr. A. had
grown it after the F.s left Winnipeg. He was projected when they were
having a seance, otherwise they would probably not have seen him.
A remarkable case of involuntary projection of the psychic body is
that of a Mr. Wilmot who sailed from Liverpool to New York on the
steamer City of Limerick, in 1863 (S.P.R. Records) :
W hen two days out they encountered a severe storm . On the eighth night of the storm he was able
to sleep well for the first tim e and dream ed th a t he saw his wife (who was in U.S.) come into his cabin,
clad in her nightdress, who hesitated a little, then advanced, stooped down and kissed him . On awakening,
his fellow-passenger, a Mr. T ait, said jokingly : “ Y ou’re a p retty fellow to have a lady come and visit
you this w ay.”
On m eeting his wife in New York, Mr. W ilm ot questioned her on the m atter. She said th a t being
very anxious for his safety, she w ent out to seek him . She crossed a dark, wide and storm y sea till she
came to a steam ship, whose side she w ent up and passed along to his state-room . “ Tell m e,” she said, “do
they ever have state-room s like the one I saw, where the upper berth extends further back than the
lower one ? A m an was in the upper berth looking right at me, and for a m om ent I was afraid to go in,
b u t I soon w ent up to the side of your berth and kissed and em braced you and then w ent aw ay.”
Here the lady was objective enough to be seen by the man in the upper
berth as well as by her husband, who was apparently in a light trance
and thought he was dreaming. Evidently the two men supplied enough
ectoplasm to build up the form of the lady substantially enough to be
seen. It will be noted that the lady hesitated on unexpectedly seeing the
man in the upper berth, a fact which both men noted. Also she definitely
noticed the unusual upper berth, which the men confirmed. Distance,
darkness, storm were no obstruction and the tie of love the only thread
leading to the ship on the trackless ocean. This is a fine verification from
each end of the line.
Mr. Wm. Gerhardi, a clever, hard-headed author, tells of waking
one evening to find
him self floating outside of his body. It was himself, the com plete W illiam G erhardi, equipped w ith
memory, hum our, keen wits and a sense of adventure. He travelled about the country and later was
able to produce evidence of his visits. He actually m et a friend who had “passed away” th a t m orning
under an operation and together they floated over to view his friend’s body—two w raiths, alike in every
Particular, except th a t G erhardi was still moored to his body by the “ silver cord.” I here was no change
in the etheric body and character of his friend, who had passed out of his body “ permanently” a few hours
before, nor was the clever, capable etheric person of Gerhardi altered by the “temporary” separation
from his physical body.
Out of thousands of recorded instances these few give us reason to
accept, as an actual psychic fact in nature, that the psychic, ethereal of
spiritual body can temporarily leave the physical casket, with which it is
encumbered, and continue its existence separately, independently and
uninterruptedly and communicate at practically any distance.
“TEMPORARY” PROJECTION OF PSYCHIC BODY 165
PERMANENT
C h a p t e r 23
PROJECTION OF THE SPIRITUAL BODY
(SO-CALLED “DEATH”)
“ When death approaches a man, the mortal part of him
immortal part departs safe and incorruptible.” pLATO
dies, but the
(4OO B .C .)
Q
UESTION : Does the permanently liberated psychic body
resemble the psychic body, temporarily liberated, and can it
return as indicated in the experience of Gerhardi and his so-called
“dead” friend ? Out of thousands of experiences recorded the following
are of interest in proving this ; and countless others not recorded, but
known to various individuals, corroborate these.
When Critias asked Socrates where he wished them to bury him,
he replied, with dry, understanding humour at their failure to grasp his
continuous teachings, re spirit life : “You will not bury ‘m e , ’ you will
only bury ‘m y b o d y , ’ ‘I’ shall be elsewhere.”
An article was published under the title, “A contribution to the study
of Materializations,” by Dr. Joseph Venzano, a distinguished doctor in
Genoa, who was described by Professor Morsel i as “an excellent
observer.”
This seance took place on December 20th, 1900, in the Minerva
Club. The sitters were MM. Vassalo, Erba, Ramorino, Mme Ramorino
and Dr. Venzano. Dr. Venzano controlled Eusapia Palladino on the
right and Mme Ramorino on the left. The room was lighted by a candle
in the ante-room.
“ In spite of the dim ness of the light,” Dr. Venzano w rote, “ I could distinctly see Mme Palladino
and m y fellow-sitters. Suddenly, I perceived th a t behind me was a form, fairly tall, w hich was leaning
its head on m y left shoulder and sobbing violently, so th a t those present could hear the sobs ; it kissed
me repeatedly. I clearly perceived the outlines of this face, which touched m y own, and I felt the very
fine and abundant hair in contact w ith m y left cheek, so th a t I could be quite sure th a t it was a woman.
The table then began to move, and by tvptology gave the nam e of a close fam ily connection who was
know n to no one present except myself. She had died some tim e before and, on account of incom patibility
of tem peram ent, there had been serious disagreements w ith her. _ I was so far from expecting this typto-
logical response th a t I a t first thought th a t this was a case of coincidence of nam e ; b u t whilst I was men­
tally forming this reflection I felt a m outh w ith w arm breath touch m y left ear and whisper, in a low voice
in Genoese dialect, a succession of sentences, the m urm ur of which was audible to the sitters. These
sentences were broken by bursts of weeping, and their gist was repeatedly to im plore pardon for injuries
done to me, w ith a fullness of detail connected w ith fam ily afiairs which could only be known to the
person in question.
“ The phenom enon seemed so real th a t I felt com pelled to reply to the excuses offered me w ith
expressions of affection, and to ask pardon in my turn if m y resentm ent of the wrongs referred to had
been excessive. B ut I had scarcely uttered the first syllables when two hands, with exquisite delicacy, applied
themselves to my lips and prevented m y continuing. The form then said ‘T hank you,’ em braced me and
disappeared.
“ I should state at this point th a t this extraordinary phenom enon did not for a m om ent rob me of
calmness of observation which was more than ever necessary under these circum stances, and th a t I did
not cease to w atch the medium, who was quite awake and visible to all, and rem ained m otionless through
the whole course of the phenom enon.”
\ 166
Denis Bradley, well-known writer, relates :
A lawyer and his wife and daughters were on friendly relations w ith a medium and all had sittings
w ith her. The law yer died and some m onths later the wife visited the medium w ith the news th a t her
daughter had just lost her little baby girl. A lthough th e child h ad appeared quite healthy at birth she
had been found dead in her cot, and there was to be a post-m ortem exam ination. D uring the sitting the
spirit of the law yer appeared and com m unicated w ith his wife. He spoke of the death of his little grand­
child and said she was in the sp irit w orld w ith him and quite happy. Then he added the inform ation
th a t the baby’s heart had been wrong from birth, th a t she could only have lived long enough to know her
m other, and th a t her heart seemed swamped with flu id and so brought about death. T he m other was
com forted by this as she feared th a t the nurse had overfed the baby. N ext day the post-m ortem was
held and the doctor found th a t the child had been born with flu id around her heart and th a t this fluid had
quickly accum ulated and interfered w ith the h ea rt’s action causing its death. This inform ation, which
no hum an m ind knew, w as given by a discarnate intelligence.
In another case, a lady wrote to Conan Doyle in great distress, owing
to her husband having passed over. She was distracted with grief. He
wrote to her kindly and referred her to a certain medium, warning her to
say nothing about her loss or other matters. The day following her
visit to the medium Doyle received a letter from the lady full of gratitude.
She said that the moment she entered the room, the medium described
her husband standing by her and said her husband reminded her,
through the medium, of many things in the past known only to her and
her husband. Then he said : “Edith, ifyou do whatyou are contemplating,
you will make a great barrier between us.” He told his wife he would be
continually near her and help her. The lady said in her letter that she
had fully determined to commit suicide that evening, but that after that
wonderful reunion, as it were, with her husband and the certainty that
he was going to keep in touch with her, her one desire was to live now
at her best and help others and so be ready to join her husband when in
the fullness of time she too entered into the spirit life. Thus proving
survival and preventing suicide.
After an exhausting day with patients, Dr. Weir S. Mitchell, famous
Philadelphia neurologist, had retired to rest. He was awakened by the
violent ringing of his front door bell, and at the door found a little girl,
thinly clad, and in evident distress. “If you please, sir, my mother is
awfully sick,” she said. “Won’t you come and help her ?” The night
was cold, with snow whirling before a bitter wind. Dr. Mitchell was
very tired ; he wished to put off the little child, but something in the way
the little messenger spoke made him relent. He dressed and followed
her. Finding the mother very ill with pneumonia, the doctor arranged
for proper medical care. Later he complimented the sick woman on
the intelligence and persistence of her little daughter. “But my daughter
died a month ago,” cried the woman weakly. “Her shoes and shawl are
in that cupboard.” Dr. Mitchell was amazed and perplexed on opening
the cupboard door, to see the exact garments worn by the little girl who
had brought him thither. They were warm and could notpossibly have been
outside in that bitter, wintry night.
Some years ago a well-known dentist in Chemnitz died without reveal­
ing his formula for an excellent dental filling which he invented. Nothing
relating to it was found amongst his papers and his partner and successor
so regretted being no longer able to use this material, that he and the
dentist’s widow determined to try and recover the formula through a
medium. They sent a picture and some intimate personal possessions
of the dead man to her, the medium knowing nothing of the matter. She
had barely opened the small parcel and touched its contents, when a
PERMANENT PROJECTION OF SPIRITUAL BODY 167
spirit announced itself, gave the name of the late dentist and then pro­
ceeded to dictate to her with the utmost exactitude the complete chemical
formula for the dental filling, known to no one on earth.
In 1910, my friend Dr. McKenzie, dentist, was studying medicine in
Chicago. He and three other students applied at the Cook County
Hospital for a body for dissecting and drew a card numbered 63, designat­
ing the particular body to be taken away. Records of the County
show that body number 63 was so disposed of in 1910. In 1928, he
attended a seance in Indiana, when a man’s voice was heard high up
near the ceiling in the middle of the room : “Doctor, you have a skele­
ton,” were the first surprising words of the visitor. The doctor admitted
having had the skeleton for many years. “Well, I came to say that that
is my skeleton,” was the startling answer. “I have no objection to your
making proper use of my skeleton, but I do object to one thing you did
with it. You lent my skeleton to a friend and one of his children played
with my skull and dropped it on the floor and five or six of my teeth
were knocked out and lost. I don’t like that.” The astounded doctor
admitted the truth of this charge and promised not to lend the skeleton
again. The visitor, mollified by this promise, withdrew.
Some time later the doctor attended another stance to learn more of
this strange acquaintance and prepared certain questions and gained the
following information : That the name of the visitor was Chauncey A.
Sprague ; he was born in Georgia ; had no relatives living ; was a
soldier in the Confederate Army ; enlisted in Cobb’s Legion in the early
part of the war. He gave his record after the war as follows :
“ I joined the regular U.S. Array and served five years. L ater I travelled extensively in the country
for a good m any years. One day as I was walking on the railroad track into Chicago, I was struck by a
train. My body was picked up at the side of the tracks and carried to the County H ospital, where I died
later in the day. My body was sent to the morgue and tagged number 63.”
Inquiry through the A djutant-G eneral’s office in W ashington, where all the old dusty Civil W ar
records are kept, brought a letter w ith the following data : “ The records show th a t Chauncey A. Sprague,
Company B. Cav. battalion, Cobb’s Legion, Ga., Confederate S tates A rm y enlisted A ugust 14th, 1861,
a t A tlanta, Ga. M uster roll, Novem ber and Decem ber 1861, and shows him transferred to the Virginia
(commonly called the Merrimac) March 20th, 1862, as a private. The nam e C. A. Sprague appears on a
payroll of prisoners of war, parolled May 22nd, 1865, at Talladega, Ala., a L ieutenant N itre and Mining
<
"'orPs* Signed : L u tz, W a h l , Major-General. June 22nd, 1928.”
The doctor had to hunt through eighteen-years’ records to verify the
number 63. He, of course, knew of the skeleton but had forgotten the
loss of the teeth, but the rest of the information was unknown to anyone
until search of the ancient records of the Civil War verified the message of
the skeleton’s owner.
The headmaster of an English school for the blind relates this :
“ Some years ago, one of m y blind boys (Tom W illiam s)—a cripple also—passed to the higher life. At
a stance several years afterwards, a spirit guide said : ‘Mr. Maddocks, there’s a wee laddie here very
anxious to have a word w ith you ; shall I let him in ? ’ I replied : ‘Certainly.’ Then a boy’s voice was
heard, laughing heartily for a few m inutes, until I said : ‘Tell me w hat you are laughing at, in order th a t
I m ay enjoy the fun too.’ He answered : ‘Oh, I ’m laughing because / can see you now, b u t I couldn’t
when I was at your school; and now you can't see me— H a, ha !’ My wife, who was w ith me, said : ‘Well,
you have not told us your nam e yet.’ ‘Oh, if I told you th a t my nam e was Tom Brown y ou w ouldn’t
be any wiser for I was a t Mr. M addock’s school before your tim e.’ I then asked his nam e and he a t once
replied : ‘Tom W illiams. You rem em ber the tricks I used to play w ith m y crutches, but I am not lame
now, nor blind either, for I can see you quite plainly.’ The medium could see him and described him so
clearly th a t I rem em bered him a t once and verified everything on m y return to the school by the school
register.’’
We note here, as usual, that physical defects are not carried over into the
next phase of continued life, and the very human character that is retained.
168 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
A busy traveller for a St. Louis firm, having had a good day’s business,
was in his hotel, writing up his orders in the afternoon. Suddenly he
felt as if someone was sitting at the table on his left side. Looking up he
saw a beloved sister, and sprang to his feet to greet her, but she vanished
and he then recalled that she had died a year before. Much disturbed,
he at once packed up and returned to his home in a small town nearby.
Here he related the incident to his unbelieving mother and father, who
smiled indulgently at the extraordinary story, until he said : “She had a
bright red scratch up the left side of her face,” at which the mother turned
pale and nearly fainted. When she recovered she told the father and son
that, as the body of the daughter lay in the casket, the mother was
doing some last little kind offices about the body, when a pin in her
sleeve tore a bright red scratch along the left side of the daughter’s face.
The distressed mother carefully powdered and repaired the damage, so
that no one else knew of the incident but herself. The daughter showed
the scratch to the brother who knew nothing of it, as an identification to
prove her reality to the mother. These physical injuries and disabilities
are not carried over into continued life in the spirit world (as the crippled and
blind boy in the former instance pointed out), but are shown as conclusive
evidence ofidentity, especially as in this case where the observer knew nothing
of the injury.
On one occasion a voice came through the medium, saying in a
bewildered way : “I am dead, I am dead.” He was told that he was not
dead, but only separated from his physical body, he being alive and well
and could not die. “But,” he protested, “they told me that when I was
dead I should sleep in the grave until the resurrection on judgment day.”
He was told : “You cannot be asleep in the grave for you are here,
alive and wide awake. Your resurrection took place when you arose from
your physical body to continue living in the spiritual state. You ''judged
yourself’by your life on earth, and can only go from that on.” “But,” he
again asked, “where am I and who are you ?” He was told that we were
a group of friends in the house of a lady who had the faculty of letting
him return and speak, through her, to earth again and that we wished to
help him. “Look around,” he was told, “and see if there are not friends
and teachers near you ready to help you.” A moment’s silence. Then we
heard him cry out joyfully : “ Mother.” At this the guide came through
and told us that we had helped awaken him to reality and that now he had
met his mother, they could help and instruct him.
Another time a man’s voice came through, asserting that he was
buried and that death was the end of all things, but saying : “Why am I
dreaming of seeing old friends and hearing you ?” He stubbornly insisted
that he was dead and it was hard to convince him that he was not and
that he was now continuing to live in the spirit state, apart from his physical
body, which he had mistakenly supposed was his real self. He then
admitted, grudgingly at first, that his earth ideas were wrong and that he
began to understand the reality.
January, 1941. Mrs. Rose Keller, medium, a woman came through,
bewildered and asking help. I explained that she had passed out of the
physical body, leaving it behind, and that she was now as alive as ever
in the spirit state. At this the Indian guide broke in, as if greatly pleased,
L
PERMANENT PROJECTION OE SPIRITUAL BODY 169
saying eagerly : “Me told her that too, me told her that.” She said
that there were two Indians there with her, and when I told her that
they would help her she said : “I have my baby now.” Then : “Stella
is here” (Stella a guide). I said : “Stella will help you to find out about
the new condition.” She answered : “I will go with Stella.” Then :
“Can I come and see you again ?” Assured that she would be welcome,
she departed. Later we learned that she was a friend of one of the sitters,
and had recently passed away in childbirth, Stella, the guide, a school­
girl-friend of the visitor, had passed away some years before. From these
few instances, out of thousands, we are justified in accepting as a fact the
continuation of life under other than the physical conditions to which we
are so accustomed, and that under proper conditions individuals can and
do return to instruct, help and be helped by those left behind them here.
“Her husband died before the babe was born
Two years ago. Converted ? Doubt and grief,
Poor soul ! she felt, her Methodist creed forlorn
Gave but a leaden substance of relief.
“To-day, beneath the piteous gaze of morn,
Her child is dying. On his little brow
Descends the veil, and all is over now—
Not yet ! not yet ! For suddenly he springs
As who perceives the gleam of golden wings,
‘Dada !’ he cries, he knows his father’s face
Ne’er seen before. O God, thou grantest grace !
O widowed heart ! They live in Heaven’s light,
Your husband with his boy. The child is right.”
T homas E. Brown.
170 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
C h a p t e r 2 4
AND AFTER—WHAT?
“I f a man die, shall he live again ?”
E are often misled by asking a question wrongly put, because of
he doesn’t live again, that’s the end. The proper question on this subject
is : “Does a man die ?” and the answer solves both problems involved
in the incorrect question.
A man does not “die,” he merely changes his state of being and con­
tinues to live. The previous chapters of this book deal with this, and now
some information from those who know from actual experience and we have
an answer to the above query.
Of vital interest to every thoughtful person is the process of so-called
death, permanent projection, i.e. the passing out of the spirit-individual
from the physical body into the continuing life in the spirit state, and the
conditions in which we find ourselves afterwards, when so reborn.
We do not normally pass away (die) all at once. Various organs
fail and we gradually deteriorate physically, until the spiritual body
finally separates from the physical. This takes a varying length of time
and causes much dis-ease during the process.
C l a ir v o y a n t ’s O b s e r v a t io n s
The S.P.R. Journal records this : The husband of the dying woman
alone of those present could see the vision. He says :
“ I saw floating through the doorway three separate and distinct clouds in strata—slowly these clouds
approached the bed until they com pletely enveloped it. Then, gazing through the m ist, I beheld, standing
at the head of m y wife, a woman’s figure about three feet in height, transparent, yet like a sheen of
brightest gold— two figures in w hite knelt by m y wife’s side—above m y wife, and connected w ith a cord
proceeding from her forehead over the left eye, there floated in a horizontal position a nude w hite figure,
apparently her ethereal body. The vision or w hatever it m ay be called, I saw continuously during the
five hours preceding the death of m y wife. A t la st the m om ent arrived ; w ith a gasp, the ethereal figure
struggling, m y wife ceased to breathe, then all was still. W ith her last breath, as the soul left the body,
the cord was severed suddenly and the ethereal figures vanished.”
From Progressive Thinker, November 25th, 1939, reported by Dr. E. S.
Smith :
‘‘W hen m y wife was taken seriously ill and had to go to the hospital, I decided th a t I would see if
I could do autom atic w riting. Certainly a t this tim e there was a need to contact a higher force if possible.
I was practically convinced th a t individuals on the other side did exist and could com m unicate with
m ortals. The pencil moved ! My father signed his initials in tim e, and I knew then th a t indescribable
sensation of having a pencil w rite while it was held in the hand. I knew th a t it was not consciously
our previous misconceptions on the subject and so leading to a
correct answer, but a false conclusion. I f a man die !—of course,
pushed. A great deal of inform ation came to me concerning G ertrude’s health. I even discussed it w ith
her. Again, statem ents given autom atically turned out to be true.
“The day before G ertrude’s body stopped breathing I was am azed to learn from my discarnate father
th a t m y wife had gone over. That afternoon her m other and I w ent to the hospital and saw Gertrude's body
breathing. She was not conscious, however, and never regained consciousness. She was not there. The
expression on her face was com plete blankness. The same night she wrote through my hand at home. We
were able to plan out the business affairs and arrangem ents for the disposal of the body w ith her at my
apartm ent. Yet, her body was still functioning, so far as breathing was concerned, at the hospital. I
discovered to my joy, th a t she could not only write through me, but th a t we could also talk to one another.
“ It was on a M onday afternoon about five-thirty, ju st after we had finished every detail of planning,
th a t G ertrude told her mother th a t the la st breath would go o u t of her body a t the hospital in one minute.
She asked her to call up the hospital. The m other told me w hat she was going to do, so I listened for
the report from the hospital. W hen the m other called the hospital, she was told th a t the last breath
had ju st gone. Now I was certain th a t death did not exist as an end to life. To destroy the lifeless body
was a sim ple m atter and no pain was felt. N ever have I minded less the parting of anything, than I did
w ith leaving the physical form at the crem atory.
“ G ertrude is m any tim es w ith me as the days slip by, and we enjoy one another and the things we
liked together even more than when she was in the body. W e are closer than ever before. Some may
say : ‘Do you not miss seeing her ?’ B ut I do see her sometimes, and it is not im agination : I am certain.
She is more real than ever. Our son also sees his mother. He has dem onstrated it m any times.
“ I am setting down briefly a few things th a t I feel I know, th a t have passed the realm of belief: I
am certain there is a God or as some m ay wish to call H im , Law, and th a t D eath does not exist as an end
to life. That which passes on is a real personality with a real body of some lighter material than the physical
body which science w ill some day recognize. T hat body, I believe, during life is incorporated within
the physical body. Evolution continues ever upw ard after so-called death, but no individual knows the
ultim ate of life. Thus life beyond is a real life of constant activity and developm ent. Intelligent activity
is one of its chief features. Life is never destroyed in any form, even though it has the ability to retard
itself. The individual has free w ill in determ ining the rate of his developm ent. I am convinced th a t
belief or connection w ith a religious group is not necessary in order to know truth. It is available to all,
and its elem ents are found as the basis of all great religions."
172 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
E x p e r i e n c e o f a C h il d
In the Journal of the American S.P.R., 1918, is given the details of
the passing of a ten-year-old girl, daughter of a Methodist minister,
D. A. Dryden, related by her mother :
“ W hile she was dying of typhoid fever, she expressed a presentim ent of her approaching end, in
spite of the favourable prognosis of her physicians. Three days before passing away she became clair­
voyant and clairaudient. She inform ed her m other th a t she hoped to return and com fort Lulu. ‘I shall
ask Allie’ (her little brother, who passed aw ay seven m onths before), ‘if it is possible,’ she added. After
a short pause she said : ‘Allie says it is quite possible and th a t I shall return sometimes, b u t you will
not know that / am present, yet 1 shall be able to talk to you.’ Two days before she died her Sunday School
teacher, Mrs. H ., came to see her. She spoke eagerly of her coming departure, and bade adieu to her
companions. H er teacher said : ‘My little Daisy, you are about to pass over the dark river.' (A Christian­
ized pagan superstition.) W hen the teacher left, she asked her father w hat she m eant by the dark river.
He tried to explain, but she replied : ‘What nonsense / There is no dark river at a l l; there is no dividing
curtain ; there is not even a line between this life and the next,’ and stretching out her little hand she
said : ‘W hat is here is there. I know it is so, because I can see you all here and 1 can see the others there
a t the same tim e.’ Asked to explain w hat she m eant by over there, she said : ‘I t is impossible for me to
explain it, it is so different from our world here, th a t 1 can't make you understand w hat I m ean.’ While
sitting by her side holding her hand, she s a id : ‘Dear Mamma, I wish you could see Allie, he is quite close
to you.’ I instinctively turned round, but Daisy co n tin u ed : ‘He told me you would not be aole to see
him , because your spiritual eyes are shut, but I can, because m y spirit is now tied to my body by a very
fine thread of life.’ Then i asked her : ‘H as he ju st told you th is? ’ Answer : ‘Yes, a mom ent ago.’
“ The same day, Mrs. H ., the teacher, was sitting beside her, when Daisy s a id : ‘Your two cm ldren
are here.’ Now these children had passed aw ay several years before and would be nearly grown up. Daisy
had never heard of them. When asked to describe them , her description of them grown up did not fit
Mrs. H .’s rem em brance of them , so she said : ‘How can th a t be? They were children when they “ died.’’ ’
D aisy answ ered: ‘Allie says : “ Children do not stay children; they grow up as they do in this life !’’ ’
Mrs. H. s a id : ‘B ut my little daughter, M ary, fell, and was so injured th a t she could not stand straight.'
To this Daisy replied : 'She is all right now ; she is straight and very beau tifu l; and your son is looking
so noble and happy.’
“ A nother friend came in and Daisy described her daughter who died some years before, speaking
of her as grown up, but the m other could not recognize her until Daisy said : ‘She used to have the mark
of a mole on the left side of her neck, but she does not have it now.’ Then her m other was convinced.
“ ‘Daisy, tell us how you are able to ta lk w ith Allie ? For I don’t hear you speak and your lips do
not m ove.’ She sm iled and said : 'W e speak with our thoughts.' (Telepathy ?) Then I said : ‘In what
form does Allie appear to you? Is he dressed ?’ ‘Oh, no,’ she answered. ‘He is not dressed as we are,
his body is clothecl in som ething dazzling w hite ; it is wonderfully bright. Oh, you should see how fine,
light and splendid his robe is, and how very white. All the sam e it becomes him im mensely.’
“ She loved to hear her sister Lulu sing some of her favourite hymns, and while Lulu was singing
about angels’ wings, D aisy s a id : ‘Oh, Lulu, isn’t that funny ? We were always told th a t angels had
wings, but it *s a mistake, they have not got any at all.' ‘But they m ust have wings,’ said Lulu, ‘else how
could they fly down from H eaven ? * Daisy replied : ‘No, they don't fly , they fust come. Do you know,
the moment 1 think of Allie, he knows it, and he is here at once.'
“A nother tim e I ask ed : ‘How do you m anage to see the angels?’ She answered : ‘I don’t always
see them , b u t when I do, the walls seem to vanish, and I can see ever so far away, and I see crowds and
crowds of spirits. Those who come close to me, are those whom I knew in my life, b u t others I have never
seen.’
“ On the day of her passing she asked for a mirror. I hesitated, fearing th a t she would be shocked
bjr her pinched, haggard features. However, when I gave it to her, she looked calm ly a t her face and
said : ‘My poor body is used up, like M amm a’s old dress which is hung in the w ardrobe, and which she
will never wear again. B ut I possess a spiritual body, which will replace my old one. I have already got
it on me, and it is with my spiritual eyes th a t I see the spirit world, even although my earthly body is still
attached to the spiritual one. You will place my earthly body in the grave, because I have no further use
for it, b u t I am clothed in another body much more beautiful than this one, and just like Allie’s. Mamma,
darling, don’t cry, for if I have to go aw ay it is for my benefit, for had I grown up I m ight become a bad
woman, like so m any others, and God knows w hat is best.’
“ Then she cried : ‘Mamma, open the window for me, I w ant to have a last look on the beautiful
world, for after the sunrise to-m orrow, I shall be here no more.’ Upon opening the window she asked
her father to lift her up a little. ‘Good-bye. Good-bye, m y p retty world. I still love it, b u t nevertheless
I don't wish to remain here any longer.'
“ At a quarter to eleven th a t night, she said : ‘Papa, lift me up. Allie has come to look for me.' She
then asked someone to sing. Someone s a id : ‘Go and call Lulu,’ b u t D aisy answered : ‘No, don’t disturb
her, she is asleep,’ and then, just as the hands of the clock pointed to eleven, she lifted up her hands,
say in g : ‘I am coming Allie,’ and ceased to breathe.”
R e po r t s fr om t h e Sp ir it W orld
“ Perhaps it m ay interest some of you if I describe the process of how the spirit leaves the body.
“ The spirit form, which is unconscious at the tim e, commences to rise from the top of the head,
through the aperture which is never com pletely closed from birth to so-called death, and slowly descends,
head first, and in a perpendicular position, until the whole form stands, as it were, on the earthly body.
Then those spirits who are there to receive the spirit body, hold out their arm s and support it, until the cord,
which is attached to the spirit feet and thence down to the m aterial head, has passed. This cord is usually
about a quarter of a yard long, and until it has passed the spirit is not free. D uring its passing there is
often a spasmodic m ovem ent in the body, and w hat is term ed the death rattle, but in alm ost every case
the breath has actually left the body before this occurs. The final spasm is caused by the cord passing through
the body, preparatory to its final separation. This can be seen by clairvoyants who m ay w atch the passing
on. A fter the spirit is free it is taken by loving friends to a place of rest—it m ay be by relatives, or it m ay
not—b u t always by those who are m ost suitable to help it at th a t tim e. In some cases the spirit sleeps
for a week or more, if the last illness has been of an exhausting nature, or perhaps only a few days or hours ;
and in case of sudden death there is no sleep ; because the spirit body has undergone no exhaustion before
its severance, or not to any ex ten t.” Not Silent— i f Dead.
“7, a spirit, a conscious personality w hile on earth, I, John Pierpont, student, teacher, U nitarian
m inister and for m any years an avowed spiritualist, am now giving these statem ents to the world con­
cerning death, as a p art of the great authority from the spirit side of life. 7, a spirit, rem ained in the
P ierpont physical fram e for more than fourscore years, over seventy of which was given to deep thought.
“ Briefly, I wish to state th a t m y sensation in passing from the aged fram e was one of pleasure and
infinite serenity. The dear ones at home found the body cold in death, like one fallen asleep, and so it
had been w ith me. I had passed out to the spiritual atm osphere in the hours of m y slum ber, and the
m agnetic cord had become so attenuated th a t it did not contract sufficiently to draw the real being
back into full possession of the body.
“ B ut I was not senseless or aw ay ; I was a t hand to m ark sensation and to watch the beautiful processes
of death. I knew th a t I was in my pleasant apartm ent, th a t the body was quietly reclining in the favourite
chair and th a t the hour of its transform ation had come.
“ For awhile, m y attention was fastened on the m agnetic cord, still holding me to the other body,
for I was possessed now of a spirit form, resem bling som ew hat the one I had vacated, yet stronger, lighter
in the sense of weight, more youthful, more comfortable. The slender cord had lost its power to contract
tow ards the m o rta l; it appeared to me as a thread of light, and I intuitively felt th a t all th a t rem ained
of it was the ethereal elem ent th a t really belonged to m y spiritual covering. This thread presently seemed
to be endowed w ith life, for it began to scintillate and pulsate towards myself as w ith vibrant power, until,
from this energetic action, it became detached from the physical form , contracted till b u t a ball of light,
and became absorbed w ithin my newly donned body. The process of death was com pleted then, and I
was freed from the m ortal state, so far as th a t old body was concerned, forever.” Spirit World.
“ I fell into an earthly oblivion, b u t awakened to full awareness in another set of surroundings. I
was a spirit am ong spirits—some clear and perfectly defined, others as it were in a fog. I did not then
know th a t I was ‘dead.’ B ut I wondered at the fog-bound friends whom I knew so well, yet could not see.
Later, I discovered th a t the fog-bound spirits were still incarnate in the body. The clearly defined beings
were the ‘dead,’ old college friends. ‘K akhi’ (his dog) and my m other were the first who m ade me realize
th a t I was a spirit among spirits—I now think I ‘died’ twelve hours before m y body ceased to function, because
I w ent to all the dear ones, and could only see them in a mist. D irectly m y body ceased to function I
escaped from the earth and saw the friends of m y youth, ‘K akhi’ and m y m other ; then I knew th a t the
change called death had supervened. I w ent to all who really loved me, not to those who just admired
and respected me ; and, dear friend, the latter were and are the m ajority. In the state between the two worlds
no mistakes are made. The spirit follows, is draw n by, the bonds of love.”
Ca n o n W il b e r f o r c e , Letters from the Other Side.
“ W hat first convinced me th a t som ething had happened was the sight of m y old body. A fter th a t
came the discovery th a t my nurse did not see me nor hear me, b u t w ept about m y body as i f that were
myself. This is w hat usually happens. The passing soul, which retains consciousness, sees the body,
which it inhabited, lying inert. The snapping of consciousness, between the soul and the tenem ent, is
usually not felt by the soul. W ith some it is different. They feel as if it were the slow breaking, one by
one, of the threads which connect the soul and the earthly te n em en t; b u t the process is not painful,
even when it is protracted. I have spoken to m any on the subject, and the m ajority tell me th a t their
experience agrees w ith mine. They could not even say th a t they could rem em ber the exact m om ent
when the body parted com pany w ith their souls. Some say th a t they left the body before it ceased to
AND AFTER—WHAT? 173
breathe, others th a t they lingered behind for a tim e after physical life had ended. B ut these are exceptions.
The im mense m ajority here say the sam e thing. They were asleep; they found themselves awake and
well, in th e same place w here they fell asleep, and at first could not realize th a t they had ‘died.’ And this
is the case even when, as in some churches, the dying have been prepared for death by the last solemn
rites. They knew th a t they were going to die, but they did not expect th a t dying was waking up quite
well, w ith all their old faculties and memories, in the sam e place w here they fell asleep, and this always
is a source of astonishm ent, of bew ilderm ent to them a t first. Many think it is a pleasant dream to be
well, and dread waking up to the old pain and weakness. All th a t I have w ritten relates to the im m ediate
m om ent after w aking, and to the experiences of the m ajority. There are m any, very m any, exceptions.
B ut as a rule death is a painless waking up in health, and the first em otion is bewildered astonishm ent.
“ W hen the newly arrived have had m any friends and relatives, or those whom they have loved, on
this side, they find them w aiting for them . Especially when they have kept thinking or praying for them.
Forgetfulness separates here as there. B ut all whose m inds and hearts have been closely knit in love w ith
those on this side find their loved ones w aiting. A nd yet so great is the difference between w hat is and
w hat they expected th a t, even when they are welcomed on this side by those whom they knew to be long
‘dead,’ it is to them as a dream . Bewilderment, surprise, are the first sensations. W hen I cam e over I was
a t first quite alone, w hen I was allowed by m y experience w ith the nurse to discover for m yself w hat
had happened, and then came the angel, who took m e apparently a long, long way to m y relations and
friends. This is sometimes the case and sometimes not. Sometimes, even before the soul leaves the body,
it hears the welcome sound of the voices of the loved and lo s t; sees the angels and hears the m usic of the
spheres. B ut these cases are com paratively few. N ot till the body is cast off, like a w orn-out garm ent,
do you begin to see, hear and understand the new life.” Letters from Julia.
“ Then I was ‘dead’ ! How strange it seemed to be ‘dead’ and yet with such superabundant life ! How
m ortals m isapprehend the m eaning of the word. To be ‘dead’ means to be alive w ith a v itality earthly
hum anity does not know. How long had I been ‘dead’ ? I t seemed to be early morning. The w atchers
were silent, having dozed off to sleep in their arm -chairs. The rays of the lam p were paling before the
light of the approaching day. W hen I had fallen asleep—into th a t peaceful sleep from w hich I had
aw akened in another world— the night had been far spent. I m ust have passed aw ay a t the ebb of the
tide, when day was struggling w ith darkness,and nature itself at its lowest ebb. I had probably been
‘dead’ twenty-four hours. I had fallen asleep on earth ; I had awakened in the land of spirits.
“ The land of spirits ! Strange as it m ay seem, I for the first tim e, realized this fact. My thoughts
and em otions up to this point h ad all beeen connected in some way w ith the world life I had left behind
me. B ut where were the spirit forms of the loved ones who had passed on before ? I was not conscious of
having uttered a thought aloud, b u t as i f in response to it, I found m yself in the presence of two youths,
whose radiant countenances possessed more than m ortal beauty. Years ago I had laid aw ay, w ith an
aching h eart and m any b itter tears, two beautiful babes, first one, then another. They had always been
babes to me in m y memory, little tender, clinging things, finding their whole world in m other-love. B ut
when I beheld these youths beside me, some subtle instinct revealed to me th a t they were m y babes, now
nearly grown to m anhood. I felt neither hesitation, nor surprise in recognition. It was as though I had
always expected them to appear thus to me. I only held out m y arm s w ith an unutterably glad im pulse,
crying : ‘My boys ! Mine !’
“ My lost ones were in m y arm s, and for a tim e m y soul was filled w ith a bliss too deep for words.
A t last em otions struggled into utterance. ‘Our m other!’ were the glad words I heard from lips which had
never learned to pronounce them in their brief earth lives, and then were eager questionings and glad
responses.
“ ‘We have been with you, Mother,' said the older, ‘through all these years. D aily we visited you.
W e nestled in your arm s. You never called to us that we did not come. A nd we spoke to you and tried to
com fort you, but you did not always hear us ; and sometimes when our messages reached your heart you
did not comprehend from whom they came. You have been our m other still, our helper and our g u id e;
and we, in turn, have helped and guided you as far as lay in our power, as we could not have done, had we
rem ained w ith you on earth.’ ” Heaven Revised.
“ The body is m erely the covering for the soul, as it m ight be a dress, and when you die—as you call
it—or the tim e has come for the soul to be free of the weight of its covering or dress, w hich stayed it to
earth, and made a barrier between the world above and the world below—when, as I say, the body is thrown
off. then the spirit which is freed leaves the vicinity with its second body or soul body. That is the ‘resur­
rection’ of ‘life of the form .’ The outside body or the atom s th a t form ed the m aterial, are laid aside and
a new body, the soul body, is raised.” Teachings.
“ July, 1940, at seance. A boy (passed aw ay some years ago) came and talked to his m other (the father
passed aw ay a m onth ago). ‘Mother, D ad is here. He did not understand when he was w ith you, and when
he passed over he thought he was having a nightm are ! Thought we were “g h o sts!” A nd tried to run
aw ay from us. B ut we showed him the tru th and he is now learning th e new conditions rapidly.’ ”
“ Those am ong you who think th a t in this life we never m ake jokes and never even laugh w ill have
to revise their ideas some day, or they w ill find us strange com pany— or perhaps we shall find them so.”
Vale Owen.
“ The spirit world is real and its people natural. A great m any people seem to think th a t the visitants
from the spirit w orld ought to be very solem n and dignified people. They are shocked to observe that
spirits sometimes indulge in m irth and fun. And they say : ‘These m ust be very bad spirits.’ ”
Death's chiefest Surprise.
“ M any people do n o t realize th a t a t w hatever the age children come into the spirit life they continue
to grow until they attain m aturity.— See to it that you fit yourselves on earth to be w ith those spirit children
of yours when you pass the boundary line called death ; and do not grieve and disappoint them by not
being fit to come into the brightness of their spirit homes. You can go to them a t once if you will do vour
d uty to your God and to your neighbour. Be true to yourselves and do not shirk your responsibilities on
earth.” Not Silent— i f Dead.
“ The child grows up naturally here as it would upon earth ; but if, as is frequently the case, when one
or another of their beloved ones come here (to a seance) they expect and desire to see again the little one
174 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
they loved and lost ? as they say, their child is perm itted, by power of thought, to show itself as of old
to its m other or father. Ju st as, in a reverse case, one who came here old and w rinkled, as seems to
earthly eyes, would, for purposes of recognition alone, appear again the same—although as we state, there
is no ‘old age’ out here.” Teachings of Love.
“ My friend, there is nothing to fear in death. It is no harder than a trip to a foreign country—the first
trip— to one who has grown oldish and settled in the habits of his own more or less narrow com er of the
world.
“ W hen a m an comes out here, the strangers whom he meets seem no more strange than the foreign
peoples seem to one who first goes am ong them .” Letters from a Living Dead M an.
“ Those people who think of their departed friends as being all-wise, how disappointed they would
be if they could know th a t the life on this side is only an extension of the life on earth ! If the thoughts and
desires there, have been only for m aterial pleasures, the thoughts and desires here are likely to be the
same. Letters from a Living Dead Man.
“ Each spirit sees other spirits as their thoughts are, and if these are foul, the thinker appears foul in
his body, for the sam e reason, th a t the garm ents of the thinker appear unclean if his ideas are so. Again,
if he is miserly, i.e., having thoughts engrossed w ith the m aterial instead of spiritual things—-he appears
to us (i.e. to those more advanced than himself) as a m an who is poverty-stricken in regard to spiritual
advantages, sim ply because he has never ‘laid up treasures in heaven.’ Hence, you see th a t a m an whose
thoughts have always been ‘of the earth, earthly’—however rich he m ay have been w ith you—is a pauper
in our world, because m aterial possessions are of no avail to the spirit. He m ay have been clothed in
‘purple and fine linen’ when he died, b u t he w ill rise up, in the eyes of the spirit world a m iserable creature,
clothed in rags.” Life Beyond the Grave.
“ The worth o f character, w hich you sometimes ignore and never rightly recognize, m ust be seen as
we see it here to be appreciated. W e have wonderful surprises here. W e see men as they are. Not, of
course, always, but when the wrappings are off we see the nature of a soul, the factor that decides is the
character. You can hardly by any stretch of im agination, realize w hat a change it is to live in a place
where the only test is character, w here property, station and work do not count— no, nor religious profession.
The idea, which you so often have in the world, th a t the words which you say w ith your lips, have magic
influence on your hearts, m ust be seen in all its hollow absurdity to be understood.” Letters from Julia.
“ In reply to a question, a guide, Prof. Campbell, said: ‘W rongdoers m ust abide by consequences of
their acts, however long it m ay take, and after undergoing the suffering they cause others an d making
am ends therefore, they can go on progressing more slowly and w ith greater difficulty than well-doing
people.’ ”
“ Rem ember there is one great governing law in th e spiritual world—th e law of fitness ; each one goes
to his own place. No power in the universe can shut a spirit down into hell (the undeveloped state of spirit
life) who is not fit to go there, nor exclude him from heaven (the happier states of spirit life) who has the
right of citizenship by spiritual fitness. No one enters the great Sum m erland— the realm of light, joy and
and peace until he has spiritually unfolded and attained the consciousness of his at-one-ment w ith these
conditions. Death and Beyond.
“ In each stage of probation the spirit builds up a character by its constant acts, w hich fits it for
a certain position (or state). To that position it goes of necessity, w ithout w hat you m ean as a ‘judgm ent.’
Sentence results a t once ; ju st as the total num ber of item s is ascertained w ithout argum ent or judgm ent.
There is no need for the process of a court of justice as you understand it on earth. The soul is the arbiter
of its own destiny ; its own judge." Spirit Teachings.
“W e attach little importance to individual belief ; th a t is altered soon enough by extended knowledge.
The creed, which has been fought over w ith angry vehemence during the years of an earth lifetim e is
surrendered by the enfranchised spirit w ithout a m urm ur. W e care little for a creed, so it be honestly held
and hum bly prepared ; but we care much for acts. We ask not w hat has such a one believed, b u t what
has he done I For we know th a t by deeds, habits and tempers, characters are formed, and the condition of
the spirit decided. These characters and habits, too, we know are only to be changed after long and laborious
processes ; and so it is to acts rather than words, to deeds rather than professions, th a t we look. The religion
we teach is one of acts and habits, and not of words and fitful faith. In this religion you will find no place
for sloth and carelessness. In it you w ill find no shirking of the consequences of acts. Such shirking is im ­
possible. W rong doing carries its own punishment. Nor w ill you find a convenient substitute on whose
shoulders you m ay bind the burdens which you have prepared. Your own back m ust bear them , and your
own spirit groan under their weight. N either will you find encouragem ent to live a life of anim al sensuality
and brutush selfishness, in the hope that an orthodox belief w ill hide your debased life, and th a t faith will
throw a veil over the im purity. N or w ill vou find any hope th a t after all you m ay get a cheap reprieve—
th a t God is merciful and w ill not be severe to m ark your sins. Those hum an imaginings pale in the light
of the truth. You w ill gain mercy when you have deserved i t ; or rather repentance and am endm ent, purity
and sincerity, tru th and progress w ill bring their own reward. You will not then require either mercy or
p ity.” Spirit Teachings.
“ The very best w ork you can do on earth is to perm it each child to w ork out its own destiny. Give
it only a few simple rules of virtue and honesty, with the fundamental o f 1
Love God above all things and your
neighbour as yourself.’ If these be learned, then it will follow th a t there will be a perception of the w orth­
lessness of worldly honour and privileges and a consequent ennobling and sim plifying of life in all its
expressions, and a consequent liberation of the spirit, fitting it better to leave its earthly environm ent in
tranquil faith ready to go on untram m elled in its future evolutions.” Messages from Meslom.
“ Look up, not down, look around w ith the eyes of love, and strive in future to im itate more closely
the love of God for all men. Some there are indeed, who m ust jar upon and irritate other spirits, yet
these, too, have their a finities ; do not dislike people who have this effect upon you, sim ply do not place
yourself in their path, unless forced to by circumstances. Then, if it is necessary to m eet them do not say
to yourself, ‘This person irritates me therefore I m ust irritate him for we are not affinities.’ B ut say
AND AFTER—WHAT? 175
‘A t least God loves him as much as He loves me, therefore the fault lies in me, and notw ithstanding any
dislike I m ay feel, as a fellow-creature I must not show it, and thus disturb the harmony th a t the Father
of all has decreed m ust exist before perfection is attained.” Truth from the Spirit World.
“‘It is true th a t a t tim es those who pass from your state to ours are filled w ith a desire for revenge,
b u t they are not permitted to exercise their evil influence unrestrained ; and further, absence of knowledge
means absence of power, and absence of pure intent means darkness, therefore, those who are base and
ignorant are undeveloped and lim ited ; they are in the prison of self, fettered by their own m ental and moral
states until they become purer and w iser; therefore, it is th a t no spirit, however adverse, can ever harm
another who is arm ed w ith purity, honesty, knowledge and love, w hether he be in or out of the body.”
Death and Beyond.
‘‘In the spirit world like draws to like by a universal law, and those of entirely opposite natures repel
each other so com pletely th a t they can never mingle or even touch the circle in which each dwells.”
A Wanderer in Spirit Lands.
Here are revelations (from those who know) of spirit life and con­
ditions ; a sane, comprehensive and enlightening philosophy ; a breadth
of vision, and of limitless opportunities for spiritual progression, all of
priceless value, to the thoughtful seeker after truth.
176 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
»
APPENDIX “A”
“ M ot one in a m illion ever gets f a r enough aw ay fro m his m in d to take a
look a t it an d see the wheels go round.” Am
om
The m ind usually acts so rapidly th a t it is difficult to follow and study its various processes. They seem
to be all one motion. B ut the mind-field has its manifold and separate influences and actions, varying
w ith the specific purpose intended, and directed by the ultim ate “ I,” or real self.
I was recently given an opportunity, as a detached entity, to “stand aside and see the wheels go
round” ; I had been to a medium the day before and m y wife had come through and told me : “ We
took you out of your body last night and you had a wonderful experience.” I said : “ I do not rem em ber
a thing about it. I t would help me m uch if I could.” She answered : “ You can when you train yourself.”
On asking “ How” ? she said : “ H ave some paper and pencils beside th e bed and when you w ake w rite
down w hat you rem em ber, if only a word or two. Presently you w ill rem em ber more, and later all th a t you
experience.”
I had been told this previously and tried it, but there is an overpowering desire to fall asleep again
and not exert oneself. So sometimes w hat was w ritten was only scraps, disconnected and vague, b u t
occasionally nearly all was recorded.
The night after this message was given I fell asleep as usual. Presently I was aware of being fully
conscious studying my body asleep on the bed. My essential self, the real “ I ” perm eated w ith an awareness
of am azing scope and clarity (Tennyson’s “ u tter clearness” ?), intuitively noting the mind-field, w ith its
bundle of various influences,'not as a “ thing,” b u t as a somewhat inhering in the higher psychic condition,
“ I,” the real self, decided to aw ake the sleeping physical body and w atch the m ind processes involved
in this operation.
The m ind aroused desire, which awakened w ill and set in m otion the proper nerve impulses, all
distinct and separate in their successive actions I seemed to pull m yself together vigorously, as if linking
up the real self, the mind-field, the psychic body and the physical body, and began to awaken to norm al
consciousness. B ut an overwhelming im pulse to relax and sleep just for an instant flooded my being.
The real self, however, understood th a t this im pulse should be resisted and the effort to awaken the
sleeping body continuously kept up for the cum ulative effect. The m ind sensed this idea and again desire,
w ill, etc., came into action, alm ost painfully, redoubling the energetic pulling together and repeating it,
as th e powerful im pulse to sleep again began to operate and I further decided to p u t my leg out of bed and
sit up at the sam e tim e, as an added effort to control, I noted the mind, during this succession of efforts
standing by (like a good secretary) observing w hat was going on and filing it in the memory for later
reference. There was a second’s unconsciousness and I then found myself norm ally awake in the physical
body, but apparently had not moved a muscle, in spite of my intense effort of will. The physical brain
m achinery was roused to a norm al consciousness disappointingly more lim ited than the intensified super­
norm al awareness of the essential “ I” a m om ent before.
This seemingly com plicated, y et orderly slow m otion effort and experience was clearly recorded
in the memory, so th a t it could be prom ptly p u t on paper on awakening. I particularly noted the separate
and different processes of the mind, desire, w ill, etc., and the physical consciousness, all presided over and
controlled by the greater supernorm al awareness of the real spirit self, the essential “ I.” This accords
w ith the proposition of m ind as the instrum ent of the individuated spirit.
The processes of restoring the physical brain to norm al action as observed is extremely interesting,
b u t the effort required is very oppressive, the brain being congested and under some pressure and the
cortical of the brain feeling num b for a few seconds. This agrees with w hat m any m ediums tell us, when
coming out of trance, a feeling of pressure and numbness for a moment, one medium speaks of a “ some­
thing between the brain and the skull.” I t is possible ±hat w ith practice and experience this slow motion
operation of the m ultiple instrum ents of conscious being m ay become easier and more famliiar (they are
natural). More extensive study and developm ent of our capacity for a wider consciousness in operating
them at will, m ay enable this to become a controlled and accustomed mode of studying such functions.
177
APPENDIX “B”
“Religion is NO T an ecclesiastical institution, theology, creed or dogma,
but a CORRECT WAT OF LIFE in our relations to God and our
fellow men.”
So m any people ask about the philosophy and religion of Spiritualism, based upon the facts revealed by
Psychic Science, th a t it will help the reader to have the essence of Spiritu .lism set forth by those proficient
in th a t knowledge, as given below, and clear away the m any absurd and superstitious ideas and pseudo­
sciences commonly woven into it, misleading the sincere inquirer.
D e c la r a tio n s o f P r in c ipl e s by
THE NATIONAL SPIRITUALIST ASSOCIATION THE SPIRITUALISTS NATIONAL UNION
UNITED STATES GREAT BRITAIN
1. W e believe in Infinite Intelligence. i. The Fatherhood of God.
2. W e believe th a t the phenom ena of nature, 2. The Brotherhood of Man.
both physical and spiritual, are the expression of 3. The Continuity of Life.
Infinite Intelligence. 4.The Communion of Spirits and the
3. We affirm th a t correct understanding of M inistry of Angels,
such expression, and in living in accordance there­
w ith, constitute true religion.
4. We affirm th a t the existence and personal
identity of the individual continue after the
change called death.
5. W e affirm th a t the com m unication w ith the
so-called dead is a fact, scientifically proven by
the phenom ena of spiritualism .
6. We believe th a t the highest m orality is con­
tained in the Golden R u le : “ W hatsoever ye
would th a t others should do unto you, do ye also
unto them .”
7. W e affirm th e moral responsibilities of the
individual and th a t he makes his own happiness
or unhappiness as he obeys or disobeys nature’s
physical and spiritual laws.
8. We affirm th a t the doorway to reform ation
is never closed against any hum an soul, here or
hereafter.
D e f in it io n s
1. Spiritualism is the science, philosophy and
religion of continuous life, based upon the demon­
strated fact of com m unication, by means of
mediumship, w ith those who live in the spirit-
world.
2. A spiritualist is one who believes, as the
basis of his or her religion, in the com m unication
between this and the spirit-w orld by means of
medium ship, and who endeavours to m ould his or
her character and conduct in accordance w ith the
highest teachings derived from such communion.
3. A medium is one whose organism is sensi­
tive to vibrations from the spirit-w orld and through
whose instrum entality intelligences in th a t world
are able to convey messages and produce the
phenom ena of spiritualism .
4. A spiritualist healer is one who, either
through his own inherent powers or through his
mediumship, is able to im part vital, curative force
to pathological conditions.
(A) “ Be n o t deceived, God is not m ocked; w h a t so e v er a m an soweth, th a t shall he also reap.”
(B) Consequences inevitably follow deeds, to forsake evil deeds i§ the only way to avoid evil
nsequences.
“ Spiritualism Is a Science” because it investi­
gates, analyses and classifies facts and m anifesta­
tions dem onstrated from the spirit side of life.
“ Spiritualism Is a Philosophy” because it
studies the laws of nature both on the seen and
unseen sides of life and bases its conclusions upon
present observed facts. I t accepts statem ents of
observed facts of past ages and conclusions drawn
therefrom , when sustained by reason and by
results of observed facts of the present day.
“ Spiritualism Is a Religion” because it strives
to understand and to comply w ith the physical,
m ental and spiritual laws of nature, “ which are
the laws of God.”
5. Personal Responsibility (A).
6. Compensation and R etribution. (B).
7. E ternal Progression tow ards Perfection.
178
APPENDIX “C”
“Religion is NO T an ecclesiastical institution, theology, creedor dogma,
but a CORRECT WAY OF LIFE in our relations to God and our
fellow men."'
BASIC TR U TH S
Underlying all religious movements, ancient and m odem .
GOD
“ Ineffable Being.” (India, 4000 b .c .)
“There is one God, pure Spirit indivisible, om niscient and om nipotent. (Jains, 700 b .c .)
“ God is Spirit and they th a t worship m ust worship in Spirit and in T ru th .”
MAN
“ y e are the Tem ple of God and th e Spirit of God dw elleth in y o u .”
“ God pervadeth his w orshippers as w ater pervadeth the sea.” (H indu, 2000 b .c .)
“The God th a t is in t h e e .” (E gyptian “ Book of the D ead,” 2000 b .c .)
U N ITY
“Thou shalt love the Lord th y God, w ith all th y heart, w ith all th y soul and w ith all th y m ind.”
(Deuteronom y vi, 5; Luke x, 27.)
“ Thou shalt love th y neighbour as t h y s e l f .”
(Zoroaster, 8
00 b .c. ; Socrates, 5
00 b .c. ; Leviticus xix, 1
8; Luke x, 27.)
IN F IN IT E LOVE
“ Even devotees of other gods, who worship w ith true devotion, in ignorance worship m e .”
(Hindu, 2000 b .c .)
AT-ONE-M EN T
“ A t the M uezzin’s call to prayer, the kneeling faithful thronged the square,
And on P ushkara’s lofty height, a dark priest chanted B rahm a’s might,
W ithin a M onastery’s weeds, an old Franciscan told his beads,
And to the Synagogue there came, a Jew, to praise his M aker’s name,
The o n e g r ea t god looked down and smiled, and counted ea c h his loving child,
For T urk and Pagan, Priest and Jew, had ‘reached’ H im by the p ath he new .”
COMMUNION
“Speak to Him thou, for He hears, and Spirit w ith Spirit can meet,
Closer is He than breathing, N earer than hands and feet.”
SEA RCHIN G
“ T hat they m ight seek after God, if haply they m ight feel after Him and find H im , though He be
not far from any one of us.”
LIV IN G
“ W hat doth the Lord thy God req u ire of thee, b u t t o do ju s t l y , to lov e m er c y , and to w a lk
u pr ig h tl y before th y God.”
T H E W AY
“Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.”
“W hat you would ‘n o t’ have others do to you, do ‘n o t’ thou to th em .” (Confucius, 500 b .c .)
CONSEQUENCES
“ Be ‘not’ deceived, God is ‘not’ mocked, w h a tso ev er a m an soweth th a t shall h e also reap.”
“ A t the end of life the soul goeth forth alone and only our g o o d deeds befriend us.”
M ED ITA TIO N
“ W hatsoever things are t r u e , whatsoever things are p u r e , w hatsoever things are h o n e s t , w hat­
soever things are l o v e ly , whatsoever things are of g o o d r e p o r t , t h in k on t h e s e th in g s.”
179
A STANDARD
“ The w orld is m y c o u n try , to d o good is m y relig io n .” “ He w e n t ab o u t d o in g g o o d .”
CHARACTER
“ His daily prayer, far better understood in a c ts than words, was sim ply d o in g g o o d .”
SOCRATES’ PRA Y ER
“ O God, give us everything th a t we need, w hether we ask for it or n o t; And keep all evil from us
even when we ask for it.” (500 b .c .)
180 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
CONCLUSION
“ A frequent reasonfor disbelief in afuture life is the consciousness that
ourpersonality (as we know it) is notf t to survive and this is true ; but
the inference is, not that there is no survival, but that we had better
MAKE OURSELVES F IT to survive.”
S t a n l e y d e B r a t h .
M
ANY people restrict themselves to the fixed ideas contained in
current text-book fetishes and to infallible, orthodox methods
as their goal. This is their right, but it is equally the right
of others to go “beyond physics” and delve into the equally essential
subjective phases of being, as well as the objective.
Because of the difficulty of studying subjective realities and ideas,
and the common obsession that the standard methods and academic
text-books are the ultimate, most people, by their over-exacting demands,
fail to grasp the dominant subjective influences which lie behind and
control the objective or physical phases. That is their misfortune (perhaps
their fault ?).
Prof. Cesare Lombroso’s idea is :
“However doubtful each separate case may appear, in the ensemble they form such a compact web of
proof as wholly to baffle the scalpel of doubt.”
A study of many experiences, comments and messages, derived from
world-wide sources, gives us reasonable grounds to accept the fact that
l i f e is, Now and Forever, and the implications, truths and sane philosophy
evolving therefrom. Especially are these truths needed now, when the
curse of a false and diabolical ideology is overrunning part of the world
and endangering the rest. A group of mentally distorted psychopaths
seek to abolish those spiritual and moral values resulting from many
centuries of slow evolution and progress, and to substitute the hopeless,
stultifying gospel of force as the highest good, slavery, inhumanity,
jungle morals, treachery, etc., as the ne plus ultra of human achievement.
It is therefore doubly inspiring to learn from returning spirit-friends
and teachers, with a wider vision of “life beyond physics” that our hard-
won spiritual values are of pre-eminent importance, more vital than even
our best mentors have perceived, verifying by numberless experiences
throughout the world that :
(i) There is a psychic or spiritual body, independent of the physical
body.
(2) There is an individual, responsible spirit, which manifests through
the physical body in co-operation with the psychic body, and
181
which can communicate, under proper conditions, with those it
leaves behind for a time.
(3) The permanent passing into the spirit state of life is a normal and
natural event, free from the gloomy and forbidding atmosphere
with which ignorant, limited and superstitious minds have wrongly
invested it.
(4) The sane and inspiring philosophy, received from loved ones and
friends returning to instruct, comfort and help, is not the
exclusive faculty of a few alleged “saints” but common to all
mankind, under the proper conditions.
(5) Inevitably “every man goeth to his own place,” the place he has
himself prepared by his “way of life” here ; that he could not go
to any other for which he has not fitted himself and could not
comprehend ; the new state of life continuing from just where we
leave off here.
(6) We progress as we utilize our enlarged opportunities, there as
here, to develop and prepare ourselves for an infinity of higher
spiritual states.
(7) We get the inevitable consequences (good, bad or indifferent)
which we have earned by the character we build here.
(8) We can progress to higher states “when we have corrected our
past misdeeds” and awakened and fitted ourselves for greater
spiritual development.
“The stars shall fade away, the sun himself
Grow dim with age, and nature sink in years,
But t h o u shaltflourish in immortalyouth.
Unhurt amidst the war of elements,
The wrecks of matter and the crash of worlds.”
“A sense of law and beauty, aface turnedfrom the clod
Some call it evolution and others call it God.'"
182 LIFE, NOW AND FOREVER
LIST OF VALUABLE PUBLICATIONS
The Parson’s Boy. Horace Leaf.
What I believe. E. W. O aten.
Testimonies. Two Worlds.
Death’s Chiefest Surprise. E. W. Wallis.
Philosophy o f Death. A. J. Davis.
H ow to be a Medium. W. H . Evans.
Practical Occultism. J . J. Morse.
M ental Phenomena. C. D rayton Thomas.
Physical Phenomena. Stanley De Brath.
Psychic Faculties. M cGregor-Underhill.
Demonstrated Survival. Sir Oliver Lodge.
Rosemary Records. Dr. F. H . Wood.
Challenge to Sceptics. Dr. F. H. Wood.
Guide to Mediumship. E. W. and H . M. Wallis.
Researches into Spiritualism. Sir Wm. Crookes.
M y Life in T w o Worlds. Mrs. Osborne Leonard.
M y Experiences out o f the Body. Cora Richm ond.
Wisdom o f the Gods. Denis Bradley.
Spirit Teachings. M.A. Oxon.
More Spirit Teachings. M.A. Oxon.
Life Beyond Death. C. D rayton Thomas.
M an’s Survival o f Death. C. L. Tweedale.
From Intellect to Intuition. Alice Brady.
After Thirty Centuries. Dr. F. H. Wood.
Ancient E gypt Speaks. Dr. F. H. Wood.
On the Edge o f the Etheric. A rthur Findlay.
Psychology and Development o f Mediumship. Horace Leaf.
Death and its M ystery. 3 vols. Camille Flam marion.
Threshold o f the Unseen. Sir Wm. Barrett.
Life after Death. Prof. Hyslop.
Phenomena o f the Stance Room. Dr. E. F. Bowers.
Encyclopedia o f Psychic Science. Dr. N andor Fodor.
Human Personality (abridged). F. W. H . Myers.
Projection o f the A stral Body. M uldoon-Carrington.
183
184 l if e , n o w a n d f o r e v e r
The Great Problem. Dr. G. L. Johnson.
Phenomena o f M aterialization. Prof. Schrenk-Notzing.
Polyglot Mediumship. Prof. Ernest Bozzano.
Photographing the Invisible. Prof. Jas. Coates.
The Human Atmosphere. Dr. W alter Kilner.
Thirty Tears o f Psychic Research. Prof. Chas. Richet.
Clairvoyance and M aterialization. Dr. Gustave Geley.
Reality o f Psychic Phenomena. Dr. J. W. Crawford.
Thirty Tears Among the D ead. Dr. Carl Wickland.
Mediumship o f Jack Webber. H arry Edwards.
Across the Unknown. Stewart E. White.
Chain o f Life. Dr. Guyon Richards.
History o f Spiritualism. Sir A rthur Conan Doyle.
