{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1942__ransom___the_direction_of_the_theosophical_society.pdf","mytitle":"The Direction Of The Theosophical Society","mylang":"de"}
THE DIRECTION OF THE
THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
BY MASTERS OF WISDOM
by
JOSEPHINE RANSOM
THE THEOSOPHICAL
PUBLISHING HOUSE, LONDON
68 GREAT RUSSELL STREET
LONDON, W.C.I
Price is.
THE DIRECTION OF THE
THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
BY MASTERS OF WISDOM
by
JOSEPHINE RANSOM
(THE BLAVATSKY LECTURE)
1942
delivered at the Annual Convention of the Theosophical
Society in England, at Besant Hall, London, 23rd May, 1942
THE THEOSOPHICAL
PUBLISHING HOUSE, LONDON
68 GREAT RUSSELL STREET
LONDON, W.C.i
Sold by
THE THEOSOPHICAL PRESS
Wlieaton, Illinois
BY THE SAME AUTHOR
A Short History of The Theosophical
Society
Studies in the Secret Doctrine
Self-realisation through Yoga and
Mysticism
Madame Blavatsky as Occultist
The Occult Teachings of t he Christ
etc., etc.
Printed in Great B ritain by
UNWIN BROTHERS LIMITED, LONDON AND WOKING
TO
THE MASTERS OF WISDOM
AND TO THEIR
DEVOTED DISCIPLE
H. P. BLAVATSKY
THE THREE OBJECTS
OF
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
To form a nucleus of the Universal Brotherhood
of Humanity without distinction of race, creed,
sex, caste, or colour.
To encourage the study of Comparative Religion,
Philosophy and Science.
To investigate unexplained laws of Nature and the
powers latent in Man.
The Direction of the Theosophical
Society by Masters of Wisdom
SUCH a title as the above emphasizes our firmly held
opinion that the wise Guardians of humanity, whom we
call Masters, ever keep our human spiritual progress in
mind, and at all times strive to promote it. It is not
possible within a small compass to relate with any adequacy
the story of the guidance that some Masters of Wisdom
have given to The Theosophical Society throughout its
history. I have, therefore, selected, as supremely worth
our consideration, the familiar, but ever fresh, early years
of The Society.
One of the reasons, I think, of the fascination of those
early years is that certain fundamental principles were
laid down which are still in operation, and will undoubtedly
go on into the future till there is need for restatement of
them in new terms.
Most certainly another reason for fascination is the choice
and preparation of individuals for special tasks. Here
we find three factors taken into consideration: x, their links
with the Masters in other lives; 2, the immediate state of
their karmic records, showing bondage or freedom, their
personal and individual attitude to life; and 3, most im­
portant, their inner aspirations and motives, between
which and their outer attractions and idiosyncrasies the
Masters drew (and still do with us all) a constant dis­
tinction.
But the main attraction is the effort to introduce to the
world, and, I believe, for the first time in history, the ideal
of Universal Brotherhood—a Brotherhood of Humanity
transcending all distinctions, whether of race or nation,
of creed or caste or colour, and all vexing problems of s ex.
A Brotherhood of which The Society was to provide the
public starting point, the seed, though the flowering in
5
THE DIRECTION OF
universal beauty and completeness is not to come to fulfil­
ment till far away in the future. Long periods of time are
needed, apparently, for the growth and fruition of such
seeds—for time processes are slow for the majority. Only
the few, at first, speed ahead and must, in consequence,
bear all the inclemencies of the unknown. They have the
satisfaction of having cleared away some, at least, of the
obstacles. It is said in India that he who clears away even
one stone from the road makes it that much less rough
for the pilgrim feet that follow.
Before considering these points it is necessary to say
something about the Masters and their pupils. They do
not seem to have welcomed this title of Master. They
spoke of themselves as Adepts, as Brothers, as Initiates.
Explaining the difference between western science and
spiritual science, the Master K.H. said to Mr. Hume:
'You may be, and most assuredly are, our superiors in every
branch of physical knowledge; in spiritual sciences we were,
are, and always will be your—Masters.'1
The title Mahatma (great self or soul) so often applied
to them is no more than an honorific given then or now in
India to any person considered to be morally, intellectually,
or spiritually exceptional. It has almost entirely dropped
out of use in The Society.
The majority of the letters written to Mr. Sinnett have
been published under the title: The Mahatma Letters to
A. P. Sinnett, and upon these and the incomparable Secret
Doctrine, by H. P. Blavatsky, I have extensively drawn
for what is here written.2
We have often been reminded that but a few of the
Adepts accept and train pupils, and among the few are
the two whom we speak of as the Master M., or Morya,
and the Master K.H., or Root Hoomi. The former uses
a Rajput, the latter a Kashmiri body. We read that in the
1 The Mahdtmd Letters, p. 213.
* F or further bibliography see list at end.
6
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
course of the years 1880 to 1884, the Master K.H. passed
on to higher stages of attainment. He and the Master M.
speak of their Superiors with reverence and humility, and
of others greater still to Whom all bow in willing obedience.
How watchful of t he real needs of the world is his Superior,
the Chohan (sometimes referred to as the Mahachohan),
and careful of his guardianship of Occultism against
misuse, is apparent in the constant reference to his wishes
by the Master K.H. The Master M. also said he obeyed
instantly the Chohan's slightest injunction. Any profana­
tion of the sacred spiritual science of Theosophy, or Self-
Knowledge, by the selfish and unprepared is always
prevented or not 'allowed'.
Through the eyes of these Adepts we see the conditions
of the world in those days; and the intellectual and spiritual
outlook of the West and the East of that time, and we realise
how much both have changed since then.
The Master K.H. often mentions chelas and pupils, and
of his house being full of them—those preparing for the
exercise of their spiritual faculties for spiritual application.
We are often reminded that they preserve and obey the
rules for such development, rules made ages ago, which
have become 'laws'. The brave wise ones of old had only
the foundations laid for them. They had to experiment,
and learn, and obey. Through such Laws, the Masters
'seek to bring men to sacrifice their personality—a passing
flash—for the welfare of the whole humanity, hence for
their own immortal Egos, a part of the latter, as humanity
is a fraction of the integral whole, that it will, one day,
become'.1 Those Laws take no heed, naturally, of pe rsonal
desire, but must be faithfully and ceaselessly observed.
And more: the candidate for the esoteric science held in
trust for mankind by the Great Brotherhood, is expected
to live not only a ce
rtain kind of life outwardly and inwardly,
but is expected also irretrievably to pledge himself to the
• The Mahdtmd Letters, p. 231.
7
THE DIRECTION OF
service of the world, and to pass through at least one initia­
tion in his present life.1
The Masters know, for they have been through it, that
each candidate—chosen for all sorts of reasons, including
karmic—must have his nature tested for fitness to deal
with the risks of the inner worlds, where emotions and
minds are open to subtle and intricate influences, and where
both feeling and thought may be misled, sowing thereby
seeds of future trouble. They said, and we observe the
fact among ourselves, that some of the greatest problems
were how to teach pupils not to be befooled, for nowadays
the aspirant is 'assailed entirely on the psychological side
of his nature'.J For Esoteric Truths are guarded, and
those who would control Nature's forces must satisfy
her sentries, on guard against unauthorised intrusion.
To overcome these by the mastery of selfishness and passion
is the greatest and most difficult victory. 'If it were not
so, adeptship would be but a cheap acquirement.'3
They declared that while Truth is One . . . and pure
Spirits who see itas it is cannot err, yet portions or different
aspects are visible to different agencies and intelligences,
each under various conditions. So that individual Brothers
in choosing their agents, chelas, or pupils, develop their
Egos 'by availing themselves of their physical, moral
and intellectual idiosyncrasies'.4 As there are many
agencies, cosmic and other, which tend to distort views,
therefore a cleansing preparation is so necessary, and a
careful probation. Tuition given to chelas who would
acquire occult knowledge opens in them many unforeseen
channels—hence bring about many unexpected results.
The reason why a chela is thus beset is that while 'the
mass of human sin and frailty is distributed throughout
the life of a man who is content to remain an average
mortal, it is gathered in and centred within one period of
1 The Secret Doctrine, Vol. I, p. 218 (Adyar edition).
2 T he Mahdlmd Letters, p. 365. 3 Ibi d., p. 316. 4 Ibid., p. 359.
8
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
the life of a chela—the period of probation. That, which
is generally accumulating to find its legitimate issue only
in the next rebirth of an ordinary man, is quickened and
fanned into existence in the chela—especially in the
presumptuous and selfish candidate who rushes in without
having calculated his forces. Self-personality, vanity
and conceit harboured in the higher principles are enor­
mously more dangerous than the same defect inherent
only in the lower physical nature of man'.1 They are
rocks against which the cause of chelaship, in its pro­
bationary stage, might be dashed to pieces unless the
would-be disciple has perfect confidence and trust in those
he would seek out to help him safely toward the light of
knowledge. But though all this care is given to the pupil,
the Masters are careful to say they advised, but never
ordered.
All these strivings and perplexities, deeds, thoughts,
and soul struggles by night and by day are noted, for the
pupil himself enters his desires and his spiritual develop­
ment in the imperishable Records kept by the Masters.
Such pupils have stepped across the border which divides
our world from theirs.
The eager pupil seeks the Master, and because 'Nature
has linked all parts of her Empire together by subtle
threads of magnetic sympathy, and . . . there is a mutual
correlation even between a star and a man, thought runs
swifter than the electric fluid, and your thought will find
me if projected by a pure impulse, as mine will find . . .
and has often impressed . . . your mind',2 wrote the Master
K.H. If the impulse is not pure, then the Masters have
their own protecting barrier.
The ways of training pupils vary with each Master; none
interferes with the method of another. Each pupil is
left to his own device, his own counsel, and is given help
only when innocent of the causes which lead to trouble.
1 The Mahdtmd Letters, p. 359. 2 Ibid., p. 267
THE DIRECTION OF
In their pupils they require active minds which can put
two and two together with correct results, once they are
on the right path. To unlock the storehouse of Occult
information the pupil must use the key of intuition.
To reach the Masters, who are in all ways obedient to
Law, one's nature must be cleared of the three poisons:
anger, greed, and delusion; and of the five obscurities:
envy, passion, vacillation, sloth, and unbelief, all or any
of which prevent one from seeing the truth. It is clearly
not an easy path of approach, there is so much to get rid
of which clogs the personality, even for members of The
Theosophical Society who have declared their adherence
to Brotherhood. That declaration has brought them under
the observation of the Masters, and they thereupon seek
to draw out each person, that they may know what he is
capable of under different kinds of opportunities and
stresses.
Once a person becomes a regular or accepted pupil, the
imprimatur of which acceptance remains with the Chohan,
he is expected to fathom, in course of t ime, the nature and
essence of the universe with which we are surrounded.
One wonders at first why the Chohan watched with such
care what the Masters did for their pupils. The answer
soon comes from the Master K.H.: 'The misuse of knowledge
by the pupil always reacts upon the initiator; ... in
sharing the secrets with another, the Adept, by immutable
Law, is delaying his own progress to the Eternal Rest.'1
The pupil, however, is instructed in the sevenfold prin­
ciples of nature and man, and thus awakens his dormant
powers. The culmination of this is the Adept. Here we
see why so much emphasis was laid upon studying and
understanding the constitution of man, and his relation,
through his principles, to the manifold Universe; and how
immensely important this is if the student is to become
a wise and practical Occultist—that is to pursue with defi-
1 The Mahdtmd Letters, p. 284.
10
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
nite intent the Third Object of The Theosophical Society.
Those really determined upon an intellectual mastery of
the science of O ccultism will study with patience and with
care the valuable instructions given by H.P.B. on the
subject, and printed in the fifth volume of The Secret
Doctrine.1
Up the difficult ladder of attainment the initiate climbs
to knowledge within and to the utmost limits of this uni­
verse. Up 'to the very edge of the cosmic veil we know the
facts to be correct—owing to personal experience; for the
information gathered as to what takes place beyond—
we are indebted to the Planetary Spirits, to our Blessed
Lord Buddha.'2
Perhaps we would have understood our early leaders
better had we realised that they, taking their cue from the
Adepts, cared not at all for anything the world might think
of them, and that 'the first requisite in even a simple fakir,
is that he should have trained himself to remain as in­
different to moral pain as to physical suffering'.3
It is only such a habit that makes possible continuous
and unremitting service freely rendered. 'I am', said the
Master K.H., 'the slave of my duty to the Lodge4 and
mankind; not only taught, but desirous to 'subordinate
every preference for individuals to a love for the human
race'.5 And only he who grasps thoroughly the idea of a
regenerating practical Brotherhood is entitled to the
possession of the Masters' secrets. One who does not
place the good of mankind above his own good does not
attract them, nor 'is he worthy of becoming higher in
knowledge than his neighbour'.6 Selfishness and exclusive-
ness wreck so much.
Through the faithful, steady practice of the ancient Law,
1 Adyar edition; volume three of t he previous edition.
2 The Mahdtmd Letters, p. 138. 3 Ibid., p. 224.
4The Great White Lodge—The Occult Hierarchy.
s The Mahdtmd Letters, p. 225. 6 Ibid., p. 252.
I I
THE DIRECTION OF
the initiate becomes the Arhat.1 His personal fancies and
antipathies are weakened; he takes all mankind into his
heart and regards them in the mass. With our 'visible'
selves, as with Mr. Sinnett and others, they have 'nothing
to do'. It is with the evolution of that other, the unveiled
Ego, that they are concerned.
'My "Arhat" vows are pronounced', said the Master M.
'I c a n n e i t h e r s e e k r e v en g e , n o r h e l p o t h e r s t o o b t a i n i t . . .
revenge is unholy.' Such is the avowed Arhat position.
Defence and vindication of those in the right is another
matter. H.P.B., the Initiate, had for certain reasons
occasionally to fight her own battles—for, the Master K.H.
wrote: 'We have no favourites, break no rules . . .'
'Nothing draws us to any outsider saving his evolving
spirituality. He may be a Bacon or an Aristotle in know­
ledge, and still not even make his current felt a feather's
weight by us, if his power is confined to the Manas.'*
The supreme energy resides in the Buddhi,3 latent when
wedded to Atman4 alone, active and irresistible when
galvanized by the essence of "Manas" and when none of
the dross of the latter commingles with that pure essence
to weigh it down by its finite nature. Manas pure and
simple, is of a lower degree, and of the earth earthly: and
so your greatest men 'count but as nonentities in the arena
where greatness is measured by the standard of spiritual
development'.5 'The adept is the rare efflorescence of a
generation of enquirers; and to become one, he must obey
the inward impulse of his soul irrespective of the pru­
dential considerations of worldly science or sagacity.'6
The Masters hoped that the information given by them
to Mr. Sinnett's questions would be taken and pieced
together, so that some sound idea of their system could be
gained by the non-initiate. They saw, though, that only
1 Arhat = one who has taken the fourth great Initiation.
1 Mind. 3 I ntuition. 4 Atm an = the Spiritual Self.
5 The Mahdtmd Letters, pp. 341-2. 6 Ibid., p. 6.
12
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
those who have passed the third Initiation are able to
write upon such subjects really comprehensibly. They
hoped, however, that The Secret Doctrine would explain
many things and set to rights more than one perplexed
student.
Let us now consider the special interest of the early days
of t he Society, and the introduction of the idea of U niversal
Brotherhood to the world at large. Here we have to remind
ourselves of the startling effect the remarkable phenomena
performed by H.P.B. was having in every country. The
hope was cherished by many that if they, too, were trained
by the Masters they might exercise similar powers and share
in unusual knowledge. Mr. Sinnett was deeply attracted
by these powers and desired greatly to communicate
directly with the 'Brothers', without H.P.B.'s agency,
either by letters or audibly. He wished to be guided by
one of them in the management and principally in the
instruction in Occultism of The Society. He felt he was
by far the best person to do so. But his 'motives' were
seen as selfish, because 'the chief object of the T.S. is not
so much to gratify individual aspirations as to serve
our fellow men'.1
In the Masters' view 'the highest aspiration for the
welfare of humanity becomes tainted with selfishness if,
in the mind of the philanthropist there lurks the shadow
of desire for self-benefit, or a tendency to do injustice,
even when these exist unconsciously to himself. Then he
added sternly: 'Yet, you have ever discussed but to put
down the idea of a universal Brotherhood, questioned its
usefulness, and advised to remodel the Theosophical
Society on the principle of a college for the special study
of Occultism. This . . . will never do.'3
And 'the term Universal Brotherhood is no idle phrase'.
For, said the Master: 'Humanity in the mass has a para-
1 The Mahdtmd Letters, pp. 7-8. 1 Ibid., p. 8.
13
THE DIRECTION OF
mount claim upon us. . . . It is the only secure foundation
for universal morality. If it be a dream, it isat least anoble
one for mankind; and it is the aspiration of the true Adept.'1
It is the love of Humanity which seems to the Masters
of highest importance; and that individual the most
unselfish who, free of desire for personal gain or place, helps,
as best he may, mankind to move towards compassionate,
universal, unselfish Brotherhood. The Master K.H.'s
words on this should be cherished and practised by each
one of us. He said: 'Until final emancipation reabsorbs
the Ego it must be conscious of the purest sympathies
called out by the esthetic effects of high art, its tenderest
cords to respond to the call of the holier and nobler human
attachments. Of course, the greater the progress towards
deliverance the less will this be the case, until, to crown
all, human and purely individual personal feelings—blood
ties and friendships, patriotism and race predilection—all
will give way, to become blended into one universal feeling,
the only true and holy, the only unselfish and eternal
one—Love, an Immense Love for humanity—as a Whole.
For it is humanity which is the great Orphan, the only
disinherited one upon this earth. . . . And it is the duty
of every man who is capable of an unselfish impulse to do
something, however little, for its welfare.'1
It was for the sake of this struggling but courageous
'Orphan' that the Chiefs want a 'Brotherhood of Humanity,
a real Universal Fraternity started; an institution which
would make itself known throughout the world and arrest
the attention of the highest minds'.3 And further, they
said to every western Theosophist, and especially to those
who aspired to be their pupils, that in their Brotherhood
'all personalities sink into one idea—absolute right and
absolute practical justice for all'.4 And 'Absolute Justice'
makes no difference between persons or things.
i The Mahatmd Letters, p. 17. 1 Ibid., p. 32.
3 Ibi d., p. 24. 4 Ibid., p. 213.
14
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
The Masters drew clear distinctions between: a, the
practice of such Brotherhood, so urgent a world need, so
that the whole social organisation might be based upon it
with safety; b, the high philosophy of Theosophy and the
work of The Theosophical Society; c, the s
tudy of Occultism
and the display of Occult Powers.
We have seen from their own words what is the Masters'
conception of real Brotherhood, and how it should affect
the individual. How they thought it should work out in
the Lodges we shall see presently.
Theosophy, the highest philosophy, was to them—after
sweeping away the dross left by our forefathers, and making
clean places upon which to plant such ideas, 'not physical
phenomena, but these universal ideas that we study, as
to comprehend the former, we have first to understand the
latter. They touch man's true position in the universe,
in relation to his previous and future births; his origin and
ultimate destiny, the relation of the mortal to the immortal,
of the temporary to the eternal; of the finite to the infinite,
ideas larger, grander, more comprehensive, recognising the
universal reign of Immutable Law, unchanging and un­
changeable, in regard to which there is only an Eternal
Now, while to the uninitiated mortals time is past or future
as related to their finite existence on this material speck of
dust. That is what we study and what many have solved'.1
Clearly this conception of one of the great purposes of
the Masters in encouraging the formation of The Society
was early known to H.P.B., and, no doubt, communicated
by her to the other founders, for the objects of The Society
were defined already in 1875 as being 'to collect and
diffuse a knowledge of the laws which govern the universe'.3
In 1878 a Circular was issued which summarised the
above exposition of Theosophy as follows: 'The objects
of the Society are various ... to acquire an intimate
«The Mahdtmd Letters, p..24.
3 A Short History of The Theosophical Society, p. 545.
15
THE DIRECTION OF
knowledge of natural law . . . study to develop his [man's]
latent powers . . . [to] exemplify the highest morality
and religious aspirations ... to make known among
western nations . . . facts about oriental religious philo­
sophies . . . [to] disseminate a knowledge of the pure,
esoteric system of the archaic period, and finally and chiefly,
aid in the institution of a Brotherhood of Humanity . . .
of every race.'
In 1879 ^ was simply stated that 'the Theosophical
Society is formed upon the basis of a Universal Brotherhood
of Humanity'.1
The Theosophy which The Society was to disseminate
'is no new candidate for the world's attention, but only
the restatement of principles which have been recognised
from the very infancy of mankind'.2 But the Masters saw
that the inherited and self-acquired grossness of the
western mind, and its strong development along the
lines of practical materialism, was (we might say still is)
the bar that prevented a conviction of these Theosophical
truths from gaining a wider currency among western
nations, and caused Theosophical study to be cast aside
as useless and fantastic by western philosophers. Through
meditation, though, they thought, 'something of the
delicate machinery of the Occult Kosmos could be com­
prehended.'3
These strong words of the Master M. ring clearly along
the years to awaken our hearts and minds: 'The sun of
Theosophy must shine for all, not for a part.' And
he added: 'There is more of this movement than you have
yet an inkling of. The T.S. is linked in with similar work
that is secretly going on in all parts of the world.'4
It will be remembered that in the Rules of 1879 it was
stated that 'The whole Society is under the care of the
J A Short History of The Theosophical Society, p. 546.
* Th e Mahdtmd Letters, p. 34.
3 Ibid., pp. 29-30. 4 Ibid., p. 271.
16
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
General Council of the President of the Theosophical
Society, its Founder, who ishimself subject to the authority
of a supreme Council representing the highest Section of
the Society'. This highest, or First Section, is described
as being 'composed exclusively of proficients or initiates
in Esoteric Science or Philosophy, who take a deep interest
in the Society's affairs and instruct the President-Founder
how best to regulate them, but whom none but such as
they voluntarily communicate with, have the right to
know.'1
That the Masters suggested or accepted such a position
is seen in the words of the Master K.H. in 1884, when he
spoke of Himself and the Master M. as the 'accepted leaders
of the Founders of the Parent Theosophical Society'.2
At that time the public had the notion (and to some extent
still has) that the Society was under 'the sole management
of the Adepts, while the fact is that the entire executive
management is in the hands of the Founders and our
Teachers give us advice only in rare exceptional cases of
the greatest emergency', as wrote Damodar K. Mava-
lankar under the direct orders of Brother Koot-Hoomi.3
This was written because the public saw that there were
errors of management which were from time to time
exposed. The conclusion was, therefore, that either the
Adepts do not exist at all or, if they do, they have no
connection with The Society, and the members were dis­
honest imposters, or if they had any connection it was only
with Adepts of very low degree—otherwise such errors
would not occur.4 I think we find that even to-day
some of this old public opinion about The Society and its
members and management still hovers about us, and
pounces with quick condemnation upon any of our sins of
omission or commission.
A Short History of The Theosophical Society, p p. 546-7.
' T h e Mahdtmd Letters, p. 408.
3 I bid., pp. 487-8. 4Ibi d., p. 487.
17
THE DIRECTION OF
Though withdrawn from the public gaze, yet the Masters
are not severed from the direction of our world of action
'so long as the Theosophical Society exists, and this with
the assent of the Chohan'.1
Of the value of T he Society we get a somewhat startling
intimation in the words of the Master K.H., who said in
1884 that the crisis then shaking the still infant Society
to its foundation, 'is a question of perdition or salvation
to thousands; a question of the progress of the Human
Race or its retrogression, of i ts glory or dishonour, and for
the majority of this race—of being or not being, of anni­
hilation in fact'.* I think the Master must have had in his
mind a vision of the future, of this terrible day that is upon
us in the denial of B rotherhood by so many, that they may
try to pursue their wicked course undeterred. Probably
the conscience of each one of us to-day is pricked by the
thought that perhaps we could have done so much more
to avert or minimise the worst had we but lived more as
Brothers, and paid less attention to personal and national
antipathies and objections to one another. We have, too
frequently, permitted these to ravage our ranks, to the
detriment of the whole precious Brotherhood movement.
Among the Rules of 1879 was one saying that among The
Society's plans was one to promote a feeling of B rotherhood
among the nations. The present condition of things
was evidently seen and it was hoped that this 'feeling' of
Brotherhood might modify events, for H.P.B. wrote:
'It is simply knowledge, and mathematically correct com­
putations, which enable the WISE MEN of the East to foretell,
for instance, that England is on the eve of su ch or another
catastrophe; that France is nearing such a point in her
cycle; and that Europe in general is threatened with, or
rather on the eve of, a cataclysm to which her own cycle
of racial Karma has led her.'3
* Th e Mahdtmd Letters, p. 378. 1 Ibid., p. 365.
3 The Secret Doctrine, Vol. II, p. 371.
18
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
But, despite all crises in the Society, by 1883 it was
thought that no great harm would come to it. The Master
K.H. expressly said: 'The Society will never perish as
an institution, although branches and individuals in it
may.'1
In 1879 it was stated in the Rules that among The
Society's plans was one 'especially to encourage the study
of those laws least understood by modern people and so
termed the Occult Sciences'. As we have seen, Mr. Sinnett
was consumed by a desire to study and teach these Occult
Sciences to western minds. Again and again the Masters
tried to show him that Occult Science was but a subsidiary
aim of The Society—one of its branches of interest. Anyone
pursuing this Science should clearly observe that it has
its own methods of research as fixed and arbitrary as the
methods of physical science.
It is necessary to remember that the words Occultism
and Occult Sciences were used where now we would say
Theosophy. The word Theosophy did not come into
general use until the publication of The Key to Theosophy,
by Madame Blavatsky, in 1891. For some time the idea
was that The Society stood for Esoteric Buddhism, this
being the title under which Mr. Sinnett issued his well-
known book in 1883, an explanation of t he letters from the
Masters, which letters were fairly recently published under
the title of The Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett.
Writing to Mr. Hume in 1882, the Master K.H. said:
'The world of force is the world of Occultism and the
only one whither the highest initiate goes to probe the
secrets of being. Hence no one but such an initiate can
know anything of these secrets. Guided by his Guru the
chela first discovers this world, then its laws, then their
centrifugal evolutions into the world of matter. To
become a perfect adept takes him long years, but at last
1 The MahatmA Letters, p. 245.
19
THE DIRECTION OF
he becomes the master. The hidden things have become
patent, and mystery and miracle have fled from his sight
for ever. He sees how to guide force in this direction
or that—to produce desirable effects. The secret chemical,
electric or odic properties of plants, herbs, roots, minerals,
animal tissue are familiar to him ... no change in the
etheric vibrations can escape him. He applies his know­
ledge, and behold a miracle! And he who started with
repudiation of the very idea that miracle is possible, is
straightway classed as a miracle worker and either wor­
shipped by the fools as a demi-god or repudiated by the
still greater fools as a charlatan! And to show you how
exact a science is Occultism let me tell you that the means
we avail ourselves of are laid down for us in a code as old
as humanity to the minutest detail. But every one of
us has to begin from the beginning, not from the end.
Our laws are as immutable as those of Nature. . . . Learn
first our laws and educate your perceptions.'1
So seriously were the Occult Sciences (Theosophy)
regarded in the early days that even the applicant for
Fellowship in The Theosophical Society had to sign an
obligation whereby he declared that he gave 'the President
individually, and to each and to everyone who is or may
be accepted hereafter as a Fellow of the above Society,
my most solemn and sacred promise that whatsoever
information connected with the legitimate philosophical
work or researches of the Society may be communicated
to me, as a member of the Society, with the intimation
that it must not be revealed, I will faithfully keep secret,
allowing no one, under any pretext, or by any threat or
promise, to extort the same from me. For the faithful
performance of this promise, I do hereby, in the presence
of these witnesses, pledge my word of honour.'1
This obligation covered a rule concerning the early signs
1 The Mahdtmd Letters, p. 144.
1 A Short History of The Theosophical Society, p. 548.
20
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
and passwords given to probationers in The Society and
especially its experiments in Occult Sciences, which it
was forbidden to disclose. H.P.B. had already a group of
people whom she instructed under the direction of the
Masters, and, as The Society grew in numbers, this group
gradually changed. By 1888 those interested in the Third
Object, as then stated, formed a distinct and private
division of The Society under the direction of a Corre­
sponding Secretary, H.P.B., and with the official sanction
of Col. Olcott, the President Founder. A group of such
Fellows has been in existence ever since and undertakes
much of that preliminary training in thought and practice
which leads to the stage of chela-ship. And then as now
whatever teachings or instructions are given to this group
from or on behalf of the Masters, The Society is not made
responsible. Its task is Universal Brotherhood. Says an
old rule, as this is so, it 'inculcates perfect tolerance towards
this or any other activity carried out by Fellows'. Another
old rule says: 'No Fellow shall slander [we now call it gossip]
any Theosophist'; but as this was not kept, therefore the
Master K.H. said: 'The policy of absolute neutrality of
the T.S. in occult teachings and phenomena will be rigidly
enforced.'1
Presently, to her great relief, H.P.B. was permitted to
cease from producing phenomena. There was no further
need for it, and it caused too much misunderstanding,
and therefore trouble. But individuals still are trained
in similar occult powers and could produce phenomena
if they chose. The Masters still cause to be trained those
suited for such work. Not that The Society is the only
Occult Brotherhood where such training for the few goes
on; the Masters said there were three others at least. The
methods of this branch of Occultism, though in the main
unchangeable, have to conform to altered times and
circumstances.
' The Mahdtmd Letters, p. 366.
21
THE DIRECTION OF
The state of society in England, for instance, is quite
different from that in India, where the existence of wise
men is taken for granted. That makes 'occult education'
easy; in the West, in general, the average mind is not
prepared to accept 'wise men', and is deeply sceptical of
occult phenomena. So a different policy is required in
the presentation of t he Occult Sciences to ensure a measure
of their acceptance. 'Truth has no ear-mark and does not
suffer from the name under which it is promulgated.'
Mr. Sinnett was told frankly 'that the path of Occult
Sciences has to be trodden laboriously and crossed at the
danger of life; that every step in it leading to the final
goal is surrounded by pit-falls and cruel thorns; that the
pilgrim who ventures upon it is made, first, to encounter
and conquer the thousand and one furies who keep watch
over its adamantine gates and entrance—furies called
Doubt, Scepticism, Scorn, Ridicule, Envy and finally
Temptation—especially the latter; and that he who would
see beyond has first to destroy this living wall; that he
must be possessed of a heart and soul clad in steel, and of
an iron never-failing determination, and yet be meek and
gentle, humble and have shut out from his heart every
human passion that leads to evil.'1
The Masters were interested in the organisation and
management of The Society and of its parts, the Lodges,
or Branches as they were then called (and are still so called
in several countries), and in the individuals who, as officers,
had to play their allotted parts. It is of deepest interest
to examine the kind of mission, or work, which they thought
should characterise Lodges. They were quite clear on
this vital matter. 'Let every Branch', said the Master
K.H., 'before it is chartered, choose some one object to
work for, an object naturally in sympathy with the general
principles of the T.S.—yet a distinct and definite object
1 The Mahdtmd Letters, pp. 351-2.
22
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
of i ts own, whether in the religious, educational, or philo­
sophical line. This would allow a broader margin for its
general operations; more real, more useful work would be
done'.1 'Though the Branch might be composed of those
with diverse interests, yet all could unite in knitting
together brotherly hands for the furtherance of the common
objects of the Society.'2
In 1877 Col. Olcott was already authorising Branches,
and in 1884 the Master K.H. wrote: 'We can never approve
or tolerate disloyalty in any member of whatsoever Branch
to the fundamental principles represented by the Parent
Organisation. The rules of the mother-body must be
lived up to by those composing its Branches; provided, of
course, that they do not transcend the three declared objects
of t he organisation. The experience of the Parent Society
proves that the usefulness of a Branch very largely, if not
entirely, depends on the loyalty, direction and zeal of
its President and Secretary; however much their colleagues
may do to assist them, the efficient activity of their group
develops proportionally with that of those officers.'3 This
'direction' is still honoured in the fact that each national
section of The Society must, in the main, conform its
rules to those of the international General Council,
and each Lodge in turn likewise conforms its rules to
them.
The Masters had said earlier that if Branches were formed
at all, they must contribute to the vitality and usefulness
of T he Society, by promoting its leading idea of a Universal
Brotherhood. Branches were to remain as parts of the
whole. They saw no point in having separate organizations
with the same declared Objects of the Society 'with the
same directors behind the scenes'. That would not only
deal 'a mortal blow' at The Society, but put upon them
a 'double labour and anxiety without the slightest com­
pensating advantage' that they could perceive.
1 The Mahdtmd Letters, p. 318. ' Ibid., p. 402. 3 I bid., p. 408.
23
THE DIRECTION OF
We turn with interest to those whom the Masters selected
for their work in relation to the Society.
First and foremost there was, of course, Madame
Helena Petrovna Blavatsky, the enigma. There was a
real inner H.P.B. and an outer H.P.B. A brilliant analysis
of t hese two selves is given in her own letter to Mr. Sinnett.
She showed to the world a rugged exterior whom the
Masters described variously as 'old lady', 'old woman',
and so on. They smiled at the erratic creature who held
the pearl, the true H.P.B., the well-hidden person whose
actual inner presence in the outer shell was so necessary
for the venture they had undertaken, that humanity might
be served. The real H.P.B.'s presence made easy the
transmission of the Masters' letters and the performance
of the phenomena they consented to for a period, and also
made more readily possible their appearance from time
to time. The Master K.H. pointed out at that time that
only two of t he Great Brotherhood, himself and the Master
M., had at heart the dissemination of the doctrine they
held, and at first H.P.B. was their 'sole machinery' in the
world.1
The outer and the inner H.P.B. fought brilliant battles
together for the establishment of Brotherhood among men,
and for the presentation in new garb of the Ancient Wisdom.
For this purpose to the real H.P.B.'s inner sight was unrolled
a vista of the past and of the future. The tired Madame
Blavatsky drudged unceasingly to give us as much as she
could of the vision. H.P.B. was, said the Master M.,
'a woman of most exceptional and wonderful endowments.
Combined with them she had strong personal defects,
but just as she was, there was no second to her living fit
for this work. We sent her to America, brought them
together2—and the trial began. From the first she and
he were given clearly to understand that the issue lay
1 The Mahdtmd Letters, pp. 367-8.
s That is, Colonel Olcott and H.P.B.
24
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
entirely with themselves'.1 H.P.B. was their devoted,
loyal, much attacked agent and disciple throughout a
stormy and eventful life. We salute her.
Colonel Henry Steel Olcott was the other of the two
entrusted with the delicate and very difficult task of starting
the flow of the slow tide of Universal Brotherhood, a flow
that still savours somewhat of a Forlorn Hope, requiring
for its continuance unstinted, enthusiastic aid.
One or two of the Great Brotherhood, said the Master M.,
'hoped that the world had advanced so far intellectually,
if not intuitionally, that the occult doctrine might gain
an intellectual acceptance, and the impulse given for a
new cycle of occult research. . . . Consent was given for
the trial. . . .' It was stipulated, however, that the
experiment should be made 'independently of our personal
management; that there should be no abnormal interfer­
ence by ourselves. In casting about we found in America
the man to stand as leader—a man of great moral courage,
unselfish and having other good qualities. He was far
from being the best, but... he was the best one available.'2
From that time onwards the Masters trusted Colonel
Olcott under all circumstances, and his faithful service was
pledged to them—come well, come ill. Neither Mr. Sinnett
nor Mr. Hume could bear his bluff American ways. Sinnett
regarded him as socially and intellectually too unpolished
for work in London. Both were reminded of Col. Olcott's
real abilities and of his faithfulness under all trials and
strain. The Masters were grateful to him for his work was
important, and 'by reason of his official position, if for
no other, stands with Upasika [H.P.B.] closest to ourselves
in the chain of T heosophical work'.3 And his 'magnetism,
after six years of purification, is intensely sympathetic
with ours—physically and morally is becoming more and
more so'.
No task was too hard for Colonel Olcott to undertake on
» The Mahdtmd Letters, p. 263. 2 Ibid., p. 263. S Ibid., p. 398.
25
THE DIRECTION OF
behalf of The Society; he never spared himself or shirked
any discomfort. He watched over The Society with zealous
care until 1906, when he died. The Masters attended him
on his deathbed. They came personally to thank him
for his long services so ungrudgingly rendered, despite all
hardships.
Mr. Alfred Percy Sinnett and Mr. Allan Octavian Hume
were two characters who played a very vital part, especially
Mr. Sinnett, in the work proposed by the Masters. Both
Sinnett and Hume were Englishmen, typical of an era now
quite finished with. They were entirely sure that no
Asiatic, however exalted, could possibly equal themselves
in intellectual attainment and worldly savoir faire. They
knew themselves welcome in clubs and drawing-rooms
where at that time no Asiatic would be admitted. Yet
both had ties with the Masters. Both were helped to the
limit of their karma. One sees that because of service
given in a long past, the Masters could give them no nobler
reward than opportunities to serve their fellow-men by the
dissemination of the Ancient Wisdom, now given more
openly than ever before. Neither could be won over to
giving up personal habits in order to bring them into the
Masters' presence; yet they demanded that the Masters
should change their habits to suit their own worldly
prejudices and conventions. Both thought they were
bestowing high honour on the Masters by inviting them
into their own homes.
Sinnett was a brilliant journalist, and had a unique and
influential position as editor of the powerful newspaper,
The Pioneer, published at Allahabad. He imperilled and
finally lost that position through his friendship with H.P.B.,
and his advocacy of reforms the Government was not yet
prepared to consider. Sinnett had already written his
pioneering exposition of Theosophy, or Occultism, or the
Ancient Wisdom, or, as he called his book, Esoteric
Buddhism. It went far and wide and drew attention to the
26
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
teachings which the Masters had given him in their many
letters.
Hume's critical and suspicious mind stood in his occult
way. He was a high Government official, and he is remem­
bered in India as the 'Father' of the National Congress,
because he piloted this political movement (started mainly
by Theosophists to help India study and practise par­
liamentary procedure and approach to problems) through
its infancy to a steady growth.
And we should remember the work in America of William
Quorn Judge. He built up a powerful movement in the
United States and led it until 1896, when he broke from
his allegiance to lead a large seceding party. But whatever
the ins and outs of this matter much will be forgotten of
any faults, as with others, and only his devotion to Theo-
sophy and his love for H.P.B., who cherished him, will be
remembered.
Other exceptional figures pass before us as we study the
stages of growth of our history. Splendid notable men and
women they were and are, each in turn claiming to take
orders and suggestions for special work, or training from
the Masters, and being derided for such claims. Dr. Besant,
asked to help the India she loved, disappointed many
western friends by doing so, for they thought she should
continue to reside in and help the 'more important' West.
No concern in which she was vitally engaged but was at the
instance of a Master, mainly her own. We know how
rapidly The Society expanded under her direction, and
how deep and strong was her influence upon men and
affairs, especially in India.
Bishop C. W. Leadbeater, trained by the Masters and
some of their pupils for special psychic work, faithfully
performed the arduous and delicate tasks allotted to him.
In carrying them out he was utterly impervious to all
blame or criticism of the line he pursued. He was answer­
able to the Masters, not to the public. Wise student
27
THE DIRECTION OF
and accurate observer, his knowledge and occult powers
were greater than we shall ever know.
Our President, Dr. George Sydney Arundale, early in
life associated with the leading figures in The Society,
later dedicated his life to i
t. He, too, writes of the Teachers
who guide him to the investigation of those inner natural
forces of which the Masters spoke. The President declares
that he also, in the moves he makes to promote the welfare
of The Society, is inspired by Those to whom it is still a
cherished institution.
C. Jinarajadasa has told us in his little books of how he
has been enabled to see his future work in the ages to come.
Then, having won the final spiritual victory over all
littleness and self, he will lead the people of those days
to the Light. Already his gentle charm and influence
encircle the world.
Shrimati Rukmini Devi, wife of the President, declares
her worship of the mysterious World Mother, lover of the
women of the world, consolatrix of all in the woes that
beset them. Rukmini Devi chooses as her main expression
among the arts, for her genius and devotion, the unusual
line of the dance. She translates through that medium her
perception of the rhythms of the inner worlds, where right
movement is the symbol of power. She links this with
the revival of India's beautiful arts and crafts, which have
fallen into sad degradation.
And others, too, follow the Masters in their hearts, and
thus make their own spiritual imperishable records; and will
come again to work with them as competent, trusted agents
for the helping of others. For 'the Theosophist's duty is
like that of the husbandman's; to turn his furrows and
sow his grains as best he can: the issue is with nature,
and she, the slave of l aw'.
So the golden story runs, without break and in ever-
widening circles. Into the ranks come the many, to be
28
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
encouraged in their spiritual efforts. Ever the Wise Ones
watch for helpers, great and small, and fit each one into his
appointed place. We have been told many times of their
joy when a pilgrim enters the stream of well-doing. They
assist him to reach the 'farther shore' of spiritual liberation.
For him the gift of responsibility is ready. Nature rejoices
in him as another co-worker in her tireless progress towards
the goal of perfection.
What a joyous adventure The Theosophical Society is
in such company—and under such direction!
29
B I B L I O G R A P H Y
The Mah&tma Letters to A. P. Sinnett. Transcribed, etc.,
by A. T. Barker. T. Fisher Unwin, Ltd., 1924.
The Letters of H. P. B
lavatsky to A. P. Sinnett. Transcribed
etc., by A. T. Barker. T. Fisher Unwin, Ltd., 1925.
The Early Teachings of the Masters, 1881-1883. Edited by
C. Jinarajdaasa, M.A. Theosophical Publishing House,
Adyar, India, 1923.
Letters from the Masters of the Wisdom. Transcribed and
annotated by C. Jinarajad&sa. Second Series. T.P.H.,
Adyar, 1925.
The Occult World. By A. P. Sinnett. 1883.
Esoteric Buddhism. By A. P. Sinnett. T.P. Society,
London and Benares, 1883. Many editions since.
The Secret Doctrine. By H. P. Blavatsky. The Adyar
Edition, 1938. First published 1888. London.
The Ocean of Theosophy. By W. Q. Judge. First pub­
lished 1893. Several editions.
The Path of Discipleship. By Annie Besant. First
published 1896. T.P.H., Adyar and London. Many
editions.
Super-human Men in History and in Religion. By Annie
Besant. T.P.H. London. 1913.
The Theosophical Society and the Occult Hierarchy. By
Annie Besant, D.L. T.P.H. London, 1925.
The Golden Book of The Theosophical Society. 1875-1925.
Edited by C. Jinarajadasa, M.A. T.P.H., Adyar.
A Short History of The Theosophical Society. By Josephine
Ransom. T.P.H., Adyar. 1939.
Madame Blavatsky as Occultist. By Josephine Ransom.
T.P.H., London.
30
DIRECTION OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
The Masters and the Path. By the Rt. Rev. C. W. Lead-
beater. T.P.H., Adyar. 1925.
The Lotus Fire, a Study in Symbolic Yoga. By George S.
Arundale. T.P.H. Adyar, 1939.
Many other books on Theosophy and The Theosophical
Society are obtainable from various publishing houses:
The International Headquarters of the Society, Adyar,
Madras, India, 68, Great Russell St., London, W.C.2,
and at Olcott, Wheaton, 111., U.S.A. Large and well
equipped Theosophical Libraries are to be found in many
countries—especially at the Headquarters at Adyar, at
the English Section Headquarters, 50, Gloucester Place,
London, W.i, and at the United States Headquarters,
Olcott, Wheaton, 111., U.S.A.
3i
OTHER BLAVATSKY LECTURES
INDICATIONS OF A NEW CULTURE. By ADELAIDE
GARDNER. A Comparison and a synthesis of Eastern and
Western Yoga in the light of modern investigation. Price 6d.
Post Id.
THE ETHICS OF THE SECRET DOCTRINE. By SIDNEY
RANSOM. "Behold the truth before you; a pure heart;
an eager intellect; an unveiled spiritual perception. . . ."
H.P.B. Price 6d. Post Id.
THE OCCULT TEACHINGS OF THE CHRIST according to
the Secret Doctrine. By Mrs. JOSEPHINE RANSOM.
An illuminating view of the Path of Initiation and the Mystery
Teaching. Price 4d. Post Id.
THE SELF AND ITS PROBLEMS. By CHARLOTTE E.
WOODS. A very fine Theosophical, Mystical and Philo­
sophical Treatise. Price 2s. Post 4d.
NATURE SPIRITS AND THE SPIRITS OF THE ELEMENTS.
By D. N. DUNLOP. Price 6d. Post Id.
THE SECRET DOCTRINE AND MODERN SCIENCE. By
B. A. TOMES. Price 6d. Post Id.
PERSONAL PSYCHOLOGY AND THE SUB-CONSCIOUS
MIND. By ERNEST WOOD. Price 6d. Post Id.
THE EVOLUTION OF MAN: INDIVIDUAL AND SOCIAL.
By PERCY LUND. Price 6d. Post Id.
THE DISTINCTIVE CONTRIBUTION OF THEOSOPHY
TO CHRISTIAN THOUGHT. By Rt. Rev. J. I. WEDG­
WOOD, Docteur (Sciences) de1'University de Paris. Price 6d.
Post Id.
THE PERSONALITY OF H. P. BLAVATSKY. By C.
JINARAJADASA. (With seven illustrations.) Price Is. 6d.
Post 2d.
MANKIND TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW: or, Progress
Towards the Sixth Race. By IWAN A. HAWLICZEK, B.Sc.
Price 9d. Post Id.
THE CONTRIBUTION OF THEOSOPHY TO FREEDOM.
By E. WINTER PRESTON, M.Sc. Price 7d. Post Id.
THE THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE, LONDON
68 GREAT RUSSELL STREET, LONDON, W.C.I
