{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1942__poole___cosmic_consciousness.pdf","mytitle":"Cosmic Consciousness","mylang":"de"}
Cosmic Consciousness
By Cecil A. Poole, F. R* C.
JlaiAube. cMousi SesUeA
A M O R C
Jleilutie JiauA, Sequel
** O EADING timed to your netc” is the purpose of the Leisure
•L'- Hour Series Each suhlcct included in this irnei i* eoncise-
I? and simply presented, and designed to give the reader the useful
eisence of the topic of his interest in as few words as possible.
The books are printed in easy-to-read type. Though each is at­
tractively bound, it is of a sue that may he slipped easily into a
coal pocket and read whenever the leisure hour is available. Thi*
senes is priced at $ 1.00, postage paid, /or the entire set of nx.
<11 you nave one the other five will be sent to you for 85 cent*
—kindly do not remit in postage stamps )
MAKE YOUR OWN PROPHECIES
Learn how to see the future develop logically and
intelligently out of the present.
W HAT OCCURS AFTER DEATH?
Here is a mystical and scientific treatment of this subject
that will fascinate you.
SUPERSIGHT, OR THE THIRD EYE
The (acts about the third eye— the psychic or inner eye.
PSYCHIC PHENOMENA
Know the hasic psychological principles underlying crystal gazing,
automatic writing, anj other interesting fields of psychic research.
COLOR—ITS MYSTICAL INFLUENCE
Here is explained the mystical law of color attraction—
and how color affects your life.
Send Order and Remittance To:
ROSICRUClAN SUPPLY BURLAU
ROSICRUClAN PARK, SAN JOSH, CALIFORNIA
A V
Copyrighted 1942 by
Supreme Grjnd Lodge, AMORC
Primed in U.S. A.
/ D
Qostmc C>ensc(0usness
By C ecil A. Poole, F. R. C.
In considering Cosmic Consciousness, I am not going to
attempt to cover the subject completely, but rather to con-
vey the impression of the tremendous scope of this subject
and to point out considerations that may stimulate your
thinking. The subject is too great for the consideration
of any one intellect; it cannot be confined to the interpre­
tation of one individual or group of individuals; it cannot
even be confined to expression in words. Nevertheless, it
is a subject which we must consider, and, in the light of
our understanding of this subject, we are better able to
prepare the path which will constitute the way toward the
ultimate aims of our existence.
It is important that we consider Cosmic Consciousness
from the standpoint of definition, not because it can be
limited to definition, but because it gives us a working
point upon which to establish our considerations. Prob­
ably that which most nearly approaches a formal definition
of the subject is that given hy Buclce in his book entitled
Cosmic Consciousness. Among his writings the follow­
ing is significant: “The prime characteristic of Cosmic
2 LEISURE HOUR
Consciousness is, as its name implies, a consciousness of
the cosmos, that is, of the life and order of the universe.
Along with the consciousness of the cosmos there occurs
an intellectual enlightenment or illumination which alone
would place the individual on a new plane of existence—
would make him almost a member of a new species. To
this is added a state of moral exaltation, an indescribable
feeling of elevation, elation, and joyousness, and a quick­
ening of the moral sense, which is fully as striking and
more important both to the individual and to the race than
is the enhanced intellectual power. W ith these come what
may be called a sense of immortality, a consciousness of
eternal life, not a conviction that he shall have this, but
the consciousness that he has it already." Carefully con­
sider these comments.
W e see that Cosmic Consciousness is a power that
transforms the individual. Bucke compares Cosmic Con­
sciousness to lower forms of consciousness which he terms,
first, that of simple consciousness possessed by any living
creature; second, self-consciousness which is possessed
by the human being to distinguish it from that possessed
by other animals. Cosmic Consciousness is something in
advance of either of these states of consciousness, as
stated in the definition; it is an added state, a condition
which goes beyond that which we can consider in the sense
of our objective realization. W e might say that conscious­
ness itself is a composite of what we perceive through our
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS 3
senses and what we know from our intuitive faculties; the
latter includes what may be known to us from the previous
experiences of the soul. Added to this, our consciousness
includes awareness of self; the ability to realize that “I
am'* is made possible by consciousness. Without this in­
tuition, without this state of being, we would merely be
mechanisms which function because of reflex action and
which have that type of consciousness which Bucke refers
to as simple consciousness. Consciousness, as including
the perception of the objective senses together with the
intuitive abilities of the awareness of self, we might state,
is a distinct possession of the human being. It sets him
aside from other living things because the type of con­
sciousness enjoyed by him makes possible not only ob­
jective reason but also the possibility of mentally utilizing
both physical and psychic phenomena, which he perceives
through his senses and the extra-sensory perception of his
subjective mind.
To consider Cosmic Consciousness, then, we must con­
sider first of all the limitations of our objective conscious­
ness and the ordinary conception of our awareness of self.
This state of consciousness functions primarily in reference
to the physical world. It functions and gives us conscious­
ness. Imagine, if you will, your consciousness being aware
not only of that which you perceive in this room, but
imagine your consciousness reaching out beyond this room
and its physical limitations. Imagine it being a part of the
4 LEISURE HOUR
Cosmic itself and thereby being all inclusive instead of
definitely limited. This thought impresses itself upon us,
indicating that Cosmic Consciousness is, first of all, some­
thing that exists beyond the limits of what we ordinarily
perceive; in other words, it is the expanding of an ability
to perceive not by the usual accepted way, but by co­
operation with a greater force. We expand our ability
to see a minute object with a microscope; we expand our
ability to hear a sound at a distance by means of the
telephone or radio, but no material aid will expand the
range of our senses to the point where we can conceive
of the Cosmic scheme of things, or cause us to know the
underlying laws operating in all things, nor can physical
instruments bring to our perception a thing of a non­
physical nature. Just as in order to explore the heavens
a particular material arrangement which we call a tele­
scope is necessary, so it is that if we are going to explore
the nature of things which is not physical, a certain
mental or psychic arrangement is necessary Cosmic Con­
sciousness is that arrangement.
Cosmic Consciousness, according to this comparison, is
to the perception of the soul what a telescope is to the eye.
The eye can see without the telescope, consciousness can
be an attribute of the soul without Cosmic Consciousness,
but just as the telescope extends or expands the field of
vision, so the realization of the power that lies outside of
our objective realization by means of Cosmic Conscious-
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS I
ness extends our ability to perceive far beyond the limita­
tions of what we usually consider the range of our con'
scious perception. Let us not misunderstand the expansion
of this state to the point where we would, to use the com­
mon expression, live in the clouds. Let us realize that
those who have attained Cosmic Consciousness have also
been human beings.
May we never forget that the understanding of life is
not intended at any time to so lower the estimate of the
purpose of the physical body as to believe that it should
be given no consideration. The fact that we are here in a
physical body is evidence of the fact that it is necessary
for our present development; therefore, the first step to­
ward the attainment of Cosmic Consciousness must be
made in this physical body, and the. school of thought
which would have us believe that the consideration of the
body should be eliminated is not hastening the develop­
ment of the state of Cosmic Consciousness, but rather is
postponing it.
It is difficult for some people to be able to make use of
a small amount of psychic development. They believe that
they then have the right to live in the clouds, they forget
that the requirements of daily life go on whether we are
masters or whether we are uninitiated students. He
who fails to appreciate the necessity of daily living is
doing the very opposite of that which he believes he is
accomplishing. It is very true that the physical should not
6 LEISURE HOUR
have first consideration, but it is also very true that the
physical should have very important and careful considera­
tion. W hat is demanded of the occultist is not that we
eliminate consideration of the body, but that we leam to
make the body intelligently serve the purpose of suitably
housing the soul. The soul-personality must progress in
the environment in which it is placed. The placing was
not made casually or without purpose, but was definitely
made to add to its experience and contribute to its growth
by gaining knowledge in that state of existence.
One of the first manifestations of Cosmic Consciousness
in the human baing is the quickening of his intuitive
ability. The first spark of Cosmic Consciousness brings
to the human the realization of the tremendous force
which exists in the universe, and of it his soul is a part.
This manifestation of intuition is one of the first faculties
that the student of the occult must attempt to develop,
which is why, in the Rosicrucian course of study, the first
experiments center around this particular faculty. Intui­
tion is the voice of the Cosmic within ourselves. The de­
velopment of this faculty must be left to the individual,
but it is not my purpose here to attempt to suggest meth­
ods or procedures, other than that which is already known
to you through your studies, for the development of this
faculty. It is important that I stress the fact that until
you have conscientiously attempted to develop this faculty.
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS 7
to perform the exercises which are for the purpose of
assisting its growth, you have not begun the proper steps
which will lead to the ultimate comprehension and attain­
ment of Cosmic Consciousness. Intuition, the voice of
conscience, the hunch, or whatever we wish to call it, is
what may be technically termed as pertaining to the field
of extra-sensory perception; that is, the ability to perceive
beyond the range of the physical senses. If man were
given only the ability of physical sense perception, then
ultimate knowledge could easily be attained because all
that man would need to know is what he actually physi­
cally perceives. The why and purpose of things would
be of no value or particular interest to him. However, as
we exist to gain an understanding not only of what is
about us, but what constitutes the principles and forces
that have brought these things into existence, we must also
have psychic perception.
The same thing that created all with which we must deal
in the physical world also created us. Therefore, the com­
mon unit between us and all other things of a physical
nature cannot be conceived in us alone or in the things
which we perceive; neither can the common unit that
exists between us as individual living entities of the Crea­
tor Himself or the Cosmic be compared with the percep­
tion of that which exists in common between these two
phases. In addition, besides considering these two planes,
8 LEISURE HOUR
physical and immaterial, we find that such a division is
entirely imaginary, that there is no point where physical
manifestation ceases and nonmaterial manifestation be­
gins except in our own minds. Neither in the limitations
of our mind nor in the physical world is there a defined
boundary between physical and psychic vibrations under­
lying the manifestations of all things, and we cannot say
at which certain vibratory rate a manifestation transforms
itself from the physical to the psychic. There exists a
projection or rather a continuation of manifestation.
There is no more difference between the vibration which
produces what we refer to as physical, and that which
produces psychic manifestations, than there is between vi­
brations which, when reproduced on a very low note of
an organ, produce vibrations which we do not know
whether we perceive by bearing or feeling. In other
words, there is no one point which can be defined clear­
ly as the limit of the field of manifestation of one
rate of vibration as distinguished from another. Opinions
have brought about limitations of interpretations and have
led us to define in our own minds that which we consider
to be physical and psychic, or ordinary and miraculous,
and in reality there is no line that can be drawn between
these conditions except as it exists in our own conception
of them. W e might even go on to say that there is no
line that can definitely distinguish between consciousness
and Cosmic Consciousness. The first manifestation of
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS 9
Cosmic Consciousness is intuition, and is not a new thing
in our being, but a realization of a factor already there.
Just as adjustment takes place in the development of our
physical bodies when, for example, in adolescence bodily
changes also affect mental outlook, so it is that when
through the proper development of our inner selves,
changes take place in our conception of things, in our
ability to perceive differently. It is merely a step forward
in a perfectly natural state of things in the gaining of an
added ability. In order to survive as a normal, sane indi-
vidual and grow into a normal adult, the adolescent must
be directed to adapt himself to the changing physical and
mental conditions of the life which is before him. So must
we, upon the attainment of a glimpse of a change within
our psychic being, be directed to maintain our mental and
physical equilibrium, and by availing ourselves of the
added abilities also be able to adapt ourselves to the con­
ditions which are apparently new, and at the same time
maintain a normal, healthy existence.
Intuition serves its purpose in our daily life. It can be
directed and guided into a potent force which will in turn
direct us. It may be the key to those things which we
otherwise could not know. Closely connected with intui­
tion is meditation. Again, I am referring to proper
methods of meditation made available in the instructions
which you receive in your monographs. Let us consider
meditation and intuition in our daily lives as a means or
10 LEISURE HOUR
a step toward development of Cosmic Consciousness.
True meditation, or the contemplation of those things
to which we would direct our consciousness, is frequently
considered the only form of meditation. There is, how­
ever, a more active form of meditation which we can carry
on practically all the time. I think possibly one of the
outstanding proponents of this theory of meditation was
Count Herman Keyserling, who stated: “For me, per­
sonally, meditation has acquired in the course of years a
new meaning. Facing reality in a positive way, and with­
out evading it, is for my active temperament a form of
meditation. If I do not shrink from the difficulties of
life, hut contemplate them, then I consider I have done
my kind of meditation. Learning through direct experi­
ence, through pain and suffering, what your innermost
attitude is when facing reality, is the best form of spirit­
ual exercise."
Here we see meditation as an active, positive force for
the improvement of our daily living. Intuition when prop­
erly developed can be the key which will produce the
hunch, or in other words, will be the point of departure
for our acts, while the results of proper meditation upon
this point will indicate a way to go and show us the path.
It is very important to stress that the full importance,
the complete realization of the truth of these last few
statements, is in itself an important step in the develop­
ment of Cosmic Consciousness. The lack of complete
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS 11
realization is frequently a thing that retards the abil­
ity to develop further, because until we can have a
realization of what constitutes some of the fundamental
steps of our progress, we are not in a position to advance
any further. Therefore, I wish to emphasize that it is
necessary for us to realize these few important adapta­
tions, to grasp fully that only by the expanding of con­
sciousness itself can Cosmic Consciousness be obtained,
which in turn means that only by utilizing the factors
which are now at our command, can we thus reach out
and begin to utilize other factors which now lie outside the
field of our existence. Proper consideration and use of
meditation, the development of our intuitive abilities and
faculties, will make it possible for us to meet the stress
of everyday life.
I have stated quite definitely that Cosmic Consciousness,
as compared with our usually accepted conception of
consciousness, is not a great deal different except that it
reaches to a higher or rather more expansive range. It
has thereby been inferred that the change from one type
of consciousness to another would not be a radical de­
parture. This is true up to a certain point; and then,
after certain powers have been accumulated, certain un­
derstanding has become established in our minds, there
comes a time when pressure becomes so great that it is
like the accumulation of water behind a dam, and the
force builds itself up to a point where the influx of true
12 LEISURE HOUR
realization dawns upon us in a flash. Examples of this are
not an uncommon experience in the life of any individual.
Almost everyone has experienced the solving of a problem
by having a solution come suddenly into his mind. This
solution comes, it is true, as a result of intuition, but it
comes more effectively when the intuition has been
properly developed and the steps toward the solution of
the problem have been properly directed through concern
tration and meditation. More outstanding illustrations
are also available to show an awareness coming appar­
ently as a sudden inspiration. It is important to remem­
ber that back of all this lies training and knowledge.
Many are the stories related to the actual influence of
Cosmic Consciousness and its demands having changed
the lives of those who have received it. Think of Paul
of Tarsus, riding on an errand of persecution, and because
of this sudden light which dawned in his mind, the actual
attainment of Cosmic Consciousness, his whole world was
changed. All those who have realized such an experience
tell similar facts. Other illustrations include Mohammed,
and Buddha, who left family and fortune; but of far
more importance to us than these outstanding cases are
the individuals who have not become recorded in history,
yet who also have received that spark of illumination
which made their own lives and the lives of those about
them more effective.
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS 13
W e see, therefore, that the raising of our consciousness
to a higher plane is not confining our individual existence
to a particular attainment, but rather the complete change
of our whole being; in other words, we must bear in mind
that the ultimate attainment of Cosmic Consciousness
does not isolate an individual, but rather expands his
scope of existence, his field of perception and compre­
hension, and consequently places him in a new routine of
daily living, ft is not a case of changing our environment
which would affect us from without, but of changing our-
selves which will affect our environment from within.
As the result of the gaining of this state of conscious­
ness by individuals, it is apparent that not only will the
individual be affected, but as the human race advances
in its evolutionary progress there will come a time when
all mankind will attain this depth of understanding.
Many of our accepted social standards or artificialities
will change with the coming of this universal Cosmic
Consciousness and it will revolutionize the human soul-
personality individually and collectively.
The trials and tribulations of mankind are due mainly
to the lack of cooperation upon the part of man in work­
ing with the forces which made him. W e cannot con­
tinually fight against those forces which exist in and
about us, and upon which the universe exists. Man can­
not expect to control any Cosmic force or any natural
force as he may call it, but man has been given the in-
14 LEISURE HOUR
telligence to harness forces and to use them. This is evi­
dent with many physical forces. The power in a waterfall
is used for the providing of illumination and heat for the
comfort of millions of people; likewise the power that ex­
ists in the Cosmic forces can be harnessed by the mental
equipment of man and thus will make him aware of these
forces which were created to work in unison with him
and direct his development. The Cosmos is actually
those laws which have been established by the Creator.
These laws were established in order to complete and
bring about the ultimate manifestation of the universe
as conceived in the mind of the Creator; therefore,
they are permanent, they are definite, they work toward
a definite end. For them to change would be directly
contrary to the justice of God, By supplication upon
the part of man he cannot expect these laws to be set
aside; but he can work with these laws, and due to
the fact that they will not change, it is possible for man
to learn to depend upon them and use them.
It will appear to many that my comments are for the
purpose of stating that the gaining of Cosmic Conscious­
ness is the ultimate achievement of the individual, and
for humanity a panacea by which all the ills of the world
may be solved. However, this is not to deny the asking
of the question, “Why try to achieve Cosmic Con­
sciousness?”
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS 15
Many individuals have said that the process of psychic
development, or the achievement of this state of con­
sciousness, is of value only for mental recreation and
satisfaction, or they might have referred to it as a psycho­
logical plaything. It is regrettable that many people have
this attitude toward any profound philosophy, and even
those who claim to be more or less sincere. It is found
frequently by them that the study of the occult and of
practical psychology is an interesting pastime when every­
thing in life is running quite smoothly. These very indi­
viduals, however, who appear to study in this field of
thought, would abandon such study if it were a matter
of actually using and applying the principles for the bet­
terment of themselves and those about them. In other
words, these individuals argue that mysticism is not prac­
tical, that it is something to do merely for entertainment
and to occupy leisure time.
As Rosicrucians, we have only one answer: A mysti­
cism which is not practical is not mysticism. It is simply
the useless and impractical opinions of an individual, or
a group of individuals. It is not worthy of being called
a philosophy, or even a system of thought.
The attainment of Cosmic Consciousness by the human
race, individually and collectively, is a part of the great
evolutionary process outlined and established by our
Maker. It is not something which we can choose whether
we wish to do, or not. It is something that we must
16 LEISURE HOUR
eventually da, and our continued lives will offer, one after
the other, the opportunity of taking the initial step; and
after the initial step is taken it will offer us those oppor­
tunities, together with those temptations, which are
closely linked with the attainment of anything of prac­
tical value.
Cosmic Consciousness, then, is something to which we
can all aspire. To consider our definition again, we realize
that it is a consciousness of the Cosmic forces and knowl­
edge that is beyond the range of our ordinary compre­
hension. It is a consciousness that extends into eternal
life in contradistinction to that consciousness which
merely brings us awareness of the present physical exist­
ence. Through it we gain an actual, living conception
of the fact that our existence is a part of ail that is; also,
that all that is, is a part of us.
G-B7 647
The Rosicrucians
9tuute y&u . . .
to share their useful knowledge, which makes life more
enjoyable and free of much of the doubt and confusion
that beset the average man and woman today.
The Rosicrucians are a nonsectarian fraternity, devoted
to an investigation of the higher principles of life, as ex­
pressed in man and nature. The so-called mysteries of life
and death, of the inequalities of people, of the purpose of
our existence here, are removed by the sensible exposition
of the Rosicrucian teachings.
The age-old truths expounded by the Rosicrucians pro­
vide men and women with such useful knowledge of the
Cosmic principles, as makes it possible for them to master
their lives instead of drifting with the years. You will be
amazed at your own potentialities, and the opportunities
afforded you to realize your fondest hopes and dreams.
No change in your personal or social affairs is required.
W rite today for the free booklet. The Mastery of Life,
which explains who and what the Rosicrucians are, and
moreover how they can help you with your own life.
Address: Scribe L. H. U.
Th e R O S I C R U C I A N S
( A M O R C )
San Jose, California, LI. S. A.
