{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1942__lewis___what_occurs_after_death.pdf","mytitle":"What Occurs After Death","mylang":"de"}
What Occurs After Death?
By H. Spencer Lewis, Ph. D., F. R. C.
A M O R C
JleiAMAe.<Mo4t/i Sesti&i
“ T) EADING timed to your taste" is the purpose of the Leisure
■tV Hour Series. Each subject included in this series is concise­
ly and simply presented, and designed to give the reader the useful
essence of the topic of his interest in as few words as possible.
The books are printed in casy-to-read type. Though each is at­
tractively bound, it is of a site that may be slipped easily into a
coat pocket and read whenever the leisure hour is available. This
series is priced at T> cents, postage paid, for the entire set of six.
(If you have one the other five will be sent to you for 60 cents
-kindly do not remit in postage stamps).
COLOR—ITS MYSTICAL INFLUENCE
Here is explained the mystical law of color attraction—
and how color affects your life.
SUPER-SIGHT, OR THE THIRD EYE
The facts about the third eye—the psychic or inner eye.
MAKE YOUR OWN PROPHECIES
Learn how to see the future develop logically and
intelligently out of the present.
COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS
Learn the nature and way of developing this power.
PSYCHIC PHENOMENA
Know the basic psychological principles underlying crystal gating,
automatic writing, and other interesting fields of psychic research
Send Order and Remittance To:
ROSICRUCIAN SUPPLY BUREAU
ROSICRUCIAN PARK, SAN IO SE, CALIFORNIA
A V
Copyrighted 1942 by
Supreme Grand Lodge, AMORC
Printed in U . S. A-
What Occurs Cijjtel Death ?
By H. Spencer Lewis, Ph. D., F. R. C.
Man is at all times dual in nature, but not dual in
consciousness except when he is in a perfectly normal
living state, in his normal, physical body. The moment
the brain consciousness or the physical consciousness of
the physical body is inhibited, made dormant, or sus­
pended by accident, injury, drugs or any other cause,
man is then of one consciousness, a Divine, psychic
consciousness.
Now we have the question as to what occurs after
death. Some might say when reading this, “My, what a
cheerful subject,” and I say, “Yes, it is rather cheerful.”
After all, the more we understand about so-called death,
the more we know about what occurs at the great moment
transition takes place.
In twenty-five years of talking with individuals who
have been in sorrow and grief over some transition that
has just occurred, or who are sick and anticipate that
transition may be close at hand, I have found that their
great anxiety, their great worry, their great depression
concerning transition or so-called death is due to their
fear of it. To the average individual, it is one of the two
great mysterious events in life. It is a fact that we know
little about what occurs before birth. There is more of the
greatest chemical, physiological, magnetic, pathological.
2 LEISURE HOURS
scientific mystery connected with birth than there is with
any other pathological process known to nature. W e have
delved into the mysteries of what happens after we leave
this plane, but science has been able to tell us little about
what occurs before life comes to this plane.
The average person also seldom attempts to understand
the mysteries of so-called transition and is greatly misled
and misinformed. W e hear, for instance, in all of the
Christian churches a constant repetition of the statement
that there is no death. It would seem to be a slogan of
the Christian Church and it would seem to be the key­
note to a hopeful message that these churches and religions
want to establish in the minds of the populace and individ­
uals. It would seem to lie the one silver or golden note
that makes man or woman here on earth accept the situa­
tions as they come, battle on against all obstacles and fight
for all that is worth-while—this one grand and glorious
statement that “there is no death.”
Yet while this very same slogan may be written in
gold letters and represented by a band of ribbon in the
church, and may be recited in the rituals, there are songs
that are sung in the same churches that speak of death
and the fear of it, and your preparation for it. There is
a funeral ritual that paints a picture of death as the most
horrifying condition. There is everything around us and
about us in these churches to remind us of the terribleness
of death, and yet we are told there is no death.
To the mystic, neither of these statements, that death is
terrible or there is no death, is true, nor does he speak of
these things in such a manner. There is no death to some
things and some parts of man, but there is nothing terrible,
nothing mysterious about it. We speak of the immortality
WHAT OCCURS AFTER DEATH 3
of the soul, or hear it spoken of in rituals and doctrines as
though that were the only part of man that continued to
exist after so-called death—after transition; and yet I
would like to make plain to you in a few words at this
time, and perhaps in more words at some other time in
another discourse, the fact that the body, the physical part
of man is no more subject to death, annihilation, than is
the immortal soul and spirit of man.
All that man is composed of, physically, is of the dust
of the earth, from the food he eats, the water he drinks,
the air he breathes; and the physical part of man is truly
the chemical elements of the earth. At transition these
elements return to earth and whether the body is cremated
and the ashes deposited in the soil, or whether the body,
itself, is deposited in the soil, the physical elements of the
physical part of man continue to live, for every test and
every demonstration shows that the fundamental laws of
cohesion and adhesion do exist. There is a retroactive ac­
tion going on. There is a chemical action going on. There
is every kind of action going on in that physical body that
there was ever going on in it when alive. It may be a
reverse action. These elements return to earth and they
become once again the simplest elements from which they
came and they help to form new life—new vegetation on
the earth plane. They begin again a new cycle and we
can easily and truthfully and beautifully think of the
physical elements of our body as contributing to some of
the beautiful vegetation, the flowers and other forms of
life that nature evolves from the simplest elements in fill­
ing the earth with life.
There is no death to the physical part of man’s body;
but aside from this point, which is only incidental in my
4 LEISURE HOURS
talk tonight, I want to speak of what occurs at the mo­
ment of transition and thereafter. First of all, from this
moment on, let me say that I do not want to use the
word “death.” I prefer to use the word “transition;” and
hope the day will come when our newspapers and maga-
sines will stop using the word, “death.” We pick up the
Sunday paper and read an editorial, perhaps a religious
editorial; it may have the very subject, “There is no
death,” and then we turn to the news columns and find
a list of persons who died, or that death has taken this
one or that one. To be consistent, this word should be
eliminated.
The majority of the people belong to a church or or­
ganization that holds to the principle that the real part of
man is immortal; therefore, the word “death" should be
eliminated, and I will eliminate it now during the rest of
my discourse.
After all, what does occur at transition? It is merely a
change. I spoke in another address of what you could ob­
serve in the unconscious body that is still living. I said
if you ever looked upon a person who was in a faint,
or unconscious from drugs or anesthetic, you would find
there is a normal body with all of the normal activities to
maintain life, and that all that was missing was a form of
brain consciousness. I said that the Divine or mental con­
sciousness, the mind consciousness of the real inner self
was intact, uninjured, unchanged by the outer change that
had taken place. All the outer change had done, whether
by injury, accident or anesthetic, drugs, or temporary in­
disposition by faint from weakness, was to close the eyes
against seeing (although the eyelids may be open), shut
WHAT OCCURS AFTER DEATH 5
the ears against hearing, the nose against smelling, the
tongue against tasting, and fingers against feeling.
With these five faculties shut off from making any
impressions and conveying any intelligence and being able
to send forth any intelligence, the brain consciousness of
the individual was closed like a book, temporarily. In­
wardly, however, the Divine consciousness, the conscious-
ness of God, was maintaining its state of activity. It was
keeping the heart beating to the proper rhythm; it was
keeping the lungs breathing; it was keeping the various
other organs of the body functioning with their rhythm;
in fact, so keen is that consciousness that if that uncon­
scious body were taken from a warm room into a cold
room, the temperature of the body would automatically
change to meet the conditions in the new room, and any
other disturbance would be met. If the arms were vio­
lently exercised by some apparatus or by someone doing
it, the heart would beat faster to make up for the exer­
cise. There is a knowledge, mind control and conscious­
ness guarding and protecting that unconscious body de­
spite the fact that the outer consciousness sleeps.
Now, I pointed out that this so-called unconscious state
of the person was only temporary. At transition we have
the same situation, but it remains permanent. Transition
is nothing more or less, physically and pathologically, than
the separation of the two forms of consciousness. In
the case of transition, the Divine consciousness withdraws
itself from the body instead of remaining and this leaves
the brain consciousness incapable of any further activity.
So we have the soul of man, the mind consciousness,
the Divine, immortal consciousness in man, withdrawing
at the time of transition. True, disease may have been
6 LEISURE HOURS
responsible and we find at transition an abnormal condi­
tion, an injured body; but we have found in many cases,
and the physicians and coroners find every day, the bodies
of those where transition has occurred without the slight­
est injury, with no sign of disease, where the heart just
stopped and the great separation has taken place. Now
after we look at this physical body that is left after this
change, we find it is a perfectly normal creation; that is,
if disease or accident has not injured it. W e find it has
all of its parts; it has the necessary blood; it has all of the
elements necessary for a living body, but there is no life.
There is no action. W e find the blood standing still and,
because there is no combustion taking place in the system,
no heat is being manufactured, and the temperature of
the blood is lowered. The blood becomes cold and by
standing still it coagulates; the physical body simply be­
comes inactive by degrees, moment by moment because the
great controlling intelligence has left.
This brings us to the point of the very wonderful and
beautiful statement in Genesis where it is said that man
was formed out of the dust of the earth; God brought
together from all of the elements of the physical earth
those things needed to make the physical body. The
body was formed and there was breathed into it the
breath of life, and man became a living soul. You see in
that brief statement the duality of man—how the physical
part may be formed perfectly, but no matter how per­
fectly the body may be formed and how well propor­
tioned, it is only a body of clay until the breath of life,
soul, enters and makes it a living soul.
They say that for 66 cents, you can find in a pharmacy
shop all the chemical elements that compose man's body;
WHAT OCCURS AFTER DEATH 7
but that only makes the physical body. W e cannot make
the real part of man out of the chemical elements. You
could not take the physical body after transition no matter
how well preserved, even though the eyelashes were still
on the eyelids, and turn it into a living body by any
chemical process. It takes more than electricity as some
scientists have tried to figure out, and it takes more than
oxygen. Look at those cases where transition is close at
hand and the person’s outer consciousness has already
closed its pages. When a person is in a so-called state of
coma, he is brought oxygen; he has oxygen added to his
system, but the most it has ever done is to encourage or
strengthen the weakened heart a little for one or two
days more, but transition has always been inevitable. Man
has found no substitute for that Divine substance when
once it begins to leave or once it has gone. Of this
dual man, the materialistic schools put all the emphasis on
the physical part of man, that part which is so largely
water. For instance, after cremation and extreme heat,
when all moisture is drawn out, you have only a few
pounds—that which can chemically be bought for 66 cents
—and which from every point of view, is nothing more
than a gathering-up of the elements you may have in the
garden of your homes. That, the materialistic schools
point out, is the great man. They study minutely every
one of these little cells, and get excited over the fact
that they have found that one of the little cells of the
nail in the finger is similar to the fibrous cell of a plant
in the garden. They get excited over such a discovery.
A trusting child does not do that. He simply says, “Mama,
Papa, if we must eat to live and eating keeps us alive,
then my body must be formed by some of the meal and
8 LEISURE HOURS
mush and milk and things of that kind that I eat; and if
I go out in the oat field, I will find some of the things that
keep me alive.” And it would be true. A little child
doesn’t get excited over that discovery, but science does.
Its view-point instead of being broad is narrow.
That is the way to look at the material part of man and
see nothing. The other side is reached by those schools
of mystics, metaphysicians, and philosophers who say that
is not the real part of man. The inner intelligence of
man, that which, according to the Bible, is called the
living soul is the real you. W e note in that statement
that man becomes a living soul in a living body. So at
transition we find the two dualities being separated,
broken down into two distinct entities—the physical body
and the soul.
Note through all the years of time, with all the ancient
methods of burial and all the ancient methods of caring
for those at transition, all sacred rituals and writings say
that to dust man doth return. They expect the return of
the physical part of man to its original sources. There is
nothing horrifying or mysterious about it — that the
physical body of man should go back to the source from
whence it came. W e should have no difficulty in seeing,
rationally, the wisdom of that principle, as well as the
great fundamental law that the invisible part of man re­
turns to its original source. So at transition we find the
physical part and the spiritual part separated, each going
to its original source from whence it came, separating
from each other moment by moment, hour by hour, until
the whole universe is between them.
Now we are particularly interested in what occurs after
this separation has taken place. We have, in recent years.
WHAT OCCURS AFTER DEATH 9
comparatively speaking, a number of schools to explain
the possibility and probability of what occurs after
transition. W e have foremost among the schools one
which attempts to claim the greatest teachings — the
Spiritualistic School. This system claims that the soul or
spirit of man, being immortal, ascends into a heavenly or
Divine and spiritual world where it continues to live with
its consciousness and personality, and that it is not only
conscious of itself, but conscious of the attendance of
others around it; conscious of the identity of those still
remaining here, and not only capable of communicating
and talking to those around it, but can talk and conv
municate with those who are still on this earth plane.
They go further and state that these disembodied or spirit­
ual bodies are capable of returning here momentarily, tem­
porarily, or upon call and request of those on the earth
plane. These are the claims set forth by that school. There
are other schools which agree to the same fundamental
proposition that the soul or spirit of man ascends to a
spiritual kingdom; but they claim that it waits in an un­
conscious state for an ultimate Judgment Day when it
will be enlivened with other souls, and physical bodies will
be called from the graves. In this new day and new king­
dom, the good and evildoers will be judged.
There are some schools which claim that after the soul
ascends to a heavenly or spiritual world it dwells in an
unconscious or semi-conscious state, and that it never re­
turns again to the earth. There are other schools of
thought in the Orient—with millions of followers—that
hold that after the spirit ascends to Heaven, it remains in
a suspended, conscious state until some other time when it
10 LEISURE HOURS
is absorbed into the consciousness of God, and loses its
identity entirely by becoming a part of God again.
So we have these different thoughts, and you will note
that most of these systems arc highly speculative. One
thing is certain—the average teacher or preacher who is
expounding any one of these systems or philosophies has
never been there and is not talking from first-hand
knowledge. Such doctrines are highly speculative. A
great many of these systems are based on the statements
in Holy or sacred writings. Some from the Christian
Bible, some from the writings of Buddha, and Confucius,
some from Zoroaster, and some from writings going
farther back than any of these. Even opposing schools
will use the same Biblical quotations to prove their con­
tentions, by giving a different translation or interpretation
to the same statement.
You, as a seeker, you as a student, must form your own
conclusions when you come face to face with opposing,
contending, and different statements of all these systems.
Very few agree on any one point. You find with any of
these systems of thought their ideals are based on specula­
tion, and your opinion and your conclusion is just as good
as anyone else’s. There are, however, some things that are
known that occur after transition, or at the moment of
transition, by those who have been on the borderline and
yet did not cross over it, and who have come back to tell
us of their experiences. Those people have the most re­
liable information we can have. It is to be noted that the
statements of those who have been temporarily on the
borderline of transition, who have been walking, let us
say, the Great Path to the Great Gate, and then came back
and did not pass through—the statements of these persons
WHAT OCCURS AFTER DEATH II
from various parts of the world agree, whereas statements
from those who have never had such experiences are spec-
ulative and do not agree.
Yes, we have a mass of information from those who
have claimed to go to the spirit world and are giving
messages through mediums, automatic writing, spirit pho­
tography and inspirational talks, etc.; but from the thou­
sands and thousands of books written under such in­
fluence, it is interesting to note that the reports of what
is going on in the spirit world do not agree. Sometimes
they are quite amusing. I remember reading one not long
ago, reported through a medium, who said he was still
laying bricks in building houses. He had been a brick­
layer here on this earth plane and therefore could think
of no other important trade. Others make reports on all
sorts of things. There are statements from those stating
that in Heaven one passes the time leisurely away and
there is no work and no effort. Others tell us that they
know each other and speak to each other. Some say they
have marriages and that even children are born. Some­
times they say there are big buildings up there. I could
go on and repeat the many, many statements, the con­
tradictory statements; they all disagree. From those that
have been on the borderline, the reports are all alike.
In one case an electrician was not expected to live for
more than twenty-eight hours. He had been shocked by
high voltage. He was taken to the hospital in an uncon­
scious state, believed to have passed through transition; he
was covered over with a sheet; the door was closed; the
doctor notified the undertaker to take his body to the
morgue, and in every way he was considered to be lifeless.
12 LEISURE HOURS
Suddenly they began to feel a little warmth, showing
indications of life that startled the nurses.
Then there is the statement of a woman, believed to
have passed through transition for twenty-four hours.
She was deeply religious in an orthodox, Methodist sense,
and was intolerant of any viewpoint other than that
which was prescribed by her church. Her report after
she came back was like that of the electrician.
Then there is the little girl in the Montreal Hospital,
just able to talk and describe in a childish way what she
experienced. She had never heard of such an experience
before, had no idea of what Heaven was like, yet her
report was identical with all the others, even that of a
philosopher. And what do they report?
There is first a great lightening of the body. That
seems to be the first outstanding thing that impresses
them. Long before they are willing to let the nurse or
doctor know something peculiar is going on, they begin
to sense they are not lying heavily. A t first they think
it is imagination; then they begin to sense a warmth and
the lightness begins to feel as though they could spring
from bed and nothing could keep them from it. The
room that was only a few feet away, begins to look as
though it were many, many feet away. It is not that their
eyesight becomes blurred as they still recognize certain
persons, and witnesses show that to the last moment they
were able to recognize their presence. It is not a blurred
eyesight, but a matter of Fourth Dimension. They are be-
ginning to sense themselves in a world that has another
dimension that they have never sensed before. They be-
gin to feel that they are existing in the Fourth Dimension.
WHAT OCCURS AFTER DEATH 13
None of them, except the philosopher, knew anything
about the Fourth Dimension. Then the voices of those
that were talking together, begin to get further away until
it sounds as though they were off at the end of the hall.
This is a great moment with them because of the closing-
out of physical impressions. Eventually they can see
nothing but themselves. They see themselves lying on the
bed. They see their physical bodies, not from their own
eyes, but from another sense of vision. They say they seem
to be six or seven feet away and above themselves, looking
down on their own physical bodies, and between them and
the physical body there seems to extend a haze. One de­
scribed it as an aura, another like the silver thread spoken
of in religious writing. Another described it as being
similar to the umbilical cord, only not so solid. The fact
is that they see something between themselves and the
physical body, and they feel the separation gradually tak­
ing place. I have seen about a hundred letters in the last
twenty years from those who felt they did not desire to go
back to the physical body to stop the separation. How­
ever, there is this one feeling, of sorrow for those who
are weeping, and they sense that sorrow. They feel
they must go back to relieve the sorrow, but as for them­
selves, the lightness, the sense of great peace and the sense
of music so intangible that they can hardly hear it, are
pleasant sensations; while the freedom from all pain is a
relief and is an impelling urge to let the separation con­
tinue. Bear in mind the man with a leg cut off, who
looked down upon himself and saw the mutilated body,
but the part rising above had all of its parts, and no pain.
There was absolute freedom from all suffering; and that is
why there is no desire to go back into the physical body
14 LEISURE HOURS
again. There seems to be a dual power — one trying to
hold them to the physical body and one drawing them
away, and so they waver in that state.
Finally, in the case of those who made the reports, they
are drawn back into the physical body. They feel them­
selves cramped, shut in and crushed, and immediately the
physical actions and powers begin to come back; they be­
gin to feel warm instead of the cooling sensation; they
begin to feel heavy and weighted down as though there
was a load on their chests. It is hard for them to breathe.
The eyelids are hard to open and yet they gradually do,
and that is the first sign to the doctor that they are com­
ing back; he sees the eyelids begin to quiver. He sees a
struggle. Sometimes it is one, two, or three days before
they are able to speak. They know all that is going on
about them, but the body is heavy and cramped. They
know something must be done to relieve the suffering and
weeping of the beloved ones.
That is their picture of the borderline condition and
they not only all agree, but give us the most understand­
able report. Here is a great story, a great picture. What
a wonderful thing life is, and yet how painless and how
beautiful transition can be.
Because my time is limited, I cannot go on and tell you
what occurs after what their statements indicate, but I
would have you think over these things again in the mean­
time, whenever you have a few moments. The lightness
of the body, the expanding space, and the beauty of the
haze surrounding them. The ability to sec themselves,
showing the dual consciousness, showing that the Divine
WHAT OCCURS AFTER DEATH 1J
Consciousness can be independent of the physical body.
Sometime you will understand more about it. I think in
the future it will be well to have a discourse on the sub­
ject, “Why Are Some Earthbound?" and explain why
some persons feel that they cannot get away, and must
stay here near the physical body. So with these few words
to think about, I believe you will be able to build up an
idea and picture of transition.
The Rosicrucians
O nvite T^au . . .
to share their useful knowledge, which makes life more
enjoyable and free of much of the doubt and confusion
that beset the average man and woman today.
The Rosicrudans are a non-sectarian fraternity, devoted
to an investigation of the higher principles of life, as ex­
pressed in man and nature. The so-called mysteries of life
and death, of the inequalities of people, of the purpose of
our existence here, are removed by the sensible exposition
of the Rosicrudan teachings.
The age-old truths expounded by the Rosicrucians pro­
vide men and women with such useful knowledge of the
Cosmic principles, as makes it possible for them to master
their lives instead of drifting with the years. You will be
amazed at your own potentialities, and the opportunities
afforded you to realize your fondest hopes and dreams.
No change in your personal or social affairs is required.
Write today for the free booklet, The Mastery of Life,
which explains who and what the Rosicrucians are, and
moreover how they can help you with your own life.
Address: Scribe L. H. U.
T h e R O S I C R U C I A N S
( A M O R C )
San Jose. California, U. S. A.
