{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1942__lees___the_life_elysian.pdf","mytitle":"The Life Elysian","mylang":"de"}
THE
LIFE ELYSIAN
BEING MORE LEAVES
FROM THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF
A SOUL IN PARADISE
RECORDED FOR THE AUTHOR
by
ROBERT JAMES LEES
From whose pen also
“Through the Mists,” “The Gate of Heaven,” “The Heretic,”
“The Car of Phuabus,” etc.
Twenty-third Impression
"There is no Death! What seems so is transition;
This life ofmortal breath
Is‘but a suburb ofThe Life Elysian,
Whose portal we call Death.’’—LONGFELLOW.
PROPERTY OF
WINNIPEG SPIRITUALIST
CHURCH INC.
WINNIPEG MANITOBA
PSYCHIC BOOK CLUB
49 Old Bailey, London, E.C.4
BOOK
PRODUCTION
THE LIFE ELYSIAN
THERE breaks the soul from every weight away
And for itself beholds and understands!
In thatclear dawn of life’s true mdrninglight
It turns, reviews, and then must needs accept
Whate’er results from yestemight’s wild rush
And feverish greed, withintherobing-roomof earth.
’Tis then it learns how cherished ignorance
False guide has been, and led the soul astray,
Appraising tinsel at theprice of gold,
And teachinghow base metal and true wealth were one,
That, also, all the wild array of masquerade,
Which fools had brought together for their revels,
Were robes, insignia, orders and rewards
Provided by the King, thatall His sons
Might dress and grace the marriagefeast!
There comes the Truth,and all thefalse array
In which we strutted forth, lordly and envied,
Must then be thrownaside and left behind,
As worse than useless——we have to pay their cost
Ere we can forward pass. Each soul with painful rue
There doffs its mantle of hypocrisy, to find
Its royal lustre and its richness vanished with the night,
Leaving but sign of poverty behind.
Then sighs the soul to learn its bankrupt state,
For till thatmoment none can ever know
The price it pays for such a treacherous robe,
And false deceitful outfit;—
We don it in expediency and haste,
We dofl"it in the searching light of God.
Where is laid bare all bruises, scars and wounds
We felt not when received in maddened rush
To save the object of our choice from other hands.
But in our passage to the feast we have to pause,
Consider, and discharge th’ account for what we thought
Was free to those who could secure and keep!
And thisis painful reckoning.
When this is o’er, thenbreaks the soul away
And learns it has another role than masquerade
To play on life’s eternal stage. It throws aside
All relics of the brute, the savage and barbaric tastes,
And making restoration with a pure repentance
Steps to life’s mark clad but in freedom’s garb,
With naughtto weight, to hinder or retard
Its course, and as a man starts on the race
Which has its goal and destiny in God.
’Tis of this race I sing, and now I bid you come
And see how it is run on God’s own course-
The Life Elysian !
5
RECORDER’S PREFACE
THIS book is not a novel, neitherhave I any more claim to its author-
ship than the publisher, compositor or binder who will presently
do theirpart in handingit forward to thepublic!
This disclaimer naturally demands an explanation, and my
present object is to furnish the same as brieflyand simply as possible.
But the task is by no means an ordinary one, for the aflidavit it
necessitates, and which I reverently make in the presence of God,
is of such a nature as probably to constitute it unique in the annals
of literature.
We live in an age of marvels, with almost every edition of the
newspaper bringing reports of some new wonder, but I have one
to place on record the portentous significance of which is sufficient
to shake the foundations of earth in its proclamation!
If any man has been summoned to step with unshod feet upon
holy ground, I also have heard the call and have had laid upon me
Elbe alwful responsibilityof publishing the things I have seen and
ear . .
The voice said, “Write the things which thou hast seen, and the
things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter.” How
shall I escape if I refuse him that speaketh? Therefore I obey, not
fearing any consequences which may result, but rather weighed
down with a sense of my own unworthiness of the mission to which
God has called me.
Let me try to make myselfand mission understood, by a necessary
but briefreference to my past.
On the maternal side I come of a line of prophets——using the
word in the sense it is employed in the following pages—and from
both parents inherit a strain of Puritan blood. ‘Psychic invasions,’
as F. W. H. Myers would call them, have been my companions
from the cradle, I am informed, but I am personally aware that as
a child I cried at beingleft in the darkness unless I saw a mysterious,
and to others invisible, kilted Highlander who remained beside me
talking or singing till I fell asleep. And even now, after a lapse of
half a century, the vivid memory of his strong but kindly face is as
freshly recalled as if he had sat beside me while this new year was
born.
When about thirteen years of age I entered upon a second and
vastly different series of psychic experiences, the invasions taking
the form of a change of consciousness, and for several years I was
associated with the Spiritualistic movement in Birmingham, where
I was brought into connection with D. D. Home and many of the
early pioneers. This is neither the time nor place for me to dwell
upon the acceptedevidences of thecontinuity of existence after death
which were given through my lips during these periods of hypnotic
oblivion. I merely wish to indicate the way by which the guiding
hand of God has brought me to the present.
6
Before reaching my twentieth year I was removed from the
sphere of my activities into a most determined seclusion, having
previously declared, during an entrancement, that the life I was
pursuing in connection with promiscuous séances was unfitting me
for some special work I had to do in the future. And now followed
a period of very active doubt and agnosticism as to the source
from which these truly remarkable phenomena sprang.
While the pillars of cloud and fire stood still, though my faith
was shaken, my interest never for a moment abated, and several
years were spent in a very close study of the subject while I retained
an unshakable faithin Christ as the anchor of my soul.
In this inquiry, of course, the Bible——read by itself, as I would
read another book, and for itself, to see what it really had to say—
formed a very important part of my quest; and it was from the pages
of that book that the newer after-light first broke upon me. I
beganto read it in the desire thatit would strengthenmy agnosticism
into certainty, but to my great surprise it spake with another voice,
charging me to bless where I had sought for a mandate to condemn.
Then I married, and with one beside me who has ever been as
the angel of a holier presence——without whose patient suffering
and encouraging assurances all must have been so different to what
it is—I entered upon the third and more memorable epoch of my
life. The old phenomena and many I had not hitherto experienced
were quietly and almost imperceptibly re—insinuated into recognition
with so definite a confirmation of their origin as to finally compel
acknowledgement. It would be an easy matter to fill volumes
with the unanswerable evidences which came upon us at this time
like a flood, were this the place to do so.
I have said the old phenomena were revived, but this scarcely
represents what actually did occur, for while they might have been
the same in kind, the latter were in every way far greater and the
communications they transmitted were incomparably more reliable
than the former. The why and wherefore of this was presently
explained to me, and in the counsel which accompanied it a sharp
and definite dividing line was drawn which has from that time
separated myself from the ordinary spiritualist. If I was to fulfil
the mission opening out to me I was to hold no séances, but rather
to live a life which would supply an ever-present condition for the
operation of a spiritual ministry.
Unquestionablyassured of the bonafides of these angelic visitors,-
we naturally grew into a compact of service in which each mutually
waited upon the other, and striking evidences of their nature, fidelity
and power beganto multiply. Then as themonthswent on shadowy
forms from the invisible began to make their appearance, which
presently and gradually increased in density until I became able to
touch, handle and speak to them, and the whisper of musical voices
was heard in reply; still the development went on, until now for
years past they have assumed such solid shape as to be able to use
my books and sit with me for hours in the full light of day!
I can see you start—almost catch the emphatic exclamation with
7
which you are tempted to throw the book aside and read no more.
But ‘yieldnot to temptation.’ ‘I am not mad . . .
but speak forth
the words of truthand sobemess.’ I am saying no more thanJames,
John and Peter might have told their companions after coming down
from the Mount of Transfiguration. I proclaim no more than the
gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ——that gospel which has been given
to bind up the broken-hearted. It only sounds incredible because
we have lost theevidences of thisvital part of it. I bearthistestimony
calmly,reverently and thankfully,in the presence of that God whose
angels aforetime were entertained by Abraham,wrestled with Jacob,
closed the mouths of the lions for Daniel, liberatedPeter from prison
and rolled away the stone from the door of the sepulchre. He is
still the same God, invariable, ‘without the shadow of a turning,’
and ‘whatsoever He doeth it shall be for ever.’
It is now a quarter of a century since this last stage of my career
began, during which, so far as their particular work is concerned,
I have been kept very much to myself, while theyhave been working
towards some goal theysee, but which I,at present, do not understand.
But the years have not been fruitless. The evidences of their ministry
lie thickly strewn along the way, and many to-day rejoice at‘ the
blessings these angels of God have bestowed in their passing by.
But to the book!
With few exceptions I spend two or three hours every day in the
companionship of these visitors from across the border. Some
years since they suggested at one of our conferences, that in answer
to many earnest solicitations for some definite record of life as they
enjoy it, I should assist them in writing a volume which might prove
to be a helpful illustrationand clear up some of the many mysteries
of existence. The proposal was taken up with eagerness, Myhanene
foreseeing a valuable aid thereinto the work he had in hand; a choice
was made of one to direct the undertaking, with many promises of
assistance from his fellow-labourers, and myselfto act as amanuensis.
We commenced our labours at once, but the task of translating ideas
even from one language to another entails much sacrifice for which
no adequate recompense can be supplied. What then was the loss
we found to be involved in representing the Life Elysian in the gross
and unmusical jargon of earth? Many times and oft did we come
to a stand, doubtful of our success, but in the end, with many regrets
and misgivings at what he called ‘the sorry achievement,’Aphraar
gave me permission,some six years ago, to publish thevolume entitled
Through the Mists. Never did a book leave the hands of its creator
with a clearer consciousness and acknowledgementof its failure to
represent the ideal aimed at, a deficiency far more clearlyrecognized
by its Authorthan its critics appear to have discovered.
But sown in fears it has produced a most unexpected harvest of
thankfulness,and the grateful recognitions of the help it has afforded
has led Aphraar to redeem his conditional promise, and thoughout
the whole year which has just closed we have laboured together in
the production of this second volume now sent forth upon its errand
of consolation and revelation.
8
Of the subjects discussed herein it must be left to deeper minds
than my own to express any opinion. Whoever reads will find that
it treats of some of life’s great mysteries with a frank familiarityand
certain composure which suggests more than speculation, and to
my mind the harmonious completion towards which every various
subject is found to contribute its individual part, savours more of
truth than otherwise. But I may be prejudiced in my opinion by the
reverent affection they one and all inspire in their more than human
tenderness and consideration for my many shortcomings, therefore
I will leave any suggestion as to its relative value as a revelation to
minds better qualified to judge.
‘It will now be understood, I trust, why I penned the above dis-
claimer; but let me, in closing, say with what unspeakable gratitude
I acknowledgethe honour of being called to the service I have here
so inadequately rendered. I know, more ‘than my readers will
discover, how much my own limitations have prevented the ideals
of theAuthorfrom beingrealized, and am humbled at theknowledge,
but since he approves, I send it forth as the joint efibrt of hands
clasped across the tomb, hoping by the blessing of God that it may
be the means of helping many homeward, even more so than was
granted to its predecessor.
ROBT. JAS. LEES.
Engelberg, Ilfracombe,
New Year’s 'Day, 1905.
CONTENTS
Chapter Page
I. THE OPEN SEPULCHRE . . . . . . . .
11
II. THE FAMILY IN PARADISE . . .. . .
18
III. THE LOVE OF GOD . . . . . . . .
25
IV. THE RESURRECTION AND ITs BOD .. . .
34
V. THE ANGEL OF DEATH . . . . . .
‘
41
VI. THE BONDAGE OF SIN . . . . .. ..
48
VII. THE GATE OE HELL . . .. . . . .
59
VIII. ANGELS AND ANGELS . . . . . . . .
68
_
IX. WHO RULES IN HELL? . . . . .. ..
78
X. NEARER TO THEE . . . . . . . .
88
XI. A LEssON IN CREATION . . . . . .
92
XII. CUSHNA AT HOME . . . . . . . .
99
XIII. “CAN THIS BE DEATH?” . . . . . .
106
XIV. THE MANY MANsIONs . . . . . . . .
115
XV. I BREAK DEATH’s SILENCE . . . . . .
124
XVI. “THEY WILL HEAR HIM” . . . . . .
132
XVII. THE HALLELUJAI-I STRAND . . . . . .
137
XVIII. LIEE’s MOsAIcs . . . . . . . .
143
XIX. THE GOD OF MEN . . . .
'
. . . .
151
XX. THE MEN OF GOD . . . . . . ..
157
XXI. THE COMING OF THE CHRIST . . . . . .
163
XXII. THE WORK AND TEACHING OF THE CHRIS ..
171
XXIII. THE COMMUNION OF SAINTS . . . . ..
185
XXIV. THE MISSION OF PAIN . . . . . . . .
196
XXV. AU REVOIR . . .. .. . . ..
203
10
THE LIFE ELYSIAN
CHAPTER I
THE OPEN SEPULCHRE
“BEHOLD, there went out a sower to sow.”
The eloquent silences of Christ often speak to the sympathetic
disciple with more divine inspiration than His utterances. For
instance, when He spake His parables did He not wish us to take
cognizance of the fact that He found His analogues for spiritual life
in the kingdom of nature, and thereby teach us that the law of the
lower is carried upward into the higher? To suggest that this is
not so is also to suggest that He is unsafe to follow beyond the
limitations of the letter, and since He never wrote a word we cannot
be certain as to what He said, therefore the Christ, for us, does not
exist.
If anyone wishes to assume such a position I have no right to
interfere with his resolves, but it will be necessary for us at once to
part company; since my knowledge, experience and purpose all lie
in the other direction.
I am not, however, anxious to enter the lists of controversy just
now. It may be thatmy ministry will carry my feet soon enough on
to debatable ground in the exposition of the truth as I have found it.
My reference to the parable of the sower was suggested rather by its
allusion to the certainty of the harvest of futurity than the analogy
between nature and grace.
Some time ago I ventured—at the instance of the agony I was
all too conscious of—to make an effort to return to earth in the hope
of beingable to sow some few seeds of consolation in hearts broken
.
and crushed by the universal catastrophe called death. I wished to
tell simply and faithfullywhat I had experienced in that supposed
unreachable beyond, confident that the truth would prove to be
a solace. I was not altogetherunacquaintedwith the existing ideas,
teachings, even prejudices which earth entertains against such a
discredited communion, and was quite prepared for the cold in-
credulity I was certain to arouse on one side as well as an exclamation
of pious horror on the other. But I had, in my new condition, dis-
covered something far otherwise than I anticipated; God was so
much better than I had been led to imagine, the after-life was so in-
expressibly different to my expectations that, as a man, I could not
keep silent when I found that silence was not forced upon me,
and common sympathy for humanity as well as gratitude to God
would not allow me to rest until I had done my best to make known
11
how generously He has provided, infinitely above all we could ever
ask, think,or conceive, in thelife which lies just beyondthe softened
twilightofabsence fromthebody. The God beforewhose judgement-
seat I had been expecting to stand, withmore of doubt and misgiving
than filial anticipation, was found so far to out-father the best of
fathers,transcendingeven him who met the prodigal of whom Christ
spake, that woe would have fallen me had I kept silence, and in
relation to the agony of earth I should have played the part of a
demon rather than a man.
I did not keep silent. So soon as I had found that return was
possible, and the natural obstacles were overcome, I answered my
heart’s desire and scattered over the world the gospel of my former
message} and it is the almost incredibleharvest of thankfulacknow-
ledgementfrom thatimperfect effort thatfills me withsurprise at the
moderation with which the Christ estimated His results in the
parable.
How I wish I could cull a few expressions of thankfulnessfrom
the hundreds of letters lying before me as I take the now familiar
seat to redeem my promise, thatif my initial efibrt served its purpose
I should be glad to come again and continue the record of my ex-
periences in the life to which you are all hastening on. But such
letters have come to me through my Recorder, in confidence—or so
I choose to regard them in the absence of permission—and therefore
I can do no more than ask you to accept my assurance and read on
untilthatwhich I have now to say falls like the holier balm of God’s
better Gilead into your own wounded heart, and you experience, for
yourself, the power of truth, as it is in Jesus, to minister to those who
fall crushed beneaththe avalanche of the world’s greatest suffering.
Still, though my success has been far beyondmy most sanguine
expectations, I cannot forget that I have only been able to touch
the merest fringe of the garment of sorrow, and, while I rejoice for
what has been done, my heart still goes out in sympathy to those
who weep disconsolately beneaththe cypress-trees. “Comfort ye,
comfort ye, my people, saith your God, speak ye comfortably”
to thechildrenof men. It is like our God to issue such commanding
encouragements, for is He not a Fatherwho ever pities His children,
not expecting too much from themand always rememberingtheyare
but dust? Surely
“Ifall the world my Saviour knew,
Then all the world would love Him too.”
This is the hope, aim, desire of all the ministering legions sent forth
to minister, for when this is accomplished sin will cease and the
effects of sin will shortly come to an end.
There is far more cause for hope than despair in the world if men
would only quietly consider it. How often have we heard the
aphorism that even ‘the Devil is not as black as he is painted.’
If therefore the night is not hopelessly black, and we are standing
“Through_the Mists, or Leaves from the Autobiographyof a Soul in Paradise."
London: W. Rider & Son, Ltd. -
12
with our faces toward the daybreak, why not dry our tears and look
hopefully for the coming glory?
Let me ask you, my unknown but sorrowing friend, to sit with
me for a while beside the tomb—not the one at Macpelah, nor that
in thevalleyover against Bethpoer,nor yet again that over which the
disconsolate Psalmist declares ‘the dead know not anything’—all
these are buried too deep under the debris of ignorance and prejudice
—-but I will invite you to commune for a while beside that most
sacred of all tombs to be found in Joseph’s garden. Most sacred
because most normal, fulfillingall but never exceeding the slightest
duty for which the tomb was called into existence; the one tomb
at which we may sit and learn all‘ that the office was designed to
teach—-hope,joy, victory and a horizonless beyond!
Thrice sacred are the scenes of decisive victories, but when the
battle was the all-important one in the history of a universe, thenthe
spot becomes a thousand times more sacred. This is such a place.
Here He, who is our life, lay. (Sad for us if He does not hold this
position, for we are poor indeed.) Here He did single-handedcom-
bat with the king of terrors, and broke the tyrant’s power; here He
closed with the world’s despair and tore His bands asunder; here
love captured hope from the grasp of ignorance; truth triumphed
over error, righteousness defeated sin; and life cast death into the
bottomless pit! See, the stone is still rolled away! The sepulchre
did not open its door to be closed again witha spring! The victory
of Easter morning was not a demonstration for the moment only!
It was a conquest by the Lord of Hosts; and whatsoever the Lord
doeth it shall be for ever. The Lord is risen! and in His rising He
hath set before us an open door, which none can shut again. He
carried away with Him through the everlasting doors the keys of
death and hell, and holds them still in His hands before the throne,
while the angel of the resurrection keeps guard before the open tomb
and sits upon thestone thatonce for all has been rolled away.
Do we understand what all this means? If only earth would «
listen to the full chorus of the evangel of the risen Lord! Dry your
tears, lift your eyes—
“There is-no death! What seems so is transition;
This life of mortal breath
Is but a suburb of the life Elysian,
Whose portal we call deat .”
Do you wonder I ask you to sit with me here—you whose life
has been embittered by the failure to recognize the unmeasured
fullness of the gospel, and I who also have drunk the cup of bitter-
ness to its dregs? Listen! Jesus came back—is ever coming back.
He wishes to make the pilgrimageof life a journey to Emmaus, if
we will; but He does not come alone; theythatare His also come with
Him. With Him—in Him—we ‘come to Mount Zion, and unto
the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an in-
numerable company of angels; to the general assembly and church
of the first-born . . .
and to the spirits ofjust men made perfect.’
13
All the loved ones you have lost for the time are present with the
Master. They follow Him wheresoever He goeth. If He come
again to redeem the promise, ‘Lo! I am with thee,’ shall not they
too come with Him? Would theynot gladlycome? Do you think
their love, their interest and concern for your welfare has perished?
Strong as you have believed death to be, do you think it is strong
enough to crush their old affection? I speak to you as men and
women. '
Is the hope I would inspire too large—too good to be true?
Thomas once thought so till the risen living Jesus stood before him.
Are you not as precious in the eyes of the Father—who is no re-
specter of persons—as Thomas was? Is He not still able to answer
the same incredulous hope, the staggering common-sense love, as
ever? If death has once for all been swallowed up in life, is it not
time the truth was known, and the balm of its divine gospel freely
poured out for the healing of the broken-hearted? Mighty minds
wield mighty forces: is not our Christ travelling in the greatness of
His strength—the mighty to save? What if the hour has come
‘in thewhich all thatare in the graves shall hear His voice, and shall
come forth’? Nothing is impossible with God, who sent Samuel,
Moses and Elias back again even before the victory of Christ, and
my own return bearswitness thatHe is stillthesame unchangingGod.
Come, let us commune together, and I will speak of Him and the
visions my eyes have seen beyondthe veil.
I know whereof I speak—know also the weakness as well as the
yearning of the flesh to know that the things I intimate are true.
In the blackness of a mourner’s despair I groped ‘for the touch of
a vanished hand,’ in the silence of death I strained my ears for ‘the
sound of the voice that was still.’ My mother was lost before I
knew her, and I was compelled to tread life’s pilgrimagethe victim
of a hunger earth had no power to satisfy. Nor father, sister,
friend, art, literature nor employmentcould fillthe void I knew, and
ithfiordinary pleasures of others served to furtherisolate me from my
e ows.
I was never conscious of one single unclouded pleasure, hence
I can deeply sympathizewiththe souls withwhom deathhas claimed
an enforced kinship. The nearest approach to happiness I am able
to recall was of a negative character—momentary cessation of
misery. I had stolen away from the family and friends who were
uncongenial to me by reason of their enjoyment, and in my solitude
was mechanicallyturning over thepages of a magazinelyingupon the
library table when my eye caught the headline of three verses which
instantly aroused my attention. Then I read-—
LONGINGS
“I shall rest when the earth life is over,
And to—morrow itself shall be dead;
When dread shall no more be prophetic,
Of agony waiting ahead.
How calmly the ocean is sleeping to-night!
But the morning may break with the storm at its height.
14
I shall sing when my heart ceases aching,
And my head is not weary withpain.
My smiles only mask the fierce anguish
My heart cannot bury again.
The face of the ocean is smilingwithrest,
But the break on the shore heaves themoans from its breast.
How I pray whilemy heart-strings are breaking,
How I count all the days as theycome!
I watch in my sleep for my mother,
In my dreams I sigh for her home;
Two words, oh, how sweet! Earth, earth! let me go!
In their music is heaven—all the heaven I can know!”
The name of the authorwas not given, but the factthatsomeone
lived who could so sympatheticallyvoice my own sorrow touched
and soothed my grief for the moment. The verses breatheda faint
hope into the region of my despair that somewhere, some day I
might be satisfied. Then the gloom closed over me again, and I
sighed more deeply to atone for the throb I had stifled. In my
gratitude, however, I cut the verses out, and for days they became
my meat and drink, until their every word was burned into my
hungry soul, and the paper theywere printed on fell to pieces. Even
thenI reverentlygatheredthe fragments togetherand treasured them
with a lock of hair I wore above my heart.
I shall discover and meet the authorsometime and tell him how
his cry of sorrow ministered to my own, in which acknowledgement
he will find the harvest of the seed he sowed in tears.
So Heaven gathers up all fragments thatnothingis lost.
Through such a school of mourning the Father saw it was best
to bring me, therefore I am able to sympathize with whosoever
sit in darknessand in the valley of the shadow of death.
For those whose acquaintance I am newly making, let me now
say that my sympathy is not based upon speculative philosophies
concerningthehereafter. We meet at theopen door of thesepulchre,
but I return from within; you, for the present, are from without.
My feet have already forded the Jordan, from beyondwhich I have
come back to speak with you of the things I have seen and heard.
I have already stood upon the mountain side, where the light of God
is falling, have seen in the shadowless land the pathwayChrist Him-
self once trod, and am able to. offer theministry of guidance by which
His divine footprints may be safely followed. Let me ask you to
listen before, in your incredulity,you draw back and treat my state-
ment as the blasphemy of a deceiver. Equally pious souls with
yourself have made serious mistakes in the past in that direction.
From before the time of Christ the heretics who were martyred
yesterday have become the recognized saints of the morrow, chief of
whom is Christ Himself. 1 know the gospel I proclaim is an im-
possible one from your point of view, but is your position one to
warrant a reliablejudgement? Have you a full and perfect knowledge
of the ways and purposes of God? If nothing is impossible with
15
Him, can you imagine anythingmore God-like than the ordination
of such a dispensation as the crowning demonstration of the work of
Jesus Christ? I trow not. Therefore for the sake of yourselves
and the comfort my message is empowered to confer, I counsel you
to hear, thenjudge me by the fruit our communion bears.
To those who know me through my former message I have no
need to do more than extend my greeting, since I am here by their
earnest wish to redeem a promise I will proceed to ratify.
Pardon me for a moment in gathering up the thread of my ex-
periences, if I ask you to turn your mind backward in review, not
that I wish to summarize what has been already said, but I am
anxious to make it clear that on throwingaside the body every soul
receives personal treatment and is dealt with individuallyas it enters
Paradise. Everyone goes to his own place. Dissolution works
no transforming miracle, but as the man leaves earth he enters upon
—or rathercontinues—-his spiritual condition. There are no magical
formulas or processes by which, however repentant the soul may be,
the evil-doer becomes a saint in the interval of transition. ‘God
will render to every man according to his deeds.’ ‘Whatsoever a
man soweth that shall he also reap.’ The faith that produces
works is the only witness available for testimony in that assize,
and the work is estimated by the quality of its fruitfulness.
I am led to make this necessary reminder just here, because in
several of the letters lying before me there is some expression of
regret and even surprise that in my last I said so little about the
Master. In view of the law I have just referred to, this may easily
be understood of the time covered by the experiences recounted in
Through the Mists. In leaving the earth I carried with me no great
love, but rather an aversion for all forms of orthodox religion.
I had not been a church-goer, and had no warm admiration for the
method of salvation or the Christ I could never satisfactorilyunder-
stand. I had some little sympathy and human feeling for the
multitudes of unfortunates, herding like animals in the purlieus of
London, some few of whom I did, occasionally,a little to help, but
the one desire and wish of life was, if possible, to find my mother.
She was far more to me than God or religion; hence, when the
change came, it was my motherI first desired to see—the one heaven
I wished to reach—and my aspiration was granted. 1 had my re-
ward; and that explains why I was so silent in reference to the
Master.
Others of my correspondents hope that in resuming my ex-
periences I shall be able to refer to the reunion. Why not? Like
every other feature of my new life it abounds with lessons and cor-
rections of vain anticipations, therefore I will commence my present
message at thatpoint and deal withthose thingswhich are of general
interest concerning our meeting.
I concluded with the arrival at my first spirit home, over which
Myhanene conducted me, pointing out its chief features and the
relationship everythingbore to the life I had lived. How patiently
he lingered while I traced the connection of its appointments with a
16
hundred incidents I had wholly or in part forgotten! After this he
led me to the roof-garden from which I was able to study its delight-
ful surroundings, then back again to that closely-curtained door-
way, hiding that face—how well I knew it; what need to tell me-
which, unseen and all unknown, had been the load-star of my life,
and at that moment was more than all in earth or Heaven to
me.
I understood his generous and silent intimation, as he passed on
and left me all alone, conscious that the gates of Heaven were about
to open and let me in. From the time of my arrival until that
instant the old earth-hunger had been restrained—held in check
‘by the engrossing series of surprises which had been afforded me;
but now it came back with a vigour and force for which I had been
prepared by the ministry of the friends who had so divinely led me,
by a way I had not known, towards the heavenly consummation.
I thanked God that the meeting had not come sooner! How my
souil ached to clasp her, and yet I dared not thrust the curtain
as1 e.
In the old days it had been a favourite employment of less
melancholy moments to plan what I would do—if there was really
an after-life—when I met my mother. How many times did I
reconstruct and revise the plans, which unfolded and enlarged with
the years, until they became a whole series of programmes with
only the mother-threadto hold them together. It may be that the
oft-recurringeffort served to turn me into a soothingby-pathwherein
I escaped a lurkingstab of pain, and if so they served a truly bene-
ficent purpose, but that was all. To plan on earth what we will
do in Paradise is a thousand times more futile than for a child to
boast of the valour of his manhood. The new life is so crowded
with overwhelming surprises, so fruitful of charming distractions,
so beautifullybewilderingwith unimagined pleasures, so tender in
its diverting sympathies, that even earth’s purest conceptions are
certain to be shattered and carried away, and the perfect God-design
leads us gently forward into the fullness of our unanticipated
Joy.
You are impatient, my reader, and wonder why I do not dash
that curtain aside and fall into the arms of my mother. Ah! why
indeed? These perplexingly welcome pauses which intervened and
temporarily postponed action at such crises as those I have men-
tioned were beyondmy comprehension at the time, but I understand
thembetter now. Where the mind of Fatherand Child are working
together to do His will, God is never late, but rather before the
moment, for which we needs must wait. In that slight pause the
fullness of the meted measure of bliss is reached. When God throws
the portal open we find ourselves in Heaven; man forces it, and 10!
he stands in hell!
The waiting is never long. It was a simultaneous action to draw
the curtain. We met upon the thresholdand fell upon each other’s
necks. There was not much to say:
“My mother!—my son.” That was all. Then we were silent.
17
CHAPTER II
’I‘HE FAMILY IN PARADISE
IN that first embrace I was ever conscious of, I tasted something
of the sweetness" to be found in the compensation Heaven bestows
upon those whose happiness has been deferred by the untoward
circumstances of earth. If it is possible, do not murmur at thylot,
poor, unloved, benighted,and lonelyone—I am speaking after having
passed through the ordeal, after bearing the burden, after refusing
to be comfortedjandI tell you you will be theenvied one by and by.
Thousands who have revelled in love of the type recognized on earth
will presently regret that your lot has not been their own. As the
buttercup is to therose and the daisy to thelilyso is the love of earth
in its holiest, sweetest form——to the ravishing dream which descends
from Heaven and lingers undisturbed by time in Paradise. It
passeth understanding, defies expression in its entrancement, is
voided by everythingbase and ignoble, pure as Heaven can keep it,
strong to the healing of every wound, without a shade of estrange-
ment, free from limitation, and opens a career of sacred evolution
which confidentlyleads to God.
How long we lingered in the silence of that divine ecstasy I do
not know-—never shall know. Time limits for us are now measure-
ments of the past, and the only standards we are subject to are those
of fullness—complete, pressed down and running over. We have
waited long, what if our greeting was long? Heaven is generous,
and ordains thatevery soul shall be satisfied.
Dismissing then all question of the duration and nature‘of our
greeting, let me at once pass to the first question of closer interest
which will rise in the mind of every reader as to whether I knew my
mother when we met. .
The subject of the recognition of friends in the after-life is one of
never waning interest; preacher, poet, teacher,parent, child and friend
are ever speculating in hope, doubt and fear respecting it. Shall
we meet again—and if so, shall we be able to recognize each other
after so long a separation? Such, and a thousand other questions
are asked with breaking heart over the silent corpse from which
no answer is expected. In this hopelessly regarded quest the heart
is far more loyal to God and truth than is the intellect—the one
lingers on and on around the inquiry hoping against hope if only for
a suggestion of some response, while the other with cold unsym-
patheticharshness declares the thing impossible, and bids affection
to accept fate’s stern decree. But even in the minds of those who
refuse to accept the conclusion of reason there is an equally cheerless
uncertainty as to the condition in which those who have gone before
will be restored. Will the beautiful prediction of Longfellow be
upheld?—
18
“Not as a child shall we again beholdher;
For when with raptures wild
In our embraceswe again enfold her,
She will not be a child.
But a fair maiden in her Father’smansion,
Clothed with celestial grace;
And beautifulwith all the soul’s expansion
Shall we beholdher face.”
Or will the desire of the mother who breathedthe following pathetic
response to his poetic dream be realized?-
“Oh, say not so! how shall I know my darling
If changed her form and veiled with shining hair?
If, since her flight, has grown my starling,
How shall I know here there?
On memory’s page by viewless fingers painted,
I see the features of my angel child;
She passed away ere vice her life had tainted——
Pass’d to the undefiled.
Oh, say not so! for I would clasp her, even
As when below she lay upon my breast;
I would dream of her as a bud in heaven
Amid the blossoms blest.
My little one she was a folded lily,
Sweeter than any on the azure wave:
But night came down, a starless night and chilly,
Alas! we could not save.
v
Yes, as a child, serene and noble poet—
Oh, heaven were dark were children wanting there;
I hope to clasp my bud, as when I wore it,
A dimpled baby fair.
Though years have flown, toward my blue-eyed daughter
My heart yearns ofttimes with a mother’s love;
Its never-dyingtendrils now enfold her,
E’en as a child above.
E’en as a babe my little dove-eyed daughter,
Nestle and coo upon my heart again;
Wait for thymother by the river water,
It shall not be in vain.
Wait as a child. How shall I know my darling
If changed her form, and veil’d with shining hair;
If since her flight has grown my little starling,
How shall I know her there?”
It would be easy for me to continue the enumerationof nebulous
ideas thatexist with luxuriant uncertainty in the minds of men and
women upon this point of recognition in Paradise, if such were the
purpose of my writing. But it is not so. My aim is, so far as
possible, to set these doubts at rest, by recording my own experience
as an illustrationof what God has mercifully provided as an answer
to this universal prayer of affection.
19
I may be Wrong—-everyone naturally regards his own case as
the best suited for the purpose——but I am disposed to thinkthat my
experienceis one singularlydesigned to throwlight upon this deeply
patheticinquiry, and for thatreason I am willingto dwell upon the
incident longer than I should otherwise elect, hoping that by doing
so I may be able to relieve some burden of doubt.
Did I, then, know my mother when I first looked upon her face
after a lapse of nearly forty years? Yes—perfectly. Not only so,
but I was certain it would be so even before I saw her, while yet the
curtain falling betweenus had not been drawn aside. How this was
so I cannot explain, whether by a reciprocated out-reach and em-
brace of mutual affection or by some new power of recognition
flashing into existence as our spiritual spheres blended with each
other, I do not know; but I knew thatI should know her as certainly
as she would know me, and when the veil was thrown aside I threw
my arms around and pressed her to my heart before my eyes had
caught a glimpse of her dear face. It was not until the heart was
satisfied that any claim for sight was recognized.
Then I raised her head with both my hands to take a first look
into her love-lit eyes. A first look, did I say? So I thought. But
as our eyes met the fountain of my memory opened and one of the
most beneficenttender mercies of God flashed upon me.
“Vaone!” I gasped.
“Aphraar,” she murmured, and the head fell back again upon
my breast, while I drank of a deeper, sweeter cup than before.
Fear not, poor timid anxious soul, lest the child of your affection
may be changed when to your embracesyou again enfoldher. What
if she has become a fair maiden, beautiful with all the soul’s ex-
pansion, when at length your feet shall cross the threshold of im-
mortality. In her development she will not be unknown—will
not be estranged. In that first flash of my mother’s eyes I remem-
bered—thememory came back to me—thatduring all the days of my
sorrowing for her absence the great majority of the hours of sleep
had been spent in her company in that scarcely known boundary
land between the physical and spiritual worlds, which God has
mercifully located for the solace of sorrowing souls, and the new
name with which I greeted her was the familiar one by which she
had been known to me in my sleep-lifeall along.
Long, long ago God promised through the mouth of Hosea
(xiii. 14) a consolationto mankindof which this almost unrecognized
possibilitymay well be considered a fulfilment:—‘ I will ransom them
from the power of the grave; I will redeem them from death: 0
death, I will be thyplague; O grave, I will be thy destruction.’ Why
,
has earth not learned to rejoice in these richly-provided ministra-
tions? Where are the God-appointed teachers of men that these
things have not yet been proclaimed from the mountain tops, that
their healing virtues have not been applied to broken hearts?
The pioneers of physical science have long since discovered and
affirmed that matter is indestructible; where are the prophets and
seers of spiritual science who have so far failed even to understand
20
the significant inference established by materialistic inquirers, that
if the instrument is indestructible, the artist behind, who has power
to control the same, must, at least, be equally eternal? Life is more
than dust, and mind superior to chemical constituents. Matter
may change its form and life its envelope and sphere of operation,
but just as the one cannot be destroyed the other cannot die. The
noon never can become midnight; it may by gradual progress give
place, but when the midnight comes upon us, the noon is still in as
active opposition as ever, performing its appointed vocation though
in another sphere. So life is always death’s antithesis. It cannot
die—for life there is no death——‘God is not the God of the dead,
but of the living, for all live unto Him.’ That which has lived still
lives—must live——since life is God and must live in Him.
If this is so—and who is able to deny it?—how beautifuland full
of hope is the living parable of the plant buried in a dismal dungeon
but struggling, climbingand reaching out to send its shoots into the
sunshine. Is the plant more true in its affection than the loved ones
for whom earth mourns? If the plant will find its way through all
opposition, if the seed sown deep in its grave of earth will conquer
and triumph over its tomb, will not the love of the absent ones be
equallytrue? Have plant and seed more of power and individuality,
more of continuity and strengthof affection for the sun than mother
for her child, or friend for friend? ‘O ye of little faith!’
The soul has possession of mighty and all-important secrets it
would whisper to mankind if the gates of memory were only wide
enough to let them through—secrets that would leave few of our
cherished conceptions of God, religion and futurity unshaken.
But these truths are wide, high, deep, requiring portals through
which earthmight pass with thefreedom of a child’s marble through
a city’s gate, and the midget systems of men would vanish in their
presence like the shadowy foundations of a dream. So for the
system’s sake the Needle’s Eye remains in spite of inconvenience,
agony, and unfaithfulness to God. Men built the gates; if God
made the truth too large to pass through, what is to be done—is it
not better to reduce the truth rather than remodel the architecture?
So the architects argue, and the contention still proceeds.
But thetree of life is sendingits shoots throughthecrannies of the
obstructing wall; already serious fissures are discernible running in
every direction, and the growth still goes on. Love must and will
find a way back to earth in order to make known the truth concern-
ing the beyond;God sanctions thereturn, sleep is a dailydisembodi-
ment of every soul, and in the sleep vestibule of Heaven the parted
meet again and exult in the triumph of life over the impotence of
death. Once grasp this great truth, then turn your face hopefully
towards the remembrance of it, and the shadow of the tomb will
soon be swallowed up in victory.
I can understand some of my critics turning upon me with the
inquiry—“How is it, if this is as you say, that the truth of such a
provisionhas not been demonstrated to the world before?’’
I reply thatit has been declared by the teaching and resurrection
21
of Jesus, but theinterests of an ecclesiasticaltheologyhave demanded
that the former should be ignored and the latter treated as an ex-
ception rather than the exposition of an abiding law. The incon-
sistencies and contradictions which arise and perplex mankind by
the decision are not for me to consider or explain. I point them out
and pass on, remarkingthat human ignorance respecting a natural
law is no argument against its truth: wireless telegraphy and tele-
pathy—not to mention a dozen other recent discoveries—were
accessible possibilitiescenturies ago, had man been in a position to
enter into their possession. All the great gifts of God—the yet
undreamed-of discoveries of science—lie accessible along the path
of development for whosoever will go forward and seek them.
God does not throwHis richest treasures into the lap of indolence—
they that seek find. onceited ignorance is never a trustworthy
steward, but the secrets of the Lord are with those who wait to do
His will and dailyfear Him. It is not always safe to judge the value
of a man by the coat he wears, nor estimate truth by the tinsel
lavished upon its wrappers. IThings are not invariably what they
seem. The matrix of a gem is seldom of prepossessing appearance.
Some flowers bloom late, but they are not always least beautiful.
So if this truth I now declare has been neglected and opposed so
long, it is still redolent with its original virtue, priestly intolerance
notwithstanding.
Where every step in our journey, however, will be thus fruitful
of inquiry, lesson, surprise and unsuspected development, it will
be impossible for us to tarry indefinitely. We are treading the path
of life in which the studies of eternity are strewn around. What
wonder if we should find it necessary to return again and again, to
find where we are standing to-day the roots of subjects that will
first attract our interest in some distant futurity. We shall never
exhaust the inexhaustible;let us therefore gather such thoughts as
may be helpful in the present and leave the rest until some more
convenient season.
Another point of some importance for the moment here forces
itself upon my attention, to which I must now turn my mind. It
arises from the names with which we greeted each other when I
raised my mother’s head-
‘ ‘
Vaone—Aphraarl’ ’
I have already pointed out how certain events act like springs
which, being touched, release a host of memories hitherto
unsuspected. The lifting of that dear head so acted upon another
point of recollection for me that I remembered the names so long
familiar to us in our sleep-communion—those new names we all
expect to receive as one of the gifts of immortality. But more than
this was made known to me in thatrecovered memory: I had for the
last time called her ‘ ‘
Mother!’’
Withall the otherearthdistinctions
and differentiations that sweetest and most cherished of all epithets
had now been cast aside. There is no such relationship as mother
and childrecognizedin immortality.
Such an assertion may at first appear as a startling absurdity;
22
but let us consider what it means before we hastilycome to a conclu-
sion, then we shall find that if a cherished superstition has to be
unwillinglyrelinquished, in the truth by which it will be replaced
we shall receive somethingfar better and more greatly to be prized.
Truth and sentiment are not always inseparably united, nor is
the stamp of antiquity any guarantee of genuineness; hence it be-
hoves men to make sure whether their opinions rest upon the certain
basis of ascertained law or merely upon the superstitions of atmo-
spheric unreliability. Paul, following the teaching of the Christ,
has once for all declared the law that flesh and blood cannot inherit
the Kingdom of God, and if so, surely the peculiar limitations of the
flesh are also excluded from the region of the spirit, that wide and
diviner forces may be set in harmonious operation.
Stilltheanticipationof a reunited familyhas beensuch a cherished
belief through all the ages as to demand reverent and sympathetic
consideration, and I would so deal with it in the inquiry truth
demands me to make.
Now, on earth this supposed ideal of an exclusive and unbroken
family circle is far more of a poetic fancy than a practical reality.
It is an impossible conceptionno sane man or woman would attempt
to realize. Do we resent the enlargement of the family circle to
admit the successive arrivals by which it is increased‘? When the
lads are growing up how often is it necessary to send one away to
a distant city or even a foreign land, to remove him from the
influenceof companions or temptation. The exigenciesofeducation,
business and success make further inroads. Financial and other
troubles or some golden opportunity make it desirable thata daughter
shall go away; or again, the inevitable lover comes along for whom
the girl is willing to leave father, mother and home. In all these
and many other circumstances tending to the breaking up of the
familycircle is the cherished ideal put forward a demand for respect?
No! Not for one moment after the necessity of the situation is
recognized. There is a sigh——frequently a tear——then the admission
that such is only natural, sometimes desirable, and at once the
whole familybegin to assist in bringing about the consummation.
Marriage carries one away, and to form the new circle two
already existing ones have to be broken, never to be reunited without
shattering the third, which fact at once brings us face to face with
the problem as to how it is possible for any one familyto be com-
plete in Heaven. It could onlybepartiallyrealizedby eachindividual
group beingleft parentless, which two memberswould be necessarily
separated to complete the circles from which they had each been
drawn. Would this be an ideal realization of a reunited family?
Outside these physically disintegrating forces we have others
of a far greater separating character lying in the domain of taste,
morals, intellect, art, science, and every other department of civilized
life. In all these departments circles of interests are formed which
frequently exert a stronger influence for weal or woe upon the
individual than that of blood relationship. Yet the necessity for
the existence of many of them is recognized and defended even
23
though the effect is seen in an ever-widening division from other
members of the family. The idea of a united circle never suggests
itself where such a restriction would wreck a promising career.
Thus where natural law would be violated or intellectual evolution
hindered by the continuance of the circle unbroken, man is always
ready to sacrificethelatter thatthe former may be served.
But we have another and even higher stage to consider. The
spiritual relationship of soul to soul is far above that attainable
by flesh and blood. We are no longer in the region of limitation
when we ascend to where eternal affinities are found. In this
existence God is the universal Father, and all nations of men are
equally sons and daughters, so that the ‘whole family of earth and
Heaven are one.’ In comparison with this Fatherhood no other
parental claim can stand. The accident of a moment cannot urge
a weightier claim thantheeternal laws; nor can the deputed authority
for an hour in and for the service of God take precedence in the
soul’s divine fidelity. There can only be one familyin Heaven in
which all humanity, of every clime, colour, tongue and nation,
will rank as brethren, and God the Fatherof all.
Blood relationships, with every other earthly distinction and
limitation, are left far behindin custody of the customs-house of the
tomb; but every spiritual kinship will be preserved, ‘
and every
fraction of memory as to the relationship which bound us together,
not as mother and child—such a recognition would keep us too far
apart——but in the more holy union of soul withsoul, which bond can
never be broken since the blessing of God binds all true love that
naughtcan put it asunder.
When, therefore, we reasonablyconsider this sentimental idea of
a united family,even in its earthly aspects, we at once discover
how impractical and impossible it is, but when we carry it farther
and try to imagineit under the vastlychanged conditionsof a purely
spiritual life, one can only wonder how the question was ever allowed
to be seriously accepted. The idea of an undivided family is ever
subordinated to individual interests. This is a fundamental working
axiom which is recognized on earth and will never be disturbed;
hence nothing that will tend to well-being will ever be lost. It is
when men postulate the continuance of physical limitations as the
rule and law of spiritual conditions that incongruities arise, and it is
from this error our family misconception comes in. Parental love’
has a necessary function to perform on earth, which from being
vital in the outset gradually shades away until the child learns to act
for himself—even to theresisting and defiance of parental authority-—
and then himself assumes the parental role. In the spiritual realm,
when the child is born he becomes a son of God and Fatherhoodis
assumed by theEternal in whose great human familycircles of nearer
or more distant unions will be formed until the whole race becomes
one in Him.
We lose nothing in this but an artificial bond which is seldom
‘more than superficial and often both inconvenient and irksome;
but we gain much. The bond between Vaone and myself is closer
24
much than that of mother and son. We shall never forget all we
have been to each other, but the physical barrier has disappeared. .
As the love we know is greater, sweeter, stronger thanI had hitherto
conceived, so is my cup larger and more satisfying thanI had dreamed
a mother’s love could be. So if Paradise has taken away—or
rather if I have found one cherished illusion has faded—I have also
been rewarded by the discovery that the anticipation I formed was
altogetherunworthyof thereality ‘
which God has prepared for those
who love Him.’
These two lessons I learned and understood in thejoy of reunion
withher for whom I had sorrowed and sought so long.
CHAPTER III
THE LOVE or GOD
HAVE I disappointed and disheartened you at the outset of our
communion by touching and attempting to destroy one of your
cherished idols? If so—and I have little doubt about it—let me
ask you to bear it for the moment as best you may. I know some-
thingofthetenderness ofthesubject on whichI have beenconstrained
to speak, can understand how the heart shrinks at the thought of
relinquishing thehope I assert to be an illusion,but is not thehistory
of the past strewn with fragments of the erroneous ideas truth has
compelled our ignorance to cast aside?
The surgeon who drives his scalpel deep is not necessarily the
enemy of our well—being, but rather our true—if painful—friend;
it is the foreign and dangerous growthhe removes that necessitates
the operation he performs. So in our spiritual unfoldment the
foes to truth and health must needs be cut away before we shall be
allowed to tread the inner courts of the Father’s house. I am not
altogether unprepared for the angry exclamations and hard accusa-
tions that are ejaculated during the operation, but I also know that
in the coming days you will discover that, in the language of a
well-known hymn, the
“Bitter is sweet, the medicine is food.”
and I can wait until that time to hear your calm and grateful
opinion.
“Ifwe but knew the beautyof theflower
That hides potential in the uncouthseed-
Its shape, its perfume, and its brilliantglow,
How should we prize it? But, behold we heed
It not; we treat it with disdain,
Because we had imagined it would be
Exactlyin the seed as in the flower,
And we should now its rich perfection sec!
Not so, my child, ’tis but experienced eyes
Can trace in seed theflower we shall so prize.”
25
l
1
1.
i
«.\.....-.u
,-..v
-
If eye hath not seen, how is it possible for us to conceive? The
few who have hitherto returned have had so much to tell, I do not
wonder at the prevalence of misconception, especially when I review
my own experiences. But now that the true significance of the
resurrection of Jesus is being so clearly understood and its ministry
established we shall gradually clear away these errors and make the
truthof God known. Nor shall we do thisby theforce ofanathemas,
but rather by an appeal to reason. If you cannot accept our
message, we shall follow the example of the Christ—turn away.
The future will decide the question of truth, and by that decision
we shall all be acquitted or condemned to penalty.
Nor would I have you misunderstand me when I speak of
penalties. God’s ways are higher than the ways of men, and the
forfeitures He will exact will in every instance be those which are
the just sequence of the ofi‘ence. All sins and sinners do not merit
the same punishment. Hence I make no threat of hell becauseyou
may honestly doubt what I say. When the truth is made known
to you by experience, you will thenunderstand as I now understand,
and if by reason of refusing to consider what I have here advanced
you have rejected it, you will have lost the help and assistance it
had power to render, and find yourself so far behind where you
had the opportunity to be, and the regret at what might have been
will form the penalty Paradise will exact. God is love, not revenge-
ful. Let me throw this ray of brightness across the temporary
disappointment of the truth I have declared.
I will now proceed with my actual experiences.
Having spoken of an hallucination which had been dispelled,
I would fain recount what unanticipatedjoy came to me in its place,
but how shall I accomplish my desire? The silver-tongued Isaiah,
in the partial vision vouchsafed to him, could only exclaim, “Since
the beginning of the world men have not heard, nor perceived by
the ear, neither hath the eye seen . . .
what (God) hath prepared
for him that waiteth for Him”; and Paul, who had been caught up
to behold the glory, when comparing the experiences of earth with
the reward in reserve, declared, “Our light afliiction, which is but
for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal
weight of glory”; how then can I expect to paint or describe the
more than fullness into which I entered?
I had lost something. Yes. I had lost the shadow from the
sunshine, the husk from the wheat, the thorn from the rose, the
possibility of a discord in the music, the uncertainty lest a fear
might linger in the bosom of thejoy, the doubt whether the hurried
holiness was perfect or partial, the wonder whether God was strictly
just. All these I had lost—lost completely and for ever. Death
shook the last vestige of every doubt and mystery concerning these
away, and when the mental earthquake had spent itself I opened
my eyes upon ‘a new Heaven and a new earth in which dwelleth
righteousness.’ Righteousness established upon a basis of law,
not dwarfed and fashioned to suit the limitations of man; while
my own powers, conception and understanding were all enlarged
26
to comprehend somethingof the illimitable scheme as designed by
God. I say something, but it was only a wee, wee part of the
magnificent, stupendous love, which in length and breadth and
height reached far beyond my ken. But above, beneath,around,
all was harmony, peace and rest. I stood on the threshold of the
eternal and shadowless calm. A
Far, far away within the awful depths of that profoundly divine
solitude, my poor earth-ideal of Heaven had reached the Father’s
heart. Its clumsy model spoke eloquently to Him of impotence;
it was more rough to His conception than a savage effort to mould
a deity, but it told of a heart’s dear wish, of a great desire yearning
to be satisfied, of the Heaven that would supply all the happiness
I had power to conceive. Now for the wonder of my existence:
He took my plan—the model I had built in the incompetence of my
ignorance, and, retaining its outline, Love worked upon it, and
from its imperfections prepared the rest into which He had given
me entrance. It was my Heaven, enlarged, completed and furnished
by the love of God, and just as it transcended all thatI could ask or
think,so must I fail to convey the overflowingfullness of joy which
it inspired.
It was more than this, for when He had so far enlarged my
Heaven, He afterwards so far extended the powers of my enjoyment
thatI might the more appreciate and enter into its glory.
Was the gain greater than the loss? Yes! as God is greater
than a man.
So inexpressibly beyond my conception was the mansion of
the soul into which I was welcomed. Itgave to me the three great
desires of my heart—Mother, home and Heaven—beyond all
expectation.
Companionship has much to do with the measure of happiness
attained in Paradise. When Myhanene stood beside me on the
roof of my new home, I was enchanted with the beautyof the scene
which lay unrolled before me, but gracious as he was, and tender
with truly divine affection, the sense of his condition awed me
until I felt something as Peter must have felt when he prayed the
Lord to leave him. It was afterwards when I stood or sat beside
Vaone in those surroundings that I entered into the full enjoyment
of the sweet repose. The magnificence and beauty I saw when
Myhanene was present throbbed with life and love in the closer
sympathy of the nearer and dearer one. In the heights and depths
of Myhanene’s meditations I was lost, but Vaone and I wandered
hand in hand, soul vibrating in sympathywith soul, and the music
heard by one echoed throughthe other.
With Myhanene I stood near the centre of a mountain-locked
valley stretching into the distance in every direction, but the man
was more fascinating to me than the landscape; he saw visions to
which I was blind, heard music which could not reach my heavy
ears, held communion I could not understand. Across his mobile
face passed lights of inspiration I could not read, and through him
throbbeda presence I longed to love but feared to meet. He was
27
innocent of this, I am sure, or in his royal condescension he would
have stooped to my estate, but I would not have him so. Rather
far would I be with him as he is, for though I almost fear to see
_him, when he leaves there lingers with me a hopeful aspiration to
rise and reach him, where I shall be so much nearer to the Christ
he loves so well.
With Vaone everything was different. Sitting side by side we
reposed in calm content, while the panorama before us became
instinct with life———life free from doubt, uncertainty and care. The
scene before me was one of indescribable loveliness, but its charm
was increased a hundredfold by the strong, inherent assurance that
all was—and must ever remain—well. The world within and the
world without, for the first time in my experience, were in perfect
unison; they were not even so far divided as to produce harmony
—it was unison complete. I knew instinctively that God ruled,
and that all that existed lived, moved and ministered in rhythmic
harmony with His loving will.
This deep-seated consciousness inspired rest—the rest that
remaineth,a rest synchronizing with the peace of Christ which the
world can neither give nor take away, because the world is finite,
the rest and peace infinite, hence it remains awaiting us as the
exceeding great and eternal compensation for the momentary light
aflliction earth imposes.
In the sweet solace of these almost unbroken communings, now
withVaone and then with myself, a problem once propounded itself
to my mind which I long pondered without being able at the time
to find a satisfactoryreply. I understand it now, and since it touches
a point I shall mention again, I will refer to it thatyou may see how
sensitive the soul becomes even to the minutest detail. The most
luxurious and carefully considered rest the earth affords is never
quite perfect. When we have done our utmost, when sympathy
and consideration have been exhausted, there always remains
something wanting, some unattainable trifle for which we sigh.
This was not so in my experience of Paradise; on the contrary, I
was at that time—here is the fact I wish to be noted—somewhat
impressed with the sense that, if anything, the rest was overdone!
It was too complete, almost tending towards an indolent content
unless resisted.
I have conjectured that Myhanene saw visions as he looked
over the Elysian landscape visible from the roof of our home. On
more than one occasion I have been so favoured, and here I would‘
like to recall one of my earliest, as it illustrates how close the bond
may be drawn between the earth and Paradise.
I was listening to a sweet duet which the silence and glow of
colour clothing the distant mountains were singing. Vaone stood
beside me entranced with the soft, melodious colour tones. The
whole valley was equally in repose, when I became conscious of an
interspherence creeping over the scene. Every familiar point in
theprospect remained distinctlyvisible, to which a pleasurablesome-
thing was being added, and with an increase of joy I watched to
28
see what would develop. It was a strange, almost weird, but by
no means unwelcome efi‘ect, creeping over the whole landscape
like a pleasant, but yet invisible, phantom asserting itself. Vaone
saw it, and by the gentle pressure of her hand counselled me to
watch. I did so, and presently wondered to see well-known faces
taking shape beneath the trees, by the river-side, and somewhat
familiar forms passing to and fro around me. The outlines of an
ill-lighted, sparsely furnished mission hall took shape and blended
with the details of the valley. How strange and yet harmoniously
incongruous was the eflect! Knowing as I did the little Zion,
where I had spent so many nights in my sympathy with the care-
burdened congregation, what a magical transformationit underwent
to stretch its confines to fill the whole scene in its interblending!
But it did so, and for the time the two became one, not only one in
the outlines of its inanimate features, but the men (alas! there were
but few of these among the visitors), the women and the children
intermingled, and the music we had so far been listening to died
away, as the ending of a prelude introducing a favourite mission
ymn:
“Beautifulvalley of Eden!
Sweet is thynoontide calm;
Over thehearts of theweary
Breathingthywaves of balm.
Beautifulvalleyof Eden!
Home of thepure and blest,
How often amid thewildbillows
I dream of thyrest—sweet rest!”
Nothing in all ‘my experiences had hitherto touched me with
thepathosof thatsong. God knows I would gladlyhave shouldered
my earthlycross again if by so doing thatunder-fed, scantilyclothed
and weary congregation could have laid their burdens down and
taken my place. For the moment the regret almost appeared to
cast a shadow across the scene, but a gentle voice whispered from
the height of the immensity within me~‘ ‘They shall be Mine in the
day when I make up my jewels,’’
and in confidence thatthe promise
was sure the cloud withdrew. I was satisfied.
I shall leave the song to suggest its own description of the place.
Any attempt to amplify would only spoil it. Such pleasures cannot
be detailed—theyare experiences. You cannot conceive, but must
enter into them. We are told that ‘angels fold their wings and
rest’ in the lovely dells of Killarney—andwho can wonder at it
after lingering in the enchanting spot? But Killarneyis not Eden,
where every detail of the placeis fragrant witha holier presence:
“This is an angel-home, not angel-rest,
Furnished and ready, all in order laid
To entertain our God in passing by,
For He willtarry in such sacred glade.”
Someone will ask me how far removed from earth is such a
home. The thought of it, with all the blessings it includes, makes
29
the heart hunger, and the soul cry with the Psalmist, “Oh, that I
had wings like a dove! for thenwould I flyaway and be at rest.”
Let me answer you. In the things whereof I speak, near or
distant does not consist in geographical miles but in condition. I
have carefully refrained from any elaborate analysis of my spiritual
development in the earth-life, while not neglecting to give such
hints and suggestions in the course of my narrative as will readily
assist you in forming a tolerable estimate of the position I occupied.
But what I was determines what I am, and thewhere I was naturalized
me for where I am. Spiritually considered I am but two steps
removed from earth, but the intervening stage I reserve for closer
consideration presently.
This should at once inspire hope, and I speak with the full
confidence of doing so. I am not portraying a stage of life beyond
the tomb, high and difficult to attain to. It would be a mockery to
do so, handicapped and misdirected as the great majority of my
fellows are. I speak of that which is easily attainable by any man
however circumstanced, if he will but accept the golden rule and
honestly do his best to put it into practice. Beyond me there are
stages of indescribable splendour reserved for those who so follow
the Christ-life as to be worthy to enter upon them, but of these
also I do not now propose to speak. The majority of men have no
serious thought of this life which, to them, lies in a very doubtful
beyond, having discovered that the men who proclaim it know no
better than themselves. My one object is to arouse this sleeping
interest by the simple narration of my own experiences. Truth is
mighty to the pulling down of the stronghold of error, and the
result ofmy formereffort convincesme thathumanityis not indifferent
to the consideration of a future life which combinesintelligence with
spirituality.
The vision faded, but the lessons it enforced are with me still,
have had much to do withthe message I have already delivered, with
the one upon which I am now engaged. I was not so far away from
my old-time friends, after all, and the vision was a pathetic plea
to be remembered in my new and happier home. It stimulated me
to action, raised the question as to whether among the familygroup
within the valley there were others who had passed homeward
through the doors of that Little Zion, and sent me out to make a
closer acquaintancewith my neighbours than I had hitherto essayed.
Yes, yes! There were others I had known, and many I had not
met before who had come from that and other obscure corners of
God’s great vineyard. This again gave home an additional charm,
and more zest to the work I had determined to engage in if possible.
On another occasion as I meditated on the beautiessurrounding
me, I inquired of my beloved:
“I wonder if this was the particular Heaven into which Paul
was caught up?”
“Why do you ask?”
“Because it so completely seems to answer to what he wrote
concerning it: ‘Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it
30
entered into theheart of man thethingswhich God hathprepared.’ ”
“Go on,” she murmured. “Why do you not finish the
quotation?”
“I prefer to leave it unfinished. But surely this must have
been the place he saw.”
“I think not. He called his the third Heaven, this is only the
first.”
“Yet if he had seen what I have seen he would have found it
equally impossible to tell. But if this is only the first, what will
the third be like?”
“That cannot enter into our minds to conceive at present. Let
us be content and satisfied until we have enjoyed the full extent of
this. But tell me why you did not finish Paul’s quotation?”
“Simply that for my purpose it naturally ended where I left it.
I am not so competent to speak of the love of God as the Rabbi-
apostle.”
“And why not, Aphraar?”
“Because men have dressed it in so many fantastic garbs, and
surrounded it with such complexity of conditions and adaptations,
that I altogether failed to know what was true or false concerning
it, and turned away from any profession of following after
it.”
“Are you quite sure of that?” she asked tenderly. “Do you
remember the vision, when you almost wished you could exchange
places with those you have left behind?”
“Ah, Vaone; if you understood the suffering of those lonely
overburdened souls you also would wish it.”
“But when you were with them did you not do what you could
to assist them?”
“I did a little occasionally, not nearly what I might——nothing
compared to what I wish I had done.”
“Stillyou did something,and however little thatsomethingmay
be it will equally serve my purpose to show you that it was done
for God. Even ‘a cup of cold water given in My Name shall in
no wise lose its reward.’ ”
‘
‘But what I did was neitherin theName of Jesus nor in theName
of God. I had no thought of either. It was for humanity’s sake
alone. No, no! Vaone, don’t credit me withintentions or motives
that never once crossed my mind.”
‘ ‘
‘Inasmuchas ye did it to one of theleast of these My brethren,
ye did it unto Me.’ Is not that suflficient?” she inquired, and the
confident gleam of her soft loving eyes shone upon me with the
light of another revelation.
‘1‘(CanGod so generously interpret such an insignificanteffort?”
I as ed.
“He does. Did you imagine you could gauge His goodness
by any possible earth conception? Listen to me, Aphraar, and
let your experience bear evidence to what I say; the fallacies and
misconceptions of the lower life concerning God and immortality
are all based upon inverted arguments——men build their conceptions
31
of Him upon themselves, rather than first learning to know some-
thing of Him and forming their ideas of man in accordance with
Divine sonship.”
‘ ‘
My opinion has always been thatan ancient councilestablished
itself, in its corporate capacity, as a divine regency, with God
subservient to its decisions, after which theleaders offactionsquarrel-
led to gain the ascendancy, splitting up the Church and leaving all
authorityin a wrecked condition, from which it has never recovered.
But for you and me all this is now of the past, and I would know of
those thingsconcerning our present lives. Tell me, in the generous
interpretation you have placedupon the trivial acts you have referred
to, may you not have formed an erroneous conclusion?”
“No!” Her reply was made in dreamy confidence, as if her
voice had been used as the instrument of an invisible authority.
Then she continued: “Mistakes may and do arise in the courts of
Ignorance, but God reigns here. His law is perfect. His justice
acts with automatic precision. Righteousness is natural while
error can only be secured by effort. Do you understand?”
‘ ‘
Scarcely.’ ’
“Perhaps not,” she replied in the same abstracted tone. “You
are scarcely free from the last of the earth influences at present, and
you unconsciously carry old habits of thought into your new
environmen .”
“I feel you are right in that,” I replied. “Everythingseems so
strange to me because I am so mentally unprepared for it, that I
frequentlyfeel as ifI wanted to go backagainin order to understand.’’
“That is due in a great measure to the manner of your
translation.’ ’
“Ah!” I exclaimed, catching at the hope her words inspired.
“Tell me something about that. I know so little, and all is so
confused. Why was I and the child I brought with me left alone
upon the slope withno one near, when I awoke, from whom I,could
ask for information? Why were we not carried to one of the
reception homes, such as I have seen, and allowed to sleep until
all these earthly influences were broken?”
“The almost numberlessl methods by which the process of
discarnation is effected," she replied, “are perfectly natural, and
determined solely by preceding circumstances. Those who sleep
do so from one of three causes: a lingering illness which leaves a
sense of exhaustion on the soul, the desire for life producing some-
thing analogous to hysteria for the time, or uncontrollable grief
in those who remain behind tending to draw the newly-releasedone
backagain to earth. For all such cases a period of sleep is provided
during which the soul is adjustedto its new life. But withyou none
of these causes existed. You came by accident, as earth would say,
were quite healthy, and, what was much more to your advantage,
had no very strong desire to continue in the body. Your one great
attraction,” and she looked fondly into my eyes, “was already
here, so the separation was willinglyconsented to, and there was
no occasion for more than the briefest pause to recover from the
32
shock. As for the rest——we1l, can you imagine how it might have
been better arranged?”
“No! That I most gratefully admit. It is the confusing
perfection and considerate adaptabilityof everythingthat perplexes
me. It is too good. I am not worthy of it, and for that reason I
fail to understand it.”
“Now I have to turn you back again from a termination you
have often reached before,” she tenderly answered. “Perhaps
it is too good, but it must always be so because it is of God. You
remember the old illustration—the prodigal would have been
content to become a hired servant, but the Father said, ‘Bring
hither the best robe, and put it upon him; put a ring on his hand
and shoes on his feet.’ In the old life you were able to cover your
head and shut out all thought of God; but here you must walk with
Him and know Him as He really is.”
Yes, she understood my ever-present consciousness, and was
overjoyed to find each new experience prove how completely I was
hedged around.
Turning my thoughts in another direction, I inquired:
“Will you tell me something about yourself? My father—do
you ever see him?”
I half-regretted asking the latter question, but she instantly
divined my thought, and taking a seat, indicated her wish for me
to sit beside her. The sweetness of her face was not clouded, it
rathersoftened as the smile vanished and gave precedence to a look
of quiet, restful content.
“Why would you recall your inquiry?” she asked.
“I cannot say. Perhaps I was—shall I say, half-afraid I had no
right to make it?”
“You have every right, if you have the interest, to inquire into
a relationship from which your existence sprang. I have seen your
father once, in the sleep state. He failed to recognize me, so we
did not speak. It was better thatit should be so, since our associa-
tion had been nothingmore than a cool friendship, and was always
irksome. Our marriage was one of opportune convenience by
which my father was saved from some unpleasantness——an arrange-
ment which I was never allowed to forget. When your sister was
born she was at once removed from my control, and then you came
and I had scarcely time to kiss you before all my trouble ended.
There is nothingmore concerning that part of my life that need be
told.”
“But your own friends?” I inquired.
‘
‘There again I was equally unfortunate. My mother’s aversion
to children was very deep-seated, and though I was her only child
she never forgave my intrusion. She passed away when I was but
a few years old, and my memory of her is more tinctured with fear
than with love. You will not be surprised to hear, therefore, that
I have made no effort to find them since my arrival. I could easily
do so, but in the absence of love and sympathy,I am assured it is
better not to attempt it for the present. We shall be brought
2—L.E. 33
together when our development overcomes the difliculties which
lie betweenus, and until thenI am content to wait.’ ’
“And have you, then, been all alone?”
She laughed merrilyat my solicitude.
“Loneliness in Paradise, Aphraar, would be as impossible as
summer without the sun. Look at the multitude of friends by
whom I am surrounded, at the innumerable visitors ever coming
and going, and the excursions to which I am frequently invited.
In addition to this, have you not been with me a large share of the
time? No, no! I have never known anythingof loneliness.”
That was one of the most welcome declarations I had heard.
Thank God, her experience had not been a similar one to my own.
In my gratitude I was silent for a while, reflecting on the difference
of life in the two conditions, and when I had set the contrast clearly
before me, I was about to speak again, but something restrained
me.
“Why did you not say’ it, Aphraar?” she inquired.
“What did I wish to say?” I asked, wondering how much of
my thought was known to her.
“Shall I tell you?”
G6YeS.95
“It was something like this,” she replied. “It matters not
where I go, what I see, or upon what subject I speak, everything
here moves harmoniously,in narrow circles, all of which turn to a
common centre—the wonderful and ever-present love of God.”
“You are right,” I answered. “It was so, and so it must ever
be.”
CHAPTER IV
THE RESURRECTION AND ITS BODY
LET me introduce an explanation I am bound to make by saying
how grateful I am for the considerate treatment my former message
received at the hands of my reviewers. I was advocate for a cause
which has hitherto suffered most by the indiscretion of its friends,
and the fraudulent practices of its professed adherents. These
ill-advised seekers after curiosity and gain have profaned the sacred
associations of the tomb without regard to decency or feeling, have
arrogantly assumed the right to tear the veil in twain and make the
spirit-life an addition to drawing-room amusements. Such dese-
crations rightly merit the treatment accorded by the Press, which
should always stand as one of the great bulwarks of defence in the
sacred cause of reason, law and order.
I naturally anticipated that the title-page of my book would
attract that onslaught of adverse criticism which, until recently,
the Press has directed against the subject generally. The treatment
I received not only surprised, but also assured me that the ears of
34
our reviewers are open to listen withcandid consideration to subjects
lying far apart from ordinary tracks, if only such questions can be
presented with some respect to logical consistency. Still, to say
that I ran the gauntlet unscathed and unopposed would be untrue.
To be able to boast of an absence of objection would be most serious
misfortune, but to acknowledge the moderate terms in which the
objection was expressed is an entirely difl'erent matter, and it is to
the
grain point thus raised that I wish now to direct my attention
brie y.
Some few of my friends, not only reviewers, but among my
correspondents also, take exception to what theycall my materialistic
descriptions of the life and surroundings of Paradise. More than
one earnestly beg of me to rememberwhat Paul says of the general
resurrection: “The Lord Himself shall descend from Heaven with
a shout, with the voice of the archangel and with the trump of God;
and the dead in Christ shall rise first: then we which are alive and
remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet
the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with—the Lord.” The
particular point urged upon me is the inspired declaration of Heaven
being‘in the air’, or ‘in theclouds’, which at once renders buildings,
trees and other material objects an impossibility. ‘
Now, I reply to this with the frank admission thatmy statements
were made not as a Biblical commentator, nor as a dogmatictheolo-
gian, but rather from personal observation and experience. I
never was a Bible scholar, and ‘orthodoxy’ was a word I always
looked upon as possessing the attributes of a literary chameleon,
therefore, as I have more than once pointed out, I avoided it. I
may hence be excused if my justification is not formulated exactly
upon the lines of the schoolmen.
So far as I understand theplain meaningof words, this quotation
from Paul is entirely out of place in the connection in which my
friends use it here. Paul does not assert that Heaven is either in
theair or clouds, but ratherthat‘ ‘
theLord willdescendfromHeaven’’
into theair to meet His saints, and if thisis so it is impossibleto draw
any inference from this passage as to what Paul’s idea of Heaven
was. Further,even thoughI am wrong accordingto the theologians
in makingthiscomment, Paul’sinspirationwhen writing the passage
appears to be the reverse of infallible, because he says “we that are
alive and remain” at the time of the descent, as if he were under
the impression that the second coming would take place in his own
lifetime. Of course my idea may be all wrong from an orthodox
standpoint, so I shall not press it further.
I knew all through my message that I was not wording it upon
generally accepted lines, but at the same time I was not altogether
unscriptural, and without further controversy let me reply to this
charge of gross material conception of the after-life by a scriptural
portrayal of the Heavenly Jerusalem, with which I am quite willing
to consider the objection answered:
“And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had
the seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me,
35
saying, Come hither, I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.
“And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high moun-
tain, and shewed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending
out of Heaven from God,
“Having the glory of God: and her light was like unto a stone
most precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal;
“And had a wall great and high, and had twelve gates, and at
the gates twelve angels, and names written thereon, which are the
names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel:
“On the east three gates; on the north three gates; on the south
three gates; and on the west three gates.
“And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them
the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
“And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the
city, and the gates thereof,and the wall thereof.
“And the city liethfoursquare, and the lengthis as large as the
breadth: and he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand
furlolngs. The length and the breadth and the height of it are
e ua .
q
“And he measured the wall thereof, an hundred and forty and
four cubits, accordingto the measure of a man, thatis, of theangel.
“And the building of the wall of it was of jasper: and the city
was pure gold, like unto clear glass.
“And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished
withall manner of precious stones. The flrst foundationwas jasper;
the second, sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth, an
emerald;
“The fifth,sardonyx; the sixth,sardius; the seventh,chrysolyte;
the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a chrysoprasus; the
eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.
“And the twelve gates were twelve pearls; every several gate
was of one pearl: and the street of the city was pure gold, as it
were transparent glass.
“And I saw no temple therein : for the Lord God Almighty and
the Lamb are the temple of it.
“And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to
shine in it: for the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the
light thereof.
“And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the
light of it, and thekings of theearth do bring their glory and honour
into it.
“And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day: for there
shall be no night there.
“And they shall bring the glory and honour of the nations
into it.
“And there shall in no wise enter into it any thingthat defileth,
neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but
they which are written in the Lamb’s book of life.”
Nor is the heavenly Jerusalem to be scripturally understood as
the only city to be found in the home of the redeemed, if Christ is
36
to be taken as any authorityon the point, since in the parable of
the ten pieces of money Luke records Him as rewarding faithful
individual service with rulership over five and even ten cities; and
if this is so, how great must the number of cities be to make such a
liberal reward possible!
So much for the orthodox objection.
While dealing with criticisms I would here like to notice one
advanced, not against myself, but against the whole subject of
intercommunion, in the words of a scientist whose studies entitle
him to be heard. “The most formidable obstacle to the admission
of the spiritualist’s hypothesis is in the messages which tend to
represent theotherworld,in which,it appears, matter is not perceived,
and space and time are unknown, as being all the same a servile
copy of this, or a sketch of it. . . .
I know of no message in which
the communicator has been frank enough to say, ‘Of course you
may suppose that the form I have here is not the same as I had in
your world.’ Or again, ‘The idea of form differs totally in our
world and in yours; I cannot make you understand what that idea
is here, so it is of no use to question me.’ Unfortunately neither
communicators nor controls speak thus; they all say, or allow it to
be supposed, thatthe human form is the same in bothwor1ds.”1
Now this supposed weighty objection is in reality no more valid
than the one oflered by my own critics of the religious school. It
is based upon erroneous data, and arises altogether from a miscon-
ception of therelationship of thetwo conditions. I am not surprised
at this, since the relative position of science on the earth side can
never rise higher than that of a moderately advanced class in an
elementary school when compared with the knowledge available to
similar inquirers on the spirit side. In a remarkably interesting
work recently published, New Conceptions in Science, by Carl
Snyder, the author having reviewed the scientific achievements of
the past, turns his thoughts to what lies before, and says—-
“Beyond all thatthe’eye may see, thatear may hear, thathands
may feel, outside of taste or smell, outside of any native sense, there
lies an unseen, unfelt universe, whose fringe we are just beginning
to touch” (pp. 42-43).
Into this unseen the scientists who have put off the flesh have
entered, with all their old faculties strengthened and accelerated,
and many of themare willing,even anxious, to return and co-operate
with fellow-labourers, in leading to yet undreamed-of successes.
“Then why do they not do it?” cry a hundred voices. “Let
them come, and when they identify themselves we will no longer
be faithless, but believing.”
.
I will tell you why they do not come; why the intercommunion
has hitherto been so very unsatisfactory;why those who are so fully
able to astonish the world have not, so far, done so. It is for the
very same reason thatArchimedes and his co-workers of Alexandria
did not attain to the successes of modern science—they lacked the
1“Mrs. Piper and the Society for Psychical Research,” by M. Sage. London:
R. Brimley Johnson, 1903 (pp. 17-34).
37
necessary instruments. Give to the scientific spirits, who have
ascended the region of the physicallyunseen and unheard, suitable
instruments throughwhich to transmit theirstudies, and thequestion
of intercommunion will soon be universally settled, and earth be
richer for the partnership so established. Even with the present
unsatisfactory and often doubtful means much good and useful
work has been accomplished, and mighty barriers of opposition
have been cleared away. But let earth once truly recognize the
possibilitiesthat are rapidly coming forward, then a more glorious
era will speedilydawn for a long-oppressed and mentallyimprisoned
humanity. _
That the present condition of communication leaves much to be
desired I know; but not a little of the diflicultyarises from the idea
thatwe on the unseen side are, or ought to be, perfect. This is not
only a mistake but an injustice, and the sooner it is recognized the
better. Surely thetimehas come when by common consent a definite
attempt should be made to understand the difficulties which exist
on bothsides, and a deliberateefi”ort be put forthto overcome them
by supplying the best possible material available for the purpose.
With a little patience, consideration, and a recognition of the possi-
bilitythat all the brains and intellect are not to be found upon the
earth side, a scientifically serviceable communion could readily
be established, to the immense advantage of the lower life.
Deathdoes not abrogate the law of sequence, but evolution pro-
ceeds still, through the higher human, towards the divine. The
soul experiences no disconnecting process, takes no sudden leap,
crosses no dividing line; it simply discovers a liberationfrom certain
irksome limitations and takes wing. It loses nothing of value, but
assimilatesadditional powers which supplementratherthan displace
those already possessed. Thus it is not less, but greater than before,
having taken another step in the evolutionary ascent. The limita-
tions and annoying barriers in the path of the progress of active
minds have, to a large extent, been removed, and every energy is
quickened for the conquest of the gloriouslyattractivefuture.
No, the old law is not broken, it rather operates with more
inexorablejustice than otherwise in every higher phase of the soul's
advancing condition. The character of the grub still predetermines
the nature of the butterfly, and classification proceeds upon well-
recognized and indisputable lines. Death has no more power to
work miracles than the naturalist, and the what—will-beis invariably
the sequence of what-has-been. The only duty assigned to death
is to receive and disrobe all comers of flesh and blood, then pass the
individual otherwise untouched. In its unclothed condition the
soul crosses the immortal border, where it alfinitively attracts and
assumes a garb corresponding to its real degree of spirituality,
which clothingbears the colour-verdict of the law of God denoting
a righteous judgement upon its holiness or otherwise. Against this
decision there is no appeal, and the only murmur one hears at the
result is that of surprised wonder that the judgement has taken so
many extenuating circumstances into consideration.
38
But some man will say, “How are the dead raised up? and with
what body do they come?”
Since thefirst declarationof theresurrection as a natural phenom-
enon, no question has been of such perennial interest as this. It is
the very life-germ of religion, for if Christ be not risen then is all
preaching vain, and faith is also vain. Yet in spite of this all-
important truth, in no part of its assumed authority.has theology
so utterly failed to grasp the plain spiritual significance of an event
or doctrine as here. ‘Of the earth, earthy,’in all its interpretations,
the priestly cult has here blindly stumbled into a morass of con-
tradictory entanglements from which all hope of escape appears to
be impossible. It has lost sight of the glorious consummation of
the work of Christ in the fogs which rise from and hover over the
scene of its own confusion, while the hungry multitude it professes
to feed receive stones for bread, and wander about in a state of
spiritual starvation.
Sad, sad would it be for humanity had not God foreseen this
calamity. But it was foreseen. Did not Christ foreshadow it in
His parable of the wicked husbandmen? and is not the very mission
in which I am now taking part the realizationof His forecast?
“What therefore shall the lord of the vineyard do unto them?
He shall come and destroy these husbandmen, and shall give the
vineyard to others.”
Several of my correspondents ask me for information upon the
resurrection and the spiritual body. I can here only suggest the line
along which the whole subject will presently be treated, but the
argument would require a whole volume to do it justice, and there-
fore I can only suggestively touch it in this place. Again, I have
already freely acknowledged that I am not an expert in biblical
controversy, from which side the subject must necessarilycommence
its treatment, therefore I am quite content to leave its full discussion
to abler hands, confining myself more closely to the personal ex-
periences I set out to recount.
First, then, the resurrection is a purely natural and always-
present phenomenon, not a miracle to be looked for in the future.
This I assert on the scriptural authorityof Christ (John v. 24-27):
“Verily,verily,I say unto you, He that heareth My word, and
believethon Him that sent Me, hath everlasting life, and shall not
come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life.
“Verily,verily,I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now is,
when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and theythat
hear shall live.
“For as the Fatherhath life in Himself,so hathHe given to the
Son to have life in Himself;
“Andhathgiven Himauthorityto executejudgementalso, because
He is the Son of man.”
Christ here bases upon a given condition not only an immediate
resurrection, but an absolute escape from death:
“Verily,verily,I say unto you, If a man keep My saying,he shall
never see death” (John viii. 51).
39
Both these sayings Jesus also confirmed to Martha (John xi.
23-26).
‘
‘Jesus saithunto her, Thybrothershall rise again.
“Martha saith unto Him, I know that he shall rise again in the
resurrection at the last day.
“Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection and the life: he that
believethin Me, thoughhe were dead, yet shall he live:
“And whosoever liveth and believethin Me shall never die.
“Believest thou this?”
I shall add nothing to these quotations, but leave the record
to speak for itself as to what the plain teachingof the Christ is as to
the time of the resurrection.
The onlypossible point in dispute here will beas to the interpreta-
tion Christ put upon the word ‘death.’ In the connection in which
the word is now used He always preferred to say ‘sleep’—‘ She is
not dead, but sleepeth.’ ‘Our friend Lazarus sleepeth.’
We pass now to the second question. “With what body do
they come?”
I have already paraphrased Paul’s idea of being unclothed to be
clothed upon, from my own experience, and this describes with
eloquent brevitythewhole process men call death. ‘
Fleshand blood
cannot inherit the kingdom’ across the mythical Jordan, but the
physical vestments are cast aside that the robes of the spiritual may
be assumed in passing from the lower to the higher class-room.
‘It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. There is a
natural and there is a spiritual body.’ Let me repeat what I have
said above: in the transition the soul retains every power and faculty
save thosepertaining to flesh and blood, which have to be cast aside;
then as it assumes the spiritual body it also becomes invested with
equivalent attributes. It is therefore not less but greater than it was
before. How much more it becomes is determined entirely by its
likenessor unlikenessto theChrist, Who is thesole standard by which
all are judged, while the resurrection body of Jesus is the authorized
type and pattern of our own.
This post-mortem body demands and will repay a little careful
attention, since it abounds withsuggestive lessons for our instruction.
Much has been lost and gained since Jesus expired on Calvary and
His reappearance at the tomb in Joseph’s garden. He no longer
says ‘Of Myself I can do nothing,’ but rather ‘All power is given
unto Me in Heaven and earth.’ He is the same man proving His
identity by many infallible tests, but it is not the same body. 'The
familiarfigure of the days of His ministry has altogetherdisappeared.
‘It was sown in weakness, it is raised in power.’ But what power!
It is not onlya new body—it is a whole series of bodies, never wearing
the same aspect on two successive occasions, and playing like a will-
o’—the-wispacross the borderland of the seen and the unseen. Mary,
who knew Him so well, mistook Him for the gardener, until He
breathedher name; after this ‘He appeared in another form’ to two
of His disciples on the way to Emmaus;nor did theyrecognize Him
until He brake the bread, then He vanished from sight. Again He
40
stands in the midst of His followers while the doors are shut, but,
Thomas being absent and incredulous, the Lord returns later, wear-
ing yet another form, that the doubter may handle him and find
the marks his faith demands. He is no phantom spirit, but a sub-
stantial spiritual body, able to builda fire on the shore whilewaiting
for the coming boat, and eat the bread and fish of the morning meal,
yft it rises into the air at His ascension and is finally lost in the
c ouds.
Am I unscriptural in this brief résumé? Where? So far as my
knowledge and reason can guide me I have set forth the simple
teachings and facts concerning the resurrection of the Son of God,
in which, apart from the confirmationof my own experience, I find
the fullest warranty for all I have claimed in my own intercourse.
‘The works that I do, ye shall do also,’ was His assurance to the
Twelve, and through them to all who should come after them.
Standing on the further side of the tomb, He bade His friends to
follow Him, and that this should be done and the fact continually
demonstrated is absolutely necessary to witness to the world thatall
who come to the Christ receive the gift of everlastinglife, and death
cannot come near to them.
The claim, then, that I make of an open tomb and an unin-
terrupted intercourse between the true Church, Militant and Trium-
phant, is simply the declaration of our common Christian heritage,
and thegospel we have to expound is thatof ‘
Life—eternallife!’
CHAPTER V
THE ANGEL or DEATH
THERE is order, sequence and purpose to be found in the after-life.
This I have tried to emphasizein contrarietyto the general idea that
the regular employmentof the soul in Heaven will be found in sing-
ing ‘Holy, holy, holy’ to the accompaniment of golden harps.
Do not, however, rush to the other extreme and imagine that I
would have you thinkthatlife in Heaven means nothingmore than
work, study and intellectual development. Such an idea would be
equally erroneous.
The whole environment of the two conditions is so different
thatit becomes impossible to conceive what the higher will be while
subject to theinfluencesof thelower. If you fail to understand what
this diflicultyreally is, let me ask you to try to form some true con-
ception of a life free from all thought of time, weariness or financial
troubles; then go on to abstract the possibilityof disappointment,
frustrated hope, and ruined prospects; and still again freedom from
scandal, misrepresentation and jealous intrigue. I might go on
further simply with the negative aspects of this life, but these omis-
sions, if you can realize what they mean, will be quite suflicient to
41
indicate a Heaven to be devoutly wished for. But when we consider
that beyondthese things come the positive features of the rest—the
reunions, rewards, enlarged powers and other aspects on which the
soul has so long meditated, with the ‘evermore’ multitude of acces-
sories which lie beyondall our anticipations, one has to give up and
exclaim: “It is too high, I cannot attain to it!’ ’
These enjoyments and employments, duties and recreations,
ministries and pleasures are beautifullybalanced and diversified.
Take away every taint of the disagreeable, increase to infinite
proportions all that the heart desires, enlarge the noblest, purest
love the earth has known so as to include the whole race with the
same self-sacrificing devotion hitherto proffered to the individual,
and this realizationwill bring you to the threshold of familylife as
known where the whole familyof Heaven and earth are one.
Yes! Drop the book and think, but you cannot understand it.
The ocean is larger than a tea-cup, and the atmosphere far greater
than a toy balloon. So do the widest conceptions of earth fail to
measure the resources of Paradise.
Stillthelife is love, joy,peace in all theirfull and God-likeperfec-
tion.
This life is mine now—will be yours presently. But I would
speak of it for your comfort and encouragement by the way.
Among the many pleasures of thatcloudless happy land perhaps
one of the sweetest is experienced at the announcement that an
addition is about to be made to the particular group of which one is
a member; and this, in common with all other features of our life,
loses none of its piquancy or freshness by repetition.
Let me recall one of my earliestexperiences of thiskind.
Vaone and I had joined a large company in one of the numerous
entrancing retreats to be found in our beautiful valley, where we
were recounting the past, and tracing its clear connections with the
present, with ever and anon one of the old familiar hymns, sung
by way of illustration,just as I might choose to describe the occasion
by those well-known lines:—
“There on a green and flowery mount
Our weary souls shall sit,
And withtransportingjoys recount
The labours of our feet.”
That perfect realization of more than I had been able, more than I
should have dared to anticipate, had I possessed the ability,was a
very near ascent to Heaven.
All the toil, the care, the sorrow over, and each soul having
recovered from the grinding weariness thereof, it was more than
happiness to listen as one and then another travelled the road again,
not with complaint and murmuxing, but finding in every step the
needs-be and divine guidance towards the present goal. It was
more than meat and drink to me to hear those testimonies from the
lips of men and women who had entered the inheritance from such
42
highways and by-ways of sorrow, and hear theunanimous confession
that fell from every lip that ‘in all their afflictions He was afllicted,
and the angel of His presence saved them; in His love and in His
pity He redeemed them; and He bare them and carried them all
the days of old.”
Oh, thoseafterthoughts,thosefaithfuland true lights of Paradise!
How the soul thrills under the revelating beams! How the heart
grieves for the blindness and ignorance of the days that are past!
As I listened to all this my enraptured soul soared aloft near to
what I imagined Heaven itself must really be.
Suddenly it seemed as if the temperature had been raised, and
with this came a perceptible thrillof added pleasure. It occurred
at a moment of silence, and evoked an exclamation of delight from
the whole assembly.
I turned to Vaone and asked: “What is it?”
“We are to have an addition to our family,”she replied.
“When and whom?” I inquired.
“That we shall know presently.” Then she went on to explain
that the intimation was received so soon as it was known which
group the newly-comingsoul would be attached to, and was further
explainingmatters when Arvez arrived withthe informationthatour
new memberwas a boy known to several of our group.
“And not altogether a stranger to yourself,” he said to me by
way of conclusion.
‘
‘Who may it be?” I asked.
“You remember the little fellow I took from the College?”
“Limpy Jack. Yes.”
“Do you also rememberhis friend, who promised to look after
him until his transition?”
“Yes, perfectly.”
“It is he. I am now going to the College to bring him here.
Will you join me?”
“I shall be delighted.”
There was no necessity for further announcement to the com-
munity. The general process of .such events is thoroughly under-
stood, and as we set out upon our errand the assembly proceeded
to make thenecessary preparationfor the boy’s welcome.
“Well, and have you reached the end of your surprises?” asked
Arvez as we went on our way. '
1‘_‘Idthink that is one of the few impossibilitiesof this life,” I
rep ie .
“You will do well to school yourself to the idea that surprises
are part of the natural phenomena of this condition,” he answered.
“God is necessarilyso far beyondall our conception that we must
ever be filled with wonder and awe at His continuallyunfolding
manifestations. He is a long way past our finding out, my brother,
and therefore must ever be surprising us.”
.“Even yourself?”
“Ah, Aphraar! Not only me, but I doubt not the angel who
stands nearest to Him is also equally surprised with ourselves.
43
I thinkMyhanene is not far wrong when he says ‘God is evermore
past finding out’.”
‘
‘Then how can we know Him?”
‘
‘By growing like Him; and thenearer we draw the more we shall
know.”
“But if the greater knowledge only reveals how unknowable
He is, what then?”
“We shall still be more like Him, and thatwill have to suffice.”
Unable to pursue this inquiry further, I turned to the object
of my companion’s mission.
“Is the boy you seek coming over at once?” I asked.
“No. I am bringing him on his preparatory visit.”
“Is he ill?”
“I think not; but our instructions are never detailed. I shall
I
learn more from the lad himself.”
“Is he aware of your coming?”
“No. These visits are never foreknown.”
“Do you remember how disappointed he was when you took
little Jack away?”
‘
‘Yes;and I have seen it repeated on several occasions since then.
Poor little fellow, his life has been a singularlysad one, I believe.’’
“I wish we could bring them all away,” I answered as I thought
of thecoming disappointmentof many and thehappiness of but one.
“And so do I, if by so doing thatparticular phase of life could be
eliminated; but as the world is constituted at present, the whole
colony at ‘The College’ could be removed and not be missed.”
‘ ‘
Does not thatthoughtsometimesdisheartenyou in your work?’ ’
“No. Why should it? So long as the wrong creating such
suffering exists, it is above all things necessary that we should be
constant in our ministry to the suflerers. If we were to fail, where
would be their hope?”
As we talked we crossed the boundary between the spiritual and
sleep states, and for the first time I became aware of the demarca-
tion; the light toned away into twlilight, and in the lower region
there was a feeling of rawnessin the‘air not altogetherpleasant.
Here we met a fellow-servant of Arvez’s acting as guide to a lady
who evidently yielded but a reluctant obedience to the command
laid upon her. My friend saw this in a moment, and with true
brotherlysympathystopped to speak to them.
“Life’s harvest ripens early for my sister,”he remarkedcheerily
in his greeting.
“Too early—too early by far,”, she responded tearfully. “For
love’s sake hear me on behalfof my child! I cannot leave him at
his birth. Spare me for his sake; or if not, let him come with me.”
‘
‘The love of God is greater and more tender even thanthatof a
mother,” replied Arvez. “Whatever is best, He will certainly
ordain. Fear not, He is with thee,land all must be well.”
“But God is so far away. Did He not give me my darling?
Why, then, should He wish to take me away?”
“Because He sees and understands where we are blind and
44
5
ignorant. He makes no mistakes, ‘and whatever happens must be
well for both of you.” .
“It will not be well if I am compelled to leave my child. No,
no! I cannot come! Please do not ask me!”
“I make no request, my sister,” replied her escort, “but they
who watch as theeyes of theLord have foreseen the weakness of the
flesh and know thatyou will be thrust away. It is the body thatwill
discard you; I have been sent to lead you to a place of rest, where
you may presently gain strengthto return and be even more to your
childthanifyou had remained. You do not know God or you would
trust Him; but I will lead you to one who will show you what He is,
and ere you part from your child you will be content to leave him
as God determines.”
“I was left as you fear your little one will be left,” I said, if
perhaps my words might comfort her.
“Left withouta mother’s love and care?" she asked.
“Yes. She died as I was born. I never knew her until I met
her here, andall my lifewas a sorrow for my loss. But it was betterso.’’
“Better to lose her?”
“Yes. Far better. I know it now, and both of us thank God
for the loss I moumed for forty years.”
“Can I see your mother?” she inquired.
“Yes,” Arvez replied; “you shall be brought together if you
wish it. But where you go you will find a company who have had
similar experiences, from whom you will learn how tenderly and
wisely God deals with all His children. They will'show you how
groundless are all your fears of separation, and make known to you
the love of God in a hundred ways you little suspect at present.”
‘
‘And may I go back to my little one again?’’
“Yes. You will return several times. So long as the body
will receive you, you will be at liberty to go and come. In the
meantime you will get to know the new friends to whom I am about
to introduce you,” said her companion, “that when you finally
come away it may be withoutregret or fear.”
“Withoutregret or fear———are you sure of that?” she queried.
“None but the souls of criminals, anxious to escape from the
justice of their sins, either regret or fear to enter upon this life,” he
replied; “and of such you are not, or I should not be sent to bring
you hither.”
During this ministry of consolation the rebellious sister was
quietly carried across the boundary line into the higher state where
the native assurances of God's great and never-failing love were
added to the arguments employed to secure her submission to the
inevitable. So far it was the most painful case I had yet encountered
of the resentment often shown by professing Christians at the
intimation that the time of their departure is at hand. That sum-
mons is a genuine test of the soul's true conception of God and
‘
Christ, and a very suggestive revelation as to the actual reality of
their religion may be gained by watching the efi‘ect as the death
messenger first declares the purpose of his coming. It is an easy
45
matterunder theinfluenceofan emotionaldiscourse on theentrancing
glories of the heavenly hope to join tunefully with a thousand
voices and sing :
“Filledwithdelight, my raptured soul
Can here no longer stay:
ThoughJordan’s waves around me roll
FearlessI’d launchaway.”
But after the benediction, after the congregation has dispersed,
and in the silent watches of the night the soul stands alone in the
presence of the messenger of death; when the emotion is over and
grim reality has taken the place of poetry; when a compliance with
profession is demanded; when the earth begins to quake and slip
away—ah! then is the time to see the sustaining power of religion;
then the true grip of godliness is tested, and a surface faith gives
placeto a paralysingdread. l
The foolish virgins are far more numerous than the wise when
the cry goes forth to meet the Bridegroom.
The incident gave me food for reflection,and when thepoignancy
of the griefwas over, I turned away to continue my journey to ‘The
College,’ lest my sympathy and co cern might interfere with the
ministry of Arvez and his friend. ll‘
Just a word here as to how we find our way to the friend we
seek in Paradise, or to any otherwise unknown destination. The
difliculties and annoyances of such an earth expedition no longer
exist with us, but granted that the goal is not beyond our spiritual
power to reach or we have a legitimate commission to execute, our
'wish becomes the vehicle of transit, and either by sudden flight or
more leisurely passage we go direct to our destination.
So I passed from the presence; of my companions to ‘The
College,’ where I knew Arvez would join me presently. As I did
so my mind was busy with the thoughtof the contrast I should there
witness with the scene I had just left‘—thereluctance of a professing
Christian to leave the earth compared with the keen, anxious desire
of a city arab to do so. There was‘ no speculation in my forecast
of this. I had been present sever 1 times on similar occasions,
and was by now familiar with the scene of eager anxiety I should
see consequent upon the appearance of Arvez. Some few of the
lads present would quietly retire, because all the fair advantages of
earth were at their disposal, but by far the larger number would
give him welcome, and eagerly press forward in the hope that the
choice of Arvez might fall upon themselves. How I wish the whole
earth might witness the joy of those homeless waifs and strays in
the presence of
‘
THE ANGEL OF DEATH.
“I stood in the room withthechildren-
The play-room theyuse in their sleep,
Where the souls of the fortunate mingle
With less favoured children, who weep;
The sleep-room, thejoy-roorrl, the dear Lord has given
Just half-way between thisearthand God’s heaven.
46 1
l
The childrenwere children—thatonly;
While there all were rich—none poor;
The prince and the outcast were equal
Till an angel stood at the door:
The outcast, man’s outcast, cried greeting ‘All Hail!’
But therich ones shrank back all fearsome and pale.
The lads of the street rushed towards him;
‘Is it I? is it I?’ each cried;
But the favoured of earth were more silent,
Contented were theyto abide.
The angel—God’s angel, looked round, sweetly smile:-—
He wanted an angel—had come for a child.
‘Take me, Mister Angel; please take me;’
‘No, no, me!-—Ain’t it my turn now?’
They all crowded round—all were eager to go
With him of the iron-crowned brow,
That angel—God’s angel; who is he, I pray?
’Tis the angel of death——theangel of day.”
Not a few of thelads knew me, some even connected my presence
with Arvez, and asked me eagerly if he were coming; but since it
was not for me to make any announcement, I evaded an answer,
and looked around for him in whom I felt a particular interest.
I soon had my wish, and patting the little fellow on the head inquired
whether his friend Jack had faithfullykept the promise I heard him
make to visit ‘The College’ and speak to them of his new life.
He looked into my face with a quick resentful glance. He was
too loyal to his friend to tolerate even the suspicion of a doubt.
“Why, a cors’ he did,” he answered. “Doan ’e come ’ere
a’most ev’ry night?” Then, with an unstudied touch of genuine
feeling, he added, “I on’y wish ’e ’adn’t got to come ’ere agen!”
“Why so? Don’t you like to see him now?”
“Yes,that’s it. I want ter go to ’im—be wi’ ’im, live wi’ ’im,
an’ never go back agen. But I doan thinkas ever that angel-cove
means ter come for me.”
“But he must come sometime,” I replied, more than half-
inclined to satisfy his longing by telling what I knew. “You must
try to be brave while you wait. Perhaps he will not be so long as
you imagine.”
At thatinstant theportz'e‘re was thrownaside, and Arvez entered,
to the wild delight of the majority of the lads. The general rush
towards him reminded me of nothing so much as the headlong
scamper of children at a school-treat to reach the distribution of
nuts or prizes. _
My little friend took matters more philosophicallythan usual,
and remained'quietlyby my side. Perhaps the continual disappoint-
ment of his hopes was telling upon him, or it may be our conversation
had produced the effect. Whatever it was, he watched the others
crowd around Arvez as he said:
“I wonder who ’e’s goin’ to tek now? But there’s no such
luck as it’s bein’ me.”
47
Arvez was gently making his way throughtheclamouringcrowd,
patting one on the head, kissing another, and speaking a kindly
word to a third. Think of it. He was an angel with the summons
of death, and every lad around him was anxious to accept delivery
for himself. Think of it, I say, ye whose lives are clouded with
a sense of dread at the thought of death! The children love him,
are disappointed when he passes by them, holding out their hands
eagerly in the hope that he comes forgthem. He who is loved by a
céhilcllcannot be altogether bad. Then there is something good in
eat .
z
‘ ‘
’E is comin’ ter you!” said my ‘ompanionas Arvez continued
to make his way towards us. “i
The remarkcalled for no reply, nor could I trust myself to speak
and keep the secret. So I looked away smilingat the scene.
“Well, I’m blowed! Doan ’e want anybody?” queried my
friend, who by this time was not a little excited. Then he added
somewhat resignedly—“Oh, I know?! ’E wants somebody what
isn't ’ere.”
Arvez had reached us by this time, and we were the centre of
the excited children. ‘
“Are you tired of waiting for me, Dandy?” he inquired, gently
laying his hand upon the 1ad’s head]
The little haggard face flushed withthe sudden hope thatflashed
upon him. i
“But it ain’t me yer come for, is it, Angel?”
Arvez answered by lifting the little fellow into his arms and
kissing him. There needed no otherreply.
“I’m so glad!” said the lad, nestling his weary head on the
ang]el’s shoulder. “I only wish ye! could take all the others as
we .”
Dear loving soul, even the first throb of his own great joy was
tempered by regret that his less fortunate companions were not
able to share it.
“I shall soon come back for them,” said Arvez. “It is almost
time for many and the last will not be long.”
Then followed the usual congratulations, requests, promises,
and assurances I had heard so many times before, after which
Arvez folded his charge upon his bosom and we took our leave.
CHAPTEP; VI
TTIE BONDAGEi OF SIN
Two of my correspondents fear that I have underrated the power
and influence of sin in Through The} Mists. I would suggest their
re-readingthe story of The Harvest ofiJealousy, when I feel confident
this impression will be removed. I will admit thatI refrained from
48
making the volume black and forbidding by the narration of grue-
some experiences consequent upon sin, but I was more anxious to
fairly represent the after-life as I have found it—and as you, my
reader, will find it—thancolour it in accordance withearthor creedal
conceptions. Following the example of Christ, I would rather
charm theear withthe story of infinite love thandwell withpersistent
croaking on the penalties incurred by rebellious children.
With the master-hand of truly divine genius Christ reduced the
whole field of action in the world’s redemption and brought it
within the scope of His parable of the Prodigal Son. Cause, effect,
method, and atonement are there all set forth with due regard to
the law of spiritual perspective, and the story is left as a working
model for all who came after Him to copy. If I read that lesson
aright, it is not so much the suffering brought on by the prodigality
of the lad Christ would have me dwell upon——He had perforce to
touch it to measure the depth of the prodigal’s fall—but He seems
to me to hurry away from the sad effects as quickly as possible by
bringing the outcast to his right mind, where he remembersthe home
life and all that has been lost. “Son, remember,”appears to me
not only as the exquisite touch of agony Christ infuses into the
torment of hell, but He also makes it to be the divine incentive to
“arise and ‘go to my Father.”
Ah! The scourging, arousing power of the recognition of what
has been lost! The contrast of what-might-have-beenwith what-is!
Then——engulfed in that fiercest of all punishments, the hell of
self-recrimination—torecall thecomparisonof a prodigal’sdisgusting
ostracism and the position of the menials who serve at home! Such
a picture needs no detail touches: the torture of it is equal to the
occasion without enlargement. What blackness could deepen its
gloom? what horrors add to its torture? But Christ makes the
light of another memory to break through——the Father’s love!
“The same yesterday, to-day, and for ever”; “withoutvariableness
or shadow of turning”; like a Vesper bell ever calling “Come!”
and melodious with the promise “Him that cometh . . .
I will
in no wise cast out!” Under the influence of such recollections
hope revives, delirium vanishes, a right mind is restored, the lad
arises and the Fathermeets him withring and robe and shoes, while
there is joy in the presence of the angels of God.
In whatever experiences it may be my privilege to relate, I do
not wish to pose as a pioneer pushing my way through a hitherto
untrodden country, but rather as a follower of One who knew the
way and traversed it, treading the thorns and hindrances underfoot
that He might leave a clear pathway from the degrading swine-
trough and husks direct to the homeland and restoration. He is
the Leader—I but follow after. He knows—it is mine only to
obey for the present, then I shall know, even as I am known. He
understood the full enormity of sin—its strength, its efl'ect, its cure.
If, therefore, I deal with it as He directs, if I speak of it as He shall
give me utterance, if I declare what He reveals and measure it with
thereed which He supplies, surely I shall set it where He would have
49
it stand, and the perspective shall be
whornsoever much is given, of him shall much be required; and to
whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more.”
This principle Christ does not content Himself with merely laying
down, but repeats it again and again with a truly remarkable sig-
nificance. He whom God has entrusted with ten talents will be
held responsible for the use of ten talents; he with five for five; he
with one for one, and he who sins without the law will be judged
not by the law, but in equity.
When this terribly just responsibilityfor sin is brought home
clearlyto our understanding,and one realizes theabsolutelypersonal
character of the judgement to be given, he starts with fear and
trembling to hear Christ “upbraid the cities wherein most of His
mighty works were done, because they repented not: Woe unto
thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works,
which were done in you, had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they
would have repented long ago in sackclothand ashes. But I say
unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day
of judgement, than for you. And thou, Capernaum, which art
exalted unto heaven, shall be brought down to hell: for if the mighty
works, which have been done in thee, had been done in Sodom, it
would have remained until this day. But I say unto you, That it
shall be more tolerablefor theland of Sodom in theday ofjudgement,
than for thee.” The declamation would lose none of its force,
and it would be quite legitimate to substitute the names of cities of
modern civilizationfor thoseof Chorazin, Bethsaidaand Capernaum.
It is well the heathenworld should know the power of the gospel
of Christ unto salvation; but if we possessed the eyes of God and
the knowledge of God, one wonders where the most heathen land
would be found!
“Judge not, that ye be not judged!”
We must not forget this very timely and necessary caution.
Where every man becomes, in a sense, a law to himself, by the self-
same rule he becomesdisqualifiedfrom actingas thejudge of another.
We only know in part; justice demands a clear understanding of
the whole case. Still, while we may not usurp the judicial seat,
we are commanded to watch and use our intellectual faculties in
determining the character of a tree by the fruit it bears. “A good
tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree produce
good fruit.” The insidiousness of sin cannot effectually be hidden.
The character of a life is determined by its deliberately chosen
environment, as the quality of fruit is governed by the nourishment
given to the tree. Like produces like, secret thoughts, habits and
motives find natural development in external acts, and even God is
morally powerless to change the result. “Whatsoever a man
soweth, that shall he also reap.” The only dilference between the
two operations will be in quantity, not in kind. The harvest may
not be gathered until “this mortal hath put on immortality,” but
escape is impossible. At the quarantine port of Death, the soul,
subjected to the searching influenceof the light of God, will develop
the legitimate efl‘ect of every precedent cause and the harvest must
51
inevitably be garnered. “Ye cannot serve God and mammon.”
Know ye not that, to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey,
his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death or
of obedience unto righteousness?” If you have not previously
discovered or admitted this, you will be compelled to do so at the
quarantine of Death, and find how true was Paul’s declaration that
there is no escape for those who wilfullyneglectso geat salvation.
But the bondage of sin begins to fwork hand in hand with its
practice, and I will illustrate my persbnal experiences of its effect
with a case in point. I
I had been visiting the sleep state in company with Zecartus,
who was executing a commission for ;Myhanene. The duty being
discharged, we were leisurely returning and speaking of certain
interesting features of our visit, when I was seized with a curious
desire to remain. There was no decisive reason for this, so far as
I could understand, and in the uncertainty I referred the matter to
my friend.
He paused for an instant and listened as one who caught faint
sounds from a distance. Then having satisfied himself, replied:
“Someone is trying to find you, but his sympathy is so feeble
he is unable to reach you of himself.”
“Who is it?” I inquired. ,
“I cannot say for the instant, but the connection is being estab-
lislliled by which I shall be able to jfind out. Yes. It is your
fat er.” I
“My father!” I exclaimed. “Ydu are right, Zecartus, there
is such slight sympathybetween us that I almost wonder he should
remember me.”
“It is not a matter of great importance upon which he wishes to
see you, or, apart from his estrangement, his wish would have
reached you in more definite form. Will you answer it?”
“Certainly I will. Where is he? How shall we reach him?”
“His call and desire are very halfl-hearted. It is one of those .
cases frequently to be met with, wher the higher nature recognizes
an offence which will penalize the so 1, and presses on the lower
nature the advisability of submissio .
The man is at war with
himself, the earth-side being strong in resentment, but the spiritual
struggles for the victory. Here cau ious action on our part is
necessary, that the higher nature may be encouraged and supported
without the lower finding any occasion for vaunting itself."
“I scarcely understand you.”
“Perhaps not; your experience of t » 's sleep-state conflictbetween
the two natures is not yet a very lar e one. It is a condition in
which a man is truly divided against himself, and the issue has to
be left almost’ entirely to his own fr ‘
will. We may extend some
slight assistance where thewill is definitely in favour of improvement,
and the weight of character too heavy ‘for the better resolution. Sin,
however, is both crafty and cunning,and though it may lose in a
present struggle, will find occasion, if possible, to retaliate, and
by tauntinginsinuations afterwards accomplish more than had been
52
lost. It is for this reason that caution is necessary, and until we
understand your father better, I should advise that we simply
ascertain the locality he visits, then allow him to find us rather than
thatwe go straight to him.”
b
“I will take your counsel. Please act for me as you deem
est.”
With his greater knowledge and wider resources my friend
quickly grasped the situation, and we were soon as near to my
father as Zecartus deemed advisable.
“You may now send an answering thought to his wish to see
you,” said my counsellor; “it will readily reach him, and by his
quick or tardy response we shall be able to ascertain how the struggle
goes.”
I did as desired, and as the thought envelope sped towards its
destination I found in what direction I might look for my visitor's
approach.
Someone will wish to ask with what feelings I anticipated the
meeting in the light of what has been said concerning the change of
relationship. I reply that my use of the paternal appellation is
solely for the sake of convenience; and would again call to remem-
brance that the kinship of souls is one of sympathy——bloodis non-
existent in Paradise—and the closeness of the bond is determined
by the strengthand purity of the affection. In the present instance
the wish for an interview came to me in such marked and blurred
indecision that had it not been for the assistance of Zecartus I
should have failed to read it. Under these circumstances I was
unable to look forward to our meeting with any great amount of
pleasure. I would it had been otherwise, and my response to the
request for an interview was largely in the hope that something
might result to his spiritual benefitand uplifting.
“He does not run to meet you,” my companion remarked as
the reply to my intimationtarried.
“That is one of the last things I should expect,” I answered.
“But you must not estimate any man’s sleep condition by what
you know of his earth life. Experience teaches me that most
unexpected combinations are rather the rule than otherwise here.
In the body thefull force of thelower passions may have unrestricted
control, but in this temporary discarnate state unsuspected spiritual
qualities may rise into operation, and with the assistance of some
little outside influence gain so great an ascendency as to gradually
overcome the despotism of the flesh. I always hope to find these
latent signs upon which to work, and if I may be so successful in
this instance our visit may possibly be rewarded with most welcome
results.”
“God grant it may be so,” I replied fervently, “and that even
beyond your own generous anticipation. But that will soon be
known now, for yonder he comes.”
My companion had already established a recognition, for I
noticed his closely-knit brow, indicative of the exercise of his
marvellous power of analysing and dissecting character, the result
53
of which I should have to wait for, he being singularly uncommuni-
cative at such times. For myself, I was assured, by familiar
indications, that my father was not in his easiest and most affable
mood, but that might be due to the presence of two companions
who appeared doubtfully welcome, but pressing in their attentions.
I moved to meet them, hoping a cheery greeting would dispel the
cloud, but Zecartus restrained me.
“Wisdom counsels your patience,\” he said. “If you would
help him you must not speak first.”
I did not understand why this should be so, but as there was no
time for explanations, I yielded to his wish.
The three were passing by this time, my father walking between
the two, who were intent on keeping his attention. I had perceived
no indication of his consciousness of my presence, and concluded
that he would pass without speaking, when politely laying one hand
apologetically upon the arm of each friend, he coolly stepped back
and towards me. \
“Frederic,” he said with his usual punctilious formality and
composure, as ifwe had parted company onlyhalfan hour previously,
“I am not sorry to meet you again, since I sometimes thinkyou and
I did not altogether understand each other. I may, perhaps, have
been a trifle too exacting—markme, I don’t say I was, but I may
have been—and you were always so unpardonablyobdurate. Still
I am willing to try and forget your conduct, as you are dead, and
would like to think that you have aqcepted my apologies if you
imagine thatany are due.”
“Whatever has been doubtful or undesirable between us, sir,
I think will be far better mutually forgotten and forgiven, than
recalled and explained. That is what 11 desire, and if you will so
consent I shall be more than satisfied.”
“Certai11ly—certainly! Then we will consider everything in
the past as amicably settled. But,
lesson of my illustration. I record it as read by the trained eyes
of Zecartus——the natural first-fruits of my father’s sin.
His life commenced with a fair heritage of natural gifts. To
make his way in the world he had a resolute will, clear foresight, an
intuitive sense of an advantage, with energy and promptitude to
secure it. Such was his equipment, together with the responsibility
for its right or wrong employment.
He rapidly established a reputation for being a cool, shrewd,
clear-headed and reliable man of business, with a discreet reserve
and a faculty for probing and exploiting others, without allowing
himself or his business to be known.
It is only when he became the head of a household that we are
able to form any definite idea of the way his character unfolded from
the evidence of results produced. At that time he laid it down as
an inflexible rule that the obligations of wife and children were
comprised in absolute and immediate obedience; and the duties of
husband and father were to govern, protect, educate with a firm
hand. His attitude towards the rest of humanity was somewhat
similar, tempered, of course, as necessity compelled.
The germ of this was not far to seek. At the outset he fell into
the error I have already mentioned—of condoning in self that
which he would reprobate in others. It is the one weakness to
which the flesh is more prone, perhaps, than any other—so natural
in its inception, but fearfullyfatal in its result. It is a trait of charac-
ter far too frequently admired in the social and commercial world,
and not looked upon with the disfavour it merits among professors
of religion. If a man is successful, strong, and able to conform
to certain elastic requisitions, society and religion are quite willing
not to be too inquisitive into details.
But behindall this;when characteralone is theacceptedstandard,
and the soul finds its place by the law of spiritual attraction! Here
the process of selection is entirely reversed. Superficial appearances
are valueless. Inherent qualities now take rank, and fair exteriors
are stripped off that the heart of the life may be inspected. It is a
searching ordeal, automaticand mechanical. There is no bribery,
no favouritism, no mistake, no inadvertence, no possible escape!
True character is brought into legitimate and natural prominence,
and working back from the result, the whole course of development
is laid open until the source from which it springs is plainlyvisible.
This source in my father’s case was but a trivial matter—first
wrongs are seldom great—but it placeda preferential and deliberate
division between Self and others. The trend of relationship between
the two was henceforth oblique rather than vertical, and the
estrangement widened as growthwent on.
With the first defiection from rectitude the soul also loses its
true sense of uprightness, and the future estimate of morality will
be always along the line of its own procedure. Having eyes to
see, it fails to see or understand, because the divine standard has
been supplanted. It has deliberately chosen the evil and forsaken
the good; it is therefore left alone to the consequences.
55
i
i
Am Imaking too much of a triflingerror? How strange, when
I was suspected of treating sin too lefnientlyl
The estimate of the soul’s value according to Christ is greater
than that of the whole world. If this [is so, will not the balances of
its exchange be made to turn upon a diamondpoint? The mustard-
tree is potential in the mustard—seed, so also is hell potential in the
expansion of a single act deliberatelyperformed.
This is what Zecartus saw written? legibly upon the soul of my
father,and in theexpressed regret that[thememory of my forgiveness
would be lost in his waking, my friend found an opportunity to
intervene and perhaps open a way of escape.
“If you will permit me,” he volunteered, “I think it possible
I might help you to remember.” I
“And who, sir, may you be, that I should place myself under
your unknown control?” l
“Zecartus is able to do all he oife s, I am convinced,” I replied,
“and if you are honest in your wish 0 remember what has passed
between us1”
“Honest! What do you mean, siir? It is late in the day, and
things are reaching a pretty pass when my own son doubts my
honesty.” *
“I did not doubt you, and regret Lisingthe word. I should have
said if you desire to remember.”
“That is better; but for you to oioubt my honesty would be a
liberty I could never pardon. Now, sir,” turning to Zecartus,
“on my son’s guarantee I am willing to accept your assistance.
How shall we proceed?” I
“We will return with you when [you awake.”
“That will not be for the present,” he replied. “I have other
matters to attend to first. Where s all I see you?”
“You will find us on the way W‘ en you return.”
With that understanding he left us, and Zecartus made me
acquainted with the facts I have referred to above.
We had left the sleep state behi'nd, and were close to my old
home before my father rejoined us.‘
“Don’t you find it somewhat c '1y?” he inquired, with more
afi“abilitythan he had yet displayed and as he spoke he added a
sympathetic shiver to the query.
“The earth temperature always strikes me as being so,” replied
my companion. “I do not notice it to be more so than usual.”
“I do—and much more so than {usual.”
“I am glad to hear you say so. t indicates a degree of spiritual
sensitiveness for which I am most s cerely thankful.”
“Now no preaching, young man; no preaching if you are to
go withme. I hate preachingand ca‘ntingtalk as I hate theDevil.’’
“Your wish shall be respected.; I will confine my endeavours
to helping you to rememberthatwhatever may have passed between
yourself and son has been fully and freely forgiven on bothsides.’’
“That is, if my son considers there is anything on his part to’
forgive, which—mind you—I don't" admit.”
56 :
“So I understand; though it would be a thousand times better
for you if you did admit it. But, here we are. Now, as you retake
possession of your body make a firm resolve to remember all that
has passed, and I will do my best to assist you.”
By this time the spiritual was gradually being absorbed into
the natural body in the process of waking, and Zecartus surrounded
both with a sympatheticatmosphere in the effort he had promised.
The body turned, stretched, and thenmy fatherstarted up exclaiming:
“Eh! What? Remember what?”
It was easy to see the experiment had failed. He had simply
awakened from a troubled dream, the purport of which had been
lost. Too closely associated with earth and its material interests,
he could not, at will, retain spiritual memories, even with the help
at his disposal.
There was also another disturbing and contributing influence
to failure present in the person of a hard-featured, malevolent-
looking man, seated beside the bed, as if exercising a kind of
guardianship over the body.
“Why are you here?” asked Zecartus.
“Because I can’t get away,” was the nonchalant reply.
“Who are you?”
“Who am I?” he returned, with a malicious sneer. “Are you
blind, or don’t you want to see that I am bound to this whited
sepulchre?"
“But the bond is one of mutual attraction for which both are
equally responsible.”
“Oh, it’s easy to preach; but if you were in my place you would
find it quite another thingto do it. It is easier for him to break the
bond if he wants to, becausehe has not lost the power as I have.”
“Do you remember how you refused to break away when you
were as he is now, and held another as he holds you?”
“Don’t preach at a fellow when he’s down, but if you have any
pity lend me a hand to get away.”
“Do you want to get away? Where would you go if I could
help to set you free?” ‘
.
“God knows! But I would find someone to be with who was
not always showing me myself—someonewho is not such a horrible
monster as this saintly hypocrite! This is unbearable. Why did
I not know of it before—when I had time to avoid it?”
“You might have known, but you wilfully shut your eyes and
ears,- as he is doing now. What he is you have been, and the
punishment of your bondage to him is but a repetition of that you
have inflicted on another. He is sowing, but will not hear, just
as you have sown and now must reap the penalty.’’
“But why did I not know?”
“Because you would not. You scoifed, laughed, and would
not hear reproof. Sin was sweet to you ‘as he finds it to himself,
now you have to pay its bill.’’
.
“Then you won’t give me a hand to get away. Is that what
you mean?”
57
“I would gladlyhelp you to gain your freedom if you honestly
desired it, and your repentance made it possible for me to do
so.
“Don’t get preaching any tommy;-rot about repentance to me.
If I can get no help to get away, just‘ wait till this pious hypocrite
has finished his prayers”—-for by this time my father was engaged
in his punctilious devotions—“and .I’ll warrant me I will have
some fun.”
‘
‘And what will come afterwards?’ ’
asked Zecartus warningly.
“Oh, damn that!”
“In God’s name I beseech you to stop your recklessness, and
think of the consequences. Have you no fear, no dread? Has
not the past supplied enough of torment that you would risk its
increase? Have you not pity for yourself even while you complain
that I can offer you nothingmore?” I
The unutterable anguish of the man as he fixed his torture-
brimming eyes on Zecartus while he spoke, will never be forgotten
by me. .
“What am I to do?” he asked,‘ reaching out his hands in a
distractedappeal for the help we could not render becausehe sought
freedom from pain only, and not from sin. “Can I endure this
in silence? Can I suffer and rejoice '
it, even though, as 1 some-
times hear, it may be necessary for my own good?” Then in a
frenzy of sudden rage, he started and added—“No! By God, I
won’t endure it quietly. If this saintly cesspool makes my life
intolerable by his mimicry and damnable reminders of what I was
and how I brought this on, I will retaliate and drive him to
such excesses as shall make him a thousandfold worse than I
am.”
“Do you love yourself so little as that, even when you ask me
to assist in your escape?” 1
“Don’t be ridiculous. I want revenge, and I will have it or
hell shall know the reason why.”
Zecartus drew me away. To try and persuade a man in that
condition was worse than useless, and yet he was the twin-soul with
my father,with this slight difference: ‘onewas on earth, in the body,
able to make reparationifhe would; theotherhad passed therubicon,
and entered upon his reward for deeds done in the flesh.
Even so. Such is our first inquiry into sin: its nature and
results. In spite of all the appearances of earth—-of men’s trans-
gression and seeming escape from; penalty—may we not here
write:
“Be not deceived, God is not mocked; for whatsoever a man
soweth, that shall he also reap. He that soweth to the flesh shall
of the flesh reap corruption, but he ithat soweth to the spirit shall
of the spirit reap life everlasting.”
Having, however, embarked upon this inquiry into the nature
and consequences of sin, let us still further continue our quest till
I remove the last trace of doubt f om your mind as to my real
attitude towards it. T
58
CHAPTER VII
THE GATE or HELL
ZECARTUS is largely engaged with such contentious individuals as
this companion of my father’s, beingpossessed of a quick and clear
insight, with a remarkable gift for tracing sequences. This man
considered himself to be the victim of an injustice, and it was
necessary to point out his error, so as to make him understand and
acknowledge that his present condition was simply the natural
result of his previous career, the penalty for which had to be dis-
charged ‘to the utmost farthing’ before assistance and freedom
could be secured.
I would point out—and have it always remembered—how
perfectly the immortal life is provided with competent ministers
to deal with every possible necessitythat can arise. The law framed
and the order established by God are fully able to supply every
conceivable need, and carry to complete perfection the great paternal
design which will have all men to be saved. The full and just
penalty for sin must be paid—the last fragment of its harvest must
inevitably be gleaned, but after that the heart of every son and
daughter will turn homeward, and wherever the first repentant
thoughtis born it must needs find a spiritual nurse waiting to deliver
and minister to its well-being.
Well might the Psalmist ask, “Whither shall I flee from Thy
presence? . . .
If I make my bed in hell, beholdThou art there!’’
Thus the rainbow of infinite love sweeps the everlasting span
of life—earth, hell, and Heaven—and is everywhere inscribed with
the consoling legend, ‘God is good!’ _
My previous visits to earth in company with Cushna now
enabled me to make some interesting observations concerning
the relationship of the two sides of life, while Zecartus was engaged
with my father’s spiritual counterpart. The most significant fact
I ascertained was that thoughI was standing in my old home it was
voided of all interest or attraction for me, and the light of it was
scarcely more than a softening of darkness. This latter condition
denoted the true spiritual barometric reading of the place: God
is light, and nearness to or distance from Him is automatically
registered in light or shade. Still, though light failed, I cannot
say the same of life, for phantom-likeforms moved on every side.
“Who are these who make up this apparently aimless and
reckless host?” I inquired as we left.
“Earth-boundsouls, each seekingto gratify the particular vicious
and evil passion by which it is enslaved,” he replied. “The study
of their painful employments would be helpful to you after what
we have just seen, if you would care to undertake it.”
“I should indeed, if the opportunity affords."
59
“That can easily be arranged,” he replied, “but you must do
it under the guidance of someone engaged in the ministry going on
here, who will be far better qualified to instruct you than I am.”
As he spoke he dispatched a thought-flash, which was almost
instantly answered by the arrival of the leader of one of the bands
of workers near at hand.
“My brother,Ladas,’’
said Zecartus, introducing me. “Aphraar
desires to know something of your mission; may I commend him
to your discretion?” l
“I cannot introduce you to the pleasures of Paradise, but it is
possible you may see something of its joy,” he answered. “Our
work lies more in the shadow than the light, but it will show you
much of the law and love of God.”
“I wish to learn the law; I have already seen somethingof the
pleasure,” I replied.
“Ladas is well able to instruct you as you wish,” said Zecartus;
‘
‘I willentrust you for the present to his care, and take my leave.”
With this he left us, and in charge of my new cicerone I was at
once so placedin harmony withmy present environmentas to enable
me to approachnearer to thosewithwhom circumstances were about
to bring me in contact, and the better establish communication
with them if needed. ‘
“You will already understand the principle regulating all
divisions,” he began—-—“everyman to his own place, and no barrier
or restriction but that erected by character?”
“Yes, I am familiar with that.” ‘
“Then you may regard the sphere of our operations as being
the earth-bound condition, by which I mean the temporary prison-
house of those whose vicious passions and depraved natures still
hold them in bondage to the earth and lead them to haunt the
former resorts of their sin in the
false hope of gratifying their evil
desires, while every attempt they ake recoils with its legitimate
degree of punishment.”
“Do you wish me to understand that they are still able to
exercise an active influence upon men?”
“I do; and such influence—given favourable conditions for
operation—is one of the least understood but most potent agencies
for evil men have to encounter.”
“May I ask what these conditions are?”
“They are two, of which the first and essential one is moral
weakness or indecision in the individual tempted. In the presence
of well-developed and resolute rectitude these spiritual brigands
are utterly powerless. Evil in every form must flee from the man
who is hold to resist it, since evil and weakness are synonymous,
having no real power in themselves, but possessing a fatal ability
to use such as they may succeed in borrowing. The first move
downwards is always strategic, then, if an outpost be carried, the
captured force is at once utilized in ‘further operations, or in other
words, its _second condition is to inveigle the tempted one into the
charmed circle of its deadly influence.”
60
“I am not quite sure thatI understand you.’’
“I know it, but I require your most careful attention, and secure
it by first stating my proposition vaguely. Now thatyou are doubly
eager to follow. me I will make my meaning plain. The association
of certain places withparticular vocations is too well and universally
recognized to need more than mention. The student will work
with greater ease and efl'ect in his study, seated in a given chair,
occupying an accustomed position. Why? Because the room
has become saturated with the spirit of his labours, and that chair
occupies the centre of the radiation of past researches. From that
point everything around him has been saturated with his mental
creations, and in his accustomed place the spirit of the past rrnngles
with present effort and produces inspiration. A place set apart
soon begins to breathe the atmosphere of its association, and the
strengthincreases by use until it is easy to understand, for instance,
how complacentlyone
“
‘may smileat Satan’s rage
And face a frowning world’
when standing in a place which hallowed associations proclaim to
be a house of God—a very gate of Heaven. There angels gather
round and
“
‘In the secret of His presence, there is rest—sweet rest.’
Now if this principle of sympathetic saturation be applied all the
way round, it may be readily conceived how temptations to sin
derive peculiar force through the agency of the place in which they
are presented.”
“This is a new doctrine indeed,” I replied.
“It should and would not be if men would consider the plain
teachingof the Christ withthe same interest theygive to commercial
matters.”
‘
‘Why not?”
“Because Christ taught this great and important truth as clearly
as any other single point in His ministry, when He spoke of the
unclean spirit driven out of a man wandering in search of rest but
finding none. You remember how he returned to find his old
abode swept and garnished, but secured the assistance of seven
more wicked than himself to carry the position, and all dwelt there,
making the last end of the man worse than the first.”
“How strange that I have never associated that before!”
“It is iniquitous that men should continue to be so wilfully
blind, until they come here and the awful truth is practicallyforced
upon them. Then they wonder that no provision is made for their
escape from the consequences of their own neglect, and rave at
the injustice of sins of omission being treated as equal to those of’
commission.’’
“Oh, the terrible responsibilityof life!” I rather reflected than "-
expressed, but the effect was the same, for Ladas heard it distinctly.
“The failure to recognize and act upon the spiritual importance
of it is perhaps one of the most remarkableand indefensible follies
61
of the human race,” he replied. “As a commercial asset, life in
its physical phase is one of supreme value; even its adjuncts,acces-
sories, and parts are matters for which armies and navies are brought
into existence to defend; in its spiritual aspect the value is practically
nil; yet the former is evanescent, thelatter abiding;the one vanishing
even as we dreamed it away, the oher eternal as God Himself.
And the men who thus frolic with the shadow, while they neglect
the substance, call themselves wise. ‘We will visit some of them,
that you may see what they are after the shadow is lost, and the
plea of ignorance has received its just consideration.”
“Is the earth-bound condition, then, another name for hell?”
I’ inquired.
“No! It is in a double sense only the gate—the vestibule of
hell. In the earth-bound conditions: are received actively vicious
and openly rebellious souls who, having deceived themselves and
beingbound to earth by reason of their slavery to sin, thirst for and
determine to have revenge upon their fellows; hence their cup of
iniquity is not yet full, and in the violence of their passion they
elect to continue their evil course in seeking to effect the downfall
of others.”
“And are they allowed to do so?”
“Yes, every individual is free to do as he wills in that respect.
We have no barriers of restraint, thbugh all are continually and
faithfully reminded of the consequences of their action, and a
ceaseless watch is kept for the first sign of weariness in their futile
course. Then, when the measure of their sin is known, they pass
from hence to the real punishment of hell.”
“Then they do not actuallyendure sulfering here?”
“Most mercifully they do, or vague indeed would be the hope
of their reclamation! Every soul asit drops the flesh finds itself
possessed of a spiritual body which is the true essence of the life
producing it, and is only adapted to existence in similar conditions
to that which called it into being. As in the physical state fish
prefer water and birds the air, so here every soul gravitates to its
own place by virtue of adaptation. Here, however, lies the one
awful fact we must ever keep in mind or we shall misunderstand
everything: each individual soul on entering this life is strung to
the same exquisite delicacy of sensation; the brightest saint and
the vilest sinner are thus equally sensitive to the pleasure or torment
of theposition theyhave deliberatelyqiialifiedfor. In this provision
is manifest the perfect justice of God; So long as these rebellious
souls remain here and unrepentant, every act of sin brings about its
own immediate punishment, until the futility of their course works
towards repentance through despair, at the first sign of which we
intervene and the prodigal is carried away to commence the discharge
of the debt it has incurred in the remedial punishment of hell.”
“Then the actual penalty of hell does not begin here?” I gasped
in amazement. i
“How can it possibly do so?” the replied. “The liabilities
incurred cannot be ascertained until the arms of rebellion are laid
62
down; and God exacts strict justice, nothing more. Let me assist
you by pointing out the difference between the punishment endured
here and that of hell, then you will the better understand what it
is I mean. It is possible that the punishment of the present may
be equal to that the soul will there experience, but this is simply
an efl°ect immediately resulting from an act at the instant of its
performance, that cause and effect may be clearly traced, and the
mad career stopped. In the true hell a man is brought face to face
with the full account which stands against him, and he is called
upon for payment of both principal and interest. Whatsoever he
has sown he has there to reap, and the identical sin he is in process
of discharging remains visible before his eyes until it is blotted out
in his payment of it. That is the difference between this condition
and hell.”
“But what of all those who come over neither good nor wholly
bad, and those who repent in death?”
“They all go to their own place. Let me suggest a crude illus-
tration which will help you to understand this—the legend of
Mahomet’s coffin. If you will increase the number of coflins
indefinitely and consider Heaven and Hell to be the two magnets
acting with greater or less force upon each coffin—some for the
moment drawn down, others lifted up, according to varying degrees
of sympathy,you may conceive what I mean by a man's own place.
But you will need to introduce a new feature if the analogy is to
hold throughout.”
“What is that?”
“Whatever may be the first attractiveefi‘ects, theycannot remain
static, since the law of spiritual evolution demands that the lower
force must ever grow less and the higher increase, until all that
are in suspense are drawn into abidingrest around the one Eternal
Magnet. But come and see what thiscondition has to show you.’’
Thereupon I started upon a tour of revelation horrible, indes-
cribable, and of such exquisite torture that language has neither
strength nor colour to depict it——a veritable chaos of sin seething
in a cosmos of overruling law.
Every scene and group I beheld was one of wild, lawless, fiendish
passion, a foaming cauldron of iniquity, in which the foulest souls
appeared to be tossed uppermost, and maddened vampires fought
with frantic energy to reach and drag others into their awful, yet
not destroying, agony.
I trembled even for my own safety as I watched the scene, but
Ladas assured me of this by pointing out how the influenceof every
group was circumscribed to the spot which held it spellbound.
Beyond these limits—outside the struggling, fighting fringe of those
who in theriot had been pitched from thecentre to thecircumference
and clamoured to get back—a1l was order and quiet, where a host
of waiting messengers stood ready to answer any genuine cry for
assistance.
Nor were my observations limited to where I stood, but through
the porch of death I saw the other side as well; saw victim after
63
victim enticed within the fascinating circle over which the different
groups exerted unseen and unsuspected, but all the more deadly,
influence. Some wavered in doubtful uncertainty before they
timorously yielded; some came cuqiously forward, careless and
already half-inclinedto try their luck in the speculative uncertainty;
others seemed ashamed and anxious not to be seen and recognized;
while still more were boldly confident they were able to take the
plunge and come back enriched, unharmed. I heard the shout
which from our side greeted each new-comer, a shout his ears were
too heavy to hear, though he felt the force of the tempting influence
which went forth with it, also the sting of conscience which smote
him as the howl of success told of the‘punishment of his tempters.
Passion on earth makes men insensible to pain. Not so with us,
it makes the agony more acute; but such was the fury of the sin I
saw that it grew defiant even as the; soul quivered in its supreme
suffering, and fought to reach even more daring exploits. Hungry,
wolfish eyes glared with determinationto destroy; greedy, trembling,
twitching hands reached riotously out, impatient to drag down the
irresolute, though every soul well knew the greater scourge would
fall upon himself should he succeed. .
No, no! This is no poetic
rhapfody, but a true, if imperfect
and incoherent, memory of an awful experience which God in His
mercy granted to me that I may speak of it and shout its warning
to the sons of men. The fire of a Dante’s fervid imaginationwould
be as an iceberg compared with what my eyes beheld in living
exposition of the truths Ladas had previously expounded, and in
confirglationoftheneglectedassurance that‘theway of transgressors
is har .’ .
“Is there no possible way by which ameliorationcan be brought
to such overwrought agony?” I inqriired as my conductor led me
away from the scene of such excruciating torture.
“None! If any assistance could be of service I could summon
a thousand helpers for every suffering soul in want of it. But
what could such ministers do? See the number who are already
waiting to fulfil the office——hundreds waiting where only units are
required, and always at hand before the call for aid goes forth.
All that can be provided is as eagerly quivering to rescue as those
we wait to assist are impatient to destroy. Fortunately such
punishment is too fierce to be protracted except in very rare cases.
Pain, like toil, naturally conduces to weariness, and when the fever
of revenge and passion has run its course these spiritual prodigals
come to their right minds, learn what has happened to them, accept
the inevitable, and cease their useless warfare.”
“What do you mean by learningwhat has happened to them?’’
“Ah, that is an explanation I must make before you can truly
understand what you have seen. It might have been well had I
made it earlier, but it comes quite naturally now, and will make an
aftergleam of useful service. What I mean is that most of these
unfortunateswake up here withoutany idea of what has happened.’’
“Withouta consciousness of death?” I queried incredulously.
64
“Yes!
'
Without the shadow of a suspicion of it.”
“Is that possible?”
“Not only possible, but under the circumstances it almost
becomes natural that it should be so.”
‘ ‘
Will you explain how?’ ’
“Recall the nebulous confusion and ignorance existing on the
other side concerning death: the idea that it is possible for a man
to step red-handed from the gallows close to the throne,by accepting
a belief; that the moment after death a newly-born child becomes
perfected in all knowledge; that a death-bedconversion transforms
the vilest soul into a spotless saint; the doubt as to whether the soul
will or will not sleep till the day of judgement, when it will re-enter
its physical body and be caught up into the air to be for ever with
the Lord. Concerning the wicked equally contradictory and
irreconcilable opinions are held; they are at once consigned to the
,
custody of the devil and his angels, who torture them in the fires
of hell, from which there is no hope of escape; while, at the final
judgement, they are to be brought before the Christ to be judged as
to whether they are really guilty or not. Now, when these ideas
are accepted, and have the sanction of constituted authoritybefore
death, why should it be thought incredible, when, having made the
transition, the souls find nothing even remotely associated -with
any one of the expectations, it fails to understand what has actually
occurred?”
“
Still one can scarcely believeit possible.”
“Why? It is an experience often met with even beyondthe
earthconditions. Did you at once understand what had happened?’ ’
“No, I did not,” I had to confess, for I had fallen into the
common error pointed out by Zecartus of judging others by a
different rule to the one I used for myself. “But my passage was
so sudden—so unexpected, there may be some excuse for the
confusion.’’
“The confusion of the transit is not so dependent upon its
suddenness as upon the erroneous ideas as to what it will reveal.
Ignorance produces ignorance. Those who prefer to travel in
darkness cannot profit by the revelations light afibrds. The man
who takes his journey by night from England into Wales and sleeps
upon the trip, will wake uncertain as to whether the Severn Tunnel
has been passed or not, and naturallyinquires, ‘Where are we?’ ”
“But I scarcely thinkthe analogy holds.”
Giwhytzfi!
“In throwing ofl‘ the body so many changes have necessarily
taken place.”
“Had they not also occurred in your own case?”
“Yes, certainly,” I was again constrained to admit, to my
confusion.
“These changes were all related to externals,” he went on.
“You were, so far as your own judgement went, exactly the same
as before, and what had taken place was not so at variance with
the past as it differed from what you had anticipated death would
3—L.E. 65
reveal. Hence it was much easier for you to conclude that, in the
period of unconsciousness between the present and the past, you
had ratherbeen thevictimofa practicaljoke thanthatyou had died.’'
“I must confess thatyou are right.”
“That arises because this continuity of life grows so naturally
out of that which has gone before. Changes do, of necessity, take
place, but they are only such as dofling a physical garment and
assuming a spiritual, which is so much better adapted to the new
surroundings; and even this is not new, as in the sleep state every
soul has been accustomed to the daily change.”
“But that is not rememberedon the other side.”
“It might and ought to be so remembered;but to do this would
disturb established authority, and the man who advocated the
cultivation of such a channel of revelation and inspiration would
find himself driven to ascend a social if not a physical Calvary.
Nature, however, does not adapt her actions to the convenience
of ignorance: all her laws are supposed to be intelligently under-
stood. Let us push our inquiry just a little further. The sleep
state, then, makes every being conversant with the truth whether
it is remembered in the waking state or not. The only point we
have now to settle is, what is the actual difference between sleep
and death—and that is absolutely none. The man who falls asleep
dies so far as the process is concerned. All the difference lies in
the return or non-return of the soul to the body, not in its liberation.
This being so, you need no longer wonder that many of these
unfortunates have not yet learned what has happened.”
‘ ‘
I thankyou for your lucid and patientexplanation,’’
I returned.
“May I now ask for information as to first impulses on recovering
consciousness?’ ’
,“Yes. Would you prefer to watch such a case for yourself,
or shall I tell you of one I have just attended?” '
“I am not anxious to see more for the present than you have
already shown me,” I answered.
“Then I will take my last case as a very fair one to illustrate
what you ask. It is that of a man who commenced life as a clerk
in a broker’s oflice, where he held a contented and confidential
position for some years. Then temptation came, and after many
refusals, much dallying, and several corrections of propositions,
he at lengthconsented, not to betray his employer’s trust——he could
never do that: Honour forbade it! But for a substantial commission
he answered inquiries so equivocally as to serve the same purpose.
The commission so gained was then privately used in accordance
with the confidential information entrusted to him, and he began
to dream dreams of possible wealth along the lines he had chosen;
but his duplicity leaked out, and he_was discharged. Now he set
himself to realize his dreams in other ways, formed an ideal of
amassing a fortune of two millions, to which object he, step by step,
sacrificed everything, even life, for he was summoned hence when
he needed an eighth to reach the height of his ambition.
‘ ‘
Apoplexywas thecause ofhis transition, and I was in attendance
66
‘
when he regained consciousness. His first surprise was to find he
had awakened in a strange place, and he examined his body with
considerable suspicion, but remembering he had swooned in the
office, accepted the situation, and was anxious to get back without
delay, leaving matters to explain themselves as best they might.
You must now bear in mind thatto all earth-boundsouls the places
and people who occupy the scenes of their bondage are almost as
solid and substantial as ever, while they are unsubstantial and
invisible in themselves. It is this all-important but uncomprehended
difference which first bares their backs to punishment.
“He returned to his office to discover thathis absence had been
longer than he imagined, and that many unauthorizedand objec-
tionable changes had taken place in the interval; perhaps the most
outrageous being the quiet appropriation of his private oifice by
the manager, who appeared to be conducting business without any
reference to himself. He peremptorily demanded an explanation,
but his subordinate might have been deaf, dumb and blind in his
refusal to notice the inquiry. He stormed, raved and appealed to
others with precisely the same effect; then in a fury of rage, better
imagined than described, he rushed home. Here he fared far
worse thanin the city, for to his disgust and consternationhe learned
that his familyconsidered him to be dead, and he finallycame back
to us determined to find someone who would come to his assistance
by helping him to be revenged.
“You may find this experience more or less perfectly duplicated
in half the members of every group you may visit. Nor can we
render them the slightest service or assistance until the wildness of
their passion produces weariness, and they seek our help.”
“And is the earth enveloped with such a delirious crowd of
evil?” I inquired, beginning to see, as I never understood before,
the dangers of the weak and unprotected in the presence of such
maddened tempters to evil.
“No! If such were the case it would almost be fatal to the
ultimate triumph of good over evil. These scenes are the festering
pollutions of civilization, and the men and women who comprise
them are those who know the right but deliberately choose the
wrong in their greed for temporal success—wealth, position and
power. They knew their Lord’s will,but they did it not, therefore
are they beaten with many stripes. Much has been given to them
and much required in return, but having wasted their substance
and made themselves moral and spiritual bankrupts, that which
they have accumulated has to be taken away, and what you have
seen is the first part of the stripping process——the commencement
of the fire by which their souls must be purified.’ ’
‘
‘Withwhat terrible emphasis everythinginsists upon retribution
here!’ ’
I exclaimed.
“That is because you see law working out its justice—law that
is always and invariably inexorable. The fatal mistake of the
other side is to regard law as being inflexiblein its physical aspect
only,but in thespiritual sphere—thatis if it should exist here, which
67
is exceedingly doubtful—it is both capricious and easily evaded
by repentant promises to do better. No man who understands
the nature of dynamite will triflewith it carelessly,and yet dynamite
is harmless compared with the spiritual laws men ignore. There
is always a possible escape from dynamite, but not from law.”
“But your illustrationfails if these earth-bound souls are prin-
cipally the product of civilization,for dynamite will explode equally
in the hands of savage or cultured.”
“No. My analogy still holds. The explosive is a product of
civilization, and is inaccessible as its properties are unknown to
the savage. If, therefore, such an explosion occurred it could only
be by the dynamite being imported with some sinister intent, and
the responsibilityfor the disaster would lie with the importer, not
the savage. It is precisely the same with these groups of earth-
bound iniquity; every individual in all that awful host is entering
on the legally and perfectly just reward of the deeds done in the
body. But in further answer to your inquiry, let me point out how
every group is bound to a certain place in their aggregate action:
drunkards gather around taverns; gamblers on the race-course or
other places ‘devoted to sport’, and so on until you have located
every group; but apart from this collective grouping for greater
strength each individual has his own particular bond to the scene
of his personal transgression. As I pointed out in the case I have
described, much of the torture arises from the fact that the fetters
his conduct has forged compel him to witness—bound and helpless
—thefrustration of theproject for which he had forfeited everything:
to find thattheegg for which he eagerly gave his soul hatches nothing
but a scorpion to increase his own torment.”
CHAPTER VIII
ANGELS AND ANGELS
“IT is impossible for you during a single and brief visit to gain any
adequate conception of the enormous scope and, varying details
of our work here,” said Ladas in preparing to call my attention
to other features of his ministry, “but I will select one or two
suggestive points likely to be of personal service, and which at
the same time will indicate our far-reaching operations. Of the
vast resources at our disposal to ensure success I can suggest no
estimate, since these are only known to God, though the assurances
of the past warrant me in saying they are never failingand equal to
any demand thatmay be made upon them.
“Nor could I speak with systematic lucidity of the knowledge
I have gained from my long experience. We do not work by rule
or in accordance with any theoretical formula; if we did so the
68
process might be codified and studied at leisure. But while we
recognize the fact that sin proceeds upon certain clear and well-
defined lines, in ministering to the soul diseased we study each case
with the critical caution of a new development, rather than for
purposes of classification. God never aggregates, but always
individualizes. It is the one lost sheep we are most interested to
find. Though ‘God will have all men to be saved’, we never forget
thattheall is comprised of units, which must be reclaimed as speedily
and lovinglyas possible.
“This is the old gospel of Christ, which He carried to earth from
hence—‘the old, old story’ so unlike the old wives’ fables of earthly
origin, so like the conception of what a heavenly theme would be,
that all men sought for Him that they might listen to its music. It
is the Christ—song set to the self-same melody of loving devotion
to the needs of the lost we chant in our present ministry—the love-
song God composed to fascinatetheears of thosewho would become
«bondslaves of hell, and on the wings of hope and trust bear them
higher, higher, higher, until the morning breaks, the discord dies
away, sight is restored, and home is reached.
“Earth has broken the sweetest strings in the divine harp and
replaced them with unmelodious substitutes spoiling the melody.
In the garden of the Lord an enemy has scattered tares, choking the
flowers and poisoning the fruit, and the work of Christ has been
made of non-effect through false traditions. Thus the true pro-
clamation of the gospel has reverted to us again. The Christianity
earth has lost is the native life of immortality which the Father’s
love outstretched to plant below that men might earlier eat of the
fruit of the tree of life. Oh, that love of God! It could not wait
to manifest itself in redemption, but ran before to provide salvation
from a fall. It foresaw and anticipated the weakness and frailty
of the flesh, and yearned to set around the evolving man all possible
safeguards from the dangers of the animal nature he was naturally
outgrowing. So in the midst of the Eden planted in preparation
for the further development, love placed the tree of life beside the
river of the water of life, and its welcome shade offered holy rest,
the music of the water singing sweet lullabies,with the luscious fruit
of immortality hanging overhead, and the angels of the home—land
ascending and descending to counsel and advise.
“Such were the provisions of love. But away from the river
the garish fruits of sensuous desire were found. The animal instincts
prevailed, the habits and tastes of the swine-trough were stronger
than the feeble restraint of a newly-bornmorality; the new man fell
under the domination of the old brute, and the spiritual prospect
became obscured.
“The teachers of earth have fostered the idea that the tree of
life has ceased to exist, as if the eternal love of God had petulantly
changed to hatred on accountof thefrailtyofman. How impossible!
The tree of life yet stands in the midst of the Paradise of God, and
its leaves are everlastingly for the healing of the nations. The
fruit of that tree you will find in every sphere and region of this
69
life, and the ministry and potency of it forms the full employment
of all whom you will meet. Nothing has changed. The fruit,
the life, the music, the love, the angels, remain from everlasting to
everlasting, and the Father so loves that He will still consummate
His eternal purpose, and nothingcan be lost.
‘
‘I say theproclamationofthereal gospel of Christ has practically
been left to us now, and, perceiving that you are anxious to take an
active part in this revived ministry, I thinkI can serve your purpose
best by directing attention to a peculiar danger which lies in the way
of
ttllre re-opening of communication between ourselves and the
eart .”
“I shall be profoundly grateful for any advice you can give me
in that direction,” I replied. “Not that I know whether my hope
will be realized, but I would like to be well equipped if I should be
so honoured.”
“The irresistible power of the gospel as preached by Christ
lies in its harmony with natural law, which found its full inter-
pretation in the life He lived. God was in and working through
Him to reconcile the world to righteousness in the evolution of the
spiritual from the natural. The restless activity of life in Jesus
reached out towards the Christ, always using its present attainments
as a platformfrom which to reachto stillhigher possibilities. Modern
Christianity has departed from this primitive routine, forsaken the
personal demonstration of the Christ-life, and in its stead established
a human theory concerning that life, outlined and prescribed by
the fathers of the later Christianity in council assembled. This
man-invented form of godliness lacks the Christ-power to control
thelives of men, and religion has become a dry and witheredbranch.
Still, neither the unfaithfulnessof men nor the corrupting influences
of sin have frustrated the purpose of God. Angels are now reor-
dained to the ministry, who knowing and understandingthe working
of the law will use it, and thereby bring the world to Christ. But
in connection with this ministry even there is one danger we must
watchfully guard against.”
“Surely it is not possible for the ministry of angels to fail in
its purpose?”
“Quite! It is for this reason I wish to be very careful to make
you understand what I desire to show you. There are angels and
angels. Freedom to return to earth is open to all alike, and the
minds of men are far more in sympathy with those who are in the
earth conditions than those who are above them. This constitutes
the danger I wish you very clearly to recognize. The souls who
feel the first attraction to return and are more generally welcomed
are those who know nothingat all of real spiritual life and govern-
ment, but they speak and air their ignorance in a confusion of
tongues and teachings worse than that of Babel.”
“What, then, is to be done?”
“The victory has to be wrested from their grasp. Men are now
learningto appeal to reason ratherthanplacea blind trust in author-
ity, and an invasion of the earth is being arranged, as perhaps you
70
are aware, by thosewho are competent to set forth the whole law of
God and make the truth clearlymanifest.’’
Ladas, while thus preparing me for what was to come, had dis-
patched and received several messages, after which he explained—
“I am making inquiries as to
of this difliculty.
matter, but am anxious to show
allow you to draw your own conclusions.
where I can find a betterillustration
I would neither exaggerate nor mitigate the
you a fairly representative case and
Such an opportunity
is now open; come and watch what I mean for yourself.’’
As he finished speaking we had arrived
drawing-room of a prosperous
persons were assembled to take
the number two were clergymen
uncertain as to the legality of
other (Mr. Oldfield) assured him
than serious, and free from any
president of the local Spiritualist Association,
with the possible hope of securing a new and
meet the clergymen,
within the spacious
city tradesman, where some dozen
part in a spiritualistic séance. Of
; one (Mr. Newman) was somewhat
the proposed proceedings, but the
thathe would find it more amusing
objection. Anthony Mairn, as the
had been invited to
very desirable convert. The rest of the company comprised Arthur
Settle, the host, his wife, daughter, and friends who were all en-
thusiasticallycurious to know what would happen. The medium-
the half-uncanny centre of hope and uncertainty—was Madame
Hansbrac, a popular society clairvoyante, who had found a husband
to be somewhat inconvenient, and arranged to make him an allow-
ance in consideration of his not troubling her. There were no
children and little difficulty about coming to an arrangement, so
Madame left her home for a
well. She had a retaining fee
Settle for business consultations,
more fashionablelocation, and all Went
of three guineas a week from Mr.
and the present séance was a special
engagementfor which an additionalpaymenthad to be fixed.
These details are necessary
motives which gave background
Someonewillinquire how I learnedthese details.
question, and the answer to it
to indicate the underlying spirit and
to the whole proceedings.
It is a pertinent
throws a flood of light upon what
afterwards took place. Every mind in the room was open to our
inspection as an elementary class-book. We could read what we
would, turning page after page and searching at our discretion into
the secret and unguarded archives of the past, where lay any amount
of material for the manipulation of the two spiritual attendants
already waiting upon Madame
5‘ Just one word here as
- advantage of knowledge thus
i thatwe have every right to read
Hansbrac.
to whether we have any right to take
placed at our disposal, and I assert
all we wish to read therefrom,since
this is our natural source of all genuine information concerning
I
individuals. All judgementson the spirit side of life and all decisions
are based upon and determined by records written upon the soul.
I would call to mind how frequently I have previously pointed this
out. As an instance, in our recent conversation Ladas referred to
my wish to take part in the mission to earth which he had read from
my mind, as I have J
x
K v.
What is not right is to make use of the information so gained for
purposes of deception, as is too often done by mischievous and un-
reliable intermediaries.
“Did you ever try planchette, Miss Arbonne?" asked Miss
Settle during the fifteen minutes Madame always allowed for her
sitters ‘to establish the necessary harmonious condition for the
séance.’
“No, never.”
“Oh, but you should; it is thejolliest fun you can possibly con-
ceive. I have had my planchette properly dedicated-———”
“What is that, if I may be allowed to inquire?” asked Mr.
Newman.
“I scarcely know how to describe it. It is a kind of setting it
apart for the use of a particular spirit, to prevent others using it who
are not known.”
“Is planchette really any good?” asked her lady friend.
“It’s just delightful. You can ask all you wish about anyone
and it will tell you.”
“But can you rely upon its being truthful?”
“W—ell, perhaps not always; but I thinkit is right more fre-
quently than people admit.”
“Do you know,” said Mr. Newman to his clerical brother, “my
conscience does not quite agree with this intrusion upon the realm
of the sacred dead.”
“Because it’s new ground, my dear sir—new ground, and one
naturally treads it with diffidence. Wait awhile and you will lose
all your doubts in a wonderland Alice never had a chance to
enter.”
“You will commence with prayers, of course?”
“Oh, dear, no; if there was anythingchurchy about it I should
give it up at once,” replied Miss Settle with petulant definiteness.
“But, my dear young lady, do you consider the solemnityof the
occasion?” A
“No, I do not. Society does not go in for solemnities. I
thinkit time you clergymen consented to confine religion to churc ,
and allowed us to enjoy our amusements without interference."
This discussion was not exactly tending towards harmony, so
Madame requested Miss Settle to ‘ ‘
play somethingsoft and dreamy,’ ’
after which her clairvoyante descriptions and communicationsbegan.
I am, however, more interested to record what I saw than what was
said just now.
The various spiritual atmospheres had by this time blended, and
formed a photosphere enveloping the entire company, on the out-
side of which we remained undiscovered. The quality of the aura,
representing its true spiritual tone, may be described as a compound
of curiosity,amusement and doubt. There was no sign of aspiration
or spiritual desire from beginningto end of the performance.
Clairvoyance is a somewhat misleading term to apply to the
range of phenomenausually covered by thisname, since only a small
percentage comes within the scope of vision and by far the larger
72
portion are perceived, and the perception is more due to spiritual
aflinity than any particular sense. It was very definitely so in the
readings Madame gave in this instance, all of which, and many more,
were easilyobtainable from the mental aura by which the group was
enveloped, though I should be unjust to the medium to say that she
was conscious of the fact. She received impressions from some-
where which were interpreted with startling results to those whose
eyes were unable to see the visions open to my observation. This
information of men and things, so naturally given from sources
clearly outside those considered normal, were accepted as being
conveyed by spirit friends present and Madame neither aflirmed nor
denied the explanation. To her the gift she exercised was simply
a means of gaining a lucrative livelihood, and the satisfaction so
generallyexpressed meant increased business. The sitters were more .
thensatisfied—she had no reason to be otherwise.
But astounding as her revelations were to begin with, there is
perhaps no other phase in the whole range of psychic phenomena
that so soon grows monotonous. The medium watched keenly for
the first indication of this, when with a request for more dreamy
music she at once prepared for the second part of the entertainment.
Here she was thrown into the hypnotic sleep by the action of one of
her familiarattendants, a condition I watched for the first time with
much interest. When she slept and the music ceased, I noticed her
controlling genius make a suggestion, in reply to which the sleeper
started and assumed the character of a little mulatto girl known as
‘
Frisky.’ It was a curious combinationof a half-coy,half-precocious
child, biting thecorner of a handkerchief and shaking herself as she
spoke.
“Good evening, all of zou,” she began with a playful childish
lisp
“Good evening, Frisky, was the responsive chorus from all
who knew the impersonation.
‘ ‘
Well, a nd what have you to tell us, now you are here?’ ’
inquired
Mr. Settle.
“Oh, I has to tell zou, zat a lady will call to zee zou at zee shop
to-morrow.’’
“Do you know her name?”
“Zes, but I must not tell zou.”
‘
‘Well, what can you tell me about her?’ ’
‘ ‘
She has got a lot of money, and if zou is very, very, very patient
wis her she will buy a lot of nice things.”
“
Who tells you this?”
“Joey says I must tell zou.”
“All right, I’ll be careful to be patient with her. Thank Joey
for sending me word.”
“Oh, I zay! Look! look!” she exclaimed, pointing to Mr.
Newman. “Look at ze long face of Mr. Parson.”
‘‘I am very much surprised that you have nothing more than
these frivolities to tell us from the other side of death. That is what
makes me look so serious,” replied that gentleman.
73
“Is zou?”
“Yes,more surprised than I can make you understand.”
“If zou waits till zou comes on our side, zou will be more sur-
prised zan I can make zou understand.’’
“I can readily believe that, but can you not tell ‘us something
about it?”
“No! Frisky never speaks of such things, Mr. Newman, and
we don’t care for anythingcreepy-creepy, I can assure you. It will
be time enough to think about that when we get there——won’t it,
Frisky?” intervened Miss Settle.
“Zes, quite. Iz want to make zou happy.”
“Then tell me do you know anything about last Wednesday
night when I was in my room?” the same lady inquired.
“When zou went to bed?”
“Yes. Who pulled my hair?”
“I did. So as zou should know I was there.”
“Well, it was very good of you. Will you do it again?’’
“Zometime;but I mus’ go now.”
My first lesson regarding the value and effect of spiritual affinities
was over, contributing a fund of useful knowledge I was not likely
to forget.
“Do you now grasp my meaning as to the danger which lies
before us?” asked Ladas as we turned from the chosen scene of the
husks when a banquet of angel food had been possible.
“Yes, I think I understand you now. It is the working out of
the principle referred to by Christ when he said, ‘Every one that
asketh receiveth,’ and every man receives just what he asks for-
finds just what he seeks. I see it now as I never saw it before, and
shall not forget it. But you also said thatthe danger may and must
be averted.”
“It will be so; it is my confidence in this that prompted my
pointing it out to you; knowing what it is, you will naturallyavoid
it in your future intercourse; but at the same time I am equally
anxious for you to realize thatwhat has just occurred is not without
its value in calling attention to the existence of psychical phenomena
worthy of being inquired into. These frivolous and ignorant. in-
dividuals who represented our side in their proceedings, by their
close associationwithearthhave thepower and pleasureof producing
efl‘ects which appeal to reason and should tend towards inquiry.
So far theydo a necessary and preparatory work by laying a founda-
tion upon which the whole system of spiritual law may be erected.
What has to be done is to mind theinquiry does not stop at thispoint,
and thepossibilitiesbe cut short at thestage of amusement, curiosity,
or an application to unreliable fortune-telling. Here lies the true
danger to which I would direct your attention.”
“And how do you propose to avert it?”
“Myhanene would be a far better authorityfor you to consult
on thatpoint, since he is one of theleaders in the new forward move-
ment to that end. I may, however, indicate one direction it must
take. You noticed thattheemanations—spiritua1,mental, and moral
74
—of all present blended to form an attractionfor such spirits as were
the exact counterpart of the aggregation?"
‘
‘Yes,I very carefully noticed that.”
“The preponderating influence in all séances is contributed by
the person through whom the communications pass. The two who
have just been dominating the mind and body of Madame form a
stronger and closer connection with her at every such gathering,
unless she releases the bond by spiritual aspiration, and this active,
definite influencelargely controls and determines the character of the
indefinite nebulosity of all others who attend her séances. In the
new crusade, therefore, the first essential is to find men and women
whose moral and spiritual natures will reach high, and find minister-
ing angels among those who are free from all earth attractions and
alike competent and honest to speak of life as it really is and may be.
But I must now show you anotherillustrationof a very different kind.
You have seen how the frivolous and careless are attracted to each
other,you must also see how the malevolentgain theirascendancy.”
We entered the combined foyer and bar of a popular variety
theatre, where the lounges, chairs—yes, and even the counter—were
plentifully occupied with women, who formed an unadvertised but
well-known part of the attractions of the house: women wearing
model modes of court establishments, who displayed millinery and
lingerie with equal and tempting prominence to ensnare the foolish
and weak of that class whose purses were sufliciently heavy to
warrant their passing the artistically draped and almost closed
portiére. It was, on the surface, a picture of dainty and painted
wantonness few men would pass without, at least, a second look.
The physicaleye, however, is subject to restrictions-andable only
I
to see a section of the solar spectrum. Unfortunately, the mental
and spiritual vision——not naturally, but from deliberate intent
and purpose—is similarlylimited. Hence to those of earth but one
side of thepicture was accessible,but to myself bothsides were visible
with almost equal clearness. I may even go further and say that I
was able to see how the past and present were blended for purposes
of destruction and the future already outlined with startling and
suggestive horror. The scene was more than a repetition of what
I had previously witnessed, since the dead and living meet on equal
terms, each tempting and dependent upon the other, where only
God Himself could justly draw the line of guilt or—no, not inno-
cence, such virtue would be poisoned in passing the threshold of
this temptation. On the one side were the libertine, the roué, the
drunken and the wanton, stripped by the action of the tomb of their
gilded and masked hypocrisy—not so much men and women of open
depravity and sin (only too many of these are victims to the lust and
machinations of others)—but those who passed over the stage of
earth life socially enamelled and painted to conceal their moral
corruption and pollution; such had now found their true level and
fought with riotous frenzy to free themselves from the disgusting
bondage of tyrannous sensuality or take a wild but useless revenge
by immuring others. On theearth side were men who drank, flirted
75
and plotted to accomplish a downfall or with brainless perfidy
hilariouslybeardedthetempter in his lair; women who so far had only
fallen to the extent of the alluring excitement of the temptation,
suggestion, and moral atmosphere the place provided; young men
who had been innocentlydecoyed by intriguers anxious to gain some
nefarious ascendancy. But why need I go on stillfurther to enlarge?
In a word, it was a place where the leash was slipped from hell, at
the daring taunt of earth, to enter the lists of combat for the souls
of men and women.
Among the continual entrances and exits connected with this
sensuous and gilded attraction my attention was presently called to
two young men, or I had perhaps better say to a man who was still
young accompanied by a youth. Neither carpet nor portiére per-
mitted any sound to announce their coming, and I had seen a score
pass in and out without attracting attention, but when these two
entered there" was a momentary hush in the conversation, and with
one impulse all eyes were turned upon them. A chill swept through
the heated atmosphere, causing the women to draw their wraps a
trifle closer, but the effect was over on the instant, and the laughter
and talkwent on. The eyes ofearthsaw not what I beheld. Heaven
and hell were both conscious of it, but the veil of sin hung like a pall
where sight was needed most.
From therecord on thesoul ofeachI read theantecedents of these
two interesting men. The younger had just reached his majority
and freedom from his father’scondition thathe was to give implicit
obedience to his mother till such a time, or lose the comfortable
heritage bequeathedwith a good business still capable of enlarging
it. In thus controlling a lad of impulsive spirit the maternal task
had been no sinecure, and almost before time had broken the re-
straint he was anxious to be away and gratify his desire to know what
London really was. He did grudgingly consent to accept a com-
panion of his mother’s choice, but it salved her anxiety, since for the
father’s sake she could confidently trust the lad to the chosen
guardian.
This desirable overseer of the lad’s well-being was known as a
careful and honourable man in his northern home, averse by natural
temperament to excess and extravagance of every kind, which was
further safeguarded by church connection. He was, as I say, not
the lad’s choice, but with mental reservation had been accepted to
please the mother.
Had she been able to read and see as I had power to do, she might
have listened to the lad’s first objection, and even let him go alone.
Many men are ostensibly virtuous because temptation has not
assailed them at the point of least resistance, and it was so with the
trusted friend of this commission, who was discreet and abstemious
not so much from choice and principle as penuriousness. When,
therefore, all expenses were to be defrayed from another and well-
filled purse, the qualities for which he had been selected vanished
as a mirage, and the cicerone had tastes, desires and foibles much the
same as other men.
76
Fortunately,the mother’sgreatest practicaltrust was not reposed
in any arm of flesh—she had found a more impregnable refuge and
shelter in time of trouble, and by tearful prayers at the throneof grace
had throwna zone of protection round theboy able to resist even the
unfaithfulness of his supposed guardian. True prayer—comp1ete
confidence thatGod can and will do thatwhich is absolutelybeyond
ourselves if we only faithfullyseek it—has a long and powerful arm,
and under thecanopy it is able to spread all must be well withthelad.
Here lay the secret of his disturbing entrance into the foyer.
God had heard the prayer and given His angels charge concerning
the object of that mother’s solicitude. On either side of the youth
he was guarded by a messenger from a station higher than that of
Omra, shining in the glory of theirpower to turn aside all the tempt-
er’s assaults. The mother would save her son against himself, but
not being near at hand she had left him with the God she loved and
served, and God was faithfulto perform themother’srighteous wish.
But someone will remind me how often I have pointed out that
higher ministers assume a garb of neutral grey when brought into
contact with those in lower condition and ask—“Why did these
guardians of the youthnot obey this law?” I will explain. In all
cases I have hitherto referred to where this change has taken place
——as in that of Ladas and myself on the present occasion—thevisits
had been made either to assist or make observations. The two were
here present with this lad to protect and preserve him with the
temptations of lower agencies, to place him in opposition to and
enable him to rise superior to whatever temptation might assail.
He must be saved. His mother had left it to God—whose child she
was—to see to it thatit should be so, and her confidence was strong
to carry it to the desired effect. God would see to that.
The two sat down on either side of a small table and the waiter
came for orders.
‘ ‘
What willyou take?’ ’
inquired theelder.
‘
‘A small lemonade.”
“Won’t you have somethingin it?”
“You know I won’t.”
‘
‘I thinkI will. Give me just the least dash of brandy in mine.”
The waiter retired to execute the order, and at the same moment
one of the greedy, thirsty, tempting souls approached, driven to
reckless frenzy by his maddening inabilityto drink from the glasses
he had hitherto tried to raise to his lips. He was even quicker than
I to read that the guardian had relaxed his usual grip upon himself,
and flushed with the possible chance of conquest grew daring in his
approach. The defenders of the youth closed around him and
invited our co-operation.
‘ ‘
You are not an abstainer when in London, then?’’
remarkedthe
ward.
“I am never bigoted in my ideas; but to-night I feel a little run
down and need a pick-me-up. I should thinkit is ten years since I
tasted anything before.”
“Then I should not taste it now.”
77
“I thinkyou would if you felt as I do; in fact, I don’t believea
drop would do you any harm now.”
‘
‘What would my motherthinkif she heard your advice? Would
she believeher ears?”
“Your mother would have every confidence in my discretion,
Artie. The journey and hurry to get here, together with all the
bustle and excitement, have been almost too much for me. Then
again,” he added, holding up the just delivered glass, “see what
they have given me scarcely colours the lemonade. It is only just
enough to do one any good. Here’s to a jollyweek in town.’’
As he raised the glass to his lips, that earth-bound soul literally
threwhimself upon his victim, and while he drank there was a brief
but fearful contest for victory. The glass was emptied and set down
with an action of contempt at the paltry and childish draught, the
cicerone’s eyes burned with a strange ferocious light, and calling the
waiter he requested him with a peremptory voice to:
“Bring me a large Scotch, neat.”
His companion looked at him in speechless consternation.
What had taken place?
He who had beenchosen as a worthyguardian of an inexperienced
and somewhat passionateyouthhad fallen under the spell and power
of an earth-bound soul—in other words he had become possessed
of a demon, who had assailed the man in his weakest point and
conquered him. He had deliberatelywalked into the stronghold of
temptation, laid all arms of principle aside, held by a bare reed of
character to support him in leaning over the precipice of gratifica-
tion, and had toppled to ruin.
But the mother’s prayer had saved the lad.
There is no more to be said. I had taken my second lesson, and
learned from experiencethe strengthlent to sin by association. Had
not Christ the fearful consequences of this in mind when in His
exemplary prayer He found room for the petition: ‘Lead us not into
temptation’?
CHAPTER IX
WHO RULES IN HELL?
‘
‘CANyou see what theend of thiswill be?’’
I asked Ladas.
“No! That would require the peculiar gift of Zecartus, which
I do not possess, since it would rather hinder than assist my work.
There are two courses open to the man which I may point out to you,
but cannot ofl‘er any opinion as to which he will pursue. The better
way would be to admit his error at once, and ascertaining the real
cause of his weakness set himself to correct and retrieve his position,
carefullywatching against anotherslip. But the doubtful part about
such a proceeding is occasioned by the fact that it requires constant
78
efibrt, whereas his habit of life has been negligent indifferenceto the
moral weakness contributing so largely to his fall. It was a far
easier matter to avoid thanit willnow be to remedy the effects of his
collapse. On the other hand, if he does not exert himself to supply
this greater moral demand every future temptation will lead to
another and deeper degradation, because vicious habits combine to
destroy.”
“Could you not tell him so, and caution him?”
“No. He has made his choice and cut himself adrift from such
assistance. Had his religion been more than an empty profession,
when the tempter commenced the struggle you saw he would have
cried for help, of which there was more than suflicient at hand to
save him. But temptation blew the flimsy cloak of profession
aside, and exposed the real man ready to take a personal advantage
and gratificationat the expense of another—theexact afiinity of the
malevolent fiend who enveloped and readily subdued him. With
careless indifference he had prepared his soul to fall into such an
unsuspected trap, and he has to meet with his reward. No! 'We
cannot help him at present. He must first come to himself and dis-
cover how he has sinned, then he will find a thousand hands out-
stretched to lift him up. I have now given you two illustrations
of how these spiritual afiinities act; I would further point out an
instance of the present punishment these unrepentant souls have to
bear.”
He led me far from the madding crowd of both sides of life, to a
little place beside the sea. One of those delightful oases of life, of
which Heber sang, where
“every prospect pleases
And only man is vile.”
A few fishing-boats lay at rest in a miniature harbour. Nature had
arranged for thelittle colony of fishers, who could not afford to build
their own protection against the sometimes angry waves; and all
around a hundred gems of beautyhad been provided in vale, on hill,
or pastoral retreat. The homes of the fishermen nestled close to the
water’s side like constant lovers to the maidens of their choice, but
those men who by reason of success had forsaken their first estate
climbed the hill-side overlooking the bay, and erected more preten-
tious residences in an anxious desire to obliterate all traces of their
extraction.
Ladas conducted me to the largest and most assertive of these
houses, built by a man of cunning genius who had climbedfrom the
water side; one who, as a child, was the pride and amusement of
the little colony for his artfulness above the lads of his own age,
as in after-life he became its anxiety and sorrow by the exercise of
the same proclivity. As a youth he learned how to make more
money by wits than work—found that the man who could buy fish
was better off than he who caught them, and consequently left the
boat. Success was assured from the first. It was not a diflicult
matter for him to climb over the honest simplicity of the men he
79
had left, and he speedilybecamean influentialunit in the community
as well as in the church, where he was occasionally to be found
in the pulpit. He then began to lend money when times_ were
bad, upon a rate of usury and terms which presently caused half
the boats in the harbour to pass from fisherhands into his own
account of arrears of loans or interest, and with the transfer of the
boat, the boat’s share of every catch also went to increase his fortune
and impoverish the village. His loan department demanded a
clerk, and he engaged a girl against whose dead father the English
Shylock had been prevented from discharging a debt of revenge.
After a period of semi-starvation due to his paltry wage, he planned
and carried out her ruin, driving her from church, Sunday school
and home, to suicide. The village held its breath, but dared not
speak, and the church was blinded by a paltry donation. Then
came the stone-layingofthelong-expected ‘mansion’,in thepresence
of the President of the Conference and other religious magnates
who delighted to do honour to the man whom God had so highly
exalted among his fellows. Few men in that country-side had been
able to discover what a saint their Shylock was until the President
unfurled the banner of his envied success and waved it for the
emulationofhis hearers, as thereward oflarge-hearted righteousness;
but while strangers from a distance applauded, the men and women
of the villagegroaned inwardly.
It was a glorious, a cloudless day, that of the stone-laying.
Perhaps a little too bright—too warm, and just a trifle blatant in
its flattery, one or two suggested under their breath; and events
proved the opinion to be somewhat well founded, for the roof was
not on before the villagecircuit-steward was peremptorilyrequested
to make up his life’s account so far.
h
“Thou fool! This night shalt thy soul be required of thee;
t en——-—!!!”
It was the after of this “then” I beheld when the process had
been in operation for a number of years withoutcessation, modera-
tion or relief. The house, formerly the coveted goal of the man’s
ambition, was finished, and had become the prison-house of his
earth-bound soul. I have intimated how every furnishing of the
immortal home is the spiritual expression of some act, word or
deed of the previous life: it was even so here! Every detail of the
place assumed the embodiment of some usurious and unscrupulous
exaction, an open robbery of one who could not defend himself, the
memorial of a woman’s degradation, the food of underfed children,
the curse of a ruined family,a lie, an evasion, a theft clothed in
words of hypocritical regret, a pitilessrevenge, a cool determination
to crush success. His life had been a busy one—“A man has to
work if he would get on,” was his motto—and the harvest of it
was also a busy one. A thousand gibbering ghosts kept him well
employed with accounts he was compelled to debit himself with.
There was no escape. His unrepentant soul would not admit its
sin; but though the chances were against him for the present, he
would conquer them,and thentheworld should see what he would do.
80
Such was his rebellious determination when I saw him. His
mask was off, and the rays of his religion had long been lost. He
knew,he was fighting against God, but would fight till he won.
It was the most fearful scene of retribution I had so far beheld,
harrowing in its hopeless struggle to escape, while at the same time
raging withstubborn incontritibn. But the keenest pang he suffered
was the conviction that his punishment was seen and known alike
to all the dead and living who passed by.
Ladas did not speak in explanation, but left me to read the story
for himself and draw my own conclusions.
“Are you satisfied?” he asked presently. “If so we will go,
thatI may show you how we assist such souls when theyrepentantly
seek for help.”
We returned to the scene of his general labours, where we found
several of his fellow-servants intently watching a wretched woman
who had been overthrown in some ignoble conflict. She had fallen,
struggling and moaning in her agony, her hands convulsively
dragging at her hair and ears, as if she would tear them ofi‘ in an
effort to secure relief if only by a change in the nature of the anguish
from which it was impossible to escape. Suddenly she leapt to
her feet as if to dash into thefray again, but staggered backas though
the vision of another retribution confronted her. She gripped her
head between her hands, wavered, and then with a passionate cry
burst into tears.
“My God! my God! will this torment never cease?”
I had scarcely caught an indication of the exclamation before
she was surrounded and uplifted by the angels who had been in
waiting, among whom there were such tokens of joy as almost to
obscure the anguish of the supplicant. In that action I saw and
understood the anticipating promptitude which promises ‘before
they call I will answer”; I saw for myself how the everlasting arms
are continually underneath, needing but a repentant thought to
make themspring up and carry thefallen into a citadel of salvation.
“It is ended, my sister; this useless part of your suffering is
over now, if you will come away,” replied one of the ministering
host. -
“God is always more merciful to us thanwe are to ourselves.
He has already heard your cry, and we were sent in answer to it
even before it escaped you. Come, lean on us, and rest for a little
while, then we will guide you were no more useless pain can reach
you.”
“I cannot rest here!” she cried. “Oh, if you have any pity,
take me away from this unutterable agony!’’
“Come, then, and we will place you in the way that leads to
rest. How gladlywould we carry you thitherif that were possible,
but it is only in holiness that perfect rest is found, and the sins of
your past have so stained your life that you must needs be cleansed
before you can bear the presence of the purity for which you ask.
But God in His unutterable love for you has made a way by which
you may reach it, and with His own hand He will lead you therein.
Be not afraid. The worst is over now. Whatever pain may be
81
your future lot will be in purification and preparation for the rest
you seek. God is not angry with you—He pities, loves, and desires
to bring you to Himself. Even the punishment you have borne
was designed to turn you back from your course of sin to shelter
in His love, and what has yet to come will only be necessary to
rectify thepast. You rememberthe story Christ told of the Prodigal
Son—you willfind thatGod is just thesame in His actionto yourself;
He will meet you presently with a Father’s welcome and a kiss, and
will never allow you to go away’from home again.”
“Go on talking,” she pleaded. “I will come anywhere with
you if you will speak to me like that. You are kind! You do
not hate me! I can trust myself with you. You would make me
want to be good—thatis, if I could be good! Go on talking,please.
Yes, you may talk of God if you like; but do go on. If others had
spoken to me as you can speak, I should have listened—should
have learned to love God long ago!”
She spoke hysterically with long pauses, due to exhaustion,
between her jerky sentences; but the storm that had so ruthlessly
torn her was rapidly dying away, as the rescuing band carried her
further and further from the scene of her bondage. It was not
only the sympathetic words of the sister-spirit who spoke that
contributed to this desirable effect, but the atmosphere of love
and confidence by which the band surrounded her acted with con-
tinually increasing comfort, as they bore her into the more hopeful
condition of her own hell.
“We will not follow them,” said Ladas; “her case would
scarcely furnish you at present with a very clear idea of what the
régime of hell really is.”
Had the choice been left with me I might have followed, to
learn more of the woman who had so aroused my interest and
sympathy; but my guide was evidently pursuing a definite plan
for my instruction, and reminding myself how impossible it is to
follow anything to finalities where issues stretch into eternities, I
accepted his suggestion and crossed the boundary between the
two states in an opposite direction to that taken by the escort of
the newly-liberatedwoman.
Our new route led us into a land of comparative darkness,
dangers and pitfalls, noisome and full of fears, in which men and
women wandered like frightened shadows anxious to be avoided
even while they cried for help and pity.
We had scarcely effected the crossing before I heard a cry which
sent a shiver of horror through me.
“Help! Help! I’m blind.”
For answer I heard an echo of laughter.
“What is that?” I inquired.
Ladas called my attention to a woman at a little distance.
“She desires to reach some place where she can feel safe, but
that is impossible because she has no confidence even in herself.”
“Why so?”
Ladas studied her carefully for an instant before replying.
82
“She is an example of the hell of moral cowardice. (_)n earth
she possessed wealthwhich was lavishlymisused in the vain imagina-
tion that she was atoning thereby for neglect of womanly duties.
She dreaded anything unpleasant, and having gold, thought she
was warranted thereby in escaping from everything having the
slightest approachto thedisagreeable. For thesake of her donations
she was humoured in her harmless ideas, and assured that it was
not necessary for her sensitive feelings to be tormented. God
would accept of her service by deputy. Now you see her when
the privilege of gold has been lost, in a region where pitfalls of
class distinction and noble birthabound on every hand, and moral
cowardice has developed into total blindness when the keenest
of sight is required to escape a thousand real tortures born of her
former ignoble and unworthy fears. We cannot help her. She
deliberately designed her own hell, and must now occupy it until,
having discharged the last farthingof the debt its erection incurred,
she will receive her discharge in the restoration of sight and be
able to find her way to the safety she desires.”
After this I beheld an agony I shall make no useless effort to
describe. It was the reward meted out to one whose ‘inhumanity
to man’ marks, probably, the low water-line of sin’s depravity:
Nero, the voluptuous and petulant matricide of Rome. Those
who would attempt to gain an insight into thisvision must not forget
that in hell an inflexible and inexorable justice for every crime
committed has to be separately met and discharged; also that the
soul of the foulest criminal in the discarnating process is rendered
as sensitive to suffering as that of the brightest saint is attuned to
the harmony of joy. There is but one standard of feeling in the
after life, and every soul is strung to its accurate concert pitch.
Now try to estimate the offences to be atoned for in this particular
case, and if you can justly do so, make the calculation as to the
balance that yet remains after what has hitherto been endured,
and the present condition of the soul upon whom the lash of justice
is yet falling.
Such, if ascertained, will give a faint idea of hell.
I had no wish to prolong my stay in the presence of such torture,
every touch and exaction of which was but the just repayment of
what its recipient had inflicted in cool blood and sarcastic ridicule.
Nor did I care to push my inquiries further into the adaptation of
hell to the variety of penalties it has to claim as the steward of
Divine justice. I had seen enough. If only earth could see the
vision before me it would form a plea for righteousness of life and
conduct such as mortal ears have never listened to.
“It seems almost incredible,” I remarked to Ladas, “that a
iliifan can earn such a punishment in the few short years of one
e.!9
“It is a striking declaration of the powers of a man for good
or evil,” he replied. “It is no part of my mission to disturb or
intrude upon thiswretched man, or I might have called your attention
to the chart always hanging before his eyes whereon he may check
83
and locate every individual pang he endures. He can see what
he has already discharged as well as that he has yet to pay. There
can be no dispute as to overcharge or injustice in any instance.
His memory and conscience sit as assessors in the case, and theycan
accept no bribe, nor depart from righteousness in any award they
may have to make.”
“The helplessness of the condition seems to increase the horror
of it, but it is some relief to see that he is neither bound nor shut in
with prison doors.”
“There is no need for these things,” replied Ladas. -“He
is his own guarantee against escape.”
“Do they never attempt it?”
“No! Hell is not a place of revolt, but resignation to justice,
and every soul within its wide dominion has learned from experience
that the love of God is as powerfully present here as in the highest
Heaven. This recognition occasions, perhaps, one of the sharpest
pangs of hell—remorse that one has so basely sinned against such
unchanging afiection, which still pities where one would look for
well-merited revenge. Here sin is brought clearly home to the
sinner as a wilful and deliberate act against what is known to be
right, or an equally criminal refusal to protect the right, and the
purpose and mission of hell is understood to be the best eternal
love and wisdom can devise to effect a complete redemption from
sin preparatory to the assumption of Divine sonship. The first
stage of life has been woefully misunderstood, misdirected, mis-
applied; men, in their ignorance, have presumed to interpret eternal
laws by the light of so-called human justice, which may be trifled
withand is largelyinfluencedby speech, caprice or other wea knesses
of earth. Because God does not erect a tribunal in every market-
place and bring each ofiender forward to immediate and public
chastisement, it is imagined that sin is only punished in theory,
and daring trespassers lift their heads high, and race with breathless
speed from sin to sin. In all this men only add to their condem-
nation. They know and admit that natural laws are not subject
to caprice! You cannot bribe a fire not to burn a child, nor hold
it responsible for doing so on the ground of the child’s ignorance.
It is the nature of the fire to burn——it is also the nature of sin to
punish. No man can play witheitherwithoutpayingtheinseparable
penalty. The inferencedrawn from delay in regard to thepunishment
of sin is equally fallacious, and in this again men become the most
damaging witnesses against themselves. When a criminal is con-
victed on earth humanity protests against the infliction of his
punishment in public, and mercifully decrees that the same shall
be carried out within the precincts of the house of correction. Hell
is God’s house of correction, modelled to rescue the perishing and
lift up the fallen; and so true is it to model that no soul yet passed
its portal but would fully and freely make the admission ‘I have
sinned’.”
“Not one?” I queried.
“No. Such a thing would be impossible. Let me call your
84
attention to a forgotten or neglected gleam of light Christ threw
upon this point in His parable of Dives in hell. The rich man was
so conscious of the presence of love and sympathy as to believe
the boon of cooling water would be granted him, and when he
found the condition was beyondthe pale of justice, his mind turned
instantly to the salvation of his brethren.”
“I never saw it in that light before.”
“We have all much to see and understand before we fully know
the true choral of the gospel Christ proclaimed,” replied my
companion.
“Is the system of isolation general?” I asked, my inquiry being
prompted by the two instances I had seen.
“No. The method of treatment varies as widely as the sin
to be atoned for.”
‘-‘With such a perfect law in undisturbed operation one almost
wonders what remains for the Devilto do.”
“What devil do you mean?” he inquired, with the deliberate
and musical softness of voice he employed when most seriously
emphatic.
“I mean the great arch-enemy of mankind.”
“The archangel who fell from Heaven?” he suggested.
“Yes; Lucifer and all his host.”
“Have you ever given one moment’s thought to what the effect
of such a disruption in Heaven would be, if it were true?”
“If it were true!” I gasped. “Why, of course it is true.”
“Why of course?” he asked.
‘
‘Because~well—it must be! We know it is.”
“Say rather that you have been taught to believe it is. You
cannot know, because it is not true! The story is an invention of
priests as part of a justificationfor the existence of their cult. The
whole fabric of priestcraft is built up of error and immortality.
God’s messages to earth are always conveyed through inspired
lips of prophets, not symbolicallyrepresented by types, ceremonials,
and ritualistic vestments. The sacrifices He ordains are passions
subdued, selfish advantages forgone in favour of another,thetributes
of filial love offered to Him through ministry to suffering. His
chosen altar is that of pure devotion set up in humble hearts; His
temple is a life consecrated to His service in humanity. Christ
was a prophet and was crucified by the influence and hatred of the
priests, a fact which ought for ever to have sealed the doom of the
usurping cult for which He had no words but condemnation of,
and towards which He always maintained an attitude of defiant
opposition as being the product of hell——the symbolism of which
is (as priestcraft rejoices in symbolism) error, misconception, and
need of correction.”
D “1But do you really mean me to understand that there is no
evi ?”
“I do. I have never found such a being yet, and if he did exist
I should have met him many times in the course of my mission.
But let me ask you to consider for a whfle what the existence of
85
such an individual means, then you will quickly understand what
an impossible, absurd and altogether inconceivable condition of
things would be necessary to accommodate him.”
“If this is true all other revelations I have received sink into
insignificance beside it.’’
“Leave that for a time. And going to the very beginning of
the fabrication, consider for a moment how such a fall of angels,
as he originated in, would destroy the possibilityof Heaven.”
“How so?” _
“If his supposed rebellion ever did take place, Heaven would
be more free from the presence of sin than earth. Where would
be the perfection and assured holiness of it, since sin had once
generated in the mind of one standing next to God? Such a fall
would banish rest and confidence for evermore, and without these
Heaven could not exist.”
“It does seem so.”
“Again,” he resumed, “the supposition of the existence of
such a personality is a blasphemyagainst God.”
“How?”
“Because had such a fall taken place it was not only foreknown
to God but also foreordained by Him, or He is not omniscient
and omnipotent; while if He did ordain it and does possess these
attributes He would neitherbe holy nor true. Hence it is impossible
for a Devil to exist and God remain. Righteousness forbids it;
it is a contradictionin terms and irreconcilable.”
“But the doubt arises whether the moral difficulty may not be
solved at depths the mind of man has not power to fathom at
present.”
“Some problems are necessarily of such an order, and will
require a flight of ages before we can grasp and understand them,
but thisis not such an one. It is a perfectly safe deduction to make
thatwhat is opposed to reason and truth within the limits of human
understanding can never be reconciled to them on the outside.
For instance, nothingwill ever make two lines drawn at right angles
run parallel, and this is exactlythe figure represented in the co-exis-
tence of God and a Devil. As I say, the two are a contradiction
in terms and impossible of reconciliationin the region of intelligence
either now or hereafter. It is vastly different with an inquiry, for
instance, into the nature and substance of God—assuming that
He does possess substance—in which case we may confidentlyhope
that the future holds such knowledge the present has no power to
reveal. But this question of the existence of a Devil starts philo-
sophicallyat right angles with every moral quality of God, and the
further we pursue the inquiry the more hopelessly does it become
involved in contradictions. The only mystery about it is that
intelligence can so long look upon the tradition as worthy of
consideration.”
“Of course, you are now speaking from the higher knowledge
afforded by experience here.”
“Even though I did speak from such a position Christ has
86
demonstrated the fact that our knowledge is available for those on
the other side; but honest inquiry is all that is required for any man
to explode such a proposition for himself. Priestcraft knows this
only too well, and for purposes of self-preservation forbids any
inquiry unless accompanied by priestly interpretation. You and I,
however, are beyond ecclesiastical jurisdiction, and since I like to
root up error beyond all possibilityof future trouble, let us look a
little further into this question, of which we have as yet scarcely
touched the fringe. According to the tradition, the object of Lucifer
in stirring up his rebellion in Heaven was to secure more power
than he already possessed. Milton says:—
“
‘aspiring
To set himself in glory above his peers,
He trusted to have equalled the Most High,
If He opposed, and with ambitiousaim
Against the throneand monarchy of God,
Raised impious war in Heaven, and battle proud
With vain attempt.’
The contradictions of this priestly fable now come fast and furious,
and one can scarcely pick the semblance of a logical course through
the labyrinth of absurdity. Did Lucifer make a vain attempt?
Before his rebellion he was an archangel wanting power equalling
thatof God. What did he lose in his failure? His placein Heaven,
for which he was never fitted by reason of his inward impurity.
What did he gain? A throne—ifnot the one he aspired to, it was
still a throne——with one-third of the host of Heaven to obey his
mandate; he gained liberty from service and rose to be Prince of
the powers of the air, and God of the world, which by his revolt
he wrested from the hand of its Creator. To secure the redemption
of this world God is supposed to consent to the murder of His own
innocent Son by which all the previous follies, inconsistencies,
immoralities and difliculties are sought to be rectified and put
straight, but in what way this is to be accomplished no one has
ever been able to explain. Meanwhile the Devil goes on holding
jurisdiction as though no atonement had been made, and by far
the larger part of humanity falls to his share, and God is unable to
avoid it. Surely I need say no more of such a false and immoral
proposition, alike an insult to intelligence and a blasphemy against
the love and wisdom of God.”
“Then the whole system of theology has to be thrown aside,
for without the Devil it all goes to pieces.”
“It is not the aspiration of seeking to know somethingof God
we disclaim, but the worse than fruitless error of forming enslaving
dogmas concerning Himupon speculative philosophies,and teaching
these to the world as God’s revelation concerning Himself, using
the name of Christ as an authorityfor so doing. It is for this
reason the ministry of earth has failed, and the declaration of the
truth has reverted to ourselves. Neither house nor kingdom
divided against itself can possibly stand; and God reigns alone
87
in Heaven, in earth, in hell—always and ever the same a/I-mighty
to save. To us and all through the created universe there is but
one God, and beside Him there is no other.”
CHAPTER X
NEARER TO THEE
“Come now apart with me and rest awhile!
Rest in my peace—I fain would have it so.
Pillowthyhead upon my loving breast
Where none may come but host and favoured guest.
So come thatwe may love’s deep fullness know.
Long have I sought thee, long have loved thee well.
Have known thee, though by thee I was unknown!
Come now apart, thatI myself may show-
May speak with thee whom I have loved so
And win thylove, and make thee all my own.
Come, come with me and know divinest love:
Its joy, its bliss and rapture unexpressed;
Its height, length,breadthand depth—itsheaven;
Its power o’er death; its peace for tempest-driven;
Its rest eternal! Come with me and rest!”
AFTER my tour in company with Ladas I was very desirous to be
alone. So far in my new life I had met withno one who had spoken
to me so unreservedly of Christ, and also sought to base all he said
upon the simple teaching of that great authority. He seemed to
possess a mysterious power—by his manner and method of teaching
—of reducing all I had previously seen and heard into an orderly
system in which it stood forth as a consistent scheme I had hitherto
failed clearly to comprehend. I had never doubted that such a
system did exist, but I had not so far grasped it until, under his
guidance, all uncertainty vanished and I stood entranced before
the revelation of divine law and order, which silenced and over-
powered me with its majestic beauty.
I could now understand the necessity for this surprising silence
about the Christ being so long maintained. Ladas did not leave
the Master more than any of the others who had done so much for
me. It was rather that the fallow ground within myself needed to
be broken up and prepared to receive the seed he had sown with
such forceful illustrations. All had been workers together to
secure the result, each had faithfully performed his part, and the
joy and reward of the harvest would be equally shared.
I was not presumptuous enough to imagine that I understood
in detail all that Ladas had laid before me, but the perplexing and
confusing mists had been so far dissolved as to allow me to trace
88
a definite outline in God’s purpose. That outline I now perceived
swept and embraced the whole are of creation, and required the
three estates, earth, hell, and Heaven, as in the solar spectrum the
three primary colours are blended in the softening gradations of the
inter—sphering tones, all of which are necessary to produce the
light of day. So that great spiritual spectrum began to blend-
or I beganto comprehend the blending——intothe unity of theeternal
day of the greater Fatherland. Both earth and hell were equally
necessary to the plan as Heaven and the love of God was manifest
alike in each.
The relationship theyoccupy now stood in legitimate perspective:
Earth as an educational establishment in which man is intended
to learn obedience to paternal control and receive training in the
use and exercise of his divine potentialities;Hell, an equallynecessary
provision for the chastisement and correction of infraction of
discipline and failure to make a suitable preparation to discharge
the duties of the future; and Heaven, the Father’shouse and natural
home of the soul, where we shall all gather after the educational
course is over.
I have here changed the figure of hell slightly from that in which
Ladas used it, but it is equally consistent; or if agreeable it could,
with the same force, be considered as a hospital for sin-sick souls;
in neither case can a claim be set up to detention beyond the pur-
pose for which the place has been established, and since the idea
of death has been eliminated, the Father will see to it that the last
jofthe lost ones shall be sought for, if occasion arises, “until He
ind it.”
This is the destiny of the human race, because God is all-mighty
and “willhave all men to be saved,” for “as in Adam all die, even
so in Christ shall all be made alive again.” The scope, provision
and power of God’s redemption is wide enough to rectify the work
of sin, and it must do so, since there is none able to stand against
Him.
We may not be able to explain the process by which every tangle
in life will be resolved, but God understands, and we may safely
leave it there. The best man on earthcan onlysee thefabricweaving
from the underside; how can he see and understand the complex
minglings in the wonderful design?
“God sits in the calm of eternal power
To guide the loom of the life of man;
He sees its warp and weft each hour
Weaving some part of His infinite plan.
He knows the use of its countless threads——
Each costly tint in the rich design;
And the shuttles are thrownwith matchless skill
For thehand of the Weaver is Divine.”
Don’t be afraid: God is working His own design upon His own
loom. All must be well!
’
This readjustmentof the attitude of hell, how it sweeps confusion
89
from the pilgrim’s path, allowing the scheme of salvation to stand
forth in natural consistence with the eternal love of God, and opens
vistas of more than hope to encourage those who are faithfully
toiling in the vineyard. The heart grows strong and courageous
under the inspiration of the strains of victory now, and we under-
stand where the undeniable emphasis lies as we read anew the
promise——“He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious
seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves
with him.” How often in the other life did I hear it said—--“He
that stands alone with God, stands with the majority,” but from
the earth point of view I could never see it. The true light had
come at length, and the axiom was now as clear as noonday, for
God is all in all and patiently works towards the end. He saw
and appointed from the beginning. Earth, death and he1l—if
we deliberately elect to journey homeward by the latter route-
are each and all stages in the pilgrimage, in which there is but one
terminus where the Fatherawaits us. As long as there is an absent
prodigal the paternal eye will be scanning the distant horizon,
ready to go forth to meet the lad who remembershome and comes
to ask if but for a servant’s position.
That the elder brother may take offence will have no weight
with the rejoicing parent. The lad who comes through hell and
from the company of devils, if you will, is a son after all, and the
Eqrturesl he has suflered will both discharge his debts and purify
1S sou .
As I thought of this the words of my poetess friend came back
to me with more striking force than when I first heard them:
“Oh! ’tis not as men would teach us—-
Just one step from earth to God;
Passing thoughthe death-valeto Him
In the garb thatearth we trod:
Called to praise him whileaweary,
Or to sing whileyet the voice
With earth’s farewell sob is broken——
Could we fitly thus rejoice?
No! We wait to learn the music;
Wait to rest our weary feet;
Wait to learn to sweep theharp-strings
Ere the Master we may meet.
Wait to tune our new-found voices
To the sweet seraphic song;
Wait to learn the time and measure,
But the time will not belong."
Whichever way the mind turned in contemplation the horizon
lay away in the definite—evermore. Looking backward one could
trace the patient, loving, protecting care of theFatherin every step
of the pilgrimage, not only to the mythical Eden, but away down
the avenues of time, too vast for human estimate, until sight failed
where it saw Him bending over the Moneron and covering with
90
His omnipotence the helpless nucleus from which in coming aeons
He would bring forth a family Divine. Then looking towards the
future, even the stronger light lent by growing knowledge failed to
bring the goal into sight. Who can measure such a distance? If
the mind fails to say how long has been the pilgrimage from the
Moneron to the Man, how is it possible to conceive the far greater
distance which divides the man from God? And yet we have been
seriously taught that when a dying thiefcame to the dividing line
between the two he placed his hands thereon and vaulted over
like an athlete taking a gate! How different is the truth from the
traditions of men! To scale that stupendous precipice of light
which rose before me neither hands nor feet would be of least avail,
and I knew I had to wait until the uplifting powers of purity and
holiness were strongly developed, the rudimentary forms of which
were scarcely yet discernible.
“Eternal Light! Eternal Light!
How pure the soul must be,
When placed withinThy searching sight,
It shrinks not, but with calm delight,
Can live and look on Thee.
0! how shall I, whose native sphere
Is dark—whose mind is dim,
Before the Ineffable appear,
And on my naked spirit bear
That uncreated beam?”
One stands with unshod feet beside the saintly Binney as he
humbly makes this inquiry, and the consolation we receive in reply
is “God knows.” That is sufficient. We may rest in that. He
is the author and finisher of the course. He planned the whole,
markingits times and seasons, according to His perfect knowledge
and wisdom. His time is best. It is for us to be careful not to
delay. It is for Him to lead us by the way He knows so well. Ages
are but as pulse-throbswhere the day is an eternal one. The infinite
cannot change. There can be no late arrivals where time does
not exist. The soul that keeps step with the"love-march will move
forward in the atmosphere of Heaven, its cup of joy overflowing
all along the way. What more can it desire? As we grow the joy
will increase, but we can never be more than full, and if we are so
abundantly supplied by the way, is it not an added happiness to
thinkthat the end is yet so distant and unseen?
And then to thinkthat in all creation, past, present and future,
there is not one single soul outside the scope and operation of this
design. He will ‘‘leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness and
go after that which is lost until He find it.” Do you grasp this?
Ye who could not agree with me when I said earthly relationship
did not exist in Paradise, do you not see how much grander, nobler
and wider is thelaw of God? Not onlyyour brother,father,husband,
wife, son and daughter are brought in; but every brother, father,
husband, wife, son and daughter must come with them, that God
91
may be all in all. That is what we shall find Heaven to be when we
reach it. Is it not like what a Father-Godwould do?
How all this contrasts with the man-made idea of Heaven and
hell, with the latter holding the larger half of humanity, and the
denizens of the former looking over the battlements and deriving
an increase of joy from watching the torments of the lost!
But enough of this. The mind turns with loathing and disgust
from such a contemplation. No wonder the expounders of such
inhumanity find their pews empty and intelligence turning from
church to nature’s inspiration.
In this reverie I would let the Master have the last word. ‘Take
My yoke upon you, and learn of Me: for I am meek and lowly in
heart; and ye shall find rest unto your souls.’ Rest! Ah, how we all
need it! It is found only while yoked together with Christ. A
priestly yoke, however gorgeous, will be irksome and wearying. It
allows no feeding in green pastures, no refreshment beside still
waters, but in the ecclesiasticalvehicle to which you are harnessed is
carried the authorizedprovender supplied by church fathers long
centuries ago and supposed to satisfy every demand until all men
have crossed the Jordan. But the yoke of Christ is easy and His
burden light, because He trusts in God and prays ‘Give us this day
our daily bread,’ and will do the same to-morrow and every day.
‘Sufficientunto the day is the evil thereof’ is His rule of life, and the
dailyneed for food keeps Him close to the Father,upon whom he is
dependent for supplies. Fresh food for growing souls is His constant
care. ‘Man does not live by (Wheaten) bread alone, but by every
word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God,’ and Christ would
have us eat such food warm withinspiration, not break our spiritual
teeth trying to masticate the fossil bread baked by ecumenical
councils. Christ was a prophet, not a priest, and the wells of salva-
tion from which He draws the waters of dailyrefreshment never run
dry, but, like God, who sank them, are ‘the same yesterday, to-day,
and for ever.’ ‘Stoop down and drink and live.’
‘Come ye apart with Me and rest awhile.’ ‘For God so loved
the world ’
“So loved! So loved! I can say no more!
Its music-yachtdrifted close by me,
I was dream-enwrapped as I stepped aboard
And the ‘Peace of God’ put out to sea.
With the flowingtide in a holy calm
Each wavelet kissing us on and on,
As I leaned my head on the Master’s breast
So loved! Enough! He and I were one.”
CHAPTER XI
A LESSON IN CREATION
LET me hope the foregoing experiences with the lessons I have
attempted to draw therefrom will show that I have anythingbut a
loose conception of sin and its consequences.
92
Turning now to other scenes, I would here relate an incident
serving to show how Paradise is adapted to undertake, where neces-
sity arises, the whole of the educational work connected with a soul
which earth is supposed to perform.
I have more than a passing pleasure in doing this, because I am
sure thata glance at thegreat work of educating children on our side
will be of genuine interest to my readers; and second becauseI would
combat an erroneous idea gaining ground in the minds of some that
an almost endless series of re-birthson earth is demanded to explain
‘some of life’s most puzzlingproblems.”
It will be altogether impossible to deal exhaustively with the
question of reincarnation at this time, but let me brieflysay that it
is a subject for which in my earth life I felt much sympathyand have
made wide inquiries concerning it since crossing the boundary, with
"thisresult: among thesouls who are stillsubjected to earthconditions
——from whom all experiences have to be received with caution, and
not acted upon until theyare confirmedfrom more reliable sources—
there are many who honestly think reincarnation to be a fact, and
teach it to be so; among those who have passed away from these
conditions and learned to accept truth for its own sake, who know
and study,‘tracing origins and sequences many of them through
unsuspected ages beyond the rise of history, I have been unable to
meet with one holding the theory of re-birthto be true. The origin
of the idea is to be found in savage superstition. Without a definite
knowledge of immortality and equally certain that there is more in
man thansimply body, it has always beena problemto the untutored
mind as to what happens when the body ceases to breathe and
begins to grow offensive from decomposition. The philosophy
of ignorance is alwaysexpeditious, and thesavage solved the problem
by allowing a new-born child to inhale the breath of a dying man,
and the departing life was thus provided withanotherbody, in which
to continue its existence. From this crude beginning the idea of
transmigration of souls has been worked over and over in various
ways with much philosophical reasoning and speculation, but it
stands still where we found it—a baseless superstition, alike at
variance withthe law, love and purpose of God.
I am not at all unconscious of the fascinationof the subject, and
would, for this reason, willinglycontinue the discussion of it were it
reasonablywithinthe scope of my present purpose. But it not being
so, I must resist the temptation for the present, with the hope that I
may return to it at some future time. I might, however, here call
attention to theunstudied side-light which is necessarilythrownupon
the question by the record of my general experiences, the which I
think will show with some degree of reasonable clearness thatGod
has made provision to meet every just requirement thatcan possibly
arise by far more expeditious and less cumbrous means than such a
circuitous and hypothetical system.
It must always be borne in mind thatall therequirements of God
from men are based upon justice. To expect perfection to be pro-
duced by imperfect conditions would be to expect the impossible,
93
hence the attainment to Nirvana in the flesh would be a condition as
unrealizable as stepping, in the mortal body, from earth on to the
surface of the sun. Let us begin to be reasonable and appreciate
thefactthatevolutionfrom the human to the Divine must proceed in
the future according to the law which has governed the past. We
have still to climb from step to step, and as we go, must perforce
be continually dropping the lower until by imperceptible gradations
we ascend to the goal. In this process it must needs be that this
corruptible must put on incorruption, and this ‘mortal must put on
immortality’ before we reach the zenith, and the eye bear the sight
of that uncreated beam. From this handicapping limitation of the
flesh the incarnated soul cannot free itself. It is a house of bondage
from the influenceof which one can only be free by breaking away,
and ten thousand births would furnish no increase of advantage,
especiallywhere thememory ofall thathas gone beforeis not available
for guidance.
Like all man-made systems, the speculation of re-birth is a
weariness and confusion to the mind, without a place of rest in its
ceaseless struggle to escape a spiritual Scylla on the one hand and
Charybdis on the other.
God has provided a better way than this, to one phase of which I
would now invite your attention.
There was a world of meaning, of promise, of hope, in thatcom-
mand of Christ to His disciples after the five thousand had eaten
and were filledfrom ‘five barleyloaves and two smallfishes.’ ‘Gather
up thefragmentsthatremain, thatnothingbelost. ’
This is theeternal
principle workingthroughall creation. Men have now learned as a
scientificfactthatonly the form of existence can be changed, nothing
can be destroyed. If this is so in the material, which is the instru-
ment, how much more must it be so in the spiritual, which is the
operative agent working through the material!
With this principle still working through the life of Paradise the
same watchful care over the fragments is manifested. Nothingmust
be lost. In the smallestof all particles is hidden divine potentialities.
Gather these up, for each must be sent to its own placeto be tended,
developed and assisted to fulfil its appointed sphere.
It is to one of the nursery-homes of these spiritual fragments
I would now conduct you, where we may watch and learn to under-
stand how Paradise deals with the first unfoldment of mind and
intellect. I use the term ‘spiritual fragments’ advisedly in this
connection, since we shall meet not only with souls who passed away
in the process of nativity, but others who in the half-time of gesta-
tion were able to make no more than one feeble independent move-
ment and thenexpire. Surely these are fragmentsof humanitytruly,
yet they survive, and are carefully assisted forward into a full and
strong maturity.
So beautifullyand considerably does the sphere of the spiritual
overlap the physical that most adequate provision is made to reach
and protect all such little ones, of whom earth never takes cogniz-
ance. Unknown, with an existence unsuspected, still they live.
94
Nothingmust be lost. God’s plans are laid for saving even to the
uttermost, and the nursery-home over which our now well-known
friend Cushna presides is one of the numerous establishments ap-
pointed for such work in connection withchildren.
There is ample accommodation here—and when I say ample
I do not mean simply that each child is allowed so many cubic feet
of breathing-room by measurement, but I refer to the generous
overflowing provision so characteristic of all God does——-for about
two thousand souls ranging from the boundary-stranded infant I
have referred to, to those who may have known an earth existence
of several months, the limit being determined not so much by age
as other circumstances we need not here discuss. They are drawn
from every nationalityof earth and brought up together, one of the
very first efforts being to prevent any approach to racial differences
and establish the unity of the human family. When the preliminary
course has furnished abilityto proceed, the child goes forward from
strength to strength through the advancing and ascending schools
of eternity.
Longfellow struck a chord of true spiritual music when he sang
of one who had passed into the courts of Paradise:
“Not as a child shall we again behold her;
But when, withrapture wild,
We to our hearts again enfold her
She will not be a child.”
Childhoodand youth are imperfections, and no more represent
true manhood and womanhood than daybreak is synonymous with
noon. Heaven, when we reach it, will be found to be a perfect
home for a perfect people, and all must attain the qualification to
receive admission. Paradise will consummate in this respect what
earth has no power to achieve. It is the legitimate function for
which God has called it into existence. Childhoodhas to be carried
forward to the full beauty of manhood and womanhood, and age
brought back to the strength and vigour it has lost. Cushna,
himself, is a striking illustrationof this latter effect. I have already
spoken of it, but the fascination it exerts seems to increase every
time I come in contact with the benevolentEgyptian, upon whose
shoulders rests the mystic mantle of evasive age so indescribably
and beautifullyblending with the exuberant sprightliness of early
manhood. The consciousness of this, it will be remembered, was
the first impression I received when I met him at the Home of Rest,
but the fullness of it was more forcibly brought home to me when
I found him so activelyengaged in the education of children in this
scene of more than fairy enchantment, which I was assured was
the better place for learning to know him as he is.
I know not whether the man had produced the home or the home
the man, but whichever it may be the two are certainly related to
each other as heat to fire, or light to the sun. The place was unmis-
takably designed for the encouragement of life’s first unfoldments,
but in the arrangement of it had not aeons of antiquity been laid
95
under heavy contribution, and their wisdom tempered, softened,
mellowed into an adaptability youth had no strength to furnish?
Methods of treatment had been skilfully drawn from the best
vintages of experience: adaptations had been critically made with a
view to naturally meeting every possible requirement. Strength
withgrowth,intrinsiccharacterwithinterest, sweetness of disposition
withprogressive determination, humilitywithcompetence, love with
power, and reverence withsuccess. All thesehad to beaccomplished,
and were adequately provided for, together with a systematic but
careful extraction of every hereditary proneness to the ignoble and
impure. The correction of these latter tendencies is one of the chief
features to which special and ever watchful care has to be directed.
The home comprises a surprising number of palatial buildings,
each of which is placed at a good distance from its neighbour and
located in a retreat perfectly adapted to the particular use of its
department. Among them I saw the Nursery where pre-natal
children are specially cared for; dormitories—all young children
requiring a certain amount of sleep—a gymnasium,museum, theatre,
laboratory and other places answering to every possible demand
which may arise. But the most striking adaptations were to be
found in the open air, where a system of landscape gardening had
been adopted, which I can only describeas theinterrogative. Every-
thing, everywhere, appeared to be designed to prompt questions,
and so effectively was this carried out thatI fell into the trap myself,
and was asking for information at every turn of my head.
The existence of such institutions in Paradise equipped with
every possible educational appliance beyondthe powers of an earthly
mind to understand, will be regarded by many——especially such as
have been taught to thinkthat an instant after death the soul of an
infant explosively acquires all knowledge—asmiserably materialistic
and blasphemously untrue. I should pass such conclusion of
superstitious ignorance in the silence it merits, were it not for the
obstacleit throws in the pathof honest inquirers who refuse to pass
any objection unnoticed.
Ifwe try to grasp intelligentlyan idea of what it is we are aspiring
to——perfection and nearness to God—and the almost infinite distance
by which our present imperfections separate us from that goal,
then cast our eyes backwards to measure the comparatively short
way we have as yet travelled on the journey since the pilgrimageof
evolution first began, I think there will be little difliculty in recog-
nizing that these preparatory stages of Paradise are an absolutely
necessary provision if we are to succeed. Commercial and diplo-
matic positions on earth are safeguarded by interim examinations
and qualificationstested by service and fidelity. Is it to be thought
credible that while men make such exactions in temporal matters
God will be less careful in respect to the eternal? The approbation
of Christ—“We1l done”—is the reward bestowed at the end of
loyal, faithful and honourable service, when the tried and trusted
steward hands in his audited accounts. For this service, earth
under most advantageous circumstances can do no more than pass
96
us through a preliminary examination with honours. The inter-
mediate, advanced and final stages remain for Paradise to prepare
us for. If this is found to be so under the most favourable condi-
tions of long life and easy circumstances, how much more will such
corrective assistance be needed for the unfortunate, and those whose
lives are cut short in infancy, since innocence is not righteousness,
nor is non-intelligence holiness. Hence the raison d’e‘tre for the
homes I am speaking of.
How I regret my inabilityto paint either in language or colours
the scene as it first presented itself to my astonished eyes! But if
I could find the language, earth would misinterpret the meaning;
if I could procure the colours, my critics would say theywere unreal,
unnatural, and the result a miserable attempt to introduce an
impossible novelty into the ArabianNights’ Entertainment. I had
better not attempt it, but leave such detail of my experiences until
you, my gentle reader, are able for yourself to see it as it is, with
eyes adapted to a wider view, and your powers of vision able to
clearly trace a longer spectrum.
Still one may legitimatelyexclaim, “Happy children to be thus
cared for and protected! Glorious gospel abounding in such
provision! Overflowing compensation for all that has been sacri-
ficed on earth!’ ’
Where is the man or woman who would not envy
them? But hush; stand still, or we shall trespass here. No man
or child liveth or diethto himself. “Our times are in His hand” ;
and it is better so. For the present it may be you see through a
glass darkly,but presently you too will understand; then you will
find God’s leadingwas right, after all. Great as is thecompensation
of the child, you may——ifyou will, by doing your duty nobly—find
an even greater reward awaiting yourselves.
“Let us be patient; earth’s severe afflictions
Not from the ground arise,‘
But oftentimes celestial benedictions
Assume a dark disguise.”
I have no intention of making a tour of the departments of this
institution. The chief features of life and its activities here are not
to be found indoors, and Cushna’s home is no exception to the
general rule.
I would repeat that the first object of every such institution is
to foster inquiry in the minds of the children. No instruction is
forced upon an unwilling or unready child, but ingenious devices
are employed to arrest attention and prompt a question as to the
nature or utility of the thousand objects most temptinglylocated in
every part of the fairylike domain. The principle here observed is
acted upon in every stage of the life beyond:—When interest is
suflicientlyaroused to prompt inquiry, the mind is in a favourable
condition to receive instruction, and ministers are always at hand
to suitably impart it.
Cushna very kindly invited me to join one of the many groups
of children» who were so pleasantly and enjoyably studying first
4-L.E. 97
lessons in the school of Paradise, that I might become acquainted
with the system of education he has adopted.
A moment later, without attracting more than the slightest
attention from the thoughtfully interested children, we had taken
our place near a group of some twenty students who were listening
to a lady explaining the nature and beautyof a blade of grass which
by its attractive form and colour had aroused the curiosity of one
of the little ones.
From the commencement of her lecture the speaker carried
myself, as well as her Lilliputianaudience, into a romantic fairyland
of botany in her description of the life, habits and antecedents of
her subject. Then, by an apparently magical process I was alto-
gether unprepared for, she held within her hands a variety of other
grasses from which she drew comparison and contrasts: the coarsest
and meanest of which she called attention to as a representative
specimen of grasses to be found on earth, the others were from
different stages of the higher life. Every inquiry from the children
was answered by a simple and forcible parable setting forth the
truth she wished to fix upon the memory, and she lingered with
almost too leisurely patience that her lesson might be clearly
comprehended.
When all this was over I was further astonished to hear her
announce that if there were no more questions as to that part of
the lesson she would proceed to the practicalconsideration of it.
Then followeda perfectlyentrancingdiscourse upon thechemistry
of that blade of grass and the process by which the constituents of
the atmosphere are selected, attracted and utilized to produce the
blade in the natural course. Nature was set forth as being a most
beautifulbut invisible machine designed by God to prepare all that
was necessary for the protection and sustenance of man, until such
time as he should be able to understand how to use the great avail-
able forces in producing all the requirements by a much better and
quicker process. This led to a beautifuldescription of the difference
between a man and other agencies of creation by setting forth the
nature and potentialities of the soul, which possesses latent powers
to accomplishall thatnature achieves,by a more expeditious process
under conditions she set forth and enforced by many illustrations.
It seems almost incredible that such infant minds could be
interested in subjects so profound. But God has His own methods
by means of which He can reveal unto babes mysteries He withholds
from the Wise and prudent, and in the experience before me I was
watching the process by which this seeming impossibility was
actuallybut graduallyaccomplished. In these homes of thechildren
we are brought very near to the purity of God, accommodated to
the minds overwhich it broods, and passes across thresholds where
the shadow of sin has never fallen. Sown in this virgin soil of
innocence, how can we, who have been contaminated with pullution ‘
of sin, estimate the power and possibilitiesof omnipotent love?
But to return to the lesson.
After the explanation came the demonstration. The teacher
98
‘laid the grasses aside, and bidding the children watch her empty
and extended hand, we saw, withequal interest and surprise, a blade
of grass, the exact counterpart of the one upon which her discourse
had been based, slowlyform before our eyes. When the experiment
was complete the original was laid side by side with the created
specimen for our careful examination, when the one was found to
be equally perfect with the other.
The session was not yet over. It was now the duty of each child
to make what effort it could to duplicate that of its tutor, and this,
to me, was not the least interesting part of the experience. One
by one they were called in turn to the side of their instructor, who
encouraged and exclaimed as necessary, then watched the result of
those first attempts at creation. Many were total failures, others
produced something—enough to astonish and encourage further
efforts, and one made a very creditable success as to form, but in
colour and detail much was left to be desired.
Congratulations and commendations now followed, causes of
failure were pointed out as only to be expected, certainty of speedy
success was generouslypromised, and the teacher went on to explain
that perfection is only to be reached by study and the acquisition
of knowledge, and the lesson ended by an arrangement to carry
the subject farther on the next occasion, at the prospect of which
the children were highly delighted, and I almost wished I could
continue my studies with them through the whole course which
had just opened so happily.
Such is a very meagre glimpse at one of the homes for children
i111‘ Paradise. Happy homes and happy those who are received
t erein.
CHAPTER XII
CUSHNA AT HOME
THAT school session ended when I would gladly have had it go on.
But so it is with all we meet in Paradise. Satiety is unknown.
Intellectual banquets come to an end while the appetite is yet
vigorous, that disgestion may not be overburdened and the ennui
consequent upon excess is avoided. Where, however, the dishes
are prepared with the adaptive consideration and forethought of
that which I had just eaten, no thought of organic disturbance can
possibly be anticipated. Where the deep mysteries of chemistry,
nature and even creation could be so temptingly and digestibly
dished up for infant minds, what need to fear for after effects?
Such viands so prepared only serve to appetize the mind and make
it hunger with more vigorous zest for that which is to come.
But nothing must be lost. Perfect assimilation stands janitor
to vigorous health, and here we meet with tutor, nurse and well-
skilled physician working harmoniously together in one to produce
99
the highest result. From the accommodated tension of the lesson
the childrenare as thoughtfullyreleased to play some game, relaxing
the mind for the present, but by and by throwing an unexpected
revelation upon their study when the teacher is joyously called to
explain and interpret. So by study, play and exercise, or whatever
for the moment may attract and claim the attention of the mind,
each incident and feature in thatunfoldinglife is made to contribute
somethingtowards the end to be attained by making the child
“Beautifulwith all the soul’s expansion.”
Cushna and I passed on; he desirous of showing me more of
the resources and appointments of his marvellous and enchanting
home, and I, shut out from participating in the children’s game,
glad to avail myself of the pleasure of being alone with him once
again.
I will make no attempt to hint at the many other features of
study to which I was introduced in that memorable visit, it would
only be to lay myself open to an inquiry from my critics as to why
I do not definitely set forth some one of the scientific acquirements
to which earth has not yet attained, and so demonstrate that this
record is more than a tour de force of the imagination.
Suppose I did anticipate this request and clearly set forth one
of these advance lessons in science with all necessary precision and
detail, would it accomplish the end intimated? Not by any means.
It might secure the admission that the theory advanced was an
nteresting one and worthy of following up to see what was really
in it, but my critic would change his ground, find some other point
of unbelief,and be as far from conviction as ever. Conviction of
truth is not reached by such a method. I will therefore content
myself with setting out the reasons why I do not make this attempt,
as perhaps by a negative explanation I may be able to accomplish
more real good than by taking a fruitlessly opposite direction.
First, then, my present purpose is to recount selections from my
own experiences in Paradise, and in doing so I have already many
times had occasion to refer to facts I could not for the moment
understand. Just here I recall an incident in the early education
of children, where the subject under consideration was, at the time
I observed it, as novel to myself as to the youngest child in the
company. From such data is it to be expected thatI should explain
and set forth the whole science of creation? My real point is this-
Paradise recognizes that every child it receives possesses divine
potentialities—isof divine heritage—and has to be educated suitably
to its position. This commences with a preparatory course, and
the lesson I had taken part in was the first in its own series. It
was principally so with others. Hence I simply record, knowing
too well what misconceptions have arisen from earth-conditioned
souls speaking of things they so imperfectly understand for me to
court the danger of treading in the same paths. I would far rather
refer you to the example of the Christ, which I am quite content
100
to follow. When He blessed and brake and multiplied the barley
loaves and fishes, He exercised the same power in the same way as
Cushna’s assistant in reproducing the blade of grass. Her encour-
aging promise of success to her pupilswas also warranted by Christ’s
promise to His followers: “He that believethon Me, the works that
I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do,
becauseI go to my Father.’’
Stillhe never explainednor instructed
His disciples in the process by which His miracles were performed.
Why? Let Him reply. “I have yet many things to say unto you,
but ye cannot bear them now. Howbeit when He, the Spirit of
truth, is come, He will guide you into all truth.”
Secondly, though I have been present and witnessed many
scientific demonstrations beyond the practice or knowledge of
earth—such, for instance, as the results produced by Siamedes as
described in “The Magnetic Chorale,’’
and many others in addition
to the lesson I have just referred to—I am not suflicientlyegotistical
to call myselfa scientist, nor foolish enough to seat myselfin a chair
I could not reasonably fill. I am not the spirit promised to lead
you into all truth, nor do I wish you to thinkof me as in any sense
approachingthe Christ who left so much unsaid; I am simplyanother
forerunner commissioned to cry and armounce the approach, yea,
even the presence of the Angels of God who have been “sent forth
to minister to those who shall be heirs to salvation.” I leave the
demonstration of science to the host of such ministers who are
availableand qualifiedto teachit far better thanI can do; philosophy
to the philosophers, music to musicians and poetry to poets. For
myself I have to cry “Behold!” and ofi"er such encouragement and
evidences as may reasonably attract attention.
Thirdly, all channels of communication are limited by purpose
and capacity. It might be possible under exceptional circumstances
to use the same conduit for water, gas and electricity, but it is by
no means advisable to do so. Every surgeon has most confidence
in his own instruments. Ifthemusic is to beperfect Kubelikmust play
upon his own violin, Harper upon his own trumpet, and Paderewski
upon his own piano. How much more is it necessary that the
instrument of inter-communion between the two worlds shall be set
apart and delicately attuned to the special music it will be required
to play!\{The great need of those in the beyond is for instruments
worthy and willing to be used in the mission; high, noble, self-
sacrificing souls who understand the.nature and responsibilitiesof
theivork, realize tliéit only purity and holiness within will attract
corresponding agencies from without, always bearing in mind that
the nearer the angel messenger who uses the instrument stands to
God, the greater will be the strain his presence will put upon the
organism he employs. It is a high calling to be so used, and the
man or woman who enters upon it must do’ so prepared to become
“a living sacrifice Well-pleasingunto God.” Such instruments are
scarce, but when they are found, those into whose care they are
entrusted know well their value, and will not allow them to be
wrongfully or hurtfully handled. In Myhanene’s mission I am
101
allowed the necessary use of his mouthpiece, through which I can
do no more thanassure my readers thatmultitudes of souls are wait-
ing to lay the truths and treasures of Paradise at the feet of earth
if consistently and honestly sought for, and suitable instruments
can be placed at their disposal.
Let me specially emphasize this last thought as to the care
shown in the quality of the instrument you oifer for our use. Wire-
less telegraphy has demonstrated the necessity for transmitter and
receiver to be fully sympatheticfor success. The same law applies
between the two worlds, and the reliability of all messages will
depend upon the spiritual quality of the receiver. There may arise
extraordinary occasions when God, for purposes of His own, would
speak through the doubtful lips of a Balaam, but if a rule is built
up upon such rare emergencies, woe betide those who follow the
misleading counsel. Steamships cannot plough through etheric
waves from star to star; the microscope can never be substituted
for the telescope withadvantage, nor can the pen perform the labour
of the sculptor’s chisel. Each must be qualified for its use and
purpose. So must the instrument of truth be constantly clean
within and without or God can never efl'ectively use it. ,
So much by way of answer to the inquiry I have anticipated.
Cushna conducted me from group to group and scene to scene
that I might see the general arrangements for impregnating the
mind with information. The very atmosphere of the place created
an almost insatiable thirst for knowledge; its natural features were
musical notes of interrogation, and every response was a pleasure
seductively wooing to further inquiry. It was an educational
establishment founded in fairy-land, with teachers skilled in the use
of magic so potent that every effect remained as a reward for the
pleasure its performance had created.
All the charm, however, did not lie in the place. I became more
and more conscious of this as we moved about. She who told me
that I could not know the real Cushna until I knew him at home
spoke truly. To detach the man from the abode was to lose fully,
half the beautyof either; it was like stripping the sunset of its colour,
or music of its harmony. I was highly favoured in knowing him,
but infinitely more so in knowing him at home. Here again the
limitation of language fails to serve my desire, and I have to leave
my crude outline sketch of bothwith the hope thatall who read may
come to know the two in combination,then I am assured of their
commendation for declining any further attempt to fill in my rough
suggestion.
His urbanity inveigles one into the closest confidence, and the
soft mischievousness of his eyes captures all who come into his
company. He is a great-grandfatherlyboy, and it is little wonder
thateveryone loves him. .
“Do you know what I think is the prettiest feature of your
home?” I inquired of him presently.
“As a son of the land of the Sphinx I thinkit is my placeto pro- I
pound the riddle,” he replied.
102
“Allow me to change the order for once, if it is only to test your
skill at your own game.”
“But you forget that I have power to read your answer by a
glance. I will not take advantage of you, however, and play the
, game as a good Egyptian should, by giving it up.”
“Then I don’t thinkanythingpleases me so much as to see the
childrenof all nationalitieslivingtogetherso pleasantly.’’
“How otherwise did you expect to see them?’’
“I had never given a thought of it until I saw it was so. It is
different in my home.” '
,
“Yes. Nationalities are divided in the first three stages above
% the earth conditions, beyondthat they blend, having learned to for-
3 get their racial and religious prejudices. Children are brought
l together at once to prevent any such feelings arising, and from the
‘ harmony of colours in nature we teach the beautyof the diversity
E in men. Many complexions, but one family;many minds, but one
5 home; many ideas, but one Father.”
- “O wise and inscrutable Cushna!”
“Not that,” he promptly corrected me. “That lesson did
not have its origin with me or any other man—it is God’s alone.’’
I read more thanone cautionin thatsoft reply.
“I suppose you find a wide difference in the mental capacity
of the children?”
“Yes, there is a wide difference, but it is rather individual than
racial, especially in‘ the younger ones.”
“It must be intensely interesting to watch their development.”
“Only those engaged in the work can form the least conception
how really interesting it is.”
“I suppose you meet with marked tribal traits of character?”
“With those who have lived longer it is so to some extent, but
in the case of pre—natal children this is very rarely noticed, because
our counteractive training eradicates the tendency before it is able
to show itself. ’ ’
“And which of all the nations, according to your experience,
shows to best advantage?”
“Are you working round to another riddle?” he inquired
with a mischievous smile which indicated more than his words.
“No. I am simply asking for information.”
“And suppose I was to reply Egypt, or India, or New Guinea,
or Germany, or Turkey,what would you think?”
‘
‘I scarcely understandyou.’’
‘
‘Did you not wish me to say England?”
“I am not conscious of it.” _
“Dig down a little, Aphraar. The stream of national prejudice
runs deep occasionally,and takes some time after reachingParadise
to dry up elfectively. In my home, however, we onlyreceive children
of one cosmopolitan family, so we have no opportunity to study
national characteristics.’ ’
f 1;‘Andthey are happy in being cared for by such a wise foster-
at er.”
103
“Do you thinkso? But then they are good children; and every
one a favourite.”
“How long do theyremain withyou?”
“That.entirely depends upon circumstances. In rare instances
the taint of heredity demands an early isolation for more strict and
guarded treatment. Otherwise they remain until their interest is
aroused in some particular form of study, to follow which theyare
passed forward.”
“Into schools of higher grades?” I inquired.
“No, the stimulating and favourable environment, together with 5
our system of education, tends to rapid development of intellect and
stature, which are synonymous in children. When, therefore, they f
leave us, the law of attraction is in full operation, and each goes to
its own place,receiving all further necessary assistance in accordance
withtheone great law.’’
«
‘
‘Thentheinterest developed here determines the succeeding path‘
of duty?”
“Always.”
“I should like to question you further on that point in reference
to myself; but will you first tell me more of those who suffer from
hereditary taints—are they punished?”
“Certainly not! Justice does,,not punish, one for the sin of
5 another. The taint has been transmitted from the diseased soul of
an ancestor, and in such a case the child is a victim to be compen-
sated rather than punished for the injustice it has sustained. Do
you not rememberthat ‘the sins of the fathers may be visited upon
the children (even) to the third and fourth generation,’L.bu_t they
remain the_sins of the fatherstill, and he will have to requite justice
for the consequences of them.j The childis isolated for greater care
and to prevent contagion.”-
“Now I wish to put a question relating to a belief which is
supposed to have originatedin Egypt.’’
‘ ‘
You mean thatof thetransmigrationof thesoul. ’ ’
“Yes,it naturallyarises out of this question of heredity.’’
“I will hear your question, but before doing so, I must protest
against the error that such a doctrine had its origin or any formal
sanction in orthodox Egyptian religion. A few men may, and no
doubt did, hold the opinion in a limited form, but as it was after-
wards known and taughtin India and Greece our priestsdid not know
it, our religion was opposed to it, our ritual did not contain its
teaching,and it is as erroneous to say the empire recognizedit as to
assert that England offers human sacrifices because such practices
were common to the Druids.”
“Then you do not regard these hereditary taints in your children
as the result of previous existences?”
’ ‘How can they be so when there has been no previous pgsonal
e)gistence‘Z !The method of creation is not one of trying and repeat-
ingrexperiments until God attains success; He is perfect, and His
first efi'ort envelops the potentiality of success.
'
The seed of a tree
contains the germs of a thousand generations in the image of itself,
104
if the necessary conditions of nature are obeyedto unfold and bring
them forth. So with the man, the soul-germ of an equally long
succession is climbing up the slopes of evolution towards person-
ality, to follow after the generations who have crossed into Paradise
before them. All that has been, is, and will be was thus carefully
planned, designed, and divinely concealed within the primal germ _-
God sent forth to execute His will when He commanded: ‘Let .
cosmos be!’ He speaks and it is done. He never speculates or
’
experiments.’ ’
“I thank you for the simple but pregnant illustration. 1 am
anxious to reach the truth, and could not resist the opportunity to
learn your opinion. Now shall we return to the thoughtthatinterest
in a subject here determines action?”
“Yes,ifI can help you by doing so.”
‘
‘You already know how interested I am in the idea of returning
to earth?”
“Yes; and in that I long ago read your commission to take
part in Myhanene’s mission, as soon as you are prepared for
it.”
“But why did you not tell me?’’
I inquired.
“It was not time to do so then; but I did the best thingto help it
forward by showing you how easy it is to accomplishsuch an object
when desirable linksare formed.’ ’
“And in doing so you greatly strengthened my desire. But I
never hoped my wish would be granted until Ladas hinted at it when
visiting the scenes of his labours. May I really take a share in that
work, Cushna?”
“Certainly you may; but be careful to be well equipped before
you begin. That ministry has more responsibilitiesattaching to it
than you may conceive.”
‘
‘Ladas has done much to make me acquainted with many
of them. I have been with him to earth and seen what is done by
earth-conditioned souls in their communication. I have, under
his guidance, watched most, if not all, the points you have previously
spoken of, and then travelled with him to see the punishments
of those to whom he ministers.’’
'
“All thiswill be most helpful and instructive, but let me seriously
advise you to take every advantage to increase your stock of informa-
tion. Whenever opportunity aifords, cross the mists with one or
other of Myhanene’s band, and make good acquaintance with him
who has been chosen as our mouthpiece. ‘But let me adjure you
not to attempt to sgak without permission} and when this is given,
do not attempt to say all you know, but mind thatyou do know all
you say. The floods of error are already deep enough on the other
side, and you had far betterkeep silencethanadd to them,for the old
law still maintains, ‘Whatsoever a man soweth that shall he
reap’.”
“Do you wish to dissuade me from my purpose, Cushna?”
“No. My object is to caution and protect you. You have
chosen well; if you are careful to rise to your opportunities your
105
reward must be a great one. But see; a message awaits you,” and
he pointed to a thought-flashhovering over my head.
“Vaone is calling me,” I answered, and with a goodwill
we parted.
CHAPTER XIII
“CAN THIS BE DEATH?”
THOSE telepathicbells of Paradise are not only a useful but also a very
necessary institution. The absorbing interests of the life are so
numerous and fascinating, opening from one to the other in ever-
increasingsuccession, thatonce launchedon an inquiry it is doubtful
when one would return——whether he would ever return—without
some summons reminding him that loved ones are awaiting his
coming.
How little Stennett knew of the blessedness of the life
when he sang:—
“O the transporting, rapturous scene
That rises to my sight!
Sweet fields arrayed in living green
And rivers of delight.
All o’er those wide extended plains
Shines one eternal day;
There God, the Sun, for ever reigns
And scatters night away.”
I wonder what kind of hymns Watts and Wesley would have
written for the church to sing if they had seen what my eyes have
beheld and their ears had heard what I have heard before they
commenced their labours.
I almost think I shall ask Eilele sometime to write one or two
new ones, and either transmit them herself or allow me to do so,
when I begin to speak to earth.
But I did not begin this chapter to anticipate what I should do
in my new sphere of labour. I was talking of the bells of Paradise
recalling us from protracted excursions, or should I rather say
enabling us to remain in constant touch with home wherever our
interests and studies may carry us.
The record of one such recall will bring me back to an incident
from which I have necessarilywandered in my desire ratherto follow
consecutiveness of thought than action.
“Did you hear me call?” asked Vaone as she greeted my return.
“Yes, I heard, and think it is well you did so. If you do not
look after me I shall surely be tempted into leavingyou altogether.' ’
“Wherein lies the danger?” she inquired with smilingconfidence
as she clasped her arms around my neck, laid her head upon my
bosom, and turned her love-lit eyes full upon me.
106
“You may smile, but I tell you the danger is rea1——far more
so thanyou appear to imagine.’’
She gently shook her head and pressed it a little closer before
replying——
“You have already forgotten something, my Aphraar. At
least, I think you have.”
“What is it, dear?”
“That dangers are impossible here. But what or who is it that
tempts you away?”
“The ever-increasing and engrossing interests I am everywhere
discovering.’’
“I know what you mean,’’
she answered reflectively. ‘
‘It exerts
a similar fascination over everyone. The comparison is crude and
ridiculous, I know, but it constantlyrecalls to my mind theattraction
of Regent Street in the height of the season, where carriages, people,
costumes, shop windows—everything,holds one as by an irresistible
spell. But you must follow my example and avoid temptation by
remainingat home. Why go away when there is so much to enjoy
and study here?”
Why, indeed! And yet, whileI saw the force and reasonableness
of her suggestion, I was equally conscious of a strong resentment to
my acceptance of it. This may have been due to the comparison
she instituted, which whilebeinga perfectly natural one to thefemin-
ine mind, was far from impressing me as a happy one. Or perhaps I
had misunderstood her. At least I wouldgive her the opportunity
to explain. _
‘ ‘
What a curious sirnileto use!” I remarked.
“Do you thinkso? I thought it was an inspiration. But then
you are not a woman.”
“No! Perhaps that explains it. But may I ask why you sent
for me?”
Again she turned her dear face upwards—in its nestling it had
fallen easilyupon my breast—untilher laughingeyes looked full into
my own.
“Suppose I was to say it was simply because I missed you?”
she replied.
“I should be glad to hear it.”
“Would you? Then allow me to say I had a very different
reason for what I did.”
‘
‘Then you had two reasons, for I am sure the one was part of it,
whatever the other may be. Now, confess; am I not right?”
“Ifyou prefer to thinkso, do. But I have a mission to perform
in which I thoughtyou would like to keep me company."
“I shall be delighted. Though I am ignorant of its nature, I
am confidentof its interest. It would be impossibleto find a mission
here divorced from pleasure and instruction. What is its nature?”
“I am going to earth to assist in the passing of the little friend
Arvez recently brought to us.’’
“Little Dandy?” I exclaimed. It was the only name the boy
knew—an appellationof thegutter we had to retain untilwe received
107
his new name. “That will be a pleasure in more ways than one.
When do you go?”
“Myhanene is sending Azal to receive him. I go to assist, but
I am sure he will be gladto have your company. I await his coming
now.”
“Does Dandy know?”
“No! Azal will tell him when he arrives.”
“Is the lad here, then?"
“
Yes! He is to be detained a little while. I thinkhis accident-
as men would call it—depends on his oversleepinghimself.”
‘ ‘
Then he is to come suddenly?’’
“So I understand. It is far more merciful for such as he. But
here comes Azal, and we shall soon know the details.’’
He joined us almost before Vaone had finished speaking, and
readilyassented to my addition to his escort.
“It will be a new and interesting experience for you,” he added.
“But we must find the boy, or events will be in advance of us.’’
This was a quest ending with its commencement. Dandy was
withJack and several otherfriends who had spent most of theirtime
with the little probationer since Arvez had introduced him to our
valley home. They were busy revising some scheme of operations
todbecarried out when Dandy’s coming and going should be at an
en .
“I wish I’d wakened up for the last time,” I heard the little
fellow remarkas we approached.
“What makes you wish that?” inquired Azal, introducing
himself.
“You don’t know much abart what I has ter put up wi’, if yer
don’t know that,” he replied, eyeing his strange visitor with a
curious and doubtful interest. Then recognizing myself he came
and took my hand. ~
“Who is he?” he asked. “I know you, but I doan know ’im.”
“You know Arvez—the angel who brought you here from ‘The
College’?’’
“This ain’t ’im.”
“No, but he is a friend of his.”
“An’ wot’s ’e want?”
“I have come,” Azal answered for himself, “to do just what I
heard you wish for when we arrived.”
“Wot’s that?”
“Why, did you not wish that you had wakened for the last
time?”
“So I do.” Then he added with a touch of patheticweariness,
“But it’s such a while comin’ I’m tired o’ waitin’ for it.”
“Poor child! Come with me. You will not wait much longer
now.”
“Yerain’t a goin’ ter tek me away from Jack,are yer?”
“No. Jack can come with us if he wishes.”
‘
‘But wheer are we goin’?’’
“Backto earth for a little while."
108
“I doan want ter go back; why can’t I stop ’ere?”
“Becauseyour body must waken and pull you back. It is going
to waken perhaps for the last time, as you wished, then you will be
able to stop here altogether.”
It was a strange and indescribable look thatrose from the depths
of his consciousness through his eyes and covered his wondering
face as the meaning of Aza1’s words was divined. It was something
of impatient gratitude and a wild desire to grasp a fortune that
might vanish, prompting him to dart from myself and hold the
speaker as a hostage to success.
“I know wot cher mean!” he gasped. “Yer goin’ to kill
me. I ain’t a-frightenedat it. I shall like it. Will yer do it soon?’’
Hear, O heavens, and give ear, 0 earth, to the eloquent decision
of a childin a choice betweenlife and death!
Azal smiledand affectionatelypatted the clear little head.
“No, I am not going to kill you,” he replied. “But when you
fall asleep we shall just break the cord by which the body pulls you
back again. Then you will have your wish, and stop here.”
“It won’t ’urt, willit?”
“No. You will not feel it.”
“An’ shall I be dead then?”
“Your body will.”
“Well, ain’t that killin’ me? But I doan care. This is a lot
better’n livin’. Come on, I’m ready.”
“Then we will go,” said Azal.
“
’Ere! ’Old a minit! Theer’s frepence ap’ny in my pocket.
Let me see Bully Peg, an’ gi’ ’im the money, before yer do it, will
yer? ’E ’as a awful time, ’e does, an’ frepence ap’ny’1l set ’im
up in matches.”
Even Azal did not hurry to reply to thatappeal. It was a prayer
for time and opportunity to do a Christian service, powerful enough
to stay the hand of death; it. was a declaration of faith, an act of
worship, a Christ-like atonement suflicient to wash out the stain of
not a triflingsin, which called for and received the recognition of a
holy silence,and we each bowed our heads in the presence of it.
‘i(Yes, you shall do as you wish,” said Azal as soon as he could
spea .
“Then I don’t care for nufiin’. Come on.”
I am afraid if our passage earthwards had been witnessed by
mortal eyes it would have occasioned comment by the violation
of orthodox ideas respecting the nature of our mission. But I
think the infringement came more from the one most closely con-
cerned than either of his companions. Never was schoolboy more
elated at the prospect of vacationthan this almost friendless gutter-
snipe at the one thought which filledhis mind.
A few moments ago I took from my Recorder’s bookshelves a
volume written by a clergyman and read: ‘The truth is, no one,
except under very exceptional circumstances, can restrain a shudder
at the thought of dying. . . . Why is this? . . .
Is it because
death is unilluminated by hope, and there is no expectation of a
109
Resurrection and a Heaven? No; both truths may be implicitly
believed; but they are future facts—how future is not known—and
meanwhile, what? Nothing definite. No intense conviction of the
unbroken continuity of life. No certainty that the moment after
death we shall be the same living, thinkingand feeling personalities
thatwe have been the moment before.’1 This is after two thousand
years of preaching, and it represents not the author’s individual
opinion, but the results arrived at by ecclesiastical and theological
Christianity.
1 say our passage would have shocked the orthodoxy of such a
profession. But Dandy had been made acquainted with what the
church might and ought to know, and instead of crying, in the
language of another:—-
“But timorous mortals start and shrink
To cross this narrow sea:
Stand lingering, shivering on the brink
And fear to launch away,”
he was at one with David longing for the wings of a dove that he
might flyaway and be at rest. Why should we be sad and mournful?
But we are at our destination.
The morning had broken, and the busy wheels of London life
were already at work. Our little friend had certainly overslept
himself. He sought shelter last night among the packing-cases
piled up under the archway of a wholesale warehouse. It was a
favourite spot, warm, snug and out of the way of police interference.
The friendlycarter had given permission, and Limpy Jack had for-
merlyshared the quarters withDandy,but since theformer’s decease
-Bully Peg had taken the vacant place.
“Theer I am,” cried the lad, pointing to where his sleeping body
lay; “but, ikey! ain’t I late! Why Bully’s gone, an’ I want ter gi’
’im my frepence ap’ny!”
A ‘1‘Never mind, I think I can manage to bring him back,” said
za .
He could not leave the lad even for an instant at such a juncture,
but there was abundance of help at hand, so that Bully Peg was
speedily brought back again.
How was it done?
That is easily explained, and it will not be amiss to linger care-
fully as we watch this incident through.
Dandy had constituted himself guardian over the child, the two
being brought into a very close and real fellowship by kinship of
misfortune. Between them existed a mutual sympathy and anxiety
for success, upon which they leaned first to one side, then to the
other, for the only meal the day most frequently provided. Thus a
double connection had been established—business and family. To
this foundation, based on genuine affection, it was not a difficult
operation for the ministering angel to telepathicallyattach Dandy’s
1 "Our Life after Death," by Rev. Arthur Chambers. London : Charles Taylor,1894
pp. 68-69.
I 10
wish and thus transmit to his friend a thought of anxious concern
respecting his oversleeping protector. _
Bully was engaged with two companions when the recalling
thought struck him, but he turned on the instant, and withouteither
apology or explanation started back on his errand.
It was all accomplished in less time than it requires to write it,
for the distance to be covered was only a short one, and Bully Peg
stopped suddenly at the threshold of the gateway where Dandy was
still sleeping.
Two men were at work turning over and clearing away the
packing—cases, and the little fellow was too frightened to speak of
the danger in which his friend was placed.
He hoped the noise would wake the lad. Why did it not do
so? Then he feared one of the cases had already fallen and killed
him. This fear so terrorized him thatwhen he presently gained the
necessary courage to speak it had robbed him of the thought to do
so.
But why did not that clattering, deafening noise wake the lad?
Under othercircumstances the silentpresence of theconstable would
have caused him to start and creep further into the darkness.
The explanation all lies in the difference of circumstances.
In the present instance theywere of God’s more immediate care and
design, of which Azal held the plan and had to superintend the
working. Dandy’s earthly course was run, but glad as he really
was at the prospect of it, in his excitement and shrinking from the
process of passing he would have frustrated it had not a strong
restraining pressure been put upon him.
“Let me go and wake myself,” he cried at one time, trying to
secure his liberty to effect the purpose.
f‘Wake yourselfand live?’ ’
Azal inquired.
“But I doan want ter be ’urt.”
“It will not hurt so much as you think. We will mind that,and
the little pain will be the price of freedom.”
“Will yer mind me, then?”
“Yes—but go back!” and like a lightning flash he was thrust
into his body as a great case toppled over and fell.
There was a piercing shriek of agony, enough to make one’s
blood run cold. The two men started and leaped from the cases,
dragged the fatal one aside, and there lay the crushed and uncon-
scious form of our little friend, with a stream of blood running from
his convulsively twitching mouth.
While the two terrified men were securing help and arranging to
carry the lad to the neighbouring hospital, I was busy watching the
work of Azal. Though the shriek was painful, I was glad to know
that Dandy himself had scarcely felt anything before he swooned.
From thishe revived,just as theylaid him on theimprovised stretcher
when, in an interval in the operation due to a policeman’s inquiry,
little Bully Peg darted forward and stammered through his tears:
“All right, Dandy, I’m ’ere,” as if such assurance would be a
comfort to the suflerer.
111
The head turned somewhat towards the speaker, the eyes half-
opened for an instant, and beneaththe canvas that covered him a
finger moved as if to beckonthe lad nearer.
I knew what he wished to say. I-Iis mind was on his friend and
thecoppers he wished him to receive. Even the pain of the working
of death was not strong enough to turn him from that one desire.
Five minutes later he was unconsciously lying upon the hospital
table, where the rags of clothing were expeditiously but tenderly
removed in preparationfor the house-surgeon’s examination.
I wonder whether those kindlynurses or doctors ever thinkhow
often the angels of God are witnesses of their humane labours?
How often such as we wait to supplement their efforts to relieve?
It may be that they did so on this occasion, since they dealt
very tenderly and gently with the little arab. That one limb was
fractured was at once ascertained, but the kindly surgeon admin-
istered restoratives to revive the lad in the desire to ascertain the
extent of his internal injuries.
Presently Dandy breathed a heavy sigh and opened his dull,
wondering eyes.
“That’s right,” the doctor exclaimed encouragingly. “We
shall soon be better now.”
The trembling lips moved in an efl‘ort to speak. The doctor
dropped his ear to catch the words.
“Money? Yes, I hear,” he said. “Bully Peg? Give your
money to Bully Peg? Is that what you mean?”
The lips parted in an attempt to.assent, but he could do no more.
‘ ‘
See if he has any money in his pockets.’’
“Two or three coppers,” replied one of the students after
examination.
“All right. Bully Peg shall have it,” the doctor assured
him.
Again the lad feebly smiled in signification that he understood.
By this time it was certain that severe internal injuries had taken
place, and the surgeon indicated the fatal nature of the case. ‘The
injured limb was speedily splintered and made as comfortable as
possible, after which the patient was removed to one of the wards
to await the end. Here exhaustion triumphed over pain, and little
Dandy rejoined us while his body slept heavily.
The change that had taken place in this temporarily-liberated
soul in the short space of time was almost incredible. He was no
longer the happy, light-hearted lad we had accompanied back to
earth. The sacrament of dissolution was pressing heavily upon
him, and I saw the beautiful adaptation of the ministry of angels
to such occasions. It was the twilight hour of life. The day was
beginning to break. The soul, weary with the suflerings of the
night, was longing for the morning from which it hoped for strength;
and the blackness was softening into a hopeful yet almost doubtful
grey. The night-watch was nearly over; only a few more oscilla-
tions of the pendulum, and the hour of relief would strike. Earth
had done its last service; Heaven, with its more eflicient ministry,
112
was lovingly insinuating itself into consciousness, and the over-
powered soul lay helplessly floatingout on the ebbingtide. .
Azal caught the lad in his arms, and gave him the support he
sadly needed.
“Have courage, dear; it is almost over now.”
“Eh! What!” he exclaimed, waking as if from a dream under
the invigorating influence of the strength his host of friends were
affording him. “Oh, yes! I remember all about it now. Am I
dead yet?’’
“Not yet; you are sleeping at present, but not soundly enough
for us to liberate you. God will send one of His bright angels
shortly,thenyou willsoon be free.’’
“Have I got to go back again?” he inquired piteously.
“Not for long.”.
“Oh, I wish I hadn’t!
oh, so painful.”
“You will not forget us again, and we can so assist you now that
you will feel no more pain.”
“Shan’t I?” and he brightened wonderfully as he accepted the
assurance. “Let me go back, then, an’ get it over quick.”
‘ ‘
Wait a little longer; we are not quite ready at present.”
“All right; you are werry kind to me.” Then he started under
the sudden impulse of a thought. “’Ere, did Bully Peg get my
frepence ap’ny?”
“Not yet; but the doctor has promised that he shall have
it.”
“But the doctor don’t know ’im. Can’t yer find ’im an’ let
’im ’ave it?”
“We will try.” Then pointing Dandy to where his little friend
lingered at the door of the hospital he said: “That is him, I think,
waiting on the steps.”
We had not left the precincts of the hospital.
“Yes, that's ’im. Can’t yer tell ’im ter go in an’ arsk the
doctor for it?”
“No; he would not hear me speak. But I thinkwe can find a
way to manage it somehow.”
Azal looked around. Then I saw him concentrate his will upon
the young student who had searched and found the coppers in our
friend’s pocket. For a little time the effort produced no effect,
then it began to work, and I watched the contest between a strong
impulse to go to the front entrance of the institution and continuing
to read a medical article upon which he was engaged. It was an
interestingexperienceto watch thegatheringforce of thatstrange and
I can’t rememberyou there, and it’s—
. unaccountable effect upon the man, which presently became alto-
gether irresistible, and throwing the paper aside, he yielded to the
impulse simply to get rid of it.
Standing at the top of the four or five steps leading to the door,
with his hands in his pockets, he looked to the right and left, but
finding nothing to attract his attention gave a satisfactory laugh
at his own foolishness, and was about to return when he caught sight
113
A
__l_,,.,
».T_.-..;-.:-,.«-;
~....--,..—......Q,,,_
<_
of thecringinglittle outcast who had tried to squeeze himself between
thewall and pillarsupporting thesemblanceofa porch.
“Hello, Tommy! What are you after?” he inquired.
The timid trespasser pushed one finger into his mouth, looked at
his toes, and tried to squeeze further behind the pillar, but said
nothing until the student dragged him out and repeated the
inquiry.
“I on’y wants ter know ’ow Dandy is?” he stammered.
‘
‘Who’s Dandy?’’
“A box tumbled on ’im an’ theybrought ’im ’ere,” was the best
answer he could frame.
“Yes, I know. Is he your brother?”
“No, but ’e looks arter me.”
“What is your name?”
“Bully Peg!”
“Bully Peg! He was talkingabout you, and wants you to have
his money. Here is sixpence for you.”
The lad looked from the coin to the doctor, thenback at thecoin
again, but utterly failed to understand his good fortune.
“Is it a good ’un?” he asked incredulously.
The doctor laughed.
“Why, of course it is. Do you thinkDandy would send you a
bad one?”
“No, but ’e ’adn’t got this much.”
“How do you know?”
“Becos I seed ’im count it.”
“Perhaps it has grown; but he told me to give it to you if you
called.”
“Is he better?”
The young fellow thoughtfor an instant beforereplying.
Medical students are not always the most sensitively balanced
individuals,but he seemed to feel therewas somethingin thisinstance
he could not lightly trifle with.
‘
‘He will be better presently,’ ’
he answered.
“Can I see ’im? ’E would like it.”
“Not now. I think he’s asleep. Come again on Sunday.”
“I shall want ter know ter-night ’ow ’e is.”
“Very well. If you come up, we will tell you.”
This satisfied the lad so far as it was possible to do without a
sight of his friend, and he took his reluctant departure until night.
The result was a very welcome diversion for our little invalid,
who was more than delighted at Bully Peg’s good fortune.
There is little more of a preliminary nature to be said. The
preparatory sleep was drawing to a close, the certainty of which
was made known to me by Myhanene’s arrival.
“Is you the angel as kills ’em?” Dandy asked as soon as he saw
him.
“No. We only save from death.”
The lad turned towards Azal with a look of disappointment
as he murmured:
114
“I wish ’e would come. I doan want ter stop now Bu1ly’s got
the money.”
“Neither shall you stop. Come, we.must wake you for a few
minutes.”
“Will it hurt me?”
“No, you will not feel any more pain now.”
“An’ yer won’t go away, will yer?”
“
No, we will not leave you. You will see us all the time tillyou
fall asleep.”
The body moved feebly,and the soul was at once drawn back.
The watchful nurse was at his side before his eyes were opened.
“Are you better, dear?” she asked kindly.
.dDandy looked confused for an instant, then almost inaudibly
sa1 :
“I’m so tired.”
“I know you are,” she answered. “Willyou try to go to sleep
again?”
‘ ‘
Yes; I want——to—sleep.’ ’
It was all over. The quivering life-cord snapped, and Myhanene
sped withthe sleeping soul to the home of Siamedes.
CHAPTER XIV
THE MANY MANSIONS
IT will perhaps appear strange, even contradictory to most _of my
readers, that the soul, which never for an instant, during its con-
nection with the body, loses consciousness, should upon its final
release experience such an efi‘ect for a longer or shorter period as
determined by necessity. This, however, is the case in the great
majority of instances, especially where the dissolution is occasioned
by what is called an accident as just described.
I need not here re-discuss the immense loss earth sustains by
failing to educate the memory to retain the experiences men and
women pass through in the hours of sleep, and thus lose the benefit
of the lessons learned in the most valuable half of life. All this I
have dealt within Through the Mists, but I may withadvantage pause
to consider the reasons for the unconscious interval succeeding the
final separation of soul and body.
This decree absolute in the great divorce only diifers in one
respect from the nightly repetition of falling asleep. In the diurnal
experience the soul leaves the body for a longer or shorter period,
its return beingassured by means of the life-lineconnecting the two;
in the sleep of deaththisline is permanentlybroken after the slumber
has commenced,and return is thusprevented. Hence deathis nothing
more than a final sleep in which the soul is no longer recalled from
theassociationsit has beenforming duringtheyears ofits pilgrimage,
115
which associations have been negligently forgotten or treated as
superstitions in the effort for worldly success.
In view of making this statement I have conducted an extended
inquiry as to personal experiences in the passing, with the result
that only a very small percentage of my friends would describe
theprocess of deathas otherthanfallingasleep, and these exceptions
one and all speak of the effect as analogous to swooning or fainting.
In no single instance have I met withan experiencewhere the separa-
tion was accompanied by any peculiarity of a more alarming
nature.
IfI had beeneven indilferentlysuccessful in indicatingthegovern-
ing principles of life in Paradise in what I have said above, I think
it will be clearly recognized that while the transition fails to effect
any change in the character of the man, it cannot often be said to
deal so leniently with the position he holds. The throwing ofl‘ of
the body marks the Rubicon between the apparent and the real, the
profession and possession, the false and the true. Henceforthevery
man has to be himself, not what he wishes to appear. The true
characteris no longer concealed by a cloak, but it furnishes the only
dress he is permitted to wear; and the station he fills, the employ-
ment he follows, as well as the company he keeps, are all determlned
by the spiritual fitness thus declared. This, in not a few cases,
amounts to a complete reversal of the previous order. The wheels
of success——oftentimes of misfortune—have to be brought to a
stand before they are made to revolve in the contrary, which is the
true, direction. It is this stationary moment we are now dealing
with in the history of the soul; the moment of inactivitywhen the
false is at an end and the real is coming into action. There is an
interval of calm and restful silencethatthe vibrations of wrong may
die away and the true career be started free from any disturbing
results. In the region of mechanics this would inevitably be so;
so in the higher realm of spirit ‘God giveth His beloved sleep’ for
such necessary period as to allow the readjustment consequent
upon the crossing from the temporal into the eternal condition.
In the hush of this pause Dandy slept.
Azal’s mission at an end, he was relieved, and over the sleeper’s
couch Vaone’s watch was shared by one who had previouslyknown
and occasionallybefriendedthe little outcast.
All these changes and arrangements were superintended by
Myhanene, and when theywere over he turned, placedhis arm across
my shoulders, and led me towards the terrace.
“Come,” he said. “This duty being accomplished, I am glad
of the
oplportunityof speaking withyou again. I need not ask if all
goes we .”
“More than well,” I answered; then, catching sight of a sleeper
lying upon a couch we were passing, I added, ‘-‘Pardon me, but
surely I know thatface.”
“Whence comes our sister?” Myhanene inquired of one of the
watchers.
“From childbirth.”
116
Then I remembered who she was, and my companion, as if
divining my thought, asked again:
“And the little one?”,
“Is also withus.”
“Thatis well.’’
I wish, with the transcription of these simple words, I had power
to convey a suggestion of the music of his voice. So far, in all
the records of my intercourse I have tried to represent those I have
met as being natural men and women. Perhaps in this I have
succeeded too well for many of my readers, who expected to find_in
everyone in thislife an archangel with wings of opalescent splendour
and language such as earth ears could not possibly listen to and live.
Had I been romancing I might have tried some useless flight in this
direction; but this is not my object. I am no poet, not even possess-
ing a desire to aspire to such a claim, thereforeI have not turned into
paths where I might borrow from the wealth of Milton, Dante, or
Homer. Their eagle flights of brilliant imagination would rather
confuse than serve my purpose. I only wish to speak of the things
I myself have seen, and indicate the nature and mission of those
messengers of God with whom I have been privileged to commune.
In every instance I have found themto be more like theangel who was
revelator to John (fellow-servants and co-labourers) than those
sketched by Dante or Milton, and as such I desire to present them.
In higher heights than I have reached there may be—must be
more glorious beings than I have known, but so far I have not met
them, thereforedecline to speculate upon their nature and character-
istics. Every stage of existence between myself and the Absolute,
I have reason to believe,is peopled by beings acclimatizedthereto,
of which I find the suggestive assurance in Myhanene himself.
Did I but know Ornra better I am confident he would reveal more in
this direction, but I must be content to remain uninformed on this
point for the present, and confine my argument to what deduction
can be made from my knowledgeof Omra’s messenger.
Here, however, we are brought into contact with a personality
through which the supra-natural begins to insinuate itself upon our
attention, and we find strange combinations and seeming contra-
dictions, occasioning first doubt, then study, before we reach a
settled confidence in the new presentment of manhood.
Let me illustrate what I mean from this last rejoinder of his
which has led to the present explanation. Few would use such a
phrase in the connection it is here employed—it is not the happiest
or most relevant to be found, but it is an habitual one on the lips
of Myhanene. The soft, musical, almost nonchalant “It is well”
is the termination of everythingwith him with the regularity of an
“Amen” to a prayer. But more than this, to those who hear it
for the first time, coupled with the sparkling airiness of his bearing
and the almost flippant tone in which it is spoken, it comes with
something of a surprise, and one turns to ascertain if the speaker
is not void of natural sympathy. To alfirm such a thought, how-
ever, would be a mistake speedily to be repented of, for before the
117
music of his voice has died away the airy touch of his butterfly’s
wing will stir depths within the soul with a power that overawes,
and but for the tender firmness of the hand around the shoulder
one would draw away from him in reverent obeisance.
“It is well!” The music rolls from the deep undisturbed con-
fidence he has in God. He may not altogether understand, but
he knows enough of God to be assured it must be so, and hence
he speaks.
In the case before us, however, it was doubly well, for my reader
will not have failed to identify the sleeper. Her prayer had been
answered. The child was saved from earth.
We had reached the terrace before my companion spoke again. '
“Now that you have a longer and better acquaintance with
this life,” he began, “I want to know whether it loses any of its
charms, wonder, or surprises?”
“It loses nothing,” I replied; “everything increases rather
than otherwise.”
‘ ‘
So it is alwaysand witheveryone,’’
he affirmed, gently nodding
his head in the reverie absorbing the other part of him I could not
understand. “So it will ever continue to be—always more to
follow. As God manifest in the Christ was so much more than
earth could comprehend, so the God in Heaven will always be so
much more than the redeemed can know or understand.”
“I like to hear you speak of God and Christ and love.’’
“Do you? Why?”
“I seem to comprehend more of its sweetness and fullness when
you are speaking. Sometimes in the lower life I reached out in an
endeavour to findit, but as a realityit alwaysevaded me until—’’
‘ ‘
Until when, my brother?’ ’
Again his arm crept tenderly across my shoulders, and he drew
me closer withthe gentle caress of one who would woo life’s sweetest
confession; drew me nearer and nearer, but did not speak or other-
wise disturb the eloquent silence he so frequently employs more
efifectively than speech. The answer would come; he knew it better
even than myself, and in the meantime nothing was lost. In such
interludes, hearts knit and affection tightens its embrace till the
soul becomes too full and the lips must speak.
“When I met you,” I replied, and something bowed my head
upon his shoulder as if the confession had been one of love.
The pressure of his arm was slightly accentuated.
“But if the poor unworthy reflection of His love from myself
has been so much to you, what will the fullness of the rapture be
when you are able to see Him as He is?”
“I know not. I am only grateful the revelation is withheld
until I shall be strong enough to bear it.”
‘
‘But you would not delay thefullness of your joy,would you?”
“No! I would neither delay nor hurry it. I simply wish to do
my present duty and leave all the rest to Him.”
“That is well; but tell me what you are now doing towards
it?” '
118
“At present I am waiting—or ratherhave been waiting, but first
Ladas and then Cushna have pointed me to very.congenialwork.”
‘
‘All employmenthere is congenial.’ ’
“So they have assured me; but I doubted whether my own
choice could be the right one.”
“Such is the law of our lives.’’
“And am I really free to join in your ministry to earth?”
“Yes,if you desire it, and I shall be glad to accept your service.
But you must first learn somethingof the nature and scope of the
good news we have to declare before you will be able to preach it.
The earth ideas of this life are as yet bound in swaddling-bands
which only constrain and fetter the soul. We have to proclaim
liberty,but it is always a liberty granted and secured by law. This
law you must study and understand in such of its bearings as will
be most required.” ‘
“Where shall I begin?”
“With the pulling down of the error that this life possesses
only two classes of divisions of souls—the saved and the lost; and
in its place buildingup the knowledge that, no matter who or what
a man may be, on arrival here he will go to his own place——the
place for which he has spiritually prepared himself by his actions
and motives, without any other testimony or witness than the
evidence written upon his spiritual body.” _
“This I have in a measure already studied and learned to
understand, but there is at least one subject arising from what you
have just said upon which I sadly need to be informed.”
“State the point, and I will try to answer it.”
“Granted that every man must go to his own place, when we
consider thealmost infinitenumberof conditions into which human-
ity must necessarily be divided, where can all the places be found
to satisfy the demand?”
“It is a question earth will often ask, and one you must also be
prepared to answer. To one whose mind is free from parochial
limitations a short and suggestive reply will be suflicient: that
however large the demand may be, it cannot exceed the finite, and
therefore can be easily provided for in the economy of an infinite
God. Few men, however, make any effort to reach a wider circle
of thought than the ideas they inherit, in which they understand
infinity as unlimited mercy and indulgence towards themselves
and an equally unmeasured extent of wrath upon all who difl'er
religiously from them. Justice, righteousness and truth in their
essential purity are too high for themto attain to, hence any attempt
in thatdirection is considered to be useless.’’
‘
‘Earthideas are a secondary considerationto me for themoment;
I am first anxious to know the truth for myself alone. Not that I
doubt but I would also understand."
“And I will gladly do my best to enable you to do so, though I
am fully conscious how little that best will be in comparison even
with that I know from experience, and I myself have scarcely yet
begun to comprehend what the whole truth may be.”
119
Here he paused as if for the purpose of shaping his further reply.
I did not speak, having enough to think of for the time in making
sure I understood what had already been said. Presently he
resumed:
“I shall find no better introduction to what I have to draw your
attention to than the words of the Master to His disciples: ‘In My
Father’s house are many mansions; if it were not so I would have
told you. I go to prepare a place for you.’ It is in those many
mansions where the provision we seek is made. Have you ever
tried to think what and where these mansions are, and made an
effort to estimate the number of them?”
The question came so unexpectedly, and put the hitherto
nebulous idea in such a substantial and tangible form that I could
only stupidly reply:
“No. I had not thought of it in this way.”
Myhanene smiled. He loves to lay these unsuspected traps,
and knows well how to use them to emphasizehis teachings.
“I suppose not,” he answered. “There are not many who
give much intelligent free consideration to these matters until they
arrive here. Now let us proceed gently in our inquiry as to number
in the first place. Paul said he at one time ascended into the third
Heaven; he also once assured the Ephesians that Christ ‘hath
ascended far above all Heavens’; and of God we are told that ‘the
Heaven of Heavens cannot contain Him.’ We are thus scripturally
warranted in using the plural number in speaking of the Heavens,
just as Christ spoke of the many mansions. Now, the foundations
of part of these mansions, or Heavens, are not so invisible to our
friends on earth as is generally believed. I thinkthey estimate the
number of stars discernible at about one hundred millions, but of
all this number with the added darker bodies remaining invisible,
so far as I have learned, those that serve the purpose of preliminary
existence, as earth, do not exceed the number of your fingers.”
‘ ‘
Myhanene!”
I exclaimed.
“The rest are nuclei for varied grades of spiritual ascent. You
have already seen how one class of soul is held bound to the earth,
the influence of which attenuates until one is able to break away
and seek other conditions?”
“Yes.”
“So from the material body of every star does there radiate
an attenuated substance from which a seried ascent of spiritual
conditions is built up, forming the divinely majestic staircase
linking Heaven with Heaven, until the Heaven of Heavens is
reached.”
“Such knowledge is too wonderful for me, I cannot attain to
it,” I replied, lost in the magnitude of the conception; “but with
such an explanation I can no longer wonder as to the provision
for every need.”
“Of course the demand is great, but God is greater; we have
always that confidence, though we may not be able to measure
and comprehend the details of the requirements.”
120
“Am I right, then, in surmising that in the intercourse of this
life passage from star to star is possible?”
“Not only possible, but absolutely necessary, and is as easily
accomplished as that of passing from house to house on earth, to
all who are qualified or able to do so. When I return from hence
home, I shall take such a course, but you would not be able to
follow me, because not yet conditioned to the passage. When you
saw my home you did so by means of the power I loaned you for
thepurpose. I mention thisin order to point out how safe thehigher
planes of life are from lower invasion.’’
“Is there such a—~may I call it a bridgeless void—-between here
and earth?”
“CaH it an inter-stellar barrier. Yes, you pass across one
when returning to earth.”
“Why have I not noticed it?”
“Because the transit is too rapid generally for such an obser-
vation. It is accomplished on the flash of a thought to be there,
and sight can take no cognizanceof the operation.’’
‘
‘And does the universe exist for the maintenance of ten, twenty,
or even fifty such worlds as earth?”
“The universe as you conceive it,” he replied.
“It seems scarcely credible.”
“That is because of man’s unworthy ideas concerning God.
Now let us turn the conception round and look at it from Christ’s
standpoint for a moment. Here a single soul becomes of much
greater intrinsic value than the whole world, and at such a price
one marvels at the incomprehensible wealth of God as represented
in the produce of earth alone.”
StillI could not escape from theoverawing thought,and inquired:
“Is this the measure of God’s ‘so loved’ thatall creation should
exist for comparatively so few?”
“I did not say all creation, but rather the universe as man
conceives it,” he answered.
“But wherein lies the difference?”
He smiledand drew me closer to him, witha pressure ofindulgent
sympathy.
“If I have already astonished you by what I have said, how
shall you be able to understand the truths I am now engaged in
studying?” .
“Could you not indicate what they are?”
“I will try to do so by illustration. Will you suppose an orange
divided into sixteen or more parts?”
G¢YeS.9$
“For the purpose of my parable I will ask you to consider that
all the stellar universe, as known to earth, is comprised. in one of
those sections which we will name the White Group, and each of
the other divisions is appropriated to Pink, Green, Blue and other
Groups, until all the parts of the orange are employed; even then
the whole of the systems within the universe, as known to friends
in the higher stages we are able to reach, will not be included.”
121
I did not speak, but liftedmy head to gaze at him withunutterable
amazement.
“When we have grasped the meaning of this,”he went on, “we
shall only be crossing the threshold of the infinite, for beyond this
hypothetical orange are numbers of others forming constellations
in a grand august system we cannot conceive, in the centre of which,
it may be, the throne of the Inelfable will be found.”
“Well might the old patriarch inquire, ‘Who by searching can
find out God?’ ”
I exclaimed.
“We shall all find Him,” he answered confidently. “The
most necessary and serviceable question for us to decide is whether
we are makingthebestpossibleefi'ort to accomplishthe purpose.’’
“Pardon me if I am wrong,” I humbly ventured, “but does
not that sound like predestination?”
“Not the predestination of theology—saving a few and con-
demning the many; but it is the predestination of God ‘who will
have all men to be saved.’ Man can no more escape from that
determination than from the omnipresence of God. In the finality
God must be all in all, for beside Him there is none other; but
withinthe bounds of the finalitythere is ample room for the exercise
of free-will, also for the punishment of sin and restoration from
its effects. Let me illustrate. I imagine a branch line of railway
running from a central station to a suburb. A train leaving the
terminus has no alternative but to reach the central depot. The
only doubt is as to the time the journey will occupy, which has to
be largely determined by the officials in charge, who have power
to hasten or delay.”
‘ ‘
Suppose there should be an accident?’’
“That is impossible upon God’s line of life.”
This was said in one of his soft unanswerable aflirmations to
which there is no reply.
“But, Myhanene, do you consider how inaccessiblyremote you
thus place God?”
‘ ‘
I have done no more, my brother,thanlend you what assistance
I am able for helping you to understand theposition God has always
occupied. The error was manufacturedon earth; I have only done
somethingtowards correcting it.’’
“But when will the best of us be able to reach Him?”
“That is to be the great employment of eternity, and we shall
find that provision is long enough for even the last laggard child to
reach his destination. Let us, however, be up and doing, never
forgetting the responsibilitywe are under in relation to delays.”
“The importance of that caution applies to the earth-life; you
do not suggest that the danger of delay exists here, do you?”
“Wherever progress is attainable, side by side with it exists the
possibility of delay. Never forget that. Of course, the higher
we ascend and the more we are transformed into the image of God,
the greater will our energy be increased,and the less liable shall we
be to tarry by the way. But for the present let me ask you to study
life as you will find it in your present home, where the last feeble
122
influence of the earth has but recently snapped, and every soul
rejoices in the newly-acquired perfect freedom. You will there
find a decided tendency to rest, a wish not to be disturbed, a satis-
faction already attained, a pronounced feeling of contentment, and
theidea ofhavingreacheda Heaven thathas no need ofimprovement.
It is this I wish you to guard against, and for which I am glad to
have had the opportunity of pointing out the lengthof the journey
lying before us.”
Hiswords threwa lurid light upon thatobscure remarkofVaone’s
I have already noted. Was he aware of it? I do not know.
Myhanene is not so easily understood in all his movements as one
might be led to thinkfrom first appearances.
“I thankyou for thatintimation,” I replied, “and will promise
to profit by your caution. But, tell me, in speaking of my present
residence as being just over the boundary of the earth conditions,
do you wish me to understand thatit is but thenext stage in progress
from thatthrough which Ladas has recently conducted me?”
“No. There are many degrees between the two. Ladas and
his friends are working for the deliverance of earth-bound souls,
whose every faculty and power is given to and held in. slavish
bondage by the desire still to achieve earthly success or take some
cruel revenge. Ladas works to convince all such of the futility of
their efforts, to point out the inevitable penalties they incur, and,
whenever successful, to conduct the repentant ones—with such
assurances of God’s unchanging love as he may be able to give—
mummy, and were failure in any department of our work possible,
this is thefield where it would be found. This, however, is out of the
question, and though results are achieved so slowly, the real danger
the condition presents to earth inspires the efforts of all engaged in
this part of our ministry.”
“Wherein lies the special danger?” I inquired.
“Stagnation is always a menace to health, and for this reason
lone it could not be allowed to remain. But the most serious aspect
of such existence is found in the dangerous sympathysuch souls form
with any to whom they can cling. They are drawn to such as are
/ drifting towards their own conditions like needles to a magnet, and
/ it is in this connection you will experience more trouble than you
/ imaginewhen your mission to earth commences.”
“Kindly explain to me what you mean.”
“The real danger of opening intercourse between ourselves and
earth lies in the almost entire absence of the true Christ spirit in the
majorityof men. This, as you willwell know by this time, establishes
a close association with kindred souls from this side, and the active
hypocrisiesofmen makenatural draft upon thosemost like themselves.
Our invasion of the mortal sphere with the evidence of immortality
has most largely attracted men and women with greater development
of curiosity, or desire for loaves and fishes, than spiritual knowledge
and life. This inquiry is naturally answered by souls who are them-
selves ‘of the earth, earthy,’who in turn prey upon this characterless
multitude for such information as may assist to establish a false
identity, and thus deceive the inquirers who seek gratification and
marvels rather than holiness and God.”
'
“But cannot this deception be prevented?”
“No! When God opens a door it is opened for all withoutrespect
of persons. Whatsoever earth asksfor it receives, and if it does not
receive the best it is becauseit asks amiss. In the nature of the case
ignorance and deception lie nearest to the earth, and may be reached
with greater ease; the higher life needs effort, energy, and sacrificeto
attain to, hence few there be who reach it. Still there are a few, and
we have to make the best use of these for the present, in the full con-
fidence thatrighteousness and truth must conquer, and such conquest
means the gradual extinction of this lifeless existence lying in what is
known as the earth condition. All this will work out more clearly
for your understanding by experience. For the present let us make
a briefvisit to earth, where I will introduce you to him through whom
we speak, and give my permission for you to use him under our
direction.”
CHAPTER XV
I BREAK DEATI-I’S SILENCE
IT seems absolutely incredible, regarded from the earth point of view,
that one in Myhanene’s position should so leisurely place himself at
124
my disposal as to suggest his accompanying me on a visit to earth
for thepurpose mentioned. Why did he not call one of themultitude
of messengers who wait to serve him, and bidhim attend and introduce
me to his psychic?
In that ‘Why’ lies all the voluminous difference between the two
estates.
How frequently has earth been known to say, ‘Who would have
thought such a trivial event would turn out to be so important?’
Paradise is ever conscious of the potentialities of the mustard-seed,
and orders its actionin accordancewith safety. Simplest duties have
an instant and imperative claim. In a condition of life where it is no
derogation for God to say, ‘Let there be light!’ rather than depute
the office to an underling, there can be no service too menial for the
highest of His angels to perform.
How harmonious is this with the teachingof the Christ—’He that
is the greatest among you shall be your servant!’ It is one of the
operating spiritual vlaws the Church on earth has mislaid and for-
gotten, that is why Myhanene’s action appears to be strange and
incredible.
I had just been accepted for service in the band of workers my
companion had organized to return through the tomb from Paradise
and re—proclaim the gospel of Christ to earth. For this work, so far
as the agents and methods he employed were concerned, he accepted
the responsibility,and being a mission rooted and grounded in his
love to God workingthrough mankind, his fidelity was such that the
service must needs be 1ove’s perfect offering. It was in this deter-
mination to render to God a worthy service where the raison d’e‘tre
of his action lay more than in a desire to render a personal service to
myself. His sanction and permission were needed before I could be
permitted to break the silence of death throughthe lips or instrumen-
tality of theprophet he had chosen as his own agent on theearth side.
In therealm of law thereare no accidents—on1yignoranceand neglect
—producing disappointment, and Myhanene is not the man to run
risks of which the responsibilitywould rest with himself or others
through him. Against the possibility of inadvertence he took all
precautions, and on the earth side drew his agent close to himself
by bands of confidence and protection of the strongest kind. The
security thus established furnishes a repetition of that Satan
discovered to be so inviolable in the case of Job: “Hast thou not
made a hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that
he hathon every side?’ ’
It was permission to pass thishedge I now
required, for which no personal authoritybut thatof my companion
T‘
would be accepted. 5 .
~
The visit also afforded a splendid opportunity for demonstrating
the subject we had been recently discussing. In our flight Myhanene
suddenly arrested my progress that I might appreciate the dividing
space between world and world! It was an awe-inspiring lesson!
We two were poised in awful solitude in space! We might have
been alone in the primeval silence! Far away like a pencil-point
"of light he showed me from whence we had come: then turning,
125
at a seemingequal distance lay theend ofour journey,and in between,
to me, thereseemed to be nothingbut a void!
I shuddered! The appalling majesty of the etheric ocean;
the august and terrible silence;the overpowering feeling of isolation,
except for the certainty that God was there in a nearer sense—
withnothingto come between—thanever I had considered possible,
was too much for me to bear. I was afraid at the sacred
holiness!
“Let us go,” I prayed.
“Come,” he replied, “it is seldom we make the pause, but I
was desirous for you to know and understand what these invisible
barriers are that lie between the stages of our ascent—these spaces
between the steps of Jacob’s ladder.”
“You are kind to draw my mind to thatthoughtof it,” I replied
with some relief. “The idea it inspires is more of the great gulf
fixed between the two.”
“Either thought is equallyappropriate. You will not forget
them, and the experience will lend an added force to your use of
either when you may refer to them. The school of God is full of
grandly majestic lessons.’ ’
‘
‘,1 would like to ask you respecting the divisions of nationalities
and tribes, if I may.”
“That is only a temporary arrangement applying to the plane
bordering on the earth conditions,” he answered. “Souls crossing
that boundary are subject to survivals of vibration from earth
influences for a time. I have already spoken of the easy content
you willnotice among many of those who have reached your present
condition. They rest and are willingto continue to do so. National
and religious prejudice lingers for a time, as does the sense of
weariness, until the soul grows acclimatizedto its new surroundings.
For this reason isolation is desirable to avoid friction in the first
stage past the boundary; but in the second only very feeble remnants
are found to survive, and in the thirdyou reach the general assembly
of races and religions, never more to be divided since all have learned
there is good in each, which good it is designed they shall each
and all discover.”
f‘Love again,” I commented. I
:_“Yes; always, everywhere, love. ’
We were now at our destination, but Cushna had preceded us
and was engaged with his psychic in an operation that excited my
interest and curiosity,quite as much as it demandscareful explanation
.
before being in any measure understood.
At the first glance the relationship of each to the other was
analogous to that I had previously witnessed in the variety theatre
where that malicious soul threw himself upon the hypocritical
guardian of the youth. The two were blended in a confused com-
bination. Then order took shape, and I saw that Cushna was
simply overclothing his sensitive in order that he might the better
perform the ofiice upon which he was engaged. This condition
was secured by first inducing a hypnotic sleep, liberatingthe tenant
126
soul of his medium for the time, while Cushna overclothed the body
and through it performed the benevolent duty of manipulating
the withered limb of a girl which he presently restored to a normal
state. '
‘
‘Demoniacalpossession,’’
some of my nervous doubtful readers
will exclaim. “Not so!” I answer, “but prophetic inspiration!”
Both are equally scriptural, and similar in operation, but they differ
widely in the nature of the controlling power.
Men are quite familiarwith and convinced of the reality of the
former; about the latter they are not nearly so assured nor inclined
to be even thoughit were equally demonstrated. But it is high time
men consented to be honest towards God though it may be at some
expense to their ignorance and prejudice. There are still many
more things in Heaven and earth than are yet imagined, and why
should not God beequallygenerous to His friendsas to His enemies?
If He gives permission for demons to control the bodies of unfor-
tunates—and nothing takes place outside the realm of law—is it
incredible that He should also have provided for angels to employ
the same agency for benevolent purposes? What means this
assurance of Samuel to Saul when he had just been anointed King
over Israel: ‘
‘The spirit of the Lord shall come upon thee, and thou
shalt prophesy . . .
and shalt be turned into another man; and
let it be when these signs are come unto thee, that thou do as
occasion serve thee; for God is with thee”? (1 Sam. x. 6-7.) Can
there possibly exist one side of anythingwithout the other——wrong
without right, evil without good? Does not the one always
presuppose the existence of the other? I, ask for honest reply and
seek no favour.
For myself, step by step with slow and measured progress the
gulf of separation betweenthe two stages of life was beingeffectually
and permanentlyclosed up. I had learned how completelypersonal
influence was exerted from side to side, by many instances both
happy and joyous; I had listened and proved how clearlythe voices
of friends could travel the distance, and every inflection of love be
distinctly heard; now I was brought face to face with the fact that
we could touch each other,and the vital flow of healthfrom Paradise
washavailable for the conquest of disease and infirmity on
eart .
“How much farther can these revelations go?” I asked myself,
and from the mystic depths within me spake a still small voice
saying: ‘ ‘
Hope thouin God, for withHimall thingsare possible.’’
_’
How literally true this is, beyond the wildest dreams ‘of
anticipation, was about to be made known to me, as will
appear.
Cushna’s treatment at an end, he withdrew from his medium,
who again woke to a normal condition. At the same moment
Myhanene bade me watch closely what was about to take place,
since he proposed to speak with our Recorder by another and
more preferable method.
For this purpose he withdrew to a little distance, where by a
127
process I could not then understand, but which I have since learned
to employ with ease, he gradually assumed a grosser and physically
tangible form, in which he stepped forward and greeted his
agent.
“Has Cushna left you very tired?” he inquired.
“Not if I can do anythingfor you,” James replied cheerfully,
turning to greet his new visitor with a smileof welcome.
“I have a friend I wish to introduce. He is about to join our
mission, but for thepresent is unable to assume the visible form.’’
“I feel a strange presence-—and yet, if I mistake not, he has
already been here.”
“You are right. He did once visit you with Cushna, but now
he comes as an addition to my band if you will allow it.’’
“Is it your wish thatit should be so?’ ’
“With your consent to his using you in the presence of some
second member of our mission until such time as I give other
permission.” ‘
“By what name shall I know him?’’
“Aphraar.”
“For the truth’s sake and your own I bidhim we1come.”
‘
‘I knew you would. But now while we establish his connection
with you, let me give you a communication you may send to one
of your journals if you will,with the hope it may be likea drop of
oil on troubled waters.”
While James was making ready to indite the message I may say
that it was given when a very heated discussion was proceeding on
what was called The Downgrade Movement. I propose to copy
the communicationin extenso as taken down at the time, becauseof
the liberalityof thoughtit breathes,which illustratesvery beautifully
the true spirit of Paradise. .
“I am ready,”
my Recorder presently announced.
‘
‘I will give it to you in verse form; and you may head it:
“THE BATTLE OF BELIEFS."
“Brethren,cease the wild contention,
Words are only seeds of strife;
Let us drop the killingletter-
Grasp the spirit; this is life.
Why should we raise heated cavil,
Has Christ made us judge of creed?
Have we all of revelation?
Know we only how to read?
Are therenot twelve gates to heaven,
North and south and east and west?
May not they of every doctrine,
Enter thateternal rest?
Every kindred, clirne and colour.
Every creed and tenet too-
Shall theynot be represented
With the dogma taught by you?
128
When the Master counts Hisjewels,
What a blendingwill be there!
Whosoever’s beauteousdiamond
Flashinglight beyondcompare.
Set amid the Calvin sapphire,
Roman ruby, High Church beryl,
And the Independent opal
Purified in times of peril.
Amethystof Wesleyan beauty,
Pearl of Presbyterianhue,
Topaz washed in Baptist waters,
Emerald of the Pagan too;
Coral from PacificIslands,
Chrysoprase from Afric’splain,
Chrysolyte from China ransomed,
Gems from Greenland’s icy chain;
Gems of lustre most exquisite
From Mohammed’s darkenedmine;
Stones we never knew the name of
Taken from theBuddhist shrine;
Vishnu pouring out his treasures,
Greece and Egypt adding store;
Crystal tear-drops shed to idols,
Rendered precious evermore.
Shall not these form the galaxy
Of thatwondrous diadem?
Up then, brother,cease thycavil,
Go, for Christ, in search of them.
Hear him crying—‘Who will gather
In the harvest field to-day?’
See, thysun is fast declining!
Art thou Christian: haste, away!
Time will not allow disputings:—
Men are calling for thineaid;
Preach the gospel Christ has given thee;
Preach! No need to be afraid.
Christ is Judge. We are but striving
In the race where others run,
Let us each by faithfulservice,
I
Gain a prize and glad ‘Well done!’ ”
I would say before leaving this message that the voracious jaws
of the editorial basket made short work of it, and Myhanene’s
verses have so far not been published. But to myself they have
been full of suggestive thought, and I record them here in the hope
thateven now theymay serve somethingof theirintended purpose.
It was now my turn to take control of that most marvellous of
all telephones and try to make my voice heard for the first time
across thesupposed unbrokensilenceofdeath. My several experien-
ces had fully assured me how illusory and fuH of ignorant super-
stition was the earth idea of death’s sealed silence; nevertheless I
5-—L.E. 129
must confess to a feeling of something akin to uncanniness as
Myhanene intimated his desire for me to proceed.
“Can you hear me?” I asked, but my voice sounded strange
and hollow even to myself.
“Yes,perfectly.”
I can convey no idea of the efl‘ect this question and reply made
upon me. That must be left, my gentle reader, until you probably
experience the sensation for yourself. When Myhanene was
speaking I watched the whole operation with a renewal of the
wondering surprise I had experienced when first I heard Cushna
speak across that supposed unbroken silence; but when I took my
position at the mysterious telephone the sound of my own voice
startled, almost terrified me, and‘ I shrank back from the clear
response with the indescribable feeling of one who for the first
time looks upon a ghost.
Myhanene was highly amused at my perturbation, and my
Recorder, thoughhe could not see me, evidentlygrasped thesituation,
and also appreciated my discomfiture.
‘
‘Did my voice startle you?’ ’
he asked.
“I can scarcely say what it did,” I replied. “I suppose I did
not really understand what all this meant until I heard you speak
for and to myself.”
“I can perhaps understand that better than Myhanene is able
to do,” he answered. “However completely one may recognize
the existence of natural forces at our disposition, the explosion
which, at one blast, razes the foundations of death and leaves an
unobstructed passage does shake and surprise one, to say the
least.”
“I have had the same experience," said Myhanene, “but I
thoughtit much better to let you feel thefull force of it, thanattempt
to prepare you for what I knew would occur.’’
“Never mind,” responded James, “it is all over now; the last
enemy has been destroyed for you, and henceforth we shall be able
to meet and commune upon perfectly easy terms. Now, may I
hear your name again, and I will make a note of it?"’
“Aphraar,”I answered.
My Recorder smiled, then opened a small book and added
the name to an already lengthylist.
“Why do you smile?”I inquired.
“At the satisfactory evidence the name affords of your connec-
tion with Myhanene,” he replied.
“In what way?”
“All his friends hide their identity for a time in a nom de plume,
but I generally manage to learn the real name in the long run.’ ’
“I have no wish to keep you in any doubt as to my own, if you
willdo me a greatfavour.’’
-
“I will if I can,” he answered readily.
“Would it not be better to know what I wish to ask before you
make a definite promise?”
“Not if your request is a legitimate one. If it is at all doubtful
130
I should refer it to Myhanene, and be guided by his decision. He is
here now, so you had better speak, and unless he objects, I shall be
pleased to serve you in any way I can."
0
‘ ‘
Since I have learned thatit is possible for me to speak withthe
earth again,” I answered, “I have had a most consuming desire to
send a message to my father, in an attempt to rectify two
mistakes.”
“Where can I find him?”
“He resides in South Kensington.”
“Do you wish me to see him, or would you prefer thatI should
write the message?”
“
Would you see him?”
“Yes,if you desire it, and Myhaneneconsents.”
“I have no objection,” our chief replied.
‘
‘I am afraid you will not receive a very cordial welcome,’’
I was
constrained to add, for I knew my father’sattitude towards anything
savouring of the superstitious.
“That is a matter of small consideration to me,” said James,
“providing your message contains satisfactory evidence of its
origin. Will you give me the name and address?”
“The name is Stephen Winterleigh,” the which, together with
the address, my Recorder made a careful note of.
‘ ‘
And now for the message,
’ ’
he went on, prepared to make what
notes were necessary.
Years have passed since the interview I am recounting, but I
feel all thatbewilderingwonder come backto me, and again I almost
ask myself whether the possibilityof such an intercourse is really
true after all!
Oh, theunfathomeddepthsoftheinfinitelove ofGod!
‘
‘Tell him how deeply I regret the annoyance I have occasioned,
by lending the volume of Lodge’s Portraits to my friend and neigh-
bour in chambers, Mr. Ralph Unaclifi‘. Say I only granted the loan ,
two days before my—-I suppose I must say death to be understood-
and if he will kindly see Mr. Unaclitf,the volume may be at once
restored. Further—and this will be the unpleasant part of your
message—~will you also tell him that the claim of my man, Acres,
for twenty pounds on my estate is perfectly valid. He entrusted me
withthatamount to invest, but I had not the opportunity of doing so
on account of my accident, and I should be glad if he would repay
it.’ ’
“Is that all?”
“If you can get those two matters attended to I shall be satis-
fied.’ ’
“I willtry to see your fatherto-morrow, and do my best to secure
your wish.”
So ended my first attempt to break the silence of death, which I
record becauseit is a personal experience, showing how easilyit may
be accomplished where the connection is suitably and carefully
made and safeguarded. It is only a grander telephone constructed’
upon the lines of spiritual rather than physical law.
131
CHAPTER XVI
“THEY VVILL HEAR HIM”
IT was quite natural for me to take more than a passing interest in
the delivery of a message forwarded under such extraordinary
circumstances—a message destined to put to the test the unselfish
plea urged by Dives thathis brothers would hear one who returned
from the dead. My fatherwas not a reed to be shaken by the wind,
but a man strong of convictions, and courageous to a fault in his
defence of them, rather than given to being inclined to the super-
stitious. Hence the outlook for such success as I wished was by no
means so hopeful as I could desire, unless my message might revive
in his memory some vibration of our recent interview in his sleep,
and so contributeto results I could neitherforesee nor estimate.
Alas! I had not thenlearned what I know by many experiences
now—how much more conscientious thesoul is even in its temporary
discarnation than when it walks abroad clothed in its mantle of
flesh and blood. If men only knew how the mask of flesh disguises
their true identity even for themselves, they would stand aghast
at the revelation. There was pity as well as philosophy in the
advice of the Grecian sage when he said, ‘ ‘
Man, know thyself."v
The study of psychology is already revealing the fact that the
idea of multiple personality is not altogether a fiction. It will not
be long before it goes even further and recognizes that Robert Louis
Stevenson wrote with an inspired pen and drew a characteristic
picture of the race in the supposed creation of Dr. Jekyll and Mr.
Hyde. The portrait is only thatof man asleep and man awake.
“O wad some power the giftie gie us
To see oursels as (angels) see us!
It wad fra monie a blunder free us,
And foolish notion.”
But what unnumbered errors we stumble into because such a price-
less boon never rises beyond a poetic expression rather than an
honest desire, and man goes on content to remain a stranger to his
own true selfequallyas to his fellow.
That I was somewhat too sanguine in my hopes the sequel will
show, but the lesson it taught me was a useful and necessary one.
In my hope and expectationI had failedentirelyto consider theearth
influences,in balancing the probabilities. Myhanene knew this,
as I afterwards discovered, but he did not interfere, because these
neglected forces tell like weights of lead in their opposition to our
efforts, and it was better that I should discover it in practicerather
than learn it as a theory.
My error lay in estimatingprobabilitiesaccordingto the standard
of my own condition,where everythingis seen as it really is and may
132
be accepted at its face value. Acting upon the change I found in
my fatherin the sleep interview, I was led to apply this estimate to
him in relation to his dealings with the message I had just trans-
mitted. I hoped the evidence it would afford would impress him,
and probably lead to a nobler future by inquiry and recognition
of the indisputable evidence of available facts.
“How bright some visions break upon us!” said Myhanene
presently, arousing me from my thoughts by one of his enigmatical
utterances.
“I scarcely understand you,” I replied.
His smilerevealed more than his words.
“I thinkthislast experience has confused me somewhat,’’
I said;
“I have almost forgotten everything in wondering what efl'ect the
message willhave upon my father.”
‘ ‘
You must not hope for too much. But would you like to watch
its effect for yourself?’ ’
“I should indeed, if such a thingis possible.”
“It can easily be arranged,” replied my friend.
_Then speaking to our Recorder, he inquired:
I
‘;Willyou let me know when you are about to deliver the mes-
sage.”
Listen, all ye who are accustomed to think of death as the last
dread enemy of mankind! Myhanenewas speaking to one on either
side of the tomb. He was equally heard by each, yet his voice was
not louder than a musical whisper. He was making a request that
when his fellow-servant on earth proceeded to execute a commission
on the morrow a telegraphic message should be sent to him in
Paradiseto acquainthim of thefact.
“Yes, certainly,” was the ready response.
“Then Eusimos shall call Aphraar, and they shall go with you
to learn the result.”
With such arrangements possible, how far away from earth are
we removed?
Eusimos kept the appointment, and when James and my father
met we were present, thoughunseen.
The receptionwas such as thehost generallyaccordedto strangers,
especially those who were regarded as socially inferior to himself;
proud, cold, and quizzically suspicious.
“You wish to see me?” he inquired without offering a seat.
_
“Yes; but my reason for doing so requires some little explana-
tion.”
“
Make thatas brief as possible. I am a busy man, withno dis-
position to waste time.’’
I
‘
‘Igorcan I afford to do so, but beingasked to deliver a message,
“Excuse me; from whom do you bear the communication?"
“Your son, Mr. Frederic Winterleigh.”
‘
‘It is false! My son is dead, and thereour interview must en .’ ’
He turned to open thedoor.
“Very well, if you so elect,” replied James; “but I think your
133
H
__‘__‘
_.,
-....-
..._..»Y
_
,
son, whetherdead or not, would like to know you had recovered your
lost volume of Lodge’s Portraits."
He turned sharply, without opening the door, to inquire warmly:
“What do you know about the book? Let me caution you,
sir, that I am not a man to be trifled with. If you have lost the
volume in your possession, produce it without trying to levy black-
mailupon me by any spiritualisticnonsense, or you will find yourself
in a serious comer.”
My messenger’s cheeks flushed withindignationat theunfounded
suggestion.
“If you think any financial consideration brought me here you
make a great mistake. I would scorn to touch your money though
you proffered it, so you may dismiss any thought of blackmail
from your mind.”
‘ ‘
But why do you not tell me where the book is?"
“Because I have lacked the opportunity of doing so.”
“Then you have it now.”
“I have two messages to deliver from Mr. Frederic——”
‘
‘I tell you my son is dead, sir!”
“Did I deny it? Will you excuse me, Mr. Winterleigh, but this
interview is quite as unpleasant to me as yourself; if therefore you
will allow me to say what I came to say and take my leave, I shall
feel obliged. What course you choose to take upon the information
I have to give can be determined afterwards. I am asked to say that
theclaim of thevalet, Acres, for twenty pounds is rightlymade——”
“Oh, that is your purpose, is it? You are a confederate of his,
are you?”
“No. I know nothingof the man, and have never seen him.”
“Then how do you know about this money?”
“I decline to discuss that under the circumstances, but will you
kindly allow me to finish the message and go? My time is equally
valuable as your own.”
“What is it you have to say?"
“That two days before your son’s accident, Acres gave him
twenty pounds to invest, an investment which your son had not time
to carry out, and he wishes you to return it from his estate.”
b ‘1;Thatwill be for me to make inquiries about; but what about the
00 ?”
“On the same day Acres entrusted him with this money your
son lent the missing volume to his friendand neighbour in chambers,
Mr. Ralph Unaclilf.”
The quiet and unassuming tone in which this information was
conveyed, as if it was an ordinary and everyday communication
between friend and friend, was too much for my father’s self-
assurance and assumption of superiority. The human nature in
every man is reachable, given tact and occasion, and this startling
message had for the moment shaken if not completely penetrated
my father’s vulnerable spot.
“Do you recognize the stupendous significance of what you say
should it prove to be true?” he inquired.
134
“Perfectly; and it is also true. But I am too familiarwith such
communications to share your astonishment.”
“You must explain yourself. Won’t you sit down?”
“No, thank you, I have executed my commission, and we are
both busy men.”
It was the visitor who was calm and reticent now, and my father
was visibly disconcerted.
“But if this you tell me should prove to be true, it is the most
astounding thingI have ever heard.”
“Then I would advise you to put it to the test, and afterwards
take what furthersteps theresult demands.’ ’
“But won’t you offer some explanation?” .
“It would be useless until you have verified the message. After
that I shall be pleased to render you any assistance in my power.
You have my card, and I am at home on Wednesdays after seven to
help inquirers. Have you any reply?”
“What reply can I make in the first moment of such an un-
precedented communication? If you could spare me half an hour
I might be able to say somethingintelligible. I could telephone to
Unacliffand prove the whole thing at once.”
“Speak to James,’’
I appealed to Eusimos, ‘
‘and suggest thathe
accede to the request.”
“No, it would not be well,” he. answered.
“Not to finish breakingdown my father’sprejudice?” I inquired.
“It is for that I am carefully working,” replied my friend.
“James is not left to himself in this matter, but is giving expression
to answers I am furnishing. If your father is honest in his desire
to know more of this subject let him accept the invitation for Wed-
nesday, and in the meantime assure himself thatthe communication
is true. But he will not do that.”
“Are you sure?”
“His attitude is one of piqued curiosity. The two will never
meet again, or it might cost the inquirer twenty pounds, and that
will be more to him than truth as soon as his first astonishment is
over. Further knowledge might demand other restitutions, and
your fatheris not the man to court such risks.”
I am afraid he read him aright, thereforeI said no more.
“It is impossible for me .to spare more time than I have already
given, and if you have no reply to make I must wish you good
morning.”
It was no use for him to press further; I could see from what had
been said that Eusimos had James well in hand. What my father
asked for was easily obtainable if he was sufficiently honest in his
desire to seize theopportunity opened out to him. Whetherhe would
do so or not after testing the communication was to be the proof of
his sincerity. That is the law under which we work. We recipro-
cate, first furnishing a proof, then making a demand. We do not
come to earth, as so many seem to think,as criminals to a bar for
trial, and anxious to secure a hearing upon any terms, but, rather
knowing what is needed and able to render assistance, we volunteer
135
our services, meeting confidence with confidence until such time as
better acquaintance establishes a firm and solid friendship.
My father did not consent to this arrangement. He recovered
the volume, but did not discharge the debt. There the result of my
message was reached. He is with us now, knowing the truth, and
were I to visit him and ask the question he would gladlygive all the
gold the world contains, did he possess it, for the opportunity and
its possibilitieshe then so lightly threw aside.
Still it is doubtful whether his moral standard was below the
average on the whole. But when we stand in the light of eternal
verities it seems almost incredible that men of sound business
instincts can allow themselves to be so completely blinded by false
dogmatic assurances in the matter of their spiritual interests. No
man willcomplacentlyregard himselfas safe in thecommercial world
when he knows his cheque at the bank will be dishonoured, and yet
the same individuals go through life smilinglyconfident in their
condition of spiritual bankruptcy, convinced that when the hour of
need arrives they may draw heavy cheques on the bank of faith
where their names are unknown, which cheques will be honoured
at sight and every spiritual claim find payment through a dying
prayer. ‘Be not deceived!’ if you have been able to mock your
fellow successfully you will meet with a rude awakening when you
try the same on God. He will never become the accomplice of a
dying thiefseeking to evade justice. No compositions are accepted
in the Court of Death,but every debt must be fully discharged with
legal interest. Mercy is left behind as you cross that threshold,
and Justice is the only judge occupying the bench. Not that God
has changed, but the sinner has been arrested and brought to trial.
Mercy defers thearrest, but Justice follows it.
With all the prayerful solicitude of a soul who has passed along
the way and knows what lies before, I would place myself as far as
possible on the earth side of the brow of the hill from whence the
descent into the valley begins, and shout: “Be cautious how you
proceed, for the hill is dangerous.” When once the descent begins
there is no escape. If you have not made your preparations in
advance, woe betide you. The promise secured by the appalled
soul of the dying thiefwas nothingmore than a promise to be heard
and justly dealt with on his arrival in Paradise. He was not for-
given. He could not be forgiven in the face of the law which enacts
that‘
Whatsoever a man soweththatshall he also reap.’ _
Mercy has opened the gate of Paradise, and Christ has lovingly
rolled away the stone from the door of the sepulchre, that the
voices of those who have passed into the beyond may be heard on
earth testifying to what they have discovered for your instruction.
But ignorance blinds your eyes and stops your ears, and you are
lulled into a false security by vain traditions, moving towards your
fate witha sharper sword than thatof Damocles tremblingoverhead
tillits hair is snapped, and you wake to find yourselves in thepresence
of an inexorable law from the consequences of which your trusted
dogmatismhad assured you a full discharge had been granted.
136
CHAPTER XVII
THE HALLELUJAH STRAND
FROM the surroundings in which I move I am so conscious of the
value of character built upon accurate information that a strong
desire prompts me to linger over every detail of my narrative, lest
I miss some apparent triviality upon which a mighty issue should
afterwards be found to hang. But my difficulty lies in the certain
factthatupon every point I am constrained to mention almost infinite
possibilitiesare centred. The germ life in a single grain of wheat is
inestimable. Life knows no such diflerentiation as greater and
lesser; these distinctions apply only to its powers of selection and
assimilationcontrolling growth and production. One grain draws
the sustenance upon which it feeds and thrives from one source,
anotherfrom another; and where all have to be equally provided for
duty demands that all shall be considered.
This is the terribly startling truth we can never lose sight of.
It is this that makes me so frequently reiterate that with us there is
nothingsmall or great, or perhaps I should rather say everythingis
great and nothing small. Every suggestion I use is weighted with
inestimable significance, because I speak of truth, and would gladly
tarry to open every seed I scatter and show the potential value of its
contents. But my duty is to sow and leave the increase to the
future and to God. Still I wish I could sow my thoughtswith a pen
of living fire, that they might burn and bury themselves deep in the
lives of all to whom I speak.
Under the most favourable conditions the law of growth is a
wearilyslow process, and when we look back to ascertain honestly
how much we have already accomplished of our pilgrimagetowards
God, we tremble to speculate as to how long it will take us to reach
perfection. The powers of God repose in the nature of God, but
we find little of them in ourselves at present. It is the continual
recurrence of this factas I look backfrom my higher vantage ground
that would make me pause, but duty calls me forward, and I must
needs obey.
As an illustration that it is simply an environment and not the
soul that is changed in the process of discarnation, I may very
usefully here introduce the awakening of our little ‘Dandy.’ It is
a case of peculiarly marked characteristics, well exhibitingmany of
the definite points of interest respecting which earth is somewhat
anxiously doubtful. It was also the first occasion upon which I had
watched the process from both sides, and I was therefore specially
desirous to tracehow much was rememberedand how much forgotten
before the little fellow touched the point of recollection where all
would become perfectly clear to his memory.
Vaone notified me of the impending event, and when I arrived
137
I found Eilele (the poetess, whose acquaintance we have already
made), who was present with Jack, as the nearest friend to offer the
first congratulations.
Dandy was still sleeping peacefully, but what an astonishing
change had taken place in his appearance since we last saw him!
The pinched and haggard look had passed away, and in its place we
saw the rounded healthy face of a well—developed lad. There was
the suspicion of a smile playing around his mouth, and a kind of
nervous tremor as if his naturallyvivacious precocity was impatient
to exercise itself in new and more favourable surroundings. In the
days of the past the preternatural humour of the lad had been
mercifully granted as an ofifset to hardship and suffering, and in his
sleep he already seemed to understand or anticipatethathe was about
to wake and find the shadow had passed away, leaving the sunshine
witha brighter sparklethanhe had known before.
I looked from the sleeper to Jack, who was actively impatient
for his friend to open his eyes and learn thathis one great wish had
been actually granted. In Jack I saw the first-fruits of Eilele’s
de voted training. His still mobilecharacter had yielded splendidly
to the moulding of her Christ-like mind, and the lad in every way
represented the possible transformation Paradise can efi'ect by its
system of adaptive culture. It was onlya crude block of individual-
ity Arvez carried to her home when I first met her, but Eilele had
worked upon it with skill and genius until the outline of the angel
form could already be fairly well discerned. Ah! this divine study
of soul sculpture is glorious work indeed!
From Jackmy eyes wandered to his instructress, whose faceshone
with the soft glow of one of her far-away contemplations, but at
the moment she raised her head, and our eyes met.
“Is it not beautiful,”she inquired, “to watch the unfolding of
such treasures in the garden of the Lord?’ ’
“I wish it were possible clearly to understand the whole of the
beauty,”I replied. “As it is we lose so much because we can
appreciate so little.”
“I have given up the idea of ever being able to understand the
all. My cup runneth over; and I try to be satisfied if I can add to
the sweetness of my life’s contents some new, if only faint, idea of
the music contributed by each new experience.”
“Can you be satisfied?” I asked.
“No, no! I thinkmine must be a very restless, daring, aspiring
soul.’ ’
Then, with one of her meditative outstretches of reverence,
she added: “And yet it is not that so much as God’s great love,
drawing me ever nearer to Him at a rate that refuses to allow my
slowlyexpandingsoul to keep pace withHis wonderful developments.
Oh, Aphraar, who is able to understand this incomprehensible life
into which you and I are but just unfolding?”
“I wish you would grant me an opportunity of speaking to
you on these things,”I ventured to ask, encouraged by her inquiry.
“In your earth-life you were so active in the cause of the Master,
whereas I scarcely gave a disinterested thought to Him. I see my
138
error now, and when I hunger to know so much of Him, I know of
no one, save perhaps Myhanene, who could help me as you might
do.”
“Come home with me, when our little friend awakes,” she
answered, “and we will help each other to understand more of the
Father’s love than we know at present.”
“Yes, I will gladly come, and thus gratify another of my long-
deferred desires.”
“Is that really so?” and a softly indeterminate smile lighted
her face as she spoke. “The pleasures of His service are more
than passing sweet, especially where the ministry is so personally
remunerative.’ ’
“Then Shakespeare spoke by inspiration when he said that
Mercy
“
‘is twice blest;
It blesses him thatgives and him thattakes.’ ”
“It must needs be so with all the gifts of God,” she replied;
“theyexhale a blessing on every receptive soul theypass.”
As she spoke Mynanene with a company of attendants arrived
to give the lad a welcome from the hardships he had so patiently
and unselfishly borne. No longer was the benign young ruler
dressed in the neutral robe he wore when last I saw him, but in the
resplendent raiment with which he came to kiss those sleepers in
the Magnetic Chorale back to life. He had again the self-same
office to perform, and with more than a royal welcome awakened
a soul whose body earth had already hurried unnoticed and unwept
into a pauper’s grave.
“Carry him hence, at thepublic cost,
Bury, dissect him, or do as you may;
Nobody knows him, no one will miss him,
Homeless and friendless, take him away.
Back of the death-veil,hidden by shadows
Angels were waiting in regions of light,
Anxiouslywaiting to bidhim ‘good-morning’
Who passed from the earth without a ‘good night’.”
Such was actually the difference in the conditions of the lad
—between ignorance and knowledge, humanity and divinity.
Values at sight are not always faultlesslyaccurate. Tell a connois-
seur thename and subject of an old master and he willfairlyestimate
its real value in hundreds or thousands, but the ignorant boor will
turn disdainfullyfrom the dirty canvas for which he would not give
five shillings. '
Just so in the merchandise of souls; the highly-coloured St.
Dives is hung on the line, in most favourable light, even in a church
exhibition, while Lazarus is left to the care of the dogs. Poor
Dives! Happy Lazarus! Mistaken ecclesiastics! Ignorant
humanity!
139
What an absolute necessity exists that a court of justice should
be established where righteousness reigns.
Myhanene took Jack by the hand and led him to thatside of the
couch towards which theface of the sleeper was turned, thenbending
over he gently kissed the lips that had been already twitching as if
impatient to give utterance to the lad’s surprise.
The body stretched to its full length, the head half-turned, a
faint “Oh dear” escaped the lips, then the eyes opened, and the
bewilderedlad jumped into a sitting posture.
“Wheer am I? ’E1lo, Jack! Why! Wheer ’as I got to?”
“You are at home now,” said Myhanene.
“Yes, Dandy, you are dead now, and have come to be where
I am,” cried the delighted Jack.
“Dead, Jack? Get out! I look like a dead un, don’t I?” In
his astonishment his eyes roamed round the place and the company
surrounding him; then he asked: “
’Ere, what are they bin doin’ to
the ’orspickle?”
“Don’t you rememberme?” asked Myhanene.
The lad looked at him doubtfully for an instant.
“Yes. Worn’t you the doctor?”
“No. Think again.”
“Oh, yis! I remember now. Yer said yer wouldn’t leave me;
didn’t yer?”
‘
‘Yes. Then you went to sleep, and I brought you here.’’
“Is this another ’orspickle then?”
“Yes, this is one of God’s hospitals, where everyone gets
we .”
f _
“dYou are better now, Dandy, ain’t you?” asked his little
men .
“Yes,I’m better. But Jack, am I dead, straight?”
“Why, don’t you feel dead?”
“No, I’m better. Slep’ mysel’ better, I s’pose; an’ I didn’t
want ter.”
“Well, you know I am dead, don’t you?”
“Yes, you're dead enough, but what about me—I ain’t.”
“Then how can you see me? Do you thinkyou are asleep?”
“No, I ain’t as1eep”—and he looked bewilderedlyaround as
if searching for some explanation———‘‘
becos somebody wakened me.’’
Then he turned appealinglyto Myhanene. “Say; you know. Tell
me what’s the matter?”
“Yes,I will tell you all about it. You rememberthehospital?’’
“Yis, an’ I was so bad!”
“Do you rememberasking me if I was the angel who was going
to kill you?”
‘
‘I thinkI does, but I was so bad, yer knows.”
‘
‘You rememberBully Peg.’’
“Yis. Did ’e get my money?”
This enabled him to touch the first point of recollection, and a
portion of his memory became clear, so that without Myhanene
reminding him of more he went on:
140
“Oh, I know all about it now. ’E ’ad a tanner from the doctor,
didn’t ’e? An’ then yer said I’d got ter go back, an’ it wouldn’t
’urt me; but miss said I was to go to sleep, didn’t she?”
66YeS'99
“Well, then, wheer am I now? ’Ave 1 got to go back
agen?”
“No, it is all over now.”
“But I ain’t dead yet.”
“Are you not? Why the nurse and doctors say you are.”
“But I ain’t, am I?” _
“Of course you are, Dandy; all the dead there is for you,” said
Jack.
“Am I tho’?” he doubtfully appealed to Myhanene.
“Yes, I think you may take your little friend’s word for it.
You know all of deathyou ever will know.”
“But I doan know anythin’about it. It didn’t ’urt a bit.”
“I told you it would not.”
“An’ can I get up?”
“Yes, we want you to go home now. Jack is going with you
for a little while.” ~
“An’ when you go to th’ College, yer’l1 take me wi’ yer, won’t
yer, Jack?”
“Yes,I will take you everywhere I can.’’
“An’ we must see Bully Peg, becos I want ter know ‘ow ’e’s
goin’ on.”
How long the enumeration of his first desires would have taken
it is difficult to say, but Jacktold him theywould arrange everything
presently; then, Myhanene led the little fellow on to the terrace,
where a host of new friends gave him a welcome that I am afraid
was mostly lost upon him in the delight of the thousand beauties
thatsurrounded him. Especiallywas thisnoticeablewhen Myhanene,
having finished his part in the proceedings, took his departure,
accompanied by his companions from his higher home. Their
course through the air rendered Dandy absolutely speechless with
astonishment,and he looked from one to the otherof us as if begging
for some explanationof the uncanny phenomenon.
It would be interesting, did space and necessity permit, to follow
the course of these two boys for a while, and trace the ministry of
the one who had so wonderfully improved under the instruction
of Eilele, in his effort to enlighten his newly-arrivedfriend in regard
to the initial features of this new and surprising existence. Jack
already knew enough to be of valuable service at the outset, and
Dandy would accept his assurances with far more unquestioning
faiththan those of a stranger, while the informationimparted would
always be within the knowledge of others near at hand to correct
or explain if necessary. Thus we see how the law of Heaven con-
descends to accept even the most feeble service as competent to take
part in the work of a soul’s salvation. For the present the little
initiate would have to be led gently forward until his bewildered
mind was able to touch the final point of recollection and he could
141
intelligently connect the present with the clearly recalled memories
of the past, which I have already referred to in my own experience.
Jackwas quite competent to do thiseven better thanan older teacher,
’and therefore his choice for the work, which we must content
ourselves to imagine rather than follow in detail.
In recording this incident I have kept my attention fixed on the
three central figures, simply because all the interest for myself was
confined to that little group, and the surrounding accessories were
not consciously in existence for the time. Myhanene’s presence
was oflicial, and his duty to wake and welcome the little pilgrimto
the new sphere of existence. This accomplished, he returned,
and
dliiileleat once assumed control by reason of her more advanced
con tion.
The lad’s eyes were still riveted on the ascending company who
ll;ad_C_;'us1tl_1eftus, when she knelt beside him and gently laid her head
esi e is.
“I say!” he asked, scarcely daring to turn his eyes for an instant
lest he should lose the vision; “is they really hangels?”
‘
‘Yes,God sent themto bidyou welcome home.’’
“Well, wheer’s theirwings, then?’’
“They have none.’’
“Then they ain’t real hangels.”
“Yes,theyare God’s real angels.”
“Thenthey ought to ha’ wings. I never seed a hangel wi’out
’em be ore.”
“You have only seen pictures of angels before; and in pictures
they ’
give them wings so that we might know them from
men. ’
“That’s why I didn’t know ’em. But I don’t think they’re
reg’la‘rV£ea1hangels now.” —
S 5
y
CHAPTER XVIII
l
Ln=E's MOSAICS
Poon Dandy’s mind was in the state of doubtful spiritual confusion
frequently experienced by many who have been far better circum-
stanced thanhimselfin theearth-life. He had, like others, permitted
his fanciful ignorance to mould and fashion the superstitious specu-
lations of his dogmatic masters and pastors concerning an after
life into a nebulous uncertainty, and when he entered upon it was
surprised to find a condition of law and order, where he had
anticipated an indescribable unnaturalness coupled with intangible
eccentricities.
In this lies the root of the confusion experienced by almost every
new arrival. The life Elysian is too real, too much a continuance
of our old selves with only new surroundings adaptively arranged
in harmony with the nature we have cultivated; it is too much the
effect of causes we vainly imagined our mask of religion had con-
cealed even from the suspicion of existence; it binds the two states
too closely in one where we have comfortably deceived ourselves
thatdeathwould end thewholeand begina new life, where spiritual
ancestry could not be inconvenientlytraced.
Be not deceived, death is only an incident in life, not an end.
Whatsoever is sown in the springtime of earth must be reaped in
the autumn of Paradise.
Happy are they who can resume existence in the hereafter with
no greater confusion thanthatof Dandy; we can listen to the expres-
sion of his bewilderment——~evensmile at it, but I have known many
instances where the revelation appalled with its agony.
“Yer sure I is dead, Jack?” he asked his friend after again
looking carefully around him and comparing his present with his
past environment.
“Of course you are. Why! Don’t you want to be, now it’s
too late to alter it?"
“Yis! I’m glad er that. But I wish them mission coves
wouldn’t tell such lies, an’ stufl‘ kiddies as they do. Wot are they
got ter say that the angels’d meet us for, when we die, at the
’a11elujah in the Strand, an’ sing us a welcome ’ome? They know
it ain’t true.”
“No, they don’t, Dandy.”
“Well, I do, then. The ’al1elujahs ain’t got a place in th’
Strand. There’s the Tiv’1i an’ the ’Delphi an’ the Gaiety, an’ the
Law Courts, but I've looked many a time for a ’allelujah place, but
I never seed one yet.’’
Eilele smiled and drew the mistaken lad closer to herself as
she discovered his false impression and prepared to remove it.
“Now I understand the cause of your disappointment,” she
143
said, “and will explain the mistake for you. You thought the
gngelsi ’would meet you at a Salvation Army meeting in the
ran .
“Ain’t they the ’allelujahpeople?" he inquired.
“Yes, sometimes they are called so. But the meaning of the
hymn IS that the angels would meet you on the shores of the
glory-land.’ ’
“0—oh! I didn’t know that.”
“No. That is how you made the mistake. Now, Myhanene
and his friends met you just before you died, and did welcome you
home.”
“But ’e didn’t sing it?”
Poor little fellow; he wanted the letter verified. Like many
who are older, better circumstanced, and of greater intellectual
capacity, the spiritual truth was lost to him in a verbal inaccuracy.
But Jack, and several friends who had known Dandy at the College,
carried him off and would speedilysatisfy his most exactingdemands,
not perhaps in the manner he desired at the moment, but theywould
satisfy him none the less.
“Is this the first awakening at which you have been present?”
Eilelelaskedwhen we were alone.
55
t I‘S.!9
“Then you will scarcely understand the confusion of it, until
you recall your own experience. Everything is so very different
to anticipation, especially the discovery that death is nothing more
than an ordinary sleep during which an unexpected transformation
has been worked in everythingbut ourselves, and that alone which
we expected death would change remains untouched. Was it not
so withyou?”
“Partly. I was sorely perplexed as to where I was and what
had occasioned the change in my location. But, had someone
been present from whom I could have received an explanation, I
do not thinkmy surprise would have been so great.”
“Then you were allowed to wake upon the slopes, and in your
previous life had not troubled yourself much as to the nature of
this existence?”
“No; I took very little interest in what always appeared to be
useless speculations. My idea of religion was to do the best I could
withthe duty of the moment, and leave the future to look after itself.
I hope my candid admission will not disturb you.”
“Not now,” she replied, with a somewhat amused smile. “It
would have done so at one time, but I have learned to take a broader
view, and understand more of the truth than I knew on earth.
Much of what I once regarded as essential I now see to be more of
a hindrance than assistance, and much that I despised would have
helped me wonderfully. I lived more in the future than the present,
and sketched my plan of Heaven with even more of detail than I
myself imagined until I opened my eyes upon this life and realized
the error. Perhaps that enables me to sympathizemore with the
disappointment of poor little Dandy than you can understand.”
144
"‘Kinship of experience would give you that advantage,” I
replied.
“But such experiences are not to be coveted. He had only one
confused idea of what Heaven would be—that of angels meeting
him on some sort of Salvation Army platform he had located in the
Strand, and singing him a welcome home. I can almost see the
picture which had gradually taken shape in his mind; the crowded
hall, and the platform filled with white-robed angels wearing golden
crowns and opalescent wings, and he, the hero of the occasion,
being led forward while the welcome home was sung. When I
think of it I can sympathize with his disappointment, and do not
wonder he refused to believe. The whole of his Heaven had disap-
V
peared; it was not quite so serious with myself. After my first
recoil of surprise I found, if the accessories were absent, I had
entered upon the rest; though the architecture was different, I
recognized the Father’s house; though the wedding garment was
not ready, I was conscious of having come nearer to the Bridegroom,
and when I realized this I was content.”
‘ ‘
Only content—not satisfied?’ ’
“The soul can never be satisfied until it awakes to find itself
bearing His full likeness,” she replied gravely. “While we remain
unlike we shall also be absent from Him. The light of His holiness
must radiate from ourselves before our sight will be pure enough to
enable us to see Him. Then, and not tillthen, shall we be satisfied.”
“Did the discovery disappoint you?”
“In a measure, yes. But only for an instant, then I was glad.
Everything was so different to all my expectations that I was com-
pelled to revise every conception I had framed. But in doing this
I was able to beginwiththe consciousness thateverythingimmeasur-
ably surpassed all that my former visions had pictured. With
these great advantages availablein my new arrangement, I no longer
regretted my fictitious loss, but gloried in the gain. For instance,
it was no hardship to drop the limitations of ecclesiasticism that
I might have my hands empty to grasp this life.”
“But you do not renounce Christianity?”
“To that I must reply both Yes and No, but in doing so I want
you clearly to understand what it is I renounce and what I retain.
Looking back from this life I see religion to be a very different thing
to even my own earth conception of it. As the light in passing
through a prism becomes separated and forms a rainbow-tinted
spectrum, so God’s truth in passing through humanity breaks up
into many forms of religion, each emphasizingsome particular ray.
In God’s bow of promise there is room for every combination of
colour. Justice and truth demand this recognition. Each is known
and takes rank according to the fruit it bears. ‘All ye are brethren
—love one another,’ is the Father’s law. Now, I try to apply
this standard equally all the way round, and of my own church I
ask: Is its history one of making wars to cease? Does it systema-
tically protect the weak against the strong? is the policy of invasion
of other countries always governed by a good Samaritan motive?
145
has it always been characterized by freedom and good-will?
do the Christian nations always act with brotherly unison in the
matter of carrying their gospel forward ‘in honour preferring one
another’? which so-called Christian church, by reason of its humility,
is to be accounted greatest? is the Eastern Church of Russia, or the
Western Rome, or England, protesting against both alike, the ideal
leader of the forward movement? where is the spirit of the Christ
for which we naturallylook in the forefront of the policy of a nation
calling itself by His most holy name? Yet, not one of the so-called
Christian nations moves its army or its navy for action but from
every pulpit in its land God is called upon to bless the slaughter
for which they go forth and to crush the nation against whom they
move. These are the broadly defined lines of systematized Chris-
tianity as it appears from where we stand, and such I now renounce
as being anti-Christian—a wolf in sheep’s clothing. The Christ
of God gave Himself for every man; the Christianity as exhibited
to the world gives nothingunless it can take more from any or every
man. On the other hand, I retain and hold that which Christian
theology has forgotten and lost—the true Christ-life, which all who
truly follow Him enter into and enjoy, between which and the
theology usurping His name there is a gulf fixed across which no
man is able to step and keep one foot on either side."
“But you do not deny that there are good men within the
church?”
“There are always men who are better than their creed, who
remain within, but not of, their system—the heretics of to-day who
will become the saints of to-morrow. Christ and modern Christian
theology are irreconcilable. The teaching of the One is: ‘Let all
your striving be to make your own calling and election sure until
the Christ-power,generated from your own life, shall compel others
to come in.’ The other practicallyallows: ‘Having been justified
by His death without any effort or commendation of our own,
without consideration of character, morality or fitness, we are
commissioned to go into all the world and compel men to be better
than we are on pain of everlasting torment.’ These are the simple
laws governing a life and a system so much at variance as to be
irreconcilable, the latter of which I am compelled to renounce that
I may consecrate myself to the former.”
“I am no apologist for the churches,” I replied, “but when I
hear you speak in such a strain I can scarcely believeit.”
“Your personal interest in the life and work of the Master has
not yet led you to study these things in the light of the present,”
she answered, “or you would not wonder at the expressions I use.
I have no doubt but few of those who have read my writings would
think me capable of speaking as strongly as I am now speaking,
just as I myself once failed to understand how the meek and lowly
Christ could scourge the priests and teachers of His day withthe
awful fiagellation recorded in Matthew twenty-third. I can under-
stand and cease to wonder at it now since He saw and understood
what is here so plainly visible. But I must repeat what I have already
146
said, there are good and holy men, saintly and self-sacrificing,whom
the oflicialdom of theology has been powerless to touch; salt of
the earth still preserving its savour in spite of the corruption;
standard-bearers of the Master who keep the torch of truth burning
in their holy lives as a protest to the Judas legion by which their
Lord is betrayed. God has never left His people withoutthisleaven,
and it is in connection with this you will be able to work when you
commence your ministry.”
'
0
“May I ask how you know what work I am about to engage
in .
’ ’
“There is no secret in that,” she replied,‘‘but you are not yet
accustomed to thinkhow easily we are known and read of all men
in all things which pertain to the kingdom. It is my consciousness
of this that led me to speak to you as I have done, because I am
desirous that you should have my testimony as to the uselessness
of many of the thingsour friends on earth most prize. Don’t forget
in all your communion that Jew or Gentile, bond or free, church
or chapel, Protestant or Romanist, Christian or Buddhist, profiteth
nothing,but the one essential necessity is a new creature from whose
life all the old thingsare passed away.”
‘ ‘
I am gladthatyou have been led to speak of my coming labours.
It was in connection withthis I most wished to speak with you, and
ask your counsel and assistance. I have but recently learned that
my hope in this direction will be realized, and already the weight
of the responsibilityit entails seems to be too much for me.”
“I can well understand that, my brother. Of all the vocations
to which a soul is liable to be summoned here, I can conceive of
none more important than that in which you will be engaged. It
arises not so much from the difliculty in declaring what is true-—
that is comparatively simple when the teaching of the Master is
taken to be the rule of what is declared, and you confine yourself
to the things you know—but the complications and difliculties will
arise in attacking those errors which have for generations been
taught as truths, blindingthe eyes of men and hardening their hearts
until they have eyes that see not, ears that hear not, and but little
true understanding is to be found in them. This will double your
responsibility,try your patience, tax all your resources and test
your powers. Still you need not fear if you take Christ’s yoke upon
you; linked with Him your yoke will be easy and the burden light,
for He is able to subdue all things to Himself, and with Him you
cannot go astray.”
“I wish I had your knowledge and experience to begin with.”
“My knowledge and experience alone would be of little service
to you in such a work.”
“Do you think so?”
“I am sure of it. If they really were the preparation for such
a work as you imagine, I should no doubt be called to it myself.
But in that I am not so called I know that I am not qualified for it.
At present it may be wisely hidden from you wherein your own
aptitude may lie, but you will see it, and then you will understand
I47
how my experience would have rather disqualified you than other-
wise. If Myhanene has accepted you for service you may rest
assured that God has so ordained it, and you have no need to be
afrai .”
“Willyou allow me to wish that I had your faith?”
“Yes, if that will help you; but when you know the Master as
I know Him, I hope you will have a stronger faiththan mine. You
do not know I-Iim—have not seen Him yet, have you?”
“No! Have you?”
“Y-es! I——-have—seen—Him! And the rapture of it is
unspeakable! It was a vision and a revelation, changing, explaining,
correcting, and illuminating everything! At the sight of Him I
understood what John aflirmed—‘In Him was life, and the life
was the light of men.’ Yes; life and light; eternal and shadowless!
Full, overpowering, abounding! away, away into the everlasting
evermore!”
I was silent. Her soul had taken wing and soared upward into
heights I had no power to scale. In her sacred memory she had
caught an echoing reflection of the vision of the King in His beauty,
and
hworshipped in a holy consecration too exalted for me to
reac .
‘
‘It was in the light of the radiance of thatsight I spokejust now
when you could scarcely understand the strengthof my language,”
she continued as she awoke from her reverie, “by which I also
assure you that ‘what thou knowest not now thou shalt know
hereafter.’ Have only one fear—to know Christ and speak the
truth as it is in Him. Then all must be well!”
“Your experience also confirms that?”
‘
‘It does! It must! ‘
He is the Alpha and Omega; the beginning
and the end’; therefore what begins must of necessity end in Him
and be well. As He, in your ministry, has to be your theme, let
Him also be your model. Speak simply, that all may understand
you; kindly, that all may be drawn to you; patiently,that all may
feel they have a friend in you; and naturally, that all may find in
nature an exposition of your gospel. As far as in you lies, avoid
all mysteries, but as the reaping is always governed by the sowing,
so let it be known that the counterpart and consequence of all
actions must eventually be found. Shall I read you another of my
songs on this subject, the thoughts of which may prove helpful and
suggestive to you?”
“Do, please! I shall never forget the assistance I received’
from the other.” -
We had by thistime reached her home high up on those delectable
mountains from which one seemed able to look down the vale of an
entrancing futurity into the eternal rest that remaineth. On either
side the glory-crownedhills rose likejanitors of peace, and the music"
of hidden cascades sang love-songs to the flowers. I sat me down
where one of the fairest prospects gave invitation, and an instant
later Eilele sat beside me, with her book lying on the table before
her, from which she, withouta word of introduction, read:
148
LIFE MOSAICS
“Life Mosaics. Who can answer
How, or what, or when, or why?
To the thousandmystic problems
That perplex us constantly?
Every heart is full of murmurs;
Every head is racked with pain;
Useless are all disputations,
Still the mysteries remain.
Life seems naughtbut showers and sunshine,
Mountain-tops or valleys deep;
Burning summers, freezing winters,
Toil and dream-distractedsleep.
Here are days of sombre blackness,
Now a few of pallid white,
Mingled withthe grey and murky.
Still continue:—all is right!
Now the golden tints are needed,
Emerald or sapphire tones,
Jasper, ruby or carbuncle,
Pearls and other precious stones.
Here a groan and there a tear-drop;
Now a sigh thatrends theheart;
Then a shout of exultation.
Life Mosaics, these are part.
Now come days of preparation
And of working—asHe will,-
Fashioningas He designeth
With His wondrous matchless skill;
Sudden sweeps and sharper angles
We can never comprehend;
But He knows the why and wherefore,
How and when thetask will end;
Knows the numberof each colour,
Counts all tears and every sigh;
Finds the counterpart of sorrow
In some long-forgottenjoy.
Otherbuilders toil and labour
Bringing marble, wood and stone,
Otherhands will come and finish
That which we must leave undone.
He who blasts the stone in quarry
Cannot carve the angel face,
In the rough hewn block of marble,
Full of tenderness and grace.
He who digs the ore can never
Fashion—chasethe cup of gold;
Nor can he the robes embroider
Who attends the sheep in fold.
149
Weary toiler, thinka moment,
God has given but a share
Of mosaics for thyportion;
Thou couldst never all prepare.
Otherhands are workingwith thee;
Neither can theycomprehend
Whither all theseconstant failings
And catastrophes may tend;
But theArchitect well knoweth
All the plans which He has made,
Therefore do His biddingsimply,
And thypenny shall be paid.
Learn—thediscord in the music,
May but serve to change the key,
‘ And becomea fitting prelude
To some sweeter harmony.
So the groans which thou art breathing,
And thyfel1ow’s deep-drawn sigh,
May produce a touching trio
Blended with another’sjoy.
In life’s agonizingpiercings
Precious jewels may be set;
But the stones God is providing
Are uncut, unpolished yet.
When all quantities are ready
God will show therich design;
And His own unerringfingers
Will the chosen tints combine,
Dovetailingthejoys and sorrows,
Happiness with days of doubt,
Seasons of long disappointment
With the short triumphantshout.
Every shade and every pattern,
So-called flaws, will find their place,
Forming parts of decoration
Of surpassing matchless grace.
Thus all lives are spent in labour,
Often bitter, sometimes sweet;
Every action seems disjointed,
Every fragment incomplete,
But the Fatherwisely orders
Every consecrated life,
And will bring the sweetest music
Out of this apparent strife.
Trust Him—leaveHim to resolve it
In His own appointed way,
Knowing we shall share the triumphs
0fthe coming crowning day.”
She closed the book as she finished reading, gently pushed it
from her, rested one elbow on the table and her head upon her hand
while she looked dreamilyaway down the valley.
150
“Perhaps the thought will seem vague, mixed and uncertain,”
she said, ‘
‘in its abrupt transitions from one side of life to the other,
from doubt to confidence, from incertitude to clearness of vision,
but I penned the lines just as the inspiration came, and they seemed
to be governed by an easy adaptation to the subject of which they
speak. I could not have written such verses in thelower life, I should
not have felt the natural intertwining, but everythingis so different
when lookingback;the guiding hand reaches out from themysterious
draperies, the shadows light up so beautifully,and the presence——
the hitherto undiscovered presence—of the Master is so visibly
near, perhaps closer in the seeming failures sometimes than we
realize in the successes, that one needs must look them up and set
them side by side. Ah, me! If we could only read the present in
the light of the future, as we can read the past in the golden halo
of the present, how much more faithful would our service be.”
Then turning her soft, moist, poetic eyes with keen inquiry full
upon me, she asked: “Do you understand what I mean?”
“Partly.” I could not trust myself to say more lest I should
disturb her.
“I suppose that is as much as may be for the present. We are
only able to know in part; how, then, can we hope to understand
in full, especially when the ocean of Providence is so broad, so long,
so deep? Who has been able to trace its confines? what mariner
has discovered its ten thousand isles of beautyand holy romance?
what compass is able to guide to its poleless haven? The ocean and
the secret hiding-place of God: how can we reach it? Must we
ever drift upon the tide of Providence, upon the unknown, until
some morning we awaken as our keel grates on the strand to find
ourselves ‘For ever with the Lord’? It may be so. He knows,
and I am constrained to be content with that. I can only look back
and see clearly, before us lies the unknown for which we all must
trust Him.’ ’
CHAPTER XIX
THE GOD OF MEN
LOOKING back from the heights and after—light of Paradise, all the
earth-scenes and connections are Viewed and read in the light of a
new interpretation, especially when one like Eilele undertakes to
direct the vision. Her loyal soul had patientlylearned how to trace
the sequences in the confidence that springs from close communion
with Him whom she had loved so well and long. I knew Him at
present only by thehearing of theear; she had been withand learned
by Him, had caughtsomethingof His spirit, tasted of His tenderness,
leanedupon His bosom, and could speak as she had heard Himspeak.
From such a vantage-groundall the past was seen to be flooded with
151
a divine light, a divine compassion, a paternal consideration for and
estimate of our weaknesses, and from this was reflected confidence
and assurance for the future.
There had been moments in my recent experiences when the
thought of the responsibilitiesof my chosen service made me pause
and almost wish I had made some other choice, but with Eilele I
viewed my mission witha confidenceI had never felt before. Under
theinfluenceof her inspirationI ceased to thinkof thelong period of
probation I must necessarily serve to equip me for my duty, and
recalled Cushna’s early assurance thattime did not exist in Paradise.
I no longer dwelt upon the desirabilityof going apart to reflect upon
all I had seen and heard lest I should lose the lesson each incident
was designed to teach, but discovered that every detail had been
indeliblywritten upon my memory and stored away for use whenever
an appropriate occasion should arise. Then the searchlight of
recollection swept for an instant across the mass of information I
had already garnered, and as I beheld I was astonished at the unsus-
pected resources availablefor my use.
Still, however much knowledge I had acquired, the one great
subject of religion had never been definitely discussed with anyone
with the fullness it deserved and needed before I could confidently
enter upon my new work. Who was therein all thehosts of Paradise
to whom I could appeal for assistance in this matter as to my present
companion? When we were yet unknown to each other, and I was
sitting in the darkness and desolation of the lower life, her poems
came to me with a strange inspiration of consolation. She seemed
to speak to me as no other could or did speak; she understood me
even better than I understood myself; comforted me with songs
no other voice could sing. Was she conscious of her power to stir
my soul to depths no other influencehad ever reached? It might be
so, since on both occasions of our meeting she had voluntarily
touched upon thatone great subject I so desired to hear her explain.
If she would but reach out her hand and lead me in the pathswherein
she delighted to wander, allow me to follow where she could lead,
assist me to climb to the heights of her own exaltation, what truths
might I behold, what visions might I not see?
I was thusdreamily,hopefully meditatingin thewake of what had
already passed between us, but she, as usual, had taken flight into
those regions I could not gain without assistance. I may have
reached the outer portal of the shrine I fain would enter, but she had
passed withinand was worshipping in the inner presence where God
was. I looked into her eyes, as she sat beside me, bright with the
glory of the sight upon which she gazed; I saw her ears which I
knew were ravished with the exquisite music of holy voices, but I
could not see, I could not hear; my eyes and ears were not attuned to
such vibrations. Yet it was good to be with her.
Presentlyher eyes lost their fixity, the lids drooped, she drew her
hand automaticallyacross her face, and breathed a soft sigh like a
half-expressed and reverent ‘Amen,’ then smiled as if in apology
for her forgetfulness. '
152
“I have been away,” she said, “travelling in distant but sur-
passingly lovely scenes.”
“More beautifulthan these?” I inquired, looking about me on
the enchanting surroundings of her house.
“As this transcends the earth,” she replied, “so also does it
fail to suggest what I have seen. Ah, Aphraar, we can never know
in looking forward or around, it is only in the looking back thatwe
are able to understand. Life, love and God can only be known in
the light of the afterglow, the soul will never be strong enough in
the present to comprehend the overflow of thatwhich surrounds us.
God ever drops over us the half-obscuring veil of love when He is
'
near; it hides Him from our sight while we inspire strengthto move
to heights of comprehension on which we turn to find that He has
passed, then only can we see and understand.”
“You speak of heights I have not climbed; but I long to reach
themifyou willpoint out to me theway by which I may do so.”
“Yes, I will speak—-will go with you, and together we will
climb this sacred hill of the Lord.”
“Tell me of Him, for I know so little though I desire so much.
If I do not know how can I speak of Himto earth?’’
“I understand,’’
she answered softly, thoughtfully. “You
wish to be fed that you may be able to return and feed others. I
was only thinkingof yourself. I can speak with you, but I cannot
speak through you to others.”
“Wherein lies the difference?”
“I cannot‘ explain, but the difference certainly exists. Did I not
tell you my experience would not qualify you for your work? The
request you now make brings me practicallyfaceto facewithmy own
incompetence. I can speak to you as soul to soul, but to speak to
others through you is quite another matter. Still, there are many
friends who are able and ready to do so, and Omra will be pleased
to send someone for the purpose.”
I saw a thought-flashtake flight as she spoke, but as yet I was not
accustomed to thinkthat a decision and action thereon are synony-
mous, until we were joined by a stranger Omra had already deputed
to instruct me as desired.
Rhamya is another of those youthful ancients upon whose
shoulders the mystery of ages seems to rest as an invisible mantle of
wisdom. Tall, calm and majesticin appearance, the first impression
he made upon me was thatof a magnificentmountain rising in stately
grandeur from the bosom of a troubled sea. But a second glance
speedilydeclared thatin addition to granite walls and scarpings here
was to befound assistance, refuge, shelter, and brotherlycompassion.
Before he spoke I understood the widsom of Eilele’s action.
Our new friend was undeniably a teacher, my companion but a
pupil in the school wherein I was desirous of studying for a time.
“Aphraar is joining Myhanene’s mission, Rhamya, and asks
for such help as you can give far better thanI am able.”
“So Omra tells me, and I am glad to be of service. Let us speak
together in the light of God.”
153
“You are more than kind,” I replied, “and I can only hope
thatmy future work will show how deeply I appreciate your eflbrt.’’
“Let us say pleasure and profit ratherthan effort,” he returned,
“since in what we are about to do we shall be constrained to work
under thatfundamental law laid down by Christ—‘Give and it shall
be given unto you.’ This at once changes the venue of obligation,
and rather makes me to be the debtor for the privilege you have
afforded me.’’
“Experience teaches me the futility of discussion,” I answered,
“therefore I will at once concede the point, though I shall insist
on adding my own gratitude as a personal acknowledgement.”
Being thus placed upon the most affable terms Rhamya
immediatelyaddressed himself to the purpose of his visit.
“Now let this be my first word of counsel to you in relation to
your forthcoming mission; whenever you are consulted as to any
thought, action or opinion, be careful before replying to place your-
self as far as possible on the same groundin relation to thequestion
as Christ Himselfoccupied; and where you have no clear statement
of His to guide you, be sure your interpretation of the general law
He has laid down is natural, consistent and reasonablyclear. There
are other teachers, but none of such authorityas He who was
‘
God’
—i.e., as much of God as it is possible to be-—’mani’festin the flesh.’
Whatever adds to or takes from the fundamental basis of His teach-
ing, no matter under what circumstances or by what authority,is
not of truth. Do you understand what I mean?”
“Perfectly!” '
“We have then to discover what was the true position of Jesus
Christ towards authority,for this one question will be the one pivot
upon which the strength of your own position will rest. Fortun-
ately He has left no possible doubt upon this point. His command
is to ‘render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto
God the things that are God’s.’ There can be no two opinions
as to His meaning here—in all things temporal submit to temporal
authority;in all things spiritual to God alone. This law of Christ
is far more drastic, when fully applied, than appears at first sight.
It allows no shred of divine authorityto any purely human founda-
tion——no ecclesiastical or religious corporation exists as a Christian
institution. This Paul understood when he declared to Timothy,
‘There is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the
man Christ Jesus’; there is no room for any human foundation here
and thisteachingis quite harmonious with that of the Master to
the woman at Sychar——‘Ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet
at Jerusalem worship the Father . . .
God is a spirit; and theythat
worship Him must worship Him in spirit and in truth.’ Hence the
true church of Christ is a spiritual communion,not a visible assembly
governed by a human authority. Still the attitude of Christ towards
the existing systems of His day was rather one of tolerance than
denunciation. If He olfered no sacrifice at theTemple——which as a
prophet he could not do, as we shall see present1y—-He did not rail
against its services, but occasionally was to be found within its
154
precincts. He wa_s alwaysgladto recognizeany tendencytowards the
betterment of men, and, as shown in His parable of the Tares,
never in undue haste to destroy the evil lest He might also bring
the good associated withit to naught. At the same time His opposi-
tion to the unspiritual leaders of the Templewas never for a moment
in doubt. Such is the Christ attitude towards ecclesiastical in-
sgtutions of every kind, and such of necessity must be that of His
c urc .”
“Can you assign any definite reason for this necessity?”
“There is a very cogent and all-important reason for it, which
I shall be glad to set before you. Unassisted humanity in its best,
noblest and highest aspect is alwaysimperfect, limited and absolutely
unable to conceive a condition of being beyond the cognizance of
the five senses. Its highest conception of God is bounded by these
limitations, and never rises beyond the magnified proportions of a
man with a moral nature leaving much to be desired. For this
reason, if for no other, it would be impossible for God to submit
Himself to the authorityof any foundation of men. The religious
faculty is the divinest endowment of the soul, and is it credible that
when physical science is already marching with conquering strides
across the plains of the invisible, that while intrepid pioneers are
scaling the heights of the intangible, God should commit the welfare
of the soul to the hands of men who would clip its wings and hold it
imprisonedin thegrip ofso-called Fathers,who forged its fetters long,
long centuries ago? All this God and Christ foreknew and wisely
ordained the non-authorityof any human institution in spiritual
matters.”
‘
‘Do you forget the existence of inspiration?”
‘
‘No. On the contrary,I am ever willingto admit thattheorigin
of most religious systems is to be found in inspiration of a certain
kind, but the admission does not affect the conclusion. Inspiration
is not a vision granted to Moses, Isaiah, Paul or even Jesus with an
infallibleauthoritybindingupon all who come after the revelation.
Christ was very definite upon this point: ‘I have many things to say
unto you, but ye cannot bear them ‘now. Howbeit, when He, the
Spirit of truth is come, He will guide you into all truth.’ Inspira-
tion, then, is rather a river following humanity, an evolution with a
succession of revelation after revelation, a heritage to beenteredinto
as humanity is able to bear them. Hence by another inference no
inspiration is perfect in itself, but each, if rightly apprehended,
leads on to something better until the last, whenever that may be
attained, shall lead us into the presence of Him who alone is perfect
—our Father God. Let me make myself clearlyunderstood here in
sayingthatno perfect inspirationhas ever reached earththroughman,
nor can it possibly do so, since man himself is imperfect. I make
no exception in this respect. Christ acknowledgedthis when He
said there were things which were known, ‘not to the angels which
are in Heaven, neither the Son, but the Father’ only; and where He
makes such an admission as to His own limitations, we may well
content ourselves not to claim more for less favoured individuals
155
grinstitutions. I point this out thatyou may see how I keep Christ
st.”
“I am carefully following all you say,” I replied, anxious not
to disturb or tum him aside from the argument I could well see he
had not yet concluded.
“This question now leads me to another fatal objection against
the authority of ecclesiastical religion. God has from the first
chosen that this stream of inspiration, ever flowing in broadening,
deepening and increasing capacity of service to humanity, shall be
His channel of communication with the evolving soul of man;
but the recognition of this arrangement would be destructive of any
hierarchal pretensions, and for that reason there has always been a
deadly feud waged against the prophets by the priests, a thought
which brings me back to my statement that Jesus, as a prophet,
could not join in the sacrificialservice of the Temple.”
“How, then, could the sacrifices be a foreshadowing of His own
great work?”
‘
‘They were not. Neither the Levitical Code nor the Rabbinical
interpretationof it bore any trace of such a suggestion. The Messiah
expected by theTemple was an all-conquering monarch,who was to
restore the glories of the reign of David and himself sit for ever on
the throne set up by the Shepherd-psalmist. The opposition the
priests and rulers otfered to the Christ, which was carried to every
possible extreme until the crucifixion was accomplished, sprang
from the fact that the character He assumed was so contrary to all
their claims, expectations, teachings and interests. The relative
positions occupied by Christ and the Temple were as far apart as
those which were assigned to Dives and Lazarus in the suggestive
parable, and all attempts at reconciliation were impossible unless
the cult of the Temple was spiritually advanced and lost ‘in the new
birthof the eternal kingdom. Nothing can more clearly show this
division than the utterance of the Christ: ‘It is written My house
shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of
thieves.’ You can commit no greater error in this respect than to
imagine that the priests of Israel considered their cult and service
to be anticipatory of the sacrificialwork of Christ; the Levitical Code
abounds in assurances that the priesthood shall be an everlasting
institution, while all the prophets are equally emphatic in declaring
that the cult was a purely human one and lacked divine authority.
Jesus was neither Priest nor Levite. He came of neither of the
sacerdotal clans, nor was He one with the spirit of the fraternity.
He was through and through a prophet, and upon Him rested the
undeniable mantle of prophetic inspiration.”
'
“But did not the prophets also offer sacrifices?”
“No!” was the laconic but emphatic reply.
“Have you forgotten Elijah on Carmel?” I asked.
“That was not a sacrifice, but rather a test to prove whether the
,God of the prophet or the god of the priests was the true God.
It was a demonstration to Israel in a time of national danger that
organized religion, however punctiliously its ceremonial may be
156
carried out by a united people and a hierarchy of priests, has not the
influenceof a singleconsecrated life in an appeal to Heaven. It was
a declarationonce and for all, such as Paulafterwards put into words
on Mars Hillwhen he said, ‘God thatmade the world and all things
therein, seeing that He is Lord of Heaven and earth, dwelleth not
in temples made with hands; neither is worshipped with men’s
hands as though He needed anything.’ What more need I say to
prove that the God men have fashioned and moulded into the
creeds of systematizedtheologyis not the God the world has so long
been stretching out its hands to find? The God of Christ is the God
the world is waiting for. He who has been put forward as a god
by the priests—a god subject to all kinds of petty caprice, who can
be bribed into imputing a righteousness which is not attained, who
is manipulatedby thewillofman, and governs his kingdomaccording
to the decisions of church councils—is but a poor substitute for the
great Fatherof thehuman race, has becomean insult to intelligence,
and men turn away from theecclesiasticalpupper in loathingdisgust.
Let your first endeavour in your new mission be to give them back
the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ; speaking a living
gospel throughtheinspiredlips oflivingmen, and callingto anewness
of life which shall prove its divinity by the fruit it bears. This is
the only spiritual authoritythe world will accept, radiatingthepower
and glory of God, and so safeguarded thatthegates oferror shall not
prevail against it.”
CHAPTER XX
ma MEN or GOD
RHAMYA certainly struck his ploughshare deep into the subject he
had been commissioned to expound for my edification. Like the
Master he so fervently counselled me to follow, he spake with no
uncertain sound, though behind his fervour it was easy to discern a
backgroundof caution to temper the zeal with which the tares were
plucked up lest the wheat might also suffer. His confidence was
firm in the inherent vitality of truth as contrasted with the transient
existence of error. The former must triumph, the latter must fail.
He would have the labourer in the harvest field toil that the con-
summation might not be delayed.
Still, thoughhe would not have the tares carelessly and recklessly
destroyed, he was equally determined to do his best to prevent them
sowing their seed abroad. The present crop must for the present
remain, for the sake of the wheat found to be growing in close
association therewith,but so far as he could avoid it there should be
no chance of succession. Othertoilers were responsiblefor the past
and present condition, his duty was concerned with the future, in
157
behalfof which he was resolved to show himselfa workmanapproved
by God and needing not to be ashamed.
The firm tone and manner he assumed from the first inspired my
confidence in him. He made no attempt to distinguish between the
relative merits of dilferent religious systems, but finding that all
rested upon a supposed authoritytheydid not possess, and thatevery
hierarchy was reared upon a false foundation, time was too valuable
for him to use it in pointing out distinctions of detail. He was
willingto admit thatall possessed a desire to render a certain service
for the good of humanity,and so far as thatdesire honestlyreached,
he would accept whatever service the institution could render; but
the instant any system applied the measurements or limitations of a
man to the capacity and attributes of ‘the unknown God,’ the
A
moment the priest attempted to say what God would, and would not
do, on the sole authorityof the leaders of his particular school,
Rhamya put his foot down, denied the authority,and would have no
further associationwith the aspiring usurper.
The church has a good and useful work to do, but thatis first to
follow—humbly and faithfully to follow—in the steps of Christ,
and let the light of Christ shine through its own spiritual nature
to lead a blind and ignorant world into the fold of regeneration.
But in doing thisthechurch can never be more thana willingservant,
who can know the mind and will of God only in proportion to its
likeness to Him. The purposes and secrets of God are revealed to
individual souls, not deposited in trust withinstitutions, so thatnone
can claim any succession in an unbroken line except thecommon one
of human frailty and lack of understanding.
This was the goal to which Rhamya was clearly directing my
attention, and in his efi'ort to do so he had captured the interest of
Eilele equally with my own.
‘
‘Was not my decision to appeal to Omra a wise one?” she asked
as Rhamya paused, indicatingthe end of that part of his argument.
“I never had the slightest doubt of that,” I answered. “My
point was not that I objected to a greater teacher, but rather that I
should be willinglycontent withyourself.’’
“Let there be no thought of greater or lesser between us,”
suggested Rhamya; “in this life all things work together to supply
the best adapted means to every requirement, and it is in accordance
withthatprovisionthatEileleasked, and I am sent to your assistance.
At the same time I must ask you to guard against any exaggerated
anticipation of what I shall be able to do in this way. I wish you
distinctlyto understand thatI can only direct your attention to the
way in which truth lies. It is impossible for me to fully expound
or discuss in detail the revelation which has already been granted,
without attempting to indicate what has yet to be revealed, these
expansions must be left to your own study and experience; but you
may be well assured of this,that what is left unnoticedof the past,
equallywiththatlyingin thefuture, willbe found open‘ and accessible
to you along the line of thelaw of God, from which no development
can ever deviate. No man in his search for truth need turn either
158
to the right or left, for the path of God is always straight forward,
and shines more and more unto the perfect day, that the wayfaring
man, though a fool, may not err therein.”
“Ilike to hear you interweave thosefamiliarquotationsinto your
arguments; they appeal to me as new and living commentaries by
theway you use them,and give to the old book a brilliantsignificance
I have not found before.” _
“Will you also notice that I only quote from the prophetic
parts of the book? In my exposition of truth I have no need for,
and receive no assistance from, any part of the priestly system or
ceremonial law. If you will bear this in mind it will help you to
understand how clearly and completely the two cults are divided.”
‘
‘Thanksfor the hint. I will keep it steadilybefore me.’’
“I need not dwell upon the wild and fanciful postulates of the
later religious systems, from the self-evident contradictions and
impossible assumptions of which a calmly inquiring mind recoils
as being contrary to all intelligent conceptions of God. You have
discovered all these things for yourself. I will therefore pass from
the negative to the positive consideration of religion. And hereI
must ask you to give me your most careful attention whileI lead you
by a somewhat unknown path into that highway of spiritual evolu-
tion of which I have just spoken as being ‘The highway of holiness’
where ‘wayfaring men, though" fools,’ should not err by reason of
not being able to understand.
“This new point of view we find in the after-light in which you
and I are now standing,from which we look back and see the provi-
dences of God as we never were able to understand them from the
level of the lower life.”
‘ ‘
Will you excuse me if I’ ask whether this new position is a valid
one under the circumstances? Does not the necessity for any
religion arise from the peculiar position in which man may be found
at a given time, and must it not be truly natural to that
condition?’ ’
“I am glad you have asked your questions, because the inquiry
will assist you to grasp the central thought upon which I wish to fix
your attention. Keep them well in view, and I will proceed to
answer them by continuing what I was about to say.
‘ ‘
As seen from thisafter-lifeall creation is a unit workingthrough
innumerable successive stages towards a definite and well-defined
goal—the production of a divine humanity. In tracing this lineage,
however, it will be unnecessary for us to go further back thanwhere
we find the ford of the Rubicon where man crossed into the con-
sciousness of individual existence. Behind him lay the fogs of ob-
livion in which all remembrance of the yesterdays of the past were .
lost. When he sufficiently understood himself and his faculties
to begin to make comparisons, the difference between himself and
nearest neighbour in the animal world was so great as to lead him
to believehe was a new-order of being—a new creation. But as he
became more intimate with the operations of nature, in the chrysalis
was found a linkunitingthecaterpillarwiththebutterfly,constraining
159
him_ to pause and ask if theremight not be anotherabsent link, upon
a higher stage, uniting himself with the life below. It is not for us,
however, to linger here in our present inquiry, but we pass on to
more wonderful phenomena which forced themselves upon the
attention of the unfolding mind. One of his earliest discoveries
inspired him equally with terror and curiosity. He learned by
watching and comparison of experience that while he lay quietly
unconscious of all around him, he was possessed of other eyes, ears,
and senses than those of his body; was able to hunt and follow
various pursuits while his friends assured themselves that he was
lying quiet in his cave; he met and talked withcompanions who had
long since beeneaten, burned or buried. Presentlysomeone brought
backfrom his sleep a memory of somethingforeseen which afterwards
transpired in real life, and others, like Balaam, grew into the habit
of consulting sleep-peopleas to their dailydoings: ‘And he (Balaam)
said unto them, Lodge here this night, and I will bring you word
again, as the Lord shall speak unto me: and the princes of Moab
abode with Balaam. And God came unto Balaam, and said, What
men are these withthee?’ (Num. xxii. 8-9). Others found theywere
able to make requests in their sleep and receive gifts which rendered
them peculiarly valuable service in their daily vocations. Let us
take the record as given of Solomon’s experience as an instance of
this. In theBook of Kings (1 Kings iii. 5-15) we read:—
“
‘In Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by
night: and God said, Ask what I shall give thee. .
“
‘And Solomon said, Thou hast shewed unto Thy servant David
my fathergreat mercy, accordingas he walked before Thee in truth,
and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with Thee; and
Thou has kept for him this great kindness, that Thou hast given
him a son to sit on his throne,as it is thisday.
“
‘And now, 0 Lord my God, Thou hast made Thy servant
king instead of David my father: and I am but a little child: I know
not how to go out or come in.
“
‘And Thy servant is in the midst of Thy people which Thou
hast chosen, a great people, that cannot be numbered nor counted
for multitude.
“
‘Give therefore Thy servant an understanding heart to judge
Thy people, that I may discern between good and bad; for who is
able to judge thisThy so great a people?
“
‘And the speech pleased the Lord, that Solomon had asked
this thing.
“
‘And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing,
and hast not asked for thyself long life; neither hast asked riches
for thyself,nor hast asked the life of thineenemies; but hast asked
for thyselfunderstanding to discern judgement; '
“
‘Behold I have done according to thy words: 10, I have given
thee a wise and an understanding heart; so that there was none
like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto
thee.
“
‘And I have also given thee that which thou hast not asked,
160
both riches, and honour: so that there shall not be any among
the kings like unto thee all thy days.
“
‘And if thou wilt walk in My ways, to keep My statutes and
My commandments, as thy father David did walk, then will I
lengthenthy days.
“
‘And Solomon awoke; and, behold, it was a dream.’
“But the gift did not vanish with the waking. The wisdom of
Solomon has always been proverbial. Others again were endowed
with the powers of interpretation of dreams, as Joseph; or, going
yet a step further, we hear of Daniel asking for time to enable him
to revisit the realm of sleep and recover knowledge of the king’s
dream before he made known the interpretation.
“Now, it is no part of my purpose to ask you to believethatall
dreams are divine communications—I simply affirm that sleep is a
convenient and natural agent to be so employed, and also I wish
you to see in the records I have named the origin of the prophetic
gift in which we are now interested. Here is to be found another
link, this time uniting the natural and spiritual conditions and
available for the further carrying on of an unbroken system of
evolution. From this crude beginning the prophetic stream may
be clearly traced onward as the divinely appointed channel of
revelation. ‘If there be a prophet among you’, God is recorded to
have said, ‘I, the Lord, will make myself known unto him in a
vision, and will speak unto him in a dream’ (Num. xii. 6). A little
later we find the, prophet to be a man upon whom, in a normal
condition, the Spirit of the Lord descends and changes him ‘into
another man’ (1 Sam. x. 6), compelling him to speak not his own
words, but as the Spirit shall give him utterance. Here, then, we
find the divine and living way by which God has ordained to make
His revelations to man, and in this prophetic line we shall presently
find the Christ of God.”
“Pardon my interrupting, but is not this descent of the Spirit
upon the prophet thatwhich I have seen in Cushna’s overshadowing
of our own psychic?’’
“Precisely; and if you have watched Cushna’s control you will
understand far better than by any explanationI might give.”
‘
‘I have not only watched,’’
I replied, ‘
‘but have been permitted
to send a message back to earth. But before you go further will
you allow me to ask for informationrespecting one injunctionwhich
raises a difficulty in my mind respecting this open communion, to
which you are so clearlybringing me?’’
“What is it?”
‘
‘I refer to thecommandin Deuteronomyforbiddingconsultation
withfamiliarspirits as an abominationto theLord.’’
“The inquiry is most opportune, and we will at once consider
it. The prohibition is an enactment of the priests, and as such,
being of purely human origin, has no valid force when directed
against a natural phenomenon. It does not deny, but ratheradmits
the genuineness of the communion, or there would be no reason to
forbid it. It is not the only time in the history of religion where
6—L.E. 161
priests have used the power of the state in a futile attempt to crush
thetruth. The effort to put an end to this direct intercourse with
spiritual powers was a vital necessity to the existence of the priest.
Whenever priest and prophet clashed it was always the latter who
proved to be superior, and the former were only able to maintain
themselves by the support of the throne. So pronounced had this
fact become that the Templeauthoritiesin Jerusalem were at length
driven to an acceptance of the prophetic principle, and once a year
the High Priest was supposed to directly consult God by means of
Urim and Thummim. But though the form of consultation was
observed, its spirit was absent, and there is no record of any priestly
success. I must not, however, leave this subject without pointing
out thatby the.possibilityof this communion beingdue to a natural
law, access is given alike to high and low intelligences to engage
therein, the law of God, in this as in every other instance, being
without respect of persons. This the prophets have seen and
recognizedfrom thefirst, and advisedlylaid down thisrule concerning
the intercourse: ‘When a prophet speaketh in the name of the
Lord, if thethingfollow not, nor come to pass, thatis thethingwhich
the Lord hath not spoken, but the prophet hath spoken it presump-
tuously: thou shalt not be afraid of him’ (Deut. xviii. 22). Such
a law bears on its face evidence of its emanation from the truth;
it does not insist on acceptance, immediate and unconditional,
because declared even by inspired lips, but with all the charity of
reason seeks acceptance when its verity has been established. It
is the spiritual law at one with the natural—‘By their fruits ye shall
know them’. Its law works bothways, thereforein your intercourse
with earth let it be known without equivocation that whoever
approaches this intercourse will attract to themselves souls who
are in close sympathywiththe lives theyare living. What theywho
seek the communion are, they who respond to the call will be.
Those who are good will attract the good, and the curious, the
deceiver, the hypocrite, the impure, the vicious and immoral will
bringthemselvesinto associationwithcharacterswho are in harmony
with their own natures. This law is inexorable, and there is no
evadi_I1g it. Therefore let all who would enter into the enjoyment '
of this divine privilegeapproachit withclean hands and pure hearts, v
for only such have power to ascend thehill of the Lord, where those
are to be met with who know and are able to declare the secrets
of the kingdom.”
“I thank you for your caution,” I answered; “I have been
with Ladas through the sphere of his work, where I have seen this
law of attraction in active operation, so I am not likely to
forget.” -
“Ifyou have seen it, you willnot forget it. Now, havingglanced
at the rise of prophetic inspiration, and found it to be a natural
provision for supplying an unavoidably existent need, let us go on
to see how it is designed.to elevate man into the region of the Divine,
and thus secure the salvation of the whole race by bringing it into
actual at—one-ment with God.”
162
CHAPTER XXI
THE COMING or THE cmusr
“BY this time you will be in a position to understand how closely
the school of prophets is allied to the spiritual side of life,’’
Rhamya
continued; “and how widely divergent and absolutely irreconcilable
is their system with that of the priests. The one operates from the
future and above, reaching out and down to guide the race into the
ever-unfoldingtruth; the other is of the past and below, using the
energy and the influence of the ages that have gone to restrain the
present from moving forward. The one is of life, the other of
death; of hope opposed to fear; of emancipation versus bondage;
of Heaven in succession of earth.
“When once the divine order for reachingand guiding man had
been satisfactorilyinstalled, and beganto give clear and unmistakable
evidence of being controlled and used by intelligences with power
to read and interpret mysteries inscrutable to human eyes, it is not
diflicult to see how infinitely superior to their fellows became the
position of all who chose to work in harmony with the conditions
laid down by those who from their higher vantage-ground were
prolfering help to all who were still walking in darkness and the
shadow of death. All the infinitude of God was made available
for the benefit of men, the supply having no restriction but that of
demand and the transmission without limit save thecarryingcapacity
of the vehicle placedat the Divine disposal. The prophetic conduit
taps the infinite ocean of the water of life, from which the supply
and quality of therevelation will always be governed by the channels
through which it flows. But, as I have already said, from the time
when we see the spirit of the Lord falling upon the prophet and
visibly changing his present identity—as you have seen in the case
.
of our own psychic—a sense of satisfaction with results attained
took possession of the prophets, further development was arrested,
and the stream was allowed to run its own course.
“Now came the opportunity of the priests, who, allying them-
selves to the state, entered into violent opposition to the prophets,
and used all the machinery of the temporal power to destroy the
influence of the preachersofrighteousness, by capturing the senses
with ornate ritual and ceremonial.
“The kingdom of God, however, cometh not with observation,
and the inflow of revelation being once clearly established, the river
continued to rise, since the reservoir of supply lay in the everlasting
hills far above any level of temporal opposition or human machina-
tions. None of the endeavours of God are ever abandoned.
Whatever truth begins will be carried to a finish. The greatest
mistake we can make is to try to measure God’s eternity by the
span of our mortal existence, and because He does not complete
163
His plan within the clock-tick of our brief day, come to the con-
clusion-that He has failed in and abandoned His project. No
greater fallacy ever assailed the human mind. Consider the aaons
of, the earth’s existence in comparison with your own startled
swa1low’s flight across it. All through those immeasurable periods
God has patiently waited for the earth to produce the man He
commissioned it to bring forth—it was not long considering the
magnitude of the result—and eternity is not yet a pulse-throb older
thanwhen the command was given; what then is the thousandyears
of the Jewish static spiritual age, when all the variations on the
stream of prophecy were like ripples, caused by the breath of a
passing enthusiasm? The stream was rising, thoughno one noticed
it, and the quiet waters crept higher and higher towards the coping-
stone of the obstructing dam.”
“I wish you would answer a question that has just occurred
to me,” I interposed.
“Certainly; for I am anxious to leave no doubt behind me.
What would you ask?”
‘
‘If, as therecords state, there had also been a direct interposition
of angelic ministry at the time you are speaking of, how was it, when
the prophets became negligent of their privileges,thatangels did not
take up the work and carry it forward?”
‘
‘Because theywere unable to do so. There are many occasions
where help must be rendered and other duties performed, for which
no human agent is available, and in all such cases we are warranted
in assuming a physical form and discharging the duty—-a little
longer experiencewill show you how often this is done beyondwhat
you might now be inclined to suppose. But wherever the ministry
has reference to a rule of life or conduct, the instruction must be
given through an agent occupying the same position as the one to
whom we speak. For instance, suppose a man to be heroically
fighting a fierce temptation, to approachhim with all the recognized
accessoriesof an angelic form might excite his reverence and wonder,
but it would signally fail where it was most needed——in the capacity
ofimparting strength. Where we would draw near to strengthen
by our sympathyand assurance of success, we should only succeed,
owing to men’s mistaken idea concerning angels, in provoking the
inquiry, what could we—who had been created sinless, who had
never felt the power of temptation, who had never experienced the
weight of weakness associated with the flesh—know of the daily
and hourly struggle a man is called upon to endure? And the result
would be that the difference in the two conditions would form a
gulf across which the assistance we would gladly render would
appear more like a mockery than an encouragement. On the
other hand, God has designed, in thepropheticgift, a natural scheme
in which the human and angelic conditions may combineand inter-
blend so harmoniously,thathe who runs may read and find a certain
refuge in every time of trouble.
“If you wish to trace the impotence of any ministry to man
ofi'ered through a nature in any way differing from his own, you
164
may find material for doing so in the dogma of the modern church,
concerning the so-called procreation and birth of Christ. The
monstrous postulate bristles with contradictions from the first
thought of it, and when two thousand years of human intellect
have been employed in an attempt to adapt it to the common need,
nothing has been attained but a confusion worse confounded from
which reason and intelligence turns away in weary disappointment.
“That is the reason why the direct ministry of angels has not
taken theplaceof prophecy.”
“Tell me,” I exclaimed with eager impatience, since he had at
length broken silence concerning that name, which is above every
name, “te1l me——for here lies the goal of all my inquiry—how would
you read and interpret that one great mystery of the ages: the
personality and the nature of the Christ? If angels in their nature
stand so far apart from man, surely He must be immeasurable——
unapproachably more so ! ’ ’
“Let me first of all disabuse your mind of one idea you are in
danger of confusing: there are no angels but those who have entered
upon the estate through the portal of humanity. Jacob’s vision
of the ladder gives the natural order in the generation of angels-
he saw them ‘ascending and descending’. Until they have reached
the condition they cannot be employed in the ministry. When the
earth grasps this fact, then direct angelic interposition will be more
elfective.
“But it is the idea of the loneliness and isolation of the Christ
I am more particularly concerned with for the moment. That He
has been forced into this false position I have already admitted, and
the natural effect of it is the impotence of the religion called by His
OmnipotentName. But the Christ who consents to be thusdisposed
of is only an ecclesiastical lay figure, from which I would turn your
eye: to a contemplation of the living Christ—the Christ of
Go .
“In Him we find no desire for separateness or isolation, but
rather a Good Shepherd, living among or‘ walking at the head of
His flock, carefully considering all who are frail or weak, and
nestling the young tenderly in His bosom. If one should by any
inadvertence or temptation go astray, He will go after it until He
find it, because, saith He, ‘this is the Father’swill which hath sent
Me, that of all which He hath given Me I should lose nothing.’
In the execution of this command He identifies Himself so closely
withthemembersof His charge thatto touch one of themis to touch
Himself. Never was a closer or more ideal and far-reachingunion
conceived than He contemplated. Hear Him as He supplicates
Heaven in their behalf: ‘Neither pray I for these alone, but for them
also which shall believe on Me through their word; that they all
may be one; as Thou, Father,art in Me and I in Thee, thattheyalso
may be one in Us; that the world may believe that Thou hast sent
me. And the glory which Thou gavest Me I have given them;
that they may be one, even as We are one: I in them, and Thou
in Me, thattheymay be made perfect in one; and thattheworld may
165
know that Thou hast sent Me, and hast loved them,.as Thou hast
loved Me.’ Is there any wish or thought of isolation here? I
will grant that of necessity, for the time, He was the only begotten
Son of the Father, but the position was only a temporary one, such
as must naturally fall to the lot of ‘the first-born among many
brethren’,all of whom are to bejoint heirs in thecommon heritage.
“But enough of these disclaimers of error. Let us rather
proceed to a consideration of what is true in relation to Him. And
in order that we may not miss His direct descent from theline of
prophets who had preceded I-Iim, let me recall how far we had
traced the development of the cult. Our last personal notice of it
was where Samuel assured the newly-anointed king Saul that as
he proceeded homewards, at a certain place the spirit of the Lord
would come upon him and change him into another man, thus
divinely initiating him into the school of the prophets. From this
incident the stream of inspiration runs on with but slight variation
for something like a thousand years before we find the majestic
figure of John the Baptist, overshadowed and controlled by the
spirit of Elijah, preaching in the wilderness and announcing the
speedy coming of the Christ.”
“Was John a reincarnation of Elijah?” I inquired, glad to be
able to receive some authoritative statement on this vexed and
difficult problem.
“No! The theoryof reincarnationis one of the devices invented
by priests to terrify men and women into subjection; it could not
possibly be introduced into the natural order of existence without
reducing the whole system to chaos. Besides which it has neither
use nor purpose; all that it is.supposed to efl'ect is far more orderly
and expeditiously accomplished by a process more consistent with
love and righteousness. John was a prophet upon whom the spirit
of the Lord was able to descend, turning him another into man, and
speaking the word of the Lord to the assembled thousands who
were drawn by the strange magnetic attraction of the mysterious
preacher, and the spirit who inspired the utterance was the afore-
time prophet Elijah. Hence, the Christ in speaking of him said:
‘Elias has comealready, and they knew him not’; but when John
was asked, ‘Art thou Elias?’ he answered with equal truth, ‘I am
not’. There is no contradictionhere; Christ, speaking not so much
of the man as of the mission, lost sight of the instrument in His
exaltation of the power behind—forgotthe flesh in His recognition
of the divinely commissioned herald who overshadowed and con-
trolled it, and therefore acknowledged the presence of the great
Hebrew prophet. But John, when his preaching was over and the
controlling spirit had withdrawn, being asked whether he was
Elias, with equal truth answered, ‘I am not!’ The incident is full
of pregnant suggestion when thus considered, but from every other
point casts a shadow of reflection upon the veracity of one or other
of the two great personalities. Again, John was the forerunner of
the Christ, sent to prepare the way for Him, and the beautifulsig-
nificance of the_ oflice is entirely lost unless this purely prophetic
166
interpretation is admitted, as you will presently see before I have
finished speaking of the greater than John.” _
“Xes! I am anxious to hear what you will say of Him,” I
cried with eager impatience.
“There are many questions I feel prompted to discuss by way
of introduction to this pre-eminently unique figure in the world's
history,” he began with slow and calm deliberation, strangely in
contrast to my own excitement. “But I will pass by the whole of
them,lest I should draw your mind from thecentral and all-important
issue for the moment. Collateral questions may be afterwards .
considered, but for the present we shall find enough to occupy all
our attention in finding out the true relationship of Jesus the Christ
to humanity and to God. This I now propose to do. And perhaps
the most favourable moment for us to make the acquaintance of
the Nazarene will be to find Him among the multitude hanging
upon the discourse of John, who acknowledgedthat he saw Jesus
but knew Him not.”
“Was not that very strange?” I inquired.
“No, and I will show you why. The explanation will be of
personal service to yourself before you have proceeded very far in
your own ministry. God has wisely ordained that all actively
engaged in any mission may not be able to see what its final result
will be. While we are at work our certainty of success must be
of faith springing from God’s blessing resting upon our whole-
hearted endeavour. If we could already see onward to the result
of our labour it might tend to negligence, and the Father will not
suffer us to be tempted above that we are able to bear, her,1ce_ He
drops the veil, and leaves us to feel thatthe responsibilityof"success
rests ‘upon our own shoulders._ Had John recognized Jesus as the
Messiah he might have relaxed his efforts before he had finished
his work, therefore his eyes were holden until the hour had arrived
for the revelation to be made.”
“But the two were cousins, and the circumstances of the birth
and early life of Jesus, with the angelic announcement of who and
what He was, must have been familiarto John."
“Your conclusion is a perfectly natural one from the aspect
in which you regard it, and makes John's failure to recognize his
cousin to be a mystery calling for some satisfactory explanation.
But I do not desire to follow our inquiry along ecclesiastical lines,
but by a more excellent way-—recurring again to the declaration
of Isaiah—~where ‘the wayfaring man, though a fool, may not err
therein.’ If you will accept my assurance and follow where I will
lead, leaving all your old difliculties unanswered for the time, you
will presently see that the whole of them are only spectres and
creatures of the imaginationhaunting by-pathsinto which you have
illegitimatelywandered, at which you will laugh when you reach
the light of truth.”
“Your forbearance makes me ashamed of my interruptions,
but I will accept your advice and try to listen to your instructions
without further question.”
167
“We must necessarily move with caution, that you may clearly
grasp my meaning, and your inquiries are only to be expected. I
have travelledthisway too frequentlynot to know thatthesequestions
will arise, and for that reason I determined to avoid everything
tending to multiply them.
“In taking our next step perhaps it will be well to remind our-
selves of the mission and aim of prophecy in order thatwe may have
a clear conception of the issue. Its simple object is to prepare
mankind for entrance upon the next phase of existence on the most
advantageous terms. Much of this, of course, has now been
made perfectly clear to you, and you will understand how impossible
it would be for earth, without some guidance, to reason its way
into the truth, hence the just necessity for the prophetic provision.
From the dawn of reason and inquiry man has been face to face
with the problem as to whether the hope within of a continuity of
existence had any basis of justification. But how was the doubt
to be resolved? Who by searching could find it out? The heart
yearned for it with a yearning that could not be subdued. The
hope had risen spontaneously; was it only a mocking illusion?
If in the black beyond there existed a God, why not also a life?
So the inquiry gained courage and strength until it rose with the
fervour of a helpless race appealing for assistance. In reply to
this God threw open a door of revelation in the corridor of sleep
and gave free access to the gift of prophecy, with its almost infinite
possibilities. If men only understood the true nature and value
of this divine response to human need they would stand appalled
at the awful magnificenceof the forces here placed at their disposal.
But the thoughtlessness of man is proverbial: ‘The ox knoweth
his owner, and the ass his master’s crib; but Israel cloth not know,
my people doth not consider.’ Think of the value of a bestowal
which enables the imprisoned Joseph to interpret the dream of the
butler and baker, then throws open the prison doors and leads the
young Hebrew to perform the same oflice for the king, who raises
the slave to be only second to himself in consequence; or of the
power by which Elisha in Dothan heard the strategic plans of the
distant king of Syria, and was thus able to save his country from the
invading foe; or the ease with which Daniel is enabled to make an
incursion into the realm of sleep and recover the forgotten dream
of Baby1on’s monarch! Who among the sons of men have attached
the suggestive importance to these matters theylegitimatelydemand?
To what extent may this endowment be developed with systematic
study and improvement of the conditions by which it operates?
It is to this question I am anxious to give you a reply in leading
you to the Christ.
“I must not forget, however, that the Jews failed to recognize
Him because of their mistaken conceptions as to the position He
would occupy. To save you from this mistake let us remind our-
selves what we may reasonably expect to find when we see Him,
and what it willbeHis mission to accomplish.
“He will be ‘God manifest in the flesh.’ But I would here
168
caution you to be careful against applying theological or dogmatic
interpretation to this or any other quotation I may now use. Christ
is not God, but He is all thepower of God necessary for the oc'c‘a‘s‘1‘6n
"made "manifest throughthe flesh. He is the ambassador of the King
speaking through the interpreter necessary to bring monarch and
subject into intelligent communication. He is a commissioned
servant, and always places himself personally on the level of the
servant, assuming union with God only by virtue of His official
capacity,where He is always careful to draw the distinction between
‘My Father and I,’ for ‘My Father is greater than I.’ We have
not in Jesus an example of God emptying Himselfin order to assume
a lower nature, but rather a prophet of an advanced type offering
awbody prepared for the in-dwelling of the Christ who is the highest
manifestation of the divine the flesh can receive. The real pheno-
menon, therefore, is the elevation of humanity into the region of
divinity as an example of the possibility of spiritual evolution; it
is the intersphering of the two conditions of adjacent life, where,
like a rising tide, the flood reaches further and further inland until
it lifts and floats the stranded craft and silentlywoos it away and
carries it out to sea.
“This indispensable development had from the first been seen
~ and understood by us from the spiritual side, who through the
prophets had pointed to its coming.
“Then Jesus was born. The child of a holy woman’s prayers,
accepted from the first conscious probabilityof His advent as a gift
from God to be sacredly set aside for the service of that God, and
through the months of His tarrying saturated and psychologized
with the holy aspirations of her who was giving him life and predis-
position of character. He stands yet as the highest type of what
a mother may produce in her offspring. A man may boast of his
intellectual power, but it is a woman only that has abilityto build a
living temple in which God may incarnate a holy spirit. Heaven
indeed sang songs of welcome when it beheld Him come, and joining
efforts with the mother hedged Him round about in preparation for
the work He was destined to perform.
“He was born a prophet. Throughout childhood and youth
the inspiration of the spiritual life played visiblyupon Him, as when
in Jerusalem the Rabbis and teachers marvelled at His knowledge
and wisdom. No wonder that all His sympathies rushed towards
the Baptist when His wonderful mission commenced. No wonder
He hung spellbound upon the preacher’s words. How His heart
was stirred as He listened to the appeal to righteousness of life and
self-surrender to a diviner service than the ceremonial observance
‘of the Temple, until the contemplation passed to open vision, in
the glory of which He trembled while He gazed withspeechless awe.
He saw His race hopelesslyfightingagainst thepowers of thedarkness
which filled the valley of the shadow of death, heard the multitu-
dinous. and agonized cry for help where there was none to save;
from the underworld the cry of the slain came like a thunderous
peal shaking earth and Heaven: ‘Send, send!’ Turning His eyes
169
Heavenward, He saw its host: stand ready but helpless for lack of a
prophet who might be clothed upon and become a leader mighty
to save. Prostrate before the blinding glory that enveloped the
throne He beheld the type of a redeemed humanity pleading for
aid ‘withgroanings which cannot be uttered,’ and from the invisible
He heard the troubled inquiry, ‘Whom shall I send?’
“Then the soul of the Nazarene leaped upward towards its
God, and in a courageous holy consecration flung itself beside the
supplicant and cried, ‘Here am I, send Me—-send Me! and in and
through Me, at whatever cost, let Thy will be done on earth as it
is done in Heaven.’
‘
‘We know what followed. When thatconsecration was ratified
in presence of earth, hell and Heaven at His baptism, ‘the heavens
opened unto Him, and He saw the spirit of God descending like
a dove, and resting upon Him; and lo, a voice from Heaven saying,
‘This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased!’
“Such was the order of that first second-birth to which the
Christ afterwards called the world—a birth in which Jesus the
prophet of Nazareth became Jesus the Christ of God."
“Why have I not known it in this light before?” I asked, as
soon as my astonishment would allow me to speak.
“Because, as I have told you, like all the children of men, you
have been following the footsteps of blind dogmatic guides, who
have missed the path and fallen into the ditch.”
CHAPTER XXII
TI-IE womc AND TEACHING or TI-IE CHRIST
RI-IAYMA paused, not with the pride of one conscious of the strength
of his position, but rather in thoughtful consideration of myself,
whom he was leading by such a hitherto unsuspected path into the
fortress of a long-sought-for truth. My feet stood in the midst
of the entanglements of the tares which choked and attempted to
destroy the true grain, and he was reluctant to hurry my progress,
but left me to contemplate the network of delusion, and contrast
it withtheclearly-definedhighway he pointed out as we proceeded.
If any doubt or nervousness had troubled me in relation to the
good faith of my conductor it had at length been dissolved. My
future path was still shrouded with the veil of mystery, but what
of that? Behind me could be seen the unmistakable outlines of
the recovered highway——straight, well defined and carefully planned,
leading in the desired direction, and furnished with safeguards for
all who had eyes to see, thatwere sufficient to keep the pilgrimfrom
going astray.
While I mused on these things and the many reflections they
suggested, like a distant echo I heard the familiar strains of one
.of my favourite hymns assuring me that——
170
ILI
1921 9111 _10 11121su1 918u1s 2 101 11181s 8111301 1911911 _10 99112110du11 9111
n0K uodn ss91du11 111282 91911 91u 191 p11V '_119s1u11.1 01un p1.10M 9111
_10 1101121119u0991 9111 1n0 8111)110M s2M sns91 1s11113 111 pog 119111M Kq
9111/1111 9111 1111M 112111n11 9111 10 8111p1191q191111 1n111n29q 9111 12 [(193019
910111 911111 2 31001 01,, ‘11289q 911 “‘p9.12d91d 9q M011 111M no1,,
'p12M10_1 9111 p91 pu2 A11s1111111 s111 01 _119s111111 p9ss91pp2-91
119111 91.1 '911109 p211 99u2Ap2 5111 101 911111 9111 12111 12919 s2M
u81s 9111 pu2 199119 11n_1 s11 1118no1M p211 11 man 9s1n09 s11 9ns1nd
01 110112d1911112 8u112121111x9 9111 p9M0112 K11119112d 2Au1211}1
“IP09 5111 PU? P101 KW“
—u11219x9 s2111011_L p91_1s112s 9111 1111M p112 ‘1993 129p s1H 12 _119s£111
M01111 01 p981101 1 pu2 ‘910_19q u99q p211 1 19119 112111 1912911 119n1u 0s
‘I10 11s11113 9111 01 1912911 8u_11u09 s2M 1 '8u1)1 9111 _10 K1n29q 9111
_10 910u1 p10119q 11181111 1 11019111 1912919 M011 Km 1111M 12111 K2M2 9q
01 1119112du11 s2M 1110s 1u2Aonq &u1 19A p112 ‘1s91 01 p218 0s s2M 1
'111811911s p112 11112911 em 01 811181111q ‘u011219/191 1_10s s1p01) _1o
s9z99.1q 9111198 9111 1d9Ms 9s11d1ns p218 _10 sp1911 s11 19A0 pu2 ‘111n11
9111 811112911 s2M 1 'p9s0d91 1 119111M 111 u0111pu09 9111 01 9A112u
s99119n11111 9111 19pun 9111 u11111M 8111p10_111n 919M s9s119s 9111A1p 910u1 p112
M9u 91911M pu21 p91u2119119 112 111 s2M 1 1119s91d 9111 101 12111 118nou9
f1101121n99ds ss919sn 111 9u111 91q2r112A 91s2M 1 p1n09 1011 ‘10u AAOIDI 1
“z,910p2 1 s2 s9mpug1
111813 Kp291s 1(u1 p112 ‘A1018 199_119d 1111M 811122111
W31! 111n11'P°D “D PIOIPCI ‘PQAIOA9195 WM
‘s9A9 M911 ‘u11111M u1011 ‘pu2 ‘K12n19112s 9111
119291 p1noqs 1 u911M p1mo_1 9q p1110M 1211M
‘9s11d1nsp911snqu12 199Ms 119ns 11M011s p211
p1011s91111 9111 ss0.192 d91s 9u0 1nq 11,,
'p9129A9.19q 01 111211191195 11181u1 1211M_10 1s29910_1 2 1du1911201 91q211n
K1191111 s2M 1 91911M ‘s110_11921112 p9199dx911n 1s0u1 01111 A112np218
p9119d0 p211 ‘81111111189q 1n_11qn0p 1211M9u1os 2 111011 ‘119111M ‘u0189.1
19/1011 19111980112 112 1181101111 p91 81119q s2M 1 '>129cIs 1 119111M _10
1101s2990 9111 uodn p9&o_f119 1 9s0111 u2111 /(1o12d1911u2 A1199Ms 91o1u
1199q 9/1211 ‘&u2 _11 ‘M91 9s1p212J 111 p211 9A211 1 s111291p 9111 112 10
's1118111 811112p 1911 01 91q1ss9992 19/19 9q 01
12911112 119111M s1101s1A 9111 8u01112 911111 9111 pu9ds p112 p111111 .1911 01
_
3U]AA GA}? 10!!
that the whole and sole object of the work of Christ is the recon-
ciliation of the world to God, it is never to propitiate God or to
secure His favour on behalfof the world.
“The fundamental diflicultyto the establishment of this desirable
partnership, on the human side, was the doubt as to whether man
was really immortal or only ‘as the beast which perisheth.’ And
it was just here where the priest was found to be as hopelessly
ignorant as the laymen or the heathen. If a system is to be judged
by thevalueoftheservice it is able to render, thenat thisall-important
point, for which alone religions are called into existence, theologies,
ecclesiasticisms and churches become nothing better than broken
reeds and empty speculations. Neither priest nor schoolman is
equipped for fording this Jordan, and bringing back such a report
orfhthe land on the other shore as shall satisfactorilysolve the doubt.
6)’
“
‘Stand lingering, shivering on the brink,
And fear to launchaway.’
‘But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound
the wise; and the weak things of the world to confound the things
which are mighty; and base thingsof theworld and thingswhich are
despised, hath God chosen, yea, the things which are not, to bring
to nought thingsthatare; thatno flesh should glory in His presence.’
When learningfails, God has placedtheprophet in readiness to serve
humanity. And the greatest of all the prophets was Jesus, through
whom the Christ came ‘to bring life and immortality to light.’
Everlasting—anunbroken, uninterrupted—life was the gift He came
to bestow, or rather make clear the factthatit existed as the natural
heritage of all mankind. This revelation was the God-erected goal
towards which the prophetic gift had from the first reached out its
hands. Its prize was Messiahship, and the competition was an open
one which Jesus alone secured, and upon Him descended and rested
the Christ of God. Let me now try to make the certainty of this
dual personality somewhat clearer to your understanding.”
“Can you first give me any information as to the relationship
of Christ to theGodhead?’’
I asked.
“I can tell you somethingof it,” he replied, “but you will fail
‘to comprehend me because it relates to an exalted condition of life
of which I know but little and at present you have no conception.
We shall only be able to understand it clearly when we reach it.
Still, I may say this. The name of Christ is one which applies to a
communityratherthanto an individual. It is a circle formed by the
greatest souls from advanced existing worlds—into which number
the earth has not yet been admitted—and what may be termed the
rearguard of worlds who haveentered upon higher stages of existence
I have no power to anticipate. The ideal after which the Christ
circle reaches is theunion of many worlds (or folds) in the communal
spirit of a new order in which the Divine features may be better
expressed; but theiraspirationalso denotes theirpresent imperfection,
—
and ifyou willbearthisin mind in relation to theposition from which
172
/’;
the Christ‘ descended upon Jesus you may find it to be a key by which
you may open and understand many of His sayings which otherwise
must remain mysterious; the ideal He desires His Church to reach—
‘that they all may be one,’ is the natural atmosphere in which He
dwells; it is not a prayer for union of personality—thatwould be
impossible—it is rather union of spiritual tone and service, such as
He knows with the Father of whom He speaks as being so much
‘greater than I.’ It would be easy for me to multiply such sayings
if it were necessary, but you may easily do so at your leisure, so I
will leave this and pass on.’’
“Permit me one other question here,” I ventured further, “that
my mind may be perfectly free to follow what you have yet to say.”
“What is it?” he replied withkindlyindulgence.
“You quote the Scriptures so frequently that I am anxious to
know just what amount of authorityyou allow them to bear.”
“In all that I am saying to you,” Rhamya answered with a
slightly accentuated deliberation, “I am guided by the thought
that I am preparing you for your coming mission to earth. If it
were otherwise I should prefer to treat all these subjects on a much
higher plane and draw my illustrations from far more satisfactory
sources; but such a course would be of no service or assistance to you,
and for this reason entirely I shape my arguments for your con-
venience and guidance. In doing so I remember how many of the
men with whom you will be brought into contact will take their first
stand in relation to an open communion between the two conditions
oflife, upon thetraditionalinterpretation theChurch has placedupon
the so-called sacred writings, and knowing this, withoutwasting any
time in attacking their position, I have preferred to draw your
attention to the clearly evident fact that what is recognized as an
orthodoxinterpretation of the Bible is itself directly opposed to a far
more satisfactory and consistent revelation contained in the self-
same volume. With only obligatory references to the sacerdotal
system—recognizing that it contains qualities capable of good, and
willing to concede that, in spite of its manifold errors and incon-
sistencies, it has done an inestimable service for humanity in the
mundane sphere, and thatalso it has been a starting point for multi-
tudes of saints who have risen superior to its own environments——
I am content to leave its defence and promulgation in the hands
of its own champions and simply expound the truth as I know it for
myself. In doing this for your assistance and edification I use the
Scriptures simply as historical documents recording a stream of
events with one branch'of which we are closely interested, but in
so doing I claim my right to accept or reject what my knowledge or
reason dictates, which is a standard of judgement one is bound to
erect, especially where records speak with such double-tongued
voices as those we are dealing with. Let God be true though by
such an allowance we convict every man and book of lying. Men
may and always do edit, re-edit, interpolate, interpret and generally
deal with manuscripts and books to suit conveniences; the use and ,
meaning of words and phrases change; and even though we admit
173
the highest possible authorityfor an utterance made under certain
given circumstances and conditions, it needs no skill in dialectics
to prove thata command vital to the interests of one question might
be equally fatal to another. Therefore a living and ever-present
God elects to speak through living men—hence the prophetic
ordination, ‘Thou shalt hear a voice behind thee saying this is the
way’; ‘He shall give His angels charge concerning thee to keep thee
in all thyways’; ‘I will never leave thee nor forsake thee’; ‘Lo, I am
with you alway, even to the end of the world.’ These and other
kindred assurances through the lips of prophets are infinitely more
in accordance withthe Spirit of Divine Fatherhoodthan a thousand
appeals to what is written, although we may be assured that such 2
words were in reality the voice of God to other men. It is in this
light I make use of the Scriptures. They record, so far as they go,
some of the inspirations of the past, enabling us to trace certain
evolutionary lines of thought and development; they preserve out-
lines of the form through which ideas and movements have passed;
they give to us a humanly-sketched portrait of the Christ, which is
certainly beautifulin spite of its imperfection, misconception, and
failure to understand his true relationship either to God or man;
but after all theyhand on nothingmore thanthe form of godliness—
the life, the vigour, the strength, and its fervid inspiration cannot be
transmitted through the inanimate channel of any document; they
are spirit, theyare life, and must needs flow from their source through
‘living epistles, known and read of all men.’ Brieflythen, I use the
Scriptures as I use the systems which are founded upon themfor the
good and truthI find therein. With a fervent desire at all times and
in all places to be guided aright, I use my reason in a careful en-
deavour to ‘refuse the evil and choose the good.’ No man can do
more, and if he honestly does this he will not go wrong. Have I
made my meaning clear to you?”
“Perfectly; but I am afraid you will think my interruptions
sadly interfere with what you wish to say.”
“Not at all. They come naturally and are necessary for your
future guidance. All thatI have to say will rather be assisted than
otherwise by any inquiries you may wish to make, and when I have
answered you I shall always’ find myself standing in the presence
of one or other of the kindred points I still wish to notice. For
instance, while our thoughts are engaged with the sacred writings
we may advantageously linger to learn what they record about the
teaching and work of the Christ, reserving my other point for later
consideration.
“Now, if it were possible for you to clear your memory of all
theteachingsyou have heard and beentaughtto believeas a Christian,
then sit down and read for the first time what the Gospels record
of the teaching and ministry of Christ, and afterwards listen to the
doctrines of what is known as Christianity,you would be astounded
to find how the one is at variance withthe other,and inquire by what
right the Church claims the authorityof Christ for any such system
formulated and taughtby any one ofthemany sects callingthemselves
174
-.
by His Name. In His teachingChrist took exactlythe same position
that I have taken with yourself. It would have been easy for Him
to have used more learned language, higher arguments and philoso-
phical illustrations, but had He done so the result would have been
by so much a more hopeless misunderstanding. This is well evi-
denced by His interview with Nicodemus, who as a ruler and teacher
of thepeople should surely bein a position to speak ofspiritual things
intelligently, yet even from him we hear the disappointed Christ
asking, ‘If I have told you earthly things and you believe me not,
how shall ye believe if I tell you heavenly things?’ The Master
always had to accommodate His teaching to the gross mental and
spiritual darkness which covered the people, in order that from the
midst of it a light might shine—Hislight which was to be thelight of
the world. Hence He mentioned no word about theology——He
who was in a position to speak so clearlyand definitely—butit would
only be (to use His own simile) to cast pearls before swine, who
would afterwards turn and rend Him. Men are not in a position
while subject to the domination of the animal passion consequent
upon the flesh, to arrive at a passionless and purely spiritualconcep-
tion of the nature, perfection, purposes and attributes of God, who
is Spirit, and must therefore needs be understood in the shadowless
uncreated beam of His own self-emanating light in the region of
absolute truth. The Christ found a race of children running about
with the preliminary inquiry it is still making—‘What is truth?’
and He wisely took the kindergarten system of teachingfrom natural
pictures and parables the elementary lessons, which others coming
after Him would gradually follow up until the ministering spirits
of‘ God would lead mankind into all truth. He began by teaching
the human child-raceto dismiss the confusingidea of God from their
minds and replace it by the conception of a Fatherwhom theymight
think of, in every good, noble, and considerate way, as being in-
finitely better than any human fatherthe world had known, and one
who——though Himself unseen—heard, saw and knew all men did
and even thought. Christ knew this Father—hadcome from Him
to teach mankind the way to the home where God awaited their
coming—and if they prayed to Him as ‘Our Father, who art in
Heaven,’ and lived a life such as He (Christ) would live for men’s
example, the prayer would be heard and the Father would give
them whatever they asked Him for, because while they lived as He
would show to them it would not be possible for them to ask any-
thing but what the Father intended them to have. Throughout
this typical life He was always drawing attention thereto to illustrate
all He said, in which He summed up the whole duty of man in one
sentence, ‘-All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to
you, do ye even so to them; this is the law and the prophets.’ This
command is to be so literally carried out, or honestly aimed at; that
when the child prays to his Father he need not fear to link with his
petition the plea ‘forgive me my trespasses as I forgive them that
trespass against me,’ and he who can fearlessly make this request
has nothingto fear.”
175
“Did He not also teach ‘Thou shalt love the Lord thyGod with
all thy heart’?” I inquired.
“Certainly! But love to God is not to precede, but be the out-
growth of love to man. ‘If a man love not his brother whom he
hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?’ In his
humanity Christ represented the_ door by which alone entrance is
to be found into the higher—the truly spiritual—life, and whoever
tries to enter by another way ‘the same is a thief and a robber.’
Notice how stringently Christ lays the rule down: ‘If thou bring thy
gift to the altar, and there rememberestthat thy brother hath ought
against thee (not that thou hast ought against thy brother), leave
there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled
to thy brother and then come and offer thy gift.’ «’ The passport to
admission into the kingdom of Heaven is righteousness of conduct
towards men This is the scope of the teaching of Christ which is
strenuously orced in His sermon on the Mount, in parable, in
prayer, and by every aspect of His ministry. He came to save the
world from the inevitable consequences of sin, and this He does by
repentance and a new life in which rightness rules supreme. But
repentance towards God can only be approached by repentance
towards men accompanied by reconciliation. Salyatign came to
Zaccheus by his repentance and restoring fourfold thatwhich had
been unrighteously acquired; and the rich young ruler’s acceptance
depended on distributing his wealth among the poor. ‘If thou
wilt be perfect, go, sell thatthou hast, and give to the poor, and thou
shalt have treasure in Heaven; and come and follow Me.’ The
instinct of selfishness which is legitimately dominant in the brute,
becomes not only unnecessary but woefully injurious in the man,
and the coming of Christ is to save both from the evil of the natural
passion and the consequences its indulgence will entail.”
“Will you allow me here to suppose that such an incarnation
as that of Christ had not taken place~what then would have been
the fate of humanity?’’
My teacher smiled good-naturedlyas he heard my query.
“Such a supposition would be impossible to realize. Given a
humanity,the manifestation of the Christ is a sequence as inevitable
as death following the birth of the body. It would be just as futile
to attempt to take the noon from day as Christ from the race. He
is a natural stage in the divine order of ascent. He is not an inter-
polation to rectify the effects of a supposed fa1l~—Christ has no
connection with any scheme necessitating interpositions or correc-
tions—but the orderly revelation of the next step to be taken in
creation’s return to God._ But this does not exactlyanswer the true
pithof your inquiry, which is: Had Christ not been made manifest,
would the race have been lost? No. God is in no sense confined
to one particular mode of action to accomplish His determined
purpose. To argue that He is would be to assert that He is limited
in His operations and hence finite. But without rising into any
such debatable sphere respecting the nature of God, which neither
of us understand, I have full authorityfor all I have said when I
176
consider the condition of those souls who passed hither before the
advent.”
“Were they not in prison?” I inquired.
“Let us very carefully see what the Scriptures record of the
teachingof Christ,’ ’
he replied, ‘
‘for I must not forget thatI am now
drawing all my argument from what is written. In the parable of
Dives and Lazarus, Christ speaks of Abraham’s bosom as being a
place of comfort, compensation and blessedness to the erstwhile
beggar; and when Jesus was transfigured Moses and Elias ‘appeared
in glory’ and spake to Himof His coming decease. Now if Abraham,
Moses, Elias and the beggar Lazarus were not in prison, but rather
in glory, the principle is established for which I contend. But God
is love, and the essence of love is to lavish benefits upon the object
of its affection, as far as possible to throwa protecting care around
it, and save from the slightest approach to misfortune. Now,
‘God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son . . .
not to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might
be saved’ from the consequences of the evil which is so closely allied
with human nature. The descent of Christ was the expression of
the God—paternal consideration and regard for the welfare of His
children. They must ultimately reach His abode because He ‘will
have all men to be saved,’ and He, being Lord, than whom there is
none beside, whatsoever must come to pass. But love constrains
itself to devise a means to bring about the early consummation of
its own dear desire, and so God cannot leave to nature what may be
more rapidlyreachedthroughtheavenue of grace. Here is theneeds-
be for the work of Christ, who descends with the revelation of a
moral law which brings a power of salvation to everyone that
believethand accepts it as a rule by which his life is to be henceforth
governed.
“So far I have confined myself to the teaching of Christ as a
law binding upon human life; but no wise ruler—no loving and
tender father—issuesany command withoutsome good and sufficient
reason for so doing. We have now to find the reason for which this
new law, as promulgated by the Christ, has been established. I
have already spoken of the universal disquietude concerning the fate
of man, of theunanswered inquiry, ‘If a man die shall he live again?’
The coming of the Christ is God’s response thereto, and the law He
proclaimsis thelove-appointed way by which the best—an abundant
entrance-——may be made into the entailed heritage of immortality.
For the discharge of this embassage he was in every way adequately
qualified, since He had passed through identical developments and
won His way to a spiritual condition beyond the reach of any soul
newly passing from the earth, although He was not so far away as
to be out of sympathy with the frailties and weaknesses of the
flesh. From thiselevation He was able to declare the whole counsel
of God in so far as men could receive and appreciate it, but when He
had accomplished His mission He was compelled to assure His
disciples that much yet remained to be disclosed though He could
not tell themthen. This rule of life, by a master-stroke of matchless
177
genius, He reduced into a single sentence sufliciently simple for a
child to understand, and which cannot be too often repeated——
‘Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to
you, do ye even so to them; for this is the law and the prophets.’
Nor does He lay this down as a basis of conduct desirable merely
for religious, social or political reasons, but speaking from His own
intimate acquaintancewith an inexorable law, He reveals the natural
sequence of all conduct in His eloquent warning, ‘For with what
judgement ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye
mete it shall be measured to you again.’ For this reason, then,
He insists that life shall be so regulated that when one lays his
petitions and needs before the Father he may confidentlyask to be
forgiven as he has forgiven others.
“Men miss the awful emphasis Christ places on character
because they forget that speaking from the immortal side of life,
deathto Him was simplyan incidentin existence and not an end of it
——a veil He could thrust aside, passing in and out at will. Neither
King of Terrors nor Valley of the Shadow exists for Him, but His
eyes look calmly forward from earth into the shadowless light of the
eternal day, and He carries forward into that to—morrow the un-
balanced account of life’s to—day. It is this thoughtin His teaching
that should make men pause. There are many nights and days
between the sowing and the reaping, but whatsoever a man soweth
in thespringhe shall reap in theautumn. There is onlyone accessory
death has no power to confiscate as the soul passes forward—-
character. Beliefs, dogmas, creeds and professions will all be left
behind, but character will furnish the only possible clothing with
which it may step into immortality. Its works have preceded or
will follow on and be produced in evidence in the judgement where
‘except your righteousness shall exceed that of the scribes and
Pharisees, ye shall not enter into thekingdom of Heaven!’
“I wish you to notice here again how inseparably the Christ
insisted on theunion betweencause and effect—sowingand reaping-
as He here blends it in God and humanity. This law He promul-
gates takes theveriest outcast of a depraved humanityand makes its
loathsome exterior to be the unattractive casket in which reposes
a divine gem. It has been taken at its sight value on earth—‘des-
pised and rejected of men ’—but in thatjudgement hall every frag-
ment of humanity must be gatheredup that nothingbe lost, and the
King shall say to those who stand before Him, ‘Inasmuchas ye did
it to one of the least of these, My brethren, ye did it unto Me.’ It
is so far the Christ declares God to outreach to bring the whosoever ,
unto Himself.
“This essential purity of life, in the struggle for the acquirement
of which neither ceremonialism nor priest was necessary or admis-
sible, but only God and the aspirant can have any part in, was a
revolution not lightly to be tolerated by the conflict that ensued,
in which Christ never for an instant yielded a single spiritual claim
to His persecutors, and God onlyused theirwrathfor His own praise,
but would rather direct your attention to the steady purpose of the
178
Christ to fulfil His mission, and by successive stages—-clearlyvisible
and well defined in the afterlight from which we may view them—-
led to the great and all-important demonstration for which He
came, thatof bringinglife and immortalityto light by theresurrection
of Jesus. Have you ever noticed how orderly and systematically
this evidence is marshalled?’’
“I scarcely understand your meaning,” I replied.
“Let me help you to do so by brieflyreviewingsome of the facts.
The definite mission of the Christ, as we already see, was to establish
the certainty of existence after the death of the body. ‘I am come,’
He said, ‘that ye might have life, and have it more abundantly.’
Whether the surmise, the hope, of this was true or not, was the
greatest unsolved problem of the ages, and He had been sent with
the definite purpose of answering it. With the success of His
demonstration the collateral doubt would also be settled as to
whether man possesses a dual nature, and Christ establish His —
claim to speak as to the best method of preparation for entering
upon the life invisible to earth. But until the demonstration had
been satisfactorilyconcluded that man did actuallyexist after death
as the same conscious and intelligent personality as before, all
other issues were beside the question and irrelevant. The old
prophetic standard was raised as the arbiter of truth in the matter:
‘If the thing follow not nor come to pass, that is the thing which
the Lord hath not spoken.’
“From the instant of His descent upon the Nazarene the latter
‘was changed into another man.’ ‘Old things had passed away
and all thingsbecamenew.’ There were visible in Him new powers,
new purposes, new lines ofconduct, new recognitions,new everything.
The point of contact with humanity had been changed, and He
spoke ‘as One having authority,’and not as thescribesand Pharisees.
Perhaps in no instance was this more marked than in His attitude
towards. the members of the family of Jesus. The Christ refused
to be subject to a blood relationship: ‘Woman, what have I to do
with thee?’ Or again: ‘One said unto Him, Behold Thy mother
and Thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak with Thee. But
He answered and said unto him thattold Him, Who is My mother?
and who are My brethren? And He stretched forth His hand
toward His disciples, and said, Behold My motherand My brethren!
For whosoever shall do the will of My Father which is in Heaven,
the same is My brother and sister, and mother’ (Matt. xii. 47-50).
From the outset He assumed the spiritual position, and lived that
for which He prayed—‘Thy will be done in earth, as it is done in
Heaven.’ ,
“Such an assumption, so far removed from and opposed to
the empty oeremonialism of the established religion, could not be
allowed to go unchallenged, and soon He is beset by carping critics
who wish to know by what authorityHe speaks and performs His
mighty works. The reply of the Christ fixes the attention of the
whole world upon His one great purpose—He will stand or fall by
the test of the resurrection; ‘What sign showest Thou unto us,
179
_,,..«.au-at-W-o--.
,,
‘I
seeing Thou doest these things?’ Jesus answered and said unto
them, ‘Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.’
Then said the Jews, ‘
Forty and six years was this temple in building,
and wilt Thou rear it up in three days? But He spake of the temple
of His body’ (John ii. 18-21).
“So throughout His whole ministry He keeps all eyes fixed
hopefully upon the reawakening hour. His teachings are full of
references to the harvest of life that must then be reaped and
garnered; His parables abound with cautions as to what is sown
because of the harvest time which lies ahead; and between the lines
of every illustrationHe used may be read awful significances of the
reward of conduct.
“And all the while He worked and preached He also lived the
life—thetypicallife to which He called all men—which bore evidence
to its alliance with God in this world, and secured the best results
in the world to come. Let us follow Him along the pathway of
His works to the great consummation.
“He began the demonstration of the superiority of the spiritual
over the physicalman by the cure of diseases of a temporary nature,
proceeding afterwards to those of more chronic form. Presently
we hear Him hurriedly summoned to the bedside of the daughter of
an alien, who lies at the point of death. In His attendance on others
He allows the girl to cross the river, from whence He almost
immediately recalls her, and gives her back to her consternated
parents.
“At last the Christ had met the adversary He had come to
destroy—had caught him in the act of spoliation; and Death was
overthrown.
“They next meet at the gate of Nain. Death may well be sure
of his prey this time, for the cortége winds its way to the burial, the
broken-hearted mother following in the wake of the bier. But
Christ had been sent to bind up the broken-hearted. The tyranny
of deathhad already been destroyed in the chamberof thecenturion,
and the Christ restored the lad to his mother.
“In the third encounter the tomb joined issues with death to
hold the sleeping Lazarus. But all in vain! ‘Christ is the resur-
rection and the life.’ All power is given unto Him! Therefore
at His call he that was dead comes back to life again, and the claims
of Christ gain cumulative evidence as to their veracity.
“There yet remains the last and all-decisive contest between
the Prince of Life and the King of Terrors to be considered, but
before proceeding to this let us make sure we clearly understand
what it is the Christ is making manifest. Jesus of Nazareth, ‘a
man approved of God,’ has placed Himself unreservedly at the
Divine disposal, that in and through Him God may answer’ and
supply the world’s great need. He was ‘in all points’ a man as
other men, save in His whole-hearted’ consecration to the cause He
espoused. Had He been otherwise—giftéd with a peculiar nature,
born under abnormal conditions, or conceived as the councils of
men have determined-—all that was accomplished would have been
180
of no avail; it would have borne no manner of relation to the
salvation of men who had come into existence under other circum-
stances. It is this conception of the Christ that has made Him to
be so solitary and unapproachable to your mind. For Jesus was
‘a man in all points tempted like as’ other men, one chosen from
thecommon brotherhoodof humanitybecauseHe had beenprepared
by a holy mother’s efforts and His own spiritual aspirations to be
the chosen messenger of God. Upon this man among men, this
body which had been prepared, this temple made meet for the
indwelling Spirit of the Lord, the Christ descended and by many
mighty works gave evidenceto theworld thatman possesses a nature
capable of beingelevated into a union with powers greater than the
physical,possessingknowledgebeyondthelimitationofphilosophies,
and of directingforces which hold thematerial universe in subjection.
This indwelling Christ who is first revealed to man through Jesus
of Nazareth,blends thehuman withthe divine, and carries evolution
forward into another stage, becominga second Adam of a new and
nobler race. For though He is the firstborn, He is only the type
of what the succeeding race shall be, which shall enter into the
heritage He already enjoys, and by the powers they wield and the
works they perform make their title clear to be called the sons of
God. ‘He that believethon Me, the works that I do shall he do
also.’ ‘By their fruits ye shall know them.’ The feeling after
immortalitywhich has hithertomet withsuch unsatisfactoryresponse
is but the prenatal struggle of a man fighting his way to the second
birth, which having been attained, both death and the grave shall
be vanquished, and the first-born among many brethren shall bear
away the captured keys into the region of an ever accessible immor-
tality. It is to thislast combat and the victory of Jesus I now invite
your attention.’ ’
“Why do you lay such marked emphasis on the name Jesus?”
I inquired, as I noticed the peculiar significance of its mention.
“Because it is very essential that you should distinguish here
betweenthe two individualitiesat a point where they again separate.
The Christ was not born, but descended upon Jesus at His Baptism;
nor could He die; therefore,havingfinished His Work,He re-ascended
before the crucifixion. For Christ to have gone to the death would
be as valueless to humanity as the miraculous birth. What man
wanted to know was whether if a man die would he live again, not
whether if an immortal pass through the semblance of the. event
-—which by the nature of the case could not be a reality——he would
afterwards survive. The work and teaching of the Christ was to
give an affirmative reply to the universal inquiry and at the same
time lay down the most favourable method of preparation for the
event, which typical life He co-operated with Jesus in living, and
then withdrew, that the man might enjoy the reward His sacrifice
to the will of God had secured. In preparation for this it was
Jesus, and not the Christ, who was transfigured on the mount when
Moses and Elijah appeared to make Him acquaintedwith the nature
of the deathwhich lay before Him and give assurances of thevictory.
181
n,_‘
Had it been the Christ and not Jesus there was no necessity for the
two to have spoken with Him, for the Anointed One had direct
access to the Father,and needed not thatany should come between,
but Jesus had not passed that way heretofore, and for Him help
and assurance was both needed and encouraging.
‘
‘Let us now approach the deathon our way to theresurrection,
which is to be the decisive test of Christ having been thesent of God;
and in doing so I wish to call your very close attention to themoment
when the work of Christ comes to an end, and He re-ascends,
leaving Jesus to enter into the reward of the life to which He had
_
so willinglyand whole-heartedlylent Himself.
“Will you recall that scene as recorded in the upper room:
dread at the thought of the painful death which stood so closely to
Him; the intensity of the suffering was increased a hundred-fold
by the physicalweakness in which it found Him. Nor was it simply
because ‘it pleased the Lord to bruise Him’ that this bitter cup
.was held to His lips to drain, it was ratherthat the world in looking
back might see that come what sorrow might there would be none
like unto His sorrow, and His obedience and sacrifice sounded
deeper depths than other souls would be asked to sound. He swept
life’s full gamut by the purity and self-abnegation of His life; He
made His body a temple meet for the use of the Christ—bore the
tension of a physical exaltation up to the highest possible limit of
mortal endurance through a protracted ministry which is still the
wonder of all in Paradise who are in a position to understand it;
then, when the strain was over, the rebound dashed Him to corre-
sponding depths, so that it might be truly said, ‘He was in all points
tempted like as we are, yet without sin.’ But ‘He shall see the
travail of His soul and shall be satisfied.’ You remember the
words with which I pictured His volunteeringfor thiswork. ‘Send
Me, and let Thy will be done in and through Me on earth as it is
in Heaven?’ In the depth of that awful agony His consecrated
soul is true to its vow: ‘If "it be possible let this cup pass from Me,
nevertheless, not My will but Thine be done.’ It could not pass!
Through the valley of the shadow of death humanity had for ages
been trying to find its way to a joyful resurrection, but had failed
to do so. Someone must find it. God had long been waiting for
the pioneer He unseen could lead through the awful terrors of the
most painful dissolution. So far the life of Jesus had been placed
at the Divine disposal, and the Christ had utilized it to manifest
what the highest, truest type of humanity might be. Was the
Christ-divested man willingto tread the wine-press of the last great
sorrow alone? The way was dark, and the guiding hand was gone!
Still when the terrors of death seized Him and He could not see
His way, He cried, ‘Not My will, but Thine be done,’ and His feet
felt their way forward while the ‘bloody sweat’ started and ran
from every pore. The Christ had come to ‘bringlife and immortality
to light’; the law relating to it had been made known through Him,
should not the consummation also be attained? This gave Him
strength. In His loneliness and terror He had still the memory of
what Moses and Elijah had made known to Him at the great Trans-
figuration. By His endurance God’s will would be made known
to man, and not only one life, but the life of all humanity would be
transfigured by the sun of truth shining through the darkness in
which He struggled forward towards the immortal and eternal
day. The flesh was weak, but the spirit was willing,and that spirit
was the harvest-producing seed which is endowed with potential
omnipotence. In the consciousness of this He pushed His feet
further forward, and with outstretched hands felt, if haply He
might touch, the everlastingdoors.
“He had not, however, reached the bottom of the valley yet.
Behind Him lay the betrayal, arrest, scourgings, judgement hall,
183
the forsaking and denial. He had torn the flesh of His hands
and feet upon the nails of the cross, the gibes and sneers of priests
and high-priests were falling away upon the deadening sense of
His ears, the torture of His thirst was overpowering Him, and still
the road went down. It was intolerable! Oh, it was impossible
that there could be a sorrow like unto this sorrow. He could not
go further. Why had the Christ forsaken Him? Why was He thus
left alone? He might ask, but there was none to reply. Then He
stood still. Stood still to gather what strength He might, and
from the depths of His despair sent up such a prayer that would
compel an answer. Whenever the Christ (the God) had left Him
for a space before He had but to cry and the return was immediate;
He would cry again, and the valley of death, with the impinging
regions of earth, hell and Heaven, rang with the heart-breaking
shout, ‘My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken Me?’ He
could do no more; but fainting fell and burst the everlasting doors!
He had found the way for all mankind into the immortality they
sought, from which, after a necessary rest, He would shortly return
and make the truth of his discovery known.”
“I never felt the awful nature of His death so keenly before,”
I gasped with relief when he came to the climax, “but have you not
carried away somewhat of its importance in favour of the
resurrection?’ ’
“No; the resurrection is the all-important fact, and the death
only an incident necessary thereto. We may now go back to the
teaching at the point where we left it by the resurrection, or rather
the recalling of Lazarus from the dead.”
“But resurrection and recalling are one and the same, are they
not?”
‘
‘By no means. Christ recalled his threepersons in their natural
bodies, but the resurrection must be in the spiritual body, which is
no longer subject to physical law. It appears and vanishes at will;
it is now mistaken for the gardener by Mary; and again it takes
‘another form’, and is unrecognized until Emmaus is reached and
thebreakingof thebread discloses theidentity of Jesus; Thomas must
see theprint of thenails beforehe is satisfied, and by all thesechanges
we discover how different is the spiritual (even when rendered tan-
gible) from the natural body. After the conquest of death in the
case of Lazarus the only other sign Christ would give was the
resurrection of Jesus, by which alone Paul says light and immortality
was brought to light. Death was a phenomenon too common to
attach any significance to, but to announce a resurrection from the
dead was both a stupendous and incredible occurrence. Therefore
the Apostles went everywhere ‘preachingJesus and theresurrection,’
claiming it as the very foundation-stone upon which the Christian
faith must rest—‘If Christ be not risen from the dead, then is our
faith vain.’ Pau1’s ambition everywhere was ‘That I may know
Him, and the power of His resurrection, and the fellowship of His
sufferings, beingmade conformableunto His death; if by any means
I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead’ (Phil.
All the careful precautions of the priests and Romans to make sure
of His deathand to keep the grave intactwas to prevent theresurrec-
tion; but the demonstration was one of the power of God, and all
theseprecautionsof the wrathof man were to be pressed into service
to testify to the fact they were so futilely determined to prevent.
Therefore you may go on with your new ministry with this clear
certainty, my brother, that the demonstration of the return from
deathis the great corner-stone of the faith of Christ.”
“What, then, of the atonement?” I asked.
“The doctrine of a vicarious atonement is one I must leave for
priests to reconcile as best they may, but since it is a purely human
dogma it is also one with which Paradise does not concern itself,
being also entirely opposed to the teaching of the Christ. Think
for one moment of what He taught: ‘Every tree bearethits own fruit;
with what measure ye mete it shall be measured to you again;
whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also reap.’ Zaccheus
extorted, and he had to restore; the prodigal squandered, and he
had to hunger; Dives neglected the sick pauper at his gate, and he
had to endure the torment of hell; the unfaithfulsteward had to go
to prison until the last farthing was paid. There is no room for
vicarious atonement in the gospel of the Christ, but it is always the
soul that sinneth that has to bear the penalty. So also in regard
to sacrifices‘we may accept the words of the prophet-psalmist,
‘For Thou desirest not sacrifice;else would I give it: Thou delightest
not in burnt-offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit:
a broken and a contrite heart, 0 God, Thou wilt not despise.’ I
know the discrepancy between this and other passages in the Bible
which might as easily be quoted, but God and Christ at least must
beconsistent—‘a house divided against itselfcannot stand.’ Outside
these we have priest divided against prophet, but Jesus was greatest
of the prophets and always opposed to the priests and their law.
The Scriptures contain a record of the history of both, and therefore
need to be rightly divided to ascertain the truth.
“So we come to an end of our inquiry,” continued Rhamya
as he rose to leave, “and as a spirit who is to be sent forth for the
inspirationof a prophet, I counsel you to be wise, and only speak to
earth the things you know and see and understand, and then you
need not be afraid. Peace.”
CHAPTER XXIII
rm: COMMUNION or SAINTS
RI-IAMYA had finished his work, and taken his departure, but how
shall I speak of the effect his visit had produced?
I can well understand you, my reader, regarding the result as
very unsatisfactory;all along his argument, as I have traced it, you
185
have detected weak points, false conclusions and unwarrantable
inferences. I allowed him quietly to assume positions you would
have contested stoutly, and consequently had you been in my place
Rhamya’s whole argument would have taken another complexion.
That is, supposing the record is one of an actual event and not the
creation of a mind inventing a hypotheticalprogramme upon which
to buildanothercreed.
Had you been in my place: it is there where all the difference
lies. Let me for a moment suppose that such had been the case.
What would have happened? I can tell you perhaps better than
you can imagine; all your present prejudices would have vanished;
a thousand experiences which now lie between the two positions
you and I occupy would have broken up your shallow knowledge
of thethingsof God, and prepared you to receive thetruthin furrows
of deep expectant desire; the spiritual atmosphere in which you sat
would be so clear and your powers of discernment so quickened
that you would recognize and hail each truth in its approach, and
lose the power to cross-examine or seek to evade it in favour of a
cherished but erroneous opinion. You, as myself, would have
joined hands with Thomas, and when the evidences were seen
would neither have waited to touch or handle, but fallen at the feet
of the all-too-certain Saviour and exclaimed, “My Lord and My
God!” ,
That is what would have happened had you beenin my place.
Rhamya had said he intended to do no more than sketch the outline
of the highway of the Christ. It was not necessary for him to
attempt more. His simple indication of its direction made the
whole course to shine with the radiance of divinity. It reduced 9.
previous chaos to calm, and before my astonished sight lay the way
along which the ransomed of the Lord might return with songs and
everlasting joy to the fatherland and rightful heritage of divinity.
In his mission of enlightenment Rhamya had broken down the
cross-entanglements of theology, pushed his way through the
contradictions of dogmatics, regarded as of no consequence the
definitions of Fathers and Councils, ignored the confusing battle-
grounds of schoolmen, found no occasion to discuss theories of
Eden, man’s first estate, the fall, original sin and cognate subjects;
if he knew that Israel were a peculiar people more dear to the heart
of God than any other nation, he failed to mention it, nor did he
call any by the name of heathen, or point out where they had been
divinely appointed to be the bondslaves of others. The God upon
whose shoulders he found the government to rest was truly no
respecter of persons; but in every nation he that feareth Him and
workethrighteousness is accepted of Him; a God who is not to be
worshipped only in temples made with hands, but rather in the
purity and holiness of consecrated hearts, cleansed and set apart as
the appointed and guarded trysting-place where earth and Heaven
blend in one. This, the only truly divine and appointed temple for
the worship of Him who alone is God, can only be approached
by the one ordained and Heaven-elected way which Rhamya had
186
discovered to my mind, and, as I scanned its course, after his depar-
ture, I understood,withafivividness and beautyI had never discerned
beforethefullness oftheinspirationof thepsalmistwhenhe exclaimed,
‘The pathof thejust is as a shining light, thatshinethmore and more
unto the perfect day.’
As I contemplated what had taken place I was more than
astonished to find how closely associated was the question of the
personality and work of Christ with every conceivable subject and
detail of a religious nature. Rhamya had directed his attention
to the very heart of things, and having made the one point clear
the mists had apparently rolled away from every quarter of the
spiritual horizon until no cloud remained, not even so large as a
man’s hand.
Especially was this so with respect to the question of inter-
communion. Rhamya’s interpretation had placed this upon an
_
unassailable basis, and I could go forward to my work with a
confidence and authority of which I had never dreamed. The
communion of saints now appeared in a new and deeper sense than
before, needing no commentator to expound that doubtful passage
in Hebrews xii.: “Yeare come unto Mount Sion, and unto the city
of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable
company of angels, to the general assembly and church of the
first-born, which are written in Heaven, and to God the Judge of
all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus the
mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that
speaketh better things than that of Abel. See that ye refuse not
Him that speaket .” In the light I had just received I could read
and understand this and many other hitherto mysterious passages
for myself, having reached that highway to which Rhamya had so
frequently directed my attention, where ‘the wayfaring man’ need
not wander from the truth.
But speaking of the communion of saints suggests to me an
incidentwhich took placeat thistime, and placedin close relationship
with the work of the Christ will pleasantly illustrate how the great
law proceeds to its almost infinite adaptations. We have seen it
workingin its highest aspect between Jesus and the Christ; the case
I have now to record is of a very different degree, but it shows the
same Spirit and the same Lord to be directing it.
I had but recently returned, and was speaking with Vaone of
all I had heard from Rhamya when Jack and his friend Dandy
joined us.
“Did Eilele come back withyou?” inquired the former at once.
“No. Why, do you want her?”
“Yes. I want her to talk to Dandy.”
“Is it anythingthat I can do?” I asked.
“There ain’t anythin’ to do at all,” the culprit explained.
“I o’ny sed as things ain’t as they ought ter be; an’ if Jack ses they
are, ’e don’t know, that’s all.”
“In what way are they wrong?” I asked, interested to know
such a curious point of disagreement.
187
“Dandy says he ought not to be here,” said Jack.
“No, I didn’t say it like that,” cried the other. ‘‘I said it
warn’t right ter make me come away an’ leave Bully Peg wi’out
anybody ter look arter ’im.” ,
“But does not God know what is best?” I asked.
“I don’t know what God knows or what ’E doan know. But
if I’d been God I shouldn’t ’a’ done it that way.”
“Which way?’ ’
“If I’d been ’Im I should ’a’ knocked the box on the little
kiddy, an’ killed ’im; the big un could look arter ’imself.”
“But God will look after Bully Peg,” I replied, catching the
drift of his grievance. “He will be all right.”
'
“But ’e ain’t all right,” he aflirmed with somethingvery much
like defiance. “He’s about as wrong as they meks ’em. An’
that’s where yer mek yer mistake!”
“What is the matter, Jack?” I inquired, anxious to gain some
insight into the perplexing situation.
Whereupon I was informed that the lads had but just returned
from a visit to the ‘College,’ where they had met Bully Peg and
learned how the little fellow had fallen on evil times, and for the
whole of the preceding day had been without food. At the best
the lad had but very indifferent health, and Dandy resented the
additional hardship he had to endure on account of the death of
the elder. Had he been alive Bully would have been fed somehow.
This was the extent of Dandy’s grievance, and he stoutly refused
to accept the factof his removal as absolvinghim from responsibility
in connection with his friend. In his rough untutored logic the lad
had worked out the proposition that the goodness of God was at
fault somewhere to allow Bully Peg to bear this additional suffering
under the circumstances of his bereavement.
As I heard the touching story, my heart went out in genuine
sympathy towards the distressed Dandy, but where the lad only
saw a hungry child he considered it to be his duty to feed, and that
at once, I saw a yawning gulf, impassableto such a physicalministry,
or so it presented itself to my doubtful and inexperiencedmind.
It was a new and apparently unsolvable problem to me, how
to secure and then transmit to Bully Peg that which Dandy had
thoroughlymade up his mind the child should have.
In my perplexity I recalled Myhanene’s counsel to do the best
I could where I could not do all I would, and leave the rest to God.
I would act upon it, though I knew how impossible it was for me
to satisfy the demand that would not accept denial, for I saw the
intense determination upon the face of the supplicant, who was
recaidy to give up Heaven, if need be, that his friend might be
e .
“Try to be patient, Dandy,” I began, drawing the lad closer
and laying my hand upon his troubled head. “It will be all right,
though you nor I see how it can be so for the present. God will
take care of your little friend for your sake as well as His own,
since you are so very anxious about him. Who knows but that
188
Bully Peg is coming to be with you and Jack shortly, and this is the
beginningof the end of all his suffering?”
“But I thoughtGod was very good and kind?”
“So He is—more good and kind than any of us know or can
imagine.”
‘
‘But it ain’t good an’ kind 0’ the butchers to keep calves wi’out
anythin’to eat before theykill ’em.”
“I did not say God was doing so. Only that-——”
“I know all abart it,” he interrupted impatiently. “But Bully
Peg wants summat t’ eat, an’ I wants ’im t’ ’ave it at once. Can’t
yer go an’ see God, an’ tell ’im ’ow ’ungry Bully is?”
“He knows all about it without our telling Him.”
‘
‘Thenif ’E’s as good as yer say, why doan ’E let ’im ha’ some?’’
Then with a flash of child-like inspiration he suddenly exclaimed,
“Oh! I know, p’raps ’E ain’t got anybody ter tek it! Come
on, let us go an’ tek it for ’Im.”
It was no use. The determined importunity,sympathy,precocity
and artless faith of the lad were too much for me to attempt to
cope with. I was worse thanheIpless——afraid thatmy incompetence
would prove to be harmful to the lad, and in my perplexity I called
for Myhanene.
In this I found the relief I so sadly needed.
Dandy recognized him in an instant, and accosted him before
I had a chance to speak.
‘ ‘
’Ere! You killedme—didn’t yer?’ ’
Myhanene patted his head, and smiledaffectionately.
“No—nol Not that,” he answered. “Dead boys do not
talk excitedly, do they?”
“Well, yer brought me here away from Bully Peg, didn’t yer?”
“Ah yes; I will admit that.”
“An’ do yer know ’e can’t get anythin’t’ eat—all day yesterday
’e didn’t ’ave a bite.”
“Poor little fellow! How did you learn this?”
“We have just come from the ‘College’,”replied Jack, “where
he told us so himself.”
“Yes, an’ I want ter know ’ow God can be good an’ let Bully
Peg be ’ungry all because God sent you to kill me. Why didn’t
yer kill Bully and let me live?”
‘
‘I was not sent to do that.’’
“But why warn’t yer? That’s what I should ’a’ done.”
“Perhaps so; but God knows what is best much better than
we do.”
“It ain’t better ter let Bully be ’ungry. Can’t yer gi’ ’im
summat ter eat?”
‘
‘Yes. God will give him somethingto eat, ’ ’
replied Myhanene,
sitting down and drawing the interceding Dandy close to him,
“and when he gets it you will be able to see how very much better
everything has been than if you had had your own way. God
knows more thanwe, and what He does is always for the best.’’
“But it isn’t best for Bully to be ’ungry.”
189
“Yes it is, for a little while.”
“Well, how is it?”
“That I do not know for the present; but I know God well
enough to say that both you and I will see it has been for the best
presently.’ ’
“When?”
“Almost directly.”
“How shall I know?”
“We will go. and see your friend as soon as I learn what to do,
{and you will see how God will find a way for him to be provided
or."
“Are you sure?”
‘ ‘
Yes—confident.’ ’
“All right, then. But I wouldn't be ’appy ’ere if he was goin’
ter be left ’ungry there.”
Waiting for God is never a long or trying ordeal under such
circumstances. Dandy was most intensely earnest. He was asking
help for his friend, and to secure it, if necessary, he was prepared to
sacrifice everything,willingeven to give up his own heaven for the
time that the hungry one might be fed. Such importunity had to
be answered. Myhanene knew it as soon as he saw it, and almost
at once received his commission to proceed to the relief.
“Come with me,” he said with more of command than invita-
tion in his tone, as his alert and ever-ready self was caught up by the
urgent mandate. And in a flash of thought we found ourselves
beside the hungry lad, who with unshod feet and tattered clothes
was doing his best to sell matches among the passers-by in front
of the Royal Exchange.
“’Ere we is, Bully,” cried Dandy joyfully. “Now yer can
ha’ some———” -
But his exclamation was cut short, for the eager little fellow
darted past him, without taking the slightest notice, in answer to a
call for “Matches” from the top of a ’bus just pulling up at the
kerbstone.
“Well! If that don’t tek the cake,” gasped Dandy. “But
p’raps ‘e didn't see us in the fog.” Then he added with anxious
sympathy,‘
‘Fogs don’t do for Bully.’’
Myhanene smiledand drew the little protector to him in a tender
embrace, which spoke more eloquently than words.
“What are yer laughingfor?’ ’
he asked naively.
“At you thinking there is a fog,” he replied. “You forget
that you have changed your eyes, and see what your friend cannot
see, while he is not able to see that we are here.”
b fHe started as he grasped an idea that had not occurred to him
e ore.
“Yes. I forgot that! My eyes are dead uns, ain’t they?
What shall we do?”
His appearance at this discovery was at once droll and pitiable.
At length he realized what I had before seen—the apparently im-
passable gulf across which he wished to reach his friend.
190
“You must be satisfied for the present to let me do what I can
to help your little friend,” said Myhanene. “I have not time to
explain, but when we get back Eilele will tell you all about it, if you
ask her. But let me say thatwhile I have come with you to let you
see that Bully Peg has some breakfast, many other angels of God
have gone away to bring someone here to give him what you wish,
and perhaps more than you expect.”
“That’s all right,” he answered, willing to consent to any
arrangementfor themoment thatwould lead to thesupply of Bully’s
need. “But yer’ll gi’ me a chance ter tell ’im who yer are, won ’t
yer?”
“You could not do that, my child. Your friend can neithersee
nor hear us.’’
The astonished incredulous doubt that is born of ignorance
again swept acrosshis face.
“But why can’t ’e see us as well as we see ’im?” he asked.
“Did you never look from a dark hiding-placeat people passing
along a lighted street?” asked Myhanene.
“Many a time.”
“Did they see you as plainly as you saw them?”
“No! But we ain’t in the dark.”
“Not as we know darkness; but to your little friend we are in
the blacknessof death,and it is impossiblefor him to see us."
“Then we can’t do nothin’for ’im arter all.” '
“Yes, we can. We shall perhaps be able to do more than you
hope or expect. God is always far better than we anticipate, and
if you will be content to wait until I and my friends have done all
God will help us to do for little Bully, I am sure you will be more
than satisfied.”
“Shall I?” he asked in eager acquiescence.
‘
‘Yes,I am sure you will.’ ’
“Then if my tongue tries to speak agen, I ’ope my teeth’ll bite
it off.”
As I listened to the anxious concern of Dandy for his friend, I
wondered what would happen if the eyes of the hurrying, surging
crowd around us could for one moment he opened, as were the eyes
of Elisha’s servant, and our ministering presence be discovered.
Ah, brethren,how little do even the wisest and best of men know of
the invisible agencies which are continually being employed around
them; how little do the most spiritually-mindedknow of the secret
actions of the Lord, moving to correct the errors, frustrate the evil
or accomplish that which is for their good? From a human com-
lputation in all thatMansion House throngthere was no otherperson
so insignificant or neglected as the little vendor of wax matches,
and yet, in the estimate of God and salvation, the commercial
interests of the world’s centre occupied a secondary place for the
moment to the welfare of thatlonely and neglected child. Had the
veil been lifted, what Prince of Finance would not have forsaken the
Exchange in favour of the lad, and wealth would have been laid at
the feet of the pauper, in anticipation of the commendatory reward,
191
‘Inasmuch as ye did it to one of the least of these, My brethren,
ye did it unto Me.’
But would a service so rendered secure such approbation?
Would it not rather be tendered more for the angels than the child,
and have its only reward in the vision granted? To secure the
Master’s commendation needs the spiritual sight that can find the
Christ in the rag-clothed, starving outcast, and the ministry must
be in sympathy with need. This constitutes true and genuine
service to the Master—to do good in all places, at all times, and
withoutrespect to person; to stand ready for whateverservice may be
required:—if it is to carry a message for an angel at the sepulchre
to absent disciples, well; if to bind up the wounds of an outraged
Lazarus, pouring in oil and wine, better. It is for God, and God
will acknowledgeit. No service rendered on His account shall pass
unrecognized. God who seeth in secret will assuredly acknowledge
each ministry withthe reward inseparablylinked to the action,which
outcome is always to be foreseen in the seed of motive prompting
the deed.
God’s justice never miscarries.
The veil, however, was not lifted; nor did our little protégé
efl‘ect.thesale he had hoped for. A fellow-traveller had offered his
matchbox, the penny was returned to the pocket, and Bully was no
nearer, apparently,to his breakfastthanever. ~
As the child turned from the ’bus withweary dejection, I sorrow-
fully sighed at my own inabilityto help to ease his little shoulders of
the weight of trouble that was so visibly crushing him, and this in
spite of the fact that I knew it was so near its end. If I could only
make‘ him know that we were present and that relief was at
hand.
But this could not be. Though so near, we were for the present
destitute of the necessary means to reach him and make him under-
stand.
“Have you to wait?” I inquired presently of Myhanene, who
seemed to be looking for assistance in every passing vehicle and
pedestrian.
“Yes! I await the arrival of someone through whom the
distress of our little friend may be relieved.”
“Do you know who it will be?”
“No. When I received my commission many other friends
were sent forth to find servants of the Master whom they could
impress withtheidea to come to theBank. Someone of the number
will find a Christ-like soul who will be moved to respond. In some
cases I have known two or even three answer the premonitive sum-
mons; but as soon as one sets out the fact is made known to the
whole band of workers, who then relinquish their elforts with the
many and concentrate their influenceon the one, untilin performing
the service he presently recognizes how wonderfully the hand of the
Lord has guided him in the matter.”
‘
‘Is thatthe work and purpose of premonitions?” I asked, as his
explanationlifted the corner of another veil of mystery.
192
“Yes! At least it is so for those who stand with their loins girt
with loyal readiness to do the Master’s will.”
“Suppose, as you say, it sometimes does happen that two or
three equally respond to the same call?”
‘
‘Then he who arrived first would perform the service.’’
‘
‘And the others would conclude that their feelings had deceived
them?”
‘
‘I am not so sure of that,thoughit is quite possibleit might beso.
The ministers working the premonition would readily be able to
determine which ofthethreewould first reachthedesired destination,
and the pressure would at once be withdrawnfrom the others, who
could also beapprised ofthefactthattheparticularpurpose had been
accomplished, while in the result their ready response to the call
will be accepted as equivalent to their having rendered the sole ser-
vice, and the reward will be equally to each for having done what
they could.”
“Would it not be possible to foresee who would respond to the
call and thussave what I may call an experimentwithmany?’’
“That is, no doubt, foreknown to those who stand at a distance
above and are not actually employed in the mission. But God
never makes scant provision for the success of any service. Where
omnipotence is available no result must be placed in jeopardy.
Every agent employed knows that the mission cannot fail, but it
requires energy, concentration and whole-hearted effort on our
part, for no one of us can foresee how much our particular service
affects the whole. Again, these summonses to action serve to ascer-
tain the value of the professions of those who pray to be used in the
work of the Lord. Some men cry so loudly as to be unable to hear
the still small voice calling them, and their lives pass by in workless
1fgrayli'ng. God has many devices for testing the genuineness of
ait .”
“But are not premonitionsratherunreliabletokens to act upon?’’
“That depends entirely upon the reality or otherwise of a man’s
profession. He who lives in unbroken communion with God will
hear and need not be afraid to follow the ‘still small voice,’ but he
whose life is but as a tinkling cymbal will easily be carried away by
the imaginationsof his own heart, which will drown the true voice
of God. The operation of the law speedily draws the dividing line.
‘Many are called, but few are chosen’.”
“The opportunities and responsibilities of life are terrible
realities,” I answered, as I saw how important the undercurrents
become when thus converted into standards of trial by which so
many unsuspected but terribly appalling judgements are recorded.
“They must needs be so, my brother, where every act and
thought may become a factor in fashioning either an angel or a
devil. There is no possible fibre or shade in the whole construction
but is laden with inestimablepotentialities. Who can tell the extent
to which any single service or mistake may be developed? When
eternal results may be concealed in an incautious moment, ought
men not to be ever on the watch-tower? Can we not understand
7—L.E. 193
with what significance the Christ said ‘Watch’? But, come, our
fellow-worker approaches.” Then he spoke cheerily to Dandy.
“Now you shall see theanswer to your prayer for your friend.’’
The child in whose welfare we were specially interested had,
during this time, been busy plying his wares persistently as each
new ’bus drew up at the kerbstone, but in his efforts he was sadly
handicapped by the presence of a bigger and stronger lad, who
ruthlesslythrust the child aside and always secured for himself what
business in thematch-vendingwas to be done.
Again and again did I see the little fellow dart forward in the
hope of effecting a sale, but at each attempt he was forestalled, and
his rival danced a joyous step at his easy victory over the starving
ad.
As Myhanene made his announcement to Dandy a Blackwall
’bus drew up, and a gentleman on the top calling for matches, Bully
dashed forward only to be encountered and pushed aside again by
his more successful rival, and what was infinitely worse, his two
remaining boxes of goods fell from his hand in the struggle under
themovingwheel, ignited, and in a moment the broken-hearted Bully
was a hopeless bankrupt, withoutresource or hope.
The heroic fortitude he had hitherto displayed now forsook him.
Such a catastrophe was sufficient to crush a man under the painful
circumstances, and while the jubilantrival howled with delight at
the result of the scuflle, Bull broke down in his hopeless extremity
and wept piteously.
As he looked upon the still blazing matches through his tears,
en elderly man cautiouslystepped out of the ’bus and noticed him.
“Here, here! What’s the matter—what’s the matter?” he
inquired with a pompousness that was more assumed than real.
‘
‘What’s all thiscrying about, eh?’ ’
Tile little fellow looked at his burning capital, but could not
spea .
“Dropped your matches, eh? Well, never mind—never mind!
It’s only a penny, and—here, I’ll buy them.”
“It’s two boxes!” exclaimed the partly-consoled Bully.
“Two boxes, is it? Well, that’s only twopence. Here you are.
I’ll buy the two. What’s your name?”
“Bully Peg, sir,” he replied with the sign of a smile breaking
through his tears at the unexpected turn events had taken.
“Bully Peg!” repeated the gentleman. “Wherever did you get
such a name as that from?”
“I don’t know; but that’s what it is.” ~
“Nor I don’t know either. Where do you live?”
“I don’t live nowheer.”
“But you have a home.”
“No, I ain’t.”
“Well, where do you sleep?”
“Anywheer.”
“Have you a mother or father?”
“Not as I knows on.”
194
‘Really me! This is very sad for one so young. What did you
have yesterday?”
‘ ‘
Nothink.’ ’
‘ ‘
And nothingthismorning?’’
“Not yet.”
“Now I know why the dear Lord put it into my heart to come
to the City. Come on, my child; come and have some breakfast
at once.”
‘
‘That’s all right,’ ’
joyouslyexclaimedDandy; ‘
‘I don’t care now
Bully’s got ’is tuppence an’ goin’ to ’ave some breakfast. I’ll
go back now if yer like.”
“Not just yet,” replied Myhanene. “Your little friend has all
you asked for him; but whilewe are here I want you to see how God
frequentlygives much more thanwe ask.’ ’
“
What more do you expect to accomplish?”I inquired.
“We shall do no more,” he answered, “our part in the ministry
is over: but did you not hear our fellow-labourer say that he recog-
nized a Divine interposition in bringing him to the City? The
question now remains as to how far he will go in helping the lad.
Let us watch him, but we have no commission to influence him
further~——that must be entirely a matter of free will.”
The little arab was by this time comfortably seated at a table in a
café close at hand. The waitress eyed him suspiciously, but his
guardian was ampleprotection, and presentlythechildwas devouring
with all the zest of starvation a breakfast such as he had never faced
before. The gentleman took up a paper, not to read but rather to
leave thelad more free to eat apparentlyunobserved, but thestealthy
side-glances aiforded full confirmationof the long fast, and we were
able to read what the world never knew——a thankfulreturn for God’s
goodness in enabling him to perform such a service.
Presently he dropped the paper and asked, “Wouldn’t you like
to give up selling matches and have a nice bed to sleep in?”
“Yes,if I could have summat to eat as well.”
“Of course I mean that, and nice warm clothes to wear.”
“An’ ’ave a ’ouse?”
“Yes,live in a large house.”
“Yerdon’t mean a prison, do yer?”
f
“Certainly not. That is what I am very anxious to save you
rom.”
“Are yer? Well I should like it.”
“If I could get you into a comfortable home would you promise
to be good and not try to run away?”
“What should I want ter run away for?”
We need not follow the details further. Sufficient to say that as
soon as the lad had finished his meal, his friend took him eastward,
where he knew he could find ‘an ever-open door for waifs and strays,’
and when Dandy returned to his home in Paradise, he had the con-
solation of knowing thatBully Peg was fully provided for by reason
of an importunate prayer and a Father’s loving response.
Such is another aspect of the communion of saints in practical
195
operation. We have already seen how the uncontrolled grief of
those left behind may disturb the rest of friends in Paradise; here
we have the answering sympathyand see how it is possible for those
in advance to continue a loving ministry for the protection of those
they have left behind. What a service it might render to the world
if properly cultivated!
CHAPTER XXIV
rm: MISSION or PAIN
WHEN all arrangements were concluded, and Bully Peg finally
assured of far better protection than Dandy could possibly have
anticipated,theunbounded delight of him whose prayer had wrought
the miracle was very touching to witness. He was in a wonderland
of bewilderingamazement, uncertain whether to show his gratitude
by laughter or tears—doubtful whether he was awake or dreaming.
His eyes started and blazed with the feverish excitement that shook
him; his lips trembled with speechless eloquence and his hands
worked with restless incertitude, while he looked from Myhanene
to Bully and back again.
“I doan know what ter do, or ’ow ter do it, Jack,”he cried in
despairing tones presently. “Why doan yer ’elp me?”
“How can I help you?” replied the equally uncertain Jack.
“It’s quite as bad for me as it is for you. It's more than anything
I ever knew before.”
“But I must do summat or I shall bust. Why doan somebody
tell me what I can do?” and the little fellow literally danced with
grateful excitement. V
“What would you do?” queried Myhanene with that quiet
sympathetic persuasiveness he so etfectively employed in soothing
paroxysms of emotion.
“I want ter—” But with a jerk of his arms and stamp of his
foot Dandy had to leave his desire otherwise unexpressed.
“Well, what is it you do want?” Myhanene knew that the real
relief of the lad’s feelings lay in some form of expression, and he
encouraged him to find thebestavailable.
“I want——I must say summat! An’ it ain’t ‘thankyer!’—that
ain’t ’a1fenough—it ain’t a bit 0’ what I mean! An’ I can’t say
nuthin’!”
“Then suppose you wait awhile. I know, and God also knows
and understands better than you can tell Him.”
“Does He?”
“Yes, much better.”
“But I wish I could see ’Im; I should like to tell ’Im bothfor me
an’ Bully,an’ yer can’t say nuthin’if yer can’t see ’Im.’’
“Oh yes, you may, and He will hear you. He heard when you
196
wanted Bully to have some breakfast, and sent us to do all thathas
been done.”
“Did He? Oh, yes! I forgot that, an’ all the while I wanted
ter say ‘thankyer’ for it! Well then, ’E knows ’ow glad I am.”
::Yes;He knows far better than you can tell Him. Now we will
“Yersure Bully’llbe all right?”
“Quite sure; but you can see him at the ‘College’.”
“0’ course! Why, I am forgettin’ everything. Come on, I’m
ready; and if Bully’s all right I shall niver want ter come back ’ere
agen.?’
So this mission to earth ended—a mission ‘comparativelytrivial
in itself, but laden with suggestion and illustrationcapable of being
applied to some of the deeper problems of life, and carrying many
more lessons than are found floating upon its surface.
I found it to be so in my own case, and trust others may find it
to be equally serviceable upon reflection.
Let me mention one of the revelationsit afforded me; perhaps the
record may contain a suggestion for you, my reader.
As we were leisurely returning, Myhanene and I found ourselves
somewhatapart from therest, and presentlythrowinghis arm around
my shoulder he said, ‘
‘Now thatour pleasant duty is at an end, per-
mit me to compliment you upon its very complete success.”
“Compliment me!” I exclaimed, as I ‘started from his embrace
and scanned his face, expecting to discover the trace of a delicate
sarcasm he knows so well how to use upon occasion.
“Yes, my brother, I have to offer you my sincere and hearty
congratulations. You have done well; so continue, and your mission
to earth will result in a most glorious harvest.”
‘
‘But what have I done? I have played a less part in thisbusiness
than Jack, by far.”
“Have you?” he inquired, lifting his eyebrows with one of the
nervous twitches he employs to express a feigned astonishment.
“How strange that I should commit such an error!”
“What do you mean, Myhanene?” I asked persuasively as I
caught the smile lighting up his face.
“I mean all I have said, and more,” he replied. “The incident
we have just so happilyconcluded has been pressed into service for
a double purpose, theone lyingupon thesurface and now so happily
ended beingby far the least important of the two.’’
‘
‘And theotherwas— May I know it?’ ’
“Yes! Now it is over you may do so, and as I have already
said I most sincerely congratulateyou upon it.’’
“Upon what?”
“The course you took. When Dandy saw his friend’s extremity
and determined to do somethingto help him, a splendid opportunity
was foreseen to test what course you would take if called upon to
render assistance under the circumstances. Would you, with your
imperfect knowledge,attempt to satisfy and overrule thelad’s anxiety,
or have the presence of mind to call someone to your help, as I had
197
go.
previously counselled you to do in all such cases? You did admir-
ably, and now you see the result.”
“But suppose I had not called you?” I asked, startled at the
thought of the responsibilityI had so unknowinglyescaped.
“Then other means would have been utilizedto answer Dandy’s
prayer and you would have missed its reward.”
“But I might have lost it so easily.”
“Most of life’s opportunities are so lost! Unless we are always
’on thewatch-tower theyslip by, and we only see themwhen too late.
It is this yielding to the wooing of slothfulness—thiscoquetting with
; the plausible excuses of indifl‘erence—thatsuffocates the spiritual
:>‘
7
life of earth, and sends such multitudes hither empty-handed from
the harvest-fields. The accounts which have to be balanced here are
as numerous and heinous in omissions as in commissions and men
are astonished to find the reward of both is an equal one, until
reminded that Christ had so asserted the law in His parable of the
last judgemen .”
“I can only thinkof my own providential escape,” I answered.
“It was far more of the mercy of God than my own deliberate
‘
choice.’’
“That I am always willingto admit,” he said. “But you must
not forget that the exercise of the mercy of God is not an arbitrary
-act. Every soul consecrated to the will of God becomes so sym-
patheticwith the Divine mind as to respond intuitively to its desire
even before our consciousness has understood the command. Full
and complete consecration keeps us in constant nearness to the
Father,who is so clearlyreflected in ourselves that His will forms the
motive power of every action. We are encircled by His guardian-
ship, guided by His eye, so easilymoved by the impulse of His love
that by the time we come to understand the nature of His will we
also find thatwe have beenalready constrained to perform theduty.’’
“I cannot understand such a relationship,” I replied; “I can
only fear and tremble at the thought of occupying the position, and
almost wish I could escape.”
“Do so, Aphraar! Do so by all means.”
“How can I escape?”
“There is one way——but only one."
“How? Where?”
“Draw nearer still. There is no safety but with God——no place
of rest but the eternal peace His bosom affords. In that nearness
you will ascertain the fullness of His strength and love while you
will also lose the sense of the awful majesty with which He is girded.
If a microbe living in the blood or tissue could form any adequate
conception of what a man really is by comparison, it, too, might
reasonably fear and tremble, and yet w ere would be the need so
long as the interests of the two remain id ntical?”
“I like thatthought,” I replied.
“Of the microbe?”
“Yes! It is so full of pregnant suggestion, and at once appeals
to me as containing revelations beyond the power of words to
198
convey. With your clear insight into the working of Divine love,
you cannot understand how cheeringly welcome such significant
illustrations are to me in my confused bewilderment. I am very
much like poor little Dandy—overpowered and utterly helpless.”
“I can understand what you mean,” he replied with a wooing
tenderness thatstrangely soothed me.
“Can you? Then you know me better than I know myself.”
“Even that would not surprise me,” he answered with one
of his significant smiles. “But then I have been here so much
longer that I ought to be more acclimatizedto the natural wonders
of this transcendent life than you who have so recently
arrived.”
“I have been here some time now,” I responded.
‘ ‘
Not longenough to remove all your earthideas and conceptions;
thoughI am not sorry theykeep surging up and makingtheirinfluence
felt. The experience will be valuable to you in your ministry, and
help you in many cases you would otherwise be unfitted to
deal with. The unseen God leads us forward with unerring
wisdom.” ,
“You well say unseen. Gross blindness is perhaps the best
definition I could give of my condition, and yet all around me
seemsfso light, so beautifuland full of hope. I cannot understand
myse .”
“Let me advise you not to attach too much importance to your
conditionof uncertainty for themoment. God frequentlyinterposes
such a veil while He is passing by, and it may be that He is granting
you such a favoured experiencejust now. Come nearer to me and
let me lead you until the shadow of your indecision has passed, then
we shall be able to rejoice together, and you will find whiletravelling
again in a way you know not you have been drawing nearer to
God.”
“Direct me as you see to be best, Myhanene; I can trust you,
but in myself I have no confidence at all. I feel exhausted, confused
and altogetherincapable of helping myself.’’
“I know all about it,” he replied encouragingly. “It is the
natural strain of responsibility connected with the mission you
have so happily concluded.”
“But I have played the least important part of anyone—even
less than Jack—in what has taken place,” I answered, filled with
astonishment at the importance he continued to attach to my call
upon him to help me out of a difficulty.
“That may be your interpretation of the matter,” he replied,
“but from this life we regard the issue as a duty nobly performed.
What the outcome will be rests entirely with God. Events turning
apparentlyupon insignificanttriflessometimesprove to beofmightiest
consequence, and theresult of your calling for me will only be known
when the Master counts up His jewels. For your encouragement
and guidance, however, I may say that the exhaustion you feel
indicates to me thatthe harvest of this mission will be one of which
we shall all be glad.” .
199
“I sincerely hope it may be so, and there I will try to leave the
matter. But the incident generally raises the whole question of
prayer in my mind—maywe speak of it?’’
“With pleasure. What is the particular aspect that presents
itself?”
“In this case the answer to Dandy’s request has been so prompt
and complete as to be in startling contrast to general experience.
Why is this?”
“The reason lies altogether in the prayer, not in any arbitrary
action on the part of God. Eternal law decrees that any soul
enjoying consecrated union with God may ask what it will, and it
shall be done, and this because such union will exert a restraining
power from asking what is opposed to the Divine will. In every
case the prayer will be a spiritual exercise employed specifically
~ for matters touching the kingdom, and not resorted to until every
possible natural eflbrt has been employed and failed. Only a
fractional percentage of what earth calls prayer falls within this
definition. hence the large amount of wasted time and breath-
telling God so much about Himself,askingHim to do what men are
either too lazy or too selfish to do for themselves, seeking a Divine
blessing upon some act of tyrannous oppression against a weaker
people, or supplicatingHeaven to arise and crush thenaturalinstincts
of the starving masses and shield the ill-gotten gain of sweaters
from molestation—fal1 outside the domain of the law and meet with
the legitimate reward of oblivion. In opposition to all this let us
carefully look at the nature and circumstances surroundingDandy’s
prayer, then you will at once see why it produced such a different
result. Having voluntarily assumed a kind of guardianship over
Bully Peg, discarnation stepped in and placed a difficultyin the way
of exercising the office. Dandy, however, refused to accept the
new condition as absolvinghim from responsibility,and on learning
of his friend’s extremity he at once set himself to find some way of
securing the necessary relief. The whole circumstance erects a
monumental demonstration of fidelity to trust and faith in an
existing power of right. As the connection between the lads, from
the first time we met them to the present, is reviewed, it will be
seen thatevery condition required by effectual prayer has been faith-
fully regarded, so that when the crisis came the petition assumed
the God-designed omnipotence of prayer, and worked its own
sovereign will with Divine munificence.”
“I see and understand it now,” I answered as the inner light
bore witness to his patient exposition. “I shall not trouble you so
much with these inquiries when once I grow accustomed to study
matters from my new position. But, in the meantime, there is yet
another kindred question I should be glad to hear you explain."
“You refer to the vexed problem of pain and sufl‘ering?”
“Yes! I should be very glad to hear how you would meet
an inquiry respecting it.”
“I should begin by divorcing the two as being unequally and
ignorantly yoked together. Pain, like the Satan of the Book of
200
Job, has to be ranked among the sons and ministers of God, rather
than classed with the emissaries of evil. Its appointed office is to
guard and protect the welfare of man and instantly to give warning
of any departure from the path of health———physica1, mental, or
spiritual. They who hear its voice and instantly obey are thus
saved by the angel of His presence; but those who refuse and rebel
must take the consequences of their foolhardiness. Thus Pain,
as every other angel of God, speaks first to man in a still small
voice of kindlyintimation,for ‘theLord lovethwhom He chasteneth,’
and the minister is ever of the same nature as the Father. But for
the careless, the negligent, the defiant and the deaf, there remains
the alternative of the law: ‘If ye will not obey the voice of the Lord,
but rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then the hand of
the Lord shall be against you’ (1 Sam. xii. 15). It is here that Pain
hands thesinner over to Suffering. Still,so far as Sufferingcontinues
to be the agent of God, its function is remedial and altogether
beneficent, as the Christ declared of the man who was born blind.
You have just seen an instance of how providences intertwine, and
here we may find another illustration of the same law. The man
born blind had been deprived of some of the ordinary advantages
of life, but in his darkness—not being able to estimate the value
of what had been withheld—heenjoyed compensationswhich others
who were normallyendowed could neitherestimate nor understand.
These compensations were withdrawn when the more ordinary
faculty was bestowed. But this is only by the way. What I wish
you to grasp is the provision of God to endow all joint-heirs with
Christ with the power which He possessed to put an end to all
suffering of a legitimatenature. You will rememberhow all manner
of suffering fled at His approach, but we too often forget that He
intended all who followed after Him to wield the same Divinely
merciful power. ‘He that believethon Me, the works that I do
shall he do also’ (John xiv. 12). ‘As ye go, preach, saying, The
Kingdom of Heaven is at hand. Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers,
raise the dead, cast out devils: freely ye have received, freely give’
(Matt. x. 7-8). ‘These signs shall follow them that believe; in My
name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues;
they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it
shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall
recover’ (Mark xvi. 17-18). I need not quote more of the promises
to you to show that God gives to children of the Christ, or second
birth, power to put an end to all legitimate sufl‘ering, making the
display to be a testimony to the Christ-life in His true disciples
(‘by their fruits ye shall know them’), and also a manifestation of
the power and love of God to all who are in need.”
‘
‘But all these gifts have long since ceased to exist,’’
I exclaimed,
wondering at his reference to powers which were only intended for
the Apostles.
“Let us rather say they have ceased to be employed. God
never changes, never corrects, never withdraws. The .endowment
is still the same. You saw it recently in operation through Cushna,
201
in thecase of thechildwiththewitheredleg, and it is always available
for all who are able to use it. Its cessation is something yet to be
accounted for by the Church claiming the name of Christ—a
dereliction of duty—a sin of omission for which the penalty will
fall heavily somewhere.
‘
‘But by far the larger part of suffering is illegitimate,and springs
directly from unrighteousness of life. I speak now of the starvation,
want, misery and wretchedness of every form which characterizes
the progress of what is called civilization. This is altogether the
product of sin, and is an abomination to the Lord. It need not
exist, ought not to be, but for greed, selfishness and inhumanity,
for which every man and woman is more or less responsible, and
every one of whom will have to reap his just reward according to
his definite and active life attitude towards it. The law of Christ
—‘ whatsoever ye would thata man should do unto you, do ye even
so unto him’—wou1d stamp out the condition with the celerity of
a revolution if but honestly applied, and the neglected masses of
humanity—raised at once to a condition in which the necessaries of
life were secure—would be placed more favourably for receiving
the moral and spiritual training which they are incompetent to
appreciate where they lie. God is able and willing to'deal with
the problem if Politics and Trade will step aside and leave it in
His hands. But the powers of earth must sport themselves while
1ife’s morning vapour is rising. And God is patient, knowing all
the compensations He holds in reserve. In the moment between
immersion and unconsciousness the drowning man lives a whole
life of agony—and so the robbed and outraged sufferer drags out
a weary existence. Still it is only a spark flying upward by com-
parison with what is to be when Lazarus shall be comforted and
Dives enter upon the inheritance he has purchased.”
‘
‘Do you thinkit possible thatevery transgression will ultimately
be traced to'its particular source?‘ ’
I inquired.
“Every dove will return to its own window, my brother, and
every cockatrice will come back to its own den. God is fully able
to carry out His schemes of justice with a perfect balance. Neither
you nor I am able to understand how this is possible, but the law
of God is perfect and will inexorably ensure that every soul shall
bear its own legitimate burden.’’
“Who, then, shall escape?”
“God in His love and wisdom has planned a scheme whereby
the vilest and most depraved may ultimately find his way to peace.
It lies throughthe purifying fires of hell and the innumerable stages
of the plains of Paradise, where ‘him that cometh shall in no wise
be cast out.’ But the debt, though great, shall ultimately be paid,
the extortion required, the inhumanity atoned for and the sin
forgiven. Eternity is long enough to secure all this, and finally
the familycircle will be complete and God be all-in-all.”
Such a glorious prospect so confidentlyforeseen and prophesied
by Myhanene left nothing more to be said or hoped for, and we
finished our course in solemn silence.
202
CHAPTER XXV -
AU REVOIR
ON several occasions in the foregoing record I have been constrained
to speak of the limitations imposed by earth, time and the flesh,
but just now I find myself face to face with one for which I was
altogether unprepared, and the force of it fills me with something
like consternation.
One by one I have been dealing with questions arising out of the
mass of correspondence still lying before me according as my
experience in Paradise has qualified me to do so, but so far I have
been scarcely able to commence the real pleasure I was looking
forward to when my Recorder astounds me with the information
that the volume already assumes somewhat large proportions, and
I am compelled to make another break in my recital. '
The intimation has brought me to a sudden stand, that I might
carefully go over the mass of correspondence I have left untouched,
and examine my MS. to make sure I have not given space to details
of secondary importance at the expense of weightier subjects. I
have even sought counsel of friends with much wider experience in
the hope of being able to do more in the space at my disposal; but
it is all of no avail. I cannot find a tea-cup that will approximately
hold the ocean. _
The review, however, has afibrded me this consolation: my
most frequent inquiries range themselves in the following order-
Christ, Hell, Sin, the family in Heaven, the future of children, and
the relative value ofthe different religions. On all these subjects
I have had somethingto say in the foregoing pages, giving to the
Christ the paramount importance He so necessarily deserves; at
the same time I most freely acknowledgehow conscious I am of my
inability to do the subject the justice I would so willingly have
rendered. But though my exposition may seem strange and even
unnatural as it is looked at through the theological fogs of earth,
and perhaps on the other hand to those friends who occupy higher
planes of life to which I have not yet climbed it may seem a weak
and unworthysketch of theDivine portraiture, I have theconsolation
of knowing that ‘when the mists have rolled away’ earth-clouded
eyes will see as I now see Him, and also that the greater, nobler
souls above me will recognize that I have done what I could—‘the
spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak,’ and there I am content to
leave it for the present. A
Chapters relating to Prayer and God I have been compelled
to withdraw for the present, ‘because it was impossible for me to
add the illustrative experiences necessary to convey the suggestive
ideas and information I wish to set forth. But these with all the
other inquiries I have, or may receive in answer to this, shall have
203
attention, if I still feel warranted in continuing my labour of love.
Again, though at the risk of being thought wearisome at the
reiteration, and altogether apart from the question as to whether
my return to earth is ill advised or not—let me repeat that in all I
have said I have been guided alone by one motive—to make known
to you, my reader, thetruthas I have found it by practicalexperience,
as I myself should have been glad to know it when I was standing
where you are standingnow, and as you must know it when presently
the veil shall be withdrawnand admit you to where I am.
If I have touched upon sensitive points in respect of creeds,
churches and religion, as institutions, I have not wished to do so
in any sense of bitterness, but at all times willing to concede the
valuable help they have rendered in their legitimate sphere, while
compelled to deny their claim to Divine authorityfor their limited
conceptions of Christ, God, and eternal punishment.
To refuse to admit their utility and service to humanity within
theirlegitimatesphere would be to proclaim my mental incompetence
to recognize an obvious fact. What I do deny is the right of any
church or conclave of men to assert that their dogmas or decisions
mark the finality of God’s action, and the assumption that beyond
the limit they erect there exists nothing but irretrievable doom.
The Church as an ecclesiastical or theologicalinstitution was called
into existence to supply a recognized need for an institution that
would assume the office of nurse to the infant generation of the day;
but the child must always grow and pass from the nursery, first to
the school and afterwards through every different sphere of life.
As theinfantoutgrows theswaddlingclothes,and the boy thechildish
garments, so the soul will ever be entering into the heritage of the
many thingswhich remain to be told when we are able, by develop-
ment, to bear them. It is a sad mistake to imagine that ‘the faith
once delivered to the saints’ was God’s final word of revelation.
There is no finality with God! Such a proposition would also
predicate that He had a beginning: ergo, He would not be God.
Any formulated eschatology of doom must of necessity be closely
allied with death, and can only be experienced by that which is
subject to death or termination. Now, such a fate is not the future
of immortal souls created in the image and likeness of God, but it
may well be the inheritance of the institution itself.
There are no temples in the immortal. All these establishments,
with their equipments of professors, priests, rabbis and masters,
furnished with laws, dogmas, decisions, racks, faggots, crosses,
excommunications and other machinery for ensuring conformity,
will be confiscated as being interdicted merchandise on the frontier
of Paradise. However useful or essential you may hold them to
be, no matter how divinely authorizedyou may esteem them, if
you possess no deeper religion than an institutional certificate it
will be bad for you, for that will be taken away as contraband
ratherthanregarded as a passport, and you will be left alone.
I speak of thatI know, and therefore, whileI am anxious to give
to every aid to the betterment of men its legitimate recognition, I
204
wish to raise a warning voice against your placing too much
confidencein what, after all, is nothingmore thanan arm of flesh.
The only authoritativepassport to the abundant entrance into
immortality which all desire is the radiance of the Christ shining
from within,and it needs no countersigning by any church.
From henceforth to the hour of your departure let your life be
a walk with the Master towards Emmaus. Hear Him and obey;
watch Him and do likewise; live—or rather allow Him to live again
in you; then you will leave life"s Gethsemane behind, as you climb
up its Olivet, and from its brow you will ascend with Christ, as the
everlasting doors lift their heads, while earth will seek in vain to
find you, who will be for ever withthe Lord.
In theforegoingI have also tried to profit by thekindlysuggestion
ofcertain of my generous critics, and have refrained from attempted
flights which might tax anyone to follow me. I am content for
my gospel to appeal by the home force of its own reasonableness.
Hear me and judge: if what I speak commends itself to your intelli-
gence as bearing the weight of truth, accept it; if not, then you are
equally warranted in rejecting it. Whether I am in the right or
otherwise will be certainly determined presently,and if your rejection
of it is as honest as my statement, you will commit no sin, nor incur
any punishment by hesitating to accept what you cannot understand
or believe. The God I serve is not so unjust as to expect you to
accept anythingagainst honest conviction.
This brings me to my au revoir, in connectionwithwhich I would,
for a moment, return to thesubject of thereunited familyin Paradise.
It is always a difficult and delicate task, and oftentimes a most
unwise one, to touch or attempt to destroy a cherished superstition.
But truth, however unwelcome its first appearance may be, is far
more beneficent in the end than an unfounded flction, and though
the shock of my communication may be at first resented, a little
quiet reflection will change the balance of opinion; then when the
whole circumstances are taken into consideration, and the contri-
buting issues of the life of Paradise are borne in mind, the old idea
will melt away and we shall all rejoice together in the wider and
eternal hope of God’s greater gospel.
I do not make thisreference, however, as preparatoryto re-arguing
this point, but rather as introducing a final experience which will
illustrate another side of the same subject.
Let me preface this by reminding you of the chronic gloom and
melancholy which so completely dominated and destroyed all idea
ofpleasurein my own earthlife. My transitionended thisintolerable
burden, and restored to me her whose absence had caused thejoy-
eflacingshadow. Have I disappointed you, my reader, in saying so
little about this long-delayed and all-important reunion? What
did you expect? What could I say? Is the sacred communion
and enjoyment of such love a public affair that I should publish its
detailed programme for the world to study? .
Have you dreamed that the little I have said of Vaone indicates
that she proved to be less loved and loving than I had anticipated;
205
that my silence concerning her denotes disappointment; that my
long and frequent absences suggest coolness or indifference; that
I found her to beno more thanothersin her claim upon my aflections?
If so, you have been the sport of wild inferences and an erratic
imagination, for I would solemnly assure you that my sweetest
anticipation of that meeting fell very far short of what the actuality
proved to be.
My silence has been governed by the sacred solemnity of the
occasion, nor was the afterwards of our communion so much a
matter of public discussion as to warrant my continual exhibition
of its details. I could not prevent your eyes catching a glimpse
of her as I thrust aside the curtain and fell upon her heart, but I
could not hold it aside that you might satisfy your curiosity when
I had so long hungered to clasp her in my arms. These divine
compensations are always bestowed in secret, nor can any know
or understand how supremely divine they are until God calls a
soul to know them for itself.
Another reason why I have been so reticent in reference to this
most heavenly of all my experiences has been the knowledge I have
gained that love, free from any admixture of sensuous passion or
selfish consideration, is altogetherunknown on earth, and to attempt
to speak of it as it is enjoyed above the earth—conditionsof Paradise
would only be to desecrate the most sacred attribute of Divinity.
The love of earth is always tinctured in some form by desire, but
that of Paradise is the rich ripe fruit developed from the blossom
of gratification. How could it be understood? Even on earth
the Occident fails to understand the Orient, and in turn the Orient
is just as incapable of appreciating the Occident; and if this is true
between flesh and flesh, how can it be otherwise when the flesh is
taxed to comprehend the things of the spirit? The perfect beauty
of anythingcan only be seen in its native haunt. Love is essentially
the lily of Heaven, and only as we near its native region can the
beauty of emblem-blossom be found in anything approaching a
suggestion of its unspeakable perfection.
God sighed in His love for earth; that sigh was Christ. We
too shall love, when looking on the world of sin we sigh for its
deliverance, and in that sigh the Christ shall live again in us. But
until then the song of Heaven cannot be sung in the land of exile!
Let it be understood, then, that in my progress of one degree
nearer to the kingdom of love, I found the restored Vaone to be far
more to me than my earth-hunger had taught me to expect. When
you reach those who are passed on before they will not be less but
infinitely more than they were. Be assured of this. But when I
became acclimatized to the condition, and learned to understand
somethingof the law and order of my new sphere of life, I discovered
that my love for Christ was incomparably greater than my love of
mother! It was thesame love difl'eringratherin degree thanquality,
for its God-likeness is found in its being an infinite unit.
I had climbed to the peak of my first aspiration to find another
far more majestic and sublime towering between myself and God,
206
and I was willing, if need be, to leave the one that I might attain
to the indescribable splendour of the other.
And then——! —
Here I must pause! ‘Neither death, not life, nor angels, nor
principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,
nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature,’ can enable us to
understand what lies in that beyond, until we are blended in that
union with Christ which will enable us to see the Father by reason
of our likeness to Him.
It will be remembered that in speaking of the home in which I
joined Vaone, I mentioned that the valley was singularly lacking
in energizinginfluences. Its location is just across the border where
the last earth-conditioncan be felt, and might fairly be spoken of
as representing the capillaries of spiritual life, being the nearest
approach to stagnation, where the only active desire of the soul is
for rest. Many reach the condition direct from earth, many after
beingbuffeted about and winning their way throughthe preparatory
ordeals of various earth-conditions,and many more after liquidating
the debts and paying the penalties of hell. For all tempest-tossed,
tempted, tried and distressed souls, from wherever they come, it
is a haven of refuge, and the desire to rest and be content is easily
to be understood.
Vaone had known, as only sensitive, timorous soulscan feel,
the stress of storm and tempest, shipwreck of hopes and the horrors
of loneliness; hence the lull she found from the sorrows of the past
was in the nature of her ideas of Heaven with which she had
remained satisfied.
And my own ideal of the after-life had been to find and be with
her. This was my one goal and aspiration, and in accordance with
the spiritual law that ‘he who seeks shall find,’ we came together;
But Heaven had led me to her by a way I knew not. My soul had
been awakened to other ideals before I met her, that afterwards I
might be able to minister to her advancement. She might be
content to remain, and my coming would have further confirmedher
in the desire, but after what I had seen and learned, for me to sit
still was an impossibility. I must go forward, and the love she had
for me would compel her to come after, and thus constrain her to
rise into a higher life.
So Heaven works out its scheme of ultimate redemption. Vaone’s
listless attitude surprised me from the first, and, as I knew her better,
I wondered more and more. I could not rest. The gate of Heaven
had been thrown open before me, and its inhabitants, its palaces,
its ceaseless employments, its victories and rewards, its Christ, its
God, called to me in such melodious irresistible voices thateven the
love I had once estimated as supreme could not hold me back.
Even though I had to leave it I must move forward.
But what is once attained can never be lost again beyond the
tomb. I had scarcely arrived at the conscious recognition of this
at thetime ofwhich I speak; but it is so, and I note it here, ifperchance
it may serve to save a pang of doubt.
207
Was I sorrowful when at length I knew that this difference in
temperament was about to cause our separation? No! I knew
the strength of our love for each other, and that my going would
soon stimulate her desire to follow and rejoin me; therefore, when
the intimation came, I gathered her very tenderly in my arms and
spoke to her of what was about to take place.
“I thought so much of Heaven was too much to continue,”
she said resignedly as she drew me to her with ever-tightening
embrace. “But you willsometimes come back to me?”
“Yes, I will come back frequently, for a little while. Now
thatwe have found each other we must not part again.”
“Only for a little while?” she pleaded.
‘
‘Onlyfor a little while;therewill be no need for more; thenyou
will come to me.”
She lifted her head from my breast, her eyes bright with the
light of a new inspiration, and her voice ringing musically with a
suddenly acquired determination.
“I had not thought of that!” she exclaimed. “Yes, I will
come to you! Whom God hath joined naught is able to divide,
and, after the long waiting, the Fatherin His love has brought you
and me together. You must go, but in the going you have aroused
my wish to be nearer to Him. Even so, He mercifully ordains
that the lesser love shall be instrumental in guiding me to the
greater.”
I
“When shall we be able to solve the depth of His wonderful
workings?"I asked, in my joyous astonishmentat this new develop-
ment. “While I was in the lower life God was working through
you to prepare a home for me, now He chooses me to go on to the
next stage that by me He may.prepare for your advance into His
nearer presence: ‘Even so, Father,for so it seemethgood unto Thee.’
Keep Thou flrrn grip of our hands, and in Thine own way lead us
nearer to Thyself:
“
‘Not where we would but where Thou seest best,
Whether o’er hill or vale, by torrent or by rill,
Guide us and lead us on and on, until
We reach Thy goal and on Thy bosom rest.
We nothingknow; but, Lord, thou knowest all,
Life’s new developments must all arise in Thee;
Work Thine own will,and when we do not see,
Still lead us on till at Thy feet we fall.
We trust but Thee; Father,to Thee we come!
Grant that our souls be lost in Thee for aye!
Let naught disturb our commune by the way!
Be Thou our all: our Christ, our Heaven, our home!’ ”
208
