{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1942__holmes___new_thought_terms_and_meanings.pdf","mytitle":"New Thought Terms And Meanings","mylang":"de"}
NEW THOUGHT TERMS
AND THEIR MEANINGS
New Thought Terms and
Their Meanings
Abiding Presence: The Spirit of God which permeates every
thing.
Absolute, The: The God Principle, the Supreme, the Un
knowable, Unthinkable, Unmanifest —yet manifest in all.
The Unconditioned, yet in every condition. That which
is back of all that is manifested, in all universes, known
and unknown to man. That which is all Life, all Power.
The Formless, which is in all form. The Changeless, which
includes all change. The Infinite Life Principle, omni
present, omnipotent, omniscient. The Great Self-Existent
Cause back of all that is.
In speaking of "treating in the Absolute," we mean
dealing with the Law back of material form; working in
the higher planes of thought for the control of conditions
on the manifest side of life. "Working in the Absolute"
means attuning oneself to the invisible; contemplating the
qualities which we believe to be a part of God, such as
Love, Harmony, Peace, Wisdom, Strength, etc., etc., and
then seeing oneself as partaking of, and being a part of
that Infinite Perfection.
Absolute and relative: Refers to the Unconditioned Cause
and any effect which It may project.
abstract: In the realm of the formless, apart from any par
ticular object, as in the realm of ideation. The general,
in contradistinction to the particular; as beauty, love,
honesty, courage, etc. Abstract thought is in the higher
ranges of thought, rather than in the concrete, as in par
ticular objects.
abundance, identical with thought of: Since thought pro
duces fact, then fact must be like the thought which
produces it. Hence a thought of impoverishment would
create an impoverished condition, while the recognition
of abundance would inevitably produce abundance.
accumulated consciousness: The sum total of one's mental
life.
accumulated consciousness of the race thought: Sum total
of all beliefs which the race has ever held, more or less
operating through all of us, unconsciously.
"A certain man had two sons": Refers to the possibility of
dual experience inherent in all people.
"Acknowledge Him and He shall direct thy paths": Truth
known automatically becomes demonstrated.
acknowledgment of good makes possible its manifestation:
Acknowledgment is recognition and recognition, realized,
becomes embodiment.
"Act as though I am and I will be": A mystical presentation
of the Law of mental correspondents.
action, rest in: The Laws of Mind work smoothly, harmoni
ously and without effort. Spiritual Mind treatment should
be spontaneous and not laborious.
active ideas of truth: A spiritual treatment is a definite state
ment, an active state of consciousness created for a definite
purpose.
active right thinking: Mental treatment is an active thing;
it sets about to demonstrate or prove a certain point in
[«]
Mind through the definite activity of consciousness.
Treatment is always active; it is never day-dreaming.
Adam: Undeveloped, or unenlightened man. The opposite
of the Christ Principle, as "In Adam all sin, so in Christ
all are made free from sin." (Cor. 15, 22)
Adam as Christ: The first Adam is of the earth; the second
Adam is the Lord from heaven. Adam as Christ means
lifting up the principle of Reality within us to a compre
hension of its union with Spirit.
Adam consciousness: Symbol of the intellect functioning
from a material basis. The Life Principle viewed from its
lowest angle. Separation, disunity, dissolution.
Adam is transformed into Christ: That which seems human
and disunited from the Divine, automatically becomes
transmuted into the Christ through spiritual recognition.
It is written that the first Adam is of this earth, the sec
ond Adam is the Lord from heaven.
Adam-Kadman: In the Kabalah this term means the ONE
(son) of the Divine Father. (AD, in Assyrian, means Fa
ther, in Aramaean AD means "One." AM or OM means
the divine, or Deity.) Adam Kadman has been referred to
as the "Heavenly Man," symbolizing the entire humanity
and beyond, the Universe itself in a single aspect. The
vehicle of the Logos is manifestation.
addict: One unable to desist from the use of alcohol or nar
cotic drugs.
adversary, the apparent: Any belief in the reality of evil.
affirmation in mental treatment: Affirming the Divine as the
only Presence. That
is,
affirming the presence of what
ever ought to be.
affirmation of truth: Any statement which affirms the su
premacy of good or which denies the reality of that which
is
contrary to good.
[3]
Affirmative, The Great— I AM: The Principle of Being that
expresses Itself as form, on all planes and in varying vi
bratory force, up through all strata of life, from the
rock to liberated man, and beyond. Man's use of the
words, "I AM," becomes in him the Great Affirmative.
affirmative factor: The invisible Power that concentrates
primordial substance into new forms. It is the principle
of the unfoldment of life through the Intelligence that
permeates all space, the very Nature of Being Itself as
Subjective Intelligence. Cooperating with It, man may
create his world of perfection.
age: The measure of long periods of time, such as the Azoic
Age (the beginning of life on the planet), the Pliocene
Age, Stone Age, Iron Age, Golden Age, Age of Sci
ence, the Dark Ages, etc., etc. In Hindu literature an age
is called the Day and Night of Brahma. The Outbreath-
ing of a universe is called a Manvantara, the Inbreathing
a Pralaya, or Dissolution. In Truth there is no beginning
or end, for there was never a commencement of life, in
the Eternal, and there will never be an ending. An Age is
man's measure of a period of experience.
aggression: (psychological) The will to power which treats
others only as an object for the attainment of one's sense
of superiority.
Agnosticism: (agnostic) The doctrine that neither the na
ture nor the existence of God nor the ultimate character
of the universe is knowable. Any doctrine which affirms
that all knowledge is relative and uncertain.
"Agree with thine adversary quickly": We arrive at correct
spiritual conclusions through agreeing with the Divine
Presence in everything.
akasha: Space, or ether, as a mind principle.
alchemy: A medieval science, the object of which was to try
to transmute base metals into gold. In the life of the
[4]
metaphysician, the term alchemy is used in referring to
the transmutation of the lower nature (that
is,
the quali
ties of ruthless selfishness, greed, cruelty, etc.) into the
perfect spiritual Form, toward which man
is
evolving.
The uncovering of the God-self, which already exists, po
tentially, in each one. This alchemy, or transmutation,
is
an actual chemical change in the cells of the body, through
the use of mental law and high spiritual aspiration. Love
is
referred to as the Great Alchemist, since where Love
is
manifest harmony and right action follow. The vibratory
forces of the body are lifted and changed into higher and
finer rates of vibration. This
is
the basis for the panacea
of the Elixir of Life, which
is
eternal youth, so long
sought for.
all
is
mental or spiritual: Not only
is
the invisible Principle
of Life
a
thing of mind and spirit, form also
is
mental
and spiritual. It
is
Spirit caught in
a
temporary mold for
a
definite purpose.
all
is
mind: All creation
is
Mind in form and responsive to
the Intelligence which creates it. This same Intelligence
in us therefore responds to us. Emmanuel Kant said that
we are able to recognize an apparently external object by
reason of the fact that
it
awakens an intuition within us.
"All rivers run into the sea . . . thither they return again":
Refers to the unity of all life; we proceed from Spirit and
return to It and are always in It.
. . all things ... ye shall ask . . . believing, ye shall
receive": Refers to the immutable Law of Cause and Ef
fect which returns to us exactly what we set in motion
in it.
all thought
is
creative: It would be impossible to assume
that one type of thought would be creative without as
suming that all types must be.
Alpha and Omega: This symbolizes all that God
is,
Spirit,
[5]
Matter. The first and the last, and all that lies between.
The beginning and the end.
altar: Symbolizes spiritual idealism upon which are sacri
ficed the lower forms of thought.
"... A man's foes shall be they of his own household
. . .": Our foes are our thoughts.
analogous: Similar or bearing some similarity. The prin
ciple that like attracts like, in that we attract that to
which our thought is attuned.
analogy: That which resembles something else. An agree
ment between two things in some ways, but not identi
cally. In metaphysical teaching stories are told which
bear a resemblance to the thing being illustrated, in or
der to clarify the thought on the subject at hand. The
teachings of Jesus are filled with analogies.
analytical psychology: A study of the unconscious processes
of the human mind for the purpose of correcting undesir
able emotional patterns; a system devised for the purpose
of diagnosing mental and emotional desires by carefully
going into the emotional history of the patient.
analytical realization: Realization arrived at by analysis, ar
gument, processes of thought, etc.
ancient: of antiquity.
Ancient of Days: God, Spirit, Reality; that which never
changes.
ancient wisdom: The continuous stream of Truth that has
run through all the great spiritual and philosophic teach
ings from times of antiquity. The Wisdom of the Ages.
androgynous: Having the characteristics of both sexes. The
Father-Mother God Principle.
anemia, spiritual treatment for: Recognition of the flow of
Life, Love, Happiness and Fulfillment.
[6]
angels: Symbolizes spiritual influences; angel of the higher
self; the Presence of God in man as Christ.
angels ascending and descending: Intuition informing the
intellect.
animal consciousness: The feeling consciousness. Our inter
course with animals is through feeling. An animal will
attack a person who fears it, because the feeling of fear
is transferred to its consciousness, and it attacks in self
defense. It is the animal consciousness in man, the con
sciousness of the physical body itself, that is responsible
for deep-seated fears, especially the fear of death. This
consciousness is controlled through the mental faculties,
through the reasoning mind; the next step up in vibra
tion.
Anointed, The: Refers to the consciousness of the In
dwelling Christ.
anointing with oil: Becoming conscious of the Divine Pres
ence.
anthropology (anthropological): The science of man. The
science of the human organism. Pertaining to man in
relation to physical character; the origin and classification
of the races; environmental and social relations and cul
ture.
anti-Christ: Any attempt to use spiritual power for a de
structive purpose.
antitype: That which precedes the type, and of which the
type is the prefigurement or representation.
anxiety: (psychological) A feeling of dread concerning the
future. A reaction of the psychological ego to danger.
anxiety neurosis: (psychological) A psychoneurosis whose
most prominent symptom is a marked degree of morbid
and objectively unfounded dread. It may take either the
form of a definite phobia or a vague, diffused fear.
[7]
apparent separation: Any thought or appearance which
causes us to believe that we are separated from the Divine
Presence.
apparition: An unexpected or spectral appearance. Some
times used synonymously with the word "ghost."
appearance: Any objective manifestation which may or may
not be considered true to the spiritual Reality.
applied psychology: That branch of psychology which deals
with practical instead of theoretical ends.
archetype: The ideal form, written about by Plato. The eter
nal, perfect concept of things, existing in the Mind of God,
or Universal Mind, after which form is patterned. The
perfect pattern of a thing in thought.
archetypal man: Spiritual man viewed generically, in whose
image all men are formed. The universal man. The image
and likeness of God.
arguments, conform them to meet needs: In mental treat
ment when one is using the argumentative method, his
specific arguments meet, that
is,
cover the case by recogniz
ing what ought to be denied and what ought to be affirmed.
arguments, conform them to the theory of perfection: The
entire body of
a
mental treatment must be built upon the
supposition of Perfect God, Perfect Man and Perfect
Being.
argument, correct: Refers to the mental processes of thought
in spiritual treatment whereby one argues toward the
realization of the supremacy of good; the unity of man
with God, etc.
argument, false: Arguing mentally from the standpoint that
there
is
a
dual universe; that there
is
something opposed
to good, etc.
argument logically presented to Mind: In treating through
argument, one seeks to establish
a
certain position in his
[8]
own thought. Hence, he goes through a logical argument
within himself in order to establish such a position. The
conclusion of his argument constitutes its power and
guarantees its results.
argument of doubt: Any mode of thought which denies us
the privilege of accomplishing a healing or of making
demonstrations for ourselves or others. This arises out of
the race consciousness.
argument of error: Subjective thought patterns of experience
resisting any attempt to neutralize them.
ark: Symbol of the Spiritual Principle which rises upon the
sea of psychic confusion.
Ark of the Covenant: The Principle of Unity within us; the
Holy of Holies; the Secret Place of the Most High; the
Sacred Name; the Scroll of Life; the realization that God
and man are One.
arteries as a spiritual idea: Represents a perfect, unob
structed, flexible medium for the flow of Spirit.
"As a man thinketh in his heart": Continual thinking, will
ing, knowing or believing creates subjective thought pat
terns which, in their turn, attract or repel.
ascending and descending scale of consciousness: The One
Mind manifest in everything from the atom to the highest
form of intelligence.
ascending arc of the circle: A term used to symbolize the evo
lutionary Force, both personal and cosmic, by which the
individual rises from gross materiality into the realm of
pure Spirit. The resurrection principle.
ascension from the valley of negation to the mountaintop of
realization: Represents the unfolding of consciousness as it
leaves behind its limited patterns of thought and endeav
ors to sense its unity with the boundless whole.
ascetic: One who devotes himself to a solitary and contempla
[9]
tive life, one who practices extreme rigor and self-denial.
ascetism: Refers to the doctrine that the material or carnal
world is evil or despicable, and that salvation is gained by
mortification of the flesh. Chaste.
"As he thinketh in his heart so is he": As the inner state of
consciousness is, so will the condition become.
"Ask in faith nothing wavering": True prayer is not a peti
tion but a complete and unqualified acceptance.
asking according to His Will: This means according to the
nature of Reality.
"A soft answer turneth away wrath": To meet evil with evil
is to perpetuate it; to meet evil with good is to destroy the
evil while the good remains.
assimilation and elimination: Metaphysically interpreted,
means the circulation of Truth eliminating anything un
like Itself.
"As thou hast believed so be it done unto thee": This refers
to cause and effect. Any belief in consciousness produces a
condition exactly corresponding to such belief.
atomic intelligence: The primary Intelligence inherent in the
very substance of things; the Intelligence in the atom that
keeps it revolving around its central unit of power. This
Intelligence is characterized by responsiveness, which may
be made use of in healing work. Every atom in every cell
in the body has intelligence.
atonement: The old Jewish doctrine of redemption through
suffering or sacrifice to expiate for a sin. To make amends
for an offense. We all atone for wrong doing, in that the
Law of Cause and Effect punishes us until we learn to stop
making mistakes. Metaphysical students now realize the
only atonement, that is the real redemption, is an At-One-
Ment with Life Itself, God. Through unity the old ac
counts are settled and dissolved.
[10]
attachment: To be bound by sense objects, so that it is pain
ful to be without them.
attitude, mental: Is determined by the trend of thought of
the individual. One may have an optimistic or completely
negative attitude in his approach to life, which makes for
his success or failure. All man's experiences come out of his
mental attitude.
automatic: Involuntary motion, not subject to self-conscious
control. Acting without volition, producing an effect me
chanically, such as the functions of the body.
automatic writings: Written messages received when one is
controlled by some psychic influence; which many believe
may emanate from himself, those around him, or discar-
nate spirits.
auto suggestion: One's thoughts acting upon his own mind.
averages, law of: That Law, through which the Great Cosmic
Intelligence works in perpetuating races and types through
evolution. Through this Law vast numbers of plants, ani
mals, men, etc., are created, which allows for a margin for
the destruction of great numbers through accident, etc.,
but insures the survival of the type or race because of the
vast numbers created. This Law keeps a normal propor
tion of the race. Through this Law the Universal Intelli
gence works for the advancement of the race, irrespective
of wishes or individuals. If one's wishes are in line with
the forward and upward evolutionary movement of the
Divine Principle, all the power of the Principle carries
him forward. If his desire is opposed to It, he collides with
the Great Law, and is hurt or destroyed by It.
"Awake thou that sleepest . . . and Christ shall give thee
light": This passage implies that the human consciousness
is in a dream state from which Christ or Divine Sonship
must awaken it. Christ is light. We have the mind of Christ.
[»]
The mind which Jesus used is Christ; this Mind is in all
of us.
axiom: A Truth so self-evident that it would be impossible
for sanity to contradict it.
B
baptism by fire: The purging of the conscious and uncon
scious processes of thought whereby mental patterns are
transmuted from a material into a spiritual consciousness.
baptism by the Holy Ghost: Pure spiritual intuition tran
scendent of intellectual processes. The Light of Heaven. A
state of consciousness which is no longer a symbol nor a
purging, but which is a deep interior awareness of peace,
poise, power, wholeness and perfection.
baptism by water: Symbolic of one's consciousness that he is
immersed in Life—liquid Spirit.
becoming as a little child: Having implicit and childlike con
fidence in eternal Goodness and in the ever creative Law.
becoming God conscious: Becoming aware of the Invisible
Presence which permeates everything with the essence of
perfection, truth, beauty and power.
". . . Before they call I will answer . . .": Cause and Effect
are one and the same thing: While we are yet speaking the
Law is set in motion.
Beginning, in the: The starting point of any creation. That
out of which all experience is projected.
Being: In its absolute sense, God, Spirit, Reality.
belief and believer are one: The condition is thought or be
lief in form; the two are one.
belief and not the thing believed in is the power: Since the
[is]
world has had many varying religious convictions, and
since all faiths have produced results, it follows that it is
belief itself and not some peculiar religious conviction
which gives power to thought.
belief as law: When Jesus announced, "It is done unto you
as you believe," he was announcing the Law of Belief.
belief, change of: Changing our psychological patterns of
thought to the acceptance of that which includes the All-
ness of God, relative to any fact or experience.
belief displaced by spiritual idea: Nothing real is destroyed
in spiritual mind practice, it is the material sense of things
that is transformed into spiritual realization.
belief in evil creates evil: Wherever we place our mental at
tention, there we tend to create conditions which corre
spond to such mental attention.
belief is a certain way of thinking: No matter how spiritual
the belief or the faith may be, it is still an act of conscious
ness, hence it can be reduced to a state of thought.
Belief, Law of: Belief creates its own law which is changed
only by reversing the belief.
believe in your heart: Refers to the positive inner conviction.
"Believe not every spirit": This refers to the psychic confu
sion of believing that subjective forms are always what they
claim to be.
believing the Truth and believing in Truth: To believe in
Truth is to recognize or accept spiritual power as Reality.
To believe the Truth is to use this power which we be
lieve in.
belligerency and combativeness: (psychological) Sensitive
ness based on an unconscious sense of defeat.
beside Him there is none other: God manifest, and God un-
manifest constitutes the totality of Being. God is around
and through everything both immanent and transcendent.
[»S]
". . . Be ye doers of the Word . . .": We must consciously
use Law and demonstrate the Principle.
"Be ye perfect . . . even as your Father which is in heaven is
perfect": Means be perfect physically even as you already
are spiritually perfect.
Bible: The sacred book or books of any race of people; a
book, containing the sacred writings of any religion, which
is used as an authority.
black magic: An inverted use of the creative Power of Mind.
A determination to use self-will to force others to comply
with one's own wishes. Instead of using the Power to co
operate with the forward, evolutionary movement of Life
Itself, in unity with Wholeness, which is the Will of God,
the Nature of which is toward good for all, the person has
the erroneous idea that he can control mind, and bend
others to his individual will. He manipulates others
through what he thinks in his mind. There is but One
Mind, which we all use, and only if It is used according to
Its Law of Good, of Unity and Wholeness, may we avoid
destruction. The wrong use of mind destroys the ignorant
one, and he retrogrades instead of moving forward.
blessing: Constructive thought directed toward any person
or any condition: any constructive thought designed to be
helpful.
blind force and Infinite Intelligence: Blind force refers to
the Law of Cause and Effect which is a doer and not a
knower. Infinite Intelligence refers to limitless capacity,
consciously to know.
blood: Symbol of Divine Life manifesting Itself on the phys
ical plane.
Boaz: One of the two great Pillars of the Universe that stood
at the entrance of the Temple of Solomon, described in the
Christian Bible (1 Kings, 7, 21. 2 Chron. 111, 17) Boaz
symbolizes the personal element, also the Voice, or the
Word. In Masonic teaching these two pillars represent the
Law and the Word before the Temple of Truth. They are
united by the Royal Arch of Love, and it is taught that
progress in Truth is made by finding the balance between
them—that
is,
to balance the personal with the Imper
sonal, the Great Universal Power.
body
is
mental and spiritual: Body
is
not to be denied, we
are to affirm that body
is
a
combination of spiritual ideas
harmoniously expressing life.
Body of Christ: The Body of Christ
is
the immortal individ
uality within us, manifesting Itself on any particular plane
upon which we may be living. The Spiritual Body.
Body of God: The entire manifest creation.
body of right ideas: In treatment the body
is
viewed as
a
combination of spiritual ideas harmoniously unified with
the Divine Life.
Body, there
is
but one: Refers to the Body of spiritual ideas.
Spiritual Body
is
a
divine idea forever embodying Itself in
temporary form.
bondage not God ordained: The principle of freedom can
not create bondage or limitation. Bondage
is
a
result of
a
wrong perception of the principle of freedom.
born again, to be: A resurrection from the belief that we are
separated from God or Perfect Life into the understanding
that "Beloved, now are we the sons of God!"
bound by mortal belief: To be controlled by race suggestion.
bound by our own freedom: Mind
is
"the law that binds the
ignorant and frees the wise." The thought of limitation
creates limitation; the thought of freedom creates freedom,
but since limitation
is
a
limited viewpoint of Reality,
a
greater viewpoint automatically heals the limitation.
Thus, we are apparently bound and actually set free
by
one
and the same Law.
[15]
bowl of acceptance: Refers to our mental attitudes, which,
as it were, are held up that the outpouring horn of plenty
may fill them.
Bread of Heaven: The Truth as spiritual food for the soul.
breath: The Life of all beings; symbolic of spiritual action
which breathes thought into form and withdraws form into
thought. The word "Spirit" comes from the Latin word
"spiro," meaning breath. We read in the Bible that "God
breathed into man the Breath of Life, and man became a
living being." To breathe is to live. Every living thing
is a part of the Great Breath, from the very plants, up
through the animal kingdom, to man. The breath is a part
of the Action of God in man, and is quite beyond man's
control. In ancient teachings we are told the Great Breath
was the beginning of life and energy on the planet. "And
the Spirit of God (the Breath) moved upon the waters."
burning bush: Refers to the thought that all nature is alive
with the Divine Presence. It is the recognition of this Di
vine Presence which causes the voice to proceed from na
ture. That
is,
we commune with God through nature.
business
is
a
thing of thought: It would be impossible for one
with
a
negative thought to have an active business. By the
same token
a
negative business
is
revived through the activ
ity of thought.
"By man came death—and resurrection": Refers to the idea
that death
is
not in the Principle of Truth, but merely in
experience; resurrection
is
an experience of waking from
the belief in death.
"... By their fruits ye shall know them": Invisible causes
are known by studying their effects.
".
.
. By thy words thou shalt be justified, and . .
.
con
demned": Refers to the Law of Cause and Effect as It op
erates upon our thought.
[16]
c
catharsis: (psychological) A technique of uncovering and un
burdening disturbing mental complexes. Cleansing of cer
tain buried material in the subconscious.
case history: Refers to the previous experience of the indi
vidual one is treating.
casting out devils: Dispelling illusions. Healing the thought
of a belief in any form of obsession.
"Cast thy burden upon the Lord": Means to depend upon
the Law.
"Cast your net on the right side": In this parable Jesus shows
that abundance of supply appears when we entertain a
consciousness of abundance.
caught in the picture: Accepting negative environmental
conditions as being laws of restriction, limitation, etc. Re
fers to the idea of one's becoming so enmeshed in objective
circumstances and in thought patterns, that he has a com
plete fixation and is bound by the very Principle which
could free him.
causal: Relating to, implying, containing, or the nature of
cause or causes.
Causation, Absolute, not in relation to anything other than
Itself: Since everything flows from the Absolute, and since
the Absolute Itself is the cause of everything that is rela
tive, it follows that the Absolute is not conditioned, lim
ited or circumscribed by anything that is relative, hence
nothing hinders the manifestation of Its thought.
causation, the higher realm of: Assumes that all true causa
tion is spiritual and perfect; contradicts anything in mind
[17]
which denies this and affirms the supremacy of any thought
which acclaims the Allness of Good.
Cause and Effect: All causes are invisible. All effects are re
sults of the invisible taking temporary form. From the
standpoint of a mental treatment, Cause and Effect means
the idea involved in treatment operating through the
Creative Principle to produce a logical manifestation.
Cause and Effect, impersonal Law of: The laws of nature
have neither feeling, sentiment nor emotion. The Laws of
Mind, like other laws in nature, are always impersonal.
Cause and Effect in the mental world: Intelligence operating
through the act of interior awareness, sets a sequence in
motion which is called Cause and Effect. Cause and Effect,
therefore, are but two ends of a sequence set in motion by
the act of self-awareness. Hence, Intelligence, which is the
starting point, acting through self-awareness creates any
particular sequence of cause and effect, but of itself is sub
ject to no law of Cause and Effect. This will explain that
the Karmic law binds the ignorant and frees the wise.
Cause and Effect, sequence of: We start with pure Intelli
gence which conceives an idea. This idea which is Mind in
action, acting as Law, produces form. Hence the sequence
is,
Intelligence, idea, law and form.
Cause and Effect— two ends of the same thing: Since effect
flows out of cause
it
is
already involved within it. That is,
any given cause
is
certain to produce its logical result un
less intercepted.
Causeless Cause: That which, having no cause before It, It
self
is
the Cause of everything created. Same as First Cause.
cause must have an effect: If there were no effect there could
be no cause. Since there
is
Causation there must be effect,
else Causation would not fulfill Its own nature. Cause and
effect must be one.
Cause, Medium and effect: Spirit —Law —manifestation.
[18]
Cause, Relative First: That principle in man, by means of
which he uses the creative Power, to initiate a new series of
events in order to bring about a desired condition. It is
First Cause, in that it is the creative Power, and relative
because it is man's individual use of it.
causes and conditions: Conditions flow out of causes and are
created by them. There can be no condition without a
cause. Nothing in the visible world is self-caused. From
the standpoint of mental treatment, the treatment is the
cause, the demonstration is the effect. It is a mathematical
necessity.
cause, secondary: This is the region of reflections, illusion,
the changing, the form side of life. When a new idea is
initiated it creates conditions, which, in turn, produce fur
ther conditions. These conditions, which become causes of
other conditions, are referred to as Secondary Causation.
Cause, unconditioned: The Principle of Mind as Absolute
Causation is unconditioned by any existing circumstances;
It knows only Its own ability to do and it is impossible for
It to realize any destruction, limitation or opposition.
Celestial World: That which is looked upon as a perfect state
of being. Heavenly.
censor: (psychological) A theoretical mechanism of the mind
which crowds back displeasing and painful memories; pro
hibits certain thoughts and impulses from rising into the
conscious thought from the subjective. Not to be confused
with Conscience.
censorship: A psychological expression referring to an as
sumed mechanism in mind which prevents painful mem
ories, thoughts or impulses from rising out of the sub
conscious into the conscious thought.
Center and the Source: The Spirit is centered within us and
is the Source of all good.
[»9]
center of God Consciousness: Refers to the individualized
mind as a manifestation of God.
changing our position in the Law: No matter what use we
have been making of the Law of Cause and Effect, either
consciously or unconsciously, in ignorance or through wis
dom, we can always start a new sequence and thereby re
verse the old causation.
changing the belief: To reverse fear with faith; the idea of
hell with the idea of heaven, etc.
Changeless Reality: Refers to the essence of Being in which
all change takes place; that which of Itself cannot change.
channel for the Divine: Faith, expectation and acceptance
automatically demonstrate good.
channel or instrument of God: The mind of man measures
out the Divine Gifts at the level of man's understanding,
and the embodiment of the Divine Nature.
child-like mind: A mental attitude of unquestioned faith;
simple, direct and joyously expectant.
Christ: Divine Sonship. The Spiritual Principle in man. The
presence of God in man as man. The true man, the Real
man, the eternal man. The consciousness of God with us
and in us.
Christ, Blood of: Symbolic of the Divine Life individualized
and flowing through all people.
Christ Consciousness: The consciousness of God which we
feel Jesus must have had.
Christ Mind: The action of thought from the highest motive.
Christ Principle inherent in us: Christ, or the Universal
Sonship, is the Reality of every person; we neither create
nor sustain this Reality; it may only become revealed.
Christ means the manifestation of God in us as us, the
Universal Sonship, hence this Christ is right within us and
needs but to be recognized and unified with.
[20]
Christ salvation: A new and higher experience which comes
from the recognition of the Indwelling Christ.
Christ's second coming: The dawning in the individual con
sciousness of the meaning of the teachings of Jesus.
Christ the Incarnation of God: Every man is an incarnation
of God; anyone who recognizes this and lives in conscious
and harmonious union with Spirit, automatically becomes
Christ.
circle: From the standpoint of mental treatment it means that
everything moves in circles; all thoughts complete them
selves. Symbolic of the All-embracing Principle without
beginning or end.
Circle of Life: The circle is a symbol, representing the In
finite, the First Great Cause before It moves into manifest
form. The Circle of Life represents, in its downward arc,
the coming of Spirit into matter, and, in its upward sweep,
man's journey from gross materiality into pure Spirit, his
perfected state.
circulation, spiritual equivalent of: Realization of the Life
Principle flowing through one with perfect freedom.
circulation, spiritual sense of: Inner awareness that pure
Spirit flows through one's entire being. This is the sym
bolic blood represented by "Emanuel's veins." Emanuel
means God with us. Spiritual circulation, then, is the rec
ognition of God with us flowing through us.
clairaudience: Perceiving sounds or voices independently of
the use of the physical ear.
clairvoyance: Seeing persons, places or events, either in the
past, present or future without the aid of the physical vi
sion. Second sight.
clinic: (clinical) Instruction by examination and treatment
of patients. An institution connected with a medical col
lege or hospital devoted to the free treatment of patients.
[«]
Co-Eternal: The uncreated and always existing Truth.
Co-Existent: That which exists with.
collective negative suggestions: The entire thought of the
race acting through any avenue of unbelief.
collective psychology: Deals with the activities of groups or
units.
Comforter: "It is expedient for you that I go away, for if I go
not away the Comforter will not come unto you": This re
fers to the necessity of every man awakening within him
self to Himself; the only final Saviour or the Comforter is
the Truth.
coming, second: A teaching in the Christian Bible, referring
to the Second Coming of Christ. (Acts 1) We understand
this to mean the development of the Christ Principle in
man, which is the Principle of Divine Love-Wisdom, illu
mination, rather than the rebirth in form of the man Jesus.
constant communion: That which we continuously think,
consciously or unconsciously, constitutes our communion
with the universe.
communion with illusion: Thinking only in reference to ap
pearances viewed as separate from Cause. This is hypnotic
and produces limitation.
communion with Reality: Thinking in reference to the
Truth as Wholeness, Beauty, Power, etc.; this produces
freedom.
Compensation, Law of: That Principle through which one
receives the equivalent for that which one has expended.
The Law of Cause and Effect operates through this Law
of Compensation to supply the equal of that which has
been given. It is a vehicle for the Divine Circuit of Life,
and is linked up with the law of giving and receiving. As
we give full expression to Life, in the giving of ourselves, so
Life returns to us in pouring forth Its gifts to us through
[22]
various channels. Those who give grudgingly receive in
small measure, and those who give generously, receive
richly.
complex: (psychological) A group of emotionally charged
ideas around a central idea, partly or wholly buried in the
subconscious, which exert an unconscious influence on
one's behavior; that is, on his thoughts, feelings and ac
tions.
complex, castration: (psychological) Rises from a sense of
loss, generally occurring early in infancy.
complex, Edipus: (psychological) Originates in the uncon
scious desire of the son to possess his mother; contains
somewhat of a hostile attitude toward the father whom he
looks upon as a rival; should disappear with maturity.
complex, Electra: (psychological) Similar to the Edipus com
plex; refers to the relationship of a girl to the father.
complex, inferiority: (psychological) The inner conviction of
inferiority due to psychic injuries received early in life and
arising from many sources; a struggle between the desire
to do and the fear of not being able to accomplish.
complexes, simple: (psychological) Simple complexes have
no harm, but are necessary to behavior, for complexes are
really a group of associated ideas which have become more
or less automatic or subconscious. A complex is patholog
ical only when these ideas are tied together by certain emo
tional states which do not work out well.
complex, superiority: (psychological) This appears on the
surface to be the opposite of an inferiority complex, but
there is a growing conviction among psychologists that the
exaggerated superiority attitude is an unconscious striving
to compensate for the more deeply buried inferiority feel
ing.
complex, we: (psychological) A sense of being like other peo
[23 J
pie; feeling that one belongs; neither inferior nor superior;
a normal sense of one's relationship to the world.
compulsion neurosis: (psychological) See obsessional neu
rosis.
concentration: To focalize the attention on a single point.
To keep the thought fixed, or centralized, by an act of will,
on a certain idea. Having nothing whatever to do with any
attempt to concentrate force, energy, power, mind, God,
law or anything else; having nothing whatsoever to do with
influencing persons, places or things; having no relation
ship to coercion, personal influence, hypnotism, mesmer
ism or mental suggestion. From our viewpoint, concentra
tion merely means engaged in thinking upon a certain
idea.
conception: That power in man of forming abstract ideas.
The image or idea of anything formed in mind.
concrete: Having definite form, or quality; the parts coales-
cent. Particular objects or definite examples. Specific, real
to the senses, actual.
condition: Any objective fact.
conditions are reactions and not causes: All causation is in
the invisible realm of Mind; all conditions are effects re
flected from these causes.
conditions, attracting those which are not in our conscious
thought: We always tend to attract that which is subjec
tively believed in whether or not we are conscious of it.
In this way we are more or less controlled by race belief.
conflict between the Ego and the Id: (psychological) Conflict
between the deep desire for self-expression, which every
one has, and one's environment; a conflict between the
desire for self-expression and anything which inhibits this
expression; a painful emotional state resulting from a ten
sion between contrary desires; a subconscious conflict.
[24]
conscience: The individual's attitude toward the moral or
social implications of his own behavior.
conscious intelligence: Intelligence operating at the level of
reflective or self-knowing consciousness.
consciousness: The perception of existence.
consciousness and God are identical: Consciousness means
awareness; God is infinite awareness everywhere present
in His entirety.
consciousness and intelligence manifest as created form:
Consciousness refers to awareness, and intelligence to the
ability of awareness to make itself manifest. Form or crea
tion is the manifestation.
consciousness changes the body with the change of thought:
Refers to the forming of new thought patterns which au
tomatically seek objective manifestation.
consciousness, changing the: Refers particularly to rearrang
ing subjective thought patterns. These subjective thought
patterns automatically attract or repel whether we are
asleep or awake.
consciousness, closet of: That place in one's own mind where
he works alone within himself and with Reality.
consciousness, to enlarge the: Deliberately and definitely to
develop a greater expectancy of good and a deeper realiza
tion of life; to increase the spiritual imagination; to en
large the acceptance of life, etc.
consciousness externalizes at its own level as water reaches its
own level: Just as water reaches its own level by its own
weight, so our interior awareness, by the very act of being
aware, objectifies itself or demonstrates conditions which
are identical with such interior awareness or mental em
bodiment.
consciousness, lifting up the: Elevating the interior aware
ness to the perception of God, Good, Power, etc.
[«5]
consciousness, movement of upon itself: The inner action of
intelligence can only be upon itself; this is the Law of
Mind in action.
consciousness must be conscious of something: It is impos
sible to conceive of consciousness independent of an act of
being conscious. It is impossible to be conscious without
being conscious of something. In applying this principle to
mental treatment it means that treatment is always defi
nite, conscious and specific. >
consciousness of Reality: Both intellectual and inner aware-
\ ness that the Divine Creative Spirit is within as well as
without; Its immediate accessibility and usability.
"Consider the lilies": The reference which Jesus made
tcj
na
ture, and his claim that the mental and spiritual world
reproduces the physical ona
higher level. That
is,
that all
physical laws have corresponding mental and spiritual
laws.
contagion of thought: Mob psychology; propaganda psychol
ogy; the tendency to believe what others believe whether
or not
it
be correct.
contemplation: Entering into and becoming an embodiment
of an idea realized through meditation.
contemplation, Spirit creates through: Contemplation means
inner awareness. Spirit creates by thinking within Itself,
since, being All, It could not think outside Itself. This
same Spirit within us creates through our contemplation,
thus we reproduce the Universal on the scale of the indi
vidual.
continue in faith: To meditate, pray or treat, seeking
continually
a
realization of faith, belief, acceptance, until
the entire consciousness responds, following which dem
onstration takes place.
conviction, combine with definite intention: Conviction
[26]
alone is not enough; we are already convinced that God is
good. Now we must have a definite intention running
through our conviction. Thus specializing the Law for par
ticular purposes. We must say "because God is good,
good is in this particular experience which I have right
now."
Correspondence, Law of: "As above, so below." Whatever
the cause that sets the Law in motion, the result will have
a corresponding relationship. It will be "tuned" to the
same rate of vibration, so to speak. The thought that is in
harmony with the Law of Good will reflect in harmonious
relationships in the environment, or vice versa.
cosmic conception: Refers to the theory that the universal
creative Spirit operating through Its own Mind, gives birth
to form.
cosmic consciousness: Consciousness of one's union with the
Whole.
Cosmic Mind: The Universal Mind manifesting Itself as the
cosmos.
cosmic purpose: Refers to the Divine Nature executing Its
inevitable tendencies toward goodness, love, beauty, etc.
Cosmos: The entire manifestation of Spirit.
". . . could not enter in because of unbelief: Nothing exists
for the individual external to his consciousness of it; as
faith brings about a constructive experience, so fear blocks
our path.
creation: To bring into being by an act of thought. The abil
ity to conceive of a thing is the creative power that brings
it into manifestation. Creation is the movement of Mind
upon Itself.
creation, the play of Life upon Itself: The Creative Principle
makes things out of Itself by Itself becoming the thing that
It makes. This is the action of a limitless Imagination
upon an Infinite Law.
[27]
creative factor within us: Refers to the subjective law of our
being.
Creative Law is always available: Since the Creative Law is
not only around us but also at the very center of our
being, It
is,
of
a
necessity, at the very center of our
thought processes.
Creative Law
is
always neutral: The Law of Itself knows nei
ther good, bad, big, little, right, wrong, etc. It
is
always
neutral (we must never confuse the Law of Cause and Ef
fect with the Spirit).
Creative Medium: Refers to the Law of Mind; the World
Soul.
Creative Medium of Mind: The universal Law of Cause and
Effect. The subjective field which operates upon thought
or upon which thought operates to produce conditions.
The automatic, mental principle underlying the power of
thought.
Creative Power
is
always receptive: The very essence of the
subjective life
is
its receptivity. The very fact that
it
is
subjective compels
it
to receive images of thought.
creative process: The creative process
is
an action of Mind
upon Itself, whether
it
be the great Universal Mind, as
God, creating
a
universe, or the action of Mind in man in
his individual use of It. True creation
is
the unfoldment
of an idea, the very urge of the Life Principle, as an Idea,
to create something new out of apparent nothing. This may
be illustrated in
a
musician working out
a
musical com
position, an artist painting
a
picture, or an inventor con
ceiving of
a
new object for the use of mankind, etc. The
original impulse
is
in feeling, which develops into action
through ideation. As the idea unfolds in Mind everything
necessary to its perfect fulfillment
is
created with it, or
is
a
part of its unfoldment.
[28]
creative series, the end of one is the beginning of another:
Esoteric term signifying perpetual evolution and expan
sion.
Creator and created are one: Creation is the passing of Being
into becoming; the flowing of the Invisible into the visible.
The Invisible does not change Its nature because It takes
on form. The effect is Spirit, the Cause, taking the form of
any particular effect.
creators with God: There is One Mind and we all use It,
hence thought is creative.
cross: A universal sacred symbol that has been used, the world
over, throughout the ages, from as far back as the human
mind has been able to penetrate. Its four arms point to the
four cardinal points, and the central point represents
Deity which flows out into humanity AS humanity. The
perpendicular line may represent the positive, male Ray,
or Spirit —the horizontal line, matter, the female princi
ple, or soul.
The cross is not a purely Christian symbol, for it has
been used in various forms in ancient Egypt, Chaldea,
Greece, India (by the Brahmans and Buddhists) and in
Judea by the Jews long before Jesus appeared on earth.
Man is the very cross itself, as he stands with outstretched
arms—Spirit "crucified" in matter, or caught up in form.
Man descends from the Cross when he comes into true lib
eration through his understanding of his real Be-ing.
cryptesthesia: (psychological) Refers to a supernormal sensi
tivity which reveals experiences either past, present or fu
ture, that lie beyond conscious knowledge, such as telep
athy, clairaudience, clairvoyance, pre-vision, etc.
cryptomnesia: (psychological) A certain part of the memory
where original experiences are forgotten because there has
been an unconscious desire to repress them, but where they
[29]
appear as apparently new experiences and are seemingly
no longer attached to the memory.
D
day dreaming: A fanciful imagery. Wishful thinking in a
waking state.
declare for the spiritual idea: That
is,
in mental treatment,
affirm that the blood stream represents the circulation of
perfect Life, eliminating everything which does not belong
to Wholeness.
declare that your treatment
is
law: Mentally to realize that
the Law of Life operating through your words
is
absolute.
decree: Has no reference to personal will, influence or com
pulsion, but refers to the act of self-choice in definitely set
ting
a
law in motion for some specific purpose.
decree
a
thing: To announce
a
desire as an accomplished
fact; to establish in thought; to declare in mind; to affirm;
to believe; to know; to accept.
decree of human opinion: What the majority of people be
lieve in tends to take place in everyone's experience.
deep stillness of the soul: The inner mental calm which fol
lows
a
complete turning from objective confusion to the
indwelling Spirit.
defense mechanism: (psychological) Mental mechanism de
signed to guard some part of an individual's personality or
history from the conscious scrutiny of himself or others.
A process of assuring one's self-esteem. Unconscious proc
esses of the mind designed to protect itself. These mecha
nisms are distinguished as not being practical solutions of
a
problem, but viewpoints which relieve the individual of
an uncomfortable feeling.
[SO]
Deity, inward: The Spirit within us.
deliberately changing our position in the Law: Consciously
building up new thought patterns which automatically re
flect themselves as new conditions.
"Delight in the Law of the Lord": The laws of the universe
produce beauty as well as utility.
delusion: A morbid belief or conviction difficult to dislodge.
demand upon the universe: conscious and definite acceptance
of some particular good.
demonstrate, enlarging our capacity to: Dwelling on the idea
of truth, goodness, beauty, love, wisdom, power, substance,
or anything that is universal in its nature, until through
an increase in our consciousness, we are able to reflect a
greater expectancy or receptivity into the Law of Mind.
demonstrating the truth: To produce a definite objective
change in the physical body or in the body of one's affairs,
as a result of consciously using the invisible Power of Mind
and Spirit.
demonstration: Any objective manifestation which takes
place as a result of conscious inner awareness.
denial: In working metaphysically for spiritual healing of
the physical body, or for the healing of conditions, the
denial of the reality of the undesired condition is used to
help dissipate the negative idea that there can be any
reality back of such a condition, that could perpetuate it.
Denial is a process of building up one's faith in the One
Reality, perfect Good, by denying the existence in Prin
ciple of the apparent evil. Denial has its use in mental
treatment, where argument is used in dissolving the con
dition, but is not needed as the student reaches the higher
plane of thought, which is the true Spiritual Realm of
Reality Itself, above the plane of so-called illusion, where
exist the pairs of opposites. Here there can be only affirma
[31]
tion, as the Eternal Perfection, that is ALL in all, is per
ceived.
denial in mental treatment: Affirming that there is no op
posite to good, God, and that what ought not to be has no
real being.
denial— the practitioner never denies body: The practitioner
affirms that the body is an activity of right ideas; it is really
universal and perfect.
denying evil: Any mental statement, which, in affirming the
supremacy of good, denies the reality of any opposite to
good.
depersonalization: A departure from reality standards which
enables the psychotic person to destroy himself in a unique
way. He may imagine himself dead, or a part of him de
stroyed. A nihilistic delusion.
descending arc of the circle: A term used to symbolize the
descent of Spirit into matter, as material form. In man it
symbolizes his incarnation in the physical universe. The
idea is Spirit functioning in and as gross materiality, which
is a part of the experience of Life Itself.
descent of Spirit: Means the passing of Spirit into form.
desire: Irresistible urge toward self-expression.
despise not the day of small beginnings: In making demon
strations we should be grateful for small results at the be
ginning, providing there is a tendency in the right direc
tion; we must learn by doing.
destroying error: Either by a denial of a false belief or an
affirmation of its opposite, which is the Truth, we erase
the effect of a false conclusion or straighten out a mistake
in mind. To destroy error means mentally to perceive that
it is neither person, place nor thing; it is neither cause,
medium nor effect. In mental treatment the argument of
truth which denies and thus obliterates its apparent op
posite.
destructive power not in the universe: The universe is one
indivisible Wholeness; if there were any final ultimate or
. real element of destruction within this One, everything
would cease to function. All apparent destruction is but
a temporary derangement of thought processes which pro
duce such action.
Deva: Angel, or Shining One. In eastern philosophies a
Stream of Life separate from humanity.
determinism: (metaphysical definition) The doctrine that the
will is not free, but is inevitably and invincibly deter
mined by physical and psychical conditions.
devil: Anything which denies the unity of good, the allness of
Truth or our oneness with Spirit.
devotee: One who follows a teacher, or a philosophy or an
art with blind loyalty and devotion.
diagnosis, mental: To uncover or bring to light and to cor
rect any and all thoughts which contradict the Divine
Presence as complete and perfect.
discipline of truth: The will and the willingness to think in
accord with the nature of our True Being.
difference between God and man is not in essence but in de
gree: The Mind Power of the universe is in everyone and
it is the same Creative Genius which projects everything.
Our mind is this Mind functioning at the level of our
realization of life. As much of It as we use, that much of
It we become.
differentiation: That quality, known as individuality, in per
sons and things. It is a splitting up of the One Originating
Spirit, as It manifests in form. Differentiation is that which
makes one unit of life different from every other unit,
from the atom to an archangel, and beyond.
[33]
directing power: The starting of any manifestation, from the
creation of a solar system to man's smallest creative im
pulse, is in the word he speaks, which clothes his thought
in form. "In the beginning was the Word . . . and the
Word was God."
directing your treatment: Stating what or who your treat
ment is for. Treatment should always be directed.
discarnate spirits: Refers to the continuation of the ego after
death; the continuation of the individual entity or stream
of consciousness after physical death.
disciple: A pupil, or follower, who studies the doctrines of
his teacher and adheres to them.
discipline consciousness: Bringing our mental reactions un
der control; not holding thoughts, but rather consciously
deciding what thoughts shall be loosed.
disease: Belief in, or lack of manifestation of health.
disease as a claim, a belief, a supposition: In spiritual mind
healing, any discord is treated as though it were neither
person, place nor thing; it is treated as though it were
merely a representation of false thought.
disease, destroy belief that it must operate: Healing the
thought of the belief that disease is either person, place
or thing, or that it has any channel for operation.
displace evil with truth: For every belief in an opposite to
good, provide a realization which affirms the presence of
good.
dissolve your troubles: In mental treatment we seek con
sciously to become aware that since God is All there
is,
negation has no real existence; in thought we seek to dis
solve
it
into its native nothingness.
Divine Consciousness: God perception.
Divine Forgiveness: Neither the consciousness of Spirit nor
the laws of the universe hold anything against us; wher
[34]
ever we turn to them in recognition and acceptance they
immediately flow through us, imparting the Divine Giv-
ingness into our experience.
Divine Givingness: The outpouring of Life in everything, on
everything and through everything.
Divine Incarnation: Christ in us. The Spirit of God in man
as man.
Divine Influx: The surge of Spirit into self-expression
through all people.
Divine inheritance: Every man inherits the entire kingdom
of good, "All that the Father hath is thine."
Divine Law: While embodying all laws, this phrase refers
particularly to the Spiritual Cause and Effect.
Divine Love: The Spirit is forever imparting Its life to us:
the complete givingness of Spirit.
Divine Mind: A consciousness of Wholeness.
Divine Mother: Symbol of the feminine or receptive aspect
of the Creative Principle.
Divine Nature: The true nature of all things.
Divine Plan: Refers to the nature of the Divine Being, that
is, if God is Love, then the Divine Plan is Love. The in
evitable necessity that the Creative Spirit shall project Its
Own Nature into experience in order that It may know
Itself.
Divine Potential: That Spark of the Divine Flame of Life,
within us, through which we may develop into a perfected
human being —the Christ man, or the illumined one. The
God-in-us that is mighty to do for us all that we can con
ceive ourselves to be. Through this infinite Potentiality
for Perfection, in us, all things are possible.
Divine Principle: Spiritual causation operating through Uni
versal Law.
Divine Reality: The truth about God.
[35]
Divine Science: An orderly and organized arrangement of
the facts known about mental and spiritual law. The same
as Spiritual Science.
Divine Urge: The incessant demand toward self-expression.
Psychologically referred to as the Id.
doctrine and dogma: Ecclesiastical beliefs; a definite tenet;
a code of such tenets.
Doctrine—"If any man shall do His will he will know of the
Doctrine": This has reference to the proof or demonstra
tion of the Creative Principle; when we comply with It, It
always manifests in our experience.
door— "I am the door of the sheep": Sheep refers to the Spirit
ual Principle in man, and door, like gate, to the entrance
of this Spiritual Principle into salvation through a recog
nition of the "I Am."
doorway of opportunity always open: New creation is eter
nally taking place uninhibited by ancient causation.
"Draw nigh unto God and He will draw night unto thee":
The Principle responds to us by corresponding with our
mental attitudes.
dream analysis, purpose of: (psychological) To bring to light
the underlying motives, complexes, strivings and desires
of the dreamer. Dream analysis helps to uncover hidden
meanings. The problem of the subconscious is the problem
of psychology.
dream censorship: A psychological term describing an al-
ledged mechanism of the mind, which, in a dream, seeks
to conceal some of the deeper motivations.
dreaming by day comparable to night dreaming: (psychologi
cal) Psychologically both are wish fulfillments; they are
analyzed in much the same manner.
dreams, interpretation of: (psychological) Based on the
premise that due to repressions and inhibitions of various
[36]
sorts, we are unable to give sufficient expression to all our
desires. The dream is a struggle toward fulfillment of these
desires in fantasy form. They are wish fulfillments whose
purpose it is to release emotional tensions caused by frus
tration in our waking life.
dreams, the subject matter of: (psychological) Known as
manifest content and latent content. The manifest content
is the dream as it appears to be; the latent content is the
underlying meaning of the dream in which the repressed
wish is gratified in a disguised form.
dream state: Any belief which denies our unity with good.
drive toward self-preservation and self-expression: (psycho
logical) The common background for human behavior.
Happiness comes only when the ego is properly expressed.
drop the burden of the intellect: There is nothing wrong
with the intellect itself, but it is burden when it acts in
dependently of a belief in a higher source of power.
duality: A belief in more than one power back of things.
Theologically a belief in God and a devil. In philosophy
any belief that unity and multiplicity produce division.
In Science of Mind any belief that good has an opposite,
such as good and evil, heaven and hell, etc.
duality—to affirm the truth and deny the negative does not
mean that we practice duality: An affirmation of Truth
and a denial of its opposite is the same thing, since each
affirms the supremacy of good; we never deal with duality
but merely with the dual use of Unity.
dual personality: (psychological) Psychic split, or subcon
scious confusion, wherein one part of the mind appears to
be dissociated from the other, impersonating itself as
though it were a separate and distinct individual.
[37]
E
Eden: This term is sometimes used to symbolize the Garden
of the Soul, where man works in the creative soil of Mind
to produce the perfect blossoms of perfected being. The
Garden of Eden also signifies the Cradle of the human race
on earth, where man began to develop human conscious
ness. The time of this dawn of consciousness is placed in
the Mesozoic Age, which may be a reason for the Biblical
story of the Serpent in the Garden—it being the Age of
Reptiles.
Ego: (psychological) That part of the personality or psychic
life which tests an experience; reality, intelligence; ca
pacity to reason; the function of perception; consciousness
without relationships. An individual's conception of him
self. From the standpoint of psychoanalysis, the superficial
part of the Id which has become modified by the influence
of its contact with the external world and which has be
come imbued with self-consciousness. From the spiritual
viewpoint: The Real and eternal Man.
egocentric: (psychological) Disposed to dwell on one's self
and to view every situation from a personal angle.
ego ideal: (psychological) A standard of perfection formed in
childhood through self-identification with persons ad
mired.
egoistic theory of dreams: (psychological) The theory in
psychoanalysis that dreams are egoistic: that any person
who plays a chief role in a dream, under analysis, will be
recognized as the dreamer himself.
ego-libido: (psychological) Attachment of the Libido to the
ego.
[38]
ego putting brakes on the Id: (psychological) When the im
pulsion toward self-expression reaches the selective or
personal part of us, or the mechanism of the will, it is
often rejected or pushed back, or refused expression.
ego, super: (psychological) Consciousness in relation to ob
jects; consciousness applied to the self or to some relation
ship with the self; sometimes referred to as the standard
or ideal self; the self we would like to be.
Emmanuel: God with us: the Christ in each one.
emotion: (psychological) Often referred to as the dynamic
part of the instinct—the feet of the instinct—instinct mov
ing into action. Example: the instinct to run away accom
panying an emotion of fear.
emotional bias: (psychological) Where some original belief
remains, as it were, in a logic proof compartment of the
mind. ,
emotional craving for self-expression: (psychological) The
desire which all persons have to express life; this is a thing
of feeling rather than of the intellect.
emotional immaturity: (psychological) Unweaned from the
child-parent relationship. One who has failed to grow up
mentally. One whose thought patterns unconsciously re
vert to the infantile level.
emotional pattern: (psychological) The unconscious design
of thought and feeling back of everyday behavior.
energy, vitalizing: Stands for the spiritual flow of Life.
engine of the subjective mind: Refers to the Law of Cause
and Effect, which is dynamic, mathematical and creative,
but which needs an engineer (conscious direction).
en rapport: To be in harmonious relationship with another
person, or with an abstract principle.
"Enter in at the straight gate": Gate signifies the entrance
of consciousness into the realm of harmony. It is straight
[39]
and narrow, since it must reject everything which denies
the Eternal Good.
entity: (general definition) "A portion of Reality which con
tains Its identity." (Metaphysically) An ego which main
tains an individualized relationship with the whole; a
spirit; a soul; a person. An individualized stream of God-
consciousness in man as man. A form which has individual
existence. Sometimes thoughts, which have been so ener
gized by sustained mental attention and strong feeling,
acquire actual form, and are referred to as thought forms
or entities.
Eros: Symbolic of the Higher Self in Its aspect of love.
erotic: Of, or pertaining to sexual love. Amatory.
error: Any mistaken conclusion; from our viewpoint, that
which contradicts the spiritual Reality.
error, to dissolve: Refers to the act of mental treatment
wherein one seeks to become aware of perfection instead
of imperfection.
escape mechanism: (psychological) An unconscious attempt
to avoid situations which should be met. Example: the
alcoholic flees into a world of fantasy; some people stay
continuously in bed; some run away from the community
in which they live; amnesia; the extreme escape mecha
nism is considered by many to be suicide.
Esoteric and exoteric: The inner and the outer teachings of
spiritual truths.
essence of being: Means that "The Highest God and the in
nermost God are One God."
establishing truth in consciousness: To change the inner
thought patterns until they accept the ever-present and
ever-available Spirit of Wholeness.
eternal verities: Refers to fundamental truths that cannot
change, particularly to the idea that Love, Wisdom, Power,
[40]
Beauty, etc., are universal qualities accessible to all people
—they are always there and always may be called upon.
eternity is here: We are now the sons of righteousness just as
much as we ever shall be.
ether: A term used to designate Original Substance, which
is everywhere present, permeating all space.
etheric body: The bridge of atomic matter between the emo
tional and physical bodies. It extends beyond the physical
form and is the vehicle for finer vibrations than can be
felt in the physical body.
etheric vibrations: Vibratory waves of force, in various de
grees of intensity. These vibrations are the connecting links
between all planes of existence, visible and invisible.
Etiology: (Aetiology) The science of causes, as of the origin
and development of things. The assignment of a cause or a
reason.
"Everyone that asketh receiveth": Refers to the Law of Cause
and Effect whereby each must receive the full measure of
his own consciousness. We are always attracting or repel
ling according to our thought.
". . • every plant of the field before it was on earth. . . .":
This means that the idea comes before the form. The
Word of Spirit, as Law, creates form. Form is the effect;
the word is its cause.
evil: A term used to imply the opposite of good. Evil is not a
thing in itself, but is an absence of what is felt to be good
or pleasing, as darkness is an absence of light, or death an
absence of life. The term is usually linked with the
idea of negation or destruction, though these forces, in
themselves, are not really "bad." What appears to be de
struction at times is only a vehicle for change. The term
is entirely relative. What might seem evil to one man
might be seen as good by another.
[41]
evil, dominion over: The recognition of good through spirit
ual awareness automatically overcomes that which denies
good.
evil, impersonal nature of: Evil of itself is neither person,
place nor thing. The belief that two and two make five
never alters the fact that two and two make only four.
The belief that two and two make five does not belong to
anyone, it is merely operating through someone's igno
rance.
evil, neither person, place nor thing: That which denies
good is not an entity; has no location in Spirit; does not
belong to anyone and cannot operate through anyone's
experience.
evil, no medium for the operation of: A spiritual conscious
ness does not attract evil thought. Only when thought is
tuned to evil does it reproduce it.
evil, no power in: Two and two never made five; evil is never
a thing in itself, hence it has no eternal law to support it.
evil spirits: Discordant and chaotic thought patterns con
sciously retained which tend to influence the conscious
faculties negatively.
evolution: A gradual unfoldment or development. The prog
ress of a race or a species from a lower form of existence
into higher forms, in line with the Principle of Life, which
is ultimate Perfection. This does not imply that there will
ever be a stopping point, for it is the nature of Life to
forever unfold into higher and higher expressions of being.
evolution, man's future evolution depends upon his coopera
tion with nature: Proven by all advanced in any science;
the laws of nature pre-exist our use of them, but are never
forced upon us.
"Except a man be born again he cannot see the Kingdom of
God": Our mental vision must be shifted from effect to
[42]
cause. We must be born into the realization that we are
living in a spiritual universe.
"Except the Lord build the house . . .": That which is not
of the truth cannot be eternal; that which is opposed to
the truth destroys itself.
"Except ye be as little children ye shall not enter into the
Kingdom . . .": We should have a child-like and intuitive
belief in the eternal goodness.
"Except ye believe that I Am, ye shall perish": Refers to the
necessity of recognizing the inner spiritual Principle with
out which recognition the outward or physical man is
not sustained. Has no reference whatsoever to hell, devil,
punishment, etc.
experience interprets reality to us: Each man's life
is,
at any
time,
a
result of the sum total of all of his thought proc
esses, both conscious and subjective. This thought process
is
the creator of his experience and constitutes his present
contemplation of God. However, the processes of thought
can be changed, hence the experience can be altered.
explanation
is
the healing power: Explaining and realizing
that all life
is
One, complete, perfect and changeless.
external world
is
the reflection of our within: The sum total
of our subjective thought patterns automatically projects
itself into our physical bodies and environments, thus,
"What man has as well as what he
is,
is
the result of the
subjective state of his thought." If this were not true,
changed mental attitudes would have no effect.
extraversion or extroversion: (psychological) An attitude or
type of personality in which the interests are directed
mainly outward toward the object instead of inward
toward the self. (Contrasted with introversion.)
extravert or extrovert: (psychological) An individual whose
[43]
emotional attitude is mainly one of extroversion. A person
of this type is said to be extraverted or extroverted.
F
factor: (personal) That individual element which produces a
result.
faith: A certain knowledge, founded only on a firm belief,
that a thing is true. A recognition of, and a belief in, cer
tain principles. Belief in the impossible from an objective
viewpoint. Unconditioned acceptance that there is an in
visible Intelligence which guides and an invisible Law
which controls, and the complete belief that It is now do
ing so in one's life.
faith, "According to your faith . . .": The answer to prayer
or the demonstration following treatment, is an objective
representation of an inner mental and spiritual embodi
ment.
faith, active: Consciously applying faith for definite purposes.
faith and understanding: As applied to spiritual law we
either have faith that there is some power that will produce
the desired result, or we have an understanding that the
law we use must produce such a result.
faith, approaching the Spirit as a child: With complete and
implicit trust; with unqualified acceptance, simply, di
rectly, spontaneously and, above all, without effort.
faith as a mustard seed: Refers to the power of one single
positive thought.
faith, asking in: Asking with unqualified acceptance. An un
qualified acceptance of our own prayers as being answered.
faith based on understanding: Does not deny the power of
[44]
faith; but affirming the unity of all life and the perfection
of all causation, strengthens our faith through knowledge.
faith by logic and reason: Conviction arrived at through
analysis. Scientific certainty of demonstrable law arrived at
through understanding.
faithful in thought: Persistent in holding steadfastly to heal
ing currents of Love, Joy and Prosperity thoughts.
faith in God through intuition: An unreasoned but not neces
sarily unreasonable conviction that there is a Supreme In
telligence responding to us; an unquestioning reliance
upon good. The deep conviction that there is a Power and
a Presence which not only can, but will respond to us.
faith in oneself: A complete conviction that one is able to
meet any situation that may arise; perfect self-confidence.
faith in one's fellowman: A conviction that the average per
son is trustworthy, reliable and friendly.
faith is a thing of thought: It is self-evident that faith is the
movement of consciousness and perception, of expectance
and interior awareness, hence it can be consciously gen
erated.
faith is complete when the subconscious no longer denies our
affirmation: This means that our faith is complete when
subjective thought patterns no longer deny it; when noth
ing in the memory or belief denies it. So long as there is
anything within us which denies our word, the word could
become effective only as mental suggestion, but when the
interior and unconscious processes of thought are straight
ened out, then the word of faith becomes power.
.
faith must be in something: Faith itself is an abstract con
viction; a generalized belief or a complete acceptance of
good, truth, beauty, etc. If this faith is to demonstrate some
particular good, it can do so only by applying itself to that
good, that
is,
through conscious acceptance of such good.
[45]
faith must be subjective to be effective: While there is any
thing in us that denies what we affirm, we shall neutralize
our own word.
faith, not necessary to deny a fact in order to have faith: All
facts are included in the One Mind; we need not deny
sickness or human suffering in order to alleviate them, but,
disregarding the fact, we must affirm its opposite.
faith overcomes fear: Having resolved things into thoughts,
the spiritual mind practitioner knows that his faith in good
completely erases the fear of evil.
faith, passive: General acceptance of good without conscious
application.
faith, substance takes form through faith: As Mind must be
Mind to something, we must not only have faith, we must
have faith in something. Prayer to be effective is specialized
as well as generalized.
faith, we walk by faith not by sight: All causes are invisible;
because of their effect we have faith in the causes even
though we do not see them.
false appearance: Any manifestation which is not in harmony
with spiritual truth; which denies the fundamental unity
and perfection of Being. Any objective fact which denies
the fundamental premise of the unity of Good.
false argument, recognition of: Understanding the thought
patterns we wish to change.
false belief: Used in the sense of believing that there is some
power opposed to good; some law other than Divine.
false belief about body: Any belief that the body is separated
from Mind or Spirit, or is anything other than the body
of spiritual ideas.
false belief uncovered: Mentally sensing that which denies
the supremacy of Good, and mentally affirming its op
posite.
[46]
false growth: Any false appearance in the physical body (see
false appearance).
false humility: As there is but One God, there is but One
Man; each one is a member of this Christ Principle and
no one should deny his sonship.
false sense: Any belief which denies the Divine Presence, the
Divine Perfection and Perfect Love.
fanaticism: (psychological) An excessive devotion resulting
in emotional activities of an extreme order.
fantasm: (psychic) A subjective apparition or representation
of some person; generally supposed to be a disembodied
spirit.
fantasy: A product of imagination, a mental image, halluci
nation.
fasting from poverty: The mind should definitely turn from
the contemplation of anything that limits, thus it abstains
from continuing to create limited circumstances.
fate: A belief in some power outside the self controlling the
self.
fatted calf: Symbol of Fruits of the Spirit brought by love and
wisdom and presented to our conscious reunion with good.
Father's house—"In my Father's house are many mansions":
Refers to ascending planes of consciousness; the eternal
expansion, progressive evolution; the future state as one
of development, etc.
Father, Son and Holy Ghost: The Infinite Spirit as Self-
knowingness; the Creative Principle of Mind as Law; and
manifestation as effect.
Father (the) and the son: The Divine Creative Spirit, the
Parent Mind, is the Father; the individualization of this
Parent Mind in us, is the son. The Eternal "I Am" is One
wherever we find It; the difference is not in essence but in
degree.
[47]
"Father (the) is greater than I": Although Jesus affirmed that
"The Father and I are one," he, of course, pointed out
that no individual manifests the whole of the Godhead.
fear: Faith negatively applied.
fear as a constructive attitude: (psychological) Fear is bad
only when one has a morbid reaction to it; as a guide to
right action it may be helpful.
fears brought to the light of day and cleansed of morbidity:
(psychological) Cause for the emotional unbalance must
be definitely understood; realized to be merely a state of
consciousness, its effect must be definitely understood, lived
over again and its effect dissipated.
feminine principle: The Universal Soul or medium of
thought action.
feminine principle in nature: Refers to the universal creative
Principle of Mind.
fetishism: (psychological) A belief in or devotion to an object,
to which is attached special or unreasonable importance or
value.
field of faith: A subjective mental atmosphere existing among
any group of persons who have been exercising faith, be
lief, expectancy and acceptance. A dynamic acceptance
created by a group of people which tends to benefit anyone
who enters it. A creative atmosphere of conviction.
". . . fiery darts of the wicked . . .": The negative impulses
which rise out of the race consciousness; our own fear and
doubt; accusations of others which we accept, etc.
finding one's center: Mentally to acknowledge, to seek, to ac
cept and to understand that the Supreme Spirit is at the
center of one's life.
finite: Having measurable limits.
fire: Symbolic in its higher aspect of the Spirit, and of Wis
dom, Divine Love and Divine Life. In its lower aspect
[48]
signifies desire; sometimes the lower emotion. Fire as puri
fication signifies that which consumes error, purifies ex
perience and regenerates consciousness; the purifying of
the lower nature by love and truth.
". . . cast out first the beam out of thine own eye . . .": We
cannot give others what we ourselves do not possess.
First Cause: God—Spirit —That from which all things come.
First Principle: Universal Mind, or Spirit. The God Prin
ciple. Everything manifest has sprung from this Principle,
as Divine Idea.
fixation: (psychological) The inability to give up an infantile
attitude toward an early love object, largely subconscious;
the inability to give up any wrong attitude of thought is
some form of fixation.
food: A symbol of Reality and of Truth. The Reality which
is to become assimilated.
food for thought: A symbol of Wisdom, Truth and Love, sus
taining the soul.
"For as the Father hath life in himself so hath he given
it to the Son to have life in himself': Man's life is the
Life of God; there is but One Mind or Spirit from which
man can derive life, intelligence or power.
force: In metaphysical parlance force means the power or
energy which man uses, or distributes. The term is used
to designate the vibratory action of certain abstract prin
ciples, such as the Love Force, the Dark Forces, the Forces
of Light, etc.
"Forgive and you shall be forgiven": The consciousness of sin
in another is the consciousness of sin in one's own being.
We are free from condemnation only as we no longer con
demn.
. . forgive our debts as we forgive our debtors . . .": The
[49]
Law of Cause and Effect can only forgive as we ourselves
first have forgiven.
form: The world of form is the physical world about us. Any
thing that has definite shape, size, etc., has form. The
specific qualities that make a thing what it is lends shape to
its form. It is that distinctive quality that makes one thing
appear as separate from another. It is a law that two forms
of the same rate of vibration and manifesting on the same
plane, cannot occupy the same space at the same time.
"For the invisible things . . . are clearly seen, being under
stood by the things that are made": This means that we go
from the known to the unknown, that there are parallel
laws, that every objective and visible fact has a subjective
and invisible cause. If we study the fact we shall under
stand the nature of its cause.
Fountain of Life: The Great Current of Life that forever
flows through man, which is the Eternal Spirit of God in
him, a part of the Divine Circuit of Being. It is like a
fountain at the center of man's being, forever flowing,
which supplies his every need. To contact it he must center
his attention within himself, attuning his thought to the
Divine Source of his Life. As he does this, this Fountain of
Power radiates Its Harmony and Strength all about him,
as the Life within him and around him.
free association: (psychological) Now largely used by schools
of psychoanalysis; consists in permitting the patient to
talk freely; expressing all thoughts as they arise without
restraint or selective criticism. The analyst never asks
searching questions but patiently waits.
freedom: The necessary prerogative of self choice acting as a
law of cause and effect, carrying with it the liabilities of its
selectivity.
freedom under law: There is nothing chaotic about the Law
of Mind and Spirit, it is freedom through law, not from law.
[50]
freedom— "Within Thy Law is freedom": Since the Law of
the Lord must be perfect and limitless, it must be freedom.
frustrations, childhood: (psychological) The thwarting and
suppression by the parents or others, of a child's natural
desires for self-expression.
frustrations, unconscious: (psychological) Subjective inhibi
tions operating in adult life to prohibit the normal flow
of self-expression. These subjective inhibitions are the re
sult of childhood frustrations.
Garden of Eden: Refers to the garden of the soul.
Generic Law: That principle that everything is created ac
cording to its type or species, or class. The seed atom that
makes anything what it is, and not something else, be it
man or flower or animal. The generic law deals with
groups, rather than individuals.
"Get thee behind me, satan": Let all thoughts of fear, doubt,
uncertainty and evil depart from me.
"Give and to you shall be given": Refers to the Law of Cause
and Effect as immutable and mathematical.
giving and receiving: (law of) This is the principle of the
Divine Circuit of Life. Life flows out from the Absolute,
through man, or form—and returns to its Source. When
man tries to hold his good he blocks his channel for re
ceiving more good. Those who give of themselves the most,
receive the most, unless they block the circuit again in the
attitude that they wish only to give. In this case they are
apt to impoverish themselves. Life is a giving of Itself in
abundance. Nature gives of herself freely, for the sheer joy
of expression. The bird pours forth its song, as its expres
sion of life. The rose exhales its fragrance, and all who
pass may enjoy it. The important point is to give as an ex
pression of abundant living, not with the idea of getting
back in full measure. The Divine Circuit takes care of the
return, and man needs only to be receptive to his good.
giving is not complete without receiving: Even though the
gift of life is made, its circuit is not complete until we
have received it. Hence, "to as many as believed gave He
the Power."
God: Deity: The Supreme Being, the Absolute, Eternal, In
finite. Spirit, Reality or Truth in its absolute sense.
God and Man, difference is in degree and not in essence:
Since there is but One Life, the Life of man is God in
man as man. The difference is not in the nature of this
Reality but in the amount of It which flows through
consciousness.
God and the manifestation of God as person must be One:
If Reality were separate from us, then we could never
recognize anything. But because Reality is within us, we
recognize other things which also are within Reality.
God appears through idea: Spirit being infinite Mind, Its
activity consists of limitless idea. It is only through the
manifestation of idea that we become conscious that Spirit
is Mind.
God as a Living Presence: The dynamic presence of the Uni
versal Spirit, permeating everything and forever making
Itself known.
God as Life: Spirit is the very essence, the very livingness of
everything; the animating Principle in everything which
makes everything what it is.
God as Love: The entire nature of the Divine Spirit is to
forever give Itself to Its creation.
God as self-active Spirit: Spirit is both impulsion and energy;
[52]
It is at the same time designer and designed. There is no
outside to Spirit. All inspiration derives within It. It is in
us, therefore the ability to live or to express life is not some
thing derived from an external source, but is already in
herent within our own natures.
God bless you: The recognition of the Divine Presence as
protection, guidance and peace; therefore to bless a thing
is to protect it.
God, Grace of: Symbolizes the higher nature which raises the
lower into a consciousness of God.
God Incarnate: The Presence of God in man as man.
God in me: The Originating Creative Principle is at the
center of my life.
God in the still small voice: All processes of nature are quiet.
The unfolding rosebud silently proclaims a dynamic
power expressing the beauty inherent in Reality.
God in us knowing Himself: Since there is but One Mind,
that Mind in us is God in us. It can be nothing else. And
since this Mind can know nothing outside Itself, the opera
tion of this Mind through us as thought, is the announce
ment of the Infinite to Itself. This is why thought is crea
tive. Not by willing, wishing, coercing or concentrating,
but merely because it is its nature to be creative.
God is an impartial giver: The Infinite has no preferences;
It is both impartial and impersonal, giving alike to each
and to all. Thus it is written that to as many as received,
gave He the power.
God is not a God of the dead but of the living: The Principle
of Life can never conceive death; that which has real self-
conscious life, lives forever.
God is our very self: Since there is only One Mind, Spirit, or
Life Principle, from which anything can be formed, then
there is but one final Self personified in innumerable cen
[53]
ters within this Self. Every man is a center of God Con
sciousness. There is One Self back of all people.
God is Spirit: God is the Eternal Presence within, around
and through everything. They that worship Him must
worship Him in Spirit and in Truth, that
is,
in accord with
the Truth about His nature.
God no respecter of persons: Just as the Infinite knows nei
ther big nor little, It knows neither good, better nor best.
There can be no Infinite Intelligence which recognizes one
person as having more merit than another.
God-Self, the: The Real Spirit Divine; the Christ in us. The
reality of every man is God; man
is
an individualized cen
ter of this indivisible God Consciousness.
God's Ideas, omnipresence of: All qualities of Spirit are ever
present; Truth and Beauty exist everywhere, and wherever
recognized immediately spring into manifestation.
God's Kingdom
a
government of law: There are laws in the
mental and spiritual world which govern all actions and
all reactions, just as they do in the physical. The mental
and spiritual
is
but
a
reproduction of the physical on
a
higher level.
God's Presence: Like the ethers of physics the Spirit of God
is
in everything, through everything and around everything;
since Spirit
is
the very essence of intelligence, there
is
a
mind quality in everything which responds to our recog
nition of It.
God the Healer: The recognition that
it
is
not personal will
power, mental suggestion or persuasion, but the Divine
Creative Principle acting with mathematical accuracy.
"God, the highest, and the innermost God
is
One God":
Since there
is
but One Life Essence, the spiritual Intelli
gence within us
is
the same Intelligence within all things,
and the same Intelligence that governs everything.
[54]
God the Knower— the act of knowing and the thing known:
Spirit is Cause, medium and effect; essence, law and order;
involution and evolution; unmanifest mechanical proc
esses and manifestation.
God the Knower and God the known: Image and reflection
are but two ends of the same thing.
God within us: Does not mean that God is located or limited
to our within, but that since the Divine Mind is omnipres
ent, It must be in, as well as around us. Hence, it is written
that "The highest God and the innermost God is One
God."
God works for us through us: As any energy must take the
form of the instrument through which it flows, so Spiritual
Power to be effective in our experience, must first operate
through our mental acceptance.
God's work shop: The Mind which uses tools of thought.
Good: The Reality of which evil is but an apparent and
transitory opposite.
good, actively conscious of: It is not enough merely to say
that good is. This is passive consciousness. Such statements
should be followed by declaring that "this good is operat
ing in my experience now."
good, destroying evil with a consciousness of: As light dissi
pates darkness; as a change of temperature melts the solid
form of water, which is ice, so a consciousness of Good dis
sipates not only the consciousness of evil, but its manifesta
tion.
good, immediate availability of: Since the laws of the uni
verse never change, and since the Divine is forever present,
then good is where we see it.
good will endure, evil must perish by its own self-destruction:
Suffering and punishment inevitably follow the wrong
use of the Laws of Life, whether this wrong use is done in
[55]
ignorance or with malicious intent. The universe is just
because it is always in perfect equilibrium.
Gospel-"The God-Spell": The good news of the Kingdom
of Heaven; the proclamation of the Omnipresence of
Good.
Government, The, shall be upon his shoulders: The Law of
Mind is self-executing; the universe is self-existent.
group behavior: (psychological) The activities of a collection
of individuals treated as a whole.
growth, false: A wrong arrangement of cell life in the phys
ical body. Translated into terms of mind, the Spirit never
misplaces anything. The Truth of Being is harmonious as
well as representative of the Divine Harmony, which is
always in perfect arrangement, etc.
growth in understanding: An ever-increasing realization of
the Spiritual Universe and our union with It and with Its
laws.
Growth, Law of: That principle that contains everything
necessary to the fulfillment of any idea which has been
placed in the creative soil of Mind. As the seed, placed in
the ground, must have a definite period of time for the
development of the life germ to the perfect plant, so does
the Law of Growth require time for the fulfillment of an
idea. Man drops an idea into Mind, and then remains
faithful to it until the Law of Growth delivers to him the
manifestation of his idea in form.
guilt, neurotic: (psychological) Morbid subjective (subcon
scious) condemnation of the self arising out of a subcon
scious conviction that the desires for self-expression are
sinful. This conviction is a result of childhood frustrations
and is not to be confused with the normal feeling of con
trition in regard to actual faults consciously recognized.
guilt, unconscious sense of: (psychological) Subjective con-
[56]
demnation arising out of a false or true idea of conscience
attended by the repressive thought of the race.
guru: A spiritual teacher. An Indian term meaning, literally,
"a dispeller of darkness."
H
habit as a subjective activity: (psychological) Subjective
thought patterns tend always to objectify themselves under
given conditions and situations; being subjective thought
activities, habits can be removed through mental treat
ment.
Hades: The underworld. Drama of the soul in its conflict
with opposing desires. State of consciousness before the
transition from the lower to the higher plane of percep
tion.
handling a belief: Refers to the action of thought which gov
erns, understands and explains the essential nothingness
of any opposite to good.
handling error: Refers to any statement in consciousness
which denies the reality of that which appears to be an op
posite to good.
Harmony exists disregarding our experience: Nothing that
we think changes Reality, it merely changes our relation
ship to It.
healing agency, most powerful: Realization of the Divine
Presence as Love, Harmony, Wholeness, Action, Law, Or
der, etc.
healing as a mental problem: The spiritual practitioner's
work has nothing to do with time, place, condition or per
son, he deals only with thought.
healing a sick business: Mentally coming to see, and stating,
[57]
that there is a Divine Activity in and through the business
and the thought of everyone who conducts it.
healing, no responsibility in: The practitioner's sole obliga
tion is scientifically to know the Truth; the responsibility
of Its action is solely in the realm of cause and effect.
healing, personal sense in: It is not the person that heals, but
the Principle operating through him.
Heaven: Harmony —Wholeness —Health —Physical Well-
being —Happiness—Mental peace, poise and well-being.
Heaven and the new earth: True spiritual vision interprets
things more nearly as they are, the physical body and hu
man experiences become regenerated through spiritual
understanding.
Heavenly Father: The Divine and Universal Creative Spirit
immediately perceived as an indwelling Presence—"The
Father which art in heaven," is the incarnation of God
in us.
"He hath broken the gates of brass and cut the bars of iron":
There is no solid to the Spirit; no opposition; no adversity.
Hell— Hades— Sheol: Symbolic of the lower plane of con
sciousness. The torment of experiencing that which con
tradicts Truth. The purification of desire, etc.
here and now: Reality in Its entirety is present with us at all
times; in every moment in which we live; here and now.
heredity: (psychological) Refers to the transmission through
the germ plasm of certain factors which determine the re
semblance of children to the parents, to other ancestors,
etc. From the viewpoint of Science of Mind, it refers also to
the transmission of subjective tendencies.
"He . . . sendeth His rain on the just and the unjust": The
Divine Creative Spirit knows nothing of goodness nor bad
ness any more than It knows big or little; It gives of Itself
alike to each and all because this is Its nature. However,
[58]
each one, being an individual, uses this Divine beneficence
in his own way, thus individually he may bring what he
calls good or evil upon himself.
"He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it": We cannot be sep
arated from our own consciousness; the evil we would do
is done unto us.
"He that findeth his life shall lose it; and he that loseth
his life for my sake shall find it": Whenever we discover a
greater truth, the lesser vision slips away. We must lose the
lesser as it merges into the greater.
higher and lower worlds: Symbols of the ideal nature on the
higher plane. The prototype of Reality and of the manifes
tation of Its nature on the physical plane.
holding thoughts: Refers to the mistaken idea that in spirit
ual mind practice we hold thoughts for people.
holding thoughts and knowing the truth: In spiritual mind
treatment we do not hold thoughts, we do not concentrate;
we seek to recognize spiritual perfection in any situation,
circumstance, etc. This correct recognition results in a
right demonstration.
holding thoughts versus knowing the truth: Demonstrations
are not made by willing, mental coercion nor spiritual
concentration, but rather through a silent recognition of
the immutable Principle at work.
Holy Communion sacrament: The symbolic representation
of the continuous incarnation of God in man.
Holy Ghost: Same meaning as Holy Spirit.
Holy of Holies: Represents the sanctuary of the heart or our
innermost thought as it lifts itself toward the contempla
tion of Reality.
Holy Spirit: Universal Presence in which we all live and
which also manifests Itself through us.
[59]
Holy Trinity: Spirit as Absolute Intelligence; Mind as Law;
form as manifestation.
homogeneous: Of the same kind or nature, of a uniform sub
stance.
human and Divine mind: Human or limited way of think
ing, or a less limited way of thinking.
human consciousness: Human perception.
human mind: A consciousness of separation.
humility of self: Does not mean self-depreciation; it means
recognizing the greatness of the Whole; the purity of
Spirit; the perfection of God, flowing through us, unob
structed by anything that is vicious or anything that sets
us apart as being better than, or different from, other
people.
husbandman: Symbolizes the Spiritual Self as it tills the men
tal soil and brings forth a spiritual and perfect harvest.
husbandman of the Lord: Biblical reference to man as one
who uses the Divine gifts to bring forth the fruits of action.
hypnotic influence of negative thought: The belief that there
must be cycles of depression, war, pestilence, famine; the
sum total of human negation, fear, sense of separation,
etc.
hypnotized from the cradle to the grave: Most people live
under the law of mental suggestion or race belief which
acts as a mesmeric influence.
hysteria: (psychological) A result of repressed and disasso
ciated experiences; a result of an unconscious conflict be
tween the ego and repressed primitive emotional tend
encies resulting in some form of mental explosion.
[60]
I
"I Am" (the): The "I Am" is both individual and universal:
Individually it means the Life Principle within us; Uni
versally it means "The Thing Itself." In the universal It is
God, the Living Spirit Almighty; in the individual it is
God the Living Spirit, individualized. "I am that I Am"
means God.
"I am the bread of life": The "I Am" in man is God or
Truth. "The Truth is bread which refreshes our minds and
fails not; changes the eater, and is not Itself changed into
the eater." Bread is the symbol of spiritual food.
"I am the first and the last": Spirit is both Cause and Effect.
"I am the Lord and there is none else": There is only one
Mind, one Power and one Law running through all mani
festation.
"I am the Lord. . . . Beside me there is no saviour": Refers
to the universal "I Am" operating through the individual
I. Conscious use of this spiritual Power is our true Saviour.
"I am the vine, ye are the branches": There is one universal
Christ Principle; we are all members of this perfect body.
"I can do all things through Christ": That
is,
in conscious
union with the indwelling Spirit all things are possible.
"I can of mine own self do nothing .
.
.": It
is
only through
conscious cooperation with the Creative Principle that we
can hope to draw the greatest power from It. Any energy
shut off from its source soon becomes exhausted.
Id: A psychological expression meaning the "It." From
a
metaphysical viewpoint, the cosmic urge toward self-ex
pression manifesting itself through the individual as the
Libido.
[61]
Id passes into expression through the libido: (psychological)
The Id is supposed to be a reservoir of all impulsions, or
the impersonal part of the ego. The Id is the essence of
desire seeking self-expression; the expression of this desire
through the individual is the libido; the emotional craving
and necessity of self-expression.
ideas are to the invisible what things are to the visible: Ideas
are actual Substance in mental form. The visible is the
counterpart of ideas.
ideals—conduct is subconsciously conditioned by spiritual
ideals: All of our ideals tend to revolve around the idea of
our relationship to the universe.
identification: The principle that "like attracts like." In
thought, one must identify himself with that which he
would draw into his experience. To be successful, one must
identify himself with success, etc.
If God be for us He cannot be against us: Means that there is
only one Power; the universe is a unity and not a duality.
There is no evil to oppose the Truth.
"If our earthly house . . . were dissolved, we have a house
. . . eternal in the Heavens": We have a spiritual body as
well as a physical one.
". . . If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the
ditch": We heal fear only by faith, lack only through the
consciousness of abundance; we enter heaven only by de
serting hell, etc.
ignorance of Law excuses no one: This, of course, is held to
be true relative to all known laws. In dealing with the laws
of mind, it means that they react to our thought whether
we are conscious of the fact or not. Hence, the very law
which could produce freedom may be producing bondage.
"I have blotted out . . . thy transgressions": A correct use
of the Law transcends previous experiences.
[6s]
"I have put my words in thy mouth": Man reproduces the
universal Wholeness in his individual life.
I judge no man: Judgment, punishment and reward are in
accord with the eternal Law of Cause and Effect; there is
no superior intelligence that sits in conscious judgment
over our acts.
illumination: A spiritual state of mind which follows the New
Birth.
illumined consciousness: Has the same meaning as Christ-
Consciousness.
illusion: Any mistaken idea about the Truth.
illusion, belief does not make it real, while knowledge of
Reality dispels illusion: We must assume that back of all
human thinking there are eternal verities. Our thought
does not create these verities, it merely interprets them.
Hence, belief in illusion does not create real illusion, it
merely misinterprets Reality, while an understanding of
Reality does dissipate the belief in illusion.
illusion may be believed in, truth may be known: We can
only know that which is so; apparent knowledge of any
thing which is not so is an illusion. To assume that truth
is an illusion would be to assume that the more truth one
knows the more bondage he must experience; but to un
derstand truth as a Reality dispels the illusion of bondage.
For example, when everyone believed that the world was
flat, the real world remained round; however, the illusion
of a flat world did limit the experience of those who be
lieved in it.
image and likeness, His: It is man's nature to be like God.
Spiritual man is God in such degree as his consciousness
functions in harmony with a complete love and unity with
the One Creative Principle.
imagination and will: Imagination is the power of the Word;
will is its direction.
[63]
immaculate conception: All birth is immaculate since all life
proceeds from one Source, which is pure Spirit.
immaterial: Refers to the formless Substance of Spirit.
impersonalizing error: To realize that it belongs to no per
son, and is operating through no one, is not a thing in it
self, but is merely a belief.
impersonalizing negation: Realizing that negative conditions
do not belong to anyone, have no basis for being, and can
not be believed in by anyone. They are never things in
themselves. To realize that whatever the false claim may
be, its exact opposite is the truth. It is a correct understand
ing of this which enables one to impersonalize both evil
and its manifestation; it is neither person, place nor thing,
law, cause, medium nor effect; it belongs to no one, finds
entrance through no one's thought and operates in no one.
impersonal principle of mind: The Law is no respecter of
persons but works alike for each and all.
"In Adam all die ... in Christ shall all be made alive": A
symbolic presentation of the lower and higher forms of
consciousness. Adam represents the lower mind, or the
intellect, isolated from Spirit; Christ represents the new
birth.
incarnate spirits: Any person living in the flesh.
incarnating God Power: Becoming increasingly aware of the
Divine Presence, Perfection and Power.
individual identity in mind: No two people are alike in Mind
any more than they are in the physical world; all individ
ual thought vibrations are unique to the one who creates
them and belong to no one else. Each individual is a
unique expression of God.
individual subjective mind is never an entity: It is rather the
sum total of thoughts, feelings, emotions, acquired and in
herited, acting as an entity.
[64]
individuality: The unique individualization of God-Con
sciousness at the center of conscious self-awareness. Per
taining to man, a unique individualization of the Univer
sal Spirit. No two individuals are exactly alike, yet all are
rooted in one common unity. Behind each individuality is
all of Reality. Individuality exists by virtue of necessity
and unlike personality cannot be changed.
individuality must be spontaneous: It would be impossible
even for God to make a mechanical individual, since the
very word implies self-choice and freedom; thus individ
uality must discover itself.
individualizing the Law of Cause and Effect: The use that
each individual makes of the Law of Mind causes a flow of
Its creativeness into the form of such use.
individualizing the Universal Law: Just as there is one Mind
which we all use, so the universal Law of Mind is individ
ualized where we use It. In this way the Universal works
for the individual through the individual at the level of the
individual's comprehension of It as working.
individuals in the mental and spiritual world: Just as no two
physical thumb prints are alike, thus demonstrating the
uniqueness of individuality, so no two persons' minds or
spirits are identical; for while there is but One Mind and
Spirit, which we all use, each individualizes It in a unique
way. Each personifies the Universal. Thus there is no same
ness even in the Universe of Unity.
inertia: Inaction. Rigidity, resistance. A neutralizing power
in anything.
inertia of thought: Has both a psychological and metaphys
ical meaning. Habitual thought patterns appear to resist
dislodgment. However, persistent affirmation and denial
will uncover and bring to light any thought pattern.
infantile level, practicing at the: (psychological) Reacting
from infantile emotions without reference to logic and rea
[65]
son; childish emotional reactions; immature emotional de
velopment.
infinite: Unlimited.
Infinite Intelligence is omnipresent: Because the Mind of the
Universe is one indivisible unit, all of It is present wher
ever our attention is focused.
Infinite Person: The Supreme Consciousness in the universe.
The Mind of God as Knowingness, Awareness. The limit
less Personalness ever seeking expression through our per
sonality.
in God and of God: The Life Principle that is within man is
the same Life Principle that is around him; he is both in
It and of It.
inherited tendencies: Prenatal subjective influences. From its
larger sense, the entire race experience subjectively incar
nated in all human beings. The collective unconscious.
The subjective thought contains family and racial charac
teristics and tendencies which are more or less transmitted
to everyone.
inhibit: To forbid, to check, restrain, as in activity.
inhibition: (psychological) Refers to any mental condition
which prevents natural self-expression.
inner Life: The true life in each of us. The deep Self within
which radiates through the mind as thought, through the
physical form as action, through the emotions as feeling.
inner Light: Light stands for the radiation of pure Spirit,
casting its ray through man by incarnation. There is ab
solute Light as well as perfect Life at the center of every
one's being.
inner Saviour: Consciousness of Truth and Unity.
inner teaching: Refers to the spiritual philosophy which af
firms the spiritual nature of man.
inner Voice: Intuition guiding us; nothing supernatural. The
[66]
laws of Mind and Spirit, like the laws of physics, are per
fectly natural in their own realm and when we understand
them we can make conscious use of them.
"In quietness and in confidence shall be your strength": The
greatest power comes from the most intense stillness.
insanity: Fundamental error that the brain thinks, therefore,
that if the brain becomes impaired thinking stops. A belief
that brain grooves create intelligence rather than that
intelligence creates brain grooves. Spirit being the only In
telligence, constitutes the only Mind. Man's mind demon
strates the perfect Intelligence of God. Mind is omnipres
ent, hence the active intelligence of Mind is functioning
everywhere.
inspiration: From the human side, contact with the subcon
scious of an individual or a race. From the spiritual view
point, contact with Universal Spirit.
instinct: (psychological) Sort of a primal urge. The uncon
scious action which causes us to react in certain ways with
out any apparent reason. Anything that stands for an
unconscious stream of energy, such as fright, revulsion,
curiosity, etc.
instinctive omniscient "I Am": The God within us which in
stinct and intuition feels, knows and accepts.
instincts (new) are being born: (psychological) New instincts
are gradually born as new ways of self-expression accumu
late in human experience.
intellect as the tool of the Spirit: All thought processes should
be dominated by a realization of the omnipresence of
good. The intellect is the directive agency, the Spirit is the
creative power.
intellect, orientation of: (psychological) Consciously know
ing who, what, and as far as possible, why one is conscious
of what he is doing, his environment, his relationship with
others; conscious mental stability, unity, harmony.
[67]
intellect, spiritualizing the: Bringing the conscious and log
ical processes of thought into conformity with the idea of
Truth, Love, Beauty, etc. This in no way denies the intel
lect.
intellectual acceptance and spiritual realization: In mental
treatment the practitioner makes intellectual statements;
that is, his statements are definite, concise, conscious and
directive; in order to be meaningful they must become spir
itual realizations; the two are combined.
intellectual and emotional faculties: Intellectual faculties,
like the will, are discriminating but not creative.
It
is
the
emotion of conviction, feeling and belief which
is
creative.
intelligence: That part of the mentality concerned with ac
quisition and retention of knowledge as distinguished from
emotion and will. From the standpoint of universal law,
means mind in action: Creation flowing from the invisible
into the visible, from cause to effect with mathematical
precision, without personal self-consciousness. Spirit
is
both Infinite Intelligence and Infinite Consciousness. The
Law of Mind in action used in mental treatment
is
intelli
gent but not volitional. The Law of Mind in action
is
a
mechanical but intelligent reaction to the consciousness
which sets
it
in motion.
Intelligence makes a demand on Itself: The urge of Spirit to
express, operating through Mind, productive of form.
intelligent Law: The Law of Mind knows how to adapt
means to ends; It knows how to project our affirmation into
experience; It responds intelligently as well as creatively.
intangible values: Values which, while they cannot be
weighed nor measured, are yet real; such as Love, Truth,
Beauty, etc. All values are intangible from the standpoint
of being seen, since all causation
is
invisible. Love
is
an
intangible value because
it
is
something that cannot be
weighed and measured by physical instruments.
[68]
integration: Mental wholeness; the putting together of all
parts of the mind so that they function as one normal in
dividual.
integration of personality: (psychological) Putting all men
tal and emotional parts where they belong and creating a
smooth-running mental machine.
intention: In working with mental law, definite intention is
necessary in the receptive attitude of the student, as well as
in his active processes. He must have a clear idea of what
quality he desires to have fulfilled in him, and by his in
tent permit that quality to develop in him.
interior awareness precedes evolution: That something back
of the evolutionary push which experience did not put
there. The primal urge toward self-expression.
introvert: (psychological) To turn the mind inward upon it
self. Ingrowing. Withdrawing from outward expression.
intuition: Inner awareness of spiritual truths without con
scious processes of thought.
intuitional realization: Realization arrived at without proc
esses of reasoning. Interior awareness without any argu
ment.
inversion: A wrong use of the Creative Power, in that the
person seeks only the outer manifestation of the thing he
does not want in his life, instead of contemplating only the
Divine Principle of Being, Which includes his good, his
perfect freedom. Inversion is to reverse the proper order
of a thing. Fear is an inversion of faith. In fear the Creative
Law of Mind is used to tear down and destroy, which is
an inversion of the principle which builds up. It is a nega
tive or upside-down use of faith. It is a perpetuation of the
old circle of limitation, rather than the use of the creative
power to attain liberation from the law of necessity.
invisible supply: The Creative Law of Spirit is ever waiting
[69]
to be called into manifestation; that from which all condi
tions flow; the Substance back of all form; this Substance is
the universal and abstract essence of all concrete supply.
It is Supply in Its liquid form uncaught in any mental
mold.
"Invisible things . . . being understood by the things that
are made": We judge the unseen by the seen. There is al
ways an invisible back of the visible.
invoking creative Power: Just as a seed planted in the crea
tive soil invokes the Law, that
is,
sets
it
in motion, so treat
ment invokes the Creative Law of Mind, sets It in motion.
invoking the Law: Like planting
a
seed in the ground, which
invokes the creative soil, so
a
mental treatment invokes the
Law of Mind, or sets It in motion, for definite purposes of
creating the condition specified in the treatment.
involuntary nervous system: The sympathetic nervous sys
tem, which
is
connected with the solar plexus, and which
controls all the automatic actions in the body. It involves
all the glands and vital organs of the body, and
is
con
trolled largely by the emotions.
irrational: Not endowed with reason or understanding. Ab
surd.
"I set before you ...
a
blessing and a curse": Refers to the
neutral law of mind which produces divergent experiences.
"I shall be satisfied when
I
awake with thy likeness": Nothing
can satisfy us until we awake to the truth of our being.
Isis: Symbolizes the Creative Principle in nature.
isolation and loneliness, sense of: Failing to understand that
the Spirit
is
in all people and being forever One with It
self, unifies all people.
"It
is
the Father's good pleasure to give you the Kingdom":
We do not bargain with God; we learn to receive that
which has already been given. We receive and give only
[70]
in such degree as we enter into the nature of the giver.
"It is the Spirit that quickeneth": All external life is an effect.
Most of our mental life is merely a repetition of thoughts
already formed. True and original inspiration derives
from the higher reaches of consciousness, which is spiritual
or conscious oneness with God.
"I will contend with them that contend with thee": Refers to
the Law of Cause and Effect; whatever sets destructive cau
sation in motion must finally be destroyed by it.
"I will remember their sins no more": In mental treatment
the entire effect of past mistakes is wiped out.
"I will work, saith the Lord, and who shall hinder me":
There is one Power which knows no opposites.
Jachin: One of the two great pillars that stood at the entrance
of the Temple of Solomon, referred to in the Bible, and in
other sacred writings. Jachin symbolizes the impersonal
element of the Universe —the Law, the Great Universal
Power. Unity. One.
Jacob's ladder: Symbolizes the upward pathway of the soul.
The ascending angels represent an uplifted consciousness;
the descending angels represent intuition.
Jacob wrestling with the angel: Symbolizes the problem of
existence and man's relationship to God which must finally
be met in every person's individual consciousness.
Jesus as a revelation of the will of God: The life and teaching
of Jesus illustrate the nature of Reality as Love, Wisdom
and Law. The Divine Nature and the Divine Will are One.
Jesus Christ as Saviour: Does not refer to Jesus Christ as a
[71]
person, but to the Christ Principle in all people, which
Jesus revealed. It refers to accepting his method and using
it in our own personal lives.
Jesus washing the feet of the disciples: The Law serves us
when we first obey Its nature.
journey of the soul: Refers to the theory that man's soul
emanates from Perfection and travels on the road of expe
rience in order that it may return to Perfection, individ
ualized. Symbolized by the story of the Prodigal Son.
"Judge not according to appearances": Since Absolute Spirit
acting as immutable Law is the only causation, we are not
to take our patterns of thought from any manifested form.
"Judge not that ye be not judged": The same law by which
we judge others, completing its cycle, judges us accord
ingly.
judgment and justice: Refers to the law of compensation or
cause and effect.
judgment of God's Law: The Law of Cause and Effect work
ing.
K
Karmic Law: Mental cause and effect.
keeping the eye single: Holding thought steadfastly to truth.
kingdom (a) divided against itself cannot stand: Evil does not
combat good, merely because there are no ultimate dual
ities. The ultimate Principle of Life is one and undivided,
else we should have chaos and not cosmos.
Kingdom of Heaven likened to a child: Refers to the con
sciousness of simplicity, trust and confidence with which
one should accept that the kingdom of good is at hand.
[72]
Kingdom, The: That place of complete peace, strength and
harmony that is found within, deep in the innermost Self
of each.
Kingdom of God: Refers to the invisible essence of Reality,
governing everything in accord with Divine and harmo
nious laws of Love, Wisdom, Truth, Beauty and perfect
manifestation. From the human viewpoint, the Kingdom
of Heaven means a consciousness of harmony.
Kingdom of God cometh not with observation: The King
dom of God is an interior perception and not an external
viewpoint. It is not external but inner. The Kingdom of
God is within you.
Kingdom of God is like leaven: Truth introduced into con
sciousness has the power to raise our whole mental outlook
to a higher level. It leavens the lump of subjective error.
Kingdom of Heaven is like a grain of mustard seed: As the
very small mustard seed grows into a large plant, so our
inward thoughts and desires, when in conformity with
Truth, take form and become multiplied through the
creative process of Mind.
knock— "Behold I stand at the door and knock": The Eternal
Reality is ever present around us. Truth always is, but can
operate through us only as we recognize it. Good is ever
available. The Christ Principle waits our recognition.
knowing God: We know God only in so far as the Divine
Attributes become personalized in our own experience.
Therefore, to know virtue is to be virtue; to know truth is
to become truth; to know peace is to embody peace; to
know love is to personalize it.
knowing God through ideas: We must judge the unknown by
the known.
knowing the truth: Rearranging our thinking in order to
affirm the Allness of Good, its ever availability and its
[73]
omni-action in our affairs. To sense the Divine Creative
Wisdom governing and the Divine Creative Law executing
the Will of Wisdom, Truth and Beauty in human affairs.
knowing the truth and believing that which is not so: We
may believe that two and two make five, we cannot know
that two and two make five; we can only really know
that two and two make four, hence we may believe in an
illusion but we can never know that which is not so. We
can only know the Truth.
knowing the truth is the Saviour: Salvation from pain, fear,
etc., is arrived at through understanding the supremacy
of Spirit.
knowing the truth is treatment: Mentally claiming the All-
ness of God: denying anything which contradicts this
Allness: sensing the Spiritual Reality.
knowledge of God: Systematic understanding of the nature
of Reality.
knowledge, the only source of: All knowledge must come
through one or another, or a combination, of science,
which is a demonstrable knowledge of natural laws and
causes; philosophy, which is an expression of opinion
and may or may not be correct, or intuition, sometimes
called revelation, which is a direct perception of truth
without processes of conscious reasoning.
Law: The invisible mechanics of the universe pertaining to
Mind, to Spirit or to physics. The Law of Mind in action
used in mental treatment is intelligent but not volitional.
The Law of Mind in action is a mechanical but intel
[74]
ligent reaction to the consciousness which sets it in mo
tion.
law and the word: The creative power of mental law is set
in motion by the word consciously spoken.
Law, definite use of: We are either using the Law definitely
or indefinitely, consciously or chaotically. Scientific prac
tice consists in conscious application of thought for spe
cific purposes.
law is, but needs enforcement: Laws exist before they are
recognized, but must be understood before they can be
used.
Law knows no favorites: Just as there is neither big nor little
in the Law, so there are no important or unimportant
people, conditions or events; It works just as well for
one as for another.
Law knows us only as we know ourselves: Since the Law of
Mind is a reflection from the mental image or cause to
physical correspondent or effect, it follows that it only
reflects for us, about us, or to us, that which is actually
embodied in our thought. In this way every man becomes
a law unto himself under the One Great Law.
law, letter and spirit of: The letter of the Law is the me
chanical part of a treatment, our mental statements. The
Spirit of the Law is the deep conviction which clothes the
statement with life. This is a combination of intellectual
and spiritual perception.
law, mental, as an infinite medium: The Law of Mind is
without limit, not only in Its ability to produce, but also
to adapt means to ends; all processes are involved within
It.
law, mental, has no intention of its own: The Law of Mind,
like any other law in nature, is not personal but person
alized. (We must not confuse the Law of Mind with the
[75]
Spirit of God), therefore the Law as force, energy and
creative intelligence responds to us only by correspond
ing with our mental attitudes. In this way we make up
Its mind for us, so far as we are concerned.
Law of Attraction: The principle that we attract that to
which our thought is attuned.
Law of Averages: An impersonal and unconscious accept
ance of what the race thought has believed to be true
about all people.
Law of Cause and Effect, of itself, never moves: The Law of
Mind, like other laws, must be consciously used if it is
to produce a definite result. It is always moved upon by the
creative word of Spirit.
Law of Cause and Effect operates automatically: Just as the
creative soil receives the seed and mechanically and auto
matically operates upon
it,
so the Law of Mind acts upon
thought.
Law of Cause and Effect specialized: To create
a
new se
quence in the Law by reflecting
a
new idea into It, thus
causing It to create
a
form corresponding to the idea re
flected.
Law of Chance: Refers to the activity of the collective mind
operating in the individual.
Law of Compensation: Generally refers to the Emersonian
conception of cause and effect.
Law of Consciousness: One's consciousness consists of his
entire mental life both conscious and subjective. The
sum total of beliefs in this consciousness are, at any mo
ment, the law of one's life.
Law of Correspondents: The subjective world contains an
image of everything which
is
reflected in the objective
world. Refers to the theory that the objective universe
is
[76]
projected by an invisible cause which exactly corresponds
to it.
Law of Faith: The law Jesus taught when he said: "Accord
ing to your faith, be it unto you." By this law, which is
the "substance of things hoped for," does man bring into
his experience those things which he desires.
Law of Growth: That principle which contains everything
necessary to the fulfillment of any idea which has been
placed in the creative soil of Mind. As the seed, placed in
the ground, must have a definite period of time for the
development of the life germ to the perfect plant, so does
the Law of Growth require time for the fulfillment of an
idea. Man drops an idea into Mind, and then remains
faithful to it until the Law of Growth delivers to him the
manifestation of his idea in form.
Law of Love, under the: The true nature of Reality must
be love, unity and peace, hence a consciousness of Its true
nature supersedes all other thoughts of consciousness and
heals them.
Law of Mental Equivalents: Whatever is truly embodied in
mind finds a corresponding objectification.
Law of Mind in action: Mental treatment rightly under
stood, given and believed in, because it operates through
the medium of Universal Mind, has within itself the in
telligence and the power to project a form which mathe
matically corresponds to its own awareness.
Law of Mind neither good nor bad: We should not confuse
the Law of Mind with the Spirit. Mental law, like other
laws in nature, is a mechanical force; a doer and not a
knower. We could not speak of any laws of nature as be
ing good or evil, we merely speak of the good or evil use
of such laws.
Law of Reversal: A belief that either we ourselves, or some
[77]
one else, can reverse or make negative the action of the
mental law toward us.
Law of Self-approval: Mental and spiritual realization that
we are one with the Creative Spirit which always ap
proves of us.
Law of Sequence: The principle that the fruits of any seed
planted (be it seed of thought, or a plant, or an animal,
or man) will be like the seed. From the time of the plant
ing of the seed there will be a sequential train of events,
as growth, until the fruits of the seed are manifested.
Law of Spiritual Demonstration: The operation of thought
in the Mind Principle is Law.
Law of Tendency: The principle of Life Itself to create out
of Itself life in form, and everything that is necessary for
its existence. The tendency is toward abundance, good
for all. In man's experience, his bodily health and the
conditions in his life will take form according to the
tendency of his thought. If the trend be toward the con
structive side of life, there will be a forward and upward
movement, along the line of abundance, of good. If the
trend be toward negativity or destructive thinking, his
experiences and conditions will manifest in a downward
tendency, as illness, accidents, lack, etc.
Law of Unity: The Principle of Wholeness in the Universe,
that is the basic Law of Life. In it is contained the Law
of Continuity.
Law says yes when we say yes, no when we say no: Since the
Mental Law can only react, it follows that It must react
to our thought with mathematical precision whatever
that thought may be. Both yes and no are affirmations of
some conviction.
laws execute themselves: Mental treatment, acting as Law,
becomes self-executed, it has within itself everything
necessary to propel itself into action.
[78]
laws of nature self-existent: Universal laws were never cre
ated, they have always existed; they are co-eternal with
Spirit or Reality.
laws of nature are self-existent and self-sustaining: We
never create laws, we use them; laws and principles always
were, we merely apply them.
laws of nature self-operative: All natural laws have the
energy within themselves to be self-operative, else they
would not be natural laws. In other words, if we had to
energize energy where would we go to get the energy
with which to energize it? The proposition becomes self-
evident.
Law, The: The basic Law of Life is the Law of Unity, of
Wholeness.
law unto yourself: Each one individualizes the Creative
Principle in a unique way. Every man's word is his law.
This law may be consciously used.
law, we do not coerce it: Since the Law of Mind is one of
reflection, it is no more necessary to force an image on it
than it would be to force an image into the mirror. The
mirror cannot help but reflect the image before it—the Law
cannot help but reflect our thought.
Law; we invoke the Law, the Law evolves the form: Like
a seed falling into the soil, thought falls into the creative
medium of Mind. This is called invoking the Law —that
which follows, the act of the Creative Mind producing a
form, is called evolution, or the passing of the Law into
form.
Law which binds can free: Just as fire will burn us or cook
our food, so the Law of Mind will act upon our images
of thought, be these images those of freedom or of bond
age.
Law works automatically until we change it: Our thought
[79]
patterns continue to reflect certain conditions until we
change such thought patterns. Our use of the Mental
Law is an automatic, mechanical and mathematical reac
tion to our thought patterns.
left hand path: Symbolic of the destructive use of the crea
tive Power of Mind. Black Magic. Self will, as opposed to
Divine Will, or the Will of God, which can only be of
the nature of Good. The path that leads to complete
negation, since error destroys itself.
let go and let God: To surrender all denial of good, all
sense of personal responsibility in treatment, and come
spiritually to believe that the Law of Spirit meets the
need.
let the dead bury their dead: We do not arrive at new
truths through repeating ancient mistakes, nor do we
gain anything through holding controversy with anti
quated beliefs.
"Let there be light": Let the consciousness be illumined
with love, peace and wisdom.
"Let this mind be in you . . .": Permit yourself to believe
that all Power, Truth and Goodness operate through you.
letting the law do the work: It is the business of the practi
tioner to make his statements in Mind with clarity, con
viction and sincerity, after which he must completely let
go of his treatment; it is now in the Law of Cause and
Effect.
liberation: Freedom. When liberated one is free from the
pairs of opposites.
libido: (psychological) "Psychic energy irrespective of the
object upon which it acts"—Jung. The emotional crav
ing for self-expression emanating from the Id.
libido and the Divine Urge: Libido may be defined as an
emotional craving toward self-expression which is in
[80]
everything. This psychological term has its correspondent
in the Science of Mind in what is called the Divine Urge,
or the necessity that the Life Principle shall be expressed.
libido is an energy: (psychological) Libido is considered as
a dynamic urge and longing to express life; it is emotion
or feeling toward self-expression, therefore it is the most
dynamic energy with which the mind deals.
libido repressed leads to psycho-neurosis: (psychological)
Any unnatural repression of the emotional craving toward
self-expression produces psychic tension. It is the office of
the psychoanalyst to uncover this emotional state and to
bring the repressed desires into the light of day.
Life Principle: Has the same meaning as the Law of Spirit.
Life Principle as essence: The Divine Spirit; Reality; warm,
colorful, personal; God the Spirit; God the Infinite Per
son; our Father which art in heaven.
Life Principle as Law: Law is not a person but a mathe
matical manifestation. We are not only surrounded by
the Universal Spirit but also by the Universal Law. This
is the Law of Cause and Effect; unthinking, unfeeling, it
knows only to do. Thus it follows our patterns of thought.
lift yourself out of your limitation: This means to transcend
old thought patterns.
likeness of God: Man's spiritual nature is God; the differ
ence is not in essence but in degree.
limitation and freedom are identical: Limitation being
merely a way of using the Law is never a thing in itself.
A less limited use produces what we call greater freedom.
This freedom is never a thing in itself. They are merely
two ways of using the same Law.
limitation is not inherent in the Law: Like the law of elec
tricity, the Principle of Mind is neither big, little, good,
bad, high, low, etc., It is merely something to be used;
[81]
It must reflect the images of thought imposed upon It.
living affirmatively: Continually expecting good, happiness,
joy, etc.
livingness: Animate existence, as distinguished from inani
mate existence. Conscious existence. Vigorous, active, ani
mated. The power of motion. Since Life Itself is Intel
ligence, the livingness in any individual expression is
estimated according to the degree of intelligence it dis
plays. Spirit is Life, so the livingness in anything is its
spiritual essence.
living the Life: Continuously embodying the spirit of Good,
of Wholeness, of Harmony, of Love and of Perfection.
Logos: The Divine Creative Word. Probably had a meaning
to the ancient Greeks similar to that of Christ to the
Christian philosophy.
loneliness healed: A recognition that there is one infinite
Person in whom all live in a state of cooperative unity,
heals loneliness.
"Look unto me and be ye saved": In such degree as our
thought deals with absolute Unity it automatically pro
vides salvation.
loosing thoughts: Refers to the necessity of mentally letting
go of one's spiritual treatment after he has given it.
Lord— "The Lord is the light of my life": Spiritual thought,
faith and conviction are like a light shining in the dark
ness.
Lord of hosts: A symbol of the Higher Self.
Lord (the) our God is one Lord: There is but one creative
Causation; one Power; one Presence; one infinite Person.
This One is individualized in everything.
Lord's Supper: The bread and wine representing the flesh
and the blood, or circulation and form. It represents the
liquid and the solid in the universe.
[82]
love: The outpouring of Spirit. The givingness of Life. In
its lesser sense the affection one has for another. The
Principle of Love is not to be confused with mere senti
mentality, although all forms of love are aspects of It.
It is the great transforming Power, which brings every
thing into harmony. It is the unifying Principle, the crea
tive element, the motivating Power of all that is fine and
noble in life. In metaphysical treatment it is the healing
force.
Love and the Law: The impulsion of the Spirit or the Orig
inating Cause is Love; the operation of Its action is
through Law.
love as a solvent: An inner realization of Love dissolves that
which seems opposed to Love.
lower and higher self: The lower self is that part of our
psychological nature which deals only with external facts,
which appear to be separated from that which is good,
perfect and holy. The Higher Self means the Christ; the
realization of truth; the Spiritual Man; that which is
conscious of Its union with goodness, truth and beauty;
that which is always constructive.
lulled to sleep by the race mind: The almost hypnotic power
of thought patterns which have been believed in through
out the ages.
M
Macrocosm: The Universal Mind, Spirit and Law; That
within which all things are contained.
"Make known your requests in secret": Accept the desired
condition as already accomplished fact; do this inwardly,
calmly, peacefully, joyfully and completely.
[83]
making clean the outside of the platter: We cannot erase an
effect with an effect. The outside is the result of the in
side. If inwardly we are whole then outwardly we shall be
made whole.
malinger: To feign illness or inability in order to avoid
one's duty. All forms of fraud relating to sickness and
injury.
man as a center of God-Consciousness: The mind of man is
the Divine Mind operating in him. He is a center of God
in God.
man as a reflection of God: Refers to the belief that man
reflects perfection as an image is reflected in a mirror. Re
fers to the generic or universal man, which the Bible calls
Christ, as a complete and perfect manifestation of the
parent Mind which we call God, reflecting, imaging or
manifesting Its entire perfection. Each individual is called
a member of this Body, thus Jesus said, "I am the Vine,
ye are the branches."
man as mind instead of idea: The Mind of God is also the
mind of man. An absolute union of man with God. One
Being and One Mind.
man as the realization of God: Man is the Self-knowingness
of God; the Consciousness of God in execution; the Ac
tion of God moving into fulfillment; the Thought of God
seeking self-expression.
man as the shadow of a rock: Refers to our spiritual nature
as a hiding place from harm.
mania: Any mental desire accompanied by undue excite
ment.
mania-depressive psychosis: (psychological) Refers to that
type of mental desire wherein occurs periods of exalta
tion and depression.
man is God's identity: The universal and cosmic Self is
[84]
invisible. This invisible Presence is identified in each per
son as It is individualized through him. That which is
manifest alone gives absolute proof of the invisible.
man is universal subjectively: Just as there is One common
Mind spiritually, which is God, so there is One common
Subjective Law of Mind—Man is omnipresent both spir
itually and subjectively.
manna from heaven: The outpouring of Spirit.
man, only one: Since man is the consciousness of God, and
since God's consciousness is one consciousness, there is
but One Man—this Man is universal. This is what the
Bible calls the Christ.
man reveals God: The consciousness of man is the only
thing we know of that has any knowledge of God, merely
because the consciousness of man is the only thing man
knows of, or about, that has any consciousness of any
thing. Thus man alone reveals God.
man's real entity: Consists of the sum total of his under
standing.
manvantara: A world period, an age.
martyr: One who sacrifices life, position, etc., for a principle
or to sustain a cause.
masochism: (psychological) The enjoyment of submission,
pain, defeat. A reversed or inverted reaction to the
pleasure-pain principle. Satisfaction achieved by punish
ment. Enjoying ill health, etc.
mastery: That state of being where one rules, or governs
one's own thoughts and actions.
materialization: Refers to the psychic forming of parts or
the whole of a human body by supernormal means.
material plane: Objectivity; world of form; manifestation;
result.
[85]
matrix: Mother. That which gives form, or original founda
tion to something enclosed in it, as a mold or a womb.
matter seen as mind: Matter or the physical world is not
one thing while Mind is another; they are identical. The
physical universe is Mind in form.
matter, unreality of: This does not deny the physical body
or other physical objects, it merely affirms that all form
is the manifestation of the energy of Mind. Mind is Sub
stance and projects form.
maya: Refers to the possibility of the subconscious mind
presenting us with illusion. Might refer to psychic con
fusion or to the world psyche.
meditation: Mentally dwelling upon an idea in order that
one consciously may become aware of its meaning.
meditation with words: Silent treatment consciously thought.
meditation without words: Consciously centering the
thought on some idea without using any mental form of
treatment. Spiritual listening. Definite spiritual accept
ance without argument or mental controversy.
melancholia: Emotional mental depression.
members in one body . . . and members one of another: A
symbolic description of the unity of all life.
memory, stream of: Individually: the imprint of experience,
mental or objective, within the compass of one's immediate
individualized mind. Collectively: the sum total of all hu
man experiences; the Akasic records; the stream of memory
may be both individual and racial, or world-wide. This
corresponds to the individual unconscious and the collec
tive unconscious of Jungian psychology.
mental adjustment: Adjusting one's emotional and intel
lectual thought patterns to circumstances, situations or
conditions as they must be met in the world of objective
reality.
[86]
mental analysis for spiritual realization: Repudiating the
thought that anything is wrong in the universe, or that
there is some place where something is wrong; or that there
is a sequence of time or cause and effect which either
Greated, sustains or brings about anything wrong; or that
there is any material existence or any existence separated
from Spirit in which anything wrong could be formed; or
that there is any Law or medium for such wrong formation.
Analysis follows with a realization that Spirit, being ever
present, constitutes the only place there is. Spirit, being the
only time, is the Eternal Now. The substance of everything
is pure Spirit, the Law of everything is pure Good. The
word which declares this is the Presence, the Power and
Activity of this Good asserting Itself.
mental arguments, arranging them to meet the need: Arrang
ing thought in such a way as to repudiate certain beliefs
or fundamental erroneous conclusions about the condition
you wish to change.
mental atmosphere: The subjective atmosphere which sur
rounds all persons and all things.
mental attitude: The trend of one's thought, which may be
positive or negative, constructive or destructive. This at
titude is the determining factor of the experiences of life,
as well as the kind of environment.
mental chemicalization: Subjective thought disturbance
which sometimes takes place as old thought patterns rise
to the surface to be replaced by new ones.
mental diagnosis: Uncovering mental causes. Judging the
operation of invisible mental causes through observing
their objective effects.
mental equivalent: The conscious subjective image of
thought which is the cause of the external or correspond
ing condition.
[87]
mental equivalent for right action: The consciousness of suc
cess in everything one undertakes.
mental equivalent representing the blood stream: The idea
of Life flowing, purifying, vivifying, energizing.
mental healing is clear thinking followed by definite state
ment: The clear thinking affirms the Allness of God, Good,
Light, Truth, etc. The definite statements affirm this All
ness while denying any reality to Its opposite.
mental image: The ability of the imagination to form mental
pictures, a phase of the creative process. Subjective like
ness; mental equivalent; mental correspondent, etc.
mental influence: Any suggestion which we take on from the
thought of others or from the race thought.
mental law follows one pattern as quickly as another: Just as
the creative soil produces one plant as quickly as another,
so the Law of Mind follows the pattern of thought given It.
mental law is a mathematical sequence of cause and effect:
Starts with Absolute Intelligence; next the movement of
Intelligence, which is the Word; then the operation of the
Law which obeys the Word; next the manifestation of the
Word through Law. The only spontaneous element in this
entire sequence is the speaking of the word; everything
that follows is mechanical.
mental law never initiates, it always reacts: Only conscious
intelligence can initiate; subconscious intelligence has no
choice other than to accept.
mental law, no big and no little in it: Since all created things
are but forms in mind and never things in themselves, the
reflection of what we call big is neither more nor less than
the reflection of what we call small. The only thing within
us which decides is our mental equivalent.
mental mal-practice: Refers to the mistaken idea that people
can use the Principle of Good to produce evil.
[88]
mental medium: Has reference to the universal subjectivity
which is the medium for thought.
mental plane: Realm of thought; mind; consciousness.
mental spiritual treatment: Spiritualizing the thought in
mental treatment.
mental therapeutics: Mind healing.
mental treatment as an act, art and science: It is an act, being
the conscious activity of thought; it is an art in that there
must be feeling, appreciation and realization; it is a science
in that it deals with a mathematical law of cause and effect.
mental treatment as law: The ideas used in mental treatment
as an intelligent but mathematical law. A statement of
Truth acting as law; therefore spiritual mind treatment
is the Law of Mind in action.
mental treatment cannot heal another unless it first heals
yourself: Since in spiritual treatment one's word uses a
power which is loosed through that word and at the level
of that word's embodiment, it follows that in this practice
one really clears up his own thought of what appears to be
wrong with others, for "if the blind lead the blind, shall
they both not fall into the ditch?"
mental treatment, correcting mistakes in: Consciously recog
nizing the wrong belief or pattern of thought, and by re
versing it consciously recognizing its opposite, which is
Truth.
mental treatment, getting out of our own way in: Just as a
gardener would get out of the way in letting the seed grow,
so we must give our treatment, feeling that there is a Law
which will execute it.
mental treatment, in treating one speaks not to his patient
but about him: Spiritual treatment is neither mental sug
gestion nor coercion, it is something the practitioner real
[89]
izes within himself about his patient, or about the condi
tion which he seeks to help.
mental treatment is actively conscious of good: Spiritual
mind treatment consists of more than passively recognizing
God as the only power; it is active in declaring that this
Power is present wherever the need appears to be.
mental treatment, mathematics of: The consciousness or
inner awareness must find a corresponding outlet which
will be an exact and mathematical reproduction of the
image of thought which projects it.
mental treatment not a game of chance: Mental treatment
demonstrates a mathematical principle; there is no chance
in it. The demonstration is certain to take place at the
level of our own comprehension. Hence, all time in treat
ment is devoted to the purpose of creating such inward
comprehension; its manifestation will be automatic.
mental treatment which is conscious consciousness, auto
matically reflects new conditions: Consciousness means
one's inner perception of life; one's interior awareness.
When consciousness is reorganized in conformity with
Truth it automatically reflects a new impulse to the physi
cal body and creates a new situation in objective affairs.
Since consciousness is the real cause of form and since
form is merely a reflection of consciousness, it follows that
wherever consciousness is changed, form automatically
must change to comply with the new image of thought.
mental work always definite: A mental treatment is neither
day-dreaming, wistful wishing, nor hallucination; it con
sists either of denying that which ought not to be and
affirming that which ought to be, or of silent recognition of
perfection. It is always conscious, active and dynamic.
mesmerized by pain: When the experience of pain becomes
so severe that it is seemingly impossible mentally to turn
to a state of peace, treat to annihilate fear; to mentally
[90]
work until the entire consciousness is lifted from fear into
faith.
Messiah: A great spiritual teacher and leader. A perfect mani
festation of life, as man. The Divine Son of God, having
all power and all wisdom. One who comes to teach and
liberate humanity. Spiritual thought force is the Messiah.
Refers to the higher self in every man.
metaphysics: That which is beyond the known laws of phys
ics. Refers to what are considered unknown but intelligent
forces latent in the human mind.
metaphysics applied: Viewing the universe as a mental spirit
ual system, governed by laws of thought. Man, being part
of this system, discovers the same laws inherent within his
own being and may apply them for definite purposes.
metaphysical healing versus faith cure: Metaphysical prac
tice consists of definite and conscious use of the Law of
Mind within the thought of the one using it. Faith cure
refers to the act of one individual praying that God will
do something to another individual. In one instance the
practitioner understands what he is doing, in the other he
has faith that some power will respond to his prayer.
microcosm: An individualized center within the Macrocosm,
containing within itself the essence of Reality.
mighty-armed: All powerful, having those qualities of cour
age, strength, wisdom, divine tranquillity, etc., which give
one a sense of mastery.
mind: Mind in a conscious state has the same meaning as
Spirit. Mind as law means the subjective reaction of
thought, or the law of mind in action.
Mind, all inclusive: Cause, medium and effect; law, con
sciousness, power; action and reaction; are all included in
Mind.
mind as a law of elimination: A spiritual consciousness of
[91]
perfect circulation and perfect assimilation is a law of
elimination to physical congestions, wrong conditions, etc.
mind as a mirror: Subjective Creative Mind has no choice
other than to receive the images of our thought and reflect
them back to us as conditions.
mind as a servant of the Spirit: Means that the creative Law
of Cause and Effect obeys and is the servant of the directive
word.
mind cannot accept what it rejects: We cannot have what we
will not take, and since the taking is mental we can only
have what we accept.
mind can only operate upon ideas: Since the Mind Principle
is at the root of everything, and since the only activity of
Mind is idea, then the only movement of Mind is upon
idea; it also follows that wherever there is idea the Creative
Principle must operate upon it.
mind, individual: Spirit, God, The Absolute, acting in and
through man.
mind is not one thing and the physical universe another:
Philosophic conception of Spinoza that mind and matter
are identical. Since there is nothing but Mind, Reality or
Spirit, and what It does, and since what It does is the pro
tection of Itself within Itself and upon Itself, then all mani
festation is Mind in form. Since form is bound to the
principle which projects it, by the law of reflection, form
or reflection cannot be divorced from the consciousness
which projects it.
mind over matter: Refers to the misconception that a spirit
ual treatment operates upon a material substance.
mind power: Mind Power exists around us and within us like
the ethers. Thought acts upon this Power as Law.
mind receives our petition and answers our prayer: Since
[98]
Mind is omnipresent and ever receptive It cannot refuse to
listen, nor can It refuse to operate upon our thought.
mind's silent partner: Refers to the Law of Cause and Effect
which obeys the conscious use of it.
mind surgery: A conscious mental act of so completely recog
nizing the Principle of Perfection that the false condition
is dissolved. A definite belief that this is taking place as
a result of a treatment consciously given.
mind, the, that was in Christ Jesus: The universal sense of
goodness and unity upon which Jesus based his thinking.
mind the only actor: The inner movement of the Infinite
Mind produces all creation; all action in creation is Mind
taking form; all Law is Mind in action.
mind, transformed by the renewal of: As habitual thought
patterns are changed, an outward transformation takes
place which exactly corresponds with the inner spiritual
awareness.
miracle: In its narrowest meaning, supernaturalism; an inter
ference by the Divine of the laws of the universe; special
providence. From its broader sense, miracle means that
which is not supernatural but supernormal, and is above
and beyond the average experience and viewpoint. From
the sense in which we use
it,
the word "miracle" means a
wonderful result of the creative power of thought.
mirror of mind: Subjective life acts like
a
mirror reflecting
the forms of thought that are given it. Mind acts like a
mirror, reflecting the images of our thoughts back to us
exactly as we think them.
monad of life: The symbol of Spirit differentiated in human
souls.
monogenesis: The development of all life from One Origi
nating Source by the action of Spirit upon Itself.
mortal and immortal mind: Since there
is
but One Mind
[93]
which is God, all Mindls immortal. By the mortal, carnal
or human mind is meant any mis-statement about, or mis
understanding of, Reality. Mortal mind refers to the belief
that there is a mind separate from God; that man is in
some way disconnected from the Universal. A supposi
tional opposite to good.
Most High One: The One Divine Spirit unfolding at the
center of man's consciousness. This One Spirit is the same
in every person.
motivation: (psychological) Why people act as they do; the
study of motivation is a study of human behavior. Uncon
scious emotional impulsions toward certain acts.
motivation toward self-destruction: (psychological) Uncon
scious emotional desire to get rid of one's self in order to
avoid certain situations.
mountain or mount: Consciousness functioning on the plane
of spiritual realization.
mountain top: The highest form of consciousness.
movement of consciousness upon itself: Refers to the self-
contemplation of Spirit or the action of Life upon Itself,
which is the initial movement of creation.
movement of Spirit is an interior movement: There is noth
ing that Spirit can move upon except Itself, and nowhere
It can move other than within Itself; therefore all move
ment is inward, upon Itself.
movement of thought: Refers to any act of consciousness
within the self.
multiple personality: (psychological) Subconscious disassocia-
tions producing more than two apparent personalities.
multiplicity in unity: All things come from one fundamental
Unity.
music of the spheres: The rhythmic harmony that flows
through everything.
[94]
my consciousness is God: In such degree as our consciousness
operates at all, it must operate in and upon the Creative
Principle. In this sense it is God.
"My Father worketh hitherto, and I work": Refers to the
evolutionary process which arbitrarily compels man to
evolve to the point of self-determination, freedom, voli
tion; from this point man's further evolution results from
his conscious cooperation with the Creative Principle.
"My Lord and My God": The Presence within me which is
complete, perfect and whole.
"My yoke is easy and my burden is light": The Spirit does
not enter into conflict or labor. The process of creation is
painless, peaceful and without effort.
mystical marriage: Conscious union of the individual "I"
with the universal "I Am." The conscious at one ment
with the Source of Being, God. A consciousness of the
unity of all life. The joining of the Great Self, the God-in-
man, with the little self, or the limited human conscious
ness.
mysticism: The inward awareness of the divine Presence in
all things. Not to be confused with mystery, nor with psy-
chism. A mystic is one who intuitionally senses Reality.
Name, in His: In compliance with the nature of Reality.
narcissism: (psychological) Self regard; worship of self; cen
tered in self. Infantile.
nature as the great nothing: Term used by Neo-Platonists
to express the idea that the visible universe is not a thing
in itself; it means that nature is no-thing in itself; it is an
effect of that which projects it.
[95]
Nature of God forever unfolding: Since Reality is infinite in
all of Its aspects and since we are forever discovering new
truths, nature of necessity ever unfolds itself to us through
our experience.
nature unaided fails: This saying, ascribed to Hermes, means
that the laws of nature must be consciously used before
they will do definite things for us. This is just as true of
the laws of mind as it is of the laws of electricity. God can
do for us only what He can do through us. We should
cooperate with and specialize the laws of nature.
nature waits on man: Ancient saying in reference to the self-
evident truth that natural laws, which also include spirit
ual laws, may be consciously used only after they are dis
covered and understood.
negation, do not dwell on: Think of negation only as some
thing which has no law to support it; deny its existence in
Reality and turn at once to its opposite, which is the
Truth.
negative thinking: Thinking with reference to opposites.
. . Neither do I condemn thee": The Spirit never con
demns but Its judgment is always correct, since the Law
of Cause and Effect is immutable.
nerves as a manifestation of intelligence: In spiritual treat
ment one works to know that the entire nervous system is a
manifestation of Infinite Intelligence in which there is no
irritation, agitation nor inflammation.
nervous disorders: (psychological) Usually the result of a
disease of the mind, of the psyche or the mental and emo
tional life.
Neumonon: The Spirit, or innermost essence; the root of any
thing; that which makes it an individual thing.
neurology: (psychological) A study of the structure and func
tions of the nervous system.
[96]
neurosis: (medical) A functional disease of the nerves.
(psychological) The same as psychoneurosis.
neurosis, compulsive: See obsessional neurosis.
neurosis, compulsive in the family: Certain ideas operating
through family life, producing certain compulsory or al
most automatic reactions on the part of the entire family.
neurosis, compulsory national: Fundamental ideas held to
be true by any particular race, leading to certain mental
and physical reactions by the majority of the members of
such a race.
neurosis, obsessional: (psychological) Compelling and per
sistent ideas, together with irresistible impulses toward
certain acts which are contrary to the reasoning conscious
will of the individual. (Synonymous with compulsion neu
rosis.)
neutralize fear with faith: Definite treatment declaring for
the presence of Goodness, Peace, Joy, etc., until the nega
tive state of fear disappears from the mind.
neutralize— it is possible for one to neutralize his own effort:
If certain modes of thinking produce certain results, then
opposite modes of thought will produce opposite results.
However, we should always remember that true thought
overcomes all unlike itself, as light dissipates darkness.
neutralizing thought: Conscious act of mentally erasing nega
tive thought impulses.
never too late: In mental treatment, no matter what the pre
vious experience may have been, a new creation is about
to take place in a timeless universe.
New Thought: A system of thought which affirms the unity
of God with man, the perfection of all life and the immor
tality and eternality of the individual soul forever expand
ing.
new thought applied: The conscious use of the laws of
[97]
thought for the purpose of producing betterment in one's
life or in the lives of others.
New Thought Movement: Groups, societies, religious and
spiritual organizations built upon the New Thought phi
losophy, leaving room for ample independent individual
ism. The principles governing the New Thought Move
ment are universal but individually and independently
applied.
Nirvana: In its broadest sense, a state of bliss.
no life separated from God: Since there is but One Mind, or
final Causation, each must not only partake of Its nature,
but must actually be Its nature in manifestation.
"No man hath ascended up to heaven but he that came down
from heaven, even the son of man which is in heaven": It
would be impossible to go to Heaven unless our- nature
originated in Heaven, and since all Reality is One, and
ever present, we are already in Heaven, could we but com
prehend Its harmony.
None is good save one, that is God: There is only One Crea
tive Cause, nothing flows from It but goodness.
no one to convince but yourself: In mental treatment one's
entire endeavor is to straighten out his own thought about
the person or the condition he is working for.
no reason for truth: There never was a time when truth be
gan to be true. God did not make truth, since God is
Truth, therefore the Truth is that which Is.
norm: (psychological) A normal pattern, standard or value,
for a group of persons or for a type.
"Not by power nor by might but by my Spirit": All power is
spiritual; all law is Mind in action.
nothing but what Mind is and what It does: The One Infinite
Mind, being all Cause, must also be all effect. Hence what
we call our mind is this Mind in us. This Mind, through
[98]
our own awareness, is presenting us either with subjective
hallucination and objective confusion, or with subjective
union and objective peace, according to the way we use
this Mind. Our world both mental and physical is either
an outpicturing of some adequate concept of the union of
all life, or else it is an outpicturing of a misconception of
such unity.
not individual but individualized: Individual would imply
separation and disunion; individualized means many
points of consciousness in One Mind.
"Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man, but
that which cometh out of the mouth . . .": It is not the
suggestion which our environment reflects to us, but our
reaction to it which does the damage.
"No weapon that is formed against Thee shall prosper":
When consciousness functions from the standpoint of spir
itual awareness, nothing can destroy its effect.
nucleus: In physical science, a core, or kernel. A center
around which matter gathers. In the psychic life a nucleus
is created through thought. It may be thought of fear or
faith; constructive or destructive; but whatever it
is,
it
will
attract like matter to it. It does this,
if
undisturbed, or not
neutralized until an external form, corresponding to the
nucleus, comes into manifestation on the form side of life.
It
is
an illustration of the "Law of Correspondences." Ac
cording to the idea held in mind, which creates the nu
cleus, the corresponding manifestation appears on the ma
terial plane.
obedience to the Divine Law: Conscious union and coopera
tion with the Divine Nature that
is
Goodness, Truth,
[99]
Beauty, etc.
objective: Expression outwardly, or in a positive manner, as
opposed to subjective, or introversion. Outward form.
objective metapsychics: Raps, levitation, apparitions, etc.
objective plane: The outer world of expression and experi
ence.
objective world: The world of conditions.
objective world as cinema pictures: A term used by certain
groups to express the idea that the entire visible universe is
a moving picture of subjective thoughts which project it.
oblation: In church ritual the act of offering to God the
Eucharistic elements (bread and wine), in token of devo
tion and sacrifice. In metaphysics oblation means to sacri
fice the self to the Self—that
is,
the human frailties of
anger, dishonesty, criticism, dislike, etc., are laid on the
altar of Divine Love as
a
sacrifice to the God-Self, that the
human self may be merged completely with the Divine.
oblivion through self destruction: (psychological) Uncon
scious desire to flee from Reality, as in alcoholic or drug
addiction.
obsession: To come under the influence of persons, ideas,
fears, etc. (psychological) The presence of an irresistible
idea. (psych. res.) The control of
a
person through
a dis-
carnate personality.
obstetrics, spiritual: Conscious realization that physical birth
is
the self-recognition of Spirit breathing Itself into form.
octave: The term
is
founded on the number eight. As in the
musical scale the eighth note
is
a
repetition of the first, but
in
a
higher sequence, or octave. Thus the end of one series
of musical sounds
is
the beginning of another. The term
is
used in spiritual teaching, in that Life
is
a
continual un-
foldment, that which develops being dependent upon
that which has gone before.
[100]
of the earth earthy: Refers to any state of consciousness based
upon merely a material conception.
ointment: Symbolizes Divine Love or the Divine Nature.
old age: Arises from the belief that there is a beginning and
an end of Reality. As a matter of fact, the experiences of
tomorrow are not yet born, hence every day marks a peren
nial dawn, an everlasting here and an eternal now.
Om: (Aum) The most holy word of the Vedas. A symbolic
word meaning the Supreme Being, the Divine or Deity.
The Logos. Sound. The Word. Bliss Absolute. Signifies
that "which has been, that which is and that which is
to be."
omega: The last letter of the Greek alphabet. Symbolizes the
end.
Omnipotence— Omnipresence— Omniscience: Spirit is All
Power, All Presence and All Wisdom.
omnipotent in power, omniscient in wisdom, omnipresent
in being: Since the Infinite is an indivisible Unity, Its en
tire nature is always at the point of our attention.
Omnipotence within me: The Power of the Absolute at the
center of my own being.
Omnipresence within me: The Presence of God, Spirit, Real
ity, at the center of my own being. "The Highest God and
the innermost God is One God."
Omniscience in me: The All-Knowing Mind at the center of
my own being.
Once Born: The First Birth is the awakening of the con
sciousness to its natural environment with a sense of isola
tion and separateness; anything that designates purely phys
ical or material; anything that designates merely mental,
lacking the consciousness of eternal Goodness or Divine
Union.
One Body, One Spirit, One Mind: Spiritually we are one with
[101]
God as Absolute Intelligence. Mentally there is one Law
of Mind which we all use, and physically all manifest forms
are but different rates of vibration of one fundamental
stuff.
One Mental Law: Since there is but One Mind there is but
one Law of Mind. We each individualize this Law, thus
each becomes a law unto himself in the One Law.
One Mind for all people: There is but One Mind which each
one individualizes.
Oneness can produce multiplicity but not duality: Duality
supposes opposing fundamental principles. One principle,
however, can produce innumerable forms, personalities,
etc., without in any way denying its unity.
oneness with Spirit makes our thought creative: Our thought
is not creative because we either will or wish it to be so,
rather it is creative because this is its nature.
one place, one time, one substance, one Spirit and one Law:
This realization should be carefully considered in every
treatment in order to bring the effect of the treatment into
the immediate experience.
One Presence: There is but One Universe, One Creative
Spirit, One Life Principle, in, around and through every
thing. This One is also the Presence within man —the True
Self.
One Unit, many manifestations: Just as mathematics has one
final unit with countless expressions, so there is but One
Mind Principle in the universe with innumerable expres
sions.
Only Begotten Son: A son begotten of the Only Father.
only One Body: The entire manifest universe is the body of
God; as there is One Mind, there is One Body; this Body
is perfect.
[102]
only One Mind: The mind which we use in giving treatment,
or in thinking at any time, is the Mind of God in us.
only those who recognize Spiritual Power can have conscious
use of it: Even though all people already are endowed with
spiritual power, one must consciously believe in and use it
if he hopes to get definite results.
ontogeny: The life history or development of an individual.
ontology: The science of being, or reality. The branch of
metaphysics that investigates nature; essential properties
and relation of being as such. The doctrine of the universal
and necessary characteristics of all existence.
opposites, the pairs of: The principle of duality, or two op
posing forces, as light and darkness, heat and cold, male
and female, positive and negative, etc. These principles are
found in most ancient religions, as well as in the Christian.
However, the term does not necessarily mean conflict, but
rather balancing forces. They are really the two ends of a
pole. On the physical plane, often referred to as "the
shadow world," or the "world of illusion," man swings be
tween these pairs of opposites —joy and despair, sickness
and health, etc. As he becomes illumined, and rises in his
thought to the plane of Reality, at the apex of the triangle,
as it is symbolized, he sees the pairs of opposites in their
true light—as one—the two ends of the base of the tri
angle.
oral character: One characterized by conspicuous residua of
the stage of psychological development in which the child's
attitude toward the world is determined by his wish to
take it in through the mouth, and to destroy with his
mouth anything that resists his demands.
"Or ever the silver cord be loosed": Refers to a complete psy
chic severance from the physical body. When the silver, or
psychic cord, is loosed then there is complete separation;
[103]
physical disintegration immediately sets in because the
spirit is freed from the body.
organs and functions as spiritual ideas: All organs and func
tions of the body are ideas and manifestations of spiritual
perfection. There is no organ or function separate from the
idea.
original sin: The state of ignorance which exists in mind be
fore it discovers its true relationship to the universe.
Originating Spirit: The Eternal Reality back of all forms of
Life. That which has brought everything that exists into
being. The Absolute.
origin of evil: Evil has no origin, for if it did the universe
would be divided against itself, and the discovery of truth
would produce bondage. There never was a time when two
and two made five.
"Our bloated nothingness": Any and all mental concepts
which confuse effects with causes.
our Redeemer: Right ideas definitely stated and completely
believed in.
our salvation: Definite, conscious and active knowledge that
right ideas heal, change conditions, etc.
our universe as our meditation: The reproduction of the
cosmos in the individual life.
our within lies open to the Infinite: Since there is but One
Mind which we use, it follows that there is a place within
each one of us which merges with the Infinite. The Over-
Soul, Over-Self or Christ Principle within us is a direct
and unique impartation of the Universal Spirit through
us. There is a place within us which knows the answer to
every problem, knows how to meet every situation; it is
boundless, free and perfect.
outlining in treatment: Not to be confused with choice. Out
lining means definitely determining just how a demonstra-
[104]
tion shall be made. We do not outline, but we do choose.
outward correspondent of inner realization: Conditions are
like images reflected in a mirror; mind is the mirror,
thought is the image, condition is the reflection.
over all, in all and through all: The one creative Principle
permeating everything as Mind, as Substance and as form.
overcoming evil with good: Bringing the light of truth to
bear upon the belief in, or the experience of evil.
Over-Self: The Spirit of God which is also individualized as
the spirit of man.
Over-Soul: Refers to the Universal Mind or the Universal
Spirit.
P
pain, treatment for: A realization of its opposite, which is
peace, calmness, joy and perfect circulation.
pairs of opposites: A belief in good and evil; truth and error;
heaven and hell; love and hate, etc.
parable: A symbolic presentation illustrating the relationship
between the visible and the invisible; between the laws of
nature and Spirit.
parable of the sower: Represents ideas which fall into the
parent or productive mental soil.
parallel between physical and spiritual laws: Emersonian
concept that spiritual, physical and mental laws are iden
tical; that the objective universe is reproduced by a spirit
ual one and that we may interpret the spiritual by rightly
understanding the physical.
particular, the: As the Universal Spirit of Life manifests on
the physical plane, It manifests in different modes of ex
[ 105]
istence as the Particular. It can only manifest in form as
form, the Particular.
Passover, symbol of: Passage from the lower to the higher
nature; from mental to spiritual planes.
past, not bound by the: Since the Creative Principle is for
ever free from any condition; It is never bound by any
thing that has happened. However, our belief that what
happened yesterday must create our experience today does
bind us. We must become free from this belief.
path: The Journey of Life that leads through experience to
union with the Source of Being.
patient: One suffering physically, mentally, emotionally;
one limited in personal relationships to life; one lacking
friendship, opportunity for self-expression; one who is im
poverished. Many metaphysical teachers and practitioners
refer to such a one as a student rather than as a patient.
Patient suggests negation while student suggests one who
needs to become instructed or who needs to be led, into
the affirmative side of life.
patterns of thought: Subjective thought atmospheres per
taining to any condition, situation, etc.; habitual and
largely unconscious mental attitudes tending to perpet
uate themselves.
peace: Perfect harmony, well-being. Peace is not an absence
of activity, but a very vital, vibrant quality of joyous se
renity, where everything is in harmonious relationship.
peace is at the center of everything: The eternal equilibrium
of the universe is never even temporarily disturbed; there
is a place within us which is this equilibrium.
Pearl of great price: Symbolizes the Kingdom of Heaven en
folded within the Higher Self.
perfect as the heavenly Father is perfect: The indwelling
Spirit within us is God. As consciousness becomes aware of
[106]
this, all conditions and situations, including the physical
body, are lifted up, regenerated, born again.
perfect body: A spiritual understanding does not mean a
denial of the physical body, but an affirmation that it is a
body of spiritual ideas forever perfect, forever harmonious
and forever one with the Eternal Principle of its being,
which is God.
Perfection of God is the perfection of man: God means the
Creative Principle of which man is a projection, an em
anation, a reflection, an impartation or an incarnation,
whichever expression one desires to use. The effect must
be like its Cause. Since there is but One Ultimate Mind
which we use and One Ultimate Spirit in which we live,
and since this Reality is perfect and is our life, then this
perfection is our perfection whether we are conscious of
the fact or not.
perfect universe: Since Perfect Cause must produce perfect
effect, and since Causation must be perfect in order not to
be self-destructive, it follows that there is a perfect universe
even though we may imperfectly perceive it.
persistence in prayer: To continue treating, praying, medi
tating, until consciousness is changed, from which change
there inevitably follows a demonstration.
personal choice is Divine Freedom: Without choice there
would be no spontaneous volition and without the possi
bility of more than one experience to choose, there would
be no choice, hence Divine Freedom implies the possibility
not of real limitation, but of experiencing apparent limi
tation until, through experience, consciousness increases.
personality: The objective manifestation of individuality.
The use made of individuality. Personality may become
acquired or remolded, individuality is always a unique
manifestation of the Infinite and cannot be changed. Sum
total of all experiences as they manifest in our actions.
[107]
Popularly, the physical and mental qualities of the indi
vidual as they impress others. Metaphysically, personality
is the use we make of individuality.
personality is neither evil nor an illusion: We do not deny
personality, we merely affirm its union with the Infinite.
Man is a center of God consciousness in Infinite Mind. He
is the personality of God.
personalizing belief in evil: The sum total of human thought
about evil, devil, Satan, etc., creates an image of belief
which operates through all people and which has even ap
parently been seen by certain persons while in a psychic
state. For example, Martin Luther was supposed to have
actually seen the devil, and yet there is no real devil, there
fore he must have mentally seen a personification of a
belief in evil.
personalness of God: The Spirit is personal to each one of us,
since It is personified through us.
personal responsibility and obligation in treatment: It is our
obligation to give a treatment if we have contracted to do
so; the responsibility of its fulfillment is in the Law of
Cause and Effect.
phantoms of the dead: Subjectively seeing people who have
passed on; apparitions of those who have left this world.
phantoms of the living: Subjectively seeing people who are
alive; the apparitions of living persons.
philosophic dualism: Any belief in more than one ultimate
power, such as good and evil; any belief that there is a ma
terial universe separated from a spiritual universe, etc.
philosophy: Any man's opinion about anything.
phobia: Fear. Dislike or aversion. Exaggerated fear or dread
of the following: aero- high places; agora- open places;
algo- pain; claustro- closed or confined places; hemato-
sight of blood; hydro- water; myso- dirt, contamination;
[108]
necro- dead bodies; nycto- darkness, night; patho- disease,
suffering; peccato- sinning; phono- speaking aloud; photo-
strong light; sito- eating; tapho- being buried alive;
thanato- death; toxo- being poisoned; xeno- strangers; zoo-
animals.
phylogeny: Race history of an animal or vegetable type.
physical body is never denied: In spiritual mind healing we
do not deny the physical body, we affirm it to be a body of
spiritual ideas.
physical brain: Represents the capacity of the mind to think,
know, understand, etc.
physical organs as ideas of mind rather than forms of matter:
We do not deny arms, legs, lungs, etc.; we affirm that they
are perfect ideas of mind reflecting the Divine.
physical science deals only with the physical: Physical science
as such, ignores the mental and spiritual, hence it often
denies the Reality of that Intelligence which makes it pos
sible for the physicist to build, equip or run a laboratory.
Physician heal thyself: Before we can heal others, we must
first heal ourselves.
physician to the soul: One who heals the mind.
play of Life upon Itself: All creation is a result of the Crea
tive Spirit operating upon Itself and fulfilling Its desires
out of the Law of Its own being.
pleasing in the sight of God: Cannot refer to a God who is
either pleased or displeased as human beings are, but refers
to that which cooperates with the Divine Reality, thus,
partaking of Its nature, also partakes of Its power.
Polarity, Law of: The necessity that every definite idea held
in mind shall produce an exact correspondent; the Law
responds by corresponding. The result of a mental treat
ment is a reflected condition which exactly corresponds
with the image of thought held before the mirror of mind.
[109] .
positive: Opposite to negative. That which is definite, affirma
tive, constructive, certain, direct, outgoing.
positive thinking: Thinking without reference to opposites.
poverty: Belief in lack, or lack of the manifestation of abun
dance.
poverty thought: An impoverished thought; a denial of
good; a limited sense of life.
power— belief is not the power but the avenue through
which it flows: Just as in electricity, the generator, the dy
namo, and the distributor are not the electrical power, but
the mechanical instruments through which it flows, for
specific uses, so faith and belief are mechanical, mental
avenues through which a power, already existing, flows
into definite use.
Power is not injected into mind: We take power out of Mind,
we do not put it in. The Principle of Power exists and we
use It. This is true of every law of nature. All the laws of
nature are self-executing. This is also true of Mind, which
makes things out of Itself by Itself becoming the thing It
makes. Man is not a creator, he is a user of that which al
ready exists. In a certain sense, he breaks it down into dif
ferent combinations.
Power is, we use It: The creative energy of Mind already ex
ists, we merely use it in definite ways.
power of a mental treatment: The spiritual conviction which
is arrived at.
power we seek we already possess: Power
is,
we use It. It al
ready exists at the center of our being. We should learn to
use It consciously and constructively.
Power
is
not created by us, we use It: We never create life nor
the forces of nature. Because we live and because these
forces exist, we use them. They are all self-executing. The
Law of Mind
is
a
natural law.
[no]
practical Christianity: Applying the principles which Jesus
taught to everyday problems.
practice— in practice you convince yourself: A spiritual mind
treatment takes place entirely in the thought of the one
giving it. The practitioner never seeks to convince anyone
but himself no matter who he is treating or for what pur
pose.
practice is not something we do but something we know: The
application of spiritual mind practice rests entirely on the
theory that spiritual truth known is demonstrated. There
is nothing we can do to the Creative Principle other than
to recognize It as operating.
practicing spiritual science: The process of realizing and af
firming Truth.
practicing the presence of God: A conscious and continuous
attempt to feel the Divine Presence in and through every
thing. Consciously sustaining an interior awareness of
God.
practicing the Truth: A conscious application of the spirit
ual Principle to the alleviation of human needs.
practitioner clothes his patient with love: All spiritual prac
tice must cast out fear and recognize the presence of love,
peace and joy.
practitioner heals himself of any belief in the necessity of a
condition from which his patient suffers: Since all mental
practice is in the medium of the One Mind, and since we
neither hold thought, send out thoughts, nor seek to con
centrate anything, it is self-evident that all a practitioner
could do would be to straighten up his own thought about
his patient.
practitioner is the first one to be healed: Since all mental
practice is something the practitioner does to himself, it
follows that he must heal himself of any belief in the ne
cessity of the wrong he wishes to heal in another.
[lll]
practitioner must have confidence: Words without sincere
conviction, deep meaning and complete acceptance in the
mind of the practitioner, cannot be effective.
practitioner must rise above both mistake and its conse
quence: Since mistake, which is the sin or the wrong doing,
is an error in judgment, and since the consequence is the
result of this error, and since it is the practitioner's busi
ness to heal both the mistake in judgment and its conse
quence, it follows that the practitioner must rise in con
sciousness to the realization where there is neither mistake
nor consequence.
practitioner must rise above both wrong physical reactions
and wrong mental reactions: To the practitioner both the
mental state which produces a wrong condition and the
wrong condition produced, are one and the same thing,
since one is the cause of the other. The practitioner must
not believe in the spiritual reality of either.
practitioner never condemns patients: It is the office of a
practitioner to correct mistakes, never to condemn them.
He cannot do good work if he sits in judgment on anyone.
This is also recognized to be true in the science of psychol
ogy-
practitioner or healer: A practitioner is one who consciously
practices spiritual awareness for himself and others: The
Life Principle Itself is the Healer.
practitioner, spiritual, never enters into a psychic state: Spir
itual practice is always consciously directed. A treatment
is always conscious, self-assertive and directive.
praise and thanksgiving: A joyful recognition of the Divine
Presence combined with a sense of gratitude. A joyous and
enthusiastic acceptance.
prayer: Silent contemplation of the Divine Presence ever
stimulating the thought, and the universal Law of Mind
[112]
ever acting. The act of becoming still and knowing that
God, the Creative Wisdom and Power, is moving in, upon
and through our affairs.
prayer as a unifying process: True prayer elevates the con
sciousness to a recognition of the unity of all life. It is
neither petition, supplication nor despair, rather it is rec
ognition, unification and communion.
prayer as communion and prayer as petition: Prayer as com
munion, we have just denned. Prayer as petition means
adding to communion the conscious recognition that some
definite need is met or some specific good is attained.
prayer, highest form of: Seeking conscious union with God.
prayer is its own answer: The answer to prayer, in accord
with cause and effect, is made possible through the belief,
acceptance, faith, expectancy of the one praying.
prayer of faith: Quiet contemplation of the Allness of Spirit,
coupled with definite realization that some particular good
is taking place.
prayer, some is more effective than others: Every prayer is
effective in such measure as it creates faith and acceptance.
Since one's faith and acceptance more or less varies, it is
self-evident that some prayers would be more effective than
others.
pray without ceasing: Never stop thinking affirmatively.
pray with thanksgiving: To be so certain that the demonstra
tion is made, or the prayer answered, that we actually ac
knowledge it by giving thanks. Joyful acceptance; enthu
siastic belief.
precept upon precept, line upon line: Refers to evolution of
consciousness.
pre-conscious: Loosely speaking, that part of the memory
which is quickly brought to the surface.
premonition: Revelation of some future event.
["3]
primordial: Refers to the First Principle: the Originating
Power.
Principle always responsive to thought: Since Principle is
Mind, and thought or idea is the only activity of Mind,
then the only activity of Principle is the activity of thought
which constitutes the Law of Mind in action. Mind cannot
fail to respond to thought.
principle in action: From the standpoint of mental treat
ment, means that the treatment sets the Creative Law in
motion, which produces a mathematical result.
Principle of Unfoldment: The Universal Spirit of Life Itself
is the Principle of Unfoldment, for Life is forever evolv
ing, or unfolding higher and higher forms. This Principle
is a part of the forward movement of Life, the Nature of
Being.
principles are universal: Two and two are four here or on the
planet of Mars. What is true on one plane is true on all. All
laws are universal.
Principle, the more it is generalized the more it can be spe
cialized: The more we understand about any law of nature
in its universal action, the more definitely we can use it for
personal purposes.
problems, working out of: Instead of dwelling on the prob
lem, we should recognize its answer, sensing that since the
Spirit has no problems, that which appears as a human
problem is dissolved and in its place is the right answer.
projection: (psychological) The tendency of ascribing to
others certain characteristics which are not recognized in
one's self, but which exist in the subconscious.
prophecy: Foreknowing future events.
prophecy, the spirit of: The ability to foreknow what is going
to happen; this is not an idea of fate but consists in sub
consciously following out a sequence of cause and effect.
["4]
prototype: The pattern, or original idea, from which a form
is built. An archetype. Spiritual prototypes are the roots of
every existing thing.
Providence, no special dispensation of: Neither God nor the
Law chose Moses to become a law-giver, or Edison a light-
bearer, rather these men chose to specialize the Law; hence,
according to the very law specialized it appears as though
a Divine Providence had particularly chosen them. This is
in line with the Hermetic saying that nature obeys us as we
first obey it, illustrated by Jesus in the washing of the
disciples' feet.
psyche: The mental life.
psyche, re-education of: (psychological) Reorganizing the
whole mental life on a constructive basis. (metaphysical)
Re-education of the whole mental life on a sound founda
tion of the Unity of God and man.
psychiatrist: One who specializes in treatment of mental dis
orders.
psychiatry: In practice, the theoretical taking apart and reas
sembling of the psyche, or the subjective thought patterns
which decide men's behavior. The medical specialty deal
ing with mental disorders.
psychic: One who is able more or less clearly to bring subjec
tive impressions to the surface. Subjective.
psychic blow: (psychological) Any shock to the mental life.
Sometimes called psychic trauma.
psychic body: Psyche, from the Greek, means soul. Thus the
psychic body is the vehicle of man, through which he con
tacts the Soul of the Universe, or the Great Subjective side
of Life.
psychic development not necessary for spiritual healing:
Since spiritual mind healing is a result of definitely know
ing the truth and of making definite statements in Mind,
["5]
and since psychic development depends largely upon re
ceiving impressions already accepted by oneself or others,
it follows that they are two different fields.
psychic life is infused with our own opinions: Since the psy
chic life is largely subjective and also largely partakes of
the race consciousness, it is rilled with thoughts and opin
ions of ourselves, of others, and of the race.
psychic pus: (psychological) Subjective states of consciousness
which mentally fester; a new expression in psychology.
psychic revelations: Uncovering the subjective life of oneself
or others, or of the race consciousness, revealing human,
rather than Divine Truths.
psychic wounds brought to the light of day: (psychological)
To see what they are; why they are; to admit them; to
consciously live them over again; to know them for what
they are really worth; consciously to change the buried
belief.
psychoanalysis: A system of psychology which attributes hu
man behavior to repressed factors in the unconscious mind.
psychogenesis: Origin and development of the mind. Science
of mental development.
psychological complex: See Complex.
psychological, four great adjustments: Adjustment to the self,
to the family life, to society, and to the Universe.
psychology: The study of mental actions and reactions; sci
ence of the mental life.
psychology, relationship to metaphysics: Psychology is a
study of mental actions and reactions. The Science of
Mind, while including individual mental actions and reac
tions, also assumes a Universal Mind acting and reacting,
in and through the individual life.
psychometry: The art of measuring the duration of mental
processes, or of determining the time relations of mental
[116]
phenomena. An alleged faculty of divination through
contact with an object or person.
psychoneurosis: (psychological) A morbid mental state in
which the normal flow of self-expression is inhibited and
is forced to discharge its energy through substitute outlets.
These outlets or modes of expression (behavior) are ab
normal and constitute the "neurotic symptoms."
psychophysics: (psychological) Study of the relationship be
tween body and mind.
psychosis: A state in which the person yields to impulses con
trary to natural laws or social standards, the impulses be
ing so powerful as to escape all inhibition. The person ex
presses himself in a chaotic, disorganized fashion without
regard for any reality. Departure from reality. Also a psy
chosis may mean any particular one of the recognized psy
chiatric disease pictures.
psychotherapy: From our viewpoint, mental healing.
punishment: The inevitable reaction of the Law of Cause
and Effect. The destructive use of the Law always reacts on
the one who uses it.
purify: To remove every trace of extraneous matter.
purpose of statements used in mental treatment: To convince
one's own mind.
purposive accidents: Occurrences by which the body suffers
damage as a result of circumstances which appear to be
fortuitous, but which, in instances, show by their nature
that they fulfill specifically unconscious tendencies.
quench not the spirit: Be open at all times for inspiration.
["7]
R
race belief, each has a tendency to repeat it: Thought pat
terns formed by the concensus of human opinion, auto
matically operate through everyone, unless consciously re
jected.
race belief, living under the: Living in accord with the law of
averages; in accord with what the average person experi
ences.
race mind: The sum total of all human belief throughout the
ages. The collective unconscious; race belief; race sugges
tion.
raising your consciousness: Causing one's interior awareness
to believe, think, feel and accept, from the standpoint of
what he feels spiritual perfection must be.
Reality back of all creation: Spirit of consciousness acting
through idea.
Reality back of everything is spiritual: There is an invisible
cause back of every fact. This cause projects the fact; with
out it there would be no fact.
Reality is more than an intellectual perception: Spiritual
truth is something we feel; it is deeper than words; just as
we know that we live; it is an interior awareness.
realization: A complete acceptance of an idea.
realization is the healing: All mental arguments or processes
in spiritual mind healing are for the purpose of creating an
interior awareness or state of realization. It is this realiza
tion which is the essence of the healing power.
realization of ideas in the silence: Having started communing
with the Infinite, one definitely realizes not the need, but
its opposite.
[118]
realizing the Presence of God: Consciously becoming aware
of the Intelligent Perfection at the center of everything.
Real Self: The Christ within; the God Principle; the incar
nation of the Spirit; the unique individualization of Re
ality.
Real Self and the counterfeit: The Real Self is perfect and
eternal; there is no counterfeit other than in belief.
receptiveness: To be open to suggestion. To receive or ab
sorb; to take in or to contain.
receptivity, no one gives to us but ourselves or takes from us
but ourselves: Man is his own heaven and hell; prayer is
its own answer; the law is flowing through each at the level
of his realization of the meaning of life; the Spirit can only
give us what we will take, etc.
reciprocal action: By this principle man draws into his ex
perience those conditions and experiences which are in
direct correspondence to that to which his thought is at
tuned. It is a part of the Law of Correspondences, and is
illustrated by the Hermetic axiom, "As above, so below"
and vice versa. Thus, if his thought is negative, or destruc
tive, he finds himself ill or suffering lack, etc. If his thought
is centered in a contemplation of fullness, abundance and
the joyousness of life, his experience will be in like nature.
recognition of substance and supply: The mental acceptance
and realization that Spirit is Substance and that our daily
needs are met through an action of the immutable Law
of Cause and Effect.
redeem: To liberate, or deliver from bondage. To take the
ugly things from the past, and transmute them into things
of beauty through treatment. As problems are transmuted
they dissolve, as hate is redeemed (transmuted or liberated)
through love.
Redeemer: Spiritual awareness regenerates, transmutes and
["9]
redeems bondage into freedom; pain into pleasure; fear
into faith.
redemption: Liberation through at-one-ment with the Christ
Principle; the unity of perfect love and divine wisdom.
Through this Principle our sins (mistakes) are redeemed,
that
is,
liberated, or obliterated.
reflection never a thing in itself: While the reflection of the
image held in front of
a
mirror reproduces the image as a
reflection, it
is
still never
a
thing in itself;
it
is
always an
effect of the image, while the image
is
an effect of the con
sciousness which holds
it
in place.
reflection of truth: Refers to the thought that what we call
the material universe isbut
a
reflection of that which comes
under the government of God or Good.
regeneration: A renewal. A new birth on
a
higher level. The
transmutation of disease into health; of any form of limita
tion into that which
is
less limited. From the psychological
sense,
it
means changing of thought patterns from
a
basis
of confusion to one of harmony and adjustment with life.
From
a
spiritual viewpoint
it
means the Second Birth, the
spiritual transmutation or purification whereby lower
qualities are elevated to spiritual perception.
regression: (psychological) A tendency to revert to some chan
nel of expression which belongs to the earlier develop
ment of the emotional life, to retrograde, or go back. In
the vegetable world, to go back or revert to type. It
is
the
principle that
if
one does not move forward, the Law of
Gravitation carries one backward, or downward. As when
rowing
a
boat upstream,
if
one does not press forward, he
is
carried downstream by the natural flow of the water in
the opposite direction. "Use or lose."
reintegration of personality: (psychological) Complete intel
lectual and physical wholeness. Being mentally put to
gether in
a
sound way.
[120]
relative and Absolute: The Absolute is the universal Intel
ligence and Law, ever giving birth to form. The form is
the relative, since its entire existence depends, not upon
itself, but upon something else.
relative may change, the Absolute cannot: All facts and forms
are relative. Time, space and motion are relative. Every
thing that is created is relative. Relativity is the play of
Life upon Itself. Life Itself is an abstract Absolute. It is
changeless, but all change takes place within It. It is time
less, yet It gives birth to all time. It is formless, yet It
creates all form.
religion: Our opinion about God.
religion as an immediate experience of Reality: As God is
not a person in any restricted sense, but a divine and uni
versal Presence, personified through each one of us and
therefore personal to each, so the essence of religion is not
a theological or dogmatic belief, but rather an atmosphere
of this divine Presence immediately perceived by the indi
vidual.
Religious Science: A spiritual philosophy which deals with
the unity of all life and which proclaims that God Power
exists at the center of every person.
"Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's . . .": Jesus
did not deny conformity with the social systems under
which he lived; rather, standing in the midst of these, he
proclaimed that the Kingdom of God is at hand.
renewing the mind: Creating new images of thought. Think
ing from a less limited pattern.
replacing the false belief with the true idea: In the practice
of spiritual science, we replace all apparent material ob
jects with a spiritual idea. Theoretically, material things
are converted into thoughts and the thoughts corrected.
Spiritual treatment deals with the destruction of false be
liefs. We treat not a person but a belief about the person.
[121]
repressed desires unconscious but active: Infantile fixations;
morbid reactions; painful memories; neurotic sense of
guilt, buried in the unconscious, remain dynamic and
active.
repression: (psychological) Where an unconscious wish is
forcefully prevented from coming into consciousness—"Re
pression is the rejection by the ego of impulses emanating
from the Id"; pushing back of desire into an unconscious
state; a desire whose gratification is inhibited by the indi
vidual.
resist not evil: To resist anything is to recognize it. To think
of a thing is either to create it or to hold it in place. To
resist something is to place it in mind as a genuine ob
struction, hence that which is truly non-resisted by true
non-recognition tends to become dissipated.
resolving things into thoughts: In mental treatment we theo
retically resolve all conditions into thoughts, and thus
treat all negative conditions as though they were merely
false beliefs.
resurrection: Rising from the belief in death. Rising from
the lower to the higher self; from the consciousness of
Adam to the realization of Christ. In Christian teaching it
refers to the resurrection of Jesus. Psychologically, the
sublimation of thought; spiritually, the recognition of
Absolute Perfection where imperfection appears to be.
revelation: The act of the intellect becoming consciously ac
quainted with Truth. We believe that this revelation may
be a result of subjective accumulation of ideas either in
the individual or the collective unconscious; or a direct
impartation of the Universal Mind. Something which the
indwelling Spirit of Christ in us reveals to the intellect.
revelation and reason: Any alleged revelation which contra
dicts that which can be proven to be so is not a spiritual
[122]
revelation, but a psychic or subjective hallucination. Reve
lation can reveal only that which is so.
revelation disguised in symbolism of man's conscious or un
conscious desire: Refers to a psychological projection; the
unconscious operation of one's thought, claiming to be a
revelation, but in reality arising out of one's unconscious
desire life.
revelations, false: Derived from the consciousness of indi
viduals or collections of individuals, but with no relation
ship to Truth itself.
revelation of truth: The intuitive perception of what is so.
revelation, personal opinions masquerading as: Our own
unconscious thoughts, desires, motivations, etc., appearing
to us as divine revelations.
reversal of thought, conscious: By denying certain false as
sumptions, the practitioner reverses their effects, just as
one would pull up weeds in a garden.
reversing our negatives: Replacing negative thoughts with
their opposites, or positive thoughts.
reversing our use of the Law: To break down old thought
patterns and impose new ones, thus consciously causing a
new sequence of cause and effect in the individual experi
ence.
revert: To return; to go back.
reward: Refers to the Law of Cause and Effect automatically
bringing to each an objective manifestation of his subjec
tive thoughts and actions.
reward and punishment: The Law of Cause and Effect in
action.
righteousness: The quality of being right, honest. One is
righteous who acts from a sense of justice. He performs
right action because he could not act from any other prin
ciple.
[ «3]
right ideas: To transpose material objects into their spiritual
equivalents; this does not deny the object, but affirms its
spiritual cause.
right ideas, activity of: Correct ideas have the power not only
to destroy that which appears to oppose them, but to estab
lish themselves in our experience as concrete facts.
right ideas destroy false beliefs: Just as the knowledge that
two and two make four dissipates a belief that two and
two make five, so a deep, inner spiritual realization of
harmony dissipates evil.
right ideas enforce the Law of Mind: Clear thinking based
upon the proposition that Spirit constitutes the right ideas
which use the Law of Cause and Effect for specific purposes.
This is scientific practice.
right ideas, power of: As light overcomes darkness, so state
ments of truth neutralize that which contradicts them.
right knowing: To correctly sense the relationship between
the universal "I Am" and the individualized "I"; man as a
reflection, a manifestation, an embodiment, an incarna
tion, or man as the off spring of God, whichever term one
may choose to use, can be nothing other than God's idea
of Himself reflected in man. To realize this relative to
any apparent negation is right knowing.
right thinking, achievement through: The objective mani
festation which automatically follows changes of thought.
"Rise, take up thy bed and walk": Supremacy of Spirit over
all material objects.
"Rock whence ye are hewn": Man is some part of the Great
Creative Principle; he is the spiritual likeness of Its eternal
self-existence.
[124]
s
salt of the earth: Symbolic of Divine wisdom, purity and
goodness.
salvation: Conscious realization of the omnipresence of Spirit.
Perception of our unity with good, resulting in those acts
which conform to the eternal verities. The discovery that
good known and embodied destroys apparent evil.
salvation already achieved: In Science of Mind we realize
that truth already is; we discover and use it.
salvation, today is the day of: Refers to the idea that salva
tion comes when we recognize it as belonging to us, when
we claim it. Since time is but an experience within that
which of itself is timeless, and since time exists for us only
through the act of experience, and since past time no
longer exists although it has left a record of itself, and
since future time has no existence other than as a tend
ency, it follows that only where attention is placed can
there be experience, and attention can be placed only in
the here and now. All treatment must be given in the
present tense, since Law knows neither past nor future.
Satan: Symbolic of darkness, relativity, limitation and igno
rance.
Saviour: The true saviour is the recognition of the Supreme
Spirit as All in all.
schizoid: (psychological) An emotional introverted person
ality. One who has rejected reality completely, and uses
infantile methods to protect himself from the inhospitality
of a world toward which he feels hostile.
schizophrenia: (psychological) Splitting of the mind. A men
tal disease where the person suffers from fantasies which de
stroy for him the world of reality, while they create a
world of their own. The result is that the person is so
completely self-absorbed, so indifferent to the laws of
gravity, physiology, economics, etc., that he seems totally
incomprehensible and uncomprehending.
science: Pertaining to spiritual truth, a systematic knowledge
of spiritual laws.
science and opinion: Science is a systematized knowledge of
laws and therefore must be accurate: opinion is one's be
lief about something and therefore may or may not be true.
science and religion: A knowledge of natural laws and causes
both in the mental and physical world, coupled with a
consciousness of the spiritual Presence in everything.
science is a study of the mechanics of the universe; reality is
a study of values: Every science, including the Science of
Mind, is a study of exact mathematical laws, while religion
seeks to use these laws in moral, ethical and spiritual ways.
science of being: The Law of Mind and Spirit governing
man's relationship to the spiritual universe.
science of God Power: Knowledge of the creative power of
thought governed by love and wisdom.
science of love: The mathematical necessity that thoughts of
love shall heal fear, hate, confusion, etc.
Science of Mind: Science of the laws of thought as they per
tain to man's relationship to the universal creative Mind
and to health, happiness and success.
Science of Mind is not a revelation: Like other sciences, the
Science of Mind is worked out as intuition guides personal
intelligence to an understanding of the laws of cause and
effect. This science is not only mental, it is also spiritual.
The highest use of the laws of Mind is based upon spirit
ual perceptions which include love, unity and conscious
fellowship with the Invisible.
[126]
Science of Mind not a new religion: It may be added to any
spiritual system of thought and is a complement to all.
sciences are impersonal: Any science is a study of natural
laws which respond impersonally to whoever uses them.
scientific attitude for a spiritual practitioner: To know that
God is all there
is,
that truth known demonstrates itself;
to know that what one knows
is
the truth and therefore
must be effective.
scientific Christian: One who definitely practices the Law of
Mind from the motivation of the precepts laid down by
Jesus.
scientific prayer: Conscious use of spiritual power for definite
purposes.
scientific silence: Consciously withdrawing from contempla
tion of external facts, conditions, etc., to the quiet realiza
tion that truth
is
governing.
scientific use of the Mind Principle: Treatment
is
definite,
directed for specific purposes, conscious and always carries
with
it
a
definite intention.
schools of analytical psychology, three generally recognized:
One developed by Freud called Psychoanalysis; one by
Jung called Analytical Psychology and one by Adler called
Individual Psychology. Probably the chief difference be
tween Freud and Jung
is
that Freud's libido
is
more con
fined to the meaning of the word "sex," while Jung as
sumes that libido
is
the creative urge back of everything.
Adler's idea
is
based more on the individual will toward
self-expression through power.
sea: A symbol of the mental plane uncontrolled by Spirit,
over which Jesus walked; into which Jonah fell, and
through which the Children of Israel were symbolically led
by Moses whose spiritual power parted the waters of men
tal confusion.
[127]
seamless robe of truth: The unity of all life represented by
the garment made from one piece of cloth.
seance: Sitting, generally in a darkened room, for the pur
pose of experiencing psychic phenomena. A group of peo
ple, one or more of whom is mediumistic, gathered to
gether for the purpose either of receiving messages from
the departed or of experiencing any form of psychic
phenomena.
"Search the scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal
life": Eternal Life does not exist in a book, in a religion,
or a philosophy. These may tell about it but the Kingdom
of God is within.
"Seek ye first the Kingdom of God . . .": Turn completely
to Absolute Causation which contains all possible effects.
seen comes from the unseen: Everything we see and experi
ence in the objective world has an identical correspondent
in the subjective and spiritual world, which is its cause.
"See that no man know it": Do not subject your faith to the
confusion of another person's doubt.
self: (psychological) An individual conscious of his own iden
tity and his relationship to his environment. (metaphysi
cal) The center of God consciousness having awareness.
self-choice: Refers to individuality, selectivity, personal de
cision.
self-condemnation: It is unscientific to condemn oneself or
others.
self-deception: (psychological) Any false conclusion based on
the motivation of a biased opinion.
self-deception, wilderness of: (psychological) Any psychologi
cal state resulting from one's inability to meet every-day
life.
Self-knowing Mind: The conscious mind.
Self-knowing Principle: Spiritual treatment operates in a
[188]
field of mind, which, acting as Law, knows how to convert
the treatment into conditions.
self-realization: To realize one's unity with the God-Self, and
hence, unity with Life Itself and with all that is. Inner
acknowledgment and understanding of the spiritual truth
of one's being.
self treatment: Inner awareness of spiritual perfection for
one's own self.
sending out thoughts: Refers to the mistaken idea that a
spiritual mind practitioner sends out thoughts.
sense of worth, individual must have: (psychological) Psycho
logically an individual without a sense of worth lacks hap
piness and self-expression; there must be self-esteem if
there is to be happiness.
sense the power back of your word, 4o not try to put power
into it: It is our realization of Power which makes the word
effective but the Power exists before we use It, we do not
create It.
separate discordant mental beliefs and discordant physical
conditions from the idea of spiritual man: The spiritual
practitioner assumes that both mental and physical discord
are never things in themselves; they do not belong to the,
Real Man. This does not deny, however, that they are real
enough as experiences.
separateness: A belief in duality which gives rise to the
thought that we are separated from God, therefore from
Good.
v'separating the belief from the believer: In spiritual mind
healing we seek to realize that a false condition does not
belong to anyone, has no law to support it and no existence
in reality, hence need not have any existence in fact.
sequence of causation: Starts with pure Intelligence; move
ment of intelligence, which is intelligence becoming aware
[189]
of something. The Law of Mind set in motion by con
sciousness, followed by the objective manifestation or the
demonstration.
series of treatments: Repeated statements of truth for some
person or condition over a period of time.
serpent: Symbolic of the Life Principle.
serpent and saviour: The Life Principle viewed from the
Adam or isolated consciousness, or the Christ or unified
consciousness. Refers to the Life Principle viewed ma
terialistically, which produces bondage, or viewed idealisti-
cally, that
is,
in conscious union with Spirit, which pro
duces salvation. The serpent
is
symbolic of the Life Prin
ciple. Crawling flat upon the face of the earth
it
becomes
the Life Principle viewed as disunion, separation, evil, etc.
This same Life Principle lifted upon the Cross, that is,
elevated to
a
realization of unity, becomes the Saviour.
serpent in the Garden of Eden: Typifies the Life Principle
viewed from merely
a
materialistic viewpoint. The serpent
which Moses lifted up in the wilderness refers to the Life
Principle elevated above the materialistic viewpoint.
serpent lifted up in the wilderness: The Life Principle viewed
as
a
spiritual principle.
serpent with tail in its mouth: The Life Principle viewed as
without beginning and without end.
servant of the eternal Spirit: Refers to the Law of Mind.
servant of the Spirit: Refers to the Law of Mind in action.
.
shepherd: Symbolizes the Higher Self ever drawing our ex
perience into conformity with divine union.
shield of faith: A positive thought of complete conviction.
silence, going into the: Withdrawing the thought from ex
ternal things and mentally dwelling upon
a
realization of
the Divine Presence. It
is
from this center that Spiritual
Power proceeds.
[J30]
silence, purpose of the: To still mental action, thus holding
consciousness in an expectant and receptive attitude
toward the Divine Influx.
simplicity in treatment: All treatments should be stated in
the simplest possible manner. In this way they will be more
meaningful to the one making the statements and there
fore the statements will have more power.
sin—"Neither hath this man sinned nor his parents": Neither
the possibility of having lived before and having carried
the liabilities of such a life into this world as bad Karma,
nor inherited tendencies effect the Real Man.
". . • Sin no more lest a worse thing come unto thee . . .":
If we continue in our old sins or mistakes, we shall not
only continue to project them, but the projection will con
tinually become multiplied as the intensity of thought
back of the projection becomes increased.
sin, whosoever committeth sin is the servant of: We are
caught in our own thought patterns; if they are sinful or
mistaken thought patterns they bind us until we neutralize
them. Therefore if the son shall make you free ... ye
shall be free indeed.
the single eye: Refers to the inner vision which must be in
tune with Light, then is the body filled with light. Thought
processes must be inspired by Truth rather than evil.
sociological: Pertaining to social science. The science of the
development of society.
solar plexus: A net-work of nerves in the region of the stom
ach. Sometimes referred to as the abdominal brain.
". . . Son of man is Lord even of the sabbath": Our use of
things is what makes them holy, they are not holy in them
selves.
"So shall my word be ... it shall not return unto me void":
Man's spiritual awareness must produce a result; it must
demonstrate.
soul and its reflection: This means that cause and effect are
the same thing.
soul, animal: Symbolic representation of thought in reference
to physical life.
soul, human: Thoughts and emotions about family, friends,
life in general, etc.
soul, journey of the: Refers to the cycle of experience through
which the ego passes on the pathway of self-discovery.
soul of the universe: Refers to the Universal Subjectivity.
soul, spiritual: Upper reaches of self-awareness; contempla
tion of God, Reality, etc.
space: The apparent nothingness which separates one object
from another. That which is created by motion.
specific treatment: If we wish definite results we must be
definite in treatment.
spiral, eternal upward: A theory that in the evolution of the
soul the individual ego continuously repeats former experi
ences in an ascending scale.
Spirit: Life essence which permeates all persons and all
things. The Thing within everything which makes it what
it is. God, the Living Spirit Almighty.
Spirit and the material universe: There is no material uni
verse other than Spirit in form.
Spirit appears wherever recognized: Since the Life Principle
is omnipresent, It springs into being wherever we recog
nize It. To see God, Life, Power, in anything is to cause
that thing to respond in like manner.
Spirit as knower and Law as doer does not imply duality:
Just as the engineer is not to be confused with the engine,
so the Self-knowing Mind is not to be confused with the
mathematical and mechanical subjective reactions.
[ »3»]
Spirit breathes Itself into form: The Self-realization of God
produces creation.
Spirit ever available: We contact the Spirit within our own
thought, hence we are never separated from It.
Spirit inspires and the Law obeys: Through intuition we are
inspired from on High. The Law of Mind automatically
reacts to our thought patterns.
Spirit is both cause and effect: In the sense that once the
creative word is spoken, the effect must follow. The mental
practitioner bases his assurance upon this, i.e., a silent
recognition of the truth within his own consciousness
must produce an inevitable result wherever and for what
soever purpose such consciousness is directed.
Spirit is form-giving, but subjective law is form-taking: The
conscious mind decides, the subjective law must react upon
this decision with mathematical precision as well as with
creative power.
Spirit is personal to each one of us: Since each is a center of
God Consciousness, the Spirit must be personal where It
is personified. There is an Infinite Self back of every ap
parent finite self.
Spirit is self-propelling: All energy is within Spirit.
Spirit is the realm of causation, form is the realm of effect:
All causation is invisible; the objective world is the effect
of an invisible cause which exactly corresponds to it.
Spirit—"not by power nor by might, but by Spirit": Means
that we do not labor with the Law or with the Lord, rather
by silent contemplation, recognizing the supremacy of
good, it becomes manifest in our experience.
Spirit of His Spirit: Man's spirit is the Spirit of God in man,
the two are one.
Spirit of Truth: Refers to the divine Presence which both in
dwells and overshadows everything, which Spirit is Truth
['33]
and which Truth is Spirit. It might also refer to our con
scious contact with Reality.
Spirit ordains perfection: Since it is the nature of Spirit to be
perfect, and since Its nature reflects Its law, then Spirit can
ordain only perfection.
Spirit that quickeneth, it is the: Real life is from within out,
hence the flesh profiteth nothing. This is not a denial of
the flesh but rather an affirmation that it is an effect and
not a cause.
Spirit—"Try the spirits whether they are of God": The apos
tle is telling us not to believe in every alleged spiritual
communication. He tells us to beware of mistaking what
today we call psychic hallucinations for spiritual revela
tions. At the doorway of the psychic life he would put up
a sign, Stop, Look and Listen.
spiritual: The atmosphere of God in human consciousness.
spiritual adjustment: Elevating the mental adjustment to
the consciousness that all things are unified with God.
spiritual affirmations: Affirming the Allness of Truth, Spirit,
Love, etc.
spiritual body: We do not deny body, we merely affirm that
it is spiritual. Body constitutes the evidence of Mind. The
spiritual body is perfect; it is a body of right ideas.
spiritual communion: Inwardly sensing Reality as life, love,
beauty, truth, divine Presence, etc.
spiritual communion as a healing agency: Inwardly sensing
Reality followed by a definite knowing that this Reality is
manifest rather than the disease. This might call for a cer
tain amount of affirmation and denial.
spiritual communion as an agency of prosperity: Inwardly
sensing the Divine as perfect substance, forever taking the
form of successful action in one's affairs.
spiritual communion as prayer: Spiritual communion itself
[»34]
is not a prayer or petition, so much as it is an announce
ment of the presence of Reality.
spiritual conception in healing: When the practitioner's con
sciousness recognizes the truth, the healing work is ac
complished.
spiritual dominion: The power to govern our lives through
silent realization of inner spiritual power.
spiritual ethers: Just as physical energy is born out of the
ethers of physics, so mental energy is born out of the
ethers of Spirit.
spiritual expectation: To be continuously expectant of and
receptive to that which is good, beautiful and true.
spiritual experience: Conscious inner awareness of the Divine
Presence as Reality, Law and Order.
spiritual feeling: An inner sense of the Presence of Spirit
which produces a psychological reaction not only of ac
ceptance, but of warmth and color.
spiritual healer as an agent: The spiritual practitioner, recog
nizing the Divine Power, becomes a transmitter through
which It flows in the direction he indicates.
spiritual healing, basis of: A realization of spiritual body,
spiritual perfection, perfect action and perfect reaction.
spiritual healing, chief emphasis in: Realization of the per
fection, the unity and the omnipresence of Life.
spiritual healing, conscious mind is the actor in: Spiritual
mind healing is not a result of receiving psychic or sub
jective impressions; it is always conscious, active and spe
cific. The conscious acts, the subconscious reacts.
spiritual healing, impersonal: When one's consciousness is
subjectively charged with Truth, it automatically radiates
life, and anyone coming near that person receives benefit,
just as the woman who touched the hem of the robe of
Jesus.
[»35]
spiritual healing, it is the psychological and the physical man
who needs healing: Spiritual mind healing is based on the
assumption that Spirit is already perfect, that Mind is the
creative factor and that body conditions are effects. The
physician treats the body, the psychologist and metaphysi
cian treat the mind. There need be no confusion over this.
spiritual identity: The inner and ever-increasing recognition
of one's relationship to Spirit in his identity in Mind. Re
fers to the individualized center of God Consciousness
which is a unique presentation of the Christ Spirit within
each one of us.
spiritual insight: Deeper than intellectual conviction; inward
experience of Reality.
spiritual insight and enlightenment: The knowledge that we
are One with the Great Self and that that which is experi
enced is merely a reflection or manifestation of Being.
spiritualizing matter: We neither spiritualize matter nor
psychologize Spirit in mental healing; we know the truth
about being, which truth known automatically demon
strates itself.
spiritual mind healing is the result of clear thinking: This is
true both psychologically and metaphysically. It could not
be true in either case unless there were a perfect Principle
to be demonstrated. Since this Principle is Mind and Spirit,
and since the activity of Mind and Spirit is conscious, it
follows that consciousness is the thing that needs to be
straightened out.
spiritual mind healing, premise underlying: Perfect God,
Perfect Man and Perfect Being.
spiritual mind practitioner: One who uses the Law of Mind
and Spirit in behalf of others.
spiritual plane: The mental plane elevated to spiritual aware
ness. It is the mind that must become conscious, hence
[136]
intuition and reality must operate through consciousness
to be known. This knowing is sometimes merely pure feel
ing without processes of thought, but it is always awareness.
spiritual power released through thinking: Spiritual power is
also mental power, and since thought is the only activity
of mind, it is the only thing that can release spiritual
power. Spiritual power like electric energy exists in the
universe. So far as we are concerned it exists on a certain
level of thought, consciousness or inward comprehension.
In such degree as one reaches this inward comprehension,
this power is released through his word for purposes which
his intention designates.
spiritual prototype: The universal idea back of any particu
lar form. For example: the abstract idea of Beauty back
of the beautiful.
spiritual psychology: The study of mental actions and reac
tions and the re-education of the mind through introduc
ing new and spiritual patterns of thought.
spiritual realities: The invisible essence of things. The proto
type in the invisible world of that which is visible.
spiritual science: Knowledge of the Laws of Spirit.
spiritual science, application of: Conscious use of the Laws
of Spirit as they operate in and through man and human
affairs.
spiritual sense substituted for physical objects: In spiritual
mind healing we think of the different physical functions
as being spiritual activities of a perfect body, and treat to
realize the perfection of the spiritual, which realization
in its turn reflects itself into the physical.
spiritual sleep: A lack of spiritual enlightenment.
spiritual thanksgiving: Means joyous acceptance and grati
tude.
[137]
spiritual therapy: From our viewpoint, spiritual mind heal
ing.
spiritual things must be spiritually discerned: If we would
understand the universe as a spiritual system, our own
consciousness must become spiritualized, raised, or ele
vated to the perception of a spiritual universe. With this
perception the spiritual universe will immediately become
real to us.
spiritual treatment: Applying the law of the Christ Mind to
human problems.
spiritual understanding: An inner awareness of the Presence
of God in all people and in all things.
spiritual universe: The universe as a spiritual system gov
erned by the Laws of Mind. The Real Universe. The only
true universe which includes what we call the physical.
spiritual universe is apparent through the physical: The
Emersonian concept that the physical universe consists of
thought in form and that the laws of nature are identical
with the laws of thought.
spiritual values added to psychology: Realizing that all men
tal actions and reactions are a result not merely of environ
mental or inherited stimuli, but also of the Divine Urge
inherent in the nature of being.
spiritual victory: The transcendent power of spiritual
thought forces over apparent material or physical resist
ance, which an inner awareness of God inevitably demon
strates.
spiritual vision: Perceiving the eternal Presence and Whole
ness, Truth and Beauty in every person and in every thing.
spiritual wholeness is not evolving: Spiritual wholeness is al
ready a fact. As the principle of mathematics must be ap
plied from the understanding of its absoluteness, so the
spiritual mind practitioner must apply his Principle from
[138]
the viewpoint of the instantaneous availability of Whole
ness.
"Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath
made us free and be not entangled again with the yoke of
bondage": This means keep the vision of Truth and Unity
and do not again believe in the reality of separation.
Star of Bethlehem: Inner guidance.
stream of consciousness: The automatic mental emanation
of the subjective state of thought.
streams of consciousness, tuning into: Any mental state which
we assume tunes into corresponding states in the race con
sciousness, tending to draw similar states into our own
thought.
strong in the Lord: Strong in the realization of the invisible
Power.
subconscious denial of our affirmations: Where the thought
content of the subconscious mind refuses to accept a con
scious affirmation. This, of course, can be changed.
subconscious does not mean unconscious: The subconscious,
whether we think of it as individual or universal (for the
two are one), must receive images of thought as they are
created without choice or volition of its own, but having
received these images of thought, it operates upon them
intelligently.
subconscious intelligence: Intelligence operating upon pat
terns of thought creatively and intelligently without re
flective or self-conscious knowing.
subjective acceptance: Where the subconscious no longer
denies what the conscious mind has affirmed.
subjective metaphysics: Telepathy, clairvoyance, etc.
subjective mind, our, as a point in Universal Mind: There is
only one Subjective Mind which everyone uses; what we
call our subjective mind is merely a reaction of this Univer
[139]
sal Subjectivity to our thought. Hence it is not individual
but may become individualized.
Subjective Mind as mechanical law: Thought falling into a
subjective state, enters into a mechanical field of cause and
effect.
subjective mind, our: The use we make of the One Law.
There is but One Mind which we all use; but One Law of
Mind which we all employ. What we call our subjective
mind is merely our mental reaction in the One Law of
Mind.
subjective molds: This refers to the habitual thought pat
terns which are in the subconscious mind.
subjective side of life: The invisible Law of Cause and Effect
which operates upon our images of thought.
subjective state of thought, changing the: The subjective
thought is the medium between the Absolute and the rela
tive in our experience; it works automatically, mathemati
cally and mechanically, but it is entirely a created thing.
Hence it can be changed through conscious thinking.
subjective unity between all people: Just as there is but One
Spirit and One Mind, so there is but One Psyche or Soul
or Subjectivity. It is because of this that such phenomena
as clairvoyance, telepathy, etc., may function.
subjective world: The world of causes.
subjective world as cause of the objective: There is a spiritual
or mental likeness or equivalent in the invisible world for
every objective fact. It also follows that wherever the spirit
ual or mental equivalent or image is provided an objective
fact must follow.
sublimation: (psychological) The act of freeing the emotional
energy from negative aims and turning it into useful activi
ties and interests.
sublimation, law of: (psychological) Deflecting the energy of
[140]
the libido to social, useful and constructive occupations.
(metaphysical) Refers to the Law of Sublimation as trans
forming one type of energy into another.
sublimation of thought: (psychological) Deflecting the en
ergy of the libido to new objects or aims. (spiritually) To
convert desire into pure, perfect and wholesome channels
of self-expression.
subliminal consciousness: The impersonal self, that which
lies beneath the level of the conscious mind. The subcon
sciousness. It is the vehicle for certain psychic phenomena,
such as clairvoyance, clairaudience, automatic writing, etc.
subliminal mind: That realm of thought which functions in
conscious union with Spirit. The Christ Mind.
submission: Is not to a greater force, but to a higher intel
ligence.
Substance: The Formless from which all forms are created.
Substance and Supply: The eternal Creative Spirit as Sub
stance is everywhere taking the form of those desires which
we affirm, believe in and embody. Mind gives us ideas;
ideas project the Law into form.
Substance and Supply, recognition of: The mental acceptance
and realization that Spirit is Substance and that our daily
needs are met through an action of the immutable Law of
Cause and Effect.
success: Fulfillment of legitimate constructive desires. Any
form of satisfactory self-expression which harms no other
person.
suggestion— not suggestion but realization: Spiritual mind
treatment is not mental suggestion. That
is,
the practi
tioner does not suggest anything to the patient. The prac
titioner seeks to realize something for the patient within
his, the practitioner's, own consciousness.
[Hi]
super-ego: (psychological) Conscience.
super mind faculties: Abilities of spiritual thought to discern
invisible truths as being equal (real) with objective facts.
supernatural: That which lies beyond the realm of the nat
ural, or the understandable on the material plane. That
which cannot be explained by physical laws.
superstition and ignorance confuse the Law of Mind with
the Spirit of God: The Law of Mind is like any other law
in nature. It is a dynamic and creative Intelligence re
sponding to thought and should not be confused with the
Spirit of God, which is a universal Self-Knowingness, or
the spirit of man which is an individualized center of this
Self-Knowingness.
supply as a spiritual idea: To recognize that invisible Mind
and Substance are ever taking the forms which meet our
daily needs.
supply, ideas of, enforce the law of Substance: Substance, or
the possibility of all right action, forever exists. The Law
of Supply is the result of a conscious recognition of this
Substance taking definite form.
supply, the greater the demand the more abundant: The
universal creative Law knows nothing of big or little; It
meets our demands by reflecting them back into form.
Hence, the more complete the demand the more com
plete the reflection. The whole process is automatic.
suppositional opposite to truth: Any belief which denies the
allness of Creative Love, Wisdom and Power.
suppression: (psychological) A tendency to dismiss the mem
ory of unhappy thoughts, desires or experiences.
supreme affirmation: Any mental attitude which affirms its
complete unity with God. A recognition that the univer
sal "I Am" and the individualized "I" constitute one be
ing.
supreme recognition: Recognizing the presence of pure and
perfect Spirit.
surrender: This does not mean surrendering the intellect or
the personal integrity; it means the necessity of under
standing that laws work for us only as we first obey them.
As Hermes said, "Nature obeys us as we first obey it."
Sustaining Infinite: We are surrounded by, immersed in, and
there is within us, the Principle of pure Spirit and perfect
Law.
Sword of Spirit: The word of Truth.
Sword of Spirit which is the Word of God: A definite con
structive statement made in Mind can specifically neutral
ize, sever as it were, any opposite destructive belief.
symbolism: (psychological) The impressions of the uncon
scious thinking, where the real meaning of the idea is
transformed into something else so that it would not be
recognized for what it really is. This appears largely in
dreams; in unconscious sayings, etc.
taboo: Set apart, or sacred by religious custom. Forbidden
to certain persons or uses.
talking to God: Communion with the inner Self, for it is only
at the center of one's own being that he meets the univer
sal Presence which is forever individualized through him.
teaching without practice: It is useless to assume to be a
teacher in this Science without practicing it. One soon
tends to deal merely with theories and not with actual ex
perience. We only know what we can do. Merely to theorize
never proves any principle. It is the practical application
[H3]
of this Mind Principle which alone demonstrates Its real
ity or our understanding of It.
teleology: Fact or quality of possessing final cause. That char
acter in nature showing itself in rational and purposive
adaptation; conception of design as a true cause of exist
ence. The philosophical study of evidences of design in
nature.
telepathy: Communications of thoughts, feelings, ideas, etc.,
from one mind to another.
That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born
of the Spirit is spirit: Jesus definitely recognized more than
one plane for self-expression. Every plane of being has
laws common to its own functioning. The higher form of
intelligence governs the lower, therefore that which is born
of the Spirit controls that which is born of the flesh.
The Beloved Son: The divine unique individualization of
God which every man is.
"The crooked shall be made straight and the rough places
plain": A spiritual treatment has the power to straighten
out any condition.
"The desert shall rejoice": The most commonplace thing in
life; the waste places of human experience are converted
into the Garden of God.
"The Father Who seeth in secret • . .": The invisible In
telligence at the center of our own being and of all being.
"The integrity of the upright shall guide them": Refers to
the Law of Cause and Effect.
"The Lord is in His holy temple . . .": Temple refers to the
inner sanctuary of the heart: The Lord is both with man
and within him.
"The Lord will go before you": This refers to the word of
Truth making straight the way.
[»44]
"The Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters . . .":
Symbolizes the movement of idea upon mind.
"The spirit of man is the candle of the Lord": This refers
to the "I Am" which is the light of the world; the Celestial
Flame incarnated at the center of every man's being.
"The very hairs of your head are numbered": Has reference
to the All-knowing Mind in which all facts are contained
in One Unitary Wholeness, ever available to the thought
of man.
"The word is very nigh ... in thy mouth": The creative
Power of Life is within and never external to us. It is every
word we speak.
theology: Any religious system of thought. The critical, his
torical, and psychological study of religion and religious
ideas.
theory upon which technique of spiritual mind healing is
based: Perfection; unity of God with man; Oneness of all
Life; Perfect Being; perfect manifestation.
"There is no power against me": In so far as we believe in
the One and only Power, there can be no contradiction to
It or manifestation different from It.
there is nothing but mind and what mind does: The Mind
Principle is both the unformed and the formed. Creation
is Mind passing into form just as ice is water in form.
"There is nothing covered that shall not be revealed": All
things are known to Mind.
"There is that that scattereth, and yet increaseth": As a seed
scattered, drops into the soil and in reproduction multi
plies itself, so right thoughts and constructive acts both re
produce and multiply themselves.
"There is therefore no condemnation to them which are in
Christ Jesus": Where the light is there is no darkness;
where peace abides, confusion has fled.
[»45]
"They that take up the sword shall perish with the sword":
Refers to the Law of Cause and Effect.
"They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength":
An inner awareness of Spirit renews the whole being.
. . They think that they shall be heard for their much
speaking": The power of a mental treatment lies not in
the type or number of words used in a statement, but in
one's sense of their meaning.
Thing Itself, the: God, Spirit, Reality.
Thinker, the, alone is ultimate and absolute: The movement
of consciousness within itself, is the starting point of all
creation.
thinking center in Mind: The individual mind is a conscious,
volitional and spontaneous center of self-awareness, which
self-awareness operating through mind acts as law.
"This kind can come forth by nothing but by prayer and
fasting": Deep-rooted unbelief is cast out only through
consecration, meditation, faith and realization. Prayer
means completely to accept, while fasting means com
pletely to refrain from dwelling on the negative.
"Thou . . . canst not look on iniquity": God sees only per
fection and to the pure all is pure.
thought: Movement of consciousness.
thought can undo what thought has done: In spiritual mind
healing we theoretically resolve things into thoughts and
states of consciousness. Next we neutralize by denial or
through affirmation, those states of consciousness which
are not conducive to harmony. Thus erasing, or sublimat
ing, or transforming, or converting, the old thought pat
terns into new ones which are now elevated to the point
of spiritual comprehension.
thought, clarify your own: In spiritual treatment one does
not suggest anything to another, he is alone with his sense
[,46]
of Reality, clarifying his own thought about the person or
the condition he wishes to help.
thought control: This does not mean controlling the
thoughts of another, it means controlling one's own think
ing.
thought controls our destiny, it does not control the cosmos:
It is fortunate that this is so, else our thought would de
stroy the cosmos. Man is a microcosm within a macrocosm,
and fortunately has only the privilege of controlling him
self alone.
thought moves as mechanical but intelligent law: Thought,
which is spontaneous, is operated upon by the Law, which
is intelligent but has no consciousness. That
is,
no self-
realization that
it
is
operating. This law
is
the Law of
Cause and Effect.
thought never controls Reality: Our thought does not con
trol Reality,
it
merely interprets It. For instance, we do
not control the concept that two and two make four; how
ever, thought uses the mental law for specific purposes.
thought processes as action: Spiritual science views the proc
esses of mind or thought as constituting the only ultimate
action, therefore mind in action becomes law.
thoughts are things: Thoughts are things in the sense that
thought
is
like an image held in front of
a
mirror —the re
flection in the mirror
is
the thing or the effect.
thoughts, do not hold them, release them: The office of
a
mental treatment
is
not to hold
a
thought, but to loose an
idea into action.
thought, tools of: All thoughts are tools from the standpoint
of operating in Mind with mathematical precision. Differ
ent kinds of thoughts become different kinds of tools. For
example, the thought of circulation establishes circula
tion; the thought of want condenses into the idea of limi
tation, and thoughts of freedom produce freedom, etc.
[H7]
thought, what thought has done thought can undo: If this
were not true neither metaphysical nor psychological work
would be effective; both rest on the assumption that men
tal actions can be changed, therefore mental reactions can
be changed.
"Thy faith hath made thee whole": Positive acceptance dem
onstrates its own realization according to cause and effect.
Inward belief and acceptance externalized as outward fact.
". . . Thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee
openly": The Law of Mind and Spirit is invisible, but
when we use It, It produces a visible result.
"Thy maker is thine husband": There is complete partner
ship between the universal and the individual.
". . . Thy sins be forgiven thee": All mistakes of the past
are wiped away; today is a fresh beginning.
"Thy will be done": Since the Will of God and the Nature
of God are identical, "Thy Will be done" means "I recog
nize the Nature of Reality and permit It to operate in my
experience —I accept it."
time: Any sequence of events. Any measure of experience.
That which is created by attention.
time and eternity: Time is any sequence of events in a uni
tary wholeness. Eternity means the possibility of endless
sequences of experience.
"Today shalt thou be with me in paradise": According to the
philosophy of Jesus, the transition from this life into the
next is immediate.
". . . To whom ye yield yourself, servant, to obey, his serv
ant ye are": Means that we are like what we think.
trance medium: One who puts himself in a subjective state
in the performance of his work as a medium.
transcend the condition as it actually exists: A spiritual prac
titioner theoretically resolves things into thoughts and
[M8]
conditions into states of mind. Thus limitation becomes
an idea which must be transcended in consciousness.
transference: (psychological) An emotional attitude toward
one's physician, practitioner or analyst, which is either an
affectionate reaction called a positive transference, or of a
hostile nature which is called a negative transference. In
either case this attitude is supposed to be derived from
earlier relations of the patient with one or both of the
parents, now repeating itself in the analytical situation.
The emotion originally directed toward the parents is now
directed toward the doctor. The subconscious part of the
patient's personality regards the doctor as father or mother.
transference, breaking the: (psychological) Causing the pa
tient to recognize himself as no longer being a child; no
longer needing either analyst or teacher; weaning the pa
tient from the necessity of analyst or teacher; weaning the
patient from the subconscious neurotic attachment to the
parents; giving the patient back to himself.
transference, exaggerated negative: (psychological) Excessive
dislike or hostility on the part of the patient or student
toward the physician or teacher.
transference, excessively strong positive: (psychological) An
intense attachment felt by the patient or student toward
his physician or teacher.
transformation of repressed mental states through religious
conversion: (psychological) Where a new emotional state
arises which is stronger than the one repressed.
transformation of thought: Changing thought patterns from
a negative to a positive basis, or from a belief in evil to a
belief in or realization of good.
transformed by renewing the mind: The instantaneous or
gradual process of consciously changing thought patterns
until the subconscious surrenders its old patterns for the
[»49]
new. Changing subjective thought patterns by supplying
spiritual ideas creates new conditions in body and affairs.
transforming power of thoughts and words: The magic
power of renewing the mind through affirmations of unity
and strength; of faith instead of fear, etc.
translating the false into the true: By mentally reversing a
false statement, we automatically declare its opposite,
which is truth, thus announcing that truth is all there is.
transpose the physical condition: In spiritual mind healing
one theoretically transposes all physical conditions into
their mental and spiritual equivalents. For instance, brain
would be the capacity to think, eyes the idea of vision, etc.
treasures in heaven ... to lay up: Since Jesus has already
defined the Kingdom of Heaven as an interior state of spir
itual awareness; to lay up treasures in heaven must mean
to bring the intellect or the conscious processes of thought
into alignment with spiritual truth.
treating for supply: The spiritual realization that Substance
as supply is meeting every need. Conscious recognition of
Divine guidance, Divine protection and limitless Abun
dance.
treating in the Absolute: Mentally turning entirely from any
condition as an effect to pure Spirit as Absolute Cause,
without processes of reasoning or mental argument. Seek
ing a complete inner realization of the Divine Presence.
Of course the intention of the practitioner is that such a
realization shall benefit the person he seeks to help.
treat in the present tense: Mind knows neither past nor fu
ture, therefore treatment must always be in the now.
treatment, absent: Where the one being helped is at a physi
cal distance from the practitioner.
treatment a definite statement in mind: Mental treatment
consists of definite thoughts consciously used for specific
purposes, based on the assumption that there is a Mind
Principle which executes them.
treatment, alone with God in: The spiritual practitioner
does not hold thoughts, suggest, coerce, will, concentrate
mind, or do anything other than convince himself of the
supremacy of Good. He works alone in his own thought no
matter who he is working for, or for what purpose his
treatment is given.
treatment and prayer: Prayer is the communion with the
spiritual Presence, and often a petition to the Divine In
telligence. Treatment is a recognition of the Divine Pres
ence at the center of everything, and a realization that the
Law of Cause and Effect is creatively set in motion through
conscious thought and direction.
treatment for protection: Inner realization or awareness of
one's immunity from evil.
treatment, in spiritual mind treatment it is not necessary to
know the specific cause of the discord one wishes to heal:
Unlike analytical psychology, which must uncover the spe
cific cause of the neurosis, spiritual mind healing, through
the use of broad generalized statements, produces the same
effect.
treatment is a law unto itself: Every mental and spiritual
treatment specializes the One universal creative Law, caus
ing It to flow in the direction designated in the treatment
and for the purpose specified by the treatment. Thus each
treatment individualizes the universal Law in a unique
way and becomes a law unto itself through the one Law.
treatment is conscious and spontaneous, the Law reacts auto
matically: Spiritual mind treatment is a definite act of con
sciousness functioning through volition or self choice.
Everything that happens to the treatment after it is given
is in a field of mechanical law. Thus it is done unto us as
we believe.
[151]
treatment is cumulative: Each treatment, consisting of a set
of statements, helps to create a subjective or complete men
tal acceptance. When this subjective, as well as conscious,
state of acceptance is entirely in the affirmative, a demon
stration is made. The time element involved in this may
be what we call of short or long duration. The absolute
time element involved is in comparison only with the de
gree of recognition and realization obtained.
treatment is good when the practitioner knows it is good: It
is conscious belief, faith and conviction that one's word,
operating through law, is power, which gives power to it.
treatment, mentally knowing the Truth is a spiritual treat
ment: Since knowing the Truth is an act of thought or con
sciousness, it follows that consciously knowing the Truth
is correct application of the Principle in practice.
treatment, mental, is more than a mechanical process: The
mechanics of a mental treatment consist of the words and
ideas used. These words and ideas, however, must be
clothed upon with the living consciousness of Spirit.
treatment, metaphysical: A system of spiritual realization for
oneself or for some other person.
treatment must be independent of circumstances: Treating
in the Absolute without reference to any existing condi
tion. The understanding that a treatment creates new con
ditions or remolds old ones without in any way being lim
ited by them.
treatment must contain a sense of fulfillment: Since the
power of a treatment is the conviction back of the words,
it follows that this conviction must arrive at a sense of ful
fillment before the treatment is complete. Since nothing
can come out of a treatment unless it is first put in, it fol
lows that the result of a treatment will exactly equal the
realization generated in the act of giving treatment.
[152]
treatment, no physical sensation in: Mental treatment is en
tirely an act of the mind. Although a certain emotional
content may be aroused by realization, physical sensation,
as such, is no part of the treatment.
treatment, present: Treatment where the one being helped
is in the physical presence of the practitioner.
treatment, silent: A mental treatment given in one's own
thought; not audibly spoken.
treatment, there is nothing occult or mysterious about men
tal treatment: No peculiar psychic, occult or hidden pow
ers are necessary in spiritual mind healing. There is no
mystery about it; it has a definite Principle to demonstrate
and a definite technique to use. Anyone may understand
it.
treatment, to know is: Conscious inward awareness of right
action about any person, or relative to some desired good,
is spiritual treatment.
treat to know: Work until your entire mental response is
affirmative, until you arrive at a conclusion of realization.
Tree of Life: Represents that which, rooted in experience,
has its branches in heaven. Represents man as bringing
forth the fruits of Spirit through experience. The Tree of
Life as the Cross, represents the Divine Ray passing
through the central beam and expanding outward through
the cross beam into experience.
Tree of the knowledge of good and evil: Refers to individu
ality and self-choice. Also refers to the mind eating from
the fruit of a belief in duality.
tribal gods: Any particular conception of God held by a
group of people, which is inconsistent with the nature of
Reality.
trusting the Christ: Complete confidence in the Principle of
the creative Spirit within us.
[ »53 ]
Truth: In its universal sense "The Truth" means God, Spirit,
Reality; in a lesser sense the word "truth" designates any
thing that is true—a psychological truth, a spiritual truth,
a physical truth.
Truth, alone with: A spiritual mind practitioner must real
ize that Truth is not only all Power, it is also the only Per
former. Truth operates wherever it is recognized. The
practitioner's treatment or mental work takes place in his
own consciousness, in his own contemplation of the Truth,
immediately available and instantly effective. He works
alone in his own consciousness with the Truth of Being.
Truth dissolves error: The creative activity of thought op
erating on a higher level of consciousness, dissolves the
form which a lower operation of the same creative power
has projected.
Truth is both cause and effect: Just as an image held in front
of a mirror casts a reflection, which reflection is an effect
of the image, so Truth or consciousness comes before the
image and creates it or projects it. Hence both the image
before the mirror and its reflection in the mirror (which
constitute cause and effect) are superseded by that which,
being neither cause nor influenced by any effect,
is,
in
a
certain sense, neither cause nor effect but at the same time
all Cause and Effect —cause and effect are projected by It.
Truth
is
that which heals: It
is
written that the prayer of
. faith shall heal the sick and God will raise him up. The
prayer of faith means mental compliance with the condi
tions which make possible the new influx of life. It
is
the
new influx of life which heals. This would be true in refer
ence to any law in nature. We use the laws, the laws ex
ecute themselves.
Truth known
is
demonstrated: A recognition and acceptance
of that which
is
True, automatically demonstrates its own
answer.
[»54]
Truth of being: Refers to the theory that all being is spirit
ual; that man is inseparably unified with the Original Cre
ative Principle; that his work is creative because his word
is God in him. Knowledge of one's unity with God.
Truth realized is as effective as is the embodiment of our
realization: It is not just what we say, but what we in
wardly understand that gives power to our words.
". . . truth shall make you free": This refers to the under
standing that Truth known automatically demonstrates
Itself. To understand, believe in, accept and no longer
deny right action, is to project right action. Jesus is refer
ring to the spiritual recognition of the unity of the Law
of Life, the knowledge of which frees us from the bondage
of unbelief.
tuning into Good: Turning the dial of thought to harmony,
peace, power and perfection.
tuning into power: Meditating upon the thought of spiritual
power until the mind, by acceptance, consciously unifies
with Power. From this type of meditation new ideas are
born.
turning to God in thought: Centering the thought on the
idea of peace, happiness, wholeness, completion and per
fection. Turning in thought from the limited to the limit
less. From the unholy to the holy.
turning within in mental treatment: Turning to the realiza
tion that Spirit is at the center of everything, perfect, com
plete and whole; turning from the condition to the cause
which will create a new condition.
twice-born: This term indicates being delivered into the
world of Spirit, that
is,
into unity with the Supreme, while
being embodied in physical form. The birth of conscious
ness from this limited perspective to
a
realization of the
union of all life. A consciousness of the universe as
a
spirit
[»55]
ual system of which man is some part. A consciousness of
spirituality, wholeness and the Kingdom of God here and
now.
two ultimate powers impossible: If they are identical they
would be one and not two; if each were infinite one would
cancel the other and nothing would be left.
U
unassailable Truth: In such degree as thought functions
k from the consciousness of an absolute unity of good, there
is no possibility of its being interfered with.
unbelief is our acceptance: Since unbelief is a mental atti
tude, even though a negative one, and since the Creative
Law must react to our thought exactly as we think
it,
even
unbelief uses the Law of Cause and Effect creatively.
unconscious attempt at self-destruction: (psychological) Un
conscious mental impulsion to get away from reality
through
a
flight into fantasy, as in alcoholism, drug ad
diction, extreme cases of day dreaming, etc.
unconscious, flights into the: (psychological) Refers to any
form of turning from the realities of life into
a
world of
illusion.
unconscious thought: Refers to the subjective processes of
thought with which we are not consciously familiar.
uncovering error: Revealing the false mental position.
understanding and belief: The difference between believing
and hoping; the actual knowing that
a
definite law of
cause and effect operates upon our word.
understanding God at the level of our own consciousness:
We understand love only as we embody it. The only mean
[156]
ing that life can have to us is the meaning that it has in
and through us. This is why it is necessary in giving men
tal treatments, that we believe our own words, that we
understand them, appreciate their meaning and inwardly
feel the presence of what these words suggest.
understanding of the Absolute is our relative: Since con
sciousness is always automatically reflecting itself into con
ditions, conditions are always revealing the nature of our
states of consciousness.
understand the truth, God heals when we do: Just as electric
energy becomes a light when properly understood and
used, so there is a spiritual law which, believed in, under
stood and used, automatically heals.
unifying with God: The mental reaction of the Oneness of
all Life.
unity: The Oneness of all life. Man's inseparable union with
nature, with the Christ Mind and with God.
unity necessitates ultimate harmony: Unity means One,
Indivisible, Whole, Complete, Perfect, hence adjustment
of apparent parts to the whole, and the whole to apparent
parts in harmony.
universal idea: That which must be so. In the final analysis,
that which reason compels us to accept.
Universal Intelligence: An aspect of Universal Mind, which
denotes responsiveness. This is the principle involved in
all mental and spiritual healing—the intelligent response
of the atoms in the physical structure —also the Intelli
gence of the Creative Law that knows how to bring har
mony into manifestation.
Universal Mind: Spirit, God, the Absolute.
Universal Presence: The Spirit manifesting in and through
everything; the Creative Intelligence responding to us
from everything; Omnipresence.
[157]
Universal Principles: All laws of nature are universal, evenly
distributed and ever present.
Universal, The, must become the individual in order to be
individualized: Life can work for us only by working
through us in the act of Itself becoming the thing It does.
Universe as a dual unity consists of an active and a passive
principle: Does not imply duality, but emphasizes the ne
cessity that there shall be an active principle consciously
at work and a receptive Law obeying its consciousness.
Universe as a spiritual and mental system: The entire uni
verse consists of pure, absolute Intelligence, Consciousness
and Self-awareness. This is what constitutes the spiritual
universe. Spiritual awareness produces mechanical law
which is the Law of Mind in action. This is the mental
universe. All creation is a result of the spiritual operating
upon or through the mental as Idea. Man is a spiritual,
mental being, reproducing this whole cosmic order in his
own life.
Universe as the meditation of God: The visible universe is
an effect of the Divine Creative Imagination.
universe is not divided against itself: Since the Spirit is One,
an undivided and indivisible unity, then the Law of Spirit
likewise is a unity. This Unity delivers Its power only on
terms of Its own nature, which nature It never contradicts.
There cannot be two ultimates, else one would neutralize
the other and we should have chaos instead of cosmos.
universe, true perspective of: There is no material universe,
if by "material" we mean a universe opposed to, other than
or different from a spiritual universe.
Un-Namable One: The everlasting Reality from which all
things come: the Fountain of all things and the Root of all
things.
[158]
unwavering mind: A mind that does not move from the sub
ject taken for meditation. One-pointed, steady, firm.
Vedas: Sacred books of India, of ancient Truth and Wisdom.
"Vengeance is mine saith the Lord": Refers to the Law of
Cause and Effect.
vibration: Oscillating waves in ether. Everything that exists
is Original Substance, or ether, in different rates of vibra
tion. The world that seems so solid, so static, is a dynamo
of activity, forever changing every second of time. No par
ticle of man's body is the same from one moment to an
other. Each stands in the center of a moving, vibrating
world, and the rate of the vibration depends upon the per
son. The higher and finer vibrations are the results of
harmonious, joyous thought. The heavier and harsher
vibrations occur when one is out of tune with the One
Indwelling Presence, that holds each in His true note of
harmony. Man radiates what he will out into the ethers
through the vibrational forces of his being. His every
thought extends to the outermost reaches of the universe
through this Law of Vibration.
virgins, the wise and foolish: Refers to the wise or foolish
use of the Power within us. The wise virgins represent
those who are conscious that the Presence of Spirit and
the Power of Life is within them. The foolish virgins rep
resent those who have exhausted their objective energies
and do not realize the spring of life welling up in their
own soul, and therefore believe that they must live by ex
ternal aid.
[»59]
visible and Invisible: Refers to the realm of Mind and Spirit,
which is the Invisible Cause, and the realm of form, which
is an effect.
visualization: To make a mental picture, which facilitates
realization. To picture a thing clearly, specifically, through
the power of the imagination, in order to create through
thought.
vocational guidance: (psychological) Analyzing a person's
characteristics for the purpose of assisting him to prepare
for and choose a vocation.
"Wages of sin is death": Refers to the necessity that all error
shall finally destroy itself.
"Walk in Spirit": Live, move and have your being in con
scious realization of the Divine Presence.
water turned into wine: Symbolizes the transmuting Power
of Spiritual Energy.
we cannot contract the Absolute, we can expand the finite:
We cannot break any of nature's laws, but we can always
use them in a less limited way.
we cannot experience more than we have embodied, but we
can increase our embodiment: Today we are a result of
what we were yesterday. Today, however, we may increase
our understanding, hence tomorrow we shall experience
more good.
we heal not persons but thoughts: The spiritual man is never
sick. Spiritual healing consists of changing psychological
thought patterns.
we know what Truth is by what It does: We have no way
of judging Causation other than by observing Its effects.
[160]
we neither spiritualize matter nor psychologize Spirit: Spir
itual mind healing is based upon the theory that there is
no material universe and no physical universe separated
from Mind; that all things and events are Mind in form,
hence there is no material universe to spiritualize and no
material condition to become spiritualized. It is also a mis
take to suppose that we psychologize or mentally influence
through suggestion. Instead of psychologizing we recog
nize the Presence of a Creative Principle of perfection at
the center of everything. This is not suggestion but real
ization.
we walk by faith, not by sight: Interior awareness or spiritual
intuition transcends physical vision; to have an inward
seeing. It is necessary for any scientific mind, no matter
what his science may be, to rely upon the principle of such
science; which principle, of course, is always invisible.
"Wells of salvation": Man's inner spiritual nature.
what is loosed on earth shall be loosed in heaven: Death
changes nothing, we continue as we are.
"Whatsoever things ye desire . . .": Implies that it was the
belief of Jesus that it is perfectly proper for man to pray
for, ask for, or demonstrate, anything he desires, provided
his desire is constructive and in no way contradicts the
unity of good.
"Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in
heaven • . .": The transition through which we pass in
physical death does not necessarily change our mental
images.
". . . Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do
ye even so to them": Refers to the Law of Cause and Effect.
". . . When thou prayest enter into thy closet . . .": Turn
entirely within to the Invisible Cause which produces all
visible manifestation.
[161]
"When ye stand praying, forgive": The Divine Forgiving-
ness is delivered to us only as we first forgive —this is cause
and effect.
"Whereon the soles of your feet shall tread shall be yours":
We occupy the land which our spiritual vision beholds.
. . Where your treasure is there will your heart be . . .":
We give our whole attention to that which, in our estima
tion, is of the greatest value to us.
"Who hath seen me hath seen the Father": The true or high
est nature of man reveals God.
"Whose seed was in itself after his kind": The Divine Idea
set in motion reproduces Itself after Its kind.
". . . Whosoever hath, to him shall be given . . . Whoso
ever hath not . . . shall be taken away": A consciousness
of abundance attracts more abundance, while fear of lack
attracts limitation.
". . . Whosoever shall do the will of my Father . . . the
same is my brother . . .": We are all one and united with
each other in Spirit.
will and representation: A philosophic term meaning Mind
and manifestation.
will and willingness: Spiritual mind treatment is not an exer
cise of will power, but rather of a mental willingness to
believe that the Law responds to our word.
will as a directive but not a creative power: The office of the
will is to choose, decide, deliberately exercise volition, etc.,
it is the Principle of Mind Itself which creates; our part,
having directed the Power, is not to compel It but to per
mit It—not will, but belief and willingness.
Will of God: The Nature of God. That
is,
if
the Nature of
God
is
peace, then the Will of God must be like His Na
ture, hence the Will of God must be peace.
[16a]
"Wilt thou be made whole?": The inevitable invitation of
Reality to all that lives. The proclamation of Truth. The
self-evident necessity that Life Itself must be whole. Will
we accept it?
wisdom— "God is wisdom therefore man is wise": Man re
flects, embodies or incarnates the Wisdom which God is.
wishful thinking: (psychological) Day dreaming. The imag
ination of that which is not so and cannot become so. De
tached from reality.
"With all thy getting get understanding": The most im
portant thing of all is the realization of our relationship
with the Infinite.
"With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure and with the fro-
ward thou wilt shew thyself froward": Has reference to the
Law of Cause and Effect which responds to us by corre
sponding with our mental attitudes.
Witness, the inner: All have a spiritual interior awareness
ever seeking expression through intuition. This is the
drive back of evolution.
". . . wolf shall dwell with the lamb": The understanding
that God is in all things manifesting in such complete
unity that there is no longer any hurt in anything.
womb of nature: Esoteric term referring to the Creative Prin
ciple impregnated by the Divine Ideas.
word association: (psychological) Technique developed by
Dr. Jung of Switzerland. The analyst prepares a list of
words, generally from twenty to one hundred, which he
reads one at a time to the patient, hoping to get an emo
tional reaction. The patient responds to each word with
the first idea coming to his mind, no matter how ridiculous
it sounds. When the response comes slowly or through con
fusion, the word which occasions such response is supposed
[163]
to have touched some unconscious association which has
an emotional conflict or complex attached to it.
word becomes flesh: Subjective mental states always tend to
take external form, thus spiritual realization passes
through law into experience.
word does not have to reach any objective place, it merely
describes the place: Since there is one medium of Mind we
do not send out thoughts, we merely set thought in motion
in this Mind by making certain statements about a person
or a condition.
word does not speak the Power into existence but into form:
The word, acting as a mold, makes possible the experience
which the word suggests, but it never creates either the
Living Presence or the Dynamic Law which flows through
the word.
word of healing: Any word implying spiritual perfection and
consciously directed for some specific purpose.
word, I speak my: Refers to spiritual mind treatment where
one declares spiritual Truth for himself or another.
word is a mold: Ideas automatically reflect themselves into
Mind.
word made flesh: The Divine Creative Word taking form.
This cosmic process is re-enacted in man.
word of authority: The word which has unqualified reliance
upon good.
Word of God: Any self-evident Truth which, by the nature
of its being, proclaims itself to be what it is. The nature
of God in execution. The Law of the Mind of God in ac
tion. The Divine Creative Principle at work. The self-
evident necessity somewhat similar to the Divine Ideas of
Plato. In treatment, the Word of God means the power
of the Creative Spirit operating at the level of our con
sciousness.
[164]
word, power of the spoken: It is not the word, but the con
sciousness of its meaning, the thought back of it, that gives
it power.
words, find your own: Spiritual mind practice does not use
formulas, although it may use suggested methods of pro
cedure. All such suggested methods, however, must have a
definite meaning to the one using them. It is better to use
your own words.
words have power commensurate with their conviction: It is
useless merely to state that God is good, unless accompany
ing such statement there is an inner conviction of its truth.
words of thanksgiving, praise, gratitude, etc.: Grateful and
joyful recognition releases spiritual and mental energies
which negative states of consciousness do not contact.
words, our, are life if we believe that they are: In analytical
psychology, words without meaning have no power, and in
spiritual mind practice it is useless to use words unless they
have a deep meaning in our own consciousness.
words, your, must convey something to your thought: In
mental treatment the words, thoughts or expressions used
by a practitioner have no magic of themselves; their power
consists, not in the words, but in the conviction spoken
through them.
word, to speak your: Conscious use of the Creative Power of
Mind for definite purposes.
world, our, is our view of Reality: Even though Reality is In
finite that which we image from It, at any particular time,
represents what we have accepted of the limitless Principle
of our own being.
world as a reflection of God: Reflection, of itself, is nothing
ness, it has neither substance nor intelligence of its own;
thus it is not self-creative but projected; hence always obe
[165]
dient to that which projects it. The Creator is mirrored in
creation, but not caught by it or limited to it.
world without end: Creation is an eternal process.
worlds were framed by the word of God: The universe is a
result of the meditation of the Creative Spirit.
"Ye are Christ's and Christ is God's": Christ means the Di
vine Sonship, and the Divine Sonship means God in man.
"Ye ask and receive not because ye ask amiss": By "asking
amiss" Jesus refers to asking contrary to the Divine Nature.
For example, we cannot ask love to become hate; we can
not ask life to become death; we cannot ask harmony to de
stroy; who takes up the sword will perish by
it,
etc.
"Yea, yea; nay, nay": Acceptance of the Truth and denial of
its opposite.
"Ye cannot serve God and mammon": As
it
is impossible to
walk two ways at once, so
it
is
impossible to believe in both
good and evil without becoming confused.
Yoga: The practice of meditation and study to bring the in
dividual life into
a
conscious unity with the Center of Life
—God. Yoga
is
a conscious union with the Supreme Source
of Being. There are several Paths of Yoga, as taught by the
eastern philosophies. The Path of Attainment
is
divided
into three Paths. (i) Raja Yoga, the will. Mental. (2) Karma
Yoga, work and action. (3) Guani Yoga, wisdom. Also there
is
Hatha Yoga, the Yoga of physical well-being, and Bhakti
Yoga, or the Path of Devotion, the Path of Religion.
you are God: The life in, of, and around man
is
One Life.
The indivisible unity of all life. The Divine exists every
where, therefore at the center of man's being.
[166]
your Real Self is not evil: The True Self is neither sick, sin
ful, nor can it become destroyed. To declare this Truth
about the self is scientific mental practice.
"Your sins have hid his face from you . . .": We do not see
the face of Reality through confusion, negation, evil, etc.
your true self-hood: Christ, the Mind of God, or the Divine
Presence within you. Your individualization of the Spirit
which represents a separate, but not separated, unique
presentation of the Creative Whole.
[167]
