{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1942__gamache___master_book_of_canle_burning.pdf","mytitle":"Master Book Of Canle Burning","mylang":"de"}
dp
I OR
How to
BURN CANDLES
■■
; For Everif Pu
The MASTER BOOK
of
CANDLE BURNING
or
HOW TO BURN CANDLES
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
By
Henri Gamache
Published By
DORENE PUBLISHING CO., INC.
NEW YORK, N. Y.
Printed in U.S.A. Copyright, Sheldon Publications, N. Y., 1942
BIBLIOGRAPH Y
The author is indebted to the following work« '.nd au­
thor* for the legends, customs, traditions and hiblorical
data upon which this present volume is biuwd. Especial
(I.jinks is due to the many individuals who jo kindly co-
opcratcd in assembling the material particularly as it
pertains to exercises as they are practised by followers
of the Philosophy of Fire.
Folklore, London 1916, 8° V. 27; Winifred S. HLu kman
Anthropological Soc. of Bombay Journal, 1930 8“ V. 14
K. K. Dadachanji
Royal Soc. of Antiquaries of Ireland, Dublin, 1915.
E. C. R. Armstrong
The Philosophy of Fire; R. S. Clymer
The Secret Fire, E. J. L. Garstin
The Gohlen Bough, J. G. Frazer
John Pinkerton Collection of Travels, 1808-14 Henry Lord
Dm tm llnddon’a Report on the Cambridge Anthropological
! •.)>< dition to Torres Straits.
< <>io|miioilvr Religion and the Religion of the Future,
Allied W. Martin
Imly Krligioii <>l Intiu-I, Jamen Robertson,D.D.
Mun and III" Motive*, George Moore, M.D.
I'liii iao|ili* ol Ihiiud, I l‘. Griitacup) A.M.
• ’••J ul i< Mh|k iniliuuia noil Ainiiirinrnli ol »hr Highlanders of
'i.oll.iiid W Gimil Slrwait
i ll.i.ii.iL <i. inn d> i (.(iiuahri mill l.nei Such bar stamine,
U Mamill ai ill
In ih. I....I........if the Rnnli, A. Talbot
II*» Old ,tnd New r.-Hlanirnts
2
PREFACE
In order to understand the full siginficance of Candle
Burning one must go feack to the very beginnings of man­
kind, but to attempt a complete history of Fire Worship
would require a lifetime of research and would fill many
volumes.
Such a history would require an historical outline of
seven great religions extant today (Hinduism, Buddhism,
Zoroastrianism, Confucianism, Judaism, Christianity and
Mohamedanism as well as many religious sects and
cults of lesser importance in the world scene.
A book of this kind would have little popular value
because those who are interested in the Philosophy of
Fire and who wish to know more about the Art of Candle
Burning and its application to their daily lives ask only
one question: “How can I burn candles in a manner
which will bring me the most satisfaction and consola­
tion?”
In order to answer that question it is necessary to
eliminate all technical, dry and often times torturous
historical background. It is necessary to sift and sort
every fact, scrutinize every detail, search for the kernel.
It is to be hoped that this volume answers that ques­
tion in a manner which is satisfactory to the reader. It
has been necessary, of course, to include some historical
data and other anthropological data in order’ to better il­
lustrate the symbolism involved in modern candle burn­
ing as practised by so many people today.
This data has been accumulated from many sources;
it has been culled from literally hundreds of books and
articles. The modern rituals outlined here are based
upon practices which have been described by mediums?
spiritual advisors, evangelists, religious interpreters, ne-
ologists and others who should be in a position to know.
It has been the author’s desire to interpret and ex­
plain the basic symbolism involved in a few typical ex­
ercises so that the reader may recognize this symbolism
and proceed to develop his own symbolism in accordance
with the great beauty and highest ethics of the Art.
A’ew York, A7. Y. 1942 Henri Gamache
CHAPTER I
The PHILOSOPHY OF FIRE
It makes little difference what your religion may be—
candle burning brings consolation and solace. Candle
Burning perhaps better illustrates the UNIVERSALITY
of MAN than any other thing.
It has been said of religion that everything new in it
is old and everything old in it is new and I say that
this is true for there has been no NEW RELIGION SINCE
THE BEGINNING OF THE WORLD!
Within all men and women there is an intuitive sense
of God. In each of us is a sense of human weakness and
dependence, a distinction between Good and Evil, the
hope of a better life, the belief in an Omnipotent Guid­
ing Will in the world and universe.
These basic elements and truths have been with us
as far back as we can trace the history of mankind.
Even St. Augustine said that what we call the Chris­
tian religion only began to be called “Christian” after
the coming of Jesus Christ — that the religion itself ex­
isted even among the ancients long before Christ.
When we understand that simple thought — we can
understand WHY the Philosophy of Fire, or Fire Wor­
ship, has been a part of every great religion since man
emerged from caves and came into God’s light of day!
The foundation of Fire Worship is in God and no
man can say it is a heathen practice who has given it any
consideration. Its symbolism is Purity itself!
That we may better understand Fire Worship
or the Philosophy of Fire let us go back to the beginning
5
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
and ask “How did Fire Worship originate?” When we
find this answer we find the key to the symbolism of
modern Candle Burning.
GUARDIAN-TYPE Candle Refrcsc itintf
¡indent priest in flowing robes. About
•>" High.
CHAPTER II
ORIGIN of FIRE WORSHIP
No one knows who invented fire ... or rather its
first practical application to the needs of man. Perhaps
the first fire was taken from a volcano; or from a rag­
ing forest fire which had been started by lightning. In
any case, ^rimative man learned that fire kept him warm
and dry and made his food more satisfying to his taste.
Because life was hard, his appreciation for fire was far
greater than is ours. He guarded it carefully, lest the
winds, the rains and the elements put it out! It kept the
6
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
wild beasts of the forests from his door. No wonder it
was a mighty influence in his life. '"'No wonder it was a
portc it of disaster when it went out! No wonder he
saw in this fire a resemblance to the Sun which was so
welcome to him since he then could face his natural
enemies unafraid!
What was more natural, then, than that he should
give praise to the sun, and he should worship it as his
Savior? And was it not logical that in the same way he
should consider the fire in his hearth no less divine?
Thus, from this humble beginning, man began his
worship of Fire. The custom was not confined to any
one particular group, nor did it spring up and thrive on
any One continent. All races, in many climes, of all
complexions adopted the custom and changed it only ia
6mall ways to meet their particular needs.
According to W. S. Blackman, “Fire is sometimes
looked upon as a benign agent, sometimes as a purifying
agent, sometimes as a destroying demon. It purifies and
warms and heals. It protects the new born child and
lights up the road for the departing spirit. It drives off
evil influences, destroys disease, makes the sun shine,
stops rain from falling. It plays a large and important
part both in the religious and social life of all races of
mankind from the cradle to the grave!”
We" have read how primative man kept his fire
lighted at the mouth of his cave to ward off wild beasts.
It can be readily understood then, that as late as 4000
years later, fire was still looked upon as the symbol of
protection.
W. Grant Stewart relates that Scotch Highlanders used
fires to ward off witches so that their herds might not
become infected and ill.
4-
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
W. Mannhardt is the authority for many German
folic tales and traditions wherein he describes the use of
fire for similar purposes in Central Europe.
Gradually, this symbolism of “warding off evil” took
on a rather different aspect. Fire became a purifying
agent. Direct contact with it was thought to drive out
any devils within the person and to cleanse or purify them.
For example, among the Parisees at one time, when
a man died his widow was said to he contaminated with
the same evils which had taken her husband’s spirit
away. Thus she was led to a low platform under which
a fire was built,, Here the unfortunate woman had to
remain for an hour each day for thirty days at the end
of which time it was thought that the evil spirits had
left her body and she was again pure.
In a like manner among the Parisees, when a child
was born a candle was kept burning somtimes for ten
«lays, sometimes for forty full days or the confinement
period.
In Britain, in Scandinavia and in Germany, several
candles were lighted around a new born infant to keep
it from falling into the power of evil spirits, according
to Blackman.
Many of these customs are still followed today even
though in some cases, centuries have passed since they
were originated.
Perhaps the greatest exponents of Fire Worship have
been the Parisees or Zoroastrians who worshipped not in
temples but in the open air. They abominated images
and idols and worshipped the Sun and Fire as Représen­
tâtire of the Omnipresent Dietyl Their only church or
temple was a round tower in which a sacred fire was
kept burning at all times. Usually these fire temples
8
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
were located on a hill top and the faithful worshipped
in the open air. '
The story is told of an unbeliever who approached a
Parisee Fire Temple and beheld the sacred fire which
was never allowed to die out. “What!” he exclaimed to
the priest in charge, “do you worship the fire?” “Not
the fire”, the priest replied, “it is to us the emblem of
the sun and his genial warmth”
This custom seems to have been general from earli­
est antiquity and such fires were maintained constantly
because the God’s presence was thought to lie therein.
CHAPTER III
A FEW BIBLICAL REFERENCES SUBSTANTIATING
THE PHILOSOPHY OF FIRE
The idea of a Fire God was not a belief of the Zoroas-
trians alone for Moses told his people that their God was
“a consuming fire ”
Does not the Bible say that God appeared in the
Cherubim over the gates of Eden as a Flaming Sword —
and to Abraham as Flame of Fire and to Moses as a Fire
in the bush at Horeb?
If we refer to 1 Kings, Chapt. 18, we read:
36 And it came to pass at the time of the offer­
ing of the evening sacrifice, that Elijah the Prophet
came near, and said, LORD, God of Abraham, Isaac
and of Israel, let it be known this day that then art
God of Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I
have done all these things at Thy Word.
9
The MASTER BOuK of CANDLE BURNING
37 Hear me, OH LORD, hear me; that thia peo­
ple may know that Thou art the Lord God, and that
thou hast turned their heart back again.
38 Then the fire of the LORD fell, and con­
sumed the burnt sacrifice and the wood and the
stones and the dust and licked up the water that
was in the trench.
39 And when all the people saw it they fell on
their faces: and they said, the LORD, he is the God;
the LORD, he is the God.
Again in the Second Book of Chronicals, Chapt. 7,
we read:
1. Now when Solomon had made an end of
praying, the fire came down from heaven, and con­
sumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices; and the
glory of the LORD filled the house,
2. And the priests could not enter the house of
the LORD because the Glory of the LORD had
filled the LORD’S house.
In the Biblical passage last quoted we find a modern
counterpart for there are many people who keep a vigil
light burning constantly in their homes that it may be
filled with a beneficence which will keep out all nega­
tive or evil influences.
With such authority as the Bible behind it, it is not
to be wondered at that Candle Burning has become such
an important part in the lives of many people today.
Again the reader is referred to the Bible. This time
to HABAKKUK, Chapt. 3:3-5 verse. Here is a prayer
which will elevate anyone who reads it:
3 God came from Teman, and the Holy One
From Mount Paran. Selah. His glory covered the
heavens, and the earth was full of his praise.
10
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
4. And his brightness was as the light; and he
had horns coming out of his hand and there was the
hiding of his power.
5. Before him went the pestilence and burning
coals went forth at his feet.
There are many who interpret this prayer as one to
overcome ill health and who read the prayer over and
over each day, the meanwhile burning candles of a col­
or to harmonize with the condition to be overcome.
(This subject is discussed in Chapter 5 of this book).
For those who wish to follow the Philosophy of Fire,
the author refers the reader to LEVITICUS 23, 1-13 and
LEVITICUS 24, 1-7.
In these passages it is related that the Lord spoke un­
to Moses and admonished him to make an offering of
fire FOR SEVEN DAYS. There are many who follow
this custom by burning a SEVEN DAY CANDLE and
reading the two above mentioned chapters each day for
seven days.
Study the Gospel according to ST. JOHN, Chapt. 1,
1-10 verse:
1. In the beginning was the word, and the word
was with God, and the word was God.
2. The same was in the beginning with God.
3. All things were made by him: and without
him wag not anything made that was made.
4. In him was life; and the life was the LIGHT
OF MEN.
5. And the Light shineth in darkness and the
darkness comprehended it not.
6. There was a man sent from God, whose name
was John.
7. The same came for a witness, to bear wit­
ness of the Light; that all men through him r ight
believe. — etc.
n
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
This passage has been interpreted by many as say­
ing that there are good things all about us; there is a
plentitude of gifts, oi food. of health and happiness, of
goodness and peace of mind. All these things are un­
der our very noses but we perceive them not — or seeing
them, understand them not. .
Those who interpret the passage in this manner, burn
candles that the “light of understanding” may enter in­
to their hearts and minds, that they may better perceive
the WAY of LIGHT and GAIN THE BLESSINGS
WHICH THE LORD MEANT FOR EACH OF US TO
HAVE AND ENJOY.
One who has followed the Philosophy of Fire,recom­
mends burning candles in the shape of a cross. The
colors are based upon PLANETARY tables, each col­
or being assigned to the days of the week as follows:
Sunday— burn a yellow, candle in the shape of a cross
Monday— burn a white candle in the shape of a cross
Tuesday— burn a red candle in the shape of a cross
Wednesday—burn a purple candle in the shape of a cross
Thursday— burn a blue candle in the shape of a cross
Friday— burn a green candle in the shape of a cross
Saturday— burn a black candle in the shape of a cross
Read: Gospel According to JOHN: Chapters 1 and 5
each day.
CHAPTER IV
STRANGE CUSTOMS OF FIRE WORSHIP
WITH MODERN COUNTERPARTS
A. Talbot in his famous writing “In the Shadow of
the Bush”, relates strange customs which have prevailed
in many parts of Africa from time immemorial. One of
12
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
these is of particular interest to those who follow the
Philosophy of Fire because it has its counterpart right
in our midst.
He observed that among the Ekoi tribes of West Africa,
a peculiar form of “divorce” is practiced. If a woman
desires to free herself of her husband she does not dis­
cuss the matter with him for fear of reprisal on his part-
While her husband is away working, she rakes out the
fire and drenches it with water.
She then cuts off her hair after which she paints
herself all over with white paint. Upon completion of
this ritual she becomes a free woman. It is said that a
peculiar and inexplicable psycological reaction occurs in
that even if she changes her mind she can nevei return
to her husband regardless of her husband’s threats and
protestations.
This custom has a parallel in America — a custom
which prevails in many cities and towns. The belief is
often expressed by some people that they are in a
“crossed condition”, that is that they are held back by
some seemingly impossible obstacle which may be real
or fancied. Sometimes the condition may be attributed
to another individual who i- thought to have designs
against one.
In any case a symbolism not unlike that of the Ekoi
maid is followed to overcome the condition. Four candles
are used; one black candle and three white candles. All
are lighted but care is exercised to light the black' one
last. See Fig. 1
13
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
position 1-1 — White Crucifix Altar Candles dressed
with Hi-Altar Brand Oil
position 2 — Black Candle or Weed of Misfortune
Brand* Candle dressed with Confusion
Brand Oil
position 3 — White Poiver Brand Candle dressed
with Domination Brand Oil
Then the affected one prepares a bath into which a
Bathing oil is placed. The candles are allowed to burn
only during the time of bathing and then are extinguished.
The following is read each day:
JOB, Chapter 21:17-18 verse:
17. How oft is the candle of the wicked put out?
And how oft cometh their destruction upon them.
God distributeth sorrows in his anger.
18. They are as stubble before the wind and as
chaff that the storm carrieth away.
This process is repeated for seven days, a different
oil being used in the bath each day. At the end of this
period it is said that the “crossed condition” has been
removed.
14
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
It is not the intention of the author to commend or
criticize such rites but merely to point out the similarity
of this to the practice of the Ekoi Tribes, and to attempt
to explain the symbolism involved.
In the case of the Ekoi wife, the fire was raked out
and drenched with water. This symbolised the breaking
of the marriage vows since the fire was symbolic of the
home and since the woman’s place is in the home, she
naturally is the guardian of the fire. When she put out
the fire she expressed symbolically, her revolt.
The painting of her body in white is a “purification”
rite; white, being the symbolic color for purity. Thus
upon completion of the ritual she was symbolically free.
The symbolism of the other case is explained as
follows: — Black is the symbolic color of evil. There­
fore the black candle is lighted. White is symbolic of
purity so three white candles are lighted that their com­
bined light might overpower the light of the single black
candle.
The bathing process, like the painting ritual of the
Ekoi girl, is a purification ritual and symbolizes the
cleansing of all evil thoughts and impurities from the in­
dividual. The entire ritual is highly symbolic of the con­
quest of Good over Evil.
There are many other customs and pra jtices involved
in candle burning which are so wide-spread and so uni­
versally accepted by different races and nationalities as
to preclude the possibility of coincidence.
For example Blackman’s researches show that in many
widely separated countries the spluttering candle has been
a prediction of misfortune — a theory which is held in
popular favor by many people today.
Curiously enough, just recently a correspondent told
>f a custom to obtain marriage omens, which is practised
15
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
in Italy and even by emigres to America: If two leaves
of Basil are placed upon a candle and burn away quietly,
the marriage will be happy. If they crackle their live's
will be filled with quarrels.
Standard Size Crucifix Altar Candles
(4%" high) are available in white and
black, also in colors representing each
day of the week.
CHAPTER V
THE SYMBOLISM OF COLOR IN CANDLES
The ancient philosophers believed that colors gave
off vibrations, which affected one favorably or ad­
versely. To those who may find this difficult to under­
stand or to those who may feel some doubt, we can give
a simple parallel to illustrate the point.
16
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
If we play a chord upon a piano, the strings of the
piano vibrate and thus give off a sound which may be
either pleasing or displeasing to the ear. Sometimes it
fairly sings .... sometimes it creates a harsh discord
which unsettles the nerves.
In the same way colors set up vibrations and either
cause a pleasing or displeasing effect. Interior decorators,
artists and others who work with colors, know this to be
true. Manufacturers of automobiles, cosmetics, dresses,
etc. use colors which please and soothe the eye and thus
help sell their products.
How often does a man say, “This red tie is my favor­
ite”. How many times have you known a woman to be
“partial to blue” or some other color?
This leaning toward a color is due to harmonious
vibrations which are given off by certain colors causing
an unconscious psycological reaction on our part.
Remember we have said “harmonious vibrations”. In
other words the vibrations given off by the color must
be attuned to our own personal vibrations ... so that they
blend and make a pleasing result.
There are many schools of thought concerning the
symbolism of color and its influence upon the individual.
However, perhaps the most popular opinion is that in
regard to the usage of Astral colors.
Among the Astrologers, it is a well recognized prin­
ciple that the actions of each person are governed by the
Sign under which they were born. Each sign, in turn,
is governed by certain planets and to each Sign have
been assigned certain gems and colors which are said to
be attuned to those born under each sign. These colors
are known as ASTRAL COLORS. Below we give the
generally accepted list of these colors. Where one color
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
is stronger in its influence it is indicated with CAPITAL
letters. The other colors are of secondary or lesser in­
fluence but still far more harmonious tlian any colors
not mentioned under each sign.
TABLE 1
POPULARLY ACCEPTED ASTRAL COLORS
ACCORDING TO EACH SIGN
For those
Sign Born between
Aries Mar. 21 -- Apr. 19
Taurus Apr. 20 -- May 19
Gemini May 20 —- June 18
Cancer June 19 -— July 23
Leo July 24 -- Aug. 22
Virgo Aug. 23 —- Sept. 21
Libra Sept. 22 -- Oct. 21
Scorpio Oct. 22 -- Nov. 20
Sagittarius Nov. 21 -— Dec. 20
Capricorn Dec. 21 -- Jan. 19
Aquarius Jan. 20 —- Feb. 18
Pices Feb. 19 -- Mar. 20
Astral Colors
WHITE and rose pink.
RED and lemon yellow-
red and LIGHT BLUE.
GREEN and russet brown,
red and GREEN.
GOLD and Black — speckled
with blue dots.
black, CRIMSON, light blue.
GOLDEN BROWN and black,
gold, red, GREEN.
GARNET,.Brown, silver-gray,
and black.
BLUE, pink, Nile green.
White, PINK, emerald green,
black.
Study this list carefully and remember your most har­
monious vibratory color. You perhaps will recognize
that your color has proven harmonious to you in the past
without you realizing it]
Those who follow the Philosophy of Fire recommend
the burning of colored candles which are in harmony
with the subject. Thus, if you were born between March
21 st and April 19th WHITE is your most important vi­
bratory color and you should place emphasis on the burn­
ing of WHITE CANDLES. Since rose pink is your
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
secondary Astral Color, candles of this color should be
burned also. These would be your PRIMARY CAN­
DLES. Astral type Candles are available in authentic
Astral colors and wherever possible those incorporating
at least two astral colors should be used.
Any other candles burned by an Aries person should
be used for the specific vibratory influence symbolised
by its color. These specific influences will be found in
TABLE II.
Just as there is “the language of flowers”, so, too,
have philosophers from time immemorial indicated “the
language of colors”. Today we refer to this symbolism
a6 Vibratory Influences.
TABLE II
POPULARLY ACCEPTED SYMBOLISM OR VIBRATORY
INFLUENCES OF COLORS
Wkite .
.. Symbolizes Purity, Truth, Spiritual
Strength, Power and Realization.
Red...................... Symbolizes Love, Health and Vigor
Light Blue .........Spiritual Understanding, Soothing, Hap­
piness; Cool, Calm Collected Thought«.
The Power to Perceive, Protection
Dark Blue ............. ACID, Depressing, Moody, Unfortunate,
Subduing,
Green ............. Money, Wealth, Financial Success, Good
Crops or Harvest.
Gold (Yellow) .... The Color of Attraction, Magnetic Hyp­
notic, Captivating, Drawing, Fascinat­
ing, Persuasive, Charming, Alluring,
Cheerfulness.
19
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
Greenish Yellow... Arouses such sensations as Jealousy, Sick­
ness or Cowardice, Anger and Discord.
Crimson................Same as red but slightly modified by the
Gold vibrations.
Brown ................. Neutral. Non-Specific, Wavering, Hesitat­
ing, Faltering, Uncertainty.
Golden Brown .... Counteracts all of the Br^wn vibrations:—
thus ASSERTIVE, Definite, Sure, Un­
hesitating, Aggressive.
Garnet .................Same as Red — but some of the vibrations
of Blue. Thus: Understanding -Love,
Strong healthy mind and thoughts,
vigorous will to do things. Exciting.
Pink ............... Succcs.“® Conqueror of Evil, Winner in
Love, Clean Living, Honorable.
Black .............. Sadness, Mourning, Evil, Objectionable.
Russet Brown Same as Golden Brown but with a touch
of Red vibrations. Thus: Uncertainty
in Love Affairs.
Silver or Gray .... The Black vibrations almost nullified.
Symbolic of the Victory of Good over
Evil.
Orange ........... Since this is a combination of Yellow and
Red you can expect a happy mixture of
Vibrations from both primary colors.
Thus: Nerve stimulant, brain clearing,
mind builder, Encouraging, Adaptabil­
ity to various moods. Personality:
Courageous. Strong love or Active m
financial matters.
20
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
............... This is a combination of the primary col­
ors Red and Blue. Therefore look for
vibrations of the primary colors: Pow­
erful for furthering Worldly Ambi­
tions; Overcoming business obstacles,
High Tension, High Power. A color
which should be “taken in small doees”
CHAPTER VI
SUGGESTIONS FOR SELECTING THE RIGHT COLORED
CANDLES TO CREATE SPECIFIC
VIBRATORY INFLUENCES
In the preceding chapter we have seen how each per­
son is affected by the vibratory influences of their Astral
Color?. We also have Cataloged the various colors and
indicated' the popularly accepted symbolistn associated
with each color.
From these two basic Tables those who follow the
Philosophy of Fire derive their formulae for the proper
selection of Candles to create the correct vibratory in­
fluences to overcome every condition or to induce con­
ditions to their liking.
In Chapter II we have pointed out a number of ap­
plications for Fire Worship based upon research by uo
less an authority than W. S. Blackman. In this era of
modern homes and skyscraper apartments, it is of course
not practical to utilize open altar fires as did the an­
cients so that the ritual o£ candle burning is used in­
stead with no lessening of the effect, say devotees of thia
Philosophy.
21
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
These adherents to an ancient custom claim that can­
dles may he burned for any of the following conditions:
• To Obtain Money
• To Win the Love of Man or Woman
• To Settle a Disturbed Condition in the Home
• To Obtain Work
• To Conquer Fear
• To Develop Understanding
• To Break up a Love Affair
• To Bring Confusion to Another Who is Thought
to Have Caused Unfavorable Vibrations
• To Gain Prosperity
• To Change One’s Luck
• To Develop Spiritual Understanding
'• To Learn the Truth
• To Soothe and Quiet the Nerves
• To Regain or Retain Health
• To Gain Power Over Others
• To Arouse Discord or Anger or Jealousy in Another
• To Awaken Spiritual Understanding in Another
• To Protect Against Evil Influences
• To Stop Slander
• To Gain What One Desires
• To Win or Hold Happiness
• To Attain Success
• To Heal an Unhappy Marriage
• To Overcome a Bad Habit
• To Relieve Pressure by an Enemy
There are many other conditions which it is said may
be neutralized or harmonized by the burning of the prop­
er candles but the foregoing list is sufficient to indicate
the diversity of purposes for which followers of the
Philosophy of Fire utilize Candle Burning.
The uninitiated may well wonder what candles to
burn in order to induce any specific vibration for any
particular objective.
22
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
In a sense, the selection is largely a matter of indi­
vidual interpretation on the part of the person involved
after the selection of candles in the Astral Colors as in­
dicated in TABLE I and the basic Symbolism of the
colors as indicated in TABLE II.
A medium of experience knows almost instinctively
which combination of colors to utilize without reference
to Color Tables or Charts.
For example a medium might recommend the burn­
ing of GREEN CANDLES for all MONEY MATTERS.
The explanation is as follows:—
If we refer to TABLE II we find that green is sym­
bolic of Money, Wealth, Financial Success and Good
Oops. Therefore Green Candles would be essential to
creating the proper vibrations.
However. TABLE I is used to select the correct
ASTRAL COLOR of Candles. If one is born between
Oct. 22nd and Nov. 20th, Brown and Black candles would
also be used. The medium in this case might possibly
suggest the burning of green Candles together with Brown
and Black Astral Candles for at least 1 hour eac!)
day for seven days.
However if it is desired to burn Candles FOR AN­
OTHER, a slight variation must be observed. The
ASTRAL CANDLES must not be in the color of the per­
son who is burning them but should be in the Astral Color
of the person for whom the candles are burned. This would
mean that the birth date of that person must be known and
then the right ASTRAL colored candle used to create the
correct vibrations harmonious to that person.
Based upon my research on the subject, I recom­
mend that the candles be lighted early in the morning
23
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
so that their light will he given strength as the sun in­
creases in its brightness.
Some time ago I heard of the account of a young
woman who felt pangs of Fear. She had so many doubts
about li6r ability to keep a job, to keep her husband’s love.
She felt that she was being harassed by unseen, hid­
den forces.
Questioning revealed that she was born on February
7th. This meant that BLUE, Pink and Nile Green were
her ASTRAL COLORS. If we refer to TABLE II for
the Symbolism of those colors we note that just the right
vibrations are indicated to overcome this young woman’s
condition.
She was advised to obtain an Astral Candle in her
colors and to burn it each evening after sundown.
The further recommendation was made that the
Third Psalm of David be read thirty-three times at each
burning. The Psalm follows:
Lord, how they are increased that trouble me!
Many are they that rise up against me.
2. Many there be which say of Qiy soul: There
is no help for him in God. Selah.
3. But thou, 0 LORD, art a shield for me; my
glory and the lifter up of mine head.
4. I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and he
heard me out of his holy hill. Selah.
5. I laid me down and slept; I awaked; for the
LORD sustained me.
6. I will not be afraid of ten thousands of peo­
ple, that have set themselves against me round about.
7. Arise; O LORD: save me, 0 my GOD, for
thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon the cheek
bone; thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly.
8. Salvation belongeth unto the LORD: thy
blessing is upon thy people. Selah.
24
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
Perhaps ninety percent of the people who seek help
have amatory difficulties. They desire the love of
someone; they desire to regain a lost love; they bear a
secret love for some one who is unaware of it; they feel
they are losing the love of the husband or wife; their love
is not returned by the object of their affections — and
many similar adverse conditions of the heart.
In all such conditions I recommend meditation and
prayer and suggest trying the Philosophy of Fire for its
soothing influence. Try this:
— A PINK Candle is burned for two hours each day.
— An ASTRAL Candle in the petitioner s correct col­
ors is burned with the PINK Candle.
Two ASTRAL Candles in the Loved One’s Astral
Colors are burned with the other two candles.
(See Exercise 4, Chapter 14, entitled, “To WIN
THE LOVE OF MAN OR WOMAN”)
In addition to the burning of the Candles as de­
scribed, a small supply of Frankincense and Myrrh may
be obtained and a little of this burned each day after
burning the candles. While the Frankincense and Myrrh
is burning, Chapter 6 of the Song of Solomon should be
read if the petitioner is a man or Chapter 8 if the peti­
tioner is a woman.
Those who are well versed in the Art of Candle Burn­
ing find that many people come to them asking why it
is the Lord does not bring them more Success. They can­
not get a job or else they cannot hold a job even when
they do their work well. It seems that an evil spirit
hovers over them keeping them from all the things that
they feel they deserve.
They want SUCCESS — in all their undertakings.
The want to expand and to accomplish all that they feel
25
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
they are able and qualified to accomplish. Most peti­
tioners in this class are bitter at the fact that Fate seems
to hold them back.
In such conditions, I usually suggest the Success Form­
ula of Candle Burning with ORANGE Candles and
Candies in the ASTRAL Colors of the petitioner.
Reference to TABLE II will indicate why Orange
Candles are suggested while TABLE I will give the
proper color of candle to burn according to each Sign
of the Zodiac. One candle of each color should be
lighted each morning before going to look for a job. The
95th psalm of David should be read and then the lights
are smothered. Upon returning home in the evening
the remainder of the two candles can be burned until
entirely consumed. The process can be repeated as
long as desired.
We could go on giving innumerable incidents and oc­
casions like the above for burning candles but these few
suffice to indicate how those who follow the Philosophy
of Fire practice the Art of Candle Burning in this day
and age.
CHAPTER VII
ALTAR and CANDLE SUCKS
THEIN PLACE IN THE PHILOSOPHY OF FIRE
In the beginning, the Altar was the one place where
primitive man could meet with God. He felt that he
could not just offer up a sacrifice at any place that he
might happen to he. He had to have a special place
where the Almighty could come to receive the offering
in the proper atmosphere
26
HOW to BURN CANDLES tor EVERY PURPOSE
It had to be a place which was sanctified, purified,
unpolluted and worthy of a visitation from the Omni­
potent. Thus, even the earliest altar, as crude as they
appear to be to us, were works of art in their time and
made with loving care by these primitive peoples.
Early altars were made of earth or clay; sometimes
stone was added; others were made entirely of stone. The
law of Moses permitted altars of either clay and earth
or of stone.
In every era these altars were adorned by fire or
lights. Usually these lights took the form of clay or metal
vessels in which a vegetable oil was placed with a wick.
Animal oils such as tallow were never permitted. In
fact it was considered a profane act to use animal oils
of any kind. That is why, today, those who profess the
Philosophy of Fire ALWAYS USE VEGETABLE OIL
CANDLES or PARAFIN CANDLES.
In the Middle Age6 the only occasion which called
f‘"r the use of animal oil candles was the Black Mass
which was secretely practised by certain Cultists in
praise of Satan, the King of Darkness.
Why was earth or stone used for altars instead of
some other material? Why v as fire used to adorn these
altars? What was the Symbolism involved?
If we refer to 1 Corinthians 5: 47-49 we find:
47. The first man ifl of the earth, earthy: the
second man is the Lord from heaven.
48. As is the earthy, such are they also that are
earthy: and as is the heavenly, such are they also
that are heavenly.
49 And as we have borne the image of tine
earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly.
Now, further to bear out the 47th verse quoted above
we know that Adam was the first man and that the word
27
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
Adam means “red man”, and that after the Fall of Eden
he was called Adamah or red earth.
We have seen in previous chapters how primitive
man saw in the Sun the symbolic representation of the
Omnipotent .... and in Fire the symbolic representa­
tion of the Sun. Therefore fire on the altar symbolized
the presence of God while the altar was symbolic of
man himself.
As we know, there is but one true Altar, and that is
our HEART upon which the light of Spiritual Under­
standing ever shines. Sometimes the light becomes dim,
sometimes it fails — but if we wish to continue our spir­
itual growth we must keep the Light of Understanding
and Love forever burning in our hearts.
There are scores of Biblical references to the altar,
its manner of dressing, its location, its dedication, etc.,
and readers who are familiar with the Bible will readily
recall them. The following are but a few of these ref­
erences which we urge the reader to peruse:
GENESIS 8:20-21
ISAIAH 9: 2
ISAIAH 60: 1-5
ST. JOHN 8: 12
ST. LUKE 11: 33
LEVITICUS 8: 10-16
” 8: 28
” 9: 7-9
” 10: 1-3
REVELATION 2: 1
In other passages of both the Old Testament and the
New Testament we find that Altars were made of sub­
stances other than earth or stone. They were made of
wood — for example of sandalwood or holywood. Some
2»
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
were made of other more commonly obtained wood? and
overlaid with gold. Some were studded with precious
gems — but in every case there were Altar Lights or
Candles constantly burning as a symbol of the Divine
presence.
Today followers of the Philosophy of Fire do not
concern themselves so much with the material from
which the altar is made as they do in the ARRANGE­
MENT and the Ritual of Observance at the Altar. This
is called DRESSING THE ALTAR.
The Sanctification or Purification of the Altar is
considered of prime importance and certain formulae
are used by adherents, based upon instructions found in
passages in the Bible.
For example some adherents believe that INCENSE
is of importance in Altar Ritual and base their author­
ity on the passage LEVITICUS 16:12-13.
12. And he shall take a censer full of burning
coals of fire from off the altar before the LORD,
and his hands full of sweet incense beaten small,
and bring it within the vaiL
13. And he shall put the incense upon the fire
before the LORD, that the cloud of the incense may
cover the mercy seat that is upon the testimc ny,that
he die not.
Moderns do not follow this ritual exactly as stated
in the passage quoted above. They find it impractical
to U8e live coals upon the altar. Instead, Candles of a
high quality are used.
A high quality of “ALTAR BRAND” incense may
be used but it should be lighted from the light of the
candle which has been burning on the altar.
29
The MASTER _BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
Now let us discuss the matter of candle sticks. If
we again refer to the Bible we find that the Lord gave
Aery definite and specific instructions for making of
candle sticks to be used in religious rites. (See EX­
ODUS 25, 3140)
These candle-sticks were to have been made of pure
beaten gold with a central shaft, three branches out of
one side and three branches out of the other side. Spe­
cific instructions were also given as to the design of
the holders.
Now it is impossible to obtain a candle stick of this
description today — for it would cost a king’s ransom.
Does this mean that followers of the Philosophy of Fire
must be denied the right to worship as the Bible tells
them?
The answer of course is an emphatic “no”. Were
they to deny themselves this sacred privilege they would
be putting out the lights on the altars of their Hearts and
we know that these must ALWAYS be kept burning at
all costs in order to obtain salvation and the attainment
of our desires.
We will illustrate herewith types of candlesticks
which arc commonly used by followers of the Philosophy
of Fire. After all, the material from which the candle
stick is made is of secondary importance, the important
thing is the symbolism involved; the sincerity of pur­
pose, the spark of divine inspiration which gives forth
as the candles burn upon the altar.
Ordinarily, exponents of this form of worship state,
the altar may be any place in the home which is seclud­
ed; a place where, when one is meditating or at prayer
there is less likelihood of constant interruption. I sug­
gest a simple solution to this problem as follows:
30
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
Set aside a place in the home that is quiet, where
there will be no interruptions when in meditation and
prayer. The attic, the basement, play room, the bed­
room a spare room all are suitable for the purpose. It is
not necessary to have a specially built altar as any space
dedicated to this purpose serves as the altar when the
candles are- properly arranged.
Such an arrangement consists of a rectangular area
such as a bureau top or a space of equal size. Two candle
sticks are placed at the two back corners of this space
and in them are inserted two white candles. Personally,
I prefer using white Candles molded in the shape of a
crucifix. They have their own base and require no can­
dlestick holders .... and they are beautiful!
An Altar Cloth may be spread over the area thus
described, if desired. This then comprises the altar.
Generally speaking, when burning Offeratory Can­
dles of any specified color, they should be placed mid­
way between the front and back of the altar. That is,
along an imaginary center line. (See Fig. 2)
31
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
No. 1-1 — Position of White Altar Candles (preferably
in the symbolic shape of a crucifix').
No. 2, 3 & 4 — Positions of OFFERATORY CANDLES
only. Burned for a specific purpose.
No. 5, 6 & 7 — Positions of ASTRAL CANDLES only —
No Offeratory Candles are placed here.
No. 8 — Position of Incense Burner when used.
No. 9 -— Position of Holy Bible.
With an arrangement such as we have described a
beautiful altar of which you can be proud, will be the
result.
Reference to Fig. 2 will 6how the position usually
alloted to the Bible and to the Incense Burner.
When only one colored Offeratory candle is burned,
it should occupy the Number 2 position while the incense
burner occupies the Number 8 position.
When two colored Offeratory candles are burned
they occupy No. 2 and No. 3 positions while the incense
burner remains in No. 8 position. The Astral Candle
occupies the No. 7 position unless there are two Astral
Candles in which case use positions No. 7 and 6.
Some practitioner vary the ritual to some extent
or expand it but the diagram given is the BASIC arrange­
ment, generally speaking, and should be adhered to.
It should further be borne in mind that the Offera­
tory Candle (the candle which you have dedicated for
some specific purpose) should always be oh the LEFT
— No. 2, 3 or 4 positions. Your ASTRAL Candle (based
upon your own Astral colors) should be on the RIGHT
or in No. 7, 6 or 5 positions unless other candles are
used, in which case the Astral candle is grouped to­
gether with the Offeratory candles on the left. This will
be illustrated further on in the text and particularly
in Chapters XIV and XV where actual exercises are
given with complete diagrams.
32
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
CHAPTER VIII
HOW TO DRESS A CANDLE <
with SOME SUGGESTED DEVOTIONS
One of the most important factors in candle burn­
ing, according to many who follow the Philosophy of
Fire, is DRESSING. As one adherent stated, many peo­
ple believe that all that is necessary is to procure a can­
dle of the right color and light it—and then every dream
and wish will come true.
It is not as easy as al^l that, however. Anything worth
having in life is worth striving for. Certain Rules must
be followed. So it is with Candle Burning. Certain pre­
scribed rules should be followed in trying to attain results.
Students of this line of thought believe that it is
absolutely essential to anoint a candle with OIL and to
impress upon it your most fervent wishes, so that it ab­
sorbs some of your vibrations — becomes almost a part
of you . . . magnetized with your personality.
According to this school of thought, a candle has “po­
larity” the same as a magnet. It has a North Pole and a
South Pole (See Fig. 3).
In annointing the candle with oil it is rubbed from the
center toward the top or “North Pole” and from the cen­
ter toward the bottom or “South Pole”. The candle is
never rubbed in both directions toward both poles.
33
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
As regards the selection
of the oil to be used, this is
a matter for the individual QuA
to decide for himself. There uP
are many different types of
oils but good judgement dic­
tates that an oil should be
selected whose vibrations are —
in harmony with the color of
the candle and the purpose
for ivhich the candle is to be
burned.
Among the many popular
oils available for the above
purposes are the following: ...
. ZVr 5
LODESTONE brand OIL
Fiery COMMAND brand OIL
DOMINATION brand OIL
Beneficial DREAM brand OIL
HI-ALTAR brand OIL
FIRE of LOVE brand OIL
GLOW of ATTRACTION brand OIL
ROSE of CRUCIFIXION brand OIL
CONQUERING GLORY brand OIL
INCENSE brand OIL
KINDLY SPIRIT brand OIL
ZODIAC brand OIL
BLACK ART brand OIL
HOLY BATH brand OIL
CONCENTRATION brand OIL
CLEOPATRA brand OIL
34
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
HINDU brand OIL
FIERY WALL of PROTECTION brand OIL
-CRUCIBLE of COURAGE brand OIL
Flaming POWER brand OIL
DOVE’S BLOOD brand OIL
BIBLE brand OIL
COMPELLING brand OIL
CROWN of SUCCESS brand OIL
KING SOLOMON brand OIL
XX DOUBLE CROSS brand OIL
UNCROSSING brand OIL
Lady LUCK brand OIL
INFLAMMATORY CONFUSION brand OIL
It should be impressed upon the reader that the names
used in connection with these oils are not to be construed
as indicative of any use or guarantee in connection with
them. The names simply indicate the impression that
their particular aroma evoked in their maker’s mind.
For example, Fire of Love Brand Oil has a peculiar
fascinating fragrance which seems to conjure up mem­
ories of a passionate, fiery love. Domination Brand Oil
seems to incite the senses so that the whole World seems
at one’s feet. Dream Brand Oil has a languorous odor
that seems to be synonomou's with dreams. Concentra­
tion Brand Oil has a pungent odor in which all the es­
sences of the woods seem concentrated. So go these im­
pressions. The symbolism in each case is a matter of in­
dividual discriminaton.
In the same manner, the use of any oil is a matter
of individual selection. Usually it will be found that the
‘right’ oil is the same color as the ‘right’ color of candle
or candles to be burned. There is a “follow through”
of color harmony as regards both candle and oil. In
the same manner the oil is selected which by its brand
name is closest in harmony with the purpose for which
the candles are burned.
35
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
For example, a follower of the Philosophy of Fire
who was desireous of burning candles for the Success
of a certain undertaking would place two white Altar
Brand Crucifix Candles in the Number 1 positions,
rhese would be dressed with Hi-Altar brand Oil. An
ORANGE or Crown of Success brand candle would be
selected and placed in the Number 2 position. This
candle would be dressed with CROWN of SUCCESS
brand OIL. Then the ASTRAL Candle of the wor­
shipper would be placed in the Number 7 position and
this would be dressed with ZODIAC .brand OIL. (Astral
Candles, regardless of the month or Sign are always
dressed with Zodiac Brand Oil according to these stu-
dents). The incense may be used or may be omitted as
desired by the worshipper but if used I recommend that
a high quality of Altar type incense be used rather than
a cone or similar type commercial incense.
I suggest an hour’s worship each evening accompanied
by a reading and rereading of the 23rd Psalm of David
during the period of devotion.
Sometime ago, I heard of a formula for thoae in a
so-called “crossed condition”. (See Fig. 4)
3S
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY FURINjSE*
Two WHITE candles [preferably of the shape af e
criica/ix j No. 1-1 positions dressed with Hi-Altar
brand OiL
One gray candle No. 2 position dressed with Cncrossmg
brand OiL
One orange candle No. 3 position dressed with Cnerassing
brand Oil-.
One Astral Candle No. 7 position dressed with Zodiac
brand OiL
Psalca to be read: Psalm of David No. 11-
Devotions: 30 minuses daily for nine days.
Similarly I learned that if it is desired to bring c©ia~
fusion to the one who has caused the unfavorable vihr^
tions the opposite procedure should be followed. (Sc®
Two White Candles (preferably of the shape of ® ■rr-^.csfSx)
No- LI position. dressed with Hi-Altar ^r&Rd OiL
37
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
One Astral Candle in No. 2 position dressed with Zodiac
Brand Oil.
One Orange Candle in No. 6 position dressed ivith CON­
TUSION brand Oil.
One Black Candle in No. 7 position' dressed- with Con­
fusion brand Oil.
Psalm to be read: Psalm 70.
Devotions: 30 minutes each evening before retiring.
The Black candle only should be extinguished
after reading the seventieth Psalm only once.
I also learned that for those who would rid them­
selves of all enemies the same procedure has been used
as described directly above except in the matter of
Psalm to be read: Psalm No. 59
Devotions: 30,minutes daily each evening before retir­
ing. The black candle is extinguished after
reading the 59th Psalm twice.
Note: Compare this with Exercise 2 described and il­
lustrated in Chapter XIV.
CHAPTER IX
THE USE of SYMBOL CANDLES
The use of so-called SYMBOL candles is a form of
Fire Worship which is strictly an American custom. How.
it originated and where, no one seems to know.
That the use of SYMBOL candles has been preva­
lent in certain of our Southern States is well known and
the custom has gradually spread until forms of this
method of Candle Burning are found in many places in­
cluding New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, Detroit, Pitts­
burgh, St. Louis and many cities and towns between«
38
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE^
A SYMBOLIC CANDLE is a vegetable oil or paraf­
fin candle which is moulded in the shape of an animal
— such as a cat or lion — or in the form of a human
being. These candles are burned because, it is claimed,
the symbolism involved is accentuated, crystalized.
In order to understand the symbolism involved as
well as the rituals which are said to be used it is neces­
sary to go to the Dark Continent.
Frazer and Blackman as well as many other accred­
ited investigators have recorded many strange and weird
rites of African Medicine Men. Some of the accomplish­
ments of these individuals have caused investigators to
marvel and at the same time have defied every logical
explanation by them.
For example, there is the story of the brutal Congo
trader who drove his workers like slaves, treated them
disgracefully, and beat them into an early grave.
The native workmen, unable to endure it longer,
sent one of their number a hundred miles into the in­
terior where there resided a powerful medicine man.
To him the story was unfolded and a promise of a rich
reward made for alleviating the distressing condition of
the workers. The medicine man agreed to help so when
the emissary left the next day he carried with him a small
package which he guarded carefully.
Having arrive«! back at his employer’s plantation he
gathered his fellow members about him and displayed
the contents of the package — a small figure in human
form made of clay with a thong of rawhide about its
neck.
That evening when the trader was about to retire he
noticed the idol upon his dresser. IIow it got there no
one seemed to know. Calling one of his servants he
39
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
made inquiries but the trembling servant was merely able
to say that it portended evil — perhaps even death, by
strangulation, to the trader.
This of course seemed ridiculous to the trader yet
sensing discontent among his workers, he decided to keep
armed at all times and to be wary. A week passed, then
two, then three without any untoward mcident. Always
the idol stared blankly at him from his dresser from
which he was determined not to remove it despite the
fact that it caused him no end of annoyance and dis­
comfort. i
In the fourth week the trader came down with a fever
which grew worse and worse. Finally in desperation he
frantically called a servant and instructed him to fetch
the nearest doctor.
When the doctor arrived he found the man — dead
he had contracted pneumonia and choked to death.
This strange and terrible legend does not end here.
In the course of events the story of the idol came out but
the most minute investigation by the doctor could re­
veal nothing to disprove his first diagnosis. Strangely
enough, the idol in question was still upon the dresser
but THE HEAD HAD BEEN SNAPPED OFF!
The only explanation was that as the rawhide thong
dried out it tightened more and more until it snapped
off the head of the idoL
The use of symbolic idols of this kind is quite com­
mon in Africa. Many other tales ci almost unbelievable
happenings have, been told bv competent scientists who
deal with facts.
In Dr. Haddon’s Report on the Cambridge Anthro­
pological Expedition to Torres Straits we find numer­
ous instances of the use of SYMBOLS.
40
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
It is quite Common, for instance, for natives of this
area to leave an, idol or charm in the shape of a pregnant
woman,near the fire when they leave their homes for the
day. The symbolism is self evident: Looking after the
fire is woman’s work and a woman in the condition rep­
resented would not be likely to leave the house and neglect
the fire. Thus it is a SYMBOL of PROTECTION against
all evil in the home.
Among other uses of idols which have been recorded
is the custom of maidens who take a few strands of hair
from their loved one and incorporate them into a small
doll-like figure symbolic qf the lover. A second doll-like
figure contains a few hairs of the maiden and is sym­
bolic of her.
These figures are placed facing each other at a dis­
tance from each other which is the exact height of the
loved one. Each day the figures are moved closer to
each other (a matter of an inch or two). It is believed
that when the figures reach positions which are face to
face or touching, the maiden shall have become a bride.
In a similar manner these natives practice a ritual
exactly opposite to the above to drive away an unwel­
come suitor, to rid one’s self of a rival in love, to dispel
an alleged suspected evil spirit or similar condition.
The foregoing seems a far call to the custom of SYM­
BOL CANDLE BURNING yet these particular customs
have been related so that the analogy to modern candle
burning rituals may become clear.
I must say, at this point, that this custom of SYMBOL
CANDLE BURNING is not the highest, most devout,
and purest expression of the Philosophy of Fire, but ra­
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
ther an off-shoot, a custom which has its origin in legend
.................... and natural tradition ra­
Figure 6
ther than in Revelation.
Nevertheless, there are
many who are said to prac­
tice it and the following is
Based upon information
gathered by the author
from various sources in­
cluding spiritual advisors,
mediums, cultists, etc.
The most common use
of SYMBOL CANDLES in­
volves the use of candles
which are moulded in hu­
man form. (See Fig. 6).
Although they are avail­
able in various colors, a neutral tone (the color of pale
coffee) is 6aid to be the most desirable. A wick runs
through the candle from top to bottom. It is so moulded
that it will stand on its own feet without support.
In burning these candles the Altar is prepared much
as has been described in Chapter VII but the diagrams
which accompany the text will serve to clarify the ex­
planation.
Let us take the hypothetical case of a young woman
who desires to win the man of her dreams (or in the
case of a man, the woman of his dreams). Two SYM­
BOL CANDLES are procured and dressed with Fire
of Love Brand Oil.
42
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
In the Number 1-1 positions are White Crucifix Altar
candles (dressed with Hi-Altar Brand Oil). In the ‘F*
position is the Symbol Candle symbolic of the woman
(dressed with Fire of Love Brand Oil). In the ‘M' posi­
tion is the Symbol candle symbolic of the man (dressed
with Fire of Love Brand Oil). In the No. 2 positionis placed
the ASTRAL candle of the woman (dressed with Zodiac
Brand Oil). In the No. 3 position is placed the Astral
candle of the man (Dressed with Zodiac brand Oil) In
the No. 4 position is placed a RED candle or Fire of Love
brand Candle (dressed with Crown of Success brand Oil
or Fire of Love brand Oil).
Now note the symbolism involved in this arrange­
ment. The White Crucifix Altar Candles denote purity
and things of the Spirit.
The two Symbol Candles denote the man and woman
involved.
The two Astral candles bring personality to the Sym
bol candles. Without them the Symbol candles wouû’d
43
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
mean nothing. With the correct Astral candles, how*
ever, the Symbol Candles take on an added meaning for
the vibrations of the Astral Candles give guiding light
to the Symbol Candles-
In the No. 4 position is placed a RED candle which
is symbolic ¿i Love and Affection. . In this case this is
the Offeratory Candle.
When the candles are in the positions shown in the
diagram all are lighted.
Then opening the Bible, Chapter 1 of the SONG of
SOLOMON is read three ,times and all the candles ex*
tinguished except the red candle which is allowed to
burn out.
The second day the two symbol candles are each moved
two inches toward the center together with the Astral
candles, (see direction of arrows in Fig. 7). Chapter
2 of the Song of Solomon is read. The new RED can­
dle is allowed to burn out,
Each day a new RFD candle is burned and the two
Symbol candles and two Astral Candles are moved two
inches closer to the center. Each day the succeeding
Chapter of the Song of Solomon is read until all eight
chapters have been read.
Ordinarily the Symbol Candles and the Astral Can­
dles will last for the entire devotion since they are burned
but a few minutes.
This devotion, it is stated, is practised by many de­
votees in many places. It should be borne in mind that
the foregoing is purely a hypothetical case to show the
ritualistic symbolism as devised by those who follow the
Philosophy of Fire.
Let us take the hypothetical case of a young lady
who is in love with a man who seems to be influenced
by the affections of another young woman.
44
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
A candle burning ritual has been devised which is
symbolic of the dissolving of the attraction.
In Figure 8 we see a different altar arrangement.
In No. 1-1 positions are white Crucifix Altar Candles
dressed with Hi-Altar brand Oil. In the “M” position
is the symbol candle representing the man whose love
is desired (dressed with Fire of Love brand Oil).
In the 5 position is the Man’s Astral Candle dressed
with Zodiac Oil. In the “F” position is the Symbol
Candle representing the woman who now has the man’s
love, (dressed with Confusion brand Oil). Note that
there is no guiding light of an Astral candle for this
Symbol Candle. In the No. 2 position is a WHITE Can­
dle dressed with Glow of Attraction brand Oil. This
candle symbolizes Purity and the pure love which the
young woman has for the man. In the No- 3 position is
the young woman’s Astral Candle (dressed with Zodiac
brand Oil). In the No. 4 position is a RED or Fire of
Love Brand candle (dressed with Fire of Love brand
Oil) which symbolizes love.
45
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
The ritual is as follows: Caudle “F” and “M” are
placed back to back at the center and moved two inches
away from each other each day. Each day a chapter of
the Song of Solomon is read with all candles burning.
Then all are extinguished except Number 1, 2, 3, 4, and
are allowed to burn out. This is repeated until the eight
chapters of the Song of Solmon are read. It will be
seen that in this devotion the “M” candle is brought
closer and closer to the No. 2 candle and away from the
l F” candle.
The symbolic beauty of both the devotions described
above cannot fail to impress the reader with its signifi­
cance. Neither will the similarity to the African symbol
worship be lost upon the reader. How the custom came
to be revived in the form of Fire Worship cannot be ex­
plained but devotions similar to the hypothetical cases
described above are said to be common in many sections.
CHAPTER X
CANDLE BURNING DURING TIME OF WAR
A DEEPLY SIGNIFICANT CUSTOM
Although war is perhaps the most ungod-like expres­
sion of the human race and is, in itself, an irreligious
activity, yet it perhaps strengthens the religious instincts
of man more than any other universal activity
Perhaps fear is the underlying reason for such an
txpression of religion during Time of War.
There are few families that are not touched by it.
Sons, husbands, brothers and sweethearts are called to
arms and the mothers, wives, sisters and loved ones left
behind fear for the safety of those departed.
46
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
In normal times; in times of peace, women come to
depend upon the strength and leadership of their meu-
folk. They look to them to make decisions; to provide
for the home; to maintain order and happiness in the
home. In short he i6 King to his Queen in the Kingdom,
of his Home.
When a man is called to war there is a definite let
down. Confidence is undermined; fear tries to force
its way into a woman’s heart; Confusion reigns in one'?
mind; one cannot think clearly.
In such a condition it is only natural that those who
are left at home should turn their faces heavenward
seeking the Light Of Understanding and Strength; seek­
ing Solace and Comfort; seeking Calmness and Dynamic
Power.
At such a time when things seem dark and hope ap­
pears to have forsaken, one, we turn instinctively to God
for spiritual aid- We express our silent wish to Him
that our loved ones will be brought safely back .... that
he will be protected from all bodily injury; that his
spirit will not be broken and that we may keep our own
«elf-faith until that happy reunion.
Those who follow the Philosophy of Fire have studied
the problems surrounding these circumstances and have
delved deep into historical archives to rediscover for
themselves and put to new use many of the half forgot­
ten practices of the Ancient Zoroastrians.
It is known, of course, that the ancient Zoroastrians,
although a nominally peaceful people, did have their
wars — whether wars were thrust upon them or whether
they were wars of self-defense or in the attainment of
some other objective.
Always, in such instances, the departing warrior did
one of two things:
47
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
1) Built a fire upon the altar and prayed to the Holy
Presence there to protect him from bodily harm
and return him from the wars hale and whole-
And in his prayer was included the thought that
if the Divine Presence deemed it fitting to take
his soul from its earthy home (his body) He
would guide his spirit to Paradise where it would
forever be engaged in the conflict with evil and
the ultimate victory of Ahura-Mazda.
2) Occasionally, instead of merely praying, a sac­
rifice was made upon the Altar. Incense was
burned and dedicated to the Deity. Sometimes
he would offer up his sword and dedicate it to
Ahura-Mazda in His fight to overcome Evil.
A fire thus lighted by a departing warrior was kept
burning by his wife, his sons or daughters or his loved
one. It was never allowed to go out. This vigil light
was the symbol of his presence in the home and served
to light the way for him spiritually during the dark days
ahead. Only upon his return was the fire extinguished-
Present day followers of the Philosophy of Fire can
adapt this beautiful custom to meet the needs of modern
times in a ritual which is both beautiful in its symbol­
ism and a source of warmth and affection.
Not only can this ritual be practised in memory ol
those who are called to war but also by women whose
men folk have to travel long distances from home or by
women whose husbands or sweethearts have strayed away
and whose affection it is desired to retain.
This Memorial Ritual with all its deeply religious
significance and symbolic beauty may be practised as
follows:
The Altar is prepared with two. WHITE Crucifix
Altar Candles in the No. 1-1 positions.
48
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
In the No. 2 position (which is the center) is placed
a GIANT EVERLASTING TYPE CANDLE.
This type of candle is approximately 18” in height
and when burned 15 minutes a day can be burned for
about 200 days. They weigh two to three pounds each.
An even larger candle is available which weighs 13
pounds and burns for TWO YEARS when burned 3 or
4 hours daily. However, the smaller of the two men­
tioned is perfectly satisfactory for the present ritual.
This giant Candle should be a LIGHT BLUE COLOR
which reference to Table No. II, shows is symbolic of
“Spiritual Understanding, Soothing Happiness, Cool,
Calm, Collected Thoughts; the Power to Perceive;
PROTECTION”!
fhe diagram of the Altar would then be as shown
in the following figure:
r#. 9
No. 1-1 positions WHITE Crucifix Altar candles dressed
with Altar brand Oil.
No. 2 position GIANT candle (Light BLUE) dressed
with CONQUERING Glory brand Oil-
49
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
No. 3 ancl 4 positions — ASTRAL candle of the depart­
ing soldier dressed with "Zodiac Brand Oil.
NOTE: The Bible is in the position indicated and, if
available, a photograph of the departing soldier
is placed as shown at “X”.
The Ritual in this devotion may take any of several
different forms but it would be a long remembered oc­
casion if the following were adhered to:
The departing soldier gathers together with his family
and loved ones and after lighting the two No. 1-1 can­
dles. the Bible is opened to Psalm 35 and the following
verses are read either by the soldier or by some one
whom he designates.
PSALM 35
A Psalm of David
Pleading cause, O LORD, with them that strive
with me: fight against them that fight against me.
2. Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand
up for mine help.
3. Draw out also the spear, and stop the way
against them that persecute me: say unto my
soul, I am thy salvation.
4. Let them be confounded and put to shame
that seek after my soul: let them be turned back
and brought to confusion that devise my hurt.
5. Let them be as chaff before the wind: and
let the angel of the LORD chase them.
6. Let their way be dark and slippery; and let
the angel of the LORD persecute them.
5C
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
7. For without cause they have hid for me their
net in a pit, which without cause they have digged
for my aoul.
8. Let destruction come upon him at unawares:
and let his net that he hath hid catch himself: into
that very destruction let him fall.
9. And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD:
it shall rejoice in his salvation.
* * *
19. Let not them that are mine enemies wrong­
fully rejoice over me, neither let them wink with
the eye that hate me without cause.
20. For they speak not peace; but they devise
deceitful matters against them that are quiet in the
land.
When the foregoing verses from the 35th Psalm have
been read the soldier then lights his ASTRAL candiet
and solemnly designates one of his loved ones to keep
the candles burning while he i‘s away.
Then those who are assembled kneel in silent prayei
and meditation for a safe return (a full three minutes)
The Altar lights are then extinguished and the Astral
lights are extinguished but the Giant BLUE candle is
permitted to burn for (15 minutes). This ends the Ritual
EXCEPT that each day some one must repeat the ritual
in the following manner and order.
a. Light Altar Lights (No. 1-1)
b- Light GIANT BLUE Candle (No. 2)
c. Light Astral Candles (No. 3 and 4)
d. Read: PSALM 133 which follows:
Behold how good and how pleasant it ie for
brethren to dwell together in unity'-
51
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
2. It is like the precious ointment upon the head
that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron’s
beard; that went down to the skirts of his gar­
ments.
3. As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that de­
scended upon the mountains of Zion: for there the
LORDcommanded the blessing, even life forever more.
Extinguish altar lights (1-1)
f. Extinguish Astral lights (No. 3 and 4)
g. Allow GIANT BLUE candle (No. 2) to burn
15 minutes.
This exercise can be repeated each day while the
soldier is away.
Now it may happen that the soldier has already de­
parted and his loved ones at home desire to practice this
ritual in his honor. The devotion can be followed as de­
scribed here except that some one must act for the de­
parted soldier, lighting the candles and reading the verses
from the 35th Psalm and then extinguishing them just as
described. This is called RITUAL BY PROXY-
After all, the symbolism, the beautiful sentiment in
volved, the deep seated devotion, the loving significance
of the ritual is what really counts.
Those who have read the preceding chapters of this
volume will immediately recognize the symbolism and the
deeply religious significance of this Ritual.
It should be noted that this custom differs from the
ancient practice of keeping the Altar Fire burning at all
times. In the modern ritual, the candle is burned but
3 hours and then extinguished until the next day. How­
ever, the SAME CANDLES SHOULD BE USED from day
to day. Since such a candle can be used for about 500
days (or nearly 1 year) it is usually big enough to meet
52
HOW tn BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
longer than 1% years and the giant candle is almost en­
tirely burned, then a new candle is procured to replace
the burned out candle- It should be noted that when
CHANGING CANDLES, whether it is the GIANT BLUE,
or the Altar Candles or the Astral Candle, the old can­
dles are lighted first and the NEW candles lighted from
the old ones. Then the old candles are extiguished and
discarded.
It was pointed out at the beginning of this chapter
that a modification of this Ritual can be practiced by
those whose husbands or loved ones are travelling away
from home — or who have been overcome by some tan­
talizing vision of some happier hunting ground.
For those who wish to insure the safe and willing
return of such, a Ritual similar to that described can
be followed. The difference lies in the fact that the
candles are different colors and one extra candle is used.
Note the following (Refer to Fig. 9)
No- 1-1 positions 2 White Crucifix Altar candles dressed
with Hi-Altar brand Oil.
No. 2 position: GIANT RED Candle symbolizing Love
dressed with Fire of Love brand Oil.
No. 3 position: Astral caudle of the departed,tdressed
ivith Zodiac Oil.
No. 5 Position: Astral candle of the deserted one dressed
with Zodiac Oil.
RitualWhen the candles are first lighted read the
36th Psalm then extinguish all candles except
the Giant Red and the Astral candle (No. 5
position).
Burn Giant Red Candle 15 minutes daily.
The same procedure can be followed each day-
53
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
Hahd-fxed VOTIVE Candles like this)
are available in seven colors for each
day of the week.
CHAPTER XI
WHAT EVERY FOLLOWER OF
THE PHILOSOPHY of FIRE SHOULD KNOW
The novitiate in the principles of the Philosophy of
Fire will at first stumble upon many obstacles unless he
or she first acquaints himself with certain fundamentals
of the Art.
In the first place the Ritual^, as practiced by so many,
can be a delightful occasion, a deeply significant devo­
tion, a truly soul-satisfying experience — or it can be
a confused muddle, a hopeless waste of time.
54
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
In olden times candles used in the Philosophy of Fire
Rituals were hand-made, of bees’ wax or vegetable oil.
They were colored with natural vegetable colors and
moulded into symbolic shapes where required for cer­
tain devotions.
Dressing Oils were essences of certain flowers and
no deviation was permitted.
However, it is now realized that some ancient cus­
toms cannot be practised today as they were centuries ago.
They must be modified and adapted to meet the heeds of
individuals living in a fast moving world.,
Again it should be repeated that it is the symbolism
which counts as well as the sincerity and faith of the
petitioner­
in ancient times the Zoroastrians could not go out
to a corner store and purchase candles or incense and
burner or altar cloth or candle stick holders or any off
the other articles needed for their devotions. They had
to fashion each article by hand.
Our great, great grandparents used to spin the wool
from which they made the clothes they wore. Would it
not be foolish for us to do this today when we can go
into a store and buy ready made cloth and clothing
which wears better, looks better, fits better and costs less?
The same applies to modern altar supplies for those
who follow the Philosophy of Fire.
Candles, Candle sticks, Altar Cloths, Dressing Oik,
Bibles, Incense and Incense Burners are available from
reliable Supply Houses which are adequate for the pur­
poses intended and far better in quality than the an­
cients ever dreamed of having.
There are some devotees of the Art who purchase
unbranded candles in the particular colors they desire
55
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
to have. They select the particular shade wanted and
dress them themselves with the particular Oil that thev
wish to use.
On the other hand certain firms sell Branded Can­
dles in pre-selected colors based upon Color Charts,
Symbolic Charts and Astral Charts similar to Table I
and Table II in another section of this volume- Some
of these Branded Candles are listed as follows:
SPARK of SUSPICION -brand Candle (Brown)
Yellow)
FLAMING POWER brand Candle (White)
ALTAR brand Candle (White)
FIRE of LOVE brand Candle (Red)
FIERY WALL of PROTECTION brand Candle (Light
Blue)
RADIANT HEALTH brand Candle (Red)
PROSPERITY brand Candle (Light Green)
WEALTHY WAY brand Candle (Green)
GLOW of ATTRACTION brand Candle (Gold or
Yellow)
INFLAMMATORYCONFUSION brand Candle (Dark
Blue)
BENEFICIAL DREAM brand Candle (Lavendar)
CROWN of SUCCESS brand Candle (Orange)
PEACEFUL HOME brand Candle (Light Blue)
SATAN^BE-GONE brand Candle (Orchid)
CRUCIBLE of COURAGE brand Candle (Orange)
CONQUERING GLORY brand Candle (Purple)
LADY LUCK brand Candle (Gold)
WEED of MISFORTUNE brand Candle (Black)
In addition to the above mentioned Brands of Can­
dles there are 12 ASTRAL Candles each Branded and
56
HOW td BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
in colors to correspond to the various Signs of the Zodiac-
Reference to Table I in Chapter V will enable you to
select the proper Astral Candle. When you order from
your dealer always give your date of birth and let him
select your Astral Candle for you or in the case of
branded candies, note the tag or band upon it. Usually
you will find the Sign of the Zodiac, the month and
other descriptive information. With such branded
candles you just cannot go wrong.
The size of candle to use is a matter which is largely
dependent upon the individual choice but my choice
would be a 11-inch candle because experience has shown
that there is less waste and therefore it is most econom­
ical in the long run. Astral candles usually come about
10 inches high, should preferably be of the HAND
FIXED type and about l-% inches in diameter.
The only candles which should be REUSED from one
Ritual to another are the ALTAR candles and the AS­
TRAL candles of the petitioner* All other candles should
he discarded and not reused after the ritual unless the
same ritual is continued from day to day or from time
to time. Many people start each new ritual for each
new purpose with an entirely new set of candles and
this truly is the most logical procedure' to follow for it
insures an altar of outstanding beauty and dignity.
The reason for this pr icedure is perfectly obvious.
For instance, a Fiery Wall of Protection Brand Candle
is a LIGHT BI UE Candle while a PEACEFUL HOME
Brand Candle is also of a LIGHT BLUE color. How­
ever. these canc les usually vould be dressed with a dif­
ferent oil and if a Blue used candle which had been
dressed with a particular oil were re-used later for an­
other purpose the symbolism tvould' be lost because of
the improper dressing.
57
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
This is not true of Altar type candles which are al­
ways dressed with Hi-Altar type Oil or Astral Candles
which are always dressed with Zodiac type Oil Thus,
these may be re-used.
In the matter of Dressing Oils, these may be selected
by Brand Name also. Usually if you order a particular
candle or candles, your dealer will be able to tell you
the proper dressing oil to use as he will be guided by
your seection of the candle. Some Supply Houses sell
each candle with its accompanying Dressing Oil, but this
is not practical or economical except in the Case of
ASTRAL Candles where one Ziodiac Brand Dressing Oil
serves for all Signs of the Zodiac.
My suggestion to a beginner would be to purchase
one of the Basic Candle Burning Kits such as are avail­
able today. A Kit of this kind includes a dozen or
more small bottles of various dressing oils and two large
sized bottles of Altar type and Zodiac type oils. There
are also a pair of Crucifix shaped White Altar Candle«
and an Astral Candle for the purchaser’s own Sign. A
kit like this saves you money in the first place and it
gives you a complete supply of dressing oils so that you
can practice any ritual you desire when you want to
There is never any need to wait until you order them.
After all, the best time to burn candles is when you ar<
spiritually inspired and in the proper mood.
The same Supply House from whom you purchas«
your candles can supply you with incense, incense burn
ers. candle sticks and other supplies.
Symbol candles are sometimes difficult to obtair
but are available from reliable Supply Houses who real
ly serve the needs of followers of the Philosophy of Fire
HOW io BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
PERVERTED SYMBOLISM
or
BLACK ART in CANDLE BURNING
Every cause has its effect. Each movement, each
action, every thought sets in motion factors which en­
ter into eternal conflict, one with the other.
The blackness of night offsets the light of day; the
cold of winter balances the warmth of summer sun; there
are the forces of evil to upset the forces of good; there
is Heaven and hell; good people and bad!
And this Law of Balance has touched the noble cus­
tom of Candle Burning, too. We cannot say that it has
greatly affected those who follow the Philosophy of Fire
because their thoughts and hearts and mind are on too
lofty a plane to be thus polluted.
During the Dark Ages in Europe when culture was
almost a lost art; when morals and ethics and religion
were at their lowest ebb; when Satanism ruled the hearts
and minds of men, there were certain cults of mad ad­
venturers who attempted to rule the people by using re­
ligion as a whip.
In those days religion was highly symbolic; it was
bread and wine to the multitude and was the only thing
to which the common man could turn for comfort and
solace.
Recognizing the almost fanatical zeal with which the
peasant classes clung to their religion these religious
racketeers used the church as an instrument to gain their
desires. Fantastic superstitions were hatched; witches grew
powerful; the churches were subdued. Gradually these
early racketeers changed rituals, perverted the devotional
exercises to such an extent that the infamous Black Mass
was practised.
59
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
One thing these racketeers did leave. That was the
wealth of SYMBOLISM which was so much a part of
the early Roman Church. However, the symbolism was
changed. Instead of symbolising the goodness, the beauty,
the divine forces, each passage of the mass was debased
by symbolising all the forces of degraded nature and
base hideo.usness.
Even today the forces of evil are smouldering in the
for most of us, however, the forces of good are too strong
to permit evil to make too much progress«
There are some individuals who, having studied the
symbolism involved in the Philosophy of Fire, have
adapted the rituals to serve their personal whims and
desires rather than the common cause of Good.
Although this volume is not intended to delve too
deeply into this phase of Fire Worship, it is neverthe­
less a wise precaution on the part of the novitiate in
terested in the Philosophy of Fire to know both sides
of the picture.
Those who practice this form of Fire Worship re­
tain the SYMBOLISM of the Philosophy of Fire but the
basic SYMBOLISM is INVERTED.
For example we have seen in previous chapters how
followers of the Philosophy of Fire dress their Altars
with WHITE ALTAR CANDLES as a symbol of Purity,
Chastity, Spiritual Elevation, Truth and Justice. White
symbolizes all these things. It is only fitting that white
be used to be inviting to the Divine presence at the Altai*.
In the debased form of Fire Worship (sometime» re­
ferred to as Black Ritual) BLACK ALTAR CANDLES
are used to dress the Altar since this color symbolise»
the opposite of white or the forces of iniquity.
60
HOW .n BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
Whereas in True Fire Worship bright colored can-
dies are used — and in the lighter shades, in Black Ritual
dark shades are used. For example, muddy brown-green,
greenish yellow, purple red, very dark brown, midnight
blue, black, etc.
In order lo gel a true perspective of Black Ritual it
is again necessary to go back into historical records to
seek out origins, to investigate customs and practices
which are analogous to those practiced today in Black
Ritual. Il is only by doing this that we can truly un­
derstand the symbolism involved.
Many volumes have been written on the subject of
Black Art, Necromancy, Black Magic, Voodooism and
oilier similar occult practices and it is not our purpose
to deal with them here. It should be noted, however,
that all such Magic is based on the Law of Sympathy.
This means that like attracts like- Things in rela­
tion to another always bear the same relation. Unlik<
things repel unlike things.
Does not a child bear some of the characteristics of
its mother and its father —no matter how far that child
may be removed?
Sympathetic Magic was practiced by the Ojebway
Indians, for example. When a member of this tribe
wished to work evil on anyone, he fashioned an image in
the likeness of his enemy and then either shot an arrow
through the image or ran a needle through his head or
where the heart would be located in reality.
It was thought that wheresoever the needle ran itv
course or where the arrow pierced the image, the enemy
would be seized with a sharp pain in a corresponding
place in his body.
61
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
In the Malayan Peninsula a similar custom has bee»
described by archaeologists and explorers. There the
native who has an enemy seeks to get a few hairs from
his enemy as well as nail parings, a piece of his garment,
or any personal effect of the enemy in question.
These items are then mixed with wax from a de­
serted bee’s comb and molded into an image in human
form. This is thought to symbolize the enemy. Naturally
such a charm is supposed to bring one into contact with
the subject of his hate.
The Malayan then builds a fire and after placing the
image on a spit, turns it over and over until the image
has melted away. This is thought to dispel any charm
or crossed condition which the enemy may hold over one.
History has recorded many similar beliefs and cus­
toms. For example, the belief is prevalent in many
countries of the world, including our own, that if a
hunter drives a nail into the foot-print of ah animal,
it will be easy for the hunter to catch him.
Similarly there is the belief that if a nail is driven
into the foot-print of one’s enemy it will lame him (sym­
bolically) or cripple his efforts to cause harm.
The author recalls a story which was related to him
by a Canadian farmer living in the Province of Quebec.
This man lived a number of miles from town, which
was reached by a dirt highway winding twelve mile«
around the mountains or by a foot path which took a
short cut through the woods a distance of only four miles.
Usually the trip to town was made on foot becau»«
erf the shorter distance and the time saved. It was neces­
sary, however, to traverse the property of a neighboring
farmer who was hie bitter enemy.
It happened that the neighbor had warned this farm­
er of dire consequences in the event he trespassed his
62
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERT PURPOSE
property but one day, heedless of the warning, the farmer
took the foot path to town. He had gone a considerable
distance and was at about the middle of his neighbor’s
property when he was suddenly taken with a seizure of
paralysis. He could lift neither his left foot nor his
right loot — try as he might. Both feet seemed glued
to the ground.
When his first spasm of fright had passed he began to
take slock of his predicament- Then he perceived his
unfriendly neighbor approaching with a smirk upon his
face.
it was then that he learned the terrible secret. His
neighbor stated that he had “put a curse” upon the
farmer and that he could not walk until he, the neigh­
bor, so willed it or until he had removed a nail which
he had driven into the foot prints the farmer had left
behind.
Upon questioning, the neighbor admitted that the
"curse” would be ineffective at any point except when
trespassing upon his property. Thereupon he made
off leaving the farmer to stay through the cold autumn
night.
This story was of particular interest to me because
it was analagous to similar beliefs which have been pre­
valent in many widely separated countries.
But back to the hero of this amazing adventure. The
manner of his release from his predicament is no less
astounding than his sudden seizure and the symbolism
involved in his escape is no less startling than that of
his “psychic paralysis”.
As he stood there in the cold autumn twilight he
tried to remember everything he had ever heard of
natural magic, of phenomena of this sort, of the symbol­
ism involved-
63
The MASTER BOOK of -CANDLE BURNING
He realized that his enemy had driven a nail in his
foot print to cause paralysis. He realized, too, that he
was trespassing on another’s property. He realized hiB
wrong. Then he saw a solution.
Stripping off his coat he ripped it apart and with great
difficulty he managed to force a part of it under one of
his feet. Immediately his foot was free. He then freed
the other foot in a like manner.
Then wrapping the parts of his coat about his feet
he began to walk off the property. Arrived at the edge
of the field he found the nail in the path, pulled it up,
removed the wrappings from his feet and found he was
a free man once more.
It is interesting to note that symbolically when his
feet were wrapped in his coat he was then WALKING
ON HIS OWN PROPERTY and thus not affected by
the “spell” which had been cast upon him.
This story, as incredulous as it may sound, is true,
so this Canadian farmer says, and no amount of cross-
examination could change his story one iota. Perhaps
this story falls into the same category as many which
have been related by scientists on their return from
Darkest Africa; baffling to them, Unexplained and un­
explainable. Who knows?
Now the foregoing story as well as the various prac­
tices described have been given for a purpose — to show
the motives behind the Black Arts and the Black Rituals
which some people attempt to practice.
These practices clearly indicate that the rituals in­
volved were not of high ethical or moral value. They
had in them the essence of evil. It is true that in some
of them the evil was not great. No great harm came of
the practices themselves yet it cannot be imagined for
64
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
a moment that the rituals were practiced to gain some
high spiritual value.
Now let us see in what manner the symbolism we
have already discussed has been adapted by some peo­
ple who today use Fire Worship in the hope of secur­
ing some similar manifestation regardless of consequences.
Spiritual advisors, mediums, clairvoyants and other
investigators of religious ethics are familiar with many
of such practices from personal experience as they are
usually the object of many a confidence.
I will relate the episode of the man who stated that
from time to time he was missing certain things of a
most personal nature. He noted that a circular hole
had been cut from the palm of his left hand glove; that
a “V” shaped clipping had been taken from the tail of
his shirt; that the toe end of his sock had been clipped
off; that his tooth brush had been stolen; that his comb
had turned up after a day or so, but that the residue
had been removed from between its teeth; a hole ap­
peared mysteriously in his trouser pockets, cleanly cut
with a scissors.
These mysterious happenings occurred over a period
of weeks and coincident with these, Dame Fortune seemed
to frown upon his every activity. Bad luck hounded
him; he suffered from nerves, loss of appetite, lack of
sleep.
It was only then that he learned that a rival had
taken the things in question in order to place him in a
“Crossed Condition’’.
He felt his condition so acutely that he sought com-
lort in the Philosophy of Fire. Unfortunately he wad
65
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
advised by a devotee who used Black Ritual instead of
White and the practice was approximately as follows:
3)
Fig. 10
Position 1-1 Black Altar Candles dressed with Uncrossing
brand Oil.
Position 2 His Astral Candle dressed with Zodiac
brand Oil.
Position 3
Position 4
Position 5
Astral Candle of Rival dressed with Zodiac
brand Oil.
Midnight Blue — Inflammatory Confusion
brand Candle dressed, with Inflammatory
Confusion brand Oil.
Light Blue Fiery IFall of Protection brand
Candle dressed with Protection brand Oil.
NOTE: Some devotees of the Art prefer the Blue
GUARDIAN SYMBOL Candle instead of thé
regulation blue protective-type Candle. This
Candle is molded “to resemble a human figure
in long flowing robes, similar to those worn by
ancient priests, etc
66
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
Position 6 In this position was placed a clipped piece
of sock, glove, shirt, hair, tooth brush
bristles and other items identical with
those taken by the rival. All were placed
in an incense burner or similar receptacle.
{See Fig. 10 above).
Ritual: First the No. 2 candle is lit; then the No« 5
candle, then No. 4 candle then No. 3 can­
dle- Last the No. 1-1 candles are lit.
When all candles are lighted the Bible is opened and the
53rd Psalm is read. Then the No. 1-1 candles are ex­
tinguished. The others are burned until
consumed.
Second day repeat the first day but read PSALM 25.
Third day repeat first day but read PSALM 23. After
reading the 23rd Psalm on the 3rd day
the contents of the incense burner No. 8
should be burned by lighting it from Can­
dle No- 2.
The symbolism here is explained as follows: Black
Altar Candles are used because an evil influence dom­
inates the scene. The worshipper is not indulging in a
strictly evil practice but neither are the conditions free
from contamination.
The Confusion type Candle and the Protection type
Candle in the 4 and 5 positions serve to subdue or dom­
inate the light from the rival’s Astral Candle in 3 posi­
tion. Thus, symbolically the contents of the receptacle
6 are UNAFFECTED by any influences except the wor­
shipper’s own Astral vibrations. In the symbolism em­
ployed, this may be interpreted as making the worship-
*per the Master of his own Destiny.
67
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
Ritual: First light No. 8 candle
Second light 5, 6, 7 candles
Third light 2, 3, 4 candles
Fourth light No- 1 candle
Read: —PSALM No. 3
Allow all candles, to burn 30 minutes then put
them out. Candle 8 should he put out last
Second day: Move candles 2, 3, 4 to 2B 3B 4B
Move candles 5, 6, 7 to 5B 6B 7B
Repeat ritual of first day
Third day and Fourth Day:
Move candles closer to the center each day
Repeat ritual of first day
Explanation of the symbolism involved: Since the
No. 1 candle is the Astral candle of the enemy this sym­
bolizes that person. The three black Candles symbol­
ize the unfavorable aspects the subject wishes to bring
to bear against the enemy. The three midnight blue
candles symbolize the confused state of mind or unfa­
vorable vibrations which the subject wishes to bring
against the enemy-
When these candles are moved closer each day for
three consecutive days it symbolizes a bringing of pres­
sure and an approaching consummation of the objective.
It will be noted that No. 8 candle which is the Astral
Candle of the subject is far back on the Altar and thus
is not.influenced in any way by the black and blue candles.
Synibolically, this is a very strong ritual for if one
considers the potential power of the vibrations which are
given off, as calculated by those who follow the Philosophy
of Fire, it would be dangerous (symbolically) except
when used by one well conversant in the art, according
to those who claim to know of such things-
69
1
The MASTER BOOK o£ CANDLE BURNING
Here is another Black Ritual. This one is used
WHEN TWO ARE IN LOVE WITH THE SAME PER­
SON AND THE STUDENT WISHES TO ELIMINATE
THE RIVAL.
No. 1 Astral Candle of the subject dressed with Zodiac
brand Oil.
No. 2 Glow of Attraction brand Candle dressed with
Glow of Attraction brand Oil.
No. 3 Astral Candle of the Loved one dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil.
No. 4, Astral Candle of the Rival — dressed rvith Zodiac
brand Oil.
No. 5 Fiery Wall of Protection brand Candle (or Blue
Symbol Guardian Candle} dressed with Fiery
Wall of Protection brand Oil.
No.. 6 Midnight Blue Inflammatory Confusion brand
Candle dressed rvith Inflammatory brand Oil.
Ritual: Light candles in this order 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
Read Song of Solomon Chapter 1
Each day candles No. 3 and 4 are moved two in­
ches away from the center (see arrows) until No.
70
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
3 arrives directly in front of No. 1. All ligliln
are extinguished immediately after reading the
Biblical passage noted.
Explanation of the symbolism involved: It will be
noted that a Confusion type Candle is placed directly
alongside the Astral Candle of the rival so that its vi­
brations may affect the Astral Candle of the rival. How­
ever, the Protection type Candle affords protection for
the Astral Candle of the loved one against any unfavor­
able vibrations from the rival’s candle or the Confusion
brand candle. The Astral candle of the subject (No. 1 )
with its accompanying Attraction type Candle (No. 2)
affords a favorable combination of vibrations, symbol
ically speaking.
This same ritual is said to be used when two people
are after the same job and the subject wishes to bufn
offeratory candles for this purpose. The only difference
is that a Green Crown of Success brand Candle dressed
with Crown of Success brand Oil is used instead of the
Glow of Attraction brand Candle in the No. 2 position.
To be read: The 93rd Psalm
CHAPTER XIII
RULES TO FOLLOW IN ART of CANDLE BURNING
In the foregoing chapters your author has related
numerous legends and customs and described practices
which have been uncovered by anthropologists and his­
torians in various parts of the world.
In each case where a ritual of candle burning was
described, your author has dug deeply into the records
to find an analogy; to seek the origin of the symbolism
71
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
involved. This has been done to make it clear that in
any form of worship “everything new in it is old aQd
everything old in it is new”.
It is to he hoped that the rituals and exercises which
have been described up to this point are clearly under­
stood and that the all-important symbolism involved has
been understood as well.
If you have read well, you have learned certain fun­
damental rules which are recognized by those who fol­
low the Philosophy of Fire. Review them again:
1. Each color has its own vibration and is said to give
off a “vibratory influence”.
2. Color of a candle is determined by the desired ob­
jective of the one who burns the candle, and is
chosen in accordance with generally accepted “har­
mony” tables (see Chapter V.)
3. A candle may be used to symbolize any individual
providing it is accompanied by or is, itself, the
Astral Candle of that individual.
4. The Astral Candle of an individual is determined
by the date of birth of that individual (see Table
I, Chapter V.)
5. Movement toward or away, for or against an indi­
vidual or object or desire may be symbolized by the
progressive or successive stages or positions in which
the symbolic candles are placed by the burner.
6. Candles should be dressed with oil (animal fat ex­
cepted) of a corresponding or harmonious vibra­
tory color and influence.
7. Candles when once used in one specific ritual should
NOT be used in a new ritual for a different inten­
tion even though the left-over candles may have
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
been only partially used. However, it is perfectly
alright to use partially burned candles from day to
day IF THE RITUAL IS CONTINUED FROM DAY
TO DAY. The only exception to this is the use of
ALTAR type candles and ASTRAL type candles of
the petitioner. These may be used from one ritual
to another but it is preferable to start each new
ritual with a complete set of new candles.
These seven fundamental rules are simple and easy
to follow and if they are well remembered anyone may
recognize the symbolism involved in any candle burning
esssrcise or ritual. By adhering to these basic funda­
mentals. the more progressive individual may create his
own particular symbolism, rituals and exercises to sati­
ate his own thirst for spiritual development and satisfac­
tion.
Those readers desirous of practicing the exercises de­
scribed in this volume are urged to exert care in the se­
lection of Candles of known quality for they should not
contain animal fats of any kind. Care should also be
exercised in the selection of just the right color of candle.
All the brands of candles mentioned in this book were
named because of their uniformly high quality, because
they were free of animal fats and because they enjoy a
wide sale among reliable Supply Houses.
The exercises in the following chapters are practised
by various followers of the Philosophy of Fire. No super­
natural claims whatsoever are made in connection with
these exercises. The objectives, of these exercises, as in­
dicated by the titles,, are merely the symbolic representa­
tions of the innermost desires of the original devotee«
who create them for the satisfaction of their own inhibi­
tions. In each case the following information is given:
73
I
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
1. Intention of the exercise
2. Diagram illustrating manner of dressing Altar
3. Color of candles used
4. Size and type of candles (if other than usual size
and shape)
5. Dressing oil used
6. Movement of candles (if any)
7. Suggested Biblical reading or Psalm
8. Suggested number of days for exercise
It is to be hoped that those interested in this ancient
art will gain new insight into so noble a custom which
has been perpetuated by those who follow the Philosophy
of Fire.
CHAPTER XIV
SUGGESTED EXERCISES
EXERCISE 1
TO SETTLE A DISTURBED CONDITION
74
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
Position 1-1 White Crucifix type Altar Candles dressed
with Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 GIANT TYPE SQO-hour burning type light
blue Candle (of a Peaceful Home brand or
similar type) dressed with Crown of Success
brand Oil *
Position 3 Astral Candle of Petitioner dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil
Position 4 Pink Candle (or Happiness brand Candle)
dressed with Crown of Success brand Oil.
NOTE: If desired a Red Candle (or Fire of Love brand Candle)
may be placed alongside the No. 4 candle dressed
with Fire of Love brand Oil.
Suggested Bible Reading: First Psalm.
Devotions: Light candles in this order 1-1, 2, 3, 4.
The GIANT 500-hour type candle* should
be allowed to burn continuously until it is
burned out. The other candles are lighted
only 15 minutes a day while the First Psalm
is read and re-read during the 15 minute
period.
"If desired an A Peaceful Home Brand VOTIVE type candle
may be used. In this case 1 candle is burned each day.
75
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
of follozvers of the Philosophy of Fire,
EXERCISE 2
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
Position 1-1 White Crucifix type Altar Candles dressed
with Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 Black Candle (or Weed of Misfortune brand
Candle} dressed with Inflammatory Con­
fusion brand Oil.
Positions 3, 4, 5 Three White Candles UNBRANDED to
symbolize Purity (or Flaming Power brand
Candles dressed with Power brand Oil}.
Positions 6 and 7 Light Blue Candles (or Fiery Wall of
Protection brand Candles*} dressed with
Fiery Wall of Protection brand Oil.
Position 8 Dark Blue Candle (or Inflammatory Con­
fusion brand Candle} dressed with Inflam­
matory Confusion brand Oil.
MOVEMENT: Move candle 8 two inches daily in direc­
tion of arrows.
Suggested Bible Reading: Psalm 59.
Devotions: — Light No. 2 candle last. Read 59th Psalm
then extinguish No. 2 candle. Allow other candles to
burn 1 hour longer. Daily until satisfied.
*If preferred the Blue GUARDIAN SYMBOL Candle may be
used instead of regulation Fiery Wall of Protection brand
Candles.
77
The MASTER BOOK OF CANDLE BURNING
EXERCISE 3
Position 1-1 White Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 Astral Candle of the petitioner dressed with
Zodiac Brand Oil.
Position 3 Gold Candle (or Glow of Attraction brand
Candle) dressed with Glow of Attraction
brand Oil.
Positions 4, 5, 6, 7,8 Green Candles (Wealthy Way brand
Candles') dressed with Lady Luck brand Oil.
Position 9 Garnet Candle (or Fiery Command brand
Candle) dressed with Fiery Command brand
Oil.
MOVEMENT: Move candles 4 to 9 in direction of ar­
rows two inches daily. Note that influence of
candle 9 syml olically “drives” other candles
toward objective.
Suggested Bible Reading: Psalm 41
Devotion: One hour each evening until satisfied.
78
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
EXERCISE 4
Position. 1-1 WHITE Crucifix ALTAR candles dressed
with Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 Red Candle (or Fire of Love brand Candle)
dressed with Fire of Love brand Oil.
Position 3 Astral Candle of the one that is loved, dressed
with Zodiac brand Oil.
Position 4 Red Candle (or Fire of Love brand Candle)
dressed with Fire of Love brand Oil.
Position 5 Astral Candle of the one who seeks love
dressed with Zodiac brand Oil. '
Position 6 GOLD Candle (or Glow of Attraction brand
Candle) dressed with Glow of Attraction
' brand Oil.
NOTE:—The No. 6 Candle can be omitted if desired, but
note the Bymbolism of this candle.
In position “X”, may be placed a photo of the
loved one if one is available.
79
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
MOVEMENT: Move No. 2 and 3 candles in direction of
arrows 1 inch each day.
Suggested Bible Reading: If the candle burner is a man
then -read the Song of Solomon Chapter 6. If the candle
burner is a woman read the Song of Solomon Chapter 8.
Devotions:—Burn candles two hours each day until
satisfied.
NOTE:—A mixture of Frankincense and Myrrh may be burned
while reading the Biblical passages referred to above.
Place incense burner between Bible and Photo.
80
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
EXERCISE 5
TO CONQUER FEAR
Fig 17
Position 1-1 both WHITE Crucifix ALTAR Candles
dressed with Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 Ast. ~1 Candle of the Petitioner, dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil.
Position 3 ORANGE Candle (or Crucible of
Courage brand Candle) dressed with Cru­
cible of Courage brand Oil.
Position 4 WHITE Candle (or Flaming Power brand
Candle) dressed with Flaming Power brand
Oil.
Suggested Bible Reading: Psalm 31; in its entirety.
Burn candles while reading. 5 miiitites of medi­
tation. Repeat for nine days or until satisfied
81
EXERCISE 6
Position 1-1
Position 2
Position 3
Position 4
White Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Astral Candle of the Petitioner dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil.
Light Blue Candle (or Fiery Wall of Pro­
tection brand Candle') dressed with Fiery
Wall of Protection brand Oil.
Black Candle (of Weed of Misfortune brand
Candle) undressed.
Positions 5 and 6 Light Green Candles (or Prosperity
brand Candles) dressed with Lady Luck
brand Oil.
Suggested Bible Reading: Psalm 62: verse 11
Devotions: Light candles in this order 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 and
4 last. Read the 11th verse of the 62nd Psalm
three times and extinguish No. 4 only. After
15 minutes relight No. 4 candle read verse
three t.iitnes and extinguish No. 4 candle. Re-
82
_HOW to BURN CAMPLES for EVERY PURPOSE
peat this each 15 minutes for 1 hour and ex­
tinguish all candles. Repeat daily until satisfied.
'If preferred the Blue GUARDIAN symbol candle may be
used instead of the regulation Fiery Wall of Protection brand
Candle.
Two types of giant candles. The one on the left is
18” high and weighs 2 to 3 lbs. It burns at least
50 hours. The larger type is sometimes used but
has not been found practical for général use.
83
EXERCISE 7
TO GAIN POWER oveb otbeils
©
©
©
>
Position 1-1 Black Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
XX DOUBLE CROSS brand Oil.
Position 2 Astral Candle of petitioner dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil.
Position 3
Position 4
Position 5
Position 6
Astral Candle of person over whom power
is sought dressed with Zodiac brand Oil.
White Candle (or Flaming Power brand
Candle) dressed with Poiver brand or Dom­
ination brand Oil.
Purple Candle (or Conquering Glory brand
Candle) dressed with Conquering Glory
brand Oil.
Orange Candle (or Crown of Success brand
Candle) dressed with Crown of Success
brand Oil.
Movement: Move candles 5 and 6 toward candle 3
two inches each day.
Suggested Bible Reading: Psalm No. 130
Devotions: 1 hour nightly for six days or longer if de­
sired.
84
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
EXERCISE 8
TO AROUSE DISCORD, ANGER or JEALOUSY
Position 1-1 Black Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
XX Double Cross brand Oil.
Position 2 Astral Candle of person who is object of
wrath, dressed with Zodiac brand Oil.
Position 3 Brozvn Candle (or Spark of Suspicion
brand Candle} dressed with Domination
brand Oil.
Position 4 Black Candle (or W'eed of Misfortune brand
Candle) dressed with Inflammatory Con­
fusion brand Oil
Suggested Bible Reading: Psalm 70
Devotini Each Monday and Friday for three weeks.
Burn candles 15 minutes at each devotion.
85
EXERCISE 9
TO GAIN PROSPERITY
(Note: The vibratory influences expressed
symbolically by the colors suggested
are thought to be particularly
powerful)
Position 1-1 White Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 Light Green Candle (or Prosperity brand
Candle (dressed with Crown of Success
brand Oil.
Position 3 Gold Candle (or Glow of Attraction brand
Candle) dressed with Glow of Attraction
brand Oil.
Position 4 Astral Candle of the petitioner dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil.
Position 5 Purple Candle (or Conquering Glory brand
Candle) dressed with Glow of Attraction
brand Oil.
Position 6 Orange Candle (or Crucible of Courage
brand Candle) dressed with Glow of Attrac
tion brand Oil.
86
MOVEMENT: Candles 2' and 3 are moved in direction«
of arrows 2 inches each day.
Suggested Bible Reading: Psalm 41
Devotions: One hour daily until satisfied.
EXERCISE 10
TO PROTECT AGAINST EVIL INFLUENCES
FOR THOSE WHO ARE IN A SO-CALLED
Position 1-1 White Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 ORCHID Candle (or Satan-be-Gone brand
Candle) dressed with Uncrossing brand Oil.
Position 3 ORANGE Candle (or Crown of Success
brand Candle) dressed with Uncrossing
brand Oil.
Position 4 Astral Candle of petitioner dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil.
Suggested Bible Reading Psalm of David No. 71
Devotions: 30 minutes daily for 9 days.
87
C H A P T E R XV
4ORE SUGGESTED EXERCISES
EXERCISE 11
TO WIN OR HOLD HAPPINESS
Fig 23
Position 1-1 White Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 Astral Candle of the petitioner dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil.
Positions 3 1. 5. 6 Purple Candles lor Conquering Glory
brand Candles) dreSsed with Conquering
Glory brand Oil.
Positions 7. 8. 9, 10 Pink Candles [or Happiness brand
Candles) dressed with Crown of Success
brand Oil.
Positions 11,12 Garnet Candles [or Fiery Command brand
Candles) dressed with Crown of Success
brand Oil.
Disregard position “A” as this applies to Exercise 17 only
MOVEMENT: Move Candles 11 and 12 two inches
daily in direction of arrows.
88
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
NOTE how Astral Candle is “’cradled” by very strongly
symbolic color vibrations.
Suggested Bible Reading: Psalm No. 11
Devotions: One hour each evening for 18 days or until
satisfied.
LEFT: Recommended type Offeratory Candle, 10” or 11”
high, available in 14 colors Recommended quality
usually has seal or brand name upon i t. RIGHT:
Astral candle of hand-fixed variety 10" high 1%"
diameter. Note the two-color effect and speckles,
available in authentic colors for each sign of Zodiac.
89
EXERCISE 12
TO HEAL AN UNHAPPY MARRIAGE
Position 1-1
Position 2
Position 3
Position 4
Position 5
Position 6
White Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Astral Candle of husband dressed with Zo-
diac brand Oil.
Astral Candle of wife dressed ivith Zodiac
brand Oil.
Red Candle (or Fire of Love brand Candle)
dressed with Fire of Love brand Oil.
Gold Candle (or Glow of Attraction brand
Candle) dressed ivith Glow of Attraction
brand Oil.
Purple Candle (or Conquering Glory brand
Candle) dressed with Glow of Attraction
brand Oil.
If desired two symbol candles may be used in this exercise placed along
side of candles 2 and 3.
MOVEMENT: Candles 2 and 3 should be moved two
inches daily in direction of arrows.
Suggested Bible Reading: The Song of Solomon, Chap­
ter 3.
Devotions: Alternate nights for nine days, one hour
each time until satisfied.
EXERCISE 13
TO OVERCOME A BAD HABIT
Position 1-1 White Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 Black Candle (or Weed of Misfortune brand
Candle) to symbolize the bad habit, un­
dressed.
Positions 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, SWhite Candles (or Flaming Power
brand Candles)dressed ivith Hi-Altar brand
Oil.
MOVEMENT: Candles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 should be moved
two inches daily in direction of arrows.
90
Suggested Bible Reading: Psalm No. 25
Devotions: The black Candle is lighted afiri nil ilia
and remains lighted only while i<hmIIii|| lb«
25th Psalm. When Black Candle in I'nllm
guished allow all other candles to blitll h"
one hour thus symbolizing the
of the bad habit. Repeat until Hiitlaihit
EXERCISE 14
TO STOP SLANDER
Position 1-1 White Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 Brown Candle (or Spark of Suspicion
brand Candle) dressed with Fiery Command
brand Oil.
Position 3 Astral Candle of Petitioner dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil.
Position 4 Light Blue Candle (or Fiery Wall of Pro­
tection brand Candle*) dressed with Fiery
Wall of Protection brand Oil.
Positions 5 and 6 Orchid Candles (or Satan-be-gone brand
Candles) dressed with Inflammatory Con­
fusion brand Oil.
MOVEMENT: Move Candles 5 and 6 two inches daily
in direction of arrows.
Suggested Bible Reading. The Second Psalm
Devotions: One hour each evening before retiring until
satisfied.
*lf preferred the Blue GUARDIAN symbol candle may be
used instead of the regulation Fiery Wall of Projection brand
Candle.
91
7
EXERCISE 15
TO RELIEVE PRESSURE BY AN ENEMY
FOR THOSE WHO ARE IN A SO-CALLED
‘ CROSSED CONDITION”
Position 1-1 While Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 Astral Candle of petitioner dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil.
Position 3 Astral Candle of enemy dressed with Zodiac
brand. Oil.
Position 4 OrchidCandle. (orSatan-be-gonebrandCartdle)
dressed witft Uncrossing brand Oil.
Position 5 Light Clue Candle (or Fiery Wall of Pro­
tection brand Candle*) dressed with Fiery
¡Pall of Protection brand Oil.
Position 6 Mandrake root in a saucer or incense burner
oner which incense is burned.
Suggested Bible Reading. Psalm No. 59
Devotions: One hour daily before retiring until satisfied.
*lf preferred the Blue GUARDIAN Symbol Candle may be
used instead of he regulation Fiery Wall of Protection brand
Candle.
EXERCISE 16
TO ATTAIN SUCCESS
Position 1-1 IF'kite Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
Hi Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 Astral Candle of the petitioner dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil. i
Position 3 Orange Candle (or Crown of Success brand
Candle) dressed with Crown of Success
brand Oil.
Position 4 GOLD Candle (or Glow of Attraction brand
Candle) dressed with Glow of Attraction
brand Oil.
92
NOTE:—Devotees usually burn one each of 2, 3 and 4
candles each day for 9 days.
Suggested Biblical Reading: Psalm of David No. 95
Method: The candles are lighted in the morning, the
95th Psalm is read, then Candles extinguished.
After sundown the Candles are relighted and
allowed to burn out.
NOTE:—If the Success the petitioner has in mind deals with
MONEY use GREEN Candle (or WEALTHY WAY
brand Candle) in the No. 3 position.
EXERCISE 17
TO GAIN WIIAT ONE DESIRES
This is the same as Exercise 11 except that alongside
the Astral Candle in position “A” is placed a candle to
symbolize the object of one’s desires. The following will
give an idea of the color of candle to use. Crown of Success
brand Oil is used in dressing all candles.
MONEY—Green Candle (or Wealthy Way brand Candle)
LOVE—Red Candle (or Fire of Love brand Candle)
HAPPINESS—Pink Candles (or Happiness brand Can­
dles)
GOOD LUCK-—Gold Candles (or Lady Luck brand Can­
dles)
SUCCESS—Orange Candles (or Crown of Success brand
Candles)
HEALTH—Red Candles (or Radiant Health brand Can­
dles)
PROSPERITY—Light Green Candles (or Prosperity
brand Candles)
FORTUNATE DREAMS—Lavendar Candles (or Bene­
ficial Dream brand Candles)
EXERCISE 18
IN HOPE OF REGAINING or RETAINING HEALTH
Position 1-1 White Crucifixt Altar Cajidles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
98
Position 2 Astral Candle of the petitioner dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil.
Positions 3, 4 and 5 Red Candles (or Radiant Health
brand Candles) dressed with Crucible
of Courage brand Oil.
Positions 6, 7 and 8 White Candles (or Poiver Brand
Candles) dressed with Crucible of Courage
brand Oil.
Movement: Move Candles, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 in direction
of arrows two inches daily.
Suggested Bible Reading: Psalm 38 one day and Psalm
23 on alternate days.
Devotions: Half hour morning and evening until sat­
isfied.
EXERCISE 19
TO LEARN THE TRUTH
Position 1*1 White Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 Astral Candle of the petitioner dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil.
Position 3 White Candle unbranded dressed with Glow
of Attraction brand Oil.
Movement: Move candle No. 3, three inches daily in di­
rection of arrows.
Suggested Biblical Reading: Psalm 117
Devotions: Read the above Psalm thirty-three times.
Burn candles for at least one hour daily
until satisfied.
EXERCISE 20
TO BRING CONFUSION TO ANOTHER
WHO IS THOUGHT TO HAVE CAUSED
UNFAVORABLE VIBRATIONS
Position 1-1 White Crucifix Altar Candles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
»4
Position 2 Astral Candle of the petitioner dressed with
¿odiac brand Oil.
Position 3 DARK Blue Candle (or Inflammatory Con­
fusion brand Candle) dressed with InjLam-
matory Confusion brand Oil.
Position 4 Black Candle (or Weed of Misfortune brand
Candle) dressed with Inflammatory Con­
fusion brand Oil.
Suggested Bible Reading: Psalm No. 70
Devotions: 30 minutes each evening for 9 dajs before
retiring.
The Black Candle should be extinguished after reading
the seventieth Psalm only oncg.
EXERCISE 21
TO BREAK UP A LOVE AFFAIR
Position 1-1 BLACK Crucifix Candles (or Crucifix type
Weed of Misfortune brand Candles) dressed
with XX Double Cross brand Oil.
•Position 4 RED Candle (or Fire of Love brand Candle)
UNDRESSED to symbolize sterility or bar­
renness.
Position 2 Astral Candle of man involved dressed with
with Zodiac brand Oil.
Position 3 Astral Candle of woman involved dressed
with Zodiac brand Oil.
Symbol candles may be used alongside candles 2 and 3 if desired.
MOVEMENT: Move No. 2 and No. 3 candles two inches
daily in direction of arrows. DO NOT move
candle 4..
Devotions: Light candles in this order: 4, 2, 3, 1-1 last.
Allow 1-1 candles to burn 15 minutes then
Extinguish. Burn remaining three candles
for one hour longer. Daily devotions until
satisfied.
Suggested Bible Reading: The Third Psalm.
95
EXERCISE 22
Position 1-1 White Crucijii Altar Candles dressed with
Hi-Altar brand Oil.
Position 2 Astral Candle of person in nervous condi­
tion dressed with Zodiac brand Oil.
Position 3 Light Blue or Peaceful Home brand Candle
dressed with Fiery Wall of Protection brand
Oil.
Position 4 Orange Candle or Crucible of Courage brand
Candle dressed with Crucible of Courage
brand Oil.
Suggested Bible ReadingPsalm No. 37
Devotions: The Psalm should be read slowly and with
careful attention and should be accompanied
b\ a state of calm meditation for at least one
hour each dav
96
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
The Black candles are burned for a short time only
because they are said to give off depressing vibrations
and should be used sparingly-
A ritual of this kind is thought to dispel or relieve
any "crossed condition ’ and to reflect it back into the
face of him whc has caused the unfavorable vibrations.
The writer gives the following ritual which has been
used to symbolically “BRING CONFUSION OR TO EX­
ERT PRESSURE ON ONE’S ENEMIES”.
(2?
(D t'ßXcxe1«®
No. 1 position The Astral Candle of the enemy dressed
with Zodiac brand Oil.
No. 2, 3, 4 positions Black Altar Candles dressed with
Inflammatory Confusion brand Oil.
No. 5, 6, 7, positions Midnight Blue Inflammatory Con­
fusion brand Candles dressed ,with In­
flammatory Confusion brand Oil
No. 8 position Astral Candle of the subject dressed with
Zodiac brand Oil and Domination brand
Oil.
68
fol .
