{"name":"A Collection Of Remarkable Nativities","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1799__worsdale___a_collection_of_remarkable_nativities.pdf","mytitle":"A Collection Of Remarkable Nativities","mylang":"de"}
- A
C O L L E C T I O N
OF
REMARKABLE
N A T L V IT I E. S.
C.A. LCU LATED
ACCORDING TO THE RULES AND PRECEPTS
O F
CLAUDIUS PTOI EMY,
PROVING THE TRUTH AND VERITY OF
ASTROLOGY,
IN ITS GENETHLIACAL PART.
Why Art should be excluded from the Cognizanceof Nativities, or
of Kings and States, I cannot see; since Predictions according to
Precepts of Art, for many Ages known and approved, have been
Jound so true. Rev. Dr. Gill, Stella Nova, page 9.
BY JOHN worSDALE.
£emath: -
Printed and sold for the Author by Messrs. R1 pc f ; sold also
by Messrs. Ro B 1 N so N, Paternoster-Row, London ; D R U
RY, Lincoln ; HUR st, Grantham; T H Q R N I LL)
Sleaford; and all other Booksellers,
1799.
A D D R E S S
To Mr. John Worſdale,
- O N H IS FOR MER
PUBLICATION OF ASTROLOGY,
In its genethliacal Part.
worTHY SIR,
I am induced to offer to your
Notice the following Eſſay, as a feeble Performance, not
only in Reſpećiof your Knowledge in this heavenly Sci-. -
ence,but of my Obligation to your better Deſert:—See
ing, therefore, I have not wherewith to recompence your
Merit, accept of my good Will, and though the Preſent
be far below your acceptance, yet your Goodneſs knows
how to deſcend unto the loweſt Matters. I have here
addreſſed you in this unfiniſhed Language, in Order that
I might at no Time ſtand enrolled in the Catalogue of
unthankful Perſons, who many Times attempt to level
their Shot againſt the Hoſt of Heaven, and the Rudi
ments of this sackEd Science, as though there were
no ſuch Thing as an AstRology written in the HEA
v ENs. I am thoroughly convinced, Sir, that this ce
leſtial Art, is much ridiculed and ſlandered by many un
thinking Perſons, who declare that all are Fools except
themſelves,
ii ADDRESS, &c.
themſelves, but I will give ſuch Beings leave to employ
their Time in abuſing and ſlandering the Works of
the ALMIGHTY, until Time with them ſhall be no
more. -
Good Sir, it is an Aſſertion moſt true, that LEARN
ING is a JEwEl beyond the Price of Gold, where the
Value of it is well underſtood. But, alas ! ſuch is the
fond Perverſeneſs of this our Age, that Learning is too
much negleåed, but eſpecially this Kind of Learning
whereupon I addreſs you; and though it be a Jewel, yet
I ſee it may remain long enough in the Field, as it were
a common pebble Stone; and many and many one, and
that eſpecially among the rich and great ones, and
more eſpecially, ſuch as are conceitedly wiſe, may go by,
and ſee, and tread on it; and at the ſame Time not
think itworthy of Notice. But Merchantmen, (God be
praiſed) who know by Experiencethe Worth of Jewels,
will ſell Land and Houſes, to purchaſe that which Fools
deſpiſe. And though I am ſenſible your Modeſy is
apt enough to put by my Appellations, yet, I humbly
beg your Approbation wherein my Duty engages me.
But among thoſe who perhaps may have Eſleem for
Learning of another Quality, yet many of them will put
in Exceptions to this of Astrology; as if it were
- either a Diſcourſe unworthy to be deemed a ScIENCE,
or if not ſo, yet ſuch at leaſt, as they are apt to ſay we
come not honeſtly by. Now true it is, Sir, that this
Sort of Learning, having been more unhappily, than
deſervedlylaid aſide, by #:learned Men, and, as un
worthily ſullied and defiled by many rude and ignorant
OneS
ADDRESS, &c., iii
ones, who have too raſhly and ſaucily attempted to per
form what they had not Abilities either enough to un
derſtand, or to make the beſt Uſe of.-It is come to paſs
that this excellent Pearl of ſublime Science, hasappeared
not without a Ruſt upon it, that makes it appear, as if
it were not precious. But, good Sir, I have this Confi
dence in your Abilities, that however your Mind may
lodge in Learning of another Quality, in a Degree
equal to this; yet, I preſume, it is not vain Flattery, that
can hide TRUTH and ExPERIENCE from your under
flanding Skill, or undervalue it in your Eye, And
hence, this ſmall aſtrological Eſſay humbly begs your
favourable Protećtion.
• From your former Publication, Sir, I have gathered
ſufficient to convince the Gain-ſayers, that indiſputably
the Science of Aſtrology deſerves a Place in one of the
higheſt Forms; as that, which ſhews forth the glorious -
Wiſdom of the Almighty in all Things, in his eternal
Providence, in the Traćts of Nature, as by the Study
therein, they do moſt excellently appear; and by the
Experience of the Skill of that Wiſdom in the A&ls of
Things paſt, foreſheweth'many excellent Marks, and To
kens of Things to come, to the great Advantage of all
particular Perſons who are converſant therein, and fit to
make a good Uſe thereof. -
This Science we attain by natural Induſtry and dili.
gent Obſervation, and our HEAvENLY FATHER ap
plauds us for ſo doing. “He who hath Ears to hear,
(/aith he] let him hear.” Matt. 13. 9. “And he who
Áath Eyes to /*e, let him ſee, And he who hath Under
- - fanding,
iv ADDRESS, &c.
ſtanding, let him count the Number of the Beaſt." And
now that there is ſuch a natural Skill of Fore-knowledge
by the Stars and Heaven to be gained, I think none but
thoſe who are wilfully obſtinate will deny, for the
WoRks of the ALMIGHTY are great, and manifeſtly,
apparent in all the CREATION.
If Sir, I may add Honour in ſome Meaſure to a laws
ful and honeſt Sc1 ENCE, I hope I have done my God,
and the Students herein, good Service, eſpecially in an
Age where true Learning is a ſcarce Commodity; and,
as the ALMIGHTY ſhall bleſs and proſper my feeble
Efforts, my hearty Prayers and good Wiſhes are, that
the good Bleſſing of GoD may crown with Honour and
Felicity, the whole Work of your virtuous Life, this is
the ſincere Wiſh, and continual Prayer of
Sir,
URANIA's SoN, and your
- Obedient Servant,
DOMENICO SANTHERG).
LONDON,
December 14th, 1798.
TO
The impartial and intelligent Readers
OF
GENETHLIACAL ASTROLOGY.
-
GENTLEMEN,
It is an aſſertion moſt true,
that ſome men are continually ready to op
poſe every ſerious and worthy undertaking,
and, conſequently, are too apt to take upon
them the illegal and unjuſt liberty, ofenvy
ing that in others, which themſelves do not
underſtand;—yet, in this my feeble and un
finiſhed appeal to you, I may rationally ex
pećt much juſter judgement, on the efforts
I haveuſed in this, and in my former publi
cation, in defence of a ſcience, which, in the
firſt ages of the world, was ardently encou
raged and eſteemed, by men of the higheſt
learning. - *.
3, 2 Some
( iv. )
Some perſons have attempted to contend,
that the ſcience of Aſtrology is repugnant to
the oracles of God;—but this argument, if
duly and rightly inveſtigated, will inſtantly
vaniſh ; for, it is evident, that if ſuch were
the caſe, or if the ſtudy thereof were unlaw
ful, the moſt learned divines would not have
been the almoſt alone promoters of, and the
moſt induſtrious in ſo ſacred a ſtudy, as they
have been in all ages. But, though the
ftudy of the motions of the heavenly bodies,
and their influence on the human race, be
deemed unfaſhionable, in ſome degree, by a
certain deſcription of men; yet, I humbly
conceive, this ſmall Tract, which includes
obſervations on four curious Nativities, will
be of ſufficient importance to convince
every reaſonable man of the truth of this
ancient ſcience; for which purpoſe, alone,
theſe Nativities have been colle&ted and
combined.
To your judgements, therefore, who are
impartial, I freely and candidly commit my
following obſervations and remarks, on the
utility
( v )
utility of this ſcience; which is far beyond
the conception of the generality of man
kind, by whom it is ſo frequently oppoſed.
In the mean time, I ſhall beg leave to ob
ſerve, that I do not perform any thing in
this ſcience for any pecuniary advantage
whatever, but only for my own amuſement;
and what I have herein written, is (accord
ing to the precepts of this Science) juſt and
true; being induced;by no other motive, but
to diſplay the TRUTH and verity of this
SACRED and SUBLIME scIENCE, in the
GENETHLiAcAP part thereof.
I contiune to be,
G ENT LEMEN,
Your obedient ſervant,
JOHN WORSDALE,
SPANRy, near Falkingham,
Lincolnſhire.
March 30th, 1799.
THE NATIVITY
O F
ROBERT TWELVES.
. *
N ^ -:
% ./ e.9. S' 3. 3'
2* .S. 2) Yº...? *śsº
<2, 2× eX 6) * ‘...?. SY
& T. 9's' *6. º:
*N Za. -
X -—
/ Ör.
º s: July 2nd, 1791. * ,
sº: N
Vº H. M. AW. >
o 37, P. M. S. $' ...,’
\ $ 8
%. Lat. 53° 9', K"
**, - A
X 2.
/NA, s^.
<\ *.p 4× &
:* º, * *N
|/ Nº
290° 19
LATITU D E. DECLINATION,
IS 2 27 South. 4 54 North.
2/ 1 15 North. 3 2 1 North.
6 o 11 North. 22 4o North.
G) o o 23 3 North.
Q 1 39 North. 15 39 North.
§ 2 37 South. 20 24 North.
) 5 o South. 16 48 North,
A.
COLLECTION
OF
REMARKABLE NATIVITIES.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE NATIVITY OF
Robert Twelves, of NAvenby,
- NEAR LIN coln, who w As FOUND.
DEAD on FUL BECK HEATH.
THE foregoing figure repreſents the
diſplay of the celeſtial wanderers, at
the true and correčt time of this native's
birth; I took much trouble with the calcu
lation of this geniture, a conſiderable time
ago, in order to convince the diſconſolate
parents of this very unfortunate native, that
the time and quality of death were unavoida
ble, the ſtars, at the time of birth, being ſo
very violently diſpoſed; which will moſt
certainly be admitted by all the true Ptole
mean practiſers of this ſublime ſcience ; as,
no other method, in my humble opinion, is
to
-
8 A COLLECTION
to be relied on, but the rules and precepts
given by that learned and immortal teacher,
in his Quadripartite.
The reaſon which induced me to be more
particular in the calculation of this very
extraordinary geniture, was chiefly, on ac
count of Fulbeck, (in the county of Lincoln)
being the place where myſelf was born, on
which heath this moſt unfortunate native
died. . . . . . . .
The circumſtance of this child's death,
being ſo very remarkable in itſelf, is worthily
deſerving the attention of every candid read
er; and, particularly, thoſe who are inclined
to occult ſpeculations. -
Robert Twelves, who is the ſubjećt of my
diſcourſe, on March 29th, 1796, at a quar
ter before two o'clock in the afternoon,
wandered from his father's houſe, until he
came to the Ancaſter road, being on Ful
beck heath.-In conſequence of his not re
turning home the ſame evening, diligent
enquiry and ſearch were immediately made
until the Friday morning following; at
which
OF NATIVITIES. 9
which time, to the inconceivable grief of
the parents (by whoſe permiſſion I give
this moſtaſtoniſhing figure of birth to the
public,) he was found dead, but without
any particular marks of violence.
Now, in order to prove the foregoing fi
gure to be the true radical conſtitution ofthis
very unfortunate native, we are firſt to re
mark the accident by which the figure of
birth was reëtified; and that was a broken
limb, when he was three years, eleven
months, and ſome few days old ; at which
time the aſcendant was directed to the oppo
fition of Saturn, which exactly declares the
circumſtance, as will appear by the follow
ing calculation.
THE ASCEND ANT DIRECTED TO THE
OPPOSITION OF SATURN,
The right aſcenſion of the oppoſite place of Saturn, ; º
with contrary latitude, is - - 197 45
To which add the aſcenſional difference, taken under s
the pole of the aſcendant, - - ; 32
And the ſum will be the oblique aſcenſion of the *: 204 17.
poſition of Saturn, - -
From which ſubtra& the oblique aſcenſion of *: 200 19
aſcendant, - - - -sº
And the arch of dire&tion will be . - 3 58
B which,
1 O A COLLECTION
which, added to the right aſcenſion of the
fun, and equated by his geocentric motion
in the ecliptic, as taught by ProLEMy, will
be found to correſpond with the time when
this native laboured under the afflićtion of a
broken limb ; it is alſo obſervable that Sa
turn's radical poſition is very evil and un
fortunate, he being placed in a violent fign,
in the weſtern horizon, in his fall, in oppo
fition to the horoſcope, and conjoined with
the tail of the Dragon.” -- " " '
The arguments of a ſudden and violent
death, in this geniture, are many, firſt, the
two lights of the world afflićting each other
by a mundane parallel, from the medium caeli,
which aſpect is of greater efficacy than
thoſe made from any of the other angles.
Secondly, the moon, we find, is very greatly
afflićted by the violent fixed ſtar, Hercules,"
and the ſun is, alſo, applying to the ſaid ſtar,
by direction. Thirdly, the two luminaries
are likewiſe oppreſſed by the zodiacal and
mundane quartile of the malevolent and .
ponderous planet, Saturn, from cardinal
ſigns,
* OF NATIVITIES. I I
figns, and ſtrengthenedby angular poſitions;
Saturn being, in this figure, very violently
diſpoſed, and deprived of all his own digni
ties; ſo that the malevolence of his quar
tile to both the luminaries, in the zodiac,
and in the world, are, conſequently, doubled
by being made from the figns and poſitions
before mentioned. We alſo find Jupiter,
the benevolent planet to mankind, very evily
affected; being poſited in the twelfth houſe,
in his detriment, received in the terms of
Mars, and oppreſſed by the violent rays of
the ſame malevolent planet, and of Mercury,
likewiſe, who partakes of his influence in
this figure; ſo that the whole poſition, duly
inveſtigated, agrees, moſt perfeótly, with the
precepts of the great PTol EMY, for a ſud
den and violent death, and of that kind,
alſo, of which this native died.
In this nativity under confideration, we
find both the luminaries in aphetical places,
but it is evident that the dignity of Hyleg
belongs to the Sun, which, at the time of
the native's death, was directed to a parallel
of the declination of Mars, in 14° 38' of
B 2 the
{{2 A CALCULATION
the ſign Cancer, and that followed by the
ſun to the parallel of the moon, in mundo,
direct direction; and, likewiſe, to the paral
lel of the moon, in mundo, converſe motion;
and, alſo, to the quartile of Saturn, in the
zodiac and mundo, by direct motion ; and,
laſtly, to the violent fixed ſtar Hercules ;
which direétion appears to me to be the laſt
in the killing train, worthy of notice; but
let us calculate theſe rays exactly.
THE SUN DIRECTED TO THE PARAL -
LEL OF MARS, IN THE ZOD IAC.
The ſun's circle ofpoſition is thus calcu
lated; the pole of the ninth houſe is 24°
40°, the right aſcenfion of the ſun is 101°
22*, his primary diſtance from the medium
cali, is 8° 57, the ſemi-diurnal arch of
the ſun, under the pole of birth is 124° 30',
conſequently, his horary times will be 20°
45°, I now ſay, as 41° 30', the duplicate
diurnal horary times of the ſun, are to the
pole of the ninth houſe, 24° 40′, ſo are 8°
57, the primary diſtance of the ſun from
- - - - - the
of NATIvities. 13
the medium cali, to his polar elevation, 5°
19, under which the oblique aſcenſion of
his oppoſition is 283° 30', and the oblique
aſcenſion of 14° 38' of Capricorn under the
ſame polar elevation, is 2.87° 57, from
which ſubtracting the oblique aſcenſion of
the oppoſition of the fun, there will remain
4° 27', for the arch of direction.
THE SUN TO THE PARALL EL OF THE .
MOON IN MUN DO, DIRECT MOTION.
The ſemi-diurnal horary times ofthe ſun,
are 20° 45', his primary diſtance from the
medium caeli is 8° 57, the ſemi-diurnal ho
rary times of the moon, are 18° 45's for, the
moon's declination, 16° 48', is equal to 1.4°
of Q in the ecliptic, nearly.—Therefore, if
the ſemi-diurnal horary times of the ſun,
20° 45°, give his diſtance from the mid
heaven, 8°57', what diſtance will 18° 45°,
the horary times of the moon give the
anſwer, or ſecondary diſtance of the moon
from the medium cali, thus obtained, will
be 8° 5', from which ſum her primary diſ.
tance,
I 4. A COLLECTION
tance, 2° 5'3", being ſubtracted (for her
right aſcenſion is 113° 12",) there will
remain 5° 12", for the arch of direétion.
THE SUN TO THE PARA L L E L OF THE
Moon IN MUN Do, CoNVERSE
DIRECTION,
If the ſemi-diurnal horary times of the .
moon, 18° 45°, give her diſtance from the
medium cali, 2° 52', what diſtance will 20°
45°, the ſemi-diurnal horary times of the
ſun, give you will find the anſwer, or ſe
condary, thus obtained, will be 3° 11",
which being ſubtracted from 8° 57%, his
primary, there will remain 5° 46, for the
arch of direétion. -
THE SUN TO THE QUARTILE OF SATURN
IN THE ZODIAC, DIRECT MOTION.
The oblique aſcenſion of the quartile of
Saturn, under the pole of the ſun, is 29.1°
50", from which ſubtracting 283° 30', the
oblique aſcenſion of the oppoſition of the
fun, taken under his own circle of poſition,
(which
OF NATIVITIES. is
(which is 5° 19,) and there will remain 8°
20*, for the arch of direétion.
THE SUN To THE QUARTILE of
SATURN IN MUNDO, DIRECT
I) IRECTION. -
The horary times of the ſun are 20° 45°,
his diſtance from the medium caeli is 8° 57°,
the oblique aſcenſion of the oppoſition of
Saturn, under the pole of birth, is 204° 17',
from which ſubtraćting the horoſcope's ob
lique aſcenſion, there remains the primary
diſtance of Saturn from the weſt, 3° 58. 3
the horary times of Saturn, are 13° 57%, for
the declination of Saturn is 4° 54°, equal to
12° 20' of Y in the ecliptic;-I now ſay, if
20° 45', the horary times of the ſun, give
his diſtance from the mid-heaven, 8° 57°,
what diſtance from the weſt will 13° 57,
the horary times of Saturn, give you will
find the anſwer, thus obtained, will be 6° 1°,
for the ſecondary diſtance of Saturn from the
weſt, which added to his primary, 3° 58',
the ſum will be 9° 59', for the arch of
direction,
-- THE
16 A CALCULATION
THE SUN TO H E R C U L E S, Di Rect M OTION,
The oblique aſcenſion of the oppoſite
place of Hercules, under the pole of the ſun,
is 293° 41', from which ſubtracting the
oblique aſcenſion of the oppoſite point of the
ſun, which is 283° 30', (taken under his
own polar elevation,) and there will remain
10° 11", for the arch of direction. ; , ;
The pi Rections for de ATH. . . . .
- - Arch. Time. .
D. M. Y. M.
G) ad parallel of d" in the zodiae, 4 27 4 9 Death.
G) ad parallel of the in mundo, D. D. 5 12 5. 1 -
G) ad parallel of the D in mundo, C. D. 5 46 5 8 ' ' ... *
Gadºn of b in the zodiac, D. D. 8 go 8 a .
G) ad D of J2 in mundo, D. D. 9 59 9 9
G) ad Hercules, D. D. 1o 11 Io o .
| Thoſeare the directions,according to my
judgement, that killed this child; for we
have here a violent train, to the giver oflife,
operating ; and that without ſufficient aſ
ſiſtance of Jupiter or Venus, to fall in with
them, to counteračt and oppoſe their male
volent and killing power; but what is moſt
remarkable, on the day ofthe native's death,
the ſun, the giver of life, was in exact quar
tile to his own radical place; and the moon
was, at the ſame time, in oppoſition to the
- place
OF NATIVITIES. 17
place of Mercury and Mars, in the radix;
and what is ſtill more extraordinary, on the
evening he went from his father's houſe, the
moon and Mars were in partile conjunction,
in the fign Sagittarius ; which ſign occupied
the cuſp ofthe third houſe, thehouſe ofſhort
journeys, &c. in his radical conſtitution; and
Saturn was then in the fign Gemini, near the
radicalplaceofMars; befides the revolutional
figure for the fourth year of the native's age
was remarkably evil, all which circumſtan
ces, duly conſidered, preſage ſudden and ap
proaching death.
In the revolutional figure for the fourth
year ofthe native's age, the moon was poſit
ed nearly in oppoſition to her own radical
place, and Saturn was then tranſitting the
cuſp of the ninth houſe ; but, what is ſtill
worſe, we find the violent planet Mars upon
the ſun's radical place, and Venus was ap
proaching to the place where Mars was po
fited at the time of birth; Mercury and Ju
piter, who were in quartile to each other in
the radix, were in exact oppoſition to each
other in the revolution, all which are teſti
monies, moſt violent and dangerous.
C
I8 A COLLECTION
º
.-
A
THE NATIVITY
O F
GEORGE HILL.
167s. 8.
Nov. 7th, 1790.
H. M. -
20 15, P. M. . f;
I, ATITU D.E. D ECL IN ATION.
o º o f
3 2 94 South. .230 South.
# 1. % North. 2.58 South.
3 o 52 South. 23 23 South.
G) o o 1642 South.
§ 1 17 North. 11 16 South.
§ 2 11 North. 8 37 South.
j) - 3 14 North. 18-34 South.
OF NATIVITIES. I 9
REMARKS ON THE GENITURE OF
GEORGE HILL, who w As D. Row NED
IN SLEAFORD NAVIGATION.
The uncommon poſitions and configura
tions of the celeſtial intelligencers, in this
geniture, will, I conceive, in ſome meaſure,
convince the moſt obſtinate unbelievers, of
the utility and truth ofſydereal influence:—
The nativity now under confideration, be
ing ſo very remarkablein itſelf, and carrying
with it the face of violence in a very great
degree, I ſhall now offer the ſame to the
attentive peruſal of thoſe who may be in
clined to learn the rudiments of this ſcience,
wherein they will be enabled to obſerve the
aſtral teſtimonies portending a violent and
premature death. Let it not here be ima
gined, that all this is to be known merely
by ſtar-gazing, as is commonly and abſurd
ly ſuppoſed: no! it is to be attained only
by diligent perſeverance, in ſtudying the
rules and principles on which this ſcience
is founded; thoſe, therefore, who will give
C2 themſelves
2O A COLLECTION
themſelves the trouble, with their own
ExPER1ENCE, will, doubtleſs, be convinced,
that all important occurrences of our lives,
from the time of our birth, to the monent
of our diſſolution, are obviouſly and mi
nutely aſcertained by the motions and
configurations of the heavenly bodies;
which, when properly known, and duly
inveſtigated, will give the ſtudent ample
ſatisfaction, -
in the nativity now before us, we find
a variety of arguments, portending a ſudden
and violent death, which, according to
aſtrological obſervations, are as follow.—
The ſun, the principal luminary, is poſited
in the violent and watery fign, Scorpio,
applying to fixed ſtars o a deſtructive na
ture; he is likewiſe afflićted in a violent
part of the heavens; the moon, the giver
of life, we find in this figure, exceedingly
oppreſſed, in an angular poſition, by fixed
ſtars of a malevolent nature, and alſo ap
proaching to the body of Mars.-The
ponderous planet, Saturn, is here poſited
- 1I]
of NATIVITIES. 2 I*
in the imum cali, in a ſign of the watery
triplicity; in which poſition we find him
retrograde, and in oppoſition to the bene
volent planet, Jupiter, his own diſpoſitor;
and, likewiſe, in mundane quartile to the
moon, the apheta, or giver of life ; all
which configurations, with others of a
ſimilar import, will, conſequently, be
deemed very powerful teſtimonies of a
violent death : which will, doubtleſs, be
acknowledged by all thoſe who are ſuffi
ciently converſant in this ſublime learn
ing.
. It may probably, be conceived by ſome,
that the benevolent planet Jupiter, is very
favourably poſited in the medium cal: ;
but I am clearly of opinion, that he, thus
poſited, cannot in any wiſe aſſiſt the giver
of life; in fine, inſtead of this poſition
being fortunate, we find it utterly the re
verſe; for he is fixed in his detriment,
in the terms of the fiery planet Mars, and
alſo afflićted by the oppoſition of Saturn,
from angular poſitions, &c,
On
22 A COLLECTION
. On a further inſpection of the diſplay
of the celeſtial wanderers, in this geniture,
we find Venus alſo poſited in her detriment,
combuſt of the ſun, in the dignities of
Mars, and aſcending to violent fixed ſtars ;
ſo that in this nativity, we have both the
benevolent planets afflićted, and alſo both
the luminaries, particularly the moon, the
giver of life; which in all genitures, are
arguments of a ſudden and violent death.
I have an author before me, who ſays,
that “when the moon is conjoined with
“the heart of the Scorpion,” (which is ex
aćtly the caſe in this geniture,) “it por- .
“tends death by water;” and when all
the former teſtimonies of violence are mi
nutely inveſtigated, we ſhall find this un
fortunate native was born, to meet his
diſſolution in the exačt way it happened;
for when he was ſeven years, fix months,
and ſome few days old, as he was paffing
over the fluice bridge, which extends
acroſs the navigable river, of Sleaford,
in the county of Lincoln, he fell therefrom,
and
OF NATIVITIES. 23
and was inſtantly drowned; at which time,
the moon, the giver of life, was direéted
to the parallel of the ſun, in mundo, direét
direction ; and alſo, to the body of Mars,
in the zodiac ; and laſtly, to the quartile
of Saturn, in mundo, converſe direction,
he being joined in the anaretic train, and
poſited in the watery ſign Piſces, which
portends drowning, as PtoleMY informs
us, in his chapter on death.
THE KILLING DIRECTION S.
--
Arch. Time,
D. M. Y. M.
» to theparallelof Qin mundo, D.D. 7, 28 7 6 Death.
) to the body of G in the zodiac, 7 42 7 7
) to the D of H in mundo, C. D. 7 54 7 9
It is worthy of obſervation, that at the
time this native was drowned, the ſun
was poſited in the houſe of death, in a
violent ſign, near the place ofthe Pleiades,
applying to the oppoſite place of the moon
at birth; and, conſequently, ſeparating
from the oppoſition of his own radical
place;—Jupiter was alſo, at the ſame time,
- poſited
24 . A COLLECTION
poſited with him in the houſe of death :
Saturn was then tranſitting the cuſp of
the eighth houſe, in the celeſtial conſti
tution, and the moon was approaching
to the quartile of the ſun in the radix.
Mars, who was poſited with the moon,
in the aſcendant, at the time of birth, was
feated on the cuſp of the fifth houſe at
the moment of the native's diſſolution,
thereby afflićting the ſun, in the houſe of
* death, by violent rays ; being alſo, at the
ſame period, in quartile to the radical place
of the ſun; all which, are unexceptionable
‘proofs of the correctneſs ofthe figure.
-*.*.*-****** **** * ~ * ºftNº,
QF NATTWITIES. 25
THE NATIvity
of
70NAS STAVELY.
H. M.
9 40, P. M. :
ŁATITU ble. , tºEtºrs: A Frog.
o & º º
b 2 14 South. 2 #5 North.
# * 31 North. '4 # TNorth.
3 o 3g South. # 6 North.
(b) o To 13 24 North.
9 o 47 North. 21 28 North.
} 1 21 North. 1830 North.
4 55 North. 12 13 South.
D
26 A COLLECTION
consi DERATIONS on THE NATIVITY
OF 70NAS STAVELY,
of KNAITH, NEAR GAINS Borou GH,
WHo was KILLED BY A HoRSE.
-This very unfortunate native was born at
the time given in the foregoing figure, and I
think I dare be poſitive, (for ſeveral rea
ſons,) that the ſame is the correót period of
birth;-as to thediſpoſition of the heavenly
bodies in the radical conſtitution, every per
ſon who underſtands the rules and precepts
ofthis ſcience, will readily admit that the
poſition is very violent, and, conſequently,
fuch as declares no leſs than a ſudden and
premature death; the cauſe of which is
thus diſcovered :-Jupiter, the benevolent
planet, is retrograde, in his detriment, and
• poſited in the terms of Saturn: the two
luminaries are under the earth, afflićting
each other by a violent quartile, being both
poſited in violent figns; the ſun is oppreſſed
by the ſtar in the head of the ram, which
participates of the nature of the maleficks,
- - and,
OF NATIVITIES, 27
and, as the ſun is, likewiſe, at the ſame
time, within orbs of the body of Mars, the
malevolence becomes thereby increaſed, in
a very violent degree. - -- -
Now in order to diſcover the quality of
this native's death, we are taught to ob
ſerve the nature of the figns containing the
maleficks, &c.—In this geniture, we find . .
Saturn and Mars both poſited in the vio
lent and beaſtial ſign, Aries, in oppoſition
to the giver of life; we likewiſe obſerve,
that Saturn is the anareta, or killing ſtar,
and, being thus configurated with. Mars,
in a violent fourfooted ſign, as aforeſaid,
indicates that the death of the native,
would be occaſioned by a fourfooted beaſt :
which really happened, when he was a fix
years and two months old; at which time,
he received a violent kick from a horſe, of
which he inſtantly died. * - ... ?
In this geniture, the part of fortune.
claims the aphetical dignity, according to
the doćtrine of the immortal PTolEMy ;
and, as its true calculation is of the utmoſt
D 2 importance,
28 A coll,ECTION
importance, (it being direſted for the
mative's death,). K ſhall here give the ope
sation at large, in ºrder that theſe who are
are attached to the ſtudy of this ſcience,
may purſue the ſame method of calculation,
in any ºther nativitywhatſoever.
ºs GeºRAttos.
The sight aſcenſion of the ſum is 33°
sº, which being ſabtradedfrom the right
aſtenſion of the imms cali, his diſtange
therefrºm will be 35° 4 ; the night aſcen
firstof the moon, (with latitude,) is 31.3%
39, conſequently, her diſtance from the
imum ca:#, will be: 44° 31'.
T. HEREFG'KB,
If the ſeminečturnal areh of the ſūn,
7r" 39, give his diſtance from theimum
coeli, 35° 4 ; what willgo degrees of the
equator give anſwer, 44°8', which added:
to the right aſcenſion of the inum cash,
358° 16, the ſum will be 42° 18, for the
true Sºlique deſcenſion of the ſun in his
Horary circle. . . . . .
AGAIN,
OF NATIVTTEES. 29
• AiG ALN, -
If the ſeminoëmrmal arch of the moon,
Ročº 45°. (for the moon's declination
anſwers to 28° of ~ in the ecliptic,) give
her diſtance from the inum call, 44° 31',
what will 90° of the equator give 2 anſ
wer, 37° 32', which ſubtracted from the
right aftenſion of the imum cash, 358° 1'o',
there will remain 320° 38', for the true
oblique aſcenſion of the moon, in her horary
circle.
The oblique aſcenſion of the aſcendant
is 268° ro’, from which ſubtracting the
oblique deſcenſion of the fun, in his horary
circle, 42° 18′, the remainder will be
2.25° 52', to which H add the oblique aſ
cenſion of the moon, in her horary circle,
320° 38', and the ſum will be 546° 30's
therefore, by caſting away 360°, we ſhalf
find the remaining r86° 30′, will be the
true oblique aſcenſion of the part of for
tube, in its horary circle; and by ſubtraſt
ing the right aſcenſion of the medium caeli
from that ſum, the true diſtanee of the
. . . - part
3o A collecTION
part of fortune from the midheaven, will
be 8° 20' ; now in order to find the
pole of poſition of the part of fortune, the
operation is thus, y - -
If 30° of the equator, give 24° 4o",
(the circle of poſition of the eleventh houſe).
what will 8° 20', the diſtance of the part
of fortune from the midheaven, give anſ
wer, 6° 5'1", for the true pole of the part
fortune, under which the aſcenſional differ
ence, obtained by the moon's declination,
will be 1 ° 31', and which, added to the
oblique aſcenſion, 186° 39', make 188° 1',
for the true right aſcenſion of the part of
fortune, which will be found to point in the
zodiac, to 8° 37' of +, in which poſition I
place it accordingly.
The foregoing method of calculating
the place of the part of fortune is, conſe
quently, agreeable to the true doćtrine
of the learned PTolEMY, ſo amply and
judiciouſly taught, in the thirteenth chap
ter of the third book of his QUADRIPAR
TITE ; all other ſyſtems being erroneous.
DIRECTIONS
~
OF NATIVITIES. 3 I
DIRECTIONS For DEATH.
Arch. Time
D. M. Y. M.
65 to the 9 of Hy 5 5o 6 2 Death.
GP to the 3’ of Gº 18 5 18 9
Exactly at the time this unfortunate
native received his death wound, the part
of fortune, (giver of life,) was directed to
theoppoſition of Saturn ; which, confider
ing the violence of the poſition, will,
doubtleſs, be deemed a direétion of ſuffici
ent force to take away life, particularly as
it is followed by the oppoſition of Mars,
though at a diſtance;—on the day ofdeath,
the ſun was paſſing the cuſp of the eighth
'houſe in the radix, conjoined with violent
ſtars, and the moon was then ſeparating
from her own radical ſtation; Saturn was
alſo in quartile to his own poſition at birth,
and Mars was found nearly in oppoſition
to the radical place of the moon :-the two
malevolents, being violently configurated,
tranſmitted very deadly qualities to the
giver of life; therefore, from what has
- - - been .
32 A COLLECTION
been premiſed, it appears evident, that
there was no other place of the part of for
tune, but what is here calculated ; the di
rečtion of which point, (according to PTo
LEMY) agreeing ſo admirably correct with
the preciſe period of the native's diffolu
tion. º -
I prefame it would be deemed unneceſ
ſary, were Ito dwell longer on the calcula
tion of this geniture, ſeeing that nothing of
more material importance can poffibly be
required, to convince the enemies to this
ſcience, of its rºuth and verrty.
The foregoing nativities have come un
der my own immediate obſervation, and are,
conſequently, to be relied on, rather than
thoſe taken by hearſay; the latter, being
often erroneous and incorreót, can afford
neither pleaſure nor ſatisfaction to intelli
gent minds.
of NATIVITIES. 33
:
THE NATIVITY
O F ,
A L A D Y.
335°54'
zºN
October 10th, 1773.
H. M. -
9 18, P. M. -
-§*}º
155°54'
LAT ITU D. E. DECL IN ATION,
- o & o
p 1 54 North. 5 4o North,
2/ 1 38 South. o 40 North.
& o 18 South. 16 41 South.
G) o o 7 1 South.
Q o 48 South. 18 55 South.
§ 1 28 North. 3 26 South. . .
) 4 5 North. 21 20 North,
E *
34 A COLLECTION
º
…,’
º::: _*.
OBSERVATIONs on THE NAT rv1 TY of
A LADY.
The time of this perſon's birth was com
municated to me by a gentleman of Italy
who is very well verſed in the aſtral ſcience ;
and, as the genethliacal figure and aſpects of
the ſtars, are of ſo very extraordinary a na
ture, I ſhall take the liberty to examine the
ſame, and every part thereof in rotation, as
conciſely as poſſible ; and alſo to confider
every occurrence, worthy of notice, through
out the whole period of the native's life ;
that the reader may obſerve that all import
ant events may be known, in a general way,
independant of calculation, from a ſhort in
ſpection of the nativity only; but the preciſe
time of each momentous event, can only be
known by DIRECTIONAL Motion.
CONSIDE RATIONS RESULT ING FROM
THE FIRST HOUSE, or AscEND ANT.
At the time when this native firſt ſaw the
light of this world, there were 8° o' of the
cardinal ſign Cancer, ascending in the eaſt,
...~...~ : * ~ *
which
OF NATIVITIES, 35
which ſign being the houſe of the moon,
according to all Aſtrologers, ſhe, conſequent
ly, is the ſuperior ſignificatrix of the perſon
then born; and being poſitedin the fiery ſign
Leo, in ſextile to Mercury and the ſun,
deſcribes the native to be of a fair complex
ion, round face, light brown hair, with large
eyes, of ſhort ſtature, &c. and as the moon
is afflićted by the quartile of Mars, and both
under the earth, it declares that the native
would be ſubjećt to ſome wound, or hurt, in
the face, the truth of which circumſtance, is
verified beyond the limits of contradićtion.
The quality of the native's mind, ariſes
from conſiderations which are utterly the re
verſe of the former; this may be truly con
ſidered as a moſt important enquiry, ſince
the ſucceſs of our worldly purſuits depends
on our mental endowments, in a conſidera
ble degree. To inveſtigate which, we are
taught by the immortal Ptolemy, to ob
ſerve chiefly the diſpoſition of the moon
and Mercury, in the celeſtial conſtitution,
and how they are beheld or afflićted by the
other planets.-In this figure we find the
E 2 InOOIl
36 A COLLECTION
moon peregrine, in the terms of Mercury,
and alſo in ſextile with him, and applying
likewiſe with the ſame benevolent ray to her
own diſpoſitor; which configurations ſeem,
in ſome meaſure, to argue that the native
would be poſſeſſed with an ingenious mind,
of a quick and piercing underſtanding, and
fit for any kind of learning or occupation:
but, I conceive, the reader will deem the in
fluence of the former configurations of little
inportance, ſeeing they are oppoſed, and in
a great meaſure counteračted by other aſ
pects of a violent and rugged nature; thus,
the ſun, who diſpoſes of the moon, is poſited
in hisfall, and Mercury is combuſt of the
ſun ; the moon we find very violently afflićt
ed by thequartile of Mars, neither can Ve
nus render any aſſiſtance in this point of
judgment, as ſhe beholds the moon with a
platic ſquare in the zodiac, and being poſited
in the violent and poiſonous ſign Scorpio,
conjoined with Mars, will, conſequently, be
produćtive of more evil than many will
imagine; the platic trine aſpect of Jupiter,
to the moon, will be found of very little
force,
OF NATIVITIES. 37
force, as he is retrograde, and ſo near the
moon's malefic node. Therefore, we may
rationally conclude from the foregoing con
fiderations, that the native will chiefly em
ploy her mind to follow thoſe purſuits, in
this ſublunary world, which will ever prove
injurious to her charaćter and reputation;
theſe being once loſt, can never be regained.
This lady being now living, and in perfeót
health, (though an utter ſtranger to me,)
will, I hope, obtain a friendly admonition
from the foregoing premiſes.
con SIDERATIONS RESULT IN G FROM
T H E SE CON D H OU SE.
The principal judgment drawn from this
part of the heavens, is that which regards
worldly riches and preferment ; or rather,
whether the native will attain to proſperity,
or experience the reverſe fortune; on exa
mining this figure, we find the moon and
part of fortune are the ſuperior fignificators
of wealth and proſperity; Jupiter, having
exaltation in the aſcendant, is conjoined with
the dragon's tail, in his own dignities, in the
medium
t
38 A collectION
medium cali, and, conſequently, inplatic trine
aſpect to the moon ; which configurations
argue, that the native (in ſome part of her
life,) would proſper confiderably under the
protećtion of a perſon of quality, here repre
fented by the nature cf the planet governing
the eleventh houſe, which ſignifies friend
fhip, and friends, &c. all which, has been
abundantly verified in this geniture ; for
when the reſpective benevolent direétions
were operating, which forebode proſperity,
ſhe then lived in the greateſt ſplendor, hav
ing no leſs than five ſervants at her com
mand, and a coach likewiſe: but, I will now
confider impartially, by what means the na
tive will obtain this proſperity, or whether it
will be durable. In her figureof birth I find
the moon poſited in the fiery ſign Leo,
without even a ſingle dignity to ſupport her,
and the ſun, her diſpoſitor, (whoſe influence
is conſiderable in thisjudgment,) is poſited
in his fall, in conjunétion with Mercury, in
the cardinal ſign, Libra ; and, as both of
them are diſpoſed of by Venus, and ſhe in
her detriment, conjoined with Mars, and as
- Jupiter
of NATIVITIES. 39
Jupiter here diſpoſes of the part of fortune,
and Mars and Venus, both, at the ſame
time, behold the moon with violent rays of
afflićtion; it is certainly very evident, be
yond diſpute, that the riches which this
native may accumulate, will be obtained by
diſhonorable means; and infine, here is every
teſtimony in this figure to declare, that the
native will never again have the honor to
poſſeſs that ſplendor, which ſhe has hither
to attained ; for, moſt of the important di
rečtions which operate hereafter, will be ofa
malefic nature and tendency.
G ONS IDE RATIONS RESULT IN G F ROM
THE THIRD House.
If we ſtrićtly adhere to the rules of Pro
LEMY, we ſhall find this native ſhould not
have many brethren, by reaſon the ſun,
lord of the third houſe, and fign of the third,
are all barren ; the moon who generally de
notes fiſters, is alſo poſited in a barren ſign,
in aſpect with the ſun and Mercury, but
from the afflićtion of the moon by the
malignant rays ofMars and Venus, we ſhall
find
4O A COLLECTION
find that the former influence of her ſextile
to the ſun, lord of the third, will be confi
derably abated: the poſition of the moon,
on the cuſp of the third houſe, denotes the
native ſhould have a ſiſter, whoſe endow
ments and diſpoſition we might alſo readily
diſcover ; but as I have no permiſſion to
publiſh the particulars of her life, I ſhall beg
leave to decline any obſervations at preſent,
but leave the ſame to the judgment of the
intelligent reader. -
CONSIDER AT I O N S R ESULT ING FROM
THE FOUR TH HOUSE.
From this part of the genethliacal figure,
we obtain judgment concerning the ſub
ſtance of the native's father; viz. his houſes,
land, and hereditaments. In this figure we
may readily perceive, that the native would
have no inheritance from her father, which
is clearly indicated by the poſition of Saturn,
in the imum cali afflićting the part of fortune,
diſpoſed of by Mercury, and in a benevolent:
ſextile aſpect with Mars and Venus, in the
figh Scorpio; Mercury, lord of the father's
* aſcendant,
OF NATIWITIES. 41
aſcendant, being in reception with Saturn,
but combuſt of the ſun, and Venus being
poſited in her detriment, and afflićted by
Mars, declare no inheritance left; but the
contrary, poverty and diſtreſs in ſome degree,
(the ſphere of life confidered,) may juſtly be
expected : it is alſo to be obſerved, that
when the aſcendant was direéted to the quar
tile of Saturn, the father of the native left
this world for a better. - - -- - , ,
consiperations ResultING FRox
The Fifth House.
The ſpeculations drawn from this part
ofthe horoſcopical figure, yield us informa
tion concerning the native's iſſue, whether
ſhe ſhall have children, or the contrary; on
obſerving the fifth houſe ofthis figure, we
find a remarkable congreſs therein, to which
it is my requeſt that eyery ſcientific reader
would pay attention, it beingalſo the houſe
of pleaſure and delight; in which we find
Mercury, the ſun, Mars and Venus, vºy
evilly poſited. Now, as Libra occupies the
cuſp thereof, we ſhall find that Venus go
verns the ſame, and, conſequently, diſpoſes
F. w of
42 A COLLECTION
of Mercury and the ſun; but as ſhe is placed
in her detriment, and aſpected in the ſign
Scorpio, and alſo afflićted by Mars, with the
moon's poſition in a barren fign; and her diſ
poſitor in his fall, in conjunction with Mer
cury, it is therefore very obvious, from theſe
conſiderations, that the native will have no
iſſue, but the reverſe may rationally be ex
pećted: it is alſo well known, that in any
geniture, when the lord of the aſcendant and
fifth houſe, are found combuſt or retrograde,
and not beheld by benevolent rays, and the
moon likewiſe poſited in her detriment, or
otherwiſe violently afflićted by the rays of
the maleficks; then, doubtleſs, ſuch infalli
able teſtimonies prevailing, are ever indica
tive of ſterility. tº
Here I thoughtto have concluded my ob
ſervations on this part of the heavens, but
am induced tooffer the following remarks to
the attention of my readers, confidering the
fame by no means unworthy ofnotice in this
place.—When the native was ſomewhat
more than twenty-three years of age, as ſhe
was returning from the opera houſe in a car
- - , , , , , . riage,
º
OF. NATIVITIES. 43
riage, it broke down; in conſequence of
which, ſhereceived a very violent wound on
the left cheek, which confined her to her
bed for a long period of time : when this
misfortune happened, the ſun was directed
to the body of Mars in the zodiac, exactly
deſcribing the circumſtance ; which thoſe
who will, take the trouble, may calculate,
and will find I am right. . . . . .
considerations Resulting. from -
The sixth house.
From this part of the heavenly frame we
givejudgment concerning the conſtitutional
diſorders ofthe body, with which the native,
from the quality ofthe planets, and the figns
in which they are poſited, ſhall, at certain
intervals, be more or leſs afflićted.
In this figure I find Mars and Jupiter are
the principal ſignificators of the native's
diſeaſes, they governing the ſixth houſe;
Mars, lord of the fixth, is poſited in the wa
tery fign Scorpio, which occupies the cuſp
thereof; the moon, we find, is ſeparated from
a benevolent trine aſpect with Jupiter, and
- approaching
44 A COLLECTION
approaching to a violent ſquare with Mars;
therefore, it is from the poſition of Jupiter,
Mars, and the moon, we muſt find out the
nature of the diſeaſes incident to the native;
which, duly conſidered, by the canons of
aſtrology, will be found to be violent fewers,
ſcurvy, and dropſy, with pains in the head,
ſtagnation ofblood, loſsofappetite, and hy
ſtºrical affection: and as the part of fortune,
giver of life, is afflićted by the oppoſition of
Saturn, it declares the native will befubject
to a conſtant cough, occaſioned by tough
phlegm, and watery humour at the ſtomach,
all which is confirmed by the reſpective fig
nificators offickneſs in the radical figure of
birth. This houſe has alſo fignification of
ſervants, ſmall cattle, &c.
consid ERATIons RESULTING FROM
THE SEVENTH HOUSE,
From this houſe of heaven we derive ſy
dereal information concerning the native's
intercourſe with man, whether ſhe ſhall mar
ry, or not; and, therefore, in order to anſwer
thisqueſtion in the geniture under conſidera
tion, we muſt chiefly regard the poſition of
the
OF NATIVITIES. 45.
|
the fun and Mars, the ſeventh houſe, and
lord thereof, which are this lady's fignifica
tors of marriage, on viewing which atten
tively, I conceive it would be deemed need
leſs, and even abſurd, to trouble either my
ſelf or my readers on this ‘ſubjećt, having
before diſcloſed the natural inclinations of
the native. Saturn in this figure is lord of
the ſeventh houſe, poſited in the fourth, aſ
pećted by Mars and Venus from the occi
y
dental part of heaven; the ſun is alſo very
unfortunately placed in the fifthhouſe,inthe
exaltation of Saturn, and, conſequently, in
no aſped either with Mars or Saturn; from
which confiderations, and others of a ſimilar
nature, ſufficient may be gathered to aſſure
us, that the native will always giveherſelfup
to luſtfulpleaſures, and continuallyhavea na
tural averſion to a married ſtate. This part of
heaven alſo fignifies the native's public ene
mies, here repreſented by Saturn, in oppoſi
tion to her houſe ofhonor and dignity, &c.
considerations Result ING FRoM
- THE EIGHT H HOUSE. - *
This houſe is known to have ſignification
- - - - - * * * * - - - - - - - - of
46 A COLLECTION:
of the death of every native; and daily expe
rience teacheth us, that whatever hath a
birth, preſently paſſeth away towards death,
and everything that hath a beginning, doth
unavoidably rolltowards its end. It was the
prayer and requeſt of king David, unto the
King of kings, to be acquainted with the
time of his diſſolution; Lord, (faith he,) let
me know my end, and the number of my days,
that I may be certified bow long. I have to live.
Surely, if this important enquiry had not
been lawful and attainable, the man after.
ºf Gods own heart” would not have prayed
for it: but, I have deviated too far, and muſt
turn into the road again, for I am not to act
the part ofa divine, but of an aſtrologer. . I
have only mentioned this by way of preface,
toſatisfy the tender conſciences of the vulgar,
into whoſe hands, I preſume, this tract may
come; probably it may prevent their bi
gotted opinions from extending beyond pro
per limits, againſt this part of aſtrology.
The duration or the ſhortneſs of life de
pends, moſt certainly, upon the diſtance of
the apheta, orgiver oflife, from the malevo
lent rays ofthe ANARETA, orkilling planet;
Saturn
of NATIvities. 47
Saturn in this nativity, is ſupreme lord ofthe
houſe ofdeath, yet, according to my judg
ment, he is not the proper anareta, but
Mars indiſputably claims that power, who is
lord of the fixth houſe, and has great digni
ties in the houſe ofdeath. The part of for
tune being giver of life, and Mars the killing
ſtar, therefore, when the apheta comes by
direét direction; to the oppoſition of Mars,
this native muſt expire ; becauſe Mars, ob
taining that poſition, overcomes the influ
ence of the other planets, and hath power to
deſtroy life: now ifweadhere to the rules of
PToleMY reſpecting the quality of death,
we muſt obſerve the nature of the fign, par
ticularly, in which the anareta is poſited;
Mars, therefore, being conſidered as the kil
ling planet, by his poſition in the watery ſign
Scorpio, inviolent quartile to the moon, lady
of the aſcendant, very clearly indicates, that
the death of this native will be occaſioned
by ſome diſeaſe peculiar to that part of the
body ruled or governed by the ſign before
mentioned; and the more particularly, as
Venus is poſited with Mars, and ſeems, con
- - ſequently.
48 A COLLECTION
ſequently, to render ſome affiſtance; but
being corrupted by him, ſhe only performs
evil : therefore, when we conſider the radi
cal import of the reſpective ſignificators re
preſenting the diſpoſition of the native's
mind, when we duly inveſtigate the aſtral
teſtimonies diſplaying her charaćter and
iſode of condućt, we may rationally con
clude, that her death will be occaſioned by
an occult diſeaſe, in the forty-fifth year of
her age, the part of fortune being then di
rečted to the oppoſition of Mars. Some few
years previous to the time of the native's
diſſolution, the evil train of direétions will
begin to operate, before the proper killing
direction is formed in the heavens ; at
which period the diſeaſe will be encreaſed,
fo that life appears to bein danger.
CONSIDERATIONS, RIESULTING FROM
THE NIN TH | HOUSE. .
From this houſe of the figure of birth we
give judgment concerning the effects of long
journeys, and alſo of the religious diſpoſition
of the native : in this figure, there is no
- - planet
of NATIVITIES. 42
planet in the ninth houſe, but the lord there
of is Saturn, located in Virgo, diſpoſed
ofby Mercury, and in ſextile aſpect with
Mars and Venus; the moon, who, in this
figure, ſignifies the native, is poſited on the
cuſp ofthe third houſe, in oppoſition to the
ninth, and afflićted by Mars, which very
powerfully indicates, that the native will
not take any long journeys; but as the moon
is poſited in the third houſe, it declares ſhe
will take a variety of ſhort inland journeys,
on ſmall occaſions, but being there afflićted
by Mars, and in the ſame aſpect with Venus,
lady of the fifth houſe, it imports that her
journeys are for ſingular undertakings, and
that ſhe will be uſually diſappointed in moſt
of her expectations, &c.
Reſpecting the religious diſpoſition of
this native, I conceive, it would be confi
dered unneceſſary to trouble my readers on
that ſubjećt, having ſufficiently pointed out
her mental diſpoſition, &c. in the former
part of this work, agreeably to ſydereal
influence.
G considerations
50 A COLLECTION
considerations Resulting from
the Tenth house.
This part of the heavenly frame, is known
to have ſignification of honor and prefer
ment: in the native's horoſcopical figure of
birth, we find the benevolent planet Jupiter,
very favorably poſited in the medium cali, in
his own dignities ; which is an argument of
preferment and conſiderable honor, particu
larly, as Jupiter is lord of the tenth : but,
the effect ofthis eligible poſition of Jupiter,
in the preſent caſe is, we find, confiderably
reduced by his being in conjunction with
the dragon's tail, and alſo retrograde, and his
diſpoſitor afflićting the moon, lady of the
aſcendant; the ſun, her general ſignificator
of preferment, is poſited in his fall, diſpoſed
of by Venus, and ſhe in her detriment;
which are ſo many infallible teſtimonies of
loſs of reputation and dignity, that the for
tunate poſition of Jupiter in the midheaven,
cannot be of any avail, in reducing the effi
cacy of the before mentioned diſcordant con
figurations,
It may not be improper to remark, that
---- - - - - when
OF NATIVITIES, 5 I
when the medium caliin this nativity, was di
rected to the tail of the dragon, this native
was impriſoned; the like effect with its con
ſequences will happen again, when the ſame
point is direéted to the oppoſitionof Mercury
and the ſun, which is ſeveral years diſtant.
CONSIDERATIONS RESULT ING FROM
THE E LEven TH HousE.
From this part of the viſible heavens, we
are taught to know our friends, and friend
ſhip, confidence and truſt: Mars, in this fi
gure, is lord of the eleventh houſe, and,
therefore, repreſents the friends of the na
tive —it has been verified by recent exam
ples, that whoſoever is born when the fign
Cancer is found occupying the eaſtern hori
zon, (which is the caſe in this geniture,)
ſuch native will enjoy a very ſmall ſhare of
friends ; and nearly the ſame is confidered,
when the lord of the aſcendant and eleventh
houſes, are found ſeparating from benevolent
configurations.
In this figure we find the moon, lady of
the aſcendant, approaching to an envious
G 2 quartile
32 A COLLECTION
quartile with the lord of the eleventh houſe;
which very manifeſtly declares, at one view,
that the native will not meet with laſting
friends, but ſuch as will practiſe deceit, and
falſe friendſhip, to the promotion of their
own licentious inclinations, &c.
CONSIDERATIONS RESULT ING FROM
THE TWELF TH HOUSE.
From this part of the heavens we obtain.
information ofourmalignantprivate enemies,
and alſo of the misfortunes of adverſity and
impriſonment. It is, therefore, not of the
leaſt conſequence,among our ſydereal ſpecu
lations, to inform ourſelves of the ſtrength
and quality of our private foes; as enemies
of this nature are the moſt dangerous, eſpe
cially when concealed. On the cuſp of the
twelfth houſe we find the celeſtial Taurus,
with Gemini intercepted therein, ſo that
Venus and Mercury, are ſignificators of the
native's private enemies;–it is well known
what quality of perſºns are repreſented by
theſe planets: Mercury is found in this figure
poſited in the fifth houſe, and Venus, his
- diſpoſitrix
OF NATIVITIES. 53
§
ſ
!,|
diſpoſitrix, is very malignantly ſeated on the
cuſp ofthe fixth, in quartile with the moon,
lady of the aſcendant; all which configura
tions tend to ſhew that the private enemies
of the native, are ſuch as follow the ſame
remarkable purſuits in life, which does not
ſeem proper to mention in this place.
I have intimated in my foregoing judg
ments, that this native has ſuffered impriſon
ment, which is very aptly denoted by the
moon's poſition in quartile of Mars, and the
ſun in his fall, conjoined with the lord of the
twelfth, together with the poſition of the
Pleiades and Aldabaran, in that part of hea
ven ſignifying captivity, &c. - -
Thus I have accompliſhed my deſign, in
giving judgment (in a general way,) upon
the nativity of this lady; which, I hope, will
not prove unworthy of the reader's attention,
particularly, as it will lead thoſe who are
inclined to ſtudy this ſcience, to do the like
upon any ; and I am bold to ſay, that who
ever will apply himſelf to inveſtigate the
important poſitions of the celeſtial wander
- - ČſS,
54 A COLLECTION
ers, in their heavenly ſtates, according to
the rules laid down by the immortal Pro
LEMY, will, with very little difficulty, diſ
cover all the particular circumſtances that
attend our concerns, in this ſublunary
world.
It was my intention to have written, in
this publication, on the important events
foreboded, not only to ſeveral parts of the
european world, but alſo to widely ex
tended realms, by the remarkable con
junction of Saturn and Mars, in the fign
Cancer, which happens this year, 1799,
and will certainly not paſs without pro
ducing aſtoniſhing effects; but as I have
treated ſomewhat largely on the MUNDANE
part of Ast Rology, in my former publica
tion, I ſhall, conſequently, decline any fur
ther obſervations on this part of the ſcience,
and leave each momentous event to be ob
ſerved by thoſe who are enemies to this ſa
cred learning, the utility, and verity of
which, has been eſtabliſhed and vindicated
by the learned, in all ages of the world.
The
OF NATIVITIES. 55
The following infallible criterion, or
ſtandard, to know an Aſtrologer from an Im
poſter, or from one who pretends to know
what he has nogenius for, and is, conſequent
ly, unable to underſtand or comprehend, was
written by my friend, Mr. J. C. SNELL,
M. D. and P. A. of the City of Norwich.
A perſon poſſeſſed of the abilities of a
Newton, a Bacon, or a Lock, if deſtitute of a
proper genius, will never be an Aſtrologer.—
AsTRology is a scIENCE not to be ac
quired, it muſt be derived from nature, or
inſtinét.—Without a genius for the sci
rNce, it is in vain to attempt it. . The
Aſtrologer looks round on nature, and on
life, with the eye which the God of nature
beſtows on Poets, Painters and Phyſiogono
miffs. Experience, is not always the miſ
treſs of fools. -
Every Aſirologer has eleven viſible qua
lities, and one inviſible, viz. Firſt, phyſiolo
gical clearneſs of eye; ſecondly, compre
henſion of look and glance; thirdly, openneſs
without levity; fourthly, ſecrecy, without
carft ;
56 A COLLECTION
craft; fifthly, ſerenity of countenance, who
ſees the whole in the parts, and the parts in
the whole; fixthly, gravity of deportment ;
ſeventhly, firmneſs, without tyranny ;
eighthly, humility,withoutmeanneſs; ninth
ly, courteſy, without anxiety ; tenthly, vera
city of intention; eleventhly, punctuality of
t performance.
The Aſtrologer's inviſible criterion is
INSTINCTIVE KNow LEDGE, or intuition
of truth ; and which, not preceded by per
ceptible meditation, is genius. Every genius
is a prophet, and every prophet is an Affra
loger. Every aſtrologer has a divine
emanation, or celeſłial adjuvancy. Not only
every aſtrologer, but every kero, every paint
er and every poet, from the great Alexander,
to Dryden, Pope and Titian, for ever.
When the grandees of Spain ſaw their
monarch takeup Titian's pencil, they thought
it was a degradation; and which he perceiv
ing, nobly ſaid, I can in a minute make
twenty men, all greater than you are, but
none, except a God, can make a Titian.
F IN I S.
… .º,
