{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1942__anonymous___yin_fu_king.pdf","mytitle":"Yin Fu King","mylang":"de"}
I
YIN FU
KING
SHRINE OF WISDOM
LONDON
YIN
FU
KING
Manual No. 18
Published by
The Shrine of Wisdom
Aahlu, 6 Hermon Hill
London, En
1942
YIN FU KING
INTRODUCTION
The Chinese delight in ascribing great antiquity to their
classics, and according to the Khein-lung Catalogue of the
Imperial Library the author ofthe Yin Fu King was no less ancient
a person than Huang Ti, the Yellow Emperor who is said to
have lived in the twenty-seventh century B.C.
The extensive lore associated with the life and activities
of Huang Ti is legendary in character.
As is frequently the case with the Venerable Ones of the
past, marvels are associated with his birth. He was called, as
are subsequent Emperors, "The Son of Heaven". His father
is said to be the Thunder God, and his mother to have become
pregnant after witnessing a brilliant flash of lightning. It is
further recorded that his gestation occupied a period of twenty-
five months; that he was born upon a mountain, and spoke
immediately after his birth.
Undoubtedly Huang Ti was one of the most illustrious of
the Chinese Emperors, for he is placed at the head of the five
Ti, or sovereigns, who ruled in the dawn of history.
Legend records that on certain occasions he assembled on
Mount Tai* a procession of strange monsters, including tigers,
panthers and bears, and that these subsequently attended him
at his royal palace and fought for him in battle. Yet he was
so great a lover of peace that the phrenix rested in his garden.
His reign, which was a great and mysterious creative period,
distinguished by simple yet true prosperity, is supposed to have
extended from 2697 to 2597 B.c.
Flames and Winged Clouds are said to have been his officials.
The performance of their duties was accompanied by ceremonial
music, called: The Lakes, The Abyss, The Six Glories. The
events of his reign, which mellowed into myth at its opening,
were of a more historical nature towards its close.
* A sacred mountain in Northern China.
3
Huang Ti is reputed to have been a great benefactor of his
people, having invented mathematical calculation, constructed
a calendar, divided his empire into provinces, established musical
intervals, taught the fabrication of utensils of wood, pottery
and metal, directed the building of boats and wheeled vehicles,
instituted a monetary currency, encouraged the cultivation of
silkworms, and caused to be written a book on healing, entitled
A Treatise on the Interior, which gave instructions for the pro-
longing of life. He exemplified the precepts of this work by
himself living to a fabulous age ; and upon his passing to the
Celestial Kingdom the Feng or phcenix and the Chi-lin or
dragon-horse are said to have appeared to mark the close of
his auspicious reign. It is even recorded that at the end of his
earthly life he assumed the form of a dragon and associated
for ever with the Immortals. These legendary events may be
considered as typical of the symbolic imagery in which the
Chinese convey mystical truths.
Some authorities attribute the authorship of the Yin Fu King
not to Huang Ti but to his teacher, Kuang Cheng Tsze, who,
according to Li Hsi-yueh and other .scholars, was a personi-
fication of Tao, and none other than Lao Tsze himself in a
previous state of existence. If this be granted, the Yin Fu King
obviously has an earlier place in the Taoist Canon than the
Tao Teh King itself.
The following interesting passage from the writings of the
Taoist, Chwang Tsze, gives an account of the relationship of the
Emperor Huang Ti and his master: "Huang Ti had graced
the throne for nineteen years, and throughout the empire his
laws had been obeyed.
"Hearing that Kuang Cheng Tsze was living on the summit
of the Kung-tung Mountain he went to see him, and said:
'I have heard, Venerable Master, that you are in possession
of the perfect Tao; may I therefore ask you concerning Its
essential nature? I wish to take the subtlest influence of Heaven
and Earth to increase the growth of the five cereals,* the better
to nourish my people. I would also control Yin arid Yang for
the benefit of mankind. How, then, can this be accomplished?'
* The five cereals, according to the Chinese, are : Hemp, Millet,
Rice, Corn, Pulse. These correspond with Metal, Fire, Earth, Wood,
Water.
4
"Kuang Cheng Tsze replied: 'What you seek to control is
the Primal Substance from which all things are composed; yet
this is already wisely divided.* During your government of
the empire rain has fallen before the clouds have gathered, leaves
have dropped from the trees before they have turned yellow,
the sun and the moon have become pale, and the voice of the
flatterer is heard on every side: how, then, should I explain
to you the perfect Tao?'
-"The Yellow Emperor withdrew, abandoned his throne, built
himself a solitary hut, slept upon a mat of grass, and for three
months dwelt in seclusion. Then he went again to seek the
Sage and found him in a reclining posture with his head towards
the south.
"Huang Ti approached him in submissive humility and said:
'I have heard, Venerable Master, that you are in possession
of the perfect Tao; may I venture to ask you how I may
govern my body so that it may continue to exist perpetually?' -
"Kuang Cheng Tsze then suddenly arose and said: 'A good
question. Approach nearer and I will tell you of the perfect
Tao. Its Essence is hidden in the deepest obscurity; Its highest
reaches seem as darkness and silence; It is invisible and inaudible.
When It holds the Soul in Its arms in stillness even the body
becomes pure. Stillness and purity are indispensable; do not
weary your body, nor disturb your vitality, thus you will attain
longevity. Unite yourself to That which is within; separate
yourself from that which is without, for overmuch knowledge
is a burden. By this method you may rise to the sublime height
of Ineffable Light, the birthplace of Yang, -and descend into
the mysterious obscurity, the abode of Yin. In these two are
the harmony of Heaven and Earth, and each includes the other.
Dominate the body, and all things will contribute to its vigour.
I preserve its primary essence while dwelling in harmony with
externals. Thus have I regulated my actions for twelve hundred
years, and my body has undergone no decay.'
" Huang Ti prostrated himself in reverence and said: 'In
Kuang Cheng Tsze we behold a Heavenly One.'
" 'Come nearer', continued Kuang Cheng Tsze, 'and I will
tell you of the perfect Tao. It is Inexhaustible, yet men think
It has an end; It is Unfathomable, yet men think Its limit can
* As Yin and Yang.
5
be reached. If It be lost the exalted will only perceive Its light
as if from afar, while the unexalted will see but the ground.
Now all existing things spring from the dust and to the dust
return; but I will lead you through the Portals of Eternity into
the Domain of Infinity.
"'My light is the light of the Sun and Moon. My life is the
life of Heaven and Earth. I know not who comes or who goes.
Men may die, but I endure forever.' "
The foregoing tradition regarding the venerability and in-
spiration of the authorship of the Yin Fu King gives some
indication of the place it holds in Chinese thought, especially
in the Taoist Canon.
The profound mysticism of The Simple Wcry of Lao Tsze,
The Classic of Purity, and the other early Taoist works, has a
quality distinctively its own. It touches the transcendent heights
in the Unity of Tao Itself and yet in its wealth of imagery it
uses the simplest things of everyday life to demonstrate its
profundity.
For those who follow where it leads the Portals of Eternity
will be opened, as Chwang Tsze tells us, and they will enter
into the Domain of Infinity.
Most of the Chinese Classics have numerous and varied
commentaries, and the Yin Fu King is no exception to this rule.
Tradition records six ancient commentaries, namely, those by
Thai-kung (12th century B.c.), by Fan Li (5th century B.c.),
by Kwei Kuh-tsze, the Recluse of the Valley of the Tortoise
(4th century B.c.), by Kang Liang (who died l 89 B.c.), by Ku
Ko Liang (A.D. 181-234), and by Li Khwan, of the Thang
Dynasty (about the middle of the 8th century A.D.).
Of these works, however, only the last-named has been
preserved, and later Chinese scholars even affirm that Li Khwan
himself may have written the text as well as the commentary.
Li Khwan claimed to have found the manuscript in a cave
where it had been for over three hundred years; and eminent
Chinese scholars agree that if he forged the classic he must
have been a second Kuang Cheng Tsze. All, however, are
agreed as to its profundity, and the purity and antiquity of its
teachings.
There are two translations into English of the Yin Fu King:
6
that of F. H. Balfour in 1880, and that of James Legge in 1891;
both of these are out of print.
Balfour translates the title as "Clue to the Unseen," and
Legge, as "Harmony of the Seen and Unseen."
In the title Yin Fu King the Chinese character Yin refers to
the more manifest of the dual principles of the primal duad,
Yang and Yin. It represents the female or receptive aspect of
things.
Fu means a seal which is in two pieces. The genuineness of
this seal is proved by the exactness with which these parts may
be fitted together in a complementary manner to form one
whole.
The two pieces are Heaven and Earth, the Above and Below,
the Inner and Outer. These are in reality always perfectly
integrated, for they subsist ideally in the spiritual realms. They
are mystically in each other, operating subjectively and objec-
tively in the perpetual outflowing and inflowing of life, of
action and rest, of expression and reception, in perfect harmony.
In their expressions in mundane human life, however, the
harmonious relations of the principles of Heaven and Earth
are only partially realized. Consequently, until man learns to
integrate their activities in his own inner and outer nature, he
is tossed hither and thither on the constant flowing and ebbing
of the two streams of natural life, and suffers therefore from
many doubts and fears.
The Chinese character King simply means a canon or
classic.
The purpose of this classic is to present us with a recon-
ciliation of the two parts of the seal. The Below is unintelligible
without the Above, and it is this integration of the one with
the other which in veiled but thought-provoking imagery the
Yin F11 King reveals.
With the aid of this classic the student may have the joy of
fitting together for himself the two pieces of the seal, and thus
of realizing in the only possible way something of its ancient
mystery.
The text which follows is a free rendering from the Chinese
edition of Chang Shih-Chun, and acknowledgment of indebted-
ness is made to the translations of Balfour and Legge. The
commentary is by the Editors of The Shrine of Wisdom.
7
SECTION I
I. To observe the Tao of Heaven and conform to the mode of Its operation
is the term of all human achievement.
The word Tao has various significations. It has been named
"The Supreme Paradox", "The Infinite Truth which can
never be uttered", "The Ultimate to which all things conduct
us".*
In the Yin Fu King Tao is considered in Its aspect as the Way
of Heaven, the Law, the Divine Providence and Inexhaustible
Store, the Infinite Source of all that is.
One of the most sublime objects of human thought is the
solution of the apparent contradictions of the operations of
Tao, and the resolving in some measure of the mysteries of
manifestation.
To observe the Tao of Heaven requires an exalted enlighten-
ment. To conform to the mode of Its operations demands
obedience to the Law of Tao.
Since man is a child of Heaven and Earth, essentially endowed
with perfect principles, all men, without exception, may ulti-
mately attain the term of all human achievement: Perfective-
union with Tao.
2. Heaven possesses five despoilers; and he who comprehends their operations
1vill flourish.
The five despoilers, or robbers, or plunderers, as they are
termed, are the five subtle "elements" which operate in and
through the manifested natural Heavens and Earth. They
substand the gross elements, through the permutations of
which all natural existences are produced.
Every element contains all the others in various prop.ortions
according to the peculiar nature of each.
They are "despoilers" in as much as they appropriate sub-
sidiary natures for their own purposes. This appropriation is
a necessary condition. of growth and without it evolution and
progress would be impossible. That which is ·used by superior
* See The Simple W try of Lao Tsze, p. 9 (Shrine of Wisdom Manual,
No. 8).
8
natures is thereby transformed and enabled to participate in
a higher and fuller mode of life. Thus the despoliation is only
analogical.
Chinese thought abounds in fivefold divisions with numerous
correspondences. It is therefore not surprising to find in its
symbolism five elements, which are given the following corre-
lations:
Wood
East
Green
Fire
South
Red
Earth
Centre
Yellow
Metal
West
White
Water
North
Black
The despoiling processes may be said to operate in the gross
elements of the material world thus : Earth, which is the Centre,
may be despoiled by Wood-that is by the implements of
husbandry, which in ancient China were largely made of wood;
the mineral is also despoiled by vegetation; Water is despoiled
by Earth, the solid despoiling the liquid; Fire is despoiled by
Water, which extinguishes it; .Metal by Fire, which melts it;
Wood by Metal, which is used in various ways to chop or
divide it.
There is also a process by which the elements are generated
from one another : Earth generates Metal in its inner caverns
and recesses; Water generates Wood, being necessary for its
very life; Fire generates Earth, as worlds are said to emerge
from a molten state; Metal generates Water, by being resolved
into its primal element; Wood generates Fire through being
burned.
This is more easily seen in the following table:-
Generates Despoiled by
Wood Fire Metal
Fire Earth Water
Earth Metal Wood
Metal Water Fire
Water Wood Earth
According to "The Great Plan", as set forth in the Shu King
(Part V, Book IV), "These elements fight and strive together,
now overcoming, now overcome, till by such interaction a
harmony of their influences arises and production goes on with
9
vigour and beauty"; and he who comprehends these mysteries
"will in his wisdom flourish".
3. The nature of Heaven belongs also to man; the mind of man is likewise
a source of power. When the W try of Heaven is established in man his
progress is assured.
Because man has a nature akin to Heaven, as well as to Earth,
he has also within himself an individualized source of intelli-
gence and power, superior to nature, which gives him the
capacity to know and follow the Way of Heaven.
Man, in his corporeal nature, is subject to the cosmic laws,
but when he voluntarily conforms to the Way of Heaven he
rises above these laws and his attainment of the heights is
assured.
4. When Heaven puts forth its destructive powers, the stars and constellations
become hidden in the void. When Earth puts forth its destructive powers,
dragons and serpents appear on dry land. When Man puts forth his
destructive poivers, Heaven and Earth resume their normal cottrses.
When Heaven and Man exercise their powers in concord, the transfor-
mations of nature enter upon another phase.
The Taoist writings abound in symbolic analogies. In this
passage are depicted the opposite yet complementary modes
of activity and rest which characterize not only Heaven and
Earth but also Man and all things.
The powers of destruction signify the withdrawing of mani-
fested existences into their essential natures, passing through
the mode of rest which is the opposite of the mode of activity
by which they are manifested.
The Dragons and Serpents symbolize natural principles or
forces, which, having no physical existence, are unaffected by
material changes.
Since man is the only factor which can interfere in any way
with the operations of Heaven and Earth in nature, these
resume their normal courses when man's powers are inoperative.
When Heaven and Man exert their powers in concord-
that is when Man collaborates with the Laws of Heaven,
employing his own creative genius through the splendour of
his art-a new and mightier order is established.
IO
5. The five despoilers are also in the mind of man; but when he can direct
their activities after the manner of Heaven, space and time are his to
use, and all things are transmuted through him.
The five despoilers or elements or powers of nature are
within the mind of man as ideas; and by the exercise of the
five virtues, with which they are analogous, man comes to
ordinate the activities of his corporeal nature.
The five virtues and the five elements, according to the
Chinese, have the following correspondences :
Propriety Uprightness of Mind Good Faith
Wood Fire Earth
Enlightenment Benevolence
Metal Water
When man has reached his ideal completion and acts always
according to the virtues, then, even as Heaven moves with
vigour and beauty in perfect harmony, so will he participate
in the work of perfecting all spatial and temporal things,
elevating and transforming them by imparting a perfection
higher than that of nature.
6. Man mqy appear either wise or stupid, yet one of these attributes mqy
lie hidden in the other.
The wise may sometimes appear to be foolish and the foolish
to be wise. But in apparent foolishness profound wisdom may
be expressed and in apparent wisdom, great foolishness.
The truly wise have always recognized their own foolishness
compared with the wisdom of Tao; but the foolish fail to
recognize their own ignorance.
The foolish of every age have sought to clothe the nakedness
of their ignorance with bespangled· and many-coloured gar-
ments; while true wisdom is clothed in simplicity.
7. The abuse of the nine apertures of the boc(y especially concerns the three
which are considered to be the most important, and these mqy be either
in action or tit rest.
The nine apertures of the body pertain to man's physical
relations with that which is external to himself.
The three which are considered the most important are the
ears, the eyes, and the mouth; the channels of hearing, sight,
and taste~
II
Abuse of these results in exhaustion, restlessness, and satiety;
but ordinate action and rest lead to vigour, serenity, and satis-
faction.
It is by the interplay of the opposites of action and rest that
variety and refreshment arise. This is the normal course of
natural activity; yet all the senses should be subject to man's
discrimination and will.
8. When Fire is produced from Wood, if calamiry arises from Fire the
Wood will be vanquished. ff?"hen evil arises in a state, and activities
ensue, there follows disaster. Those who know how to purify and discipline
themselves are named Sages.
Fire produced from wood gives warmth which is beneficial,
but when it is unchecked disastrous results may follow.
Evil in a state originates in wrongly oriented ambitions,
desires, and thoughts, which when actively expressed may
result in the disruption of the state.
But he who rightly applies the law of action and rest, wisely
conducts the work of culture and refinement, for he knows
by Wu Wei when to act and when to be inactive.
The Sage is one who has reached this state of perfection, and
whose outward poise is the reflection ofinner harmony.
SECTION II
I. For Heaven now to produce life and now to destroy it is the mode of the
operation of Tao. Heaven and Earth are the despoilers of All Things;
All Things are the despoilers of Man; Man is the despoiler of All
Things. When the three despoilers act in mutual harmo'!} as the Three
Powers, they will rest in tranquilliry.
The processes ofincrease and decrease in the natural kingdoms
are expressions of the rhythmic activities of Heaven and Earth,
operating in accordance with the fundamental governing
principle of Tao.
Heaven and Earth, as the causes of these dual natural processes
wherein what is produced at one time is destroyed at another,
are the despoilers of all things. Yet behind the change itself
must be the pattern and the law of that change.
All things in the manifested universe are the despoilers of
man, because they constantly appropriate for their own use
whatever they are able to take from him. In a natural sense
12
they may take from man his body; and in so far as they are
the material cause of attachment to the realms of transiency
they may be considered as despoilers in a higher sense.
Man, as the most dignified ofall created things, is the despoiler
of all things, using them for his own purposes, both ordinately
and inordinately.
When, however, man observes the Law of Tao, and the
three despoilers or powers thus work in perfect mutual accord,
the Three Powers rest in tranquillity.
2. Wherefore it is said: "During the time of unfoldment all the elements
are adequately regulated; when the full energy of maturity is in motion
all transformations serene[y ensue.
This implies that the plenitude of maturity is essentially
contained even in the very beginnings of every manifested
thing; and that there is an ordered progression through every
stage of unfoldment.
Even the analogical despoiling of all things by Heaven and
Earth is arr exemplification of this law.
When the three despoilers operate according to the Law of
Tao, the evolution of the cosmos proceeds serenely and all
natural processes move towards their consummation.
3. Dcrys and months have their determinate times; greatness and smallness,
their precise extent. The worth of the Sage thus becomes apparent, and
spiritual intelligence is revealed.
The merits of Sages and their spiritual intelligence become
apparent through their capacity to perceive and act in con-
formity with the ideal cosmic periods and the true measure of
things.
4. The motive power of the three despoilers is invisible and unrecognized
by the generality of men. When the superior man receives it he is enabled
to invigorate his bocfy; but when fhe inferior man receives it he makes
light ofhis life. '1
The power which moves all things in the universe is only
apparent through its operations.
The superior man uses his knowledge of this hidden power
as a source of strength, realizing that his earthly body should
be the servant of his heavenly nature.
13
When the inferior man knows that there is a hidden power
upon which he can draw he uses it carelessly, not appreciating
its value, and thus makes little real use of his life, pursuing
things of earth instead of those of Heaven.
SECTION III
1. The blind have intensified hearing; the deaf have intensified sight; Con-
centration in a single source is ten times more beneficial than the employ-
ment of a scattered host. Concentration thrice repeated in the day and
night is better a myriad times.
'This is an exemplification of the advantage of concentration
and centralization, and of unwearying persistence.
Tao is the heart and centre of all things. It is the source of
Its own activity, and Its power is limitless. In It, Actor, Action,
and Act are self-contained.
In so far as human acts are the results of a unific spiritual
purpose, they become increasingly efficient; while many
diverse activities disperse man's energies and lead away from
the Goal.
'The thrice-repeated concentration is valuable in impressing
the memory in a threefold manner with spiritual truths.
The persistent daily practice of the dominance of man's
heavenly nature over his earthly nature leads to the highest
efficiency.
2. The mind is stimulated by manifested things, but is deadened through
overm11ch identification with them. The fountain of the mind's operation
is in the eyes.
This passage deals exclusively with external perception and
its results. The mind is stimulated to thought by the sight of
natural things, but if it identifies itself too vehemently with
them its higher powers are deadened.
The eyes, as one of the chief of the senses, are used to typify
the portals by means of which external perceptions stimulate
the mind.
3. Though Heaven has no particular feeling of benigniry, the most gracious
consequences are the result of its activities; even the crash of thunder
and the blustering wind may have a vitalizing effect.
The operations of Providence are impartial, and although
I4
man may not always find the results of these operations pleasing
to him, they are essentially beneficent and for the ultimate
good of all beings; for Providence is rooted in Tao and all
things are under Its benign care.
Even the dissonances of nature have their part in the universal
harmony and contribute to the perfection of the whole. Man,
too, gains moral strength through the endurance of calamities.
4. Perfect et!Joyment consists in the abundant satisfaction of the nature.
Perfect tranquilliry consists in being satisfied with little.
Enjoyment is here contrasted with tranquillity. Enjoyment
may be said to be of Yang, the Principle of Activity; and
tranquillity to be of Yin, the Principle of Passivity.
There is an abundant satisfaction in the nature which is
tranquil, and a contentment with little which gives a richly
flavoured enjoyment.
Even as Yang and Yin are united in Tao, so perfect enjoy-
ment and perfect tranquillity are united in the Middle Path
travelled by the servant of Tao.
5. When Heaven seems most indrawn, its activities are most universal in
their nature.
Within and behind even the simplest things of life are great
and profound mysteries. The physical eyes of man behold only
the external effects, but the causes are hidden in the Laws of
Heaven. The higher the cause the more hidden it is, yet the
more universal is its sphere of operation.
Behind and above the Laws of Heaven is the Supreme Law
of Tao, which is even more profoundly hidden.
As it is written in the Tao Teh King. "Tao appears quiescent;
Its activity is all within, yet there is nothing It does not do."
6. The laws affecting the animal creation reside in Ch'i.
The Chinese word ch'i cannot be adequately translated by
any single term, for it has a variety of meanings dependent
upon the context.
The character ch'i is a composite of the characters "vapour"
and "rice", and the literal meaning is : Vapour ascending from
heat acting on moisture. It is sometimes translated as breath,
air, and even as matter.
15
Philosophically, however, it has deeper meanings, and is
said to be the source or primary agent for producing or modi-
fying motion, and in this sense may be termed Vital Breath.
Suzuki, in his History of Chinese Philosopry, calls it the nervous
system of the macrocosm, and says that the word can be freely
translated as universal energy, or the impulse that awakens,
stimulates, and accelerates activity. He gives as an example a
quotation from Kwan-yin-tsze: "All things change, but their
ch'i is always one. The wise know this oneness of things and
are never disturbed by outward signs."
Giles defines ch'i as "The vivifying principle of Chinese
Cosmology."
In yet another aspect ch'i may be considered as pre-elemental
or primordial matter, and even as the subjective life from which
all animation springs.
Thus ch'i is both physical and super-physical. As unmanifested
it is not subject to modification: as manifested it modifies all
existing things.
The creation of a universe is said to begin with the rotation
or vortex of ch'i, by which the two modes of Energy and
Inertia are produced.
The Dual Powers, Yang and Yin, are termed the Two Ch'i.
The philosopher Chu Hsi states that "Natural formae are
not separate things: they manifest at the centre of matter (ch'i),
and if matter (ch'i) did not exist they would have no place of
attachment."*
7. L~fe is the root of death; death is the root of life. Bene
ficence springs
f rom i1!Juty; i1!Jury from beneficence.
This implies that in the realms of duality opposites are rooted
in each other, producing one another in a continually alter-
nating sequence, according to the successive dominance of the
two modes of procession and return, by which all natural
existences are subject to birth and death, injury and healing.
A consideration of the limitations of these processes kindles
in man a desire to escape from the restrictions, pain, and sorrow
which these conditions bring. He cannot, however, find release
in going from one extreme to the other; he must rise above the
* See Ideas and Matter, Shrine of Wisdom, No. 38, page 47.
16
pairs of opposites into that realm where duality and discord
are unified and resolved into harmony.
This may be accomplished through union with Tao; and, as
is written in the Tao Teh King: "To find the Ancient Tao is
to control the affairs of the present day; to know the Ancient
Beginning is to have found the Path to_ Tao."
8. If Jtupid men Jtur(y the LaivJ of Heaven and Earth they may become
wiJe; I, b)1 Jtuc!Jing the science of seasons and things, become enlightened.
ThoJe who fear stipidiry become sttpid; I, because I do notfear stupidiry,
am wise. Others regard their knowledge as wisdom; I do not regard mine
as such. Wherefore it may be said that those who drown themselves
in water in order to extinguish a fire, bring about their oivn destruction.
These sayings indicate the outlook of the Taoist Sage in his
approach to life. His attitude is an exemplification of the
practice of Wu-Wei, mystical non-striving. By refraining from
excessive outward action and dwelling in Tao, all things are
noiselessly accomplished, and wisdom is attained because
external hindrances are transcended.
One of the Chinese comments on this passage is as follows :
"The minute investigation of the science of Heaven and Earth
suffices to confer a knowledge of height and depth; the minute
investigation of the science of seasons and things suffices to
confer a knowledge of what is subtle and diminutive. Though
others always pursue their researches among the distant, I
pursue mine amid the near. This is quite sufficient, the near
being the necessary condition of the distant. Wherefore, those
whom others may call wise, I regard as stupid. In cases where
the extreme summit of all doctrine has been reached, the
epithets 'wise' and 'stupid' should both be abjured. Thus there
are among men those who follow stupidity and those who aim
at wisdom; but I neither pursue the one nor seek the other.
Abiding neither in stupidity nor wisdom, I also rest not in mere
cleverness. The place where my mind is at ease is outside both
stupidity and wisdom; it is in the contemplation of time and
things that I penetrate the mysteries of the Sublime. How, then,
can I run counter to those mainsprings of action which exist
in the world around me? Let the superficial manifestation of
wisdom and stupidity be once seen and the injury inherent in
both will be experienced. The one will plunge men into water
17
and the other throw them into fire, so that in either case they
will come to an untimely end."
9. The Tao of Spontaneity unfolds Itself in stillness, and it is after this
manner that Heaven and Earth and all things are produced.
The Tao of Spontaneity is the Providential Energy within
and above the natural ·activities of creation. It proceeds in
stillness, acting subjectively and without process of any kind;
yet It is the cause and sustaining life of all things.
"Tao is tranquil and still, yet the source of never-ending
activity."
"Tao is the Plenum and yet also the Void."
From Heaven and Earth all things in the manifested universe
are produced, yet in the Mother-Deep they abide serene and
changeless.
10. The Tao of Heaven and E arth operates with gentleness and with
measured continuity. When Yin and Yang alternate with each other the
pulsations of the ttniverse manifest in an evenly measured rl?Jthm.
The Sage, thn·efore, knows that the Tao of Spontaneity cannot be
overthrown, and by acting in accordance ivith It he advances in the inner
life.
When man ponders upon the Tao of Heaven and Earth he
is increasingly impressed by the marvellous order expressed in
the regularity and perpetuity of all cosmic activities.
Although Yin and Yang are opposites, yet their interactions
are always complementary and never contradictory.
As a Chinese commentary says : "The Yin appears to be
antagonistic to the Yang, but if the principles of gradualness
be brought into play the opposition of the two will be for-
gotten. The Yang is entered from the Yin, and the Yin from
the Yang, yet both are one in Tao. And how is this? It results
from the circularity to which Heaven conforms its external
shape. Heaven is circular: circularity is the condition of its
stability. All things thus revolving in a circle, each gets nearer
to the other the further each one goes."
The wisdom of the Sage consists in the discovery of the Way
of the Tao of Spontaneity, the Universal Rhythm, w.
hich is
above all opposites, and in which they equiponderate. Having
found this precious treasure, he knows the folly of opposing
it. and so acts in perfect harmony with its way.
18
n. The W try of Perfect Stillness cannot be tJJeasured f?y m1merical calcu-
lations. Yet there tJJttst be a mysterious super-cosmic power from
which have sprung the lvfyriad Simttlacra, the Eight Diagrams, the
Sexagenery Cycle, the Natural Springs of Power, and the hidden
Astralia. The tJJysterious operations of the Yin and Yang in the
victories of the one over the other, manifest in brilliant visibility.
The Way of Perfect Stillness, the Way of Tao, is limitless,
and thus immeasurable ; yet from it are reflected into the king-
doms of nature the five components of manifestation : the
Myriad Simulacra, or Types, or Patterns, according to which
all things are fashioned; the Eight Diagrams or subdivisions
of the Yin and Yang*, with their relationships to the points
of the compass and the vast sweep of space; the Sexegenary
Cycle, or division into sixty, in the measures of time; the
Natural Springs of Power, governing the motion of all things;
and lastly the hidden Astralia, beneath and interpenetrating
all natural existences, passively recording the activities of all
above it.
"We may call this wonderful," says the Chinese commentary,
"but the word wonderful is insufficient." Ultimately words
fail to describe the indescribable; they can only signify certain
· of its attributes.
In the realization of the Way of Perfect Stillness the Soul
rests serenely on the bosom of the Tao of Heaven, where the
two parts of the Great Seal are eternally united. Abiding in
that state of bliss, she perpetually manifests all her heavenly
powers in spontaneous and harmonious activity.
"When a certain destination has been reached, and the
person so reaching it then passes beyond it: this is termed truly
-advancing."
* See Shrine of Wisdom, No. .60, pages 325-6.
'PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
BY UNWIN BROTHERS LIMITED
LONDON AND WOKING
